, and Co-founder of Neuralink , OpenAI , Zip2 , and X.com (part of PayPal ) President of the Musk Foundation De facto leader of the Department of Government Efficiency Awards Full list Signature Elon Musk's voice Elon Musk speaking about India and his meeting with its prime minister, Narendra Modi Recorded June 20, 2023 This article is part of a series about Elon Musk Personal Awards and honors Business career Views Family Filmography International relations Legal affairs Public image Wealth Foundation Political activities Companies Zip2 X.com PayPal SpaceX Starlink Tesla, Inc. SolarCity Energy criticism litigation vandalism OpenAI Neuralink The Boring Company Boring Test Tunnel Hyperloop X Corp. Twitter under Elon Musk Twitter, Inc. acquisition litigation xAI Thud Texas Institute Politics America PAC Building America's Future 2025 salute controversy Department of Government Efficiency RBG PAC Musk and unions Tesla and unions Protests against Elon Musk In popular culture Character Limit: How Elon Musk Destroyed Twitter Elon Musk (Isaacson) Elon Musk (Vance) Ludicrous Power Play " The Musk Who Fell to Earth " " The Platonic Permutation " " Members Only " " One Crew over the Crewcoo's Morty " Elon Musk's Crash Course Related Tesla Roadster in space Tesla Takedown TSLAQ Twitter Files 2022 Twitter suspensions List of Tesla Autopilot crashes 2025 Tesla vandalism v t e Elon Reeve Musk ( / ˈ iː l ɒ n / EE -lon ; born June 28, 1971) is a businessman known for his leadership of Tesla , SpaceX , and X (formerly Twitter) . Since 2025, he has been a senior advisor to United States president Donald Trump and the de facto head of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE). Musk has been the wealthiest person in the world since 2021; as of March 2025, [update] Forbes estimates his net worth to be US$345 billion . He was named Time magazine's Person of the Year in 2021. Born to a wealthy family in Pretoria , South Africa, Musk emigrated in 1989 to Canada. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in the U.S. before moving to California to pursue business ventures. In 1995, Musk co-founded the software company Zip2 . Following its sale in 1999, he co-founded X.com , an online payment company that later merged to form PayPal , which was acquired by eBay in 2002. That year, Musk also became a U.S. citizen. In 2002, Musk founded the space technology company SpaceX, becoming its CEO and chief engineer ; the company has since led innovations in reusable rockets and commercial spaceflight . Musk joined the automaker Tesla as an early investor in 2004 and became its CEO and product architect in 2008; it has since become a leader in electric vehicles . In 2015, he co-founded OpenAI to advance artificial intelligence research but later left; growing discontent with the organization's direction in the 2020s led him to establish xAI . In 2022, he acquired the social network Twitter, implementing significant changes and rebranding it as X in 2023. In January 2025, he was appointed head of Trump's newly created DOGE. His other businesses include the neurotechnology company Neuralink , which he co-founded in 2016, and the tunneling company the Boring Company , which he founded in 2017. Musk's political activities and views have made him a polarizing figure . He has been criticized for making unscientific and misleading statements, including COVID-19 misinformation and promoting conspiracy theories , and affirming antisemitic and transphobic comments . His acquisition of Twitter was controversial due to a subsequent increase in hate speech and the spread of misinformation on the service. Especially since the 2024 U.S. presidential election , Musk has been heavily involved in politics as a vocal supporter of Trump. Musk was the largest donor in the 2024 U.S. presidential election and is a supporter of global far-right figures, causes, and political parties. His role in the second Trump administration , particularly in regards to DOGE, has attracted public backlash . Early life See also: Musk family Elon Reeve Musk was born on June 28, 1971, in Pretoria , South Africa's administrative capital. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] He is of British and Pennsylvania Dutch ancestry. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] His mother, Maye ( née Haldeman ), is a model and dietitian born in Saskatchewan , Canada, and raised in South Africa.
en.wikipedia.org

As CEO of multiple major companies, including Tesla, Inc. ( TSLA ), SpaceX, and X (formerly Twitter), Musk is one of the world's wealthiest business people. He is also now likely the world's most powerful. In what the Financial Times has called "a hostile takeover of the U.S. government," Musk leveraged over $280 million in campaign donations and vocal support for Donald Trump during the 2024 election into a significant position as (unofficial) head of the so-called Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), where he now wields unprecedented sway over federal policy and spending. Key Takeaways Musk leads multiple major companies including Tesla, SpaceX, and X. He has a net worth of about $400 billion in the first quarter of 2025. Tesla faces challenges including an annual sales decline in 2024 and the invalidation of Musk's $56 billion compensation package . Recent controversies, including his political activities and management of X, have impacted his companies' market positions. Bailey Mariner / Investopedia Early Life and Education Born in 1971 in Pretoria, South Africa, Elon Reeve Musk's early years were marked by privilege and personal challenges. His father, Errol Musk, worked as an electromechanical engineer and property developer, while his mother, Maye Musk, was a model and dietitian. The family's considerable wealth came primarily from Errol's engineering consulting work and his stake in an emerald mine. After his parents divorced in 1980, Musk lived with his father, a decision he would later describe as a mistake. As a child, Musk enjoyed reading science fiction and experimenting with computers. His first notable achievement was creating and selling a video game called "Blastar" for $500, an early hint of his entrepreneurial spirit. Musk attended Pretoria Boys High School, but feelings of isolation and bullying marred his school years. He moved to Canada at 17 and enrolled at Queen’s University, Ontario, before transferring to the University of Pennsylvania, where he earned dual bachelor’s degrees in economics and physics. Early Career Musk co-founded his first significant venture, Zip2, with his brother Kimbal in the mid-1990s. Initially operating from a small rented office in Palo Alto, CA, Zip2 provided business directories and maps for newspapers during the early days of the Internet. In 1999, Compaq acquired Zip2 for about $307 million, making Musk a multimillionaire in his late 20s. With this newfound capital, Musk was quick to launch X.com in 1999, an online financial portal. Within a year, X.com merged with its primary competitor, Confinity, which had developed the online payment system, PayPal . When eBay Inc. ( EBAY ) acquired PayPal in 2002 for $1.5 billion, Musk received about $160 million after taxes for his stake. Major Ventures SpaceX SpaceX , founded by Musk in 2002, has built its $350 billion valuation largely through government contracts, receiving over $22 billion from NASA, the Department of Defense, and other federal agencies. While its early years were fraught with setbacks—its first three launches failed to reach space—the company has since achieved significant milestones in space exploration, becoming the first private company to send a spacecraft to the International Space Station. Fast Fact Did SpaceX begin with a spitting incident? That's the claim of several around Musk when he formed the company. After a Russian rocket designer spat on his shoes in 2001, "this act so completely offended Elon that he decided on the flight home [from Russia] that he would start his own rocket company to compete with them," former NASA deputy administrator Lori Garver has written. The company has also expanded into commercial satellite services through its Starlink constellation, which provides global broadband connectivity. Tesla No company is more closely associated with Elon Musk than Tesla. Although he was not one of the original founders, Musk was an early investor and quickly assumed a leadership role. Under his guidance, Tesla has shown that electric vehicles could be both high-performance and desirable. Today, Tesla not only produces popular models like the Model S, 3, X, and Y, but is also a major producer of battery storage and solar systems since its 2016 acquisition of SolarCity. In 2024, the company launched its Cybertruck, starting at $82,000, though sales remain underwhelming at 9,000 to 12,000 units per quarter. While Tesla has revamped the Model Y for 2025, it notably scrapped plans for a more affordable $25,000 vehicle (Model 2).
www.investopedia.com

The company has also expanded into commercial satellite services through its Starlink constellation, which provides global broadband connectivity. Tesla No company is more closely associated with Elon Musk than Tesla. Although he was not one of the original founders, Musk was an early investor and quickly assumed a leadership role. Under his guidance, Tesla has shown that electric vehicles could be both high-performance and desirable. Today, Tesla not only produces popular models like the Model S, 3, X, and Y, but is also a major producer of battery storage and solar systems since its 2016 acquisition of SolarCity. In 2024, the company launched its Cybertruck, starting at $82,000, though sales remain underwhelming at 9,000 to 12,000 units per quarter. While Tesla has revamped the Model Y for 2025, it notably scrapped plans for a more affordable $25,000 vehicle (Model 2). Despite numerous challenges, including production delays, regulatory scrutiny, and periodic financial pressures Tesla has been remarkably successful. The company's market capitalization frequently exceeds that of all other major automotive manufacturers combined, reflecting investor confidence about its long-term vision, particularly in autonomous driving technology. X (formerly Twitter) In 2022, Musk acquired Twitter (now X) for $44 billion after a contentious legal battle after which he immediately implemented sweeping changes to the platform's operations, leadership, and content moderation policies—essentially eviscerating moderation that had kept the worst elements of the internet at bay. In 2023, he rebranded the platform as "X," signaling his wish to transform the social media company into an "everything app" that would incorporate financial services, communication tools, AI, and other capabilities. Other Ventures Neuralink : Focused on developing brain-computer interfaces, Neuralink aims to help treat neurological disorders and eventually enable a symbiosis between humans and artificial intelligence. The Boring Company :  Builds tunnels for transportation, utilities, and freight. xAI : In 2023, Musk launched xAI , focused on developing what he describes as "maximum truth-seeking AI." The company released its first model, Grok, in late 2023. Fast Fact While it's given him a significant public platform, X has been a financial calamity, losing about three-quarters of its value since he took over. Political and Legal Entanglements Musk's growing business empire and government role have generated significant regulatory scrutiny and legal challenges. In 2018, his tweet about taking Tesla private with "funding secured" led to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) enforcement action, resulting in a $20 million fine and his removal as Tesla's chair for three years. The Delaware Court of Chancery later invalidated his $56 billion Tesla compensation package in 2023 (and again in 2024 after appeals), calling it an "unfathomable sum" and finding the board's approval process fundamentally flawed. His $44 billion acquisition of Twitter (now X) in 2022 sparked multiple lawsuits, first when he attempted to withdraw from the purchase agreement and later from employees following mass layoffs. The platform's value has since declined significantly. Meanwhile, his companies face ongoing regulatory challenges beyond these high-profile cases. Tesla has settled cases and faces still more stemming from allegations of racial discrimination and hostile work conditions. SpaceX has been under significant regulatory scrutiny by multiple agencies (many of which DOGE now has power over) regarding launch approvals and environmental impacts. The SEC has also filed a 2025 lawsuit alleging Musk failed to properly disclose his initial Twitter stock purchases before the acquisition. DOGE Publicly, Musk draws headlines most now for his involvement with DOGE . While the White House officially describes him as a "senior adviser to the president" rather than a DOGE administrator —the White House added that he has "no actual authority to make government decisions himself"— Musk has been the public face of the initiative and Trump himself has credited his leadership of it. He's also used X to champion aggressive cost-cutting, including reducing USAID's workforce from 10,000 to about 600 staff, as well as the gutting of many other agencies. The role has sparked multiple legal challenges, with federal courts restricting DOGE's access to Treasury systems, experts worried about the security and maintenance of the country's most important computer systems, and Democratic states suing over what they call his "virtually unchecked power." Personal Life Musk has been outspoken about what he calls a looming "population collapse," arguing that declining birth rates pose a greater risk to civilization than climate change.
www.investopedia.com

Elon Musk is the face of DOGE. But he hasn’t faced a challenging interview | CNN Business CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much                                         appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Business Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos More Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics You Follow Sign Out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics You Follow Sign Out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos Follow CNN Business US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Live TV CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules FlashDocs Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Markets DOW S&P 500 NASDAQ Hot Stocks Fear & Greed Index ----- is driving the US market Latest Market News Boeing jet returns to US from China, a victim of Trump’s tariff war ‘Sinners’ finds redemption with top spot at weekend box office Chickens. Pickup trucks. Trade war? Hot Stocks ----- is driving the US market Something isn't loading properly. Please check back later. Ad Feedback Business Media • 3 min read Elon Musk is the face of DOGE. But he hasn’t faced a challenging interview Analysis by Hadas Gold , CNN 3 minute read Published           7:00 AM EDT, Sun April 20, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: DOGE See your latest updates Elon Musk, chief executive officer of Tesla Inc., during a cabinet meeting at the White House in Washington, DC, on April 10, 2025. Shawn Thew/EPA/Bloomberg/Getty Images CNN — In April 2023, a few months after Elon Musk purchased Twitter, now called X, the outspoken billionaire went on a bit of a media tour. “Am doing interviews across the political spectrum. BBC’s SF division is ‘left wing’, as evidenced by the questions he asked. Tucker is ‘right wing’. Next week, I will do interviews with moderate & slightly left media,” Musk posted at the time. Two years later, Musk continues to do interviews. But nowadays, Musk sticks with ones that don’t challenge him, often with interviewers who fawn over his accomplishments rather than pushing him to answer important questions about his government work. Since the inauguration and formally joining President Donald Trump’s administration, Musk has made five appearances on Fox News. He’s chatted with Joe Rogan and Republican Texas Sen. Ted Cruz on podcasts where they lavished praise on Musk and never questioned his work in the so-called Department of Government Efficiency. Musk has also communicated with friendly political groups abroad, including a congress of Italy’s right-wing Lega party or conferences like the Dubai World Governments Summit. He’s also jumped into live X Spaces conversations, most recently for candidates or causes he supports, like failed Wisconsin Supreme Court candidate Brad Schimel. And while he’s occasionally engaged with the White House press pool, Musk has not sat for what could be considered a challenging interview in more than a year. The closest he’s come was with Fox News’ Bret Baier in March, who prodded Musk over calling Sen. Mark Kelly a “traitor”.
www.cnn.com

Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Description 2 Reception 3 References Toggle the table of contents Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future 11 languages العربية Azərbaycanca Español فارسی Հայերեն 日本語 Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча Português Српски / srpski Türkçe Українська Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 2015 book by Ashlee Vance Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future Author Ashlee Vance Language English Subject Biography Published 2015 Publisher HarperCollins Pages 400pp ISBN 978-0062301239 This article is part of a series about Elon Musk Personal Awards and honors Business career Views Family Filmography International relations Legal affairs Public image Wealth Foundation Political activities Companies Zip2 X.com PayPal SpaceX Starlink Tesla, Inc. SolarCity Energy criticism litigation vandalism OpenAI Neuralink The Boring Company Boring Test Tunnel Hyperloop X Corp. Twitter under Elon Musk Twitter, Inc. acquisition litigation xAI Thud Texas Institute Politics America PAC Building America's Future 2025 salute controversy Department of Government Efficiency RBG PAC Musk and unions Tesla and unions Protests against Elon Musk In popular culture Character Limit: How Elon Musk Destroyed Twitter Elon Musk (Isaacson) Elon Musk (Vance) Ludicrous Power Play " The Musk Who Fell to Earth " " The Platonic Permutation " " Members Only " " One Crew over the Crewcoo's Morty " Elon Musk's Crash Course Related Tesla Roadster in space Tesla Takedown TSLAQ Twitter Files 2022 Twitter suspensions List of Tesla Autopilot crashes 2025 Tesla vandalism v t e Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future is an unofficial biography of Elon Musk , written by Ashlee Vance and published in 2015. Description [ edit ] The book traces Elon Musk's life from his childhood up to the time he spent at Zip2 and PayPal , and then onto SpaceX , Tesla , and SolarCity . In the book, Vance interviews Musk, those close to him, and those who were with him at the most important points of his life. Musk had no control over the biography's contents. [ 1 ] Reception [ edit ] Matt McFarland wrote in The Washington Post "Vance paints an unforgettable picture of Musk's unique personality, insatiable drive and ability to thrive through hardship." [ 2 ] Dwight Garner , writing in The New York Times , wrote, "Mr. Vance delivers a well-calibrated portrait of Mr. Musk, so that we comprehend both his friends and his enemies... The best thing Mr. Vance does in this book, though, is tell Mr. Musk's story simply and well." [ 3 ] It was declared one of the best books of 2015 by The Wall Street Journal , NPR , Amazon.com , Fast Company and Audible . [ 4 ] [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] References [ edit ] ^ ‘Elon Musk,’ a Biography by Ashlee Vance, Paints a Driven Portrait Archived 30 November 2016 at the Wayback Machine The New York Times , May 12, 2015 ^ McFarland, Matt (11 May 2015). "The 22 most memorable quotes from the new Elon Musk book, ranked" . The Washington Post . ISSN 0190-8286 . Archived from the original on 4 December 2017 . Retrieved 8 December 2017 . ^ Garner, Dwight (12 May 2015). " 'Elon Musk,' a Biography by Ashlee Vance, Paints a Driven Portrait" . The New York Times . ISSN 0362-4331 . Archived from the original on 30 November 2016 .
en.wikipedia.org