Google Pixel 5a unveiled: budget Pixel camera phone with water resistance | Digital Camera World Skip to main content Open menu Close menu Digital Camera World Digital Camera World THE HOME OF DIGITAL PHOTOGRAPHY Search Search Digital Camera World Sign in View Profile Sign out Subscribe US Edition US Canada UK Australia Cameras Accessories Tech How To Reviews Buying Guides Magazines The Photography & Video Show Digital Camera Australian Camera Australian ProPhoto About Us Photography Magazines Why subscribe? Issues filled with product reviews, latest updates, expert advice and more Delivered to your Android or IOS device Every issue is packed with photo tips, kit reviews and inspiration From $12 View Popular Camera news Camera rumors Photography & Video Show Photo mag deals Cheatsheets Tech Phones Android Phones Google Pixel 5a unveiled: budget Pixel camera phone with water resistance News By Louise Carey published 20 August 2021 The Google Pixel 5a will be released on 26 August, featuring a larger battery, a bigger screen and water resistance When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . (Image credit: Google) Google has officially announced the Google Pixel 5a, the latest budget Pixel phone from the company. Following last year's popular Google Pixel 4a, this new handset will feature a larger battery, water resistance and a marginally larger screen. While the Pixel 5a is only seeing nominal updates from the 4a, the affordable price tag of just $449 (around £350 / AU$650) is definitely likely to help entice consumers as well. Featuring IP67 water resistance, a new powerful battery and a dual camera system, the Google Pixel 5a also boasts 5G connectivity (although it doesn't support the fastest mmWave 5G networks). • Read more: Best Google phone You may like Google Pixel 9a launches with a new camera, upgraded AI, and Tensor G4 power Move over iPhone 16e: Pixel 9a specs and pricing leaked The Google Pixel 5a will feature a 4,680 mAh battery that features fast-charging and Adaptive Battery. These features are designed to ensure that the Pixel 5a will be "ready all-day, especially when you need it most", according to Google's blog announcing the handset . Plus, the Extreme Battery Saver mode means that the Google Pixel 5a is billed to be able to last up to 48 hours on a single charge. Meanwhile, the Google Pixel 5a will feature IP67 water and dust resistance for the first time every within the Pixel A-series. An IP67 rating means that the Pixel 5a would be able to be dropped into a body of water up to a meter deep for half an hour. For the keen smartphone snappers, the Google Pixel 5a features a rear dual camera system with a 12MP standard lens and a 16MP ultrawide lens. Meanwhile, fun camera features such as Night Sight, Live HDR+, Cinematic Pan and Portrait Light will open up lots of photographic opportunities for Google Pixel 5a users. The Google Pixel 5a is now available for pre-order from $449 (approx. £350 / AU$650) in the US and Japan on the Google Store and it will begin shipping on 26 August. Release dates for other regions have yet to be announced. Get the Digital Camera World Newsletter The best camera deals, reviews, product advice, and unmissable photography news, direct to your inbox! Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Today's best Google Pixel 5a deals No price information Check Amazon We check over 250 million products every day for the best prices Read more Best budget camera phone Best iPhone for photography Best camera for TikTok Best TikTok lights Best camera for Instagram Best iPhone tripod iPhone 13 : Everything we know so far Best camera phone See more Phones News Louise Carey Social Links Navigation With over a decade of photographic experience, Louise arms Digital Camera World with a wealth of knowledge on photographic technique and know-how – something at which she is so adept that she's delivered workshops for the likes of ITV and Sue Ryder. Louise also brings years of experience as both a web and print journalist, having served as features editor for Practical Photography magazine and contributing photography tutorials and camera analysis to titles including Digital Camera Magazine and Digital Photographer . Louise currently shoots with the Fujifilm X-T200 and the Nikon D800, capturing self-portraits and still life images, and is DCW's ecommerce editor, meaning that she knows good camera, lens and laptop deals when she sees them. Read more Google Pixel 9a launches with a new camera, upgraded AI, and Tensor G4 power Move over iPhone 16e: Pixel 9a specs and pricing leaked Pixel 9a arrival is likely imminent: reviews already surfacing Google Pixel 10 leak: new telephoto module, but downgraded main and ultrawide sensors Nothing’s new Phone (3a) Series adds triple camera systems for a bargain price Best budget camera phones in 2025: the best cheap camera phones right now Latest in Android Phones Oppo Find X8 Ultra review: the new king of phone photography Samsung announces new rugged camera phone and tablet Oppo Reno 13 Pro review: an almost-flagship packed with AI features Google Pixel 10 leak: new telephoto module, but downgraded main and ultrawide sensors Oppo unveils the Find X8 Ultra – and it looks like the new king of smartphone photography Poco F7 Ultra review: a surprise gaming and camera powerhouse Latest in News From wide-angles to wildlife - Sigma’s vast-ranging 16-300mm zoom ships on May 16 Nikon’s pro-grade 24-70mm f/2.8 Z lens drops to $1,996.95 Canon confirms that a US price increase is coming as a result of tariffs, but the timing and impact isn’t yet clear These three Canon cameras will "die" this year… in fact, one of them dies THIS WEEK Skylum Luminar Neo adds one-click Auto Adjust photo editing in big seasonal update This Nikon Z7 II $1,800 deal is a STEAL, saving you $500 LATEST ARTICLES 1 Fujifilm X series cameras are becoming increasingly hard to find. Should photographers be worried? 2 Haunting black-and-white photo book blur the boundaries between nightmares and reality 3 I found a pair of Nikon D70 DSLR cameras in the cupboard. They’re a bit sticky and their specs are laughable, but back in 2004, they were all the rage 4 From wide angles to wildlife - Sigma’s vast 16-300mm lens is shipping on May 16th 5 Nikon’s pro-grade 24-70mm f/2.8 Z lens drops to $1,996.95 Digital Camera World is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . Terms and conditions Contact Future's experts Privacy policy Cookies policy Advertise with us About us Accessibility Statement Careers © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up