Bryan Adams Pens "Pretty Woman: The Musical" Score | GRAMMY.com 2025 GRAMMY Highlights About RECORDING ACADEMY NEWS PRESS ROOM Press Kits Press Releases Executives Trustees In Memoriam Media Mailing List Contact DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Black Music Collective Black Music Collective Podcast Women In The Mix Inclusion Rider Study ADVOCACY Advocacy News ISSUE & POLICY Music Modernization Act Hits Act American Fairness Act Act Artificial Intelligence MEMBERSHIP Governance Producers & Engineers Wing Songwriters & Composers Wing GRAMMY U Membership Login Join Membership Awards GRAMMY AWARD SHOWS 67th GRAMMY Nominations: Full List 2025 GRAMMYs: See The Full Nominees List Watch: 2025 GRAMMY Nominations In Full 2025 GRAMMY Nominations Announcement Schedule 67th Annual GRAMMY Awards (2024) GRAMMY Shop MUSIC GENRES SPECIAL MERIT AWARDS Lifetime Achievement Award Trustees Award Technical GRAMMY Award Music Educator Award GRAMMY Hall Of Fame GRAMMY Legend Award HARRY BELAFONTE BEST SONG FOR SOCIAL CHANGE AWARD GRAMMY AWARDS PROCESS Voting Process Rules and Guidelines GRAMMY Categories Awards Process Updates Voting & Solicitation Guidelines GRAMMY AWARDS FAQ & HELP GRAMMY Participation Certificates GRAMMY Nominee Stickers ARTIST/RECORD LABEL/MEDIA REGISTRATION (OEP) News Videos Genres ALL MUSIC GENRES Pop Rock R&B Country Rap Latin Global Music Gospel & Contemporary Christian Music New Age Jazz Alternative Dance/Electronic Shop GRAMMY GO Login Subscribe to Newsletters Be the first to find out about GRAMMY nominees, winners, important news, and events. Privacy Policy GRAMMYs Advocacy Musicares EMAIL Subscribe Join us on Social Recording Academy / GRAMMYs Latin GRAMMYs GRAMMY Museum Musicares Advocacy Join us on Social RECORDING ACADEMY GRAMMYS MEMBERSHIP ADVOCACY MUSICARES LATIN GRAMMYS GRAMMY MUSEUM Bryan Adams Photo: Dave M. Benett/Getty Images Facebook Twitter E-mail news Bryan Adams Pens "Pretty Woman: The Musical" Score Facebook Twitter Email The GRAMMY winner sets the hit movie to music for the stage Renée Fabian | GRAMMYs / Oct 31, 2017 - 09:36 pm Bryan Adams first started campaigning to write the score for "Pretty Woman: The Musical" when he heard the hit 1990 movie, which starred Julia Roberts and Richard Gere, was going to be made into a musical. He got the gig in 2015 with his writing partner, Jim Vallance, in 2015. <iframe width="620" height="349" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/3Ub6BdLFWyg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> "Basically we did an audition," Adams said . "Jim and I wrote three songs which we thought would be appropriate for the stage and then we met with [the producers], and it was one of those classic scenarios where, 'Okay, you guys need to leave the room so we can talk about you, and we'll call you, don't call us.' And then half an hour later I got a call." While the original soundtrack to the film includes well-known hits such as Go West's "Kin Of Wishful Thinking," Roxette's "It Must Have Been Love," Roy Orbison 's "Oh, Pretty Woman," and David Bowie 's "Fame," the producers of the musical wanted a new score to accompany the stage version of the show. <iframe width="620" height="349" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_PLq0_7k1jk" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> Adams and Vallance have been working with producers to bring the music to life, which is a much different process than creating an album. "We have these large meetings when we all sit around, 20–25 people, and they all talk about what's going to happen and Jim and I sort of skulk away and go write a song," Adams said. "Obviously these things go through huge changes as you get closer to the date, so the stage is different than a band. You find areas of [the book] where music's playing and there's dialogue and you have to segue back into the song, so there's … a lot more production and arrangement that goes into a musical than there is in making an album. It's super fun." The show's book was written by J.F. Lawton and the late Garry Marshall, who wrote and directed the movie, respectively. Samantha Barks and Steve Kazee will play in the starring roles. Jerry Mitchell will serve as the director and choreographer. "Pretty Woman: The Musical" will open at Chicago's Oriental Theatre on March 13, 2018, for a month before heading to Broadway in fall 2018. The Go-Go's "Head Over Heels" Musical Eyes Broadway Read More Steve Cropper Photo: Stacie Huckeba Facebook Twitter E-mail interview Jammed Together With Steve Cropper: The Guitar Legend On 'Friendlytown,' Making His Own Rules & Playing Himself Facebook Twitter Email Steve Cropper reflects on his decades-long career, his 2025 GRAMMY nomination for Best Contemporary Blues Album and the enduring influence of Stax Records. Jessica Lipsky | GRAMMYs / Jan 30, 2025 - 03:30 pm The 2025 GRAMMYs , officially known as the 67th GRAMMY Awards , will air live on CBS and Paramount+ on Sunday, Feb. 2 . Watch highlights from the 2025 GRAMMYs on live.GRAMMY.com . The 2025 GRAMMYs telecast will be reimagined to raise funds to support wildfire relief efforts and aid music professionals impacted by the wildfires in Los Angeles . Donate to the Recording Academy's and MusiCares' Los Angeles Fire Relief Effort To Support Music Professionals . Editor’s Note: This interview was conducted before the onset of the wildfires in Los Angeles . Steve Cropper is still "selling energy" — putting forth what a younger generation might call blues rock "vibes" with his pals as if it were still 1970. This ethos dates back to his time at the legendary Memphis label Stax Records, where Cropper served as a songwriter, producer, engineer and A&R. Crucially, Cropper was the guitarist in Stax's house band, Booker T. & The MGs — they of "Green Onions" fame — and backed artists including Otis Redding , Wilson Pickett , Sam & Dave , and Carla Thomas . Among his many bonafides , Cropper co-wrote Redding's "( Sittin ’ On) The Dock Of The Bay." In his post-Stax years, the two-time GRAMMY winner and nine-time nominee produced and played on sessions with Jeff Beck , Jose Feliciano , John Prine , John Cougar , and Tower Of Power. He later joined Levon Helm’ s RCO All-Stars group and was among the original members in Dan Aykroyd and John Belushi's Blues Brothers band. Cropper resumed his solo career in the '80s, releasing several albums, while continuing to collaborate with leading lights like Paul Simon , Ringo Starr , Elton John and Steppenwolf. Steve Cropper has stayed true to himself for over seven decades, thanks in no small part to advice from Stax founder Jim Stewart. "He said, 'Just play yourself and if they don't like it, they'll tell you,'" Cropper tells GRAMMY.com. " So I've been playing myself all my life and it's worked out. That's pretty cool." At the 2025 GRAMMYs , Cropper is nominated in the Best Contemporary Blues Album Category for the aptly named Friendlytown , recorded with a mix of long-time collaborators and a few newer faces, together billed as Steve Cropper & the Midnight Hour. Friendlytown 's 13 tracks are familiar, digestible and straight-ahead rockin ' — the kind of tunes you'd be thrilled to hear in a local dive. Featuring ZZ Top 's Billy Gibbons , Queen guitarist Brian May , singer Roger C Reale , and guitarist Tim Montana, Cropper co-wrote and co-produced all of Friendlytown with bassist Jon Tiven . "Steve's guitar playing on the song 'Hurry Up Sundown' is probably some of his best solo work and rhythm work," Tiven says. "It's amazing that at this point in his career, he could still be creating some of the greatest music of his life. I think that's a wonderful testament to the strength of his talent." Meet Me At The Friendlytown Trader Joe's There was very little methodical music-making behind Friendlytown , which partially grew out of sessions Cropper put together for his 2021 album Fire It Up . "This record was just about a bunch of guys getting together and having some fun. It's just like, Let's have a blast and try to make the party come to the record, rather than the record come to the party ," Tiven notes. Cropper and Tiven had been working on songs for years with the hopes of finding friendly musicians to give them life. While some found homes, the duo sat on instrumentals for years — until Tiven ran into Billy Gibbons at Trader Joe's. When Tiven told the sharp-dressed man he was making a record with Steve Cropper, "He just lit up like a firecracker and said he'd like to bring us a song. I said, 'Well, it's only going on the record unless you play on it.' And he said, 'Well, that could be arranged.'" Gibbons ended up on 11 tracks; Friendlytown marks the first time he and Cropper worked together in many years. The ZZ Top vocalist's influence is audible on the album, particularly the title track and Eliminator- esque "Lay It On Down." In Session At Stax While casual may be the name of Cropper's game these days, "it definitely wasn't 35, 40 years ago," he says. Back then (and largely before, as Cropper left the label in 1970), making music was "was very serious, and I don't even think the guys had a good time." With a laugh, Cropper recalls his best friend, the Stax bassist/MG Duck Dunn , pining for a world in which "Jim Stewart would've only smiled every now and then." While Cropper calls Stewart "the greatest guy I've ever met," the label head was known to be critical. "He knew if you fought for something, like a song, that it was a good song. And if you didn't fight for it, it wasn't worth nothing ," Cropper says, chuckling. "He was right. I think about that all the time, but I don't use it. A songwriter could tell me how good a song they wrote is, but if I don't like it, I don't like it. I'm sorry!. I'm sure I've thrown away some good ones before." Read more: 1968: A Year Of Change For The World, Memphis & Stax Records A young Cropper put up a couple of fights, and for good reason. He recalls stumping for Wilson Pickett's "Ninety-nine and a half" : [Jim Stewart said] "You boys was out there woodsheddin ’. That song ain't going to make it." Cropper pressed it, and Stewart relented. The track made the cut for Pickett's 1966 album The Exciting Wilson Pickett. Another big Stax hit stayed on the shelf for nine months while Cropper and co. battled it out with Stax brass. "Finally Al Bell went to Jim and said, 'You got to put this record out. It's called ‘Knock on Wood.' And Jim says, 'Okay, but you got to use your own money,'" Cropper says. "He hated that record until it was a hit." Reflecting on the hardest song he's ever played, Cropper quickly points to Sam and Dave's "Soul Man." But the 1967 smash isn't difficult for the reasons you might think: the guitarist had to balance a Zippo lighter on his leg during sessions and performances, which he used to mimic the song's opening horn line. "I always had to dance [when recording] with Sam and Dave, because they could hit a groove. A lot of guitar players don't know that I played with a Zippo lighter and I'd slide it," he recalls. Cropper reportedly hated the sound and feel of new guitar strings — something, he says, is no longer the case in old age — and in a lip-smacking good tidbit of studio lore, explained how he managed his unique sound. "I carry a thing of ChapStick all the time and I would go up and down the strings; [that would] take about three months out of the string so it would sound like the rest of them." Sittin ' On A Legacy After decades in the business, it seems as if Cropper – though ever a professional – doesn't take himself or the creative process too seriously. He jokingly shares a reccolation from a studio session during his Stax years: Once the session was finished, Cropper told the group "Damn, this sounds like a hit." "And Al Jackson said, 'Steve, they're all hits until they're released.' He's probably right." One of Stax's reliable hitmakers was a close friend of Cropper's: Otis Redding. The two shared a deep musical bond and some shared history. Both musicians grew up on farms ("By the time I was 14, I was ready to leave the home. By the time I was 16, I was gone in my mind," Cropper notes) yet the guitarist describes Redding as "most streetwise person that I ever met. I think he just had it. It came natural to him." Redding played guitar with one finger and you "never argued with Otis" — especially because he was never available for sessions for more than a day or two. Most Otis Redding albums, as a result, were compilations from different sessions. "I remember we cut 'I Can't Turn You Loose' in 10 minutes," Cropper says. "[When we recorded] Otis Blue , we had everybody come back at 1 [a.m.] -- after they did their gig and they went home and had their shower – so we could cut it." Cropper knew that  " ( Sittin ' On) The Dock Of The Bay" — arguably Redding's biggest hit, and Cropper's first GRAMMY win —  was a hit. "You know why I knew it was a hit? Because we had Otis the longest I'd had him; for two weeks." The gentle lull of " Sittin '" was a radical departure from Redding's Southern soul bombast, and perhaps a sign of what was to come if the singer hadn't died tragically in a plane crash. "That one song, we searched for a long time. We call it crossover music; so it could go either way:, R&B, pop, whatever. That was the first one we ever had," Cropper says. There's Always A Catch Steve Cropper is still going strong at 83 years old. He reports that he enjoyed HBO's recent Stax Records docuseries, and has an unfinished instrumentals album in the can. He hasn't time for regrets, only dreams, but the name of the one person Cropper wishes he had worked with fires off like lightning: Tina Tuner . Cropper saw the late legend three times. "I really did admire Tina. She was the closest person to Otis, I think, in the business. It's the yeller, screamer, but everybody loves their music. She was so good, it didn't matter how it was she's yelling and screaming," he says. Tina Turner's loudest albums still have melody and something "people will walk away humming" — the very thing Cropper loved about  Stax records. "We were selling groove and all, rather than the music," Cropper says of his work with the MGs. "We don't care about the music. We just cared about melody and what's in the simplicity of the song." 2025 GRAMMYs: Performances, Acceptance Speeches & Highlights 2025 GRAMMYs: See The Full Winners & Nominees List Watch Performances & Highlights From The 2025 GRAMMYs On Live.GRAMMY.com 2025 GRAMMYs: Beyoncé Wins First Album Of The Year Award For 'COWBOY CARTER' Kendrick Lamar Sweeps The 2025 GRAMMYs With Song Of The Year Win 2025 GRAMMYs: Chappell Roan Wins Best New Artist, Calls On Labels To Do Better Sabrina Carpenter Celebrates Her 2025 GRAMMYs Wins With A Performance of "Espresso" & "Please Please Please" 2025 GRAMMYs: The Weeknd Makes Triumphant Return To GRAMMY Stage 2025 GRAMMYs: Lady Gaga & Bruno Mars Perform "California Dreamin'" 2025 GRAMMYs: Chappell Roan Sings "Pink Pony Club" In Colorful, Clowning Debut Performance Charli XCX Brings 'Brat' To The 2025 GRAMMYs With A Performance Of "Von Dutch" & "Guess" 2025 GRAMMYs: Kendrick Lamar Dedicates Record Of The Year Win To Los Angeles 2025 GRAMMYs: Shakira Performs A Belly Dance-Filled Medley Of "Ojos Asi" & "Bzrp Sessions" 2025 GRAMMYs: Best New Artist Nominees Doechii, Benson Boone & More Showcase Their Remarkable Talent Watch The 2025 GRAMMYs Premiere Ceremony In Full: Kacey Musgraves, Muni Long, Mustard, Anderson .Paak, Wayne Brady & More Beyoncé Becomes First Black Woman To Win GRAMMY For Best Country Album With 'COWBOY CARTER' Watch Coldplay's Chris Martin With Grace Bowers Perform "All My Love" In A Moving In Memoriam Tribute | 2025 GRAMMYs Performance 2025 GRAMMYs In Memoriam: Recording Academy Remembers The Music People We've Lost 2025 GRAMMYs: Alicia Keys Delivers A Powerful Call To Action After Receiving Dr. Dre Global Impact Award 2025 GRAMMYs: Quincy Jones Honored With Star-Studded Tribute Featuring Stevie Wonder, Janelle Monáe & Others Watch Doechii Win Best Rap Album For Alligator Bites Never Heal | 2025 GRAMMYs Acceptance Speech Watch Shakira Win Best Latin Pop Album For 'Las Mujeres Ya No Lloran' | 2025 GRAMMYs Acceptance Speech Watch SZA Talk About Super Bowl LIX Halftime Show, "Saturn" Winning Best R&B Song & Silent Retreat Lessons | 2025 GRAMMYs Backstage Interview Watch The GRAMMYs Pay Tribute To First Responders & Hear The From The LAFD Fire Chief  | 2025 GRAMMYs Acceptance Speech Read More Cyndi Lauper Photo: Chris Delmas/AFP/Getty Images Facebook Twitter E-mail list 12 Left-Of-Center Christmas Songs: Cyndi Lauper, Snoop Dogg, The Vandals & More Facebook Twitter Email Tired of the same-old Christmas classics? This playlist of outside-the-box Christmas songs is filled with fresh aural holiday cheer GRAMMYs staff | GRAMMYs / Dec 17, 2024 - 12:45 am Editor's Note: This article was updated with a new photo and YouTube videos on Dec. 16, 2024. When it comes to holiday music, you can never go wrong with the tried-and-true classics. Who doesn't love Nat "King" Cole 's "The Christmas Song," Elvis Presley 's "Blue Christmas," Mariah Carey 's "All I Want For Christmas Is You," Charles M. Schulz 's GRAMMY-nominated A Charlie Brown Christmas soundtrack, or any new version of a festive favorite? Even so, it's always good to get out of one's comfort zone. With that in mind, unwrap these 12 outside-the-box Christmas songs, spanning rock to rap and featuring everything from refreshing spins on the familiar to unexpected holiday thrills. Read More: New Christmas Songs For 2024: Listen To 50 Tracks From Pentatonix, Ed Sheeran, LISA & More John Prine - "Christmas In Prison" This firsthand account of spending the most joyous holiday locked up and separated from the one you love offers a different kind of longing than the average lonesome Christmas tune. In signature John Prine style, "Christmas In Prison" contains plenty of romantic wit ("I dream of her always, even when I don't dream) and comedic hyperbole ("Her heart is as big as this whole goddamn jail"), with plenty of pining and hope to spare. "Christmas In Prison" appeared on Prine's third album, 1973's Sweet Revenge , and again as a live version on his 1994 album, A John Prine Christmas , which makes for perfect further off-beat holiday exploration. Eric Johnson - "The First Nowell" When it comes to gloriously tasty six-string instrumentals, no one does it better than GRAMMY-winning Texan Eric Johnson . For his take on this timeless Christmas carol, the "Cliffs Of Dover" guitarist intermingles acoustic-based lines, sublime clean guitar passages and Hendrix -y double-stops with his trademark creamy violin-like Strat lines. The result is a sonic equivalent on par with the majesty of the Rockefeller Christmas tree. (For more dazzling holiday guitar tomfoolery, look into the album it's featured on, 1997's Merry Axemas .) Gayla Peevey - "I Want a Hippopotamus for Christmas (Hippo the Hero)" Who doesn't want a large semiaquatic mammal for the holidays? For then-10-year-old child star Gayla Peevey, not only did she score with the catchy tune, she also got her wish. The 1953 novelty hit, written by John Rox, rocketed up the pop charts and led to a fundraising campaign to buy Peevey an actual hippo for Christmas. Children donated their dimes to the cause, and the Oklahoma City native got her hippo, named Mathilda, which she donated to the Oklahoma City Zoo. The song itself features plodding brass instrumentals and unforgettable lyrics such as, "Mom says a hippo would eat me up but then/ Teacher says a hippo is a vegetarian." It seems Peevey still has a fond legacy with the hippo activist community — she was on hand in 2017 when the Oklahoma City Zoo acquired a pygmy hippopotamus. The Vandals - "Oi To The World!" In a contemplative mood this Christmas? Try getting into the holiday spirit by way of meditating on the true meaning of the season with this brash, uptempo Southern California crust punk tune. Now the best-known song from the Vandals' 1996 Christmas album of the same name, "Oi To The World!" remained a relatively obscure track by the Huntington Beach punkers until it was covered by a rising pop/ska crossover band from nearby Anaheim, Calif., in 1997. (Perhaps you have heard of them — they were called No Doubt .) Ever since, the song has been a mainstay of the Vandals' live sets, and they have also played the album Oi To The World! in its entirety every year since its release at their annual Winter Formal show in Anaheim, now in its 29th year. Outkast - "Player's Ball (Christmas Mix)" Though it's best known from OutKast 's 1994 debut album, Southernplayalisticadillacmuzik , the Christmas version of the track "Player's Ball" was released earlier on A LaFace Family Christmas , an L.A. Reid -led project to introduce new acts. The then-young Atlanta rapper duo took a Southern hip-hop spin on the season, which can come across as a little irreverent, but at least they're honest: "Ain't no chimneys in the ghetto so I won't be hangin' my socks on no chimneys." Though some people may not find it cheerful, OutKast's season's greetings give "a little somethin' for the players out there hustlin'." Tom Waits - "Christmas Card From A Hooker In Minneapolis" You'd be hard-pressed to find a more heartbreaking Christmas story than this Tom Waits ' masterpiece from 1978's Blue Valentine . "Charlie, I'm pregnant and living on 9th Street," begins the Christmas card narrative in which a woman writes to an old flame, reporting how much better things are going since she quit drugs and alcohol and found a trombone-playing husband. Waits' signature early career piano-plinking and tall-tale-storytelling weaves through a dream world of hair grease and used car lots, even sneaking in a Little Anthony And The Imperials reference. In the end, our narrator comes clean with the sobering lyric, "I don't have a husband, he don't play the trombone" before pleading, "I need to borrow money to pay this lawyer and Charlie hey, I'll be eligible for parole come Valentine's Day." For the uninitiated, this is the off-beat genius of GRAMMY winner Waits at his finest. WINGER - "Silent Night" Though they took some lumps in their '80s hair-metal heyday, few would dare deny Winger's talent and musicianship. Surely on display here, frontman Kip Winger (a GRAMMY-nominated classical musician) and his bandmates begin with a traditional unplugged reading of the Franz Xaver Gruber-penned holiday chestnut, complete with four-part harmony. But then it gets really interesting: the boys get "funky" with an inside-out musical pivot that fuses percussive rhythmic accents, pentatonic-based acoustic riffing, Winger's gravely vocals, and some choice bluesy soloing (and high-pitched vocal responses) courtesy of lead guitarist Reb Beach. The Hives & Cyndi Lauper - "In A Christmas Duel" With lyrics that include "I know I should have thought twice before I kissed her" in the opening, you know you're in for a sleigh ride like none other. It's therefore no surprise that Cyndi Lauper and Swedish rock band the Hives' unconventional Christmas duel describes many marital hiccups that might make some blush. Yet, the raucous duet somehow comes out on a high note, concluding, "We should both just be glad/And spend this Christmas together." The 2008 track was the brainchild of the Hives, who always wanted to do a song with Lauper. "This is a Christmas song whose eggnog has been spiked with acid, and whose definition of holiday cheer comes with a complimentary kick below the belt," wrote Huffington Post in 2013. "It's also an absolute riot." LCD Soundsystem - "Christmas Will Break Your Heart" Leave it to LCD Soundsystem 's producer/frontman James Murphy to pen a holiday song about the depressing side of the season. "If your world is feeling small/ There's no one on the phone/ You feel close enough to call," he sings, tapping into that seasonal weirdness that can creep up, especially as everything around you is incessant smiles, warmth and cheer, and pumpkin-spice lattes. While he doesn't shy away from examining the depressing side of surviving the holiday season as an aging 20-, 30-, 40-something, Murphy does at least give a glimmer of hope to grab onto, transient and fleeting though it may be, as he refrains, "But I'm still coming home to you." Snoop Doggy Dogg, Dat Nigga Daz, Tray Deee, Bad Azz and Nate Dogg - "Santa Claus Goes Straight To The Ghetto" As Snoop Dogg declares, "It's Christmas time and my rhyme's steady bumpin'." This track from the 1996 album Christmas On Death Row lets you know why "Santa Claus Goes Straight To The Ghetto." Church food, love between people, and happiness stand out as Christmas is "time to get together and give all you got; you got food, good moods and what's better than together with your people." Love in the hard hood might have to watch itself, but the various artists of Death Row contagiously testify to abundant love and seasonal joy. Twisted Sister - "Silver Bells" Bypassing the urge to write new material on their rocking Christmas album, 2006's A Twisted Christmas , Twister Sister instead took the most recognizable holiday classics in the book and made them faster, louder and more aggressive. The result — which, to date, equate to the group's seventh and final album — is a supercharged concept collection of songs such as "Silver Bells," "Have Yourself A Merry Little Christmas" and "Deck The Halls" bludgeoned by chainsaw guitar riffs, thundering drums and lead singer Dee Snider 's soaring screams. This unusual combination makes A Twisted Christmas the perfect soundtrack for any child of the '80s still hoping to tick off the neighbors this holiday season. P-Lo feat. Larry June, Kamaiyah, Saweetie, LaRussell, G-Eazy, thủy & Ymtk) - "Players Holiday '25" In anticipation of the 2025 NBA All-Star Game in San Francisco, P-Lo breathes new life into T.W.D.Y.'s classic " Players Holiday ." Featuring Saweetie , Larry June , Kamaiyah, LaRussell, G-Eazy , thuy, and YMTK, the track celebrates Bay Area culture with its infectious energy and hometown pride. With its dynamic lineup and energetic vibe, "Players Holiday '25" is a love letter to the region's sound and legacy that bridges hip-hop and basketball culture. This article features contributions from Nate Hertweck, Tim McPhate, Renée Fabian, Brian Haack, Philip Merrill, Nina Frazer and Taylor Weatherby. Latest News & Exclusive Videos With 'Withered,' d4vd Says Goodbye To Himself & Writes A New Beginning Amble Perform "Swan Song" By The Sea Tracing Coco Jones' Journey To 'Why Not More?': How She Became A GRAMMY-Winning R&B Star Songbook: The Many Hats Of Barbra Streisand GRAMMY Museum Grant Program Awards $200,000 For Music Research & Sound Preservation Read More Kendrick Lamar Photo: pgLang Facebook Twitter E-mail list Who Discovered Kendrick Lamar? 9 Questions About The 'GNX' Rapper Answered Facebook Twitter Email Did you know Kendrick Lamar was discovered at just 16 years old? And why did he leave TDE? GRAMMY.com dives deep into some of the most popular questions surrounding the multi-GRAMMY winner. Taj Mayfield | GRAMMYs / Nov 25, 2024 - 11:18 pm Editor's note: This article was updated to include the latest information about Kendrick Lamar's 2024 album release 'GNX,' and up-to-date GRAMMY wins and nominations with additional reporting by Nina Frazier . When the world crowns you the king of a genre as competitive as rap, your presence — and lack thereof — is palpable. After a five-year hiatus, Kendrick Lamar declaratively stomped back on stage with his fifth studio album, Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers , to explain why the crown no longer fits him. Two years later, Lamar circles back to celebrate the west on 2024's GNX, a 12-track release that revels in the root of his love for hip-hop and California culture, from the lowriders to the rappers that laid claim to the golden state. “My baby boo, you either heal n—s or you kill n—s/ Both is true, it take some tough skin just to deal with you” Lamar raps on " gloria " featuring SZA , a track that opines on his relationship with the genre. The Compton-born rapper (who was born Kendrick Lamar Duckworth) wasn't always championed as King Kendrick. In hip-hop, artists have to earn that moniker, and Lamar's enthroning occurred in 2013 when he delivered a now-infamous verse on Big Sean's "Control." "I'm Makaveli's offspring, I'm the King of New York, King of the Coast; one hand I juggle 'em both," Lamar raps before name-dropping some of the top rappers of the time, from Drake to J.Cole . Whether you've been a fan of Lamar since before his crown-snatching verse or you find yourself in need of a crash course on the 37-year-old rapper's illustrious career, GRAMMY.com answers nine questions that will paint the picture of Lamar's more than decade-long reign. Who Discovered Kendrick Lamar? Due to the breakthrough success of his Aftermath Entertainment debut ( good kid, m.A.A.d city ), most people attribute Kendrick Lamar's discovery to fellow Compton legend Dr. Dre . But seven years before Dre's label came calling, Anthony "Top Dawg" Tiffith saw potential in a 16-year-old rapper by the name of K.Dot. Lamar's first mixtape in 2004 was enough for Tiffith's Top Dawg Entertainment (TDE) to offer the aspiring rapper a deal with the label in 2005. However, Lamar would later learn that Tiffith's impact on his life dates back to multiple encounters between his father and the TDE founder, which Lamar raps about in his 2017 track "DUCKWORTH." How Many Albums Has Kendrick Lamar Released? Kendrick Lamar has released six studio albums: Section.80 (2011), Good Kid, M.A.A.D. City (2012), To Pimp a Butterfly (2015) DAMN. (2017), Mr. Morale & the Big Steppers (2022), and GNX (2024). Good Kid, M.A.A.D. City , To Pimp a Butterfly and DAMN. received both Rap Album Of The Year and Album Of The Year GRAMMY nominations. What Is Kendrick Lamar's Most Popular Song? Across the board, it's "HUMBLE." The 2017 track is Lamar's only solo No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 (he also reached No. 1 status with Taylor Swift on their remix of her 1989 hit "Bad Blood"), and as of press time, "HUMBLE." is also his most-streamed song on Spotify and YouTube. How Many GRAMMYs Has Kendrick Lamar Won? As of November 2024, Kendrick Lamar has won 17 GRAMMYs and has received 57 GRAMMY nominations overall, solidifying his place as one of the most nominated artists in GRAMMY history and the second-most nominated rapper of all time, behind Jay-Z . Five of Lamar's 17 GRAMMY wins are tied to DAMN. , which also earned Lamar the status of becoming the first rapper ever to win a Pulitzer Prize . His most recent wins include three awards at the 2023 GRAMMYs , which included two for his album Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers , and Best Rap Performance for "The Hillbillies" with Baby Keem . Does Kendrick Lamar Have Any Famous Relatives? He has two: Rapper Baby Keem and former Los Angeles Lakers star Nick Young are both cousins of his. Lamar appeared on three tracks — "family ties," "range brothers" and "vent" — from Keem's debut album, The Melodic Blue . Keem then returned the favor for Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers , featuring on "Savior (Interlude)" and "Savior" as well as receiving production and writing credits on "N95" and "Die Hard." Read More: Meet The First-Time GRAMMY Nominee: Baby Keem On Inspiring Rap's Next Generation, Why "Producer Artists" Are The Best & The Likelihood Of A Kendrick Lamar Collab Album Why Did Kendrick Lamar Wear A Crown Of Thorns? Lamar can be seen sporting a crown of thorns on the Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers album cover. He has sported the look for multiple performances since the project's release. Dave Free described the striking headgear as, "a godly representation of hood philosophies told from a digestible youthful lens." Holy symbolism and the blurred line between kings and gods are themes Lamar revisits often on Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers . He uses lines like "Kendrick made you think about it, but he is not your savior" and songs like "Mirror" to reject the unforeseen, God-like expectations that came with his King of Hip-Hop status. According to Vogue , the Tiffany & Co. designed crown features 8,000 cobblestone micro pave diamonds and took over 1,300 hours of work by four craftsmen to construct. Why Did Kendrick Lamar Leave TDE? After five albums, four mixtapes, one compilation project, an EP, and a GRAMMY-nominated Black Panther: The Album , Kendrick Lamar and Top Dawg Entertainment (TDE) confirmed that Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers was the Compton rapper's last project under the iconic West Coast label. According to Lamar, his departure was about growth as opposed to any internal troubles. "May the Most High continue to use Top Dawg as a vessel for candid creators. As I continue to pursue my life's calling," Lamar wrote on his website in August 2021. "There's beauty in completion." TDE president Punch expressed a similar sentiment in an interview with Mic . "We watched him grow from a teenager up into an established grown man, a businessman, and one of the greatest artists of all time," he said. "So it's time to move on and try new things and venture out." Before Lamar's official exit from TDE, he launched a new venture called pgLang — a multi-disciplinary service company for creators, co-founded with longtime collaborator Dave Free — in 2020. The young company has already collaborated with Cash App, Converse and Louis Vuitton. Has Kendrick Lamar Ever Performed at The Super Bowl? Yes, Kendrick Lamar performed in the halftime show for Super Bowl LVI in Los Angeles in 2022, alongside fellow rap legends Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg and Eminem, as well as R&B icon Mary J. Blige . Anderson .Paak and 50 Cent also made special appearances during the star-studded performance. As if performing at the Super Bowl in your home city wasn't enough, the Compton rapper also got to watch his home team, the Los Angeles Rams, hoist the Lombardi trophy at the end of the night. Three years after his first Super Bowl halftime performance, Lamar will return to headline the Super Bowl LIX halftime show on Feb. 9, 2025 — just one week after the 2025 GRAMMYs — at the Caesars Superdome in New Orleans. Is Kendrick Lamar On Tour? Yes. Kendrick Lamar is currently scheduled to hit the road with SZA on the Grand National Tour beginning in May 2025. Lamar concluded The Big Steppers Tour in 2022, where he was joined by pgLang artists Baby Keem and Tanna Leone. The tour included a four-show homecoming at L.A.'s Crypto.com Arena in September 2022, followed by performances in Europe,Australia, and New Zealand through late 2022. Currently, there are no upcoming tour dates scheduled, but fans should check back for updates following the release of GNX . Latest In Rap Music, News & Videos Wiz Khalifa On Why He Made 'Kush + Orange Juice 2,' The Rappers He Co-Signs & Good Smoking Music Revisit All Of SZA & Kendrick Lamar's Collaborations: "Luther," "All The Stars" & More Palestinian Rapper MC Abdul's "Through My Eyes" COMA-CHI Fuses Tradition & Hip-Hop On "Iyasaka" Nasty C Reveals His Favorite Piece Of Gear Read More Bryan Adams Photo: Todd Owyoung / NBC via Getty Images Facebook Twitter E-mail list 10 Fascinating Facts About Bryan Adams: From Writing For KISS To His Serious Side Hustle Facebook Twitter Email The GRAMMY-winning singer and guitarist has sold over 75 million albums and is about to share his songs on the world stage. Ahead of his So Happy It Hurts tour, read on for 10 lesser-known facts about the raspy-voiced rocker. Bryan Reesman | GRAMMYs / Jan 19, 2024 - 02:54 pm One of Canada's biggest rock stars, Bryan Adams has had a massively successful and sonically diverse career that spans 45 years. With one win and 16 GRAMMY nominations under his belt, Adams' prolific output includes numerous chart-topping albums and big-name collaborations. Yet, for a man who has sold over 75 million albums and wants his music to appeal to as wide an audience as possible, Bryan Adams doesn't seem to seek the limelight. He’s not tabloid fodder, doesn’t date celebrities, and does not court controversy. While he certainly will promote his latest album or tour — and will begin his international tour on Jan. 20 in Montana —  but Adams is an intensely private individual who is selective with the interviews that he gives and in what he speaks about. He is also not a flamboyantly dressed performer, preferring the jeans and t-shirt that he has carried over from his very beginnings. Appropriately enough, he often calls his band the Dudes Of Leisure. Adams’ most recent studio album is called So Happy It Hurts and recently released a 3-CD box set of live recordings of three classic albums performed at London’s Royal Albert Hall: Cuts Like A Knife, Into The Fire, and Waking Up The Neighbors . Ahead of his So Happy It Hurts Tour — which will certainly see Adams perform hits "Summer Of ‘69," "(Everything I Do) I Do It For You," "Can’t Stop This Thing We Started" — read on for 10 lesser-known facts about the raspy-voiced rocker. who has befriended and collaborated with an impressive range of artists across numerous media. He Signed His First Contract For $1 Back in 1978, when was just 18 years old, Adams signed a recording contract with A&M Records who decided to take a chance on the fledgling rocker with a "wait and see" attitude. They signed him for the paltry sum of $1 which Adams insisted on receiving so he could frame it. While his first two albums, Bryan Adams (1980) and You Want It You Got It (1981) didn’t exactly set the world on fire, his third release Cuts Like A Knife (1983) went platinum in America and triple platinum in his native Canada, selling at least 1.5 million copies worldwide. Seems like A&M got a great return on their investment. His Breakthrough Hit Was Written For Someone Else In January 1983, producer Bruce Fairbairn asked Adams and songwriting partner Jim Vallance  to come up with a song for Blue Öyster Cult. Their original version of "Run To You" did not impress the band (or Adams) and they passed — so did .38 Special and other groups. When Adams needed one more song for 1984’s Reckless , he pulled out "Run" and taught it to his band. This time, everyone including album producer Bob Clearmountain was impressed. It became the album's lead single and Adams' biggest hit, peaking at No. 6 on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart. Although the previous Cuts Like A Knife had three hits singles and went platinum, Reckless spawned six hits ("Heaven" went No. 1) and turned Adams into a superstar, selling 5 million copies in America and reportedly 7 million more globally. He’s Penned Dozens Of Songs For Others Adams has co-written songs for numerous other artists, many of them hard rockers. In 1982, he and Vallance co-wrote "Rock and Roll Hell" and "War Machine" with Gene Simmons for the KISS album Creatures Of The Night; and he worked with Paul Stanley and Mikel Japp on "Down On Your Knees" for KISS Killers . That led to credits on albums by Ted Nugent, Motley Crue and Krokus (who used a leftover from Reckless ). But the recipients of Adams’ songs span a wide range of artists including Neil Diamond , Tina Turner , Bonnie Raitt , Loverboy, .38 Special, and Anne Murray . He Loves A Good Duet Bryan Adams' duets often appear on movie soundtracks and tend to do well. His Reckless collaboration with Tina Turner, "It’s Only Love," was a Top 20 hit, peaking at No. 15 on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart. But things got bigger from there. "All For Love," his song with Sting and Rod Stewart for the Three Musketeers film soundtrack (1993) went No. 1 in at least a dozen countries, selling nearly 2 million copies globally. He’s also duetted with Bonnie Raitt ("Rock Steady"), Barbra Streisand ("I Finally Found Someone" which went Top 10), and Melanie C from Spice Girls ("When You’re Gone"). He’s also recorded with Chicane, Pamela Anderson, Emmanuelle Seigner, Loverush UK, and Michael Bublé . In recent years, Adams has said that he would like to duet with Beyonce and Lady Gaga . And in case you missed it, Taylor Swift once brought him onstage to perform "Summer Of ‘69." The Reckless Video Album Is A Story Of Unrequited Love With its six videos slightly out of order from actual release, the Reckless video compilation (1984) charts a melancholy story. In "This Time" (the final video from Cuts Like A Knife ), Adams is seeking out a woman in a desert town who's only shown with glimpses of her legs and heels. At the end, he finds her in the back of his van and they hook up — or is it just a mirage? "Summer Of ‘69" intercuts black and white footage of Adams and a young woman during their teen years with color images of their separate lives today. At the end, his old flame drives by with her current boyfriend who sees her eyeing the rocker, gets angry, and violently stops the car. In "Somebody," she escapes the car as he screams at her, and then she and Adams wander in different locations as they recollect one another. In "Kids Wanna Rock," Adams jumps onstage for a high energy performance, while in "Heaven," his old flame’s new guy has been pulled over for drunk driving, so she ditches him to see the Bryan Adams show conveniently happening across the street. He is unaware she is there, mesmerized by him. After he races off the stage he finds himself locked inside the venue with snow coming down outside. In "Run To You," actually the album’s first single, Adams performs in wind and snow-swept environs and fantasizes about the same woman who finally walks up to him at the end. But they never embrace or kiss. He’s An Acclaimed Photographer Adams has been taking photos for most of his life, but it’s no longer a hobby. — he has photographed everyone from rock stars to royalty, and even himself for his own album covers. He got a lot of good pointers about photography and darkroom work when the famed Anton Corbijn shot the cover for 1987’s Into The Fire . While Adams’ memorable portraits of people like Pink , Mick Jagger , Amy Winehouse , Rammstein , and yes, Queen Elizabeth II, he has also published books of portraits of homeless people, wounded war veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan, images of sand from the Island Of Mustique, and American women dressed in Calvin Klein. He uses proceeds from these books to benefit various charitable causes. He also shot the 2022 calendar for the Pirelli Tire Company to help them celebrate their 150th anniversary. These days, Adams told Louder Sound that he is "a photographer moonlighting as a singer ." He’s A Longtime Vegan & Animal Rights Advocate The singer first became vegetarian at age 28 and later turned vegan, citing animal cruelty in the face of human food consumption. Adams has said that he gets an abundance of energy from his plant-based diet, noting he no longer gets sick. Adams has promoted his lifestyle to fans through positive posts, and he joins other famous musicians who are also vegan including Paul McCartney , Billie Eilish , and Stevie Wonder . He Is Staunchly Committed To Humanitarian & Charitable Causes Adams has lent his voice and face to a variety of causes. It all started with his appearance at the Live Aid Festival in 1985, which raised many for Ethiopian famine relief. That was followed by the two-week Amnesty International A Conspiracy of Hope tour in 1986, the 1988 Peace Concert in East Berlin, and many others. From earthquake and tsunami relief to climate change to the Mideast peace process, he has been involved in many causes, and he is an LGBTQ ally as well. In 2006, he co-founded the Bryan Adams Foundation with the goal of improving quality of life around the world via financial grants. Funds "support specific projects that are committed to bettering the lives of other people. The Foundation seeks to protect the most vulnerable or disadvantaged individuals in society." A big goal is "to advance education and learning opportunities for children and young people worldwide." He Co-Wrote A Broadway Musical Adams is known for having hit songs from movies including Don Juan DeMarco, The Three Musketeers, The Mirror Has Two Faces, and Robin Hood, Prince Of Thieves . Some people might not know that he and Jim Vallance co-wrote the score to the Broadway adaptation of "Pretty Woman," which ran for 420 performances over a year starting in August 2018. It is currently touring the UK and U.S. None of the movie’s pop songs were used; the score was entirely theirs. And it turns out he and Vallance had to audition their work to producers. Adams told Billboard in 2016 that the duo crafted three songs and presented them to the producers, who responded with a "don’t call us, we’ll call you" approach. Thirty minutes later, Adams got the call. He Tours Places Other Western Artists Don't Visit Bryan Adams has performed in places other Western artists don't often visit. He has toured India several times; Adams first played Mumbai in the early ‘90s and was impressed with the loyalty of Indian audiences. He was reportedly the first Western artist to play Karachi, Pakistan after the Sept. 11 attacks, and toured in Syria and Lebanon in December 2010. He said Syria had a great audience and had never hosted a Western artist before. Songbook: A Guide To Stephen Sondheim's Essential Works & Classic Tributes Read More Read List 1 Bryan Adams Pens "Pretty Woman: The Musical" Score 2 Jammed Together With Steve Cropper: The Guitar Legend On 'Friendlytown,' Making His Own Rules & Playing Himself 3 12 Left-Of-Center Christmas Songs: Cyndi Lauper, Snoop Dogg, The Vandals & More 4 Who Discovered Kendrick Lamar? 9 Questions About The 'GNX' Rapper Answered 5 10 Fascinating Facts About Bryan Adams: From Writing For KISS To His Serious Side Hustle TOP RECORDING ACADEMY About Governance Press Room Jobs News Awards Process DEI MEMBERSHIP Chapters Producers & Engineers Wing Songwriters & Composers Wing GRAMMY U Join Log In GRAMMYS Awards News Videos Genres Shop GRAMMY GO ADVOCACY About News Learn Act MUSICARES About Get Help Give News Programs & Events LATIN GRAMMYS Awards News Videos Cultural Foundation Members Press GRAMMY MUSEUM COLLECTION:live Museum Tickets Exhibits Education Support Programs Donate @ 2025 - Recording Academy. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Copyright Notice Contact Us Some of the content on this site expresses viewpoints and opinions that are not those of the Recording Academy and its Affiliates. Responsibility for the accuracy of information provided in stories not written by or specifically prepared for the Academy and its Affiliates lies with the story's original source or writer. Content on this site does not reflect an endorsement or recommendation of any artist or music by the Recording Academy and its Affiliates.