Lockdown | Walking Dead Wiki | Fandom Walking Dead Wiki Attention ! Please be aware that spoilers are not allowed on the wiki and a violation of this policy may result in a ban. Information (character deaths/fates, screenshots, etc.) from episodes released early on AMC+ may not be added to the wiki until the episode officially airs at 9pm EST on the Sunday it is scheduled for. Thank you. READ MORE Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Walking Dead Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Comic Universe The Walking Dead Characters Rick Grimes Carl Grimes Andrea Grimes Maggie Greene Michonne Hawthorne Eugene Porter Negan Unnamed or Unseen Volumes Compendium 1 Compendium 2 Compendium 3 Compendium 4 Issues Specials Morgan Special Michonne Special Governor Special Tyreese Special The Alien Here's Negan Negan Lives Extras Deluxe Survivors' Guide AP Edition Crew Woodbury Novels Characters Brian Blake Lilly Caul Bob Stookey Gloria Pyne Austin Ballard Jeremiah Garlitz Norma Sutters Thomas Dupree Novels Rise of the Governor Road to Woodbury Fall of the Governor Descent Invasion Search and Destroy Return to Woodbury Chapters Short Stories Alone, Together Just Another Day at the Office Typhoon Characters Chen Wenzhu Elena Anderson Ying Hengyen Ming Haobo Meili Wangfa Secretary Guo Chen Ahui Chapters Telltale Series Characters Lee Everett Clementine Kenny Jane Javier García Violet Louis Michonne Hawthorne Unnamed or Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Michonne Episodes Bonus Scene Short Stories The Night the World Ended How I Protekted Clem Statistics Cast Crew Clementine Books Characters Clementine Ricca Olivia Georgia Amos Shu-Fen Anne Morro Alvin Jr. Books Clementine Lives Book One Book Two Book Three Chapters Saints & Sinners Characters The Tourist Unnamed or Unseen Games Saints & Sinners Aftershocks Retribution Podcasts Skeptic's Guide TV Universe The Walking Dead Characters Rick Grimes Daryl Dixon Carol Peletier Maggie Rhee Michonne Grimes Carl Grimes Glenn Rhee Negan Smith Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Season 5 Season 6 Season 7 Season 8 Season 9 Season 10 Season 11 Episodes Webisodes Torn Apart Cold Storage The Oath Red Machete Video Games Survival Instinct Dead Reckoning Onslaught Pathways Cast Crew Fear Characters Madison Clark Alicia Clark Morgan Jones Victor Strand Luciana Galvez Daniel Salazar Nicholas Clark Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Season 5 Season 6 Season 7 Season 8 Episodes Webisodes Flight 462 Passage The Althea Tapes Dead in the Water Podcasts Radio Waves Cast Crew World Beyond Characters Iris Bennett Hope Bennett Felix Carlucci Jennifer Mallick Elton Ortiz Silas Plaskett Elizabeth Kublek Unnamed or Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Episodes Cast Crew Tales Characters Joe Evie Blair Crawford Gina Dee Chauncey Everett Amy Davon Idalia Unnamed & Unseen Season 1 Episodes Cast Crew Dead City Characters Maggie Rhee Negan Smith Hershel Rhee Ginny Perlie Armstrong The Croat Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Episodes Cast Crew Daryl Dixon Characters Daryl Dixon Carol Peletier Isabelle Carriere Laurent Carriere Sylvie Stéphane Codron Marion Genet Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Episodes Cast Crew Ones Who Live Characters Rick Grimes Michonne Grimes Jadis Stokes Pearl Thorne Jonathan Beale Season 1 Episodes Cast Crew Non-Canon Original Pilot Characters Rick Grimes Carol Grimes Carl Grimes The Newscaster Rick Grimes 2000 Characters Rick Grimes Carl Grimes Andrea Lori Grimes Michonne Hawthorne Brian Blake Negan The Alien Issues Bonus Ending Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Small Bites Characters Carl Grimes Rick Grimes John Houck Steven Ron Anderson Beatrice Abraham Ford Alexander Davidson Issues Where's Carl-O Overkill Characters Aidan Hunt Grant Moore Maya Evans Heather Campbell Reina Torres Sarah Bridger Anderson Banks Caleb Bernard Unnamed or Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Episodes Cancelled Episodes Trailers Aidan's Trailer Maya's Trailer Grant's Trailer Heather's Trailer Destinies Characters Rick Grimes Shane Walsh Lori Grimes Carl Grimes Theodore Douglas Daryl Dixon Merle Dixon Philip Blake Acts Welcome to the Apocalypse Survival of the Fittest Kill the Dead Woodbury Fear the Living Episodes Other Games Social Game Characters Chapters Missions The Escapists Characters Bridge Constructor Characters Mobile Games Road to Survival No Man's Land Our World Survivors Empires All-Stars Browse wiki Letter Hacks Robert Kirkman Tony Moore Charlie Adlard Talking Dead Chris Hardwick Yvette Nicole Brown Media Extra Cast/Crew Dub Cast Stunts Crossovers Books Cutting Room Floor The Quotable Negan Art of AMC's TWDU Cover Gallery Promo Pictures 100 Project Merchandise Music In-Universe(s) Locations Vehicles Weapons Themes Outside References Community Pages Community Portal Policies Portal Spoiler Policy Discussion Policies Discord Policies Discord Portal Moderation Portal Administrators Mistertrouble189 Natalie j Ratthew Holt Zee Everett Wwefan2 Staff Members Comm. Managers Miller Content Mods Guardy107 DalesRV Cccclyde Dormammu149 Geo1234 Thread Mods Masqueradess Kayla Carson Discord Admins Zee Everett Mistertrouble189 Guardy107 Dormammu149 Ratthew Holt Discord Mods Sir Rayveltal Geo1234 NMcBugg59 President Dog Magnus Robert Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Walking Dead Wiki 14,749 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Comic Universe The Walking Dead Characters Rick Grimes Carl Grimes Andrea Grimes Maggie Greene Michonne Hawthorne Eugene Porter Negan Unnamed or Unseen Volumes Compendium 1 Compendium 2 Compendium 3 Compendium 4 Issues Specials Morgan Special Michonne Special Governor Special Tyreese Special The Alien Here's Negan Negan Lives Extras Deluxe Survivors' Guide AP Edition Crew Woodbury Novels Characters Brian Blake Lilly Caul Bob Stookey Gloria Pyne Austin Ballard Jeremiah Garlitz Norma Sutters Thomas Dupree Novels Rise of the Governor Road to Woodbury Fall of the Governor Descent Invasion Search and Destroy Return to Woodbury Chapters Short Stories Alone, Together Just Another Day at the Office Typhoon Characters Chen Wenzhu Elena Anderson Ying Hengyen Ming Haobo Meili Wangfa Secretary Guo Chen Ahui Chapters Telltale Series Characters Lee Everett Clementine Kenny Jane Javier García Violet Louis Michonne Hawthorne Unnamed or Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Michonne Episodes Bonus Scene Short Stories The Night the World Ended How I Protekted Clem Statistics Cast Crew Clementine Books Characters Clementine Ricca Olivia Georgia Amos Shu-Fen Anne Morro Alvin Jr. Books Clementine Lives Book One Book Two Book Three Chapters Saints & Sinners Characters The Tourist Unnamed or Unseen Games Saints & Sinners Aftershocks Retribution Podcasts Skeptic's Guide TV Universe The Walking Dead Characters Rick Grimes Daryl Dixon Carol Peletier Maggie Rhee Michonne Grimes Carl Grimes Glenn Rhee Negan Smith Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Season 5 Season 6 Season 7 Season 8 Season 9 Season 10 Season 11 Episodes Webisodes Torn Apart Cold Storage The Oath Red Machete Video Games Survival Instinct Dead Reckoning Onslaught Pathways Cast Crew Fear Characters Madison Clark Alicia Clark Morgan Jones Victor Strand Luciana Galvez Daniel Salazar Nicholas Clark Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Season 5 Season 6 Season 7 Season 8 Episodes Webisodes Flight 462 Passage The Althea Tapes Dead in the Water Podcasts Radio Waves Cast Crew World Beyond Characters Iris Bennett Hope Bennett Felix Carlucci Jennifer Mallick Elton Ortiz Silas Plaskett Elizabeth Kublek Unnamed or Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Episodes Cast Crew Tales Characters Joe Evie Blair Crawford Gina Dee Chauncey Everett Amy Davon Idalia Unnamed & Unseen Season 1 Episodes Cast Crew Dead City Characters Maggie Rhee Negan Smith Hershel Rhee Ginny Perlie Armstrong The Croat Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Episodes Cast Crew Daryl Dixon Characters Daryl Dixon Carol Peletier Isabelle Carriere Laurent Carriere Sylvie Stéphane Codron Marion Genet Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Episodes Cast Crew Ones Who Live Characters Rick Grimes Michonne Grimes Jadis Stokes Pearl Thorne Jonathan Beale Season 1 Episodes Cast Crew Non-Canon Original Pilot Characters Rick Grimes Carol Grimes Carl Grimes The Newscaster Rick Grimes 2000 Characters Rick Grimes Carl Grimes Andrea Lori Grimes Michonne Hawthorne Brian Blake Negan The Alien Issues Bonus Ending Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Small Bites Characters Carl Grimes Rick Grimes John Houck Steven Ron Anderson Beatrice Abraham Ford Alexander Davidson Issues Where's Carl-O Overkill Characters Aidan Hunt Grant Moore Maya Evans Heather Campbell Reina Torres Sarah Bridger Anderson Banks Caleb Bernard Unnamed or Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Episodes Cancelled Episodes Trailers Aidan's Trailer Maya's Trailer Grant's Trailer Heather's Trailer Destinies Characters Rick Grimes Shane Walsh Lori Grimes Carl Grimes Theodore Douglas Daryl Dixon Merle Dixon Philip Blake Acts Welcome to the Apocalypse Survival of the Fittest Kill the Dead Woodbury Fear the Living Episodes Other Games Social Game Characters Chapters Missions The Escapists Characters Bridge Constructor Characters Mobile Games Road to Survival No Man's Land Our World Survivors Empires All-Stars Browse wiki Letter Hacks Robert Kirkman Tony Moore Charlie Adlard Talking Dead Chris Hardwick Yvette Nicole Brown Media Extra Cast/Crew Dub Cast Stunts Crossovers Books Cutting Room Floor The Quotable Negan Art of AMC's TWDU Cover Gallery Promo Pictures 100 Project Merchandise Music In-Universe(s) Locations Vehicles Weapons Themes Outside References Community Pages Community Portal Policies Portal Spoiler Policy Discussion Policies Discord Policies Discord Portal Moderation Portal Administrators Mistertrouble189 Natalie j Ratthew Holt Zee Everett Wwefan2 Staff Members Comm. Managers Miller Content Mods Guardy107 DalesRV Cccclyde Dormammu149 Geo1234 Thread Mods Masqueradess Kayla Carson Discord Admins Zee Everett Mistertrouble189 Guardy107 Dormammu149 Ratthew Holt Discord Mods Sir Rayveltal Geo1234 NMcBugg59 President Dog Magnus Robert in: Episodes , TV Series Episodes , Television Universe , and 4 more TV Series Season 11 (TV Series) Mid-Season Premieres Season 11 Episodes Lockdown Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) Lockdown Season 11, Episode 17 Air Date October 2, 2022 Written By Julia Ruchman Directed By Greg Nicotero U.S. Viewers 1.19 million Episode Guide ← previous next → " Acts of God " " A New Deal " Cast Guide Starring Norman Reedus as Daryl Dixon Melissa McBride as Carol Peletier Lauren Cohan as Maggie Rhee Christian Serratos as Rosita Espinosa Josh McDermitt as Eugene Porter * ** Seth Gilliam as Gabriel Stokes Ross Marquand as Aaron Khary Payton as Ezekiel Sutton Cooper Andrews as Jerry Eleanor Matsuura as Yumiko Okumura Lauren Ridloff as Connie Cailey Fleming as Judith Grimes Nadia Hilker as Magna Cassady McClincy as Lydia * ** Angel Theory as Kelly Paola Lázaro as Juanita Sanchez * ** Michael James Shaw as Michael Mercer Josh Hamilton as Lance Hornsby Laila Robins as Pamela Milton Jeffrey Dean Morgan as Negan Smith Also Starring Margot Bingham as Maxxine Mercer Medina Senghore as Annie Smith Teo Rapp-Olsson as Sebastian Milton Chelle Ramos as Shira Michael Tourek as Roman Calhoun * no lines ** flashback Picture Gallery " Lockdown " is the seventeenth episode and third-part premiere of the eleventh season of AMC 's The Walking Dead . It is the one-hundred and seventieth episode of the series overall. It premiered on October 2, 2022. It was written by Julia Ruchman and directed by Greg Nicotero . [ 1 ] Contents 1 Plot 2 Synopsis 3 Other Cast 3.1 Co-Stars 3.2 Uncredited 4 Deaths 5 Trivia 5.1 Comic Parallels 5.2 Episode Highlights 6 References Plot [ ] Daryl and Negan rush to the Commonwealth to stop Hornsby from going after their families . Pamela deals with protestors demanding justice for Sebastian 's crimes. Mercer needs Rosita 's help to fight a swarm . Synopsis [ ] Inside an abandoned building, Daryl and Maggie dispatch walkers while in hiding from Hornsby and his troopers . Gabriel and Aaron meet up with them, with Negan and Annie in tow.  Maggie inquires about the whereabouts of Hershel , and they reassure her he's safely with Elijah and the others from Riverbend .  With Hornsby and his men approaching the building, the group tries to devise a plan regarding their people still back at the Commonwealth , particularly the children, such as Judith and Gracie . When at a crossroads of deciding whether to fight Hornsby or get back to the Commonwealth, Daryl realizes they can do both: Negan hasn't been seen or targeted by the community's leaders yet, and will therefore be able to enter the community and get to Carol and the others without being arrested. Negan agrees, despite Annie's objections to him going alone, and reassures her that only one of them need put themselves in a dangerous situation. He claims that he is "fucked either way" and promises that they will reunite. Outside the building, two troopers are driving around. They get out of their car to begin clearing the area of walkers and a small herd suddenly ambushes them, ripping one of them apart. Negan, disguised in his Whisperer mask, stabs the other trooper and leaves him to be eaten as well, after taking his rifle. He throws the gun and the trooper's radio next to a seemingly random van before commandeering the trooper's vehicle and driving off. Daryl opens the van's doors, taking the weapon and radio before going back inside. Later, Hornsby and several troopers come across the remains of the two soldiers Negan had killed. Hornsby angrily tries to get visual confirmation on the car Negan had stolen, but to no avail. He then has one of his men set up a portable long-distance radio to get an emergency message back to Roman Calhoun in the Commonwealth: "Contingency protocol on Daryl Dixon." The signal is not strong enough to reach home, so Hornsby sends the radio trooper to find a better signal and relay the same message once a successful connection is established. While Daryl engages in a firefight with the troopers from behind the van he hid in, killing several of them and wounding Hornsby in the arm, the walkie-talkie left behind by Negan crackles to life with a message: the car Negan stole has been spotted and is being pursued down a nearby street.  As Hornsby and his remaining soldiers attempt to kill Daryl, the latter manages to slip by them and steal their car, speeding off towards Negan's position. A car of troopers try to take Negan out as both parties speedily navigate roads littered with abandoned vehicles and walkers. Daryl arrives and broadsides the troopers' car, immobilizing and knocking them out or killing them and allowing Negan to continue towards his target destination. Back in the Commonwealth, protests outside of Pamela 's office are in full swing, with dozens of residents demanding justice for the Miltons' crimes following Connie 's article naming the people who have died for Sebastian 's heist, such as April Martens , and those who have mysteriously gone missing, such as Tyler Davis . Connie, Kelly , Ezekiel , Magna , and Rosita join in the protests, while keeping an eye on the impact their work on exposing the truth is having. While Ezekiel voices a desire to be ready to help the citizens of the community in case things "go sideways", Magna brings up the need for them to have "options." Kelly asks if she intends to leave. Magna denies the prospect, saying that the people of the Commonwealth still need their help, but that it's only a matter of time before things get worse. Rosita assures them that a decision does not have to be made yet, or until Daryl, Aaron, and the others return. Mercer approaches Rosita and asks her to get into her trooper uniform. She says it's a personal day for her. He tells her that, for the protests, he needs as many people as he can on duty to control the crowds. Rosita plainly tells him the protests aren't her problem, and they shouldn't be his, either. Just then, over his radio, Mercer receives a call about a new arrival in processing that requires his immediate attention. Before leaving, Mercer tells Rosita that he and the people of the Commonwealth need her, so she needs to "suit up." Inside her office, Pamela addresses public concerns over a PA system, with vague promises of finding "the real culprits", as Max and Yumiko silently stand by. They converse about whether or not Pamela knows where Sebastian, likely in hiding somewhere, is, and their desire to continue attempting to reform the Commonwealth and bringing the full truth to light despite the risks which lay ahead. Negan arrives at the Commonwealth and is placed in the interrogation room. Mercer enters and asks if Negan knows him, and he says his friend told him to ask for Mercer to find out about April. Mercer sits down and asks if he knows what happened to her. Negan says that question means it can't be good. Mercer wants to know why Negan is really there, so he tells him about the trouble he's had with Hornsby and his soldiers. Mercer gets the soldier in the room to leave by asking him to get Negan water. Once he leaves, Mercer asks who sent him, and Negan answers it was Daryl. Negan says they have people to protect in the walls, which Mercer says is his job, but Negan points out that he was sent anyway. Mercer brings up that there are rules and he can't just let Negan in. Negan points out that, if no one else is playing by the rules, then Mercer shouldn't either. In their apartment, Carol is taking care of Judith, R.J. , and Gracie while Daryl and Aaron are away. She looks at pictures of Sebastian trying to blend and go unnoticed, taken by Kelly. Judith tells Carol that the blueberry pancakes are burning, so she takes them off the fire. Judith asks what the pictures are for and Carol says they for learning about this place. Judith then asks when Aaron and Daryl are coming back and Carol makes a joke, saying she probably likes their cooking better. Judith chuckles, saying Daryl has no idea what he's doing, while Gracie compliments her father's cooking. Carol looks outside to see the protests and notices Shira and Calhoun walking over to their apartment. She tells the kids they are going to play the quiet game and they all hide. Shira and Calhoun enter the apartment and find it empty. They search around and Shira asks if Hornsby said anything else, but Calhoun says Dixon was the only name that came through. Calhoun then sees a photo of Daryl with Judith and R.J. and takes it as a reference. Shira looks out the window and fails to notice Carol hugging the wall outside. As Calhoun looks at the photo, it's revealed the kids are hiding in the kitchen cabinets. Shira suggests they check the school and they leave. As the protests go on, some residents look upon it in disgust. While this is going on, Negan smiles as he takes in seeing the Commonwealth for the first time. Jerry notices him and asks what he's doing there. Negan states he is there to save them and asks about Carol's whereabouts. Jerry leads him to her apartment. Meanwhile, a trooper sets up the radio antenna so Hornsby can attempt to make contact with Calhoun and order him to round up the Alexandrians and their families back in the Commonwealth, but the signal is not strong enough. The soldier is ordered to set up the antenna elsewhere to find a signal and make contact with home. He is also told to stay alert in case Daryl Dixon and the other fugitives show up, with orders to shoot to kill. Later, as he attempts to radio for reinforcements, he is distracted by Annie, giving Maggie the chance to come up from behind and stab him in the back. Maggie throws the radio and breaks it. Back at the apartment, Carol is having all the kids pack up when there's a knock at the door. She tells the kids to hide in the bedroom before opening the door to see Jerry and, to her surprise, Negan. Negan makes a joke about how he probably should've stayed in the cabin . He tells Carol about the situation with Hornsby and they try to devise a plan. Carol tells Jerry to look after the kids while she and Negan take care of things. Negan asks what the plan is, as they can't just walk out, and Carol tells him that they are going to get some insurance. Pamela and Yumiko are walking down the stairs to leave the train station when numerous protestors swarm them, with April's father and mother leading the pack. Pamela says she shares their pain and promises to find out who was responsible for their loved ones' deaths. Mr. Martens says they know who did it and asks where she is hiding Sebastian. Over a public address system, Pamela tries to argue that it's not true, but the protestors aren't buying it. Yumiko steps forward and manages to talk everyone down as the guards force them all out. Pamela suspects that Connie is the one who wrote the article, but Yumiko says it would surprise her if she did. Pamela walks outside and into her ride as the protestors chant, "DOWN WITH THE MILTONS!". Pamela looks out the windows conflicted as she talks on the radio, ordering a lockdown. Yumiko has a chat with Magna, telling her Pamela knows or at least suspects that Connie is behind the article, though Magna says there is no proof. Yumiko reveals she hasn't told Connie, since she knows she won't back down from a fight. She tells Magna that she knows she of all people doesn't back down from a fight either and wants to ensure an exit for them if things go bad. Magna questions Yumiko wanting to stay behind, and she answers she can't leave Tomi . Magna says if they have to go, they will all go, including her and Tomi. She encourages her to keep her eyes peeled and help everyone they can. Yumiko jokingly calls Magna stubborn. Just then, the announcement is made that a lockdown procedure has been initiated. Many residents are seen running towards their homes, scared. Yumiko and Magna get up and leave. Outside the walls, a giant herd is approaching, unbeknownst to the citizens. While the protests continue, Henderson steps out and announces the incoming threat. He orders everyone to return home, and announces anyone found outside after curfew will be arrested. Many protestors leave the scene as soldiers direct them. Jerry and the kids walk amongst the crowd, until suddenly Calhoun and Shira appear behind them and spot them. Jerry asks some fellow Alexandrians and Hilltoppers to help them out, and they do so by getting in Shira and Calhoun's way to buy them time. Carol and Negan enter a room full of file cabinets. Negan asks what they are looking for and Carol answers they are looking for blueprints and schematics of Union Station. She says the person they are looking for was in the building before people were protesting for him. Negan points out that, if everyone wants him dead and no one can find him, he must have a really good hiding spot. He tells Carol he got married, much to her surprise. She asks why he is telling her, and Negan adds that she is out there and carrying their child. Carol tells Negan everything's going to be okay. Negan thanks her. Meanwhile, Daryl and Maggie are roaming the streets, evading the Commonwealth soldiers. They hide on lower ground as soldiers pass by. Maggie apologizes to Daryl for what he had to do to Leah . He answers that Glenn would want him to look after Maggie, so she never has to say sorry. Gabriel, Aaron, and Annie meet up with them. Daryl asks about what they saw and Gabriel answers that Hornsby is dug in with half his men and they wouldn't be able to get close. Maggie asks if there's any way to get behind them, but Gabriel says there's no way they can without being spotted. Annie then says "Unless they never see us coming," and looks at a sewer grate. Jerry and the kids climb up a fire escape ladder to a landing, before raising it, so their pursuers won't know where they went. Just then, Calhoun approaches and finds no sign of Jerry or the kids. As he begins to leave, Jerry accidentally knocks some hay onto him. Calhoun looks up the balcony but narrowly doesn't see them. He walks away to go look elsewhere. A window opens from above and a civilian looks down upon Jerry and the kids. Jerry asks her for a favor. She nods in agreement. At the Commonwealth station , Rosita is geared up and ready to deal with the herd. Mercer comments that she made it and she sarcastically states that she couldn't resist killing walkers. They load up in the truck and drive along with three other vehicles. Daryl, Gabriel, Aaron, Maggie, and Annie climb down into the sewers. Maggie asks if Annie needs to take a minute, but she answers that they need to keep moving. They make their way through the sewer, killing any walkers in the way. Daryl suggests they get Hornsby and his soldiers to come to them. Everyone covers their ears as Gabriel shoots up the sewer to get Hornsby's attention. Carol and Negan are in Union Station and he comments they are running out of places to look. Carol asks for the map and looks at it before moving down the hall to where a door should be. Negan moves a plant in the way, revealing the door. Carol opens the door and they enter, finding Sebastian passed out on a floor bed with empty alcohol bottles and plates of food around him. Carol wakes up Sebastian, who reaches for a gun before Negan steps on his hand and takes it. Sebastian demands to know if Negan knows who he is, but the former leader of the Saviors is unimpressed. Carol orders Sebastian to get up, because they're taking him home to his mother. However, Sebastian refuses to go anywhere until this thing blows over, believing that Pamela doesn't care anyways. Carol insists that Pamela does, as Sebastian's her kid, but Sebastian believes that he's just a prop, while the Commonwealth is Pamela's kid. Amused, Negan tells Sebastian that he should rethink his options and that Negan has seen Carol pull off seemingly impossible things before, so he should listen to her. After a moment, Sebastian asks if Carol really thinks that she can help. At night, despite the curfew going on, many residents attend a memorial service for April in Union Square. Connie, Kelly, and Magna arrive, as well as Henderson and many troopers. With a megaphone, Henderson tells everyone they are in violation of curfew and the herd is getting close. He tells everyone to go to their homes immediately, and while some leave, many decide to stay, including April's parents. Mr. Martens says that her daughter never got to return home and they won't move until Sebastian is brought to them. Henderson radios that they have a situation. Just then, Carol, Negan, and Sebastian, who is wearing a dark hoodie and hat to hide his identity, leave the building and try to quietly walk by the protestors. However, one resident that walks by recognizes Sebastian and alerts the crowd that he has found him. Negan stays behind to deal with the man and tries to calm him down. This causes a physical fight between the two, ending with Negan being subdued by a soldier. Henderson tells the crowd that it's their final warning and to go home. The crowd doesn't listen and continues to chant for Sebastian. Henderson gets annoyed and tells the crowd to shut up and listen. They all quiet down and hear the walker herd outside. The crowd doesn't move and Henderson orders to "clear them." The soldiers deploy tear gas onto the crowd causing everyone to go running. Mercer, Rosita, and the other Commonwealth soldiers arrive at the open field of walkers. The two trucks drive to separate the walker herd. Rosita asks how the walkers got so close, to which Mercer replies someone wasn't doing their job. Rosita says that seems to happen a lot at the Commonwealth. Mercer and Rosita have a heart-to-heart, in which he tells her he needs people like her on the force, people he can trust. She assures him that, if he needs help outside the walls, taking on walkers, she will, but anything that goes on inside, she doesn’t want any part of, as her daughter and family come first. Mercer says he respects that and assures her that, if she ever needs help getting her family out, he will aid her. The other troopers begin rolling out, but one of the vehicles flips and radios for help, causing Rosita and Mercer to intervene. Mercer and Rosita manage to pick up one of the soldiers, but the other one gets caught by the walkers. Mercer grabs his hand and tries to break him free from the walkers' grasp. However, the walkers begin to brutally tear the soldier apart as he screams in pain, before he is completely ripped in half. A visibly traumatized Mercer looks at the walkers devouring the soldiers' remains in shock before they drive away and split the herd in two. Yumiko arrives at Pamela's house and is offered a drink. Yumiko is angry at Pamela for tear-gassing her friends, but Pamela believes it was necessary to keep everyone safe. Yumiko asks Pamela if she really thinks there is no way Sebastian had anything to do with the crimes committed. Pamela knows that he has some behavioral issues, but says his father and grandfather were the same way, and still is firm in her belief it wasn't Sebastian. Yumiko says she is trying to figure out how much Pamela knew about it, since she might have to defend her. However, Pamela shows her distrust of Yumiko, seeing that she is close friends with one of the biggest journalists in the Commonwealth, Connie. Just then, Sebastian and Carol enter the house and Pamela immediately gets up and hugs him. She immediately follows this with a slap, and says that he has humiliated her and himself. Sebastian turns his head to Pamela and states she shouldn't have come here, before Pamela grabs him by the face and makes him look at her. She asks what he had to do with everything, but Sebastian tries to lie and say he had nothing to do with it. Pamela doesn't buy it, but then Carol speaks up, saying they can help each other. She states she works with Hornsby, and that he's been hunting down her friends. Pamela states she doesn't know anything about it and questions what she would get from this. Carol implies they frame Hornsby for Sebastian's crimes. Down in the sewers, two soldiers make their way through and are about to put down a walker, when suddenly the group ambushes them. However, it's a distraction and Hornsby and more soldiers emerge and surround the group. Daryl appears from behind and grabs Hornsby, holding a knife to his throat. More and more soldiers emerge as Daryl orders everyone to lower their guns. Through it all, Lance simply sports a psychotic grin. Other Cast [ ] Co-Stars [ ] Antony Azor as R.J. Grimes Anabelle Holloway as Gracie Preston James Hillier as Mr. Martens Korbi Dean as Mrs. Martens Ja'Corey Jones as Security Guard Freddy Boyd as Henderson Jonathan Horne as Protester Derek Evans as Radio Trooper Uncredited [ ] D.J. Stavropoulos as Kasey John Prozny as Brooks Jimmy McAfee as Alexandria Resident Laura L. Anderson Weber as Alexandria Resident Michelle Morano as Alexandria Resident Gia as Alexandria Resident John Gettier as Alexandria Resident Shellane Demarest as Alexandria Resident David Aird as Hilltop Resident Lindsay Monihan as Hilltop Resident Mary DoCoteau as Hilltop Resident Meredith "Duffy" Hale as Hilltop Resident Nelson Padilla as Hilltop Resident Susan Boone as Hilltop Resident Ember Brown as Oceanside Resident Jenni Brown as Oceanside Resident Keely McAllister as Adrienne Rachel Hernandez as Oceanside Resident Billy Crank as Commonwealth Resident Denise Davis as Commonwealth Resident Freddy Lynn Wilson as Commonwealth Resident Jan Malle as Commonwealth Resident Lilly Klein as Commonwealth Resident Mario Sanchez as Commonwealth Resident Megan Fisher as Commonwealth Resident Andrew Lincoln as Rick Grimes (Archive Footage) Michael Traynor as Nicholas (Archive Footage) Juliet Brett as Frances (Archive Footage) Cameron Deane Stewart as Christopher (Archive Footage) Daniel Bonjour as Aiden Monroe (Archive Footage) Briana Venskus as Beatrice (Archive Footage) Chandler Riggs as Carl Grimes (Archive Footage) Danai Gurira as Michonne Grimes (Archive Footage) Steven Yeun as Glenn Rhee (Archive Footage) Michael Cudlitz as Abraham Ford (Archive Footage) Sonequa Martin-Green as Sasha Williams (Archive Footage) Alanna Masterson as Tara Chambler (Archive Footage) Tyler James Williams as Noah (Archive Footage) James Chen as Kal (Archive Footage) Okea Eme-Akwari as Elijah (Archive Footage) Jon Bernthal as Shane Walsh (Archive Footage) Travis Charpentier as Shawn Greene (Archive Footage) David Morrissey as Philip Blake (Archive Footage) Ryan Hurst as Beta (Archive Footage) Samantha Morton as Alpha (Archive Footage) Lynn Collins as Leah Shaw (Archive Footage) Kenric Green as Scott (Archive Footage) Wynn Everett as April Martens (Photograph) Peyton Lockridge as Hershel Rhee (Archive Footage) Orlando Vargas as Atlanta Camp Survivor (Archive Footage) Alex Van as Hermit (Archive Footage) Erica Frene as Injured Woman (Archive Footage) John Ross as Survivor (Archive Footage) Blade as Siggard Family Horse (Archive Footage) Thomas Downing as Russ (Archive Footage) Rachel Collins as Alexandria Resident (Archive Footage) Jack Orell as Alexandria Resident (Archive Footage) Dalton Baxter as Douglas (Archive Footage) Jordan Ling as Hilltop Resident (Archive Footage) Gerard Mason as Hilltop Resident (Archive Footage) Deaths [ ] Radio Trooper 8 unnamed Commonwealth soldiers Trivia [ ] First appearance of Mr. Martens . First appearance of Mrs. Martens . First appearance of Brooks . Only appearance of Henderson . Last appearance of Nicholas . (Flashback, Corpse) Last appearance of Frances . (Flashback) Last appearance of Christopher . (Flashback) Last appearance of Aiden Monroe . (Flashback) Last appearance of Beatrice . (Flashback, Corpse) Last appearance of Kal . (Flashback) Last appearance of Russ . (Flashback) Last appearance of Shawn Greene . (Flashback, Corpse) Last appearance of Arnold Greene . (Flashback, Corpse) Last appearance of Beta . (Flashback) Last appearance of Alpha . (Flashback) Last appearance of Leah Shaw . (Flashback) Last appearance of April Martens . (Photograph) The title of the episode, "Lockdown" , refers to a lockdown being ordered of the Commonwealth due to the approach of a massive herd . This episode was made available for streaming to subscribers of AMC Premiere on October 2, 2022. [ 2 ] This episode has the lowest live viewership of the entire series. As of this episode, the opening credits have been extended, featuring 10 more cast members' names, new animated sequences and a modified version of Bear McCreary 's original score. This is also the first time in the TV Series that a supporting character is promoted to main character during a season. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] Eleanor Matsuura ( Yumiko Okumura ), Lauren Ridloff ( Connie ), Cailey Fleming ( Judith Grimes ), Nadia Hilker ( Magna ), Cassady McClincy ( Lydia ), Angel Theory ( Kelly ), Paola Lázaro ( Juanita Sanchez ), Michael James Shaw ( Michael Mercer ), Josh Hamilton ( Lance Hornsby ), and Laila Robins ( Pamela Milton ) have been added to the opening credits. Lynn Collins ( Leah Shaw ) is no longer listed under "Also Starring". Lauren Ridloff and Cailey Fleming are now billed before Nadia Hilker. Margot Bingham ( Maxxine Mercer ) is still listed under "Also Starring". This episode marks Lauren Cohan 's 100th appearance on the TV Series, making her the fourth and final person to achieve this mark after Andrew Lincoln , Norman Reedus , and Melissa McBride . It also marks Eleanor Matsuura and Lauren Ridloff 's 25th appearance on the show. During the Talking Dead sneak peek for this episode, Judith Grimes refers to Aaron as her adoptive uncle. She calls both Daryl and Aaron "uncle" while talking to Carol during the episode itself. Despite several Commonwealth soldiers having speaking lines in this episode before their deaths, all remained uncredited. This episode contains several easter eggs: Negan briefly dons his old Whisperer mask again. In one scene, a protester behind Mercer can be seen holding a "Mercer for President" sign. Negan tells Carol that maybe he should've stayed in Leah's Cabin , a nod to Negan 's departure in the Comic Series by this point in the story. Pamela wonders if Connie had a hand in exposing Sebastian's crimes. In " New Haunts ", Connie mentions that she had exposed Pamela's uncle for corruption before the world ended and got him kicked out of Congress. Maggie and Daryl mention the deaths of Leah and Glenn. On Talking Dead , it's revealed that the mention of Glenn was actually Norman Reedus ' idea. One of the walkers in the sewers is based on Freddy Kruger, as confirmed on Talking Dead . He is also credited as Freddy Walker during the "In Memoriam" segment. This is the second episode in which Negan finds himself in a car chase, the first being " The Key ", where he was being chased by Rick . In the large overhead shot of the protesting crowd outside Union Station, several extras can be seen multiple times. This is a result of editing, where extras were digitally added in to make the crowd look larger than it was while adhering to COVID-19 filming protocols. Comic Parallels [ ] The Commonwealth protests are adapted from Issue 183 and Issue 184 . Episode Highlights [ ] TBA References [ ] ↑ Tweet by Kirsten Acuna ↑ Tweet by Sonya Iryna ↑ Kirsten Acuna's review on Insider.com (mild spoilers) ↑ The Walking Dead season 11C review on whattowatch.com v · d · e Episodes of The Walking Dead Season 1 " Days Gone Bye " • " Guts " • " Tell It to the Frogs " • " Vatos " • " Wildfire " • " TS-19 " Season 2 " What Lies Ahead " • " Bloodletting " • " Save the Last One " • " Cherokee Rose " • " Chupacabra " • " Secrets " • " Pretty Much Dead Already " • " Nebraska " • " Triggerfinger " • " 18 Miles Out " • " Judge, Jury, Executioner " • " Better Angels " • " Beside the Dying Fire " Season 3 " Seed " • " Sick " • " Walk With Me " • " Killer Within " • " Say the Word " • " Hounded " • " When the Dead Come Knocking " • " Made to Suffer " • " The Suicide King " • " Home " • " I Ain't a Judas " • " Clear " • " Arrow on the Doorpost " • " Prey " • " This Sorrowful Life " • " Welcome to the Tombs " Season 4 " 30 Days Without An Accident " • " Infected " • " Isolation " • " Indifference " • " Internment " • " Live Bait " • " Dead Weight " • " Too Far Gone " • " After " • " Inmates " • " Claimed " • " Still " • " Alone " • " The Grove " • " Us " • " A " Season 5 " No Sanctuary " • " Strangers " • " Four Walls and a Roof " • " Slabtown " • " Self Help " • " Consumed " • " Crossed " • " Coda " • " What Happened and What's Going On " • " Them " • " The Distance " • " Remember " • " Forget " • " Spend "  • " Try " • " Conquer " Season 6 " First Time Again " • " JSS " • " Thank You " • " Here's Not Here " • " Now " • " Always Accountable " • " Heads Up " • " Start to Finish " • " No Way Out " • " The Next World " • " Knots Untie " • " Not Tomorrow Yet " • " The Same Boat " • " Twice as Far " • " East " • " Last Day on Earth " Season 7 " The Day Will Come When You Won't Be " • " The Well " • " The Cell " • " Service " • " Go Getters " • " Swear " • " Sing Me a Song " • " Hearts Still Beating " • " Rock in the Road " • " New Best Friends " • " Hostiles and Calamities " • " Say Yes " • " Bury Me Here " • " The Other Side " • " Something They Need " • " The First Day of the Rest of Your Life " Season 8 " Mercy " • " The Damned " • " Monsters " • " Some Guy " • " The Big Scary U " • " The King, the Widow, and Rick " • " Time for After " • " How It's Gotta Be " • " Honor " • " The Lost and the Plunderers " • " Dead or Alive Or " • " The Key " • " Do Not Send Us Astray " • " Still Gotta Mean Something " • " Worth " • " Wrath " Season 9 " A New Beginning " • " The Bridge " • " Warning Signs " • " The Obliged " • " What Comes After " • " Who Are You Now? " • " Stradivarius " • " Evolution " • " Adaptation " • " Omega " • " Bounty " • " Guardians " • " Chokepoint " • " Scars " • " The Calm Before " • " The Storm " Season 10 " Lines We Cross " • " We Are the End of the World " • " Ghosts " • " Silence the Whisperers " • " What It Always Is " • " Bonds " • " Open Your Eyes " • " The World Before " • " Squeeze " • " Stalker " • " Morning Star " • " Walk With Us " • " What We Become " • " Look at the Flowers " • " The Tower " • " A Certain Doom " • " Home Sweet Home " • " Find Me " • " One More " • " Splinter " • " Diverged " • " Here's Negan " Season 11 " Acheron: Part I " • " Acheron: Part II " • " Hunted " • " Rendition " • " Out of the Ashes " • " On the Inside " • " Promises Broken " • " For Blood " • " No Other Way " • " New Haunts " • " Rogue Element " • " The Lucky Ones " • " Warlords " • " The Rotten Core " • " Trust " • " Acts of God " • " Lockdown " • " A New Deal " • " Variant " • " What's Been Lost " • " Outpost 22 " • " Faith " • " Family " • " Rest in Peace " Episode Guide: Fear • World Beyond • Tales • Dead City • Daryl Dixon • The Ones Who Live • Webisodes Categories Categories : Episodes TV Series Episodes Television Universe TV Series Season 11 (TV Series) Mid-Season Premieres Season 11 Episodes Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Horror Sci-fi The Walking Dead Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Walking Dead Wiki is a FANDOM TV Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab