Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/patientgamers A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to patientgamers r/patientgamers r/patientgamers A gaming sub free from the news, hype and drama that surround current releases, catering instead to gamers who wait at least 12 months after release to play a game. Whether it's price, waiting for bugs/issues to be patched, DLC to be released, don't meet the system requirements, or just haven't had the time to keep up with the latest releases. Members Online • kociol21 I know it's popular thing by I just finished Super Mario Odyssey and it's amazing beyond reason. I was always PC player. As a kid I had Atari, then Amiga 500 and then lot's of PCs. But I never had any console in my life. So my nostalgia is Civilization series, Cannon Fodder, Sensible World of Soccer, Monkey Island and later first Fallouts, Baldur's Gate etc. but these "legendary" series like Mario or Zelda do nothing to me because I've never played them. Now, I knew what Mario is being so known part of pop culture for decades but aside from some 3 party rerelease of original Mario in early 90s I never played any game from this series. Lately I've been looking for games that can be fun in split screen or just local coop with my 5yo son and I stumbled upon Mario Odyssey via Yuzu emulator on PC. We loved A Hat in Time so I thought, well, 3D platformer with coop, may be OK. Damn. This game is absolutely fantastic. I don't know but I have an urge to call it the best game of last few years. It's just... normally when I think about a game after finishing it I have a list of what worked and what didn't. I don't have the latter in this case. Everything in this game just works so great, not a single thing to complain about. Great presentation, unique characters, fantastic gameplay, neat world design, just enough variety. And don't get me started on music. Main song became one of my three favourite songs from game of all time along Baba Yetu from Civilization 4 and maybe Late Goodbye from Max Payne 2. I don't know what's up with this game. Playing it I felt like I was kid again and normally I would say this is because of nostalgia but obviously I don't have any so this game is just freaking magical. Damn it I had tears in my eyes when we finished it. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 23, 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2021 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics