World Cup 2010: Spain unites in victory with celebration in the streets | World Cup 2010 | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us World Europe US Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Fans celebrate in Barcelona with a rare mass display of Spanish national flags. Photograph: Emilio Morenatti/AP Fans celebrate in Barcelona with a rare mass display of Spanish national flags. Photograph: Emilio Morenatti/AP World Cup 2010 This article is more than 14 years old World Cup 2010: Spain unites in victory with celebration in the streets This article is more than 14 years old Andrés Iniesta's goal in extra time gives divided country much-needed shot in the arm Stephen Burgen in Barcelona Sun 11 Jul 2010 19.29 EDT Share Spain needed this. If ever a country required a shot in the arm it is Spain , a nation that recently woke up to the fact that it has been living way beyond its means, with four million unemployed and the prospect of a double-dip recession. Psychologically the value of this victory is incalculable. At 8.30pm, a quarter of a million people gathered in the Paseo de Recoletos in Madrid to watch the giant screen, and close to 100,000 assembled around another screen close to the Plaza España in Barcelona. At the final whistle, the fireworks exploded across the country and it was as if the entire nation took to the streets. They rolled down Madrid's six-lane Paseo de la Castellana boulevard, they partied in Barcelona, in Bilbao, in Seville, in Santiago. "It had to be [Andrés] Iniesta, the field marshal of Spanish football," said the 19-year-old Marcos Domenec. Marta Seco, 22, was overcome with emotion. "This is the greatest sporting event in the history of the country," she shouted, with tears in her eyes. In Madrid and Barcelona, the city authorities had erected barriers around the fountains where football victories are traditionally celebrated, but they looked unlikely to survive the long, sweltering night of celebrations. Over the past four weeks, across Spain the bars have turned themselves inside out, with the TV and all the tables in the street, and no one inside. In Barcelona, last night the Arc de Triomf bar in the city centre was draped in Spanish flags – a sight almost unthinkable in Barcelona – and a group in Spanish football shirts led the crowd in renditions of Viva España! and Soy Español (I am Spanish). Fans watching from a patio bar in a working-class neighbourhood of Madrid whooped in joy and yelled "Spain! Spain!" as they danced on bar chairs and hugged each other. Others yelled "Yes! Yes! The Cup is now ours!" "It's just amazing, I almost don't believe it," said a beaming Feliciano Hernandez, a 25-year-old electrician. "I'm so proud, totally happy and living for the moment and not thinking about anything else right now." Nacho Moreno, a 23-year-old waiter, danced in the street waving the Spanish flag he had kept wrapped around his head for luck during the game as cars drove by, honking their horns in salute. He said he would probably drink until dawn to celebrate. "It's phenomenal! Spain won. I was really nervous but I knew it was possible," Moreno said. But among the crowd there were also Italians, Argentineans and an English couple sporting Spanish war paint – all rooting for Spain. At half time the bar owner popped the cork on a bottle of cava and sprayed the crowd, Formula 1 style. It may not last, but this is a victory for everyone in this divided country. Catalans have plenty to cheer about. The core of this team – Xavi, Puyol, Piqué and Busquets – are all Catalans and seven players on the pitch last night play for FC Barcelona. In fact, every single Spanish goal in the competition has been scored by a Barça player, including last night's winner scored by Andrés Iniesta. This has been a truly national victory for a nation that is still struggling to find itself – or its several selves – 35 years after the end of the dictatorship. José Luis Zapatero, the Spanish president, said of the team before the match: "They have rejected fatalism and pessimism and turned them into confidence and joy. This is the image we want Spain to have in the 21st century." Economically, the party is well and truly over, but last night it was only just beginning, and as the crowds fanned out along the streets, everyone devoted themselves to the pursuit at which Spain were world champions long before this – la fiesta. Explore more on these topics World Cup 2010 Spain (Football) Spain (World news) Europe World Cup news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)