As the 2018 Oscars Draw Near, Don’t Sleep on Darkest Hour | Vanity Fair Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu Menu Search Search Politics Business Hollywood Style Culture Royals Celebrity Video Podcasts Archive VF Shop What Is Cinema? Archive Magazine Awards Season As the 2018 Oscars Draw Near, Don’t Sleep on Darkest Hour Awards fanatics were shocked to see the Gary Oldman Winston Churchill biopic sweep up six nominations—but they shouldn’t have been. By Daniel Joyaux February 27, 2018 Lily James stars as Elizabeth Layton and Gary Oldman as Winston Churchill in director Joe Wright's Darkest Hour . By Jack English/Focus Features. Save this story Save Save this story Save Last year, Hacksaw Ridge snuck up on Oscar pundits by receiving a surprise best-director Oscar nomination—along with five other nods, including best picture. It was a wake-up call indicating that despite the Academy’s much-touted diversity pushes , the voting body still contains plenty of traditionalist members with very specific (and, perhaps, narrow) views of what constitutes great filmmaking. They thought they’d learned their lesson in 2018, when those same pundits widely assumed the majority of Hacksaw Ridge voters would flock to Christopher Nolan’s Dunkirk —another World War II story displaying an immense level of craft in its combat sequences, as well as a stirring and hopeful ending. And Dunkirk certainly did well; the film ended up getting eight nominations in total, and it could be on the path toward a surprise best-picture win . But another W.W. II film also ended up storming the nominations—one whose success was somewhat less anticipated. Darkest Hour was cited in six categories, including a best-picture nomination that few pundits, if any, saw coming. So why were the the Oscar prospects of Darkest Hour (beyond a presumed best-actor win for Gary Oldman ) so widely underestimated? The biggest lesson here is that Hacksaw Ridge actually has far more in common with Darkest Hour than it does with Dunkirk. The voters who elevated Hacksaw into last year’s best-picture race likely weren’t responding to its depiction of combat as much as they were responding to its classic portrayal of heroism. Hacksaw Ridge was a true story about a Great Man doing Great Things, the way Great Men used to do Great Things. For the voters who respond to these sorts of stories instinctually, Dunkirk —a tense and relatively brief movie about nameless characters orchestrating a mass retreat—wasn’t going to cut it. But Darkest Hour, in which Winston Churchill convinces a nation to stand with him in refusing to allow England to surrender to Nazi tyranny? Now that’s the stuff. More broadly, it’s a mistake to think of the Academy as some kind of monolith. Moonlight ’s win may have signified the ascendance of a "New Academy," but that doesn’t mean the old Academy no longer has enough voting power to exert any will. A film will get nominated for best picture if 5 percent of the Academy—some 350 members—names it their first choice on their nominating ballots. So the old Academy certainly retains enough power to get a film to Oscar night, even if that voting bloc probably is no longer quite big enough to secure a best-picture win on its own. Similarly, in the wake of Moonlight, it’s suddenly become normal to see a best-picture race filled with lovely indies ( Lady Bird, Call Me by Your Name ) or genre films that captured the zeitgeist ( Get Out, The Shape of Water ). But there are still a lot of (very) old Academy members who have very precise ideas of what an "Oscar movie" looks and feels like—and if those ideas include Great Men doing Great Things, well, the rest of this year’s nominees just weren’t scratching that itch. In Dunkirk, the characters are being rescued rather than doing the rescuing. Darkest Hour was—or at least should have been—the obvious choice to inherit that particular mantle. Unless there are no obvious choices. Interviews with anonymous Academy members published in the past two weeks show that there’s much less groupthink in this 8,000-plus member body than most of us would assume. Some members say they feel compelled to consider diversity and representation when voting, while others emphatically refuse to be bothered with it. Some can’t stop glowing about Three Billboards , while others found its character arcs completely unbelievable. And the same voter who told the Daily Beast that they’re "completely confused by why [ Get Out ] got all that attention" also confessed to liking Darkest Hour so much that they’ve already watched it five times. It’s useful to remember that the Academy actually does have some conservative constituents. ( Jon Voight and James Woods are both members.) Whether that voting bloc made a difference in pushing Darkest Hour over the finish line—or could help it win awards beyond best actor—is anybody’s guess. But especially since Mike Huckabee spouted his ludicrous Trump -as-Churchill comparisons on Twitter in December, it seems safe to assume that Darkest Hour has enjoyed the full attention of the voting body’s right wing. Of course, maybe voters also just like Darkest Hour on pure merit. It’s a wonderfully made film, as evidenced by its four nominations in the craft categories. Some may find it a little too slow, insular, by-the-numbers, or stylistically archaic—and they’re entitled to that opinion. Some may also dismiss the movie as "Oscar bait," though that argument is slightly less plausible; if you’re a producer or studio focused on Oscar glory, you probably don’t turn to the director whose previous movie was Pan. Regardless, Darkest Hour is this awards season’s most obvious and accomplished example of traditional filmmaking. The film also exhibits a classical level of cinematic elegance, the sort a certain cadre of voters may be explicitly seeking. And of all the 2018 best-picture nominees, it probably checks off the most boxes on the Oscar movie smell test. We should have seen Churchill coming. 11 Amazing Gary Oldman Transformations 1 / 11 Chevron Chevron From Samuel Goldwyn Films/Everett Collection. Sid and Nancy It was the role that caught everyone’s eye. In the 1986 biopic, Oldman made a star turn playing Sid Vicious, the raucous bassist of the Sex Pistols. Oldman’s performance is at once manic and nuanced, an in-depth look at the late punk star’s doomed inner life. Read More oscar hopeful 11 Amazing Gary Oldman Transformations From the punk drawl of Sid and Nancy to the magical spell of the Harry Potter franchise. By Vanity Fair In Conversation Director Joe Wright on Discovering Saoirse Ronan and Getting Gary Oldman to Become Churchill "It amazes me to discover that Gary Oldman is just as full of self-doubt as any other actor," British helmer Joe Wright says of his Darkest Hour star. By Nicole Sperling Awards Extra! The Oscar Nominees Who Transported Audiences to the Furthest Reaches Below-the-line artisans painstakingly created the year’s most vivid movie worlds, from the Old Hollywood-steeped sea-monster romance of The Shape of Water to the intergalactic space odyssey that was Star Wars: The Last Jedi. By Julie Miller News What Was the New England Patriots’ Team Jet Doing at Guantánamo Bay? This six Lombardi Trophies painted on the tail of the gigantic red, white, and blue airplane are pretty hard to miss. A team spox told VF that the plane “was not used for any kind of deportation flight.” By Kase Wickman Politics New Polling Shows How Many People Hate Trump’s First 100 Days. What About the Next Thousand? The president’s chaos “is bringing a whole host of folks who weren’t necessarily with us three months ago into this chorus of resistance,” the DNC chair tells VF . The question for Democrats now is how to keep the chorus singing. By Eric Lutz Music Parris Goebel, Lady Gaga’s Coachella Choreographer, Talks Operas, Alexander McQueen, and Those Rihanna Rumors “Gaga kept telling me she wanted to do the show of her dreams,” the New Zealander recently told Vanity Fair of creating the pop star’s set in the California desert. By John Ross Royals Kate Middleton and Prince William Are “Stronger Than Ever” on Their 14th Anniversary, Friends Say Princess Kate’s cancer diagnosis last year made the Prince and Princess of Wales “prioritize family and each other over everything else,” a source tells Vanity Fair . Now, with their three kids in tow, the couple is “doing things the way they want to” and looking ahead to a bright future. By Katie Nicholl Royals Did Princess Diana Spend a Night Out in Drag With Freddie Mercury? In a new book, Dianaworld: An Obsession, author Edward White revisits a perhaps apocryphal tale about the late princess’s trip to a gay club in the late 1980s. By Erin Vanderhoof Royals Meghan Markle’s Strategy to Win Us Over With Pictures of Her Children Is Working After years of walking the line between privacy and publicity, the duchess seems to have figured out how to balance her desire for both. By Erin Vanderhoof Movies Bruce Springsteen Can’t Believe Everyone in the E Street Band Still Likes Each Other “Forget about bands breaking up—usually two people can't stay together,” The Boss says at a Q&A for the documentary Road Diary , a behind-the-scenes look at the group after a half century of music. By Anthony Breznican Business Mark Zuckerberg Says He’s “Raw-Dogging Reality” His reality just happens to include an underground tunnel and a statue of his wife in the front yard. By Issie Lapowsky Hollywood Terrence Howard Rejected Marvin Gaye Biopic Because He Didn’t Want to Kiss a Man The Oscar-nominated actor says he couldn’t “fake it” if asked to play a gay character: “If I kissed some man, I would cut my lips off.” By Savannah Walsh Facebook X Instagram Pinterest YouTube More from Vanity Fair Newsletters Subscribe Digital Edition Inside the Issue About Vanity Fair FAQ Contact Contact VF Manage Account Advertising Careers User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Condé Nast Store VF Media Kit Accessibility Help © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vanity Fair may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Entertainment Select international site United States LargeChevron Italy Spain France