Tour De France: Tadej Pogačar Wins For A Second Year In A Row : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu Newsletters NPR Shop Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Fresh Air Up First Featured Embedded The NPR Politics Podcast Throughline Trump's Terms More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Tour De France: Tadej Pogačar Wins For A Second Year In A Row The 22-year-old Slovenian powerhouse dominated the field over the last two weeks. Meanwhile, Mark Cavendish matched a record number of stage wins. Sports Tadej Pogačar Has Won His 2nd Tour De France In A Row July 18, 2021 1:28 PM ET By James Doubek Enlarge this image Tadej Pogačar of Slovenia celebrates in Paris after claiming his second Tour de France victory in a row on Sunday. Anne-Christine Poujoulat/AFP via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Anne-Christine Poujoulat/AFP via Getty Images Tadej Pogačar of Slovenia celebrates in Paris after claiming his second Tour de France victory in a row on Sunday. Anne-Christine Poujoulat/AFP via Getty Images Slovenian powerhouse Tadej Pogačar officially claimed his second Tour de France victory on Sunday after dominating the field for most of the race's three weeks. Pogačar, 22, pulled ahead in the general classification standings on a rainy stage eight and never gave up the leading rider's yellow jersey, winning three of the race's 21 stages. Last year, Pogačar came to an unexpected victory after his rival Primož Roglič faltered in the penultimate stage time trial. At the time he was the youngest winner of the Tour in 116 years. "I can't compare both Tour de France victories, I can't say which one is more beautiful," Pogačar said, according to The Associated Press. "This time, I took the yellow jersey quite earlier. It has been totally different." Sponsor Message Sports A Pro Cyclist Rode An Unofficial, Solo Tour De France And Beat The Pack Twenty-four-year-old Danish rider Jonas Vingegaard finished second overall, with Ecuadorian star Richard Carapaz, age 28, finishing third. Carapaz is the first Ecuadorian to ever finish in the top three in the Tour's history. Pogačar was a favorite to win going into the race. Roglič, also of Slovenia, was another favorite but was caught up in multiple crashes early in the race and dropped out to recover from his injuries. Mark Cavendish resurrects his cycling career Meanwhile, Mark Cavendish, 36, a native of the Isle of Man, resurrected a career that had seemed to be on a downturn, winning four stages of the Tour. Enlarge this image Mark Cavendish, pictured on his fourth win of this year's Tour de France on July 9, matched the record Tour wins of the legend Eddy Merckx. Thomas Samson/AFP via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Thomas Samson/AFP via Getty Images Mark Cavendish, pictured on his fourth win of this year's Tour de France on July 9, matched the record Tour wins of the legend Eddy Merckx. Thomas Samson/AFP via Getty Images In doing so, Cavendish reached a total of 34 Tour de France stage wins in his career, matching the record set between 1969 and 1975 by Eddy Merckx, who is generally considered the greatest cyclist of all time. Cavendish broke out in tears after his first win of this year's Tour, his first in five years. He was only selected to be on the team at the last minute after another rider's injury. "I didn't think I'd ever get to come back to this race," he said in an emotional post-race interview. "I don't know what to say man" First words from the 🇮🇲 Manx Missile, fresh from a 31st stage win. @MarkCavendish #TDF2021 pic.twitter.com/9tMygrixNA — Tour de France™ (@LeTour) June 29, 2021 American Sepp Kuss breaks through And this year American audiences also saw the first American win a stage of the Tour since 2011: Sepp Kuss of Durango, Colo. Enlarge this image Sepp Kuss became the first American to win a stage of the Tour de France since 2011 this year, with a win in the 15th stage on July 11. Philippe Lopez/AFP via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Philippe Lopez/AFP via Getty Images Sepp Kuss became the first American to win a stage of the Tour de France since 2011 this year, with a win in the 15th stage on July 11. Philippe Lopez/AFP via Getty Images "He's been tremendous," writer Patrick Redford of the website Defector told All Things Considered . "I mean, he's 26 years old, so some people are potentially talking him up as the next American winner of the Tour. He's looked incredibly strong." Several of the riders from the Tour are now readying to travel to Tokyo, where they'll take part in this year's Olympics. Cycling bicycling bike Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor