The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 - NobelPrize.org Skip to content Open the search menu Close the search menu Close Mobile Menu Toggle Mobile Menu Nobel Prizes & laureates All Nobel Prizes All Nobel Prizes 2024 Physics prize Chemistry prize Medicine prize Literature prize Peace prize Prize in economic sciences About About the prize Alfred Nobel Award ceremonies Nomination Organisation Stories Educational Events & museums Open the search menu Close the search menu Header Search Submit a search term Enhanced Page Navigation The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 - Prize announcement The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 - Press release The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 - Biobibliography The Nobel Prize Award Ceremony 2019 The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 - Presentation Speech Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 Summary Laureates Olga Tokarczuk Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech Share this Facebook X LinkedIn Email this page Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 Navigate to: Summary - Olga Tokarczuk Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech @ Nobel Media. Photo: A. Mahmoud. Olga Tokarczuk Prize share: 							1/1 The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 was awarded to Olga Tokarczuk "for a narrative imagination that with encyclopedic passion represents the crossing of boundaries as a form of life" Olga Tokarczuk received her Nobel Prize in 2019. To cite this section MLA style: The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018. NobelPrize.org. Nobel Prize Outreach 2025. Fri. 25 Apr 2025. <https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/literature/2018/summary/> Back to top Back To Top Takes users back to the top of the page Nobel Prizes and laureates Nobel Prizes 2018 In 2018, 12 new laureates were awarded for achievements that have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind. Their work and discoveries range from cancer therapy and laser physics to developing proteins that can solve humankind’s chemical problems. The work of the 2018 Nobel Laureates also included combating war crimes, as well as integrating innovation and climate with economic growth. Find out more. Nobel Prizes and laureates Nobel Prizes 2024 Six prizes were awarded for achievements that have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind. The 12 laureates' work and discoveries range from proteins' structures and machine learning to fighting for a world free of nuclear weapons. See them all presented here. Explore prizes and laureates Look for popular awards and laureates in different fields, and discover the history of the Nobel Prize. Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Decrease the year by one - Choose a year you would like to search in Increase the year by one + Explore About the Nobel Prize organisation The Nobel Foundation Tasked with a mission to manage Alfred Nobel's fortune and has ultimate responsibility for fulfilling the intentions of Nobel's will. The prize-awarding institutions For more than a century, these academic institutions have worked independently to select Nobel Prize laureates. Outreach organisations Several outreach organisations and activities have been developed to inspire generations and disseminate knowledge about the Nobel Prize. Press Contact FAQ Privacy policy Terms of use For developers Media player Careers Join us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Nobel Prize Copyright © Nobel Prize Outreach 2025 Scroll to top