French election 2017: Why is it important? - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Close menu BBC News Menu Home Israel-Gaza war War in Ukraine Climate Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech More Science Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures BBC Verify World News TV Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East French election 2017: Why is it important? Published 3 May 2017 Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Image source, Reuters Image caption, The old model of French politics has been shattered by the first-round result France's voters have rejected the two big political parties that have governed for decades and are now at a crossroads as they choose a president. Will they go for a pro-European liberal who has never before been elected, or a far-right challenger to the establishment, who has vowed to take on globalisation and France's relationship with the EU? After the Brexit vote in the UK and the election of US President Donald Trump, France is the latest country to deal a blow to politics as usual. What is new about this election? The Socialists and the centre right have run France since the 1950s, but the old model has been shattered. An unpopular and divided ruling Socialist party and a Republican candidate in the crosshairs of judicial inquiry have cleared the way for a president who has never been elected to the French National Assembly. Image source, EPA Image caption, Marine Le Pen's party already has a strong showing in the European parliament Whoever wins, centrist Emmanuel Macron or populist Marine Le Pen, France will have a president with an agenda for change. Is Le Pen far-right? Emmanuel Macron: The meteoric rise of France's youngest presidential candidate Five things the French election has told us The far right already runs eight towns and has 20 MEPs in the European Parliament - but is widely shunned by the political mainstream. Mr Macron's En Marche! (On the Move!) movement is an unknown quantity. Set up in April 2016 when he was economy minister, it has never before contested an election. And until now, nor has he. What is at stake? Voters will be making a decision on France's future direction and on its place at the heart of the European Union. If they opt for Emmanuel Macron, they will be backing a candidate who seeks EU reform as well as deeper European integration, in the form of a eurozone budget and eurozone finance ministers. Image caption, "I'm in favour of more Europe. In a Europe that goes faster, delivers concrete responses and re-establishes the connection" If instead they choose Marine Le Pen she promises quite the opposite. She wants a Europe of nations to replace the EU. "I give myself six months to negotiate with the EU the return of sovereignty. Then it will be the French who decide," she tweeted. The assumption is that she would fail and a referendum would take place initially on France's membership of the euro. A poll in March suggested that , external seven out of 10 French voters were opposed to France pulling out of the EU, but Emmanuel Macron was the only candidate standing on a pro-EU platform in the first round of the presidential election. Who will win? All opinion polls suggest Mr Macron is heading for a big victory, polling about 60% in the second round - though his lead has narrowed in the last days before voting. Image source, AFP Image caption, He's won once, can he do it again? He defeated Marine Le Pen in the first round and few commentators believe she will turn the tables on 7 May. Her best hope may be in voters failing to turn out in large numbers on the day. A day after reaching the second round, Ms Le Pen stepped down as leader of the National Front, which she has led since 2011, to concentrate on the presidential race. The move is an apparent bid to broaden her appeal by creating artificial distance between her run for power and her party's hard-line policies. Does Le Pen have a chance? Will a new president spell the end of old politics? Quite possibly not. Because Emmanuel Macron has no MPs, and Marine Le Pen has only two. So to have any power to push through their proposals the next president will need their party to perform well in legislative elections on 11 and 18 June. Barely was Mr Macron's first-round success known before he announced plans for a majority in the New Assembly, made up of "new faces and new talents". Half of his candidates will be women - but his problem will be that none will be household names. So for both the shadow of cohabitation looms, in which parliament is under the control of another party.  It raises the prospect of governing with the help of politicians from other parties. What are the battleground issues? One of the overriding issues facing French voters is unemployment, which stands at almost 10% and is the eighth highest among the 28 EU member states. One in four under-25s is unemployed. The French economy has made a slow recovery from the 2008 financial crisis and all the leading candidates say deep changes are needed. Economic challenges facing next president Marine Le Pen wants the pension age cut to 60 and to "renationalise French debt", which she argues is largely held by foreigners. Emmanuel Macron wants to cut 120,000 public-sector jobs, reduce public spending by €60bn (£50bn; $65bn), plough billions into investment and reduce unemployment to below 7%. What the two candidates want What about security? The election is taking place amid a state of emergency, and the first round took place three days after a policeman was shot dead on the Champs Elysées in the heart of Paris. More than 230 people have died in terror attacks since January 2015 and officials fear more of the hundreds of young French Muslims who travelled to Syria and Iraq may return to commit new atrocities. Image source, AFP Image caption, Dozens of people were killed in the Nice lorry attack on Bastille Day in 2016 Intelligence services believe attackers are deliberately pursuing a Le Pen victory, says the BBC's Hugh Schofield in Paris - because that could tip the country into chaos. The former FN leader wants to suspend the EU's open-border agreement on France's frontiers and expel foreigners who are on the watch lists of intelligence services. What makes the National Front far-right? Ms Le Pen is fighting to appeal to the centre and left of French politics after working to move the party away from the image of her father, who has been repeatedly convicted for hate speech and describing the Holocaust as a "detail of history". This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Media caption, Why people are voting for Marine Le Pen But she still has a far-right platform. She wants to allocate public services to French citizens ahead of foreigners. She also wants "automatic" expulsion of illegal immigrants and a moratorium on all legal immigration before cutting it to 10,000 per year. She courted controversy again in the weeks running up to the election by suggesting that the French state was not responsible for rounding up Jews to send them to Nazi death camps during World War Two. And the FN's links with Holocaust denial were highlighted once again when the man who replaced Ms Le Pen as its leader was himself forced out after only three days  when he was accused of historical remarks underplaying Nazi atrocities . The FN also has close ties with other European parties such as Austria's far-right Freedom Party - parties that mainstream right-wing parties want nothing to do with. Guide to nationalist parties across Europe More on this story French election: A sigh of relief in Brussels Published 24 April 2017 The final candidates Published 24 April 2017 World reacts to election Published 24 April 2017 What does French result mean for Brexit? Published 24 April 2017 Wall Street joins rally after French vote Published 25 April 2017 Top stories Trump congratulates Canada's Carney as they agree to meet in 'near future' Published 4 hours ago Live . Woman accused of killing relatives with toxic mushrooms ate from smaller plate, prosecution says 3372 viewing 3.4k viewing Woman's eyesight saved by cutting-edge test after mystery infection Published 3 hours ago More to explore Life inside Iraq's 'Forbidden Zone' controlled by Turkey Net zero 'doomed' and royals 'on love island' Faisal Islam: Carney wants to lead a G7 fightback on Trump tariffs Cash, tinned food and radio news: Making it through one of Europe's biggest ever power cuts Fifty years after the war, Vietnam faces a new US threat: tariffs Why is the M&S cyber attack chaos taking so long to resolve? Kneecap: Rap group are no strangers to controversy, but is this time different? 'Why hit a single when you can hit six?' - the making of a teen IPL star US Politics Unspun: Cut through the noise with Anthony's Zurcher's newsletter - sign up Elsewhere on the BBC The true cost of China's booming cosmetic surgery industry Have your say on the BBC’s future The Doctor and Belinda face absolute terror Detectives recount cases that shaped their careers Most read 1 Warning meters in 300,000 homes could stop working 2 William and Kate visit Mull to celebrate wedding anniversary 3 Net zero 'doomed' and royals 'on love island' 4 Woman's eyesight saved by cutting-edge test after mystery infection 5 Trump congratulates Canada's Carney as they agree to meet in 'near future' 6 Trump celebrates 100 days in office by touting record and blasting foes 7 Jenkyns at odds with Farage on special needs 8 Why is the M&S cyber attack chaos taking so long to resolve? 9 How Spain powered back to life from unprecedented national blackout 10 Crossbow attack suspect put 'massacre' plans online BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.