'The Last of Us Part II' Is Being Delayed Indefinitely | WIRED Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu Menu The Last of Us Part II Is Being Delayed Indefinitely Security Politics The Big Story Business Science Culture Ideas Merch Reviews More Chevron Search Search Security Politics The Big Story Business Science Culture Ideas Merch Reviews Podcasts Video Newsletters Magazine Travel Steven Levy's Plaintext Column WIRED Classics from the Archive Events WIRED Insider WIRED Consulting Coupons Julie Muncy Culture Apr 3, 2020 6:47 PM The Last of Us Part II Is Being Delayed Indefinitely The game's release is being postponed due to logistical concerns caused by the spread of the coronavirus. The Last of Us Part II was originally slated for release on May 29 but is now postponed indefinitely. Courtesy of Sony Save this story Save Save this story Save Hello, and welcome once again to Replay , WIRED's rundown of all of the week's biggest videogame news. We took a brief hiatus last week, but we're back at it again for all socially distanced game news we could find. The Last of Us Part II Is Delayed Indefinitely, Says Sony The Last of Us Part II , originally slated for release on May 29, is now delayed until further notice, according to a tweet from Sony. In a season full of delays, this one is particularly striking, since the game was only a month away from its release date, a time in which games are, usually, more or less finished. "Logistically, the global crisis is preventing us from providing the launch experience our players deserve," Sony said in the tweet. But, while some game companies are moving forward with major releases in spite of hurdles presented by the coronavirus, The Last of Us Part II 's cancellation stands out because of its subject matter, since it takes place in a brutal postapocalypse ravaged by a pandemic. (I mean, a zombie pandemic, but still.) Maybe it is all about logistics, but one can't help but wonder if Sony just didn't think releasing this particular game right now was smart. Can't blame them. X content This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. QuakeCon Isn't Happening This Year, for the First Time in 25 Years QuakeCon started as an enthusiast event, dedicated to the glories of Doom and Quake , before being adopted by id Software and, later, its owners at ZeniMax and Bethesda, and turned into a major gaming convention and a mass celebration of all things id. Now, thanks to the coronavirus, it's not happening, for the first time in its history. As GameSpot reports , id and Bethesda announced the cancellation on Twitter, explaining that, though no one knows what things will look like in August, when the con was scheduled to happen, it doesn't seem smart to try to plan it out with something like a pandemic hanging over everything. It's a shame, as it would've been the event's 25th anniversary. Epic Is Launching a New Publishing Label Epic Games Publishing—created by Epic Games, makers of Fortnite and operators of the PC storefront Epic Games Store—is now a thing. As reported by Kotaku , this new arm of Epic will publish games by developers like Playdead, gen Design, and Remedy Entertainment. It seems like a fairly generous deal, with Epic not taking any intellectual property rights but fully covering development costs—with the games presumably then becoming Epic Games Store exclusives on PC. As for what games these teams are developing, or when they'll see the light of day, that's anyone's guess. But Epic is still, and always, making moves. Recommendation of the Week: Doom 64 by Midway Games, on PC, Nintendo Switch, Xbox One, PlayStation 4, and Nintendo 64 Doom 64 is more than just a simple port of the original Doom . It's a whole new game, and it combines new levels with a new bit of grime and moodiness that transforms the Doom formula—that is, the original early-'90s Doom formula—into something new. With a moody goth-core soundtrack by Aubrey Hodges, this is Doom at its most threatening. With the release of Doom Eternal , Bethesda ported the former Nintendo 64 exclusive to just about every platform. It's well worth checking out. More Great WIRED Stories Why old-growth trees are crucial to fighting climate change The mom who took on Purdue Pharma for its OxyContin marketing While many restaurants struggle, here's how one's thriving Why don’t we just ban targeted advertising ? It's time to do the things you keep putting off . Here's how. 👁 Why can't AI grasp cause and effect ? Plus: Get the latest AI news 💻 Upgrade your work game with our Gear team’s favorite laptops , keyboards , typing alternatives , and noise-canceling headphones Comments Back to Top Triangle Julie Muncy is a WIRED contributor covering videogames. ... Read more Contributor X Topics Replay video games Read More The Best Wine Glasses for Every Kind of Wine Upgrading your wine glass game is a window into the finer things in life. These are our WIRED-tested favorites. Jordan Michelman The Meta Trial Shows the Dangers of Selling Out Several founders of hot startups took big payouts and let Mark Zuckerberg gobble up their companies—and came to regret it. Steven Levy Apple May Shift to Making US iPhones in India. It Won’t Be Easy Manufacturers in India would need to double production to meet US iPhone demand—and the shift still wouldn’t solve Apple’s China problem. Andrew Williams The Best Shower Water Filters We tested leading filtered showerheads, from Jolie to Canopy to Hydroviv. The winners were clear. Matthew Korfhage The Best Open Earbuds for Everyone These wireless earbuds with an “open” design let you zone out to your music while also keeping you aware of your surroundings. Ryan Waniata Behold the Social Security Administration’s AI Training Video Social Security workers are being asked to use an AI chatbot. An animated video on how to do so failed to mention that the chatbot can’t be trusted with personally identifiable information. David Gilbert 50% Off Wayfair Promo Codes and Coupons for April 2025 Save 50% with Wayfair promo codes, plus free shipping, 80% off furniture with early Way Day 2025 deals, and more on WIRED. Molly Higgins Slate’s $25K Electric Pickup Is Here The modestly priced EV pickup goes 150 miles on a charge and is infinitely customizable. Deliveries start next year. John Voelcker In a Boon for Tesla, Feds Weaken Rules for Reporting on Self-Driving A new autonomous vehicle framework would also make it easier for Tesla and other companies to research domestically made self-driving cars that don’t meet all federal safety standards. Aarian Marshall Protecting Your Phone—and Your Privacy—at the US Border In this episode of Uncanny Valley , our hosts explain how to prepare for travel to and from the United States—and how to stay safe. Michael Calore The 62 Best Movies on Disney+ Right Now The Abyss , Deadpool & Wolverine , and Inside Out 2 are just a few of the movies you should be watching on Disney+ this month. WIRED Staff The Real Winners of the Trump Memecoin Feeding Frenzy Donald Trump will attend a dinner with the largest holders of his own-brand crypto coin, sending its price through the roof. But the real profits have already been made just out of view. Joel Khalili WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries. More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters FAQ WIRED Staff WIRED Education Editorial Standards Archive RSS Accessibility Help Reviews and Guides Reviews Buying Guides Mattresses Electric Bikes Soundbars Streaming Guides Wearables TVs Coupons Gift Guides Advertise Contact Us Manage Account Jobs Press Center Condé Nast Store User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok