Nintendo Switch Online Service FAQ | Nintendo Support Your browser either does not have JavaScript enabled or does not appear to support enough features of JavaScript to be used well on this site. Support Customer Support Search Search Search My Support Dashboard Error Code Notifications Check Repair Status Nintendo eShop Purchase History Nintendo Switch Family Using & Troubleshooting Games & Apps Parental Controls Internet Connection Nintendo Switch Online Other Systems Nintendo Sound Clock: Alarmo Game & Watch Classic Edition Series Wii & Wii mini Wii U Nintendo 3DS Family Nintendo DSi Family Nintendo DS Family Accounts & My Nintendo Nintendo Account & NNID My Nintendo Network Status Digital Purchases Nintendo eShop Check Nintendo Online Store Order Network Status Repair Start Troubleshooting Find Your Repair Check Warranty Status Repair FAQ Related articles Classic Game Library – Nintendo Switch Online Overview & FAQ Nintendo Switch Online App Overview and FAQ Game Trials FAQ Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack Exclusive Icon Elements FAQ Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers FAQ Related articles Classic Game Library – Nintendo Switch Online Overview & FAQ Nintendo Switch Online App Overview and FAQ Game Trials FAQ Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack Exclusive Icon Elements FAQ Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers FAQ Accounts & My Nintendo Using & Troubleshooting Nintendo Switch Online Service FAQ Applies to: Nintendo Switch Family, Nintendo Switch, Nintendo Switch Lite, Nintendo Switch - OLED Model, Nintendo Account Nintendo Switch Online is a paid service that lets members enjoy the following features: Online play and the Nintendo Switch Online app The Nintendo Switch Online service lets Nintendo Switch owners enjoy online play in compatible games like Mario Kart 8 Deluxe , Splatoon 3 , and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate . Nintendo Switch Online members can also access the Nintendo Switch Online app to send play invitations and participate in voice chat (restricted to members aged 13+) for compatible games such as Splatoon 3 . Classic Game Libraries Members can enjoy a growing library of classic games with added online play from the Nintendo Entertainment System, Game Boy, and more. For additional information, please review our Classic Game Library FAQ . For a complete list of included games, please visit our website . Save Data Cloud Backup Players with a Nintendo Switch Online membership can save game data online for compatible games. Save data is linked to your Nintendo Account, so you can access it from any Nintendo Switch system by signing in and downloading your save data. Special Offers Nintendo Switch Online members in the U.S. and Canada have access to exclusive special offers , such as the option to purchase specially designed classic game controllers for use with the classic game libraries. Nintendo Music app Listen to Nintendo soundtracks on your smart device with this exclusive app for Nintendo Switch Online members. Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack memberships are also available, which offer further benefits such as additional classic game libraries and access to select downloadable content at no additional charge. Learn more or get started by visiting the Nintendo Switch Online website . General Information Can I play Nintendo Switch games online without subscribing to the service? Which games require Nintendo Switch Online? What are the requirements to use the Nintendo Switch Online service? Where is the service available? What special offers are currently available? How do I access the DLC from my Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership? What happens if I delete a Nintendo Account with a Nintendo Switch Online membership? Can I suspend my Nintendo Switch Online membership for a while? Will I keep my Nintendo Switch Online membership if I change countries? Questions about the Nintendo Switch Online app Questions about the Nintendo Switch Online classic game controllers Questions about the Nintendo Music app Membership Plans & Purchase Information How can I purchase a membership? How much does it cost? Can I use My Nintendo Gold Points to purchase a Nintendo Switch Online membership? Can I try Nintendo Switch Online for free? What is the difference between an individual membership and a family membership? Can my individual membership be used by other user profiles on my Nintendo Switch? Can I change the members in my family membership? Can Nintendo Accounts with different country settings share a family membership? Do all family members need to use the same system or live in the same household? Can I change from a family membership to an individual membership (or vice versa)? What is added with a Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership? Can I change from a Nintendo Switch Online to a Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership (or vice versa)? Can only one family member change to the Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack? If I purchase additional memberships, will it extend out my current membership time? How long can I extend my membership? How can I adjust my auto-renewal settings? How can I see my current membership information? Save Data Cloud Backup How does Save Data Cloud backup work? Where can I change my Save Data Cloud settings? Which games are compatible with Save Data Cloud backup? Is my save data retained if my Nintendo Switch Online membership ends? Does Nintendo Switch support local save data backups? Does Save Data Cloud backup work with Wii U or Nintendo 3DS titles? General Information Can I play Nintendo Switch games online without subscribing to the service? A Nintendo Switch Online membership is required to participate in co-op and competitive online features for many first- and third-party Nintendo Switch games, including Splatoon 3 , Mario Kart 8 Deluxe , Animal Crossing: New Horizons , and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate . Some games, such as Fortnite , can be played online without a Nintendo Switch membership. Which games require Nintendo Switch Online? Games that require a Nintendo Switch Online membership for online play are identified in Nintendo eShop and in the game's product information on the Nintendo website . Additional online features (such as Nintendo Switch Online app and Save Data Cloud backup compatibility) will also be displayed there. For games released after September 18, 2018, the online requirements and features are also noted on the back of the game's box. For additional assistance locating compatible games, please visit the Nintendo Switch Online website . What are the requirements to use the Nintendo Switch Online service? You will need the following: A Nintendo Account Internet access Nintendo Switch system with system menu version 6.0 or higher Smart device with Nintendo Switch Online app version 1.4.0 or higher (only required for in-game voice chat features) Where is the service available? In the Americas, Nintendo Switch Online is available in the following countries: U.S. Canada Mexico Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia Peru For a complete list of the features and services that are available in each country, please read Nintendo Switch Online Service and Feature Availability by Country . What special offers are currently available? For the most up-to-date information on special offers, select Nintendo Switch Online from the HOME Menu of your Nintendo Switch console or visit https://www.nintendo.com/us/switch/online/nintendo-switch-online/special-offers/ . How do I access the DLC from my Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership? Users can download certain DLC from Nintendo eShop at no additional cost with an active Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership. For more information, read the article for the DLC you want to access: How to Access Animal Crossing: New Horizons – Happy Home Paradise DLC Content How to Access Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass Content How to Access Splatoon 2 Octo Expansion What happens if I delete a Nintendo Account with a Nintendo Switch Online membership? If you delete a Nintendo Account with a Nintendo Switch Online membership, you will no longer be able to use the online service with that account. If you purchased a family membership with the deleted Nintendo Account, the other members of your family group will also no longer be able to use the service. Additionally, we are unable to guarantee that cloud save data will be retained after an extended period of time from when your membership is ended. However, you can continue to use the save data that is saved to your system memory. Please note that we are unable to refund remaining time on the membership if your Nintendo Account is deleted. You may also find our information on How to Delete a Nintendo Account helpful. Can I suspend my Nintendo Switch Online membership for a while? No, it is not possible to suspend use of the service. Please note that if your system is sent to Nintendo for repair, your Nintendo Switch Online membership time will automatically be extended accordingly. This does not apply to repairs for standalone accessories, including Joy-Con. Will I keep my Nintendo Switch Online membership if I change countries? Yes. Your Nintendo Switch Online membership will remain active if you change your Nintendo Account settings to a country that supports Nintendo Switch Online. Questions about the Nintendo Switch Online app For information about the Nintendo Switch Online application for smart devices, please read Nintendo Switch Online App Overview and FAQ . Questions about the Nintendo Switch Online classic game controllers For information about the classic game controllers exclusive to Nintendo Switch Online members, see the following articles: NES Controller Overview & FAQ Super Nintendo Entertainment System Controller Overview & FAQ Nintendo 64 Controller Overview & FAQ SEGA Genesis Control Pad Overview & FAQ Questions about the Nintendo Music app For information about the Nintendo Music application for smart devices, please visit the Nintendo Music support site . Membership Plans & Purchase Information How can I purchase a membership? Nintendo Switch Online memberships can be purchased directly through the Nintendo eShop (either on Nintendo Switch or through the My Nintendo™️ Store ). Additionally, download codes for memberships (including Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack memberships) can be purchased through select retailers. How much does it cost? For a list of current subscription plans and pricing, please read How Much Does a Nintendo Switch Online Membership Cost? . Can I use My Nintendo Gold Points to purchase the Nintendo Switch Online membership? Gold Points can be used when purchasing a membership in the Nintendo eShop. They cannot be used for auto-renewal. Can I try Nintendo Switch Online for free? You can sign up for a free trial membership to try Nintendo Switch Online for free for 7 days. For information about signing up for a free trial membership, please read How to Sign Up for a Free Nintendo Switch Online Trial Membership . The free trial does not include any content exclusive to Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack. What is the difference between an individual membership and a family membership? An individual membership provides Nintendo Switch Online service to the Nintendo Account that purchased the service. Individual memberships are available in 1-month, 3-month, or 1-year increments. A family membership provides the Nintendo Switch Online service to everyone in the purchaser's family group (up to 8 people). Family memberships are available in 12-month increments only. To learn more about the benefits of a family membership, please read Information About Nintendo Switch Online Family Memberships . Can my individual membership be used by other user profiles on my Nintendo Switch? Each Nintendo Account needs an Individual Membership or needs to be part of a Family Membership to access Nintendo Switch Online or Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack benefits. Can I change the members in my family membership? Yes. Members added to the owner's family group will be included in the family membership plan for as long as they remain in the group. For additional information, please read How to Add Members to a Family Group or How to Remove a Nintendo Account from a Family Group . Can Nintendo Accounts with different country settings share a family membership? Yes. However, not all features are available in all countries. Do all family members need to use the same system or live in the same household? No. A Nintendo Switch Online family membership is linked to the Nintendo Account - not a specific Nintendo Switch console. It can be used on any Nintendo Switch console that the member signs in from. Can I change from a family membership to an individual membership (or vice versa)? If you are already part of a family membership, it is not possible to purchase or change to an individual membership. Additionally, download codes for individual memberships cannot be redeemed by someone who is already covered by a family membership. However, if someone else in your family group purchased the family membership, you can leave the family group and purchase an individual membership for yourself. If you already have an individual membership, you can purchase a family membership at a discounted price from the Nintendo eShop, where available. You may also find our Information on Changing a Nintendo Switch Online Membership Type (Individual or Family) helpful. What is added with a Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership? When you purchase a Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership, you get access to all the great benefits of Nintendo Switch Online, plus various additional features such as additional classic game libraries, access to select downloadable content at no additional charge, and access to exclusive icon elements that can be used to create custom user icons . For more information on both Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack and Nintendo Switch Online, visit https://www.nintendo.com/switch/online-service . Can I change from a Nintendo Switch Online to a Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership (or vice versa)? It is possible to change from an individual Nintendo Switch Online membership to an individual or family Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership, or from a family Nintendo Switch Online membership to a family Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership. Those who do so will receive a discount on their new membership determined by the number of days remaining on their current membership, up to the price of the new membership. It is not possible to change from an active Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership to a Nintendo Switch Online membership. However, once the membership term ends, the user is free to choose any membership plan at that time. Can only one family member change to the Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack? No. Individual users on a Family Plan cannot be changed to Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack. But after purchasing a Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack Family Membership, up to eight Nintendo Account holders can use it. If I purchase additional memberships, will it extend out my current membership time? You can purchase multiple memberships of the same type (individual or family) to extend your overall membership time, up to 3-years (1,095 days) total. Please note that you cannot combine time from a family membership and an individual membership. You may also find our information on Can I Purchase Multiple Nintendo Switch Online Memberships to Extend My Membership Time helpful. How long can I extend my membership? You can purchase multiple memberships of the same type (individual or family) to extend your overall membership time, up to 3-years (1,095 days) total. You may also find our information on Can I Purchase Multiple Nintendo Switch Online Memberships to Extend My Membership Time helpful. How can I adjust my auto-renewal settings? Auto-renewal can be turned off through "Your Subscriptions" in your Nintendo eShop or Nintendo Account settings. Once it's turned off, it cannot be turned on again. Whenever you change your membership type or duration, you should also verify that your auto-renewal settings are set correctly for your preferred membership plan. We may receive updated information from your issuing bank or applicable payment service provider about the credit card that you have stored in your Nintendo Account for auto-renewal. This means we may update the saved credit card's number and expiration date if it is replaced or it expired. This helps ensure that your subscriptions automatically renew successfully, even if your credit card information changes. You may also find our information on How to Adjust Nintendo Switch Online Auto-Renewal Settings helpful. How can I see my current membership information? You can view your current membership plan through "Your Subscriptions" in your Nintendo eShop or Nintendo Account settings, or by selecting Nintendo Switch Online from the HOME Menu of your Nintendo Switch. You may also find our information on How to View Your Nintendo Switch Online Status helpful. Save Data Cloud Backup How does Save Data Cloud backup work? Save Data Cloud backup creates a backup copy of save data for the vast majority of Nintendo Switch games. Nintendo Switch Online members can access the save data from any Nintendo Switch console by signing in with their Nintendo Account and downloading the save data . Where can I change my Save Data Cloud settings? When you become a Nintendo Switch online member, backup will be set automatically for all compatible save files - you don't need to do anything else to start using Save Data Cloud. Automatic save-data download, however, must be enabled on each Nintendo Switch console you wish to use it on. Settings can be manually adjusted for each game and user by selecting System Settings on the Nintendo Switch HOME menu, then Data Management Gestión de datos Gestion des données Gerenciar dados , and Save Data Cloud . Which games are compatible with Save Data Cloud backup? The vast majority of Nintendo Switch games support Save Data Cloud backup. Games that feature Save Data Cloud backup compatibility are identified in Nintendo eShop and in the game's product information on the Nintendo website . For additional information about compatible games, please read Which Nintendo Switch Titles Are Compatible with Save Data Cloud Backup . Is my save data retained if my Nintendo Switch Online membership ends? If your Nintendo Switch Online membership expires, you won’t be able to access your Save Data Cloud backups. However, Nintendo will allow users who resubscribe within 180 days to access their previous Save Data Cloud backups. Does Nintendo Switch support local save data backups? Local save data backups are not currently supported on Nintendo Switch. While we have nothing additional to announce on this topic, please be assured that we listen carefully to the feedback from our customers. We are constantly working on ways to further enhance the experience of using the system. Does Save Data Cloud backup work with Wii U or Nintendo 3DS titles? Save Data Cloud backup is available for compatible Nintendo Switch titles only. Was this helpful? Yes No Related articles Classic Game Library – Nintendo Switch Online Overview & FAQ Nintendo Switch Online App Overview and FAQ Game Trials FAQ Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack Exclusive Icon Elements FAQ Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers FAQ Related articles Classic Game Library – Nintendo Switch Online Overview & FAQ Nintendo Switch Online App Overview and FAQ Game Trials FAQ Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack Exclusive Icon Elements FAQ Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers FAQ About Nintendo Careers Corporate Social Responsibility Shop Games Hardware Merchandise Sales & deals Exclusives Online service Nintendo Retail Locations Orders Order details Shipping info Refunds and returns FAQ Support Nintendo Switch Nintendo Account Other systems Repair Nintendo product recycling Warranty Licensed product information Parents Info for parents Parental controls Privacy Privacy policy Cookies and interest-based ads Community Community guidelines Online safety Documents & policies Health & safety precautions Wireless regulatory info Supply chain transparency © Nintendo. Games are property of their respective owners. Nintendo of America Inc. Headquarters are in Redmond, Washington, USA Contact us Terms of Use English Close Modal Image Title Close Modal Image Title