Eagles celebrate Super Bowl LIX victory with White House visit Skip to main content Advertising Eagles celebrate Super Bowl LIX victory with White House visit Published: Apr 28, 2025 at 07:13 PM NFL.com wire report Copied! WASHINGTON -- President Donald Trump feted the 2025 Super Bowl champion Philadelphia Eagles at the White House on Monday, but several players, including quarterback Jalen Hurts , decided to skip the celebration. Hurts and other players cited scheduling conflicts as the reasons for their absences, according to a White House official who was not authorized to comment publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. Trump called Hurts a "terrific guy and terrific player" who turned in "one stellar performance after another" in helping the Eagles to a 14-3 regular season and their Super Bowl run. "The Eagles have turned out to be an incredible team, an incredible group," Trump said. In his first term, Trump invited and then canceled a celebration for the Eagles in 2018 after the franchise's first Super Bowl title. He instead threw his own brief "Celebration of America" after it became clear most players weren't going to show up. Asked by a reporter on the red carpet of the Time magazine gala last week whether he would take part in the White House visit, Hurts responded with an awkward "um" and long silence before walking away. Eagles star running back Saquon Barkley visited Trump over the weekend at Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, New Jersey, and caught a ride with the president to Washington on Air Force One and then to the White House on Marine One. "He loved it," Trump said of Barkley's short flight on the presidential airplane. "He's a great young guy and an incredible football player. Saquon had a season for the ages, running behind the most powerful offensive line in the NFL." Barkley, meanwhile, pushed back on social media criticism earlier Monday for spending time with Trump. He noted that he has golfed with former President Barack Obama, a Democrat. "Maybe I just respect the office, not a hard concept to understand," Barkley posted on X. Barkley ran away with the Offensive Player of the Year award this past season after rushing for 2,005 yards, eighth-best in NFL history. It was his first season with the Eagles. Trump attended the Eagles' decisive Super Bowl victory in New Orleans over the Kansas City Chiefs. He predicted ahead of the game Kansas City would win, and offered lavish praise for Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes . Following the visit, Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie released a statement through the team saying that the team was "honored" to have made the White House visit and also had the "privilege of visiting Arlington National Cemetery." "Our time in our nation's capital served as a great reminder of the core values that have brought our team so close together -- sacrifice, selflessness," Lurie stated. "And discipline." The Associated Press contributed to this story. Related Content news Vikings signing LB Andrew Van Ginkel to one-year, $23 million extension The Minnesota Vikings have signed linebacker Andrew Van Ginkel to a one-year, $23 million contract extension, NFL Network Insiders Ian Rapoport and Tom Pelissero reported on Tuesday. news Jaguars part ways with assistant GM Ethan Waugh The Jacksonville Jaguars have parted ways with assistant general manager and former interim GM Ethan Waugh, NFL Network Insider Mike Garafolo reported Tuesday. news Confident J.J. McCarthy: 'I know I'm ready to start' at QB for Vikings Second-year Vikings QB J.J. McCarthy on Tuesday expressed confidence in his standing in Minnesota, telling reporters "I know I'm ready to start." news 2025 NFL Draft is second most-watched draft ever The 2025 NFL Draft in Green Bay was seen by an average audience of 7.5 million viewers across ESPN, ABC, NFL Network, ESPN2, ESPN Deportes and digital channels for the three-day event, making it the second most-watched Draft on record behind only 2020 and up +27% versus last year. Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. Big left arrow icon Big right arrow icon Close icon Copy Url Three dots icon Down arrow icon Email icon Email icon Exit Fullscreen icon External link icon Facebook logo Football icon Facebook logo Instagram logo Snapchat logo YouTube logo TikTok logo Spotify logo LinkedIn logo Grid icon Key icon Left arrow icon Link icon Location icon Mail icon Menu icon Open icon Phone icon Play icon Radio icon Rewind icon Right arrow icon Search icon Select icon Selected icon TV icon Up arrow icon User icon Audio icon Add to calendar icon NFC icon AFC icon NFL icon Carousel Icon List View Website Instagram Twitter Facebook Snapchat Shop Icon Profile Overlay Avatar Add Airplay Arrow Left Arrow Right Arrow Up Arrow Down Audio Back 5s Back 10s Back 30s Calendar Chart Check Down Left Right Up Chromecast Off Chromecast On Close Closed Captions Bench Off Bench On Broad Off Broad On Vertical Off Vertical On Comment Dock Done Download Draft Fantasy Filter Forward 5s Forward 10s Forward 30s Full Screen Off Full Screen On Gamepass Games Insights Key Leave Live Combine Draft Fantasy Menu Games Menu Network Menu News Menu Playoffs Menu Pro Bowl Menu Shop Menu Standings Menu Stats Menu Super Bowl Menu Teams Menu Tickets Menu More Horizontal More Vertical My Location Network News Pause play Multiple Players Single Player Playlist Playoffs Pro Bowl Purge Refresh Remove Search Settings Share Android Share Copy URL Share Email Share Facebook Share Instagram Share iOS Share Snapchat Share Twitter Skip Next Skip Previous Standings Star Stats Swap Teams Tickets Video Visibility Off Visibility On Volume Hi Volume Low Volume Medium Volume Mute Warning Website Caret down Caret up At News Play Audio Gallery Promo Chevron right The browser you are using is no longer supported on this site. It is highly recommended that you use the latest versions of a supported browser in order to receive an optimal viewing experience. The following browsers are supported: Chrome, Edge (v80 and later), Firefox and Safari. Got it!