Broadway-Bound Pretty Woman Musical Begins in Chicago | Playbill Broadway Shows News & Features Podcast Jobs Broadway Weekly Schedule Broadway Grosses Discount Tickets Build-Your-Own Playbill Playbill Travel & Cruises NYC/London Hotel Deals Classic Arts Shop For Gifts Advertise With Us News Broadway Shows Jobs NYC/London Hotel Deals Build-Your-Own Playbill Playbill Store Podcast Advertise A TRUSTED THEATRE RESOURCE SINCE 1884 News Broadway Shows Jobs NYC/London Hotel Deals Build-Your-Own Playbill Playbill Store Podcast Advertise Featured Shows Death Becomes Her Gypsy Maybe Happy Ending Oh, Mary! Sunset Boulevard Related Articles Chicago News Broadway-Bound Pretty Woman Musical Begins in Chicago The new musical adaptation kicks off its world premiere at the Oriental Theatre March 13. By 											Olivia Clement March 13, 2018 Steve Kazee and Samantha Barks Joseph Marzullo/WENN The world premiere of Pretty Woman: The Musical begins performances March 13 at Chicago’s Oriental Theatre, where it will play a five-week limited engagement before heading to Broadway in the summer. Jerry Mitchell directs a cast led by Samantha Barks as Vivian, Steve Kazee as Edward, Orfeh as Kit, and Eric Anderson as Mr. Thompson. Jason Danieley, Kingsley Leggs, Orfeh, Samantha Barks, Steve Kazee, and Eric Anderson Joseph Marzullo/WENN Based on the 1990 romantic comedy, Pretty Woman: The Musical features a book co-written by the film’s director, the late Garry Marshall, and screenwriter J.F. Lawton, and music by Grammy winner Bryan Adams and Jim Vallance. The principal cast also includes Kingsley Leggs as James Morse and Jason Danieley as Philip Stuckey. The new musical will open at Broadway's Nederlander Theatre August 16 after beginning previews July 20. Completing the cast are Allison Blackwell, Tommy Bracco, Brian Calì, Robby Clater, Jessica Crouch, Anna Eilinsfeld, Matt Farcher, Lauren Lim Jackson, Renée Marino, Ellyn Marie Marsh, Jillian Mueller, Jake Odmark, Jennifer Sanchez, Matthew Stocke, Alex Michael Stoll, Alan Wiggins, Jesse Wildman, and Darius Wright. The production features scenic design by David Rockwell, costume design by Gregg Barnes, lighting design by Kenneth Posner and Philip S. Rosenberg, sound design by John Shivers, hair design by Josh Marquette, music supervision, arrangements, and orchestrations by Will Van Dyke, and casting by Telsey + Company. Pretty Woman: The Musical is produced by Paula Wagner, Nice Productions, LPO, New Regency Productions, Roy Furman, James L. Nederlander, Caiola Productions & Co., Hunter Arnold, Graham Burke, Ed Walson, deRoy Kierstead, Michael Cassel Group, Stage Entertainment, Ambassador Theatre Group and The John Gore Organization. 101 Productions, Ltd is the Executive Producer and General Manager. Tickets are now on sale. For more information, visit PrettyWomanMusical.com . RELATED: Latest News Anika Noni Rose and Aisha Jackson Lead a Wonderful Town for City Center Encores! Starting April 30 By 																					Andrew Gans 																			| 										April 30, 2025 Zhailon Levingston directs the Leonard Bernstein, Betty Comden, and Adolph Green musical. Memorial Celebrating Linda Lavin to Be Held at the Ambassador Theatre By 																					Margaret Hall 																			| 										April 29, 2025 The Tony-winning stage and screen star passed away December 29, 2024, at the age of 87. See Who's Starring in Workshop Presentations of Rise: A New Musical By 																					Andrew Gans 																			| 										April 29, 2025 Richard H. Blake directs the new work from Scott Wilkinson and Eric C. Webb. Broadway Grosses Analysis: Good Night, and Good Luck Breaks Own Record, Nearly Bringing in $4 Million By 																					Logan Culwell-Block 																			| 										April 29, 2025 As we approach the end of the season, we are on track to beat last season by 20%. Good Night, and Good Luck to Offer 2,000 Tickets to New York City Students By 																					Margaret Hall 																			| 										April 29, 2025 Co-written by George Clooney and Grant Heslov from the 2005 film, the work opened its Broadway premiere April 3 at the Winter Garden. Michael Thurber Musical Goddess Begins at Off-Broadway's Public April 29 By 																					Logan Culwell-Block 																			| 										April 29, 2025 Amber Iman, Nick Rashad Burroughs, and Austin Scott star in the work, with Saheem Ali directing. Paul Mescal Will Star in A Whistle in the Dark and Death of a Salesman for London's National By 																					Logan Culwell-Block 																			| 										April 29, 2025 The two plays will be presented in repertory, part of the company's newly announced season under Director Indhu Rubasingham. Why Kieran Culkin Didn't Go the 'Alpha Male' Route for Richard Roma in Glengarry Glen Ross By 																					Diep Tran 																			| 										April 29, 2025 Plus, which of his Succession co-stars gave "the best performance I've seen on the stage." Music Theatre International Will License Lively McCabe's Hits Musicals Collection of Jukebox Titles By 																					Logan Culwell-Block 																			| 										April 29, 2025 The series is powered by the Primary Wave Music catalogue, which includes Can't Hardly Wait , Girls Just Want to Have Fun , and more. PLAYBILL SITES Playbill Store Playbill Classic Arts PLAYBILLDER Playbill Travel CONTACT PLAYBILL Playbill Emails Advertise with Playbill Magazine Subscription RSS Site Map Privacy Policy Careers at Playbill Contact Us FOLLOW PLAYBILL NOW DON'T THROW AWAY YOUR SHOT Sign up for announcements and exclusive discounts on tickets to your favorite shows! Copyright 1991-2025 © Playbill Inc. All Rights Reserved. X Blocking belongs on the stage, not on websites. Our website is made possible by displaying online advertisements to our visitors. Please consider supporting us by whitelisting playbill.com with your ad blocker. Thank you!