Exactly One Person Is Still Online In Splatoon For Wii U After Shutdown - GameSpot Oblivion Walkthrough Guide Switch 2 Preorders 2025 Upcoming Games Release Schedule Blue Prince Guides All Switch 2 Games Oblivion Remaster Out Now All Games Videos Articles Reviews Features Galleries Users Blue Prince Guides News Videos Reviews Games Entertainment Staff Picks Best Nintendo Switch Games Best PS5 Games Best Xbox Series X|S Games Best Xbox Game Pass Games Best PC Games Best Steam Deck Games Deals Game Deals Tech Deals Gift Ideas Games PC Gaming PS5 PS4 Xbox Series X Xbox One Switch 2 Switch All Gaming News Guides Gaming Tech Mobile Gaming Cloud Gaming Entertainment Movies TV Wrestling Star Wars Marvel DC Game of Thrones All Entertainment News Forums More Games PC Gaming PS5 PS4 Xbox Series X Xbox One Switch 2 Switch All Gaming News Guides Gaming Tech Mobile Gaming Cloud Gaming Entertainment Movies TV Wrestling Star Wars Marvel DC Game of Thrones All Entertainment News Forums All Games Videos Articles Reviews Features Galleries Users GameSpot may receive revenue from affiliate and advertising partnerships for sharing this content and from purchases through links. Exactly One Person Is Still Online In Splatoon For Wii U After Shutdown One player has somehow managed to stay online after Nintendo shut down the original Splatoon's online features. By Hayley Williams on April 25, 2024 at 6:49AM PDT 5 Comments Where to buy Splatoon There are currently no available deals GameSpot may get a commission from retail offers. Nintendo has permanently shut down the online servers for the original Splatoon as of April 8 this year. However, one player has managed to remain. Posting on X about their experience being the last Splatoon player, user Lcd101 is staying with the 2015 Wii U title until the very end. As picked up by GamesRadar , Lcd101 has been posting since April 9 about their efforts to stay connected in the decommissioned online lobbies. "Almost a day after closing, I am the final Splatoon 1 player online. I'm going to hold out for as long as I can," they posted, including a screenshot of the Splatoon matchmaking system trying to find other players to pair them with. Ahoy all! Here we are with another rotation! Would it be too soon to call myself the new Captain of the New Squidbeak Splatoon…? Ooh, that’s a title I’ve always wanted! I feel like I’ve earned it. Anyway, more maps! pic.twitter.com/5wbeXMUhC8 — Lcd101 (@Lcd101) April 10, 2024 Despite the server shutdown, Lcd101 chronicles the game still rotating through maps in the matchmaking lobby with no one being online to play. Lcd posted regular updates from the matchmaking lobby for 15 days after the official shutdown before they were finally kicked out of the lobby. Some other online features still remain, however, as they showed they could still access the plaza and shops, both of which require a connection. "I am still online, but the lobby gives me the error code for maintenance, 106-0811. I intend to stay online in this state for as long as possible," a recent update reads. Most Splatoon players have moved on to more recent titles, with Splatoon 3 for the Switch being the most title in the franchise, but it's interesting to see how long Lcd101 will be able to remain online in the original game. Splatoon isn't the only decommissioned game that has dedicated players staying online. Twitter user @GaffsNotLaffs is tracking multiple players who managed to stay in games after the Nintendo Network shut down, including two in Mario Kart 7, two in Mario Kart 8 on Wii U, four players in Xenoblade Chronicles X, and just one player each in Pokemon X and Y, Mario Maker, and of course, Splatoon. Got a news tip or want to contact us directly? Email news@gamespot.com Upvote (1) Leave Blank View Comments (5) Splatoon Wii U Join the conversation There are 5 comments about this story Load Comments (5) © 2025 FANDOM, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Terms of Use Help Partnerships Careers More Sites giantbomb.com gamefaqs.com metacritic.com fandom.com fanatical.com Reviews Latest Reviews PC PS4 Xbox One Switch News Latest News PC PS5 Xbox Series X PS4 Xbox One Switch Shows Expert Reacts Firearms Expert Reacts No HUD Spot On The Kurt Locker Talk to Us Forums GameSpot GameSpot Entertainment Use your keyboard! ESC Log in to comment Close