Assassin's Creed Valhalla Last Chapter Update Out Now on PS5, PS4, One Week Early | Push Square Menu Search Share Guest Guest Login | Sign Up Push Square News Reviews Features Videos Games PS Plus Guides Forums Search Keywords Guest Login or Sign Up Home Choose Topics... Manage Topics News Ubisoft PS5 PS4 Assassins Creed Patches Assassin's Creed Valhalla Last Chapter Update Out Now on PS5, PS4, One Week Early Patch 1.062 by Robert Ramsey Wed 30th Nov 2022 Share: 213 Well this is a surprise, isn't it? Ubisoft has pushed Assassin's Creed Valhalla's The Last Chapter update live on PS5 and PS4, one whole week earlier than anticipated. The patch was set to go live on the 6th December, but players can download it right now. It's unclear as to why Ubisoft has done this, but a post from the official Assassin's Creed Twitter account reads: "We hope you enjoy The Last Chapter of Eivor's story...and the additional surprises we have before 2022 comes to an end." Patch 1.062 weighs in at 1.8GB on PS5. The headline act is obviously The Last Chapter, which brings Eivor's saga to a close with various story conclusions delivered through a new quest. It also includes an option that lets you keep your hood up at all times — even during combat. Assassin's Creed Valhalla Update 1.062 Patch Notes NEW FREE CONTENT THE LAST CHAPTER Eivor's alliances are forged and their clan has its foothold in England, now the time has come to come to terms with their visions of Odin. Join Eivor in their final journey as they meet with old friends and foes in the narrative conclusion to Assassin's Creed Valhalla. HOOD ALWAYS ON Access the options and toggle your hood to be always on. Now regardless of whether you’re in the middle of battle or sneaking through a hostile village, you’ll have the iconic Assassin style! WEEKLY FREE ITEM Claim a free premium item from the Animus store every week! Launch into the game and head to the Animus store to receive a randomized premium item. Most items sold in the Animus store will be available, with the only exceptions being items that are licensed content. FESTIVAL REWARDS IN MERCHANT STORES For those of you who didn't get the chance to participate in all four Festivals, the rewards will be available from all Merchants across England after the completion of "The First Night of Samhaim" (Glowecestrescire arc). This will give you the opportunity to acquire the rewards that you might've missed by exchanging them for Silver coins you've collected during your journey. We will also be adding new content as a thank you for your continued support; specifically, new mounts and a raven. BUG FIXES & IMPROVEMENTS TOMBS OF THE FALLEN Addressed: The damage animation doesn't activate when walking into the spiked poles. Eivor will remain in the grabbing state when pushing a stone onto the descending platforms. THE FORGOTTEN SAGA Addressed: Abilities cannot be activated during other combat actions. The quest "A gift from the Otherworld" remains after completing The Forgotten Saga. Eivor gets stuck under Nidhogg when the dragon is stunned MASTERY CHALLENGE Addressed: Hildiran's Health Bar does not match their actual Health total. In some rare instances, encountering a crash during a cutscene with Hildiran can cause gear to go missing and some quest flows to break. Explosive jars are already blown up before starting the Dunwic: Trial of the Wolf. Unable to progress the quest "A Challenge from the Gods" after the first cutscene. Enemies hit with the rush and bash ability will not die or give points. DAWN OF RAGNAROK Addressed: During the quest "Finding Fritjof" Tyra won't move inside the Foundry area. Instances where Odin would become stuck upon loading into Svartalfheim Unintended behavior occurs when reloading the game after buying runes from Kara. After battling Riekr, the Jotnar Bearded Axe was not awarded. Suttungr's Outriders are not appearing on the map. During the Quest "The Scholar and the Sunstone" walking over lava doesn't charge the stone as intended. During the quest "The Scholar and the Sunstone" Einar would stop moving. Daily Quests can sometimes set a friendly Jotun NPC as a target to assassinate. CROSSOVER STORIES Addressed: The cargo shelf in the Caves of Gold cannot be moved. RIVER RAIDS Addressed: Legacy of Saint George markers are visible outside of River Raids. Jomsviking crew members will run toward locked doors during Raids. In some instances, the Jomsviking crew's health would be reduced when discovering a new location. THE SIEGE OF PARIS Addressed: In some rare instances, players would not be able to leave to Francia after speaking with Pierre. During the quest "A Hidden Weakness" Bernard can get stuck in a loop preventing the quest from progressing. Unable to speak to Toka at the start of the quest "Strangers bearing gifts" WRATH OF THE DRUIDS Addressed: Azar has died in England preventing the completion of "Dublin's Reach" When being grappled by an Irish Hound Eivor can get stuck in the animation. "Man's best friend" ability is not unlocked after completing the quest "A little problem" MAIN QUESTS, WORLD EVENTS, AND SIDE ACTIVITIES Addressed: Eivor's cape obscures the camera during the Flying event in Eurvicscire. The quest "Bound to Fate" was not added to the quest log after completion of the Jotunheim Arc. Crashing issues can be encountered on PS5 during the quests "Restless Dreams" and "Beyond Fear". The quest "Twist and Turns" not updating after defeating all the enemies. In some instances, the quest "Firing the Arrow" cannot be started. After building Valka's hut, the objective is not marked as complete. While fighting Basim, abilities that cause damage over time would simplify his phase 1. Unable to kill Bishop Herferith during "A Sword-Shower in Anecastre" Cannot interact with Loki in the quest "View above all" "Stoneman" Mysterynot be marked as complete upon completion. The quest "A Mild Hunt" can't be completed due to the NPCs not being interactable. WORLD Addressed: Everold's shop vanishing after being built. Rocks can be seen floating in the mountain area in Fornburg. Riding a mount around Ravensthorpe can result in your mount slowing in some places. It isn't possible to confirm the kill against the Zealot "Callin" as he has clipped under the map. In the quest "Breaking Teeth, Not Hearts" the mystery NPCs all spawn in dead. Notification for leaving the boss area for Daughters of Lerion can appear when visiting the areas after the boss has been defeated. It isn't possible to kill Leofgifu because she is stuck in a hut. When loading into the game it is always raining. In some instances, the shelves couldn't be moved to obtain the key in Saint Hadrian's Priory in Cent. ARMORY & INVENTORY Addressed: Corrected the 10% critical chance per kill for the Jorogiri short sword. The damage buff perk from the Yurei Bushido doesn't activate when weapons are ignited. Items purchased in the Helix Store can disappear from the inventory. The Amalgam Sword perk activates incorrectly in some circumstances. The Yurei Bushido armor (Ghostly) perk doesn't work as intended. Dwarven hairstyles and beards are duplicated in the inventory. The Scythe light attacks can sometimes break shieldbearer's guard stances. The Light-Fingered skill does not work around some lootable items. MISCELLANEOUS Addressed: After using Photo Mode the pause menu will not function as intended. Some of the taller NPCs in Ravensthorpe shrank in size. The Celctic Armor is missing visual elements. Unintended behavior occurs when performing transmog on some weapons. Unequipped Store Items still appear present on a Mannequin after saving or loading. Finisher animations do not always play out on stunned enemies. Using a ration while interacting with a movable object causes an unintended animation. NPC sizes can alter when doing certain tasks and actions. Idunn's Heart Effect is visible while inactive on the Dublin Champion gear set. Irregular behavior occurs when using the alternate combo ender with the Hammer and free off-hand. Added additional stability improvements to Valhalla. Using the ability "Rush and Bash" in some fights could prevent interacting with an NPC afterward. After slamming enemies into a wall the follow up attack of Rush and Bash Level 2 does not trigger. UI / HUD Addressed: Changing tabs in Blacksmith rapidly causes unintended behavior with the menu display. Will you be leaping back into Assassin's Creed Valhalla for this final chapter? Bring your best axe to the comments section below. [source ubisoft.com ] Related Games Assassin's Creed Valhalla (PS4) Assassin's Creed Valhalla (PS5) See Also Assassin's Creed Valhalla Guide: Tips, Tricks, and Help Assassin's Creed Valhalla Review Assassin's Creed Valhalla Review Share: 213 2 9 About Robert Ramsey Robert (or Rob if you're lazy) is an assistant editor of Push Square, and has been a fan of PlayStation since the 90s, when Tekken 2 introduced him to the incredible world of video games. He still takes his fighting games seriously, but RPGs are his true passion. The Witcher, Persona, Dragon Quest, Mass Effect, Final Fantasy, Trails, Tales — he's played 'em all. A little too much, some might say. Author Profile Reply Comments 9 1 Starkei Tue 29th Nov 2022 This game is like a sandwich that is only bread 8 2 avatarian Tue 29th Nov 2022 @Starkei And every vegetable and/or condiment is sold separately. 0 3 Number09 Tue 29th Nov 2022 Great now I can finally play this game. 0 4 Korgon Tue 29th Nov 2022 I wonder if it's because the Far Cry 6 dlc is scheduled for the 6th as well, so Ubisoft decided to release this early so as to not compete with themselves. Oh well. Nice surprise! 1 5 Vivisapprentice Wed 30th Nov 2022 So that why Ubisoft pulled this off ps plus, incoming goty ultimate edition 0 6 KidRyan Wed 30th Nov 2022 @Number09 Same thoughts here, though I need to beat AC3 thru AC Odyssey first. 0 7 themightyant Wed 30th Nov 2022 @Vivisapprentice There is already a 'Complete edition' on Digital Stores that includes the original season pass, newer Dawn of Ragnarok DLC and assorted other smaller DLC like armour packs. It's currently on sale for about £40 1 8 Ravix Wed 30th Nov 2022 @Starkei can't beat a bit of toast from time to time. Not every meal should be toast, but some definitely should be. Toast is good 🍞 3 9 Mythologue Wed 30th Nov 2022 "...the time has come to come to terms..." That really doesn't read easily at all. 0 Show Comments Leave A Comment Hold on there, you need to login to post a comment... Related Articles Oblivion Remastered Out Now on PS5, Price and Download Size Revealed The one from my dreams Oblivion Remastered: Everything New and All Changes Compared to the Original Oblivion All the differences in the Oblivion remake Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 Guide: A 100% Collectibles Walkthrough The ultimate Expedition 33 resource Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 Trophy Guide: All Trophies and How to Get the Platinum How to unlock all Trophies in Expedition 33 Clair Obscur: Expedition 33: All Outfits and How to Get Them Where to find every Outfit for all characters Featured Games Assassin's Creed Valhalla PS5 Assassin's Creed Valhalla PS4 Latest News 0 News Sony's Long Anticipated Lost Soul Aside Has Been Delayed Again on PS5, PC 2 News One of the Best Star Wars Games Ever Is Getting a Manga Adaptation 39 News EA Confirms Heavy Layoffs, Titanfall Game Cancelled 16 News Resident Evil 4 Remake Is the Fastest Selling Game in the Series, Now at 10 Million 13 News Despite Babylon's Fall Failure, More Online Games Could Be Coming from PlatinumGames Most Read 1 Guide Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 Guide: A 100% Collectibles Walkthrough 2 Guide Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 Trophy Guide: All Trophies and How to Get th... 3 Guide Clair Obscur: Expedition 33: All Outfits and How to Get Them 4 News PS Plus Essential Game for May 2025 Possibly Leaked Early 5 News First PS Plus Extra Game for June 2025 Confirmed 6 Guide Oblivion Remastered: Everything New and All Changes Compared to the Orig... 7 Guide Clair Obscur: Expedition 33: The Continent Walkthrough - Lost Gestrals, ... 8 News Massive PS Plus Clearout Announced for May, 22 Games Leaving 9 Guide Clair Obscur: Expedition 33: Flying Waters Walkthrough - Paint Cages, Jo... 10 Guide Clair Obscur: Expedition 33: Are There Romance Options? A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Top About Staff How We Work Support Us Contact Privacy Policy Terms of Use Ads Policy Archive Cookie Settings Desktop Version Popular Right Now Oblivion Remastered: Everything New and All Changes Compared to the Original Oblivion Mon, 12:30pm Best PS5 Exclusive Games Tue 22nd Apr 2025 Best Open World Games on PS5 Mon 21st Apr 2025 PS Plus Essential Game for May 2025 Possibly Leaked Early Sun, 3pm Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 Guide: A 100% Collectibles Walkthrough Sat 26th Apr 2025 Days Gone PS5 Is a 'Really Good Piece of Work', Say Tech Experts Yesterday, 11am Oblivion Remastered: Everything We Know Ahead of Its Announcement This Week Mon 21st Apr 2025 Oblivion Remastered Out Now on PS5, Price and Download Size Revealed Tue 22nd Apr 2025 Last Chance to Buy These 60+ PS5, PS4 Games in PS Store's Huge Spring Sale Tue 22nd Apr 2025 EA Confirms Heavy Layoffs, Titanfall Game Cancelled Yesterday, 9:15pm Best Puzzle Games on PS5 Mon 21st Apr 2025 Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 Trophy Guide: All Trophies and How to Get the Platinum Thu 24th Apr 2025 Show More Join 446,166 people following : RSS Feed YouTube Twitter Bluesky Instagram Threads Facebook © 2025 Hookshot Media , partner of IGN Entertainment | Hosted by 44 Bytes | AdChoices | Do Not Sell My Personal Information Friends: Nintendo Life Pure Xbox Time Extension Nintendo News IGN Eurogamer.net VGC GamesIndustry.biz CVG RPS All the latest PlayStation goodness straight to your inbox