Assassin's Creed: Valhalla | Assassin's Creed Wiki | Fandom Assassin's Creed Wiki Welcome to Assassin's Creed Wiki! Log in and join the community. READ MORE Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Assassin's Creed Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Content Database‎ Animals‎ Assassin Intel‎ Collectibles‎ History‎ Documents‎ Events‎ Items‎ Landmarks‎ Locations‎ People‎ Individuals‎ By ethnicity By nationality By occupation By organization By place of residence By title‎ By traits By year Unidentified individuals‎ Locations‎ Cities‎ Colonies‎ Geographical features Landmarks‎ Locations by country Structures‎ Organizations‎ Assassin Brotherhood‎ Cults‎ Families‎ Militaries Ship crews Templar Order Memories‎ By Animus‎ By individual‎ Skills‎ Assassin skills‎ Genetic skills‎ Templar skills‎ Weapons‎ Personal weapons‎ Weapons by century‎ Weapons by type‎ Games Assassin's Creed Ezio Trilogy Assassin's Creed II Brotherhood Revelations Kenway Saga Assassin's Creed III Liberation Black Flag Freedom Cry Rogue Initiate Duology Unity Syndicate Layla Saga Origins Odyssey Valhalla Mirage Upcoming games Shadows Jade Codename Hexe Other games Altaïr's Chronicles Bloodlines Discovery Project Legacy Initiates Pirates Chronicles Identity Rebellion Nexus VR Other Media Comics UbiWorkshop comics The Fall The Chain Brahman Titan Comics Assassin's Creed Templars Last Descendants – Locus Uprising Reflections Origins Dark Horse Comics Valhalla – Song of Glory Valhalla – Forgotten Myths Mirage – A Soar of Eagles French graphic novels The Ankh of Isis Trilogy The Hawk Trilogy Conspiracies Bloodstone Valhalla – The Hidden Codex Manga and manhua Awakening Blade of Shao Jun Dynasty Valhalla – Blood Brothers Shadows – Iga no Monogatari Korean webtoons Forgotten Temple Novels Novelizations The Secret Crusade Renaissance Brotherhood Revelations Forsaken Black Flag Unity The Movie Odyssey Underworld Ubisoft Publishing novels Heresy Origins – Desert Oath Valhalla – Geirmund's Saga Aconyte Books novels Valhalla – Sword of the White Horse The Golden City Mirage – Daughter of No One Engine of History – The Magus Conspiracy Engine of History – The Resurrection Plot Young adult novels Last Descendants Last Descendants – Tomb of the Khan Last Descendants – Fate of the Gods Fragments – The Blade of Aizu Fragments – The Highlands Children Fragments – The Witches of the Moors Other books Prophecy of the Emperor The Silk Road Escape Room Puzzle Book Films and TV series Lineage Ascendance Embers The Movie Live action series Animated series Anime series Audiobooks Gold Board games Brotherhood of Venice Roleplaying Game Community Staff Administrators Cristophorus35 Lady Kyashira Sol Pacificus Soranin Moderators Ahmairah Lacrossedeamon Sadelyrate Xangr8 Zero-ELEC Policies Manual of Style Community Guidelines Moderation Images Images Licensing Sourcing Licensing Guidelines Be Bold Achievements Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Skip to content Assassin's Creed Wiki 25,266 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Content Database‎ Animals‎ Assassin Intel‎ Collectibles‎ History‎ Documents‎ Events‎ Items‎ Landmarks‎ Locations‎ People‎ Individuals‎ By ethnicity By nationality By occupation By organization By place of residence By title‎ By traits By year Unidentified individuals‎ Locations‎ Cities‎ Colonies‎ Geographical features Landmarks‎ Locations by country Structures‎ Organizations‎ Assassin Brotherhood‎ Cults‎ Families‎ Militaries Ship crews Templar Order Memories‎ By Animus‎ By individual‎ Skills‎ Assassin skills‎ Genetic skills‎ Templar skills‎ Weapons‎ Personal weapons‎ Weapons by century‎ Weapons by type‎ Games Assassin's Creed Ezio Trilogy Assassin's Creed II Brotherhood Revelations Kenway Saga Assassin's Creed III Liberation Black Flag Freedom Cry Rogue Initiate Duology Unity Syndicate Layla Saga Origins Odyssey Valhalla Mirage Upcoming games Shadows Jade Codename Hexe Other games Altaïr's Chronicles Bloodlines Discovery Project Legacy Initiates Pirates Chronicles Identity Rebellion Nexus VR Other Media Comics UbiWorkshop comics The Fall The Chain Brahman Titan Comics Assassin's Creed Templars Last Descendants – Locus Uprising Reflections Origins Dark Horse Comics Valhalla – Song of Glory Valhalla – Forgotten Myths Mirage – A Soar of Eagles French graphic novels The Ankh of Isis Trilogy The Hawk Trilogy Conspiracies Bloodstone Valhalla – The Hidden Codex Manga and manhua Awakening Blade of Shao Jun Dynasty Valhalla – Blood Brothers Shadows – Iga no Monogatari Korean webtoons Forgotten Temple Novels Novelizations The Secret Crusade Renaissance Brotherhood Revelations Forsaken Black Flag Unity The Movie Odyssey Underworld Ubisoft Publishing novels Heresy Origins – Desert Oath Valhalla – Geirmund's Saga Aconyte Books novels Valhalla – Sword of the White Horse The Golden City Mirage – Daughter of No One Engine of History – The Magus Conspiracy Engine of History – The Resurrection Plot Young adult novels Last Descendants Last Descendants – Tomb of the Khan Last Descendants – Fate of the Gods Fragments – The Blade of Aizu Fragments – The Highlands Children Fragments – The Witches of the Moors Other books Prophecy of the Emperor The Silk Road Escape Room Puzzle Book Films and TV series Lineage Ascendance Embers The Movie Live action series Animated series Anime series Audiobooks Gold Board games Brotherhood of Venice Roleplaying Game Community Staff Administrators Cristophorus35 Lady Kyashira Sol Pacificus Soranin Moderators Ahmairah Lacrossedeamon Sadelyrate Xangr8 Zero-ELEC Policies Manual of Style Community Guidelines Moderation Images Images Licensing Sourcing Licensing Guidelines Be Bold Achievements in: Real world video games , Assassin's Creed series , Assassin's Creed: Valhalla English Deutsch Español Français Italiano Polski Português do Brasil Русский 中文 Assassin's Creed: Valhalla Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) This article is about the game . For other uses, see Assassin's Creed: Valhalla (disambiguation) . Assassin's Creed: Valhalla Developer Ubisoft Montreal Publisher Ubisoft Engine AnvilNext 2.0 Composer Jesper Kyd Sarah Schachner Einar Selvik Release date Google Stadia, Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S 10 November 2020 PlayStation 5 12 November 2020 (North America) 19 November 2020 (Europe) Genre Action RPG Game modes Singleplayer Platform(s) Microsoft Windows PlayStation 4 PlayStation 5 Xbox One Xbox Series X/S Google Stadia Website Assassin's Creed: Valhalla is the twelfth main installment in the Assassin's Creed series developed by Ubisoft . [ 1 ] In the game, the player takes control of Eivor Varinsdottir , [ 2 ] a Viking from Norway who participated in the Norse invasion of England during the 9th century. [ 3 ] Contents 1 Plot synopsis 2 Gameplay 3 Development 4 Release 4.1 Marketing 5 Editions 6 Gallery 7 Credits 8 References Plot synopsis [ ] Driven from Norway by endless wars and dwindling resources in the ninth century CE, players will lead Eivor's clan of Norsemen across the icy North Sea to the rich lands of England's broken kingdoms . Players must carve out a new future for their clan, reliving the ruthless fighting style of Viking warriors with a revamped combat system that includes the ability to dual-wield weapons against a greater variety of enemies than ever before. To secure resources players can lead raids to select locations using their longship to earn much-needed riches and resources. As the Vikings begin to settle in their new home , they encounter resistance from the Saxons including King Aelfred of Wessex , who denounces them as heathens and looks to be the sole ruler of a civilized England. Against all odds, Eivor must do what is necessary to keep Valhalla within reach. [ 4 ] Gameplay [ ] Set in 873 CE, Valhalla has players take the role of Eivor, a Viking Raider and Clan Leader of the Norsemen who can be played either as male or female. The game retains the dialogue choice and NPC relationship elements from Assassin's Creed: Odyssey , with new elements such as forging political alliances with NPC clans. Every choice and decision of the players affects the world of the game in real time. Players can travel from the cold shores of Norway to England. [ 4 ] Eivor is able to equip an assortment of weapons, and dual wield many of them; Eivor can also use a Hidden Blade in combat, a returning feature from Origins . [ 5 ] Eivor can develop their own settlement and build and upgrade structures such as tattoo shops and barracks, they can also recruit new members of their clan and can train their own army for raids or other missions. [ 4 ] The player is able to build a raiding party by recruiting non-player characters to assist with these. [ 6 ] Though the use of naval transport has returned, naval combat has been dialed back. Eivor's longship will act more as a means of travel when performing raids and for escaping after land combat, rather than being used in combat with other naval vessels. [ 7 ] [ 8 ] Players can take part in activities like drinking games, hunting or traditional Norse games such as flyting . [ 9 ] A player is able to create a Viking mercenary that can be recruited by other players, acting as a non-playable character within those games; the player gains additional in-game rewards for successful missions. [ 6 ] Development [ ] Ubisoft Montreal was the lead development studio on Valhalla , working with other 14 studios on the game. [ 10 ] This included external developer Sperasoft. [ 11 ] The game having been in-development for 2 years as of April 2020 was led by Assassin's Creed: Origins and Black Flag creative director Ashraf Ismail . [ 7 ] However, amid allegations of multiple counts of infidelity and sexual misconduct in late June 2020, [ 12 ] [ 13 ] Ashraf stepped down from his position, citing personal issues impacting his family. [ 14 ] Darby McDevitt served as Valhalla ' s narrative director, [ 15 ] and while aware of the similarities between 2018's God of War , believed that Valhalla could stand out as a game more rooted in historical accuracy rather than mythology. [ 16 ] The game's working title of " Assassin's Creed: Kingdoms " was first leaked in April 2019, [ 17 ] misidentified as "Assassin's Creed: Kingdom", [ 18 ] after people found what appeared to be an Easter egg for the game within a map in Tom Clancy's The Division 2 . In it a poster reading "Valhalla" with a Viking character holding a sphere reminiscent of an Apple of Eden led to speculation about its relation to the Assassin's Creed series, which in turn led to journalist Jason Schreier confirming the setting and codename for the game. [ 17 ] However, this supposed 'leak' was later revealed to be a complete coincidence and an accident. [ 19 ] Various Viking settings were considered for Valhalla including the Viking raid of Lindisfarne and the 1066 Norman invasion, but eventually it was settled on the Great Heathen Army period. [ 20 ] Release [ ] Assassin's Creed: Valhalla was released on 10 November 2020 for Microsoft Windows , PlayStation 4 , Xbox One , Xbox Series S , Xbox Series X and Stadia , with a PlayStation 5 version being released on the 12th or 19th, depending on the region. It is also be the first Assassin's Creed title for the next-generation of consoles, the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X, being a launch title for both consoles. [ 21 ] Valhalla is considered Ubisoft's "flagship" game for the next-generation systems, and has been developed to take advantage of faster loading times both new consoles offer. [ 22 ] Players on Xbox One or PlayStation 4 will be able to upgrade their game to the next-gen version on their respective platform at no extra cost. [ 23 ] On PC, the game was not released on Steam at launch, but was available on Uplay and the Epic Games Store. [ 24 ] The PC version was eventually released to Steam on 9 December 2022. [ 25 ] Assassin's Creed: Valhalla will be released to Xbox Game Pass on 9 January 2024, available on Xbox consoles, cloud services, and PC. [ 26 ] Marketing [ ] On 29 April 2020, the game was officially announced by Ubisoft with an 8-hour art livestream by Boss Logic. [ 27 ] The cinematic trailer was then premiered on 30 April at 8AM PDT. The trailer revealed a projected release date of Holiday 2020. [ 3 ] On 7 May, a gameplay trailer was released showing in-engine footage. [ 28 ] The background image on the Ubisoft website for Valhalla , also seen in the trailers, contained a runic cipher which when translated revealed stanza 77 from Hávamál , an ancient Norse poem. [ 29 ] On 12 July at the UbiForward event, further gameplay footage of Valhalla was shown. One was a short gameplay overview, [ 30 ] while the other was a full 30 minute analysis. [ 31 ] In late October, Ubisoft released an Assassin's Creed Valhalla filter for Instagram . [ 32 ] Editions [ ] Ubisoft announced several editions of Assassin's Creed: Valhalla . Standard Edition Drakkar Edition Limited Edition Gold Edition Ragnarök Edition A retail copy of Assassin's Creed: Valhalla A retail copy of Assassin's Creed: Valhalla The Berserker Longship Pack The Set of Runes Raven Skin from Berserker Pack A retail copy of Assassin's Creed: Valhalla The Berserker Settlement Pack The Set of Runes Hati Wolf Mount from Berserker Pack A retail copy of Assassin's Creed: Valhalla The Season Pass A retail copy of Assassin's Creed: Valhalla The Season Pass A 25cm Eivor figurine Exclusive Steelbook Ultimate Edition Collector's Edition Complete Edition A retail copy of Assassin's Creed: Valhalla The Season Pass The Berserker Pack The Berserker Longship Pack The Berserker Settlement Pack The Set of Runes A retail copy of Assassin's Creed: Valhalla The Season Pass A 30cm Eivor figurine A 5cm Viking Statuette of Eivor The Berserker Pack The Berserker Longship Pack The Berserker Settlement Pack The Set of Runes Exclusive Steelbook Exclusive Box 3 Lithographs Game Soundtrack A retail copy of Assassin's Creed: Valhalla The Season Pass Dawn of Ragnarök expansion The Berserker Pack The Berserker Longship Pack The Berserker Settlement Pack The Set of Runes Gallery [ ] Videos Promotional media Concept artwork Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Official Teaser with Boss Logic – Timelapse Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Cinematic World Premiere Trailer Ubisoft NA Assassin's Creed Valhalla Developer Commentary Trailer Ubisoft NA Assassin’s Creed Valhalla First Look Gameplay Trailer Ubisoft NA Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Official 30 Minute Gameplay Walkthrough UbiFWD July 2020 Ubisoft NA Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Gameplay Overview Trailer Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Eivor’s Fate - Character Trailer Ubisoft NA Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Official Soundtrack Cinematic Trailer Ubisoft NA Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Story Trailer Assassin's Creed Valhalla Unleash Your Inner Viking - Chapter 1 Dual Wielding & Raiding Assassin's Creed Valhalla Unleash Your Inner Viking - Chapter 2 Open-World & Customization Assassin's Creed Valhalla Unleash Your Inner Viking - Chapter 3 Mythology & More Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Deep Dive Trailer Ubisoft NA Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Post Launch & Season Pass Trailer Ubisoft NA ASSASSIN’S CREED VALHALLA - CINEMATIC TV COMMERCIAL Assassin’s Creed Valhalla – Norse Mythology Assassin's Creed Valhalla- Launch Trailer - Ubisoft -NA- Assassin’s Creed Crossover Stories - Announcement Trailer - Ubisoft -NA- Promotional reveal image Variant with a Hidden Blade Cover with Male Eivor Cover concept Cover concept Cover concept Cover concept Ultimate Edition cover concept Ultimate Edition cover concept Ultimate Edition cover concept Concept art of Ravensthorpe in ruins Concept art of initial repairs to Ravensthorpe Concept art of farms in Ravensthorpe ACV - Ravensthorpe fishing docks.jpg A fishing spot at the Ravensthorpe docks Concept art of the tattoo parlor interior Concept art of the Trading Post interior Concept art of the Hidden Ones bureau interior Credits [ ] By type Cast Crew Cast Cecilie Stenspil as Eivor Varinsdottir , Rosta Magnus Bruun as Male Eivor, Varin , Odin Carlo Rota as Basim Ibn Ishaq , Loki Gaia Weiss as Fulke Gudmundur Ingi Thorvaldsson as Sigurd Styrbjornsson , Týr Tom Lewis as Alfred the Great Allan Corduner as Trygve Andrew Shaver as Stowe Aron Már Ólafsson as Erke , Harald Fairhair Björn Bengtsson as Kjotve the Cruel , Finnr Boris Hiestand as Rued , Fenrir , Gorm Kjotvesson Chantel Riley as Layla Hassan Christian Svensson as Ubba Ragnarsson Curtis Legault as Rollo Cody Bellinger as Otta Sluggasson Danny Wallace as Shaun Hastings David Menkin as Dag Einar Selvik as Bragi Eliza Jane Schneider as Rebecca Crane Elliot Cowan as Vili Eric Johnson as Ivarr the Boneless Erik Madsen as Guthrum Geoff Breton as Geadric Gunnar Cauthery as Hjorr Halfsson Harry McEntire as Hunwald Holly Gauthier-Frankel as Estrid Jeppe Beck Laursen as Halfdan , Thor Joi Johannsson as The Builder Kajsa Mohammar as Randvi , Soma Kåre Conradi as Styrbjorn , Faravid Kyle Gatehouse as Oswald of East Anglia Lucy Briers as Æthelswith Luke T. Taylor as Ceolbert Margaret Easley as Gunnlöð Mark Bonnar as Ceolwulf II of Mercia , Cynon Mark Noble as Hemming Nadia Verrucci as Hyrokkin Nina Yndis as Birna Nolan North as Desmond Miles Paul Amos as Rhodri the Great Sam Woolf as Birstan Sandra Yi Sencindiver as Ljufvina Bjarmarsdottir , Yanli Svandis Dora Einarsdottir as Valka Thomas W. Gabrielsson as Gunnar Tim Watson as Burgred of Mercia Tony Robinow as Suttungr Ukweli Roach as Goodwin Victoria Sanchez as Modron References [ ] ↑ Fahey, Mike (29 April 2020). Ubisoft Reveals Assassin's Creed Valhalla With An 8-Hour Painting Livestream . Kotaku . Archived from the original on 29 April 2020. Retrieved on 29 April 2020. ↑ Nedd, Alexis (29 April 2020). Ubisoft confirms 'Assassin's Creed Valhalla' after an 8 hour BossLogic livestream . Mashable . Archived from the original on 30 April 2020. Retrieved on 30 April 2020. ↑ 3.0 3.1 Assassin's Creed Valhalla: Cinematic World Premiere Trailer on the Ubisoft North America YouTube channel ↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 Weber, Rachel; Oloman, Jordan (30 April 2020). Assassin's Creed Valhalla - Everything we know so far about the new Viking flavored Assassin's Creed . GamesRadar . Archived from the original on 13 April 2020. Retrieved on 30 April 2020. ↑ Assassin's Creed Valhalla: Developer Commentary Trailer on the Ubisoft YouTube channel ↑ 6.0 6.1 Sheridan, Connor (1 May 2020). Assassin's Creed Valhalla doesn't have multiplayer but does lets you make a Viking mercenary to help friends raid . GamesRadar . Archived from the original on 3 May 2020. Retrieved on 3 May 2020. ↑ 7.0 7.1 Phillips, Tom (30 April 2020). Assassin's Creed Valhalla reshapes the series' RPG storytelling by giving you a Viking settlement . Eurogamer . Archived from the original on 1 May 2020. Retrieved on 30 April 2020. ↑ Gartenberg, Chaim (29 April 2020). Assassin's Creed Valhalla is Assassin's Creed with vikings . The Verge . Archived from the original on 30 April 2020. Retrieved on 3 May 2020. ↑ Dornbush, Jonathon (30 April 2020). Assassin's Creed Valhalla to Feature Playable Viking Rap Battles . IGN . Archived from the original on 30 April 2020. Retrieved on 3 May 2020. ↑ Ubisoft Montréal (@UbisoftMTL) on Twitter "Exciting! An immense congratulations to our studio warriors for all the good work and passion building to that reveal. We'd also like to thank the 14 co-dev studios all around the world. You know who you are, and we're thankful for your dedication! Skàl! pic.twitter.com/hBPpFZKkrP " ( screenshot ) ↑ Juba, Joe (30 April 2020). 25 Things We've Learned About Assassin's Creed Valhalla . Game Informer . Archived from the original on 1 April 2020. Retrieved on 11 May 2020. ↑ Lee, Julia (24 June 2020). Assassin's Creed Valhalla creative director steps down, accused of sexual misconduct with fans . Polygon . Archived from the original on 25 June 2020. Retrieved on 24 June 2020. ↑ Kim, Matt (24 June 2020). Assassin's Creed: Valhalla Director Steps Down After Impropriety Allegations . IGN . Archived from the original on 25 June 2020. Retrieved on 24 June 2020. ↑ Ashraf Ismail (@AshrafAIsmail) on Twitter "I am stepping down from my beloved project to properly deal with the personal issues in my life. The lives of my family and my own are shattered. I am deeply sorry to everyone hurt in this." ( screenshot ) ↑ Williams, Mike (30 April 2020). Assassin's Creed Valhalla Is the Grand Unifying Theory of Assassin's Creed . USGamer . Archived from the original on 1 May 2020. Retrieved on 30 April 2020. ↑ Ramée, Jordan (30 April 2020). Why Assassin's Creed Valhalla Dev Isn't Worried About The God Of War Similarities . GameSpot . Archived from the original on 19 June 2020. Retrieved on 30 April 2020. ↑ 17.0 17.1 Schreier, Jason (5 April 2019). Odd Tease In The Division 2 Spills The Beans On The Next Assassin's Creed . Kotaku . Archived from the original on 5 April 2019. Retrieved on 30 April 2020. ↑ Jason Schreier (@jasonschreier) on Twitter "For a year now we've all been referring to the new Assassin's Creed by the codename I reported, Kingdom, but today I was informed that it's actually KingdomS. Whoops! To rectify this mistake I will be exclusively referring to the game as Assassin's Creed Valhallas" ( screenshot ) ↑ Pri (2 May 2020). Valhalla's Cameo in Division 2 was Accidental . GamePressure.com . Archived from the original on 15 May 2020. Retrieved on 15 May 2020. ↑ Vlad Mazanko (24 June 2022). Assassin's Creed Valhalla's England Was Designed Like A Post-Apocalyptic World . thegamer.com . Retrieved on 5 September 2023. ↑ Skrebels, Joe (12 July 2020). Assassin's Creed Valhalla Gets November Release Date . IGN . Archived from the original on 12 July 2020. Retrieved on 14 July 2020. ↑ Dornbush, Jonathon (30 April 2020). Assassin's Creed Valhalla Gameplay, Story Details Revealed . IGN . Archived from the original on 1 May 2020. Retrieved on 30 April 2020. ↑ Romano, Sal (12 July 2020). Assassin’s Creed Valhalla launches November 17 for PS4, Xbox One, PC, and Stadia; coming soon to PS5 and Xbox Series X . Gematsu . Archived from the original on 12 July 2020. Retrieved on 14 July 2020. ↑ Makuch, Eddie (6 May 2020). Assassin's Creed Valhalla Won't Launch on Steam, Is An Epic Games Store Exclusive . GameSpot . Archived from the original on 9 May 2020. Retrieved on 11 May 2020. ↑ Batchelor, James (22 November 2022). Ubisoft returns to Steam with Assassin's Creed: Valhalla . GamesIndustry.biz. Archived from the original on 1 December 2022. Retrieved on 4 January 2024. ↑ Roth, Emma (3 January 2024). Assassin’s Creed Valhalla and Resident Evil 2 hit Xbox Game Pass this month — but no Call of Duty yet . The Verge. Archived from the original on 3 January 2024. Retrieved on 4 January 2024. ↑ Assassin’s Creed Valhalla: Official Tease with BossLogic | Ubisoft [NA] on the Ubisoft North America YouTube channel ↑ Assassin’s Creed Valhalla: First Look Gameplay Trailer | Ubisoft [NA] on the Ubisoft North America YouTube channel ↑ Duckworth, Joshua (4 May 2020). Assassin's Creed Valhalla Hidden Rune Code Solved . GameRant . Archived from the original on 6 May 2020. Retrieved on 21 May 2020. ↑ Assassin's Creed Valhalla - Official Gameplay Overview Trailer on the GameSpot YouTube channel ↑ Assassin's Creed Valhalla - 30 Minutes of Gameplay | Ubisoft Forward on the IGN YouTube channel ↑ @assassinscreed (23 October 2020). Become a Viking raider with the Assassin's Creed Valhalla Instagram filter. Try it yourself, link in bio. #assassinscreedvalhalla . Instagram . Retrieved on 12 June 2021. Assassin's Creed series Main games Assassin's Creed • Assassin's Creed II ( Battle of Forlì • Bonfire of the Vanities ) • Brotherhood ( Copernicus Conspiracy • The Da Vinci Disappearance ) • Revelations ( The Lost Archive ) • Assassin's Creed III ( Benedict Arnold • The Tyranny of King Washington ) • Liberation • Black Flag ( Freedom Cry • Aveline ) • Rogue • Unity ( Dead Kings ) • Syndicate ( Jack the Ripper • The Last Maharaja • The Dreadful Crimes ) • Origins ( The Hidden Ones • The Curse of the Pharaohs ) • Odyssey ( Legacy of the First Blade • The Fate of Atlantis ) • Valhalla ( Wrath of the Druids • The Siege of Paris • Dawn of Ragnarök ) • Mirage Animus Hub Shadows ( Claws of Awaji ) • Hexe • Invictus Spin-off games Altaïr's Chronicles • Bloodlines • Discovery • Multiplayer • Project Legacy • Multiplayer Rearmed • Recollection • Pirates • Memories • Chronicles ( China | India | Russia ) • Identity • Arno's Chronicles • Rebellion • Freerunners • Jade • Assassin's Creed Netflix mobile game Virtual Reality The VR Experience • Escape the Lost Pyramid • The Temple of Anubis • Beyond Medusa's Gate • Nexus VR Table Top Arena • Monopoly • Vendetta • Top Trumps • Risk • Brotherhood of Venice ( Roma • Tokyo XXI • Creed vs Crows • Apocalypse ) • The Last Quest of Leonardo da Vinci • Universes Beyond • Roleplaying Game Compilations Ezio Trilogy • Anthology • Heritage Collection • The Americas Collection • The Ezio Collection • The Rebel Collection Novels Renaissance • Brotherhood • The Secret Crusade • Revelations • Forsaken • Black Flag • Unity • Underworld • Last Descendants series ( Last Descendants | Tomb of the Khan | Fate of the Gods ) • Heresy • The Official Movie Novelization • Desert Oath • Odyssey • The Ming Storm series ( The Ming Storm • The Desert Threat ) • Geirmund's Saga • Fragments ( The Blade of Aizu | The Highlands Children | The Witches of the Moors ) • The Silk Road • The Imperial Jade Seal ( Chang'an Wang ) • Sword of the White Horse • The Engine of History ( The Magus Conspiracy • The Resurrection Plot ) • Escape Room Puzzle Book • The Golden City • Daughter of No One • Dynasty Audio Renaissance • Brotherhood • The Secret Crusade • Revelations • Forsaken • Black Flag • Underworld • Last Descendants series ( Last Descendants | Tomb of the Khan | Fate of the Gods ) • The Official Film Tie-In • Desert Oath • Odyssey • Gold • Geirmund's Saga • The Ming Storm series ( The Ming Storm • The Desert Threat ) • Turbulence in the Ming Dynasty • Sword of the White Horse • The Engine of History ( The Magus Conspiracy • The Resurrection Plot ) Comics Assassin's Creed • The Fall • The Chain • Awakening • Brahman • Assassins • Templars • Last Descendants – Locus • Conspiracies • Uprising • Reflections • Origins • Bloodstone • Blade of Shao Jun • Dynasty • Song of Glory • Blood Brothers • Valhalla webcomic • Forgotten Myths • The Hidden Codex • Forgotten Temple • Visionaries • A Soar of Eagles • Iga no Monogatari Non-fiction Assassin's Creed guide / artbook / CE artbook • Assassin's Creed II guide / artbook / CE artbook • Brotherhood guide / artbook • Revelations guide / artbook • Encyclopedia • Assassin's Creed III guide / artbook • Black Flag guide / artbook / CE artbook • Rogue guide / artbook • Unity guide / artbook / CE artbook • The Complete Visual History • Syndicate guide / artbook / CE artbook • A Walk Through History • The Official Coloring Book • The Essential Guide • Movie Posters • Into the Animus • Incredibuilds • The Official Collection • Origins guide / artbook / CE artbook • Infographics • The Culinary Codex • Odyssey guide / artbook / CE artbook • Complete Character Guide • 2500 Years of History • Atlas • Discovery Books ( Ancient Egypt | Ancient Greece | Viking Age | In the Heart of Baghdad | The Japan of the Samurai ) • Where's the Assassin? • Valhalla artbook • Mirage artbook / CE artbook • Shadows artbook / CE artbook Film & Television Lineage • Ascendance • Embers • French Revolution • The Syndicate • Assassin's Creed • Live-action TV series • Animated TV series • Anime series Websites Abstergo.com • Animus Next • Council • Crack The Code • Discover Your Legacy • Initiates • Project Legacy • Project Widow • Pirates Demo • Question the Creed • The Twelve Trials • Unlock the Animus • Who's In Your Blood? • Your Blood Is Not Your Own • XIXth Century Search Engine Cancelled media The Invisible Imam • The Eye of Heaven • Lost Legacy • Utopia • Bloodsail • Alliance • Covers Collection Assassin's Creed: Valhalla Characters Assassins Rebecca Crane • Layla Hassan • Shaun Hastings • Antony Henry • William Miles | Basim Ibn Ishaq • Hytham • Eluric • Rayhan • Roshan • Fuladh • Abbo Cernuus • Alexandre Douce | Vitus • Eghan • Caius • Anicius • Marcellus • Khloe • Beatha • Maya • Sebastos • Teague • C. C. | Amunet • Bayek • Hakor • Magas Order of the Ancients Alfred the Great • Fulke • Gorm Kjotvesson ( Avgos Spearhand • Frideswid • Hunta • Kjotve the Cruel • Leofgifu • Vicelin ) • Tatfrid ( Gifle • Havelok • Herefrith • Mucel • Patrick • Wigmund ) • Derby ( Ingeborg • Audun • Eanbhert • Grigorii • Gunilla • Tata ) • Blaeswith ( Beneseck • Ealhferth • Heika • Hilda • Selwyn • Yohanes Loukas ) • Al-Si'la • Zealots ( Beorhtsige • Bercthun • Callin • Cola • Cudberct • Eorforwine • Heike • Horsa • Hrothgar • Kendall • Osgar • Redwalda • Wealdmaer • Woden • Wuffa ) | Offa of Mercia • Arthur Pendragon • Charlemagne • Louis II of Italy • Æthelred I, King of Wessex • Æthelwulf, King of Wessex • Ælla of Northumbria • Lerion Children of Danu Eogan mac Cartaigh ( Aideen • Bécc mac Nath-í • Conlae • Cummascach • Leasleach • Niamh • Ruaidrí • Sétnae • Trian ) Bellatores Dei Isidore Mercator ( Ebels • Engelwin • Euphrasia • Gozlin ) Ravensthorpe Residents Ake • Alvis • Alwin • Arth • Azar • Bertham • Braun • Brigid • Bronson • Osbert of Lunden • Dandelion Puff • Dwolfg • Eira • Eivor Varinsdottir ( Sýnin ) • Eluric • Everold • Eydis • Gudmund • Gudrun • Gunnar • Holger • Hildiran • Hunwald • Hytham • Leofric • Mayda • Kari • Knud • Merton • Mundi • Nessa • Norvid • Olsen • Petra • Randvi • Reda • Rowan • Runa • Sigurd Styrbjornsson • Sunniva • Svanhildr • Svend • Swanburrow • Swinda • Sylvi • Tarben • Tekla • Thyra • Tove • Valka • Vagn • Viggo • Wallace • Winfrith • Yanli | Sea Chariot's crew ( Birna • Bjorn Bloodtooth • Bragi • Dag Nithisson • Finnr • Fyl • Hermod • Hrefna • Nali • Skarde • Sten • Revna • Rollo • Valtar • Vili Hemmingson • Yrsa ) Daughters of Lerion Cordelia • Goneril • Regan Lost Drengir Erik Loyalskull • Thor the Fish Monger • Nokkfylla Shine-Eye • Gotafrid Fairrobes • Skegjold Frenzy-Seeker • Orwig Neverdeath | Hogne Sea-Tossed • Blud the Giant Frankish Nobles Amric • Gerswinda • Herbert du Lilibonne Isu Ægir • Andhrímnir • Angrboða • Asvid • Baldr • Búri • The Builder • Einar • Eysa • Fafnir • Fenrir • Freyja • Frigg • Heimdall • Glöð • Gunnlöð • Hel • Hyrrokin • Iðunn • Ivaldi • Jörmungandr • Kára • Loki • Lug • Mímir • Mórrígan • Nodens • Njörðr • Odin • Saklas • Samael • Sif • Sigyn • Sinmara • Skaði • Suttungr • Surtr • Thor • Týr • Ullr • Vé • Víðarr • Vili • Yaldabaoth Other Acha • Aelfgar • Ahmad ibn Tulun • Alfida • Angharad ferch Meurig • Azar • Bárid mac Ímair • Birna • Bernard • Birstan • Brothir • Broder • Burgred of Mercia • Ceolbert • Ceolwulf II of Mercia • Charles the Fat • Ciara ingen Medba • Conchobar mac Taidg Mór • Cynebert • Cynon • Deirdre Na Linni • Deorlaf • Domnall mac Áeda • Eadwyn • Erke Bodilsson • Estrid • Faith • Faravid • Finnr • Flann Sinna • Galinn • Geadric • Goodwin • Grendel • Guthrum • Gwenydd • Halfdan Ragnarsson • Harald Fairhair • Hemming • Hjorr Halfsson • Ivarr the Boneless • Kassandra • Ketil Flatnose • Leofrith • Lif • Ljufvina Bjarmarsdottir • Modron • Muhammad I of Córdoba • Niall Glúndub • Nornir ( Skuld • Urðr • Verðandi ) • Odo of France • Oswald of East Anglia • Pierre • Rhodri the Great • Richardis • Ricsige of Northumbria • Rollo • Rued • Rurik • Sichfrith • Sigfred • Sinric • Soma • Stowe • Styrbjorn Sigvaldisson • Thorstein the Red • Toka Sinricsdottir • Ubba Ragnarsson • Valdis | Brendan of Clonfert • Cú Chulainn • Niall of the Nine Hostages • Ragnar Lothbrok • Rig Reidarasson • Thorgest Factions Assassins ( British Brotherhood • Frankish Brotherhood • Roman Hidden Ones ) • Templars ( Order of the Ancients • Zealots • Red Hand ) • Anglo-Saxons • Britons • Picts • Gaels ( Norse-Gaels • Uí Néill ) • Iroquois ( Kanien'kehá:ka ) • Norse ( Elgring Clan • Clan Hemmingsons • Raven Clan • Wolf Clan ) • Vikings ( Jomsvikings • Shieldmaidens • Sons of Ragnar • Great Summer Army ) • Thousand Eyes • Druids ( Daughters of Nimue • Children of Danu ) • Franks ( Frankish Rebels • Bellatores Dei ) | Isu ( Æsir ) Locations United States ( Turin ) | England ( East Anglia • Wessex ( Cent • Essexe • Hamtunscire • Suthsexe • Wincestre ) • Mercia ( Glowecestrescire • Grantebridgescire • Ledecestrescire • Lincolnscire • Sciropescire • Oxenefordscire • Lunden • Ravensthorpe ) • Northumbria ( Eurviscire • Jorvik • Snotinghamscire ) ) • Ireland ( Connacht • Dublin • Meath • Ulster ) • Isle of Skye • Norway ( Fornburg • Hordafylke • Rygjafylke ) • Vinland • West Francia ( Amienois • Evresin • Melunois • Paris ) | Asgard • Jötunheim • Niflheim ( Kaldstad • Døkkerland • Nidheim • Helheim ) • Svartalfheim ( Gullnámar • Svaladal • Vangrinn • Eitri ) Events COVID-19 pandemic | Unification of Norway ( Assault on Kjotve's Fortress ) • Viking expansion ( Great Heathen Army • Battle of Chippenham • Siege of Paris ) | Great Catastrophe ( Ragnarök ) Terms and concepts Achievements • Helix Credits • Photo Mode | Animus ( Animus Anomalies • Codex • Genetic memory • Memories • Memory Corridor ) • Cairns • Crafting • Currencies ( Opal • Silver ) • Customization • Flyting • Irish Cycle pages • The Magas Codex • Orlog • Overseas Trading • Pieces of Eden ( Crystal Ball • Excalibur • Freya's medallion • Gungnir • Lia Fáil • Mjölnir • Odin's Eye • Staff of Hermes Trismegistus • Yggdrasil ) • Rigsogur • Runes • Ships • Skills ( Dual-wielding • Eagle Vision • Leap of Faith • Social Stealth • Swimming ) • The Sons of Niall • Standing stones • Tattoos • Treasures of Britain • Viewpoints Weapons Bearded axes • Bows • Dane axes • Flails • Hidden Blade • Scythes • Seaxes • Shields • Sickles • Spears • Swords • Warhammers DLC Main The Legend of Beowulf • The Way of the Berserker • Wrath of the Druids • The Siege of Paris • Dawn of Ragnarök Free expansions Yule Season • River Raids • Ostara Season • Mastery Challenge • Sigrblot Season • Oskoreia Season • Discovery Tour • Assassin's Creed Crossover Stories • The Forgotten Saga • Shared History • The Last Chapter Categories Categories : Real world video games Assassin's Creed series Assassin's Creed: Valhalla Languages Deutsch Español Français Italiano Polski Português do Brasil Русский 中文 Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Horror Assassin's Creed Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Assassin's Creed Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab