Instagram Founder Claims Zuckerberg Suppressed His Platform's Growth: "We Were A Threat" arrow-down comments printer search bell top-nav right-arrow NDTV World Profit हिंदी MOVIES IPL 2025 FOOD LIFESTYLE HEALTH TECH Games Big Bonus SHOPPING APPS Rajasthan MPCG Marathi Advertisement US UK Middle East India Global Asia Europe Australia Americas Africa Videos Bollywood Sports World News Diaspora News Science & Knowledge Climate & Environment Web Stories NDTV World - US Stream NDTV World - UK Stream Featured Stories Offbeat Stories Opinion People Photos Study Abroad Student Reporter Login Instagram Founder Claims Zuckerberg Suppressed His Platform's Growth: "We Were A Threat" facebook twitter WhatsApp comments Settings Change Font Size A A Focus on Story home World News Instagram Founder Claims Zuckerberg Suppressed His Platform's Growth: "We Were A Threat" Instagram Founder Claims Zuckerberg Suppressed His Platform's Growth: "We Were A Threat" Mark Zuckerberg acquired Instagram for $1 billion in 2012 as the photo-sharing app was on the ascendency. Edited by: Abhinav Singh World News Apr 25, 2025 18:52 pm IST Published On Apr 25, 2025 18:52 pm IST Last Updated On Apr 25, 2025 18:52 pm IST Read Time: 3 mins Share Twitter WhatsApp Facebook Reddit Email Kevin Systroms testimony portrayed Mark Zuckerberg as a withholding and jealous boss. Quick Take Summary is AI generated, newsroom reviewed. Kevin Systrom accused Mark Zuckerberg of stifling Instagram's growth. Systrom claimed Facebook resources were diverted away from Instagram. He testified about receiving no additional staffing for video tools. Instagram co-founder Kevin Systrom has accused Mark Zuckerberg of suppressing his platform's growth due to the Meta CEO's allegiances to Facebook. During the Meta monopoly trial, Mr Systrom testified that Mr Zuckerberg favoured Facebook so much that he began starving Instagram of critical resources, including denying any additional staffing to help build Instagram's video tools in 2017. "We were given zero of 300 incremental video heads, which is an unacceptable and offensive outcome," Mr Systrom testified, as per a report in the Financial Times. "Every company needs to make trade-offs, but it felt like something else was going on," he added. Mr Zuckerberg acquired Instagram for $1 billion in 2012 as the photo-sharing app was on the ascendency. However, as per Mr Systrom, Mr Zuckerberg may have been directly involved in removing resources because "as the founder of Facebook, he felt a lot of emotion around which one was better, Instagram or Facebook". Such was Instagram's growth that even Mr Zuckerberg, in a 2018 confidential email, talked about stymying its growth to avoid Facebook's "network collapse", according to the US Federal Trade Commission. Mr Systrom corroborated the theory during the testimony. "There was dramatic softness in terms of [Facebook's] US daily active users and everyone had their theories why," said Mr Systrom. "Mark Zuckerberg and [Meta executive] Chris Cox believed it was Instagram's growth that had by and large contributed to the softness." Mr Systrom quit alongside Instagram's other co-founder, Mike Krieger, in September 2018 as Mr Zuckerberg decided to merge the app with Facebook and WhatsApp, in a drive to create a "family of apps". "We were a threat to their growth. If Instagram didn't grow as quickly, Facebook wouldn't shrink as quickly or plateau as quickly," Mr Systrom said. "I don't think he [Zuckerberg] ever said it out loud that way, but that was the only reason we were having this discussion." Also Read | Google DeepMind CEO On What Keeps Him Up At Night: "AGI Is Coming, Society's Not Ready" Zuckerberg's testimony Earlier this month, Mr Zuckerberg testified for more than seven hours over two days in the trial that could force Meta to break off Instagram and WhatsApp. Quizzed by attorney Daniel Matheson about buying Instagram to neutralise the threat, Mr Zuckerberg said taking the platform off the market and building their own version of it was "a reasonable thing to do". The lawsuit was filed against Meta in 2020. It claims that the company bought Instagram and WhatsApp to squash competition and establish an illegal monopoly in the social media market. Show full article Track Latest News Live on NDTV.com and get news updates from India and around the world Follow us: Instagram , Facebook , Meta Related News Motorola Adds New Features to Moto AI; Teams Up With Google, Microsoft and Perplexity UK Man Buys World War I Shipwreck For Rs 34,000 Only On Facebook Watch: Ali Asgar's Foodie Video Comes With A LOL Twist Trending News Kohli Rejects Karthik's Advice, RCB Coach Later Says "Loss For Words..." "With You As You Hunt Down...": US Spy Chief To PM Modi On Kashmir Attack How Suspending Indus Waters Treaty Hurts Pakistan, Ex Top Official Explains Lashkar Chief Hafiz Saeed's Role Revealed In Pahalgam Terror Attack Highlights: J&K Lt Governor Meets Army Chief, Says Every Perpetrator Must Be Hunted Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Quick Links Latest News PNR Status Education News Business News Sports News MP Chhattisgarh News NDTV Profit Marathi News UP Board Result 2025 LIVE Updates Board Exam Results 2025 UP Board 10th Result LIVE UP Board 12th Result LIVE Pahalgam Terror Attack LIVEUpdates Advertisement Follow us on facebook twitter instagram linkedin youtube whatsapp threads snapchat About Us Advertise EPG Services Channels Disclaimer Feedback Investors Redressals Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Partner Content Archives NDTV Group Sites News Hindi Business Movies Cricket Food Tech Education Health Lifestyle MPCG Rajasthan Marathi This website follows the DNPA Code of Ethics © Copyright NDTV Convergence Limited 2025. All rights reserved. Edition INDIA World Search for News, Photos and Videos Get App for Better Experience Get it on Google Play Download on the App Store Get App for Better Experience Install Now News Updates Live TV India Latest Video Profit Movies Cricket Cities Featured Elections Notifications Opinion Web Stories Trends Feature More Links Offbeat Science People South Education Tech Food Sports Health Lifestyle Photos TV Schedule Big Bonus Shopping Toolbox Follow Us On Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube Whatsapp Threads Snapchat arrow-down search search olympic crypto_icon arrow-rgt arrow-next arrow-up close reddit-fill facebook-fill whatsapp-fill cog left-arrow snapchat-fill astrology-icn