Why Microsoft Won The $22 Billion Army Hololens 2 AR Deal Subscribe To Newsletters Trump Tracker Billionaires Billionaires View All Billionaires World's Billionaires Forbes 400 America's Richest Self-Made Women China's Richest India's Richest Indonesia's Richest Korea's Richest Thailand's Richest Japan's Richest Australia's Richest Taiwan's Richest Singapore's Richest Philippines' Richest Hong Kong's Richest Malaysia's Richest Money & Politics 2024 Election Innovation Innovation View All Innovation AI Big Data Cloud Cloud 100 Consumer Tech Creator Economy Cybersecurity Digital Transformation Enterprise Commerce Enterprise Security and Protection Enterprise Tech Enterprise Growth Strategy Future Of Work Gaming Healthcare Innovation Rules Retail Industry SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Science Social Media Sustainability & Climate Transportation Venture Capital Technology VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program TikTok BrandVoice | Paid Program Leadership Leadership View All Leadership C-Suite CEO Network CFO Network CHRO Network CIO Network CMO Network Leadership Strategies Careers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Education Forbes EQ | Paid Program ForbesBLK ForbesWomen Under 30 Working Remote Over 50 Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Money Money View All Money Banking & Insurance ETFs & Mutual Funds Fintech Hedge Funds & Private Equity Investing Investor Hub Markets Personal Finance Retirement Taxes Top Advisor | SHOOK Wealth Management Forbes Digital Assets Forbes Digital Assets Home Web3 Community News Crypto Prices NFT Prices Research Learn Crypto Basics BTC DeFi Web3 Education NFTs Crypto Investments Events Crypto Portfolios Business Business View All Business Aerospace & Defense Energy Food & Drink Hollywood & Entertainment Law Manufacturing Media Policy Retail SportsMoney Entertainment Digest Small Business Small Business View All Small Business Entrepreneurs Franchises Small Business Strategy Lifestyle Lifestyle View All Lifestyle Arts Boats & Planes Cars & Bikes Dining ForbesLife Forbes Travel Guide Spirits Style & Beauty Travel Vices Watches Real Estate Real Estate View All Real Estate Commercial Real Estate Forbes Global Properties Residential Real Estate Forbes Vetted Forbes Vetted View All Forbes Vetted Mattress & Sleep Bed Frames Mattresses Mattress Toppers Pillows Sheets & Bedding Sleep Products Home Bathroom Cleaning & Laundry Decor Furniture Heating & Cooling Hobbies Home Office Kitchen & Dining Outdoor Pets Storage & Organization Tools Wine & Bar Fashion Accessories Clothing Eyewear Footwear Jewelry Handbags & Purses Lingerie & Sleepwear Outdoor & Fitness Apparel Outerwear Watches Kids & Baby Gear Baby Gear Kids Clothes & Accessories Nursery Pregnancy & Postpartum Toys & Books Gear Apparel & Accessories Bikes Camping & Hiking Climbing Fishing & Hunting Fitness Golf Running Tennis & Racket Sports Tools & Tech Training & Recovery Water Sports Wellness Winter Sports Beauty & Grooming Haircare Makeup Nailcare Shaving Skincare Personal Products Wellness & Self Care Tech & Electronics Audio Cameras Computers, Tablets & Accessories Gaming Home Office Online Tools Smart Home Devices Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories Streaming TVs Travel Cruises Hotels & Lodging Luggage Travel Products Gifts Father's Day Holiday Mother's Day Valentine's Day Wedding Deals Black Friday Cyber Monday Amazon Prime Day Beauty & Grooming Big Sales Fashion Gear Home Tech & Electronics Travel Deals Mattress & Sleep Forbes 101 Advisor Advisor Best Credit Cards Of 2025 Compare Credit Cards Balance Transfer Credit Cards Cash Back Credit Cards Travel Credit Cards Business Credit Cards Mortgages & Loans Best Mortgage Lenders Today's Mortgage Rates Today's Refinance Rates Best Personal Loans Loans For Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Student Loan Lenders Best Student Loan Refinance Lenders Business Loans Banking Best Online Banks CD Rates High-Yield Savings Accounts Money Market Account Life Insurance Cheap Life Insurance No Exam Life Insurance Travel Insurance Covid-19 Travel Insurance Cheap Travel Insurance Companies Best Car Insurance Compare Car Insurance Quotes Cost Of Car Insurance Cheap Car Insurance Pet Insurance How Much Is Pet Insurance? Cheap Pet Insurance Business Services Best LLC Services Best Registered Agent Services How To Set Up An LLC How To Start A Business Cost To Start An LLC Best Payroll Services Best HR Software Best HRIS Systems Best PEO Services Best Applicant Tracking Systems Best Website Builders Best Web Hosting Services Best Domain Registrar Best Ecommerce Platform Best Landing Page Builder Best VoIP Service What Is VoIP? Best Answering Services Best Call Center Software Best Cloud Phone System Best Project Management Software Free Project Management Software Best Task Management Software Free Task Management Software Best Gantt Chart Software Best VPN Best Free VPN Best Cheap VPN Best Antivirus Software Best Password Managers Home Services Best Moving Companies Best Long Distance Moving Companies Best Car Shipping Companies Best Interstate Moving Companies How Much Do Movers Cost? Best Home Warranty Companies Cheapest Home Warranty Companies Are Home Warranties Worth It? Home Warranty Cost Best Home Appliance Insurance Best Solar Companies Best Solar Panels Cost Of Solar Panels Solar Tax Credit By State Are Solar Panels Worth It? Best Pest Control Companies Best Termite Control Companies Best Mosquito Control Companies Pest Control Cost How Much Do Exterminators Cost? Best Home Security Companies Best Home Security Systems Home Security System Cost Cheapest Home Security Systems Best Wireless Home Security Systems Best Internet Providers Cheapest Internet Plans Fastest High Speed Internet Providers Best Internet Only Plans Best Fiber Internet Providers Forbes Advisor UK Health Health Healthy Aging Best Medical Alert Systems Medicare Medicare Advantage Plans Medicare Supplement Plans Medicare Advantage By State Health Insurance Hearing Aids Best Hearing Aids Senior Living Mind Best Online Therapy Best CBD Gummies Best CBD Oil Best Protein Powders Lists Video Newsletters Newsletters Crypto Confidential Editorial Newsletters Forbes Games Forbes Games View All Forbes Games Frase by Forbes Pinpoint by LinkedIn Queens by LinkedIn Crossclimb by LinkedIn Forbes Magazine Forbes Magazine Forbes Asia Free Issue of Forbes Latest Latest Coronavirus Coverage Daily Cover Stories Dark Capital Editors' Picks Breaking News Featured Featured 2025 Best-In-State Wealth Advisors List 2025 America's Top Women Wealth Advisors AI’s Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It DNA of Success Embracing And Bracing For AI Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program Your Four-Part Blueprint To Unlock AI Value In 2025 | Paid Program Diners Club International Celebrates 75 Years | Paid Program Leadership Lessons: Small Business Playbook Potential Has No Age Summit | Paid Program Celebrating The Power Of Partnership: Why Teamwork Is Key In the Fight Against Cancer | Paid Program Protecting What Matters Most: How Gerber Life Insurance Offers Affordable Coverage For Your Whole Family | Paid Program Presented by EY - Beyond The Blueprint: How These Four CEOs Built Billion-Dollar Businesses | Paid Program 2/3 By 2030: Philip Morris International Marks A Milestone  And Aims For A Smoke-Free Future | Paid Program 2025 America's Top Wealth Advisors Forbes Insights: Your Guide To Marketing In The Era Of AI | Paid Program The Undergrad's New Journey To Real-World Ready | Paid Program Forbes Insights: Your Five-Step Strategy To Unleash AI’s Value In Marketing | Paid Program Forbes Video Series: AI 50 AI 50 List By The Numbers: Meet The Forbes 30 Under 30 Europe Class Of 2025 United To End Blood Cancer: Meet The Leaders Turning Passion Into Progress | Paid Program Advertise with Forbes Report a Security Issue Editorial Values and Standards Site Feedback Contact Us Careers at Forbes Tips Corrections Privacy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms AdChoices Reprints & Permissions © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. Subscribe To Newsletters Why Microsoft Won The $22 Billion Army Hololens 2 AR Deal By Anshel Sag Share Save Innovation Cloud Why Microsoft Won The $22 Billion Army Hololens 2 AR Deal By Anshel Sag , Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Anshel Sag is an industry analyst covering XR, 5G, mobile and PCs. for Moor Insights and Strategy Follow Author Apr 06, 2021, 05:47pm EDT Share Save This article is more than 4 years old. Photo of Microsoft's Hololens in action. U.S. Army Many of the world’s leading tech companies are vying to develop what will become the next mainstream computing platform. While there’s disagreement on whether the platform will be AR, VR or some form of mixed reality, there is no doubt that one of the companies leading the charge is Microsoft. Since the first Hololens launched in 2016 with the Development Edition, Microsoft has been hard at work building out its Mixed Reality platform. That same year, Microsoft also announced its Mixed Reality VR headsets for Windows. As some may remember, 2016 was a peak hype year for VR. The momentum behind the technology allowed Microsoft to establish a comprehensive understanding of the needs of AR and VR, and develop APIs for developers accordingly. Last week, Microsoft announced the closure of a $22 billion deal with the Army for AR headsets, software and services. Let’s take a look at the deal and what it means for Microsoft and the industry at large. Some background This announcement comes as a follow-up to a smaller $480 million deal Microsoft won in 2018 , which forged the two entities’ relationship and kickstarted their co-development. Together, they developed a semi-custom version of the Hololens specific to the Army’s needs which Microsoft calls the Integrated Visual Augmentation System (IVAS) . This initial $480 million deal was also significant in that it was the nail in the coffin for companies like ODG, which had been banking on winning such a deal. Historically, ODG’s biggest customer was the US Government, so naturally, when that contract went to Microsoft, the company quickly folded. Interestingly, Microsoft had been rumored to have paid $150 million for ODG patents well in advance of winning both deals. While Microsoft does have some competitors in the AR space, I don’t believe any of them were even remotely close to being competitive for the deal. Members of the U.S. Army sporting Microsoft Hololens headsets. U.S. Army The specifics The new deal likely crushed the dreams of many would-be competitors for this bid, as it covers a wide spectrum of hardware, software, services, and cloud infrastructure. Microsoft has agreed to supply the US Army with 120,000 semi-custom versions of the Hololens, built for rugged use and equipped with the appropriate sensors and location accuracy for military use. This deal has a 5-year term with an additional five optional years. If the deal extends to ten years, it will amount to $21.9 billion. If you do the math with the Hololens’ current price of $3,500, that only tallies up to $420 million. While I wouldn’t expect this highly customized version of the Hololens to be sold to the Army for anywhere near as low as $3,500, even if the Army paid $35K per headset, it would only add up to $4.2 billion out of the $22 billion deal. That means that the bulk of this deal’s value is in services and Azure computing, which makes sense given that those make up Microsoft’s entire play around Hololens and its Mixed Reality platform. Everything at Microsoft under the tenure of Satya Nadella operates entirely to answer one question: does it drive Azure utilization and scale? If you look at Microsoft under Satya Nadella, it has been wildly successful and profitable embracing this premise. I don’t think it should surprise anybody that Microsoft’s Hololens and Mixed Reality teams live within the Microsoft Cloud and AI Group. In March, Microsoft also made a significant announcement with its Mesh platform and service, which further indicated Microsoft’s plans for XR. Mesh combines offerings such as Microsoft’s Azure Spatial Anchors and Remote Rendering into a single solution to enable organizations like the Army to use XR technologies in the field. MORE FROM FORBES ADVISOR Best High-Yield Savings Accounts Of 2024 By Kevin Payne , Contributor Best 5% Interest Savings Accounts of 2024 By Cassidy Horton , Contributor Microsoft’s goal with Hololens, Mixed Reality and all forms of AR and VR is to provide a truly agnostic platform. To that end, the company has openly embraced and encouraged open-source APIs like OpenXR, which will be critical for developers when they develop apps for multiple types of headsets. Yes, Microsoft does have the Hololens 2 and is a headset manufacturer. Still, I believe that everything Microsoft has done thus far has illustrates the company’s desire to be the platform provider of choice for enterprise and business XR applications. One of the most critical components of offering enterprise and business XR cloud services is experience. Microsoft has a long track record of offering enterprise-grade security to the US Government and other highly secure enterprises. Companies like Facebook and Magic Leap have XR headsets, and they have platforms that are relatively mature at this point. Still, they do not have the security and cloud infrastructure to truly compete with what Microsoft has built. While Amazon has the security and cloud experience to potentially offer something competitive, Amazon Sumerian does not yet have the kind of cohesion that Microsoft’s platform does. Furthermore, it operates more like a game engine than a platform, and Amazon doesn’t have any XR headsets in the market, yet. Everyone in the industry knows that the end goal of all of these companies’ XR efforts is to make money off the software and cloud services, as we’ve seen with the smartphone industry. Microsoft’s $22 billion deal with the Army demonstrates its early lead over the opposition. This deal should also legitimize the viability of enterprise XR and Microsoft’s approach. Others can then build on top of the groundwork that Microsoft has already done to deliver XR apps and headsets. Yes, this deal amounts to about $2.2 billion per year, but even for a company as big as Microsoft, that’s a considerable amount of revenue—and that’s just for one contract. This contract will also buoy the size of the XR industry’s revenues, establishing a consistent baseline of revenue for the industry. Wrapping up I expect that we will see more enterprises embrace Microsoft’s Mixed Reality platform for XR as remote work and immersive computing continues to grow. We may even see Microsoft start to use its Mixed Reality enterprise platform in some consumer applications relatively soon. During a partnership announcement with Niantic at the launch of Microsoft Mesh, Microsoft even teased a proof of concept with Pokémon Go for the Hololens 2. In my opinion, this shows Microsoft’s prowess in picking the right partners and leveraging its strengths. Niantic’s CEO recently teased an AR headset, which many people expect to be the company’s first headset for AR developers. If you ask me, it’s very likely the platform for that headset will run on Microsoft’s Azure Mixed Reality cloud. As Microsoft continues to solidify its lead in XR, I expect more to follow. Disclosure: Moor Insights & Strategy, like all research and analyst firms, provides or has provided paid research, analysis, advising, or consulting to many high-tech companies in the industry, including Microsoft. The author holds no investment positions with any of the companies cited in this article. Editorial Standards Forbes Accolades © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Digital Terms of Sale Terms of Service Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Reprints & Permissions Forbes Press Room Advertise