FIFA says 1 billion saw part of World Cup final IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. A 2-in-1 eye stick, blowout hair tool and more multitasking beauty, as low as $7 Skip to Content Today Logo On the Show About TODAY Show Video 3rd Hour of TODAY Jenna & Friends Saturday TODAY Sunday TODAY Shop the Show Shop Shop the Show Travel Awards Gift Guides Ranked by Shop TODAY Steals & Deals Newsletter Wellness Start TODAY Mental Health Women's Health Fitness Sleep Diet & Nutrition Start TODAY Parents Baby Names Kids Health Family Babies Parenting Tips LOL Food Recipes On The Show Most Popular Recipes All Recipes Food News What to Cook This Week Life Astrology Essays Holidays Quotes Jokes Trivia Podcasts TODAY Jenna and Friends Sunday TODAY Making Space Open Book with Jenna Cooking Up a Storm Sign up / Sign in Hi Search Sign up / Sign in Hi Share this — Dashboard My Saved Newsletters Profile Search Today Search Sections Health & Wellness Parenting Food Shop Pop Culture News Life Style Shows TODAY 3rd Hour of TODAY TODAY with Jenna & Friends Saturday TODAY Sunday TODAY with Willie Geist Watch Full Episodes More News Life Books Trending Recipes Read With Jenna Astrology Inspirational Holidays Relationships TODAY Table Help Newsletters Start TODAY Jokes Shop TODAY Awards Citi Concert Series Listen All Day Follow today More Brands NBC News Logo MSNBC Logo Facebook Pinterest Email SMS Print Whatsapp Reddit Pocket Flipboard Twitter Linkedin On the Show Shop Wellness Start TODAY Parents Food Life Podcasts News FIFA says 1 billion saw part of World Cup final The 2010 World Cup final was probably seen by at least 1 billion people, though the 2008 Beijing Olympics opening ceremony appears to retain top spot as the most-watched televised event. / Source : The Associated Press The 2010 World Cup final was probably seen by at least 1 billion people, though the 2008 Beijing Olympics opening ceremony appears to retain top spot as the most-watched televised event. FIFA says 909.6 million television viewers watched at least one minute of the 2010 World Cup final at home between Spain and the Netherlands, and the total likely topped a billion when adding online and public places. FIFA's research says 619.7 million people watched 20 consecutive minutes of Spain's 1-0 extra-time win. However, the official ratings for soccer's biggest match seems to have been beaten by the 2008 Beijing Olympics opening ceremony as the world's most-watched live event. FIFA says the "average in-home global audience" was 530.9 million for the final played July 11, 2010, at Johannesburg's Soccer City stadium. The Olympics' opening at Bird's Nest stadium drew an average audience of 593 million. FIFA said the 2010 World Cup — 64 matches played by 32 countries over one month — was broadcast in every territory in the world. More than 3.2 billion people, or 46.4 percent of the population, watched live coverage for a minimum of one minute, FIFA's research said. The average official rating was 188.4 million for each match. "These results show that the FIFA World Cup remains a compelling spectacle for viewers around the world," secretary general Jerome Valcke said in a statement. The federation earned $2.4 billion in broadcasting deals tied to the 2010 tournament, according to its financial report published in March. FIFA said its ratings research included audited audience figures from 80 territories covering 70 percent of the world's population. "Estimated ratings continue to be necessary in much of Africa, the Middle East, Caribbean, Pacific Islands and smaller markets in the Asia subcontinent," football's governing body said. Related Alex Brandon / AP file Former Rep. George Santos sentenced to more than 7 years in prison Politics / Updated FILIPPO MONTEFORTE / AFP / Getty Images Who is expected to attend Pope Francis' funeral? News / Updated Gabriel Bouys/AFP / Getty Images When will the conclave start? Here's when the new pope will be chosen News / Updated TODAY Illustration What to know TODAY: Choosing the next pope, a mom's symptoms dismissed turn out to be colorectal cancer News / Updated Kevin Mohatt / The Washington Post via Getty Images FDA stops sale of copycat versions of Ozempic and Wegovy: What to do if you’re taking them Diet & Fitness / Updated Antonio Masiello / Getty Images Who is Kevin Farrell, the cardinal who is acting head of the Vatican? News / Updated Alex Pantling / Getty Images Is there a Formula 1 race the weekend of April 25? Sports / Updated Natasha Campos / Getty Images for McDonald's Alijah Arenas, top USC recruit and son of retired NBA player Gilbert Arenas, hospitalized after vehicle crash Sports / Updated Paras Griffin / Getty Images file Shannon Sharpe stepping aside from ESPN in wake of sexual assault lawsuit News / Updated Massimo Valicchia/NurPhoto / Getty Images What time is Pope Francis’ funeral? How to watch as he is laid to rest News / Updated See More About Contact Help Visit TODAY Apps AD Choices Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice TERMS OF SERVICE TERMS OF SERVICE Careers Closed Captioning TODAY Sitemap Advertise TODAY Store Shop TODAY © 2025 NBCUniversal Media, LLC Apple®, Apple logo® and App Store® are registered trademarks of Apple Inc. NBC News Logo MSNBC Logo Today Logo