Fifita, McMillan Named to Walter Camp Player of the Year Award Watch List - University of Arizona Athletics Skip To Main Content Pause All Rotators Skip To Main Content University of Arizona Athletics View Schedule Close Schedule Mobile Navigation Calendar Button Scoreboard Main Navigation Menu Baseball Baseball: Facebook Baseball: Twitter Baseball: Instagram Baseball: Tickets Baseball: Schedule Baseball: Roster Baseball: News Men's Basketball Men's Basketball: Facebook Men's Basketball: Twitter Men's Basketball: Instagram Men's Basketball: Tickets Men's Basketball: Schedule Men's Basketball: Roster Men's Basketball: News Women's Basketball Women's Basketball: Facebook Women's Basketball: Twitter Women's Basketball: Instagram Women's Basketball: Tickets Women's Basketball: Schedule Women's Basketball: Roster Women's Basketball: News Beach Volleyball Beach Volleyball: Facebook Beach Volleyball: Twitter Beach Volleyball: Instagram Beach Volleyball: Tickets Beach Volleyball: Schedule Beach Volleyball: Roster Beach Volleyball: News Cross Country Cross Country: Facebook Cross Country: Twitter Cross Country: Instagram Cross Country: Tickets Cross Country: Schedule Cross Country: Roster Cross Country: News Football Football: Facebook Football: Twitter Football: Instagram Football: Tickets Football: Schedule Football: Roster Football: News Men's Golf Men's Golf: Facebook Men's Golf: Twitter Men's Golf: Instagram Men's Golf: Tickets Men's Golf: Schedule Men's Golf: Roster Men's Golf: News Women's Golf Women's Golf: Facebook Women's Golf: Twitter Women's Golf: Instagram Women's Golf: Tickets Women's Golf: Schedule Women's Golf: Roster Women's Golf: News Gymnastics Gymnastics: Facebook Gymnastics: Twitter Gymnastics: Instagram Gymnastics: Tickets Gymnastics: Schedule Gymnastics: Roster Gymnastics: News Soccer Soccer: Facebook Soccer: Twitter Soccer: Instagram Soccer: Tickets Soccer: Schedule Soccer: Roster Soccer: News Softball Softball: Facebook Softball: Twitter Softball: Instagram Softball: Tickets Softball: Schedule Softball: Roster Softball: News Men's Swimming & Diving Men's Swimming & Diving: Facebook Men's Swimming & Diving: Twitter Men's Swimming & Diving: Instagram Men's Swimming & Diving: Tickets Men's Swimming & Diving: Schedule Men's Swimming & Diving: Roster Men's Swimming & Diving: News Women's Swimming & Diving Women's Swimming & Diving: Facebook Women's Swimming & Diving: Twitter Women's Swimming & Diving: Instagram Women's Swimming & Diving: Tickets Women's Swimming & Diving: Schedule Women's Swimming & Diving: Roster Women's Swimming & Diving: News Men's Tennis Men's Tennis: Facebook Men's Tennis: Twitter Men's Tennis: Instagram Men's Tennis: Tickets Men's Tennis: Schedule Men's Tennis: Roster Men's Tennis: News Women's Tennis Women's Tennis: Facebook Women's Tennis: Twitter Women's Tennis: Instagram Women's Tennis: Tickets Women's Tennis: Schedule Women's Tennis: Roster Women's Tennis: News Track & Field Track & Field: Facebook Track & Field: Twitter Track & Field: Instagram Track & Field: Tickets Track & Field: Schedule Track & Field: Roster Track & Field: News Triathlon Triathlon: Twitter Triathlon: Instagram Triathlon: Tickets Triathlon: Schedule Triathlon: Roster Triathlon: News Volleyball Volleyball: Facebook Volleyball: Twitter Volleyball: Instagram Volleyball: Tickets Volleyball: Schedule Volleyball: Roster Volleyball: News Heritage Sports Staff Directory Director of Athletics: Desireé Reed-Francois A-Club (Letterwinners) Arizona Edge: NIL for Wildcats Arizona Wildcats App Cheerleaders & Mascots Communication Services Community Outreach Compliance Employment Facilities Sponsorship Opportunities C.A.T.S. Student-Athlete Services C.A.T.S. Academics C.A.T.S. Student-Athlete Development C.A.T.S. Strength & Conditioning C.A.T.S. Medical Services C.A.T.S. Sports Psychology Marketing Sports Marketing Association Sportsmanship The Wildcat Way Trademarks & Licensing Wildcat Club Bear Down Story Championships & Awards Fight Song Jim Click Hall of Champions Notable Alumni Olympians Ring of Honor Sports Hall of Fame Territorial Cup Welcome Admissions Arizona Edge: NIL for Wildcats Athletics Facilities Athletics Traditions Bear Down Story Becoming a Wildcat C.A.T.S. Academic Center Financial Aid NCAA Notable Alumni Pac-12 Conference Student-Athlete Services Tucson & Southern Arizona University of Arizona Arizona Wildcats App BearDown Podcast A-Z Fan Guide Bear Down with Pride / Sportsmanship Clear Bag Policy Disability Access Information Football Gameday Information Live Audio Broadcasts Mobile Concession Orders - McKale Parking Information Photo Galleries Promotions Social Media Directory Stadium Videoboard Message and Fan Experiences Tailgating Territorial Cup Series Scoring Traditions & Heritage Visiting Tucson Wildcat Email Updates Baseball Baseball Baseball M Basketball M Basketball M Basketball W Basketball W Basketball W Basketball Football Football Football Gymnastics Gymnastics Gymnastics Soccer Soccer Soccer Softball Softball Softball Track & Field Track & Field Track & Field Volleyball Volleyball Volleyball Other Sports Ticket Office Information Buy Now CatBackers Renew Season Tickets Faculty/Staff Group Tickets Military & First Responder Single Game Offers Mobile Ticketing Policies Premium Seating Recent Grad SeatGeek: Buy or Sell Football Tickets ZonaZoo (UA Students) ZonaZoo (UA Students) ZonaZoo (UA Students) Request Ticket Information YouTube Channel Arizona Tennis Streaming Social Media Hub Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Online Store Men's Women's Kids T-Shirts Hats Sweatshirts Jerseys My Account My Account Sport Navigation Menu Football Schedule Roster Coaches and Staff Statistics Additional Links Marison Bilagody / Arizona Athletics Football 08/05/2024 Arizona Athletics Fifita, McMillan Named to Walter Camp Player of the Year Award Watch List Story Links Walter Camp Award Purchase Season Tickets 2024 Football Schedule Fifita's Bio McMillan's Bio TUCSON, Ariz. – Arizona quarterback Noah Fifita and wide receiver Tetairoa McMillan have been named to the 2024 Walter Camp Player of the Year Award Watch List, as announced today by the Walter Camp Football Foundation. Fifita and McMillan make their first appearance on the Walter Camp Player of the Year Watch List of their respective collegiate careers. The Walter Camp Player of the Year Award honors the best college football players in the nation. Fifita adds another preseason award after being named to the Walter Camp Player of the Year Watch List, the Allstate AFCA Good Works Team, Athlon Sports Preseason All-American, and Phil Steele Third-Team All-American. The redshirt sophomore quarterback from Huntington Beach, California posted a single-season program-best completion percentage (72.4%) in 2023. He threw for a single-game record 527 yards against Arizona State to cap the regular season and then led the Wildcats to their 7th win in a row with a victory over No. 12 Oklahoma in the Valero Alamo Bowl while passing for 354 yards marking the second-most in a bowl game in program history. McMillan earns another preseason honor adding the Walter Camp Player of the Year Watch List to a growing list of preseason accolades including All-Big 12 Team, First-Team All-American by Phil Steele, and Athlon Sports. It is the first Walter Camp preseason selection for the junior wide receiver. He recorded 1,402 receiving yards, marking the second most in a single season in program history. McMillan is the 8th player in program history to surpass 2,000 career receiving yards and his 10 touchdown grabs were the 6th most in a single season in the history of Arizona football. The 2024 watch list includes 41 offensive players (20 quarterbacks, 11 running backs, five receivers/tight ends and two offensive lineman) along with nine from the defensive side of the ball. Players from 39 different schools representing 10 conferences (including independents) are represented on the preseason watch list. Ohio State and Notre Dame each have three players on the watch list, while seven schools (Alabama, Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Michigan, Ole Miss and Penn State) each have two. "We are proud to continue the great work of Walter Camp and recognize the best college football players in the nation," Foundation president John Barbarotta said. "This watch list is a great start to what is shaping up to be another exciting year of college football." Earlier in the summer, the Foundation announced its 2024 preseason All-American teams. The Walter Camp is the nation's oldest and most prestigious All-America team. The 2024 Player of Year watch list will be narrowed to 10 semi-finalists in early November and three finalists will be announced on November 26. The 2024 Walter Camp Player of the Year recipient, which is voted on by the 133 NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision head coaches and sports information directors, will be announced on ESPN's College Football Awards Show on December 12. Please note: Appearing on the preseason Watch List is not a requirement for a player to win the Walter Camp award or be named to the All-America team. Walter Camp, "The Father of American football," first selected an All-America team in 1889. Camp – a former Yale University athlete and football coach – is also credited with developing play from scrimmage, set plays, the numerical assessment of goals and tries and the restriction of play to eleven men per side. The Walter Camp Football Foundation (www.waltercamp.org) – a New Haven-based all-volunteer group – was founded in 1967 to perpetuate the ideals of Camp and to continue the tradition of selecting annually an All-America team. The Walter Camp Foundation is a member of the National College Football Awards Association. Founded in 1997, the NCFAA includes college football's most prestigious awards and its 24 awards have honored more than 900 recipients dating back to 1935. For more information about the NCFAA and its award programs, visit the NCFAA.org or follow on X at @NCFAA. Print Friendly Version Players Mentioned #11 Noah Fifita QB 5' 10" Redshirt Sophomore #4 Tetairoa McMillan WR 6' 5" Junior Players Mentioned #11 Noah Fifita 5' 10" Redshirt Sophomore QB #4 Tetairoa McMillan 6' 5" Junior WR Related Stories and Videos Related Stories 04.28.25 Arizona Football has Four Players Selected in NFL Draft for First Time Since 2008 03.24.25 Register for the Brent Brennan Football Camps Today! 04.24.25 Tetairoa McMillan Selected 8th Overall by Carolina in 2025 NFL Draft 04.26.25 Croskey-Merritt Picked in 7th Round of NFL Draft by Commanders 03.31.25 Arizona Football Announces 2025 Home Game Themes Related Videos Now Playing: Play Video Partners Footer 2025 © University of Arizona  /  1 National Championship Drive  /  Tucson, AZ 85721-0096 The official website for Arizona Athletics at the University of Arizona in Tucson. 2025 © University of Arizona  /  Tucson, AZ 85721 The official website for Arizona Athletics at the University of Arizona in Tucson. / Buy Tickets / View Schedules / Archives Terms of Service , opens in new window Privacy Policy , opens in new window Accessibility Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sidearm Sports, opens a new window Ad Blocker Detected Thanks for visiting ! The use of software that blocks ads hinders our ability to serve you the content you came here to enjoy. We ask that you consider turning off your ad blocker so we can deliver you the best experience possible while you are here. Thank you for your support! Learn More About Ad Blockers Close