Who Will Win the U.S Open After Novak Djokovic's Shocking Disqualification? | Vogue Skip to main content Search Search Fashion Beauty Culture Living Weddings Runway Shopping Chevron Video Vogue Club PhotoVogue Met Gala Fashion Beauty Culture Living Weddings Runway More Chevron Open Navigation Menu Menu Sports Who Will Win the U.S Open After Novak Djokovic's Shocking Disqualification? By Stuart Emmrich September 6, 2020 Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save In a startling end to Novak Djokovic’s run at the 2020 US Open — but one that now opens the door for someone from the new generation of players to finally break through with a Grand Slam win —the world No. 1 was disqualified on Sunday for accidentally hitting a line judge in the throat with his tennis ball. The top seed and the heavy favorite to win this year's title in a field that was missing his chief rivals Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, Djokovic angrily swatted away a ball after losing a first-set service game to his round-of-16 opponent Pablo Carreño Busta, hitting a lineswoman in the throat and bringing her to the ground. Djokovic rushed over to apologize and comfort her. But by then, the damage was done. As the ESPN announcers explained, tennis rules make it clear that when a ball that is struck in anger, and then hits anyone else in the vicinity of the court, it was almost immediate cause for immediate disqualification, which the umpire and judges seemed to be explaining to Djokovic at great length at net, while Carreño Busta sat in his chair, a towel around his neck. Meanwhile, ESPN continue to replay the moment, and viewers could hear the woman's cry of pain and then what seemed to be her gasping for breath, as the ball made contact with her and she fell to the ground. The announcers, Darren Cahill and James Blake, along with studio hosts Rennae Stubbs and Brad Gilbert, all former players, predicted that Djokovic would be disqualified, citing the precedents set in the past, like John McEnroe being ousted from the Australian Open and Tim Henman from Wimbledon for similar incidents. Finally, after a delay of about 15 minutes, the verdict was delivered: Djokovic was out. The Serbian player, walked over to Carreño Busta, briefly shook his hand, and then grabbed his equipment bag and left the court. Minutes later, cameras showed him getting into his car in the US Open parking, and making his way home, skipping the mandatory press conference. In a statement issued afterward, the United States Tennis Association said: “In accordance with the Grand Slam rule book, following his actions of intentionally hitting a ball dangerously or recklessly within the court or hitting a ball with negligent disregard of the consequences, the U.S. Open tournament referee defaulted Novak Djokovic from the 2020 U.S. Open. Because he was defaulted, Djokovic will lose all ranking points earned at the U.S. Open and will be fined the prize money won at the tournament in addition to any or all fines levied with respect to the offending incident.” And on Twitter, the 12-time Grand Slam singles winner Billie Jean King, and the person for whom the U.S. Open playing ground is named, weighed in: X content This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. A few hours later, Djokovic posted an emotional apology, in both English and Serbian, on his Instagram account . “This whole situation has left me really sad and empty. I checked on the lines person and the tournament told me that thank God she is feeling ok. I‘m extremely sorry to have caused her such stress. So unintended. So wrong,” he wrote. “As for the disqualification, I need to go back within and work on my disappointment and turn this all into a lesson for my growth and evolution as a player and human being. I apologize to the @usopen tournament and everyone associated for my behavior. I’m very grateful to my team and family for being my rock support, and my fans for always being there with me. Thank you and I’m so sorry.” Djokovic's exit – the latest twist in this highly unusual tournament, the first major played during the pandemic – not only halted his progress toward a possible 18th Grand Slam title (which would have had him just two short of Federer's 20th), but also guaranteed that tennis will have a first-time Grand Slam champion at the end of next Sunday's final. As Brad Gilbert tweeted soon after the Djokovic ouster, “massive opportunity now for all.” For the past few years, the tennis world has waited for someone from the new generation of players — among the Dominic Thiem, 27, Alexander Zverev, 23, and Stefanos Tsitsipas, 22  — to break through and challenge the Big Three at the majors, but none has been able to do so. Thiem has come the closest, reaching the finals of the 2018 and 2019 French Open (losing to Nadal both times) and the 2020 Australian Open (losing to Djokovic). Seeded No. 2 at this year's Open, Thiem has already defeated one former U,S. Open champion, Marin Cilic , and looks in strong form. But he faces another talented member of this new generation, the 22-year-old Canadian Felix Auger-Aliassime, in his next match. Zvervev, the fifth seed, has also looked sharp so far – and easily dispatched the Spaniard Alejandro Davidovich Fokina on Sunday to set up a quarterfinal match with with the No. 27 seed Borna Coric, 23, (who dispatched Tsitsipas in a thrilling five-setter on Friday) – but has failed to live up to either his promise or his ranking at the Grand Slams the past couple of years. Will 2020 prove to be his breakthrough? Or will the second time be the charm for Daniil Medvedev? The 24-year-old Russian made an unexpected run to the 2019 final, pushing Nadal to five sets, and so far hasn't lost a set in this year's tournament . But in the next round he faces the talented young American Francis Tiafoe, 22 and increasingly seen as the future of U.S. tennis. As the controversial Nike ad proclaimed some years ago: “ New balls, please .” \ Topics US Open Tennis Sports Read More Beauty When To Eat Dried Fruits and Nuts to Maximize Health Benefits By Faye Remedios Nails Clean Girl Nails Are Trending: Here Are 13 Minimalist Manicures to Try Now By Hannah Coates Celebrity Style Gigi Hadid and Bradley Cooper Celebrate Her 30th Birthday in Coordinating Leathers By Anna Cafolla Weddings The Bride Wore a 13-Foot Floral Veil for Her All-Night Wedding at a Provence Chateau By Elise Taylor Magazine “You Make Clothes for Them? They Will Do Anything For You”: Tina Knowles Remembers Beyoncé and Solange’s Beloved Uncle Johnny By Tina Knowles Wellness Colon Cancer Is on the Rise: This Vitamin Deficiency May Be Why By Margaux Anbouba The latest fashion news, beauty coverage, celebrity style, fashion week updates, culture reviews, and videos on Vogue.com. Facebook X Pinterest Instagram Tiktok More from Vogue Newsletter Manage Account Verify Subscription Contact us About Vogue Careers Projects Vogue Archive Forces of Fashion Vogue College of Fashion See More Stories Fashion Beauty Culture Living Runway Shopping Magazine Gift Guides Best of Sale User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Accessibility Help Masthead Visual Stories © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty Select international site United States LargeChevron Adria Arabia Australia Brasil Britain China Czechoslovakia España France Germany Greece Hong Kong India Italia Japan Korea México Nederland Philippines Polska Portugal Scandinavia Singapore Taiwan Thailand Türkiye Ukraine