How Super Bowl At Allegiant Stadium Boosted What Happens In Las Vegas Subscribe To Newsletters Trump Tracker Billionaires Billionaires View All Billionaires World's Billionaires Forbes 400 America's Richest Self-Made Women China's Richest India's Richest Indonesia's Richest Korea's Richest Thailand's Richest Japan's Richest Australia's Richest Taiwan's Richest Singapore's Richest Philippines' Richest Hong Kong's Richest Malaysia's Richest Money & Politics 2024 Election Innovation Innovation View All Innovation AI Big Data Cloud Cloud 100 Consumer Tech Creator Economy Cybersecurity Digital Transformation Enterprise Commerce Enterprise Security and Protection Enterprise Tech Enterprise Growth Strategy Future Of Work Gaming Healthcare Innovation Rules Retail Industry SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Science Social Media Sustainability & Climate Transportation Venture Capital Technology VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program TikTok BrandVoice | Paid Program Leadership Leadership View All Leadership C-Suite CEO Network CFO Network CHRO Network CIO Network CMO Network Leadership Strategies Careers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Education Forbes EQ | Paid Program ForbesBLK ForbesWomen Under 30 Working Remote Over 50 Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Money Money View All Money Banking & Insurance ETFs & Mutual Funds Fintech Hedge Funds & Private Equity Investing Investor Hub Markets Personal Finance Retirement Taxes Top Advisor | SHOOK Wealth Management Forbes Digital Assets Forbes Digital Assets Home Web3 Community News Crypto Prices NFT Prices Research Learn Crypto Basics BTC DeFi Web3 Education NFTs Crypto Investments Events Crypto Portfolios Business Business View All Business Aerospace & Defense Energy Food & Drink Hollywood & Entertainment Law Manufacturing Media Policy Retail SportsMoney Entertainment Digest Small Business Small Business View All Small Business Entrepreneurs Franchises Small Business Strategy Lifestyle Lifestyle View All Lifestyle Arts Boats & Planes Cars & Bikes Dining ForbesLife Forbes Travel Guide Spirits Style & Beauty Travel Vices Watches Real Estate Real Estate View All Real Estate Commercial Real Estate Forbes Global Properties Residential Real Estate Forbes Vetted Forbes Vetted View All Forbes Vetted Mattress & Sleep Bed Frames Mattresses Mattress Toppers Pillows Sheets & Bedding Sleep Products Home Bathroom Cleaning & Laundry Decor Furniture Heating & Cooling Hobbies Home Office Kitchen & Dining Outdoor Pets Storage & Organization Tools Wine & Bar Fashion Accessories Clothing Eyewear Footwear Jewelry Handbags & Purses Lingerie & Sleepwear Outdoor & Fitness Apparel Outerwear Watches Kids & Baby Gear Baby Gear Kids Clothes & Accessories Nursery Pregnancy & Postpartum Toys & Books Gear Apparel & Accessories Bikes Camping & Hiking Climbing Fishing & Hunting Fitness Golf Running Tennis & Racket Sports Tools & Tech Training & Recovery Water Sports Wellness Winter Sports Beauty & Grooming Haircare Makeup Nailcare Shaving Skincare Personal Products Wellness & Self Care Tech & Electronics Audio Cameras Computers, Tablets & Accessories Gaming Home Office Online Tools Smart Home Devices Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories Streaming TVs Travel Cruises Hotels & Lodging Luggage Travel Products Gifts Father's Day Holiday Mother's Day Valentine's Day Wedding Deals Black Friday Cyber Monday Amazon Prime Day Beauty & Grooming Big Sales Fashion Gear Home Tech & Electronics Travel Deals Mattress & Sleep Forbes 101 Advisor Advisor Best Credit Cards Of 2025 Compare Credit Cards Balance Transfer Credit Cards Cash Back Credit Cards Travel Credit Cards Business Credit Cards Mortgages & Loans Best Mortgage Lenders Today's Mortgage Rates Today's Refinance Rates Best Personal Loans Loans For Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Student Loan Lenders Best Student Loan Refinance Lenders Business Loans Banking Best Online Banks CD Rates High-Yield Savings Accounts Money Market Account Life Insurance Cheap Life Insurance No Exam Life Insurance Travel Insurance Covid-19 Travel Insurance Cheap Travel Insurance Companies Best Car Insurance Compare Car Insurance Quotes Cost Of Car Insurance Cheap Car Insurance Pet Insurance How Much Is Pet Insurance? Cheap Pet Insurance Business Services Best LLC Services Best Registered Agent Services How To Set Up An LLC How To Start A Business Cost To Start An LLC Best Payroll Services Best HR Software Best HRIS Systems Best PEO Services Best Applicant Tracking Systems Best Website Builders Best Web Hosting Services Best Domain Registrar Best Ecommerce Platform Best Landing Page Builder Best VoIP Service What Is VoIP? Best Answering Services Best Call Center Software Best Cloud Phone System Best Project Management Software Free Project Management Software Best Task Management Software Free Task Management Software Best Gantt Chart Software Best VPN Best Free VPN Best Cheap VPN Best Antivirus Software Best Password Managers Home Services Best Moving Companies Best Long Distance Moving Companies Best Car Shipping Companies Best Interstate Moving Companies How Much Do Movers Cost? Best Home Warranty Companies Cheapest Home Warranty Companies Are Home Warranties Worth It? Home Warranty Cost Best Home Appliance Insurance Best Solar Companies Best Solar Panels Cost Of Solar Panels Solar Tax Credit By State Are Solar Panels Worth It? Best Pest Control Companies Best Termite Control Companies Best Mosquito Control Companies Pest Control Cost How Much Do Exterminators Cost? Best Home Security Companies Best Home Security Systems Home Security System Cost Cheapest Home Security Systems Best Wireless Home Security Systems Best Internet Providers Cheapest Internet Plans Fastest High Speed Internet Providers Best Internet Only Plans Best Fiber Internet Providers Forbes Advisor UK Health Health Healthy Aging Best Medical Alert Systems Medicare Medicare Advantage Plans Medicare Supplement Plans Medicare Advantage By State Health Insurance Hearing Aids Best Hearing Aids Senior Living Mind Best Online Therapy Best CBD Gummies Best CBD Oil Best Protein Powders Lists Video Newsletters Newsletters Crypto Confidential Editorial Newsletters Forbes Games Forbes Games View All Forbes Games Frase by Forbes Pinpoint by LinkedIn Queens by LinkedIn Crossclimb by LinkedIn Forbes Magazine Forbes Magazine Forbes Asia Free Issue of Forbes Latest Latest Coronavirus Coverage Daily Cover Stories Dark Capital Editors' Picks Breaking News Featured Featured 2025 Best-In-State Wealth Advisors List 2025 America's Top Women Wealth Advisors AI’s Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It DNA of Success Embracing And Bracing For AI Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program Your Four-Part Blueprint To Unlock AI Value In 2025 | Paid Program Diners Club International Celebrates 75 Years | Paid Program Leadership Lessons: Small Business Playbook Potential Has No Age Summit | Paid Program Celebrating The Power Of Partnership: Why Teamwork Is Key In the Fight Against Cancer | Paid Program Protecting What Matters Most: How Gerber Life Insurance Offers Affordable Coverage For Your Whole Family | Paid Program Presented by EY - Beyond The Blueprint: How These Four CEOs Built Billion-Dollar Businesses | Paid Program 2/3 By 2030: Philip Morris International Marks A Milestone  And Aims For A Smoke-Free Future | Paid Program 2025 America's Top Wealth Advisors Forbes Insights: Your Guide To Marketing In The Era Of AI | Paid Program The Undergrad's New Journey To Real-World Ready | Paid Program Forbes Insights: Your Five-Step Strategy To Unleash AI’s Value In Marketing | Paid Program Forbes Video Series: AI 50 AI 50 List By The Numbers: Meet The Forbes 30 Under 30 Europe Class Of 2025 United To End Blood Cancer: Meet The Leaders Turning Passion Into Progress | Paid Program Advertise with Forbes Report a Security Issue Editorial Values and Standards Site Feedback Contact Us Careers at Forbes Tips Corrections Privacy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms AdChoices Reprints & Permissions © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. Subscribe To Newsletters How Super Bowl At Allegiant Stadium Boosted What Happens In Las Vegas By Lee Igel Follow Author Share Save Comment Business SportsMoney How Super Bowl At Allegiant Stadium Boosted What Happens In Las Vegas By Lee Igel , Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Writing about the innovations and impacts of sports in cities. Follow Author Aug 19, 2024, 10:05am EDT Share Save Comment Allegiant Stadium, site of Super Bowl LVIII, is seen with the skyline of Las Vegas, Nevada, ... More including hotels and casinos on Las Vegas Boulevard, known as the Las Vegas Strip, on February 5, 2024. (Photo by SAUL LOEB / AFP) (Photo by SAUL LOEB/AFP via Getty Images) AFP via Getty Images Over the past quarter century, Las Vegas has evolved from a gambling outpost to a party capital to a family-friendly destination, and, now, to a sports and entertainment hub. Allegiant Stadium stands as a key part of the evolution, drawing global attention as the host of Super Bowl LVIII and anchor for the city’s identity as a premier place for major events. At an NFL annual meeting several weeks prior to the Super Bowl, Commissioner Roger Goodell remarked , “I have tremendous admiration for Las Vegas and the way that city has changed. It is such an entertainment town, an entertainment city. It is a different city than it was 10, 15, 20 years ago, and I think the number of families that go there, the number of young kids that are going there to enjoy so many other aspects of Las Vegas, it's become a multi-dimensional city and certainly a sports town.” Allegiant Stadium, which is home of the NFL's Las Vegas Raiders and the University of Nevada Las Vegas football team, is playing a key role in that transformation. The domed multi-purpose venue, which opened four years ago, cost $1.9 billion to build. In 2016, the Nevada Legislature approved for $750 million of that amount to come from public money via a hotel tax hike, paying for bonds secured through Clark County. Hotel stays from hosting the Super Bowl and other sports and entertainment events has the Las Vegas Stadium Authority, which is responsible for paying off the bonds, reportedly on track to do so ahead of schedule. Las Vegas has been attracting visitors and their spending dollars since being established as a railroad town in 1905. Today, with 150,000 hotel rooms and more than 250,000 hospitality and leisure workers, an event like the Super Bowl drives value to people and businesses in and beyond the city. Hosting these events has created significant social impacts and spurred economic development for Las Vegas and throughout greater Clark County. Yet, while the upsides of hosting major events are evident, the economics of major sports venues remains the subject of intense debate. According to a recent AP article , “economists long ago concluded subsidizing pro sports isn’t worth the cost. … Decades of research have concluded a pro sports franchise doesn’t boost a local economy much, if any, because it mostly captures existing spending from other places in the same community.” Economics professor J.C. Bradbury, a prominent critic of public financing for sports venues, is quoted in the article, stating there is “a near unanimous consensus” that these subsidies fail to deliver good returns on investment and are “a terrible channel for economic growth.” MORE FROM FORBES ADVISOR Best High-Yield Savings Accounts Of 2024 By Kevin Payne , Contributor Best 5% Interest Savings Accounts of 2024 By Cassidy Horton , Contributor This perspective reflects public frustration over allocating public resources to enrich wealthy individuals and private organizations without substantial economic return on investment to the community. But the viewpoint relies on classical economic theories and macroeconomic models that discount realities about stadiums, including: Stadium development is a macroeconomic event, but stadium usage is a microeconomic phenomenon. Stadiums and their surrounding districts are now designed to include small businesses and entrepreneurial activities that spur community economic growth. Attention to social impacts and community benefits—often treated as "intangibles" and outside the scope of meaningful measurement—is as crucial as attention to economic impacts. A series of studies conducted by Las Vegas-based Applied Analysis for the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority conclude that the economic impact of Super Bowl LVIII totaled $1 billion. From an economics perspective, the studies covered the direct impacts of the event, focusing on spending by the league, teams, partners, and visitors connected to the event in the market. They also gave meaningful weight to the secondary impacts generated by local businesses supporting and benefiting from the event, as well as induced impacts from employment generated by direct and secondary impacts. The studies also considered displacement impacts associated with Super Bowl activities, such as residents diverting from regular retail or restaurant locations and visitors choosing not to travel to the city. From a fiscal perspective, when Allegiant Stadium was being developed, local officials projected revenue of about $35 million from retail, lodging, entertainment, and gaming taxes. Six years later, the studies show the reality was greater: nearly $78 million in tax revenue attributed to the stadium’s impact. Those revenues have continued increasing, even without factoring-in the Super Bowl boost of more than $34 million for state and local government coffers. From a social perspective, the studies include examples such as the Super Bowl LVIII Business Connect program, a partnership between the NFL and the Las Vegas Super Bowl Host Committee. The program engaged more than 200 local small businesses to supply event-related products and services , with a requirement that participating enterprises be minority-owned, woman-owned, disabled-owned, LGBTQ+-owned, or veteran-owned. The program’s legacy includes creating lasting relationships within the community and a database of people and organizations who can be called upon for planning and delivering future events. But it's not just about the week leading up to the Super Bowl or the game day itself. The aura of the Super Bowl generates social and economic activity in and around the city well before and after the event. And the stadium serves as the anchor for all of the activity. This reality reflects the broader transformation taking place in Las Vegas and the pivotal role Allegiant Stadium is playing in it. The capacity crowd of 61,629 fans at Allegiant Stadium, along with more than 6,000 credentialed media members from around the world, exemplified the event's draw. Additionally, over 260,000 visitors traveled to Southern Nevada to be part of the Super Bowl atmosphere, even if they didn’t attend the game. The greater Las Vegas area hosted numerous events, receptions, and gatherings organized by the NFL, its partners, sponsors, and other promoters, which further embedded the social and economic impacts. On the Monday before Super Bowl Sunday, the NFL kicked off festivities at Allegiant Stadium with nearly 30,000 fans, players, and media in attendance. Among the Super Bowl-themed activities, the interactive Super Bowl Experience drew more than 200,000 fans to the Mandalay Bay Convention Center over four days. The Monday after the game, security at Harry Reid International Airport screened a single-day record of 104,000 passengers. Altogether, as the Applied Analysis studies reveal, the social, economic, and fiscal impacts create a positive “ripple effect” that Las Vegas is experiencing from hosting the Super Bowl. But hosting major events like the Super Bowl isn’t the only time local businesses benefit from what happens inside the stadium. The average seating capacity of an NFL stadium is about 65,000 on regular game days, often increasing for other sports and entertainment events, including headliner music concerts. These influxes of fans support local businesses and services by creating a churn of money that circulates within the community. Las Vegas’s evolution is also evident in its becoming home to the NHL Golden Knights and WNBA Aces, and in its growing recognition as a potential future site for major sports franchises and events. The ability to use major sport events to encourage social and economic growth highlights the broader benefits of well-conceived, well-developed, and well-managed sports venues like Allegiant Stadium. A rising demand for hosting sports and special events led to a recent proposal to Clark County commissioners for the creation of a new department dedicated to managing these processes and operations. Economists can argue the extents to which hosting Super Bowl LVIII and other events at Allegiant Stadium provide economic benefits. Residents, visitors, and city leaders can meanwhile go on with the knowledge that these events create social impacts, reinforcing Las Vegas’s status as a sports and entertainment hub and enhancing the area’s quality of life. Follow me on LinkedIn . Editorial Standards Forbes Accolades LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Digital Terms of Sale Terms of Service Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Reprints & Permissions Forbes Press Room Advertise