Ceremony recognises first Ellie Maxwell Award winners | The University of Edinburgh Skip to main content Schools & departments MyEd Submit search Student news Subsite menu Home Latest news Archive Suggest a story Subsite mobile menu Home Latest news Archive Suggest a story Breadcrumb Home The University of Edinburgh News Student news 2019 student news archive Ceremony recognises first Ellie Maxwell Award winners Ceremony recognises first Ellie Maxwell Award winners Pauline Libsovar and Maisie Palmer were announced as winners of the award which recognises students who manage charities. The students were presented with their award at a ceremony held in Old College on 17 September. The award will provide Pauline and Maisie with £500 of funding for their respective charities. Pauline represents Colours Edinburgh, a platform that educates people on the challenges facing refugees across Scotland. Maisie founded Mxogyny, a platform helping individuals who face hardship due to their gendered, non-gendered identity or sexuality. Support for students who manage charities The Ellie Maxwell award aims to encourage and support students who are developing innovative ideas and projects that will promote social change through a charitable project. The award was launched in March at charity Firefly International’s 20 th anniversary celebrations to continue the legacy of the Scottish Charity’s founder, Ellie Maxwell. Ellie, who died from cancer ten years ago, launched the charity in 1999 while she was studying at the University of Edinburgh. Related links Ellie Maxwell Award Firefly International Contact us The University of Edinburgh Terms & conditions Privacy & cookies Complaints procedure Modern slavery Website accessibility Freedom of information publication scheme Data protection / Records Management MyEd login The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336, VAT Registration Number GB 592 9507 00, and is acknowledged by the UK authorities as a “ Recognised body ” which has been granted degree awarding powers. Unless explicitly stated otherwise, all material is copyright © The University of Edinburgh 2025. User account menu CMS login