Splatoon 2 Update History | Nintendo Support Your browser either does not have JavaScript enabled or does not appear to support enough features of JavaScript to be used well on this site. Support Customer Support Search Search Search My Support Dashboard Error Code Notifications Check Repair Status Nintendo eShop Purchase History Nintendo Switch Family Using & Troubleshooting Games & Apps Parental Controls Internet Connection Nintendo Switch Online Other Systems Nintendo Sound Clock: Alarmo Game & Watch Classic Edition Series Wii & Wii mini Wii U Nintendo 3DS Family Nintendo DSi Family Nintendo DS Family Accounts & My Nintendo Nintendo Account & NNID My Nintendo Network Status Digital Purchases Nintendo eShop Check Nintendo Online Store Order Network Status Repair Start Troubleshooting Find Your Repair Check Warranty Status Repair FAQ Top articles How to Transfer Digital Games / Nintendo Accounts Between Nintendo Switch Consoles Friend List on Nintendo Systems and Apps How to Redownload Nintendo Switch eShop Content How to Manage Auto-Renewal Settings for Pokémon HOME Premium Plan Subscription How to Redeem a DLC Download Code (Pokémon Sword Expansion Pass or Pokémon Shield Expansion Pass) Not Receiving V-Bucks After Renewing Crew Subscription (Fortnite) Top articles How to Transfer Digital Games / Nintendo Accounts Between Nintendo Switch Consoles Friend List on Nintendo Systems and Apps How to Redownload Nintendo Switch eShop Content How to Manage Auto-Renewal Settings for Pokémon HOME Premium Plan Subscription How to Redeem a DLC Download Code (Pokémon Sword Expansion Pass or Pokémon Shield Expansion Pass) Not Receiving V-Bucks After Renewing Crew Subscription (Fortnite) Nintendo Switch Family Games & Apps Splatoon 2 Update History Applies to: Nintendo Switch Family, Nintendo Switch, Nintendo Switch Lite, Nintendo Switch - OLED Model Update history 2019 Ver. 4.8.0 (Released May 28, 2019) Ver. 4.7.0 (Released April 23, 2019) Ver. 4.6.1 (Released April 11, 2019) Ver. 4.6.0 (Released April 2, 2019) Ver. 4.5.1 (Released March 14, 2019) Ver. 4.5.0 (Released March 10, 2019) Ver. 4.4.0 (Released January 29, 2019) 2018 Ver. 4.3.1 (Released December 18, 2018) Ver. 4.3.0 (Released December 4, 2018) Ver. 4.2.0 (Released November 6, 2018) Ver. 4.1.0 (Released October 2, 2018) Ver. 4.0.0 (Released September 13, 2018) Ver. 3.2.2 (Released August 8, 2018) Ver. 3.2.1 (Released July 27, 2018) Ver. 3.2.0 (Released July 13, 2018) Ver. 3.1.0 (Released June 13, 2018) Ver. 3.0.1 (Released May 8, 2018) Ver. 3.0.0 (Released April 23, 2018) Ver. 2.3.3 (Released March 25, 2018) Ver. 2.3.2 (Released March 13, 2018) Ver. 2.3.1 (Released March 1, 2018) Ver. 2.3.0 (Released February 27, 2018) Ver. 2.2.2 (Released February 7, 2018) Ver. 2.2.1 (Released January 19, 2018) Ver. 2.2.0 (Released January 16, 2018) 2017 Ver. 2.1.1 (Released December 26, 2017) Ver. 2.1.0 (Released December 12, 2017) Ver. 2.0.1 (Released November 30, 2017) Ver. 2.0.0 (Released November 23, 2017) Ver. 1.4.2 (Released October 31, 2017) Ver. 1.4.1 (Released October 17, 2017) Ver. 1.4.0 (Released October 10, 2017) Ver. 1.3.0 (Released September 7, 2017) Ver. 1.2.0 (Released August 23, 2017) Ver. 1.1.2 (Released July 26, 2017) Ver. 4.8.0 (Released May 28, 2019) Changes to Multiplayer Specifications for some of the main weapons have been changed. Weapon Change Jet Squelcher Custom Jet Squelcher Increased inking radius of shots when they land by roughly 10%. Carbon Roller Carbon Roller Deco Decreased ink consumption of horizontal and vertical swings by roughly 12%. Splat Roller Krak-On Splat Roller Kensa Splat Roller Hero Roller Replica Extended forward inking range of vertical swing. Dapple Dualies Dapple Dualies Nouveau Clear Dapple Dualies Decreased ink consumption when firing a shot by roughly 7%. Splat Dualies Enperry Splat Dualies Kensa Splat Dualies Hero Dualie Replicas Decreased ink consumption when firing a shot by roughly 5%. Mini Splatling Zink Mini Splatling Kensa Mini Splatling Increased ink consumption by roughly 15%. Heavy Splatling Heavy Splatling Deco Heavy Splatling Remix Hero Splatling Replica Decreased damage from 32.0 to 30.0. Ballpoint Splatling Ballpoint Splatling Nouveau Decreased inking radius of long range shots when they land by roughly 8%. Tenta Brella Tenta Sorella Brella Tenta Camo Brella Decreased damage of a single spread shot from 17.5 to 17.0. Specifications for the following sub weapon have changed. Sub Weapon Change Splash Wall Decreased time after placing the Splash Wall until it goes into effect by roughly 5/60 of a second. Specifications for the following special weapons have been changed. Special Weapon Change Inkjet Increased damage dealt to the umbrella portion of the following Brellas by roughly 25%. Splat Brella Sorella Brella Hero Brella Replica Undercover Brella Undercover Sorella Brella Kensa Undercover Brella Increased damage dealt to the umbrella portion of the following Brellas by roughly 75%. Tenta Brella Tenta Sorella Brella Tenta Camo Brella Booyah Bomb Decreased durability of armor surrounding the player using the Booyah Bomb by roughly 6%. Points required for using specials have been changed for certain main weapons. Weapon Before After Splattershot Hero Shot Replica 190 180 Blaster Hero Blaster Replica 190 180 Fresh Squiffer 190 180 Splat Charger Hero Charger Replica 210 220 Splatterscope 210 220 Tenta Brella5 190 200 Tenta Camo Brella 190 200 Kensa Undercover Brella 190 200 Fixed an issue causing the aiming reticle to indicate shots fired at an opponent’s Splash Wall before it had fully deployed were being blocked, even though they actually weren’t. Fixed an issue occurring while charging a Splatling weapon with almost no ink remaining, causing the Low ink! warning to not display briefly, and for the weapon to charge at normal speeds. Fixed an issue occurring even with low amounts of network latency, where the shot firing animation near the muzzle of certain brellas would occur after the shot had been fired, or indicate the shot being fired in a mistaken direction. Fixed an issue occurring when placing a Splash Wall on an uneven or pitted surface, causing the wall to additionally ink turf in a different direction than the one it had been placed. Fixed an issue in Clam Blitz mode, where tossing a Sprinkler at the basket at just the right timing would cause it to stick to the barrier. Fixed an issue occurring during Rainmaker matches in Gobi Arena, where moving the crates near the center of the stage just slightly would allow two players to collide with one another in mid air, sending one of them into the turf around the enemy Spawn Point. Changes to Multiplayer Fixed an issue occurring on Ruins of Ark Polaris allowing Steel Eel enemies to descend from heights they should not be able to. Other Changes Fixed an issue occurring when rolling into the targets on the test firing range with a Baller, where the target failed to react when hit, despite taking damage. Ver. 4.7.0 (Released April 23, 2019) Changes to Multiplayer Specifications for some of the main weapons have been changed. Weapon Change Splattershot Tentatek Splattershot Kensa Splattershot Hero Shot Replica Octo Shot Replica When equipped, the Main Power Up gear ability will now also lessen shot spread variance when firing while on the ground, in addition to the benefits it previously provided. .52 Gal .52 Gal Deco Kensa .52 Gal When equipped, the Main Power Up gear ability will now also lessen shot spread variance when firing while on the ground, in addition to the benefits it previously provided. N-ZAP ‘85 N-ZAP ‘89 N-ZAP ‘83 When equipped, the Main Power Up gear ability will now also lessen shot spread variance when firing while on the ground, in addition to the benefits it previously provided. Luna Blaster Luna Blaster Neo Kensa Luna Blaster When equipped, the Main Power Up gear ability will now also cause shots that burst in midair to cover a larger area on the ground, in addition to the benefits it previously provided. Squeezer Foil Squeezer Decreased ink consumption of the first shot after pressing ZR by roughly 4%. Splat Brella Sorella Brella Hero Brella Replica Increased ink consumption for each spread shot fired by roughly 15%. Specifications for some of the sub weapons have been changed. Sub Weapon Change Suction Bomb Increased maximum explosion damage from 180.0 to 220.0. However, damage dealt to Bubble Blower bubbles remains unchanged. Squid Beakon The benefits of the Sub Power Up gear ability are now more likely to occur, even with fewer instances of the gear ability equipped. Specifications for the following special weapon have been changed. Special Weapon Change Splashdown Increased damage dealt to opponent Ballers by roughly 2.4 times. Increased damage dealt to armor surrounding an opponent charging a Booyah Bomb by roughly 7.5 times. Specifications for certain gear abilities have been changed. Gear Ability Change Object Shredder Increased damage dealt to armor surrounding an opponent charging a Booyah Bomb by roughly 5%. Last-Ditch Effort When playing a Ranked Battle match, in addition to the benefits it previously provided, Last-Ditch Effort’s benefits will improve when the opposing team’s counter is 50 or below, and continue to improve gradually as the counter continues to decrease. This benefit will max out once the counter has reached 30. There are no changes to the benefits this gear ability provides in Turf War matches. Points required for using specials have been changed for certain main weapons. Weapon Before After N-ZAP ‘85 210 200 N-ZAP ‘89 190 180 Enperry Splat Dualies 220 210 Aerospray RG 170 180 Aerospray PG 180 190 Mini Splatling 190 210 Heavy Splatling Remix 180 190 Kensa Undercover Brella 180 190 Fixed an issue causing unintended locations to be inked if a Quick Bomb’s explosion struck the boundary between two pieces of terrain directly. Fixed an issue on Inkblot Art Academy causing players super jumping to a location near the narrow pathway to the left of the spawn point to mistakenly clip into the stage terrain. Fixed an issue on Kelp Dome in Tower Control or Clam Blitz matches, where dodge rolling in a specific location would cause the player to appear to fall out of bounds and then be splatted. Fixed an issue on Goby Arena causing Squid Beakons placed next to a specific sponge in the stage not to be destroyed when the sponge expanded over them. Fixed an issue related to the Object Shredder gear ability, mistakenly causing its effects to be applied when taking damage from the Rainmaker barrier, or from the Rainmaker’s explosion when its timer runs out. Fixed an issue causing the Thermal Ink gear ability’s effect to activate after destroying an opponent’s Ink Armor with a main weapon, even if that player had taken no damage. Fixed an issue occurring with the Slosher, Slosher Deco, or Hero Slosher Replica equipped, where pressing ZL before the shot is fired after pressing ZR would mistakenly cause the player to immediately change forms. Fixed an issue occurring while using the Bubble Blower special weapon, where pressing ZL before a bubble is fired after pressing ZR would mistakenly cause the player to immediately change forms. When using the Ink Storm, Ultra Stamp, or any of the Bomb Launcher special weapons, pressing ZL before completely entering the ready to throw pose after pressing and holding R will now allow players to immediately change forms. Ver. 4.6.1 (Released April 11, 2019) Made fixes to the data scheduled for an upcoming release. Ver. 4.6.0 (Released April 2, 2019) Changes to Multiplayer Specifications for some of the main weapons have been changed. Weapon Change Sploosh-o-matic Neo Sploosh-o-matic Boosted the increase to movement speed while swimming, and decreased time required to reach maximum swim speed. Splattershot Jr. Custom Splattershot Jr. Kensa Splattershot Jr. Decreased ink consumption by roughly 14%. Aerospray MG Aerospray RG Shots now ink a larger area when they land. .52 Gal .52 Gal Deco Kensa .52 Gal Increased minimum damage from 26.0 to 30.0. N-ZAP ‘85 N-ZAP89 Increased radius of ink coverage around your feet while firing by roughly 6%. The Main Power Up gear ability will now be more likely to provide its benefit even with fewer instances of the ability equipped. .96 Gal .96 Gal Deco Increased minimum damage from 31.0 to 35.0. Luna Blaster Luna Blaster Neo Kensa Luna Blaster Decreased time before ink recovery starts after pressing ZR to shoot by roughly 5/60 of a second. Inkbrush Inkbrush Nouveau Adjusted the rate of damage drop-off over distance to be less severe than it was previously. In addition to its other benefits, equipping the gear ability Main Power Up will now also improve inking ability while holding down ZR to ink continuously while moving. Octobrush Octobrush Nouveau Kensa Octobrush Herobrush Replica In addition to its other benefits, equipping the gear ability Main Power Up will now also improve inking ability while holding down ZR to ink continuously while moving. E-liter 4K Custom E-liter 4K Increased damage dealt to the umbrella portion of opponent Splat Brellas, Sorella Brellas, and Hero Brella Replicas by roughly 17%. Increased damage dealt to the umbrella portion of opponent Tenta Brellas, Tenta Sorella Brellas, Undercover Brellas, Undercover Sorella Brellas, and Kensa Undercover Brellas by roughly 20%. Increased damage dealt to Bubble Blower bubbles by roughly 23%. Increased damage dealt to the armor surrounding an opponent using a Booyah Bomb by roughly 4%. Increased damage dealt to opponent Splash Walls by roughly 10%. E-liter 4K Scope Custom E-liter 4K Scope Increased damage dealt to the umbrella portion of opponent Splat Brellas, Sorella Brellas, and Hero Brella Replicas by roughly 17%. Increased damage dealt to the umbrella portion of opponent Tenta Brellas, Tenta Sorella Brellas, Undercover Brellas, Undercover Sorella Brellas, and Kensa Undercover Brellas by roughly 20%. Increased damage dealt to Bubble Blower bubbles by roughly 23%. Increased damage dealt to the armor surrounding an opponent using a Booyah Bomb by roughly 4%. Increased damage dealt to opponent Splash Walls by roughly 10%. Heavy Splatling Heavy Splatling Deco Hero Splatling Replica Increased movement speed while charging by roughly 3%. Increased movement speed while firing by roughly 6%. Increased radius of ink coverage around your feet while firing by roughly 7%. Splattershot Pro Forge Splattershot Pro Kensa Splattershot Pro Decreased the benefits of the Main Power Up gear ability. Changed the amount of gear ability required to reach 49.9 damage from 3.1 to 3.9 times the base gear ability. Each additional gear ability is worth 0.3 the amount of the base gear ability. Specifications for some of the sub weapons have been changed. Sub Weapon Change Curling Bomb Decreased time before ink recovery starts after ink is used by between roughly 5/60 to 15/60 of a second, depending on how long the R button is held down. Decreased time before ink recovery when R is pressed and released immediately by roughly 5/60 of a second. Decreased time before ink recovery when R is held down continuously by roughly 15/60 of a second. Specifications for some of the special weapons have been changed. Special Weapon Change Curling-Bomb Launcher Increased initial speed of bombs by roughly 18% and also increased the distance they travel when R is pressed and released immediately. There is no change to the distance the bombs travel when R is held down continuously. Bubble Blower Increased radius of ink coverage when Bubble Blower bubbles hit the ground by roughly 8%. Decreased the interval between bubble shots when in kid form by roughly 5/60 of a second. The Special Power Up gear ability will now be more likely to provide its benefit even with fewer instances of the ability equipped. Sting Ray Silhouettes of players highlighted by effects such as Thermal Ink will now disappear once targeted by the Sting Ray when firing. Specifications for certain gear abilities have been changed. Gear Ability Change Ink Resistance Up Improved the gear ability’s benefit of maintaining your ability to jump while stepping in enemy ink. Improved the gear ability’s benefit of maintaining movement speed while walking through enemy ink. Haunt Increased duration of Haunt when its requirements are met to last until the end of the match (it previously lasted for 30 seconds). The effects of Haunt on a player targeted by it will still end if that player is splatted. Changed the number of players that can be targeted by Haunt to four. Due to the above changes, the effects of Haunt on a targeted player will continue even after the player that targeted them with the ability is splatted by an opponent. Points required for using specials have been changed for certain main weapons. Weapon Before After Scattershot Hero Shot Replica 200 190 Classic Squiffer 180 170 Tri-Slosher Nouveau 180 170 Ballpoint Splatling Nouveau 230 220 Dapple Dualies 180 170 Dapple Dualies Nouveau 180 170 Fixed an issue on Ancho-V Games causing players who switched back and forth between forms near the sponge in front of the Spawn Point to occasionally clip inside the stage terrain. Fixed an issue in certain modes on Goby Arena allowing players to gain access to the raised platform in the opposing base via the grating in front of the opposing Spawn Point. Fixed an issue while using the Goo Tuber or Custom Goo Tuber, in which the white area in the player’s ink tank indicating ink consumption would decrease gradually as the player switched back and forth between forms while storing a charged shot. Fixed an issue making a Torpedo seem to disappear when viewed by the player who launched it if the Torpedo was destroyed just prior to hitting an opponent it was targeting. Fixed an issue causing a Booyah Bomb lost by being thrown into the water or out of bounds not to count toward the number of times a player used their special weapon during a match. Fixed an issue causing the Ultra Stamp to pass through certain objects such as the umbrella portion of a Splat Brella or a Splash Wall when thrown, despite the targeting guide indicating that the object would be hit while aiming. Fixed an issue causing players to jump higher than intended when jumping off a sponge at the instant it expanded in size. Other Changes Added “Weapon Badges” to the Equip screen and player profiles that will appear for each weapon, to indicate reaching certain turf inked benchmarks. Ver. 4.5.1 (Released March 14, 2019) Changes to Multiplayer Fixed an issue occurring during Clam Blitz matches in Piranha Pit, where clams on the ground that touched a specific piece of stage terrain were causing the game to crash. Ver. 4.5.0 (Released March 10, 2019) Changes to Multiplayer Specifications for some of the main weapons have been changed. Weapon Change Sploosh-o-matic Neo Sploosh-o-matic Decreased time after pressing ZR to fire before ink recovery begins by roughly 5/60 of a second. Splattershot Jr. Custom Splattershot Jr. Kensa Splattershot Jr. Decreased time after pressing ZR to fire before ink recovery begins by roughly 5/60 of a second. Aerospray MG Aerospray RG Decreased time after pressing ZR to fire before ink recovery begins by roughly 5/60 of a second. Now more likely to ink the turf around your feet when firing. .52 Gal .52 Gal Deco Kensa .52 Gal Increased damage dealt to opponent Splat Brellas, Sorella Brellas, and Hero Brella Replicas by roughly 21%. Increased damage dealt to opponent Splash Walls by roughly 10%. .96 Gal .96 Gal Deco Increased damage dealt to opponent Splat Brellas, Sorella Brellas, and Hero Brella Replicas by roughly 57%. Increased damage dealt to opponent Splash Walls by roughly 10%. Luna Blaster Luna Blaster Neo Kensa Luna Blaster Increased damage dealt to opponent Splat Brellas, Sorella Brellas, and Hero Brella Replicas by roughly 64%. Rapid Blaster Rapid Blaster Deco Kensa Rapid Blaster The Main Power Up gear ability will now also increase the radius of explosions while equipped when using these main weapons. The above effect will be maxed out when 2.9 times the normal amount of gear ability is equipped Each additional gear ability is worth .3 of the effect of the base gear ability. Rapid Blaster Pro Rapid Blaster Pro Deco The Main Power Up gear ability will now also increase the radius of explosions while equipped when using these main weapons. The above effect will be maxed out when 2.9 times the normal amount of gear ability is equipped. Each additional gear ability is worth .3 of the effect of the base gear ability. Squeezer Foil Squeezer Increased damage dealt to opponent Splat Brellas, Sorella Brellas, and Hero Brella Replicas by roughly 57%. Increased damage dealt to opponent Splash Walls by roughly 10%. Increased damage dealt to opponent Ballers by roughly 17%. Increased damage dealt to an opponent who is armored while using a Booyah Bomb by roughly 17%. Increased damage dealt to the Rainmaker barrier by roughly 10%. Carbon Roller Carbon Roller Deco Decreased time after making a horizontal swing before you can switch into squid or octo form or use a sub weapon by roughly 2/60 of a second. Increased damage dealt to opponent Splat Brellas, Sorella Brellas, and Hero Brella Replicas by roughly 13%. Splat Roller Krak-On Splat Roller Kensa Splat Roller Hero Roller Replica Increased damage dealt to opponent Splat Brellas, Sorella Brellas, and Hero Brella Replicas by roughly 13%. Flingza Roller Foil Flingza Roller Increased damage dealt to opponent Splat Brellas, Sorella Brellas, and Hero Brella Replicas by roughly 13%. Goo Tuber Custom Goo Tuber With a charge shot stored, the animation of rising from a submerged position in squid or octo form can now be canceled with ZL, causing you to immediately resume squid or octo form. Tri-Slosher Tri-Slosher Nouveau Extended forward the central shot’s point of impact. Mini Splatling Zink Mini Splatling Kensa Mini Splatling You can now jump higher than previously when the Splatling is fully charged. Increased movement speed while charging by roughly 3%. Increased movement speed while firing by roughly 8%. H-3 Nozzlenose H-3 Nozzlenose D Decreased the effectiveness of the Main Power Up gear ability. Increased the Main Power Up gear abilities required to reach 49.9 damage from 3.9 to 4.2 times the amount of base gear ability. Each additional gear ability is worth .3 of the effect of the base gear ability. Bamboozler 14 Mk I Bamboozler 14 Mk II Decreased damage dealt to opponent Splat Brellas, Sorella Brellas, and Hero Brella Replicas by roughly 20%. Decreased damage dealt to opponent Splash Walls by roughly 20%. Decreased damage dealt to opponent Ballers by roughly 38%. Increased damage dealt to an opponent who is armored while using a Booyah Bomb by roughly 31%. Sloshing Machine Sloshing Machine Neo Kensa Sloshing Machine Increased ink consumption by roughly 20%. Decreased hit radius of the spiral portion of the shot by roughly 6%. Explosher Custom Explosher Increased ink consumption by roughly 30%. Decreased radius of splash damage explosion by roughly 7%. Specifications for some of the sub weapons have been changed. Sub Weapon Change Autobomb Decreased time before ink recovery starts after use by roughly 15/60 of a second. Point Sensor Decreased ink consumption from 55% to 45% of a standard ink tank. Decreased movement speed and distance of Point Sensor when thrown. Decreased movement speed of Point Sensor when thrown and when not using the Sub Power Up gear ability by roughly 8%. Decreased movement speed of Point Sensor when thrown and when maximum amount of Sub Power Up gear ability is equipped by roughly 2%. Decreased effect of Ink Saver (Sub) gear ability by roughly 8%. Sprinkler Decreased time before the Sprinkler begins shooting ink after being placed by roughly 30/60 of a second. Increased radius of ink spray when placed on a wall or the ground by roughly 2.5 times. Fizzy Bomb Decreased damage radius of second explosion by roughly 6%. Decreased damage radius of third explosion by roughly 6%. Specifications for some of the special weapons have been changed. Special Weapon Change Ink Storm Decreased area of effect radius by roughly 6%. Specifications for certain gear abilities have been changed. Gear Ability Change Bomb Defense Up DX The effect that reduces the amount of time you can be tracked by a Point Sensor will now trigger more easily with a fewer number of Bomb Defense Up DX gear abilities equipped. Points required for using specials have been changed for certain main weapons. Weapon Before After Custom Splattershot Jr. 170 160 Kensa Luna Blaster 180 170 Kensa Glooga Dualies 190 180 Kensa Splattershot Pro 180 200 H-3 Nozzlenose D 210 220 Custom Explosher 200 210 Custom Hydra Splatling 190 200 Fixed an issue causing players who performed a dodge roll in specific locations on Kelp Dome during Tower Control or Clam Blitz matches to be treated as if they had fallen out of bounds. Fixed an issue occurring on Piranha Pit during Tower Control matches, allowing players riding the moving tower to take a shortcut into the opposing team’s base via an elevated platform. As a result of the above fix, the route taken by the tower in Tower Control matches has been altered slightly. Fixed an issue occurring on certain stages when certain symmetrically placed objects were inked, causing minor discrepancies between the actual area inked and the area inked shown on the results screen. Fixed an issue allowing attacks with rollers to pass through the opened brellas of opponents, defeating the brella user. Fixed an issue causing a Splashdown special used by an opponent to shift locations when network conditions are poor. Fixed an issue when using the Ultra Stamp causing the top of crates not to be inked when swinging the stamp while on the ground and near a wall. Other Changes Fixed an issue causing the ink tank strap to not properly reflect your team’s color when using a Splattershot Jr., Custom Splattershot Jr., or Kensa Splattershot Jr. Ver. 4.4.0 (Released January 29, 2019) Changes to Multiplayer Changes have been made to the terrain in the following stages: Stage Change Kelp Dome Terrain adjustments made in all modes. Changed specific terrain in Splat Zones mode. Added a slope to the box-shaped feature directly in front of the spawn points. Changed specific terrain in Tower Control, Rainmaker, and Clam Blitz ranked battle modes. Changed terrain to the left of the spawn points. Specifications for some of the main weapons have been changed. Weapon Change Sploosh-o-matic Neo Sploosh-o-matic Decreased amount of time after pressing ZR until first shot is fired when in squid/octopus form by roughly 2/60 of a second. Splattershot Jr. Custom Splattershot Jr. Kensa Splattershot Jr. Decreased amount of time after pressing ZR until first shot is fired when in squid/octopus form by roughly 2/60 of a second. Splash-o-matic Neo Splash-o-matic Decreased amount of time after pressing ZR until first shot is fired when in squid/octopus form by roughly 1/60 of a second. Aerospray MG Aerospray RG Decreased amount of time after pressing ZR until first shot is fired when in squid/octopus form by roughly 2/60 of a second. Splattershot Tentatek Splattershot Kensa Splattershot Hero Shot Replica Octo Shot Replica Decreased amount of time after pressing ZR until first shot is fired when in squid/octopus form by roughly 1/60 of a second. .52 Gal .52 Gal Deco Kensa .52 Gal Decreased amount of time after pressing ZR until first shot is fired when in squid/octopus form by roughly 1/60 of a second. N-ZAP '85 N-ZAP '89 Decreased amount of time after pressing ZR until first shot is fired when in squid/octopus form by roughly 1/60 of a second. Splattershot Pro Forge Splattershot Pro Kensa Splattershot Pro Decreased amount of time after pressing ZR until first shot is fired when in squid/octopus form by roughly 1/60 of a second. .96 Gal .96 Gal Deco Decreased amount of time after pressing ZR until first shot is fired when in squid/octopus form by roughly 1/60 of a second. Jet Squelcher Custom Jet Squelcher Decreased amount of time after pressing ZR until first shot is fired when in squid/octopus form by roughly 1/60 of a second. When the Main Power Up gear ability is equipped, shot spread when firing while on the ground will now be reduced in addition to the other benefits it provides. L-3 Nozzlenose L-3 Nozzlenose D Kensa L-3 Nozzlenose Firing is now more likely to ink the area around your feet. Flingza Roller Foil Flingza Roller Reduced amount of time required to hit top speed while running with ZR held down by roughly 30/60 of a second. Increased movement speed when roller is held above head for a vertical swing by roughly 11%. Adjusted damage drop-off over distance for vertical swings by making the drop-off less severe. Due to the above change, the distance at which a vertical swing will deal 100.0 or more damage has been extended by roughly 5%. Classic Squiffer New Squiffer When the Main Power Up gear ability is equipped, ink coverage will now be increased in addition to the other benefits it provides. E-liter 4K Custom E-liter 4K When the Main Power Up gear ability is equipped, ink coverage will now be increased in addition to the other benefits it provides. E-liter 4K Scope Custom E-liter 4K Scope When the Main Power Up gear ability is equipped, ink coverage will now be increased in addition to the other benefits it provides. Undercover Brella Undercover Sorella Brella Kensa Undercover Brella When the Main Power Up gear ability is equipped, its benefits will now trigger more easily, even with fewer instances of the ability equipped. Ballpoint Splatling Ballpoint Splatling Nouveau Reduced damage dealt by short-range shots from 32.0 to 28.0. Reduced damage dealt by longer-range shots from 32.0 to 30.0. Splat Dualies Enperry Splat Dualies Kensa Splat Dualies Hero Dualie Replicas Decreased the size of the opponent’s hitbox slightly when firing standard shots, making opponents more difficult to hit. Opponent hitbox size when firing shots immediately after performing a dodge roll remains unchanged. Dark Tetra Dualies Light Tetra Dualies Decreased the size of the opponent’s hitbox slightly when firing standard shots, making opponents more difficult to hit. Opponent hitbox size when firing shots immediately after performing a dodge roll remains unchanged. Specifications for some of the special weapons have been changed. Special Weapon Change Tenta Missiles Reduced time after all missiles have been launched until the next action can be taken by roughly 15/60 of a second. Booyah Bomb Decreased duration of the bomb’s explosion after it lands by roughly 30/60 of a second. Increased the speed at which the explosion expands after the bomb lands. Size of the bomb’s explosion remains unchanged despite the two adjustments above. Increased damage by roughly 32%. Slightly increased area of ink covered by the bomb’s explosion. Ground beneath the bomb thrower’s feet is now inkable after the bomb has been thrown. Extended time that the bomb thrower’s armor remains active after the bomb has been thrown by roughly 15/60 of a second. Ultra Stamp Improved speed of movement and rotation while pressing and holding ZR to swing the stamp repeatedly. Increased minimum damage dealt by the shockwave created when swinging the stamp repeatedly by holding down ZR from 30.0 to 40.0. While swinging the stamp repeatedly, opponent shots and Splat Bombs near it during a downswing will now be canceled. Decreased amount of time after performing a swing with the stamp in midair until you can begin swinging repeatedly by roughly 4/60 of second. Specifications for certain gear abilities have been changed. Gear Ability Change Ink Resistance Up Increased time before starting to take damage after stepping in enemy ink. Time increased by 9/60 of a second with maximum number of Ink Resistance Up gear abilities equipped. Points required for using specials have been changed for certain main weapons. Weapon Before After H-3 Nozzlenose D 200 210 Kensa Sloshing Machine 170 190 Explosher 200 210 Custom Explosher 190 200 Ballpoint Splatling Nouveau 200 230 Changes to Ranked Battle Fixed an issue on The Reef where players from different teams would land in different locations when super jumping to a spot near a certain sponge. Fixed an issue on Piranha Pit in which the ground beneath a player throwing out a Booyah Bomb would not be inked while standing between a conveyor belt and another piece of terrain. Fixed an issue occurring during Rainmaker matches on Blackbelly Skatepark where placing an Ink Mine in a certain spot on the slopes added for this mode caused it to explode immediately. Fixed an issue on Camp Triggerfish where super jumping from a specific location and then activating a Booyah Bomb when landing caused the player to be hurled outside the bounds of the stage. Fixed an issue on Port Mackerel causing players to mistakenly clip into stage terrain when dodge rolling near the sponges in the center of the stage. Fixed an issue on Wahoo World causing the jump marker for super jumps to enter into the stage terrain when the player landed in a specific location in the stage. Fixed an issue on Wahoo World causing players activating a Booyah Bomb near the rotating central platform to be pushed by the platform inside a piece of stage terrain. Fixed an issue occurring when a certain number of Swim Speed Up gear abilities were equipped, causing movement speed and swim speed when not attacking to be faster with a slow movement speed weapon equipped than with a standard movement speed weapon equipped. The Splattershot and .52 Gal are examples of standard weapons, while the Dynamo Roller and E-liter 4K are examples of slow weapons. Fixed an issue causing two players moving in squid form and doubled up on each other for long enough to become stuck. Fixed an issue occurring after activating the Sting Ray, causing silhouettes of opponents to disappear suddenly after beginning to attack with ZR. Fixed an issue occurring with weapons like the Mini Splatling where the effects of the Run Speed Up gear ability are easily noticeable, causing players with this equipment to run faster than intended while charging a shot with the Rainmaker. Fixed an issue causing opponents using Dualie weapons to appear to move instantly to another location if they dodge rolled just as you landed from a super jump. Changes to Salmon Run Fixed an issue preventing players using a Cannon from being able to hit groups of tightly packed enemies correctly. Fixed an issue on Marooner’s Bay causing players to clip into stage terrain when sandwiched between a propeller lift and a Scrapper. Other Changes Fixed an issue causing the shoulder strap of a player’s ink tank to disappear after being splatted by an opponent or falling into water. Fixed an issue occurring in Clam Blitz while throwing clams, causing the red line on a player’s ink tank (which indicates the ink required to use the equipped sub weapon) to mistakenly appear in the lowest possible position. Ver. 4.3.1 (Released December 18, 2018) Changes to Multiplayer Specifications for some of the main weapons have been changed. Weapon Name Change Sploosh-o-matic Neo Sploosh-o-matic Increased the effect of the Main Power Up gear ability. Increased the amount of additional damage that can be dealt when the maximum number of gear abilities are being used from roughly 20% to roughly 25%. Aerospray MG Aerospray RG The effect provided by Main Power Up is now more easily triggered, even with fewer instances of the gear ability equipped. Squeezer Foil squeezer Increased the effect of the Main Power Up gear ability. Increased the amount of additional damage that can be dealt when the maximum number of gear abilities are being used from roughly 20% to roughly 30%. Damage dealt while holding down ZR to shoot remains unchanged. Splat Roller Krak-On Splat Roller Kensa Splat Roller Hero Roller Replica Adjusted the rate of damage drop off over distance for vertical swings. The damage drop off over distance for 50.0 damage and lower will now be less severe. The distances at which a vertical swing will deal 100.0 or more damage and 50.0 or more damage remain unchanged. Due to this change, a vertical swing from these rollers will no longer deal less damage than the same attack from a Carbon Roller, regardless of distance. Inkbrush Inkbrush Nouveau Increased the effect of the Main Power Up gear ability. The increase to movement speed while inking with the maximum number of Main Power Up gear abilities equipped has been raised from roughly 4% to roughly 5%. The effect provided by Main Power Up is now more easily triggered, even with fewer instances of the gear ability equipped. Octobrush Octobrush Nouveau Kensa Octobrush Herobrush Replica Increased the effect of the Main Power Up gear ability. The increase to movement speed while inking with the maximum number of Main Power Up gear abilities equipped has been raised from roughly 10% to roughly 12%. The effect provided by Main Power Up is now more easily triggered, even with fewer instances of the gear ability equipped. E-liter 4K Custom E-liter 4K Increased the effect of the Main Power Up gear ability. The increase to shot range with the maximum number of Main Power Up gear abilities equipped has been raised from roughly 3% to roughly 5%. E-liter 4K Scope Custom E-liter 4K Scope Increased the effect of the Main Power Up gear ability. The increase to shot range with the maximum number of Main Power Up gear abilities equipped has been raised from roughly 3% to roughly 5%. Tri-Slosher Tri-Slosher Nouveau Increased the effect of the Main Power Up gear ability. The boost to the radius of ink coverage for the middle portion of shots that strike an object mid-shot when the maximum number of Main Power Up gear abilities are equipped has been increased from roughly 20% to roughly 25%. The effect provided by Main Power Up is now more easily triggered, even with fewer instances of the gear ability equipped. Mini Splatling Zink Mini Splatling Kensaa Mini Splatling Increased the effect of the Main Power Up gear ability. The increase to the duration of rapid fire with the maximum number of Main Power Up gear abilities equipped has been raised from roughly 30% to roughly 35%. The effect provided by Main Power Up is now more easily triggered, even with fewer instances of the gear ability equipped. Undercover Brella Undercover Sorella Brella Kensa Undercover Brella Increased the effect of the Main Power Up gear ability. The reduction in time it takes for a Brella’s umbrella portion to be restored with the maximum number of Main Power Up gear abilities equipped has been raised from roughly 33% to roughly 44%. The effect provided by Main Power Up is now more easily triggered, even with fewer instances of the gear ability equipped. Hydra Splatling Custom Hydra Splatling Decreased the effect of the Main Power Up gear ability. Changed the number of gear abilities required for the damage of less than fully-charged shots to reach 33.3 from 0.9 basic gear abilities to 1.5 basic gear abilities. Additional gear abilities have 0.3 the effect of a basic gear ability. The damage of a fully-charged shot remains unchanged. Ballpoint Splatling Ballpoint Splatling Nouveau Decreased the effect of the Run Speed Up gear ability. Decreased the effect of the Main Power Up gear ability. Changed the number of gear abilities required for the damage of less than fully-charged shots to reach 33.3 from 0.9 basic gear abilities to 1.5 basic gear abilities. Additional gear abilities have 0.3 the effect of a basic gear ability. Splat Dualies Enperry Splat Dualies Kensa Splat Dualies Hero Dualie Replicas Decreased the effect of the Main Power Up gear ability. Changed the number of gear abilities required for the damage of less than fully-charged shots to reach 33.3 from 2.0 basic gear abilities to 3.2 basic gear abilities. Additional gear abilities have 0.3 the effect of a basic gear ability. Specifications for some of the sub weapons have been changed. Subweapon Name Change Fizzy Bomb Decreased the radius of ink coverage from the 2nd explosion by roughly 15%. Decreased the radius of ink coverage from the 3rd explosion by roughly 21%. Torpedo Increased ink consumption on use from 60% to 65% of a standard ink tank. Decreased splash damage dealt by ink explosions from 18.0 to 12.0. Increased splash damage dealt by ink explosions to Bubble Blower bubbles by roughly 50%. Combining the effects of the above two changes means that damage dealt to Bubble Blower bubbles remains the same as it was prior to this update. Specifications for the following special weapon have been changed. Special Weapon Name Change Bubble Blower Decreased the radius within which 250.0 damage is dealt by roughly 8%. Decreased amount of time before bubbles disappear on their own by roughly 6%. Points required for using specials have been changed for certain main weapons. Weapon Before After Bloblobber Deco 180 190 Custom Hydra Splatling 180 190 Ballpoint Splatling Nouveau 190 200 Fixed an issue causing Torpedos to disappear instead of exploding if they touched a piece of moving terrain while following a player. Fixed an issue in which players dealing contact damage to an opponent using a Booyah Bomb with their roller or brush weapon wouldn’t be thrown backward if they failed to splat the Booyah Bomb user with a single attack. Fixed an issue in Clam Blitz where readying a clam while being tracked by an opponent’s torpedo would cause the aiming reticle to react, even if the torpedo passed through the clam. Fixed an issue occurring on the Walleye Warehouse stage, related to taking damage from an opponent’s Ink Storm. While standing on the crates beneath the lights near the center of the stage, players would previously take damage from an opponent’s Ink Storm while standing on one crate but not the other, but will now take damage while standing on either crate. Fixed an issue occurring on the Shellendorf Institute stage, where certain animations did not display correctly when viewed through specific panes of glass. Changes to Ranked Battle Weapon specifications are taken into account when splitting an assembled group of eight players into teams for Ranked Battle, but this feature has been changed in the following ways: The number of players with crown icons in X Rank will no longer have a significant impact on team breakdown. The number of players using weapons from different categories such as “shooter” or “roller” won’t have a significant impact on team breakdown. Instead, the specifications for each specific weapon will be given more weight when splitting up teams. Changes to Salmon Run Fixed an issue occurring after creating a “With Friends” room where taking too long before selecting Recruit more players would cause other players not to join the room. Fixed an issue causing players to occasionally pass through stage terrain after touching and getting knocked back by a Scrapper or Flyfish while standing near a wall. Fixed an issue causing Scrappers to mistakenly not take damage when hit from behind with a direct shot from a Cannon. Changes to the Octo Expansion Fixed an issue causing an unintended reaction when touching an ink rail while getting pulled to a Grapplink after attacking the Grapplink. Other Changes When using the Kensa Splattershot Jr., the sticker on the player’s ink tank was previously the same as the one when using the Splattershot Jr., but is now unique. Fixed an issue in spectator mode that caused the “Turf Inked” stat for each weapon to increase incorrectly. Ver. 4.3.0 (Released December 4, 2018) Changes to Gear Abilities Added the new gear abilities, Bomb Defense Up DX and Main Power Up. The features of the gear abilities Bomb Defense Up and Cold-Blooded were combined to create Bomb Defense Up DX. The following changes have been made to the gear abilities Bomb Defense Up and Cold-Blooded: When these gear abilities occur on already existing gear, they will be replaced with Bomb Defense Up DX. Gear ability chunks for either of these abilities will be replaced with Bomb Defense Up DX ability chunks. Drink Tickets that would make it easier to gain the effects of these gear abilities will be replaced with tickets making it easier to gain the effects of Bomb Defense Up DX. Already active drinks that make it easer to gain the effects of these abilities will become drinks that make it easier to gain the effects of Bomb Defense Up DX. Gear with the Inkline brand was previously likely to be paired with the Bomb Defense Up gear ability, but will now be likely to be paired with Bomb Defense Up Dx instead. Gear with the Annaki brand was previously likely to be paired with the Cold-Blooded gear ability, but will now be likely to be paired with Main Power Up instead. Changes to Multiplayer Changes have been made to the terrain in the following stages: Stage Change Blackbelly Skatepark Changes made to terrain in all modes. Changed terrain around the spawn points. Changed the placement of existing obstacles and added new ones. Specifications for some of the main weapons have been changed. Main Weapon Change Mini Splatling Zink Mini Splatling Increased the effect of the Run Speed Up gear ability. Heavy Splatling Heavy Splatling Deco Hero Splatling Replica Increased the effect of the Run Speed Up gear ability Hydra Splatling Custom Hydra Splatling Increased the effect of the Run Speed Up gear ability. Splat Charger Firefin Splat Charger Kensa Charger Hero Charger Replica Slightly narrowed the spread of ink created by shots. Splatterscope Firefin Splatterscope Kensa Splatterscope Slightly narrowed the spread of ink created by shots. Tenta Brella Tenta Sorella Brella Decreased durability of the umbrella portion by roughly 13%. Increased damage dealt to the umbrella portion after launching it by roughly 20%. Specifications for some of the sub weapons have been changed. Sub Weapon Change Autobomb Decreased time after use for the Autobomb to start walking in the direction of its target by roughly 20/60 of a second. Ink Mine Increased the effect of the Ink Saver (Sub) gear ability. Sprinkler Increased the effect of the Ink Saver (Sub) gear ability. Point Sensor Decreased ink consumption from 60% to 55% of a standard ink tank. Increased the effect of the Ink Saver (Sub) gear ability. Squid Beakon Increased the effect of the Ink Saver (Sub) gear ability. Fizzy Bomb Increased time after use before ink recovery begins by roughly 10/60 of a second. Decreased the effect of the Ink Saver (Sub) gear ability. Specifications for some of the special weapons have been changed. Special Weapon Change Tenta Missiles Greatly increased the effect of the Special Power Up gear ability that increases ink coverage of missiles when they hit. Splashdown Greatly increased damage dealt to opponent Brellas. Increased damage to opponent Brellas varies from roughly 2 to 3.2 times the previous amount depending on the Brella. Increased damage dealt to an opponent Baller by roughly 2.5 times. Baller Greatly increased damage dealt to opponent Brellas. Increased damage to opponent Brellas varies from roughly 3 to 4.8 times the previous amount depending on the Brella. Ultra Stamp When holding ZR to attack repeatedly, number of possible attacks has been increased by shortening the amount of time the stamp is cocked back, making it easier to block shots from directly in front of you. Increased player movement and rotation speed when holding ZR to attack repeatedly. Sting Ray Decreased duration by roughly 35/60 of a second. Decreased effect granted by the Special Power Up gear ability. Decreased damage dealt to opponents using Ink Armor by roughly 56%. Decreased damage dealt to opponents using a Baller by roughly 25%. Decreased ability to knock back opponents using a Baller. Inkjet Decreased damage dealt to opponents using a Baller by roughly 30%. Specifications for certain gear abilities have been changed. Gear Ability Change Run Speed Up Previously, Run Speed Up only gave a significant boost to speed while firing a Splatling weapon, but will now also significantly boost speed while charging a Splatling as well. Swim Speed Up When using weapons that feature lower movement and swim speeds when not firing, such as the E-liter 4K or Dynamo Roller, Swim Speed Up will now grant a significant boost to swim speed, even when using fewer instances of the gear ability than in previous updates. Ink Resistance Up When using this gear ability, players will avoid taking damage for a brief time after first stepping into an opponent’s ink. The length of time before taking damage in this way will be increased in proportion to the number of Ink Resistance Up abilities being used. Thermal Ink Extended duration of effect by roughly four seconds. Points required for using specials have been changed for certain main weapons. Weapon Before After Kensa L-3 Nozzlenose 190 180 Kensa Octobrush 190 180 Kensa Splattershot Jr. 190 200 Splat Brella Hero Brella Replica 190 200 Fixed an issue preventing players from landing in the correct location when activating the Booyah Bomb special while super jumping to the edge of a piece of stage terrain. Fixed an issue when using the Ultra Stamp special, in which pressing ZR to cock back the stamp just prior to its duration ending caused a shot to be fired with the main weapon after the stamp’s duration ended. Fixed an issue causing players activating an Ultra Stamp special when trapped between stage terrain and the Tower Control tower to clip inside the stage terrain. Fixed an issue when using the Drop Roller gear ability and super jumping to a location near an obstacle that shortened the length of the roll performed when landing. Fixed an issue with the Bomb Defense Up gear ability causing Curling Bomb damage that didn’t exceed 100.0 to not be properly reduced. This issue will no longer occur with the new Bomb Defense Up DX gear ability. Changes to Salmon Run Fixed an issue in Marooner’s Bay with a discrepancy between the appearance of certain walls and their actual geometry, obstructing player movement. Narrowed the area on which players can stand on certain railings in Ruins of Ark Polaris, making it possible for Smallfry attacks to reach them. Lowered the end point of certain ride rails in Ruins of Ark Polaris, so that attacks from Grillers will now hit players in those locations. Fixed an issue causing Steelheads not to attack players aiming at them, depending on the quality of the player’s network connection. Other Changes Fixed an issue causing Octolings not to blink while moving over the ground. Fixed an issue when taking pictures with the Pearl and Marina amiibo during a Splatfest causing them not to appear in their Splatfest outfits or hair color. Fixed an issue when taking pictures with the Octoling Boy amiibo, where, depending on the pose, the Octoling Boy’s eyes would appear in an unnatural state. Fixed an issue allowing amiibo to be tapped and read while in the lobby during a Splatfest, though the amiibo icon was not displayed on-screen. Fixed an issue when throwing sub weapons onto a Bounce Pad while in Recon mode, causing them to bounce differently than they would in an actual multiplayer battle. Fixed an issue when using the Auto-Camera to follow the tower in Tower Control, causing the camera angle to differ depending on which team controlled the tower. Fixed an issue in spectator mode when the Auto-Camera was set to ON and viewing the Splat Zone during a Splat Zone battle, causing it not to shift focus to other players. Ver. 4.2.0 (Released November 6, 2018) Changes to amiibo Added support for Octoling Boy, Octoling Girl, and Octoling Octopus amiibo figures. Changes to Gear When another player in Inkopolis Square is wearing gear that was previously obtainable through game news, you can now order that gear from Murch. Gear that was previously obtainable through game news will now occasionally be sold in the SplatNet gear shop. The corresponding gear is: SWC Logo Tee Kyonshi Hat Li’l Devil Horns Hockey Mask Anglerfish Mask Changes to Multiplayer Layout and terrain of certain stages have been changed. Stage Change The Reef Changed terrain in all modes. Made major changes to the terrain near the spawn points. Additionally, made changes to the overall terrain. The specifications of some of the main weapons have been changed. Weapon Change Sploosh-o-matic Neo Sploosh-o-matic Reduced the interval between firing and when you’re able to become a squid or use your sub weapon by 4/60th of a second. Splattershot Jr. Custom Splattershot Jr. Reduced the interval between firing and when you’re able to become a squid or use your sub weapon by 4/60th of a second. Splash-o-matic Neo Splash-o-matic Reduced the interval between firing and when you’re able to become a squid or use your sub weapon by 3/60th of a second. Aerospray MG Aerospray RG Reduced the interval between firing and when you’re able to become a squid or use your sub weapon by 4/60th of a second. Splattershot Tentatek Splattershot Kensa Splattershot Hero Shot Replica Octoshot Replica Reduced the interval between firing and when you’re able to become a squid or use your sub weapon by 2/60th of a second. .52 Gal .52 Gal Deco Reduced the interval between firing and when you’re able to become a squid or use your sub weapon by 3/60th of a second. N-ZAP '85 N-ZAP '89 Reduced the interval between firing and when you’re able to become a squid or use your sub weapon by 3/60th of a second. Splattershot Pro Forge Splattershot Pro Kensa Splattershot Pro Reduced the interval between firing and when you’re able to become a squid or use your sub weapon by 2/60th of a second. .96 Gal .96 Gal Deco Reduced the interval between firing and when you’re able to become a squid or use your sub weapon by 2/60th of a second. Jet Squelcher Custom Jet Squelcher Reduced the interval between firing and when you’re able to become a squid or use your sub weapon by 2/60th of a second. L-3 Nozzlenose L-3 Nozzlenose D Made it easier to ink the ground at the player’s feet. Increased damage dealt to an opponent’s umbrella by roughly 13%. Increased damage dealt to the Rainmaker barrier by roughly 5%. Squeezer Foil Squeezer Reduced the interval between holding down ZR to fire and when you’re able to become a squid or use your sub weapon by 3/60th of a second. Carbon Roller Carbon Roller Deco Horizontal swings now ink more area in front of the player. Inkbrush Inkbrush Nouveau Extended the area inked by flinging ink with ink brushes further forward. Octobrush Octobrush Nouveau Reduced the interval between swinging the brush and holding ZR to ink by 4/60th of a second. Tri-Slosher Tri-Slosher Nouveau Changed the weapon type to one in which running speed when not firing and swim speed is fast, as with the Sploosh-o-matic and Splattershot Jr. Sloshing Machine Sloshing Machine Neo Kensa Sloshing Machine Increased the radius of area inked by ink droplets by roughly 10%. Expanded the area inked when ink hits a wall. The specifications for some sub weapons have been changed. Weapon Change Toxic Mist Added an effect that greatly increases the ink consumed for an opponent using a dualie-type weapon and performing a dodge roll while inside Toxic Mist. Point Sensor Increased initial speed by roughly 10% and extended flight length. Squid Beakon Each Squid Beakon can now be used twice when used by an ally who doesn’t have a Squid Beakon equipped. You can see how many more times it can be used by checking the circled number displayed when you look at a Squid Beakon on the Turf War map. The points required for some specials have been changed. Weapon Before After Custom Splattershot Jr. 180 170 L-3 Nozzlenose 180 170 Flingza Roller 190 180 Foil Flingza Roller 190 180 Zink Mini Splatling 190 180 Tenta Sorella Brella 180 170 H-3 Nozzlenose D 190 200 Splat Charger Hero Charger Replica 200 210 Splatterscope 200 210 Tenta Brella 180 190 Fixed an issue while using dualie-type weapons that prevented dodge rolling forward if pressing the control stick forward and the buttons for a dodge roll when climbing over the top of a wall. Fixed an issue when swinging a roller or brush weapon right after the message “Low ink!” displayed on screen, causing the “insufficient ink” sound effect to play whether the player had enough ink for the attack or not. Fixed an issue with the Undercover Brella and Undercover Sorella Brella causing them to appear brighter than they should while standing in a shaded area with the umbrella portion closed. Fixed an issue occurring when throwing a bomb while running that caused the bomb throwing animation to appear to end earlier than it should when viewed from an opponent’s screen. Fixed an issue occurring while shaking the Fizzy Bomb quickly that made it look like it was being shaken slowly when viewed from an opponent’s screen. Fixed an issue causing the aiming reticule for certain weapons to mistakenly appear while using a Baller special. Fixed an issue occurring when activating an Inkjet special on an ink rail. If the player returned to the beginning of the ink rail after the Inkjet ran out and also switched between squid and kid form, they could mistakenly enter into the stage terrain. Fixed an issue with the Booyah Bomb causing its location when landing to appear slightly different on the screens of the player who used it and all other players. Fixed an issue causing the Booyah Bomb’s sound effect to mistakenly continue playing if the player in the middle of using it left the battle due to a network error. Fixed an issue occurring if a bomb is within the Booyah Bomb’s damage radius when it explodes, mistakenly preventing the bomb from being destroyed if there was an obstacle between the center of the Booyah Bomb explosion and the bomb itself. Fixed an issue causing bombs to be mistakenly destroyed by a thrown Booyah-Bomb traveling through the air if the two came in contact. Fixed an issue occurring while using a Baller or Booyah Bomb special with the “Bomb Defense Up” gear ability equipped that didn’t properly reduce damage from certain explosions. Players can now continue climbing the side of a sponge even when an opponent shoots it, causing it to shrink. Fixed an issue occasionally causing players caught between the Tower Control tower and a wall to clip into the stage terrain if they returned to kid form after attempting to swim up the wall. Fixed an issue causing certain animations not to display correctly when viewed through the semi-transparent walls near the spawn points in Starfish Mainstage. Fixed an issue causing players to clip into the stage terrain when super jumping to an ally standing at a specific point near the edge of the stage and the spawn points in Starfish Mainstage. On-screen brightness will no longer change dramatically depending on the amount of light hitting the camera during Splatfest Battles in Port Mackerel. Fixed an issue causing players to clip into stage terrain while climbing specific walls in Snapper Canal. Fixed an issue causing bombs thrown at specific signs in Walleye Warehouse to not make proper contact with their targets. Fixed an issue causing a Booyah Bomb not to properly explode when hitting a conveyor belt in Piranha Pit. Fixed an issue allowing players that climbed over a certain un-inkable wall to access the area around their opponent’s spawn point. Fixed an issue in Skipper Pavilion where players using a Splashdown special from beneath a platform near the spawn points could pass through the platform and return to standing above it. Changes to Splatfests Fixed an issue occurring in Splatfest Battles (normal) causing some players to be ejected from the lobby during matching when one battle ended, the schedule was updated, and a solo Splatfest Battle (normal) was immediately selected, even if the teammates from the previous battle had been grouped together again. Fixed an issue in Splatfest Battles (normal) making it difficult to recruit teammates when a team has won many battles in a row. Fixed an issue when playing Splatfest Battles (normal) with friends and creating a room that made the “Recruit more players” button unavailable when no friends have joined. Changes to Salmon Run The new stage, Ruins of Ark Polaris, is now available when playing Salmon Run at The Shoal. This stage will now also be in the Salmon Run rotation when playing Salmon Run online. Fixed an issue causing the feature to cut the loss in rank by half when finishing a job with fewer people than you started with not to work properly. Coworkers in a life preserver can now be hit with direct shots from the Inkjet special and can now also be rescued when on a metal grating. Fixed an issue causing missiles fired by a Drizzler to explode if a player tried to send them flying back when they touch the ground. Also fixed an issue preventing missiles from not shooting back toward the Drizzler even when shot back from the proper angle. Fixed an issue causing damage not to be dealt to the middle portions of a Stinger when hitting either its burner portion or head directly with Sting Ray blast. Fixed an issue in the Spawning Grounds stage occurring when a Griller targeted a player near the egg basket in which the Griller would suddenly target another player instead. Fixed an issue causing a special activated at a specific time at the end of the final wave to continue to activate repeatedly. Fixed an issue occurring when a Goldie event occurs causing an incorrect number of Goldie appearances to be logged in SplatNet 2’s “Job Stats.” Fixed an issue causing incorrect weapon information to display in SplatNet 2’s “Job Stats” for players who disconnected during a job. Weapon information will now only display for waves they participated in. Other Changes Fixed an issue in which the camera wouldn’t change as expected when spectating a Splat Zone battle with Auto-Camera mode. Fixed an issue in which a player being shown in spectator mode who was defeated by an enemy using a charger with a scope would occasionally not be displayed correctly. Reduced severity of an issue in which Octoling Girl’s hair would clip through her hand while in certain poses with certain gear while taking photos with her as an amiibo. Fixed an issue in which the Octoling Octopus would face backwards when taking a photo with it as an amiibo on Skipper Pavilion. Fixed an issue in which, if the player has a Fizzy Bomb prepped to throw and the guide showing where it will land is over one of the cones in the Test area, the bomb will clip through the cone when actually thrown. Fixed an issue in which, when playing as a user linked to a Nintendo Account that is not a Nintendo Switch Online member, information related to joining Nintendo Switch Online would be displayed and the player would be treated as Offline when the schedule update (every two hours) occured. Ver. 4.1.0 (Released October 2, 2018) Changes to Game Music Added four new songs that will play during multiplayer matches. Changes to Multiplayer Fixed an issue causing a player super jumping to an ally’s location in the midst of returning to their starting location after using an Inkjet to super jump into unintended locations when network connectivity was poor. Fixed an issue when dodge rolling on the inside of a grating, in which the player mistakenly rolled the same distance they would when on the ground although they were moving in midair. Adjusted the sound effect caused when an opponent enters the area of effect of Toxic Mist, making it easier to distinguish if they are nearby or far away. A sound effect will now play when using the gear ability Drop Roller. Fixed an issue preventing players from tossing a bomb or clam when using the Nautilus 47 if the bomb or clam was thrown at the same time the charge from a stored charge shot expired. Fixed an issue on the stage Starfish Mainstage, causing player movement to become slowed slightly when moving across a specific slope near the spawn points. Specifications for some of the main, sub, and special weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Sploosh-o-matic Neo Sploosh-o-matic When shots hit, their ink splatter will now extend further forward than it did previously. Splattershot Jr. Custom Splattershot Jr. When shots hit, their ink splatter will now extend further forward than it did previously. Aerospray MG Aerospray RG When shots hit, their ink splatter will now extend further forward than it did previously. Splattershot Pro Forge Splattershot Pro Ink now more likely to land around player’s feet when firing. Made the ink splatter that lands closest to the player when firing more likely to land closer to the player than it did previously. .96 Gal .96 Gal Deco Extended firing range by roughly 6%. Dynamo Roller Gold Dynamo Roller Will now also ink turf closer to the player in addition to previous ink coverage when performing a horizontal swing. Flingza Roller Foil Flingza Roller Extended range in which a horizontal swing will deal 100.0 or more damage by roughly 5%. Goo Tuber Custom Goo Tuber Increased firing range of a minimally charged shot by roughly 27%. Accordingly, firing range of other non-fully charged shots has also been increased slightly. Mini Splatling Zink Mini Splatling Ink splatter from fired shots now hits with a wider vertical spread than it did previously. Nautilus 47 Increased velocity of fired shots by roughly 133%, while making no change to firing range. Undercover Brella Undercover Sorella Brella While damage from a single shot remains at 40.0, the damage from peripheral ink splatter has been increased from 10.0 to 12.0. Splash Wall Decreased the time between using the Splash Wall and when ink recovery begins by roughly 15/60 of a second. Tenta Missiles Shortened time between firing of each missile. Splashdown Decreased reduction of special gauge if the user is splatted in the time between activating the special but before landing with it from 50% to 25%. Increased damage dealt by the Splashdown to bubbles fired by the Bubble Blower, ensuring that they will be destroyed if struck by it. Decreased the points required for using the Splashdown special in several of the weapon sets that include it. Specifications for points required for some specials have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Sploosh-o-matic 170 >160 .96 Gal Deco 180 >170 Inkbrush 160 >150 Hydra Splatling 190 >170 Undercover Brella 160 >150 Splat Charger Hero Charger Replica 190 >200 Splatterscope 190 >200 Firefin Splat Charger 200 >210 Firefin Splatterscope 200 >210 Enperry Splat Dualies 200 >210 Kensa Splat Dualies 190 >210 Changes to X Power and League Power in Ranked Battle When playing Ranked or League Battles as a pair, your rank meter, X Power, or League Power will no longer decrease when playing with fewer members on your team due to internet disconnections for an even shorter period than was previously the case. If internet disconnections prevent a player from finishing enough matches out of the last few dozen matches played, the decrease to their rank meter or X Power for each subsequent unfinished match will be greater than it was previously. Changes to Salmon Run Players are now able to review stats for their last 50 Salmon Run jobs via the SplatNet 2 portion of the Nintendo Switch Online smart device app. Fixed an issue causing players to take contact damage if they had been standing in the location an enemy appeared just prior to that enemy’s appearance. Other Changes Voice chat will now be available via the Nintendo Switch Online smart device app when playing with friends in certain modes, even when creating rooms without selecting Online Lounge . Players can also choose not to enable voice chat when creating rooms in this way. This applies to the following modes which previously functioned with the Online Lounge feature: League Battle, Private Battle, Splatfest Battle (Normal) with friends, With Friends (Salmon Run). Fixed an issue occurring after Splatfest Battles, in which the Splatfest rank meter would go up continuously and repeatedly. Fixed an issue occurring in Splatfest Battles while under the effect of food items that increase experience or money, in which the player failed to earn gear ability chunks even after their Splatfest Tee had reached its highest level. Fixed an issue in which players wouldn’t be recruited after selecting Recruit more players when creating a Splatfest Battle (Normal) room after first choosing Online Lounge . Fixed an issue when using an amiibo to change equipment in the lobby in which the vibe meter at the top of the screen would mistakenly display information for the weapon used before making the change. Fixed an issue causing certain sound effects not to play when doing recon on the stage Starfish Mainstage. Fixed an issue causing platforms on the stage Ancho-V Games to move more during recon than in a battle when hit directly by a shot fired while using the Inkjet special. Ver. 4.0.0 (Released September 13, 2018) Changes to Splatfests Splatfest battles will now be divided into two categories: Normal and Pro Splatfest Battle (Normal) This category can be played solo or as a team of up to 4 friends. Playing with fewer than four friends will add the appropriate number of other players to your team. When you select Continue or Change gear and continue! , you can continue onto the next battle with the same team. Points for turf inked by individual players are added to the points earned by the team for winning a battle, resulting in a value known as "Clout," and the side with the most Clout at the end of a Splatfest is the winner. Clout is not added for battles between the same side. If the combination of visual look and type of all 4 teammates' gear/weapons meets certain conditions, a Synergy Bonus is triggered, and you can receive more Splatfest Points or Clout Points when you win. Teams that meet these conditions are awarded a special team name, which is displayed at the start of a battle. When you're on a winning streak, you're more likely to match with other teams on a winning streak. When there are multiple teams with the same number of consecutive wins, you'll be matched with a team as close to your skill level as possible. Splatfest Battle (Pro) This category is closer to what you've experienced when battling solo in previous Splatfests. Players join battles on their own, and seek to increase their Splatfest Power while putting their turf war skills to the test. When you win a battle, you increase your own Splatfest Power and receive Clout equal to the opposing team's approximate Splatfest Power. The side with the most Clout when the Splatfest concludes wins. Clout is not added for battles between the same side. Battle participants are chosen from players that are as close in Splatfest Power as possible. The top 100 players in the Splatfest Power rankings on each side will be displayed on SplatNet 2 in the Splatfest Top 100 list. Other Changes Continuing to earn experience even after a Splatfest Tee is at max level will earn players a random ability chunk each time they pass a certain point threshold. '10x Battles' and '100x Battles' will now occur randomly, earning players on the winning team a huge boost of Clout for their side. When a friend wins a 10x Battle, or someone somewhere wins a 100x Battle, that information will be displayed on the Lobby screen or the signboard in Inkopolis Square. The amount of Splatfest Power does not increase in these battles. Changes to Multiplayer Layout and terrain of certain stages has been modified. Stage Adjustment Starfish Mainstage Changed terrain in all modes. Made major changes to the terrain from the spawn points to the center of the stage. Snapper Canal Changed terrain placement in Rainmaker. Added a slope near the center. Adjusted placement near the spawn point. Changed terrain placement in Clam Blitz. Added a slope near the center. Piranha Pit Changed terrain placement in Rainmaker. Added obstacles and changed placement of terrain throughout the stage. Specifications for some of the main weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment .52 Gal .52 Gal Deco Extended distance at which max damage can be dealt by roughly 14%, without changing firing distance. .96 Gal .96 Gal Deco Increased the radius of area inked where a shot lands by roughly 20%. Luna Blaster Luna Blaster Neo Increased the walking speed when not shooting, and the speed of movement in squid form, to be like that of the Sploosh-o-matic or the Splattershot Jr. Slosher Slosher Deco Hero Slosher Replica Reduced maximum damage when hitting a target with the base of the ink from 70.0 to 50.0. Bloblobber Increased ink consumption by roughly 14%. Reduced damage dealt to the Rainmaker barrier by roughly 17%. Reduced damage dealt to an opponent's umbrella by roughly 20%. Reduced damage dealt to an opponent's Splash Wall by roughly 20%. Splat Dualies Enperry Splat Dualies Hero Dualie Replicas Increased ink consumption for a dodge roll from 6% of the player's Ink Tank to 9%. Specifications for some sub weapons have been changed. Sub Weapon Adjustment Ink Mine When two Ink Mines are placed in a stage and then a third is placed, the first Ink Mine explodes rather than simply disappearing. Ink Mine explosions now deal 45.0 damage to a player at extremely close range, and deal 35.0 damage in all other instances. Specifications for some special weapons have been changed. Special Weapon Adjustment Inkjet Reduced active time by roughly 0.5 seconds. Sting Ray Now blocked not only by the opponent's spawn point barrier, but also by the barrier of user's spawn point as well. Specifications for points required for some specials have been changed. Weapon Before After Rapid Blaster 210 200 Neo Splash-o-matic 200 210 Firefin Splat Charger 190 200 Firefin Splatterscope 190 200 Explosher 190 200 Custom Dual Squelcher 200 210 Tenta Brella 170 180 Adjusted the coloring of display elements in certain Ranked Battle modes, which previously obscured on-screen numbers, depending on the ink color. Adjusted character posture so that the direction ink shoots matches the direction that the weapon is pointed when firing in midair with shooters and dualies. This is a visual change only; there is no change to the direction the ink shoots. Fixed an issue in which the player would stay airborne longer than intended if they fired while jumping near a wall and hit their head on a metal grating. Fixed an issue in causing the sound effect for destroying an opponent's umbrella to play multiple times due to poor connection quality. Fixed an issue in which the surface around a spawn point would not be inked when a bomb or other object was exploded within the spawn point barrier. Fixed an issue causing the landing marker for a super jumping player that fell off the stage or landed in water to stay visible for a brief time on the screens of other players. Fixed an issue with certain chargers causing slightly more ink than intended to be consumed when firing a fully-charged shot after charging while in midair. Fixed an issue causing shots from the Bloblobber fired while up against a corner stage terrain not to bounce away, but to disappear inside the stage terrain instead. Fixed an issue causing Curling Bombs not to damage Splash Walls if the bomb was moving slow enough at the point of impact. Fixed an issue preventing character animations from occurring when using a special weapon while falling. Fixed an issue causing shots fired by the Inkjet not to explode when striking corners of the stage terrain at specific angles and in specific locations. Fixed an issue causing players using an Inkjet to be splatted after being returned to the spot they activated the special if they touched water just as the Inkjet's duration ran out. Fixed a rare issue that caused damage to be dealt to the player and not the armor if the player received damage just as they activated Ink Armor. Fixed an issue when aiming Tenta Missles at midair targets or targets near a drop off that caused the hit markers to display mistakenly in the middle of the stage. Fixed an issue when flinging ink with a roller or firing a charger in a way that would overlap with an Ink Storm's cloud that caused shots from the weapon not to appear correctly. Fixed an issue causing the explosion sound for a Curling Bomb not to occur if the bomb exploded inside a bubble when two bubbles were stacked on one another. Fixed a rare issue in Clam Blitz that caused a power clam tossed at the goal to be unable to be picked up after dropping to the ground. Fixed an issue in Clam Blitz occurring after the barrier had been removed, making the power clam unable to be picked up if it had been thrown repeatedly. Fixed an issue in Clam Blitz causing a match that had previously gone into overtime and should have ended as soon as one team’s counter takes a single point lead, to mistakenly end after that scoring chance ended, or until another clam entered the goal. Fixed an issue in Clam Blitz causing the power clam indicator to point in the wrong direction when a power clam is off-screen. Fixed an issue on the stage Inkblot Art Academy allowing players super jumping from a certain location to reach an elevated position that should be inaccessible. Fixed an issue on the stage Moray Towers causing turf inked not to appear as inked on the turf map. Fixed an issue on the stage Snapper Canal causing bombs tossed onto the grating near the middle of the stage to bounce in an unnatural way. Fixed an issue on the stage Snapper Canal allowing players to enter inside a particular feature of stage terrain. Fixed an issue on the stage Snapper Canal allowing players to get over the barrier surrounding a team’s spawn point. Fixed an issue on the stage Walleye Warehouse allowing players super jumping from a certain location to reach an elevated position that should be inaccessible. Fixed an issue on the stage Piranha Pit allowing players to enter inside a particular feature of stage terrain. Fixed an issue on the stage Camp Triggerfish causing players to fall off the stage when moving toward one of the pillars on the floodgates. Fixed an issue on the stage Camp Triggerfish causing players who super jumped to a Squid Beakon in a certain location to enter inside the stage terrain. Fixed an issue on the stage Wahoo World allowing players to enter inside a particular feature of stage terrain. Fixed an issue in Ancho-V Games causing players who returned to the area around the lifts after using an Inkjet, or super jumped to that location to enter inside the stage terrain. Changes to Salmon Run Increased the number of Golden Eggs that appear after defeating a Griller from three to five. Rank can now be reset to Profreshional 40 when visiting Grizzco Industries once title and rank have reached Profreshional 100 or higher. After failing a Salmon Run job, your numeric rank will decrease half the amount it normally would if one of the following conditions was met: You were playing with less than a full work crew A teammate other than you contributed an insignificant number of Golden Eggs in relation to the total collected by the team. The background music playing during a regular enemy wave will now change when players use a certain combination of supplied weapons. Players can now earn more than 99,999 Grizzco points during a single session of Salmon Run. It is now possible to set the Hazard Level to 200% right from the start when playing at The Shoal. Added two new weapons to choose from when playing at The Shoal. Fixed an issue causing a Maws not to attack even while directly below a player’s feet. Made an issue causing a Maws to attack in midair when targeting a player that has just jumped off of a drop off less likely to occur. Fixed an issue causing shots fired at the indestructible portions of a Steel Eel to continue to be blocked after it had been defeated but before it had completely disappeared. Fixed an issue causing a Golden Egg that a Snatcher had picked up not to drop when the Snatcher was defeated. Fixed an issue preventing damage to a Steelhead’s weak point if stage terrain of a particular height was above the Steelhead. Fixed an issue causing the duration gauge for the Inkjet not to display properly if the Inkjet was used repeatedly in short bursts. Fixed an issue causing the player to enter into stage terrain if a Steel Eel or Scrapper was present when returning to the spot an Inkjet was activated. Fixed an issue in which disconnections were caused during fog events when multiple Goldies were defeated simultaneously, creating a large number of Golden Eggs all at once. Fixed an issue on the Lost Outpost stage in which a Griller targeting a player standing near the egg basket would switch to target another player instead. Fixed an issue on the Salmonid Smokeyard stage in which players who jumped repeatedly in a location where the egg basket appears during low tide wouldn’t drown when the water level went up. Changes to Spectator Mode Player icons in the upper portion of the screen will now display the following information: combined total of splats and assists, number of specials used, and current special gauge amount. Pressing the - button while spectating will toggle this display on and off. It is now possible to zoom further out on certain stages when using the top-down camera view than it was previously. Added an automatic spectator camera that will switch between the players it focuses on automatically. For details, press the + button and review information related to controls after becoming the spectator but before confirming you are “Ready.” Fixed an issue causing the animation shown in spectator mode to appear differently than on the player’s screen when damaging the Rainmaker barrier with a Bubble Blower bubble or Ink Storm. Fixed an issue when spectating Clam Blitz causing the goal to disappear from the display depending on how the camera view was switched. Slightly extended the range of camera movement when spectating Blackbelly Skatepark making the goals in Clam Blitz matches easier to see. Changes to Single Player Fixed an issue occurring when jumping on a ride rail after charging a shot with a Splatling or Charger causing the player to keep the charge but not removing the appropriate amount of ink from their ink tank. Fixed an issue occurring when jumping onto a ride rail with a charged charger shot and releasing ZR at the same time, causing the shot not to fire. Fixed issues with the pose of the player character when preparing to use sub weapons and certain special weapons while riding a ride rail. Changes to the Octo Expansion Fixed an issue occurring when jumping on a ride rail after charging a shot with a Splatling or Charger causing the player to keep the charge but not removing the appropriate amount of ink from their ink tank. Fixed an issue occurring when jumping onto a ride rail with a charged charger shot and releasing ZR at the same time, causing the shot not to fire. Fixed an issue in stages with restrictions on player ink in which pressing ZR in midair while using a charger failed to charge the weapon. Fixed issues with the pose of the player character when preparing to use sub weapons and certain special weapons while riding a ride rail. Other Changes When players choose to Change gear and continue! and are selecting gear in between Regular and Splatfest battles, a sound effect will now play notifying them when time is running out. When viewing the friend list, a sound effect will now play notifying you when a friend becomes available to play with. Fixed an issue occurring on the X Rank results screen while calculating X Power in which the highest X Power would temporarily be displayed incorrectly, preventing the actual number from being displayed. Fixed an issue causing the current page number not to display correctly if you have too many clothing items. Fixed an issue that caused the game to crash when tapping an amiibo on the Equip screen after choosing Change gear and continue! after a match. Fixed an issue occurring while taking pictures with an amiibo character during a Splatfest in a specific location that caused other players to appear between the camera and subject. Ver. 3.2.2 (Released August 8, 2018) Changes to Multiplayer Fixed the issue where a player that has used Super Jump or the Inkjet may suddenly become invisible and returned to the center of the stage. Ver. 3.2.1 (Released July 27, 2018) Changes to Competitive Play Fixed an issue where bombs thrown from some types of Bomb Launchers would not cause damage when they directly hit a bubble from a Bubble Blower. Fixed an issue where a Rainmaker shot that hits a bubble from a Bubble Blower would only do some of the intended damage. Fixed an issue where Tenta Missiles fired while locked on to a Rainmaker barrier would not impact the position of the Rainmaker barrier. Changes to Salmon Run Fixed an issue where, when a lot of Snatchers are present, the max number of Golden Eggs on the stage goes down and new Golden Eggs do not appear. Downloading this update data will make it so that you cannot communicate with players using previous update data when in The Shoal. Ver. 3.2.0 (Released July 13, 2018) Changes to amiibo Splatoon 2 is now compatible with the Pearl and Marina amiibo. Registering Pearl and Marina as your supporter and fulfilling certain requirements will allow you to change the on-screen appearance and sound effects for Squid Beatz 2. Changes to Multiplayer Specifications for some of the main weapons have been changed. Main Weapon Adjustment Sploosh-o-matic Neo Sploosh-o-matic Expanded radius of ink coverage for shots on impact when shooting downward. Increased damage dealt to the barrier around the Rainmaker by roughly 10%. Splattershot Jr. Custom Splattershot Jr. Now uses a special ink tank with 10% increased ink capacity. Splash-o-matic Neo Splash-o-matic Shooting while jumping will no longer cause shot variability. Aerospray MG Aerospray RG Expanded radius of ink coverage for shots on impact when shooting downward. Luna Blaster Luna Blaster Neo Decreased shot variability when shooting immediately after jumping by roughly 20%. L-3 Nozzlenose L-3 Nozzlenose D Increased movement speed while shooting by roughly 11%. H-3 Nozzlenose H-3 Nozzlenose D Changed the animation when all three shots fired with a single trigger pull hit their target and deal over 100.0 damage in total. Expanded radius of ink coverage when shots hit walls. Squeezer Foil Squeezer Decreased time until firing by 6/60 of a second after pressing and holding ZR. Carbon Roller Carbon Roller Deco Decreased ink consumption when inking the ground with the roller while moving at top speed by roughly 33%. Splat Roller Krak-On Splat Roller Hero Roller Replica Decreased ink consumption when inking the ground with the roller while moving at top speed by roughly 33%. Dynamo Roller Gold Dynamo Roller Decreased ink consumption when inking the ground with the roller while moving at top speed by roughly 33%. Flingza Roller Foil Flingza Roller Decreased ink consumption when inking the ground with the roller while moving at top speed by roughly 33%. Classic Squiffer New Squiffer Now able to charge in mid-air at the same speed as when on the ground. E-liter 4K Custom E-liter 4K Increased damage dealt to the barrier around the Rainmaker by a fully-charged shot by roughly 15%. E-liter 4K Scope Custom E-liter 4K Scope Increased damage dealt to the barrier around the Rainmaker by a fully-charged shot by roughly 15%. Hydra Splatling Increased damage dealt by a fully-charged shot from 35.0 to 40.0, and by all other shots from 28.0 to 32.0. Undercover Brella Undercover Sorella Brella After splatting an opponent or assisting a teammate in splatting an opponent, the umbrella canopy will reappear if it had been destroyed, or be restored to maximum durability if it was still functional. Rapid Blaster Rapid Blaster Deco Decreased radius of damage dealt by exploding shots by roughly 6%. Rapid Blaster Pro Rapid Blaster Pro Deco Decreased radius of damage dealt by exploding shots by roughly 6%. Ballpoint Splatling Decreased charging speed when in mid-air or out of ink by roughly 33%. Dualie Squelchers Custom Dualie Squelchers Increased ink consumption when shooting by roughly 20%. Specifications for some of the sub weapons have been changed. Sub Weapon Adjustment Point Sensor Increased initial speed by roughly 21%, and also increased throwing distance. Autobomb Decreased ink consumption when using a standard ink tank from 70% to 55% of ink tank capacity. Decreased maximum target tracking time by 1.5 seconds. Decreased damage radius when exploding by roughly 7%. Specifications for some of the special weapons have been changed. Special Weapon Adjustment Tenta Missiles When locked on to a single target, 10 missiles will be launched at once, and will strike the area around the target. When locked on to two targets, five missiles will now be launched, and the span of time between each launch has been decreased. When the gear ability Special Power Up is equipped, in addition to the its other benefits, the radius of turf inked by missiles when they land has also been increased. Tenta Missiles are now able to lock on to the barrier surrounding the Rainmaker. Decreased damage dealt by each missile to the Rainmaker barrier by roughly 50%. Adjusted the position of the lock on indicator when targeting players, and made it easier to see how many missiles will be launched. Splashdown Increased radius of turf inked when landing, and decreased gaps of uninked turf. Inkjet Increased visibility of the mark indicating where the Inkjet user will return to after its effect ends. Added a gauge to the above mark that indicates when the Inkjet user will return. Points required for using specials have changed for certain main weapons. Main Weapon Before After 96 Gal Deco 190 180 Custom Blaster 180 190 Clash Blaster 170 180 Clash Blaster Neo 170 180 Rapid Blaster Deco 180 190 Slosher Hero Slosher Replica 180 190 Mini Splatling 180 190 Ballpoint Splatling 190 200 Splat Dualies Hero Dualie Replicas 180 190 Enperry Splat Dualies 190 200 Dualie Squelchers 180 190 Custom Dualie Squelchers 190 200 Dark Tetra Dualies 170 190 Fixed an issue causing players to clip into unintended locations when super jumping to an ally who themselves were mid-super jump while experiencing severe network lag. Fixed an issue preventing splash damage from properly being dealt by shots from an Explosher when they hit a Splash Wall or the Rainmaker barrier and the portion of the stage the wall or barrier is connected to. Fixed an issue causing the Ink Mine explosion indicator to appear in the wrong position when multiple Ink Mines have been placed and a new Ink Mine is placed immediately after one of them explodes. Fixed an issue preventing splash damage from bombs and other weapons from being properly dealt to Splash Walls placed on sloped surfaces when the damage is dealt from downhill of the Splash Wall and also hits the portion of the stage the wall is connected to. Fixed an issue causing players using the Splashdown special in specific locations to appear to other players to be floating in empty space outside the stage when they are actually still within the stage. Fixed an issue causing shots fired when using the Inkjet special to explode immediately when firing with a stage object behind you if the object is at a certain angle. Fixed an issue causing the indicator showing the location a player will return to after using the Inkjet special to briefly not display when the network connection is poor. Fixed an issue allowing players to jump slightly further when using a Baller special than when performing a standard jump. Fixed an issue preventing bombs from dealing maximum damage on a direct hit to bubbles created by the Bubble Blower once the bubbles reached a certain size. Fixed an issue in Rainmaker causing the Rainmaker's aiming reticle not to appear in the correct location when targeting an opponent's Brella, Splash Wall, or spawn point barrier. Fixed an issue in Clam Blitz causing the match to very rarely end suddenly when, during overtime, the losing team successfully threw a Power Clam at the opponent's goal. Changes to Ranked Battle In Ranked Battle, after eight players assemble in a lobby, they are split into teams by taking weapon characteristics into account. After reviewing these characteristics, players will be classified by a greater number of characteristics. "	Fixed an issue causing Clam Blitz rank to incorrectly display as S+9 on the screen displaying Rank X positions for the previous month when a player has attained Rank X in any mode other than Clam Blitz and also has a Clam Blitz rank of between S+0 and S+8. Fixed an issue causing an incorrect calculation period to display on the screen displaying Rank X positions for the previous month. Changes to Salmon Run On Marooner's Bay, the following adjustments have been made during Goldie events: Number of Gushers has been decreased by one. Goldie movement pattern has been changed. The following adjustments have been made during Mothership events: Chinooks will now appear more frequently. Decreased time in which coolers break by themselves. Decreased the maximum number of mini Salmonids that can appear in the stage at the same time. The following adjustments have been made during fog events: The number of Golden Eggs that appears after defeating a Goldie will now either be one, five, or 10, selected at random. Two new weapon types are now available when playing Salmon Run at the Shoal. Made an issue, in which Maws would appear to not be attacking on the screens of some players, though it was attacking on another player's screen, less likely to occur. Fixed an issue causing a Goldie to disappear from a certain player's screen while still visible to other players, during Goldie events. Fixed an issue causing Chinooks to mistakenly drop coolers outside the stage during Mothership events. Fixed an issue causing coolers to remain in the stage after the start of the next wave following a Mothership event. Fixed an issue in Marooner's Bay causing players not to drown when the water level returns to normal height if they were standing on the location the egg basket appears during a low tide. Changes to the Octo Expansion Fixed an issue occurring when breaking stacked crates with the Baller causing the player to enter into the crate dropping down from above. Fixed an issue in Whack-Fu Station preventing game progress if certain actions were performed in the right order. Fixed an issue in Drop the Bass Station causing players to mistakenly clip into the stage geometry. Fixed an issue preventing game progress if a player failed a challenge at the same time they recovered their armor or picked up new armor. Fixed an issue occurring in a stage near the end of the expansion causing a specific cut scene to not play correctly when replaying the stage after clearing it. Fixed an issue in a cut scene near the end of the expansion causing a character's outfit to glow more than originally intended. Other Changes When pressing B to return to Inkopolis Square from Grizzco Industries, players will appear near the Grizzco entrance. Fixed an issue occurring during Splatfests causing players you had battled with recently not to appear in Inkopolis Square. Fixed an issue causing the "hair" of Octoling Boy characters to stick out in unintended ways when the Samurai Helmet was equipped, depending on the hairstyle. Ver. 3.1.0 (Released June 13, 2018) Changes Related to DLC Added support for the DLC Pack, Splatoon 2: Octo Expansion . Players who have pre-purchased this content can play it by updating the DLC and software. For the DLC update, please follow the instructions displayed on the screen once you have updated the software. Changes to Multiplayer Specifications for some of the main weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Dark Tetra Dualies Decreased ink consumption from performing a dodge roll by roughly 25%. Undercover Brella Undercover Sorella Brella Expanded the area covered by ink after shots hit a surface. Blaster Custom Blaster Hero Blaster Replica Decreased damage radius of exploding shots by roughly 6%. Specifications for points required for some specials have been changed. Weapon Adjustment .52 Gal 180 >170 Krak-On Splat Roller 180 >170 Enperry Splat Dualies 180 >190 Dapple Dualies Nouveau 170 >180 Fixed an issue causing shots from a Sloshing Machine or Sloshing Machine Neo to appear to cover stage obstacles with the opponent’s ink color when they hit it directly after being fired from a certain angle. Fixed an issue causing opponents standing behind the launched umbrella portion of a Splat Brella or Sorella Brella to be difficult to see under the effects of Thermal Ink, a Sting Ray, or Haunt. Fixed an issue allowing players to dodge roll through the launched umbrella portion of a brella when approaching from a specific angle. Fixed an issue causing players Super Jumping to an ally who had entered an Inkrail after using an Inkjet to Super Jump to the beginning of the Inkrail. Fixed an issue causing missiles fired from a Tenta Missles special to explode if they touched an opponent’s Splash Wall or brella immediately after being launched. Fixed an issue causing the Super Jump sound effect to be delayed when performing a Super Jump while attacking with certain weapons with multiple Quick Super Jump gear abilities equipped. Fixed an issue in Starfish Mainstage preventing bombs thrown onto the sloped walkways on the sides of the stage from being inked when hit. Fixed an issue in Humpback Pump Track causing bombs and players to clip into stage features in the middle of the stage. Fixed an issue in Sturgeon Shipyard causing players Super Jumping to an ally standing on the edge of the area covered by the drawbridge to fall off the stage depending on the timing of their jump. Fixed an issue in Manta Maria causing players to be treated as if they’d fallen off-screen after performing a dodge roll on top of certain walls. Fixed an issue in Walleye Warehouse causing the aiming reticle to mistakenly indicate that a shot would hit when aiming at an opponent in squid form with a charger while they are near a spawn point, concealed by a stage feature, and in a higher position than you. Fixed an issue in Piranha Pit causing players moving across certain sloped surfaces to suffer a slight drag on their movement. Fixed an issue in Piranha Pit causing bombs thrown or brellas launched onto certain surfaces to disappear. Fixed an issue in Piranha Pit during modes other than Rainmaker, allowing players in the lower portion of the stage’s outer areas to clip into stage features. Reduced the space between certain crates and stage terrain in Piranha Pit during Turf War, Splat Zones, and Clam Blitz matches. Fixed an issue in Piranha Pit during Tower Control matches causing Splash Walls that bounce off the tower when thrown and then land on a conveyor belt to continue moving as if on the tower. Fixed an issue in Camp Triggerfish allowing players to jump over areas they were not intended to. Fixed an issue in Camp Triggerfish causing players to mistakenly encounter an impassable barrier when climbing certain walls in squid form. Fixed an issue in Camp Triggerfish allowing players in squid form to enter into the lower portion of hand rails that certain weapon fire will not pass through. Changes to Salmon Run Fixed an issue preventing shots that move at high speed, such as a fully-charged charger shot from dealing damage after hitting their target directly. Fixed an issue causing Power Eggs picked up after Wave 3 ends, but prior to returning to the ship to not be added to the Power Egg count of the player who picked them up, even though they were accounted for in the team’s total Power Egg count. Fixed an issue causing a single player to be carrying two Golden Eggs at the same time when multiple players pick up multiple Golden Eggs simultaneously. Fixed an issue in Marooner’s Bay rarely causing players to clip into the ship. Changes to Single Player Campaign Fixed an issue when fighting the boss of Slimeskin Garrison with a weapon other than the Hero Charger causing unintended gibs to appear when defeating enemies. Other Changes Fixed an issue causing the game to shut down when using an amiibo to change equipment on the Equip screen. Fixed an issue in Ranked Battle causing weapons not to glow at the start of matches after losing a match while playing with less than a full team due to issues like connection errors. Fixed an issue occurring in certain stages when taking pictures with an amiibo causing the player’s character to float above the ground. Fixed an issue in The Reef when taking pictures with the Inkling Squid amiibo causing the player character not to be looking directly at the amiibo. Fixed an issue in Squid Beatz 2 causing the position of the green button prompt to appear slightly lower than intended when a green “press any button” prompt and a pink “press left and right at the same time” prompt occurred simultaneously. Ver. 3.0.1 (Released May 8, 2018) Changes to Rank Fixed an issue for X Rank causing the “Danger!” warning message to appear mistakenly just after the calculating period ended. Changes to Single Player Campaign Fixed an issue causing instances of unintended text strings to display for some of Callie’s gameplay analysis messages. Other Changes Fixed an issue in Private Battles at The Shoal causing the game to shut down when changing equipped gear. Fixed an issue causing on-screen image corruption when the game had been running for a long time. Fixed an issue occurring for specific hairstyles with certain gear equipped, where switching between kid and squid form repeatedly caused portions of the character’s hair to appear in a mistaken position. Ver. 3.0.0 (Released April 23, 2018) Changes to Gear New gear has been added to the shops. Changes to game music Added two new songs that will play during multiplayer matches. Changes to single-player mode Fulfilling a certain requirement will cause Callie (from the Squid Sisters!) to appear at Tentakeel Outpost. Changes to Ranked Battle A new rank type, “X Rank” is now available. Changes to Splatfests When Splatfest results are revealed, team voting percentages and win percentages will now display to the hundredths digit after the decimal point. Until now, when participating in Splatfest Battles on your own, your Splatfest Power would not decrease after playing with a reduced number of allies for a certain amount of time. This condition has been adjusted so that playing with a disadvantageous number of players for even a short time will not cause your Splatfest Power to decrease. Changes to Regular Battle When playing multiple matches with few allies your Vibe Meter will not change when you lose. Changes to Multiplayer Fixed an issue causing the ink tank display to mistakenly appear empty when in squid form and low on ink. Fixed an issue causing players to occasionally ascend sloped terrain faster than normal by facing the slope and pressing B repeatedly while proceeding. Fixed an issue allowing players submerged in ink on a wall to be detected by the aiming reticle of opponents standing on the other side of the wall. Fixed an issue that incorrectly extended the firing range of certain weapons significantly when firing just prior to landing. Fixed an issue causing players to enter stage objects when the landing point of their super jump was surrounded by obstacles. Fixed an issue causing the landing or impact indicator to not display correctly when readying a sub weapon for use while facing a horizontal ceiling. Fixed an issue causing shots fired from blaster weapons not to ink certain walls. Fixed an issue causing shots fired from chargers by charging for a brief moment when changing from squid to kid form to not fire in the direction of the aiming reticle, and to disappear immediately instead. Fixed an issue causing shots from sloshers to incorrectly pass through certain pieces of stage terrain and ink the ground just beyond that terrain. Fixed an issue causing the hit animation of a Sloshing Machine’s shots to not display in the correct location when the spiral portion of the shot hit placed objects like Splash Walls directly. Fixed an issue causing an unnecessary hit animation to display when a Curling Bomb slid across a Sponge. Fixed an issue causing Sponges not to change size when hit with a Curling Bomb on a particular side. Fixed an issue making it difficult to place Ink Mines on top of the tower in Tower Control. Previously, when attacking a player performing a Splashdown special just prior to their descent, the condition of the internet connection determined whether or not damage was dealt. Dealing damage in this situation will no longer depend on internet connection quality. Due to this change, when attacking opponents just prior to their descent, they will no longer appear not to take damage when they actually have. Fixed an issue causing players using brush weapons who performed an attack while simultaneously activating a Splashdown special during a super jump to not perform the Splashdown. Fixed an issue causing a player hit with splash damage by an Inkjet shot not to take damage when the shot appeared not to hit on the screen of the attacking player, but did appear to hit on the screen of the player being attacked. Fixed an issue causing a Sting Ray’s firing animation to continue to display on the screens of other players when getting on an Ink Rail while using the Sting Ray. Fixed an issue causing an Ink Storm’s raining animation not to display in the correct location when swimming through its area of effect. Climbing surfaces with the Baller where inkable walls connect to non-inkable walls will now be easier. Fixed an issue causing Respawn Punisher to not take effect when defeated by an enemy with that gear ability while the player also had Respawn Punisher equipped. Changed the effect of Respawn Punisher so that when a player has it equipped, allies splatted by the explosion from the Rainmaker after its time limit runs out will not suffer its effects. When an opponent who splats you is using the Respawn Punisher or Haunt and the effects of those gear abilities is activated, that activation will stand out clearly on the screen while waiting to respawn. Fixed an issue in Tower Control matches causing players caught between a stage terrain feature and the metal grating portion of the tower’s platform to be pushed inside the stage feature. Fixed an issue in Rainmaker matches causing the explosion animation from the Rainmaker’s shots to appear after the actual explosion when its shots hit a Splash Wall or expanded Brella. Fixed an issue in Clam Blitz causing the barrier to be destroyed at the same time the goal descended when a Power Clam landed on top of the goal in its raised position. Fixed an issue in Clam Blitz matches causing clams tossed by other players not to be picked up when touched when the player’s internet connection quality is poor. Fixed an issue in Clam Blitz matches allowing players to remain on the cover in the upper part of the goal. Fixed an issue in Starfirsh Mainstage where placement of obstacles could be slightly off causing slight asymmetry between the two sides of the map. Fixed an issue in Sturgeon Shipyard causing bubbles from the Bubble Blower that explode beneath the central bridge to mistakenly ink the walkway on the bridge. Fixed an issue in Sturgeon Shipyard causing the surfaces of the drawbridge to not count on the turf map when inked at a specific time while in motion by bombs or other objects. Fixed an issue in Manta Maria during Rainmaker matches allowing players to make their way deep into enemy turf from above the goal. Fixed an issue in Blackbelly Skatepark during Rainmaker matches allowing players to make their way deep into enemy turf by making the side of a crate in your turf uninkable, then making use of the side of the crate. Fixed an issue in Blackbelly Skatepark during Rainmaker matches allowing players to make their way deep into enemy turf from above the goal. Fixed an issue in Piranha Pit allowing players to make their way deep into enemy turf by using slightly sloped surfaces and the corner of certain stage features. Fixed an issue in Piranha Pit causing the ripples created by moving through ink while swimming on conveyor belts to appear in the wrong location. Fixed an issue in Piranha Pit allowing players to move inside certain stage features from specific corners on those stage features. Fixed an issue in Piranha Pit causing Splash Walls and Sprinklers to break immediately when placed at the base of a conveyor belt. Fixed an issue in Piranha Pit causing Splash Walls and Sprinklers placed on specific conveyor belts to break when they reached the end of the belt. Fixed an issue in Piranha Pit during Tower Control matches allowing players to jump off the tower in the area of the 3rd checkpoint, reach an Ink Rail, and make their way deep into enemy turf. Specifications for some of the main, sub, and special weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment .96 Gal .96 Gal Deco Decreased trajectory variance of first shot while also increasing time required to reach maximum shot variance when firing continuously. Luna Blaster Luna Blaster Neo Increased area covered by ink at your feet when firing. L-3 Nozzlenose L-3 Nozzlenose D Now more likely to ink the area at your feet when firing. Squeezer Increased firing range when holding ZR to fire continuously by roughly 4%. Decreased ink consumption when holding ZR to fire continuously by roughly 10%. Dynamo Roller Gold Dynamo Roller Increased number of ink droplets generated by a horizontal swing and decreased gaps between uninked turf when inking the ground or attacking. Ink now covers a wider area when performing a horizontal swing. Flingza Roller Foil Flingza Roller Adjusted distance at which damage from a horizontal swing begins to decrease. Increased distances at which damage exceeding 100.0 is dealt by 9%, and damage exceeding 50.0 is dealt by roughly 12%. Inkbrush Inkbrush Nouveau Increased overall spread of ink generated by swinging the brush, with the spread of ink closest to the player seeing the biggest increase, making it easier to ink continuous areas of turf. Classic Squiffer Area at player’s feet will now always be inked when firing. Splat Charger Firefin Splat Charger Hero Charger Replica Area at player’s feet will now always be inked when firing. Splatterscope Firefin Splatterscope Area at player’s feet will now always be inked when firing. E-liter 4K Custom E-liter 4K Area at player’s feet will now always be inked when firing. E-liter 4K Scope Custom E-liter 4K Scope Area at player’s feet will now always be inked when firing. Bamboozler 14 Mk I Increased maximum damage from 80.0 to 85.0. Goo Tuber Custom Goo Tuber Area at player’s feet will now always be inked when firing. Glooga Dualies Increased firing range after performing a dodge roll by roughly 13%. Splat Brella Sorella Brella Hero Brella Replica Increased area covered by ink when firing. Tenta Brella Increased area covered by ink at player’s feet when the brella is open. Increased area of ink coverage generated when umbrella portion is launched. Decreased time for new umbrella to be generated after it is either destroyed or launched from 6 to 5 seconds. Splash Wall Decreased time after using before ink recovery begins by roughly 1 second. Now possible to create a wall when a wall you’ve created already exists in the stage. Creating a new wall will cause the older one to disappear. Decreased least amount of time for wall to open after being placed by roughly 15/60 of a second. This change decreases the time until the wall opens when creating a wall on either flat ground or facing a downward slope by roughly 15/60 of a second. When creating a wall while facing an upward slope or other condition that causes the wall to be placed immediately, there will be no change in how quickly the wall opens. Squid Beakon Increased durability by roughly 20%. Due to the above fix, damage dealt by certain attacks has also changed. Decreased damage dealt by Sting Rays by roughly 58%. Decreased damage dealt by Ink Storms by roughly 67%. Increased damage dealt by Nozzlenose weapons by roughly 20%. Increased damage dealt by Blaster weapons by roughly 20%. Increased damage dealt by vertical swing attacks with Roller weapons by roughly 20%. Ink Mine With the R button pressed and held, player is now able to go into squid form immediately by pressing ZL, even before the Ink Mine has been fully set. Curling Bomb Decreased radius for both ink coverage and damage by Curling Bomb explosion when R is pressed and immediately released. Bomb now grows in size the longer R is held, increasing ink coverage while traveling and area of ink coverage and damage radius when it explodes. Decreased amount of time before ink recovery begins after use in proportion to how long R button is held. Sprinkler Decreased ink consumption from 70% to 60% of ink tank capacity. Decreased degree to which less area is inked proportional to distance between Sprinkler and terrain floor. Increased durability by roughly 20%. Due to the above fix, damage dealt by certain attacks has also changed. Decreased damage dealt by Sting Rays by roughly 58%. Decreased damage dealt by Ink Storms by roughly 67%. Increased damage dealt by Nozzlenose weapons by roughly 20%. Increased damage dealt by Blaster weapons by roughly 20%. Increased damage dealt by vertical swing attacks with Roller weapons by roughly 20%. Decreased range and area of ink coverage during time after placement until Sprinkler output begins to weaken. Curling-Bomb Launcher As a sub weapon, the size of Curling Bombs will now change depending on how long the R button is held, but Curling Bombs generated by the Curling Bomb Launcher will always be the same size, regardless of button press duration. Due to this change, area of ink coverage while Curling Bombs are traveling has been increased slightly. Due to this change, area of ink coverage and damage radius of Curling Bomb explosions has been decreased slightly. Sting Ray Reduced damage dealt by roughly 10%. Using the Sting Ray while standing within the barrier on your spawn point will now push you outside the barrier. Specifications for some of the gear abilities have been changed. Gear Ability Adjustment Ink Recovery Up Increased effect when in kid form by roughly 6%. Special Saver Made effect more likely to occur even when using fewer pieces of gear with Special Saver. The effect of Special Saver when used at maximum capacity remains the same. Ink Resistance Up Improved effect of reducing maximum amount of damage dealt by stepping in opponent’s ink. Speed at which damage is dealt when stepping in opponent’s ink will now be slower. Opening Gambit While active, Opening Gambit’s duration will be extended by 7.5 seconds for each opponent splatted by the player or assist they are credited with. Haunt Opposing players marked with Haunt will now incur the penalties of Respawn Punisher (additional time before respawn, further reduction of special gauge when respawning) when splatted. Thermal Ink Duration extended from 6 to 12 seconds. Respawn Punisher Increased degree to which the effect of the gear ability Quick Respawn is nullified from 80% to 85%. Drop Roller After Drop Roller is used, the player will receive the effects of Run Speed Up, Swim Speed Up, and Ink Resistance Up for roughly 3 seconds. Comeback Decreased the boost to stats while Comeback is active from 1.2 times the value of the main gear power to 1 times that value. Ninja Squid Ninja Squid will now nullify roughly 20% of the effect provided by the player’s Swim Speed Up gear ability. Specifications for points required for some specials have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Luna Blaster Neo 180 >170 Clash Blaster Neo 180 >170 Zink Mini Splatling 200 >190 Blaster Hero Blaster Replica 170 >190 Slosher Deco 200 >220 Heavy Splatling Hero Splatling Replica 180 >200 Changes to Salmon Run Added 5 weapons to the list of weapons available to choose from when playing Salmon Run at The Shoal. Fixed an issue causing players to rarely move inside the stage object when in contact with the egg basket while it contained Golden Eggs. Fixed an issue causing damage indicators to not appear or damage to be registered by attacking a Steel Eel’s weak point when multiple Steel Eels gathered in the same location. Fixed an issue causing players to rarely be unable to pick up any more Golden Eggs when multiple players tried to pick up the same Golden Egg and a player disconnected from the match. Fixed an issue preventing players from rescuing downed friend (in life preserver form) even when hitting them directly with a Splat Bomb when the internet connection quality is poor. Changes to Spectator Mode Fixed an issue in Private Battles when a player is using spectator mode, causing a sound effect to play in the middle of the stage as if the player were submerging themselves in ink. Fixed an issue causing the hit indicators for the Sting Ray to not display correctly when switching between the perspective of a player using the Sting Ray and other perspectives. Other Changes When a player has reached X Rank in the Ranked Battle mode they are currently playing pressing in the L and R sticks at the same time while in the lobby will cause the player to strike a special pose. Fixed an issue in the Style tab of the Equip menu screen where the order of hairstyles for Girl characters differed from the order in which they were displayed in Player Settings. Ver. 2.3.3 (Released March 25, 2018) Changes to Salmon Run Fixed the issue where friends couldn’t join the Online Lounge if a part time job was created with Grizzco. Ver. 2.3.2 (Released March 13, 2018) Changes to Multiplayer Issues where players would slide or perform a super landing in Arowana Mall would sometimes lead to them being treated as though they landed outside the map have been fixed. Issues where it was difficult to discern between different colors of ink in Goby Arena during festivals have been fixed. Ver. 2.3.1 (Released March 1, 2018) Changes to Multiplayer Clam Blitz mode: Fixed the problem where bullets or clams were able to pass through the covers at the top of the goals. Ver. 2.3.0 (Released February 27, 2018) Changes to Multiplayer Made it more difficult for an issue to occur in which the camera would enter the terrain and the screen would momentarily go blank if the player repeatedly jumped with a wall at their back. Fixed an issue in which the player would slow down for a moment when climbing some slopes while submerged. Fixed an issue in which, when the sub weapon becomes available while recharging ink while submerged, the animation displayed on the Ink Tank would momentarily be displayed in the center of the stage only on the player’s screen. Fixed an issue in which, when the player touched the barrier at the opponents’ starting point, the player would be repelled higher than intended or be able to jump while being repelled. Reduced jump power when standing on a sponge that is the opponents’ team color. Fixed a rare issue in which an Autobomb would pass through terrain when thrown into a corner. Fixed an issue in which sub weapons, clams, or Power Clams would pass through terrain when thrown while clipping into a place where terrain and a fence touch. Fixed an issue in which, when aiming at the edge of a Splash Wall or Brella with certain weapons, the reticle would display as if the shot wouldn’t hit, despite the fact that the shot would in fact hit. Fixed an issue in which, when a shot was blocked by the barrier at the opponents’ starting point, walls on the other side of the barrier would actually be inked. Fixed an issue in which, when a shot was blocked by a Splash Wall or Brella, the animation of the ink or shot disappearing would occur on the other side of the Splash Wall or Brella. Fixed a rare issue in which a player would pass through when rolling towards an opponent’s Brella while using a Dualies-type weapon. Fixed a rare issue in which, if a player’s Brella is destroyed the moment that it is opened, damage would not be properly dealt to that player’s Brella after that point. Fixed an issue in which Brellas could go into the terrain when the player readied a Brella-type weapon and launched it while making contact with a corner of terrain. Fixed an issue in which Sprinklers could not deal damage when placed partly inside of terrain. Fixed an issue in which, when a player used Sprinklers in such a way that two land simultaneously, both Sprinklers would be active. Fixed an issue in which ink from an Inkjet would not color the floor when the Inkjet was used in a place with a low ceiling. Fixed an issue in which, when shots from Tenta Missles were firing on a place with a ceiling, the animation indicating where Tenta Missles would land would be shown for a moment on the ceiling. Fixed an issue in which the Sting Ray would not ink the ground when fired towards the barrier of the opponents’ starting area. Fixed an issue in which the player would go into the terrain if the player activated the Splashdown while near the tower fence and terrain. Fixed an issue in which, when the player activated the Splashdown on certain terrain, the player would not land properly and become unable to control their character. Fixed an issue in which, when the player activated the Splashdown on top of certain shapes of sponges, the player would go into the sponge. Fixed an issue in which the player with the Baller could deal body damage to a player on the other side of a thin wall. Fixed an issue in Splat Zones in which the penalty count display would disappear if the opponent took control of an area the moment that the penalty count reached zero. Fixed an issue in Rainmaker in which two Rainmakers would appear in the stage if a disconnection occurred at a certain point in time. Fixed a rare issue in Rainmaker in which the Rainmaker would not deal damage when shot at an opponent’s Splash Wall or Brella. Fixed an issue in Clam Blitz in which the barrier would appear as if destroyed on some players’ screens if a player attempted to destroy it immediately before overtime ended, despite the match having ended before the barrier was destroyed. Fixed an issue in Clam Blitz in which a clam basket stored in an elevated area would block a player’s field of vision. Fixed an issue on Moray Towers in which the starting position of one side’s team would be slightly off-point. Fixed an issue in Rainmaker on Port Mackerel in which a player could not submerge into some walls near the starting point even though they could be painted. Changed the location of some Inkrails in Rainmaker on MakoMart making it so that they cannot be used to carry the Rainmaker to a high platform in your team’s base. Made it so that the tops of shipping containers within Splat Zones are not counted towards zone control in Splat Zones on Walleye Warehouse. Fixed an issue on Shellendorf Institute in which a player climbing a pillar near the center of the map would pass through the terrain and fall. Fixed an issue on Shellendorf Institute in which, when the player throws something like the Suction Bomb at the edge of a glass roof, the bomb would go into the roof and get stuck. Made it so that the top of exhibit displays within Splat Zones are not counted towards zone control in Splat Zones on Shellendorf Institute. Fixed an issue on Arowana Mall in which, if the player activated the Splashdown in a narrow place between a fence and terrain, the player would go into the terrain. Fixed an issue on Arowana Mall in which the player would be repelled in an unintended way when having moved into a narrow place between a fence and terrain. Fixed an issue on Arowana Mall in which bombs or bubbles from the Bubble Blower disappeared in an unnatural way around the central pond. Slightly adjusted the position of the sign indicating the area where the Rainmaker can’t be carried on Arowana Mall in Rainmaker, making it more difficult for a player to get stuck between the path and the sign. Fixed an issue on Arowana Mall in Rainmaker in which the Rainmaker would reappear inside terrain after the player holding the Rainmaker went beneath a high platform near the center and then lost the Rainmaker. Fixed an issue on terrain that moves in Shifty Station which would occasionally move in a halting fashion. Specifications for some of the main, sub, and special weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Aerospray MG Aerospray RG Increased the number of drops of ink per shot. .52 Gal .52 Gal Deco Reduced the amount of sway from the first shot, and extended the time that it takes to reach maximum sway when continuing to shoot. Jet Squelcher Custom Jet Squelcher Reduced sway of shot immediately after jumping by roughly 20%. Clash Blaster Reduced interval between continuous shots from 22/60 of a sec. to 20/60 of a sec. Adjusted the radius of inking and number of drops that rain down so that the inked area per unit shot doesn’t become too large as a result of the above-mentioned improvement to continuous shooting. L-3 Nozzlenose L-3 Nozzlenose D Increased speed of shot speed by roughly 25% without changing shot distance. H-3 Nozzlenose Made it so that shot sway does not increase even when shooting immediately after a jump. Expanded the size of area inked at point of impact. Carbon Roller Extended the distance at which maximum damage is dealt when landing an attack at the extent of a horizontal swing by roughly 35%. E-liter 4K Custom E-liter 4K Increased speed of fully-charged shots by roughly 50% without changing shot distance. Mini Splatling Reduced the time until ink begins to refill after shooting by 10/60 of a sec. Hydra Splatling Extended the time that a shot continues by roughly 25%. Dual Squelcher Reduced shot sway by roughly 20% when firing the first shot from regular (weapon not readied) position. Undercover Brella Expanded overall ink range. Squid Beakon Made it so that the position of opponent players within the area of effect is displayed on all ally’s Turf Maps. Tenta Missiles Made it so that the player can press the ZL Button, enter Squid form, and move around in the period between readying the weapon and firing it. Inkjet Made it so the player can change direction of movement more quickly than before. Baller Made it so the player can change direction of movement more quickly than before. Specifications for points required for some specials have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Custom Splattershot Jr. 190 >180 Tentatek Splattershot 230 >210 .96 Gal 200 >190 Gold Dynamo Roller 200 >190 Splat Roller Hero Roller Replica 170 >180 Slosher Deco 190 >200 Changes to Rank Fixed an issue in Ranked Battle in which, if there was a difference in player numbers from before a match began, it would not be judged as an unfair match. Changes to Salmon Run Made it so that “Hazard Level MAX!!” is displayed when starting a job if the stage hazard level is at the maximum level. In online Salmon Run, the title and rank of the crew affect the stage hazard level. Fixed a rare issue in which a Splat Bomb thrown into the mouth of a Flyfish would not explode, doing no damage. Fixed an issue in which, if the player jumped when a Maws attacked, the attack would not do any damage. Fixed a rare issue in which, even though a Steel Eel was defeated, the torso hit detection would remain in that spot. Fixed an issue in which the vertical swing of a Roller would ink an unintended shape when the 4 players had a certain weapon arrangement. Fixed a rare issue in which a Flyfish would go into the terrain when difficulty was high. Fixed an issue in which Smallfry would remain in the next wave after clearing a Griller event. Fixed a rare issue in which the egg basket wouldn’t appear after the wave started. Fixed an issue when working in a crew with a friend in which, despite both friends having the same title, the player would be treated as having supported a player with a lower title, therefore not raising the player’s rank even though the job was completed. Made it so that more Rank can be carried over at the start of the next job when the player has the title of Profreshional and a Rank of 100 or higher. Current Title & Rank Next Title & Rank Profreshional 100～199 Profreshional 100 Profreshional 200～299 Profreshional 200 Profreshional 300～399 Profreshional 300 Profreshional 400～999 Profreshional 400 Changes to Single Player Fixed an issue in which the player would be pushed out by the tip of an Inkfurler and go through terrain. Fixed an issue in which the player would pass through terrain and fall if a crate hidden in ink appeared in the same location as the player. Fixed an issue in which an Octoballer would not take damage from other attacks while being damaged by an Ink Storm. Fixed an issue in which the player would fall outside of terrain immediately after respawning when defeated at a specific point in time on Stage 24. Other Changes Fixed an issue when taking photos with amiibo on multiplayer stages in which several camera positions on several stages would cause the player’s feet to go into the terrain or float above the floor. Fixed an issue in which part of the boy’s hair would not be displayed correctly when the Squid Clip-Ons or Dust Blocker 2000 were equipped. Fixed an issue in Spectator mode in which the hit animation would not display correctly when viewing from a player’s perspective and that player hit an opponent’s Brella. Fixed an issue in Spectator mode in which some objects would become transparent when viewing from a player’s perspective. Fixed an issue in which the number of disconnects in the last 50 matches increased in SplatNet 2 when joining a Private Battle as a spectating player. Fixed an issue in which the screen would darken unnaturally depending on camera position and direction in the firing range. Ver. 2.2.2 (Released February 7, 2018) Changes to Multiplayer Fixed an issue in Arowana Mall that allowed players to climb over a specific barrier railing, gaining access to the enemy spawn location. Ver. 2.2.1 (Released January 19, 2018) Changes to Multiplayer Fixed an issue when playing Splat Zones in Shellendorf Institute where certain obstacles were only appearing on one team’s side of the map. Fixed an issue in which a fully-charged shot from the Bamboozler 14 Mk I would pass through things such as other players, just as with other fully-charged Charger shots. Changes to Salmon Run Fixed an issue in which a fully-charged shot from the Bamboozler 14 Mk I would pass through things such as Chums, just as with other fully-charged Charger shots. Ver. 2.2.0 (Released January 16, 2018) Changes to Multiplayer Fixed an issue in which the bubble effect displayed when taking damage while submerged would not be displayed if you even momentarily went outside of the ink or treaded on opponent’s ink. Fixed an issue in which, if the player activated the Splashdown while swinging a Roller- or Slosher-type weapon, other players would see them as floating up while holding their weapon aloft. Fixed an issue in which, if the player rolled and inked immediately after doing a vertical swing with a Roller-type weapon, other players would see them as having put away the Roller. Fixed an issue in which, if the player activated the Splashdown towards certain water surfaces, it would display as exploding on other players’ screens, despite it showing the player dying in the water before the explosion on the screen of the one who activated the Splashdown. Fixed an issue in which, if multiple players were overlapping as they move along an Ink Rail, they would move slightly away from the center of the screen. Fixed an issue in which bubbles from a Bubble Blower could take damage from attacks on the other side of terrain when they were close to the surface of said terrain. Fixed a rare issue in Clam Blitz in which players could obtain a clam or power clam that just spawned without having actually touched it. Fixed an issue in Clam Blitz in which, when the goal is located in an upper area, clams or power claims would occasionally be placed somewhere making them unable to be gathered Fixed an issue on The Reef in Rainmaker and Clam Blitz in which players could enter the opponents’ base without using the main route. Fixed an issue on Starfish Mainstage in which, when certain walls are hit by ink, the ink would not show up correctly. Fixed an issue on Starfish Mainstage in Turf War in which players could get points for inking a portion of un-inkable floor. Fixed an issue where the game would forcibly close when a player did a Splashdown in a certain spot under the drawbridge as it was coming down on them in Sturgeon Shipyard. Fixed an issue on Moray Towers in which players could stay in squid form on certain narrow steel girders. Fixed an issue on Snapper Canal in Turf War in which players could ink beneath certain obstacles and get points for it. Adjusted the placement of terrain outside of the stage in Walleye Warehouse, and removed a space from which players could attack only from one team’s base. Fixed an issue on Walleye Warehouse in which a player using an Inkjet could climb above the terrain using a light placed only in one team’s base. Adjusted the lighting in Shellendorf Institute so the brightness doesn’t blow out depending on how light is reflected into the camera. Fixed an issue on Shellendorf Institute in which, when certain unsinkable walls are hit with ink, the game would show the same animation as inking an inkable wall. Fixed an issue on Shellendorf Institute in which bombs thrown at certain walls would disappear without exploding. Fixed an issue on Shellendorf Institute in Splat Zones and Tower Control in which players could briefly through the surface of certain areas of terrain. Fixed an issue on Shellendorf Institute in Turf War, Splat Zones, and Clam Blitz in which the box in the center would not be displayed on the Turf Map. Fixed an issue on terrain that moves in Shifty Station which would occasionally move in a halting fashion. Specifications for some of the main weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Splattershot Jr. Custom Splattershot Jr. Made it easier to ink the area under your feet. Dynamo Roller Gold Dynamo Roller Increased the maximum damage for horizontal/vertical swings from 150.0 to 180.0. Adjusted how damage from horizontal swings decreases over distance. The distance at which you can deal 100.0+ damage remains the same, but the distance at which you can deal 50.0+ damage has been increased by roughly 21%. Adjusted how damage from vertical swings decreases over distance. The distance at which you can deal 100.0+ damage remains the same, but the distance at which you can deal 50.0+ damage has been increased by roughly 11%. Flingza Roller Foil Flingza Roller Expanded the area inkable with a vertical swing. Adjusted how damage from vertical swings decreases over distance. The distance at which you can deal 100.0+ damage has been increased by roughly 11%, and the distance at which you can deal 50.0+ damage has been increased by roughly 13%. Inkbrush Inkbrush Nouveau Increased movement speed while swinging roughly 67%. Bamboozler 14 Mk I Increased in-air charge speed roughly 100%. Goo Tuber Increased damage when not fully charged by roughly 63%. Due to this change, damage becomes 100.0+ when charge reaches roughly 71%. Decreased the range a shot flies just before a full charge by roughly 5%. Slosher Slosher Deco Hero Slosher Replica Reduced movement penalty after firing by 4/60 of a second. Increased the size of the closest ink generated, and the likelihood that it will be generated at the players’ feet. Heavy Splatling Heavy Splatling Deco Hero Splatling Replica Increased damage from 28.0 to 32.0. Dapple Dualies Dapple Dualies Nouveau Slightly increased the size of hit detection between each shot and the player, making it easier to hit an opponent. Reduced ink consumption when firing by roughly 17%. Reduced the interval between sliding and when you can use a sub/special weapon by 4/60 of a second. Splat Dualies Enperry Splat Dualies Hero Dualie Replicas Slightly increased the size of hit detection between each shot and the player, making it easier to hit an opponent. Reduced the interval between sliding and when you can use a sub/special weapon by 4/60 of a second. Glooga Dualies Slightly increased the size of hit detection between each shot and the player, making it easier to hit an opponent. Reduced ink consumption when firing by roughly 11%. Reduced the width of the shot spread for shots immediately after firing. Dual Squelcher Slightly increased the size of hit detection between each shot and the player, making it easier to hit an opponent. Specifications for some of the sub weapons and special weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Splat Bomb Reduced the radius at which the blast can deal 30.0 damage to an opponent by roughly 13%. Suction Bomb Reduced the radius at which the blast can deal 30.0 damage to an opponent by roughly 11%. Curling Bomb Extended the interval between use and when ink begins refilling by 15/60 of a second. Reduced the radius at which the blast can deal 30.0 damage to an opponent by roughly 13%. Curling-Bomb Launcher Extended effect continuation by 40/60 of a second. Bubble Blower Made it easier for bubbles to be popped by opponents’ attacks when they have shrunken by a certain amount. Specifications for points required for some specials have been changed. Weapon Adjustment .52 Gal 190 >180 Custom E-liter 4K 180 >170 Custom E-liter 4K Scope 180 >170 Dual Squelcher 190 >180 Tenta Brella 180 >170 N-ZAP '85 190 >210 Forge Splattershot Pro 180 >200 Flingza Roller 180 >190 Foil Flingza Roller 180 >190 Changes to Salmon Run Fixed a rare issue in which a player would clip into the terrain if they touched a Scrapper stopped on a slope. Fixed a rare issue in which the hit animation would displayed in an incorrect place when a player get a direct hit on a Scrapper with the Sloshing Machine. Fixed a rare issue in which throwing a bomb into a Flyfish right before its hatch closed would cause the next bomb passing through that location to detonate instantly. Fixed an issue in which, if any player disconnected in the interval between waves, and all remaining players died in the next wave, the job would not end until time ran out. Fixed an issue in which it was possible to cause damage to a Gusher in background terrain. Other Changes Fixed an issue in which a piece of terrain seemed to be floating in air when viewing a match in Walleye Warehouse using the overhead camera in Spectator Mode. Fixed an issue in which certain gear was displayed brightly even when in shadow. Fixed an issue in which, when taking a picture with an amiibo in certain stages, a character’s hands and feet would clip into terrain or another character. Fixed an issue where the equipped gear of a player with a star on their rank would change to Splattershot Jr. when they appear in the plaza. Ver. 2.1.1 (Released December 26, 2017) Changes to Multiplayer Fixed an issue in Clam Blitz mode where overtime would mistakenly end too soon when the barrier timer expired. This occurred when the losing team activated the barrier timer and then took the lead, and the barrier remained open until the match timer reached zero. Fixed an issue where hitting an opponent standing on particular stage features with direct hits from the Inkjet special occasionally caused the shots to not explode or deliver damage to the opponent. We have fixed an issue getting into landforms when executing super jump from specific location to specific location in Port Mackerel. Changes to League Battle Fixed an issue where immediately after a team’s Highest League Power was updated, if results could not be uploaded due to a poor network connection or other reasons, that Highest League Power was not reflected in the online ranking list until Highest League Power was updated again. Other Changes Fixed an issue preventing weapon test targets in certain locations from taking damage from an Ink Storm. Ver. 2.1.0 (Released December 12, 2017) Changes to Multiplayer Clam Blitz will now appear in Ranked and League Battles. After you’ve played it once, it will also be selectable in Private Battles. Fixed an issue in which a player submerged in a wall or a thin ground surface would take damage from the opposite side of the terrain. Fixed an issue in which a player behind a Splash Wall or a launched Brella would take damage from the opposite side if the distance between the player and the Splash Wall or Brella was close. Fixed an issue on Sturgeon Shipyard in which if a certain wall was hit with a bomb, ink would splash onto a nearby wall that players were occasionally unable to submerge into. Fixed an issue in Splat Zones on Moray Towers in which the border indicating the Zone area was incorrect for part of the Zone. Fixed an issue on Manta Maria in which, if a player did a Splashdown on a specific place, they would be treated as out of bounds after landing and be killed. Fixed an issue in Turf War on Manta Maria in which the area beneath the thick pillars was inkable, and was counted as part of the turf. Fixed an issue in Tower Control on Manta Maria in which players were able to jump from a high spot near the center of the stage to a part of the opponents’ base. Fixed an issue on Snapper Canal in which bombs would disappear without exploding when coming into contact with certain walls. Fixed an issue on Snapper Canal in which, depending on the mode, the area beneath obstacles placed near the center was inkable, was counted as part of the turf, and couldn’t be reclaimed in Splat Zones. Fixed an issue on Blackbelly Skatepark in which players could jump higher than normal near the start point and go over certain obstacles. Fixed an issue on Blackbelly Skatepark in which if a certain wall was hit with a bomb, ink would splash onto a nearby wall that players were occasionally unable to submerge into. Fixed an issue in Tower Control on Blackbelly Skatepark in which players could climb over a wall not intended to be climbed over by jumping from the top of a tower at the right moment. Fixed an issue on MakoMart in which if a certain wall was hit with a bomb, ink would splash onto a nearby wall that players were occasionally unable to submerge into. Fixed an issue on MakoMart in which a certain railing could be seen through by pulling the camera close to it. Slightly adjusted the tower path in Tower Control on MakoMart in order to fix a rare issue in which the player could be sandwiched between the tower and terrain, causing them to be pushed inside the terrain. Fixed a rare issue in which, when the player does a Splashdown near a tower, they could pass through the terrain and fall out of the stage. Fixed an issue in which, if the player closed their umbrella the moment that a bomb exploded, neither the umbrella nor the player would take damage. Fixed a rare issue in which two Ink Storm clouds would be generated when a player directly hit a Splash Wall or Brella with an Ink Storm, depending on how it was hit. Fixed an issue in which, when a player using the Inkjet touches water and is forcibly returned to their original place, they would be treated as if drowning and be killed, depending on the place. Fixed an issue in which the camera would abruptly move if the player did a Splashdown near some fences in places like Kelp Dome. Fixed an issue during Splatfests on some stages in which it was difficult to distinguish the color of ink due to in-stage lighting. Specifications for some of the main weapons and specials have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Blaster Custom Blaster Hero Blaster Replica Reduced movement penalty after firing by 7/60 of a second. Splat Dualies Enperry Splat Dualies Hero Dualie Replicas Increased damage of a single shot from 28.0 to 30.0 Splat Brella Hero Brella Replica Narrowed area painted with a single shot. Increased ink consumed for each shot by roughly 10%. Increased damage to the canopy from opponents’ Blaster-type weapons by roughly 38%. Increased damage to the canopy from opponents’ Charger-type weapons by roughly 50%. Range Blaster 190 >200 Specifications for the terrain or placement of objects in some stages have been changed. Stage Adjustment Musselforge Fitness Changed terrain in all Battle types. Adjusted placement of objects near the center of the map, and reduced obstacles. Adjusted placement of other miscellaneous objects. Starfish Mainstage Changed terrain in all Battle types. Adjusted placement of objects near the center of the map, and reduced obstacles. Added a slope going up to the stage. Adjusted placement of other miscellaneous objects. Humpback Pump Track Adjusted placement of objects in Tower Control. Greatly adjusted the path of the tower. Added Inkrail from each team's base toward the center. Additionally, adjusted placement of things such as obstacles. Inkblot Art Academy Adjusted placement of objects in Rainmaker. Added platforms and a slope leading up to the center from the open spaces on the left and right of the map. Increased size of the boxes used to climb into the enemy base from the center of the stage, and adjusted the look to match the stage. Added inkable box for climbing to a high point in the opponents’ base, to the left when viewed from your own base. Adjusted the direction and position of the white objects in each base. Adjusted placement of objects in Tower Control. Added platforms and a slope leading up to the center from the open spaces on the left and right of the map. Moray Towers Changed terrain in all Battle types. Adjusted trajectory of the Inkrails that leads to the enemy base from both sides. Increased width of the platform beneath the Inkrails mentioned above. Adjusted placement of other miscellaneous objects. Outside of Splatfests, reduced brightness of the sun, and reduced the disparity in visibility between teams. Port Mackerel Adjusted placement of objects in Rainmaker. Adjusted shape of the sponges near the starting point. Set the area above certain containers near the center as Rainmaker-Free Zones. Snapper Canal Outside of Splatfests, reduced brightness of the sun, and reduced the disparity in visibility between teams. Changes to Salmon Run Fixed an issue on Salmonid Smokeyard in which players could get sandwiched between the terrain and fences if they become a squid on top of certain fences that appear at low tide. Fixed an issue in which, if one player disconnected immediately after putting a Golden Egg in the container, the total number of Golden Eggs would be tallied incorrectly on the remaining players’ screens. Fixed an issue in which, when damage was done to a Scrapper with the explosion from defeating a Steelhead or bombs bounced back from a Drizzler, whether or not the Scrapper was defeated would be displayed inconsistently on the other players’ screens. Fixed an issue in which, despite a Chinook holding a box was defeated, the box would still be displayed on other players’ screens, and Chums would appear from an invisible box. Changes to Story Mode Fixed an issue in which, if the player shot the Hero Splatling while jumping on a Ride Rail, the weapon would behave abnormally and prevent the player from attacking until becoming a squid. Changes to Spectator Mode Adjusted the order of display for the guide button for changing perspective and the mark indicating the player holding the Rainmaker. Fixed an issue in which the color of Bravo team’s Ink Mines would show up as Alpha team’s color. Fixed an issue in which the icon for Ink Mines wouldn’t show up properly when having switched between players. When focused on a given player, their opponents’ signals (“C’mon!”, “Booyah!”, etc.) are no longer displayed. Unified the direction of the top-down camera and turf map on Kelp Dome. Adjusted the direction of the turf map on MakoMart to display the Alpha team’s start point on the left-hand side of the screen as like other maps. Other Changes Fixed an issue in which after repeatedly winning in League Battle or Splatfest Battle (team), players would occasionally be disconnected after the battle results are recorded and before proceeding to the next battle. Fixed an issue in which, during Splatfests, Off the Hook would not move in the background after taking pictures with amiibo in places other than Inkopolis Square, and then returning to the Square. Fixed an issue in which, if the player did a Splashdown in the test firing area, targets on the other side of terrain would also take damage. Ver. 2.0.1 (Released November 30, 2017) Changes to Inkopolis Square Fixed an issue occurring for players who had applied the Ver. 2.0.0 update, where the Great Zapfish was not appearing in Inkopolis Square once the necessary conditions had been met. Ver. 2.0.0 (Released November 23, 2017) Changes to Gear Added new gear. It can be viewed in the shops. Added ability for players to buy and replace gear purchased on SplatNet with gear identical in appearance in the shops. Changes to Player Appearance Added two new hairstyles and two new legwear. On the Equip menu select Options and then Style, or choose Player settings on the Options menu on the main menu screen to change hairstyles, legwear, etc. Changes to Music Added 5 tracks to be played during battles. Changes to amiibo Functionality Added ability to take photos with Inkling Girl, Inkling Boy, and Inkling Squid amiibo on competitive stages while carrying weapons. Added ability to use filters when taking photos with amiibo. Changes to Player Rankings Increased player ranking maximum from 50 to 99. Added ability for players to speak to Judd after reaching level 99 to give them an option of returning to level 1 and start levelling up all over again. Players who choose to start from level 1 again will have a ★icon displayed next to their rank. Access conditions for gear and weapons will not change even if a player decides to start over from ★1 Players who choose to start from ★1 again will continue to receive prizes from Judd for levelling up. Added ability for players who reach ★99 will have the option to start from ★1 again. The in-game ranking display of ★1 will not change, but players can see how many times they’ve returned to level 1 on SplatNet 2. Changes to Rank When a communications error occurs because a player is idle, the match will be judged not from the time after the error, but from when the time the player became idle. Changes to Crusty Sean’s Food Truck You can now order a Fried Whip Cream Double Croissant, which increases battle cash you receive by 2.5 times, or a Galactic Seanwich, which increases battle experience you receive by 2.5 times. Added ability to get tickets for the menu items listed above in Salmon Run and The Shoal. Additionally, superior tickets are now easier to get. Changes to the Lobby and Menu Controls Added ability to change gear and continue after finishing Regular Battles, Ranked Battles, and solo Splatfest Battles. If you select this option after a Regular Battle, you’ll be able to continue with other players from the previous battle who’ve selected either Continue or Change Gear and Continue . Made ease-of-use changes to the stage selection screen for Private Battles. Added ability to select which stages will be available for random matches for Private Battles. Team selection will be maintained even if a member of a team drops out after a battle has finished, and the display order has changed for Private Battles. During Splatfests, a deployment diagram of Inkopolis Square during the Splatfest will be shown on the main menu map. Changes to the Posting Function Revised the software so unfinished posts are saved as saved data when you press the B Button to back out of the post screen. The unfinished post will be available to continue working on even after you restart the software. Changes to Multiplayer Reduced the amount of time between a player taking damage and beginning to recover from 1.5 seconds to 1 second. Slightly increased the height a player can jump when standing in opponents’ ink. Slightly delayed the timing with which a player’s movement speed and jumping power are reduced when momentarily stepping in opponents’ ink. This is also to make it easier for players who’ve unintentionally stepped in opponents’ ink to move over obstacles. Darkened the color of low areas on Turf Maps to make it easier to distinguish them from areas outside the maps. Specifications for some sound effects have been changed. The sound effect for Toxic Mist will now be played again when an opponent enters the affected area. Made it easier to hear the sound effects of the Point Sensor and the Toxic Mist when they detonate. Adjusted the sound of the Ink Jet making it easier to tell from which direction you hear it. Fixed a rare issue causing the sound effect of Chargers to not play. Slightly increased the volume of the pre-detonation effects for Splat Bombs and other explosives. Fixed an issue where a direct hit with a Sloshing Machine on an enemy just coming out of a state of invulnerability was being displayed but only causing damage of 38.0. Fixed a rare issue causing a player wielding Dualie-class weapons to drop through terrain when landing after having slid while falling. Fixed an issue causing launched umbrellas to appear in slightly different locations on the screen of the player who launched the umbrella, and the screens of other players even when the terrain itself had not moved. Fixed an issue causing both the player and the umbrella to take or not take damage from bombs, Splashdowns or other explosions depending on the connection state, or the timing of the opening and shutting of the umbrella. Fixed an issue causing players using Ink Armor, who cannot be splatted even with multiple direct hits from powerful weapons, to appear as if they had been splatted on the attacking player’s screen. Fixed an issue during Rainmaker causing sloped surfaces in the Splat Zone area on Starfish Mainstage to not display as having been inked on the Turf Map. Fixed an issue causing ink fired at the center mast on Manta Maria to drip in an unnatural manner. Fixed an issue causing players to get caught when walking over grates near spawn points on Manta Maria. Fixed an issue on Kelp Dome making it possible to ink the ground beneath the un-inkable structures on the stage, and include these areas in the final score. Fixed an issue on Kelp Dome causing Ink Storms to disappear rather than explode when hitting the underside of certain grates. Fixed an issue on Snapper Canal allowing players to repeatedly cross over squid barriers near spawn points. Fixed an issue on Snapper Canal causing players to walk faster on slopes inked in opponents’ ink than originally designed. Fixed an issue in Tower Control where the tower would hit a Bubble Blower bubble and then move at the same speed as the bubble, and maintain contact with it. Fixed an issue in Rain Maker where when a baller would explode at the same time the player using the baller gained possession of the Rain Maker, it would appear to other players that the player with the Rain Maker was carrying a regular weapon, and not the Rain Maker. Fixed an issue in Rain Maker where players in cover behind thin portions of the environment would take damage as if they had been hit with direct shots from the Rain Maker. Fixed a rare issue in Rain Maker where when the Rain Maker barrier and a bomb make contact near angled terrain, and the bomb explodes, no damage enters the Rain Maker barrier. Fixed an issue on Manta Maria and Snapper Canal where the “DON’T RETREAT!” warning in Rain Maker was not displaying when players returned to their spawn point. Specifications for some points required for specials have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Tri-Slosher 210 >190 Splattershot 190 >200 Hero Shot Replica 180 >190 Range Blaster 180 >190 Splat Brella 180 >190 Hero Brella Replica 180 >190 Specifications for some of the main weapons, sub-weapons, and special weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Jet Squelcher Custom Jet Squelcher Increased shot speed by roughly 40%, while not changing shot range Luna Blaster Increased radius of ink coverage when shots hit a wall Blaster Custom Blaster Increased radius of ink at your feet, and revised the coverage to extend behind you more than it did previously Hero Blaster Replica Increased radius of ink coverage when shots hit a wall Classic Squiffer Increased the amount of ink splattered be each shot when it hits the ground Splat Charger Firefin Splat Charger Hero Charger Replica Increased the amount of ink splattered be each shot when it hits the ground Splatterscope Firefin Splatterscope Increased the amount of ink splattered be each shot when it hits the ground E-liter 4K Custom E-liter 4K Increased the amount of ink splattered be each shot when it hits the ground E-liter 4K Scope Custom E-liter 4K Scope Increased the amount of ink splattered be each shot when it hits the ground Bamboozler 14 Mk I Increased the amount of ink splattered be each shot when it hits the ground Goo Tuber Increased the amount of ink splattered be each shot when it hits the ground Tri-Slosher Increased movement speed while attacking by roughly 10% Increased maximum damage dealt from 52.0 to 62.0 Tenta Brella Reduced the time between readying and launching the umbrella from 1.5 seconds to .5 seconds Reduced the amount of ink necessary to launch the umbrella by roughly 25% Reduced the time it takes to regain the umbrella after its destroyed or lost from 9 seconds to 6 seconds Reduced the time a launched umbrella remains on a stage from 8 seconds to 6 seconds Toxic Mist Reduced ink consumption from 70% to 60% of ink tank capacity Reduced delay until start of ink recovery after using Toxic Mist by 25/60 of a second Reduced the effect time from 7 seconds to 5 seconds Reduced the Ink Saver (Sub) ability chunk efficiency by roughly 14% Burst Bomb Reduced the Ink Saver (Sub) ability chunk efficiency by roughly 33% Tenta Missiles Reduced the interval between missile launches when locked on to multiple targets in proportion to the number of targets Inkjet Slightly reduced the area in which it is determined an opponent’s shots hit the player using the Inkjet, making it a bit harder to shoot the player down Sting Ray Reduced the duration of the beam effect by roughly 15/60 of a second Ink Storm Reduced the frequency with which it inks the ground by roughly 20% Changes to Salmon Run Added the ability to choose the new stage Salmonid Smokeyard when playing at The Shoal. This stage will also be made available when playing online. Increased the number of weapons available at The Shoal by 10 types. Reduced the time between when a player takes damage and begins to heal from 1.5 seconds to 1 second. Slightly increased the height a player can jump when standing in Chums’ ink. Slightly delayed the timing with which a player’s movement speed and jumping power are reduced when momentarily stepping in Chums’ ink. This is also to make it easier for players who’ve unintentionally stepped in Chums’ ink to move over obstacles. Specifications for some sound effects have been changed. Fixed an issue causing the sound effect for cannons firing to not play when an ally fires a cannon. Fixed an issue causing the sound effect of a launched umbrella striking a Scrapper to repeat again and again, or causing the sound effect to not play at all. Fixed an issue causing unnatural behavior when a Splashdown occurs at the same time a player enters a cannon. Fixed an issue causing a player with an opened umbrella who makes contact with a Scrapper to not be thrown backwards. Fixed an issue causing Golden Eggs to not appear when you defeat a Boss Salmonid because an ally had a connection error. Fixed an issue causing Golden Eggs to not appear when you defeat a Boss Salmonid after having repeatedly defeated Snatchers not carrying Golden Eggs. Fixed an issue causing bombs to disappear and cause no damage to a Flyfish’s missile launcher when thrown inside just as it closes. Fixed an issue causing players to fall from the tip of the ship into the interior. Other Changes Fixed an issue causing unnatural behavior to occur when using Point Sensors on test cones. Fixed an issue in Spectator View causing the special gauge to appear differently on the player screen and the spectator screen. Updating to Ver.2.0.0 will disable the ability for players using Ver.1.4.2 or older to connect to The Shoal. Ver. 1.4.2 (Released October 31, 2017) In Splatfest Battle (team), when the player with the highest Splatfest Power on a team has a power exceeding 2200, all players on the team will be treated as having that higher Splatfest Power value for matchmaking purposes. Ver. 1.4.1 (Released October 17, 2017) Fixed an issue allowing Brella weapons used by opponents to shoot while their umbrellas remained open. Fixed an issue allowing players using the Goo Tuber to store a charged shot indefinitely by charging briefly, immediately becoming a squid, then keeping the charge as long as ZL wasn’t released. Fixed an issue allowing player to pass through the squid barrier surrounding the spawn points on Snapper Canal. Ver. 1.4.0 (Released October 10, 2017) Changes to Player Ranks Previously when going down in rank while rank S+1 or higher, players could drop to S+0 all at once. This drop is now limited to a maximum of five ranks levels. In conjunction with the above change, maintaining current rank from S+0 to S+49 will now require the rank meter to stay at least 50% full (was previously 40%). Changes to Salmon Run Fixed an issue causing certain combinations of main and special weapons to not appear, though they had been among the four supplied for that session of Salmon Run. Fixed an issue causing players in life preserver form positioned near the edge of a stage to fall through the stage when super jumping to the starting point or to the Grizzco ship at the end of a wave. Fixed an issue when hunting for a Goldie, causing its size and the location of the Golden Eggs it drops when defeated to appear differently to different players. Fixed an issue allowing a Flyfish’s missle launcher to be destroyed when hit with a bomb just as it closed, although the bomb hadn’t gone inside. Fixed an issue causing players swimming on walls to take damage continuously when attacked by a Chum, Smallfry, or Cohock. Fixed an issue preventing ink from a Slosher from reviving allied players in life preserver form at point-blank range. Fixed an issue that gave both pieces of gear the same randomly assigned gear abilities when receiving the current and previous month’s Limited-Time Bonus gear simultaneously. Changes to Spectator Mode Fixed an issue causing incorrect animations to play when objects other than players, such as Inkrails or Splash Walls were damaged while viewing a particular player’s perspective. The sound effect that plays when taking damage during regular play now also plays when viewing that player’s perspective in spectator mode. Other Changes Fixed issues while creating posts in which 1)lines drawn outside of the frame and then back into the frame failed to properly appear and 2)the “undo” function failed to work properly. Fixed an issue when testing weapons in which coming into contact with one of the targets immediately after performing a vertical swing with a roller failed to deal contact damage. Fixed an issue when testing weapons in which coming into contact with one of the targets continuously with a Brella-type weapon incorrectly only damaged the target once. Fixed an issue occurring when exceeding the number of displayable League Battle results caused recent results to not be displayed instead of the oldest results. Updating to Ver.1.4.0 will disable wireless matchmaking for local multiplayer with players using Ver.1.3.0 Changes to Multiplayer Fixed an issue where, under the following conditions, players would only receive the benefit of Ink Resistance Up when stacking it to maximum effect. Moving while shooting a weapon in the Shooter category. Moving while shooting a weapon in the Dualie category. Moving while preparing to throw a bomb or sub weapon. When storing a charged shot with a Charger, swimming into enemy ink and being returned to kid form now allows you to maintain the charge you had stored. Fixed an issue preventing players using a Charger from shooting when pressing ZR again after releasing the button once a stored charged shot had expired. Decreased the knock back distance when coming into contact with a roller that has run out of ink or is in mid-air. Fixed an issue causing the aiming reticule to display outside the center of the screen when moving the camera and using a Roller or Brella-type weapon. Fixed an issue causing Brellas to shoot in an off-center direction when shooting them while moving the camera. Fixed an issue causing a discrepancy in movement speed while trying to shoot a Brella-type weapon with no ink remaining, as opposed to shooting a Brella with ink in the ink tank. Fixed an issue causing Slosher-type weapons to shoot ink from a higher position than they appeared to. Fixed an issue occasionally allowing opposing players standing behind a Splash Wall to be splatted when a bomb hit the edge of the wall. Fixed an issue causing Curling Bombs to lose speed inappropriately when thrown on sloping surfaces. Fixed an issue causing bombs not to ink the floor when exploding at the very edge of a stage. Fixed an issue causing the predicted range of the sub weapon to incorrectly display when readying an Ink Storm special while also equipped with either a Point Sensor or Toxic Mist sub weapon. Fixed an issue causing the inking effect of an Ink Storm special to occur unnaturally when the storm intersected with a roof or other similar object in a stage. Bubbles from the Bubble Blower that burst after the end of a match will no longer ink the stage. Fixed an issue causing movement speed while firing the Bubble Blower to vary depending on which main weapon was equipped. In Rainmaker mode, equipping weapons such as the E-liter 4K and Dynamo Roller will no longer lower movement and swim speed while holding the Rainmaker. Fixed an issue in Rainmaker Mode in which splatting a player holding the Rainmaker while they were jumping caused the Rainmaker to reappear not in its fixed location, but where the player had started their jump. Fixed an issue in The Reef causing Suction Bombs and other objects thrown onto the area around the central bridge to sink inside it. Fixed an issue in Inkblot Art Academy causing players readying a Roller or Brella at specific locations in the stage to fall through it. Fixed an issue in Moray Towers causing players who fell off the stage near its center to fall faster than in other stages. Fixed an issue in Manta Maria allowing players to enter into certain pillars in the stage. Fixed an issue applying to the Drop Roller in which players returning to their starting point after using the Inkjet special were unable to roll when going into squid form just before landing. Specifications for some of the main weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Splash-o-matic Increased firing range by roughly 6%. Increased the amount of ink splattered by each shot making it easier to ink the ground. .52 Gal Increased firing range by roughly 6% while not changing the range at which each shot deals more than 50 damage. N-ZAP '85 Changed to match the faster movement speed and swim speed when not shooting of weapons like the Sploosh-o-matic and Splattershot Jr. Increased movement speed while shooting by roughly 5%. Made it easier to ink the area around your feet. Splattershot Pro Forge Splattershot Pro Increased shot speed by roughly 67%, while not changing shot range. Decreased weapon sway when shooting on the ground by roughly 10%. Decreased weapon sway when shooting right after a jump by roughly 40%. Increased movement speed while shooting by roughly 10%. Increased radius of ink splatter caused by each shot by roughly 2%. .96 Gal Increased damage of each shot from 52 to 62. Decreased weapon sway when shooting on the ground by roughly 8%. Decreased weapon sway when shooting right after a jump by roughly 40%. H-3 Nozzlenose Increased shot speed by roughly 25%, while not changing shot range. Decreased duration of weapon sway after jumping by 5/60 of a second. Decreased time required for weapon sway to end once it begins ending by 15/60 of a second. Made it easier to ink the area around your feet. Clash Blaster Increased radius of shot explosion by roughly 14%. Increased amount of ink coverage delivered by exploding shots. Carbon Roller When inking ground continuously by holding ZR, player will now reach maximum movement speed one second faster. Made it easier to ink the ground in front of you when using a horizontal swing. Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers with either a vertical or horizontal swing by roughly 40%. Splat Roller Krak-On Splat Roller Hero Roller Replica Increased width of ink path when using ZR to ink the ground continuously and moving at maximum speed by roughly 8%. Made it easier to ink the ground in front of you when using a horizontal swing. Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers with either a vertical or horizontal swing by roughly 40%. Dynamo Roller Increased width of ink path when using ZR to ink the ground continuously and moving at maximum speed by roughly 13%. Slightly increased the width of ink coverage when using a horizontal swing from a location higher than the surrounding area. Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers with either a vertical or horizontal swing by roughly 60%. Flingza Roller Increased movement speed when the roller is being swung overhead. Made it easier to ink the ground in front of you when using a horizontal swing. Increased range of ink flung by a horizontal swing by roughly 17%. Increased range at which maximum damage is dealt by a horizontal swing by 25%. Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers with either a vertical or horizontal swing by roughly 40%. Inkbrush Enemy ink will no longer have a negative effect when moving through it while holding ZR to ink the ground continuously. Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers when flinging ink by roughly 40%. Octobrush Herobrush Replica Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers when flinging ink by roughly 40% Classic Squiffer Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers when flinging ink by roughly 30% Splat Charger Firefin Splat Charger Hero Charger Replica Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers when flinging ink by roughly 30%. Splatterscope Firefin Splatterscope Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers when flinging ink by roughly 30%. E-liter 4K Increased radius of ink coverage when shots hit a wall by roughly 33%. Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers when flinging ink by roughly 30%. E-liter 4K Scope Increased radius of ink coverage when shots hit a wall by roughly 33%. Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers when flinging ink by roughly 30%. Bamboozler 14 Mk I Increased movement speed while charging by roughly 50%. Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers when flinging ink by roughly 30%. Goo Tuber Charged shots can now be stored when not at maximum charge. Decreased time between releasing a stored charge shot and shooting by 5/60 of a second. Increased damage dealt by fully charged shots from 160 to 180. Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers when flinging ink by roughly 30%. Mini Splatling Increased damage dealt from 28 to 32. Increased movement speed while charging by roughly 17% Increased movement speed while firing by roughly 14%. Dapple Dualies Splat Dualies Enperry Splat Dualies Hero Dualie Replicas Decreased duration of down time after performing a dodge roll by 8/60 of a second. Dualie Squelchers Increased radius of shot ink coverage by roughly 9%. Decreased duration of down time after performing a dodge roll by 8/60 of a second. Player now able to move after performing a dodge roll, but before they can perform their next action. Splat Brella Hero Brella Replica Decreased time required to begin opening the umbrella by 8/60 of a second. After beginning to open the umbrella, decreased time required for it to open completely by 10/60 of a second. Increased movement speed while the umbrella is open by roughly 38%. While keeping the maximum damage of one shot burst at 90, increased the damage delivered by each shot that lands from 15 to 18. Decreased damage done to the umbrella by Shooters (excluding Blasters), Splatlings, and Dualies by roughly 30%. The umbrella will no longer be destroyed immediately after coming into contact with a Baller. Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers when shooting ink by roughly 30%. Tenta Brella Decreased time required to return to standard movement speed after moving while shooting by 10/60 of a second. Increased damage delivered by each shot that lands from 15 to 17.5. Increased maximum damage dealt by a shot burst from 120 to 122.5. Decreased damage done to the umbrella by Shooters (excluding Blasters), Splatlings, and Dualies by roughly 30%. The umbrella will no longer be destroyed immediately after coming into contact with a Baller. Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers when shooting ink by roughly 30%. Aerospray MG Aerospray RG Decreased radius of point of shot contact by roughly 10%. Decreased radius of shot ink coverage by roughly 8%. Decreased rate at which shots ink the ground by roughly 13%. Sloshing Machine Decreased radius of ink coverage when the center of a shot hits the ground by roughly 20% Specifications for some of the special weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Tenta Missiles Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers when shooting ink by roughly 50%. Sting Ray Opponents behind stage objects will be revealed when the Sting Ray’s beam is roughly 23% further away from them than it was previously. Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers when shooting ink by roughly 100%. Inkjet Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers by direct hits or shot splash damage by roughly 100%. Curling-Bomb Launcher Increased distance Curling Bombs travel without being charged by roughly 50%. Ink Storm Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers by the storm by roughly 150%. Bubble Blower Increased damage dealt to the bubbles by allied players by roughly 20%, making them easier to burst. Decreased time to switch back to main weapon after creating three bubbles by 20/60 of a second. Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers by roughly 100%. Baller Increased damage dealt to opposing Ballers by bursting bubbles by roughly 150%. Made movement of the Baller easier to hear for surrounding players. Decreased the radius of minimum damage (55 damage) dealt by the explosion of the Baller by roughly 14% when Special Power Up isn’t being used. Due to changes in gear ability balancing, this radius will be the same as it was previously when the maximum amount of Special Power Up is being used. Specifications for some of the gear abilities have been changed. Gear Ability Adjustment Ink Saver (Main) The following weapons will now gain a noticeable Ink Saver benefit, even when the ability isn’t stacked in multiple slots. Maximizing the amount of Ink Saver gear ability will have the same effect. Splattershot Pro Forge Splattershot Pro Luna Blaster H-3 Nozzlenose Dynamo Roller E-liter 4K E-liter 4K Scope Tenta Brella Run Speed Up Increased movement speed when using this gear ability and shooting a Splatling by roughly 20%. Special Power Up Increased the size of the targeting icon when using Special Power Up by roughly 67%. For Ink Armor, Special Power Up now also decreases the time required to protect players with armor after activation For the Inkjet, Special Power Up now also increases the shot explosion radius. In exchange, the additional Inkjet duration afforded by Special Power Up has been decreased by roughly 50%. For the Baller, Special Power Up now also increases the radius in which the Baller will deal minimum damage (55) when it explodes. Considered alongside the changes to the Baller itself, when using the maximum amount of Special Power Up, this radius is the same as it was previously. For the Ink Storm, an issue was fixed in which using Sub Power Up extended the range this special could be thrown. Instead, Special Power Up now also correctly extends the throw range of the Ink Storm special. Quick Super Jump Even when the ability isn’t stacked in multiple slots, the charge time before performing a super jump will be noticeably reduced. Maximizing the amount of Quick Super Jump gear ability will have the same effect. Total time from selecting jump destination until landing there remains unchanged. Sub Power Up For Ink Mines, Sub Power Up now also increases the duration of time opponents remain marked. For Sprinklers, Sub Power Up increases the duration of time the Sprinkler sprays ink at maximum power by roughly 150%. For the Point Sensor, Sub Power Up now also increases the duration of time opponents remain marked. For the Squid Beakon, Sub Power Up increases the effect of reducing super jump time by roughly 50%. Cold-Blooded Increased the duration of protection against being marked by 20%. Cold-Blooded now also increases the area in which the player is immune to the revealing effects of Thermal Ink, Haunt, and the Sting Ray. Opening Gambit During its active period, Opening Gambit now also grants the effects of the Ink Resistance Up gear ability. Last-Ditch Effort During its active period, the effect of Last-Ditch Effort is now multiplied by 2.4 times the number of times it is equipped as a main gear ability (was previously multiplied by 1.8). Haunt Opponents behind stage objects will be revealed when the Haunt’s effective range is roughly 23% further away from them than it was previously. Thermal Ink Opponents behind stage objects will be revealed when the Thermal Ink’s effective range is roughly 23% further away from them than it was previously. Respawn Punisher Increased the reduction of a defeated opponent’s special gauge when they respawn from 5% to 15%. Increased the reduction of the user’s special gauge when respawning from 7.5% to 22.5%. Drop Roller Removed the period of immobility immediately after using Drop Roller. Points required to fill the special gauge for some weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Aerospray MG 170 > 160 Slosher Hero Slosher Replica 190 > 180 Mini Splatling 190 > 180 Splat Dualies Hero Dualie Replicas 190 > 180 Enperry Splat Dualies 200 > 180 Splattershot Hero Shot Replica 180 > 190 .52 Gal 180 > 190 L-3 Nozzlenose 170 > 180 Sloshing Machine 170 > 190 Splat Brella Hero Brella Replica 160 > 180 Ver. 1.3.0 (Released September 7, 2017) Changes to Salmon Run Changes made to the Sting Ray and Splashdown specials for multiplayer also apply to their use in Salmon Run. Bombs thrown by the Steelhead will no longer land on top of Flyfish or Scrappers. Fixed an issue causing no damage to be dealt to Steel Eels hit with a Sting Ray if the Sting Ray’s shot inked any portion of the Steel Eel other than the pilot even slightly. Fixed an issue preventing damage from being dealt to a Griller hit with a Sting Ray attempting to hit its weak point by shooting through it. Sting Rays that only hit the main body of a Griller will now also deal some damage. Fixed an issue causing Steelheads that appeared in specific locations of the Lost Outpost stage not to attack. Fixed an issue where two players attempting to pick up a single Golden Egg just prior to the end of a wave caused one of them to be unable to pick up any Golden Eggs during the following wave. Fixed an issue where after playing Salmon Run online, players from your session who appeared in Inkopolis Square were always equipped with the Splattershot Jr. Fixed an issue where players who disconnected just prior to starting a round of play would appear to be holding a Rainmaker-like weapon. Fixed an issue causing the location of the arrow indicating the player’s character as well as their title to be incorrect on the result screen when other players disconnected just prior to the end of a round of play. Fixed an issue causing players using Roller-type weapons to get a communications error after holding the inking button for an extended period. Changes to Splatfest Fixed an issue where during a Splatfest, all players you recently played with appeared in Inkopolis Square with a Splatfest Tee with no slots filled in, regardless of the actual status of their Splatfest Tee. Experience points required to fill in slots on Splatfest Tees have been changed in the following ways: Slot 1 - 4000 > 7500 Slot 2 - 8000 > 7500 Slot 3 - 12000 > 7500 Total - 24000 > 22500 Changes to Multiplayer In Ranked Battle, regarding the special gauge increasing automatically based on mode-specific conditions, until now the special gauge would fill up regardless of the points required for the main weapon being used. Now, main weapons with a lower special gauge point requirement will have their gauges filled faster, and those with a higher point requirement will have their gauges filled more slowly. Fixed an issue causing the area below where shots from a Sloshing Machine or Rainmaker hit a wall to not be inked. Fixed an issue where players with the Inkbrush or Octobrush equipped occasionally dealt continuous damage to opponents when coming into contact with them on uninkable surfaces. Fixed an issue causing Sponges touched by an Inkbrush or Octobrush to expand rapidly. Fixed an issue where players with a Roller or Brella-type weapon equipped would temporarily be unable to recover from damage after coming into direct contact with an opponent and being knocked back. Fixed an issue preventing players from damaging opponents via direct contact immediately after performing a vertical swing with a Roller-type weapon. Ink splats will no longer appear on players submerged in ink when hit by a Sting Ray fired by one of their allies. Fixed an issue causing shots from the Inkjet to occasionally disappear without exploding when hitting stage objects at certain angles. Fixed an issue where players with active Ink Armor hit by the Splat Brella would react as though protected by the armor, but also as if they had taken damage. Fixed an issue preventing ink from properly appearing on walls where the wall intersected with a grate. Fixed an issue when using Spectator Mode in Private Battle that caused Squid Beakons to not be destroyed after being used. Fixed an issue causing walls intersecting with grates to appear uninked when hit with the explosion from a Suction Bomb. Fixed an issue causing players to clip into stage objects on Sturgeon Shipyard. Specifications for some of the main weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Tri-Slosher Changed maximum damage from 62.0 to 52.0. Decreased firing range by roughly 9%. Specifications for some of the special weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Sting Ray Firing the Sting Ray continuously for 1.5 seconds will cause a shock wave to appear around the ink blast, significantly increasing its damage radius. Extended firing duration by .5 seconds when the gear ability “Special Power Up” isn’t being used. (Firing duration when using the maximum amount of “Special Power Up” remains unchanged.) Splashdown Decreased amount of time the player remains at the peak height of their jump by 10/60 of a second. Increased the peak height of the Splashdown jump by roughly 31%. Increased the minimum damage caused by the Splashdown from 40.0 to 55.0. Decreased the points required to use the Splashdown special for certain main weapons it is paired with. Ink Storm Increased radius of affect by roughly 13%. Decreased points required to use the Ink Storm special for most main weapons it is paired with. Baller Made the Baller less likely to be knocked back when hit with enemy attacks. Increased durability of the Baller by .5 seconds when the gear ability “Special Power Up” isn’t being used. (Durability when using the maximum amount of “Special Power Up” remains unchanged. ) Increased damage radius of explosion by roughly 17% and radius of ink coverage by roughly 7%. Increased minimum damage caused by explosion from 30.00 to 55.0. Increased power of explosion to knock back opponents. Inkjet Increased the size of the hit box of the player using the Inkjet, making them easier to shoot down. Decreased damage radius of Inkjet shots hitting the ground by roughly 17% and radius of ink coverage by roughly 20%. Decreased damage dealt to players standing directly beneath the Inkjet’s jets by roughly 75%. Ink Armor Shortened the period of invulnerability after the Ink Armor is destroyed by 8/60 of a second. When hit with more than 100.0 points of damage at once while Ink Armor is active, any damage exceeding 100.0 points is dealt to the player and now knocks them back significantly. The maximum amount of damage the Ink Armor can absorb at once is 80.0 points. Specifications for some of the sub weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Sprinkler Of the three levels of ink spray the Sprinkler gives off after placement, duration of the medium level of ink spray was extended by 5 seconds. Decreased ink consumption for placing a Sprinkler from 80% to 70% of ink tank capacity. Point Sensor Increased radius of effect by roughly 20%. Decreased delay until start of ink recovery after throwing out the Point Sensor by 15/60 of a second. Splash Wall Decreased time until deployment after throwing out the Splash Wall by 0.5 seconds. Squid Beakon Decreased ink consumption from 90% to 75% of ink tank capacity. Points required to fill the special gauge for some weapons have been changed. Weapon Adjustment Sploosh-o-matic 180 > 170 Splash-o-matic 180 > 170 Aerospray RG 180 > 170 N-ZAP '85 200 > 190 Splattershot Pro 180 > 170 .96 Gal 210 > 200 Blaster Hero Blaster Replica 180 > 170 L-3 Nozzlenose 180 > 170 Carbon Roller 180 > 160 Splat Roller Hero Roller Replica 180 > 170 Inkbrush 170 > 160 E-liter 4K E-liter 4K Scope 190 > 170 Goo Tuber 180 > 160 Splat Brella Hero Brella Replica 170 > 160 Tentatek Splattershot 210 > 230 Rapid Blaster 180 > 210 Splat Charger Splatterscope Hero Charger Replica 180 > 190 Other Changes When talking to Murch, a player’s current money and Super Sea Snails will now be displayed in the upper right portion of the screen. Fixed an issue in Ranked Battle where teammates disconnecting while your Rank Meter was empty would mistakenly cause it to appear to be cracked. Fixed an issue causing certain gear, such as the Splatfest Tee to be ranked incorrectly when sorting gear by “Most used”. Fixed an issue where no damage was dealt when slowly rolling into the dummies when testing the Baller special. Ver. 1.2.0 (Released August 23, 2017) Changes to Player Ranking Fixed an issue where player rank would change slightly despite a message displaying that stated player rank would not change when other players disconnected early on in a match. Changes to Spectator Mode When spectating from a player’s viewpoint, opposing team player names will no longer display unless ZL is pressed. When spectating from a player’s viewpoint in Rainmaker mode, the on-screen warnings “DON’T RETREAT!” and “Rainmaker-Free Zone!” will now be displayed. When spectating from a player’s viewpoint, the on-screen ink border that indicates the player is taking damage will now be displayed. Fixed an issue where, when a matches ended while spectating from a Bravo team player’s viewpoint the turf map results were mistakenly displayed from Bravo team’s perspective, despite other results being displayed from Alpha team’s perspective. Fixed a graphical issue affecting player appearance when standing in the zones in Splat Zones mode. Changes to Salmon Run The new stage “Lost Outpost” is now available when playing Salmon Run via local wireless at The Shoal. 21 weapons have been added to the selection of those available when playing Salmon Run at The Shoal. Flyfish can now be defeated by using a Splashdown special on their launchers. Fixed an issue where direct hits on a Stinger Boss Salmonid from either a Blaster or shots fired while using the Ink Jet special did not deal the added damage of their shots exploding, and only destroyed one level of the towering enemy. Fixed an issue where Steelhead Boss Salmonids were not exploding with the player team’s ink color after being defeated by a Stingray special. Fixed an issue where destroying one of the Mothership Boss Salmonid’s coolers immediately after it appeared would cause an invulnerable cooler to appear on the enemy on the screens of other players. Fixed an issue causing players to occasionally clip into stage objects in Marooner’s Bay. Fixed an issue where playing “With Friends” repeatedly would allow random players to join the group before selecting “Recruit crew members”. Adjusted parameters for Salmon Run specific weapons. Weapon Adjustment Salmon Run specific Slosher Fixed an issue where the Slosher dealt significantly different damage to Salmonids when standing in slightly different positions. Salmon Run specific Blaster Increased damage dealt by shot explosions by approximately 40% Decreased ink consumption of each shot by approximately 20% Salmon Run specific Clash Blaster Increased damage dealt by shot explosions by approximately 25% Decreased ink consumption of each shot by approximately 20% Salmon Run specific Carbon Roller Decreased ink consumed by horizontal and vertical swings by approximately 30% Salmon Run specific Splat Roller Decreased ink consumed by horizontal and vertical swings by approximately 14% Changes to Multiplayer Fixed an issue where, when taking damage continuously over a short time, the number of sound effects indicating damage did not match the number of times the player took damage. Stopped a sound effect that indicated damage dealt when hitting invulnerable opponents descending to the ground after activating their Splashdown special. Fixed an issue causing players hiding behind a Splat Brella to not appear when being targeted by a Sting Ray special or the Thermal Ink or Haunt abilities. Fixed an issue where opponents were not being damaged when run into with Roller or Brush weapons while standing on uninkable sloping surfaces. Inking the trees growing in The Reef and Inkblot Art Academy stages will no longer earn points or fill the special gauge. Fixed an issue occurring at specific points in Inkblot Art Academy where players returning to the point of activation after using the Inkjet special or landing after executing a Super Jump would occasionally fall through the stage. Fixed an issue occurring in Starfish Mainstage where specific areas would not appear to be inked on the turf map after they had been inked during play. Fixed an issue occurring in Sturgeon Shipyard where players would occasionally fall through the stage. Fixed an issue occurring in Port Mackerel where inking the top of an uninkable container near the center of the map earned a small amount of points and filled the special gauge slightly. Changed the movement range of the forklifts in Port Mackerel to fix an issue where players caught between the forklift and a sponge were occoasionally pushed inside the forklift. Adjusted the path of the tower in Tower Control mode in Port Mackerel to fix an issue where players caught between the tower’s pillar and a stage object when the tower entered a narrow space appeared to be shaking. Adjusted the size of the sponge near the spawn points in Port Mackerel to fix an issue where a slight discrepancy existed between the height of the sponge when fully expanded and the height of the platform on the tower. Adjusted parameters for main and special weapons. Weapon Adjustment Sploosh-o-matic Increased movement speed while shooting by 11% Luna Blaster Reduced wobble when firing immediately after jumping by 17% Reduced duration of wobble time when firing after jumping by 1/4 of a second Blaster Custom Blaster Hero Blaster Replica Reduced duration of wobble time when firing after jumping by 15/60 of a second Clash Blaster Expanded area inked by a single shot Decreased amount of ink consumed by firing a single shot by 20% Carbon Roller Decreased amount of ink consumed by a horizontal or vertical swing by 25% Splat Roller Krak-On Splat Roller Hero Roller Replica Decreased amount of ink consumed by a horizontal or vertical swing by 10% Dynamo Roller Extended range for dealing maximum damage to an opponent by 14% Splat Charger Firefin Splat Charger Hero Charger Replica Splatterscope Firefin Splatterscope Reduced amount of time required to fully charge a shot by 4/60 of a second E-liter 4K E-liter 4K Scope Reduced amount of time required to fully charge a shot by 4/60 of a second Goo Tuber Reduced amount of time required to fully charge a shot by 5/60 of a second Reduced amount of time between losing a stored charge and being able to fire again by 5/60 of a second Heavy Splatling Hero Splatling Replica Increased movement speed while charging by 20% Increased movement speed while shooting by 3% Splat Dualies Hero Dualie Replicas Extended firing range by 9%. Increased points required to fill the special gauge from 170 to 200 Baller During use, reduced amount of damage received from opponent Shooters (excluding Blasters), Splatlings, and Dualies by 40%. Other Changes Players who were in your last played Splatfest Battle will now appear in Inkopolis Square. Fixed an issue where attempting to open the League Battle “Records” section caused the game to crash. Fixed an issue where content could not be drawn on the edges of the screen when zoomed in while creating a post for display in Inkopolis Square. Fixed an issue where following a multiplayer match, a long animation played appearing to award the player far more experience points than they had actually earned. Ver. 1.1.2 (Released July 26, 2017) An occasionally occurring issue allowed players to receive gear from the SplatNet Gear Shop with an unintended combination of gear abilities. The combination of abilities for this type of gear has been changed to match those of gear available for purchase in the Inkopolis Square shops. Fixed an issue that prevented ranking information from displaying properly when viewing “Past Records” for League Battle. Adjusted the number of points required to fill the special gauge for the following weapons: Weapon Before > After Splat Dualies 180 > 170 Hero Dualie Replicas 180 > 170 Enperry Splat Dualies 180 > 170 Tentatek Splattershot 190 > 210 N-ZAP '85 180 > 200 .96 Gal 180 > 210 Slosher 180 > 190 Hero Slosher Replica 180 > 190 Tri-Slosher 180 > 210 Mini Splatling 180 > 190 Was this helpful? Yes No Top articles How to Transfer Digital Games / Nintendo Accounts Between Nintendo Switch Consoles Friend List on Nintendo Systems and Apps How to Redownload Nintendo Switch eShop Content How to Manage Auto-Renewal Settings for Pokémon HOME Premium Plan Subscription How to Redeem a DLC Download Code (Pokémon Sword Expansion Pass or Pokémon Shield Expansion Pass) Not Receiving V-Bucks After Renewing Crew Subscription (Fortnite) Top articles How to Transfer Digital Games / Nintendo Accounts Between Nintendo Switch Consoles Friend List on Nintendo Systems and Apps How to Redownload Nintendo Switch eShop Content How to Manage Auto-Renewal Settings for Pokémon HOME Premium Plan Subscription How to Redeem a DLC Download Code (Pokémon Sword Expansion Pass or Pokémon Shield Expansion Pass) Not Receiving V-Bucks After Renewing Crew Subscription (Fortnite) About Nintendo Careers Corporate Social Responsibility Shop Games Hardware Merchandise Sales & deals Exclusives Online service Nintendo Retail Locations Orders Order details Shipping info Refunds and returns FAQ Support Nintendo Switch Nintendo Account Other systems Repair Nintendo product recycling Warranty Licensed product information Parents Info for parents Parental controls Privacy Privacy policy Cookies and interest-based ads Community Community guidelines Online safety Documents & policies Health & safety precautions Wireless regulatory info Supply chain transparency © Nintendo. Games are property of their respective owners. Nintendo of America Inc. Headquarters are in Redmond, Washington, USA Contact us Terms of Use English Close Modal Image Title Close Modal Image Title