A flood of Academy Award nominations for ‘The Shape of Water,’ as Oscar embraces genre films A flood of Academy Award nominations for ‘The Shape of Water,’ as Oscar embraces genre films Other notable nominations: directing nods for Greta Gerwig and Jordan Peele and the first-ever cinematography nomination for a woman. This image released by Fox Searchlight Pictures shows Michael Shannon, from left, Sally Hawkins and Octavia Spencer in a scene from the film, "The Shape of Water." Guillermo del Toro's Cold War fantasy tale will vie for the most nominations for the 90th annual Academy Awards. (Fox Searchlight Pictures via AP) By Sean P. Means | Jan. 23, 2018, 3:15 p.m. | Updated: 4:10 p.m. The nominations for the 90th Academy Awards broke more than a few long-standing conventions. One of the biggest surprises in Tuesday’s nominations announcement was the embrace of genre films — most notably the fantasy romance “The Shape of Water,” the story of a love between a mute woman and an aquatic creature, which led all nominations with 13. Another genre movie, the racially charged horror thriller “Get Out,” cracked into four of the major categories, including Best Picture, directing and original screenplay nods for Jordan Peele, and a lead-actor nomination for Daniel Kaluuya. Peele becomes the first African American to be nominated for producing, directing and writing a movie. Among the leading recipients of nominations: the World War II spectacle “Dunkirk,” with eight; the small-town drama “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri,” with seven; and the Winston Churchill biography “Darkest Hour” and the 1950s psychological drama “Phantom Thread,” with six each. This image released by Universal Pictures shows Daniel Kaluuya in a scene from, "Get Out."  The Producers Guild of America says it has chosen the horror film and producer-screenwriter-director Ava DuVernay for special honors. “Get Out,” co-produced by Jordan Peele, was picked for the guild's Stanley Kramer Award. It’s also among 11 nominees for the top film category. The guild will hold its annual ceremony Jan. 20, 2018, in Los Angeles. (Universal Pictures via AP) This image released by Sony Pictures Classics shows Timothee Chalamet in a scene from "Call Me By Your Name." Chalamet was nominated for an Oscar for best actor on Tuesday, Jan. 23, 2018. The 90th Oscars will air live on ABC on Sunday, March 4. (Sony Pictures Classics via AP) This image released by Focus Features shows Gary Oldman as Winston Churchill in a scene from "Darkest Hour." On Monday, Dec. 11, 2017, Oldman was nominated for a Golden Globe for best actor in a motion picture drama for his role in the film. The 75th Golden Globe Awards will be held on Sunday, Jan. 7, 2018 on NBC. (Jack English/Focus Features via AP) This image released by Warner Bros. Pictures shows James D'Arcy, left, and Kenneth Branagh in a scene from "Dunkirk." The film was nominated for an Oscar for best picture on Tuesday, Jan. 23, 2018. The 90th Oscars will air live on ABC on Sunday, March 4. (Melissa Sue Gordon/Warner Bros. Pictures via AP) This image released by A24 Films shows Saoirse Ronan in a scene from "Lady Bird." The film, which won a Golden Globe Award for best motion picture comedy, is a contender for an Oscar for best picture. (Merie Wallace/A24 via AP) In this image released by Focus Features, Daniel Day-Lewis, left, and Vicky Krieps appear in a scene from "Phantom Thread."  (Laurie Sparham/Focus Features via AP) In this image released by 20th Century Fox, Tom Hanks portrays Ben Bradlee, left, and Meryl Streep portrays Katharine Graham in a scene from "The Post." The film was nominated for an Oscar for best picture on Tuesday, Jan. 23, 2018. The 90th Oscars will air live on ABC on Sunday, March 4. (Niko Tavernise/20th Century Fox via AP) This image released by Fox Searchlight Pictures shows Sally Hawkins, left, and Octavia Spencer in a scene from the film "The Shape of Water." Hawkins was nominated for an Oscar for best actress on Tuesday, Jan. 23, 2018. The 90th Oscars will air live on ABC on Sunday, March 4. (Fox Searchlight Pictures via AP) This image released by Fox Searchlight shows Sam Rockwell, left, and Frances McDormand in a scene from "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri." Rockwell was nominated for an Oscar for best supporting actor on Tuesday, Jan. 23, 2018. The 90th Oscars will air live on ABC on Sunday, March 4. (Merrick Morton/Fox Searchlight via AP) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Vying for Best Picture along with “Darkest Hour,” Dunkirk,” “Get Out,” “Phantom Thread,” “The Shape of Water” and “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri” are the summer romance “Call Me by Your Name,” the mother-daughter comedy-drama “Lady Bird” and the ’70s newspaper drama “The Post.” “The Post” yielded Meryl Streep her record 21st nomination for her portrayal of Washington Post publisher Katharine Graham. Streep’s fellow nominees in the actress in a leading role category are Sally Hawkins as the mute woman in “The Shape of Water,” Frances McDormand as an angry and grief-stricken woman in “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri,” Margot Robbie as figure skater Tonya Harding in “I, Tonya” and Saoirse Ronan as a defiant high-school student in “Lady Bird.” Competing for best actor in a leading role are Timothée Chalamet as a teen finding first love in “Call Me by Your Name,” Daniel Day-Lewis as a driven fashion designer in “Phantom Thread,” Daniel Kaluuya as a man sucked into a horrific situation in “Get Out,” Gary Oldman as Winston Churchill in “Darkest Hour” and Denzel Washington as a flamboyant attorney in “Roman J. Israel, Esq.” The race for directing yields two rarities: “Lady Bird’s” Greta Gerwig becomes only the fifth woman nominated in the category, while Peele, for “Get Out,” is the fifth man of African descent to be so honored. Another major first: Rachel Morrison became the first woman ever nominated for cinematography, for her work in “Mudbound.” That movie, which was seen on Netflix far more than it was in theaters, received four nominations, notably a supporting-actress nod for Mary J. Blige. There were some notable omissions from the Academy Award nominations. Golden Globe winner James Franco was not nominated for his performance in “The Disaster Artist.” A concerted campaign to get Andy Serkis (who helped announce the nominations) a nod for his performance-capture work in “War for the Planet of the Apes” went for naught. And one of 2017’s best superhero movies, “Wonder Woman,” received zero nominations. The 90th Academy Awards will be handed out Sunday, March 4, at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, in a ceremony to be broadcast on ABC (KTVX, Ch. 4, in Salt Lake City). Jimmy Kimmel will return as host. --- Here are the nominees for the 90th Academy Awards: Best picture • “ Call Me by Your Name,” “Darkest Hour,” “Dunkirk,” “Get Out,“ “Lady Bird,” “Phantom Thread,” “The Post,” “The Shape of Water,” “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.” Directing • Christopher Nolan, “Dunkirk”; Jordan Peele, “Get Out”; Greta Gerwig, “Lady Bird”; Paul Thomas Anderson, “Phantom Thread”; Guillermo Del Toro, “The Shape of Water.” Actress in a leading role • Sally Hawkins, “The Shape of Water”; Frances McDormand, “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri”; Margot Robbie, “I, Tonya”; Saoirse Ronan, “Lady Bird”; Meryl Streep, “The Post.” Actor in a leading role • Timothée Chalamet, “Call Me by Your Name”; Daniel Day-Lewis, “Phantom Thread”; Daniel Kaluuya, “Get Out”; Gary Oldman, “Darkest Hour”; Denzel Washington, “Roman J. Israel, Esq.” Actress in a supporting role • Mary J. Blige, “Mudbound”; Allison Janney, “I, Tonya”; Lesley Manville, “Phantom Thread”; Laurie Metcalf, “Lady Bird”; Octavia Spencer, “The Shape of Water.” Actor in a supporting role • Willem Dafoe, “The Florida Project”; Woody Harrelson, “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri”; Richard Jenkins, “The Shape of Water”; Christopher Plummer, “All The Money in the World”; Sam Rockwell, “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.” Writing (original screenplay) • Kumail Nanjiani & Emily V. Gordon, “The Big Sick”; Jordan Peele, “Get Out”; Greta Gerwig, “Lady Bird”; Guillermo Del Toro & Vanessa Taylor, “The Shape of Water”; Martin McDonagh, “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.” Writing (adapted screenplay) • James Ivory, “Call Me by Your Name”; Scott Neustadter & Michael H. Weber, “The Disaster Artist”; Scott Frank & James Mangold and Michael Green, “Logan”; Aaron Sorkin, “Molly’s Game”; Virgil Williams and Dee Rees, “Mudbound.” Animated feature film • “The Boss Baby,” “The Breadwinner,” “Coco,” “Ferdinand,” “Loving Vincent.” Music (original song) • “Mighty River” (from “Mudbound”), “Mystery of Love” (from “Call Me by Your Name”), “Remember Me” (from “Coco”), “Stand Up for Something” (from “Marshall”), “This Is Me” (from “The Greatest Showman”). Documentary (feature) • “ Abacus: Small Enough to Jail,” “Faces Places,” “Icarus,” “Last Men In Aleppo,” “Strong Island.” Documentary (short subject) * “ Edith + Eddie,” “Heaven Is a Traffic Jam on the 405,” “Heroin(e),” “Knife Skills,” “Traffic Stop.” Foreign language film • “A Fantastic Woman” (Chile), “The Insult” (Lebanon), “Loveless” (Russia), “On Body and Soul” (Hungary), “The Square” (Sweden). Makeup and hairstyling • “ Darkest Hour,” “Victoria and Abdul,” “Wonder.” Film editing * “ Baby Driver,” “Dunkirk,“ “I, Tonya,” “The Shape of Water,” “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.” Visual effects • “ Blade Runner 2049,” “Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2,” “Kong: Skull Island,” “Star Wars: The Last Jedi,” “War for the Planet of the Apes.” Music (original score) • “ Dunkirk,” “Phantom Thread,” “The Shape of Water,” “Star Wars: The Last Jedi,” “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.” Short film (live action) • “ DeKalb Elementary,” “The Eleven O’Clock,” “My Nephew Emmett,” “The Silent Child,” “Watu Wote/All Of Us.” Short film (animated) • “ Dear Basketball,” “Garden Party,” “Lou,” “Negative Space,” “Revolting Rhymes.” Sound mixing • “ Baby Driver,” “Blade Runner 2049,” “Dunkirk,” “The Shape of Water,” “Star Wars: The Last Jedi.” Sound editing • “ Baby Driver,” “Blade Runner 2049,” “Dunkirk,” “The Shape of Water,” “Star Wars: The Last Jedi.” Costume design • “ Beauty and the Beast,” “Darkest Hour,” “Phantom Thread,” “The Shape of Water,” “Victoria and Abdul.” Cinematography • “ Blade Runner 2049,” “Darkest Hour,” “Dunkirk,” “Mudbound,” “The Shape of Water.” Production design • “ Beauty and the Beast,” “Blade Runner 2049,” “Darkest Hour,” “Dunkirk,” “The Shape of Water.” RELATED STORIES Sundance ’17 films ‘Call Me by Your Name,’ ‘Get Out’ and ‘Mudbound’ score multiple Oscar nominations Ruth Bader Ginsburg talks about her run-ins with sexual harassers, those ‘Gins-burn’ sketches and her feelings about Sundance’s ‘RBG’ documentary premiere Imagine Dragons’ Dan Reynolds hopes LDS leaders will see ‘Believer,’ his film about Mormon LGBT youths ‘Everything is at stake,’ Jane Fonda tells Park City rally on anniversary of Trump's inauguration In case you missed it S.L. County eyes selling a chunk of the Salt Palace to Smith Entertainment Group as part of new downtown district PREMIUM We were ‘serving our own people’ — Popular podcasters explain why they left an LDS Church they love PREMIUM Utah State President Cantwell spent $660K on new cars, SLC apartment, office bidet and more, records show THE LATEST Why the Utes are spiking one of their athletic programs Bagley Cartoon: The Liars’ Club Fire hits a snack factory in Salt Lake City, producing smoke visible for miles Voices: Research on dust in Utah has never been more important. Trump’s proposed cuts put our economy and public health at risk. Trump admin chose to ‘streamline’ permitting for a Utah mining project Featured Local Savings CONNECT Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube RSS SUBSCRIPTIONS Subscribe to Print + Digital Subscribe to Digital Only Digital Access for Print Subscribers Email Newsletters Login to your Print Account Login to your Digital Account Subscription FAQs Help and Contact Info Gift Subscriptions ABOUT US History and Mission Our Nonprofit Model Board and Advisers Officers and Staff Supporters Tax Filing and Governance Share Your Opinion Meet the Editorial Board Privacy Policy California Privacy Editorial Policies and Ethics MORE Advertise with Us Legal Notices Store Archives Story Tips Support The Tribune Join The First Amendment Society Gift Acceptance Policy Cookie Preferences Commenting Policy ABOUT US TERMS OF SERVICE PRIVACY POLICY EDITORIAL POLICY NEWS TIPS ADVERTISE CONTACT US/HELP GIFT ACCEPTANCE POLICY SUBSCRIBE PRINT EDITION EMAIL NEWSLETTERS JOIN THE FIRST AMENDMENT SOCIETY SUPPORT THE TRIBUNE SHARE YOUR OPINION MEET THE EDITORIAL BOARD COOKIE PREFERENCES Report a missed paper by emailing subscribe@sltrib.com or calling 801-237-2900 For e-edition questions or comments, contact customer support 801-237-2900 or email subscribe@sltrib.com sltrib.com © 1996- 2025 The Salt Lake Tribune. All rights reserved.