Report: 2020 NBA Draft Likely to be Held in November - Sports Illustrated Philadelphia 76ers News, Analysis and More ON SI SI.COM SI SWIMSUIT SI TICKETS SI RESORTS News Game Night Schedule Stats Scores Report: 2020 NBA Draft Likely to be Held in November A new report indicates that the 2020 NBA Draft will be pushed back, and is likely to happen at some point in November. Justin Grasso | Sep 10, 2020 Report: 2020 NBA Draft Likely to be Held in November / Following the 2020 NBA Finals, the league planned on getting right into next year's offseason without wasting time. On October 16, the NBA scheduled to hold the 2020 NBA Draft, with the opening of free agency occurring just two days after. At this point, the October date is delayed officially, as of Tuesday night. Now, the NBA and NBPA are eyeing November 18 as a new date for the draft, according to ESPN's NBA Insider, Adrian Wojnarowski . "The NBA is targeting Nov. 18 as a new date for the 2020 draft, pending discussions with league owners and general managers in separate meetings on Thursday and Friday, according to a memo obtained by ESPN." "The NBA and National Basketball Players Association negotiated what the memo called a "potential revised 2020 NBA Draft date" as a tentative replacement for Oct. 16. The delay would allow the league and union to negotiate amendments to the collective bargaining agreement and agree on 2020-21 salary cap and luxury tax thresholds." In Wojnarowski's report, the NBA's memo had no mention of a tentative start date for free agency. However, like the original start date, many expect the signing period of the offseason to occur "relatively soon" after the draft takes place. Now that the draft is pushed back officially, an extended period of time will offer teams time to conduct pre-draft preparation by utilizing virtual regional player combines. Also, teams anticipate the possibility of conducting non-virtual meetings and workouts, depending on the league's rules involving in-person contact with players. Justin Grasso covers the Philadelphia 76ers for Sports Illustrated. You can follow him on Twitter: @JGrasso_ Published Sep 10, 2020 JUSTIN GRASSO Title: Credentialed writer/reporter covering the Philadelphia 76ers for Sports Illustrated’s FanNation  Email: JustinGrasso32@Gmail.com  Location: Philadelphia, PA  Expertise: Reporting, insight, and analysis on the Sixers and the NBA   Justin Grasso is a credentialed writer and publisher covering the Philadelphia 76ers for Sports Illustrated’s FanNation.   Grasso got his start in sports media in 2016 with FantasyPros, working the news desk, providing game-by-game player analysis and updates on the Portland Trail Blazers and the Golden State Warriors. By 2017, he joined FanSided’s Philadelphia Eagles site as a staff writer.  After spending one season covering the Eagles as a staff writer, Grasso was promoted to become the site’s Co-Editor. For the next two NFL seasons, he covered the Eagles closely before broadening his NFL coverage. For a brief stint, Grasso covered the NFL on a national basis after joining Heavy.com as an NFL news desk writer.  In 2019, Grasso joined the 76ers' beat on a part-time basis, stepping into a role with South Jersey’s 97.3 ESPN. Ahead of the 2019-2020 NBA season, he concluded a three-year stint covering the Eagles and joined the Sixers beat full-time. Grasso has covered the 76ers exclusively since then for Sports Illustrated. He is a member of the Pro Basketball Writer’s Association.   Twitter: @JGrasso_  Instagram: @JGrassoNBA Follow @JGrasso_ Schedule Full Schedule Home / News Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Takedown Policy Terms and Conditions SI Accessibility Statement Cookie Settings © 2025 ABG-SI LLC - SPORTS ILLUSTRATED IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF ABG-SI LLC. - All Rights Reserved. The content on this site is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Betting and gambling content is intended for individuals 21+ and is based on individual commentators' opinions and not that of Sports Illustrated or its affiliates, licensees and related brands. All picks and predictions are suggestions only and not a guarantee of success or profit. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, crisis counseling and referral services can be accessed by calling 1-800-GAMBLER.