The Crown season 4 Netflix release date: How many episodes are in The Crown series 4? | TV & Radio | Showbiz & TV | Express.co.uk Express. Home of the Daily and Sunday Express. Puzzles Horoscopes Express Rated Shop Paper Newsletters Login Register Your Account Newsletters Bookmarks Sign Out Uk Us 11 °C Find us on Facebook Follow us on WhatsApp Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Find us on Youtube Search HOME News Politics Royal Showbiz & TV Sport Finance Travel Life & Style Comment TV & Radio Celebrity News Films Gaming Music Books Theatre Home Showbiz & TV TV & Radio The Crown season 4 Netflix release date: How many episodes are in The Crown series 4? THE CROWN season 4 is coming to Netflix this week after more than one year of waiting but how many episodes are in the new series of The Crown? By Molli Mitchell 15:03, Mon, Nov 16, 2020 | UPDATED: 15:29, Mon, Nov 16, 2020 Share Article Share Article Facebook X LinkedIn Reddit Bluesky Email Copy Link Link copied Bookmark Comments The Crown: Olivia Colman stars in season four trailer The Crown season four premiered on Netflix on Sunday, November 15. Fans are curious to know all of the details about the highly anticipated new series, including how many episodes there are. Express.co.uk has everything you need to know. Article continues below ADVERTISEMENT Trending How many episodes are in The Crown series 4? Series four of The Crown premiered on Sunday, November 15) on Netflix worldwide. The entire series has dropped in one go which means fans can binge-watch the new season at their leisure. There are 10 episodes in the fourth instalment of The Crown, just like the first three seasons of the show. Each instalment will run for between 47 and 59 minutes in total. READ MORE Prince Andrew actor ‘best choice’ for divisive royal in The Crown The Crown season 4 Netflix release date: There are 10 episodes in The Crown series 4 (Image: NETFLIX) The Crown season 4 Netflix release date: The Crown series 4 premieres Sunday, November 15 on Netflix (Image: NETFLIX) READ MORE Josh O’Connor health: The Crown star explains mental health What will happen in The Crown season 4? The fourth series of The Crown will cover the period between 1977 and 1990. In the new series, viewers will get to meet Lady Diana Spencer (played by Emma Corrin). The new series will see the marriage of Diana and the Prince of Wales (Josh O’Connor), and the subsequent breakdown of their marriage. Their young sons, Prince William and Prince Harry will also be introduced. Conservative Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher (Gillian Anderson) will be introduced in the new series. SUBSCRIBE Invalid email We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy The Crown season 4 Netflix release date: Gillian Anderson as Margaret Thatcher in The Crown (Image: NETFLIX) Events depicted in the new series include Diana and Charles tour of Australia and New Zealand, the Falklands War, Michael Fagan’s break into Buckingham Palace, the Troubles and apartheid. The synopsis for the new series reads: “As the 1970s are drawing to a close, Queen Elizabeth and her family find themselves preoccupied with safeguarding the line of succession by securing an appropriate bride for Prince Charles, who is still unmarried at 30. “As the nation begins to feel the impact of divisive policies introduced by Britain's first female Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, tensions arise between her and the Queen which only grow worse as Thatcher leads the country into the Falklands War, generating conflict within the Commonwealth. “While Charles’ romance with a young Lady Diana Spencer provides a much-needed fairytale to unite the British people, behind closed doors, the Royal family is becoming increasingly divided.” DON'T MISS... Emma Corrin age: How old is The Princess Diana actress Emma Corrin? [CAST] Prince Philip ‘taunted' Charles as he mourned Lord Mountbatten's death [INSIGHT] The Crown: Princess Diana star struggled with 'cold horrible' Queen [DETAILS] Related articles Prince Philip affair claim shut down as 'absolute rubbish' Tax cheat who paid £1 for BHS jailed for six years The Crown season 4 Netflix release date: Emma Corrin plays Princess Diana in The Crown (Image: NETFLIX) Who stars in The Crown season 4? The cast of The Crown season three has returned for the fourth outing of The Crown. This will be the last time viewers will see this cast, as it will change for the fifth and sixth season of the show. Olivia Colman is back as Queen Elizabeth II for the final time, alongside Tobias Menzies as Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, Helena Bonham Carter as Princess Margaret, Countess of Snowdon and Marion Bailey as The Queen Mother. Erin Doherty stars as Princess Anne alongside Josh O'Connor as her brother Prince Charles. Related articles Biden snubbed as Obama decided he was ‘too old’ for Saudi role Gillian Anderson children: How many children does Gillian have? READ MORE The Crown's Helena Bonham Carter lands huge new role Also returning is Emerald Fennell as Camilla Parker Bowles and Charles Dance as Louis Mountbatten. Joining the cast this series is Emma Corrin as Lady Diana Spencer, Gillian Anderson as Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, Tom Byrne as Prince Andrew. Also starring in The Crown season four is Jessica Aquilina as Sarah Ferguson, Angus Imrie as Prince Edward, Tom Brooke as Michael Fagan, Freddie Fox as Mark Thatcher and Rebecca Humphries as Carol Thatcher. The Crown is streaming on Netflix now Related articles Michael Fagan The Crown: Where is Michael Fagan today? Prince Edward young: What was Prince Edward like when he was younger? Prince William 'unhappy' with The Crown for 'exploiting his parents' The Crown Netflix Serie A How to Share Article Share Article Facebook X LinkedIn Reddit Bluesky Email Copy Link Link copied Bookmark Comments Most read in TV & Radio Our Yorkshire Farm's Amanda Owen struggles with 'difficult' decision in new series One of I’m A Celebrity’s most legendary campmates ‘tipped to return after 11 years’ Channel 4 viewers 'switch off' Grand Designs over same complaint Stacey Solomon speechless as Joe Swash 'walks out' after tense on-air row The One Show's Alex Jones forced to apologise to special guest after dropping 'spoiler' Carême stars trained under chef who ‘ran his kitchen with an iron fist’ for two months Corrie star teases terrifying twist as soap 'turns into horror film' The Chase's Paul Sinha admits 'it's a cruel game' as fans devastated after loss ITV Emmerdale fans 'work out' unlikely suspect as Joe Tate's fate 'sealed' Haunting drama's long-awaited follow-up finally teased by Prime Video New documentary examines disturbing murder of London sisters and what happened next Escape to the Country buyer's 'heart sank' as they make huge U-turn on property CNN airs crushing Donald Trump announcement in devastating blow to Zelensky Watch moment Meghan Markle makes awkward Prince Harry U-turn in Netflix confession Stephen Graham's 'riveting' show with 100% Rotten Tomatoes rating is leaving Netflix UK's Eurovision entry recreate song from Netflix film with stunning results Sky News halted as Donald Trump aide skewered by reporters over tariffs Emmerdale star 'gives away' major death spoiler as exit 'sealed' Donald Trump humiliated on CNN as Americans have their say on first 100 days Outlander star shares major wedding update ahead of birth of first child The Handmaid's Tale fans 'work out' Janine's fate with June left devastated Only Fools And Horses musical plunged into chaos after medical emergency caused evacuation Creator of one of Netflix's biggest global hit shows speaks out on how it's changed lives Netflix viewers all say same thing over major change which will 'transform' hit series BBC slammed by Huw Edwards victim's dad after bombshell report Death in Paradise fans 'can't wait' as series make huge show announcement I'm A Celebrity campmate explains why he’s chosen to reject dating show offers Our Yorkshire Farm's Clive Owen flooded with support after health admission ITV Loose Women's Janet Street-Porter branded 'the worst' as she recalls off-air swipe Pride & Prejudice fans shocked to discover leading cast members had split before filming Latest videos ISA rush - nervous savers stash record cash into their accounts Wealthy over-85s hit hardest by pension tax trap Migration madness as 'bogus asylum seekers' use new scam to stay in UK Russia sends horror WW3 threat to UK – 'British blood must be spilled' Dallas star and Carrie legend dies aged 100 as daughter Amy Irving pens tearful tribute SEARCH CONNECT WITH US Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Snapchat Check our YouTube channel Subscribe to our rss feed TODAY'S PAPER Wednesday, 30th April 2025 See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. News UK World Politics Royal US Weather Science History Weird Nature Sunday Obituaries Latest News Brexit European Union Theresa May Angela Merkel Donald Trump The Queen Kate Middleton Meghan Markle Diesel Cancer Diabetes Dementia YouTube InYourArea mynewsassistant Showbiz & TV TV & Radio Celebrity News Sport Football Tennis F1 Boxing UFC Rugby Cricket Golf NFL Racing NBA Comment Express Comment Columnists Finance City & Business Personal Finance The Crusader Travel Travel News UK Europe America Africa Asia Australia Cruise City breaks Beach Holidays Activity Holidays Express Rated Best VPN Best Sky Deals Best Mattress Best Dating Sites Best UK Broadband Deals Freeview Samsung Sky Android Apple Black Friday Entertainment Films Music Books Theatre Gaming Express Wins Life & Style Diets Style Health Garden Food Property Life Cars Tech Beauty Box Subscription EXPRESS.CO.UK Play Express Wins Apps Puzzles Horoscopes Partner Stories Shop Hopsmore Beer Club Paper Sitemap Site Archive About Us Social Media Journalists How to Complain Report a Tech Issue Advertising Affiliate advertising Cookies Settings Privacy Policy AI Notice Cookie Policy Terms & Conditions Community Standards Developed by Netro42 Syndication and Licensing Clarifications and Corrections IPSO Regulated Copyright ©2025 Express Newspapers. "Daily Express" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved. Daily Express uses notifications to keep you updated Keep me updated No thanks