Acquire HOME ABOUT US COMPANY CULTURE PRESS SERVICES CAREERS CONTACT Join Our Team Bridging the Gap Between Yesterday's Marketing and Today's Culture LEARN MORE × Who We Are Acquire is the ultimate marketing team for your business. Our award winning management training program constantly trains and produces exceedingly capable managers that can bring your company the results you've continuously been looking for. Our focus on customer service first and foremost has brought our clients a level of gratification that no other firm can provide. With aggressive growth, expansion plans and ambitious goals, Acquire leads the southeast in strategic thinking and implementation. By breaking the company vision down into many separate goals, Acquire is able to utilize teamwork to accomplish organizational objectives. Acquire's team is comprised of problem solvers and strategic thinkers. The team works cohesively to move the company in the direction of their corporate objectives. Their goals typically include restructuring loyalty in the merchandising, industry; revolutionizing Fortune 100 companies marketing & sales programs for consumer loyalty and representing the top brands in the home entertainment industry. At Acquire, commitment to teamwork helps facilitate the accomplishment of each objective that is established. Our marketing team consists of specialists that are experienced, meticulous and tactical thinkers. The Acquire marketing and management teams focus primarily on customer service, client retention, and increasing growth. Our team delivers the best advertising campaigns in the southeast across the board for our clients. We provide our team members with not only the opportunities for advancement, but also the training, mentorship and the opportunity to attend conferences so that each of our hand picked individuals have the tools necessary to be as successful as they wish to be. From internships to career opportunities, Acquire provides employees with upward mobility, travel opportunities, yearly destination vacations and networking conferences. The vital competencies that enable our company as well as individual growth include a collective entrepreneurial mindset, adaptation, thinking big, and the ability to evolve among our team members. This in turn increases the impact of the members of staff working to support our clients and meet their own personal goals of advancement. Close × Our History Originating his professional career in Cary, North Carolina, our National Director got his start representing small Mom and Pop shop clientele delivering new customers to their door through promotional outside sales and marketing. From there, Zack Schuch focused on building a team up and down the Eastern seaboard that would eventually lead to 1,000+ representatives from coast to coast, while mentoring 65+ branch managers and directors to represent Fortune 100 companies. Located in Raleigh, Acquire now plans to deliver not only for local Fortune 100 companies but also national brands over the next decade to continue exponential growth and serve as their biggest project yet. Close × Clientele Mobility & Telecommunications Industry • A new era in mobile has begun. While the rollout of 5G will be a multiyear journey, the foundations will begin in 2018. • The wireless telecommunication market in the United States was worth an estimated 256 billion U.S. dollars in 2016. • The number of smartphone users in the United States was estimated to reach 224.3 million by end of 2017, with the number of smartphone users worldwide forecasted to exceed 2 billion users. Home Improvement & Remodeling Industry • Steady gains in residential sales and prices support a growing demand for home remodeling in 2018. • Homeowner spending on improvements and repairs will approach $340 billion in 2018, an increase of 7.5 percent from 2017 spending. • 2018 could post the strongest gains for home remodeling in more than a decade. Home Automation & Smart Home Industry • Revenue in the Smart Home market approached 19 million in 2018. Revenue is expected to show an annual growth rate of 14.8% resulting in a market volume of almost 33 million in 2022. • Household penetration is at 32.0% in 2018 and is expected to hit 53.1% by 2022. • The average revenue per installed Smart Home currently amounts to $141.66 million. Video Services, Consumer Electronics, & Fiber Optics Industry • Revenue in the Consumer Electronics market amounts to $190,379 million in 2018. The market is expected to grow annually by 0.4%. Close × What We Do Over the past decade, the top executives at Acquire have gained experience in finding new acquisitions and driving foot traffic into the doors of the clients we work with. That has since evolved into working alongside some of the largest Big Box Retailers and Fortune 100 clients not only locally in the Raleigh, North Carolina market but also nationally. Our current strategy is based solely on bringing new customers to our clients while also providing free labor for the Big Box Retailers we work with. This not only intensifies the partnerships for the clients, but also provides an enhanced customer service experience to consumers. With proven dynamic impacts, the National Director at Acquire has quarterbacked a recent launch into a brand new industry leading to nationwide roll-outs. Acquire is very excited about their recent breakthrough into the multibillion dollar mobility space. Close × Career Opportunities Acquire provides unlimited promotional opportunities for each individual that joins our team. Our promotions are based 100% on achievement and have no bearing on seniority. By pushing our candidates to step outside of their comfort zones while practicing their newly acquired skills alongside more advanced team members, they achieve fantastic goals in astonishingly short amounts of time, with many advancing into management positions within six to nine months. All members of management start at entry-level with lessons in marketing, teaching, training, and developing other team members, and mastering the back-end of business operations. From there, successful team members move into one of two positions. The first option would be a Junior Partnership position, which entails overseeing and manage a campaign. The second position is into a Marketing Director position where they launch a new territory and run their own office. Close About Acquire Acquire is a Raleigh-based top-notch marketing company that offers comprehensive services to help our clients directly acquire new customers. Our main objectives involve transforming loyalty in the merchandising industry, modernizing marketing and sales programs for consumer loyalty in Fortune 100 companies, and representing leading brands in the home entertainment industry. At Acquire, we believe in the power of teamwork to break down our company vision into individual goals and successfully achieve our organizational objectives. Who We Are Who We Are LEARN MORE Our History Our History LEARN MORE What We Do What We Do LEARN MORE Clientele Clientele LEARN MORE Career Opportunities Career Opportunities LEARN MORE Company Culture Here at Acquire, a vital aspect of our corporate culture is giving back to our employees along with the community. People-focused. Performance-driven. We believe in treating each employee like a business owner by empowering them and encouraging them to take pride of ownership in their work. Our method of promoting solely from within molds our company structure and allows us to invest in every individual brought aboard. From internships to career opportunities, Acquire provides employees upward mobility, travel opportunities, yearly destination vacations, and corporate functions to help them meet their own personal goals of advancement. Acquire is focused on creating a positive, team-oriented corporate culture that is actively engaged in the community and gives back any way that we can. From donating to Toys for Tots to adopting families throughout the holiday season, we are constantly looking for new charities to work with and encourage suggestions from everyone on the team. We sincerely believe that we can influence our neighboring communities. When the goals of each individual align with the objectives of the organization, true transformation happens. View our careers Our Values At Acquire, we believe in offering promotional opportunities to every member of our team. Our promotion system is solely based on individual achievement, rather than seniority. We firmly believe that hard work, dedication, and results should be the determining factors when it comes to determining an individual's career advancement. Regardless of how long someone has been with us, their potential for growth and success is determined by their accomplishments and contributions. At Acquire, we prioritize giving everyone an equal opportunity to rise to new heights based on their own achievements. Careers By pushing our candidates to step outside of their comfort zones while practicing their newly acquired skills alongside more advanced team members, they achieve fantastic goals in short amounts of time. Future Expansions Acquire believes that the benefits of outsourcing are now more widely recognized by US businesses which has in turn contributed to this uplift. Community Here at Acquire, a huge part of our corporate culture is giving back. We believe investing in not just our own team, but also the communities around us. × Acquire Officially Makes Return to the Raleigh, NC Market RALEIGH, NC – Acquire has officially made its return to the Raleigh, NC area and opened its doors for business earlier this month. After successfully building a headquarters in Atlanta, GA in 2013, Founder and Director of National Accounts, Zack Schuch, has decided to return to home base and get re-acquainted with the Raleigh market. Which, according to the director, has been a goal of his since he left for the Atlanta market four years ago. Schuch said, “This return has been in the works for four years and I’m confident that I’m coming back to this market with invaluable experience under my belt. It’s been a long road, but I’m glad to be home.” As Schuch reflected on his company’s beginnings, he went on to explain how his career in marketing and advertising began. After graduating from Florida State University in 2006 with a bachelor’s in Economics, Schuch decided to pursue a career in marketing and sales. He moved home to Raleigh where he started as an entry level marketing representative. He quickly caught the attention of his firm’s clients as one of the top producers in the office. After learning the tools necessary to manage a business and represent clients, he founded his own marketing firm in 2008. However, to be closer to his newly established clients, he moved his business to the Atlanta market. Within four years, he was able to successfully double his company’s size and added two new Fortune 100 clients to his portfolio. It was then that he decided it was finally time to return to the Raleigh market and leave the Atlanta market in the hands of his business partner, Cole Gerald. “Gerald and I built this company from the ground up and I know it’s only going to continue to grow with him behind the wheel,” Schuch asserted. Teaming up with Schuch this time is around is long-time business acquaintance, now partner, Grant Gulledge. The two entrepreneurs are teaming up to establish a new headquarters for Acquire With over 17 years of marketing and sales experienced combined, Gulledge has high expectations for what they will accomplish. “I’m a goal-driven individual and when I get my mind set on something, I go for it with full-force. I feel like Zack is the same way, so there’s no telling what we’re going to be able to achieve when we put our minds together,” said Gulledge. When it comes to his new branch, Schuch is focused on creating a positive, team-oriented corporate culture. According to the director, he feels that an atmosphere based on unity, positive atmosphere, entrepreneurial spirit, and philanthropy helps motivate and push individuals further. Much like his office in Raleigh, Schuch wants this new office in Raleigh to have that same culture. “I feel like it’s our duty to be active in the community while giving back any way that we can all the while, growing to hit our goals and watching individuals prosper. No matter the subject at hand, I’m always up for suggestions from everyone in the office,” Schuch said. With the holiday season quickly approaching, there’s no doubt that Schuch will quickly find a charitable organization to invest himself in. Per Schuch, he’s open to any and every kind of charitable giving and usually finds new charities to work with through word of mouth in his office. Close × Acquire Throws Black-Tie Party with Toys for Tots RALEIGH, NC – After exceeding their goals for the fourth quarter, the management team at Acquire celebrated by throwing their First Annual Organizational Holiday Party at the W Hotel-Midtown in Raleigh, GA. While the black-tie event was glamorous in its own right, the star attraction of the party was the Christmas tree adorned with gift donations for the Toys for Tots organization. Director of Operations of Acquire, Zack Schuch, was behind the charitable addition to the party and simply requested that attendees bring one toy to donate to the Toys for Tots organization. “I added a charitable feature to the holiday party because I wanted the event to be more than just a celebration of success this past year,” explained Schuch. “Giving back to the community when you’ve seen success is something that I want to instill in those that I mentor.” Guests arrived to the party in tuxedos and gowns with their donations in tow. As they entered the ballroom, each attendant placed their gifts under the tree and the pile continuously grew throughout the night. Donations included play-dough sets, dolls, toy trucks, Lego sets, and other children’s toys. Other highlights of the night included superlative awards to recognize the firm’s managers for their hard work and other idiosyncrasies. Awards ranged from humorous superlatives such as “Most Likely to Ask a Question on a Conference Call” and “Best Looking Manager” to more serious “Achievement”, “Most Reliable”, and “Most Work Done Behind the Scenes” awards. All recipients graciously accepted their superlative awards and the rest of night was filled with conversation and dancing to a live band. Guests were also encouraged to take pictures with Mr. and Mrs. Claus, who were also in attendance for the event. The pair were stationed right next to the donation tree and took pictures with each guest as they made their contributions. To help make the night even more memorable for the guests, Schuch included a photo booth to the party. Guests accessorized with feather boas and top hats posed for the camera and left with photo memories of the night. “I’d say this holiday party was definitely a success. Our team looked great and we made a considerable donation to the Toys for Tots foundation. We had fun and made difference in the community at the same time, which I think is the whole point of the holiday season,” said Schuch. After wrapping up the holiday party and fourth quarter of the year, Schuch has already begun contemplating on his goals for the company in 2018. The Acquire team expanded to multiple new branches and had more than twenty of their managers promoted to upper level positions in 2017, while also managing to increase their client’s revenue by 22%. With that being said, there’s little doubt that 2018 will be a big year for the team at Acquire Close × Acquire Sets up Shop in Midtown Plaza in North Hills RALEIGH, NC – The team at Acquire recently announced their plans to move their headquarters to the new Midtown Plaza building in North Hills. According to National Director of Operations at Acquire, Zack Schuch, the move couldn’t have come at a better time for the company. “We’ve grown considerably in the first quarter, so it makes sense to move our business to a part of the city that is expanding as well,” explained Schuch. The team’s new headquarters is currently still under construction, but it is estimated that they will be moving in by the end of April 2018. Their new office design will be atop the new All Scripts tower with views of Midtown and Downtown Raleigh. It will also feature multiple conference rooms, a State-of-the-Art Training Facility, and beautifully designed utility/all purpose community center and kitchen with multiple Smart TVS throughout the common areas. “The process of designing a brand-new office from scratch has been so exciting, but we are eager and more than ready to start making our mark on North Hills. Being able to utilize the training facility and AT&T’s new services will be a gamechanger for the team while also allowing us to support one of our largest clients,” commented Executive Assistant, Julie Banks. The Midtown Plaza building itself is 12 stories tall and is highly visible from the 1-440 Beltline. The building also includes easily accessible parking in 2 adjacent 7-level parking decks and a café located on the first floor of the building. On top of the many amenities included at Midtown Plaza, the interior design of the building is both modern and luxurious with many rest areas including park benches and waterfalls to help calm stress during the work day. “The building is just beautiful,” commented co-director, Gulledge. “We couldn’t have picked a better location in my opinion.” Surrounding the Midtown Plaza building are three districts that will house many restaurants and retailers that are all within walking distance. Popular restaurants in the area include: Ruth’s Chris Steak House, Fox & Hound Sports Tavern, Chuy’s, The Capital Grille, Vivace, Midtown Grille and many more. On top of the many dining establishments, the team will also have access to exceptional entertainment venues including the outdoor concert events at Midtown Park, upscale bowling at King’s Dining & Entertainment, Regal Cinemas North Hills Stadium 14, and Artsource Fine Art Gallery & Framing. “I can’t believe how quickly the area has grown and I’m so excited to see what else they add,” remarked Schuch on the new additions to his hometown. With the new office adding fire to the Acquire team’s drive, there’s no telling how big their second quarter will be. According to the directors, the company has doubled in size since opening in the Raleigh area and they don’t see the growth stopping any time soon. Close × Acquire Supports Dress for Success Organization and Attends Fashion Show RALEIGH, NC – Since returning to the Raleigh market last year, Acquire has gained a reputation for being involved in the surrounding community. Most recently, they attended the first annual Unveil Fashion Show & Benefit sponsored by Gilded Bridal and Vidrio in support of Dress for Success. The fashion show was held on Thursday, March 22 nd at 7:00pm in Downtown Raleigh and showcased Tara Latour’s gowns. The designer herself was also in attendance along with other vendors in the event industry. Besides a lively show, the event included complimentary valet, glasses of wine, and Hors d’oeuvres provided by Vidrio for the guests. A silent auction gave attendants other opportunities to donate to the charity and a photo booth provided both comedic relief and tangible memories of the night. “Our team had never attended a fashion show before, but we had a ton of fun and we got to donate to a good cause,” said Grant Gulledge, co-Director of Operations at Acquire. According to the Dress for Success charity’s website, their mission is to empower women to achieve economic independence. By providing a network of support, professional attire and providing professional training, they believe they will be able to help women thrive in work and in life overall. The charity got its start in 1997 and has sense expanded to more than 150 cities in 30 different countries. Since beginning their work, they’ve been able to help more than one million women become self-reliant. When asked why the team wanted to participate in the charity event, Director of Operations, Zack Schuch, responded saying that he believes in giving back to community and helping others better their situations. Which coincides directly with the Dress for Success’ purpose: to offer long-lasting solutions that enable women to break the cycle of poverty. “There are a lot of driven individuals out there who, unfortunately, aren’t able to pull themselves out of bad situations due to certain financial obstacles,” explained Schuch. “Sometimes all they need is that one helping hand to help get them to where they need to be.” To learn more about the Acquire team or apply, please visit their website at https://acquireraleigh.com/ To learn more about the Dress for Success Organization or to learn how to get involved, please visit their website at https://dressforsuccess.org/about-us/what-we-do/ Close × Acquire Gets “Smart” In Its New Home RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA—ACQUIRE , the leader in campaign marketing and business development services, is excited to announce the addition of a new client to its already robust business portfolio.  Recently the firm issued a few statements from its Management Team to give the greater Raleigh-Durham community an insight into this brand new campaign.  This fledgling campaign with the nation’s leaders in SmartHome Technology will certainly mean a great deal to Acquire and their team.  Having inked a fresh contract with a burgeoning company will obviously give them a more dynamic position within the local business community, but just how much is yet to be seen? SmartHome at 2017 CT Expo Las Vega, Nevada “Acquire feels it is important to continually challenge ourselves to jump into unfamiliar industries. This business philosophy will allow us to constantly push the boundaries of what our entire company is able to achieve.” —Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire Clearly, Acquire has their sights set on something bigger than the current position it occupies within the Raleigh-Durham business community.  With that in mind, how will they know if this new campaign will achieve the same level of success they have come to enjoy in recent months and quarters of business?  Let them explain: “We feel we are able to grow and scale most any brand, company, service or industry. The SmartHome Whole-Home Automation Industry is no different.  Our involvement in this sector will give us a particular market penetration that we have yet to explore, and, if we’re being honest, no one really knows how big this particular industry can be. It is a very motivating endeavor for the future of our firm.” —Zack Schuch, National Director of Operations at Acquire As of Q2 2018, SmartHome/Whole-Home Automation companies account for $150M+ of gross annual sales domestically. Combine that growing number with Acquire’s involvement in the Consumer Technology, Telecommunication, Green/Ride-Share and Renewable Energy Industries and it becomes easy to see how Acquire is quickly becoming an increasingly prominent name in the Mid-South economic landscape.  These industries, while similar, are in diverse areas.  The positions that Acquires’ clients reside allow for higher market caps, increased future market expansion opportunities and greater stability for the foreseeable future.  With the current economic growth projections for the U.S., this client addition could mean very big things for Acquire in Q3/Q4—giving a bright outlook for the 2019 fiscal earnings year. To learn more about the Acquire team, their philanthropic efforts, community outreach and company culture you can visit their website at aquirerdu.com.  They can also be found on every prominent social media outlet. Acquire is located on the 12 th Floor of the SunTrust/AllScripts Building off of I-440/Wade Avenue in the North Hills area of Raleigh, NC. Close × Acquire Sponsors the Humbled Initiative RALEIGH, NC—June 30th, 2018 - As June came to an end, Acquire continued its philanthropic events at The Summer Classic Charity Basketball Event presented by The Humbled Initiative; a North Carolina based non-profit organization. Since being founded in 2017, The Humbled Initiative has provided scholarships to underprivileged high school students in various communities including Raleigh-Durham. Following the celebrity basketball event, scholarships were acknowledged and giveaways were announced. It was then that Acquire got the chance to interview The Humbled Initiative's founder, David Garvin Jr.  When asked about the charity’s origin, Garvin explained: “It was founded under the clothing line, “Humility Clothing.” When my team and I recognized that our profits could be put to greater use we decided to turn the clothing line into something more.  We are ecstatic to see the charity event take place for a second year, and hope to see it expand and continue in the future.” Garvin reflected on this time for a people to unite and honor their friend, Dunaway, who lost the battle to bone cancer. The Humbled Initiative’s founder reminisced about his times with Dunaway as a cousin, brother, and best friend. After T.J.’s death, his friends and family wanted a way for his name to live on so he became the inspiration for this successful charity event. “We wanted T.J’s legacy to live on for generations even below ours,” stated Garvin. Part of The Humbled Initiative’s vision for the event was to get as much of the community as possible involved, which led to the Raleigh and Cary Police Departments teaming up against local high school athletes in a game of basketball. Donations made at the event will go toward the T.J. Dunaway Scholarship, which supports six local high school seniors seeking financial aid during their transition between high school and college. Through the efforts of The Humbled Initiative, they were able to honor the memory of T.J. Dunaway, while allowing the community to give back. Acquire volunteer, Nathan Galloway said , “It was great to be a part of an organization that gives back in the community and to participate in furthering youth education.” Acquire’s donations contributed to two scholarships of $1000 that were awarded to local North Carolina students. Members of the Humbled Initiative expressed their gratitude as this sponsorship helps the youth, assists in running the event, and will transcend over to next year’s game. “We were also able to have a successful event that brought local communities together while doubling the scholarship contributions all through the game of basketball.  Dreams came true and lives were changed during this event,” proclaimed Garvin. Acquire believes in The Humbled Initiative's pillars of integrity and service, and is grateful for the opportunity to sponsor such a wonderful charity. The Humbled Initiative’s commitment to global communities and the people who live in them is one that has inspired the Acquire team to continue their efforts to find more local charities to get involved with To learn more about the Humbled Initiative, please contact them at info@humbledinitiative.com. Pay it forward! To learn more about Acquire and their philanthropic efforts, visit their website at https://www.acquireraleigh.com. Close × “Acquiring” Diversity in The Workplace RALEIGH, NC—AUGUST 7th, 2018 In today’s world people are encouraged to discuss topics that some may find uncomfortable but sometimes the discussions of uncomfortable topics are the most necessary. Acquire believes “diversity in the workplace” is one of those topics so we took the opportunity to sit down with some of their team members to dig a little deeper and find out why this is important to them. Since its inception, people have traveled from all across the world to the U.S. in search of a safer, more prosperous life. Each year more and more people are moving from other states within the U.S. to Raleigh, NC. Thus, making Raleigh a melting pot of diverse cultures. As the city of Raleigh becomes more multicultural, so has Acquire. “Because our company was built around a unified team vision, we welcome diversity in the workplace as diversity offers a stronger fabric to our company tapestry. Each member of our team brings an immense deal of benefits to our company through their diverse experiences, skill sets and out looks, which is what makes a great team!” - Zack Schuch, Acquire’s National Director of Operations “At Acquire we embrace diversity and go to great lengths to make each individual feel welcomed from the moment they start our vetting process into their employment with us. We have found this ethos significantly enhances our company culture.” - Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire According to the latest estimates from the U.S. Census Bureau, Raleigh is currently one of the fastest growing cities in the country and in 2017 reached over 1 million residents, which was a new record for Wake County. Over the last four years alone Wake County has grown by 100,000 people and with that type of growth, comes a remarkable amount of diversity. “Living in a community where diversity is prominent, we at Acquire want to accommodate a diverse group of people within our company and so far we have done a good job with this.” - Rebecca Sampson, Sr. Talent Lead at Acquire. The increasing diverse population of the Raleigh-Durham area is bringing an army of elements to the local community, ranging from ethnicity and religion to gender and age. And while diversity can be a complex concept, by speaking to the Acquire team we learned the importance of an interwoven tapestry of a diverse company culture. To learn more about Acquire’s future initiatives, campaigns and events, visit their website at https://acquirerdu.com . Close × Acquire Participates in School Supply Drive RALEIGH, NC—Aug 24th, 2018 As a new school year begins, families across the country feel the all-familiar budget impact of rising school supplies costs. In an effort to relieve that burden for local families in the Raleigh Triangle, Acquire participated in a School Supply Drive by collecting and donating school supplies for local kids in need. The annual School Supply Drive hosted by local radio station, 96.1 BBB, is in support of Triangle Family Services (TFS). TFS is a local organization that’s mission is “Building a stronger community by strengthening the family.” Donations made during the School Supply Drive benefit TFS and its efforts to create a thriving local community. Triangle Family Services was founded in 1937 and since then, has been serving families in need within the Triangle community of North Carolina. During the 80+ years TFS has been a part of the Triangle area, it has not only worked to provide modern solutions to local citizens facing crisis but has also worked to bring them safety and security. Furnishing school supplies for elementary through high school age kids in the community who come from low-income families is one of the many steps TFS takes toward fulfilling its mission. This is just one way to prevent children from starting school behind the rest of their classmates and to ensure each child in America is given the resources to succeed. “Recently becoming a first-time-father has opened my eyes to an array of things that honestly, like many of us, I hadn’t put much thought to previously. One of those things being the endless list of expenses that comes along with growing a family. Knowing that children, not just in our local community, but across the country, start school each year without the basic essentials is heartbreaking. Now that I’m a parent myself, I want to contribute in any way I can to slow that rising statistic. Organizations such as TFS make providing for less fortunate families possible and also give you a peace of mind knowing your donations are in good, honest hands, in which I am extremely thankful for.“ - Zach Schuch, National Director at Acquire In terms of consumer spending, back-to-school season is the second largest shopping season of the year and since 2016, between 30% and 50% of back-to-school purchases have been influenced by classroom supplies requirements. According to the most recent Huntington Bank Backpack Index, a figure that tracks the annual cost of school supplies, the average cost for high school students in the US was $1,500, an estimated $1,001 for children in middle school and $662 for elementary school students. In 2014, according to the US Department of Education, one out of every five school age children was living below the federal poverty line. That is almost 11 Million children nation-wide and sadly, that number hasn’t changed much. “Growing up in a home with two foster brothers and a mother who held a teaching position in the public school system, I saw first hand at a young age the vast need for organizations like TFS that encourage and provide an outlet for members of the local community to donate to low-income families. We as U.S. citizens are persistently searching for ways to aid the less fortunate in other regions of the world when there are countless families living in poverty right here in our own community. These less fortunate members of our local community who are not afforded the “luxury” of purchasing what some may call, “simple,” items such as No. 2 pencils, notebook paper, or crayons. The truth is these items are essential classroom tools, which is why we at Acquire will continue to participate in this annual School Supply Drive throughout the coming years.” - Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire Here in the state of North Carolina, 53% of students attending public schools are eligible to receive free or reduced school lunches, which is a proxy for poverty. These statistics have proven the cost of classroom essentials to be a major financial setback for a majority of families but with the assistance of Triangle Family Services, 96.1 BBB, charitable local citizens, and local businesses like Acquire, the Raleigh Triangle will be able to continuously make steps toward building and maintaining a flourishing community. For more information about Triangle Family Services and ways you can donate or volunteer year round, visit their website at www.tfsnc.org. To learn more about the Acquire team, their philanthropic efforts, community outreach and company culture you can visit their website at www.acquireraleigh.com. They can also be found on every prominent social media outlet. Acquire is located on the 12th Floor of the SunTrust/AllScripts Building off of I-440/Wade Avenue in the North Hills area of Raleigh, NC. Close × Acquire Takes The Lead at Leadership Conference Raleigh, NC – September 5, 2018 Mid-August approached as business leaders nation wide prepared for an annual leadership seminar held at Dallas, Texas’ Hilton DFW Lakes Executive Center. The exclusive, annual conference brings together select top performing men and women from sales and marketing campaigns across the US. It was there that they were provided the opportunity to expand their knowledge on how to maximize their growth as elite business leaders. Upon their return to Raleigh, we were granted the opportunity to speak with some of the Acquire team members who had the privilege of attending the educational seminar. Attendees were expected to arrive in Dallas with an intention to learn -- ready to grow. The seminar speakers covered a multitude of topics ranging from, the importance of campaign compliance, culture and team identity, and brand management. Attendees were given the chance to network with other markets, learn more about new campaigns, and encouraged to participate in individual breakout sessions with industry leaders. “Having the ability to engage with other business leaders across the country allows us to receive guidance from each other on how to better ourselves professionally. I’ve learned asking for help is not a weakness, but a strength; hence the importance of networking to learn from anyone and everyone.” -- Alex Sacco, Corporate Trainer at Acquire Zack Schuch, National Director at Acquire was asked to Keynote speak on the abundance of growth in the industry as well as the importance of opportunities to expand into new fields and emerging markets. “We have at our fingertips a fantastic opportunity to grow without bounds. From our expansions into clean and renewable energy, to smart home initiatives, to consumer technology and telecommunications there is no limit to where all we can go or achieve in the foreseeable future. It’s an incredibly exciting path to be going down.” --Zack Schuch, National Director at Acquire “Hearing various business people in our industry share their experiences and specific tactics for further progression in their careers was highly beneficial for me professionally. One thing I enjoyed most was being able to engage with those who are doing well in this industry and finding out what made them successful on a much more one-on-one basis.” -- Corey Johnson, Corporate Trainer at Acquire Acquire’s leadership team left the conference with a new outlook and learned how to see the bigger picture rather than focus on the beginning stages of becoming a better business person. This conference not only helped the attendees find what truly drives their goals but also gave them the tools and motivation to take their goals and see them through to the finish line. To learn more about the Acquire culture as well as their philanthropic efforts, visit their website at www.acquireraleigh.com. Close × “Acquiring” New Opportunities Raleigh, North Carolina – September 27, 2018 As a rapidly growing company, Acquire attracts a large number of entrepreneurial- minded, professionals who see themselves as future leaders in business. Acquire is not only known for their fast paced, energetic environment, but also for the many growth opportunities they provide their employees. These offerings are what set Acquire apart from other businesses today and are what sparked our interest in discovering more about the company itself. So, what are the opportunities for one working at Acquire and what do the promotions signify? When presented the chance to speak with the Acquire team, these queries were the topic of discussion. Aside from bringing their clientele new acquisitions along with a list of other benefits, Acquire’s objective is to mold strong business leaders and give their employees the tools necessary to develop into thriving business men and women. Since inception, Acquire has consistently succeeded in fulfilling its vision and the most recent product of their efforts is Atlanta, GA native, Ben Mertz. While meeting with the Acquire team, Mertz spoke with us on behalf of his experience working with the growing company as well as his personal background and how it not only led him to Acquire, but also helped him flourish during his time there. “I’ve been in this business for 12 years. Over that time I’ve watched the company along with myself and other men and women within the company evolve into something much greater than I could have imagined. From the beginning, my partners and I have first-hand witnessed Ben’s transformation so we are excited to see his continued growth as a fellow business owner. Not only is it rewarding to see your time and efforts pay off through the growth of others but it’s also encouraging when employees take full advantage of the experience and begin seeing their own potential. Acquire is quickly expanding, which mean a number of doors are opening up for our team members who, through hard work, prove to be ready and more than capable to successfully run their own business. Ben conveyed all the attributes of a quality leader, which made it a simple decision as well as a privilege to promote him into his new role as Director of Operations.” - National Director of Operations, Zack Schuch Georgia Tech (Georgia Institute of Technology) alum, Ben Mertz, received a Mechanical Engineering degree after four years of attending the Atlanta based university. During his time at Georgia Tech, Mertz played for the Men’s Lacrosse team, which unknowingly prepared him for his future career. Upon graduating, he began the job search that inevitably led him to now, Zack Schuch’s office door in Atlanta, GA. Now, National Director of Operations at Acquire in Raleigh, Schuch took notice of Ben’s passion and determination to propel himself toward his goals while inspiring his peers to do the same. As a college athlete, Ben not only found the coaching styles of Schuch to be effective but he was also motivated by the competitive nature of the marketing and sales business. He quickly found himself prospering in the familiar sports-like environment. In December of 2017, Schuch made the decision to expand his company into his hometown of Raleigh, NC. With this move came one of Mertz’s many opportunities with Acquire. He was offered the chance to join the expansion crew for the return to Raleigh, which he immediately accepted! “It’s been an incredible experience to watch Zack and his business partners build the company that is now Acquire. Often times we throw around the word “opportunity.” Anyone can present you with an opportunity but if you don’t put in the time and work it takes to reap the true benefits then you’ve wasted valuable time. I am genuinely grateful to Zack and Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire, Grant Gulledge, for investing in and mentoring me, in turn, building me up to be the mature, businessman I am today. I’m grateful for the time I’ve had to observe Zack and Grant as well as my peers while developing my own personal style of coaching and developing others. With this promotion, I’m most looking forward to holding a position which allows me to directly have a positive impact on my employees.” - Director of Operations, Ben Mertz A myriad of aspects have brought Ben to his current position but focus, hard work and dedication are three major factors he mentioned during our inquiry. Being promoted to Director of Operations is allowing Ben to expand into new markets in North Carolina and run his own office as a new business owner. During the young entrepreneur’s time at Acquire he not only learned how to develop skilled business people but also how to successfully manage and mentor them, which is the backbone of their line of business. We, along with the Raleigh Acquire group look forward to watching Ben grow his office and provide his own employees the same opportunity he was given. Close × Acquire’s Corporate Getaway Raleigh, North Carolina – October 22, 2018 In celebration of a successful year of business, some of the Acquire team jet set to Punta Cana in the Dominican Republic. During their three-day retreat they attended an award ceremony and enjoyed fine dining as well as relaxation time on the breathtaking beaches of the Coconut Coast. Interests were sparked once the word was out about the end-of-year getaway so the Acquire operations directors were contacted in an effort to learn more about their prosperous year, the award ceremony, and why the directors at Acquire believe in rewarding their top employees with an all inclusive vacation. Their entire administrative team, as well as their most recently promoted directors, Ben Mertz and Zach Grossbard, accompanied the National and Senior Directors of Acquire. Acquire was not only joined by their local office team, but also some of their clientele representatives and business partners from across the country. “I can honestly say that the accolades we were awarded in the Dominican are not only a reflection of our ability to develop strong personnel, but also the cohesiveness of Acquire as a whole. The company culture we have is unmatched. It’s a true team effort, which is why we take pride in being able to provide top performing employees with the opportunity to go on an all expenses paid getaway.” - National Director of Operations at Acquire, Zack Schuch Upon arriving at the five-star, Punta Cana resort, the sales and marketing group from Raleigh, NC made their way to a ceremony co-hosted by Acquire’s clientele. It was there that Acquire’s Management Team was recognized as ‘Best in The Industry’ for the 2018 business year, receiving top awards in both Administrative Practices and Operations Management. This award was voted on and presented by leaders and other personnel in the promotional marketing industry. “We’re incredibly humbled to receive these in-industry awards. 2018 was a monumental year of growth for our company as well as its staff. While we are thrilled to receive this acknowledgment, we are even more excited about what we know is on the horizon in 2019.“ - Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire, Grant Gulledge The extent to which Acquire’s management values their staff is indescribable. It was witnessed firsthand during this interview. Discussed, at length, was the priority that is placed on valuing their fellow staff. It is clear that Acquire’s Management Team shows their appreciation in many ways as do their clientele. Both senior level managers, Grant Gulledge and Zack Schuch, spoke on how exciting it will be to witness what ways Acquire will be able to show more appreciation in the upcoming year and what all lies ahead for the company! To learn more about the Acquire culture as well as their philanthropic efforts, visit their website at www.acquireraleigh.com. Close × Acquire Plants A New Seed In The Garden State Raleigh, North Carolina – November 5, 2018 Acquire, a company that has a foundation built around client acquisitions and employee development, has made yet another significant business move to maximize its imprint on the industry. This move was the announcement of a new market expansion to New Jersey. In an interview with some of the Acquire team, they shared all the details and what takes place behind the scenes in preparation for a major decision such as this. As the fall season swings into full gear, Acquire’s National Director of Operations, Zack Schuch and Senior Director of Operations, Grant Gulledge, prepare their recently promoted staff member, Zach Grossbard for what lies ahead of him as the director of business in a new north east market. “At Acquire we take three major factors into consideration when vetting someone for a senior level management role. We value someone’s ability to positively impact his or her fellow coworkers both in and outside of our office setting. We then consider that person’s proficiency at conducting full-scale operations on a day-to-day basis. And last but not least, Acquire turns its attention to this person’s full understanding of our overall company strategy and vision.”  ---Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire, Grant Gulledge Growing up, Grossbard called Long Island, New York his home, and, while he enjoyed his time living in Raleigh, he has expressed his excitement about moving closer to family and his home state. Throughout his life he had a passion for competitive wrestling, which was the reason behind his decision to pursue a degree in Exercise Science at Towson University. Acquire is known for its energetic, competitive culture, making Grossbard a perfect fit with his athletic background and sports-minded mentality.  With exciting adventures on the horizon, Grossbard looks forward to building out his own market through this expansion to southern New Jersey. “I came into this industry in search of hands-on marketing experience but the experience and knowledge I’ve gained since working at Acquire has been more than I ever anticipated. It didn’t take long for me to realize that it was much more than just a job. The ways in which I have developed as a person have not only excited me, but it has also given me full confidence in becoming a successful business owner. I’m beyond grateful to be in the position where I can empower others while developing my own staff members. My team and I can’t wait to dig into this new territory with new clients and their campaigns!” --- Director of Operations, Zach Grossbard Both National and Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire made it obvious during this interview that there are many pieces to the puzzle and upon promoting someone, a multitude of requirements must be met.  As Acquire has found its way in the market, they are now leading the way for the promotional marketing industry and it’s clear that Acquire as well as their newest member of management, Zach Grossbard, are on the threshold of a bright, prosperous future. Close × Acquire Donates to Local Food Bank Raleigh, North Carolina – November 19, 2018 With the holiday season in full swing, it can be easy to get wrapped up in checking off gifts to be purchased, finalizing travel plans, and narrowing down which holiday events to attend. As the Acquire staff began their own seasonal preparations, they felt compelled to contribute to less fortunate families in their local community of Raleigh, NC. Finding an honest, trustworthy organization to work with can be difficult in today’s society, but once Acquire discovered the Food Bank of Central and Eastern North Carolina, they had no concerns. Founded in 1980, the Food Bank of Central and Eastern North Carolina was the first food bank in the state and was originally known as the Community Food Bank. Now, over 35 years later, The Food Bank has provided food for the homeless and others in need throughout 34 different counties in the Raleigh Triangle area. From 2014 to 2015, the nonprofit organization was able to distribute more than 57.2 million pounds of food and other necessities throughout the Raleigh community with the help of local agencies such as soup kitchens, food pantries and shelters. While organizations like the Food Bank are grateful for the agencies assisting with the distribution of collected goods, the Food Bank also relies on the help of local citizens and businesses such as Acquire to make donations. “Community is what we’ve tried to build here at Acquire. A culture of caring, leadership, and good character is something we have genuinely tried to achieve within our Raleigh based company. With that being the case, we feel that in this season of giving thanks, it is equally as important to give back to those within our community who are without the support that we are so blessed to experience on a daily basis. This season, we at Acquire are not only thankful for our own blessings, but also for organizations such as the Food Bank of Central and Eastern North Carolina that provide ways for us and many others to make a positive impact on our local area.” – Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire, Grant Gulledge National Director of Operations at Acquire, Zack Schuch, is notorious for giving back to his hometown community of Raleigh and enjoys getting his staff engaged as well, in hopes of making a larger impression. Since becoming a parent earlier this year, Schuch has shown interest in getting even more involved with philanthropies that not only aid impoverished adults but also children. “It’s been extremely impressive to see our team come together the way they have for such an amazing cause. Each person here brought something to the table, which has made an unbelievable impact! As cliché as it may sound, there’s just something about the holidays that makes you want to give back as well as count your own blessings and with this holiday season being my first as a father, I know that my family and I have even more to be thankful for this year.” -- National Director of Operations at Acquire, Zack Schuch As the number of people in need and at risk of hunger continues to rise, there are more than 605,000 people who are without the essentials to live an active, healthy life day to day. The tone of the entire Acquire team, along with the smiles on their faces, spoke volumes to the excitement and passion they have about contributing to their community in an effort to lower that growing statistic. Aside from their contributions, Acquire’s passion alone is inspiring and has not only made a strong impact, but has also helped the Food Bank of Central and Eastern North Carolina get closer to fulfilling their mission to let “no one go hungry.” For more information about the Food Bank of Central and Eastern North Carolina and ways you can donate visit their website at www.foodbankcenc.org . To learn more about the Acquire team, their philanthropic efforts, community outreach and company culture, visit their website at www.acquireraleigh.com . Acquire can also be found on all social media outlets and is located on the 12 th floor of the SunTrust/AllScripts building off of I-440/Wade Ave in the North Hills area of Raleigh, NC. Close × Acquire Attends the 25th Annual Jingle Ball Gala Raleigh, North Carolina—December 13, 2018 Acquire began the 2018 holiday season by collecting and donating non-perishable goods to a local food pantry, but the Raleigh-based marketing agency’s philanthropic efforts did not stop there. Recently, they furthered their community involvement when part of their team joined the “fight for good” by attending the 25 th Annual Jingle Ball Gala in an effort to help provide toys for less fortunate children in Wake County. The annual Jingle Ball Gala is hosted by the Capital City Clauses of Raleigh, NC in partnership with The Salvation Army’s Christmas Cheer Program. The Capital City Clauses’ mission is to bring toys to local children in need, but not just during the holidays; this charitable organization holds different donation events throughout the entire year! Each donated toy is distributed through The Salvation Army of Wake County and is guaranteed to go to a child within the local community. “There’s much more to the holidays than material items, but it’s also heart-warming to know that a less fortunate child will wake up to a new toy or clothing item on Christmas morning. The Capital City Clauses have been around for many years and as a Raleigh native myself, I’ve always known the values this organization fosters, therefore I had no hesitation to contribute to such an amazing cause.” —Zack Schuch, National Director/CEO of Acquire. Since the time of it’s founding, Acquire has rooted itself in the principles of a social contract between its business practices and the better welfare of the surrounding community. According to the UNC-Chapel Hill Carolina Population Center, Wake County as a greater metropolitan area grew by 43.5% from 2000 - 2010. The same study also projected that Wake County could potentially double in size over the next two decades! Obviously, not all of those moving to the area are in great support of financial situations and Acquire has decided to use the season of giving to task for those in less fortunate situations. “Knowing that I have made an impact on my local community is a feeling that cannot be matched. I am not only grateful to have been part of this charitable event with such inspiring organizations, but I’m beyond grateful to Acquire for giving its staff opportunities for community involvement!” —Kaileigh Corps, Administrative Assistant at Acquire In 2017, The Capital City Clauses received 13,254 donated toys and with the help of local citizens, The Salvation Army and companies like Acquire, The Capital City Clauses will be able to continue their mission and provide thousands of more toys to children across Wake County.  To learn more about Capital City Clauses and its involvement with The Salvation Army, you can find them at www.capitalcityclauses.org . If you would like to discover more about Acquire and their charitable efforts, visit their website at www.acquireraleigh.com . Acquire is located in the SunTrust-AllScripts building in the North Hills area of Raleigh, North Carolina. Close × Acquire Wraps Up 2018 With a Family Adoption Raleigh, NC - January 7, 2019 Throughout 2018 Acquire lead the way in their industry not only for their marketing game and brand mastery, but also for their amount of charity involvement. The promotional marketing firm, located in the North Hills district of Raleigh, did not seem to shy away from any one philanthropy in particular, rather, they teamed up with a variety of local non-profit organizations over the past twelve months. To wrap up the year in December, Acquire adopted a family through The Salvation Army’s Angel Tree program. After participating in a local food drive during the Thanksgiving holiday, Acquire continued their charitable efforts by attending Raleigh’s 25th Annual Jingle Ball Gala in partnership with The Salvation Army of Wake County. The Gala is held each year to collect Christmas toy donations for less fortunate children in the local community. Being a part of the Christmas toy drive inspired the Acquire team to get involved with The Salvation Army once again to provide more than just Christmas toys to the children in need. This time, they chose to donate clothing by adopting a family of five children from the Angel Tree program. “Contributing to the betterment of your community and the people in it gives you a better sense of what the word, “community” truly means. I feel that through our local involvement, I’ve provided my employees with the true understanding of what it means and feels like to be part of something much bigger. It has made a massive impact on me personally so I can only imagine the impact each donation and time volunteered has made on the non-profits, and most importantly, on the local citizens receiving the aid.” -- Zack Schuch, National Director at Acquire Since 1979, Angel Tree has been part of The Salvation Army’s Christmas Cheer Program and has provided ways for local citizens to be directly involved within their community by allowing them to give to the less fortunate on a more personal level. Families who apply for Christmas assistance through The Salvation Army are placed on Angel Tree’s adoption list to receive Christmas gifts from a community member who adopts the child. Through adoptions and donations, the Angel Tree program is able to provide new clothing and toys to thousands of underprivileged children for Christmas. “I think I speak for the entire Acquire team when I say that donating to Angel Tree gives you a sense of connection with the individuals receiving your donations. This charitable program allows you to know the name, gender, age and clothing sizes of each child you adopt, making the process feel more personal.” -- Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire Through a variety of community involvement, Acquire was able to provide new clothing, Christmas toys, and hundreds of meals to less fortunate citizens of the Raleigh Triangle in 2018. The Acquire team plans to continue expanding their philanthropic efforts and look forward to discovering and working with even more charitable organizations in 2019. For more information about Angel Tree and The Salvation Army, visit https://www.salvationarmycarolinas.org/wakecounty/get-involved/christmas-opportunities/angel-t ree-opportunities To learn more about Acquire and their philanthropic efforts, go to https://www.acquireraleigh.com/ Close × Everything’s Bigger in Texas Raleigh, NC - March 5, 2019 Over the last quarter, a clear push has been made by the businessmen and women of Acquire in hopes to qualify for an invite to the company’s annual leadership seminar. Each year, top-performing associates and industry heads gather together for two days of networking, travel, and professional education. In the coming week, a select group from Acquire’s leadership team will pack their bags and prepare to head to Dallas, Texas for the event. The conference will be held at the Hilton DFW Lakes Executive Conference Center where market managers will step away from their posts for the opportunity to share personal stories and knowledge learned from their own career paths. They will share these stories with the aspiring men and women working on marketing campaigns across the US to help foster the next generation of industry-wide leadership. One of Acquire’s own managing partners Zack Schuch has been asked to host this event as a keynote speaker at the conference. “It’s important to have pride not only in the clients we represent but in the driven men and women we choose to represent them. If sharing my story can inspire or provide clarity to just one attendee, the trip will have been well worth it!” --National Director of Operations, Zack Schuch While this is not Zack’s first conference invite, Corporate Trainer, Logan Drew will be attending for the first time. “It’s great to see successful managers making a conscious effort to give recognition to their people. Since I’m not one of the more senior associates, it was really motivating to see that the work I do isn’t going unnoticed. Even though I see my managers in the office every day, I am looking forward to seeing them impact people on a larger scale! It’s great to have mentors that can tell you stories of their own professional growth that started with being in your shoes.” -- Corporate Trainer, Logan Drew It is clear that Acquire has high expectations for this year’s seminar, and upon the conference attendees’ return to Raleigh, the entire Acquire team will be waiting--paper and pen in hand--to hear about tips and advice learned from the top industry performers. To learn more about Acquire, visit their website at www.acquireraleigh.com. Close × Acquire Leads The Way at Leadership Conference Raleigh, NC - February 8, 2019 Acquire began the new year with a new list of goals and events to attend. First on their list was a leadership conference in Atlanta, GA. Business leaders from across the country attended the exclusive conference where the CEO, Zack Schuch and Sr. Director of Acquire were both asked to speak on behalf of their personal business experiences and development in hopes of inspiring the hundreds of attendees. The top leaders in the industry and within the Acquire office were hand-picked to attend the conference held at the Cobb Galleria. During the two-day conference event, businessmen and women were given the opportunity to be coached by and network with the best of the best in the industry as well as discover open markets and new client campaigns. During each seminar, the speakers covered a wide range of components that are crucial to becoming a successful leader in today’s competitive marketing industry. "The great thing about our leadership conferences is that they are conducted by industry leaders and high-level performers in our field. They are more educational and relative than they are overtly motivational. I actually think in a way that is more motivating in a lot of ways." -- Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire Aside from the conference itself, the Raleigh leadership team utilized their time in the evening to attend a hosted, corporate dinner at Garden and Gun, located in The Battery Atlanta at Suntrust Park. This type of event allowed the Acquire staff to build even better connections and working relationships with their colleagues while in a more relaxed atmosphere. “As a leader, it was really inspiring to see other professionals like myself receiving promotions. It helped me be able to envision myself on the same stage receiving a promotion in the near future.” -- Kristine Kapatos, Corporate Trainer at Acquire The leadership team at Acquire was anxious to get back to Raleigh to implement and share everything they learned in Atlanta. The skills learned at the conference are not only great to utilize in the professional business world, but are also amazing tools to have in everyday scenarios. It is clear to see Acquire is focused and motivated to take their team to the next level in the Raleigh market and look forward to watching their staff grow throughout the year. To learn more about Acquire, visit their website at www.acquireraleigh.com. Close × Acquire “Springs” Into A Volunteer Opportunity Raleigh, NC -- With Spring just around the corner, Acquire is ready to kick start the new season with a new charitable opportunity and community involvement. The marketing firm, located in the North Hills area of Raleigh, is excited to announce that they are officially registered to partner with Ronald McDonald House (RMH). At the end of March, the Acquire team will be volunteering their time to cook for, serve and dine with current families at the Ronald McDonald House of Durham & Wake located in Raleigh. Ronald McDonald House is known across the country for its efforts to provide care and necessary resources, such as housing, for families with seriously ill children. As the Acquire team researched charitable organizations in their local community, they discovered an RMH in Wake County. Acquire’s Directors presented the opportunity to their team and the vote was unanimous. “We feel blessed to be involved with an incredible organization like Ronald McDonald House. It is a cause that is so simple to be excited about, and our team cannot wait to volunteer!” -- Zack Schuch, National Director at Acquire For over 39 years RMH in Durham has not only lessened the financial burden and other various stresses or worries that can arise from having a child with a serious illness, but the organization has also strengthened those who are caring for a sick child as they face the road ahead. RMH in Durham was the first RMH in the state of North Carolina as well as the first to be developed and supported solely by the surrounding community, which is a tradition that continues to this day. In 2015 a new RMH opened at WakeMed, changing the name of the local program to, “Ronald McDonald House of Durham & Wake.” “I personally know families with sick children who have been part of the Ronald McDonald House program, so I feel a strong connection to this organization and could not be happier to volunteer my time by serving the families here in the Durham and Wake County area. My hope is that our Acquire team can bring comfort to the families we are serving and put smiles on their faces even if it is only through preparing just one meal for them!” -- Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director at Acquire Since inception, Acquire’s Directors have been extremely vocal about their belief in giving back to the local community. Fortunately, their words have been put into action time and again through their participation in various philanthropic events. With the only support source for the local RMH program coming from the surrounding communities, the Acquire team felt it matched perfectly with the local involvement they were searching for. They look forward to contributing to Ronald McDonald House’s mission to “offer a comforting “home-away-from-home” and a community of support for seriously ill children and their families.” To learn more about Ronald McDonald House of Durham & Wake, visit https://www.rmhdurhamwake.org To find a Ronald McDonald House in your community, visit https://www.rmhc.org To learn more about Acquire and their philanthropic efforts, visit https://www.acquireraleigh.com Close × Reservations are Set for the “Hostess City” Raleigh, NC - February 25, 2019 Acquire has made its mark in the Raleigh-Durham area by operating as a company that places as much emphasis on its employees as it does its clients. At daily staff meetings, managers take on roles as educators and the lessons range from client acquisition to personal development. "An accomplished businessperson knows their own success is not only measured monetarily. It can be measured in the ability to replicate, and inspire others to achieve greatness." -- Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire Incorporating accountability and emotional intelligence into the values of the company is exactly what attracted Acquire’s newly promoted Director of Operations, Nathan Galloway, to the business. Georgia native, Galloway received a degree in Criminal Justice from Shorter University with hopes to find a career that would allow him to help others. Following graduation, Galloway interviewed with current Acquire National Director of Operations, Zack Schuch, which began the mentorship that brought him to Raleigh. “Nathan has displayed an admirable student mentality and his willingness to adapt and to grow is what consistently sets him apart from those around him. In our time together, I have watched him use the expertise shared with him to develop into a businessman unrecognizable from our first meeting. I’m eager to continue our work as business partners, and to see his hard work not only pay off but continue to lay a path for him and those around him as he steps into the next chapter of his career” -- Zack Schuch, National Director of Operations at Acquire Taking lessons learned, Galloway is making his way back to his home state as he takes Acquire’s most recent market expansion to Savannah, Georgia. When speaking with Galloway on his promotion, it was clear his excitement was as much for his team as it was his own career. “I first took this job because I saw a chance to educate and to help people. I have loved watching the progression of my colleagues and I'm excited to see how this new challenge will allow them to showcase their talents. In preparation for the move, they have displayed their ability to work seamlessly both as a team and as individuals. I’m excited to continue working with such motivated businessmen and women, and can’t wait for our clients to see what we can do in a new market!”” -- Nathan Galloway, Director of Operations Galloway plans to continue impacting his coworkers from a senior management position, and maintain a team-driven culture as he builds his business out of the Savannah market. As for Raleigh, the theme of true leadership creating generational success is one that continues to motivate, and give clients the level of return they have come to expect from the men and women of Acquire. To learn more about Acquire, visit their website at www.acquireraleigh.com. Close × Acquire “Springs” Into A Volunteer Opportunity Raleigh, NC - May 1, 2019 The month of April has come to a close, which means college students across the country are preparing for May graduation. While this is an exciting time, there can be underlying pressures to find the ideal job and start a career. This can be a stressful time for the majority of graduates who lack professional work experience. Luckily, the managing partners at Acquire, Zack Schuch and Grant Gulledge, can relate to these feelings of anxiousness and are putting forth a concerted effort to make the transition from college to a professional career a little less stressful. By offering job opportunities like they were once provided and sharing their personal experiences, the two Acquire business partners hope to not only alleviate some of the stress but also create a common ground between themselves and applicants. National Director of Operations at Acquire, Zack Schuch, graduated from Florida State University in 2006 with a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics. Soon after, Schuch found himself with an almost immediate job opportunity, which turned out to be the gateway to the prosperous career he has today. Now, as a successful entrepreneur, public speaker, and Director of accounts across the nation, Schuch has built an impressive book of business as well as a name for himself in the marketing industry. Throughout his career, Schuch has stood as a mentor to many and has helped pave the way for those entering the promotional marketing business straight out of college just as he did 13 years ago. Over the years, Schuch has been vocal about his appreciation toward the company that took a chance on him despite his lack of business experience at the beginning of his career. “I can still remember my last semester of college as if it were yesterday. Although it can be very stressful, it is an extremely fun and rewarding time of one’s life. When looking back on my career the past 12 years since graduating, I definitely do not miss those final exams. With that being said, when reflecting back, I am very appreciative to have found a company that was open-minded to a recent college graduate with minimal to some experience. It has been an unbelievable journey since opening my own firm a year later in the same industry and I too, as the owner of Acquire, take the same approach with recent college graduates as the first firm I gained experience from.” -- Zack Schuch, National Director of Operations at Acquire While Schuch found his way into the industry and grew his career after accepting his first job offer, Sr. Director of Operation at Acquire, Grant Gulledge, chose somewhat of a different path post-graduation. Gulledge, an Auburn University graduate, studied political science and history with plans to make a career for himself in the field of politics. Upon graduating, the Alabama native began his job search, only to discover that the field in which he received his degree was not bringing him the fulfillment he had hoped for. It was not until after this discovery that Gulledge shifted gears by accepting a different position with a promotional marketing and sales company. Although it was an unknown industry for Gulledge at the time, he took a chance and now, 7 years later, it is still paying off. Much like Schuch, Gulledge has become a mentor to many businessmen and women and has played a major role in the evolution of the promotional marketing and sales industry. Throughout his career, he has developed an array of skills pertaining to leadership and personal development and finds joy in coaching others on how to foster those same skills within themselves. “Looking back at that time in my life, I feel that I was totally blindsided by the everyday reality of building a career for myself. I went the corporate route first, but that was not my scene. Thankfully, I landed on my feet with the right team, but the nerves of being in an industry unrelated to my degree, along with the “known unknowns” affected me just like it would affect anyone else. It’s pretty common to be anxious about change but at Acquire, I feel like we have done a good job of empathizing to that feeling so we can run a healthier, more transparent business.” -- Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire The marketing and sales industry was initially unknown territory for both Schuch and Gulledge, which not only encouraged them to get out of their comfort zones but also got them out of their traditional mindsets about having a career in a degree-related field. With that said, it is clear they are both grateful to the business that took a chance on them despite having little to no marketing experience and they are happy to do the same for the next generation of business professionals. The Acquire business partners hope that through shedding light on their own experiences, they will be able to encourage those preparing to dive into the “real world” workforce for the first time. For more information about Acquire's career opportunities, visit www.acquireraleigh.com/#careers Close × Acquire Volunteers at Local Boys and Girls Club Raleigh, NC - May 10, 2019 With college graduation less than a week away, Acquire, a Raleigh based marketing agency, has put a large focus on the upcoming graduates and their job search. However, the agency recently decided to shift their focus to a younger age group by volunteering at an after-school program held at a local Boys and Girls Club (BGC) of Wake County. Acquire’s leadership core suggested illustrating the professional development they have received at Acquire by donating their time to BGC and influencing the next generation. Aside from conducting marketing and sales campaigns, Acquire’s mission is to develop men and women into professional leaders while providing them with a steady career path in one of the top business industries. Throughout the development process, Acquire’s management team offers mentorship and training to set businessmen and women up for life-long success. When choosing the company’s next philanthropy, the marketing team recognized that the developmental aspect of BGC’s mission was similar to that of Acquire’s. It was then that the team knew they had found the perfect match. Although each organization develops individuals in different ways and of different age groups, the similarity helped form a common ground between the two. “The BGC has an exceptional reputation and culture of investing in its young people, similar to that of our company, we felt it was necessary for us to take advantage of one of their volunteer opportunities. Wednesday was an incredibly impactful afternoon for our team and we hope that our participation made as big of an impact on the BGC members as the members and organization have made on us and the Raleigh community as a whole.” -- Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire While Acquire focuses more on career development in young adults, one of BGC’s main pillars is character development in adolescents. From humble beginnings in Hartford, Connecticut to becoming one of the nation’s largest, most well-known organizations, the Boys and Girls Club of America has worked to provide a positive alternative to children who may have less fortunate home-lives. BGC was founded in 1860 and now, over a century later, BGC continues to provide positive reinforcement and mentorship to kids across the country. "Volunteering at the Boys and Girls Club in Raleigh was an awesome experience. I really enjoyed helping out with their soccer practice and playing games with them in the gym! The biggest impact this experience had on me was when multiple members continued asking when we would be back. It meant a lot that these kids, who we just met, wanted us to come back after one day. Not only was it a great experience to give some of our time to them and help out, but it was also an amazing experience to see how positive the boys’ and girls’ responses were to us being there for them!" -- Rich Foil, Client Representative at Acquire For over 50 years, BGC has served the youth of Wake County, NC and with the assistance of local volunteers, the hard-working BGC staff ensures every child has the chance to excel in all aspects of life. Through receiving these development opportunities, the kids and teens of BGC are able to reach their full potential as responsible Wake County citizens.  Who knows, in the future, when current BGC of Wake County members prepare for their own job search, some may seek employment with Acquire and continue their development as young professionals in the marketing industry. In the meantime, the Acquire team plans to return as volunteers at the local BGC locations as often as possible. To discover ways to get involved in the local Boys and Girls Club of Wake County and learn more about their mission, visit www.wakebgc.org To learn more about Acquire’s philanthropic efforts and community involvement, visit www.acquireraleigh.com/#careers Close × Acquire Jet Sets To The Golden State Raleigh, NC - June 27, 2019 Since settling into Raleigh, Acquire has been recognized as one of the largest and fastest growing brands amongst marketing & promotional advertising firms in the Triangle area. It was established to introduce new products to the consumer market and provide a personal relationship with consumers on behalf of its clients. With its main focus on client and consumer satisfaction, Acquire cultivates a company culture based primarily on professional and personal development. The recent growth of their local campaigns has resulted in rapid expansion into new markets and has allowed some of their team the opportunity to travel and work with their clients in different areas throughout the U.S. Most recently, part of their team was offered the chance to spend a week working on a client initiative in California and returned with excitement to share their experiences. Acquire’s client campaign efforts are spreading nationwide resulting in a need for more hands on deck in markets outside of central North Carolina, which is exciting for everyone within the company, especially those eager to see new terrain. Travel opportunities such as these allow the marketing and sales team to gain a better understanding of all parts of a campaign and what goes into keeping it seamless and successful. Thus, the Acquire travel teams return to the Oak city with much more than great memories and “Instagram worthy” photos; they get the chance to further develop work skills and sharpen the tools that could carry them to new heights in their professional careers. “It was a great opportunity for me to network and see a bigger picture outside of our Raleigh office. I’ve always wanted to visit the west coast; specifically San Francisco, so there was no hesitation when this trip was offered to me. This gave me a chance to build a better relationship with my trainer, Pat, as well as learn more about his goals. While it was an incredible experience to work with different people outside of our local market, it made me realize exactly what I have access to in our local Raleigh office in terms of the team environment and leadership and how well it carried over even as we worked in a different market on the other side of the country. It’s definitely an opportunity I am grateful for and would take again in a heartbeat!” -- Trey Kitchen, Client Representative at Acquire Acquire Corporate Trainer, Pat Bowen accompanied Kitchen on the business trip and both lept at the chance to work on a consumer electronics campaign in San Francisco, CA. While this was Kitchen’s first time traveling with the Acquire team, it was far from the first for Bowen. As a seasoned trainer at Acquire, Bowen has proven himself through more than just hard work and consistency but also through his ability to effectively coach and quickly adapt to different environments while working with various clients. “Throughout my 2 years at Acquire, I’ve had the chance to travel to more than 12 different states, train numerous people in and outside of Raleigh, and have gotten to work hands-on with multiple campaigns. These travel opportunities have not only allowed me to develop as a leader in one of the largest industries, but they have also allowed me to have a hand in the professional development of team members traveling with me. I feel so lucky and empowered to know that a company such as Acquire stands behind me and believes in my abilities to coach others and set a positive example for our local team as well as teams from other areas.” -- Pat Bowen, Corporate Trainer at Acquire The quality leadership and teamwork that resonates even while away from familiar work settings and senior-level management truly speaks to the way Acquire operates on a daily basis as well as to their solid company culture. Due to the recent development of new campaign strategies, Acquire is providing their clients with something that other markets cannot, allowing them to surpass the efforts of competitors. It is clear that this promotional marketing team has quickly become the first contact for clients across the country seeking sales and marketing expertise, which is a sure sign Acquire is doing something right! To learn more about Acquire and their client services, visit their website at www.acquireraleigh.com/#careers Close × Acquire Sees New Growth at Leadership Conference Raleigh, NC A few times a year, Acquire and its partners in the Southeast choose their top-performing leaders and a few lucky new hires to attend a Leadership Conference in Atlanta, Georgia to meet, network with, and learn from the region’s top owners and performers. With seminars and presentations from these owners ranging in topic from office culture to marketing tactics, our employees are always excited to be given the opportunity to expand their knowledge of the industry and learn what it takes to run a successful operation. The two-day event is also an opportunity for our Assistant Directors to take the reins and run the daily operations back home at Acquire. With growth opportunities at every corner, these conferences are the highlight of each quarter. One of our employees, Neil Flores, is excited to return to Atlanta and continue advancing his career with Acquire. After attending the first-quarter conference as an entry-level representative, Neil was able to use his newfound skills to be promoted and begin launching campaigns across the Southeast. “When I attended the last conference, I was honored to be selected while still meeting my leadership qualifications. Utilizing the skills I learned during this conference, I have been given the chance not only to keep learning but also to take my skills to other markets and help them launch new campaigns. I am excited to go back as a Trainer and continue growing in my career with Acquire.” -- Neil Flores, Corporate Trainer at Acquire Another employee, Sterling Chapman, an Assistant Director asked to stay back to run office operations during the last conference, has also made big strides in his career since the first quarter. Although typically the right-hand man trusted with leading the office, Sterling will be joining the team in Atlanta next week to receive his official promotion to Director of Operations in his new office located in Cleveland, Ohio. “I think what’s great about each conference that we attend is that the line-up of speakers and topics varies from season to season. Over time, this will give someone with our company a very well-rounded knowledge base to apply in their career. Each meeting holds its own perspectives because of those changes, which makes each one more impactful than the last.” -- Sterling Chapman, Assistant Director at Acquire. As was the case to that of Mr. Flores or Mr. Chapman, Acquire hopes to find a great deal of growth from the investment it has given towards its team with this quarter’s Leadership Conference. How that will be measured is directly tied to the success of its most upcoming move to Cleveland, OH and even more markets to come.  To learn more about more opportunities at Acquire, their team growth, or their philanthropic work visit their website at www.acquireraleigh.com/#careers Close × “Acquiring” New Territory in The Buckeye State Raleigh, NC - July 25, 2019 Following Acquire’s recent leadership conference in Atlanta, GA, the team returned to their home base in Raleigh, NC and began preparations for their upcoming business expansion. Since inception, Acquire has built value around mentorships as well as the professional development of their staff. With that said, Acquire Directors, Zack Schuch, and Grant Gulledge, take pride in their abilities to effectively build confident leaders within their business industry. Through their individual coaching styles, Schuch and Gulledge have been able to pass on their industry knowledge. This has allowed them to expand their client list across the country while providing career opportunities for young professionals. Their most recent investment, turned business partner, Sterling Chapman, has shadowed the two Acquire Directors for nearly a year and is ready to dive into this new season of his career in Ohio. Acquire has already made a remarkable impression on its industry and both Schuch and Gulledge have set the bar high for their team, which seems to be a contributing factor to the high caliber of leaders they consistently produce. The qualifications and standards that are required to excel in Acquire’s business are made clear from day one. Newly promoted, Director of Operations, Sterling Chapman, not only recognized what was expected of him at Acquire, but he also realized the career opportunity that was within arm’s reach if he worked hard and replicated the actions of his managers. “I’m so proud to have witnessed first-hand the personal growth that Sterling has experienced during his time at Acquire. He definitely deserves every bit of this promotion and I am personally excited to watch him thrive as a new director. I am honored that Sterling trusted Grant and me enough to take blind faith in our coaching and now it’s nice to call him a partner.” -- Zack Schuch, Acquire CEO On the back wall of the Acquire office hangs a map of the United States. Nearly 8 months ago, Chapman marked the Cleveland, Ohio territory with a pushpin on that corkboard map and began constructing his goals along with a detailed timeline of when he wanted to make a move on the Buckeye State. As a former All-American, college lacrosse player, Chapman feels confident that his competitive edge and passion for coaching others will play a major role in his success as he leads his expansion team. While travel and relocation are not required, there are many Acquire staff members who are attracted to and motivated by the possible opportunity; Chapman is now one of them! “I had no idea what was in store for me when I accepted a position at Acquire. It’s hard to know everything upfront. I definitely had never considered the fact that I could receive a promotion such as this within a year of employment! Zack and Grant made a huge investment in me and my future as a business leader by simply showing me my own potential. That seems like such a simple thing but it has made such a major impact on my life and career! I honestly cannot thank them enough for not just training and helping me acquire new business skills, but also for providing me with a real opportunity.” -- Sterling Chapman, Assistant Director at Acquire. When asked about the various coaching styles of Acquire CEO and Sr. Director, Chapman elaborated. “Zack and Grant have both played such significant but very different roles in every stage of my personal and professional development. Zack has shown me how to find the positives when all I could see were the negatives and has coached me on how to break down a problem to find the ultimate solution! He has also let me figure a lot out on my own by just seeing what works and doing my very best. As for Grant, he has always given me the straight facts, even if it wasn’t what I wanted to hear at the time. Sometimes that’s what you need if you’re serious about your goals! He has allowed me to shadow his daily routine and always leads by example, which is why he has become like a big brother to me in business and in life in general. I cannot wait to take this next step forward in my career and follow in the footsteps of the two men who have dedicated so much of their time mentoring me and helping me recognize my full potential as a business leader.” -- Sterling Chapman, Assistant Director at Acquire. While it is clear that Schuch and Gulledge have somewhat different coaching styles and techniques, it seems that the combination of the two is what shaped Chapman to be the confident businessman that he is today. For the past month, Acquire has prepared to anchor new roots in the Cleveland market by sending travel teams to the area. The travel teams are made up of staff members who have not only been excited to travel but also excited to witness a close colleague receive such a big promotion. Being able to work in the new market prior to the big move has played a major part in helping Chapman get a headstart in his new home and has allowed Chapman, Schuch, and Gulledge to see exactly what the market is capable of. To learn more about Acquire’s career opportunities as well as philanthropic efforts, visit www.acquireraleigh.com/#careers . For exciting news and weekly updates, you can also find Acquire on Instagram and all social media platforms @acquireraleigh. Close × Acquire Serves Local Senior Citizens Raleigh, NC - August 26, 2019 The staff members of Acquire are no strangers to community volunteer work and their most recent efforts were extended to a local Wake County Meals on Wheels at the Five Points Center for Active Adults. Their previous efforts have consisted of charitable donations and working with various organizations benefiting local teens and children, which is why the marketing team decided to shift their efforts toward a different demographic this time. After researching Meals on Wheels and discovering the incredible things it provides on a local and national level, the Acquire team knew they wanted to become part of the Meals on Wheels mission. Meals on Wheels of Wake County started with only ten volunteers in 1974. Since then, over 9 million meals have been served within the local community alone. The Meals on Wheels mission is, “To provide nutritious meals to the frail, homebound senior adults and adults with disabilities in order to improve health, reduce isolation, and prevent inappropriate institutionalization. In addition to serving nutritious meals and provide social and educational opportunities to persons 60 and over in congregate nutrition sites to promote independent living.” Acquire team members began the afternoon playing bingo with the adults. According to the volunteers, the energy in the room was filled with contagious laughter and smiles. Reem Al-Juraid, Client Representative, shared, “The warmth and kindness from the adults and the staff members was overwhelming. Even though we were there to volunteer, I gained more from the positive energy from everyone at the center.” After the games concluded, the volunteers served a warm lunch to the senior adults.  Billie Jean Durkin, Client Representative, expressed that throughout the day, she was reminded how lending a hand could make such a big difference in the lives of others. Kshitiz Shrestha shared how this opportunity was an incredible experience not only to create a positive impact on his community but to have the chance to share it with his teammates. Summer intern at Acquire, Sarah Stanco, said it best, “I have learned so much about the values and ethics of Acquire in such a short period of time. The staff and company culture values the community and the needs of others and always provides team members with opportunities to volunteer in the community.” Acquire managing partners, Zack Schuch and Grant Gulledge, have always placed a great deal of focus on the value of teamwork inside and outside the office. Hence, their many philanthropic efforts within the Raleigh community. Schuch and Gulledge believe their emphasis on teamwork and creating a team environment have contributed to their strong company culture, which plays a major role in the success of the company as a whole. With that said, it is clear the Acquire staff genuinely enjoys working with their local community and is eager for their next volunteer opportunity. It is also clear that the impact Meals on Wheels has made over the years is more than the founders could have imagined and it continues to spread throughout the nation. To learn more about Acquire and their communal efforts, visit their website at www.acquireraleigh.com . Discover the many ways to volunteer or donate to Meals on Wheels by visiting their website at https://www.wakemow.org/ . Close × Acquire Shines Brightest in the Lone-Star State RALEIGH, NC  Sept. 6, 2019 Acquire wrapped up the month of August with an invigorating weekend at their semi-annual Leadership Conference in Dallas, Texas!  Top-performing men and women from Acquire were chosen to join like-minded professionals from various marketing campaigns across the US. While visiting the Lone Star State, the Acquire team was able to network with top performers in the industry and hear from the most successful business operates from around the country.  The conference aimed to redefine Acquire’s objectives by reinforcing their campaign strategies, outlining better business practices, and recognizing growth opportunities in new fields. The weekend was filled with breakout sessions, each of which was directed towards specific topics.  Breakout topics consisted of various subjects including team culture development, sales training, leadership development and revenue models.  Of course, the weekend was capped with an awards ceremony, which did not lack in heartfelt, inspiring speeches. Close to a dozen of Acquire’s top leaders were selected to attend the conference and returned to Raleigh with notebooks full of knowledge from the experts.  These books of knowledge will assist in the team’s achievement of their personal and professional goals. Two of Acquire’s Corporate Trainers, Felix Ko and Kelsey Chaney, were first-time attendees at the conference and were eager to share their experience. Ko shared that this experience showed him first-hand what successful people are doing in business by hearing their personal testimonies. These stories were filled with personal struggles and accomplishments, which has since empowered him to strive even harder to accomplish his professional goals. “This meeting showed me how big our industry truly is and where the future is going in the business.” -Felix Ko Chaney explained the impact the conference had on her professional development and long-term goals. “When I began my career at Acquire, one of my goals was to attend as many leadership meetings to expand my knowledge of the business.  After attending this conference, I set a goal for myself to attend the annual meetings not as an attendee, but as a presenter to share my personal experiences and all I have learned in the business,” Chaney said. The growth of Acquire’s operations as well as its leaders has been rapid and will be exciting to watch in the coming months.  With the last quarter of 2019 quickly approaching, Acquire will be attending a Regional Leaders Conference in late October in Atlanta, Georgia. For now, the aim is to carry over the momentum gained from this most recent conference with the hope that it will give this Acquire team the vision to see past its present and into its very near future. To learn more about Acquire’s career opportunities, culture, philanthropy, and much more, visit www.acquireraleigh.com . Close × Acquire Attends a Leadership Dinner with a Local Legend Raleigh, NC - Sept 23, 2019 Earlier in September, a group from Acquire was selected to attend a private, orientation and leadership dinner at the Oak City’s oldest, most beloved restaurants, Angus Barn. The chosen attendees would have the opportunity to meet and learn from the Angus Barn owner, Van Eure. Eure is arguably one of Raleigh’s most favored business owners and philanthropists. As a Raleigh native and local business owner himself, Acquire CEO, Zack Schuch was ecstatic about the invitation and a chance to hear directly from a local figure whom he has always heard about and looked up to. For 60 years, the family-owned and operated restaurant, Angus Barn has been a Raleigh staple. It should come as no surprise that Angus Barn is known for its exquisite dining selections, but is also known for the lasting impression the entire staff makes on each guest. However, most do not realize that everything they love about Angus Barn is a trickle-down effect from the management style and business philosophies of the owner, Van Eure. Eure’s agenda for the evening was to welcome all attendees into the Angus Barn family while also recognizing new and some veteran Angus Barn employees by applauding them for a job well done. As the night went on, dinner was served and Eure began a presentation that showcased everything from her personal background to her vigorous, multi-step employee vetting process. With intent behind each word, Eure had the Acquire team’s full attention throughout the dinner and presentation. While in awe of her spectacular business model and the way she connected with each guest that evening, the Acquire attendees recognized how similar her philosophies are to Acquire’s. “During our time with Van, we genuinely admired her for giving full transparency into her style of managing, business beliefs, and vetting process. There are many ways in which our philosophies align with Van’s and her transparency is one of them. At Acquire, my business partner, Grant and I want our staff to know they can come to us at any time with any questions or concerns they may have. We call this our open-door policy and we encourage our employees to utilize it so we can maintain full transparency, which allows us to work better as a team for the customer and client. Our open-door policy also allows us to learn from our employees by making improvements from the feedback they provide. This is just one of the many similarities between the business philosophies behind Acquire and Angus Barn.” - Zack Schuch, Acquire CEO In addition to Eure’s transparency, the way in which Angus Barn conducts its employee vetting process closely resembles that of Acquire’s. Both businesses implement a multi-step interview process to ensure each hired applicant is a great fit all-around. When explaining the process, Eure stated, “I have a firm philosophy that you hire to take your business higher.” “Everything about the dinner and the presentation was incredible. There were people there who had only known Van for a few days and she had already positively impacted them in some way. Her ability to hold everyone's attention was fascinating and her ability to connect with people made me want to better myself so I too can impact people the way she does. It was pretty cool to see the similarities between Angus Barn and Acquire, which makes me excited to be part of a company like that.” - Elijah Perry, Acquire Corporate Trainer Since opening its doors for business in 1960, Angus Barn has set a number of industry standards. Over the years, Angus Barn has consistently ranked among the top 100 restaurants in the United States and has become one of to country’s 50 highest-grossing independent restaurants. And, while Acquire may not have as many years in business as Angus Barn has, it is working to have a similar impact on its own industry and community. To learn more about Acquire, visit www.acquireraleigh.com . For more information on Angus Barn and the history behind this Raleigh landmark, visit www.angusbarn.com . Close × A SPECIAL MOMENT VOLUNTEERING WITH THE NC SPECIAL OLYMPICS Raleigh, NC - Oct 14, 2019 ​At the end of September, Acquire’s Administrative Team spent their Sunday out in the Raleigh community. Lila Miller, one of Acquire’s administrators, grew up in the Triangle area and has grown to be involved in the N.C. Special Olympics. The Special Olympics North Carolina is one of the largest Special Olympics programs in the world with nearly 40,000 registered athletes who train and compete in year-round programs in 19 different sports. ​Miller suggested to her colleagues that spending a Sunday volunteering at the North Carolina Special Olympics Equestrian tournament would be a good use of the afternoon. The mission of Special Olympics is to provide year-round sports training and athletic competition in a variety of Olympic-type sports for children and adults with intellectual disabilities. This gives them continuing opportunities to develop physical fitness, demonstrate courage, experience joy, and participate in a sharing of gifts, skills, and friendship with their families, other Special Olympics athletes, and the community. Special Olympics aims to combine high-quality sports with a wide audience and be a driving force for the social inclusion of people with intellectual disabilities. According to Special Olympics, the Equestrian Tournament encompasses several disciplines. Riders may choose either English or Western tack and enter the appropriate classes. Currently, Dressage is the only Special Olympics event that parallels FEI. Other events have been chosen to offer a wide range of activities that athletes can participate in successfully. Equitation is judged on the rider’s position and ability to influence the horse and is the basis for determining divisions. We had the chance to sit down with Reem Al-Juraid, one of Acquire’s administrators, who shared her experience with this opportunity. “The Special Olympics hits close to home for me as I am lucky enough to have an older brother who is severely autistic. Growing up, we faced many challenges as a family as we tried to make life as “normal” as possible for my brother. My family and I would go to watch the special Olympic competitions with my brother. I remember the atmosphere being that of acceptance and inspiration for the families and the athletes. On Sunday, I was on the other side and have my coworkers by my side. Little did they know, I felt their support not only for the N.C. Special Olympics chapter, but for my brother and my family.” Grant Gulledge, Acquire’s Operations Manager, said giving back to his employees and the philanthropies they support is one of Acquire’s biggest values. “Growing up my mom worked with children who have developmental disabilities and I always appreciated how much of a calling that was. I hope that in some small way that our involvement could help bring aid and much-needed attention to what is a commonly overlooked cause.” Gulledge shared his team is excited to end this year better than they started with the upcoming philanthropy events. We are excited to watch their continued impact on the Triangle community as they head into the holiday season! To learn more about Acquire’s career opportunities, culture, philanthropy, and much more, visit www.acquireraleigh.com . To learn more about the Special Olympics North Carolina, visit https://sonc.net . Close × Acquire Takes a Tropical Getaway October 29, 2019 - Raleigh, NC Once a year the management and administration team at Acquire jet off for a week of sun, fun, and relaxation. This year was no different and the destination was set for the Moon Palace Golf and Spa Resort in Cancun, Mexico. The ten attendees for this year’s Corporate Retreat had four days and four nights of an all-inclusive, luxury experience. “I love the support that we get from our clients, which allows us to take these getaway trips once a year. Without the clients, we would not be able to enjoy the time together as we reflect on our accomplishments.” - Rebecca Sampson, Executive Recruiting Manager at Acquire The four getaway included an industry awards ceremony where the best of the best were recognized and rewarded for the year’s success. Sharing in the excitement with others has always been something Acquire has embraced. Over the years Acquire has received many accolades during these occasions. This year the spotlight was placed on other teams, but there was a valuable lesson to be learned at that moment. “I think it is a unique but rewarding experience that we as a team can vacate together as a team. We genuinely enjoy each other’s company and we always come back closer than when we left. We’re very lucky to have that type of culture.” - Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire Acquire is already looking ahead to the upcoming year with excitement to see where their team will be in 2020 and who will be attending the next retreat. The destination of the next year’s retreat has yet to be determined. However, one thing that is certain and has not gone unnoticed is the renewed focus of the Acquire team and their commitment to excellence. Since their return from Cancun, the promotional marketing team appears to be more engaged than ever and they are motivated to push forward into the second half of Q4 and finish 2019 on a high note! To learn more about Acquire’s team, company events, and philanthropic efforts email the administrative team at hr@acquirerdu.com or visit their website at www.acquireraleigh.com . Close × ACQUIRE DONATES TO HURRICANE RELIEF EFFORTS Raleigh, NC -- November 15, 2019 On September 1, 2019, Hurricane Dorian swept through the Abaco Islands in the Bahamas leaving behind complete devastation. The powerful storm eventually made its way up the Carolina coastline, causing immense damage to many places in its path, including Ocracoke Island, NC. As word spread and images of the severe damage began to surface, the Acquire team began searching for ways to donate to both areas. Each year, Acquire travels to a domestic or international location to celebrate its annual achievements and enjoy some relaxation with the team. Some of the team members took this annual trip to the Atlantis Resort located in Nassau, Bahamas, and it is still a place that holds a special place in the hearts of those Acquire staff members. While Nassau did not take a direct hit from Hurricane Dorian, the Atlantis Resort held a fundraiser for the Abaco Islands relief efforts. “On several occasions, I’ve had the pleasure of visiting the Bahamas for both work and relaxation. With each visit, it was the people of the Bahamas who touched my heart the most. When Zack and I saw the devastation left behind by two catastrophic storms on these beautiful islands, we knew we wanted to contribute to the relief efforts. Every contribution, no matter the size, helps positively impact a difficult situation.” Grant Sr. Director at Acquire In addition to the connection and love for the Bahamas, the marketing firm has even stronger ties to Ocracoke Island, NC.  Acquire CEO, Zack Schuch, has been an angler for many years and fishes for fun as well as competitively along the Outerbanks of North Carolina. This has made Schuch very familiar with Ocracoke Island and some of the locals, which is just one of the many reasons he felt strongly about his company contributing to the local relief efforts. “I was deeply saddened to hear about the damage and turmoil that was caused by Hurricane Dorian to Ocracoke. Being an avid fisherman and North Carolina native, the outer banks are dear to my heart. We felt the need to help contribute any way we could.” Zack Schuch, National Director at Acquire While Dorian took many lives and irreplaceable belongings from the people affected by the storm, Acquires hopes its contributions have and will continue to make a positive difference. To learn more about Acquire’s philanthropic efforts and community involvement, visit www.acquireraleigh.com . If you are interested in contributing to the hurricane relief efforts for Ocracoke Island, NC, visit https://www.ocracokeislandrealty.com/ocracoke-hurricane-dorian-relief If you are interested in contributing to the hurricane relief efforts for Abaco Islands, Bahamas visit https://www.gofundme.com/f/atlantis-bahamas-hurricane-dorian-relief-fund Close × ACQUIRE MAKES BIG MOVES IN THE NORTHEAST DEC 13, 2019   RALEIGH, NC With the 2019 year drawing to a close, Acquire is ramping up a new beginning with its most recent expansions to the Northeast. Two new market operations are now opening in Rochester, NY and Cherry Hill, NJ with client campaigns ranging from telecommunications to smart home industries. With a major focus on leadership and mentorship, Acquire’s managing partners know the new markets will thrive as they carry over everything they learned in the Raleigh market. Acquire is one of the fastest-growing marketing firms in the North Carolina-Triangle area, focusing on customer and client acquisitions, so it is no surprise that the marketing firm made the decision to expand. As a leader in the live-event and promotional marketing industry, Acquire strategically selected these new locations to accommodate the increase in market demands in some of the most densely populated and lucrative markets in the country. Though, it now appears this emerging business is looking to take on more and more territory beyond its natural area of influence. “Obviously we’re excited about the addition of two new markets along with our company’s growth. We’re even more excited to see the growth from those markets in the coming years. Both new territories have extremely capable leadership teams and we have seen with our own eyes all that they are capable of doing when they put their minds to it.” - Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire, Grant Gulledge Gulledge is prepared to end the year on a high note not only in Raleigh, but also in NY and NJ. By doubling the expansions from this past year, Gulledge and Acquire CEO, Zack Schuch have already raised the bar, setting company goals for 2020. The success of Acquire in Raleigh alone is a good indicator that these new offices will be able to exceed the expectations of the clients and their customers. With such massive growth, comes exciting, motivating challenges and the entire Acquire team cannot wait to tackle those challenges and see what the new year brings! To learn more about Acquire and their career opportunities, visit www.acquireraleigh.com . Follow Acquire on Instagram and Facebook to stay up to date on everything their team is up to @acquireraleigh Close × ACQUIRE KEEPS CHARITY CLOSE TO HOME DURING SEASON OF GIVING DECEMBER 2019, RALEIGH, NC It is no secret that the last 12 months were great ones for Acquire! New market expansions, new clients’ campaigns, and a commitment to excellence made 2019 a banner year for this Raleigh-based company.  And as the year winds down, the Acquire team found ways to give back to the Raleigh community as a show of appreciation for the support the Triangle has given this rapidly expanding company. They began the Holiday Season during the month of November as Acquire’s CEO/National Director of Operations, Zack Schuch, and Senior Director of Operations, Grant Gulledge, challenged their team to double their previous year’s donation to the Central and Eastern Food Bank of North Carolina. Throughout the month, Acquire’s conference room turned into a “donation station” and began to overflow with a bounty of canned food donations.  When it was time to deliver the donations, the grand total exceeded the goal with 235 meals donated to the Raleigh-Durham community! The outpouring of generosity was not lost on the team members of Acquire. One of Acquire’s Corporate Trainers reflected on being chosen to deliver the donations to the food bank: “I was shocked by the number of cans our team contributed over the month.  It seemed like such a small way for us to get involved in the community but truly helped out so many people.  The holidays can be a hard time for people, but to know our team was able to help provide so many meals really makes me appreciate the holiday season and the culture of our company.” --Elijah Perry, Corporate Trainer at Acquire Another one of Acquire’s favorite holiday traditions is to adopt an Angel Tree Family with the North Carolina Salvation Army.  This year, the Acquire administrative team spent an entire weekend shopping with local merchants eager to provide for three Angel Tree children.  When it came time to organize the gifts for each child, the administrative team sat in awe.  When reflecting on the new clothes and toys local children would receive on Christmas Day one of Acquire’s administrative team members, remarked: “We hope the kids have just as much fun opening and playing with the presents as we did shopping for them!  And while we know it’s only one time a year, we hope that these contributions will be a spark of hope for a family heading into the new year. ” -- Charli Gulledge, HR Specialist at Acquire As Acquire thought over the past year, they saw that they worked hard both inside their own business and outward in the community. We would like to commend the Acquire team for their numerous involvements in local philanthropies throughout the Triangle area. The Acquire teams’ involvement helped the Ronald McDonald House, the Boys and Girls Club of Wake County, Meals on Wheels of Wake County, the Special Olympics Equestrian Tournament of North Carolina, the Hurricane Dorian Relief effort, and the 31st Annual Thad & Alice Eure Walk for Hope.  Acquire’s small but growing team found the time to make a positive difference in their community, and it appears they will continue to do so in 2020. For more information on career opportunities, team events, marketing campaigns, community involvement or general inquiries please email hr@acquireraleigh.com or check out their company page at http://acquireraleigh.com/ . Close × Acquire Sets its Sights on a Big 2020 Vision JANUARY 2020, RALEIGH, NC New year, means big goals for the Acquire team At the end of 2019, Grant Gulledge, Senior Director of Operations at Acquire, and other top leaders from across the country traveled to Dallas, Texas to reflect on the past year’s accomplishments. Zack Schuch, CEO/National Consultant and Director of Operations at Acquire, challenged the group to set goals for the 2020 year and share those goals with everyone. “We had a record year in 2019 and we have plans to exceed expectations in this new year. Our goal as a company is to develop our team and give everyone the opportunity to grow personally, professionally, and financially.” Grant Gulledge, Senior Director of Operations at Acquire. Gulledge shared one of his 2020 goals is to provide upcoming leaders in his business with professional development opportunities both inside and outside the office. Posted on the corkboard inside of the Acquire office, you can find Gulledge’s 2020 Goals and he too, challenged his team to create their own 2020 goals. “I think one of the coolest things is to put others first. So when one of our Corporate Trainers, Samantha Smith, ran a call for 1000 people last week, it really resonated.” -Grant Gulledge We asked Samantha Smith to share her professional goals and personal commitments for 2020. “My biggest goal for 2020 is to take every opportunity to learn more about the ins and outs of running a successful business. By being more inquisitive about the “whys” behind decisions, attending more networking opportunities across the country, and tracking my progress on my goals, I know this will excel my professional growth,” -Samantha Smith. At the end of January, Acquire leaders will be “wheels-up” as they travel to Atlanta for the quarterly Regional Leader’s Meeting. Smith who has attended a few conferences with Acquire, stated, “​These meetings are important opportunities that our team looks forward to each year. As an attendee, we are able to walk away with valuable insights about the business and become knowledgeable about our clients. It is also a great opportunity for us to connect with top leaders and partners that are also in attendance.” Obviously, most of Acquire’s goals are heavily attracted to their people’s success. It is evident from that perspective, we could see a huge surge in the future growth of 2020. For more information on career opportunities, team events, marketing campaigns, community involvement or general inquiries please email hr@acquireraleigh.com or check out their company page at http://acquireraleigh.com/ . Close × Acquire Shows A “One Team, One Heartbeat” Culture RALEIGH, NC - Have you ever wondered what it was like to be a part of the thriving team? Acquire knows it has a group that is filled with hard-working, driven, young professionals who “give it their all.” So how do they approach the “play hard” area of life with this energetic crew? When asked in a recent sit down, Grant Gulledge-- Sr. Director of Operations at Acquire, shared some of the most recent team events. “We love to celebrate events like this because it shows our team what we value as a company. Oneof our administrative staff members is from Louisiana and an LSU graduate, so it was without question, our team wanted to support both her and the Tigers. We did have a few Clemson graduates,but it was a great rivalry between co-workers. - Grant Gulledge In the Acquire offices, one can find their team celebrating various sporting events or holidays. The team kicked off the new year by cheering on the Tigers in the College Football Championship with king cake and Tiger pride. And on Fat Tuesday, Mardi Gras day, we saw the team celebrating the holiday with some more festive food and decorative Mardi Gras beads for flavour! On many weeks, you can find the Acquire team “out-of-office” at the local North Hills staple, King’s Dining & Entertainment. Whether it is a pool tournament or bowling competition, moments like these encourage the team to get to know each other outside of the office. “Team nights are not strictly only for our team, I want our staff to bring their friends and significant others because I think it is important for their loved ones to see who they get to work with and for us to get to know our team better. It really is awesome!” - Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations As February came to an end, the Acquire team wrapped up the month with a philanthropy opportunity at the Wake County Boys & Girls Club. The Acquire team spent their afternoon helping children with homework and playing games. BecauseofthehighinterestfromtheAcquireteam for the Boys & Girls Club, Grant Gulledge and Zack Schuch, CEO/ National Director of Operations at Acquire, decided they would adopt it as their monthly philanthropy. “We saw how many people wanted to be a part of this opportunity and realized it was important to allow everyone the chance to volunteer with their team members. It made sense to start this as an Acquire monthly tradition!” - Zack Schuch Not even a few days into March and rumor has it, Acquire has already started their annual March Madness competition, with a twist. The winners of the competition will receive a grand prize of their choice of a “bucket list item”. We plan on keeping up with the team throughout the month to see who will win it all at the end of the championship! For more information on career opportunities, team events, marketing campaigns, community involvement or general inquiries please email hr@acquireraleigh.com or check out their company page at http://acquireraleigh.com/ . For more information on the Wake County Boys & Girls Club, please visit wakebgc.org . Close × “Acquire Seen as ‘Essential By Clients” 31 March 2020 Raleigh, NC - It is not breaking news to see another headline about the next business to shutter its doors to the current Public Health Crisis. Fortunately for Acquire, a Raleigh-Durham based marketing firm, that is not the case. The entire Triangle Business Community has been impacted in some way by the current Covid-19 outbreak. In the face of that business operators have had to take all necessary measures to ensure the safety and stability of their employees and businesses as a whole. Like many others, Acquire has taken many steps to follow suit and is still continuing normal operations. “We are very fortunate to be able to maintain operational business practices and still be conscientious of the present circumstances. Our partnership with major telecommunication companies has allowed us to service essential goods and services to our community. Being able to communicate with each other in this digital age is now a must, and in times like these we must educate people on the importance of dependable and trustworthy services to do so.” - Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations Acquire has also moved a vast majority of its operations for meetings, interviews, and clients to online. Although the dynamic may be different the theme of Acquire’s message is the same. That message conveys a spirit of highly focused, motivated professionals that are choosing to remain optimistic while being aware of the facts of the situation. Steps Taken to Ensure Safe Business Daily staff briefings via conference call Client meetings via zoom Applicant vetting through interviews via Skype & Zoom In-office personnel limited to under 10 Hands-free client acquisition measures Office suite cleanings 4 times per day Twice daily updates to marketing teams on action/contingency plans Operations in accordance with North Carolina Government requirements Remote interactive team events to continue cultural growth At the same time in needs to be noted how excellent the team leadership has been at Acquire in the recent weeks. During the transition of daily business practices to more remote infrastructure, all of Acquires’ team leaders and junior managers have displayed an incredible amount of flexibility and understanding. All of the preparation and investment into their own business acumen has started to reveal itself on a very practical level. From the daily Zoom meetings, to team breakdowns, to continued team trainings, the Acquire Leadership has been top-notch in a very challenging time. “I don’t believe any of us have ever experienced anything quite like this moment in modern business. In moments where we are all in uncharted territory it is important, now more than ever, that leaders navigate a course for fertile and steady ground. At the moment it is not the easiest thing to do but we have to try,” - stated Gulledge. It’s a “bullish” stance on an uncontrollable scenario but it is evident that Acquire has decided to go ‘long’ on its pursuits in 2020 in spite of mounting adversity. The proactiveness of this leadership team can be seen every day in the overcommunication it is displaying to its teams and clients. With much of 2020 still ahead, it will be interesting to watch the outcome of these steps being taken. For more information on Acquires’ team or job openings please reach out to hr@acquirerdu.com. Close × Acquire Finds Culture to be Transferable Grant Gulledge, Senior Director of Operations, leading a morning Zoom meeting with the Acquire leadership team. The songwriter, Bob Dylan once wrote, “For the times they are a-changin’.” That lyric resonates now in Q2 of 2020 more than it has in recent memory. It seems as though every morning and evening the nation waits in anticipation, watching news affiliates for the next shoe to drop. ​In spite of that, there are those who find ways to continue move and think forward. It takes courage to remain optimistic in the face of obvious adversity. No doubt there are many things that need care and constant attention. Steps have been and should be taken to promote safety, and, yet, companies like Acquire are seeing glimpses of sunlight break through the clouds. Acquire, a Raleigh-Durham founded company, has shown itself in the past to be a first-class leader in client representation, and also an incubator for thought leadership. It’s no surprise that the team has continued to display those qualities as a pandemic has been throwing most of the economy into gridlock. How has this changed Acquire? What makes Acquire this way? “We have taken simple steps by utilizing technology such as Zoom and Google Hangout to facilitate face-to-face engagement. However, the biggest thing we did was to empower our team leadership to continue to have a voice. We set up virtual team events in small groups, have one-on-one goal conversations, and even started some book clubs where we discuss new ideas. We went as far a throwing drop ship bonus options for our team, just so they know how much we care. It’s been really cool to watch the culture evolve.” --Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations/Managing Partner Sam Smith, Sr. Corporate Trainer, winner of the grocery drop-ship bonus! Not everyone wants to remain involved in the day-to-day operations of a business during a crisis like the one that is being presently experienced. In fact, it is safe to say that Acquire has dealt with some detractors in recent months for that very reason. Which is understandable. Whenever there is strife, there are natural conflicting points of view. However, that does not seem to be slowing down this determined team. How can one account for this? “If the aim is to be a well run and successful organization then culture must be something that you have to invest in continuously. That is in any field. Well before the pandemic of COVID-19 we were encouraging and incentivizing more collaboration between teams. I think the present circumstances here forced the issue and sped up that process and it has been very exciting to witness.” --Gianna Costello, Assistant Director of Operations So with all of these ‘positive vibe’ ideals coursing through the veins of Acquire, it is simpler to recognize how the company has been able to weather the storm of COVID thus far. It seems that culture has become the heartbeat of this young company’s daily existence. However, there are always stormclouds forming on the horizon in business. And with the economic outlook of the coming months being less than favorable by most forecasters, it would be safe to say that an approach of cautious optimism would be the most sound course to take in the coming days. “There is a difference between optimism and blind positivity. The business influencer and entrepreneur Simon Sinek said, ‘Optimism is the ability to focus on where we are going, not where we are coming from. Leaders own the optimism.’ With that thought in mind, we will continue to use common sense and sound decision-making as we move ahead in a turbulent market, but we will also continue to encourage and uplift our team in the process. America has bounced back before and will do it again.” --Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations/Managing Partner It is refreshing that in a time such as this, where anxiety and stress seems to be the champion of the day that a group of like minded and eager professionals have decided to take this optimistic stance. To learn more about Acquire, their team, and what new plans they have for 2020 visit their website at ​www.acquirerdu.com​. For weekly updates on the Acquire team, follow them on Instagram @acquireraleigh . Close × Outreach Remains a Focus at Acquire Acquire takes a moment to thank all frontline workers in the Raleigh-Durham community on their company Instagram page. One of many local outreach efforts in the past few months. North Hills, Raleigh As the Triangle goes headlong into the Spring season and living daily in quarantine, the questions become, “What can be coming on the horizon? How does the local market adapt and still continually facilitate needs? What happens to those living on the margins who oftentimes are left behind in moments of national economic hardship, even before Covid-19?” These are big questions, and will require big solutions. Acquire, a Raleigh founded company, is looking to contribute in a small portion towards that greater solution. This smaller but growing marketing firm has always displayed a culture with a heavy emphasis on philanthropy in the community. More so now than ever, that does not appear to be slowing down. Recently the Acquire team got the chance to be involved with two great organizations that are making a significant difference all over North Carolina. In the last week of April team members of Acquire were presented with the opportunity to make an impact with Zach’s Toy Chest. This non-profit organization does a wonderful job of bringing joy to children undergoing treatment, in particular supplying new toys to children’s hospitals throughout the year, but they also offer a Care Card program. This initiative sends out anonymously written letters from North Carolinians that hopefully lift the spirits of youth under the care of children’s hospitals throughout the state. Credit has to be given to Chris Cosgrove, Jr. Corporate Trainer at Acquire, who brought this idea to the Management of Acquire. “One day I was watching the news and I saw a report about an elderly couple who weren’t able to be close to one another due to Covid-19. I then thought about how awful it would be to be a child that is recovering from or undergoing treatment and not being able to see loved ones or host visits. ‘Zach’s Toy Chest’ was what I ended up stumbling upon and I could not be more glad I did. It was incredibly rewarding to be a part of.” ---Chris Cosgrove, Jr. Corporate Trainer Cosgrove turned the idea into an exercise on team building by inviting as many of his co-workers as he could to a Zoom meeting one evening after work. That night the team sat down, exchanged ideas of topics, proofread letters, had music playing in the background, and had a truly unique experience. Cosgrove exemplifies what a healthy company culture looks like! This approach to community involvement also seems to be a “top-down” approach at Acquire. Starting with their CEO/National Director, Zack Schuch, and his involvement with HSI Academies Foundation (High School, Inc.). This organization supports the training and upskilling of recent high school graduates to enter the workplace. They have grown to help support over 1,500 students in the last decade with a graduation rate of 96%! Many of these young men and women are pursuing roles immediately out of high school. A pursuit that is equally as noble as going down the path of an undergraduate degree. “Growing up in the home of a teacher and having grandparents that were also educators I was able to see the other side of students and their personal situations. From that upbringing I feel I also saw the impact charitable acts of kindness could make on those less fortunate. Thankfully Acquire has grown in it’s resources over the years and now I get to be someone who can pay-it-forward in the Raleigh-Durham community. It feels really good to give back to a place that means so much to me having grown up here.” ---Zack Schuch, CEO/National Director at Acquire In times such as these, it is vital that everyone take added care of our fellow ‘man’, and there is no time to begin that effort like the present. It is refreshing to know that companies both large and small can share a belief in social welfare, like Acquire. Collectively these business organizations can continue the long-held tradition of honoring the social contract between industry and community. The aforementioned are only a few small examples of how business can and is filling some of the gaps where it can benefit those in need. The moral obligation that all must share to keep those on the margins from becoming another statistic cannot be depreciated in historical events like the ones currently being experienced. As Summer approaches it could be easy for some to allocate time to personal leisure. However, with organizations like Acquire making a difference in the Triangle already, the next few months could be a season unlike any other. To learn more about Acquire, it’s team or community involvement please email hr@acquirerdu.com or call at 919-626-9242. Information about High School, Inc. can be found at www.highschoolinc.org and inquiries into Zach’s Toy Chest can be made at www.zachstoychest.org.. Close × Acquire Positioned to Boom in Q2 North Hills, Raleigh It is an understatement to write about the uniqueness of the 2020 Spring season thus far. Since March, the lives of most Americans have been turned upside down. North Carolina and the Triangle community are not an exemption to the rule in that regard. However, as May comes to a close and a “Phase 2” re-opening of the Tarheel state seems inevitable, there may be a glimmer of light peering from behind the clouds everyone has been waiting for. Undoubtedly, there are no sure things, but Acquire is also noticing that the tailwind of re-opening brings added enthusiasm from its clientele. Acquire, a promotional marketing company, seems to be placed perfectly to capitalize on this moment. Plans of re-launching several campaigns in smart-home technology, green energy, and telecommunication. It does not seem that Acquire sat idle during this time of quarantine. Adding new campaigns in home improvement, tech repair, and outdoor living, Acquire is planning to scale into new arenas while taking on a full relaunch. "We’re very fortunate that we have been able to work with the clients that we do. The wide array of services, products, and resources they provide makes our role much simpler. More importantly the commitment they have shown to pursuing a shared growth vision has been extremely impactful, particularly in present circumstances." ---Zack Schuch, CEO/National Director at Acquire Diversification has always been a smart way to create sustainability. Recently, many businesses both small and large have witnessed the perils of lacking nimbleness in the marketplace. As many look toward the future of business, it has to be more of a requirement to be diverse and flexible in times of rapid change. “As a company we go all-in with every brand, but it does provide more opportunities for our people to grow their careers with us by diversifying more. More roads that lead to the same destination eliminates backlog and only reinforces our merit-based advancement concepts. It’s an exciting time to see what that idea brings in the next 7 months.” ---Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director at Operations at Acquire There are only a few short months left in 2020, and it’s crazy to think about that stark fact. Acquire looks to approach those 200+ days with a high sense of urgency, and their team seems eager to be the beneficiary of that growth. As the temperatures begin to rise in June, it appears that the futures of Acquire will follow suit. For more information about Acquire, visit their website ​www.acquireraleigh.com​ . Keep up with their team on Instagram @acquireraleigh . Close × HALFTIME | ACQUIRE LOOKS BACK ON MID YEAR ACHIEVEMENTS North Hills, Raleigh June marks the halfway point of the year and that means we have six more months left of2020. WhileAcquiredidnotexpectthelastfewmonthstoplayoutthewaytheyhave,wecan say, there have been many positive achievements from the Acquire team. Acquire’s team has shown itself to be resilient, and able to accomplish many of their Q1 and Q2 goals. ​In the midst of that, May graduation season came sooner than expected, and Acquire welcomed some of its newest additions to their team from schools all over the Carolinas. “Graduation celebrations typically allow for a later start into the workforce, but we saw an increase in the number of college graduates applying for positions to start in May. Due to the current circumstances, our team has seen the high caliber of individuals coming straight out of college eager to learn and work. Their eagerness to learn more about our business and invest in their professional development is not only motivating but exciting to see!” -Grant Gulledge, Acquire Sr. Director of Operations As business operations adjusted to the new realities from the global health crisis, Acquire promoted three Account Managers in the last two months. The management team found a way to ensure the professional development of their upcoming leaders by adapting their expectations to the current situation. This involved weekly goal-setting meetings via Zoom and a weekly open “Q and A” session held with senior-level leadership in the business. “My goals were a constant reminder of the opportunities I had during the pandemic, which reminded me that I could not use it as an excuse on why I could not make them happen. While it [goals] may not have been set out as I had hoped,I made adjustments to how to achieve them. It was a great feeling knowing that I was able to be promoted during this time. Now, I will use this to continue my momentum for the rest of 2020!” - Zach Lancaster, Account Manager. Rounding off the month of May, Acquire then took the time to reflect and listen to their team during a crucial time in our country. The account managers along with the management team collaborated on many ways to be involved to better the Triangle community. During the month of June, the leadership core felt their best efforts to support the community would be supporting the Wake County Boys & Girls Club. Gulledge challenged the team to raise $500 to purchase art supplies and sports equipment. Not to our surprise, Gulledge alongside CEO Zack Schuch would match whatever amount was raised. In less than 48 hours, the team raised over that amount. With this momentum, July does not seem like it will slow down for this crew. Gulledge shared they plan on expanding into new markets and accepted the opportunity to work with new clients. “This pandemic has made us come together to rally our greatest strength, the human spirit. Throughout all of this, we are re-emphasizing what is most important to our clients, our team members, and our community.” -Grant Gulledge We anticipate big accomplishments from Acquire over the next six months within their team and the community. ​For more information on career opportunities, team events, marketing campaigns, community involvement or general inquiries please email hr@acquireraleigh.com or check out their company page at ​www.acquireraleigh.com​ . Keep up with their team on Instagram @acquireraleigh . For more information on the Wake County Boys & Girls Club, please visit wakebgc.org. Close × IN A TIME OF NEED, ACQUIRE GIVES BACK SEPTEMBER 3, 2020 | RALEIGH, NC - For the second year in a row, the Acquire team kicked off the beginning of the 2020-2021 year by donating school supplies and backpacks to the Boys and Girls Club serving Wake County 11th Annual LeVelle Moton and PJ Tucker Community Day Book Bag Drive "Thru".​ ​With uncertainty and change in the learning environments – to give students a backpack and supplies for learning helps them feel cared for and seen by the community. The Acquire management team was determined to collect supplies in a short time-frame to help meet the increased need for donated supplies this school year due to the extenuating circumstances from Covid-19. "There may be a misconception that since children are taking classes remotely, not as many school supplies are needed. Now it's even more important to donate since children can't borrow supplies from their friends when taking classes at home. Due to the COVID-related economic downturn, many families are struggling even harder to make ends meet and our team wanted to help.” -Grant Gulledge, ​Acquire Sr. Director of Operations With the shopping list in hand, the Acquire team took to the aisles of Target to pick out the trendiest backpacks and school supplies. Once the carts were filled to the brim, they packed the school bags with supplies, and off they went to the Boys & Girls Club. “When it comes to investing in our communities, our core values and involvement have led us to achieve strong dedication to charitable organizations within our area through our financial and volunteer support. We believe this approach not only strengthens our company and the communities we are a part of, but also helps create a strong, positive image for the company.” -Zack Schuch, CEO and National Consultant We anticipate big accomplishments from Acquire during the fourth quarter within their team and the community.  ​For more information on career opportunities, team events, marketing campaigns, community involvement or general inquiries please email hr@acquireraleigh.com or check out their company page at ​www.acquireraleigh.com​ . Keep up with their team on Instagram @acquireraleigh . For more information on the Wake County Boys & Girls Club, please visit wakebgc.org. Close × ACQUIRE IS "FALLING" FOR VIRGINIA Raleigh, North Carolina--​As the season turns to Autumn, new opportunities have “sprung” for this fast-growing marketing firm. Over the past few months, Acquire has adapted its model to accommodate the present circumstances of working the “new normal”, and they have also experienced a huge surge of growth in that same period. Investments from clients have helped to expand Acquire’s portfolio of clients ranging from telecommunications, smart-home, consumer tech all of Acquire’s client portfolio is demanding and expecting new market expansion. “Given the new normal we all live in today in the changing behavior of how the public shop Acquire is setting a unique position to grow exponentially.” -- Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations The most recent targeted territories both reside in the state of Virginia. Both Richmond and the Washington DC area have been made a big priority, and Acquire jumped at the chance to expand its influence there. One of Acquire’s most accomplished people to climb in the rank has been Samantha Smith. A graduate of East Carolina University, Sam joined the Acquire team in a leadership role in the spring of 2020. After having completed an internship with them in the fall of 2019. A promotion to a Market Director role in her own market is now a completion moment for her. Clearly, the geography is favorable for Acquire to spread from Raleigh to Richmond to DC but that doesn't make it a stepping stone. Acquire has intentions to make Richmond a cornerstone in its organizational growth. However, on the horizon is the nation's capital. “By November 1st we plan to have a fully functioning operation in Richmond is Step 1 and then DC is Step 2. We’re so excited to be operating in our Nation's capital. It has been a goal of ours for a while now.” --Grant Gulledge, Sr. Director of Operations Current members of Acquire’s team will be helping lead this surge towards DC. Isaiah Lucas, a graduate of Ferrum University, has worked towards this as a goal. As a collegiate football player, Lucas has taken a “fourth-quarter” mindset to his growth. “I really owe it to my team for the support. I just realized that I had to decide to finish and they motivated me to do that. After all, it's not how you start I wanted to finish.” --Isaiah Lucas, Junior Director Acquire has set its sights on some major growth moves. In a time of a lot of economic volatility now it is encouraging to see a company willing to still take shots on growth. ​For more information on career opportunities, team events, marketing campaigns, community involvement, or general inquiries please email ​hr@acquireraleigh.com or check out their company page at ​www.acquireraleigh.com.​ Close × ACQUIRE PREPARES FOR A SEASON OF GIVING RALEIGH, NC—As the calendar moves into the holiday season, Acquire has big plans!  Their team is not only expanding across the east coast, but it also is making efforts in its local Raleigh-Durham community.  Beginning November 10th thru November 20th, the Acquire team will be collecting canned food donations for the Salvation Army. "We are incredibly grateful to partner with the Salvation Army to Help Feed the Hungry in Wake County this holiday season," said Zack Schuch, CEO and National Consultant. The Salvation Army of Wake County distributes bags of food to over 50 families each week, in addition to serving hundreds of warm meals to families in need.  This third annual tradition is one that brings together the Acquire staff and builds upon the year prior.  Last year’s canned food drive raised 235 meals for Wake County. “Every family should be able to celebrate the holiday season gathered around a table, sharing a meal, and making lasting memories. This year’s goal for our team is to surpass last year’s results with 275 meals provided to our community!” --Grant Gulledge, Senior Director of Operation and Managing Partner. Being the season of Thanksgiving has allowed Acquire to help feed nearly a thousand meals over the last 3 years. It does not appear they plan on slowing that down at all for 2020.  As a pre-lude to the season of giving that is to follow in December, there seems to be a real sense of focus on fostering an internal culture of caring.  Something that is often left out from a company directive are the intrinsic values that a company should and can possess. It is encouraging to know that there are companies out there that are still honoring the social contract between industry and community during the difficult times that the nation and state of North Carolina have faced. 2020 has held its fair share of challenges, but one flying under the radar is the new population of families facing unemployment and financial hardships during the Holiday Season. Many in the Triangle will struggle to put gifts under the tree.  Acquire is continuing their outpouring of a giving holiday spirit by adopting an Angel Tree Family with the Salvation Army.  Plans to begin the big shopping trip for the families will take place during the first weekend of December. Acquires team is giddy with anticipation to see the results from these two philanthropic events. They are encouraging the Raleigh-Durham community follow along on social media to see the Acquire team continue to positively impact the Triangle For more information on The Salvation Army of Wake County, check out their website at www.salvationarmycarolinas.org/wakecounty . For more information on career opportunities, team events, marketing campaigns, community involvement or general inquiries please email hr@acquireraleigh.com or check out their company page at www.acquireraleigh.com . Close × ACQUIRE GIVES BACK AS A SHOW OF THANKS! RALEIGH, NC -- In March of 2020, the pandemic caused the local economy to shut down. As a consequence, the local food pantries in the Raleigh-Durham area saw an increase in the individuals needing their services. The Acquire Team knew this holiday season would be even more important than in previous years to get involved in the community. “Truthfully, until the pandemic, hunger had been largely an invisible problem. People do not understand how pervasive it is. With everything going on right now, so many people in need, the public much better understands just how serious a problem hunger is in our community.” -- Zack Schuch, CEO and National Consultant at Acquire For two weeks this November, the Acquire team began to collect canned food and non-perishable items with donations from their team for a common cause. The goal was to raise enough for 500 meals during Thanksgiving of 2020. ​The outpouring of generosity during a crucial time of the year was not lost on the team members of Acquire. “In the past years, our team’s excitement from the contributions increased as the cans began to stack inside the office. This year looked a little different, but we would not allow the restrictions to take that joy away from us. We utilized Zoom, Slack, and Instagram to keep our team up to date on the contributions! The true character of our team has never been more apparent.” --Grant Gulledge, Managing Partner and Senior Director of Operations Building upon the success of last year’s food drive, which helped to feed 235 meals, Acquire collected 500 canned food items for Thanksgiving this year. The management team then matched with a charitable donation to surpass the goal set for the company’s donations. ​Aside from their contributions to this philanthropic cause, Acquire’s passion has been inspiring. It has not only made a strong impact on the community but has also helped the Salvation Army of Wake County. “It’s an unbelievable experience to work alongside amazing people for a company that gives back! To me seeing young individuals go out of their way to help and give back to those less fortunate speaks volumes about the culture here at Acquire! Can’t wait for our next opportunity to give back!” -- Andrew Otis, Senior Account Manager at Acquire Many companies care about the clientele, campaigns, or causes. Not every company makes the social obligation between industry and the community a cornerstone of its operations. It is self-evident that a culture of caring is coursing through the office and the video conferences of Acquire. It will be exciting to see what happens during the upcoming holiday seasons and what all Acquire has in store. For more information on The Salvation Army of Wake County, check out their website at www.salvationarmycarolinas.org/wakecounty. ​ For more information on career opportunities, team events, marketing campaigns, community involvement or general inquiries please email hr@acquireraleigh.com or check out their company page at ​ www.acquireraleigh.com. ​ Close × JANUARY 2021 - ​A NEW YEAR WITHOUT LIMITS RALEIGH, NC --As we enter the new year with hope and cautious optimism, we are called to reflect on the lessons learned from 2020. The last 12 months brought great challenges and stunning change to our entire country and local communities. However, that did not stop the innovation and growth at Acquire. ​Since February of 2020, the leadership at Acquire de​buted a new training structure, mentorship resources, and personnel development programs to advance individuals and teams at all levels of their organization. Q1 of 2021has already started off to a great start with the welcoming of new personnel and a new market expansion into Greenville, South Carolina. ​Meanwhile back in Raleigh, Acquire focused on a stellar group of upcoming talented individuals to their leadership team. The Acquire team is already being celebrated for their client results as well as their commitment to the values of their clientele. These recent accomplishments over the last few weeks have been part of a “hit-the-ground-running” mindset that has been strongly encouraged by Zack Schuch, CEO and National Consultant, and Grant Gulledge, Senior Director of Operations and Managing Partner of Acquire. Leaders have set their goals for 2021 - goals that define priorities for the year ahead and set the framework for success. Gulledge spoke with the Acquire team about the importance of creating and sharing their 2021 goals with colleagues, friends, and family to hold them accountable. Leading by example is a corp concept for the Acquire culture and goal setting is no different. So it was not surprising that Gulledge sent out his in December for the entire year of 2021. "My goals focused on the future of our buisness, the people who comprise it, and the leadership that it will take from us to go to the next level. It is important to look at the long-term goal and personally contribute to the success and development of the professionals in our industry." --Grant Gullege, Senior Director of Operations/Managing Partner of Acquire This is just the beginning for the Acquire team. They are expecting big things during Q1 from their team and know that the momentum will continues throughout the duration of the year. For more information on career opportunities, team events, marketing campaigns, community involvement or general inquiries please email hr@acquireraleigh.com or check out their company page at ​ www.acquireraleigh.com. ​ Close × MARCH 2021 - Acquire Donates to Those Affected by the Winter Storm RALEIGH, NC --At the end of February, the state of Texas was impacted by the winter storm causing statewide power outages wiping out food supplies, and caused mass shortages of necessary supplies. The Acquire team felt impacted to show their support. The Lone Star State is significant to this team not only because of the clients and colleagues located in Texas but also because of the fondness towards the city that hosts the Annual Leadership Conference, Dallas, Texas. Acquire’s administrative team became the point people that searched for ways to provide assistance to the Lone Star State. Although hundreds of miles away, the team at Acquire contacted the Dallas Life Homeless Recovery Shelter Center. The donation drive began immediately and within one week the Acquire team already collected over 200 personal care items to help those impacted by the winter storm. “After checking in with our colleagues in the area to ensure the safety of their loved ones and employees, we wanted to find a way to show our support. We hope our donation helps the Dallas Life Homeless Recovery Shelter expand their work and facilitate an equitable recovery from the severe weather.​” -- Zack Schuch, CEO and National Consultant Also in the Month of February, Governor Roy Cooper injected positive momentum throughout the Tarheel State by formally reopening all businesses! The community’s well-being remains a focus for Acquire, and there are already plans to expand their efforts this spring with upcoming involvements in philanthropies throughout the Raleigh-Durham area--Such as Breast Cancer Awareness Walks and Red Nose Day 2021. The Acquire management team encourages all of its people to bring to the forefront any philanthropies they are passionate about and/or have a personal affiliation with. This not only betters those charitable organizations but also acts as a conduit for Acquire’s team to become even better community partners. This is just the beginning for the Acquire team in 2021. ​For more information on career opportunities, team events, marketing campaigns, community involvement, or general inquiries please email ​ hr@acquireraleigh.com. or check out their company page at www.acquireraleigh.com. ​ Close × Company Culture Close × Acquire "Rocks the Granite State" Close × AUGUST 2021 - Acquire Gives Back to the Triangle Community RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA - Acquire, a Raleigh-based marketing firm is focused on giving back to the community. Every quarter, Acquire selects a worthy cause about which it is passionate, and executes on a plan of support. Whether employees get together to raise funds to support, participate in or simply share a cause- these events are enjoyed by many throughout the company. In July, the Acquire team volunteered at the Food Bank of Central & Eastern North Carolina. In two hours, the team packaged 1,055 meals for the Triangle area. Noah Dubale, Senior Director of Operations, who attended the packaging event, commented, “The best part of the event was coming together as an Acquire family outside of our normal work routine to help fight the battle to end hunger, which affects so many people in the world every day.” As the 2021 school year approaches, Acquire is collecting donations for their third annual school supplies drive with the Wake County Boys & Girls Club. Needed school supplies include pencils, crayons, art supplies, glue sticks, backpacks, and various other school needs. Acquire is slated to complete many more local volunteer activities in 2021. The company also plans to hold its annual canned food drive and participate in the Salvation Army's Angel Tree, during the holiday season. For more information on career opportunities, team events, marketing campaigns, community involvement, or general inquiries please email ​ hr@acquireraleigh.com or check out their company page at www.acquireraleigh.com . Close × OCTOBER 2021 - Acquire Tees Off Against Brain Cancer RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA - Acquire, a Raleigh-based marketing firm continued its commitment to give back to the community this past month. Tee Off Against Brain Cancer included a charity golf tournament and dinner with a silent auction. The event served as the kick-off for a weekend-long celebration of brain cancer patients, including the annual Angels Among Us 5K and Walk of Hope for brain cancer survivors, their families, and their friends. The event was held on September 30, 2021, at the Washington Duke Inn & Golf Club in Durham, N.C. After the tournament, players attended a dinner reception held in the Fort Belvoir Golf Clubhouse. The reception began with the announcement of the tournament winners followed by the official donation presentation to this year's charitable organizations. Acquire supported the effort in donations of $22k towards this worthy cause. Total donations were in excess of $150k for the entire event helping this Non-profit exceed its $1M goal for the year. The Acquire team volunteered at the Food Bank of Central & Eastern North Carolina. In two hours, the team packaged 11,350 meals for the Triangle area. Trixie Peralta, a Senior Corporate Trainer, attended the volunteer opportunity again at the Food Bank of Central & Eastern North Carolina. "I love the fact that we made a commitment as an office to volunteer at the Food Bank every month. We really enjoy connecting with the locals and making a difference in our community.” -Trixie Peralta, Senior Corporate Trainer For more information on career opportunities, team events, marketing campaigns, community involvement, or general inquiries please email ​ hr@acquireraleigh.com or check out their company page at www.acquireraleigh.com . Close × Acquire Participates In Salvation Army’s “Angel Tree” Program RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA - Acquire, a Raleigh-based marketing firm, supported children in need this holiday season by participating in the Salvation Army's annual Angel Tree program. The Angel Tree program gives donors in local communities the opportunity to provide new clothing, toys and other gifts to children in need to help brighten the holidays. This year, Acquire was able to support three families through its local Angel Tree. The Salvation Army Angel Tree program allows anonymous donors to "adopt" children who would otherwise go without gifts during the holiday season. Found in local malls, businesses, and churches, Angel Trees are decorated with angel tags displaying the name, age and gender of a child in need. Donors can remove as many tags as they wish from the tree and purchase gifts to donate to the child described on the angel tag. Acquire has participated in the Angel Tree Program since 2016. Each year, the program provides an opportunity for employees to come together and support families and individuals in need during the holidays. Angel Tree as well as give back to the communities that they serve every day. “I’m very proud of our entire team’s generosity. It’s truly heartwarming and humbling to be able to help so many local families and individuals during what can be an especially hard time of the year. Contributing to The Angel Tree Program has allowed us to influence the lives of local children and families this holiday season," said Noah Dubale, Senior Director of Operations of Acquire To read more about Acquire's corporate social responsibility program career opportunities, team events, marketing campaigns, community involvement, or general inquiries please email hr@acquireraleigh.com . or check out their company page at www.acquireraleigh.com . Close × Acquire Gears Up for Annual Leadership Conferences RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA - Acquire has changed its industry landscape in so many ways. Specializing in client acquisition, promoting only from within, and refining the practice of personnel development. Not much beats that every member of the company leadership started from the same shared experience. To continue the rising wave of momentum Acquire is helping co-host a quarterly leadership conference. The Regional Leader Conference will be hosted by industry front-runners throughout the country during the month of March. The Regional Leader Conference will discuss various topics ranging from developing leadership within all levels of a company, team culture, to operations management, and many more topics. Zack Schuch, Acquire CEO and National Consultant, has almost 15 years with the industry under his belt, a team of 60 plus market directors, and a passion for helping others reach their goals. Schuch's team has one mission: sharing the "win" for those so that people care about learning, growing and developing into better professionals. "When I first entered the industry 15 years ago, it was following the worst recession since the Great Depression. I remember wanting to gain experience with a company. I recall attending a meeting similar to the ones coming up, and I attribute a lot of reasons why I am in the industry today from what I gained at those events in 2007. It changed my perspective on the industry. I went from looking for experience to solidifying my lifelong career." Zack Schuch, Acquire CEO and National Consultant Acquire will send 20 or more office leadership personnel to the conference in Atlanta, Georgia the first week of March. We look forward to interviewing the attendees upon their return to Raleigh. 2022 will be an exciting year of advancement and growth at the Acquire team. They are looking for talented, hard-working individuals to join them. To read more about Acquire's corporate social responsibility program career opportunities, team events, marketing campaigns, community involvement, or general inquiries please email hr@acquireraleigh.com . or check out their company page at www.acquireraleigh.com . Close × Building Bright Futures: Acquire Fosters Learning by Donating Essential School Supplies Close × Texas-sized Success: Acquire Conquers the Lone Star State at an Unforgettable Business Conference! Close × Acquire Demonstrates Holiday Spirit by Generously Donating to Wake County Salvation Army Close × Acquire Leaders coming into 2024 Hot as Leadership Core Attends Q1 Regional Meeting in Atlanta, GA Close In the Press The latest news & events Acquire Leaders coming into 2024 Hot as Leadership Core Attends Q1 Regional Meeting in Atlanta, GA March 2024 The Acquire team attended the quarterly Regional Leadership Conference in Atlanta, GA this past month. Top-performing leaders across the Southeast met to network... Read More Acquire Demonstrates Holiday Spirit by Generously Donating to Wake County Salvation Army December 2023 RALEIGH, NC—As the holiday season approaches, Acquire recognizes the importance of spreading joy and extending a helping hand to those who may be facing challenges... Read More Texas-sized Success: Acquire Conquers the Lone Star State at an Unforgettable Business Conference! November 2023 Selected as top-performing leaders, Acquire's finest professionals joined forces with like-minded individuals from diverse businesses across the United States for a transformative National Leadership Development Conference... Read More Building Bright Futures: Acquire Fosters Learning by Donating Essential School Supplies September 2023 As students return back to school, the reoccurring shortage of school supplies is brought back in to the eyes of the community.... Read More Acquire Gears Up for Annual Leadership Conferences February 2022 Acquire has changed its industry landscape in so many ways. Specializing in client acquisition, promoting only from within, and refining the practice of personnel development... Read More Acquire Participates In Salvation Army’s “Angel Tree” Program December 2021 Acquire, a Raleigh-based marketing firm, supported children in need this holiday season by participating in the Salvation Army's annual Angel Tree program.... Read More Acquire Tees Off Against Brian Cancer October 2021 Acquire, a Raleigh-based marketing firm continued its commitment to give back to the community this past month... Read More Acquire Gives Back to the Triangle Community August 2021 Acquire, a Raleigh-based marketing firm is focused on giving back to the community. Every quarter, Acquire selects a worthy cause about which it is passionate, and executes on a plan of support.... Read More Acquire "Rocks the Granite State" July 2021 Acquire, a marketing and sales firm, based in Raleigh, North Carolina is set to open the doors to its new office in Portsmouth, New Hampshire office, which would be the company’s first office in the "granite state"... Read More Acquire Hosts Regional Leader's Meetings May 2021 As the country began moving forward with positive news of vaccinations and businesses reopening, the Acquire management team began plans... Read More COMPANY CULTURE April 2021 As we know, culture is not an easy task to obtain. Everyone is thrown onto a team together and expected for it to magically work.... Read More Acquire Donates to Those Affected by the Winter Storm March 2021 At the end of February, the state of Texas was impacted by the winter storm causing statewide power outages wiping out food supplies... Read More A NEW YEAR WITHOUT LIMITS January 21, 2021 As we enter the new year with hope and cautious optimism, we are called to reflect on the lessons learned from 2020. ... Read More ACQUIRE GIVES BACK AS A SHOW OF THANKS! November 25, 2020 In March of 2020, the pandemic caused the local economy to shut down. As a consequence, the local food pantries in the Raleigh-Durham area... Read More ACQUIRE PREPARES FOR A SEASON OF GIVING November 12, 2020 As the calendar moves into the holiday season, Acquire has big plans! Their team is not only expanding across the east coast... Read More ACQUIRE IS "FALLING" FOR VIRGINIA October 9, 2020 ​As the season turns to Autumn, new opportunities have “sprung” for this fast-growing marketing firm... Read More IN A TIME OF NEED, ACQUIRE GIVES BACK September 3, 2020 For the second year in a row, the Acquire team kicked off the beginning of the 2020-2021 year by donating school supplies and backpacks to the Boys and Girls Club... Read More HALFTIME | ACQUIRE LOOKS BACK ON MID YEAR ACHIEVEMENTS June 26, 2020 June marks the halfway point of the year and that means we have six more months left of 2020. Read More Acquire Positioned to Boom in Q2 May 22, 2020 It is an understatement to write about the uniqueness of the 2020 Spring season thus far. Since March, the lives of most Americans have been turned upside down. Read More Outreach Remains a Focus at Acquire May 8, 2020 As the Triangle goes headlong into the Spring season and living daily in quarantine, the questions become, “What can be coming on the horizon?" Read More Acquire Finds Culture to be Transferable April 22, 2020 The songwriter, Bob Dylan once wrote, “For the times they are a-changin’.” That lyric resonates now in Q2 of 2020 more than it has in recent memory. Read More “Acquire Seen as ‘Essential By Clients” March 31, 2020 Raleigh, North Carolina-It is not breaking news to see another headline about the next business to shutter its doors to the current Public Health Crisis. Read More Acquire Shows A “One Team, One Heartbeat” Culture March 2, 2020 Raleigh, North Carolina--Have you ever wondered what it was like to be a part of the thriving team? Read More ACQUIRE SETS ITS SIGHTS ON A BIG 2020 VISION January 20, 2020 RALEIGH, NC-​ New year, means big goals for the Acquire team. Read More ACQUIRE KEEPS CHARITY CLOSE TO HOME DURING SEASON OF GIVING December 27, 2019 It is no secret that the last 12 months were great ones for Acquire! New market expansions, new clients’ campaigns, and a commitment to excellence made 2019 a banner year for this Raleigh-based company. Read More ACQUIRE MAKES BIG MOVES IN THE NORTHEAST December 13, 2019 With the 2019 year drawing to a close, Acquire is ramping up a new beginning with its most recent expansions to the Northeast. Two new market operations are now opening in Rochester, NY and Cherry Hill, NJ with client campaigns ranging from telecommunications to smart home industries. Read More ACQUIRE DONATES TO HURRICANE RELIEF EFFORTS November 15, 2019 On September 1, 2019, Hurricane Dorian swept through the Abaco Islands in the Bahamas leaving behind complete devastation. The powerful storm eventually made its way up the Carolina coastline. Read More Acquire Takes a Tropical Getaway October 29, 2019 Once a year the management and administration team at Acquire jet off for a week of sun, fun, and relaxation. This year was no different and the destination was set for the Moon Palace Golf and Spa Resort in Cancun, Mexico. Read More A SPECIAL MOMENT VOLUNTEERING WITH THE NC SPECIAL OLYMPICS October 14, 2019 At the end of September, Acquire’s Administrative Team spent their Sunday out in the Raleigh community. Lila Miller, one of Acquire’s administrators, grew up in the Triangle area and has grown to be involved in the N.C. Special Olympics. Read More Acquire Attends a Leadership Dinner with a Local Legend September 23, 2019 Earlier in September, a group from Acquire was selected to attend a private, orientation and leadership dinner at the Oak City’s oldest, most beloved restaurants, Angus Barn. Read More Acquire Shines Brightest in the Lone-Star State September 6, 2019 Acquire wrapped up the month of August with an invigorating weekend at their semi-annual Leadership Conference in Dallas, Texas! Read More Acquire Serves Local Senior Citizens August 26, 2019 The staff members of Acquire are no strangers to community volunteer work and their most recent efforts were extended to a local Wake County Meals on Wheels at the Five Points Center for Active Adults Read More “Acquiring” New Territory in The Buckeye State July 25, 2019 Following Acquire’s recent leadership conference in Atlanta, GA, the team returned to their home base in Raleigh, NC and began preparations for their upcoming business expansion. Read More Acquire Sees New Growth at Leadership Conference July 15, 2019 A few times a year, Acquire and its partners in the Southeast choose their top-performing leaders and a few lucky new hires to attend a Leadership Conference in Atlanta, Georgia to meet, network with, and learn from the region’s top owners and performers. Read More Acquire Jet Sets To The Golden State June 27, 2019 Since settling into Raleigh, Acquire has been recognized as one of the largest and fastest growing brands amongst marketing & promotional advertising firms in the Triangle area. Read More Acquire Volunteers at Local Boys and Girls Club May 10, 2019 With college graduation less than a week away, Acquire, a Raleigh based marketing agency, has put a large focus on the upcoming graduates and their job search. Read More Acquire Gears Up For May Graduation May 1, 2019 The month of April has come to a close, which means college students across the country are preparing for May graduation. While this is an exciting time, there can be underlying pressures to find the ideal job and start a career Read More Acquire “Springs” Into A Volunteer Opportunity March 15, 2019 With Spring just around the corner, Acquire is ready to kick start the new season with a new charitable opportunity and community involvement. The marketing firm, located in the North Hills area of Raleigh Read More Everything’s Bigger in Texas March 5, 2019 Over the last quarter, a clear push has been made by the businessmen and women of Acquire in hopes to qualify for an invite to the company’s annual leadership seminar. Read More Reservations are Set for the “Hostess City” February 25, 2019 Raleigh, NC - February 25, 2019 Acquire has made its mark in the Raleigh-Durham area by operating as a company that places as much emphasis on its employees as it does its clients. Read More Acquire Leads The Way at Leadership Conference February 8, 2019 Raleigh, NC - February 8, 2019 Acquire began the new year with a new list of goals and events to attend. Read More Acquire Wraps Up 2018 With a Family Adoption Jan 7 2019 Raleigh, NC - January 7, 2019 Throughout 2018 Acquire lead the way in their industry not only for their marketing game and brand mastery, but also for their amount of charity involvement. Read More Acquire Attends the 25th Annual Jingle Ball Gala Dec 13 2018 Raleigh, North Carolina—December 13, 2018  Acquire began the 2018 holiday season by collecting and donating non-perishable goods to a local food pantry, but the Raleigh-based marketing agency’s philanthropic efforts did not stop there. Read More Acquire Donates to Local Food Bank Nov 19 2018 Raleigh, North Carolina – November 19, 2018  With the holiday season in full swing, it can be easy to get wrapped up in checking off gifts to be purchased, finalizing travel plans, and narrowing down which holiday events to attend. Read More Acquire Plants A New Seed In The Garden State Nov 5 2018 Raleigh, North Carolina – November 5, 2018 Acquire, a company that has a foundation built around client acquisitions and employee development, has made yet another significant business move to maximize its imprint on the industry. Read More Acquire’s Corporate Getaway Oct 22 2018 Raleigh, North Carolina – October 22, 2018  In celebration of a successful year of business, some of the Acquire team jet set to Punta Cana in the Dominican Republic. Read More “Acquiring” New Opportunities Sep 27 2018 Raleigh, North Carolina – September 27, 2018  As a rapidly growing company, Acquire attracts a large number of entrepreneurial- minded, professionals who see themselves as future leaders in business. Read More Acquire Takes The Lead at Leadership Conference Sep 5 2018 Raleigh, NC – September 5, 2018 Mid-August approached as business leaders nation wide prepared for an annual leadership seminar held at Dallas, Texas’ Hilton DFW Lakes Executive Center. Read More Acquire Participates in School Supply Drive Aug 24 2018 RALEIGH, NC—Aug 24th, 2018 As a new school year begins, families across the country feel the all-familiar budget impact of rising school supplies costs. Read More “Acquiring” Diversity in The Workplace Aug 7 2018 RALEIGH, NC—AUGUST 7th, 2018 In today’s world people are encouraged to discuss topics that some may find uncomfortable but sometimes the discussions of uncomfortable topics are the most necessary. Read More Acquire Gets “Smart” In Its New Home Jul 16 2018 RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA—ACQUIRE, the leader in campaign marketing and business development services, is excited to announce the addition of a new client to its already robust business portfolio.  Recently the firm issued a few statements from its Management Team to give the greater Raleigh-Durham community an insight into this brand new campaign. Read More Acquire Sponsors the Humbled Initiative Jun 30 2018 As June came to an end, Acquire continued its philanthropic events at The Summer Classic Charity Basketball Event presented by The Humbled Initiative; a North Carolina based non-profit organization. Read More Acquire Supports Dress for Success Organization and Attends Fashion Show Apr 9 2018 RALEIGH, NC – Since returning to the Raleigh market last year, Acquire has gained a reputation for being involved in the surrounding community. Most recently, they attended the first annual Unveil Fashion Show & Benefit sponsored by Gilded Bridal and Vidrio in support of Dress for Success. Read More Acquire Sets up Shop in Midtown Plaza in North Hills Mar 11 2018 RALEIGH, NC – The team at Acquire recently announced their plans to move their headquarters to the new Midtown Plaza building in North Hills. According to National Director of Operations at Acquire, Zack Schuch, the move couldn’t have come at a better time for the company. Read More Acquire Throws Black-Tie Party with Toys for Tots Jan 9 2018 RALEIGH, NC - After exceeding their goals for the fourth quarter, the management team at Acquire celebrated by throwing their First Annual Organizational Holiday Party at the W Hotel-Midtown in Raleigh, GA. While the black-tie event was glamorous in its own right, the star attraction of the party was the Christmas tree adorned with gift donations for the Toys for Tots organization. Read More Acquire Officially Makes Return to the Raleigh, NC Market Nov 12 2017 RALEIGH, NC - Acquire has officially made its return to the Raleigh, NC area and opened its doors for business earlier this month. After successfully building a headquarters in Raleigh, GA in 2013, Founder and Director of National Accounts, Zack Schuch, has decided to return to home base and get re-acquainted with the Raleigh market. Read More services we offer Brand Management We analyze and create a plan of how a brand is currently positioned in the market. Developing a good relationship with target audience is essential in our customized, targeted campaigns. Customer Retention By focusing on building strong relationships between our clients and consumers, and taking a customer-centric approach, our team is able to prioritize understanding customers, their needs, and preferences. By implementing these strategies, Acquire creates a strong foundation for brand loyalty between consumers and companies. Marketing Our marketing approach allows us to have direct control over our marketing efforts and enables us to measure the effectiveness of our client campaigns more easily. We are able to communicate the value of a product or service to customers, for the purpose of selling the product or service. Customer Service Acquire takes pride in prioritizing delivering exceptional customer service on behalf of our clients. Our customer service approach involves promptly addressing customer inquiries, providing timely solutions, and going above and beyond to exceed expectations. Advertising Our promotional and sales techniques promote our client's products and services to potential customers with the ultimate goal of increasing sales. Through advertising, we are able to create brand awareness, which generates increased consumption of products or services to customers. Consumer Acquisitions We understand that consumer acquisitions is a crucial aspect of business growth and profitability, as it helps expand the customer base and increase revenue. We effectively acquire new consumers through strategically approaching customers, understanding the target audience's needs, and constantly monitoring and optimizing to achieve desired results. × Zachary Zachary graduated from Florida State University in 2006 with a bachelor's in Economics. After graduation, he moved back to his home town in Raleigh, North Carolina, where he joined the business in early 2007 as an entry-level account manager. After his promotion to Director of Operations in Raleigh, he successfully helped the clients more than double their presence nationwide and was promoted to National Director of Operations. In 2013, he had the opportunity to partner with New Acquisitions' co-founder Adam, to expand to Atlanta to be closer to the clients' headquarters. Zachary is a dedicated supporter of the Florida State Seminoles and the Atlanta Braves. His favorite sport is sport fishing, which he loves to do in North Carolina on the weekends. Close × AT&T Sales Representative Our ideal candidate is a competitive-minded and eager go-getter who will help us achieve and surpass our client’s goals. We are looking for someone who can come into our dynamic team, and learn AT&T products and services, as well as our marketing strategies and business skills. Responsibilities: Engage daily with customers with a helpful and dynamic attitude Handle customer situations and present the most accurate and relevant promotion Practice customer service at a high level, achieving an excellent customer experience Successfully track personal and team sales goals Be an energetic and supportive team member daily Qualifications: Exceptional communication skills, both verbal and written 1-3 years experience in customer service (Preferred, not required) 1-3 years experience in sales (Preferred, not required) Must have a reliable mode of transportation; this is an in-person position Apply Today × Entry-Level Account Manager The Entry-Level Account Manager is a part of a thriving team environment centered on providing top-notch customer engagement, driving company sales goals, and professional development, and consistently exceeding expectations on every level. They will focus on identifying and developing relationships and projects with targeted potential customers and specific client groups. Responsibilities: Build relationships with customers and communicate promotional services through face-to-face conversations throughout the sales process Interact with hundreds of people a day in a fast-paced retail setting Drives sales through the engagement of customers, suggestive selling, and sharing product knowledge Create and maintain brand loyalty through excellent customer engagement Stay up to date on products, promotions, and competitor options to deliver the best results each day Qualifications: Bachelor or Associate degree in Business/Communications or related field (Preferred, not required) 1-2 years in customer service, sales, or other related fields Exceptional communication skills, both verbal and written Strong problem-solving, organizational, decision-making, and multi-tasking skills Self-starter attitude and ability to exercise judgment and solve difficult problems without direct supervision, comfortable with ambiguity Must have a reliable mode of transportation; this is an in-person position Apply Today × Entry Level Management Training As you progress through the Manager Trainee program, our management team will work alongside you to develop your understanding of our business and help prepare you to take on a management role in the near future! Management Training Areas of Focus: Sales & Customer Service: client representatives, brand management, customer service, conducting sales via field marketing Leadership & Team Building: relationship management with clients, interviewing, hiring and onboarding process, training, team management, and brand management Business Operations: financial, administrative, operational, full recruiting cycle Essential Functions: Identify customer needs and present solutions through face-to-face sales Meet and exceed individual daily, weekly, and monthly sales goals Continuously manage performance through proper coaching, development of sales skills, competitive positioning, motivation, goal setting, and day-to-day direction Ability to utilize technology to engage customers Contribute to a positive & energetic environment Qualifications: Bachelor's or Associate's Degree in Business, Communications, Psychology or related field (preferred but not required). Excellent communication skills, both written and verbal Great time-management skills and a do-it-now type of attitude Ability to work in a fast-paced, high-energy environment A desire for growth and advancement Must have a reliable mode of transportation; this is an in-person position Apply Today × Sports-Minded Marketing & Promotions Representative Our next Sports-Minded Marketing and Promotions Representative will possess the determination and competitive nature that will push our company and team to grow both professionally and personally. This position will focus on new customer acquisition, brand growth, and developing customer support for our top retail accounts. Management Training Areas of Focus: Engage face-to-face daily with potential new consumers and educate them on what promotions are presently occurring Accurately assess and qualify Maintain and drive the marketing and sales campaigns within top retail locations Troubleshoot issues and provide excellent customer service for existing clientele Attend team meetings to learn about campaign and promotion changes weekly Track personal and team marketing and sales goals Qualifications: Exceptional communication skills, both verbal and written 1-3 years experience in customer service (Preferred, not required) 1-3 years experience in sales (Preferred, not required) Must have a reliable mode of transportation; this is an in-person position Apply Today × Marketing & Promotional Advertising Associate Acquire is a firm that specializes in marketing and sales for some of the most exciting and well-known companies in the country. We represent clients various industries. Creating personal relationships is the foundation of our firm. We uphold long-standing relations with our clientele not because we are the biggest, but because we strive to be the best. Plain and simple - Using our experimental marketing methods, we have continuously achieved dramatic results for clients both large and small from many different industries. All openings are part of a marketing business model. The ideal candidates will possess a "second-to-none" work ethic and an unbelievably positive business attitude. We've created a working atmosphere that has not only proven effective, but energetic and fun, so YOU must be too! A big part of our success is based on a foundation of every day being different while having unlimited opportunities - every team member contributes to the expansion of the company. Key Responsibilities Develop a strong brand, product and marketing strategy for attendee and sponsorship/exhibitor campaigns Identify and create strategy to build event partnerships in key relevant markets. Research and attend relevant industry 'meetups' to increase event exposure Create a marketing strategy and timeline for each event Create and update the marketing budget for each event, ensuring that all costs are managed and kept within budget, supply accurate forecasts Provide regular reports of campaign effectiveness and recommendations for future improvements along with weekly reports on delegate revenue and numbers Job Requirements Marketing & Advertising Associate - Entry Level Position Requirements: Ability to learn basic sales and marketing skills Detail oriented Fun and outgoing personality Strong people skills Ability to work with a team as well as individually Performance driven Excellent time management skills Coachable DUE TO OUR BUSIEST SEASON OF THE YEAR WE ARE LOOKING FOR IMMEDIATE HIRES. ALL OPENINGS ARE ENTRY LEVEL WITH OPPORTUNITY TO ADVANCE TO MANAGEMENT. *All promotions are from within * Apply Today × Brand Associate Brand Associates will work closely with Sales Account Managers and Management to help execute a brand strategy that drives brand awareness, engagement, and conversion for our client retail promotional campaigns. Training will be provided, however, a background in leadership and achievement is preferred to thrive as a Brand Associate (this may include extracurricular activities, team captain, and informal leadership roles). Experience in sales, customer service and promotional marketing is a major plus! Responsibilities Attend / Run promotional sales and marketing campaigns Face-to-face sales presentations to consumers to bring awareness to client promotions and savings Attend daily and weekly meetings to discuss client strategies Training and development of our event staff Our work environment will ensure your success with all the necessary tools for training and continuing education in the marketing and promotional services industry. Through continuous support of senior management, the Brand Associate will continue to take on more responsibility and if successful, have the opportunity for cross-training and promotion to a Senior Market Manager. What we are looking for A self-starter Competitive, yet team-oriented mindset Great communication skills Highly coachable We understand that the foundation of our campaigns is rooted in the success of our account management team, which enjoy the following perks: Competitive pay structures and regular bonus opportunities Monthly/Yearly travel opportunity Mentorship training program and 1-1 meetings with the CEO Networking opportunities and continuing education Apply Today Acquire Careers Acquire provides unlimited promotional opportunities for each individual that joins our team. Our promotions are based 100% on achievement and have no bearing on seniority. Apply Today Brand Associate Brand Associates will work closely with Sales Account Managers and Management to help execute a brand strategy that drives brand awareness, engagement, and conversion for our client retail promotional campaigns. Learn More AT&T Sales Representative Our ideal candidate is a competitive-minded and eager go-getter who will help us achieve and surpass our client’s goals. We are looking for someone who can come into our dynamic team, and learn AT&T products and services, as well as our marketing strategies and business skills. Learn More Entry-Level Account Manager The Entry Level Account Manager is a part of a thriving team environment centered on providing top-notch customer engagement, driving company sales goals, professional development, and consistently exceeding expectations on every level. They will focus on identifying and developing relationships and projects with targeted potential customers and specific client groups. Learn More Entry Level Management Training Whether you see yourself in sales, business development, customer service, or business operations, Acquire's Entry-Level Management Training program is designed to prepare individuals to create their ideal career. As a Management Trainee, you can count on a defined career trajectory with a clear beginning and an open end — meaning you can take your training and shape your future. And with our promote-from-within philosophy, you will have plenty of opportunities to advance without ever having to change companies. Learn More Sports-Minded Marketing & Promotions Representative Acquire is looking for individuals who want to be a part of a motivated and competitive team that goes above and beyond to exceed expectations for the brands and clients we work with. With an attention to detail and a student mentality, each individual is given the opportunity to learn and develop with regional and national mentorship. This position will focus on new customer acquisition, brand growth, and developing customer support for our top retail accounts. Learn More get in touch Phone number 919-626-9242 Opt In Text APPLY to (984)343-0206 Email contact@acquirerdu.com address 305 Church at N. Hills St. 12th Floor Raleigh, NC 27609 Send a message We would love to hear from you. You can contact us using the email form below or you can use any of our contact information. Our wonderful HR department will be happy to assist you! Send Message © Copyright - Acquire Privacy Policy