Xenoblade Chronicles X Definitive Edition Technical Analysis | Famiboards Forums Treehouse The Roost News Site Rules Rules Site Functions Guide Banned Content List Site Support Open new ticket Badges Rankings What's new Latest Threads Featured content New posts New items Latest activity Affiliates Install Base Log in Register What's new Treehouse The Roost Menu Log in Register Install the app Install Voting has begun for the 101 Essential Nintendo Switch Games event! Forums Player's Pulse Treehouse JavaScript is disabled. For a better experience, please enable JavaScript in your browser before proceeding. You are using an out of date browser. It  may not display this or other websites correctly. You should upgrade or use an alternative browser . Discussion Xenoblade Chronicles X Definitive Edition Technical Analysis Thread starter Thread starter Goodtwin Start date Start date Mar 21, 2025 1 2 Next 1 of 2 Go to page Go Next Last Goodtwin Paratroopa Mar 21, 2025 #1 XBC:X has big improvements over the Wii U build.  The resolution is 1080p with dynamic res in place when docked, and portable play is 720p with dynamic res.  When playing on my Switch OLED, portable play looks very clean and crisp.  I find it to be even nicer in docked play with a very clean 1080p image.  My TV is a 40" 1080p TV, so 1080p content looks very nice on it.  I'm sure if you were to blow it up on a 70" 4K screen, the image quality would degrade from my experience.  Regardless, in terms of image quality, this is a very nice upgrade over the Wii U build.  Many of the textures are higher resolution in this build of the game as well, and generally look nice.  There are certainly still some muddy textures here and there, but by in large texture quality is good. An area that hasn't seen much improvement is  the close distance pop in.  Especially noticeable in NLA, NPC's and various assets will pop in at very close proximity to the player.  Its possible that its better than it was on Wii U, but there is no denying that its still very bad in this build of the game.  Out in the open world things fair quite a bit better.  Enemies still pop in at a moderate range, but its certainly not as bad as NLA.  There is still a lot of LOD streaming going on, and the higher resolution in docked mode does allow the player to see those LOD changes in the distance more than they would have on Wii U, but its not distracting. As you can see in the video up above, the game is not perfectly stable on Switch.  The stutters happen frequently.  The performance dips are generally minor and the game recovers immediately, with just a few dropped frames here and there, but it is noticeable.   Seeing as how these dips are minor, I was expecting a GPU and CPU overclock to eliminate them, but sadly that hasn't been the case.  Similar to overclocking Zelda BotW and TotK, it helps, but by in large it doesn't resolve the framerate dips.  These dips are small and not sustained, so I would presume many of the reviewers for this game didn't really notice them, but if your sensitive to framerate drops like me, you will notice them immediately. If GPU and CPU overclocking doesn't solve the problem, then it must be memory bandwidth, right?  Well, maybe, but I'm not convinced.  Many of the dips are so minor and sporadic with no obvious cause.  In the opening cut scene when the heavy fog comes across the scene, probably a memory bandwidth issue.  All the other micro stutters, I think something else is going on.  I also noticed the game is only using about 2.6GB of the 3.6GB of ram. CPU usage is also very high on only one CPU core, leaving the 2nd core at about 55% and the third art 25%.  This makes sense for a Wii U game where the three cores didn't share L2 cache and essentially had to operate independently.  I think a lot of the underlying systems in place for Wii U didn't get completely reworked for this port.  My current theory is many of these stutters are actually a streaming problem.  The Wii U only had 1GB of ram for games, I know BotW used all 2GB but I don't believe XBC:X did.  Regardless, the engine would have been highly dependent on constantly streaming in assets on the fly.  This system may not be operating efficiently on Switch.  I may move XBC:X from my MicroSD card to internal system memory and see if this helps. This all seems like something Monolithsoft should be able to resolve with a patch, but who knows if they have any plans for post launch support of this game.  They may be completely occupied with Switch 2 development at this point.  Personally, I would not discourage anyone interested in the game from making the purchase based on these minor grievances.  With that said, if your a really picky about your framerate, it might be worth waiting to play this game on Switch 2, where these issues will most likely not exist. 0 21 MonHunterORB Shriekbat Pronouns She/Her Mar 21, 2025 #2 So they took a game that basically maxed out Wii U and was advised to download extra stuff to the internal memory to help it run better, made it look notably better on top of less pop in, higher average resolution etc  And there is still like 30% of the RAM and almost half the CPU power untapped still? Hypothetically there is a lot of room for nearly perfect 30FPS, far less pop in etc. Crazy. Anyways yeah NLA is pretty meh graphically(just like in the original) but the open world is jaw dropping. If this was running on Series S I'd still consider it pretty solid work honestly. Far as pop in goes I for sure noticed some bad pop in for people in NLA at times but in the wild its largely only when fast traveling that I notice enemy pop-in. I've found foilage and such pop in to be vastly less prominent and I rarely notice it. Last edited: Mar 21, 2025 Quoted by: Goodtwin 1 3 D Deleted member 8558 Guest Mar 21, 2025 #3 Taking this opportunity to vent the teeniest bit, it still drives me bonkers whenever I read a comment under some footage of Scarlet / Violet that blames the Switch hardware and treats that game's visuals as an exemplar of what the Switch can do (to the point where DF even wasted time in their review of the game with a 'is this too big for Switch' segment), when this game looks two generations ahead and runs at a dynamic 1080p, is an expansive world, and runs more stable - and it's a Wii U remster. Quoted by: Goodtwin , lexony , Brock Reiher , Dolce 4 OP OP Goodtwin Paratroopa Mar 21, 2025 #4 MonHunterORB said: And there is still like 30% of the RAM and almost half the CPU power untapped still? Hypothetically there is a lot of room for nearly perfect 30FPS, far less pop in etc. Crazy. Click to expand... The ram allocation is a weird one.  You see it all the time on PC where a game will only utilize so much, regardless of how much you have installed, so games do typically have a limit on how much ram they will utilize, but with this game you would think Monolithsoft would want to keep as much of the game residing in ram to reducer the burden on streaming in assets.  Like I said before, the stutters are hard to nail down the reason, but there does some to be some connection with when the game updates.  For example, when you complete a field action the game will often stutter.  Perhaps the stutter is related to the game saving? The CPU utilization is probably just a carry over from Wii U.  The game logic is all running on one core.  I don't see them patching that, as it would probably take some significant changes to the game engine to make it multi threaded.  These stutters happen even when CPU usage is below 100%, so I do not think its a CPU bottleneck.  I suppose it is possible the dynamic resolution doesn't respond fast enough.  Essentially not kicking in until the game drops a few frames.  With this game rendering at 1080p, it certainly is on the edge of what the Switch can do. Serif said: Taking this opportunity to vent the teeniest bit, it still drives me bonkers whenever I read a comment under some footage of Scarlet / Violet that blames the Switch hardware and treats that game's visuals as an exemplar of what the Switch can do (to the point where DF even wasted time in their review of the game with a 'is this too big for Switch' segment), when this game looks two generations ahead and runs at a dynamic 1080p, is an expansive world, and runs more stable - and it's a Wii U remster. Click to expand... Those claims are always clowns just trolling.  People who love to claim the the Switch is weak cherry pick the worst possible examples.  It will not matter to them that Zelda BotW, Xenoblade Chronicles X and Red Dead Redemption all run on Switch, look and perform significantly better than Scarlet/Violet.  They arent looking for a debate, they are looking to make a drive by bogus claim hoping to gas light people. Quoted by: Kartina , Shoulder 2 8 H Hermii Kong Mar 21, 2025 #5 Who needs DF when we have @Goodtwin ? Great analysis. 0 2 MisterSpo Pokémon Trainer Founder Pronouns He/Him Mar 21, 2025 #6 Yeah, NLA is still jarring with people materialising next to you, but I've been pretty amazed at the few hours I've played in Primordia so far. The draw distance is insane and large groups of creatures are rendered without obvious pop in (unless a day/night transition happens). Still an astonishing game and I've barely started. 0 lexony Pikmin Community Liaison AI Survivor Winning by the BOOKS Super Market Beta Tester Pronouns He/Him Mar 21, 2025 #7 Serif said: Taking this opportunity to vent the teeniest bit, it still drives me bonkers whenever I read a comment under some footage of Scarlet / Violet that blames the Switch hardware and treats that game's visuals as an exemplar of what the Switch can do (to the point where DF even wasted time in their review of the game with a 'is this too big for Switch' segment), when this game looks two generations ahead and runs at a dynamic 1080p, is an expansive world, and runs more stable - and it's a Wii U remster. Click to expand... To be fair Pokémon would run a tiny bit better on more powerful hardware and they'd probably include more graphic effects to hide their visual shortcomings. For example Z-A has unlike Scarlet/Violet or Arceus much better lighting work which is I think the main reason why people think the game looks a bit better. But yeah even with the strongest console in the world you will not fix the bad texture work, the stiff animations or them thinking it is ok to paint balconies as textures right on buildings. It is a shame Gamefreak Management dosen't seem to care or is too stubborn to get some help. I think if they wanted, they could easily ask Nintendo/Monolith Soft helping out with their open world engine. Quoted by: Deleted member 8558 , Eclissi 2 1 D Deleted member 8558 Guest Mar 21, 2025 #8 lexony said: To be fair Pokémon would run a tiny bit better on more powerful hardware and they'd probably include more graphic effects to hide their visual shortcomings. For example Z-A has unlike Scarlet/Violet or Arceus much better lighting work which is I think the main reason why people think the game looks a bit better. Click to expand... Better hardware would allow them to brute force higher visual fidelity with higher sampling, but my issue was never with this suggestion. My pet peeve has always been the framing of those games as the average potential of the Switch, when they are severe outliers. Those games just straight up look unfinished, Legends ZA looks like a drastic improvement. 0 Steve Staff on leave and game enthusiast Staff on Break Staff Service Stuff of Nightmares Kirby is White? Koality Participant Pronouns He/Him Mar 21, 2025 #9 Solid post I personally don't notice the Frame dips other then that.. the open world segment looks visually amazing 0 2 S Semi Lazy Gamer Chain Chomp Mar 21, 2025 #10 I haven't been jumping around fast traveling too much yet, but the pop in is sooooooo much better in XDE. 0 Lugia667 Yoshi Pronouns He/Him Mar 21, 2025 #11 is this gonna turn into another pokemon graphics thead? 0 1 D Deleted member 8558 Guest Mar 21, 2025 #12 I'm glad there's been an upward trend for IQ of Monolith Soft releases (even if it ends in a Wii U remaster). DE and 2 were extremely visually competent games unfortunately crunched up by low res, TAA and a sharpening filter. 3 looked so much better with its temporal upsampling. I had assumed they would backport this technique to a possible X remaster, but it flexes on me instead of with a dynamic native res. I'm hoping that framerate flag that Masagrator found leads somewhere in the future, this is an easy 4K 60 upgrade for Switch 2 if they wanted to make it. 0 Kartina THE PROCESS WON Pronouns He/him Mar 21, 2025 #13 Goodtwin said: Those claims are always clowns just trolling.  People who love to claim the the Switch is weak cherry pick the worst possible examples.  It will not matter to them that Zelda BotW, Xenoblade Chronicles X and Red Dead Redemption all run on Switch, look and perform significantly better than Scarlet/Violet.  They arent looking for a debate, they are looking to make a drive by bogus claim hoping to gas light people. Click to expand... I know you didn’t mean it but did you really have to list 3 switch games that released on older console other than the switch? You could’ve at least said tears of the kingdom 0 Dekuman #TeamJuneLaunch Switch 2 Predictor Mark of the Beast Pronouns He/Him/His Mar 21, 2025 #14 Good work here @Goodtwin 0 1 D Deleted member 8558 Guest Mar 21, 2025 #15 Is there any word on 5.1 surround support for this game? Quoted by: yusufied 1 PandaAndino Octorok Mar 21, 2025 #16 Underclock cpu cloks and you will se how it use more of the other cores. The game uses 1 core to max and then try to max the others. But doesnt mean is cpu bound. Quoted by: Goodtwin 1 1 Horizon2.0 Cappy Mar 21, 2025 #17 Still early in the game, chapter 2 I think and just wasting time exploring NLA. Yeah the npcs and car pop in and…stutters(?) when there happens to be more than a few npcs on screen, and some of the early cutscenes looking like it drops quality in some of the explosions? Smoke looks blocky on my tv when docked. are the only things that are catching my eye so far. Hopefully it is something they can fix in a patch if they are working on one. 0 Shoulder Tingle Mar 22, 2025 #18 Goodtwin said: The ram allocation is a weird one.  You see it all the time on PC where a game will only utilize so much, regardless of how much you have installed, so games do typically have a limit on how much ram they will utilize, but with this game you would think Monolithsoft would want to keep as much of the game residing in ram to reducer the burden on streaming in assets.  Like I said before, the stutters are hard to nail down the reason, but there does some to be some connection with when the game updates.  For example, when you complete a field action the game will often stutter.  Perhaps the stutter is related to the game saving? The CPU utilization is probably just a carry over from Wii U.  The game logic is all running on one core.  I don't see them patching that, as it would probably take some significant changes to the game engine to make it multi threaded.  These stutters happen even when CPU usage is below 100%, so I do not think its a CPU bottleneck.  I suppose it is possible the dynamic resolution doesn't respond fast enough.  Essentially not kicking in until the game drops a few frames.  With this game rendering at 1080p, it certainly is on the edge of what the Switch can do. Those claims are always clowns just trolling.  People who love to claim the the Switch is weak cherry pick the worst possible examples.  It will not matter to them that Zelda BotW, Xenoblade Chronicles X and Red Dead Redemption all run on Switch, look and perform significantly better than Scarlet/Violet.  They arent looking for a debate, they are looking to make a drive by bogus claim hoping to gas light people. Click to expand... I wonder if these stutters is more to do with the engine itself than it is the hardware aka the coding. I’ve been replaying HL2 and its episodes, and I notice quite a bit of stuttering in the game throughout, and that is despite how much faster my rig is compared to running HL2 in 2004. While I don’t know for certain, I wonder if it’s an auto save bug that causes this stutter? Does the autosave logo appear when these stutters as you mention happen? As for HL2, I’ve just gotten used to it as a quirk of the Source engine, and wonder if something similar is happening for the XCX version of their engine. Quoted by: Goodtwin 1 1 Brock Reiher Yoshi Gorilla Gone I Kin't believe it! Kirby is White? Savior of Sarasaland Mar 22, 2025 #19 Serif said: Taking this opportunity to vent the teeniest bit, it still drives me bonkers whenever I read a comment under some footage of Scarlet / Violet that blames the Switch hardware and treats that game's visuals as an exemplar of what the Switch can do (to the point where DF even wasted time in their review of the game with a 'is this too big for Switch' segment), when this game looks two generations ahead and runs at a dynamic 1080p, is an expansive world, and runs more stable - and it's a Wii U remster. Click to expand... Eh, Scarlet and Violet look great considering it is a formerly handheld developer making them. Making big open world’s is basically Monolith’s strong point to the point the Zelda team had to bring them in. I never understood the complaints about Scarlet and Violet when those games run better than even Breath of the Wild much of the time. Quoted by: Dr_Phishshoe 1 Dr_Phishshoe Devil's Advocate Mar 22, 2025 #20 Brock Reiher said: I never understood the complaints about Scarlet and Violet when those games run better than even Breath of the Wild much of the time. Click to expand... Uuhm what are you smoking? SV is like constantly stuttering when moving the camera...BotW isn't like that at alll Quoted by: Brock Reiher 1 10 Polmo Like Like Pronouns He Mar 22, 2025 #21 SV only runs better than BotW only if you point the camera to the sky while in BotW use Magnesis to create a catapult. Quoted by: Lucifer 1 12 Brock Reiher Yoshi Gorilla Gone I Kin't believe it! Kirby is White? Savior of Sarasaland Mar 22, 2025 #22 Dr_Phishshoe said: Uuhm what are you smoking? SV is like constantly stuttering when moving the camera...BotW isn't like that at alll Click to expand... Some areas of Breath of the Wild run about as well as Virtual Hydlide. Quoted by: IronFalcon1997 1 1 IronFalcon1997 Moblin Mar 22, 2025 #23 Brock Reiher said: Some areas of Breath of the Wild run about as well as Virtual Hydlide. Click to expand... That’s just factually wrong. Scarlet and Violet look worse, have less going on, and run worse. Anyways, Xenoblade looks great. I’d love to talk more about that and not Pokémon Quoted by: Brock Reiher 1 5 Brock Reiher Yoshi Gorilla Gone I Kin't believe it! Kirby is White? Savior of Sarasaland Mar 22, 2025 #24 IronFalcon1997 said: That’sl just factually wrong. Scarlet and Violet look worse, have less going on, and run worse. Anyways, Xenoblade looks great. I’d love to talk more about that and not Pokémon Click to expand... Maybe you haven’t been to the area I’m talking about, it’s a big one but it’s not mandatory iirc. I think Xenoblade X looks good but it definitely looks like a 10 year old game. I was hoping for a bit more from the remaster to be honest. Luckily there is more there than just visual changes! Quoted by: IronFalcon1997 1 Lucifer Koopa Mar 22, 2025 #25 Polmo said: SV only runs better than BotW only if you point the camera to the sky while in BotW use Magnesis to create a catapult. Click to expand... I can't think of a game that runs worse than SV, you'd need to get deep into shovelware and shit. 0 5 BAZO277 Mario Mar 22, 2025 #26 I'll add to this and say if you have the downloaded version installed directly to internal memory that while the pop in still happens, it's greatly reduced, especially compared to the Wii U version where you'd be standing next to NPCs or vehicles for around 5 seconds or more until they started either showing the object at all, or rendering the highest detailed LOD. Overall while not without it's quirks it's a solid definitive edition that's worthy of the name. 0 Wockio Made of Igglybuff Fluff Pronouns He Mar 22, 2025 #27 SV graphics debates is like that one illusion of choice Three Houses discourse meme by this point. Either way this game looks and runs fantastic. There was a point early in the game where I was running through the beach during daytime and I thought to myself that this is the best I've seen a Switch look. Good job Monolith Soft. 0 IronFalcon1997 Moblin Mar 23, 2025 #28 Brock Reiher said: Maybe you haven’t been to the area I’m talking about, it’s a big one but it’s not mandatory iirc. I think Xenoblade X looks good but it definitely looks like a 10 year old game. I was hoping for a bit more from the remaster to be honest. Luckily there is more there than just visual changes! Click to expand... I’ve played both BotW and TotK for hundreds of hours. Saying those games and Xenoblade don’t look great but Pokémon does is wild Quoted by: Brock Reiher 1 5 Brock Reiher Yoshi Gorilla Gone I Kin't believe it! Kirby is White? Savior of Sarasaland Mar 23, 2025 #29 IronFalcon1997 said: I’ve played both BotW and TotK for hundreds of hours. Saying those games and Xenoblade don’t look great but Pokémon does is wild Click to expand... You can disagree if you want but some areas absolutely run worse. I’d rather stay on topic though so we’ll have to agree to disagree Quoted by: DjOctavius 1 DjOctavius Koopa Pronouns He/Him Mar 23, 2025 #30 Brock Reiher said: You can disagree if you want but some areas absolutely run worse. I’d rather stay on topic though so we’ll have to agree to disagree Click to expand... This is so incorrect. Unless you played it on the Wii U 0 3 OP OP Goodtwin Paratroopa Mar 23, 2025 #31 PandaAndino said: Underclock cpu cloks and you will se how it use more of the other cores. The game uses 1 core to max and then try to max the others. But doesnt mean is cpu bound. Click to expand... That hasn't been my experience.  Even when dropping the CPU clocks down to 620Mhz, Core 0 is still around 95% and the Core 1 hovers between 65-75% and Core 2 well below that.  There is definitely a "main" Core for this game. I've over clocked the CPU to the max yesterday, at first I thought it was really helping, but then I turned off all overclocks and realized large chunks of Mira simply run with less stutters. Shoulder said: I wonder if these stutters is more to do with the engine itself than it is the hardware aka the coding. I’ve been replaying HL2 and its episodes, and I notice quite a bit of stuttering in the game throughout, and that is despite how much faster my rig is compared to running HL2 in 2004. While I don’t know for certain, I wonder if it’s an auto save bug that causes this stutter? Does the autosave logo appear when these stutters as you mention happen? As for HL2, I’ve just gotten used to it as a quirk of the Source engine, and wonder if something similar is happening for the XCX version of their engine. Click to expand... This is my thought.  Something is going on within the engine causing these stutters.  Its impossible for us to know what that is, it will be up to Monolithsoft to decide if it's worth their while to look into.  I was paying attention to the auto save, and it wasn't consistently causing stutter, so much that I think a stutter while auto save was happening was a coincidence. 0 5 yusufied if it's not tomorrow it's the day after Pronouns he/him Mar 24, 2025 #32 Serif said: Is there any word on 5.1 surround support for this game? Click to expand... It sounds good. Much like XC3 there is some good environmental surround sound and ally call-outs come from the back left and right surround speakers. 0 2 Dolce I am the Mover of Planets Pronouns N/A Mar 24, 2025 #33 Serif said: Taking this opportunity to vent the teeniest bit, it still drives me bonkers whenever I read a comment under some footage of Scarlet / Violet that blames the Switch hardware and treats that game's visuals as an exemplar of what the Switch can do (to the point where DF even wasted time in their review of the game with a 'is this too big for Switch' segment), when this game looks two generations ahead and runs at a dynamic 1080p, is an expansive world, and runs more stable - and it's a Wii U remster. Click to expand... the big difference between X and Pokemon is that Pokemon has a ton of unique animation rigs on the screen, constantly. Pokemon don't really share rigs, so you can't just load in XX enemy skeleton that works across a bunch of enemies. on the other hand, X does re-use animation rigs quite often. SV also just has way more models on screen, constantly. i don't want Pokemon to be Xenoblade and I don't want Xenoblade to be Pokemon, their world and enemy design is antithesis to the other. Quoted by: Deleted member 8558 , Polmo 2 1 D Deleted member 8558 Guest Mar 24, 2025 #34 Dolce said: the big difference between X and Pokemon is that Pokemon has a ton of unique animation rigs on the screen, constantly. Pokemon don't really share rigs, so you can't just load in XX enemy skeleton that works across a bunch of enemies. on the other hand, X does re-use animation rigs quite often. SV also just has way more models on screen, constantly. i don't want Pokemon to be Xenoblade and I don't want Xenoblade to be Pokemon, their world and enemy design is antithesis to the other. Click to expand... I never asked for Pokemon to be like Xenoblade and that wasn't what my post was about. I want Pokemon to look better. ZA looks better. So it's fine. 0 Polmo Like Like Pronouns He Mar 24, 2025 #35 Dolce said: the big difference between X and Pokemon is that Pokemon has a ton of unique animation rigs on the screen, constantly. Pokemon don't really share rigs, so you can't just load in XX enemy skeleton that works across a bunch of enemies. on the other hand, X does re-use animation rigs quite often. SV also just has way more models on screen, constantly. i don't want Pokemon to be Xenoblade and I don't want Xenoblade to be Pokemon, their world and enemy design is antithesis to the other. Click to expand... This is not true. Xenoblade does indeed have more enemy on screen, like you can see creatures that are Km further and in X case, their animation isn't even halved. Also in one area Pokemon never spawn more than 5/6 different type of pokemon, there are so many shared rigs. Quoted by: Wockio 1 3 Wockio Made of Igglybuff Fluff Pronouns He Mar 24, 2025 #36 Polmo said: This is not true. Xenoblade does indeed have more enemy on screen, like you can see creatures that are Km further and in X case, their animation isn't even halved. Also in one area Pokemon never spawn more than 5/6 different type of pokemon, there are so many shared rigs. Click to expand... I don't know how much truth there is to some of the performance issues in Pokémon being down to loading in the animation rigs, but I figured I'd test if this was true. In Pokémon I quickly found an area where I stumbled upon 7 different species, plus a Munchlax and some other Pokémon that looked like either Mienfoo or Makuhita out of sight. By comparison this is about the densest area I could find in Xenoblade X. Pretty much every alien in the back all the way to the front are suids, with a bunch of flower trap aliens flying above and a big antelope-like alien to the left. There's also something in the water but I can't really make it out. Even assuming it's a different species though, Pokémon still beats it when it comes to spawn density. Quoted by: Polmo 1 4 Eclissi Bob-omb Mar 24, 2025 #37 lexony said: To be fair Pokémon would run a tiny bit better on more powerful hardware and they'd probably include more graphic effects to hide their visual shortcomings. For example Z-A has unlike Scarlet/Violet or Arceus much better lighting work which is I think the main reason why people think the game looks a bit better. But yeah even with the strongest console in the world you will not fix the bad texture work, the stiff animations or them thinking it is ok to paint balconies as textures right on buildings. It is a shame Gamefreak Management dosen't seem to care or is too stubborn to get some help. I think if they wanted, they could easily ask Nintendo/Monolith Soft helping out with their open world engine. Click to expand... They sell 20+ million copies per chapter, I don't see why they would invest resources to improve the graphics of their games. This is the real reason for Pokemon's graphics, not the unlimited hardware.... 0 Polmo Like Like Pronouns He Mar 24, 2025 #38 Wockio said: I don't know how much truth there is to some of the performance issues in Pokémon being down to loading in the animation rigs, but I figured I'd test if this was true. In Pokémon I quickly found an area where I stumbled upon 7 different species, plus a Munchlax and some other Pokémon that looked like either Mienfoo or Makuhita out of sight. By comparison this is about the densest area I could find in Xenoblade X. Pretty much every alien in the back all the way to the front are suids, with a bunch of flower trap aliens flying above and a big antelope-like alien to the left. There's also something in the water but I can't really make it out. Even assuming it's a different species though, Pokémon still beats it when it comes to spawn density. Click to expand... Comparing with just two screenshot where you show the best you can on SV about pokemon spawn and the standard for Xenoblade X is not a good comparison. Also this is a pretty closed area of noctilum you are not showing the vast area with spiders, monkey, insects and flying alien all happening. And you are also forgetting that each run of Xenoblade you can have 4 playable characters, with Tatsu showing if you have Lin in the party, each weapon have an armature for animations purpose and 4 unique skells while for SV you only have one player and one partner pokemon. Quoted by: Wockio 1 5 JazzPotatoes Koopa Pronouns He/Him Mar 24, 2025 #39 I think for the sanity of everyone involved, it would probably be best to take the Pokémon discussion to another thread, and keep the discussion here focused on Xenoblade. We don't need to have multiple screenshots comparisons of different Pokémon games to understand the tech going on in X. 0 M MeatheadSamus Bob-omb Pronouns He/Him Mar 24, 2025 #40 I feel like I am on drugs reading this. People really think SV runs and looks remotely near to XCX? Pokemon SV is so bad that I literally couldn't play it because I was nervous it was going to trigger my seizures. The slow framerate kind of mirrored the flashing of lights and I got that feeling. If your product is so badly optimized that it can kill someone, you got some issues. 0 1 Wockio Made of Igglybuff Fluff Pronouns He Mar 24, 2025 #41 Polmo said: Comparing with just two screenshot where you show the best you can on SV about pokemon spawn and the standard for Xenoblade X is not a good comparison. Also this is a pretty closed area of noctilum you are not showing the vast area with spiders, monkey, insects and flying alien all happening. Click to expand... Idk, I ran around a bunch and that's what I could find. Maybe I didn't look hard enough. Polmo said: And you are also forgetting that each run of Xenoblade you can have 4 playable characters, with Tatsu showing if you have Lin in the party, each weapon have an armature for animations purpose and 4 unique skells while for SV you only have one player and one partner pokemon. Click to expand... There can be up to 4 charcaters if you are in multiplayer. 0 Reinhard Schneider Forgotten vampire hunter Haunted Castle Boo's Castle Pronouns He/Him Mar 24, 2025 #42 Hey Fami, can i ask how did you manage to make a Xenoblade X thread about effin' Scarlet and Violet? That game lives rent free in some people's heads, jesus. 0 1 OP OP Goodtwin Paratroopa Mar 26, 2025 #43 Im about 15 hours into the game now, and have few additional thoughts.  When Xenoblade Chronicles X released on Wii U, I regarded it a technical marvel.  It was a massive open world game that looked very good and had a very stable framerate.  When XBC2 came out, although I enjoyed the game, I wondered where did the technical prowess go that Monolithsoft had demonstrated with X.  The low resolution and unstable framerate was very jarring and it was hard to understand why.  It didn't "seem" to be a more graphically demanding game, so what happened.  Well, by time I had played XBC2, it had been a few years since playing X, so there was some nostalgia at play.  Now that I am replaying X on Switch, its becoming apparent that X was crafted with a whole lot of trickery, fake and bake type of stuff.  Enemies are textured in a smart way that helps hide the fact that they are super low poly, but when up close taking a good look, its easy to see that they model are certainly less detailed than the games that followed.  I didn't realize just how much of a difference screen space reflections make compared to the simple cube maps in X.  The pop in throughout X, especially in NLA is damn near comical.  While running around NLA, I can nearly run past models before they are able to load.  Basically, its easy to see that tons of compromises were made to get X running on Wii U as well as it did. With all that said, its easy to critique X and point out the short comings, but to this day I still think X was Monolithsofts most tightly crafted games.  Even with the framerate not being perfect in the Definitive Edition, its still the best performing Xenoblade game on Switch and certainly has the highest rendering resolution.  I think more developers should take pointers from the way Monolithsoft built this game within the abilities of the hardware, and it turned out a visually appealing experience despite not using sophisticated rendering techniques. Quoted by: lattjeful 1 4 D Deleted member 8558 Guest Mar 26, 2025 #44 After watching more technical analysis videos I've pulled the trigger, my copy is arriving tomorrow. My LG CX scales 1080p content extremely well with its Sharpness + Super Resolution algorithms (yes, even in Game Mode), so I am very excited to see how this translates. Native 1080p games that look this detailed on Switch are fairly rare, they usually end up in the 900p range. Quoted by: Deleted member 8558 1 Evil Lucario Star Successor Mar 26, 2025 #45 One underrated thing that Xenoblade X does to save performance is to turn off collision on every enemy as well. Collision takes up some degree of performance, as very easily demonstrated by games like Mario 64 where objects lose tangibility when you go like 4 feet away. And as a plus side, this also makes it so when you zoom around in a Skell, you won't bump against enemies and get thrown off. 0 1 Dcubed Chain Chomp Mar 26, 2025 #46 XBX is ironically the only Monolith Soft game on Switch that feels like a good fit for the hardware. All the other Xenoblade games are wrecked by absolutely awful image quality and shaky performance that belie their otherwise pretty nice art assets.  Even Xenoblade DE (a remaster of a Wii game) can actually end up running in a lower resolution than the original Wii game at times when played in handheld mode! That is just completely unacceptable. XBX just goes to show that something went horribly wrong when they moved their engine over from Wii U to Switch, it's remarkable just how much better it looks and runs compared to all of their other Xenoblade games on the same console. Quoted by: Ghostsonplanets , lattjeful 2 1 D Deleted member 8558 Guest Mar 29, 2025 #47 Serif said: After watching more technical analysis videos I've pulled the trigger, my copy is arriving tomorrow. My LG CX scales 1080p content extremely well with its Sharpness + Super Resolution algorithms (yes, even in Game Mode), so I am very excited to see how this translates. Native 1080p games that look this detailed on Switch are fairly rare, they usually end up in the 900p range. Click to expand... The game's 1080p visuals present a great showing on my television. Definitely one of the best looking Switch games I've ever played (also, just in general). Sharpness 0 (left) vs Sharpness 35 + Super Resolution Medium (right): And the game does have 5.1 surround which is fantastic. 0 Ghostsonplanets Ghost in the Sales Pronouns He/Him Mar 29, 2025 #48 Dcubed said: XBX is ironically the only Monolith Soft game on Switch that feels like a good fit for the hardware. All the other Xenoblade games are wrecked by absolutely awful image quality and shaky performance that belie their otherwise pretty nice art assets.  Even Xenoblade DE (a remaster of a Wii game) can actually end up running in a lower resolution than the original Wii game at times when played in handheld mode! That is just completely unacceptable. XBX just goes to show that something went horribly wrong when they moved their engine over from Wii U to Switch, it's remarkable just how much better it looks and runs compared to all of their other Xenoblade games on the same console. Click to expand... Nothing wrong happened. The Switch games are just way more technically advanced and demanding. They use a lot of real-time solutions and advanced post-processing, besides higher quality models. The Shading technology employed is not dissimilar to what PS4/XOne games employed (Although at much higher quality and coverage, of course). Switch just isn't a leap enough in hardware performance over Wii U to be able to showcase this general advancement without the performance and resolution downsides. 0 4 lattjeful Tingle Community Liaison Pronouns he/him Mar 29, 2025 #49 Goodtwin said: Im about 15 hours into the game now, and have few additional thoughts.  When Xenoblade Chronicles X released on Wii U, I regarded it a technical marvel.  It was a massive open world game that looked very good and had a very stable framerate.  When XBC2 came out, although I enjoyed the game, I wondered where did the technical prowess go that Monolithsoft had demonstrated with X.  The low resolution and unstable framerate was very jarring and it was hard to understand why.  It didn't "seem" to be a more graphically demanding game, so what happened.  Well, by time I had played XBC2, it had been a few years since playing X, so there was some nostalgia at play.  Now that I am replaying X on Switch, its becoming apparent that X was crafted with a whole lot of trickery, fake and bake type of stuff.  Enemies are textured in a smart way that helps hide the fact that they are super low poly, but when up close taking a good look, its easy to see that they model are certainly less detailed than the games that followed.  I didn't realize just how much of a difference screen space reflections make compared to the simple cube maps in X.  The pop in throughout X, especially in NLA is damn near comical.  While running around NLA, I can nearly run past models before they are able to load.  Basically, its easy to see that tons of compromises were made to get X running on Wii U as well as it did. With all that said, its easy to critique X and point out the short comings, but to this day I still think X was Monolithsofts most tightly crafted games.  Even with the framerate not being perfect in the Definitive Edition, its still the best performing Xenoblade game on Switch and certainly has the highest rendering resolution.  I think more developers should take pointers from the way Monolithsoft built this game within the abilities of the hardware, and it turned out a visually appealing experience despite not using sophisticated rendering techniques. Click to expand... Yeah I think the Switch Xenoblades are leaps and bounds ahead of X on the technical front. Feels like they just kinda bit off more than the they (and the Switch) can chew. Full 3D foliage, higher poly everything, dynamic lighting, and a PBR pipeline on something that's not that far ahead of the Wii U in terms of pure horsepower is kind of nuts, and 2 and 1DE's image quality woes are kind of a testament to it . 3 was the first time I felt like they got to around X level of image quality with their current tech. The TAAU solution they implemented is a gamechanger for 3. X has billboarded foliage, simpler models, simpler textures, etc. I will say one thing X does much better than the others, even on Wii U, was how sharp the distant land looks. 2, 1DE, and 3 kinda have this fuzzy look for the distant hills and rocks. X doesn't. It's probably an art style thing rather than a technical thing, but I much prefer X's approach. Dcubed said: XBX just goes to show that something went horribly wrong when they moved their engine over from Wii U to Switch Click to expand... I've heard this said for years in the Xenoblade community and I never understood it. I think people just don't know what they're looking at. It's not engine issues, X is just a simpler game on a technical front even despite its seamless open world. X's lighting and shadows are entirely baked, foliage is 2D billboards, models are very low poly despite the high res textures. (They did a very good job of hiding a lot of it). It's just a matter of two things: mainline Xenoblade's segmented world approach means they can afford more technical bells and whistles, and the Switch was a signficant leap in technical capability, even if the actual power jump was minimal. Monolith Soft was able to modernize their rendering pipeline because they weren't shackled to GameCube-era tech anymore, but the Switch isn't crazy strong so it isn't able to do it without compromise. It's just that simple. Last edited: Mar 29, 2025 Quoted by: Steve 1 4 Magic-Man Traitor Pronouns He/Him Mar 29, 2025 #50 I was at Nintendo NYC yesterday and had the opportunity to try out the game. There was some weird shimmering and ghosting going on and I can't tell if that was from the TV or the game itself. Can anybody clarify? Quoted by: lattjeful , Polmo 2 1 2 Next 1 of 2 Go to page Go Next Last You must log in or register to reply here. Share: Bluesky LinkedIn Reddit Email Share Link Forums Player's Pulse Treehouse Light Mode V2 Contact us Terms of service Privacy policy Help Home Rules RSS Parts of this site powered by add-ons from DragonByte™ ©2011-2025 DragonByte Technologies ( Details ) This site uses cookies to help personalise content, tailor your experience and to keep you logged in if you register. By continuing to use this site, you are consenting to our use of cookies. Accept Learn more… Back Top Bottom