Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/diablo3 A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to diablo3 r/diablo3 r/diablo3 This is the subreddit community for Diablo 3 and its expansion, developed by Blizzard. Come and join the discussion! Members Online • AuraofMana Diablo 3 and its problems from launch to now Instead of QQing illogically I'll rant using reasons. I'll point out the problems Diablo 3 has faced since launch and the results and what that has led to. If I miss something tell me in the comments and I'll edit it. Diablo 3 has a lot of problems, and some people have mentioned that it's exactly like this in D2. One of the frequent complaints is that the chance to get a good item is so low which is the same as it was in D2. Okay, somewhat true but this is different: D2's item upgrade system wasn't entirely dependent on item level. How good an item is is not completely dependent on its item level. You may argue that maybe the item with the lower item level had better rolls, but the point is that most of the best items in the game were not in the top item level. Some may argue the best rolled rares are the best items which is not completely true. Uniques, sets, and runewords had affixes in certain slots rares cannot have not to mention affixes rares can never obtain. You would usually want a mixture, which is what D3 does not have. In D2 you would use white (6 Shael Crystal Sword), blue/magic (+skill amulets), yellow/rare (perfectly rolled one, sometimes non-perfectly-rolled ones were still used), sets (IK, Natalya, Trang-Oul, etc.), uniques (Titan, Occulus, Shako, etc.), and runewords (CTA, HOTO, Enigma, etc.). I don't think I've ever seen a top build where you would only use one or two types of items across your entire gear. D2 was not difficult. You do not even need amazing gear to beat Hell. You could fire up single player and beat D2 without repeating a single area or grind for items or level. This is not the case with D3. You probably can't even get through Hell without using the AH or farming items. I know farming is the point of the game but there's a difference between required to farm vs. farming as an end game because it's fun. And don't tell me to farm lower difficulty if I can't beat Inferno because the best items drop in Inferno and that's the entire point of the game. Look at D2, people regularly farm Nightmare Andariel which is not even half way through the difficulty because SOJs can drop from there and SOJ is arguably the best ring. D3 doesn't have this and there is no point in farming lower acts for money. D2 had dupes so a lot of items were abundant. Some people voiced their opinions saying dupes are bad and it ruined the game economy. Well the problem is the only D2 economy you know is the "ruined" one. That's the economy you played in and that's what you found fun so... Not to mention D3's SC economy is completely crap. More details below. D3's SC economy is terrible. There are multiple reasons for this: a. Due to early glitches and unintended skill usage a small group of people got to Inferno and farmed up. Their items sold because of Diablo 3 dev team's inability to design progression right. Items your levels barely drop as it is above normal and most of them were shit (you almost never see a rare beyond normal). Inferno was also badly designed and you needed gear from future acts in order to pass the current one. b. For a long time it was more efficient to farm pots in Act 1 Royal Crypts because it gave a more steady income vs. farming for items which were not steady at all. Gold became inflated and people who actually tried to play the game "the way Blizzard wanted it" got shafted. Later this was over-nerfed by making all destructible objects useless and everyone, even people who never used this method, got punished. Whether or not this method should be allowed is another topic. c. There were a lot of botters who did Blacksmith farm. This made Inferno Act 1's gear completely useless because the botters were introducing a massive amount of them. People stuck in Inferno Act 1 could not get out as a result because they could not sell their gears for very much. d. There were and still are AH botters. They look up anything that can make a profit and instantly buy it and resell it at a higher price. This effectively made the the prices never being able to drop down unless it's a certain items or stats that are nerfed (e.g., IAS). With the latest introduction of repair gold cost rising this means people actually have a harder time to get gear through the AH... which is arguably the only way to get good gear because you will not be able to farm the exact item you need. Hell most people claim they never even find gear they can AH. e. RMAH is a bad idea. I am not talking about the RM factor of it; I am talking about how it effectively split up the market in two. A lot of people vows to never use the RMAH so gears there are good as non-existent to them. Now the reaction most people have when they find a really good item is "How much should I list this in the RMAH for?" This means some of the best items are going to the RMAH which makes good items in the GAH even rarer thus effectively raising the price. f. Nerfs. Because Blizzard is nerf-happy and overreact a lot of people feel like whatever gear they have now will probably be nerfed in the future so why bother? The IAS nerf set a lot of people back and made a lot of gear worthless. This sudden change in the economy is bad. g. "The way Blizzard intended it" bullshit is annoying. This isn't a MMORPG so stop trying to make it like WoW. Unless it's an absurdly OP skill like Force Armor was in the first week of D3 don't do anything. If someone wants to spend hours farming one boss let them do it. If someone wants to chest run let them do it. One method isn't necessarily better than the other which is why you don't see everyone flopping to one method and disregard the other. I don't want to replay acts of D3 over and over again especially when you "heard a lot of positive feedback" on that absymal story. All in all, as the game drags on the poor stays poor and the rich stays rich. People feel no motivation in trying to progress because all the problems with the D3 economy is making it very hard to not to mention anyday they could get hit by a nerf and set back. This is what you do not want your players to feel because that's how people stop playing your game altogether. Other problems with D3: Stuff outside of the economy, like power leveling via running quest rewards shouldn't even be nerfed. NO ONE IS INTERESTED IN REPLAYING YOUR STUPID STORY, WE WANT TO GET TO 60 AND FARM GEAR . I don't think any one player who played D2 played through the game normally other than the first few times. Everyone wants to get rushed and powerleveled. PvP was never the focus of D2 because pre-1.1 it was lightning Sorcs and Amazon with guided arrows that raped everyone. Post-1.1 it was everyone running around with Engima playing TP wars. The point was it was not balanced and was not the focus but it didn't stop a lot of people from finding it fun. Whatever PvP they are cooking up for D3 required all classes to be balanced is a joke. The way D3 is set up it's all about your gear. Even if your classes are magically balanced (look at WoW PvP, Blizzard can't balance a RPG of any kind) the game is not going to be balanced because it's effectively pay-to-win with the RMAH. "I don't feel like a hero at all." This feels like a MMORPG and not an ARPG. The player doesn't feel like a hero. Someone even mentioned Inferno is meant to be kited... WHAT THE FUCK? Have the D3 dev team never played an ARPG? THIS IS NOT WOW; IT'S NOT A MMORPG. STOP BALANCING IT LIKE ONE. BUFF EVERYTHING THAT SUCKS INSTEAD . Overall D3 has a lot of issues and it feels like a beta. A lot of problems happened in D2 and some were even fixed in D2. The excuse "well patches and LOD made D2 what it is today" is inexcusable. Anyone outside of Blizzard who are trying to make an ARPG would look to D2 as an example but Blizzard's own dev team won't? THAT'S TOTAL BULLSHIT AND YOU KNOW IT! Edit: I guess I could also rant about how every class is effectively stuck using one or two builds to do Inferno even though the game advertised "23 trillion builds" or some other shit. But I think everyone knows this. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 22, 2012 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 2012 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2012 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics