The Walking Dead season 11 return schedule: TWD episode release times and dates Superheroes Marvel DC Universe Comics Movies TV Shows About Sitemap Contact Us What Should I Binge? Podcast FanSided ENTERTAINMENT Sites Follow Us Share on X Superheroes Superheroes Batman Spider-Man Marvel Marvel Marvel Cinematic Universe All MCU films ranked DC Universe DC Universe DCEU All DCEU films ranked Comics Movies Upcoming superhero movie schedule TV Shows TV Shows Arrowverse Disney Plus Marvel TV About Sitemap Contact Us What Should I Binge? Podcast FanSided ENTERTAINMENT Sites Share on X The Walking Dead season 11 return schedule: TWD episode release times and dates By Michael Patterson | Share on Facebook Share on X Copy Article Norman Reedus as Daryl Dixon - The Walking Dead _ Season 11 - Photo Credit: Jace Downs/AMC Share on Facebook Share on X Share on Reddit Copy Article The Walking Dead season 11 is set to return to screens very soon. When can viewers expect it to return, what nights will the episodes air, and how long will it run for? The wait is almost over, TWD fans! Yes, The Walking Dead season 11 is finally set to return to our TV screens in the not-too-distant future. It’s bittersweet, of course, as the veteran AMC series’ return will also kick off its final chapter. Season 11 is the show’s last and there are just eight episodes to go. It premiered last summer, airing an initial eight before taking a somewhat lengthy hiatus. It then returned in February to air another eight before once again doing the same. This time, however, the hiatus was much longer. TWD fans have been wondering when season 11, episode 17 would premiere on AMC, with a summer 2022 release date seeming like a strong possibility. It wasn’t to be, however, as the announcement was made at San Diego Comic-Con that the show would start its final chapter in October . With its return almost upon us, you might want to know when exactly you can expect it to premiere and just how long it will run for. So, to avoid any further confusion about season 11’s lengthy run, here is when the final episodes of TWD will air on TV screens. The Walking Dead season 11 release schedule When exactly do new episodes of The Walking Dead arrive on AMC? Here we break down its entire release schedule so that you won’t miss a single episode. Season 11, Episode 17: Releases Sunday, October 2, 2022 Season 11, Episode 18: Releases Sunday, October 9, 2022 Season 11, Episode 19: Releases Sunday, October 16, 2022 Season 11, Episode 20: Releases Sunday, October 23, 2022 Season 11, Episode 21: Releases Sunday, October 30, 2022 Season 11, Episode 22: Releases Sunday, November 6, 2022 Season 11, Episode 23: Releases Sunday, November 13, 2022 Season 11, Episode 24: Releases Sunday, November 20, 2022 When are new episodes of The Walking Dead released? New episodes of The Walking Dead premiere on AMC every Sunday night at 9:00 p.m. ET / 6:00 p.m. PT / 8:00 p.m. CT. It all starts with the show’s long-awaited return on Sunday, Oct. 2, when it airs season 11, episode 17. What day does The Walking Dead season 11 come out? The Walking Dead airs new episodes of its eleventh season in the US on AMC on Sunday nights. For the UK (where the show streams on Disney Plus), it debuts the next day on the Monday morning. Are you looking forward to The Walking Dead season 11, episode 17? Are you ready to see how the legendary show concludes? Let us know in the comments below! Home / TV About Openings Contact Our 300+ Sites FanSided Daily Pitch a Story Privacy Policy Terms of Use Cookie Policy Legal Disclaimer Accessibility Statement A-Z Index Cookie Settings © 2025 Minute Media - All Rights Reserved. The content on this site is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Betting and gambling content is intended for individuals 21+ and is based on individual commentators' opinions and not that of Minute Media or its affiliates and related brands. All picks and predictions are suggestions only and not a guarantee of success or profit. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, crisis counseling and referral services can be accessed by calling 1-800-GAMBLER.