The LEGO Group’s growth slowed and profits declined in 2023 as investment continued – Blocks – the monthly LEGO magazine for fans Skip to content About Contact Meet the Team Subscribe to Blocks, the monthly LEGO magazine Facebook Twitter Instagram Blocks – the monthly LEGO magazine for fans The ultimate LEGO magazine for fans. Providing inspiration, techniques and going behind-the-scenes with LEGO experts. Subscribe Buy magazines Shop Digital Issues Institutional Subscriptions News and Features LEGO review index Account LEGO.com Menu 0 Open a search box Close a search box Search for: Search The LEGO Group’s growth slowed and profits declined in 2023 as investment continued on March 12, 2024 April 8, 2024 by Graham Leave a comment The LEGO Group has announced the company’s 2023 results, with growth slowing and profit declining following several years of enormous increase in both. In 2023 the LEGO Group’s revenue grew by 2% to 65,914 DKK, a significantly smaller percentage than in recent years. In 2021, the company’s revenue grew by 27% and in 2022 it grew by 17% – CEO Niels B. Christiansen has been proven correct after stating for several years that growth will stabilise and that the enormous increases are unsustainable. The company, since 2019, has accumulated growth of 71% – so the smaller growth figure in 2023 is unlikely to be causing any panic in Billund. Operating profit was down in 2023 to 17.1 billion DKK, attributed by the LEGO Group to investment and foreign currency fluctuations. New factories are under construction around the world and the company has significantly increased its digital workforce. ‘We are pleased with our performance given that 2023 was the most negative toy market in more than 15 years,’ said CEO Niels B. Christiansen. ‘We continued to grow on top of three years of extraordinary growth and saw strong momentum in the final quarter of 2023. We significantly outpaced the market, growing share and proving the appeal of our strong, diverse portfolio and the LEGO System in Play.’ The company is pleased to have outpaced the toy industry, which contracted in 2023, meaning that the LEGO Group has increased its market share. Popular, ‘top selling’ themes are identified as City, Technic , Icons , Star Wars and Harry Potter . ‘We know that play provides children with skills that help them achieve their potential,’ said the CEO. ‘We are fortunate to be in a strong financial position to invest in activities that bring learning through play to children around the world and invest for the future, so we can continue to have a positive impact on children for many generations to come.’ In some markets, the average price of LEGO sets sold has decreased, perhaps in response to the significant squeeze on living standards. ‘We have reached more kids, so we have gotten LEGO sets to more kids. And overall, we haven’t seen a decline in the number of sets sold, we’ve seen an increase, but we have in many markets seen a certain decline in the average price, which would kind of hint towards consumers maybe still buying the same amount or more LEGO sets, but maybe buying at a slightly lower price points,’ Niels said. ‘Now the advantage we have in the LEGO Group is with a portfolio of 780 products, we are already well represented at all the different price levels. So in that sense, you can have a great LEGO experience at many different prices.’ Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email About the author: Graham Graham is Blocks magazine’s Editor and author of LEGO Heroes: Lego Builders Changing the World – One Brick at a Time. A LEGO expert who can’t remember life without the brick, Graham loves using that knowledge to bring Blocks to the shelf every single month. View all posts by Graham Personal website Posted in: News Tagged: LEGO LEGO financial results Niels B Christiansen Post navigation Previous Entry: LEGO Creator 31145 Red Dragon – the Blocks review Next Entry: LEGO Creator 31157 Exotic Peacock – the Blocks review Related Leave a Reply Cancel reply Buy the mag Blocks, the monthly LEGO magazine, Issue 127 £ 8.40 Blocks, the monthly LEGO magazine, Issue 126 £ 8.40 LEGO Fabuland retro theme – limited edition poster £ 12.70 Blocks Book of Retro LEGO Sets Volume II – Special Edition Magazine £ 12.99 Blocks magazine 12 month subscription £ 64.90 Search for: Search tweets My Tweets Go to the top © Silverback Publishing Ltd Affiliate advertising appears on this website. When you purchase a product or service via selected links, Silverback Publishing will earn a small commission. As an Amazon Associate, Silverback Publishing Ltd earns from qualifying purchases. DISCLAIMER: LEGO,  The LEGO logo, the Brick and Knob configurations and the minifigure are trademarks of the LEGO group, which does not sponsor, authorise or endorse Blocks magazine. Shop About us Contact us Terms & Conditions Facebook Twitter Instagram Discover more from Blocks – the monthly LEGO magazine for fans Subscribe now to keep reading and get access to the full archive. Type your email… Subscribe Continue reading Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website