Everything You Need To Know About Super Bowl LVII Subscribe To Newsletters Trump Tracker Billionaires Billionaires View All Billionaires World's Billionaires Forbes 400 America's Richest Self-Made Women China's Richest India's Richest Indonesia's Richest Korea's Richest Thailand's Richest Japan's Richest Australia's Richest Taiwan's Richest Singapore's Richest Philippines' Richest Hong Kong's Richest Malaysia's Richest Money & Politics 2024 Election Innovation Innovation View All Innovation AI Big Data Cloud Cloud 100 Consumer Tech Creator Economy Cybersecurity Digital Transformation Enterprise Commerce Enterprise Security and Protection Enterprise Tech Enterprise Growth Strategy Future Of Work Gaming Healthcare Innovation Rules Retail Industry SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Science Social Media Sustainability & Climate Transportation Venture Capital Technology VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program TikTok BrandVoice | Paid Program Leadership Leadership View All Leadership C-Suite CEO Network CFO Network CHRO Network CIO Network CMO Network Leadership Strategies Careers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Education Forbes EQ | Paid Program ForbesBLK ForbesWomen Under 30 Working Remote Over 50 Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Money Money View All Money Banking & Insurance ETFs & Mutual Funds Fintech Hedge Funds & Private Equity Investing Investor Hub Markets Personal Finance Retirement Taxes Top Advisor | SHOOK Wealth Management Forbes Digital Assets Forbes Digital Assets Home Web3 Community News Crypto Prices NFT Prices Research Learn Crypto Basics BTC DeFi Web3 Education NFTs Crypto Investments Events Crypto Portfolios Business Business View All Business Aerospace & Defense Energy Food & Drink Hollywood & Entertainment Law Manufacturing Media Policy Retail SportsMoney Entertainment Digest Small Business Small Business View All Small Business Entrepreneurs Franchises Small Business Strategy Lifestyle Lifestyle View All Lifestyle Arts Boats & Planes Cars & Bikes Dining ForbesLife Forbes Travel Guide Spirits Style & Beauty Travel Vices Watches Real Estate Real Estate View All Real Estate Commercial Real Estate Forbes Global Properties Residential Real Estate Forbes Vetted Forbes Vetted View All Forbes Vetted Mattress & Sleep Bed Frames Mattresses Mattress Toppers Pillows Sheets & Bedding Sleep Products Home Bathroom Cleaning & Laundry Decor Furniture Heating & Cooling Hobbies Home Office Kitchen & Dining Outdoor Pets Storage & Organization Tools Wine & Bar Fashion Accessories Clothing Eyewear Footwear Jewelry Handbags & Purses Lingerie & Sleepwear Outdoor & Fitness Apparel Outerwear Watches Kids & Baby Gear Baby Gear Kids Clothes & Accessories Nursery Pregnancy & Postpartum Toys & Books Gear Apparel & Accessories Bikes Camping & Hiking Climbing Fishing & Hunting Fitness Golf Running Tennis & Racket Sports Tools & Tech Training & Recovery Water Sports Wellness Winter Sports Beauty & Grooming Haircare Makeup Nailcare Shaving Skincare Personal Products Wellness & Self Care Tech & Electronics Audio Cameras Computers, Tablets & Accessories Gaming Home Office Online Tools Smart Home Devices Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories Streaming TVs Travel Cruises Hotels & Lodging Luggage Travel Products Gifts Father's Day Holiday Mother's Day Valentine's Day Wedding Deals Black Friday Cyber Monday Amazon Prime Day Beauty & Grooming Big Sales Fashion Gear Home Tech & Electronics Travel Deals Mattress & Sleep Forbes 101 Advisor Advisor Best Credit Cards Of 2025 Compare Credit Cards Balance Transfer Credit Cards Cash Back Credit Cards Travel Credit Cards Business Credit Cards Mortgages & Loans Best Mortgage Lenders Today's Mortgage Rates Today's Refinance Rates Best Personal Loans Loans For Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Student Loan Lenders Best Student Loan Refinance Lenders Business Loans Banking Best Online Banks CD Rates High-Yield Savings Accounts Money Market Account Life Insurance Cheap Life Insurance No Exam Life Insurance Travel Insurance Covid-19 Travel Insurance Cheap Travel Insurance Companies Best Car Insurance Compare Car Insurance Quotes Cost Of Car Insurance Cheap Car Insurance Pet Insurance How Much Is Pet Insurance? Cheap Pet Insurance Business Services Best LLC Services Best Registered Agent Services How To Set Up An LLC How To Start A Business Cost To Start An LLC Best Payroll Services Best HR Software Best HRIS Systems Best PEO Services Best Applicant Tracking Systems Best Website Builders Best Web Hosting Services Best Domain Registrar Best Ecommerce Platform Best Landing Page Builder Best VoIP Service What Is VoIP? Best Answering Services Best Call Center Software Best Cloud Phone System Best Project Management Software Free Project Management Software Best Task Management Software Free Task Management Software Best Gantt Chart Software Best VPN Best Free VPN Best Cheap VPN Best Antivirus Software Best Password Managers Home Services Best Moving Companies Best Long Distance Moving Companies Best Car Shipping Companies Best Interstate Moving Companies How Much Do Movers Cost? Best Home Warranty Companies Cheapest Home Warranty Companies Are Home Warranties Worth It? Home Warranty Cost Best Home Appliance Insurance Best Solar Companies Best Solar Panels Cost Of Solar Panels Solar Tax Credit By State Are Solar Panels Worth It? Best Pest Control Companies Best Termite Control Companies Best Mosquito Control Companies Pest Control Cost How Much Do Exterminators Cost? Best Home Security Companies Best Home Security Systems Home Security System Cost Cheapest Home Security Systems Best Wireless Home Security Systems Best Internet Providers Cheapest Internet Plans Fastest High Speed Internet Providers Best Internet Only Plans Best Fiber Internet Providers Forbes Advisor UK Health Health Healthy Aging Best Medical Alert Systems Medicare Medicare Advantage Plans Medicare Supplement Plans Medicare Advantage By State Health Insurance Hearing Aids Best Hearing Aids Senior Living Mind Best Online Therapy Best CBD Gummies Best CBD Oil Best Protein Powders Lists Video Newsletters Newsletters Crypto Confidential Editorial Newsletters Forbes Games Forbes Games View All Forbes Games Frase by Forbes Pinpoint by LinkedIn Queens by LinkedIn Crossclimb by LinkedIn Forbes Magazine Forbes Magazine Forbes Asia Free Issue of Forbes Latest Latest Coronavirus Coverage Daily Cover Stories Dark Capital Editors' Picks Breaking News Featured Featured 2025 Best-In-State Wealth Advisors List 2025 America's Top Women Wealth Advisors AI’s Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It DNA of Success Embracing And Bracing For AI Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program Your Four-Part Blueprint To Unlock AI Value In 2025 | Paid Program Diners Club International Celebrates 75 Years | Paid Program Leadership Lessons: Small Business Playbook Potential Has No Age Summit | Paid Program Celebrating The Power Of Partnership: Why Teamwork Is Key In the Fight Against Cancer | Paid Program Protecting What Matters Most: How Gerber Life Insurance Offers Affordable Coverage For Your Whole Family | Paid Program Presented by EY - Beyond The Blueprint: How These Four CEOs Built Billion-Dollar Businesses | Paid Program 2/3 By 2030: Philip Morris International Marks A Milestone  And Aims For A Smoke-Free Future | Paid Program 2025 America's Top Wealth Advisors Forbes Insights: Your Guide To Marketing In The Era Of AI | Paid Program The Undergrad's New Journey To Real-World Ready | Paid Program Forbes Insights: Your Five-Step Strategy To Unleash AI’s Value In Marketing | Paid Program Forbes Video Series: AI 50 AI 50 List By The Numbers: Meet The Forbes 30 Under 30 Europe Class Of 2025 United To End Blood Cancer: Meet The Leaders Turning Passion Into Progress | Paid Program Advertise with Forbes Report a Security Issue Editorial Values and Standards Site Feedback Contact Us Careers at Forbes Tips Corrections Privacy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms AdChoices Reprints & Permissions © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. Subscribe To Newsletters Everything You Need To Know About Super Bowl LVII By Brad Adgate Follow Author Share Save Comment Business Media Everything You Need To Know About Super Bowl LVII By Brad Adgate , Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Brad Adgate is a high-profile media and advertising consultant Follow Author Feb 02, 2023, 03:13pm EST Share Save Comment This article is more than 2 years old. Large Super Bowl signs are on full display, dwarfing St. Mary's Basilica, leading up to the NFL ... More Super Bowl LVII football game in Phoenix. The Philadelphia Eagles and the Kansas City Chiefs will play in Super Bowl LVII on Sunday, Feb. 12, 2023. (AP Photo/Ross D. Franklin) Copyright 2023 The Associated Press. All rights reserved Super Bowl LVII is scheduled for Sunday, February 12 at State Farm Stadium in Glendale, Arizona. The game between the Kansas City Chiefs and Philadelphia Eagles will be broadcast live on Fox FOXA , Fox Deportes and streamed. Kick-off will be at 6:30 p.m. (ET). Below are some facts about the biggest sporting event each year, the most watched TV program each year and the most expensive ads to buy each year. Teams/Cities · The NFC champion Philadelphia Eagles will be appearing in their fourth Super Bowl. The Eagles lost in 1980 to the Oakland Raiders and lost in 2004 to the New England Patriots. The Eagles won their lone Super Bowl in 2017 defeating the New England Patriots. Prior to the Super Bowl era, the Eagles won NFL titles in 1948, 1949 and 1960. · The AFC champion Kansas City Chiefs will be playing in their fifth Super Bowl. They lost the first Super Bowl in 1966 to the Green Bay Packers and lost the 2020 Super Bowl to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The Chiefs defeated the Minnesota Vikings in the 1969 Super Bowl and in 2019 defeated the San Francisco 49ers. Before the Super Bowl era, the Kansas City Chiefs won the AFL title in 1962 (as the Dallas Texans). · With identical regular season records of 14 wins and 3 losses, the Chiefs and Eagles are the top seeded teams in their respective conferences. The last time both top seeded teams met in the Super Bowl was in 2017 with the Philadelphia Eagles and New England Patriots. Also, including postseason games, the Chiefs and Eagles have both scored 546 points this season. · The Chiefs have defeated the Eagles the last three times they have played; in 2013, 2017 and 2021. · Forbes estimates the Philadelphia Eagles is the tenth most valuable NFL franchise at $4.9 billion. The Kansas City Chiefs is valued at $3.7 billion ranking #23 (among the 32 franchises). MORE FROM FORBES ADVISOR Best Travel Insurance Companies By Amy Danise , Editor Best Covid-19 Travel Insurance Plans By Amy Danise , Editor · Of the 210 TV markets, Philadelphia is the fourth largest and Kansas City ranks #34. · This will be the second time teams from Kansas City and Philadelphia will meet for a championship. In the 1980 World Series, the Philadelphia Phillies defeated the Kansas City Royals in six games. The final game had an average audience of 54.9 million and a household rating of 40.0, both record highs for a World Series game. · Baseball’s Philadelphia A’s left for Kansas City after the 1954 season. While in Philadelphia the A’s won five championships. If the Eagles win the Super Bowl they will win their fifth title. · This is the third consecutive time a Philadelphia franchise is competing for a title. On the same day (November 5, 2022), both the Philadelphia Phillies lost to the Houston Astros in a six-game World Series and the Philadelphia Union lost the MLS Cup to the Los Angeles FC on penalty kicks. Elias Sports notes it was the first time a city lost two major championships on the same day. Location/Stadium: · The Super Bowl will be held at State Farm Stadium in Glendale, Arizona (near Phoenix). This will be the fourth time Phoenix will host the Super Bowl and the third time it will be played at State Farm Stadium. The first Super Bowl game in the Phoenix area was played at Sun Devil Stadium in Tempe in 1996. · State Farm Stadium has been home to the NFL’s Arizona Cardinals since 2006. It was previously called the University of Phoenix Stadium. It was renamed State Farm Stadium in 2018 in an 18-year agreement; cost was not disclosed. · The seating capacity is 63,400 which can be enlarged to 73,000 for big events (such as Super Bowls). The stadium has a retractable roof and 88 executive suites. · This marks the first time in three years neither Super Bowl participant will be playing on their home field. Last year the Rams played in Los Angeles and in the previous year the Buccaneers played in Tampa Bay. The Eagles and Chiefs had played at State Farm Stadium this year with both teams winning. · Front Office Sports notes the last time Phoenix hosted the Super Bowl in 2015, the city had 121,000 visitors and $720 million was added to the local economy. · Next year Super Bowl LVIII will be held, for the first time, at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas. The following year Caesar’s Superdome in New Orleans will be the host. Broadcast/Streaming · Fox will be televising their tenth Super Bowl. The network is also scheduled to televise Super Bowls in 2025, 2029 and 2033. · The Super Bowl will be the last NFL game played under a media rights agreement the TV networks made with the NFL that began in 2014. The new agreement starts with the 2023 season and runs through 2033. The media rights fees will increase by 80%. · The announcers will be Kevin Burkhardt for the play-by-play and former tight end Greg Olsen as the analyst, both are working their first Super Bowl. Also providing coverage will be sideline reporters Erin Andrews and Tom Rinaldi. Mike Pereira, former NFL Vice President of Officiating, will be the rules analyst. · Fox is not expected to have the recently retired Tom Brady join their coverage. Brady had signed a ten-year $375 million agreement to join Fox as an analyst once he retired from the NFL. · The coveted Super Bowl lead-out program this year will be Gordon Ramsay’s Next Level Chef . Last year’s lead-out program on NBC was a telecast of the Winter Olympics from Beijing which averaged 21.3 million viewers, the highest rated telecast of the 2022 Games. TVLine reports over the past decade, the Super Bowl lead-out show has averaged 24 million viewers. · The Super Bowl will also be streamed live on the Fox Sports website and the Fox Sports App. · The Spanish language network Fox Deportes will televise its fourth Super Bowl, with Alejandro Villanueva, Adrian Garcia-Marquez, Jessi Losada and Rodolfo Landeros providing live coverage. · Broadcast audio coverage will come from Westwood One with Kevin Harlan providing play-by-play and former Super Bowl MVP Kurt Warner as the analyst. Laura Okmin and Mike Golic will be the sideline reporters. · The Super Bowl will be televised and streamed around the world. For example, in Canada the game is airing on TSN/CTV (English) and RDS (French) as well as streamed on DAZN/TSN+. In Mexico its TelevisaUnivison, Azteca TV and Fox will provide live coverage. In Australia it's Channel Seven for TV and streamed on 7plus. In the U.K. it will be on ITN and in the U.K. and Ireland its SkySports. Players/Head Coaches · For the first time in Super Bowl history both starting quarterbacks, Patrick Mahomes and Jalen Hurts are Black. Mahomes will be playing in his third Super Bowl (in four years) and was the games MVP in 2019. Jalen Hurts, in his third NFL season, will be playing in his first Super Bowl. · For the first time in Super Bowl history, two brothers will be playing on opposing teams. On the Chiefs is 6-time all-pro tight end Travis Kelce. On the Eagles is starting center Jason Kelce. In 2012 the two head coaches were brothers John Harbaugh of the Baltimore Ravens and Jim Harbaugh of the San Francisco 49ers. · The two head coaches are Andy Reid for the Kansas City Chiefs and Nick Sirianni for the Philadelphia Eagles. Sirianni is in his second year as Philadelphia’s head coach and will be appearing in his first Super Bowl. Reid will be appearing in his fourth Super Bowl as head coach (three with Kansas City and one with Philadelphia). · The game has been called “The Andy Reid Bowl.” Reid was head coach of the Philadelphia Eagles from 1999 to 2012 and had won more games (130) than any other Eagles head coach. Reid joined the Chiefs as head coach in 2013 and has since won 116 games, second most in team history behind Hall of Famer Hank Stram. · Andy Reid is the fifth head coach to face his former team in the Super Bowl. Reid joins Weeb Ewbank (New York Jets and Baltimore Colts); Dan Reeves (Denver Broncos and Atlanta Falcons); Jon Gruden (Oakland Raiders and Tampa Bay Buccaneers) and Pete Carroll (New England Patriots and Seattle Seahawks). · Eagles head coach Sirianni had been an assistant coach with the Chiefs from 2009 to 2012. Advertisers · Fox is charging a record $7 million for a :30 ad or $233,000 per second. This is double the ad rate from just ten years ago. Last year’s :30 ad rate was $6.5 million. When Fox last hosted the game in 2020, the company said it sold around $600 million worth of ads that day, a record at the time. · Besides the high price for a :30 ad, Fast Company estimates production costs for a Super Bowl ad to be in the range $2.5 million to $ 3 million. In addition, the price of getting an “A-list” celebrity as spokesperson can cost anywhere from $500,000 to $10 million. · Last year, excluding NBC and Peacock promos, there were 68 ads with 58 unique advertisers and 44 minutes of national ad time. · iSpot reports the commercial attention rate for Super Bowl ads last year were, on average, 36% higher than all networks/programs on that day. In addition, the commercial completion rate was 98.6%. · For last year’s Super Bowl, the “USA Today Ad Meter” ranked the Rocket Homes and Rocket Mortgage ad called “Dream House with Anna Kendrick and Barbie” as the top ad. Audience · Last year’s game on NBC averaged 112.3 million viewers on television (NBC, Telemundo, out-of-home) and digital platforms (Peacock, NBC Sports NBC Sports Digital, NFL Digital and Yahoo! Sports mobile properties). This was the highest in five years and a year-over-year increase of 15.9 million. · Last year’s game averaged 101.1 million television viewers (including 1.9 million viewers on Telemundo) and an average 11.2 million viewers streamed per minute. Nearly double the average 5.7 million viewers streamed per minute the year before. · The NFL announced that an estimated 208 million-plus viewers had tuned in to watch some portion of last year’s Super Bowl. · Tunity Analytics, a partner of iSpot, estimated the out-of-home average audience for last year’s Super Bowl was 12.5 million. · Last year the NFL set an all-time social media record for the Super Bowl which included 1.8 billion impressions across league social platforms for the entire week, an increase of 42% from the previous year. Consumers · The annual consumer spending data from the National Retail Foundation (NRF) and Prosper Insights and Analytics for this year’s Super Bowl found 192.9 million U.S. adults plan on watching the game. Of that 103.5 million have plans to either host or attend a Super Bowl party. Another 17.8 million will watch the big game at a bar/restaurant. · The Super Bowl economy is huge, spending on food, drinks, apparel, decorations, etc. is projected to total $16.35 billion this year, or $85.36 per person. By comparison, last year’s Super Bowl consumer spending had been projected to be $14.6 billion or $78.92 per person. · The survey found that 79% of consumers will spend on food & beverages, followed by team apparel 12%, TVs 10%, decorations and furniture both at 7%. · The survey found that 42% say the game is the most important facet of the Super Bowl, 19% responded to the commercials and 18% answered the halftime show. Music · Apple Music will be the new sponsor of the Super Bowl halftime show replacing Pepsi. · For the fourth time, Jay-Z’s Roc Nation will produce this year’s halftime show. · Nine-time Grammy Award winner Rihanna will headline the half-time show. Forbes recently named the 34-year performer and cosmetics entrepreneur as the country’s youngest female billionaire, with a net worth of $1.4 billion. Other halftime performers have yet to be announced. The NFL does not pay the half-time performers. · Last year’s halftime show had featured Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Eminem, Mary J. Blige, Kendrick Lamar and 50 Cent. Seven of the songs performed at the halftime show ranked among the top ten in downloads at iTunes the following day. · Country singer Chris Stapleton will sing the National Anthem. Oscar winner Troy Kotsur (CODA) will perform the National Anthem in American Sign Language. R&B singer Babyface will perform "America the Beautiful.” Emmy Award winner Sheryl Lee Ralph, will sing "Lift Every Voice and Sing.” Wagering · According to PlayUSA, Super Bowl LVII is forecast to take in over $1.1 billion in betting at legal sportsbooks across the country. It is projected to be the most money bet ever on a Super Bowl and perhaps any U.S. sporting event. Last year’s Super Bowl $947 million in legal wagers were made. In the past year Kansas, Massachusetts and Ohio have legalized gambling, bringing the count to 33 states and the District of Columbia. · Arizona is the first Super Bowl host with statewide legal sports betting. · Philadelphia has been listed as a 1.5-point favorite. The under/over for total points scored is 50. Follow me on LinkedIn . Editorial Standards Forbes Accolades LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Digital Terms of Sale Terms of Service Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Reprints & Permissions Forbes Press Room Advertise