Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna - The Golden Country - Nintendo Switch - Games - Nintendo Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna - The Golden Country Mature themes and fantasy violence In this new story mode, uncover the full history of Jin and the fall of Torna that took place 500 years before the events of Xenoblade Chronicles 2. The newly refined combat system lets you take control of both Driver and Blades as you explore a new Titan, the Kingdom of Torna. The year was 3564… The 107th Indoline Praetor, Rhadallis, had sent an armed expedition against the country of Coeia. Its capital, Omrantha, fell overnight and sank beneath the clouds, along with the rest of the Titan. This cataclysm shook the whole of Alrest. As the dust settled, Indol and the newly-risen land of Empire of Mor Ardain claimed the credit for this devastation. In fact, it had been the work of one Blade. The Aegis, a man known as Malos. Discover how the fates of Jin and his Driver, Lora, intertwined with that formidable individual... Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Expansion Pass If you purchase the Expansion Pass, you get all DLC content, including Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna - The Golden Country. If you own Xenoblade Chronicles 2 and the Expansion Pass, you do not need to purchase the standalone version of Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna - The Golden Country. Get digital Game specifications Release date 14/9/2018 Genre Role-Playing Game No. of players 1 player Game file size 3.0GB Publisher Nintendo Supported languages English, French, German, Italian, Spanish Supported play modes TV mode Tabletop mode Handheld mode Software compatibility and play experience may differ on Nintendo Switch Lite. Additional accessories may be required (sold separately). See support for details . This game supports the following features: Save Data Cloud Play online, access classic games, and more with a Nintendo Switch Online membership. Learn more Notices A paid membership to Nintendo Switch Online is required to use the Save Data Cloud. Find out more about the paid membership subscription . Additional storage space may be needed for installation or software updates. If there is not enough free space available, you can delete unnecessary software or insert a microSD card with enough space. ©2017 Nintendo / MONOLITHSOFT About Nintendo History Careers Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental Information Support Warranty Manuals & Documents Product Support Notifications Parents Information for Parents Parental Controls Game Classifications Community Community Guidelines Community Tournament Guidelines Online Safety facebook twitter youtube instagram Australia & New Zealand Legal Privacy Contact Us © 2025 Nintendo