Elon Musk Subscribe To Newsletters Get in Touch Get In Touch With Elon Musk Get In Touch PROFILE Elon Musk CEO, Tesla $392.1B $3.5B (0.89%) Real Time Net Worth as of 4/29/25 Reflects change since 5 pm ET of prior trading day. #1 in the world today Photo by Martin Schoeller for Forbes From the Editor Elon Musk cofounded seven companies, including electric car maker Tesla, rocket producer SpaceX and artificial intelligence startup xAI. He owns about 12% of Tesla excluding options, but has pledged more than half his shares as collateral for personal loans of up to $3.5 billion. In early 2024, a Delaware judge voided Musk's 2018 deal to receive options equaling an additional 9% of Tesla. Forbes has discounted the options by 50% pending Musk's appeal. SpaceX, founded in 2002, is worth $350 billion based on a private share sale during December 2024. Musk owns an estimated 42% stake. Musk bought Twitter in a $44 billion (enterprise value) deal during 2022. Forbes estimates that the social media company, which he renamed X, is worth nearly 70% less as of August 2024. Musk owns an estimated 54% of xAI, which he founded in 2023. Private investors valued the company at a reported $50 billion in November 2024. Wealth History HOVER TO REVEAL NET WORTH BY YEAR Forbes Lists #1 Billionaires (2025) #1 Forbes 400 (2024) The Richest Person In Every State (2024) #1 Innovative Leaders (2019) #25 Powerful People (2018) #12 Richest In Tech (2017) Global Game Changers (2016) More Lists Personal Stats Age 53 Source of Wealth Tesla, SpaceX, Self Made Self-Made Score 8 Philanthropy Score 1 Residence Austin, Texas Citizenship United States Marital Status Divorced Children 11 Education Bachelor of Arts/Science, University of Pennsylvania Did you know Musk, who says he's worried about population collapse, has 11 children with three women, including triplets and two sets of twins. As a kid in South Africa, Musk taught himself to code; he sold his first game, Blastar, for about $500. In Their Own Words I operate on the physics approach to analysis. You boil things down to the first principles or fundamental truths in a particular area and then you reason up from there. Elon Musk Related People & Companies Reid Hoffman View Profile Tesla Holds stake in Tesla View Profile University of Pennsylvania Attended the school View Profile Peter Thiel Cofounder View Profile Larry Ellison Related by financial asset: Tesla View Profile Leo KoGuan Related by financial asset: Tesla View Profile See More See Less More on Forbes 10 hours ago Musk And Bezos Competed With Rockets, Now They’re At It With Cars The two richest men on the planet, Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos have been competing in rockets. Now Bezos' Slate will challenge Tesla. By Peter Lyon Contributor Apr 28, 2025 From Elon Musk’s Assistant To SpaceX Investor, Meet Elissa Butterfield How a former Musk minion became a VC with investments in SpaceX and xAI By John Hyatt Forbes Staff Apr 27, 2025 An Owner Just Tested Musk’s Claim That The Cybertruck Can Float You should't believe everything Elon Musk says, especially when it pertains to the Cybertruck being able to float. By Peter Lyon Contributor Apr 25, 2025 Elon Musk Is Running Out Of Ideas To Save Tesla He's dialing down his DOGE role but Tesla needs a new hit EV and none is on the horizon. And the company’s booming battery business will suffer from Trump’s tariffs. By Alan Ohnsman Forbes Staff Apr 23, 2025 How Following Elon Musk Scored His Inner-Circle Billions Forbes Reporter John Hyatt joins Forbes Talks to explore the \"Musk Talker,\" a group of wealthy individuals whose fortunes are closely tied to Elon Musk. By Jonathan Palmer Forbes Staff WATCH Apr 23, 2025 Elon Musk Gets $8 Billion Richer As Tesla Stock Rallies On ‘Mea Culpa’ —Despite Brutal Earnings “I'll continue to advocate for lower tariffs rather than higher tariffs, but that's all I can do,” Musk said about Trump’s tariffs. By Derek Saul Forbes Staff Apr 23, 2025 Elon Musk To Spend More Time At Struggling Tesla Stocks surged Tuesday on trade optimism and strong earnings; all S&P sectors rose. Watch for lower volatility as confirmation. Growth concerns and inflation risks linger. By JJ Kinahan Senior Contributor Apr 23, 2025 Forbes Daily: Elon Musk To Step Back From DOGE As Tesla Takes A Hit Today’s Forbes Daily newsletter covers possible trade war deescalation, a brewing police tech rivalry, White House to go after student loan borrowers' wages and more. By Danielle Chemtob Forbes Staff Apr 22, 2025 Tesla Earnings: Elon Musk’s Firm Reports Worst Quarterly Profit Since 2021 Tesla's $19.3 billion revenue was far below analyst forecasts of $21.3 billion. By Derek Saul Forbes Staff Apr 21, 2025 Tesla Stock Dives 6% Ahead Of Possible ‘Code Red’ Earnings For Elon Musk’s Firm Tesla stock is down more than 50% from its December peak as Elon Musk’s company heads into an earnings report expected to bring its worst profit in four years. By Derek Saul Forbes Staff Apr 18, 2025 Why Elon Musk’s First Wife Isn’t Even Close To Being A Billionaire Justine Musk, Elon Musk’s first wife and the mother of six of his children, asked for stakes in Tesla and SpaceX when they got divorced. Musk made sure she got no shares. By Kerry A. Dolan Forbes Staff Apr 17, 2025 OpenAI’s Social Network Could Clone Elon Musk’s X — But Likely Can’t Compete OpenAI would be far from the first to attempt to dethrone X, but it can look to why the other efforts have so far not succeeded. By Peter Suciu Contributor Apr 14, 2025 Elon Musk Wants To Raise The Birth Rate. He’s Cutting Medical Care For Mothers And Babies. Elon Musk has long claimed civilization will collapse unless we raise the birth rate. Meanwhile, his “DOGE” group is slashing billions in funding for pregnant and nursing mothers and their children. By Emily Baker-White Forbes Staff Apr 10, 2025 Elon Musk Says DOGE Will Produce Savings Of $150 Billion In FY2026 The Department of Government Efficiency and Elon Musk have been working for months to reduce government spending and its workforce. By Molly Bohannon Forbes Staff Apr 8, 2025 This CEF Has 1 Big Danger: Holdings In Elon Musk’s Companies I often talk about high-yield closed-end funds (CEFs) that are great buys because, well, there are plenty of CEFs that are. Yes, even in unprecedented times like these! By Michael Foster Contributor Apr 8, 2025 Trump’s Tariffs Are Disastrous For Elon Musk From Tesla to SpaceX to xAI, Elon Musk’s sprawling global business empire will be slammed by Trump’s tariffs regime. Here’s how. By John Hyatt Forbes Staff More Articles also on forbes Musk And Bezos Competed With Rockets, Now They’re At It With Cars From Elon Musk’s Assistant To SpaceX Investor, Meet Elissa Butterfield An Owner Just Tested Musk’s Claim That The Cybertruck Can Float © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Terms of Service Digital Terms of Sale Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Forbes Accolades Forbes Press Room Advertise