Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/nintendo A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to nintendo r/nintendo r/nintendo r/Nintendo is a community to discuss Nintendo's past, present and future. Members Online • Nickadimoose The Legacy of Satoru Iwata - How He Opened Nintendo To The World Hey again, r/Nintendo - I'm an amateur gaming historian who likes to periodically show up and give a bunch of information on video games, topical video-game figures and video game companies; today, I've popped in to talk to you about Satoru Iwata--not about his life, as many would expect from a post like this, but his impact on Nintendo as a company while he was part of the organization. A lot of people already know that he came from HAL Labs, a video-game start-up that had quite a few successful titles, but ran into financial troubles in the early 90's. Then president of Nintendo, Hiroshi Yamauchi, decided to bail HAL Labs out of the financial issues they were having on one condition: Satoru Iwata, a gifted programmer working at HAL, would take over as HAL's acting CEO. After stabilizing HAL's finances and solidifying their relationship to Nintendo, he would then take a position offered by Yamauchi at Nintendo: head of the corporate planning division. Iwata never intended to be more than a programmer. To quote a very famous passage that he'd later deliver at a keynote speech; "on my business card I am a corporate president, in my mind I am a game developer, but in my heart I am a gamer." Yet in 2002--after the release of the GameCube (which was crushed in terms of sales by the original X-Box & PS2 consoles)--longtime CEO of Nintendo, Hiroshi Yamauchi, would retire and name Satoru Iwata to the position of CEO. The first person in Nintendo's history to take the role of CEO and yet not be from the Yamauchi line, it was an incredibly big deal! While Iwata respected Yamauchi a great deal, he realized Nintendo would need to change, drastically, in order to compete against Sony & Microsoft; Yamauchi had led Nintendo to quite a few unique achievements, but his leadership strategy promoted an atmosphere of competition between the internal development teams of Nintendo. Yamauchi would rarely hold meetings with his staff, instead delegating things to do from his throne on high, which divided the departments within Nintendo as a company. Nobody inside Nintendo communicated with one another--it was almost as if they were at war, fighting to appease the king of Nintendo with a new development that would put them in Yamauchi's good graces, but Iwata wanted to change that. As soon as he took on the role of CEO he gathered all 40 departments together in a room and told them his plans for the future. He laid out his goals to break down the walls that had surrounded Nintendo, like the battlements of a castle--to make sure that the guy in the marketing department could approach the development team, without mockery or persecution, if he had an idea for a game. He wanted Nintendo to be a place of absolute creativity and openness. Over the years he lived by that creed, even starting up the ever-popular (and ever odd) Iwata Asks segments, which allowed people from all over the world and even the low tier employees of Nintendo to see the plans DIRECTLY from the minds of the people in charge of the company. It opened Nintendo, which had often been obtuse & silent, to the world and gave them glimpses of a CEO filled with good-natured, quirky humor. I mentioned this in a documentary I did about Nintendo, but throughout Nintendo's history, prominent figures would rise with a principle in mind, a philosophy that evolved into material ideas: accessibility was the key to success. Gunpei Yokoi advocated the accessibility of video-games, he mentions it multiple times in his career that video-games need to be accessible to the public. As such he invented the cross-shaped D pad for more intuitive controls that would, hopefully, enable video-game newbies to more easily play games. Shigeru Miyamoto promoted the accessibility of software, making games that could appeal to a broad range of people and challenge individuals of all ages & skill levels. Satoru Iwata advocated the accessibility of the ENTIRE video-game industry. He wanted gamers of all skill levels, all ages, even people not playing their games now to get involved in the gaming world--this fundamental idea led to the creation of the Wii (intuitive, motion controls as input devices/wide range of accessible software titles; golf, baseball, Wii sports and affordable enough to be put in every household across the world basically). Iwata also had a hand in promoting Brain Age on the DS, because he felt that Nintendo could expand their range of products into a 'blue ocean,' a business philosophy he'd been studying based on the book by W. Chan Kim and Renee Marbourghn called "Blue Ocean Strategy." Blue Ocean Strategy likened business to a vast ocean: you don't want to be where the other sharks are, competing over food (profits/business), you want to be in the rest of the ocean, swimming through blue waters (new market ideas). To Iwata, the Wii's motion controls and wide accessibility and their push towards health related products/attachments were the blue ocean he'd been attempting to seek. They would later replicate these ideas for the Wii U system/3DS, which failed--not because they weren't new, inventive ideas that would allow them to be in a market sweet spot--but because Nintendo's execution on the technical side/software side of things fell apart as they adapted to HD Graphics changes, failed 3rd party integration and a large push-back on pricing from the public. Note: The 3DS would go on to turn sales figures around, becoming an incredibly profitable system as another user pointed out in the comments. The 3DS, at launch, managed to survive the abysmal initial sales figures and go on to become quite a powerhouse portable console, but this was largely thanks to two factors (in my opinion); The 3DS is a portable gaming system--a market Nintendo has notoriously cornered for years, and it looks like with the Switch they'll not be letting go of anytime soon. First party titles eventually exploding the system's sales. Iwata had attempted to integrate more third party support to both consoles: the Wii U & the 3DS. Unfortunately, due to poor initial sales figures, most third party developers wrote the consoles off--deciding not to invest more time & money into making video-games for either platform. It wasn't until the 3DS began hitting home with those amazing first party titles, that developers really started to come back around to the system. It's just generally how the video-game industry functions. After the Wii U failed in the commercial market, Iwata and the other members of Nintendo's board of directors, issued a public apology and slashed their own pay so they wouldn't have to fire anyone during the financial down-turn. However, the failures of the Wii U (mainly) gave Iwata and Nintendo as a whole, the testing information they needed in order to sort out affairs for the Switch, which became one of the company's biggest successes in a long time. Sadly Satoru Iwata would pass before he saw the official release of the Switch. As we near the end of July (the month in which Iwata passed) I wanted to take a moment to remind everyone that Iwata wasn't just the guy who pushed the products out there--he was the guy that helped Nintendo batter down the walls that had prevented them from communication, not only internally, but with the public as well. We have a lot to appreciate Iwata for, but I've found that a lot of people don't really know how hard he worked just to make Nintendo more accessible to the gaming public. Let's not forget how damn odd and funny he ended up being too? I think my favorite moment of him is when he's addressing a fully crowded room and he begins to talk about how they came up with the name HAL Labs. He mentions that it was based on HAL from the movie 2001 Space Odyssey and then he mentions how extremely cool they thought it was. Then he flashes up a picture of him as a nerdy teenager giving the big thumbs up and tells the crowd like all game creators I was extremely cool too, don't you think? (I couldn't find a link to this outside of my own documentary parts, but it's one of my favorites that I feel absolutely sums up just how good humored and accessible Iwata was: https://youtu.be/RRyy7IBpAsY?t=16m33s -- note: please don't subscribe or anything, I do the write-ups because I think remembering the past and the reasons for why things were done, can prevent or even guide us in the future, plus they're fun--not for self-promotion). Anyways, that's all I got for today, hope you all have a very good weekend, stay safe and I'll pop in randomly again to annoy you with more history. Thanks for reading. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 27, 2018 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 2018 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2018 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics