Diablo III 3: Reaper of Souls - Expansion Set (Windows/Mac, 2014) - Used CIB 20626729154| eBay Skip to main content Hi ! Hi! Sign in or register Daily Deals Brand Outlet Gift Cards Help & Contact Sell Watchlist Expand Watch List My eBay Expand My eBay Summary Recently Viewed Bids/Offers Watchlist Purchase History Buy Again Selling Saved Feed Saved Searches Saved Sellers My Garage Sizes My Collection Messages PSA Vault Expand Notifications Please sign-in to view notifications. Expand Cart Loading... eBay Home Shop by category Enter your search keyword All Categories Search Advanced Picture 1 of 6 1 Gallery Picture 1 of 6 Have one to sell? Sell now Share Sigglecow (870) 100% positive Seller's other items Seller's other items Contact seller Diablo III 3: Reaper of Souls - Expansion Set (Windows/Mac, 2014) - Used CIB US $14.99 Condition: Very Good Very Good More information - About this item condition “ Includes original box, and all inserts, CD and CD cover. Everything is in very good condition, ” ... Read more about condition Very Good An item that is used but still in very good condition. No damage to the jewel case or item cover, no scuffs, scratches, cracks, or holes. The cover art and liner notes are included. The VHS or DVD box is included. The video game instructions and box are included. The teeth of disk holder are undamaged. Minimal wear on the exterior of item. No skipping on CD/DVD. No fuzzy/snowy frames on VHS tape. See the seller’s listing for full details and description of any imperfections. Buy It Now Diablo III 3: Reaper of Souls - Expansion Set (Windows/Mac, 2014) - Used CIB Sign in to check out Check out as guest Add to cart Add to Watchlist Oops! Looks like we're having trouble connecting to our server. Refresh your browser window to try again. Refresh Browser Hurry before it's gone. 1 person is watching this item. Breathe easy. Free shipping and returns. Shipping: Free USPS Ground Advantage ® . See details for shipping Located in: Madison, Wisconsin, United States Delivery: Estimated between Fri, May 2 and Thu, May 8 to 85033 Delivery time is estimated using our proprietary method which is based on the buyer's proximity to the item location, the shipping service selected, the seller's shipping history, and other factors. Delivery times may vary, especially during peak periods. Returns: 30 days returns . Seller pays for return shipping . See details - for more information about returns Payments: Diners Club Special financing available. See terms and apply now - for PayPal Credit, opens in a new window or tab Earn up to 5x points when you use your eBay Mastercard®. Learn more about earning points with eBay Mastercard Shop with confidence Top Rated Plus Top rated seller, fast shipping, and free returns. Learn more - Top Rated Plus - opens in a new window or tab eBay Money Back Guarantee Get the item you ordered or your money back. Learn more eBay Money Back Guarantee - opens new window or tab Report this item Report this item - opens in new window or tab About this item Seller assumes all responsibility for this listing. eBay item number: 335410943770 Item specifics Condition Very Good An item that is used but still in very good condition. No damage to the jewel case or item cover, no scuffs, scratches, cracks, or holes. The cover art and liner notes are included. The VHS or DVD box is included. The video game instructions and box are included. The teeth of disk holder are undamaged. Minimal wear on the exterior of item. No skipping on CD/DVD. No fuzzy/snowy frames on VHS tape. See the seller’s listing for full details and description of any imperfections. See all condition definitions opens in a new window or tab Seller Notes “Includes original box, and all inserts, CD and CD cover. Everything is in very good condition, ... Read more about the seller notes “Includes original box, and all inserts, CD and CD cover. Everything is in very good condition, please see pictures for condition.” Read Less about the seller notes Region Code NTSC-U/C (US/Canada) Release Year 2014 Sub-Genre Not Applicable MPN NA Features Expansion Pack Country/Region of Manufacture United States UPC 0020626729154 Platform Windows/Mac Rating M - Mature Video Game Series Diablo Series Publisher Blizzard Entertainment Genre Role Playing Game Name Diablo III: Reaper of Souls About this product Product Information The first expansion for Blizzard's popular RPG Diablo III, Reaper of Souls raises the level cap from 60 to 70, adds one new character class and one new artisan, adds a fifth act to the campaign, and introduces the new Adventure mode. The new Crusader class offers heavy armor, strong weapons, and holy magic as players battle a variety of new enemies and attempt to prevent the Angel of Death from destroying humanity. The Mystic artisan can enhance character equipment, and the Adventure mode lets gamers freely roam the entire world to accept bounties and explore dungeons. Product Identifiers Publisher Blizzard Entertainment UPC 0020626729154 eBay Product ID (ePID) 214755763 Product Key Features Rating M - Mature Genre Role Playing Video Game Series Diablo Series Platform Windows/Mac Game Name Diablo III: Reaper of Souls Additional Product Features Release Year 2014 Number of Players 1-4 Country/Region of Manufacture USA Control Elements Mouse, Keyboard ESRB Descriptor Blood and Gore, Violence Item description from the seller About this seller Sigglecow 100% positive feedback • 2.8K items sold Joined Nov 2004 Usually responds within 24 hours We sell collectible cards, video games, books, and more, You can expect items to be shipped within 2 business days. We do ship USPS, and while USPS remains fairly reliable, they are much slower than ... See more We sell collectible cards, video games, books, and more, You can expect items to be shipped within 2 business days. We do ship USPS, and while USPS remains fairly reliable, they are much slower than they used to be! If you are expecting them to maintain their old 3-5 day time frame, I would ask that you please adjust your expectations. over the last several years they have done a lot of cost cutting which has negatively impacted delivery time. I apologize for this inconvenience!If you have any questions, feel free to ask See less Visit store Contact Save seller Detailed seller ratings Average for the last 12 months Accurate description 5.0 Reasonable shipping cost 5.0 Shipping speed 5.0 Communication 5.0 Popular categories from this store See all categories Baseball Cards Books Collectable Card Games Games Imports Movies & TV (DVDs, BRDs, VHS) Music Non-Sport Trading Cards Retro Seller feedback (812) Filter: All ratings All ratings Positive Neutral Negative t***n (736) - Feedback left by buyer. Past month Verified purchase Item as described.  Fast shipping!  Well packaged.  Great communication.  A++ Seller.  Definitely buy from again. GPK Garbage Pail Kids Book Worms - Mix & Match cards to save up to 40%! (#235918842665) t***e (65) - Feedback left by buyer. Past 6 months Verified purchase Quality packaging and came in great condition. Appearance of cards is great for the value. Shipping was as described and fair. GPK Garbage Pail Kids Book Worms - Mix & Match cards to save up to 40%! (#235918842665) a***c (53) - Feedback left by buyer. Past year Verified purchase Item was just as described, safely packaged, fast shipping, great communication & I highly recommend this seller! A+! Game Informer Magazine #367 - Dragon Age Veilguard - New - No Shipping Label (#235657132850) See all feedback Product ratings and reviews Learn more 4.7 29 product ratings 5 22 users rated this 5 out of 5 stars 22 4 6 users rated this 4 out of 5 stars 6 3 1 users rated this 3 out of 5 stars 1 2 0 users rated this 2 out of 5 stars 0 1 0 users rated this 1 out of 5 stars 0 Good graphics Compelling gameplay Good value Most relevant reviews See all 16 reviews by katyslove May 24, 2016 Top favorable review An interesting new way to play I like the option of playing "Adventure mode" for "seasons." This is completely different than the way you could play the game in the past. I have a buddy who ONLY plays for the loot. This is totally right up his alley. I find that I do not play quite the same way, but I can play in the Campaign mode, if I want a change. I like the game play and the graphics are awesome. I have not decided if I like the level of difficulty or not. MANY people complain that it is WAY too easy. I kind of like that, in some respects. It is no fun constantly dying. On the other hand, there are times when you do kind of feel like you are in god-mode. Overall, this is a fun game and a nice diversion.  James I like the option of playing "Adventure mode" for "seasons." This is completely different than the way you could play the game in the past. I have a buddy who ONLY plays for the loot. This is totally right up his alley. I find that I do not play quite the same way, but I can play in the Campaign mode, if I want a change. I like the game play and the graphics are awesome. I have not decided if I like the level of difficulty or not. MANY people complain that it is WAY too easy. I kind of like that, in some respects. It is no fun constantly dying. On the other hand, there are times when you do kind of feel like you are in god-mode. Overall, this is a fun game and a nice diversion.  James Verified purchase: Yes Condition: New Sold by: game_starz by vinc_l6 Aug 13, 2016 Box is in very poor shape, but great value nonetheless The box is in very poor shape, looks like something I would find at a thrift store. All of the inside stuff is in perfect shape though, so I don't care. Plus the price is awesome either way. The box is in very poor shape, looks like something I would find at a thrift store. All of the inside stuff is in perfect shape though, so I don't care. Plus the price is awesome either way. Verified purchase: Yes Condition: Pre-Owned Sold by: 6te1store by astrioddo Sep 11, 2017 Diablo III Great game, new adventures with some game play from Diablo I & II but overall it's still a great game.  Glad this came with the expansion pack as well.  Must have. Great game, new adventures with some game play from Diablo I & II but overall it's still a great game.  Glad this came with the expansion pack as well.  Must have. Verified purchase: Yes Condition: New by gator_42 Mar 01, 2017 Superior game! It is a great game especially for solo play as I don't like putting up with the nuts on the web.  You must have or buy the base Diablo III as well. It is a great game especially for solo play as I don't like putting up with the nuts on the web.  You must have or buy the base Diablo III as well. Verified purchase: Yes Condition: New Sold by: gg-gaming by terrysleevar May 15, 2018 Great game The game came sealed and new. It was the European edition with French information. Worked great. The game came sealed and new. It was the European edition with French information. Worked great. Verified purchase: Yes Condition: New Sold by: groupvertical Back to home page | See More Details about "Diablo III: Reaper of Souls (Windows/Mac, 2014)" Return to top | Listed in category: breadcrumb Electronics Video Games & Consoles Video Games See more Diablo III: Reaper of Souls (Windows/Mac, 2014... More to explore : Diablo III: Reaper of Souls Video Games with Expansion Pack , Diablo III: Reaper of Souls 2014 Video Games , Diablo III: Reaper of Souls Video Games , Diablo III: Reaper of Souls PAL 2014 Video Games , Diablo III: Reaper of Souls PAL Video Games , Microsoft Xbox One Diablo III: Reaper of Souls Video Games , Sony PlayStation 3 Video Games Diablo III 2014 , Diablo III Video Games for Sony PlayStation 3 , Diablo III Video Games , Diablo III PC Video Games Shop Top Sellers and Highly Rated Products in Video Games Best Sellers The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom - Nintendo Switch Game Boy Advance Video: Pokémon -- Beach Blank-Out Blastoise & Go West Young Meowth (Nintendo Game Boy Advance, 2004) Mario Kart 8 -- Deluxe Edition (Nintendo Switch, 2017) [Physical] US Release Lunar Remastered Collection Nintendo Switch Ready to Ship Super Mario Bros Wonder - Nintendo Switch Top Rated Pokemon: Alpha Sapphire (Nintendo 3DS, 2014) Pokemon X (Nintendo 3DS, 2013) Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag (Sony PlayStation 4, 2013) Super Mario Bros Wonder - Nintendo Switch The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom - Nintendo Switch Related Searches Diablo 3 Reaper of Souls PC Diablo 3 Reaper of Souls Ps3 Diablo 3 Reaper of Souls Xbox360 Diablo 3 Reaper of Souls Collectors Edition Diablo 3 Reaper of Souls Ps4 Diablo 3 Reaper of Souls Xbox One Diablo Ps3 Diablo 3 Xbox Diablo 3 Xbox360 Diablo Game 3 Diablo 3 ps Diablo 3 PC Key PC Games Diablo Diablo 3 Switch Diablo 2 Expansion Set About this seller Sigglecow 100% positive feedback • 2.8K items sold Joined Nov 2004 Usually responds within 24 hours We sell collectible cards, video games, books, and more, You can expect items to be shipped within 2 business days. We do ship USPS, and while USPS remains fairly reliable, they are much slower than ... See more We sell collectible cards, video games, books, and more, You can expect items to be shipped within 2 business days. We do ship USPS, and while USPS remains fairly reliable, they are much slower than they used to be! If you are expecting them to maintain their old 3-5 day time frame, I would ask that you please adjust your expectations. over the last several years they have done a lot of cost cutting which has negatively impacted delivery time. I apologize for this inconvenience!If you have any questions, feel free to ask See less Visit store Contact Save seller Detailed seller ratings Average for the last 12 months Accurate description 5.0 Reasonable shipping cost 5.0 Shipping speed 5.0 Communication 5.0 Popular categories from this store See all categories Baseball Cards Books Collectable Card Games Games Imports Movies & TV (DVDs, BRDs, VHS) Music Non-Sport Trading Cards Retro Seller feedback (812) Filter: All ratings All ratings Positive Neutral Negative t***n (736) - Feedback left by buyer. Past month Verified purchase Item as described.  Fast shipping!  Well packaged.  Great communication.  A++ Seller.  Definitely buy from again. GPK Garbage Pail Kids Book Worms - Mix & Match cards to save up to 40%! (#235918842665) t***e (65) - Feedback left by buyer. Past 6 months Verified purchase Quality packaging and came in great condition. Appearance of cards is great for the value. Shipping was as described and fair. GPK Garbage Pail Kids Book Worms - Mix & Match cards to save up to 40%! (#235918842665) a***c (53) - Feedback left by buyer. Past year Verified purchase Item was just as described, safely packaged, fast shipping, great communication & I highly recommend this seller! A+! Game Informer Magazine #367 - Dragon Age Veilguard - New - No Shipping Label (#235657132850) See all feedback Copyright © 1995-2025 eBay Inc. All Rights Reserved. Accessibility , User Agreement , Privacy , Consumer Health Data , Payments Terms of Use , Cookies , CA Privacy Notice , Your Privacy Choices and AdChoice