Ohio Teacher of Year from Norwood is finalist for 2020 National Teacher of Year Skip to content Breaking Through Business Spotlight Breaking the Silence: Teens Fighting Suicide 19 For A Cure NOW in the NATI Watch LIVE Video FOX19 Now Apps News Cincinnati’s Crime Vault Weather Salute to Heroes Bengals Sports About Us Home Newsletter Sign Up Programming Schedule Watch Live Video FOX19 Apps News Salute to Heroes Pike County Massacre Cincinnati's Crime Vault Breaking the Silence: Teens Fighting Suicide FOX19 NOW Bright Side NOW in the NATI Cincinnati Rising Breaking Through Recalls Weather First Alert 24/7 Weather 7-Day Forecast Weather Cams Ahead of the Storm weather specials Weather Closings and Delays Submit Photos & Videos Bengals Sports Bengals Reds Cincinnati's Sports Show FC Cincinnati Highlights High School Sports Baxla Tractor Athlete of the Month OrthoCinsational Play of the Week 19 on the Clock Xavier Podcasts Cincinnati’s Crime Vault 19 on the Clock Morning Show FOX19 NOW Kitchen Cuisine Interviews Kickin’ it with Ken Smile It's Your Birthday! Traffic About Us NEXTGEN TV Meet the FOX19 team Calendar FOX19 Now Apps Digital Advertising Solutions Job Postings Featured Business 19 for a Cure Breaking Through Contests Business Spotlight Sponsored Content PowerNation NextGen TV Zeam - News Streams Circle Country Gray DC Bureau InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet Digital Marketing Ohio Teacher of Year from Norwood is finalist for 2020 National Teacher of Year 20020 Ohio Teacher of the Year Leila Kubesch (Matthew Wood) By Jennifer Edwards Baker Updated : Jan. 21, 2020 at 10:28 AM EST Email This Link Share on Facebook Share on X (formerly Twitter) Share on Pinterest Share on LinkedIn NORWOOD, Ohio (FOX19) - A Tri-State teacher named Ohio Teacher of the Year is now one of four finalists for the 2020 National Teacher of the Year. Leila Kubesch of the Norwood City School District is a middle school teacher focused on teaching Spanish and English to English learners. She has developed community partnerships and encouraged student advocacy while also serving as an advocate for emancipated foster youth, The Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO) said in a news release Tuesday announcing her as one of the four finalists. The National Teacher of the Year Program identifies exceptional teachers nationwide, celebrates their effective work in and outside of the classroom, amplifies their voices, and empowers them to take part in policy discussions at the state and national levels, according to the prepared statement. The other finalists are: Chris Dier, the 2020 Louisiana Teacher of the Year, a Hurricane Katrina survivor who returned to his Louisiana parish to teach high school social studies, Dier has focused on equity as he brings aspects of the students’ identity and culture to the forefront of their education. Tabatha Rosproy, the 2020 Kansas Teacher of the Year, a preschool teacher who teaches in a program nestled within a retirement village that includes interaction with residents, Rosproy has helped the program build new social capital in the community while also boasting the highest preschool literacy and math scores in the district. Linda Rost, the 2020 Montana Teacher of the Year, a high school science teacher, Rost has promoted science education by facilitating science research programs and preparing students to successfully compete in national and international science competitions. One of the finalists will be named the 2020 National Teacher of the Year this spring by the 2020 National Teacher of the Year Selection Committee. Each year, since 1952, the National Teacher of the Year has been recognized by the White House. The chosen educator will spend the next year traveling the country as an ambassador for education and an advocate for all teachers and students. “Teachers are our students’ most important resource. I applaud and congratulate these four admirable educators for their commitment and dedication, and I thank the selection committee for its work to identify them from among a skilled class of educators,” said CCSSO Executive Director Carissa Moffat Miller. “We look forward to celebrating the accomplishments of all State Teachers of the Year, including the four finalists for National Teacher of the Year.” “The four finalists for the 2020 National Teacher of the Year stand out as exceptional educators and leaders, serving students and communities with expertise, empathy, and passion,” the selection committee said. “These State Teachers of the Year are working to equitably meet the needs of all students by holding high expectations for every child, prioritizing student wellbeing, and intentionally engaging with the communities in which they teach. Any one of them would do an outstanding job as the profession’s ambassador.” Kubesch was the first Norwood teacher to receive the state award in its 56-year history and the first teacher awarded for instruction in the subject of Spanish. Norwood teacher named 2020 Ohio Teacher of the Year She is a National Board Certified teacher and holds a Master of Science in Educational Leadership as well as a Master of Arts in Secondary Education, both from Purdue University. To read Kubesch’s National Teacher of the Year Application, click here . Copyright 2020 WXIX. All rights reserved. Most Read KSP identifies man shot, killed by sheriff’s deputies outside Amazon facility Tri-State severe thunderstorm watch extended until midnight Man facing rape charge after found naked in 13-year-old girl’s bedroom: Sheriff Greater Cincinnati man arrested on murder charge in Indiana woman’s death Woman pushing child in stroller struck by vehicle UPS to cut 20,000 jobs, close 70 facilities as it reduces amount of Amazon shipments it handles Fairfield mother claims she was assaulted in road rage incident after attempting to get driver’s information County Commissioners vote 2-1 for Paycor Stadium upgrades Latest News Boone County Schools community hosts mental health awareness event Suspect arrested after teen injured in weekend shooting near UC Boone County Schools community hosts mental health awareness event Firefighter’s legacy lives on through golf tournament raising money for department Firefighter’s legacy lives on through golf tournament raising money for department Weather Overnight UC graduates earning both college, high school diplomas Tuesday's Reds, Cardinals game postponed News Weather Sports WXIX Careers Contact the Newsroom WXIX 635 West Seventh Street Cincinnati, OH 45203 (513) 421-1919 Public Inspection File FCC Applications FOX19QUESTIONS@FOX19NOW.COM 513-562-2405 Terms of Service Privacy Policy EEO Report Advertising Digital Marketing Closed Captioning/Audio Description At Gray, our journalists report, write, edit and produce the news content that informs the communities we serve. Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2025