Tour de France Approved Travel Agents Club Fantasy Route Teams Grands départs Tour Culture News Sporting Stakes All the rankings Commitments The jerseys "Maillot Jaune" Collection Key figures Safety Partners Videos News Videos Photos Come to the Tour Broadcasters Cycling Tips Tour Culture Sporting stakes History Key figures Safety Commitments 2024 Edition Rankings Stage Winners Videos Partners Official Tour de France shops Collection Maillot Jaune Official App Other events Broadcasters Media Games Tour operators MonTour VIP Official shops Store Official games PRO CYCLING MANAGER 2024 (PC) TOUR DE FRANCE 2024 - VIDEO GAMES (PC, XBOX ONE, PS4 & PS5) Fantasy by Tissot Cycling Legends (iOS, Android) - Official Mobile Game Other events Broadcasters Media Games Tour operators MonTour VIP Official shops Store Official games PRO CYCLING MANAGER 2024 (PC) TOUR DE FRANCE 2024 - VIDEO GAMES (PC, XBOX ONE, PS4 & PS5) Fantasy by Tissot Cycling Legends (iOS, Android) - Official Mobile Game Club Route Teams Grands départs Tour Culture Videos Tour Culture News Sporting Stakes All the rankings Commitments The jerseys "Maillot Jaune" Collection Key figures Safety Partners 05/07 > 27/07/2025 Fantasy Club en fr de es Official tour operators Tour de France Approved Travel Agents Live a unique experience thanks to the official Tour de France Tour Operator. Enjoy exclusive trips on the Tour de France route with access to the VIP zones. Get access to the village, meet major riders names, ride on the closed route and cross the finish line. Wear the yellow jersey on the podium like a pro... Tour Operators - Tour de France OFFICIAL PREMIUM TOUR OPERATOR Thomson Bike Tours Thomson Bike Tours has been taking avid cyclists and spectators to the Tour de France since 2003. Our status as the number one Tour de France operator is a testament to our quality. We are privileged with unrivalled access to the biggest race on earth; our guests enjoy VIP access to stage Starts and Finishes, including the Team Paddock and winner’s podium. Best of all, they ride an extensive ride programme on the very same roads as the race. We have ride groups to suit any level of cyclist, with routes form 20km to 130km, fully supported by our team vans, stocked with supplies and manned by professional guides and mechanics.  Our world class support enables dedicated cyclists to focus on the ride and conquer their ambitions. With a 1:3 staff to guest ratio we can promise our guests all the attention they need to triumph in their own accomplishments. You don’t have to be a cyclist to enjoy the major Pro Tour races on the calendar. Our Spectator trips provide peerless backstage access — the ultimate way to experience the biggest big races. Our team are knowledgeable cycling fans with a thirst for action and undying enthusiasm for the sport. Meet the riders and Tour celebrities in the VIP Departure Village, mingle in the Team Paddock pre race and enjoy unparalleled hospitality viewing of the stage finish. Simply the most fun you can have at a bike race. Tour de France 2025 - Thomson Bike Tours Cycling trips Spectators trips Custom Getaways As the longest serving Official Tour Operator of the Tour de France (over 20 years), Custom Getaways offers exceptional experiences to cyclists and spectators alike. We offer the largest selection of both cycling and spectator trips; which allows you, our guests, to select the package that is perfect for you. Our status as a Premium Official Tour Operator enables us to provide access to the most coveted stages of the race with unparalleled VIP access. We offer the most flexible cycling options with the highest level of support and allow non-cycling partners on our cycling trips. You will love our European guides that offer amazing support and connection to the culture.  One of the features that differentiates Custom Getaways is that we try to offer other activities like touring museums, castles or wineries before we view the race.  We love sharing the amazing sights that France has to offer in addition to the excitement of the Tour!  We hope you will join us in the near future.  Please check out our website with our trip options and reviews. www.customgetaways.com Sports Tours International For 45 years we’ve been delighting sports fans and athletes from every corner of the planet by taking them to some of the most legendary events across the globe including the TCS New York City Marathon, L’Etape du Tour and, of course, the Tour de France. Based in the UK, we’ve been organising trips to the Tour de France for over 20 years, so you can rest easy knowing we’ve got the experience, know-how and insider info to give you the most authentic experience possible. This includes Official VIP Hospitality on every trip and different itineraries for both spectators and cyclists. In fact, we pride ourselves on saying “ Our Experience Will Make Yours ” and we mean every word… But what makes us different ?... Our dedicated team of organisers and overseas representatives are the backbone of everything we do. Their encyclopaedic knowledge of the event and insatiable passion for Le Tour make them the ideal guardians for your journey. Based on our fantastic reviews, our customers couldn’t agree more. www.sportstoursinternational.co.uk/event-categories/tour-de-france/ Sports Tours International © Sports Tours International Sports Tours International © Sports Tours International Sports Tours International © Sports Tours International Sports Tours International © Sports Tours International Sports Tours International © Sports Tours International Sports Tours International © Sports Tours International Discover France We are an Official Tour Operator of the Tour de France for more than ten years and so we create unforgettable experiences for all kinds of enthusiasts. By bike, you can discover the magic of enjoying the real Tour de France stages for a few hours or a few days, you can climb its legendary mountains, and even cross the line a few hours before the professional riders. The podium is ready for you! As a spectator, come and take advantage of our VIP access and experience the incredible moments of a TDF moment. The mix of the festivity and the tension before the departure line or the unforgettable feeling of the finish line. Now it's your turn to become a legend! www.discoverfrance.com Lourdes Challenge - Discovery OFFICIAL TOUR OPERATOR Mummu Cycling At Mummu Cycling, we strive to deliver a Tour de France experience of a lifetime! Let us take you inside the race with 17 time Tour de France contender, multiple Stage winner and Yellow jersey wearer, Stuart O’Grady as your host. Stuart’s extensive wealth of knowledge and expertise on all things cycling, will ensure you know all the race happenings and riders of the peloton to watch out for on tour. Go behind the scenes with Stuart and you won’t be disappointed, potentially meeting and enjoying a photo or two from your favourite riders along the way. You will ride alongside Stuey ahead of the race on closed roads in the official Tour de France caravan, have VIP access to start and finish zones to get up-close and personal to the teams pre and post stages, enjoy some official Tour de France podium time, as well as sitting back post ride at premium viewing spots throughout the race - champagne and canapé in hand, if you please! To add to some incredible VIP viewing, you will have the opportunity to ride some of the most iconic Tour de France cols and embrace the suffering that the peloton will be about to endure, all while enjoying tips, advice and many-a race memory from Stuart and our experienced team out on the road. www.mummucycling.com Mummu Cycling Mummu Cycling © Mummu Cycling Mummu Cycling © Mummu Cycling Mummu Cycling © Mummu Cycling Mummu Cycling © Mummu Cycling Mummu Cycling © Mummu Cycling Mummu Cycling © Mummu Cycling Trek Travel Trek Travel’s Tour de France vacations put you at the heart of cycling’s most iconic race, offering an insider experience that’s second to none. From VIP access to prime viewing spots, exclusive opportunities to meet the Lidl-Trek team, and the thrill of riding race stages, every moment is designed to immerse you in the action. With expert guides supporting you on and off the bike, luxury accommodations, and unforgettable local cuisine, you’ll sip champagne at the finish line and cheer from exclusive stage viewing locations. These are cycling vacations you'll remember forever, blending pro-level support with unbeatable access to the race's biggest moments. https://trektravel.com/tours/tour-de-france/ Pro Race Bike Tours | Trek Travel Trek Travel © Trek Travel Trek Travel © Trek Travel Grand Tours Project Grand Tours Project was born from a dream to ride all three Grand Tours in 2013 … and we can help you fulfil your dream too. We create and organise tours throughout Europe, Asia and the Americas for all levels of cyclists - our specialities are "Experience” leisure tours, more challenging "Ride Every Kilometre" tours, and bespoke customised tours. You will race across France along the same routes as the pros, ride the legendary climbs of cycling greats, experience the support and encouragement of spectators along the official route, cross the TdF Stage Arrivées, mount the podiums, and access the VIP hospitality zones. You will also get to savour the great food and wines of France. We are a global cycling business with guests from all over the world - from the US to the UK, Brazil to Australia, the Middle East to Singapore, China to Mexico … and many more nationalities. On our tours, you will make new friends from many other parts of the world. We’re also very proud to be big promoters and supporters of women's cycling, and we have a high proportion of female guests. The GTP Team includes former pro riders with insider knowledge and contacts, and a crew of guides and drivers with extensive experience supporting, encouraging, and having fun with our guests during the Grand Tours. We also welcome non-riding partners who can enjoy the full experience of the Tour de France with a special program while their partners are on their bikes. Grand Tours Project: The People More info Not a rider but a huge fan? No problem! We offer exclusive VIP passes and Spectator-only experiences that give you front-row access to all the excitement. Testimonials Follow us Receive exclusive news about the Tour Pro zone Accreditations Contacts Privacy policy Your GDPR rights Terms & Conditions Cookie settings © ASO