Google Pixel 5a leak reveals familiar features and design | TechSpot User login User icon Login Search A search icon TechSpot logo The word TechSpot Trending Nvidia RTX 5070 Ti Ryzen 9800X3D vs 7800X3D AI Transformers Radeon 9070 XT X870 Motherboards Chip Binning Features Tech Culture Must Reads Hardware Software Gaming Explainers Tips & Tricks Reviews Outstanding PC Buying Guide CPU Graphics Cards Laptops Storage Monitors More Reviews Downloads Latest Updates Software Essentials Popular Apps Software We Recommend Device Drivers The Best Best GPUs Best Monitors Best PC Games Best SSDs Best iPad for You Best Keyboards Best Mouse Product Finder Search Forums Join TechSpot Elite New Forum Posts Latest Comments Mobile Google leak Google Pixel 5a leak reveals familiar features and design No surprises here, but also no potential headaches By Adrian Potoroaca February 24, 2021, 15:19 Serving tech enthusiasts for over 25 years. TechSpot means tech analysis and advice you can trust . Editor's take: The Pixel 5a could turn out to be a recycled Pixel 4a 5G, but if it comes at a similar price, this shouldn't be an issue for its intended audience: those looking for the prowess of a Pixel smartphone camera in a mid-range package that doesn't cost an arm and a leg. Google's Pixel 5a is slated to be released sometime this year, and the good news is the company has kept the overall recipe unchanged for what is essentially a mid-range smartphone for people looking to get a lot of value for much less money than what you'd have to pay for a flagship Android phone. Last year, Google's Pixel 4a announcement brought a lot of excitement as it was essentially a distilled Pixel 4 with a slower (but more energy-efficient) SoC that was priced at $350. Unlike its pricier brother – the Pixel 5 , it sported a headphone jack, and with a 5G variant with a larger display priced at $500, it was considered by many to be a steal in an era when premium smartphones are pushing the $1,000 mark. According to notorious leaker Steve Hemmerstoffer (OnLeaks), who got his hands on renders of the Pixel 5a, the new phone looks almost identical to the Pixel 4a. That said, it will more closely resemble the dimensions of the larger Pixel 4a 5G , which has a 6.2-inch display versus the 5.8-inch panel found on the Pixel 4a. The thin bezels and slightly larger chin are the same, but Google has apparently opted for a flat screen with no curved sides. The back of the Pixel 5a is still plastic and retains the old-school fingerprint sensor, and the leaked renders indicate it will only come in black, just like its predecessor. While similar in size to the Pixel 4a 5G, it will be slightly taller, narrower, and thicker at 156 x 73.2 x 8.8 mm (9.4 mm for the camera bump). In terms of internals, they're anyone's guess at this point but we expect them to be similar to those of the Pixel 5, except for the SoC which will likely be a Snapdragon 732G – essentially an overclocked version of the Snapdragon 730G found in the Pixel 4a. The camera module will house an additional, ultrawide shooter, possibly the same as the 16-megapixel one found in the Pixel 4a 5G and the Pixel 5. // Related Stories WorkComposer employee monitoring app leak exposes 21 million screenshots online Google is shelling out big bucks to put Gemini AI on Samsung devices Google seems to be playing it safe with the Pixel 5a, but it's hard to argue against a tried and tested recipe which has worked so far and remains a solid option for people looking to buy a mid-range phone. If anything, the real surprises could come with the Pixel 6, but don't hold your breath for it. 1 comment 120 likes and shares Share this article: Featured on TechSpot Google demos Android XR with Gemini AI, visual memory Sparklink may be the biggest standard you've never heard of Most Popular 30 comments The Science of Keeping Your Chips Cool: Hot Chips, Cool Tricks 12 comments AMD FSR 4 vs Nvidia DLSS 4 at 4K Meta accused of allowing its chatbots to engage in sexually explicit chats 39 comments 4chan was offline for nearly two weeks after hack, but it's now back on Load Comments 1 ... User Comments: 1 Got something to say? Post a comment Load all comments... Discuss 26 GPUs are so bulky now that Asus is using gyroscopes to detect sagging 11 Russian authorities threaten World of Tanks developer for its alleged "extremist activities" 8 FBI warns China is using AI to sharpen cyberattacks on US infrastructure 18 Nvidia RTX 5000 Super cards could increase VRAM by 50%, with 24GB RTX 5080 Super and 18GB RTX 5070 Super 23 Sam Altman says polite ChatGPT users are burning millions of OpenAI dollars Recently commented stories Jump to forum mode Add your comment to this article Create your free account to leave a comment. Join thousands of tech enthusiasts and participate. TechSpot Account Sign up for free , it takes 30 seconds. Already have an account? Login now . Main Sections Tech News Features Reviews Downloads The Best Product Finder News Archive Web Tools Popular Features AMD Ryzen 9800X3D vs Ryzen 7800X3D Nvidia RTX 5070 Ti Review Best PC Games (You Should Be Playing) AMD X870/X870E Motherboard Roundup The OLED Burn-In Test AI Transformers Explained The Best Gaming Monitors AMD Radeon 9070 XT Review Top Downloads VMware Download Free Cinebench R23 Minecraft Download PS3 Firmware WhatsApp Beta Popcorn Time Play Store Download Tiny 11 Subscribe to the TechSpot Newsletter Follow TechSpot About Ethics Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Manage Ad Consent TECHSPOT : Tech Enthusiasts, Power Users, Gamers TechSpot is a registered trademark and may not be used by third parties   without express written permission. TechSpot is represented by Future PLC . Learn about advertising opportunities . © 1998 - 2025 TechSpot, Inc. 8237 NW 68 St. Miami FL, 33166. All Rights Reserved.