Dominic Thiem Wins 2020 U.S. Open Men's Singles Final ​ Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals Royals Royals PEOPLE StyleWatch: Spring 2025 Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals StyleWatch Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe This week's Puzzler crossword is here! Can you solve it? Play now! Entertainment Sports Tennis Dominic Thiem Wins 2020 U.S. Open Men's Singles Final, Scores First Grand Slam Victory Both Alexander Zverev and Dominic Thiem were playing for their first Grand Slam victory By Lindsay Kimble Lindsay Kimble Lindsay Kimble is the Executive Editor, News at PEOPLE. She have been working at PEOPLE for seven years. Her work has previously appeared in POPSUGAR, Us Weekly and Entertainment Weekly. People Editorial Guidelines Published on September 13, 2020 08:21PM EDT Alexander Zverev and Dominic Thiem. Photo: Matthew Stockman/Getty Images (2) Dominic Thiem defeated Alexander Zverev to win the 2020 U.S. Open men's singles final on Sunday, marking his first Grand Slam victory. It was a game of endurance as the four-hour match concluded in five sets at Arthur Ashe Stadium. Zverev took the first set 6-2 and the second 6-4 but Thiem won the third set 6-4 and the fourth 6-3. It was the second deciding set tiebreak in a men's final since the 2019 Wimbledon match when Novak Djokovic defeated Roger Federer. Sunday's match marked the tenth meeting between Zverev and Thiem. Matthew Stockman/Getty Images Thiem, ranked second in the world among men's tennis players, most recently reached the finals in the 2019 French Open and 2020 Australian Open, but ultimately lost. The 27-year-old Austrian joked around with reporters ahead of the match, saying of his chances, "If I win I have my first. If not, I have to call Andy Murray (and ask) how it is with 0-4," according to the U.S. Open website . Thiem continued, reiterating, "[I’m] just going to go in fully focused, like in all the six previous matches. Well, the world continues no matter what the result is, so it's going to be fine." U.S. Open Champion Naomi Osaka Says Kobe Bryant Jersey 'Gave Me Strength' During Tournament Zverev, ranked fifth before the Sunday final, played Thiem in the semifinals back in the Australian Open. It was the furthest the 23-year-old German had ever made it in a Grand Slam tournament until the 2020 U.S. Open. Alexander Zverev. Frank Franklin II/AP/Shutterstock Naomi Osaka Is the Women's Singles Final Winner at U.S. Open! Tennis Star Defeats Victoria Azarenka For the second time since 2003, Djokovic, Federer and Rafael Nadal were not the finalists. Thiem is the first Austrian to win an Open. Had Zverev won, he would've been the first German to win the U.S. Open since Boris Becker did in 1989. Seth Wenig/AP/Shutterstock On Saturday, Naomi Osaka won the 2020 U.S. Open Women's Singles final, defeating Victoria Azarenka 1-6, 6-3, 6-3. The U.S. Open victory is Osaka's third major title, having won the 2018 U.S. Open and 2019 Australian Open. Close You Might Like What Time Is the Men's NCAA Championship? How to Watch and Stream the Final March Madness Game Entertainment April 07, 2025 UConn Triumphs Over South Carolina to Claim Their Record 12th Women's NCAA Championship Title Entertainment April 06, 2025 Jordan Chiles Wasn't 'Able to Move’ After ‘Devastating’ Olympics Medal Controversy: ‘I Still Struggle to Talk About It’ Entertainment April 02, 2025 Related Articles Caroline Wozniacki Is Pregnant, Expecting 3rd Baby with Husband David Lee: ‘Officially Switching to Zone Defense’ USC Women’s Basketball Star JuJu Watkins Suffers Season-Ending Injury: ‘Heartbroken’ Cooper Flagg’s Family: All About the Duke Basketball Star's Parents and Siblings U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Officials Fire Coach and Director Following Athletes' Allegations of Sexual Abuse Tiger Woods Shares Shocking News That He's Recovered from Achilles Surgery and Will Play Masters — Almost All About Caroline Wozniacki's Husband, Former NBA All-Star David Lee John Cena Wins Record-Breaking 17th WWE World Championship at WrestleMania 41 in Las Vegas Mikaela Shiffrin Recalls Being in 'Survival Mode' with Her Fiancé After Their Respective Ski Injuries (Exclusive) Olympic Gymnast Paul Juda Proposes to Girlfriend After Team Wins NCAA Championship: 'You Make Me a Better Man' NCAA Basketball Star Deletes Instagram After ‘Disgusting’ Online Harassment Following March Madness Loss Trinity Rodman Makes Her Players' Box Debut at Ben Shelton’s BMW Open Semifinals Match in Munich Andre Agassi Reflects on His 3 Favorite Tennis Outfits Ever — Including What He Calls a Pirates of the Caribbean Look Carlos Alcaraz's Family: All About the Tennis Champion's Parents and Siblings JuJu Watkins Breaks Silence on Season-Ending Injury, Says ‘Love and Support’ Gave Her 'So Much Hope’ Angel Reese Is Her Little Brother Julian Reese's No. 1 Fan as He Leads Maryland in Tough Sweet 16 Loss JuJu Watkins Hears from Her Biggest Rivals After Season-Ending Injury: ‘I Feel So Sorry For Her’ PEOPLE Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies