Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/zeldaconspiracies A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to zeldaconspiracies r/zeldaconspiracies r/zeldaconspiracies Similar to [Pokemon Conspiracies](http://www.reddit.com/r/pokemonconspiracies/) before us, this a place for discussing Zelda related possibilities and other theories about the world of Zelda. Members Online • obiobaobin BoTW 2 and Another Time Leap? Having spent a lot of time looking at the new BoTW teaser we just got, I have developed what I believe to be a fairly robust hypothesis for a particular part of the game's story. Hear me out: I think we may have another time skip on our hands. Here's why I think this: Before I get started, watch the trailer. I will reference a specific timestamp in this video in my explanation. Attached is also an interactive map of Breath of the Wild; I will reference specific locations on the map in my explanation as well. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pi-MRZBP91I Obviously, one of the main focuses of the new trailer is the levitating islands that we see Link flying towards/walking on. After watching the trailer a few times, I noticed something. Every time we see levitating islands, it is the same set of islands . In other words, whenever we see the floating islands, it's the exact same location. I think this is the case because of how the islands are shaped (every shot we see them in, they look similar), the type of foliage the islands contain (primarily, short trees with golden leaves), and the types of buildings/structures/ruins that the islands contain (in nearly all the shots of the islands, small, pavilion-like structures can be seen). We never see a shot of levitating islands that look substantially different from this. The next question I had was, "If all these shots of the islands are at same thing, then where are they located?" The answer to this can be found in a shot at the 55 second mark in the video, where Link overlooks the islands from above. In this shot, you can see the ground beneath. This is what gives it away. We can see on the ground a certain kind of tall tree that exists in only a couple locations in BoTW, as well as some hills and a tall ridge in the distance. These details lead me to conclude that the floating islands are located just West of the Ridgeland tower. In the shot at the 55 second mark, Link looks south (or to be more specific, south-southwest) over the Seres Scablands, towards Illumeni Plateau and Washa's bluff, with the Gerudo highlands in the distance. Here's where things get interesting. The final shot of the trailer, in which Hyrule castle is seen suspended by flames of malice, is aimed such that the whole of the Hyrule castle town ruins is visible from the eastern side . The shot, in other words, is aimed almost directly west, in the direction of the floating islands . The shot has a strip of land in the foreground, which, given the angle of the camera, could be Crenel Peak. The fact that Hylia river is visible in this shot confirms this. In the distance, one can see some ridges/mountains. These could be the Gerudo highlands, but more likely are the mountains in the out-of-bounds region bordering the west side of the map. All of these details point to the fact that the camera shot in this scene is aimed in the direction that the islands should be; yet, clearly, in this shot, the islands are not present. This shot follows a sequence of shots showing the castle erupting from the ground and being lifted into the sky. What this tells me is that the shots of the castle being lifted up and suspended in the sky happen immediately after the events that take place with Link and Zelda underground, and that the floating islands in the Ridgeland region form sometime after these events. One important detail to note is that nowhere in the trailer are shrines, sheikah towers, guardians, or divine beasts visible. They seemed to have simply disappeared. Another detail is that the monsters we see in the trailer have changed; bokoblins, which once had short, stubby horns, now have long horns, and moblins, instead of horns, have large, round bone growths on their heads. Additionally, bokoblins have grown in intelligence, as they have learned how to construct forts on top of stone taluses. One final detail to note is that Link's clothing in many of the shots does not match the type of clothing worn by any tribe, people, or race encountered in BoTW 1. All of this leads me to conclude that a time skip occurs towards the beginning of the story. Link and Zelda awake Ganondorf on accident; Zelda falls into a pit (whether she is saved or not is unclear, given the differences between the new trailer and the 2019 teaser), and Link is fused with the gold and green hand that was restraining Ganondorf. My theory is that some circumstance results in Link falling asleep and waking up later. Link was asleep for enough time for Hyrule castle to be lifted up from the ground, for the sheikah towers, shrines, and divine beasts to disappear, and for the floating islands in the Ridgeland region to form, in that order. Link was asleep long enough for bokoblins/moblins/other enemies to grow/age/mature in ways that they didn't have time to while Link was asleep for 100 years in BoTW 1. Finally, Link was asleep long enough for cultures to change enough that their standards for clothing styles shifted substantially. Now, whether this time skip is a forwards skip or a backwards skip is up for debate. I think there is reason to support either, and I will post about this more later. What are your thoughts on this? Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 5% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 16, 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2021 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics