Heisman Trophy Freshman Winners: Players, Year, School & Position NCAAF NFL NBA NHL WWE MLB WNBA Golf Tennis Soccer MMA NCAAB US Olympics Trending AEW Shows Gaming Minecraft Music Word Games Answers Podcasts Movies Music Reality TV Daily Soaps K-Pop SK POP Streamers NASCAR IndyCar Notifications Log in Manage your profile Logout NCAAF Schedule ⚡ Standings ⚡ Depth Charts 2024 Recruitment Ranking College Football Playoff Predictor Teams Mock Draft Simulator More College Football Heisman Trophy Freshman Winners Heisman Trophy Freshman Winners Share By SK Desk • Last Modified Dec 13, 2024 06:19 GMT Heisman Trophy Winners Year by Year Heisman Trophy Design and Milestones Johnny Manziel, winner of the Heisman Trophy as a freshman in 2012. Source: @jmanziel2 Contents Which players have won the Heisman Trophy as a freshman? The Heisman Trophy is the annual award presented to the outstanding collegiate player in the United States. The trophy was named after John W. Heisman in 1935. He was a player, coach, and one of the founding members of American football. The Heisman Trophy is managed by the Heisman Trophy Trust. This trophy is awarded to a player having remarkable individual performance on the field, and sportsmanship off the field. The selection process involves sports journalists, previous Heisman winners, and a fan vote, ensuring a broad consensus. The trophy is designed in a way that depicts a player in a stiff-arm pose, symbolizing athleticism and determination. The award ceremony is held in New York City every year in December. Some of the past winners are legends like Barry Sanders, Tim Tebow, and Jayden Daniels in 2023. The Heisman Trophy is the ultimate college football prize, exhibiting players’ individual athletic skills and sportsmanship. Which players have won the Heisman Trophy as a freshman? Two freshmen who have won the Heisman Trophy. Johnny Manziel from the Texas A&M Aggies became the first freshman to win the Heisman in 2012, followed by Florida State's Jameis Winston in 2013​. Year Player Position School 2012 Johnny Manziel QB Texas A&M 2013 Jameis Winston QB Florida State Read Less FAQs on Heisman Trophy Q. What is the Heisman Trophy? - + A. The Heisman Trophy is an annual award given to the most outstanding college football player in the U.S. Q. Who was the first freshman to win the Heisman Trophy? - + A. Johnny Manziel won as a freshman in 2012 while playing for Texas A&M. Q. When is the Heisman Trophy awarded? - + A. The award is presented every December in New York City. Q. What does the Heisman Trophy symbolize? - + A. It represents excellence in college football performance and sportsmanship. Related Stories “Time to turn on Brady Mode!”: Colorado staffer hypes up Shedeur Sanders following Browns move “Time to turn on Brady Mode!”: Colorado staffer hypes up Shedeur Sanders following Browns move Sharing visual of shrieks from Shedeur Sanders draft party, Jordan Seaton reiterates Deion Sanders Jr’s message Sharing visual of shrieks from Shedeur Sanders draft party, Jordan Seaton reiterates Deion Sanders Jr’s message Shelomi Sanders reacts as Shedeur Sanders' family celebrates his NFL draft selection with hilarious dance Shelomi Sanders reacts as Shedeur Sanders' family celebrates his NFL draft selection with hilarious dance 4 Alabama stars that went undrafted in the 2025 NFL Draft 4 Alabama stars that went undrafted in the 2025 NFL Draft 1d Former SB champ throws shade at Shedeur Sanders & Browns offense with hilarious Ohio State jibe Former SB champ throws shade at Shedeur Sanders & Browns offense with hilarious Ohio State jibe 19h CFB Insider calls out Bill Belichick’s GF’s “lack” of PR experience after she refused to answer a personal relationship question CFB Insider calls out Bill Belichick’s GF’s “lack” of PR experience after she refused to answer a personal relationship question 1h WATCH: Deion Sanders’ ex-wife Pilar nods in disapproval as son Shilo Sanders imitates Coach Prime’s iconic moves WATCH: Deion Sanders’ ex-wife Pilar nods in disapproval as son Shilo Sanders imitates Coach Prime’s iconic moves Kyle M͏cCord’s girlfriend drop 3-word message to Syracuse QB’s emotional draft moment after long wait Kyle M͏cCord’s girlfriend drop 3-word message to Syracuse QB’s emotional draft moment after long wait How many Ole Miss players were drafted in 2025 NFL draft? List of Rebels who were selected How many Ole Miss players were drafted in 2025 NFL draft? List of Rebels who were selected 1d Jets HC reveals the key contributor from Alabama’s staff that helped in picking Malachi Moore Jets HC reveals the key contributor from Alabama’s staff that helped in picking Malachi Moore 7h Trending Topics • Denzel Burke Jersey Number • Jordan Hancock Jersey Number • Elijah Roberts NIL Deal • Marcus Mbow NIL Deal • Jordan James 40 time • Jordan James Nationality • Jordan James Number • Francisco Mauigoa NIL Deal • Francisco Mauigoa Parents • Jaylen Reed NIL deals • Who are the parents of Jaylen Reed • Raheim Sanders Nil Deal • Donovan Edwards Parents • Donovan Edwards Parents • quinn ewers nil deal • shedeur sanders helmet • Shedeur Sanders' family • shedeur sanders • Shedeur Sanders' family • where is shedeur sanders from STAY CONNECTED WITH SPORTSKEEDA WWE NHL NBA NFL Soccer Anime MMA MLB Tennis NASCAR College Basketball College Football Important Links About Us Affiliate Program Editorial Standards Careers Fact Check Contact Us Policies Advertise With Us Download App Sportskeeda's Terms and Privacy Policy Copyright @ 2025 Sportskeeda × No Results Found WWE NBA NFL MMA Tennis NHL Golf MLB Soccer F1 WNBA More NCAAF NCAAB NASCAR Popular Important Links About Us Write For Us Policies Grievance Redressal Editorial Standards Fact Check Affiliate Program Careers CSR Privacy Policy Contact Us Manage notifications Edition: English हिन्दी