2018 Olympic Winter Games - A Brief History | Spotlight ExpertFile Inc. Featured Post from Southern Utah University 2018 Olympic Winter Games - A Brief History Feb 6, 2018 · 4 min Share Starting this week, the world will look to PyeongChang, in the Republic of Korea, for the XXIII Olympic Winter Games. PyeongChang’s vision for the Games is to offer the Olympic Movement and the world of winter sports New Horizons - a legacy of growth and potential never seen before. According to the Olympic Games , PyeongChang’s plan is one of the most compact in Olympic history, offering a unique stage on which the world’s best athletes can achieve superior performances. This will be South Korea’s second time hosting the Olympic Games, but it’s first Winter Games. The city won the bid to host after one round of voting, having more votes than both Munich, Germany and Annecy France combined. Held in Chamonix, France in 1924, the first Olympic Winter Games consisted of five original sports, bobsleigh, curling, ice hockey, Nordic skiing and skating. Dr. David Lunt, Professor of History at Southern Utah University and expert on athletics in ancient Greece, says the first games were intended to be a ‘week of winter sports’ connected to the regular Olympic festival to be held later that year in Paris. “Although Great Britain’s representative to the International Olympic Committee wanted soccer (football) to be included as a ‘winter sport’, to be held before the hot days of summer, the program was confined largely to events on snow and ice.” The Games have grown since the early days, the 2018 Winter Games will feature 102 events with 15 sports represented, more than any other previous Winter Games and the first to surpass 100 medal events. Dr. Lunt agrees that the Winter Olympics are growing more popular and more equal for athletes, but they are still quite small compared to the Summer Games. “At the 2014 Olympic Winter Games in Sochi, Russia, 88 countries sent a total of 2,876 athletes, of which 40% were women. In contrast, more than 11,000 athletes from 207 countries and one “refugee team”, competed in Rio de Janeiro in 2016’s Summer Games. Of these 11,000 athletes, approximately 45% were women.” Though women were not traditionally allowed to play in the Olympic Games (beginning in 1896), women have always competed in the Winter Games (beginning in 1900). Even today there are fewer women than men involved in the Games, but the percentage is evening. With the Olympic Agenda 2020 , adopted in December 2014, the International Olympic Committee made a important milestone. Recommendation 11, to Foster Gender Equality, states “the IOC to work with the International Federations to achieve 50 percent female participation in the Olympic Games and to stimulate women’s participation and involvement in sport by creating more participation opportunities at the Olympic Games.” Dr. Lunt also notes that while the Winter Games are enjoyed by many, fewer cities seem willing to undertake the expense and planning required. Hosting the Games is a major undertaking, strain on infrastructure, security risks, and the total cost of the Games can make cities hesitant to bid. “In 2015, Beijing, China beat out Almaty, Kazakhstan for the 2022 Winter Games only after other contending cities in Sweden, Norway, Poland, and Ukraine voluntarily withdrew their bids.” “Originally set to host city the 1976 Olympic Winter Games, Denver reneged on its bid to host the Games in November, 1972, amid economic and environmental concerns, not to mention the realization that Denver itself typically does not receive much snow in February. In fact, for its presentation to the International Olympic Committee, Denver’s bid representatives painted snow onto pictures of Denver in order to make the city appear more suitable to host the Games.” While those local to Utah remember Salt Lake City hosting the 2002 Olympic Winter Games after winning the bid in 1995, Dr. Lunt shares a little known fact - “Salt Lake City was a finalist to host both the 1972 and 1998 Winter Games and also bid to host the 1976 Winter Games – twice – before and after they were awarded to Denver.” As the Games continue to grow and adapt to new participants and sports they are also building partnerships around the world. There are currently 206 National Olympic Committees, spread over five continents, working to develop and promote the Olympic principles at a national level in their countries. In the next 10 years alone the Olympic Games will take viewers to Tokyo, Beijing, Paris and Los Angeles. Dr. Lunt’s research has taken him all over Greece and Italy focusing on how ancient and modern athletics reflect and interact with society, religion, and culture. He is familiar with the media and available for an interview. Simply visit his profile. Connect with: David Lunt Department Chair, Associate Professor of History History expert, specializing in ancient Greece, ancient Greek athletics, and the history of the olympic games Ancient Greece Ancient Greek Athletics History of the Olympic Games Classical Studies Sports History Find Experts Read More Feb 23, 2025 · 1 min Persuasive Attack: Threatening Reputations in Public Discourse The Department of Communications at Southern Utah University has been busy with a recent book launch garnering attention.  Dr. Kevin Stein and Dr. Matt Barton recently published Persuasive Attack: Threatening Reputations in Public Discourse.  The book investigates the nature of persuasive attack by examining the strategies used in various cases to denigrate an individual or organization for their behavior and/or character.    This groundbreaking book explores the intricate dynamics of persuasive communication, offering a critical framework for understanding how rhetorical strategies can influence public perception and discourse.    Dr. Matthew H. Barton teaches courses in Persuasion, Communication Theory, Critical Thinking, Health Communication, and Interpersonal Communication.   Dr. Kevin A. Stein's research focuses primarily on the rhetoric of attack (kategoria), defense (apologia), and persuasive responses to defense (antapologia). Other academic interests include political campaign communication and popular culture. Interested in learning more about this topic or looking to speak with either Barton or Stein - then let us help.  Simply click on either expert's icon now to arrange an interview today. Feb 23, 2025 · 3 min SUU Professor and Author Todd Petersen meets with Utah Prison Book Club Southern Utah University Professor of English and Cedar City-based author Todd Robert Petersen shared his most recent novel with the Utah Prison Education Project’s (UPEP) book club. Petersen joined the club to discuss his book, Picnic in the Ruins, and engage with readers eager to share their thoughts and questions.  “The book club program at the Utah State Prison is such an interesting program, and I was so grateful to be invited to join the group for an evening as they discussed my novel,” said Petersen. “The readers in the group were so well prepared and had so many amazing insights and perspectives to share. I love knowing that these students were so dedicated to reading carefully and well, and preparing themselves to participate in a very high-level discussion.”  Petersen has found literacy, creative thinking, and analytical thinking to be crucial skills for the future and tries to teach those skills in his courses at SUU. Petersen currently teaches Writing for the Screen, Screen Aesthetics, Advanced Fiction Writing, and Creative Writing Capstone.  “It’s a thrill to know that my book can be a tool for that kind of teaching in this special education program,” said Petersen. “It feels like a wonderful way to explore how my creative work and teaching goals can intersect in a meaningful way.”  The UPEP book club, established in 2019, has grown from three initial participants to a thriving community of readers from diverse backgrounds. The club meets every week to explore literature centered around a chosen theme. This fall, the theme, “Deseret Dreamers,” highlights works by authors with ties to Utah. The group relies on donations to provide members with copies of the books they discuss, and afterward, the books are donated to the prison library.   “Having new books in here is like a treasure for a lot of guys,” said “Craig,” a long-standing club participant. “We get to escape, explore, and see things from a different perspective.”  The club members not only brought annotated copies of the book, but also notes, questions, and quotes that resonated with them.  “I was so impressed with how carefully they had read it and how much they had researched the issues the book brings up,” Petersen said. “You drive by these buildings and form perceptions based on what you’ve seen on television or in movies,” said Petersen. “But spending time with these individuals changes everything. I want them to know they are valued, capable of change, and that learning can transform their lives.”  The English Department at SUU engages students through quality teaching and dynamic learning communities that foster an understanding of diverse literature and a command of essential writing skills.  SUU is dedicated to promoting learning and personal growth in diverse communities and is proud to have had this interaction with the Utah Prison Education Project. By connecting educators, authors, and incarcerated individuals, SUU strives to empower lives through education and literature.  If you want to know more about Todd Robert Petersen's recent book, he is available to speak with the the media. Simply click on his icon to arrange an interview today. Nov 22, 2024 · 2 min Fervo Energy, Southern Utah University, and Elemental Impact Launch Geothermal Drilling & Completions Apprenticeship Program Fervo Energy (“Fervo”), the leader in next-generation geothermal development, along with Southern Utah University (SUU), an institution known for its personalized approach to learning, and Elemental Impact (“Elemental”), a non-profit investing platform that invests in climate companies and projects with deep local impact, today announced the launch of a geothermal apprenticeship program to help oil and gas workers and Southwest Utah residents join the rapidly growing enhanced geothermal industry. The first-of-a-kind geothermal apprenticeship program advances labor momentum spurred by the Inflation Reduction Act.  The program, administered by SUU and funded in part by Elemental, will provide those seeking new skill sets with the opportunity to learn geothermal directional drilling and well completions, while combining on-the-job training with college-level coursework on geology and energy systems. This unique approach offers pathways for traditional college students as well as adult and working learners interested in careers in the geothermal energy industry.  “Thousands of Americans work in upstream oil and gas, and with the right tools, they can easily apply their skill sets to geothermal production,” said Tim Latimer, Fervo CEO and Co-Founder. “We can harness the full potential of this existing talent pool and attract new talent beyond current fossil fuel workers by providing on-the-ground and in-classroom training opportunities. We believe that our apprenticeship program with SUU can ignite that process, supporting local job growth across Southwest Utah.”  Already, 22 individuals working with ten different oilfield service providers operating in the area have registered for the geothermal apprenticeship program. By the end of 2024, the program aims to enroll at least 40 apprentices, providing them with an opportunity to fill an immediate workforce need upon completion of the apprenticeship.  “Southwest Utah has the resource potential to become a national clean energy hub, and we have the human potential to make that vision a reality,” said Dr. Bill Heyborne, Dean of the College of Natural Sciences and Professor of Biology. “Our new apprenticeship program will prepare Utahns to drive much-needed energy innovation in the communities they call home.” Funding from Elemental Impact, a nonprofit investor in climate technology and community focused initiatives, enabled Fervo to offer this workforce training program.   "Demand for electricity is surging and expected to double in the US by 2030; geothermal sources, like those being deployed by Fervo, have the potential to meet that demand while boosting local jobs,” said Dawn Lippert, Founder and CEO of Elemental Impact. “We are thrilled to support this geothermal apprenticeship program and help power the transfer of valuable skills from oil and gas professionals to the geothermal industry. This initiative, in partnership with SUU, is an essential bridge to building a local workforce and advancing the clean energy transition."   Dr. Heyborne is available to speak with the media. For more information click on his icon to arrange an interview. View all posts → You might also like... Check out some other posts from Southern Utah University Feb 23, 2025 · 1 min Persuasive Attack: Threatening Reputations in Public Discourse The Department of Communications at Southern Utah University has been busy with a recent book launch garnering attention.  Dr. Kevin Stein and Dr. Matt Barton recently published Persuasive Attack: Threatening Reputations in Public Discourse.  The book investigates the nature of persuasive attack by examining the strategies used in various cases to denigrate an individual or organization for their behavior and/or character.    This groundbreaking book explores the intricate dynamics of persuasive communication, offering a critical framework for understanding how rhetorical strategies can influence public perception and discourse.    Dr. Matthew H. Barton teaches courses in Persuasion, Communication Theory, Critical Thinking, Health Communication, and Interpersonal Communication.   Dr. Kevin A. Stein's research focuses primarily on the rhetoric of attack (kategoria), defense (apologia), and persuasive responses to defense (antapologia). Other academic interests include political campaign communication and popular culture. Interested in learning more about this topic or looking to speak with either Barton or Stein - then let us help.  Simply click on either expert's icon now to arrange an interview today. Feb 23, 2025 · 3 min SUU Professor and Author Todd Petersen meets with Utah Prison Book Club Southern Utah University Professor of English and Cedar City-based author Todd Robert Petersen shared his most recent novel with the Utah Prison Education Project’s (UPEP) book club. Petersen joined the club to discuss his book, Picnic in the Ruins, and engage with readers eager to share their thoughts and questions.  “The book club program at the Utah State Prison is such an interesting program, and I was so grateful to be invited to join the group for an evening as they discussed my novel,” said Petersen. “The readers in the group were so well prepared and had so many amazing insights and perspectives to share. I love knowing that these students were so dedicated to reading carefully and well, and preparing themselves to participate in a very high-level discussion.”  Petersen has found literacy, creative thinking, and analytical thinking to be crucial skills for the future and tries to teach those skills in his courses at SUU. Petersen currently teaches Writing for the Screen, Screen Aesthetics, Advanced Fiction Writing, and Creative Writing Capstone.  “It’s a thrill to know that my book can be a tool for that kind of teaching in this special education program,” said Petersen. “It feels like a wonderful way to explore how my creative work and teaching goals can intersect in a meaningful way.”  The UPEP book club, established in 2019, has grown from three initial participants to a thriving community of readers from diverse backgrounds. The club meets every week to explore literature centered around a chosen theme. This fall, the theme, “Deseret Dreamers,” highlights works by authors with ties to Utah. The group relies on donations to provide members with copies of the books they discuss, and afterward, the books are donated to the prison library.   “Having new books in here is like a treasure for a lot of guys,” said “Craig,” a long-standing club participant. “We get to escape, explore, and see things from a different perspective.”  The club members not only brought annotated copies of the book, but also notes, questions, and quotes that resonated with them.  “I was so impressed with how carefully they had read it and how much they had researched the issues the book brings up,” Petersen said. “You drive by these buildings and form perceptions based on what you’ve seen on television or in movies,” said Petersen. “But spending time with these individuals changes everything. I want them to know they are valued, capable of change, and that learning can transform their lives.”  The English Department at SUU engages students through quality teaching and dynamic learning communities that foster an understanding of diverse literature and a command of essential writing skills.  SUU is dedicated to promoting learning and personal growth in diverse communities and is proud to have had this interaction with the Utah Prison Education Project. By connecting educators, authors, and incarcerated individuals, SUU strives to empower lives through education and literature.  If you want to know more about Todd Robert Petersen's recent book, he is available to speak with the the media. Simply click on his icon to arrange an interview today. Nov 22, 2024 · 2 min Fervo Energy, Southern Utah University, and Elemental Impact Launch Geothermal Drilling & Completions Apprenticeship Program Fervo Energy (“Fervo”), the leader in next-generation geothermal development, along with Southern Utah University (SUU), an institution known for its personalized approach to learning, and Elemental Impact (“Elemental”), a non-profit investing platform that invests in climate companies and projects with deep local impact, today announced the launch of a geothermal apprenticeship program to help oil and gas workers and Southwest Utah residents join the rapidly growing enhanced geothermal industry. The first-of-a-kind geothermal apprenticeship program advances labor momentum spurred by the Inflation Reduction Act.  The program, administered by SUU and funded in part by Elemental, will provide those seeking new skill sets with the opportunity to learn geothermal directional drilling and well completions, while combining on-the-job training with college-level coursework on geology and energy systems. This unique approach offers pathways for traditional college students as well as adult and working learners interested in careers in the geothermal energy industry.  “Thousands of Americans work in upstream oil and gas, and with the right tools, they can easily apply their skill sets to geothermal production,” said Tim Latimer, Fervo CEO and Co-Founder. “We can harness the full potential of this existing talent pool and attract new talent beyond current fossil fuel workers by providing on-the-ground and in-classroom training opportunities. We believe that our apprenticeship program with SUU can ignite that process, supporting local job growth across Southwest Utah.”  Already, 22 individuals working with ten different oilfield service providers operating in the area have registered for the geothermal apprenticeship program. By the end of 2024, the program aims to enroll at least 40 apprentices, providing them with an opportunity to fill an immediate workforce need upon completion of the apprenticeship.  “Southwest Utah has the resource potential to become a national clean energy hub, and we have the human potential to make that vision a reality,” said Dr. Bill Heyborne, Dean of the College of Natural Sciences and Professor of Biology. “Our new apprenticeship program will prepare Utahns to drive much-needed energy innovation in the communities they call home.” Funding from Elemental Impact, a nonprofit investor in climate technology and community focused initiatives, enabled Fervo to offer this workforce training program.   "Demand for electricity is surging and expected to double in the US by 2030; geothermal sources, like those being deployed by Fervo, have the potential to meet that demand while boosting local jobs,” said Dawn Lippert, Founder and CEO of Elemental Impact. “We are thrilled to support this geothermal apprenticeship program and help power the transfer of valuable skills from oil and gas professionals to the geothermal industry. This initiative, in partnership with SUU, is an essential bridge to building a local workforce and advancing the clean energy transition."   Dr. Heyborne is available to speak with the media. For more information click on his icon to arrange an interview. View all posts → Powered by X LinkedIn © ExpertFile Inc. 2025 All rights reserved.