Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/nintendo A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to nintendo r/nintendo r/nintendo r/Nintendo is a community to discuss Nintendo's past, present and future. Members Online • Asad_Farooqui How Xenoblade Almost Didn’t Make It to America: A Brief History of Operation Rainfall It’s almost hard to believe that Xenoblade Chronicles, a relatively new Nintendo series, has quickly become such a household name in the JRPG space. The Switch has blessed the world with more entries in this series than any other, and Nintendo assuredly has this IP in their good graces now, much like Fire Emblem. But it wasn’t always sunshine and rainbows. To see how this series fought so hard to get the recognition it rightfully earned, we need to travel back to the twilight years of the Wii era. The year is 2010. After a strong first few years delivering high quality first party titles, the Wii’s library slowed to a crawl and gave way to more casual games and mountains of shovelware. While there were still a handful of big titles planned for that year like Mario Galaxy 2, Kirby’s Epic Yarn, and Sonic Colors, most of the heavy hitters had come and gone by this point. Meanwhile on the other side of the pond, Japan was priming up its holiday season with a trio of role playing games exclusive to the Wii: The Last Story (developed by the folks behind Lost Odyssey), Pandora’s Tower (developed by a studio primarily known for licensed Shonen Jump titles), and finally Xenoblade Chronicles. All three games would release in Japan from late 2010 though early 2011. European localizations of all three titles would also be confirmed (courtesy of Nintendo of Europe), and they would all be published by Nintendo in the region. Xenoblade’s director Tetsuya Takahashi was under the impression that the games would naturally all be localized in North America… but that didn’t happen. Nintendo of America stayed tight-lipped on the situation for most of the year, and they even actively stopped Nintendo of Europe from showing off Xenoblade themselves at E3 2011. After seeing all these attempts by NOA to sweep the games under the rug, it was up to the fans… to end the drought. Born in an IGN message board post in mid-2011, a group of passionate volunteers announced they were galvanizing into a movement to bring more hardcore titles (not just RPGs) to North America. Their campaign, dubbed Operation Rainfall, focused their efforts on the three RPGs already mentioned, and they were damn persistent. They sent emails, signed petitions, and bombarded their Facebook and Twitter accounts demanding that NOA release the games in North America. They even managed to force the Amazon preorder listing for Xenoblade, then only known under its placeholder name “ Monado ”, all the way to #1, beating out Ocarina of Time 3D. Another important detail to note was that if Nintendo wasn’t going to publish the games themselves, the campaign would pitch them to another Japanese publisher that would, like Atlus or NIS America. Nintendo did get fans’ hopes up with a generic “never say never” post on Twitter, but didn’t say another word until that holiday season. Thankfully this story does have a happy ending after all. On December 2, 2011, victory was achieved as Nintendo finally announced that Xenoblade would be released in North America on April 6 as a GameStop exclusive. And this wasn’t the end, as on the same day as its European launch, The Last Story would also be confirmed for North America courtesy of XSeed Games. These two titles finally coming over was a great sign surely, but there was no word of Pandora’s Tower getting an American release. But then out of the blue in early 2013, XSeed Games announced they would publish Pandora’s Tower in the States later that April, much to the campaign’s bewilderment. After nearly two whole years, Operation Rainfall was declared a success, and the original website has since been disbanded. We won. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 25, 2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2022 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics