Google CEO Pichai expects value from search and AI - Taipei Times Front Page Taiwan News Business Editorial & Opinion Sports World News Features Bilingual Pages Search Search All Front Page Taiwan News Business Editorial & Opinion Sports World News Features Bilingual Pages GO Home Business Thu, Nov 18, 2021 page10 Google CEO Pichai expects value from search and AI Bloomberg While many other technology giants embrace the metaverse as the next frontier of growth, Alphabet Inc chief executive officer Sundar Pichai sees Google’s future in its oldest offering: Internet search. “I feel fortunate our mission is timeless,” Pichai said in an interview in Singapore. “There’s more need to organize information than ever before.” Earlier this month, Google parent Alphabet briefly crossed US$2 trillion in market value thanks to sales and profit growth during the COVID-19 pandemic. Alphabet Inc chief executive officer Sundar Pichai speaks at a conference in Brussels on Jan. 20 last year. Photo: AFP When asked where the next US$1 trillion would come from, Pichai pointed to his company’s core service. People will ask computers more questions with voice and “multimodal experiences,” he said. “Being able to adapt to all that and evolve search will continue to be the biggest opportunity.” Since taking over Google in 2015, Pichai has pushed the company deeper into cloud computing and artificial intelligence (AI), while facing an increase in regulatory scrutiny. In the interview, Pichai ticked off Google’s key growth businesses — cloud, the YouTube video service and its app store — and said AI investments were “underlying” each of them. The India-born CEO also said he expects that more of Google’s products would be developed and tested in Asia first, before spreading across the globe. Not in China, though. After icing plans to bring search to China in 2018, following an employee uproar, Google has kept most of its services out of the nation. “I don’t see that changing,” Pichai said. However, he does not share other Silicon Valley executives’ dim view of China’s tech advances. Pichai acknowledged that Google is “neck to neck” with Chinese companies in AI and quantum computing, but argued that the US and China have room to collaborate in areas such as climate change and AI safety. Some of Google’s largest peers, such as Microsoft Corp and Facebook parent Meta Platforms Inc, have pitched their futures around the virtual worlds of the metaverse. Google has taken several approaches at virtual and augmented reality products, with limited success. Years ago, its first attempt, the Google Glass headgear, flopped. Google recently placed these efforts in a new division reporting to Pichai, although he did not provide specifics about the strategy. “I’ve always been excited about the future of immersive computing,” he said. “This doesn’t belong to any company. This is the evolution of the Internet.” Promoters of the metaverse often talk about the potential to build in new technologies such as blockchain and cryptocurrencies. Aside from some cloud partnerships, Google has largely steered clear of this part of the industry. Pichai said he does not own any cryptocurrency. “I wish I did,” he said. “I’ve dabbled in it, you know, in and out.” Most Popular 1 Bologna advance to face AC Milan in Coppa final 2 Wild’s top line too much for Vegas Golden Knights 3 Taiwan draws attention at World Expo 4 Wolves hold off Lakers 116-104 to take series lead 5 Argentina’s Pope Francis gets stadium and a jersey You might also like Quanta Computer Inc marks 37th anniversary 2025-04-26 Quanta Computer Inc (廣達) chairman Barry Lam (林百里) is expected to share his views about the artificial intelligence (AI) industry’s prospects during his speech at the company’s 37th anniversary ceremony, as AI servers have become a new growth engine for the equipment manufacturing service provider. Lam’s speech is much anticipated, as Quanta has risen as one of the world’s major AI server suppliers. The company reported a 30 percent year-on-year growth in consolidated revenue to NT$1.41 trillion (US$43.35 billion) last year, thanks to fast-growing demand for servers, especially those with AI capabilities. The company told investors in November last year that By Meryl Kao Intel names new Taiwan head to boost partnerships 2025-04-29 Intel Corp has named Tasha Chuang (莊蓓瑜) to lead Intel Taiwan in a bid to reinforce relations between the company and its Taiwanese partners. The appointment of Chuang as general manager for Intel Taiwan takes effect on Thursday, the firm said in a statement yesterday. Chuang is to lead her team in Taiwan to pursue product development and sales growth in an effort to reinforce the company’s ties with its partners and clients, Intel said. Chuang was previously in charge of managing Intel’s ties with leading Taiwanese PC brand Asustek Computer Inc (華碩), which included helping Asustek strengthen its global businesses, the company UMC forecasts growth in chip wafer shipments despite tariff uncertainty 2025-04-24 United Microelectronics Corp (UMC, 聯電) forecast that its wafer shipments this quarter would grow up to 7 percent sequentially and the factory utilization rate would rise to 75 percent, indicating that customers did not alter their ordering behavior due to the US President Donald Trump’s capricious US tariff policies. However, the uncertainty about US tariffs has weighed on the chipmaker’s business visibility for the second half of this year, UMC chief financial officer Liu Chi-tung (劉啟東) said at an online earnings conference yesterday. “Although the escalating trade tensions and global tariff policies have increased uncertainty in the semiconductor industry, we have not By Lisa Wang Delta unveils 1MW charging piles 2025-04-25 Power supply and electronic components maker Delta Electronics Inc (台達電) yesterday said it plans to ship its new 1 megawatt charging systems for electric trucks and buses in the first half of next year at the earliest. The new charging piles, which deliver up to 1 megawatt of charging power, are designed for heavy-duty electric vehicles, and support a maximum current of 1,500 amperes and output of 1,250 volts, Delta said in a news release. “If everything goes smoothly, we could begin shipping those new charging systems as early as in the first half of next year,” a company official said. The new By Meryl Kao Front Page Taiwan News Business Editorial & Opinion Sports World News Features Bilingual Pages About Us Employment Contact Us RSS Copyright © 1999-2025 The Taipei Times. All rights reserved.