FIFA gives president Infantino 33% raise in pay deal worth CHF4.13 million - SWI swissinfo.ch Jump to home page Jump to navigation Jump to content Skip to search The Swiss voice in the world since 1935 Login Search Close Menu Close Search Search Home About us Democracy International Geneva Foreign Affairs Swiss Politics Science Multinational Companies Culture Life & Aging Swiss Abroad Switzerland: How To Swiss Films / Podcasts / Videos Debates Special reports Opinions Newsletters Search en English de Deutsch fr Français it Italiano es Español pt Português ja 日本語 ar العربية zh 中文 ru Русский News Swiss Perspectives FIFA gives president Infantino 33% raise in pay deal worth CHF4.13 million KEYSTONE FIFA raised president Gianni Infantino's base salary 33% last year to lift his total pay package to more than CHF4.13 million ($4.67 million), soccer’s governing body said in its financial report. This content was published on March 16, 2024 - 11:50 5 minutes Keystone-SDA Infantino was re-elected unopposed in 2023 to extend his presidency to 11 years before FIFA staged the Women’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand and picked preferred candidates to host two future men’s World Cups, including the 2034 edition in Saudi Arabia. Infantino’s pre-tax base salary payment rose by more than CHF500,000 ($565,000) last year to reach more than CHF2.46 million ($2.78 million). His annual bonus was CHF1.65 million ($1.87 million), the same as in 2022 when the men’s World Cup was played in Qatar. The previous FIFA president, Sepp Blatter, had a contracted bonus of $12 million for the 2014 World Cup on top of a $3 million basic salary and annual bonuses. Infantino had a home in Qatar to oversee preparations for the 2022 tournament and now spends time in Florida, where FIFA has offices at Coral Gables, ahead of the United States co-hosting the next men’s World Cup with Canada and Mexico. Florida does not have a state income tax. FIFA has budgeted for total revenue of $11 billion in the four-year financial cycle from 2023 through 2026 with Saudi sponsors including state oil firm Aramco expected to join longtime partners Coca-Cola, Adidas and Visa. The 2026 World Cup will be the first with 48 teams and include 104 games. +Hooliganism in football: Swiss authorities gamble on tough approach FIFA’s typically conservative projection did not include income for the 32-team men’s Club World Cup that launches next year in the U.S. FIFA paid its CEO-like secretary general Fatma Samoura the same CHF1.9 million ($2.15 million) package in her final year in the job as in 2022. She got a salary of CHF1.3 million ($1.47 million) and CHF600,000 ($670,000) bonus before leaving in December. Infantino has operated as an executive leader despite recommendations by a reforms panel — of which he was a member — created after corruption scandals in 2015 that the FIFA president should have a more figurehead role. That reform group also insisted on publishing details of management pay. FIFA pay is set up by a compensation panel chaired by Mukul Mudgal, a retired judge from India who oversees governance and compliance at the soccer body, for which he was paid $250,000 last year. Payments to the 37-member FIFA Council stayed the same. The six vice presidents who lead continental soccer bodies got a net amount of $300,000 plus expenses. Other members got $250,000 plus expenses annually. The president of European soccer body UEFA, Aleksander Čeferin, also was paid a gross salary without bonus of almost CHF2.9 million ($3.26 million), according to its financial report published last month. In comparison, chief executive Richard Masters of the English Premier League, the most lucrative domestic soccer competition, had a salary of 1.8 million pounds ($2.3 million) in 2022. Most of FIFA’s commercial income is tied to the men’s World Cup and will be booked in the accounts for 2026. In 2023, the Women’s World Cup year, FIFA said it had revenue of $1.17 billion with $456 million from marketing deals and $267 million from broadcasting. Ticket and hospitality sales for the 32-team, 64-game women’s tournament were $43 million. FIFA said it spent and invested almost $1.75 billion in 2023, with $499 million going toward the Women’s World Cup. Payments to participating teams, players and their clubs who released them rose to $152 million. FIFA now pays each of its 211 member federations up to $8 million every four years, and that program was worth $470 million in soccer development funding last year. Financial reserves fell slightly to almost $3.6 billion, FIFA said, describing the total as “a very solid level.” It should fall in each of the next two years then rise again in 2026. How we work This news story has been written and carefully fact-checked by an external editorial team. At SWI swissinfo.ch we select the most relevant news for an international audience and use automatic translation tools such as DeepL to translate it into English. Providing you with automatically translated news gives us the time to write more in-depth articles. If you want to know more about how we work, have a look here , and if you have feedback on this news story please write to english@swissinfo.ch . External Content Your subscription could not be saved. Please try again. Almost finished… We need to confirm your email address. To complete the subscription process, please click the link in the email we just sent you. Daily news Get the most important news from Switzerland in your inbox. Daily Email The SBC Privacy Policy provides additional information on how your data is processed. I consent to the use of my data for the SWI swissinfo.ch newsletter. Subscribe Popular Stories More Life & Aging Zurich: how the world capital of housing shortages is tackling the problem Read more: Zurich: how the world capital of housing shortages is tackling the problem More Alpine Environment The Swiss Alps ski village that is luring nervous Americans Read more: The Swiss Alps ski village that is luring nervous Americans More Swiss Abroad The Böögg, Switzerland’s exploding psychic snowman Read more: The Böögg, Switzerland’s exploding psychic snowman More Swiss Abroad Switzerland Today Read more: Switzerland Today More Banking & Fintech Swiss franc surge sparks bets on negative interest rates Read more: Swiss franc surge sparks bets on negative interest rates Most Discussed Next Previous More Debate Hosted by: Pauline Turuban Did you immigrate to Switzerland? What are your experiences? What were the circumstances of your immigration to Switzerland? And what motivated your decision to stay or leave? Join the discussion Apr 1, 2025 7 Likes 26 Comments View the discussion More Debate Hosted by: Marc Leutenegger What are your experiences with housing shortages and rising property prices? Switzerland is steering towards a housing crisis. Are there solutions? Join the discussion Apr 25, 2025 1 Comments View the discussion More Debate Hosted by: Aylin Elçi How are mental illnesses treated in your country? In Switzerland more people are being referred to electrical therapies or psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy. Are there similar approaches where you live? Join the discussion Apr 23, 2025 1 Comments View the discussion More Debates News More Plane grazes hikers on Monte Rosa This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 A Geneva-registered tourist plane grazed some ski mountaineers on Saturday on a glacier on the Swiss side of the Monte Rosa massif. Read more: Plane grazes hikers on Monte Rosa More Sharp rise in reports of suspicious sports betting in Switzerland This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 Last year the Intercantonal Gambling Supervisory Authority received 184 reports of suspicious activities in connection with 166 sports competitions. Read more: Sharp rise in reports of suspicious sports betting in Switzerland More Swiss fencers apologise for diplomatic scandal with Israel This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 Two days after causing a diplomatic scandal at the U23 European Championships in Tallinn, the Swiss fencers responsible have published a jointly signed apology on Instagram. Read more: Swiss fencers apologise for diplomatic scandal with Israel More Air in climbing gyms more polluted than on streets This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 The concentration of potentially harmful chemicals in climbing gyms is sometimes higher than on busy roads, say researchers from Switzerland and Austria. Read more: Air in climbing gyms more polluted than on streets More SWISS reports lower profit in first quarter This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 Swiss International Air Lines (SWISS) achieved slightly higher sales at the start of the year. However, profits fell sharply, partly due to the late Easter. Read more: SWISS reports lower profit in first quarter More Switzerland’s first padel court on water built in Arosa This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 Switzerland's first padel tennis court on water will open on the Obersee in Arosa, canton Graubünden, for the 2025 summer season. Read more: Switzerland’s first padel court on water built in Arosa More Swiss drink significantly less wine This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 Wine consumption in Switzerland fell by almost 8% in 2024 compared to the previous year. Swiss wines are particularly affected by the decline. Read more: Swiss drink significantly less wine More Jackie Chan to be honoured for life’s work at Locarno Film Festival This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 Martial artist Jackie Chan will receive an Honorary Leopard, a lifetime achievement award, from the Locarno Film Festival in southern Switzerland in August. Read more: Jackie Chan to be honoured for life’s work at Locarno Film Festival More Novartis raises forecast again after strong Q1 results This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 Swiss pharmaceutical giant Novartis has continued the strong pace of growth of recent quarters in the first three months of 2025. Read more: Novartis raises forecast again after strong Q1 results More Swiss canton holds first general meeting on winegrowing This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 More than 250 professionals attended the first general meeting of the Valais wine industry on Monday in Conthey, western Switzerland. Read more: Swiss canton holds first general meeting on winegrowing Load more In compliance with the JTI standards More: SWI swissinfo.ch certified by the Journalism Trust Initiative You can find an overview of ongoing debates with our journalists here . Please join us! If you want to start a conversation about a topic raised in this article or want to report factual errors, email us at english@swissinfo.ch . Follow us Stay informed daily about news in Switzerland with our Briefing in the SWI plus app for the Swiss abroad. Imprint Data Privacy Statement Terms of Use Rights to content and liability Jobs Play SWI About us Annual Report 2024 Newsletters Podcasts Contact SWI swissinfo.ch - a branch of Swiss Broadcasting Corporation SRG SSR RTS SRF RSI RTR SWI swissinfo.ch - a branch of Swiss Broadcasting Corporation SRG SSR