Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/NintendoSwitch A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to NintendoSwitch r/NintendoSwitch r/NintendoSwitch The central hub for all news, updates, rumors, and topics relating to the Nintendo Switch & Nintendo Switch 2. We are a fan-run community, not an official Nintendo forum. Members Online • iamthatguy54 Quick and dirty "What is Torna and when should I play it for Xenoblade Chronicles 2" since the question always comes up when XC2 gets a popularity boost Discussion What is Torna: The Golden Country? It's a DLC expansion of XC2 that serves as a prequel to the main story. When should I play it? Torna, The Golden Country was originally conceived as taking place between Chapters 7 and 8 of the main game. However, it soon got too big for what was essentially a playable flashback sequence, so it was cut from the main game and sold as a DLC expansion that lasts about 20 hours (so basically, a full-size normal game or a short JRPG). As such, Torna spoils every mystery that Chapters 1-7 of the main game have already covered, and spoils one minor thing from a later chapter. It also has an entirely different combat system to the main game. For this reason, the majority of the fanbase is of the opinion that you should play Torna AFTER you beat the main game due to spoilers, pacing (it's 20 hours game), and shifting to a different combat system only to shift back later.  HOWEVER, Torna adds a lot of narrative and emotional context to a few characters, as it was originally envisioned as part of the main game. For that reason, Executive Director Tetsuya Takahashi, father of the Xeno series, is of the opinion that you should play Torna BETWEEN Chapters 7 and 8 of the main game to get the narrative as he intended. This is something the majority of the fanbase disagrees with, since the main game worked around this .  NEITHER Takakashi nor the fanbase recommends playing Torna before the main game, due to spoilers, though some people have experienced XC2 that way and have had a positive experience. Why is there a physical copy? Because Torna grew to the point of basically being a second game rather than just small DLC expansion, it was sold separately as its own entry. It's more akin to something like Uncharted: Lost Legacy. Buying the physical version of Torna will come with codes for all the other XC2 DLC that's not part of the Torna expansion. Additionally, you can just buy it digitally as DLC for the main game. That's it. I hope that helps anyone confused. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 25, 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2021 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics