Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/changemyview A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to changemyview r/changemyview r/changemyview A place to post an opinion you accept may be flawed, in an effort to understand other perspectives on the issue. Enter with a mindset for conversation, not debate. Members Online • assallou CMV: The Shape of Water is an extremely overrated movie and should have never won the Oscar for Best Picture FTFdeltaOP I recently rewatched The Shape of Water and I am not a movie critique nor expert, but the realization dawned on me that it is an exquisitely bland movie that lacks an absurd amount of substance. The Shape of Water plays on to the basic beauty and the beast trope, but it does not go any further than that. The movie weighs heavily on the cinematography and strays away from any actual plot or substance. It is an intermediate form of movie writing and does not deserve any more than a Redbox rental. The movie barely dives into the actual underlying foundation for why anything happens, there is no room for individual thought and it is pressed into the viewer’s brain that there is only one way to think and that is with the protagonist. According to Vox, "It’s a beautifully shot movie with a story that follows the traditional arcs of a fairy tale romance." I believe that it is exactly why it should not have won, it has been done before. Compared to other past winners, such as Moonlight, which was original and intriguing. There is no relevance to the Shape of Water, no bigger picture. A mute woman falls in love with a sea creature who likes eggs. If that’s the precedent for winning an Oscar, then The Leprechaun would have been a phenomenal candidate. The movie is visually outstanding, but so is The Curious Case of Benjamin Button and it is an incredibly lifeless movie starring Brad Pitt! Without the visuals the movie would merely be a pathetic case for an “original” plot. Quite honestly, coming from Guillermo del Toro I would not expect much, all of his movies rely on visuals such as Crimson Peak or The Hobbit. These movies appeal to the eye and the only Oscar that this movie truly deserved was Best Visuals. Overall, the movie is basic with jaw dropping visuals. The movie won four Oscars, so it is obviously well received and I’d like to understand what is so special about its standard format. Change my view!! Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of October 5, 2018 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of October 2018 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2018 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics