NBC Different Order Sizes New Series The Blacklist: Redemption, Marlon Skip to main content Open Mega Menu Got A Tip? deadline-logo-svg Deadline Follow Us: site categories TV Film Awards Awards Hub Digital Issues Box Office Biz International Politics Theater Reviews Obits Video Events Contenders Television: Docs+Unscripted+Variety Television Film: Nominees Film: Documentary Film: International Film: Los Angeles Film: London Sound & Screen Film Television Other For The Love Of Docs Visual Effects + Screen Festivals North America Sundance Toronto Telluride SXSW Tribeca Europe Cannes Zurich Venice Berlin/EFM Middle East Red Sea Asia Tokyo Insider News Alerts Menu deadline-logo-svg Deadline Read Next: Michael Fishman On ‘The Conners’ Series Finale Absence: “Thankful For The Gift Of Grief” Got A Tip? Tip Us Dismiss News Banner Breaking News Horror Is All The ROI Rage For Small & Midsize Movies In 2024’s Most Valuable Blockbuster Tournament Read the full story Home TV Primetime Pilot Panic NBC Varies Order Sizes For New Series By Nellie Andreeva Nellie Andreeva Co-Editor-in-Chief, TV @DeadlineNellie More Stories By Nellie CBS Pushes New Matthew Gray Gubler Series ‘Einstein’ To 2026-27 Season ‘Desperate Housewives’ Offshoot ‘Wisteria Lane’ In Works At Onyx From Kerry Washington & Natalie Chaidez Matt Lauria To Star With Morena Baccarin In ‘Sheriff Country’ CBS Series View All May 17, 2016 7:31am 19 Comments Services to share this page. Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Email Show more sharing options Share on LinkedIn Pin it Submit to Reddit Post to Tumblr Share on WhatsApp Print This Page NBC I’ve learned that the orders for NBC ‘s 13 new scripted series for next season vary, from the standard 13 episodes to eight. The decision on the size of each order was made based primarily on scheduling, with the network taking into the account the likely places for the shows that did not land on the fall schedule. Primetime-Panic Your Complete Guide to Pilots and Straight-to-Series orders See All Among the comedies, I hear Mike Schur’s fall series The Good Place and Tracey Wigfield’s midseason Great News, produced by Tina Fey and Robert Carlock, have been ordered for 13 episodes. Both come from Universal TV. Warner Bros. TV’s Powerless and Trial & Error — both for midseason — also are producing 13 episodes each, which I hear was built into the projects’ license fee deals. The remaining midseason comedy, the multi-camera Marlon , from Uni TV, has been ordered for 10 episodes. NBC also was looking to order 10 episodes of its other multi-camera comedy, sophomore The Carmichael Show , but eventually upped that to 13 episodes after leading studio 20th TV balked at the shortened order. On the drama side, the straight-to-series Emerald City and Taken are 10 episodes each, while The Blacklist spinoff is eight. I hear the eight-episode order for The Blacklist: Redemption came out of a very specific spot considered in the fall. The spinoff ended up being held for midseason, but the order remained the same, and I hear it fits with NBC’s current plans for it. The other new dramas are the standard 13 episodes. Planning ahead on the sizes of the orders helps avoid reductions down the line. It happened last fall when NBC trimmed the orders for midseason comedies Superstore and Telenovela from 13 to 11 episodes after figuring out their spots on the schedule. (They bridged the two cycles of The Voice on Monday). The reduction had no bearing on the shows’ prospects — Superstore became a breakout hit and landed as a Thursday 8 PM anchor on the next fall schedule — but any order cut news inevitably has a perceived negative connotation. If the network’s needs change, it can add on extra episodes to the original abbreviated order. For dramas, making orders tailored to the network’s scheduling need would allow creators to plan the arcs of their stories. The drawback for new series with smaller orders would be that their showrunners have to compete for hot writers with other new series that have 13-episode pickups, guaranteeing scribes more paychecks. Meanwhile, by trimming several orders, the network could save enough for another series pickup. Must Read Stories Hide Articles Onyx Preps ‘Desperate Housewives’ Offshoot Via Kerry Washington & Natalie Chaidez Bleecker Street Media Founder & CEO Andrew Karpen Dies Of Cancer At 59 Donald Trump Tussles With Terry Moran During ABC News Interview ‘Thunderbolts*’ Looks To Fire Up The Summer With $175M Global Bow: Preview Read More About: Breaking News NBC 19 Comments Subscribe to Deadline Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Sign Up 19 Comments JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Sidebar Trending on Deadline 1 "Frankly, I Never Heard Of You": A Testy Donald Trump Tussles With Terry Moran During Contentious ABC News Interview Marking POTUS' First 100 Days 2 Disney & Marvel Don't Want To Play Nicepool With Justin Baldoni Over 'Deadpool' In Blake Lively Battle 3 Final Autopsy Reports Confirm Cause Of Death For Gene Hackman & His Wife Betsy Arakawa 4 'Thunderbolts*' Looks To Create Lightning And Fire Up Summer Box Office With $175M Global Opening - Preview 5 Louis Theroux On Returning To The West Bank After 15 Years For BBC Doc 'The Settlers' & Being "Perpetrator Focused" -- Guest Column 6 CBS Pushes New Matthew Gray Gubler Series 'Einstein' To 2026-27 Season 7 Smaller Movies, Big Profit: Horror Is All The ROI Rage In 2024's Most Valuable Blockbuster Tournament 8 'Dexter: Resurrection' Sets Premiere Date; Drops First Teaser Trailer 9 'The King Of Kings' Surpasses 'Parasite' To Become Top-Grossing Korean Film In The U.S. 10 Michael Fishman On 'The Conners' Series Finale Absence: "Thankful For The Gift Of Grief" deadline-logo-svg Deadline Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Latest TV News Wow! Emmy-Winning World Of Wonder Founders Fenton Bailey And Randy Barbato To Be Guests Of Honor At Sheffield DocFest Michael Fishman On 'The Conners' Series Finale Absence: "Thankful For The Gift Of Grief" "Frankly, I Never Heard Of You": A Testy Donald Trump Tussles With Terry Moran During Contentious ABC News Interview Marking POTUS' First 100 Days CBS Pushes New Matthew Gray Gubler Series 'Einstein' To 2026-27 Season Marketplace Newswire Deadline About Us Advertise Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility AdChoices California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Sitemap TV Film Awards Box Office Business International Connect with Us Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks Have a Tip? We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Send Us a Tip Stay in the Know Sign up for our breaking news alerts Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. PMC Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Site Close the menu deadline-logo-svg TV Expand the sub-menu Castings Ratings Late-Night Primetime Pilot Panic Film Expand the sub-menu Festivals Reviews Castings Acquisitions Documentary Awards Expand the sub-menu Awards Hub Emmys Oscars Tonys Box Office Expand the sub-menu International B.O. Specialty B.O. Broadway B.O. Business Expand the sub-menu Politics Legal Executives Agencies International Expand the sub-menu Festivals Film TV International Insider Video Expand the sub-menu Trailers The Actor's Side Behind The Lens The Process More Expand the sub-menu Obituaries Theater Music Podcasts Insider Follow Us Alerts & Newsletters Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertise About Us Give us feedback Leave us a tip Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. ad