iPhone 11 Price: How Can You Preorder the iPhone 11 & 11 Pro? - Thrillist Skip to main content Thrillist Subscribe Go to Navigation Navigation Destinations Athens Budapest Cancun Chicago Hong Kong Las Vegas Lisbon London Los Angeles Montego Bay Munich New York Paris Tokyo Guides Road Trips March Madness Travel Itineraries Event Guides Trends & Tips Video News Apple Changed Its Usual New iPhone Pre-Order Time. Here's When It Starts This Week. By Thrillist News Updated on Sep 10, 2019 at 4:01 PM Courtesy of Apple Courtesy of Apple Apple officially unveiled its much-anticipated lineup of new iPhones on Tuesday, during an event packed with details on new products and iPhone features, like camera enhancements, battery life improvements, and even some new color finish options . But enough with the new processor speeds, colors, and blah, blah, blah -- the most important details are when and where you can get your hands on the new phones . As expected, the company is largely following the new iPhone pre-order and release date pattern we've seen in recent years. Pre-orders start the Friday after the announcement event, the iPhones land in stores around the world the following Friday. There's just one interesting exception this year: the pre-order time has been pushed back a few hours later than usual, so that you -- as Apple suggested onstage at the event -- can get a bit more sleep. Instead of starting at 12:01am Pacific Time, pre-orders kick off at 5am Pacific Time on Friday . Here's a quick breakdown of what you need to know about pre-orders, launch dates, and pricing: iPhone 11 Pre-orders start date: Friday, September 13 at 5am Pacific Time Launch date in stores: Friday, September 20 Pricing: Starting at $699 ($699 for 64GB, $749 for 128GB, and $849 for 256GB) iPhone 11 Pro Pre-orders start date: Friday, September 13 at 5am Pacific Time Launch date in stores: Friday, September 20 Pricing: Starting at $999 ($999 for 64GB, $1,149 for 256GB, and $1,349 for 512GB) iPhone 11 Pro Max Pre-orders start date: Friday, September 13 at 5am Pacific Time Launch date in stores: Friday, September 20 Pricing: Starting at $1,099 ($1,099 for 64GB, $1,249 for 256GB, and $1,449 for 512 GB) In addition to Apple's pre-orders and in-store launches, your cellular carrier is probably offering similar ways to get the new iPhones as well, so be on the lookout for that if you're itching to get your hands on the new phones ASAP. Sign up here for our daily Thrillist email and subscribe here for our YouTube channel to get your fix of the best in food/drink/fun. Send news tips to news@thrillist.com and follow Thrillist on Twitter @thrillist . By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy. Cookie Settings Ethics Statement Community Guidelines How to Pitch About Us Newsletter Careers Advertise With Us Press Accessibility Privacy Cookie Policy Terms + Conditions This publication is a Vox Media network. © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved. Subscribe Destinations Athens Budapest Cancun Chicago Hong Kong Las Vegas Lisbon London Los Angeles Montego Bay Munich New York Paris Tokyo Guides Road Trips March Madness Travel Itineraries Event Guides Trends & Tips Video Subscribe to Thrillist Daily Adventure is always around the corner. And now it’s also in your inbox! Subscribe By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy. Cookie Settings Ethics Statement Community Guidelines How to Pitch About Us Newsletter Careers Advertise With Us Press Accessibility Privacy Cookie Policy Terms + Conditions © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved.