Gianni Infantino elected FIFA president, replaces ousted Sepp Blatter – New York Daily News Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 69°F Friday, April 25th 2025 Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition Home Page Subscriber Services Daily E-Edition Evening E-Edition News Crime and Public Safety Politics National News World News Photos and Videos Espanol Local News New York News Manhattan Bronx Brooklyn Queens NYC Crime Education New York Politics Sports Sports Yankees Mets Giants Jets Knicks Nets Liberty Rangers Islanders Baseball Basketball Football Hockey Soccer Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorial Cartoons SNYDE Viva Things To Do Things To Do Best Reviews Fitness Restaurants, Food and Drink Fun and Games Horoscopes Advertise Advertise with Us Classifieds Public Notices Branded Content Paid Partner Content Advertising by Ascend Paid Content by Brandpoint Special Sections About Us Help Center Contact Us Automotive Photo requests, reprints Archives TAG Disclosure Contests Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Gianni Infantino elected FIFA president,… Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Click to share on X (Opens in new window) Subscribe Login Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Log In Search 69°F Friday, April 25th 2025 Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition E-Newspaper National News NYC Crime Politics Sports SNYDE Eats Photos Puzzles & Games Obituaries Transportation Trending: Today’s horoscope Asking Eric Today in history George Santos sentenced to 7 years, 3 months Giants draft QB Intended target in shootout cuffed Sports Soccer Gianni Infantino elected FIFA president, replaces ousted Sepp Blatter Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Click to share on X (Opens in new window) LUCAS JACKSON/Reuters From 1999 to 2005, Lance Armstrong was under speculation for using performance-enhancing drugs after winning the Tour de France seven years in a row. Despite denying usage, Armstrong was formally charged by the U.S Anti-Doping Agency in June 2012. On Aug. 23, 2012 Armstrong gave up his fight with the USADA stating, "There comes a point in every man's life when he has to say, 'Enough is enough.' For me, that time is now." Armstrong was stripped of his titles the next day, but it wasn't until an interview with Oprah in Jan. 2013, that he partially confessed to doping. AFP Photo/DSK/AFP/Getty Images United States prosecutors have accused several officials from FIFA, football's governing body, of various crimes including wire fraud, money laundering and racketeering involving millions of dollars over the course of 24 years. So far 14 people have been indicted as FIFA president Sepp Blatter, who is not one, vowed to kick out any other corrupt executives who can face jail time and stiff fines. FBI agents raided a headquarters office in Miami Beach, Florida on may 27, 2015 as part of the international investigation on FIFA. Joe Fudge/AP Photo On July 17, 2007, Michael Vick was indicted by the federal government of running and bankrolling a dogfighting operation that was headquartered on his property in Surry County, Virginia. On Aug. 27 he pleaded guilty to the charges and was sentenced to 23 months in jail, but only served 19. He returned to the NFL and currently plays for the Jets. AP Photo/Danny Moloshok In April 2014, Clippers owner Donald Sterling received a lifetime ban from the NBA and was fined $2.5 million after an audio tape leaked of the 81-year-old going on a racist rant to his girlfriend at the time, 31-year old V. Stiviano. Joseph R. Villarin/AP Photo Acquitted of double murder in a sensationalized trial in 1994-95, the Juice can't stay loose forever. In 2008, O. J. Simpson was convicted of armed robbery and kidnapping of two sports memorabilia dealers when the Hall of Famer and five accomplices stormed a Las Vegas hotel room to take items Simpson claimed had been stolen from him. He was sentenced to a 33-year term that he is currently serving as his lawyers argue for his release. AP Photo/Shane Young On Jan. 6, 1994 Nancy Kerrigan was leaving rehearsal for the U.S. Figure Skating Championship, when she was attacked by an unidentified assailant who struck her on the right knee with a metal battalion. Kerrigan's injuries forced her to drop out of the competition, allowing Tonya Hardin to win. It turned out that Harding's ex-husband, Jeff Gillooly, and her bodyguard hired someone to break Kerrigan's right leg so that she would be unable to skate. Harding escaped jail time by pleading guilty to conspiracy and only served three years of probation. AP Photo South African Olympic runner Oscar Pistorius was sentenced to five years in prison for killing his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp in 2013 after firing four gunshots through a bathroom door. Pistorius was found guilty of culpable homicide, or manslaughter, but was acquitted of premeditated murder, which would have guaranteed a long prison term. FABRICE COFFRINI/AFP/Getty Images Suspended FIFA president Sepp Blatter looks on as fake dollar notes fly around him, thrown by a British comedian during a press conference at the FIFA world-body headquarter's in July 2015. The soccer governing body is preparing to elect a new leader in Zurich, Switzerland. Andy Lyons/Getty Images The head coach of Louisville Cardinals Rick Pitino and athletic director Tom Jurich have been fired after the program was linked to a federal investigation into fraud and corruption in recruiting, according to ESPN. Neither Pitino or Jurich commented after leaving a brief meeting with Louisville interim president Greg Postel, but the university is set to hold a press conference at 1 p.m., without Pitino or Jurich present. The news comes to just one day after the Department of Justice charged 10 people in conjunction with a corruption and fraud scheme and implicated the Cardinals program with steering players to schools and agents in exchange for money. AP The candidates in the FIFA presidential election include (from left) Prince Ali Bin Al Hussein, Jerome Champagne, Sheikh Salman Al Khalifa, Tokyo Sexwale and Gianni Infantino. Jamie Squire/Getty Images The findings of the NFL's investigation of "Deflategate" were revealed and all fingers pointed to New England Patriots star quarterback Tom Brady. Brady has been suspended without pay for the first four games of the 2015 football season after an investigator concluded he was probably aware that team personnel let air out for the footballs for a playoff game. "Quarterback Tom Brady will be suspended without pay for the first four games of the 2015 regular season for conduct detrimental to the integrity of the NFL." the league said in a statement Monday afternoon. "Brady may participate in all off-season, training camp and pre-season activities, including pre-season games." The team was accused of deflating balls prior to the championship game against the Colts on Jan. 18, 2015. The Patriots' win sent them into the Super Bowl, which they won against the Seattle Seahawks. Getty IMages In 2009, it came to light that Tiger Woods had been cheating on his wife Elin with multiple women. A few months later, companies like AT&T and Gatorade began to drop Tiger and on Feb. 19, 2010, he gave a speech stating he had been in a 45-day therapy program since the end of Dec. His inevitable divorce was finalized on Aug. 23, 2010. Reuters In July 2003, Kobe Bryan was arrested after allegedly raping a 19-year-old hotel employee at The Lodge and Spa at Cordillera, a hotel in Edwards, Colorado, where he was staying. The case was dropped after the accuser refused to testify, but she later filed a separate civil suit against Bryant, which settled out of court. Bryant publicly apologized to her saying, "Although I truly believe this encounter between us was consensual, I recognize now that she did not and does not view this incident the same way I did." DUANE BURLESON/AP Photo In the event that The Associated Press called "the most infamous brawl in NBA history," a massive fight broke out on the court during a game between the Indiana Pacers and the Detroit Pistons on November 19, 2004. The fight began when Detroit's Ben Wallace went after Indiana's Ron Artest after he was pushed in the back. The NBA suspended nine players involved for a total of 146 games, which led to $11 million in salary being lost by the players. Paul Vathis/AP Photo On Nov. 5, 2011 Jerry Sandusky, former Penn State defensive coordinator, was charged with sexually abusing eight young men. Not only Sandusky, but Penn State as a whole felt the aftershocks. Joe Paterno, Penn State's beloved football coach since 1966, was fired in wake of the accusations. Graduate assistant Mike McQueary testified that he approached Paterno in 2002 after he saw Sandusky in the shower with a 10-year-old boy. 'With the benefit of hindsight, I wish I had done more,' Paterno admitted. The firing of Paterno and the entire scandal triggered a massive ? and sometimes violent ? response from students, who still revere the Hall of Fame icon and winningest coach in college football. Penn State's athletic director, Timothy Curley, and former school vice president, Gary Schultz, were ordered to stand trial on charges of lying about the 2002 sex-abuse allegation against FABRICE COFFRINI/AFP/Getty Images New FIFA president Gianni Infantino reacts after winning the presidential election on Friday. Getty Images Black eye for the NFL ... Ray Rice saga/Goodell crumbles/Adrian Peterson banned for hitting his son with a switch. From the pre-season on, the NFL?s image took hit after hit as star players like Ray Rice and Adrian Peterson abused their wives and children and disappointed fans everywhere. Show Caption LUCAS JACKSON/Reuters 1 of 17 From 1999 to 2005, Lance Armstrong was under speculation for using performance-enhancing drugs after winning the Tour de France seven years in a row. Despite denying usage, Armstrong was formally charged by the U.S Anti-Doping Agency in June 2012. On Aug. 23, 2012 Armstrong gave up his fight with the USADA stating, "There comes a point in every man's life when he has to say, 'Enough is enough.' For me, that time is now." Armstrong was stripped of his titles the next day, but it wasn't until an interview with Oprah in Jan. 2013, that he partially confessed to doping. Expand By Nathaniel Vinton UPDATED: April 8, 2018 at 12:12 PM EDT Gianni Infantino of Switzerland was elected president of FIFA on Friday, replacing his disgraced countryman Sepp Blatter and pledging to restore the reputation of world soccer’s corruption-plagued governing body . “I accept the result of this election,” said Infantino, a European soccer insider and lawyer who edged three other candidates in a second round of balloting. “FIFA has gone through sad times, times of crisis. Those times are over. We will restore the image of FIFA.” Infantino won 115 of the 207 votes cast, prevailing over Sheikh Salman bin Ibrahim Al-Khalifa of Bahrain, who won 88 ballots. Another four votes went to Prince Ali bin Hussein of Jordan, down from 27 in the first round of voting. Just before balloting began, Tokyo Sexwale of South Africa withdrew his candidacy in a crowd-pleasing speech, telling the other candidates and voters: “It’s your problem now.” ‘IT’S YOUR PROBLEM NOW’: TOKYO SEXWALE’S GRAND FIFA EXIT New FIFA president Gianni Infantino reacts after winning the presidential election on Friday. Since 2009 Infantino has served as secretary general of UEFA, the European soccer confederation under FIFA’s umbrella that oversees such tournaments as the Champions League. For the duration he was second-in-command to Michel Platini, the former UEFA president who is currently banned for ethics violations. Platini has declared his innocence and vowed to appeal his six-year suspension. “We will regain this respect by hard work and dedication, so we can again concentrate on the wonderful game of football,” Infantino said in French, one of five languages in which he is fluent. The 45-year-old Infantino replaces Blatter, the suspended power broker who took over FIFA in 1998 and saw it plunge in recent years into an unprecedented corruption scandal. Blatter, 79, was forced out of office when Swiss authorities revealed the same suspicious $2 million transaction from 2011 that felled Platini. FIFA, the 112-year-old governing body that oversees World Cup tournaments, has been in turmoil for the past year as dozens of its top officials, vice presidents, and business partners have been charged in a criminal prosecution led by federal prosecutors in Brooklyn, as well as an ongoing parallel investigation by authorities in Switzerland, where FIFA is based. Suspended FIFA president Sepp Blatter looks on as fake dollar notes fly around him, thrown by a British comedian during a press conference at the FIFA world-body headquarter’s in July 2015. The soccer governing body is preparing to elect a new leader in Zurich, Switzerland. BLATTER, PLATINI FIFA BANS REDUCED FROM 8 TO 6 YEARS Upon opening Friday’s gathering in Zurich, acting FIFA president Issa Hayatou of Cameroon told members that the future of the organization was at stake and pleaded with them to approve a set of structural reforms to “reestablish trust in our organization.” FIFA members heard that call, voting Friday to accept a set of reforms that would restructure its leadership in an effort to prevent the backroom deals and conflicts of interest that caught the attention of law enforcement in 2011. The criminal probes seem to have followed the controversial 2010 vote by FIFA’s executives that sent the 2018 and 2022 World Cup tournaments to Russia and Qatar, respectively. Last May, following a three-year FBI and IRS investigation fueled by the secret cooperation of American FIFA executive Chuck Blazer , federal prosecutors in Brooklyn unveiled indictments and sealed guilty pleas of a group of FIFA members and sports marketing officials charged with racketeering, fraud, money laundering, and other crimes. The Daily News first reported on the investigation in 2014. The new FIFA — and there are plenty of skeptics who believe the organization’s culture is far from reformed — will have fewer standing committees, more women in leadership roles and background checks, and more seats at the table for players, clubs, and leagues. FOLLOW THE DAILY NEWS SPORTS ON FACEBOOK. “LIKE” US HERE. The candidates in the FIFA presidential election include (from left) Prince Ali Bin Al Hussein, Jerome Champagne, Sheikh Salman Al Khalifa, Tokyo Sexwale and Gianni Infantino. Instead of an executive committee, FIFA will now be overseen by a FIFA Council that will oversee the “overall strategic direction” of the organization. Its members will be elected by members and subjected to “enhanced integrity checks.” The Council is guaranteed to include female representatives. To limit opportunities for bribery and kickback schemes, the committees making key financial decisions about FIFA governance will include “independent members” whose activities will be monitored by FIFA’s audit and compliance committee. At the start of Friday’s gathering, FIFA’s acting secretary general, Markus Kattner, disclosed that the organization, which collected up to $5 billion in revenue in the four-year World Cup cycle ending in 2014, is now facing a $550 million deficit — likely attributable in part to high legal costs and turmoil of sponsorship and television broadcast deals. “The general uncertainty,” Kattner said, is “affecting the morale of the FIFA team.” Originally Published: February 26, 2016 at 1:37 PM EST Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Click to share on X (Opens in new window) Most Popular Most Popular NYC private equity lawyer drugged, attacked women with cattle prods, shock collars: prosecutors NYC private equity lawyer drugged, attacked women with cattle prods, shock collars: prosecutors PHOTOS: New Jersey wildfire continues to burn PHOTOS: New Jersey wildfire continues to burn New Jersey 19-year-old accused of sparking massive wildfire in Ocean County New Jersey 19-year-old accused of sparking massive wildfire in Ocean County Wounded gunman charged with attempted murder in stray bullet shooting of Harlem grandmother Wounded gunman charged with attempted murder in stray bullet shooting of Harlem grandmother L.I. beekeeper hid his role ordering murders, rape in Rwandan genocide to live in U.S.: feds L.I. beekeeper hid his role ordering murders, rape in Rwandan genocide to live in U.S.: feds VIDEO: Man, 28, killed by stray bullet on visit to Bronx store where he used to work VIDEO: Man, 28, killed by stray bullet on visit to Bronx store where he used to work BMW driver charged with murder of Queens motorcyclist in road rage crash: NYPD BMW driver charged with murder of Queens motorcyclist in road rage crash: NYPD Daughter of longtime Massachusetts Rep. Jim McGovern dies at age 23 Daughter of longtime Massachusetts Rep. Jim McGovern dies at age 23 Fatal stabbing at City Hall subway station started when suspect stepped on victim’s shoes: NYPD Fatal stabbing at City Hall subway station started when suspect stepped on victim's shoes: NYPD Dead ex-child star Sophie Nyweide was pregnant, foul play isn’t ruled out Dead ex-child star Sophie Nyweide was pregnant, foul play isn't ruled out More in World News Nepal marks 10-year anniversary of earthquake that killed thousands UN food agency says its food stocks in Gaza have run out under Israel’s blockade A Russian general was killed by a car bomb just outside Moscow So you saw ‘Conclave’ the movie. Here’s what it got right – and wrong – about real-life conclaves 2016 February 26 Tribune Publishing Chicago Tribune The Morning Call The Daily Press The Virginian Pilot Orlando Sentinel Sun-Sentinel Hartford Courant Studio 1847 Company Info About Us Careers Help Center Manage Web Notifications Place an ad Media Kit Privacy Policy Site Map Subscriber Services Archives Subscribe Now Subscriber Terms and Conditions Terms of Service Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection CA Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Copyright © 2025 New York Daily News Close