<<<<<<< HEAD
Ashleigh Barty Wins Wimbledon 2021 Women's Singles Final ​ Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals Royals Royals PEOPLE StyleWatch: Spring 2025 Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals StyleWatch Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe This week's Puzzler crossword is here! Can you solve it? Play now! Entertainment Sports Tennis Ashleigh Barty Wins Wimbledon Women's Singles Final Against Karolina Pliskova Saturday’s match between Ashleigh Barty and Karolina Pliskova was the first Wimbledon women's singles final to go to a third set since 2012 By Maria Pasquini Maria Pasquini Maria Pasquini is the senior news editor for the human interest vertical at PEOPLE. She has been working at PEOPLE since 2017. People Editorial Guidelines Published on July 10, 2021 11:11AM EDT Ashleigh Barty. Photo: Karwai Tang/WireImage It's a first for Ashleigh Barty! Barty, 25, won the 2021 Wimbledon women's singles championship, defeating Pliskova 6-3, 6-7, 6-3. This is her second Grand Slam title. Their match was the first women's singles final to go to a third set since 2012. Going into the match, Barty was ranked first in the world — and came into Wimbledon as the top seed — while Pliskova, the No. 8 seed, trailed her at 13th. Prior to Saturday's match, neither athlete had ever made it to the Wimbledon singles finals. Barty, who made it to the Wimbledon finals for doubles in 2013, ultimately losing the match, picked up her first Grand Slam singles win in 2019 at the French Open. Meanwhile, Pliskova's previous best Grand Slam final came in 2016, when she made it to the U.S. Open finals, ultimately losing to Angelique Kerber . Although the 2020 Wimbledon Championships were canceled, the previous year both Barty and Karolina Pliskova made it to the round of 16 before exiting the competition. Celebrities at Wimbledon in 2021 Barty cleared her final obstacle before the finals on Thursday, when she beat 2018 champion Kerber in straight sets. Just over a month earlier, the Australian athlete withdrew from the French Open after a hip injury flared up. "To be honest, it was going to be touch-and-go. Everything had to be spot on to give myself a chance to play pain-free and to play knowing that I could trust my body," Barty said ahead of her first trip to the finals, according to the Associated Press . "If you told me a month ago we'd be sitting in this position, I really wouldn't have thought that we would even get close." Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE 's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from juicy celebrity news to compelling human interest stories. For her final victory before the finals, Pliskova defeated No. 2 seed Aryna Sabalenka, coming back to win the final two sets after dropping the first. "It was just super important to stay in the game, stay focused," she said after the game, according to the AP. "That's what I did." Close You Might Like UConn Triumphs Over South Carolina to Claim Their Record 12th Women's NCAA Championship Title Entertainment April 06, 2025 Caroline Wozniacki Is Pregnant, Expecting 3rd Baby with Husband David Lee: ‘Officially Switching to Zone Defense’ Celebrity April 06, 2025 All About Caroline Wozniacki's Husband, Former NBA All-Star David Lee Entertainment August 31, 2023 Related Articles Cooper Flagg’s Family: All About the Duke Basketball Star's Parents and Siblings What Time Is the Men's NCAA Championship? How to Watch and Stream the Final March Madness Game Tommy Paul Says He’s ‘Going to Get In Trouble’ with Girlfriend Paige Lorenze for Revealing This ’Sore Subject’ (Exclusive) Tiger Woods Shares Shocking News That He's Recovered from Achilles Surgery and Will Play Masters — Almost Mikaela Shiffrin Recalls Being in 'Survival Mode' with Her Fiancé After Their Respective Ski Injuries (Exclusive) Tennis Player Dramatically Collapses Mid-Game and Leaves Court in Wheelchair Jordan Chiles Wasn't 'Able to Move’ After ‘Devastating’ Olympics Medal Controversy: ‘I Still Struggle to Talk About It’ Tennis Stars Andre Agassi and Steffi Graf Have This Rule in Their Marriage — and It's About Pickleball (Exclusive) U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Officials Fire Coach and Director Following Athletes' Allegations of Sexual Abuse JuJu Watkins Breaks Silence on Season-Ending Injury, Says ‘Love and Support’ Gave Her 'So Much Hope’ USC Women’s Basketball Star JuJu Watkins Suffers Season-Ending Injury: ‘Heartbroken’ Serena Williams and Caitlin Clark Snap Selfie at NFL Annual Meeting: 'Future of Women' NCAA Basketball Star Deletes Instagram After ‘Disgusting’ Online Harassment Following March Madness Loss Angel Reese Is Her Little Brother Julian Reese's No. 1 Fan as He Leads Maryland in Tough Sweet 16 Loss JuJu Watkins Hears from Her Biggest Rivals After Season-Ending Injury: ‘I Feel So Sorry For Her’ Carlos Alcaraz's Family: All About the Tennis Champion's Parents and Siblings PEOPLE Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies
=======
Ashleigh Barty Wins Wimbledon 2021 Women's Singles Final ​ Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals Royals Royals PEOPLE StyleWatch: Spring 2025 Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals StyleWatch Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe This week's Puzzler crossword is here! Can you solve it? Play now! Entertainment Sports Tennis Ashleigh Barty Wins Wimbledon Women's Singles Final Against Karolina Pliskova Saturday’s match between Ashleigh Barty and Karolina Pliskova was the first Wimbledon women's singles final to go to a third set since 2012 By Maria Pasquini Maria Pasquini Maria Pasquini is the senior news editor for the human interest vertical at PEOPLE. She has been working at PEOPLE since 2017. People Editorial Guidelines Published on July 10, 2021 11:11AM EDT Ashleigh Barty. Photo: Karwai Tang/WireImage It's a first for Ashleigh Barty! Barty, 25, won the 2021 Wimbledon women's singles championship, defeating Pliskova 6-3, 6-7, 6-3. This is her second Grand Slam title. Their match was the first women's singles final to go to a third set since 2012. Going into the match, Barty was ranked first in the world — and came into Wimbledon as the top seed — while Pliskova, the No. 8 seed, trailed her at 13th. Prior to Saturday's match, neither athlete had ever made it to the Wimbledon singles finals. Barty, who made it to the Wimbledon finals for doubles in 2013, ultimately losing the match, picked up her first Grand Slam singles win in 2019 at the French Open. Meanwhile, Pliskova's previous best Grand Slam final came in 2016, when she made it to the U.S. Open finals, ultimately losing to Angelique Kerber . Although the 2020 Wimbledon Championships were canceled, the previous year both Barty and Karolina Pliskova made it to the round of 16 before exiting the competition. Celebrities at Wimbledon in 2021 Barty cleared her final obstacle before the finals on Thursday, when she beat 2018 champion Kerber in straight sets. Just over a month earlier, the Australian athlete withdrew from the French Open after a hip injury flared up. "To be honest, it was going to be touch-and-go. Everything had to be spot on to give myself a chance to play pain-free and to play knowing that I could trust my body," Barty said ahead of her first trip to the finals, according to the Associated Press . "If you told me a month ago we'd be sitting in this position, I really wouldn't have thought that we would even get close." Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE 's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from juicy celebrity news to compelling human interest stories. For her final victory before the finals, Pliskova defeated No. 2 seed Aryna Sabalenka, coming back to win the final two sets after dropping the first. "It was just super important to stay in the game, stay focused," she said after the game, according to the AP. "That's what I did." Close You Might Like UConn Triumphs Over South Carolina to Claim Their Record 12th Women's NCAA Championship Title Entertainment April 06, 2025 Caroline Wozniacki Is Pregnant, Expecting 3rd Baby with Husband David Lee: ‘Officially Switching to Zone Defense’ Celebrity April 06, 2025 All About Caroline Wozniacki's Husband, Former NBA All-Star David Lee Entertainment August 31, 2023 Related Articles Cooper Flagg’s Family: All About the Duke Basketball Star's Parents and Siblings What Time Is the Men's NCAA Championship? How to Watch and Stream the Final March Madness Game Tommy Paul Says He’s ‘Going to Get In Trouble’ with Girlfriend Paige Lorenze for Revealing This ’Sore Subject’ (Exclusive) Tiger Woods Shares Shocking News That He's Recovered from Achilles Surgery and Will Play Masters — Almost Mikaela Shiffrin Recalls Being in 'Survival Mode' with Her Fiancé After Their Respective Ski Injuries (Exclusive) Tennis Player Dramatically Collapses Mid-Game and Leaves Court in Wheelchair Jordan Chiles Wasn't 'Able to Move’ After ‘Devastating’ Olympics Medal Controversy: ‘I Still Struggle to Talk About It’ Tennis Stars Andre Agassi and Steffi Graf Have This Rule in Their Marriage — and It's About Pickleball (Exclusive) U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Officials Fire Coach and Director Following Athletes' Allegations of Sexual Abuse JuJu Watkins Breaks Silence on Season-Ending Injury, Says ‘Love and Support’ Gave Her 'So Much Hope’ USC Women’s Basketball Star JuJu Watkins Suffers Season-Ending Injury: ‘Heartbroken’ Serena Williams and Caitlin Clark Snap Selfie at NFL Annual Meeting: 'Future of Women' NCAA Basketball Star Deletes Instagram After ‘Disgusting’ Online Harassment Following March Madness Loss Carlos Alcaraz's Family: All About the Tennis Champion's Parents and Siblings Angel Reese Is Her Little Brother Julian Reese's No. 1 Fan as He Leads Maryland in Tough Sweet 16 Loss JuJu Watkins Hears from Her Biggest Rivals After Season-Ending Injury: ‘I Feel So Sorry For Her’ PEOPLE Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies
>>>>>>> 8d04ab79e744b8ba1d2095c5e12d0c08b53f5f5f
