What happened when Facebook bought Instagram and transformed the photo-sharing app | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo The Facebookification of Instagram What really matters In a world with too much noise and too little context, Vox helps you make sense of the news. We don’t flood you with panic-inducing headlines or race to be first. We focus on being useful to you — breaking down the news in ways that inform, not overwhelm. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join today Technology The Facebookification of Instagram Land of the Giants examines the changing identity of Instagram for the third episode of its latest season. by Shirin Ghaffary and Alex Heath Jul 27, 2022, 7:00 PM UTC Facebook Link An Instagram employee taking a video at Facebook’s corporate headquarters during a media event in 2013. Josh Edelson/AFP via Getty Images When Facebook made a bid to buy Instagram in 2012 for a record-setting $1 billion, many people thought Mark Zuckerberg was making a mistake. But purchasing Instagram turned out to be one of the best tech acquisitions of all time, helping secure Facebook’s dominance in social media for years to come. It did that by quickly imprinting its influence on the famously simple photo-sharing app, adding new features that helped it grow to more than 1 billion users. This kind of change could be controversial, even internally. Case in point: Some early employees resisted getting rid of Instagram’s old requirement that every photo on the app had to be square-shaped. “It sounds so small now, but at the time, it was a sacred cow of the company,” said Instagram co-head of product Ashley Yuki. Today, Instagram is still grappling with the challenge of keeping up with its social media competition — namely, TikTok — while trying not to lose the original quality that made the app special in the first place. We explore the changing identity of Instagram for our third episode of the new season of Land of the Giants , Vox Media Podcast Network’s award-winning narrative podcast series about the most influential tech companies of our time. This season, Recode and The Verge have teamed up over the course of seven episodes to tell the story of Facebook’s journey to becoming Meta, featuring interviews with current and former executives. Listen to the third episode of Land of the Giants: The Facebook/Meta Disruption , and catch the first two episodes on Apple Podcasts , Google Podcasts , Spotify , or wherever you get your podcasts. See More : Facebook Influence Land of the Giants Mark Zuckerberg Podcasts Social Media Technology Technology & Media Most Popular The US has quietly gotten into another war in the Middle East The startling reason Australia is shooting koalas out of trees from helicopters Trump’s latest blow to civil rights law, briefly explained Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The unspoken rules of MAGA womanhood Today, Explained Understand the world with a daily explainer plus the most compelling stories of the day, compiled by news editor Sean Collins. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Technology OpenAI’s nonprofit structure was supposed to protect you. What went wrong? The unexpected home upgrade that could save you thousands Let’s not panic about AI’s energy use just yet The gas station of the future is not what you think Podcast Luigi Mangione and the long legacy of the Unabomber Manifesto Silicon Valley got Trump completely wrong Future Perfect Apr 24 OpenAI’s nonprofit structure was supposed to protect you. What went wrong? How the company’s transition to for-profit will affect everyone. By Kelsey Piper Escape Velocity Apr 24 The unexpected home upgrade that could save you thousands Why you need a battery-powered house. By Adam Clark Estes Climate Apr 23 Let’s not panic about AI’s energy use just yet Computing has a big energy appetite. What does that mean for our climate goals? By Umair Irfan Escape Velocity Apr 23 The gas station of the future is not what you think America’s EV charging network is stronger than ever. By Adam Clark Estes Podcast Culture Apr 20 Luigi Mangione and the long legacy of the Unabomber Manifesto Ted Kaczynski’s apocalyptic vision still has a following, 30 years later. By Hady Mawajdeh Technology Apr 18 Silicon Valley got Trump completely wrong The tech right’s collapsing case for the Trump presidency.﻿ By Eric Levitz Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Vox Vox logo Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok About us Our staff Ethics & Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Newsletters Privacy Notice Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Settings Licensing Accessibility Platform Status Careers © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved