Nintendo Switch 'Splatoon 2' Bundle Splashes Its Way To North America | Digital Trends Skip to main content Menu Digital Trends Computing AI Mobile Gaming Entertainment Audio / Video Autos Videos Search Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 How to Download YouTube Videos AI Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Mobile Trending Topics 5G Phone Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls Best Stock Trading Apps How to Use WhatsApp Web Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Gaming Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TVs Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides Fubo TV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Autos Autos See All Autos Trending Auto Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Auto Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse Autos by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse Smart Home Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Graphics Cards Best Mobile Devices Best Smartphone Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Smart Notebooks Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Deals Deals See All Deals Computing Deals Best Laptop Deals Best MacBook Deals Best Gaming PC Deals Best Chromebook Deals Best Gaming Laptop Deals Gaming Deals Best PS5 Deals Best Lego Deals Best Xbox Series S Deals Best Xbox Series X Deals Best Nintendo Switch Deals Mobile Deals Best iPad Deals Best Tablet Deals Best Google Pixel Deals Best Apple Watch Deals Home Theater Deals Best TV Deals Best Sony TV Deals Best 75-inch TV Deals Best Headphone Deals Smart Home Deals Best Dyson Deals Best Amazon Echo Deals Best Cordless Vacuum Deals Retailers Best Walmart Deals Best Alienware Deals Trending Deals Best Camera Deals Best Prime Day Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Smartphone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphones Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News Videos YouTube Giveaways More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Buying Guides Best Kindles Best Bluetooth Trackers Best Portable Power Stations Best Live TV Streaming Services Original Series You Asked OuttaFocus Weekend Watchlist Tech for Change Genius Home See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming News Be a squid kid in style: Switch 'Splatoon 2' bundle comes to North America You can pre-order the Splatoon 2 Switch bundle from Walmart's site By Garrett Hulfish Updated August 21, 2017 Save After witnessing Europe and Japan launch their own Splatoon 2 bundles, many were left wondering if something similar would ever come to North America. Now we know that in less than a month, the Switch Splatoon 2 bundle is coming to the region as a Walmart exclusive and it’s now available to pre-order for $380. Included in the bundle is a download code for Splatoon 2 , a stylish carrying case for the Nintendo Switch, and colorful new Joy-Con controllers in Neon Pink and Neon Green. This marks the first official chance for Splatoon fans to get their hands on the new Joy-Con color combination. Nintendo has not said how long this bundle will be available. Recommended Videos “Consumers in Japan and Europe have already had a strong response to Splatoon 2 bundles in their territories,” said Doug Bowser, Nintendo of America’s senior vice president of sales and marketing. “This exclusive Walmart bundle gives people who have been waiting to buy a Nintendo Switch a great value and incentive to get splatting.” Related Some Nintendo Switch 2 game cards will also work on the original Switch These are the Nintendo Switch 2 sequels I really want to see The confusion around $90 Switch 2 games proves how broken the internet is Aside from this Splatoon 2 bundle, Nintendo currently offers two versions of the base system itself: One with gray Joy-Cons and one with Neon Red and Neon Blue. A third color option, Neon Yellow , released alongside Arms earlier this summer, but are only available for purchase separate from the system. With Super Mario Odyssey being the next big game from Nintendo on the Switch, it begs the question of whether a new color set will be released alongside the game. Nintendo also took the chance to announce the next Splatfest competition. This time, players will choose which superpower they prefer: Flight or invisibility. Between September 1 and 2, participants who have chosen a side must fight alongside their team members in online Turf War battles. Additional details about the Splatfest will be announced at a later date. Since the launch of Splatoon 2 less than a month ago, more than 400 million online battles have been fought around the world. More and more players are jumping into the game every day, and Splatfest is just one of many new elements keeping fans engaged. The Nintendo Switch Splatoon 2 bundle hits retail shelves exclusively at Walmart on September 8 for the suggested retail price of $380. With supplies for the base system already limited, pre-orders will be key. However, bear in mind that shipped pre-orders from Walmart’s site are currently slated to arrive on September 14, so if you can reserve in-store you may end up getting it a few days sooner. Updated 08/18/2017 with Walmart pre-order page. Editors’ Recommendations The Nintendo Switch 2’s launch lineup just got better thanks to Sonic Nintendo Switch 2 preorders begin next week, but accessories will cost more The Nintendo Switch 2’s launch game lineup is more exciting than you think I need these 10 GameCube games on Nintendo Switch 2 as soon as possible Switch 2 launch game Deltarune is getting surprise mouse support Please enable Javascript to view this content Topics News Nintendo Nintendo Switch Tech News Garrett Hulfish Contributor facebook twitter Email Garrett is the kind of guy who tells you about all the tech you haven't heard of yet. He also knows too much about other… Gaming One week later, this is what still surprises me most about Nintendo Switch 2 Last week, Nintendo gave us a whole wealth of Nintendo Switch 2 details. We learned about its games, its mysterious C-button, and got more details on how its mouse controllers worked. It was a presentation filled with surprises too, from a shocking Kirby Air Riders reveal to the announcement that GameCube games are coming to Nintendo Switch Online. I experienced some real shockers of my own when I went hands-on with the Switch 2 and found myself enamored with its new control scheme. I've had a lot of time to process all the news since then, and even changed my tune on things I was initially critical of, like GameChat. Sitting down to reflect, there's one thing that still surprises me more than anything: just how next-gen the system actually feels. Read more Gaming Switch 2 woes cross the border as Nintendo delays preorders in Canada Nintendo Switch 2 troubles have been extended to our neighbors north of the border. Pre-orders for the highly-anticipated hybrid console have been delayed in Canada just before they were slated to begin. Jonathan Ore, senior writer for CBC Radio Online, shared a statement from Nintendo of Canada on Bluesky on Tuesday saying pre-orders for the Switch 2 have been delayed in the country to "align with the timing of pre-orders" in the United States. The statement reads as follows: Read more Gaming Switch 2 vs. Switch Lite: is the upgrade worth the heavy price? Each video game console generation is getting longer and longer, with the Switch hanging on for 8 years before we got official information about the Switch 2. Over that time, we got a couple of different versions of the original Switch with some distinct differences, but how does each one stack up against the Switch 2? We can look at the Switch 2 vs. Switch for a baseline, but what about the Switch 2 vs. Switch OLED and Switch Lite? With this console costing quite a bit more than the current systems, and upcoming Switch 2 games also getting a price increase, should you hold on to your Switch Lite, or is the Switch 2 worth the heavy cost? If you're more of a PC player who likes playing handheld, we have also compared the Switch 2 vs. Steam Deck to see which is the king of the handhelds. Read more More Gaming News Roblox to launch free ‘Karate Kid Training Simulator’ with exclusive rewards Splitgate 2 announces an open beta and an “infinite” number of maps Borderlands 4 is coming sooner than expected, with a State of Play tomorrow NYT Mini Crossword today: puzzle answers for Tuesday, April 29 NYT Strands today: hints, spangram and answers for Tuesday, April 29 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Flipboard Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows How-To Guides About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Branded Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Digital Trends Media Group 6420 S. Macadam Ave, Suite 216 Portland, OR 97239 Careers Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Press Room Sitemap Digital Trends Media Group may earn a commission when you buy through links on our sites. ©2025 Digital Trends Media Group , a Designtechnica Company. All rights reserved.