Olga Tokarczuk – Facts – 2018 - NobelPrize.org Skip to content Open the search menu Close the search menu Close Mobile Menu Toggle Mobile Menu Nobel Prizes & laureates All Nobel Prizes All Nobel Prizes 2024 Physics prize Chemistry prize Medicine prize Literature prize Peace prize Prize in economic sciences About About the prize Alfred Nobel Award ceremonies Nomination Organisation Stories Educational Events & museums Open the search menu Close the search menu Header Search Submit a search term Enhanced Page Navigation Olga Tokarczuk – Facts – 2018 Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 Summary Laureates Olga Tokarczuk Facts Biographical Nobel Lecture Prize presentation Banquet speech Interview Prose Nobel diploma Photo gallery Other resources Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech Share this Facebook X LinkedIn Email this page Olga Tokarczuk Facts Navigate to: Summary -- Facts -- Biographical -- Nobel Lecture -- Prize presentation -- Banquet speech -- Interview -- Prose -- Nobel diploma -- Photo gallery -- Other resources Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech @ Nobel Media. Photo: A. Mahmoud. Olga Tokarczuk Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 Born:		29 January 1962, Sulechów, Poland Residence at the time of the award: 					Wroclaw, Poland Prize motivation: 					“for a narrative imagination that with encyclopedic passion represents the crossing of boundaries as a form of life” Olga Tokarczuk received her Nobel Prize in 2019. Prize share: 				1/1 Life Olga Tokarczuk was born in Sulechów in Poland, and lives in Wrocław. Her parents were teachers and her father also functioned as school librarian. In the library she read pretty much everything she could get hold of and it was here that she developed her literary appetite. After studies in psychology at the University of Warsaw she made her debut as a fiction writer 1993 with Podróz ludzi Ksiegi (The Journey of the Book-People). Her real breakthrough came in 1996 with her third novel Prawiek i inne czasy (Primeval and Other Times). Work Olga Tokarczuk is inspired by maps and a perspective from above, which tends to make her microcosmos a mirror of macrocosmos. She constructs her novels in a tension between cultural opposites: nature versus culture, reason versus madness, male versus female, home versus alienation. Her magnum opus so far is the historical novel  Ksiegi Jakubowe (2014) (The Books of Jacob), portraying the 18th-century mystic and sect leader Jacob Frank. The work also gives us a remarkably rich panorama of an almost neglected chapter in European history. To cite this section MLA style: Olga Tokarczuk – Facts – 2018. NobelPrize.org. Nobel Prize Outreach 2025. Fri. 25 Apr 2025. <https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/literature/2018/tokarczuk/facts/> Back to top Back To Top Takes users back to the top of the page Nobel Prizes and laureates Nobel Prizes 2024 Six prizes were awarded for achievements that have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind. The 12 laureates' work and discoveries range from proteins' structures and machine learning to fighting for a world free of nuclear weapons. See them all presented here. Explore prizes and laureates Look for popular awards and laureates in different fields, and discover the history of the Nobel Prize. Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Decrease the year by one - Choose a year you would like to search in Increase the year by one + Explore About the Nobel Prize organisation The Nobel Foundation Tasked with a mission to manage Alfred Nobel's fortune and has ultimate responsibility for fulfilling the intentions of Nobel's will. The prize-awarding institutions For more than a century, these academic institutions have worked independently to select Nobel Prize laureates. Outreach organisations Several outreach organisations and activities have been developed to inspire generations and disseminate knowledge about the Nobel Prize. Press Contact FAQ Privacy policy Terms of use For developers Media player Careers Join us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Nobel Prize Copyright © Nobel Prize Outreach 2025 Scroll to top