Pedro Pascal, Bella Ramsey React to Joel's Death on 'The Last of Us' Pedro Pascal, Bella Ramsey React to Joel's Death on 'The Last of Us' Plus Icon Film Plus Icon TV Plus Icon What To Watch Plus Icon Music Plus Icon Docs Plus Icon Digital & Gaming Plus Icon Global Plus Icon Awards Circuit Plus Icon Video Plus Icon What To Hear VIP Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Got a Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Variety Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Variety Plus Icon Read Next: ‘North of North’ Renewed for Season 2 at Netflix Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Home TV News Apr 20, 2025 8:36pm PT Pedro Pascal Speaks Out After ‘The Last of Us’ Twist and Says ‘I’m in Active Denial’; Bella Ramsey ‘Sobbed’ Reading It: A ‘Brilliant Achievement’ If It’s ‘Painful for People’ By Zack Sharf Plus Icon Zack Sharf Digital News Director ZSharf Latest ‘Thunderbolts’ First Reactions: Florence Pugh Is ‘Superb’ in ‘Some of Marvel’s Darkest Material to Date’ 1 week ago ‘Conclave’ Viewership Soars After Pope Francis’ Death, Up 283% to Nearly 7 Million Minutes Watched 1 week ago Sebastian Stan Got Marvel Role After Manager Said the Only Thing Saving His Career Was ‘$65,000 in Residuals’ From ‘Hot Tub Time Machine’ 1 week ago See All HBO SPOILER ALERT: This story contains spoilers for Season 2, Episode 2 of HBO’s “ The Last of Us ,” now streaming on Max. Pedro Pascal is speaking out about the “The Last of Us” Season 2 Episode 2, in which his beloved Joel is killed off after being beaten to death by the vengeful Abby (Kaitlyn Dever). The shocking twist is straight out of the “The Last Of Us Part II” video game, which means Pascal knew when he signed on to play Joel in the HBO series that his time on the show would not last forever. Related Stories VIP+ How the ‘Sinners’ Financing Model Offers Salvation for All Producers Mariska Hargitay, Chris Meloni Reunite in ‘Law & Order: Organized Crime’ Season 5; Here's a First Look at Benson at Stabler's Hospital Bedside “It’s not like they said, ‘Hey, we kill you at the beginning of season 2,'” Pascal told Entertainment Weekly about the death. “But it was always an understanding that it would stay true to the source material in a specific way and that the, let’s say, practical and exclusive obligation would be for season 1. It was just a matter of how and when.” Popular on Variety Speaking to HBO during the official “Last of Us” after show, Pascal added: “I have nothing but respect for the level of investment that people have in a video game or a TV show or movie or book. I experience that myself. I’ve flung books across the room because its impact is so profound on me and experiencing the story. I think it is incredibly painful for people and that’s obviously a brilliant achievement of the storytelling.” In the series, Dever’s Abby holds Joel hostage and reveals she is the daughter of the doctor he shot in the head in the Season 1 finale in order to save Ellie. She then shoots Joel in the leg and bludgeons him with a golf club. After switching to her fists and beating him up, Abby delivers the fatal blow via a spike to Joel’s neck. Pascal told HBO that “meeting Kaitlyn was amazing” and “it’s ironic that something so violent and tragic between characters can immediately bond you to the actor.” As for showing up on set with all of his bloody makeup, the actor said: “It was interesting to step into the room and see the reactions in people’s faces. It wasn’t one of revulsion but of heartbreak.” “I’m in active denial,” Pascal added to EW about Joel’s fate. “I realize this more and more as I get older, I find myself slipping into denial that anything is over. I know that I’m forever bonded to so many members of the experience and just have to see them under different circumstances, but never will under the circumstances of playing Joel on ‘The Last of Us.’ And, no, I don’t spend a lot of time thinking about it because it makes me sad.” “The Last of Us” has mostly been a two-hander between Pascal’s Joel and Bella Ramsey’s Ellie during its run. That all changes now in the wake of Joel’s death. Ramsey told HBO: “I knew that Joel was going to die but reading it in the script I was dreading getting to that bit… and I cried. I actually sobbed my little heart out. It’s the first time I’ve cried from reading a piece of writing.” In an interview with Variety , series co-creator Craig Mazin explained why the HBO show’s creative team decided Season 2 Episode 2 was the right time to bring the “fucking horrible” moment of Joel’s death to life on the screen. “There’s a danger of tormenting people. It’s not what we want to do,” Mazin explained. “If people know it’s coming, they will start to feel tormented. And people who don’t know it’s coming are going to find out it’s coming, because people are going to talk about the fact that it hasn’t shown up yet. Our instinct was to make sure that when we did it, that it felt natural in the story and was not some meta-function of us wanting to upset people.” Read Variety’s full interview with “The Last of Us” creators here . Read More About: The Last of Us Jump to Comments More from Variety ‘Paddington in Peru’ and ‘Bridget Jones’ Boost Canal+ as Media Giant Reports Solid Q1 Growth 2025 NBA Playoffs Hold Promise of a Ratings Rebound Horror Overkill: Too Many Scary Movies Set for 2025 Theatrical Releases JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Most Popular ‘The Smashing Machine’ Trailer: Dwayne Johnson Is Unrecognizable as UFC Legend Mark Kerr in Benny Safdie’s Biopic From A24 ‘Thunderbolts*’ Review: That Mysterious Asterisk Masks the Real Reason to Watch These Six Marvel Rejects Beyoncé Set List: Every Song Played on ‘Cowboy Carter’ Tour Opener in Los Angeles Nathan Fielder Depicts Paramount+ as Nazis After Streamer Removed ‘Nathan for You’ Episode Due to ‘Sensitivities’ Around… John Lithgow Says He ‘Absolutely’ Didn’t Expect Any J.K. Rowling Backlash After Joining HBO’s ‘Harry Potter’ Series: ‘Why Is This a Factor… Pedro Almodóvar Slams Trump in Fiery Speech at Lincoln Center Honors: ‘You Will Go Down in History as a Catastrophe’ Ryan Coogler's 'Sinners' Is the First Oscar Movie of 2025 Bill Belichick CBS Interview Interrupted by Girlfriend Jordan Hudson After Relationship Question: ‘We’re Not Talking About This’ Terrence Howard Turned Down Marvin Gaye Biopic Because He Didn’t Want to Kiss a Man: ‘I Would Cut My Lips Off’ ‘Back to the Future’ Screenwriter Bob Gale Says There Will ‘Never’ Be Another Sequel, ‘Prequel’ or ‘Spinoff’: ‘It’s Just Fine the Way It Is… Must Read Legit ACTORS ON ACTORS BROADWAY | George Clooney and Patti LuPone Get Honest By Andrew Wallenstein 1 week TV Reeling From Bill Owens' Shock Exit, '60 Minutes' Staffers Warn Shari Redstone to Back Off Shopping Pete Davidson on Going Tattoo-Free and His Concern for Young Men and Social Media: ‘They Don’t Even Have a F—ing Shot’ Film Ryan Coogler Dissects ‘Sinners’: How the Blockbuster Filmmaker Reinvented the Vampire Movie on a Near-Impossible Timeline TV Bill Hader to Co-Write, Potentially Star in Jonestown Series in Development at HBO (EXCLUSIVE) Sign Up for Variety Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Variety Confidential A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast More From Our Brands Rolling Stone Trump Insists Clearly Edited Pic of Abrego Garcia’s Tats Is Real in Testy Interview Robb Report 181 Fremont’s Grand Penthouse Redefines Urban Luxury Sportico Baffert Returns to Churchill Downs and NBC’s Derby Coverage WWD Keira Knightley Is Ready to Pass the ‘Pride & Prejudice’ Baton to Emma Corrin TVLine Andor Creator Tony Gilroy Shrugs Off That Star Wars ‘First’ in Episode 6, Stands by ‘Tough’ Cinta Decision Variety About Us Newsletter Variety Events Luminate - Film & TV Advertise Media Kit Careers Customer Service Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Variety Magazine Subscribe Variety Digital Login Group Subscriptions Variety Archives Back Issues Help VIP+ Subscribe Login Learn More FAQ Connect Instagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Variety The Business of Entertainment Subscribe Today Have a News Tip? Let us know Variety Close the menu Expand the sub menu Film News Reviews Podcasts Box Office Events Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu TV News Reviews Podcasts Ratings Pilot Scorecard Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu What To Watch Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Music News Album Reviews Concert Reviews Hitmakers Music For Screens Grammys Expand the sub menu Docs Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Tech Features Global VIP+ Tech Expand the sub menu Global News Asia Markets & Festivals Features Expand the sub menu Awards Circuit News Film Predictions TV Predictions Video Artisans Columns Awards Circuit Podcast Expand the sub menu Video Popular Cover Shoots - Behind the Scenes Actors on Actors Power of Women Events Artisans Expand the sub menu What to Hear Lists & Features Expand the sub menu VIP+ Daily Commentary Special Reports Video Expand the sub menu More Coverage Obituaries - submit obituaries to obits@variety.com Photos Podcasts Scene Voices Theater Expand the sub menu More Variety Live Media Summits Vscore Luminate - Film & TV Variety Archives Variety500 Industry Executives Have a News Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Alerts and Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Follow Us Got a Tip? Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Advertise About Contact Us Variety is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Variety Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Icon Link Plus Icon ad