Gal Gadot Wonder Woman Cameo in Shazam 2 Not a Deepfake, Director Says Gal Gadot Wonder Woman Cameo in Shazam 2 Not a Deepfake, Director Says Plus Icon Film Plus Icon TV Plus Icon What To Watch Plus Icon Music Plus Icon Docs Plus Icon Digital & Gaming Plus Icon Global Plus Icon Awards Circuit Plus Icon Video Plus Icon What To Hear VIP Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Got a Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Variety Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Variety Plus Icon Read Next: ‘Shazam’ Director Wanted to Quit ‘IP-Based Movies’ Because Getting ‘Death Threats’ From ‘Very Crazy’ Fans Is ‘Not Worth It’ Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Home Film News Mar 23, 2023 2:21pm PT Gal Gadot’s Wonder Woman in ‘Shazam 2’ Was Not a Deepfake, Director Says: She ‘Shot in England’ and ‘I Directed Remotely’ By Zack Sharf Plus Icon Zack Sharf Digital News Director ZSharf Latest ‘Thunderbolts’ First Reactions: Florence Pugh Is ‘Superb’ in ‘Some of Marvel’s Darkest Material to Date’ 3 days ago ‘Conclave’ Viewership Soars After Pope Francis’ Death, Up 283% to Nearly 7 Million Minutes Watched 3 days ago Sebastian Stan Got Marvel Role After Manager Said the Only Thing Saving His Career Was ‘$65,000 in Residuals’ From ‘Hot Tub Time Machine’ 4 days ago See All Clay Enos / © Warner Bros. / Courtesy Everett Collection “ Shazam! Fury of the Gods ” seemingly confused a lot of moviegoers with its surprise cameo featuring the return of Gal Gadot ‘s Wonder Woman . The character appears as a deus ex machina toward the end of the film, as Wonder Woman arrives on the scene to resurrect Billy Batson/Shazam from death as she is the only person left with godly powers to do so. Some shaky VFX work led to rumors that Gadot’s face was put on another actor’s body using deepfake technology, but “Shazam” director David F. Sandberg says otherwise. Related Stories VIP+ 2025 NBA Playoffs Hold Promise of a Ratings Rebound ‘Bullet Train Explosion’ Review: A Reality-Based Runaway Train Movie That Stays on the Rails “A certain cameo in ‘Shazam! Fury Of the Gods’ had to be shot in England, but I couldn’t go because of a visa issue so I directed remotely,” Sandberg wrote on Twitter while sharing a video of himself remotely directing Gadot’s cameo scene. “It wasn’t a deepfake as some believe.” Popular on Variety Gadot can be clearly seen on one of Sandberg’s computer monitors as he directs the cameo, so that should end any speculation she was edited into the movie using deepfake technology. The rumor was fueled by “Shazam 2” set photos that featured Wonder Woman body double Taylor Cahill on the set. The images led many to believe it was Cahill that acted in the scene and not Gadot, but Sandberg also debunked that rumor. “We shot the scene with Taylor to figure out what coverage we then needed to get with Gal since she couldn’t make it to Atlanta,” Sandberg posted on Twitter. “It’s also Taylor’s body with the wizard’s head on it. There is absolutely no deepfaking going on. When you see Gal it’s 100% her.” Sandberg originally wanted to keep Gadot’s Wonder Woman cameo a secret, but Warner Bros.’ marketing for the film spoiled her appearance in a TV spot that aired before the film’s theatrical release. “Well there’s some big ‘Shazam’ spoilers out there now,” Sandberg posted when the spoiler got out. “If you want to go in fresh maybe don’t be online or watch TV with ads… Pretty good advice in general actually.” As for Gadot, “Shazam 2” might be her final appearance playing Wonder Woman. The actor and her “Wonder Woman” and “Wonder Woman 1984” director Patty Jenkins had been developing a third film in the franchise, but Jenkins exited the project last year amid a DC Universe overhaul that’s being spearheaded by new DC Studios bosses James Gunn and Peter Safran. It remains unclear if Gadot will continue with the role in the new DC Universe. “Shazam! Fury of the Gods” is now playing in theaters nationwide. https://twitter.com/ponysmasher/status/1638587716110782469 We shot the scene with Taylor to figure out what coverage we then needed to get with Gal since she couldn’t make it to Atlanta. It’s also Taylor’s body with the wizards head on it. There is absolutely no deepfaking going on. When you see Gal it’s 100% her. — David F. Sandberg (@ponysmasher) March 18, 2023 Read More About: Gal Gadot, Shazam! Fury of the Gods, Wonder Woman Jump to Comments More from Variety Elon Musk Sells X to Elon Musk’s AI Company at $33 Billion Valuation, Mogul Says Why the Theatrical Window Debate at CinemaCon Feels Hopeless X Goes Down for Thousands of Users Laurence Fishburne Didn’t Watch Will Smith’s ‘Matrix’ Music Video, Offered to Play Morpheus in ‘Matrix 4’ but ‘They Didn’t Respond Well’ How Indie Film and Los Angeles Can Help Each Other Will Smith’s ‘Based on a True Story’ Foregoes Fun for Self-Help Soliloquies: Album Review JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Most Popular Netflix CEO Ted Sarandos Says Movie Theater Model Is ‘Outdated’: ‘Most of the Country’ Cannot ‘Walk to a Multiplex… Megyn Kelly Delivers 11-Minute Rant About George Clooney After He Blasts Her for Not Being a Journalist: ‘Are Hollywood Roles Getting a Little Hard… Sydney Sweeney to Star in ‘Split Fiction’ Film Adaptation From Director Jon M. Chu, ‘Deadpool and Wolverine’ Writers… Meghan Markle Didn’t Film Netflix Show at Her Own House Because '80 People in the Kitchen Isn’t the Childhood Memory’ She Wants for Her… Bill Maher Fires Back at Larry David for ‘My Dinner With Adolf’ Essay Spoofing His Trump Meeting: ‘It’s Kind of Insulting to Six Million Dead Jews… Pete Davidson on Going Tattoo-Free and His Concern for Young Men and Social Media: ‘They Don’t Even Have a F—ing Shot’ Damon Wayans Is ‘Walking Away With Deep Gratitude’ After ‘Poppa’s House’ Cancellation: ‘This Show Gave Me More Than I Could’ve Ever Imagined… ‘The Masked Singer’ Reveals Identity of Nessy: Here Is the Celebrity Under the Costume Carrie Preston and Michael Emerson on the Violent End of His 'Elsbeth' Arc, and Why It Was Hard to Film After 26 Years of Marriage: 'I Never Like… Noah Schnapp Reflects on Coming Out Before ‘Stranger Things’ Season 5 Filming: ‘I’m Finally Living Truthfully’ Must Read TV COVER | Noah Wyle Was Nearing a ‘Nervous Breakdown.’ Then Came ‘The Pitt’ By Andrew Wallenstein 2 weeks Awards Oscars Add Best Stunt Design Category Starting in 2027 Film ‘Sinners’ Review: Ryan Coogler’s Deep South From-Dusk-Till-Dawn Vampire Film Is a Lavishly Serious Popcorn Movie Film CinemaCon Takeaways: Fights Over Theatrical Window, Fizzling Star Power and Amazon MGM’s Big Promise Film Cannes Film Festival Lineup: Wes Anderson, Richard Linklater, Ari Aster, Julia Ducournau, Kelly Reichardt in Competition Sign Up for Variety Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Variety Confidential A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast More From Our Brands Rolling Stone Bone Thugs-N-Harmony Reunite All Five Members for New Song ‘Aww Shit’ Robb Report Ferrari’s First EV Might Have Synthetic Gears Sportico NBA Policies Curb Star Absences Amid Spike in Overall Injuries WWD Blake Lively Styles Zuhair Murad Gown for 2025 Time 100 Gala With Her Mom Willie Elain in Sparkling Black Dress TVLine Did Handmaid’s Tale’s Janine Make You Proud? Andor Sitcom Spinoff? Did Hacks Melt Your Heart? Did NCIS: Origins Affair Surprise? More TV Qs! Variety About Us Newsletter Variety Events Luminate - Film & TV Advertise Media Kit Careers Customer Service Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Variety Magazine Subscribe Variety Digital Login Group Subscriptions Variety Archives Back Issues Help VIP+ Subscribe Login Learn More FAQ Connect Instagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Variety The Business of Entertainment Subscribe Today Have a News Tip? Let us know Variety Close the menu Expand the sub menu Film News Reviews Podcasts Box Office Events Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu TV News Reviews Podcasts Ratings Pilot Scorecard Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu What To Watch Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Music News Album Reviews Concert Reviews Hitmakers Music For Screens Grammys Expand the sub menu Docs Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Tech Features Global VIP+ Tech Expand the sub menu Global News Asia Markets & Festivals Features Expand the sub menu Awards Circuit News Film Predictions TV Predictions Video Artisans Columns Awards Circuit Podcast Expand the sub menu Video Popular Cover Shoots - Behind the Scenes Actors on Actors Power of Women Events Artisans Expand the sub menu What to Hear Lists & Features Expand the sub menu VIP+ Daily Commentary Special Reports Video Expand the sub menu More Coverage Obituaries - submit obituaries to obits@variety.com Photos Podcasts Scene Voices Theater Expand the sub menu More Variety Live Media Summits Vscore Luminate - Film & TV Variety Archives Variety500 Industry Executives Have a News Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Alerts and Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Follow Us Got a Tip? Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Advertise About Contact Us Variety is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Variety Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Icon Link Plus Icon ad