ARMS and Splatoon 2 headline new Nintendo Direct presentation | News | Nintendo UK Overview Orders Address book Nintendo Account details {{pageTitle}} , {{gameSystem}} Starting from: {{regularPrice}} {{lowestPrice}} Search Wish List Sign In × Close How about... All Nintendo Switch games All Nintendo Switch games on sale All Nintendo 3DS games All Super Mario games All The Legend of Zelda games All Pokémon games × Visit us on Facebook Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem X @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons YouTube NintendoUK Instagram NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope Twitch NintendoUK LinkedIn Visit us on LinkedIn Games Previous Games Overview Nintendo Switch 2 games Nintendo Switch games Recent releases Upcoming games Demos Free-to-start games DLC Smart device games Nintendo 3DS games Wii U games Characters hub Hardware Previous Hardware Nintendo Switch 2 Overview Features GameChat GameShare Nintendo Switch 2 games Nintendo Switch 2 accessories Nintendo Switch 2 bundles Transferring from Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Family Overview Nintendo Switch – OLED Model Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Lite Which Nintendo Switch is right for you? Nintendo Sound Clock: Alarmo Game & Watch: The Legend of Zelda amiibo Nintendo 3DS Family Nintendo History Nintendo Switch Online Previous Nintendo Switch Online Overview What's included? Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack Classic games Exclusive benefits Nintendo Music Nintendo eShop My Nintendo Store Support News Previous News Overview Nintendo Direct Indie World Ask the Developer Creator's Voice Tips and tricks Events Stay in touch ... Misc. Previous Misc. My Nintendo Career Sitemap Home News 2017 April Facebook Twitter ARMS and Splatoon 2 headline new Nintendo Direct presentation 13/04/2017 Subscribe to on YouTube April 13th, 2017 – Nintendo today unveiled new details about Mario Kart 8 Deluxe , Splatoon 2 and ARMS for Nintendo Switch , as well as Hey! PIKMIN , Ever Oasis and several new Kirby games for Nintendo 3DS family systems , in a new streamlined format for its long-running series of Nintendo Direct presentations. The video presentation also covered numerous third-party games, including Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition and Disgaea 5 Complete for Nintendo Switch, and Culdcept Revolt and Monster Hunter Stories™ for Nintendo 3DS. To view the Nintendo Direct video in its entirety, visit http://www.nintendo.co.uk/nintendodirect . Some of the highlights revealed in the video include: Nintendo Switch ARMS : One of the biggest features in the upcoming fighting game is the ability to equip two types of customisable ARMS per fighter. These ARMS range from standard gloved ARMS to curved weapons like boomerangs. Each ARM has a special attribute like fire, ice or electricity that activates when delivering a charge punch. As players fight through the game, they will rack up in-game currency that can be used to play in the ARM Getter, a fun mode in which they can get new ARMS for their fighters. The fast-paced game can be played in 1-v-1 matches or even 2-v-2* for more entertainingly chaotic battles. During the Nintendo Direct presentation, two characters were put under the spotlight: the newly-revealed and super-fast kung-fu fighter Min Min, with her extendable ramen arms, and the energetic, determined Spring Man, who specialises in bouncing back from near-defeat. ARMS launches exclusively for Nintendo Switch on 16th June. In addition, special neon yellow Joy-Con and Joy-Con Straps will be released on the same day, alongside the Joy-Con AA Battery Pack accessory, sold in pairs. Splatoon 2 : Salmon Run, a new four-player co-op activity*, is coming to Splatoon 2. By teaming up with friends, players can take on a part-time job battling the new Salmonid species, which the Squid Research Lab reports might even be more lethal than the Octarians! When players fall in co-op mode, teammates can revive them by inking them on the battlefield. Splatoon 2 launches exclusively for Nintendo Switch on 21st July. In addition, three new individual amiibo figures (sold separately) for the game – fresh new designs of Inkling Girl, Inkling Boy and Inkling Squid – will launch on the same day and grant special limited gear in-game. By tapping these amiibo (as well as previously released Splatoon amiibo), the figure character will appear in the game and befriend players. Befriend an amiibo character and they will remember favourite weapons, gear, outfits and option settings. This comes in handy when waging Turf War at a friend’s house! Mario Kart 8 Deluxe : When Mario Kart 8 Deluxe launches on 28th April, it will do so with more characters, karts and courses unlocked from the start than any other game in Mario Kart history. Both traditional racing and the newly revamped battle modes can be played in local wireless play with eight players*, or in LAN play** and online* with up to 12 players. ULTRA STREET FIGHTER II: The Final Challengers : The game launches for Nintendo Switch on 26th May and includes all of the classic characters and two new fighters: Evil Ryu and Violent Ken. Additionally, a “Way of the Hado” mode lets players throw HADOKENS with first-person motion controls, and an exciting two-player co-op mode* gives a player and a friend one health bar for intense two player vs. CPU matches. Project Mekuru (name not final): Multiplayer action game fans are in for a treat when Project Mekuru (name not final) launches exclusively in Nintendo eShop on Nintendo Switch this summer. This frantic and fun game lets up to four players battle locally or online* to flip panels and eject opponents. Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition : One of the most popular creation games of all time is coming to Nintendo Switch. The fan-favourite Super Mario Mash-Up pack, along with new multiplayer play and control options, will be included in Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition when it launches on Nintendo eShop on 12th May and in stores at a later date. Two Sonics, Two Styles: Nintendo Switch is getting two new Sonic games in 2017. Sonic Forces is a modern 3D take on Sonic games and follows the blue hedgehog hero as he uses his stylish high-speed moves to bring down the nefarious Eggman. Sonic and a mysterious new ally will rise up when Sonic Forces launches for Nintendo Switch this winter. Sonic Mania launches this summer and features retro 2D graphics and a host of new stages, as well as some classic stages from previous games in the Sonic the Hedgehog series. Disgaea 5 Complete : The definitive version of the fifth game in the tactical RPG series, Disgaea 5 Complete, is coming to Nintendo Switch on 26th May in both standard and limited-edition versions. A free demo*** for the game will launch in Nintendo eShop on Nintendo Switch soon. NEOGEO Masterpieces: Starting today, more NEOGEO classic games like ACA NEOGEO SAMURAI SHODOWN IV are available to purchase in Nintendo eShop on Nintendo Switch. Some future NEOGEO games coming to the system include Fatal Fury and The King of Fighters ’99. Puyo Puyo™ Tetris® : Two classic puzzle games face off in Puyo Puyo™ Tetris®. The four-player puzzle mashup game* launches on Nintendo Switch from 27th April. For anyone that wants to try before they buy, a free demo*** for the game is now available. Monopoly for Nintendo Switch: One of the most famous board games ever is coming to Nintendo Switch. Up to six players* can experience the classic game with HD rumble features and optional shorter sessions when Monopoly for Nintendo Switch launches this autumn. Rayman Legends: Definitive Edition : The gorgeous, award-winning platformer is coming to Nintendo Switch later this year. On Nintendo Switch, an exclusive Kung Foot experience offers a Solo Mode and tournaments for up to eight players*. Fate/EXTELLA: The Umbral Star: Featuring playable characters from multiple Fate productions across three distinct narrative perspectives, Fate/EXTELLA: The Umbral Star delivers the series’ most legendary showdown yet. The Nintendo Switch version will come loaded with 35 previously-released paid DLC costumes, along with an exclusive new Unshackled Bride outfit. The high-octane action title will launch for Nintendo Switch on 21st July. More titles on the way: Two new titles from THQ Nordic – Sine Mora EX and RPG Battle Chasers: Nightwar – will hit Nintendo Switch in summer and late summer respectively. In addition, NAMCO MUSEUM™ will also be available this summer, while four-player co-op game PAYDAY 2 lands later this year. Nintendo 3DS family systems Hey! PIKMIN : The first portable Pikmin game finds Captain Olimar embarking on an adventure through lush worlds with his trusted Pikmin by his side. In this new type of Pikmin game, players are tasked with throwing all types of different Pikmin using the Touch Screen to solve puzzles, overcome challenges and defeat enemies through side-scrolling levels. Hey! PIKMIN launches exclusively for Nintendo 3DS family systems on 28th July. A new Pikmin amiibo figure will also launch separately on the same day and allows players to call in additional Pikmin****. Kirby’s 25th Anniversary: To celebrate the 25th anniversary of the Kirby franchise, three new Kirby games are coming to Nintendo 3DS: Exclusive to Nintendo eShop, Team Kirby Clash Deluxe features four Kirby characters with different powers (Sword Hero, Hammer Lord, Beam Mage or Doctor Healmore) who battle giant enemies together. The free-to-start game launches today. In Kirby’s Blowout Blast , players fight through more than 25 action-packed 3D stages, inhaling enemies and powering up along the way. The game launches exclusively in Nintendo eShop on Nintendo 3DS this summer. Lastly, a new multiplayer action game* in the Kirby series is coming to Nintendo 3DS this winter. More information will be revealed about this game in the future. Miitopia: Calling all Tomodachis! A dark lord is stealing the faces of everybody in the world of Miitopia, and it’s up to brave players to bring them back in this adventure sim coming to Nintendo 3DS systems later this year. Create your friends and family from scratch or easily transfer them from Tomodachi Life , then cast them to fight alongside you or play other key roles in the story – even the dark lord. More information will be revealed in the future. Ever Oasis : Grow and expand the world’s last oasis in Ever Oasis, a new action-adventure RPG from Koichi Ishii, the creator of the Mana series. Ever Oasis launches exclusively for Nintendo 3DS family systems on 23rd June. Fire Emblem Echoes: Shadows of Valentia : The downloadable content will be a combination of free and paid, and provides players with new maps, dungeons and challenges. More information about this DLC, including launch timing and the optional Season Pass, will be revealed in the future. Dr Kawashima’s Devilish Brain Training: Can you stay focused? : The third entry in a series which has sold more than 15 million copies in Europe to date, this game seeks to train players’ brains with a series of challenging concentration-based exercises. The game will be released on 28th July. Monster Hunter Stories™ : Prepare to embark on an RPG adventure unlike anything the Monster Hunter series has ever known. In Monster Hunter Stories™, become a Rider and bond with monsters to raise their potential and unleash powerful combos. Players can fly, swim and crash into new areas of the map; discover eggs to collect and hatch; and participate in turn-based battles with a party of up to five monsters. Monster Hunter Stories™ launches for Nintendo 3DS this autumn. The Yo-kai are Back!: YO-KAI WATCH® 2: Bony Spirits and YO-KAI WATCH® 2: Fleshy Souls were released on 7th April, and players can grab an Extravagant Crank-a-kai Set in game by visiting Lambert Post Office. The set contains one Special Coin, one Five-Star Coin and eight coloured coins that can be used to befriend new Yo-kai or receive items, and is available until 2nd June. NIS America Games: NIS America is bringing two games to Nintendo 3DS this summer. The card-meets-board game Culdcept™ Revolt launches in a standard and limited edition on 1st September, while with RPG Maker Fes, players of all skill levels can create their own RPGs. A free download called RPG Maker Player will be available in Nintendo eShop on Nintendo 3DS and lets anyone play fan-created RPGs even if they don’t own RPG Maker Fes. RPG Maker Fes launches for Nintendo 3DS on 23rd June. amiibo New amiibo approaching!: The final Super Smash Bros. amiibo figures are on the way! Two versions of Cloud, Corrin and Bayonetta amiibo figures will hit store shelves on 21st July. +1 The Legend of Zelda amiibo: Three new amiibo figures based on Link from the Majora’s Mask, Twilight Princess, and Skyward Sword entries of The Legend of Zelda series will be released on 23rd June. You can check out all of these highlights and more by watching the presentation at our Nintendo Direct page. *Additional accessories, games and/or systems may be required for multiplayer mode; sold separately. To play online in compatible titles, the registration of Nintendo Account and acceptance of the Nintendo Network User Agreement and Privacy Policy are required. Broadband internet connection required to play. Online play on Nintendo Switch requires paid online subscription. A free trial of the online subscription service is available until late 2017. **For LAN Play each console requires its own copy of the game and USB to LAN adapter, sold separately. ***To be able to purchase download games or download demos and free software from Nintendo eShop on the official website, you'll need to have a Nintendo Account which is linked to your Nintendo Switch console. You'll need to have your console registered as the active console for downloads for your Nintendo Account by visiting Nintendo eShop on the device you wish to download on at least once. For automatic download, your system must be updated and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. To find out more, visit our Support section . Purchases made or demo downloads activated through the Nintendo website are processed via Nintendo eShop. ****In order to use amiibo, those with a New Nintendo 3DS or New Nintendo 3DS XL can tap the amiibo directly to their system, whereas those with a Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo 3DS XL or Nintendo 2DS can use the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer accessory (sold separately). For further updates: Nintendo Direct website http://nintendo.co.uk/nintendodirect Nintendo UK on Twitter https://twitter.com/nintendouk Nintendo on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/Nintendo Nintendo Switch on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/NintendoSwitch Nintendo 3DS on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/Nintendo3DS Nintendo UK on YouTube http://www.youtube.com/NintendoUK Nintendo UK on Twitch http://www.twitch.tv/nintendouk Nintendo UK on Instagram https://instagram.com/nintendouk/ Home News 2017 April Facebook Twitter Nintendo Switch ARMS ARMS for Nintendo Switch lets you trade blows using extendable arms in a unique multiplayer fighting game! Find out more Nintendo Switch Splatoon 2 Traditional 4-on-4 turf battles return in Splatoon 2 for Nintendo Switch, along with new stages, new fashions and new weapons! Find out more Nintendo Switch Mario Kart 8 Deluxe With Nintendo Switch, fans can enjoy the definitive version of Mario Kart 8 anywhere, anytime, even with up to eight friends in local wireless multiplayer. Find out more Nintendo Switch ULTRA STREET FIGHTER II: The Final Challengers Rekindle your fighting spirit with an all-time classic in ULTRA STREET FIGHTER II: The Final Challengers, only on Nintendo Switch. Find out more Nintendo Switch Sonic Mania Find out more Nintendo Switch Disgaea 5 Complete Find out more Nintendo Switch ACA NEOGEO SAMURAI SHODOWN IV Find out more Nintendo Switch Puyo Puyo™ Tetris® Find out more Nintendo Switch Rayman Legends: Definitive Edition Find out more Nintendo 3DS Hey! PIKMIN Find out more Nintendo 3DS Team Kirby Clash Deluxe Find out more Nintendo 3DS Kirby's Blowout Blast Find out more Nintendo 3DS Ever Oasis Find out more Nintendo 3DS Fire Emblem Echoes: Shadows of Valentia Find out more Nintendo 3DS Dr Kawashima's Devilish Brain Training: Can you stay focused? Find out more New Nintendo 3DS Find out more Nintendo 2DS Find out more New Nintendo 3DS XL Find out more Nintendo Switch Find out more Nintendo 3DS Find out more Nintendo 3DS XL Find out more Nintendo Direct Find out more amiibo Find out more Show more Show less Latest news 17/04/2025 | Nintendo Switch Nintendo eShop Highlights – 17/04/2025 This week's new Nintendo eShop games are here! 10/04/2025 | Nintendo Switch Nintendo eShop Highlights – 10/04/2025 What's new on Nintendo eShop? Let's take a look! 04/04/2025 | Nintendo Switch 2 Creator's Voice: The Duskbloods Learn more about FromSoftware’s upcoming game for Nintendo Switch 2 03/04/2025 | Nintendo Switch 2 Ask the Developer Vol. 17, GameChat – Chapter 3 In a new light 03/04/2025 | Nintendo Switch 2 Ask the Developer Vol. 17, GameChat – Chapter 2 Festival vibes More News UK & Ireland Change country België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera UK & Ireland South Africa See all regions België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera South Africa UK & Ireland See all regions Parents & Parental Controls Support Company Information Career Website Privacy Policy Cookie settings Legal information Service Termination CSR Modern Slavery Transparency Statement Contact © Nintendo. 2025 × Change country België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera UK & Ireland South Africa × Attention! You are about to leave the Nintendo of Europe site. Nintendo of Europe is not responsible for the content or security of the site you are about to visit. Cancel Continue × Survey Dear visitor, Thank you for visiting the Nintendo website! You have been randomly chosen to take part in a brief survey. By taking a few minutes to share your thoughts and opinions, you will be helping us to improve our website. Naturally, any information provided by you in this survey will be treated in confidence. Your Nintendo of Europe Team Decline invitation Take the survey × Facebook Visit us on Facebook: Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem × X @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons × YouTube NintendoUK × Instagram Join us on Instagram: NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope × Twitch Visit us on Twitch: NintendoUK × LinkedIn Visit us on LinkedIn ×