Oscars 2021: Irish film Wolfwalkers nominated as best animated feature – The Irish Times Sections Subscribe Subscribe Subscribe Home Latest Subscriber Only Crosswords & Puzzles Crosaire Simplex Sudoku News Quiz Ireland Dublin Education Housing & Planning Social Affairs Stardust Politics Poll Oireachtas Common Ground Election 2024 Elections & Referendums Opinion Editorials An Irish Diary Letters Cartoon Business Economy Farming & Food Financial Services Innovation Markets Work Commercial Property World Europe UK US Canada Australia Africa Americas Asia-Pacific Middle East Sport Rugby Six Nations Gaelic Games Soccer Golf Racing Athletics Boxing Cycling Hockey Tennis Your Money Pricewatch Budget 2025 Crime & Law Courts Property Residential Commercial Property Interiors Food Drink Recipes Restaurants Health Your Family Your Fitness Your Wellness Get Running Life & Style Fashion Beauty Fine Art & Antiques Gardening People Travel Culture Art Books Film Music Stage TV & Radio Environment Climate Crisis Technology Big Tech Consumer Tech Data & Security Gaming Science Space Media Abroad Obituaries Transport Motors Car Reviews Listen Podcasts In the News Podcast Inside Politics Podcast The Women's Podcast Inside Business Podcast Ross O'Carroll-Kelly The Counter Ruck Podcast Conversations with Parents Podcast Video Photography History Century Tuarascáil Student Hub Offbeat Family Notices Opens in new window Sponsored Advertising Feature Special Reports Subscriber Rewards Competitions Weather Forecast TV & Radio Oscars 2021: Irish film Wolfwalkers nominated as best animated feature Cartoon Saloon’s fourth nomination puts Kilkenny studio in race with Pixar’s Soul Oscars 2021: Wolfwalkers, made by Cartoon Saloon, has been nominated as best animated feature Mon Mar 15 2021 - 12:53 Wolfwalkers, made by Irish animation studio Cartoon Saloon, has been nominated for an Oscar. Tomm Moore and Ross Stewart’s Wolfwalkers, produced in Kilkenny, has been nominated as best animated feature for the upcoming 93rd Academy Awards. This is the Irish studio’s fourth nomination in the category and, locked in an apparent two-horse race with Pixar’s Soul, offers them their best chance yet to win the prize. Moore told The Irish Times: “I’m delighted on behalf of all our wolfpack here in Kilkenny and in France and Luxembourg – it’s a fantastic achievement for the studio. Ross and myself are delighted all our hard work on the three movies based on Irish folklore have been recognised by the academy.” The film completes Moore’s folklore trilogy, which began with The Secret of Kells and continued with Song of the Sea. Frances McDormand will have fierce competition for best actress from Carey Mulligan, who, savage as a wronged woman in Promising Young Woman, is the bookies' favourite For the first time, two women have been nominated for best director: Chloé Zhao is up for Nomadland and Emerald Fennell (who plays Camilla Parker Bowles in The Crown) competes for Promising Young Woman. Zhao is favourite to become – after Kathryn Bigelow – only the second woman to take the prize READ MORE Oscar nominations 2021: I can already tell you who’ll be shortlisted. Probably Judas and the Black Messiah: Daniel Kaluuya is transcendent in this thrilling picture DIFF online: already setting itself apart from the pack Mank, David Fincher’s examination of the creation of Citizen Kane, topped the charts with 10 nominations when Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Nick Jonas stepped before cameras in London. Other best picture contenders include Nomadland, a raw road movie; Aaron Sorkin’s The Trial of the Chicago 7, a talky examination of the United States’ 1960s discontents; Lee Isaac Chung’s Minari, a touching tale set in the US-Korean community and Fennell’s searing, fiercely timely Promising Young Woman. Carey Mulligan in Promising Young Woman. Photograph: Focus Features via AP Front-runner for the top prize since winning the Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival in early September is Nomadland, which stars Frances McDormand as a financially embarrassed baby boomer adrift in a damaged US. Were McDormand to win best actress she would become only the second woman to win three or more awards in that category. (Katharine Hepburn clocked up four) But she will have fierce competition from Carey Mulligan, who, savage as a wronged woman in the feminist revenge thriller Promising Young Woman, is currently the bookies’ favourite for that prize. Following an odd series of nominations from the British Academy of Film and Television Arts last week, Mulligan stands to be the first best-actress winner at the Oscars not to get a nod from her home body. Chadwick Boseman, who died last August at the age of 43, looks set to become only the second posthumous winner of best actor – after Peter Finch, for Network, in 1977. Boseman is nominated for his role as a troubled jazz musician in Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom. Among those challenging him are Anthony Hopkins as a man with dementia in The Father and Riz Ahmed as a drummer suffering hearing loss in Sound of Metal. Chadwick Boseman, who died of cancer in August 2020 aged 43, starred in Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom. Photograph: Victoria Will/Invision/AP In recent years, awards bodies have been under pressure to deliver a racially diverse array of nominations, particularly in acting categories. There has already been some muttering about the exclusion of Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom and One Night in Miami, two films with ensemble black casts, from best picture, but, with nine actors of colour nominated, the Academy will not be at the end of any #oscarsowhite boycotts this year. The British actor Daniel Kaluuya is favourite in the best-supporting-actor category for his role as Fred Hampton, head of the Illinois Black Panthers, in the thrilling historical drama Judas and the Black Messiah. Best supporting actress is less easy to predict. Youn Yuh-jung is much admired as an awkward grandmother in Minari. Olivia Colman could win a second Oscar for her role as the protagonist’s daughter in The Father. Despite some withering reviews, Glenn Close is there for Hillbilly Elegy. There was no nomination for Saoirse Ronan in this category. Her performance in Francis Lee’s Ammonite was praised on the film’s premiere last autumn, but it has picked up little traction with precursor awards. There were few enormous shocks in Monday’s announcement. Judas and the Black Messiah may have performed slightly beyond expectations with LaKeith Stanfield joining Kaluuya in the best-supporting-actor race. That film also landed in best song, best cinematography, best original screenplay and best picture. Daniel Kaluuya stars in Judas and the Black Messiah as Fred Hampton. Photograph: Samir Hussein/WireImage Some pundits wondered if the Academy would go for a film as raw and profane as the sequel to 2006’s Borat, but Maria Bakalova, a hitherto unknown Bulgarian performer, did indeed score a best-supporting-actress nomination and the film also figured in best adapted screenplay. Hilariously, the Jonases were twice required to read out the film’s complete title: Borat Subsequent Moviefilm: Delivery of Prodigious Bribe to American Regime for Make Benefit Once Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan. Like so much else in the cultural world, the Oscars have been turned on their head by Covid. The academy changed the rules to admit certain films that went straight to video without playing in cinemas. The ceremony – expected to be largely virtual – will take place on April 25th, almost 2½ months later in the year than the 2020 event. This is the latest the show has taken place since 1932. Oscars 2021: the nominees Best picture The Father Judas and the Black Messiah Mank Minari Nomadland Promising Young Woman Sound of Metal The Trial of the Chicago 7 Best director Another Round, Thomas Vinterberg Mank, David Fincher Minari, Lee Isaac Chung Nomadland, Chloé Zhao Promising Young Woman, Emerald Fennell Best actress Viola Davis, Ma Rainey's Black Bottom Andra Day, The United States vs Billie Holiday Vanessa Kirby, Pieces of a Woman Frances McDormand, Nomadland Carey Mulligan, Promising Young Woman Frances McDormand in Nomadland. Photograph: Searchlight Pictures/20th Century Studios Best actor Riz Ahmed, Sound of Metal Chadwick Boseman, Ma Rainey's Black Bottom Anthony Hopkins, The Father Gary Oldman, Mank Steven Yeun, Minari Best supporting actor Sacha Baron Cohen, The Trial of the Chicago 7 Daniel Kaluuya, Judas and the Black Messiah Leslie Odom jnr, One Night in Miami Paul Raci, Sound of Metal Lakeith Stanfield, Judas and the Black Messiah Best supporting actress Olivia Colman, The Father Maria Bakalova, Borat Subsequent Moviefilm Glenn Close, Hillbilly Elegy Amanda Seyfried, Mank Youn Yuh-jung, Minari Best animated feature Onward Over the Moon A Shaun the Sheep Movie: Farmageddon Soul Wolfwalkers Pixar’s Soul Best international feature film Another Round Better Days Collective The Man Who Sold His Skin Quo Vadis, Aida? Best documentary Collective Crip Camp The Mole Agent My Octopus Teacher Time Best Cinematography Judas and the Black Messiah, Sean Bobbitt Mank, Erik Messerschmidt News of the World, Dariusz Wolski Nomadland, Joshua James Richards The Trial of the Chicago 7, Phedon Papamichael Best costume design Emma, Alexandra Byrne Mank, Trish Summerville Ma Rainey's Black Bottom, Ann Roth Mulan, Bina Daigeler Pinocchio Gary Oldman as Herman Mankiewicz and Amanda Seyfried as Marion Davies in Mank. Photograph: Netflix Best film editing The Father Nomadland Promising Young Woman Sound of Metal The Trial of the Chicago 7 Best make-up and hairstyling Emma Hillbilly Elegy Ma Rainey's Black Bottom Mank Pinocchio Best original score Da 5 Bloods, Terence Blanchard Mank, Trent Reznor, Atticus Ross Minari, Emile Mosseri News of the World, James Newton Howard Soul, Trent Reznor, Atticus Ross, Jon Batiste Best original song Fight For You, Judas and the Black Messiah Hear My Voice, The Trial of the Chicago 7 Husavik, Eurovision Song Contest: The Story of Fire Saga Lo Sì (Seen), The Life Ahead (La Vita Davanti a Se) Speak Now, One Night in Miami Netflix’s The Trial of the Chicago 7 starring Sacha Baron Cohen. Photograph: Niko Tavernise/Netflix Best production design The Father Ma Rainey's Black Bottom Mank News of the World Tenet Best sound Greyhound Mank News of the World Soul Sound of Metal Best visual effects Love and Monsters The Midnight Sky Mulan The One and Only Ivan Tenet Best documentary (short subject) Colette A Concerto is a Conversation Do Not Split Hunger Ward A Love Song for Latasha Best adapted screenplay Borat Subsequent Moviefilm, Peter Baynham, Sacha Baron Cohen, Jena Friedman, Anthony Hines, Lee Kern, Dan Mazer, Nina Pedrad, Erica Rivinoja, Dan Swimer The Father, Christopher Hampton, Florian Zeller Nomadland, Chloé Zhao One Night in Miami, Kemp Powers The White Tiger, Ramin Bahrani Sacha Baron Cohen and Maria Bakalova in Borat Subsequent Moviefilm Best animated short film Burrow Genius Loci If Anything Happens I Love You Opera Yes-People Best live action short film Feeling Through The Letter Room The Present Two Distant Strangers White Eye Best original screenplay Judas and the Black Messiah, Will Berson, Shaka King, Keith Lucas, Kenneth Lucas Minari, Lee Isaac Chung Promising Young Woman, Emerald Fennell Sound of Metal, Abraham Marder, Darius Marder, Derek Cianfrance The Trial of the Chicago 7, Aaron Sorkin Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences The Movie Quiz: What is the full title of Borat Subsequent Moviefilm? The killing of Jamal Khashoggi: Dial MBS for murder Four new films to stream this weekend Backtrace: Why did Sylvester Stallone even bother? Notturno: Beauty and horror in the conflict zone Anne Hathaway: ‘I took lockdown seriously. I gave myself a haircut’ Ruth Negga: ‘I didn’t experience explicit racism growing up. Maybe some exoticism’ IN THIS SECTION Netflix, Prime Video, Disney+, Apple TV+: 10 of the best new shows to watch in May Paul Mescal to return to Irish stage in ‘taut, explosive, pressure cooker of a play’ Three sporting events to watch this week: Your handy guide to sport on television TV guide: the best new shows to watch on RTÉ, BBC, UTV, E4, Disney+ and Apple TV+ TV coverage of Pope’s funeral: Ceremony filmed with splendid cinematic minimalism by Italian TV MOST READ Landmark south Dublin pub hits the open market for first time in 48 years with €7.25m price tag TD tells Dáil he is ‘lucky’ to have declined surgery suggested for son by consultant under investigation Garda upgrades case of missing farmer Mike Gaine to homicide inquiry Irish woman living legally in US for decades detained after visiting her father in Ireland Inquest into death of boy (14) in hospital leaves parents with ‘more questions than answers’ LATEST STORIES M7 Real Estate seeks occupier for fully refurbished Dublin 12 industrial and office facility Prime office buildings in the heart of Dublin’s political beltway seeking €7m Ready-to-go residential site in Bray guiding at €2.25m Dublin city centre residential investment  seeking €8.75m Netflix, Prime Video, Disney+, Apple TV+: 10 of the best new shows to watch in May The Music Quiz: Hugh Jackman and Kate Hudson star in a movie about a husband-and-wife tribute act to which music institution? Was William Blake, one of England’s greatest poets, actually Irish? Greater numbers of jobs advertised at minimum wage after 2024 rate increase Facebook page Twitter feed © 2025 The Irish Times DAC Subscribe Why Subscribe? Subscription Bundles Subscriber Rewards Student Subscription Subscription Help Centre Opens in new window Home Delivery Opens in new window Support Contact Us Help Centre Opens in new window My Account About Us Advertise Contact Us The Irish Times Trust Careers Irish Times Products & Services ePaper Crosswords & puzzles Newspaper Archive Newsletters Article Index Opens in new window Discount Codes Opens in new window Download the app MyHome.ie Opens in new window The Gloss Opens in new window Recruit Ireland Opens in new window Irish Times Training Opens in new window RIP.ie Opens in new window Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Information Cookie Settings Community Standards Copyright