Wimbledon 2019, Ashleigh Barty v Saisai Zheng: First round result, score, report, video highlights Sport dropDown Watch TV News Sport Lifestyle Travel Entertainment Product Reviews openNew Stan openNew Domain openNew Drive openNew 2GB Search user Login Nine’s Wide World of Sports Show Menu Advertisement leftChevron rightChevron dropDown Sports All sports Cricket AFL NRL Rugby Football Golf Motorsport Netball Tennis tick Tennis Australian Open Tennis ATP Rotterdam Tennis ATP Rio de Janeiro Tennis ATP Dubai Tennis ATP Acapulco Tennis ATP Indian Wells Tennis ATP Miami Tennis ATP Monte Carlo Tennis ATP Madrid Tennis ATP Rome Tennis French Open Tennis Wimbledon Tennis ATP Cincinnati Tennis US Open Tennis Laver Cup Tennis ATP Shanghai Tennis ATP Paris Tennis ATP World Tour Finals Sport Tennis This was published 5 years ago Ashleigh Barty breezes past Saisai Zheng in Wimbledon first round Ian McCullough July 2, 2019 - 2.11pm shares Share Ashleigh Barty has successfully negotiated her debut match as world No.1 with a straight-sets victory over China's Zheng Saisai to book her spot in the second round of Wimbledon. It was also a good day for Australia's men's No.1 Alex de Minaur, who beat Italian Marco Cecchinato in his opening match. Nick Kyrgios came out on top in a thrilling, five-set all-Australia battle with Davis Cup teammate Jordan Thompson. Advertisement With her new status as the top player in the women's game - the first Aussie to hold the position since Evonne Goolagong Cawley in 1976 - Barty opened proceedings on the new-look No.1 showcourt on Tuesday. MORE AUSSIE OVERNIGHT WIMBLEDON RESULTS: - Kyrgios wins wild epic vs Thompson - Tomic branded 'disgraceful' , while De Minaur prevails - Stosur beaten by seed in Round 1 She was made to work at times for her 6-4 6-2 win against the world No.43, particularly in the opening set, but closed out the win in efficient manner in just 76 minutes. "The first round is always tough," Barty said. "I think it took a little bit of time to get used to the conditions, to get used to that beautiful No.1 Court. "It was really exciting to open my campaign there under the beautiful new roof and it took a bit of time to adjust but I loved every minute of it." Barty said she felt no nerves stepping out as the world No.1 and insisted she was embracing the pressure of being the player to beat in the women's draw. Ashleigh Barty is through to the second round at Wimbledon. AAP "It's incredible, if a little bit of a bizarre feeling, but I just go and try to be myself and enjoy every second of it," she said. "This hallowed turf is sacred and we are so lucky to play on it." It was the French Open champion's 13th successive victory and her 37th of what has been a stellar year for the 23-year-old Queenslander. Barty will now play Alison van Uytvanck, the Belgian world No.54 for a place in the third round on Thursday. Van Uytvanck reached the fourth round at the All England last year beating 2017 champion Garbine Muguruza along the way and will present a tricky test for the in-form Barty. De Minaur booked his passage to round two with a straight sets success over former French Open semi-finalist Cecchinato. In a rematch of last year's opening-round clash, de Minaur once again prevailed against the Sicilian world No.41 with his 6-0 6-3 7-6 (7-5) win setting up a second round clash with American Steve Johnson. Former quarter-finalist Nick Kyrgios needed almost three-and-a-half hours to see off Thompson 7-6 (7-4) 3-6 7-6 (12-10) 0-6 6-1 on Court Three. Kyrgios could play world No.2 Rafael Nadal next on Thursday. Wimbledon Most viewed in Tennis Ban leads to shocking social post as Aussie's trauma revealed Huge question emerges as Djokovic slumps towards retirement Gauff stopped mid-interview as major issue causes mayhem 'Triple standards': Greats fume over 'ridiculous' Purcell ban Latest Blues gamble pays off after wildcard called in to defend star 22 mins ago Bart's grandson at centre of shock Sydney racing shake-up 1 hour ago France beckons for Wallabies' million dollar man 1 hour ago rightArrow Read more in Sport facebook instagram x About Contact Meet the Team Watch TV expandMore Live TV TV Shows Categories Connect your TV How to watch TV Guide News expandMore Latest National World Politics Tech Weather Finance Today Show A Current Affair 60 Minutes Sport expandMore Live Scores Olympics NRL Cricket Tennis AFL Rugby Football Athletics Golf Combat Lifestyle expandMore Latest Royals Style Celebrity Kitchen Travel Coach You Parenting Money Horoscopes Entertainment expandMore Latest TV Shows MAFS The Block Love Island Lego Masters Tipping Point The Summit Getaway Travel Guides Product Reviews expandMore Technology Beauty Style + Fashion Living Kitchen Health + Fitness Parenting Gift Ideas Radio expandMore 2GB 3AW 4BC 6PR Stan expandMore TV Shows Movies Sport Stan Originals Domain expandMore Advice & Guides Property Search Home Loans Home Price Guide Drive expandMore Car Reviews Car News New Car Showroom Cars for Sale Pedestrian TV expandMore Entertainment News Online Television Home Log In Newsletters Work with us Advertise with us Support Terms of use Privacy © 2025 Nine Entertainment Co.