Wimbledon: Alcaraz defeats Djokovic in men's singles final – DW – 07/14/2024 You need to enable JavaScript to run this app. Skip to content Skip to main menu Skip to more DW sites Latest videos Latest audio Regions Africa Asia Europe Latin America Middle East North America Germany Topics Climate Equality Health Human Rights Migration Technology Categories Business Science Environment Culture Sports In focus Pope Francis Russia's war in Ukraine Kashmir Latest audio Latest videos Live TV Advertisement Sports United Kingdom Wimbledon: Alcaraz defeats Djokovic in men's singles final 07/14/2024 July 14, 2024 Spanish tennis player Carlos Alcaraz is only 21 and the youngest man to win a Grand Slam title on grass, clay and hard courts. Serbia's Novak Djokovic hoped for his 8th Wimbledon title to equal Roger Federer's record. https://p.dw.com/p/4iGr4 Spain's Alcaraz defeated Serbia's Djokovic 6-2, 6-2, 7-6 (4) in the Wimbledon men's singles final Image: picture alliance / ASSOCIATED PRESS Advertisement Spanish defending champion Carlos Alcaraz won against Serbia's Novak Djokovic in Sunday Wimbledon men's singles final. The match comes a day after Czech player Barbora Krejcikova defeated Italy's Jasmine Paolini 6-4 in the Wimbledon women's final . Djokovic had hoped to win his 8th Wimbledon title to equal Roger Federer's record Image: Takuya Matsumoto/The Yomiuri Shimbun via AP Images /picture alliance How was the match won? Alcaraz won the first and second set of the final 6-2 in just an hour and 15 minutes and then won *7-6 (7-4) in the third set tie break. The final set proved the most competitive but Alcaraz looked on course for a simple victory after breaking Djokovic in the ninth game to take a 5-4 lead and give himself the chance to serve for the title. But, Djokovic saved three Championship points, having trailed 40-0, to break back and force the third set to a tie break, where Alcaraz finally converted his fourth Championship point to seal a clinical 6-2, 6-2, *7-6 (7-4) victory. In June, the Spaniard won the trophy at Roland Garros for his third major tournament title , making him the youngest man with a Grand Slam title on grass, clay and hard courts. Princess of Wales presents trophies Djokovic, who is 37, had hoped to win his 8th Wimbledon title to equal Roger Federer's record. It would have earned the Serbian a 25th Grand Slam singles titles, more than any other player in tennis' Open Era history. Less than five weeks prior to Wimbledon, Djokovic underwent surgery for a tear in his right knee after he was injured during the French Open. Kate was welcomed by a standing ovation at the Wimbledon Image: John Walton/PA Wire/dpa/picture alliance Kate, Britain's Princess of Wales , was in attendance at the Wimbledon men's singles final and presented the runners up and winners trophies to Djokovic and Alcaraz respectively. This is her second public appearance this year while she undergoes chemotherapy for cancer . sdi/dj (AP, Reuters) Send us your feedback Your feedback Advertisement Skip next section Explore more Explore more Alcaraz hands Djokovic first Wimbledon final loss in a decade Alcaraz hands Djokovic first Wimbledon final loss in a decade Spaniard Carlos Alcaraz has defeated seven-time champion Novak Djokovic to claim his first Wimbledon title. It was a second major win for the 20-year-old following his US Open title last year. Sports 07/16/2023 July 16, 2023 Skip next section Related topics Related topics Tennis About DW Who we are Press DW Global Media Forum DW offers Learn German DW Akademie Service Newsletters Reception FAQ Contact Topics from A to Z Headlines B2B Sales & Distribution Travel Advertising German News Service Follow us on © 2025 Deutsche Welle Privacy Policy Legal notice Digital accessibility Data privacy settings