‘The Last Of Us’ Season 2 Release Schedule—When Do New Episodes Drop? Subscribe To Newsletters Trump Tracker Billionaires Billionaires View All Billionaires World's Billionaires Forbes 400 America's Richest Self-Made Women China's Richest India's Richest Indonesia's Richest Korea's Richest Thailand's Richest Japan's Richest Australia's Richest Taiwan's Richest Singapore's Richest Philippines' Richest Hong Kong's Richest Malaysia's Richest Money & Politics 2024 Election Innovation Innovation View All Innovation AI Big Data Cloud Cloud 100 Consumer Tech Creator Economy Cybersecurity Digital Transformation Enterprise Commerce Enterprise Security and Protection Enterprise Tech Enterprise Growth Strategy Future Of Work Gaming Healthcare Innovation Rules Retail Industry SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Science Social Media Sustainability & Climate Transportation Venture Capital Technology VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program TikTok BrandVoice | Paid Program Leadership Leadership View All Leadership C-Suite CEO Network CFO Network CHRO Network CIO Network CMO Network Leadership Strategies Careers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Education Forbes EQ | Paid Program ForbesBLK ForbesWomen Under 30 Working Remote Over 50 Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Money Money View All Money Banking & Insurance ETFs & Mutual Funds Fintech Hedge Funds & Private Equity Investing Investor Hub Markets Personal Finance Retirement Taxes Top Advisor | SHOOK Wealth Management Forbes Digital Assets Forbes Digital Assets Home Web3 Community News Crypto Prices NFT Prices Research Learn Crypto Basics BTC DeFi Web3 Education NFTs Crypto Investments Events Crypto Portfolios Business Business View All Business Aerospace & Defense Energy Food & Drink Hollywood & Entertainment Law Manufacturing Media Policy Retail SportsMoney Entertainment Digest Small Business Small Business View All Small Business Entrepreneurs Franchises Small Business Strategy Lifestyle Lifestyle View All Lifestyle Arts Boats & Planes Cars & Bikes Dining ForbesLife Forbes Travel Guide Spirits Style & Beauty Travel Vices Watches Real Estate Real Estate View All Real Estate Commercial Real Estate Forbes Global Properties Residential Real Estate Forbes Vetted Forbes Vetted View All Forbes Vetted Mattress & Sleep Bed Frames Mattresses Mattress Toppers Pillows Sheets & Bedding Sleep Products Home Bathroom Cleaning & Laundry Decor Furniture Heating & Cooling Hobbies Home Office Kitchen & Dining Outdoor Pets Storage & Organization Tools Wine & Bar Fashion Accessories Clothing Eyewear Footwear Jewelry Handbags & Purses Lingerie & Sleepwear Outdoor & Fitness Apparel Outerwear Watches Kids & Baby Gear Baby Gear Kids Clothes & Accessories Nursery Pregnancy & Postpartum Toys & Books Gear Apparel & Accessories Bikes Camping & Hiking Climbing Fishing & Hunting Fitness Golf Running Tennis & Racket Sports Tools & Tech Training & Recovery Water Sports Wellness Winter Sports Beauty & Grooming Haircare Makeup Nailcare Shaving Skincare Personal Products Wellness & Self Care Tech & Electronics Audio Cameras Computers, Tablets & Accessories Gaming Home Office Online Tools Smart Home Devices Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories Streaming TVs Travel Cruises Hotels & Lodging Luggage Travel Products Gifts Father's Day Holiday Mother's Day Valentine's Day Wedding Deals Black Friday Cyber Monday Amazon Prime Day Beauty & Grooming Big Sales Fashion Gear Home Tech & Electronics Travel Deals Mattress & Sleep Forbes 101 Advisor Advisor Best Credit Cards Of 2025 Compare Credit Cards Balance Transfer Credit Cards Cash Back Credit Cards Travel Credit Cards Business Credit Cards Mortgages & Loans Best Mortgage Lenders Today's Mortgage Rates Today's Refinance Rates Best Personal Loans Loans For Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Student Loan Lenders Best Student Loan Refinance Lenders Business Loans Banking Best Online Banks CD Rates High-Yield Savings Accounts Money Market Account Life Insurance Cheap Life Insurance No Exam Life Insurance Travel Insurance Covid-19 Travel Insurance Cheap Travel Insurance Companies Best Car Insurance Compare Car Insurance Quotes Cost Of Car Insurance Cheap Car Insurance Pet Insurance How Much Is Pet Insurance? Cheap Pet Insurance Business Services Best LLC Services Best Registered Agent Services How To Set Up An LLC How To Start A Business Cost To Start An LLC Best Payroll Services Best HR Software Best HRIS Systems Best PEO Services Best Applicant Tracking Systems Best Website Builders Best Web Hosting Services Best Domain Registrar Best Ecommerce Platform Best Landing Page Builder Best VoIP Service What Is VoIP? Best Answering Services Best Call Center Software Best Cloud Phone System Best Project Management Software Free Project Management Software Best Task Management Software Free Task Management Software Best Gantt Chart Software Best VPN Best Free VPN Best Cheap VPN Best Antivirus Software Best Password Managers Home Services Best Moving Companies Best Long Distance Moving Companies Best Car Shipping Companies Best Interstate Moving Companies How Much Do Movers Cost? Best Home Warranty Companies Cheapest Home Warranty Companies Are Home Warranties Worth It? Home Warranty Cost Best Home Appliance Insurance Best Solar Companies Best Solar Panels Cost Of Solar Panels Solar Tax Credit By State Are Solar Panels Worth It? Best Pest Control Companies Best Termite Control Companies Best Mosquito Control Companies Pest Control Cost How Much Do Exterminators Cost? Best Home Security Companies Best Home Security Systems Home Security System Cost Cheapest Home Security Systems Best Wireless Home Security Systems Best Internet Providers Cheapest Internet Plans Fastest High Speed Internet Providers Best Internet Only Plans Best Fiber Internet Providers Forbes Advisor UK Health Health Healthy Aging Best Medical Alert Systems Medicare Medicare Advantage Plans Medicare Supplement Plans Medicare Advantage By State Health Insurance Hearing Aids Best Hearing Aids Senior Living Mind Best Online Therapy Best CBD Gummies Best CBD Oil Best Protein Powders Lists Video Newsletters Newsletters Crypto Confidential Editorial Newsletters Forbes Games Forbes Games View All Forbes Games Frase by Forbes Pinpoint by LinkedIn Queens by LinkedIn Crossclimb by LinkedIn Forbes Magazine Forbes Magazine Forbes Asia Free Issue of Forbes Latest Latest Coronavirus Coverage Daily Cover Stories Dark Capital Editors' Picks Breaking News Featured Featured 2025 Best-In-State Wealth Advisors List 2025 America's Top Women Wealth Advisors AI’s Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It DNA of Success Embracing And Bracing For AI Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program Your Four-Part Blueprint To Unlock AI Value In 2025 | Paid Program Diners Club International Celebrates 75 Years | Paid Program Leadership Lessons: Small Business Playbook Potential Has No Age Summit | Paid Program Celebrating The Power Of Partnership: Why Teamwork Is Key In the Fight Against Cancer | Paid Program Protecting What Matters Most: How Gerber Life Insurance Offers Affordable Coverage For Your Whole Family | Paid Program Presented by EY - Beyond The Blueprint: How These Four CEOs Built Billion-Dollar Businesses | Paid Program 2/3 By 2030: Philip Morris International Marks A Milestone  And Aims For A Smoke-Free Future | Paid Program 2025 America's Top Wealth Advisors Forbes Insights: Your Guide To Marketing In The Era Of AI | Paid Program The Undergrad's New Journey To Real-World Ready | Paid Program Forbes Insights: Your Five-Step Strategy To Unleash AI’s Value In Marketing | Paid Program Forbes Video Series: AI 50 AI 50 List By The Numbers: Meet The Forbes 30 Under 30 Europe Class Of 2025 United To End Blood Cancer: Meet The Leaders Turning Passion Into Progress | Paid Program Advertise with Forbes Report a Security Issue Editorial Values and Standards Site Feedback Contact Us Careers at Forbes Tips Corrections Privacy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms AdChoices Reprints & Permissions © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. Subscribe To Newsletters ‘The Last Of Us’ Season 2 Release Schedule—When Do New Episodes Drop? By Monica Mercuri Follow Author Share Save Comment Business Hollywood & Entertainment ‘The Last Of Us’ Season 2 Release Schedule—When Do New Episodes Drop? By Monica Mercuri , Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Monica is an entertainment reporter covering TV, film, and music. Follow Author Apr 14, 2025, 09:30am EDT Share Save Comment Pedro Pascal in "The Last of Us" Season 2. Courtesy of Warner Bros. The first episode of The Last of Us Season 2 is now streaming as of April 13. Wondering when new episodes will be available on HBO and Max? Read on for the full release schedule so you don’t miss a single episode of the apocalyptic thriller. Based on the popular video game franchise developed by Naughty Dog for PlayStation, The Last of Us is set 20 years into a pandemic caused by a mind-controlling parasitic fungus that turns its hosts into zombie-like creatures. Joel (Pedro Pascal) must smuggle 14-year-old Ellie (Bella Ramsey) across the country to a hospital because she’s immune to the infection; but with danger at every turn, their biggest challenge is staying alive. The second installment picks up five years after the events of Season 1 and takes inspiration from The Last of Us Part II video game, released in 2020. “Five years after the events of the first season, Joel and Ellie are drawn into conflict with each other and a world even more dangerous and unpredictable than the one they left behind,” the logline for Season 2 reads. Forbes The Best New TV Shows Streaming In April 2025 On Netflix, Max, And More By Monica Mercuri In Season 2, Pascal and Ramsey are joined by Gabriel Luna as Tommy and Rutina Wesley as Maria. New cast members include Kaitlyn Dever as Abby, Isabela Merced as Dina, Young Mazino as Jesse, Ariela Barer as Mel, Tati Gabrielle as Nora, Spencer Lord as Owen, Danny Ramirez as Manny, and Jeffrey Wright as Isaac. Catherine O’Hara will also guest star. Keep scrolling to discover when the next episode of The Last of Us Season 2 airs, the full release schedule, and the real reason behind this season’s shorter episode count. MORE FOR YOU Google’s Gmail Upgrade—Why You Need To Change Your App NYT ‘Strands’ Today: Hints, Spangram And Answers For Tuesday, April 29th WWE Raw Results, Winners And Grades On April 28, 2025 When Do New Episodes of The Last of Us Season 2 Come Out? Isabela Merced and Bella Ramsey in "The Last of Us" Season 2. Courtesy of Warner Bros. New episodes of The Last of Us Season 2 air every Sunday at 9 p.m. ET/PT on HBO and Max. The next episode, Season 2, Episode 2, is scheduled to be released on Sunday, April 20. How Many Episodes Are In The Last of Us Season 2? Ezra Agbonkhese and Pedro Pascal in "The Last of Us" Season 2. Courtesy of Warner Bros. The Last of Us Season 2 will have a total of seven episodes, which is two fewer than the nine-episode first season. According to co-creators Craig Mazin and Neil Druckmann, the shorter episode count is intentional. Because Part II of the video game has so much story to cover, they plan to tell it across multiple seasons. “We just want to put people’s minds at ease that the idea that this season coming up is a little bit shorter than the first one is not because we’re taking less time to tell the stories, it’s because we want to take more time,” Mazin told Deadline . “The story that we’re telling is much bigger than the story of Season 1, there’s just a lot more going on, it’s a lot harder to produce but we want every episode to feel like its own blockbuster to be honest with you.” Mazin added that the natural breakpoint in Season 2 “felt like is came after seven episodes.” He and Druckmann see the series spanning at least three seasons, with the possibility of a fourth. HBO officially renewed The Last of Us for a third season just days before the Season 2 premiere. “We don’t think that we’re going to be able to tell the story even within two seasons [2 and 3] because we’re taking our time and go down interesting pathways which we did a little bit in Season 1 too,” Mazin continued. “We feel like it’s almost assuredly going to be the case that — as long as people keep watching and we can keep making more television — Season 3 will be significantly larger. And indeed, the story may require Season 4.” What Is The Last of Us Season 2 Release Schedule? Gabriela Luna in "The Last of Us" Season 2. Courtesy of Warner Bros. Following the Season 2 premiere on April 13, new episodes of The Last of Us will drop every Sunday at 9 p.m. ET/PT on HBO and stream on Max, leading up to the season finale on May 25. Check out the full release schedule below (episode titles for the remaining weeks have not yet been announced). Episode 1, “Future Days”: Aired on April 13 Episode 2, “TBA”: Airing on April 20 Episode 3, “TBA”: Airing on April 27 Episode 4, “TBA”: Airing on May 4 Episode 5, “TBA”: Airing on May 11 Episode 6, “TBA”: Airing on May 18 Episode 7, “TBA”: Airing on May 25 Forbes What Time Does ‘The Last Of Us’ Season 2 Come Out? Here’s How To Watch By Monica Mercuri How To Watch The Last of Us Season 2 Isabela Merced and Bella Ramsey in "The Last of Us" Season 2. Courtesy of Warner Bros. The Last of Us airs Sundays at 9 p.m. ET/PT on HBO. You can watch the series by subscribing to HBO through your cable or satellite TV provider. The series is also available to stream on Max, which offers three subscription tiers: the ad-supported plan for $9.99/month, the ad-free plan for $16.99/month, and the ultimate ad-free plan for $20.99/month. You can also add Max as an add-on through live TV streaming services like DirecTV or YouTube TV (which have special offers available). Although Max doesn’t currently offer a free trial, you may still be able to watch episodes for free through select partner promotions. Amazon Prime occasionally offers a seven-day free trial for its Max add-on, and DoorDash is running a promotion that gives DashPass members a free one-year subscription to Max. Watch the official trailer for The Last of Us Season 2 below. Follow me on LinkedIn . Check out my website . Editorial Standards Forbes Accolades LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Digital Terms of Sale Terms of Service Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Reprints & Permissions Forbes Press Room Advertise