NFL prepares Raymond James Stadium to host Super Bowl LV and prevent COVID-19 spread Skip to main content Open Main Menu Navigation Open Search Clear icon 76 º Go to the WKMG homepage Join Insider Sign In Open the WKMG News 6 & ClickOrlando Help Desk Search News Watch Live Insider Hits The Road Investigators Local News Florida National World Politics Space News Entertainment Strange Florida Weather Weather News PinIt! Hurricane Weather Wise Forecasting Change Alerts Live Orlando Cam Live Beach Cam Live Port Cam Live Mount Dora Cam Live Palm Island Park Cam News 6+ Watch News 6+ Insider I-4 Food Tour Florida Foodie Solutionaries Black Men Sundays NEXTGEN TV The Hecht Effect Real Estate Getting Results. Results Desk Driving Change Protecting Our Community Getting Results In Our Schools Getting Results At Home Need Results? Traffic Ask Trooper Steve On Patrol Features WKMG Hits The Road Shop ClickOrando Deals Insider Events Calendar Happenings Podcasts Theme Parks Boomtown Pets Food Health Travel Make Ends Meet Breakfast With Bridgett Tech Pros Who Know Serving Those Who Served Sports Orlando Magic Orlando Magic - Stats UCF Knights UCF Knights - Stats Florida Gators Florida Gators - Stats Orlando City SC Orlando Pride Miami Dolphins Dolphins - Stats Tampa Bay Buccaneers Buccaneers - Stats Jacksonville Jaguars Jaguars - Stats Player of the Week Olympics Contact Us Results Desk Insider Meet The Team Careers at WKMG Advertise with us Contests & Rules TV Listings Community Calendar Newsletters Newsletters News Weather News 6+ Getting Results. Traffic Features Sports Contact Us Newsletters News Weather News 6+ Getting Results. Traffic Features Sports Contact Us Newsletters WEATHER ALERT 2 rip current statements in effect for Flagler, Coastal, Inland and Volusia, Coastal, Inland Regions Show Breaking News Bar Close Local News Carolina Cardona , Reporter Published: January 26, 2021 at 6:01 PM Tags: NFL , sports , Tampa Bay Buccaneers , Kansas City Chiefs , Super Bowl LV RELATED STORIES Relive Tampa Bay’s first Super Bowl win 18 years later Read full article: Relive Tampa Bay’s first Super Bowl win 18 years later Super Bowl won’t be tourism touchdown for Central Florida Super Bowl won’t be tourism touchdown for Central Florida Read full article: Super Bowl won’t be tourism touchdown for Central Florida Florida man has been to every Super Bowl Florida man has been to every Super Bowl Read full article: Florida man has been to every Super Bowl Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback Tom Brady reacts after winning the NFC championship NFL football game against the Green Bay Packers in Green Bay, Wis., Sunday, Jan. 24, 2021. The Buccaneers defeated the Packers 31-26 to advance to the Super Bowl. (AP Photo/Jeffrey Phelps) Tom Brady’s Super Bowl video with Rob Gronkowski surpasses 6.5 million views Read full article: Tom Brady’s Super Bowl video with Rob Gronkowski surpasses 6.5 million views Super-Bowl bound Bucs player grew up in Cocoa Cocoa High School alum to play in Super Bowl 55 Read full article: Cocoa High School alum to play in Super Bowl 55 LATEST NEWS Clouds move in over Central Florida 2 hours ago Is a rainy season in Florida’s future? Here’s what the data says Read full article: Is a rainy season in Florida’s future? Here’s what the data says Repairs continuing on the condos at Dockside at Ventura that were damaged by Hurricane Ian. 1 hour ago Residents still out of their condo homes after Hurricane Ian damage Read full article: Residents still out of their condo homes after Hurricane Ian damage 25-year-old Calsie Volkers 1 hour ago Volusia County woman arrested for abandoning pets during Hurricane Milton Read full article: Volusia County woman arrested for abandoning pets during Hurricane Milton An Orlando Health doctor examines the scope of a pancreas using artificial intelligence. 3 hours ago Orlando Health Digestive Institute uses AI to help find tumors in clinical study Read full article: Orlando Health Digestive Institute uses AI to help find tumors in clinical study SHOP DEALS Get 2 Dozen Farmer's Color Choice Long-Stem Roses for Only $19.99! (Shipping Not Included) Get two dozen freshly picked long-stem roses for just $20! Read full article: Get two dozen freshly picked long-stem roses for just $20! Pok Pok: Lifetime Subscription A screen time solution parents actually love — meet Pok Pok Read full article: A screen time solution parents actually love — meet Pok Pok Sign up for our events newsletter: Sign Up Local News NFL prepares Raymond James Stadium to host Super Bowl LV and prevent COVID-19 spread Guests will receive N95 masks, sanitization items when they arrive Carolina Cardona , Reporter Published: January 26, 2021 at 6:01 PM Tags: NFL , sports , Tampa Bay Buccaneers , Kansas City Chiefs , Super Bowl LV As the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and the Kansas City Chiefs prepare to take the field at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa it’s all hands on deck at the NFL preparing to get all the details right for Super Bowl LV during a global pandemic. The Super Bowl Experience happens along Tampa’s Riverwalk on Jan. 29 ahead of Super Bowl LV on Feb. 7. During a virtual press conference Tuesday, NFL Vice President and head of live event productions Jon Barker said everything is on schedule and teams are confident everything will be in place for an event being held as we continue to battle COVID-19. Only 22,000 fans will be allowed inside Raymond James Stadium in Tampa for the Super Bowl. [TRENDING: Great white shark bites boat in Florida | Orange County deputy’s TikTok videos under investigation | Governor touts vaccine rollout ] The NFL says they are taking every precaution possible to ensure the events before and on game day don’t turn into a “superspreader” event. “We’ve had 17 weeks to learn, change, adapt, learn, change, adapt and we just continue to do that and refine those plans and we’re very confident in what we’re doing here, making sure that we have physical distancing, making sure that we are watching our vertical movements,” Barker said. Every fan, guest and person working at the stadium will receive a kit that includes an N95 mask, bacterial wipes hand wipes and sanitizer when they arrive, Barker said. Raymond James Stadium is being sanitized daily including through an air filtration system. At the Super Bowl Experience at Tampa’s Riverwalk, fans will need to have reservations for a specific date and time they want to visit. Due to COVID-19 there will not be player appearances this year but fans will get to view the Vince Lombardi trophy. Similar to inside the stadium, masks will be required at all times during the Super Bowl Experience and on game day. Barker said the halftime show will be different this year as well. “You’re gonna see a remarkable halftime show just done in a different way from a different place. You’ll see America the beautiful, you’ll see the Anthem, you’ll just see it done in different ways and really beautiful ways, and then some added color and some added entertainment that we’ll bring around the stadium, Barker said without revealing too much. Additionally, the NFL is honoring health care workers who are on the frontline of the pandemic. More than 7,500 frontline health care workers have been invited to attend by the NFL. The halftime show will pay tribute to those individuals as well. “The last piece of that planning is the celebration of the healthcare workers; a program that we’re all extraordinarily proud of here at the league,” Barker said. The Super Bowl will air on WKMG News 6 at 6:30 p.m. on Feb. 7. Copyright 2021 by WKMG ClickOrlando - All rights reserved. About the Author Carolina Cardona headshot Carolina Cardona Carolina Cardona highlights all Central Florida has to offer in her stories on News 6 at Nine. She joined News 6 in June 2018 from the Telemundo station in Philadelphia. email RELATED STORIES Relive Tampa Bay’s first Super Bowl win 18 years later Read full article: Relive Tampa Bay’s first Super Bowl win 18 years later Super Bowl won’t be tourism touchdown for Central Florida Read full article: Super Bowl won’t be tourism touchdown for Central Florida Florida man has been to every Super Bowl Read full article: Florida man has been to every Super Bowl Tom Brady’s Super Bowl video with Rob Gronkowski surpasses 6.5 million views Read full article: Tom Brady’s Super Bowl video with Rob Gronkowski surpasses 6.5 million views Cocoa High School alum to play in Super Bowl 55 Read full article: Cocoa High School alum to play in Super Bowl 55 Loading... Recommended Videos SHOP DEALS Get 2 Dozen Farmer's Color Choice Long-Stem Roses for Only $19.99! (Shipping Not Included) Get two dozen freshly picked long-stem roses for just $20! Read full article: Get two dozen freshly picked long-stem roses for just $20! Pok Pok: Lifetime Subscription A screen time solution parents actually love — meet Pok Pok Read full article: A screen time solution parents actually love — meet Pok Pok BACK TO TOP TV Listings Email Newsletters RSS Feeds Contests and Rules Contact Us / Follow on Social Media Careers at WKMG Closed Captioning / Audio Description Public File Current EEO Report Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Info FCC Applications EEO Report Disability Assistance Cookie Preferences Follow Us Visit our YouTube page (opens in a new tab) Visit our Facebook page (opens in a new tab) Visit our Instagram page (opens in a new tab) Visit our X page (opens in a new tab) Visit our RSS Feed page (opens in a new tab) Get Results With Omne If you need help with the Public File, call (407) 291-6000 At WKMG, we are committed to informing and delighting our audience. In our commitment to covering our communities with innovation and excellence, we incorporate Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies to enhance our news gathering, reporting, and presentation processes. Read our article to see how we are using Artificial Intelligence. Copyright © 2025 ClickOrlando.com is managed by Graham Digital and published by Graham Media Group, a division of Graham Holdings.