Slow speed during play - General Discussion - Diablo 3 Forums Diablo 3 Forums Slow speed during play General Discussion FrankCachia-6508 May 19, 2024, 12:18pm 1 In the last few days the game is slowing down. For example clicking to pick up an item, there’s a noticeable delay. Hitting the enemy I do so and then wait to see if they’re dead. Nothing has changed on the computer, its just running slow, at times to the point of just switching it off.  Any help/advice would be appreciated. Incidentally I’m in Australia which comes under the Asia region Perusoe-1251 May 19, 2024,  2:23pm 2 FrankCachia: Incidentally I’m in Australia which comes under the Asia region No, it doesn’t. Australia is the Americas Region . Diablo III’s global game servers are grouped into three distinct game regions: The Americas - For players in the US, Canada, Latin America, Australia, New Zealand, and Southeast Asia. I get the same issues you’re describing when I play on the Asia Region, although I live in North America, on the East Coast. I see most of your Characters are on the Asia Region. You have none on the Europe Region and a couple of low-level, non-Seasonal Characters on the Americas Region. What kind of performance do you get on the Americas Region? If it’s better than you get on the Asia Region, you may consider playing on the Americas Region in the future. 4 Likes FrankCachia-6508 May 20, 2024,  2:56am 3 G’day Perusoe I have never changed regions, I have only played under the Asia region as directed when I originally bought the game. couple of low-level, non-Seasonal Characters on the Americas Region—can’t explain that This slowing down randomly happen, its just this week at times it slows down to a 4 second delay. yessquire-1869 May 20, 2024,  5:16am 4 Tighten up all your connections, restart modem, router, and computer. If you are on Wi-Fi, upgrade or try to hardwire with an Ethernet cable 2 Likes Perusoe-1251 May 20, 2024, 12:07pm 5 FrankCachia: I have only played under the Asia region as directed when I originally bought the game. The Blog I linked for you above was posted by Blizzard on Tuesday, May 1, 2012. Almost 2 weeks before D3’s initial release. I don’t know who “directed” you to play on the Asia Region. But, if you insist on playing through a server that is outside your geographical location * , you will have to expect some performance issues occasionally. * Closest Blizzard server to your location. FrankCachia: This slowing down randomly happen, its just this week at times it slows down to a 4 second delay. You may want to try @yessquire’s suggestions, even if it’s just to double-check that you have a solid, stable connection to the internet. You can also try checking the box for Additional command line arguments in the Battle․net App Settings/Game Settings/Diablo III. For the Asia Region, try the command: OnlineService.Matchmaking.ServerPool=Default or OnlineService.Matchmaking.ServerPool=TW3 If you’re already using a command line argument, uncheck the box to allow the Battle․net App to try to connect through the best server for your selected (Asia) Region. FrankCachia: Any help/advice would be appreciated. Unless someone else comes here to offer other suggestions, I don’t know what else to tell you. Best of luck. 1 Like Mattelot-1113 May 20, 2024, 12:23pm 6 Try doing a bandwidth test to ensure your internet provider isn’t having issues.  I remember mine did once… was getting higher ping than normal and speed was half what it should have been. 1 Like FrankCachia-6508 May 20, 2024,  1:41pm 7 Shall do so but then again it only happens on Diablo game. As suggested I checked all the wiring. Switched over to the America server but found I lost all my heroes except the 2 in America which I have no idea how they got there. Back to Asia and it seems that the delay is still there but noticeably reduced Jazz-2357 May 20, 2024,  2:01pm 8 At least you could try and make a seasonal hero in the us region and see if the performance is better. 2 Likes Perusoe-1251 May 20, 2024,  2:36pm 9 FrankCachia: Switched over to the America server but found I lost all my heroes You didn’t lose your Characters. Each Region is separate. Characters you create on the Asia Region stay on the Asia Region. Same for Americas and Europe Regions. You can actually play through each Season from beginning to end 3 times if you play on all 3 Regions. (6 times if you also play SSF Characters). FrankCachia: except the 2 in America which I have no idea how they got there. At some point your Battle․net App for D3 must have been set for the Americas Region and you created those 2 Characters before switching the App back to the Asia Region. It’s nothing to worry about. But, if you ever run D3 again and don’t see your Characters, quit the game and check the App to make sure you have the correct Region selected. I still think, since you’re in Australia, you should try playing future Seasons on the Americas Region for best performance. But, it’s your choice. Whatever you decide, I wish you luck. 3 Likes Darkness-15491 May 21, 2024, 12:40am 10 Perusoe: I still think, since you’re in Australia, you should try playing future Seasons on the Americas Region for best performance. But, it’s your choice. This is exactly what you need to understand. I am also in Australia (under the Americas). Set up another account in Asia once because they start the seasons sooner, and found it too laggy for my liking. Playing “properly” under the Americas and the game is fine. 3 Likes FrankCachia-6508 May 21, 2024,  2:00pm 11 I checked the box for Additional command line arguments in the Battle․net App Settings/Game. The second one OnlineService.Matchmaking.ServerPool=TW3 worked, so far no lagging so fingers crossed. Thanks for your help guys 2 Likes Perusoe-1251 May 21, 2024,  2:39pm 12 One last thing I always forget about since I have my Battle․net App set to log me in automatically when I run it: I have mine set to log me in through the Americas Region. I’m not sure how it works. (I’m not that computer tech-savvy). But, I believe the Region you log in to with the Battle․net App determines the (internet) path used to connect you to their games by default. In this case, Diablo III. From there, you can select which Region you actually play the game on. So, if you have the Battle․net App logging you in through the Asia server, you’re playing D3 on the Asia Region and you are located in Australia (Americas Region), you are connecting and playing through a Blizzard server that is farther from your location than one you should be playing through. Your gaming performance will be less than desirable. If you are no longer having issues, then don’t worry about it. But, if you start having issues again, I would suggest trying the following. Run the Battle․net App. Log out of the App. Log in to the App, but make sure you have the Americas Region selected. Select D3. Select the Americas Region. I would be willing to bet “dollars to donuts” that your gaming performance will be greatly improved. Cheers! 3 Likes FrankCachia-6508 May 22, 2024,  9:25am 13 Perusoe: If you are no longer having issues, then don’t worry about it. But, if you start having issues again, I would suggest trying the following. Run the Battle․net App. Log out of the App. Log in to the App, but make sure you have the Americas Region selected. Select D3. Select the Americas Region. I would be willing to bet “dollars to donuts” that your gaming performance will be greatly improved. Thanks for the tip, I’ll definitely keep it in mind 1 Like KABAL-2960 May 22, 2024,  2:57pm 14 FrankCachia: its just this week at times it slows down to a 4 second delay. Stop p0rn… /20chars 1 Like DonMartin-1373 May 22, 2024,  5:37pm 15 Try tech support section. I hear they fix stuff there. Home Categories Guidelines Terms of Service Privacy Policy Powered by Discourse , best viewed with JavaScript enabled