No Nobel In Literature This Year Following A Sexual Assault Scandal : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu Newsletters NPR Shop Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Fresh Air Up First Featured Embedded The NPR Politics Podcast Throughline Trump's Terms More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics No Nobel In Literature This Year Following A Sexual Assault Scandal The Swedish Academy was in turmoil earlier this year with allegations of sexual harassment and assault. The academy postponed the 2018 Nobel Prize in Literature and will award two prizes in 2019. NPR Books LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link Books No Nobel In Literature This Year Following A Sexual Assault Scandal October 4, 2018 5:05 AM ET Heard on Morning Edition Andrew Limbong No Nobel In Literature This Year Following A Sexual Assault Scandal Listen · 3:52 3:52 Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/654281911/654281912" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript The Swedish Academy was in turmoil earlier this year with allegations of sexual harassment and assault. The academy postponed the 2018 Nobel Prize in Literature and will award two prizes in 2019. Sponsor Message RACHEL MARTIN, HOST: This week, leading researchers in medicine, physics and chemistry have been awarded the prestigious Nobel Prize. And usually today we'd be telling you about the winner in literature. Except there isn't one. Not this year. The Academy is taking a year off after it was engulfed in a scandal involving sexual abuse by the husband of one of the academy members. NPR's Andrew Limbong has more. ANDREW LIMBONG, BYLINE: An expose published late last year by the Swedish newspaper Dagens Nyheter told the story of 18 women who said they were sexually harassed or assaulted by a French arts promoter named Jean-Claude Arnault. He's married to poet Katarina Frostenson and is friends with Horace Engdahl, two members of the Swedish Academy, which awards the Nobel Prize in literature. Earlier this week, Arnault was sentenced to two years in prison after being found guilty of raping a woman in 2011. ANDREW BROWN: Everybody sort of knew, but nobody wanted to admit that they knew what he was up to. LIMBONG: Andrew Brown is a writer for the London newspaper The Guardian and author of the book, "Fishing In Utopia: Sweden And The Future That Disappeared." He's been following this story for a while. Brown says, on top of the sexual abuse, there's the matter of a club called Forum which Arnault and his wife, Frostenson, owned and which also got some money from the Academy. BROWN: So there was an element of possible financial corruption there because they were voting on subsidies to themselves. LIMBONG: On top of that, there were reports of Frostenson leaking names of winners to Arnault, allowing him to win some gambling money. When all of this came to light, Frostenson and Engdahl refused to step down. So three members of the Academy left in protest, and permanent secretary Sara Danius was nudged out. Here she is talking to a press gaggle after she stepped down last April. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) SARA DANIUS: It's already affected the Nobel Prize quite severely, and that is a rather big problem. LIMBONG: Because being a member of the Swedish Academy is a lifetime appointment - you can't leave. The most you can do is not participate. The Swedish king can intervene. It's kind of a mess of a situation that Brown says leaves a deserved black mark on the reputation of the Swedish Academy, which declined to comment for this story. ALOK YADAV: I think it certainly damages the ethos of the Academy, and it's an open question, you know, how well it'll recover. LIMBONG: Alok Yadav is a professor of English at George Mason University who's taught a class on Nobel prize-winning novels. He thinks the Academy might be better served with a more international jury. YADAV: And as with things like the Supreme Court and so on, there's problems with lifetime appointments in general. LIMBONG: And he points out that there are other literary awards. In fact, one has sprung up to take the place of this year's absent Nobel Prize in literature. ANN PALSSON: We decided that the criteria would be very democratic. LIMBONG: Ann Palsson is an independent publisher and book editor. She is also the president of the jury for The New Academy. She says its members reached out to Swedish librarians to create a long list, got reader input to prune that list down, and they'll announce a winner next Friday who will get an award, a banquet - the same types of thing a Nobel winner would get, but not as much money. Once that's done, The New Academy will dissolve. PALSSON: Because we all love the Nobel prize. It is the Swedish Academy that isn't coping very well with this Nobel Prize. LIMBONG: For his part, journalist and author Andrew Brown thinks the Swedish Royal Court may just take the power to award the literature prize away from this current Swedish Academy. BROWN: And leave the Swedish Academy as simply a bunch of very highly paid dictionary compilers. LIMBONG: Andrew Limbong, NPR News. Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. Accuracy and availability of NPR transcripts may vary. Transcript text may be revised to correct errors or match updates to audio. Audio on npr.org may be edited after its original broadcast or publication. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record. Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor