Facebook buys WhatsApp for $19 billion Markets Tech Media Success Video Markets Premarkets Dow After-Hours Market Movers Fear & Greed World Markets Investing Markets Now Before the Bell Leading Indicator Global Energy Challenge Economy Energy Tech Innovate Gadget Mission: Ahead Upstarts Business Evolved Work Transformed Innovative Cities Unhackable Media Reliable Sources Success Boss Files Fresh Money Cars Homes Biz + Leisure Center Piece Perspectives Video International Switzerland India Davos Passion to Portfolio On: Germany More Newsletters About Us Accessibility and CC U.S. World Politics Business Opinion Health Entertainment Tech Style Travel Sports Video Shop VR More... Follow CNN Business Do Not Sell Facebook buys WhatsApp for $19 billion by Adrian Covert @CNNTech February 19, 2014: 6:54 PM ET WhatsApp with Facebook's $19B offer? In a play to dominate messaging on phones and the Web, Facebook has acquired WhatsApp for $19 billion. That's a stunning sum for the five-year old company. But WhatsApp has been able to hold its weight against messaging heavyweights like Twitter ( TWTR ) , Google ( GOOG ) and Microsoft's ( MSFT ) Skype. WhatsApp has upwards of 450 million users, and it is adding an additional million users every day. Referring to WhatsApp's soaring growth, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said on a conference call, "No one in the history of the world has done anything like that." WhatsApp is the most popular messaging app for smartphones, according to OnDevice Research. Buying WhatsApp will only bolster Facebook's already strong position in the crowded messaging world. Messenger, Facebook's a standalone messaging app for mobile devices, is second only to WhatsApp in its share of the smartphone market. Related: 5 key moments that changed Facebook Similar to traditional text messaging, WhatsApp allows people to connect via their cellphone numbers. But instead of racking up texting fees, WhatsApp sends the actual messages over mobile broadband. That makes WhatsApp particularly cost effective for communicating with people overseas. That kind of mobile messaging services have become wildly popular, with twice as many messages sent over the mobile Internet than via traditional texts, according to Deloitte. But most of the messaging industry's revenue is still driven by text messaging. On the conference call, Facebook said it is not looking to drive revenue from WhatsApp in the near term, instead focusing on growth. Zuckerberg said he doesn't anticipate trying to aggressively grow WhatsApp's revenue until the service reaches "billions" of users. WhatsApp currently charges a dollar a year after giving customers their first year of use for free. WhatsApp CEO Jan Koum said on the conference call that WhatsApp's business model is already successful. That indicates Facebook bought WhatsApp to add value to its existing messaging services, as well as for the long-term potential of the company. Facebook bought Instagram for $1 billion in 2012 for similar reasons: As young social network users gravitated towards photo-sharing, Facebook wanted to scoop up what could have eventually become a big rival. Like Instagram, WhatsApp will function as an autonomous unit within Facebook, with all the existing employees coming in as part of the deal. Facebook ( FB ) said it will pay WhatsApp $4 billion in cash and $12 billion in stock. WhatsApp's founders and staff will be eligible for for another $3 billion in stock grants to be paid out if they remain employed by Facebook for four years. Koum will also join Facebook's board of directors. CNNMoney (New York) First published February 19, 2014: 5:26 PM ET Comments CNNMoney Sponsors SmartAsset Paid Partner These are your 3 financial advisors near you This site finds and compares 3 financial advisors in your area Check this off your list before retirement: talk to an advisor Answer these questions to find the right financial advisor for you Find CFPs in your area in 5 minutes NextAdvisor Paid Partner An Insane Card Offering 0% Interest Until Nearly 2020 Transferring Your Balance to a 14-Month 0% APR is Ingenious The Top 7 Balance Transfer Credit Cards On The Market Today Get $300 Back With This Outrageous New Credit Card U.S Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia Europe Middle East UK Politics 45 Congress Supreme Court 2018 Key Races Primary Results Business Markets Tech Media Success Video Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Mission: Ahead Upstarts Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLNTV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Shop CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store More... Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: © 2019 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc.2019. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2019 and/or its affiliates. © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Newsletters Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell Accessibiliy & CC AdChoices