The making of Elon Musk: how did his childhood in apartheid South Africa shape him? | Elon Musk | The Guardian
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Close dialogue
1
/
8
Next image
Previous image
Toggle caption
Skip to navigation
Print subscriptions
Newsletters
Sign in
US
US edition
UK edition
Australia edition
Europe edition
International edition
The Guardian - Back to home
The Guardian
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show more
Hide expanded menu
News
View all News
US news
US politics
World news
Climate crisis
Middle East
Ukraine
Soccer
Business
Environment
Tech
Science
Newsletters
Wellness
Opinion
View all Opinion
The Guardian view
Columnists
Letters
Opinion videos
Cartoons
Sport
View all Sport
Soccer
NFL
Tennis
MLB
MLS
NBA
WNBA
NHL
F1
Golf
Culture
View all Culture
Film
Books
Music
Art & design
TV & radio
Stage
Classical
Games
Lifestyle
View all Lifestyle
Wellness
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Home & garden
Health & fitness
Family
Travel
Money
Search input
google-search
Search
Support us
Print subscriptions
Newsletters
Download the app
Search jobs
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
The Guardian app
Video
Podcasts
Pictures
Inside the Guardian
Guardian Weekly
Crosswords
Wordiply
Corrections
Search input
google-search
Search
Search jobs
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
Education
Schools
Teachers
Universities
Students
Elon Musk grew up under the collapsing apartheid regime in South Africa.
Composite: Getty Images / Guardian design / Bryanston High School
View image in fullscreen
Elon Musk grew up under the collapsing apartheid regime in South Africa.
Composite: Getty Images / Guardian design / Bryanston High School
Elon Musk
The making of Elon Musk: how did his childhood in apartheid South Africa shape him?
The billionaire and now Trump adviser grew up amid the collapse of white rule, attending an all-white school and then a more liberal one
Rachel Savage
in Pretoria
Mon 10 Mar 2025 09.35 EDT
Last modified on Tue 11 Mar 2025 06.52 EDT
Share
W
ith an imposing double-winged redbrick main building, and school songs lifted directly from Harrow’s songbook, Pretoria boys high school is every inch the South African mirror of the English private schools it was founded in 1901 to imitate.
Elon Musk, who has rapidly become one of the most powerful people in
US politics
, spent his final school years in the 1980s as a day pupil on the lush, tree-filled campus in South Africa’s capital, close to his father’s large detached home in Waterkloof, a wealthy Pretoria suburb shaded by purple jacaranda blossoms in spring.
View image in fullscreen
The imposing red brick frontage of Pretoria boys high school.
Photograph: Moeletsi Mabe/The Guardian
South
Africa
was rocked by uprisings as apartheid entered its dying years. In 1984, black townships across the country revolted. By 1986, the white minority government had imposed a state of emergency. But in the segregated white enclaves, life was affluent and peaceful.
“While the country as a whole was very much in flames and in turmoil, we were blissfully very safe in our little leafy suburbs, going about our very normal life,” said Jonathan Stewart, who was a year above Musk at Pretoria boys, which also counts the Labour politician Peter Hain, the Booker prize-winning novelist Damon Galgut and the murderer and Paralympian Oscar Pistorius among its former pupils.
“You had this wealthy set, in relative terms, and everybody else was excluded.”
View image in fullscreen
Musk (middle row, 2nd from the left) at Pretoria boys high school in 1988.
Photograph: Pretoria boys high school
Musk, who was born in Pretoria in 1971, railed on his social media platform X last month against the “openly racist laws” of the country of his birth and responded “yes” to the statement: “White South Africans are being persecuted for their race in their home country.”
After the posts by the man now at the helm of Donald Trump’s “department of government efficiency” (Doge), a special group Trump has created, the US president signed an executive order accusing South Africa’s government of
“unjust racial discrimination”
against white Afrikaners, citing a law allowing land to be expropriated in certain circumstances. The order cut aid to South Africa, which receives 17% of its HIV/Aids budget from the US, and offered asylum to Afrikaners.
It was not clear the extent to which Musk, who left South Africa in 1989 for his mother’s country, Canada, and then went to the US, had a direct hand in encouraging Trump to issue the order.
Trump has taken an interest in the alleged persecution of white South Africans since his first presidency, when an Afrikaner rights group
travelled to the US
to claim, falsely, that white farmers were being murdered for their land with the complicity of the government. Trump saw one of the group’s leaders interviewed on Fox News and tweeted his support.
Trump has also been influenced by other interests, including US groups critical of
South Africa’s case against Israel
at the international court of justice (ICJ) over the war in Gaza, which he referred to in his executive order.
View image in fullscreen
Pupils at Pretoria boys high school, where Musk was a day pupil.
Photograph: Moeletsi Mabe/The Guardian
But with Musk now among Trump’s closest advisers, it is unlikely he has not made his views known to the president, given they are also tied up with his business interests in South Africa.
Musk has claimed that land reform laws, in a country where the white minority, who make up just 7% of South Africa’s population, still own
more than 70%
of agricultural land, are racist and amount to theft. He has endorsed claims that the killings of white farmers amount to genocide;
research
suggests the crimes are financially motivated.
Musk’s attacks have ratcheted up at a time when he is in a dispute with the South African government about affirmative action laws, as he tries to sell his Starlink satellite network in the country. The world’s richest man objects to a law requiring that investors in the telecoms sector provide 30% of the equity in the South African part of the enterprise to Black-owned businesses.
Trump’s executive order will add to the pressure on South Africa’s government to exempt Musk from the Black empowerment laws.
X’s press team and Musk’s lawyer did not respond to interview requests or emailed questions.
To what extent Musk’s years growing up under the collapsing apartheid regime influenced his positions today, from
making what looked like a Nazi salute
– a characterisation he rejects – at Trump’s inauguration celebrations last month to his embrace of far-right political parties such as Germany’s Alternative für Deutschland, remains an open debate.
View image in fullscreen
Musk’s name on the donor list in the new auditorium at Pretoria boys high school.
Photograph: Moeletsi Mabe/The Guardian
White, English-speaking South Africans such as Musk’s family benefited from apartheid’s racial hierarchy but lived mostly separate lives from the ruling Afrikaners.
Musk spent the first two years of South Africa’s five high school years at the all-white Bryanston high school in Johannesburg’s leafy northern suburbs. Founded in 1968, it is a mixed-sex, English-language, fee-paying state school, made up of rectangular mid-century buildings.
Like South Africa then and now, Bryanston high was sports mad. “It was a little bit like when you think of American society,” said Lesley Burns, who finished at the school in 1984, Musk’s first year. “There were all the jocks and the popular guys in the football team.”
Musk, who was on the school’s chess team in 1985, was viciously bullied. The hounding culminated with him being thrown down a set of stairs, beaten so badly that he was hospitalised. The school declined an interview.
View image in fullscreen
Musk (front left) in the chess team from the school’s 1985 yearbook.
Photograph: Bryanston high school
Musk’s father moved him and his brother, Kimbal, to Pretoria boys, where he was well liked, according to Gideon Fourie, who had computer science classes with Musk.
“He was a very average personality,” Fourie said. “He wasn’t in any way like a super jock, or a super nerd, or a super punk … He had a group of friends.”
South African media were subjected to strict government censorship. Newspapers would appear with censored sections blacked out, particularly reports of the growing unrest in the townships and mass arrests, until those were also banned.
In contrast, the fee-paying Pretoria boys was liberal, for its time. In 1981 it became the first government school to admit a Black pupil. The then headteacher, Malcolm Armstrong, used a loophole that allowed it to let in the sons of diplomats from the “homelands” within South Africa that the apartheid system claimed were independent states.
“Armstrong even defied the authorities by meeting with the ANC [African National Congress] in Dakar while it was still banned,” said Patrick Conroy, who was in Kimbal’s year, two years below Musk. “He frequently addressed our school assemblies, emphasising the importance of democracy, human rights and social justice.”
The school’s current headteacher, Gregary Hassenkamp, was also in Kimbal’s year and has similar memories of his predecessor, although he noted that not all teachers shared Armstrong’s liberal views.
View image in fullscreen
Gregary Hassenkamp, Pretoria boys school’s current headteacher.
Photograph: Moeletsi Mabe/The Guardian
“I remember him forcing boys to think about the country in which we lived and the attitudes we had,” Hassenkamp said in an interview in his wood-panelled office, wearing a flowing black gown and a tie and socks in the school’s red, white and green colours.
Musk has previously described himself as “not a conservative” and backed the Democratic candidate in every presidential election going back to Barack Obama’s victory in 2008, until he moved to the right. But Musk is clearly suspicious of democracy and the leaders it produces.
In the 1930s, his grandfather headed an anti-democratic fringe political movement in Canada with fascist overtones, which campaigned for government by elite technocrats. He then moved to apartheid South Africa because the racist system appealed to him.
Musk now appears happy to embrace the US version of the “strongman” ruler by backing Trump’s claim that the will of the president is paramount.
Some of Musk’s school peers speculated that his current views of South Africa may be influenced by his missing out on the ups and downs of the negotiations to end apartheid and the “miracle” of Nelson Mandela becoming the country’s first Black president in 1994.
Since then, the governments led by Mandela’s ANC party have failed to address the world’s worst economic inequality. While its
Black economic empowerment policies
offer tax breaks and state contracts to Black-owned companies, Black people are five times likelier than white people to be unemployed. South Africa also has one of the world’s highest murder rates.
It is not uncommon to hear white South Africans say they are
being discriminated against
, often citing affirmative action laws. In mid-February,
hundreds gathered outside the US embassy
in Pretoria carrying signs with slogans such as “Thank God for President Trump” and “Make South Africa Great Again”.
View image in fullscreen
Hallways in the Pretoria school’s main building.
Photograph: Moeletsi Mabe/The Guardian
While it is rare to hear white South Africans say they want a return to apartheid, it is also not uncommon to hear older people express nostalgia for that time.
“It was a good time, because we had no crime. There were no problems. People, Blacks and whites, got on very well with each other,” Errol Musk said in a video interview from his spacious Cape Town home, when asked about his son Elon’s childhood. “Everything worked. That’s the reality. Of course people don’t want to hear that, but that’s the truth.”
Musk and his two younger full siblings, Kimbal and Tosca, have had a tumultuous relationship with their father. Kimbal told Musk’s biographer Walter Isaacson that their father would scream at them for two to three hours, calling them worthless and pathetic. Their mother, Maye, has accused him of physical abuse.
“It’s rubbish,” Errol said when asked about the allegations, which he has repeatedly denied.
The brothers became estranged from their father in 2017, not for the first time, when he had a child with his 30-year-old stepdaughter, Jana Bezuidenhout, according to Isaacson. In Errol’s telling, they got angry with him when he expressed his support for Trump in 2016, at a party in Cape Town they threw for his 70th and Musk’s 45th birthdays.
“Things changed when Biden came in and Elon realised they’re trying to destroy America,” Errol said. “Now we exchange messages about every day. Of course, he’s not always able to answer, so his PA will answer me.”
Additional reporting by Chris McGreal
This article was amended on 11 March 2025. An earlier version referred to a law requiring foreign investors in the telecoms sector to provide 30% of the equity in the South African part of the enterprise to Black-owned businesses. This law applies to all investors, foreign and domestic.
Explore more on these topics
Elon Musk
South Africa
Trump administration
Race
Schools
Africa
US politics
features
Share
Reuse this content
Most viewed
Most viewed
Education
Schools
Teachers
Universities
Students
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
Sign up for our email
About us
Help
Complaints & corrections
SecureDrop
Work for us
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Terms & conditions
Contact us
All topics
All writers
Digital newspaper archive
Tax strategy
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
Newsletters
Advertise with us
Guardian Labs
Search jobs
Back to top
© 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
(dcr)