'The Blacklist' for full season on NBC Search Latest News TV Reality TV US TV Movies Soaps Showbiz Tech Digital Spy 25th Anniversary Digital Spy Holidays Features All Videos Newsletter Forums Follow About Us Write For Us Cookies Policy Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content TV Movies Soaps Tech News Forums Newsletter Havoc ending Buy new DS magazine Alison Hammond outfits You season 5 review Hollyoaks' shock comeback TV US TV 'The Blacklist' given full season order by NBC 'The Blacklist' given full season order by NBC New drama stars James Spader as a criminal genius. By Jack Klompus Published: 04 October 2013 The Blacklist has been picked up by NBC for a full season. The crime drama, starring James Spader, drew strong ratings for its first two episodes and the first season will now include 22 episodes overall. What to Read Next The Blacklist stars Spader as Raymond 'Red' Reddington, a criminal genius who surrenders himself to the FBI in order to help them find other villains on his 'blacklist'. NBC entertainment president Jennifer Salke said: "The many layers of Red Reddington and his mysterious reasons for getting into bed with the FBI seem to be fascinating to fans of this show. "With great talent like James Spader and Megan Boone on board, as well our stellar executive producers and the whole cast and crew, we believe this outstanding series will continue to make NBC a big destination on Monday nights." The Blacklist airs Mondays on NBC. Watch Next Advertisement - Continue Reading Below The Blacklist De Niro's Netflix series adds The Blacklist list Why was The Blacklist cancelled? The Blacklist airs Raymond Reddington's fate The Blacklist confirms date for final episode Advertisement - Continue Reading Below The Blacklist future revealed after season 10 The Blacklist season 10 release date, cast, plot The Blacklist season 10 will have throwback twist Two The Blacklist cast members exit the show The Blacklist future announced beyond season 9 Law & Order actor joins The Blacklist season 9 The Blacklist season 9 reveals major time jump The Blacklist losing another key player Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Features Exclusives US TV Reality TV Soaps Spoilers Coronation Street EastEnders Emmerdale Home and Away Hollyoaks Casualty Neighbours Waterloo Road Doctors Black Friday Gaming Showbiz LGBTQ+ Spy Star Wars Marvel Anime Doctor Who WWE Netflix Disney+ Apple TV+ Prime Video NOW DIGITAL SPY, PART OF THE HEARST UK ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2025 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved. RSS About & Contact Details Terms &amp; Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Complaints Sitemap Advertising Cookies Choices