Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/truezelda A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to truezelda r/truezelda r/truezelda The goal of this community is to provide a place for informative and interesting Zelda related content and discussions without all the extra fluff (images, video, fan art) from /r/Zelda. It's where any kind of self-post that helps generate more in-depth discussion goes. Discuss gameplay, story, tips, post the latest news, and anything else related to Zelda!  THIS IS NOT a subreddit to state that older zelda games were the "TRUE" form of Zelda games. Read more below. Members Online • SuperNeonManGuy Are sky islands a permanent part of the world of the Legend of Zelda? Open Discussion We see floating islands quite a bit in The Legend of Zelda series, most notably the ones that the goddess Hylia sent to The Sky in Skyward Sword, but they also make appearances in a bunch of other games, like Twilight Princess, and Minish Cap. Something that every Zelda game that features sky islands seems to have in common is that these islands aren't visible from the ground, at least that I can recall? This has me wondering if they're something that is meant to always be there, throughout the series, as a permanent feature of the world, but that is so high up, or shielded by the cloud barrier, that we don't see them? Is the Isle of Songs still just floating around in The Sky somewhere by the time of Breath of the Wild? What is going on with Skyloft's remains by the time of Wind Waker? I wonder if we'll see any recognisable sky ruins in Breath of the Wild's sequel! People seem pretty sure that the sky island portion of the Breath of the Wild sequel trailer takes place during the events 10000 years before Breath of the Wild, and I agree, because a lot of the things we see in the trailer match up pretty well visually with what little we could recognise of the events of 10000 years ago, but I don't think that the reasoning I see some people using, "The sky islands are gone by the time of Breath of the Wild", or "The sky islands mean it must tie in to Skyward Sword somehow!" really hold up? I think that the "This Link looks very much like the one image we have of the ancient hero" line of thinking works much better. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 2% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 19, 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2021 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics