FAQ Club Fantasy Route Teams Grands départs Tour Culture News Sporting Stakes All the rankings Commitments The jerseys "Maillot Jaune" Collection Key figures Safety Partners Videos News Videos Photos Come to the Tour Broadcasters Cycling Tips Tour Culture Sporting stakes History Key figures Safety Commitments 2024 Edition Rankings Stage Winners Videos Partners Official Tour de France shops Collection Maillot Jaune Official App Other events Broadcasters Media Games Tour operators MonTour VIP Official shops Store Official games PRO CYCLING MANAGER 2024 (PC) TOUR DE FRANCE 2024 - VIDEO GAMES (PC, XBOX ONE, PS4 & PS5) Fantasy by Tissot Cycling Legends (iOS, Android) - Official Mobile Game Other events Broadcasters Media Games Tour operators MonTour VIP Official shops Store Official games PRO CYCLING MANAGER 2024 (PC) TOUR DE FRANCE 2024 - VIDEO GAMES (PC, XBOX ONE, PS4 & PS5) Fantasy by Tissot Cycling Legends (iOS, Android) - Official Mobile Game Club Route Teams Grands départs Tour Culture Videos Tour Culture News Sporting Stakes All the rankings Commitments The jerseys "Maillot Jaune" Collection Key figures Safety Partners 05/07 > 27/07/2025 Fantasy Club en fr Frequently asked questions PEOPLE ACCESS Can I bring my children ? For security and or protocol reasons, the “in race” programmes as well as access to the Presidential Grandstand in Paris are exclusively reserved for persons aged 18 and older, the “pre-race” programmes are open to persons aged 16 and older while minors under the age of 14 are not permitted to be in the Publicity Caravan. Strollers are allowed in the hospitality areas. Given the terrain, their condition and the wiring or devices needed to organise the event, their circulation could however be complex. The Tour de France provides mobile toilets that are not equipped with changing areas. Can I bring my pet ? Guide and assistance dogs are welcome on the Tour de France. Other pets are not allowed in the hospitality areas. I am disabled The Tour de France is designed to welcome all audiences. However, the itinerancy of the event sometimes makes it difficult for us to anticipate access constraints at the sites, which is why we are appealing for your indulgence. Our concern is to facilitate your visit to the Tour de France so that you have a pleasant day! We will be delighted to welcome you in the best possible conditions. We will welcome you with your own wheelchair (no loan or rental service on site). Guest parking is available at all sites (start, stopover and finish) and near the hospitality areas. Do not hesitate to ask our Tour de France reception staff to be present in the car park as soon as you arrive. All of our hospitality areas (Tour de France Village, guest finish areas, stage relay and grandstands) are equipped with access ramps as well as adapted and priority sanitary facilities. For visually impaired people accompanied by an assistance dog, the latter is of course authorised in the areas of the Tour de France on presentation of a permit proving that it has been trained in an approved specialised centre. They must wear the official legal dog vest or collar. In order to organise your visit as well as possible, we invite you to inform us by e-mail at contactvipbox@aso.fr or by telephone at 07.71.92.76.22 What should I wear while at the Tour de France ? The Tour de France is an itinerant and an outdoor event. Therefore, weather conditions can have a significant impact on your day. We recommend that you wear suitable clothing and shoes. Remember that temperatures could also be lower in case of a stage finish in the mountains, for example. There is no dress code on the Tour de France outside the "in race" programmes and the Presidential Grandstand in Paris for which we request guest to dress in a "Sport chic" style. Can I cycle to the Tour de France? You can come by bike to our hospitality areas but we don’t have a bike storage area. We advise you to take a bike lock with you to secure your bike near the area. CAR ACCESS What is the PPO ? This is the Mandatory Passage Point, which is the only point of access to the Tour de France zones for vehicles. If you have a parking pass, it is imperative that you come to this point then follow the indications given by law enforcement and security personnel. Usual access and circulation will be modified, or even closed by the presence of the Tour de France and no other access point will be open to vehicles. You can find the location of the PPOs on the pages dedicated to each programme. How does the electronic parking work ? If you have a parking pass, you can print it on A4 paper or present it on your smartphone (e-tciket). be Parking is allocated in advance by the hosts (partners or organization). No access will be offered, sold or delivered on site. Can I leave my car for the day ? If you have a guest parking pass and plan to spend the day on an "in race" or "pre-race" programme, you can leave your vehicle parked for the day, visibly displaying your electronic parking pass behind the windshield. The vehicle must be moved before 23:59 on the day of validity of said parking area. I do not have an electronic parking pass but I still want to come by car We suggest parking far from the area and finish your journey on foot or with the public transport system. The traffic and congestion generated by the road closures, the size of the event and the large public crowd makes access complicated for non-accredited vehicles. We recommend that you take a close look at the accesses and closed times, especially on the mountain stages. I want to use the race route to get to the finish For security reasons, the race course is closed and accessible only by accredited vehicles. If you want to go from the start of the stage to the finish of the stage, you can use the out of race itinerary (information available at the Information Desk at the Start Village). E-TICKET I have to cancel my visit In case you have to cancel your visit, please let us know using the link on the confirmation email you received. You can also contact your host (see contact section on your e-ticket). Can I give my electronic ticket to someone else ? Your ticket is personal and non-transferable. Your personal information was recorded at the time of your registration and an identity verification may take place on site. If you wish to hand over your ticket, please contact your host (see contact section on your e-ticket). Where can I find my e-ticket ? Your electronic ticket was sent to you by email and can also be found on the online registration portal. I have lost my electronic ticket If you cannot find it, do not worry: our welcome desks are equipped to find your ticket, re-send it or print it if necessary (on presentation of an ID and subject to having previously confirmed a valid invitation). PRACTICAL INFORMATION Sanitation The hospitality areas are equipped with mobile and disabled toilets. At the Start Village, they are located in the Technical Zone. At the stage finish, they are behind each hospitality area. Do not hesitate to ask the staff where to go. Coming with a baby Given the size of the crowds, noise and weather conditions that may impact the smooth running of services, we do not recommend the presence of very young children. Mobile toilets are unfortunately not equipped with changing areas. We will nevertheless make our best efforts to accommodate your little ones with the most comfort possible. Luggage Storage The Tour de France offers a left-luggage service at the Information Point - Conciergerie in the Start Village and in the Presidential tribune.  There is no left luggage service in the other hospitality areas. Please avoid bringing bulky objects or luggage. Bicycles are not allowed in the hospitality areas and must remain outside. Lost and found and first aid Our staff at the Information Desk in the Start Village and at the entries / exits of the Guest Areas at the stage finish are at your disposal to help you and guide you. Food and drinks A free food and drink service is provided in all of our hospitality programmes (except for the Grandstand programmes). Do I have to register to attend the activities? No need to register. The activities offered in the hospitality spaces are open access. Telephone charging Mobile charging stations are available at the Information-Concierge Point in the Start Village or at the finish area. Food restrictions Our catering teams have the list of allergens present in the items and dishes offered. Do not hesitate to ask them for detailed information. If you have signed up for an "in race" or "pre-race” programme, please contact share these informations when you will registrate and advice your host (see contact section on your e-ticket) as soon as possible so that we can provide an appropriate menu. Can I smoke on the Tour de France ? The majority of our reception areas are outdoor. Smoking is allowed in these zones. However, we kindly ask you to respect the other guests around you and to throw your butts in the bins on the sites. Can I take photos ? Film ? You may take photos or film for your personal use. All commercial use or public dissemination/broadcast of race images (including on social networks) is prohibited. Vigipirate Plan As part of the Vigipirate plan put in place by the Government, you may be asked to show proof of identity in addition to your invitation or accreditation. An inspection of your personal belongings may also be carried out at the entrance to the sites, so it is recommended that you avoid bulky items. We do not offer lockers or luggage storage on site. During a visit to the Tour de France, it is strictly forbidden to bring weapons of any kind, dangerous or illegal objects or products (any sharp blade object, cutter, bombs, explosives, scissors, aerosols...) as well as drugs and alcoholic beverages. OTHERS INFORMATIONS I have questions other than this, who can I contact ? You can contact us by email: contactvipbox@aso.fr and/or phone: 07.71.92.76.22. Our virtual assistant Whatsapp of the Tour de France will also be able to answer all your questions (register the number 07.71.92.76.22 in the name of the Tour de France and then send a message to this contact on the application to start the discussion). Follow us Receive exclusive news about the Tour Pro zone Accreditations Contacts Privacy policy Your GDPR rights Terms & Conditions Cookie settings © ASO