James Cameron responds to rumors he wants to make movie on Titan submersible disaster - ABC7 Los Angeles 24/7 Live Los Angeles Orange County Inland Empire Ventura County California Welcome, Mickey mickey@disney.com Manage MyDisney Account Log Out ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT 'Titanic' director James Cameron responds to rumors he wants to make movie on Titan sub disaster Monday, July 17, 2023 Director James Cameron has responded to rumors that he's in talks of making a Titan Submersible disaster film. Director James Cameron has responded to rumors that he's in talks to make a Titan submersible disaster film. The tragic accident involving the company OceanGate killed five people as they traveled to the bottom of the ocean to view the wreckage of the fabled Titanic. Cameron responded on Twitter , saying he'll never be in talks to make such a film and that he found the rumors "offensive." "I don't respond to offensive rumors in the media usually, but I need to now. I'm NOT in talks about an OceanGate film, nor will I ever be," the director wrote. Cameron's directed the 1997 classic "Titanic," and said he sees similarities with both disasters, as both vessels ignored warnings of unsafe conditions before they met their ends. "I'm struck by the similarity of the Titanic disaster itself, where the captain was repeatedly warned about ice ahead of his ship and yet he steamed at full speed into an ice field," Cameron said last month. OceanGate has suspended all exploration and commercial operations following the much-publicized tragedy, and an investigation is underway . Report a correction or typo Copyright © 2025 KABC Television, LLC. All rights reserved. Related Topics ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT TITANIC MOVIE MOVIE NEWS Watch Live ON NOW Top Stories Palisades residents express concerns about controlled fire testing 27 minutes ago Thousands of striking county workers march through DTLA 1 hour ago Trump discusses first 100 days in ABC interview 15 minutes ago Newsom announces AI-driven efforts to help state reduce traffic jams 1 hour ago Luka Dončić donates $5K to restore vandalized Kobe Bryant mural Tariff uncertainty threatens to raise drug prices, experts warn 2 hours ago Loved ones demand justice after 20-year-old killed in Pomona shooting CA judge bars Border Patrol from some warrantless arrests 1 hour ago Topics Home Weather Traffic U.S. & World Politics Consumer Regions Los Angeles Orange County Inland Empire Ventura County California More Live Video Apps ABC7 En Español Investigations Shop Company Submit News Tips TV Listings About ABC7 Meet the News Team Jobs/Internships ABC7 Merchandise Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Children's Privacy Policy Your US State Privacy Rights Terms of Use Interest-Based Ads Public Inspection File FCC Applications Copyright © 2025 KABC Television, LLC. All Rights Reserved.