'Encanto' Sweeps The 2023 GRAMMYs: Disney's Animated Smash Wins 3 Categories | GRAMMY.com 2025 GRAMMY Highlights About RECORDING ACADEMY NEWS PRESS ROOM Press Kits Press Releases Executives Trustees In Memoriam Media Mailing List Contact DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Black Music Collective Black Music Collective Podcast Women In The Mix Inclusion Rider Study ADVOCACY Advocacy News ISSUE & POLICY Music Modernization Act Hits Act American Fairness Act Act Artificial Intelligence MEMBERSHIP Governance Producers & Engineers Wing Songwriters & Composers Wing GRAMMY U Membership Login Join Membership Awards GRAMMY AWARD SHOWS 67th GRAMMY Nominations: Full List 2025 GRAMMYs: See The Full Nominees List Watch: 2025 GRAMMY Nominations In Full 2025 GRAMMY Nominations Announcement Schedule 67th Annual GRAMMY Awards (2024) GRAMMY Shop MUSIC GENRES SPECIAL MERIT AWARDS Lifetime Achievement Award Trustees Award Technical GRAMMY Award Music Educator Award GRAMMY Hall Of Fame GRAMMY Legend Award HARRY BELAFONTE BEST SONG FOR SOCIAL CHANGE AWARD GRAMMY AWARDS PROCESS Voting Process Rules and Guidelines GRAMMY Categories Awards Process Updates Voting & Solicitation Guidelines GRAMMY AWARDS FAQ & HELP GRAMMY Participation Certificates GRAMMY Nominee Stickers ARTIST/RECORD LABEL/MEDIA REGISTRATION (OEP) News Videos Genres ALL MUSIC GENRES Pop Rock R&B Country Rap Latin Global Music Gospel & Contemporary Christian Music New Age Jazz Alternative Dance/Electronic Shop GRAMMY GO Login Subscribe to Newsletters Be the first to find out about GRAMMY nominees, winners, important news, and events. Privacy Policy GRAMMYs Advocacy Musicares EMAIL Subscribe Join us on Social Recording Academy / GRAMMYs Latin GRAMMYs GRAMMY Museum Musicares Advocacy Join us on Social RECORDING ACADEMY GRAMMYS MEMBERSHIP ADVOCACY MUSICARES LATIN GRAMMYS GRAMMY MUSEUM 'Encanto' composer Germaine Franco at the 2023 GRAMMYs Photo: Jay L. Clendenin / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images Facebook Twitter E-mail news 'Encanto' Sweeps The 2023 GRAMMYs: Disney's Animated Smash Wins 3 Categories Facebook Twitter Email "We Don't Talk About Bruno" and the film soundtrack took home three golden gramophones at the 65th GRAMMY Awards. Jessica Lipsky | GRAMMYs / Feb 7, 2023 - 01:05 am It seems people do talk about Bruno. The viral hit song from Encanto won the golden gramophone for Best Song Written For Visual Media at the 2023 GRAMMYs , officially making the animated Disney film sweep the three visual media categories. Encanto also took home awards for Best Compilation Soundtrack and Best Score Soundtrack. Released in November 2021, Encanto — a colorful, earnest and humorous exploration of family and self-acceptance, set in the hills of Colombia — is now the first film to sweep the visual media categories since the creation of the compilation soundtrack category in 1999. Penned by Lin-Manuel Miranda , the ensemble song "We Don't Talk About Bruno" beat out works from Beyoncé , Taylor Swift , Lady Gaga , Angélique Kidjo , and Billie Eilish and Finneas O’Connell . In 2022, the relatable tale of family drama rocketed up the Billboard Hot 100 to become the No. 1 song in the U.S. (the second time a Disney track has done so; Aladdin’s “A Whole New World” hit the top of the charts in 1993). Read more: Watch The 2022 Nominees For Best Song Written For Visual Media Nominees At The 2023 GRAMMY Awards But "Bruno" is far from the only hit from the magical world of Encanto — the soundtrack produced seven Hot 100 singles, including the Top 10 hit about anxiety, "Surface Pressure." Academy voters recognized the album as whole with the Best Compilation Soundtrack award, which was accepted by Producer Mike Elizondo and Disney's Vice President of Music Tom MacDougall. Fellow contenders in the category were Top Gun: Maverick , "Stranger Things" West Side Story and Elvis . Encanto 's first win of the night, for Best Score Soundtrack, may have been the most moving and apropos of the film's groundbreaking nature. With her gramophone in hand, Mexican-American composer Germaine Franco said she believed herself to be the first woman of color to win the GRAMMY Award . Franco also thanked "all the musicians who spent all their time making that beautiful music for the world to be a better place," noting that many of the musicians playing on the Premiere Ceremony stage also performed on the soundtrack. Read more: The Soundtrack Hit Makes A Comeback: How 'Encanto,' 'Top Gun' & ‘Black Panther’ Went From Chart-Toppers To GRAMMY Nominations Encanto 's success at the 2023 GRAMMYs exemplifies how soundtracks and their singles are, once again, becoming a key tool in the success of films. And, finally, Bruno can be spoken of openly. Head to live.GRAMMY.com all year long to watch all the GRAMMY performances, acceptance speeches, the GRAMMY Live From The Red Carpet livestream special, the full Premiere Ceremony livestream, and even more exclusive, never-before-seen content from the 2023 GRAMMYs. 2023 GRAMMY Nominations: See The Complete Winners & Nominees List Read More (L-R): Beyoncé in 2004, 2008, 2013, 2017, 2021 Photos {L-R): Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images, Kevin Mazur/WireImage, Jason Merritt/Getty Images, Jeff Kravitz/FilmMagic, Kevin Winter/Getty Images for The Recording Academy Facebook Twitter E-mail feature A Timeline Of Beyoncé's GRAMMY Moments, From Her First Win With Destiny's Child To Making History With 'Cowboy Carter' Facebook Twitter Email With three wins at the 2025 GRAMMYs, Beyoncé furthers her reign as the artist with the most GRAMMYs ever. To celebrate her latest feat, take a look at her record-breaking 22-year history at the GRAMMY Awards. Tamara Palmer | GRAMMYs / Feb 4, 2025 - 02:18 am Editor's Note: This article was originally published on Jan. 31, 2023 and was updated on Feb. 3, 2025 to reflect her 2025 GRAMMY wins. Two years after becoming the artist with the most GRAMMY wins at the 2023 GRAMMYs , Beyoncé made GRAMMY history again at the 2025 GRAMMYs . Along with winning her first golden gramophone for Album Of The Year for COWBOY CARTER , the now 35-time GRAMMY-winning star also became the first Black artist to win the GRAMMY for Best Country Album. While the past few years may have spawned her most historic feats, Beyoncé has created an extensive array of GRAMMY moments. She has delivered epic live performances on her own and alongside icons like Prince and Tina Turner , and she's taken home six GRAMMYs in one night. Starting from her first nominations with Destiny's Child in 2000, take a trip through Beyoncé's most memorable and impactful moments at Music's Biggest Night. 2000 — 42nd GRAMMY Awards Nominations: Best R&B Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocal and Best Rhythm & Blues Song ("Bills, Bills, Bills") with Destiny's Child Beyoncé's first red carpet appearance at the GRAMMYs was with fellow Destiny's Child members Kelly Rowland , Michelle Williams and Farrah Franklin (who was only part of the group for six months). The iteration of the group that was there that day was not the same group that received two nominations for "Bills, Bills, Bills" — that distinction goes to Beyoncé, Rowland, LeToya Luckett , and LaTavia Roberson . Beyoncé, Luckett and Rowland co-wrote the track with producer Kevin "She'kspeare" Briggs and Xscape singer Kandi Burruss, the latter of whom coincidentally won the GRAMMY for Best Rhythm & Blues Song that year for co-writing TLC 's "No Scrubs" with Tameka "Tiny" Cottle . 2001 — 43rd GRAMMY Awards Photo: Steve Granitz / Contributor / Getty Images Wins: Best R&B Song ("Say My Name"), Best R&B Performance By A Duo or Group With Vocal ("Say My Name") Nominations: Record Of The Year and Song Of The Year ("Say My Name"), Best Song Written For A Motion Picture, Television Or Other Visual Media ("Independent Women Part I" From Charlie's Angels ) The first GRAMMY red carpet as a trio with Roland and Williams, the group wore matching silky gowns on the red carpet and "Survivor"-era green outfits backstage, all designed by Beyoncé's mother, Tina Knowles. Destiny's Child took home their first GRAMMYs that night, for Best R&B Performance By A Duo or Group With Vocal and Best R&B Song for "Say My Name," which was also nominated for Record Of The Year and Song Of The Year. Beyoncé also earned a Best Song Written For A Motion Picture, Television Or Other Visual Media nomination for Destiny's Child's contribution to the 2000 film Charlie's Angels , "Independent Women Part I," which she co-wrote. 2002 — 44th GRAMMY Awards Wins: Best R&B Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocal ("Survivor") Nominations: Best R&B Album ( Survivor ) Performance: "Quisiera Ser" with Alejandro Sanz Destiny's Child's first performance at the GRAMMYs was to duet with Latin star Alejandro Sanz on "Quisiera Ser." They provided supporting vocals and Beyoncé added some English lyrics to his Spanish song. The group's own international hit "Survivor," an anthem about thriving as the trio, won a GRAMMY for Best R&B Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocal, and the Survivor album was nominated for Best R&B Album. 2004 — 46th GRAMMY Awards Wins: Best Female R&B Vocal Performance ("Dangerously In Love 2"), Best R&B Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocals ("The Closer I Get To You") with Luther Vandross , Best R&B Song and Best Rap/Sung Collaboration ("Crazy In Love"), Best Contemporary R&B Album ( Dangerously In Love ) Nominations: Record Of The Year ("Crazy In Love") Performance: "Purple Rain," "Baby I'm a Star," "Let's Go Crazy" and "Crazy In Love" with Prince After dazzling in a gold Tina Knowles dress on the red carpet, Beyoncé opened the show alongside Prince with a medley of his hits "Purple Rain," "Let's Go Crazy" and "Baby I'm a Star," with a dash of her own "Crazy In Love." She accepted her first five GRAMMYs as a solo artist, including Best Female R&B Vocal Performance for "Dangerously In Love 2" — which she also performed — Best R&B Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocals for "The Closer I Get To You" with Luther Vandross , Best Contemporary R&B Album for Dangerously In Love and two wins for "Crazy In Love" (Best R&B Song and Best Rap/Sung Collaboration). 2005 — 47th GRAMMY Awards Nomination: Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group With Vocals ("Lose My Breath") Destiny's Child celebrated another global smash earning a GRAMMY nomination with "Lose My Breath." The lead single from Destiny Fulfilled — their final studio album — received a nomination for Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group With Vocals. Beyoncé and Rowland co-produced "Lose My Breath" with hitmakers Rodney Jerkins (who also helmed "Say My Name" and "Cater 2 U" from Destiny Fulfilled ), and Sean Garrett , who later co-produced Bey solo singles including "Check On It," "Get Me Bodied," "Ring The Alarm" and "Upgrade U" with Swizz Beatz . 2006 — 48th GRAMMY Awards Win: Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group With Vocals ("So Amazing") with Stevie Wonder Nominations: Best Contemporary R&B Album ( Destiny Fulfilled ), Best Female R&B Vocal Performance ("Wishing On A Star"), Best R&B Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocals ("Cater 2 U"), Best R&B Song ("Cater 2 U"), Best Rap/Sung Collaboration ("Soldier") Beyoncé and Stevie Wonder won a GRAMMY for Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group With Vocals for "So Amazing," a cover of the song Luther Vandross wrote for Dionne Warwick in 1983 and recorded himself three years later. Bey also received a solo nomination for her cover of Rose Royce's "Wishing On A Star" on her Live at Wembley album. Meanwhile, Destiny's Child closed out their time as a group with four more nominations, bringing their career total to 14. Although the group had announced in June 2005 that they would be disbanding to pursue solo ventures, they assembled on the GRAMMY stage one last time — igniting eruptive applause — to present the golden gramophone for Song Of The Year, which went to U2 for "Sometimes You Can't Make It on Your Own." 2007 — 49th GRAMMY Awards Win: Best Contemporary R&B Album ( B'Day ) Nominations: Best Female R&B Vocal Performance ("Ring The Alarm"), Best R&B Song and Best Rap/Sung Collaboration ("Deja Vu") Performance: "Listen" Beyoncé performed "Listen," her original song that she also sang as the lead role of Deena Jones in the film adaptation of the Broadway musical Dreamgirls . She went home a GRAMMY winner again that night, as her second album, B'Day , was victorious as Best Contemporary R&B Album. Two of the album's singles earned nominations as well: "Ring The Alarm" for Best Female R&B Vocal Performance and "Deja Vu" for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration. 2008 — 50th GRAMMY Awards Wins: Best Compilation Soundtrack ( Dreamgirls ) Nominations: Record Of The Year ("Irreplaceable"), Best Pop Collaboration ("Beautiful Liar") with Shakira Performance: "Proud Mary" with Tina Turner Continuing her streak of performing live with legends at the GRAMMYs, Beyoncé joined Tina Turner onstage to sing a fierce rendition of "Proud Mary" and achieve one of her personal bucket-list moments. "She's my hero and my icon," she said of Turner at an after party . "It was crazy. I went in the room [after] and I just bawled because I couldn't believe it.” Dreamgirls won Best Compilation Soundtrack that night, while "Irreplaceable" was nominated for Record Of The Year and "Beautiful Liar," her collaboration with Colombian star Shakira from B'Day , received a nomination for Best Pop Collaboration. 2009 — 51st GRAMMY Awards Nomination: Best Female R&B Vocal Performance ("Me, Myself & I") A top 10 hit that was co-produced by Beyoncé and Scott Storch , "Me, Myself & I" touts the benefits of self-care, of being one's "own best friend" and not taking the blame in the face of a partner's infidelity. The relatable song was nominated for Best Female R&B Vocal Performance. 2010 — 52nd GRAMMY Awards Loading... Wins: Song Of The Year, Best R&B Song and Best Female R&B Vocal Performance ("Single Ladies (Put A Ring On It)"), Best Female Pop Vocal Performance ("Halo"), Best Contemporary R&B Album ( I Am… Sasha Fierce ), Best Traditional R&B Vocal Performance ("At Last" from Cadillac Records: Music From The Motion Picture ) Nominations: Record Of The Year ("Halo"), Album Of The Year ( I Am... Sasha Fierce ), Best Rap/Sung Collaboration ("Ego"), Best Song Written For Motion Picture, Television Or Other Visual Media ("Once In A Lifetime" from Cadillac Records: Music From The Motion Picture ) Performance: "If I Were a Boy" Backed by an army of male dancers, Beyoncé's live performance of "If I Were a Boy" included an even more unexpected moment. At the song's climax, she switched to the chorus from "You Oughta Know" by Alanis Morrissette , the 1996 GRAMMY winner for Best Rock Song and Best Female Rock Vocal Performance. Bey won an impressive six GRAMMYs in 2010, including three for "Single Ladies (Put A Ring On It)." She also earned a nomination for her portrayal of Etta James in the 2008 film Cadillac Records , as Beyoncé's version of "At Last" won Best Traditional R&B Vocal Performance. 2011 — 53rd GRAMMY Awards Nominations: Best Female Pop Vocal Performance ("Halo (Live)"), Album Of The Year ( The Fame Monster ), Best Pop Collaboration With Vocals ("Telephone") with Lady Gaga Several of Beyoncé's GRAMMY nominations have been for live songs as well as songs with other artists. At the 2011 GRAMMYs, she celebrated nominations for both: "Halo (Live)," which appears on the live album I Am… Yours: An Intimate Performance at Wynn Las Vegas , was nominated for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance, and her collaboration with Lady Gaga, "Telephone," earned Beyoncé two nominations. 2012 — 54th GRAMMY Awards Nominations: Best Rap/Sung Collaboration ("Party") and Best Longform Music Video ( I Am… World Tour ) "Party," a duet with André 3000 from OutKast , is a highlight from Beyoncé's 4 album for its infectious chorus and the sheer rarity of scoring a verse from Three Stacks. The GRAMMYs recognized this dream team with a nomination for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration. Bey also received her first-ever nomination in the Best Longform Music Video category for I Am…World Tour . The film includes her singing "If I Were a Boy" with a few measures of "You Oughta Know," just like she did in her 2010 GRAMMYs performance. 2013 — 55th GRAMMY Awards Win: Best Traditional R&B Performance ("Love On Top") Beyoncé's 17th GRAMMY win occurred in the Premiere Ceremony for the 2013 GRAMMYs, which she and husband Jay-Z did not attend. So when Jimmy Jam announced that Beyoncé had won Best Traditional R&B Performance for "Love On Top," he jokingly offered to drop off the GRAMMY along with the awards Jay-Z won at the ceremony. "They live in the same place, it's all good," Jam smiled. "Economical!" 2014 — 56th GRAMMY Awards Photo: Frederic J. Brown / Getty Images Nomination: Best Rap/Sung Collaboration ("Part II (On The Run)") with Jay-Z Performance: "Drunk In Love" with Jay-Z Smoke billowed across the stage as Beyoncé opened the 2014 GRAMMYs with an intimate live performance of "Drunk In Love," joined by her husband Jay-Z for what may just be the sexiest performance of their careers. Although "Drunk In Love" wasn't nominated until the following year, the couple did celebrate a nomination in 2014 for "Part II (On The Run)," from Jay's album Magna Carta Holy Grail . Backstage, Bey's long white Michael Costello gown got cameras clicking and slayed style watchers, a standout among all of her GRAMMY fits. 2015 — 57th GRAMMY Awards Wins: Best R&B Performance ("Drunk In Love"), Best R&B Song ("Drunk In Love"), Best Surround Sound Album ( Beyoncé ) Nominations: Album Of The Year ( Beyoncé ), Best Contemporary Album ( Beyoncé ), Best Music Film ( Beyoncé and Jay-Z: On The Run Tour ) Performance: "Take My Hand, Precious Lord" After the previous year's racy performance of "Drunk In Love" that opened the show, Beyoncé took a markedly more pious approach with her musical number in 2015. Backed by an all-male choir, she sang "Take My Hand, Precious Lord," a gospel classic written by Thomas A. Dorsey in 1932. In a now-deleted behind-the-scenes video posted on her website, she explained that the performance was meant as a statement around police brutality and civil unrest in the wake of the murders of Eric Garner and Michael Brown, among others. "My grandparents marched with Dr. King, and my father was part of the first generation of Black men that attended an all-white school," Beyoncé said. "My father has grown up with a lot of trauma from those experiences. I feel like now I can sing for his pain, I can sing for my grandparents' pain. I can sing for some of the families that have lost their sons." During her three wins, fans saw her show some rare PDA with Jay-Z. The pair shared a kiss when they won Best R&B Performance for "Drunk In Love." Two days after the 2015 GRAMMYs, Beyoncé also took part in a star-studded salute to Stevie Wonder for the CBS special "Stevie Wonder: Songs in the Key of Life — An All-Star Grammy Salute," which aired on Feb. 15, 2015. She sang a medley of "Fingertips," "Master Blaster" and "Higher Ground" alongside Ed Sheeran and Gary Clark Jr. 2016 — 58th GRAMMY Awards In a year when she didn't have eligible work in the running, Beyoncé still made international waves when she appeared at the GRAMMYs in a white wedding-like gown. She wasn't there to get married, though — she presented the award for Record Of The Year to Bruno Mars for his hit song "Uptown Funk." "Let's go, Beyoncé, let's do it!" Mars playfully yelled from the audience, just before she said his name. 2017 — 59th GRAMMY Awards Wins: Best Contemporary Urban Album ( Lemonade ), Best Music Video ("Formation") Nominations: Album Of The Year ( Lemonade ), Best Music Film ( Lemonade ), Record Of The Year ("Formation"), Song Of The Year ("Formation"), Best Pop Solo Performance ("Hold Up"), Best Rock Performance ("Don't Hurt Yourself"), Best Rap/Sung Performance ("Freedom") Performance: "Love Drought" and "Sandcastles" Beyoncé dressed like a goddess while pregnant with twins Rumi and Sir Carter to perform "Love Drought" and "Sandcastles," songs from her multi-nominated (and GRAMMY-winning) album and music film Lemonade . Her kids were at the forefront of her mind during her acceptance speech for Best Contemporary Urban Album. "It's important to me to show images to my children that reflect their beauty so they can grow up in a world where they look in the mirror — first through their own families, as well as the news, the Super Bowl, the Olympics, the White House and the GRAMMYs — and see themselves," she said. Later, in an unexpected — and instantly viral — moment, Adele dedicated her acceptance speech for Album Of The Year to effusively praising Beyoncé and the Lemonade album, which was also nominated in the category. "You are our light!" Adele exclaimed, calling Lemonade her album of the year. 2018 — 60th GRAMMY Awards Nomination: Best Rap/Sung Performance ("Family Feud") It was all in the family when Beyoncé, Jay-Z and their then 6-year-old daughter Blue Ivy Carter sat together at the GRAMMYs in 2018 — though Blue's parents were ironically nominated for a song called "Family Feud" from Jay's 4:44 album. In a clip that went viral , a camera caught Blue seemingly motioning for them to stop clapping. The world fell in love with her commanding presence at that very moment. 2019 — 61st GRAMMY Awards Win: Best Urban Contemporary Album ( Everything Is Love ) Nominations: Best R&B Performance ("Summer"), Best Music Video ("Apes***") Beyoncé's 2019 win and nominations were given for her collaborations with Jay-Z in their Everything Is Love album. The Carters won Best Urban Contemporary Album with the nine-song album, which they co-produced with Leon Michels and Cool & Dre. They also were nominated for Best R&B Performance for "Summer" as well as Best Music Video for "Apes***," a bold piece which they filmed in front of the Mona Lisa, Venus de Milo, Great Sphinx of Tanis and other seminal works displayed in Paris' Louvre. 2020 — 62nd GRAMMY Awards Win: Best Music Film ( Homecoming ) Nominations: Best Pop Solo Performance ("Spirit"), Best Song Written for Visual Media ("Spirit"), Best Pop Vocal Album ( The Lion King: The Gift ) Homecoming offers an intimate look at the best onstage and behind-the-scenes moments from Beyoncé's massive headline sets at Coachella in 2018. Performed over two consecutive weekends, her show at the Southern California desert festival pays homage to the great Southern bands from HBCUs (Historically Black Colleges and Universities). There's also a brief but thrilling Destiny's Child reunion, as well as plenty of Easter eggs for Southern rap fans in the form of instrumental and lyrical riffs and snippets weaved into her hits. Two additional nominations recognized her work for The Lion King: The Gift . She voiced Nala in the film. 2021 — 63rd GRAMMY Awards Wins: Best R&B Performance ("Black Parade"), Best Music Video ("Brown Skin Girl"), Best Rap Performance ("Savage") and Best Rap Song ("Savage") with Megan Thee Stallion Nominations: Record Of The Year ("Savage") and Record Of The Year ("Savage") with Megan Thee Stallion, Best R&B Song and Song Of The Year ("Black Parade"), Best Music Film ( Black Is King ) Beyoncé's Best R&B Performance win made her the performing artist with the most career GRAMMY wins in history . (She's tied with producer Quincy Jones, and Georg Solti, who has more wins, was a conductor and not a performer.) She also became the woman with the most GRAMMY wins that night. During her acceptance speech, she shared that she's worked hard since she was 9 years old and congratulated her daughter — also 9 at the time — for scoring her first GRAMMY. Blue stars in the video for "Brown Skin Girl," the Best Music Video winner. "It has been such a difficult time so I wanted to uplift, encourage, and celebrate all of the beautiful Black queens and kings that continue to inspire me and inspire the whole world," Beyoncé added about her Black Is King project. Bey also appeared onstage with fellow Houstonian Megan Thee Stallion , who couldn't contain her excitement about sharing the stage — and two GRAMMYs — with her hometown hero. "I love her work ethic, I love the way she is, I love the way she carry herself," Megan said. "My momma will always be like, 'Megan, what would Beyoncé do?' And I'm always like, 'You know what? What would Beyoncé do, but let me make it a little ratchet.'" 2023 — 65th GRAMMY Awards Loading... Wins: Best Dance/Electronic Music Album ( RENAISSANCE ), Best R&B Song ("CUFF IT"), Best Traditional R&B Performance ("PLASTIC OFF THE SOFA"), Best Dance/Electronic Music Recording ("BREAK MY SOUL") Nominations: Album Of The Year ( RENAISSANCE ), Record Of The Year ("BREAK MY SOUL"), Song Of The Year ("BREAK MY SOUL"), Best Song Written For Visual Media ("Be Alive" from King Richard ), Best R&B Performance ("VIRGO’S GROOVE") Beyoncé made even more GRAMMY history in 2023 — and it was her biggest record yet. She needed four wins out of her nine nominations to become the artist with the most GRAMMYs of all time with 32. Going into the ceremony, she had two wins down (Best Traditional R&B Performance and Best Dance/Electronic Music Recording), and she was, according to host Trevor Noah, "stuck in traffic" upon winning her third golden gramophone for Best R&B Song. But she made it just in time for her history-making moment, taking deep breaths as she took the stage and noting that she was "trying to just receive this night." Throughout her speech, Beyoncé first thanked God and her late Uncle Jonny — her main inspiration for RENAISSANCE — then went on to thank her parents as well as Jay-Z and their three kids. She poignantly ended with a tribute to the trailblazers who opened the door for her record-breaking album. "I’d like to thank the queer community for your love and for inventing this genre," she said. "God bless you, thank you so much to the GRAMMYs." 2025 — 67th GRAMMY Awards Loading... Wins: Album Of The Year ( COWBOY CARTER ), Best Country Album ( COWBOY CARTER ), Best Country Duo/Group Performance ("II MOST WANTED" with Miley Cyrus ) Nominations: Record Of The Year ("TEXAS HOLD 'EM"), Song Of The Year ("TEXAS HOLD 'EM"), Best Pop Solo Performance ("BODYGUARD"), Best Pop Duo/Group Performance ("LEVII'S JEANS" with Post Malone ), Best Melodic Rap Performance ("SPAGHETTII" with Linda Martell and Shaboozey ), Best Country Solo Performance ("16 CARRIAGES"), Best Country Song ("TEXAS HOLD 'EM"), Best Americana Performance ("YA YA") With 11 nominations, Beyoncé wasn't just the most-nominated artist at the 2025 GRAMMYs — she became the artist with the most GRAMMY nominations ever. While the noms helped her break yet another GRAMMY record, she continued to add to her ever-growing GRAMMY legacy when she won three more golden gramophones that night. Along with furthering her lead as the artist with the most GRAMMYs (from 32 to 35), Beyoncé also achieved another GRAMMY first with one of her three wins: the first Black artist to win Best Country Album . In her heartfelt speech, Beyoncé admitted that she "really was not expecting" to win in the Best Country Album Category. "I think sometimes genre is a cold word to keep us in our place as artists, and I just want to encourage people to do what they're passionate about, and to stay persistent," she said, thanking God, her family, her collaborators, and "all of the incredible country artists that accepted this album." COWBOY CARTER also won Beyoncé two more GRAMMYs, including perhaps one of the most exciting of her career for both Queen Bey and her loyal Beyhive: her first Album Of The Year victory. With five nominations in the Category prior to the 2025 GRAMMYs, the star couldn't help but acknowledge her long-awaited feat in her speech. "I just feel very full and very honored — it's been many, many years," she said. To close out another historic GRAMMY night, she left viewers with an uplifting message: "I hope we just keep pushing forward, opening doors." Enter The World Of Beyoncé 2025 GRAMMYs: Beyoncé Wins First Album Of The Year Award For 'COWBOY CARTER' Beyoncé Becomes First Black Woman To Win GRAMMY For Best Country Album With 'COWBOY CARTER' How Many GRAMMYs Has Beyoncé Won? 10 Questions About The 'Cowboy Carter' Singer Answered A Timeline Of Beyoncé's GRAMMY Moments, From Her First Win With Destiny's Child To Making History With 'Cowboy Carter' Watch Beyoncé Make GRAMMY History With Her 32nd Win In 2023 | GRAMMY Rewind Beyond Country: All The Genres Beyoncé Explores On 'Cowboy Carter' Beyoncé Is The Genre-Bending Queen On 'Cowboy Carter': 5 Takeaways From Her New Album Beyoncé's New Album 'Cowboy Carter' Is Here: Check Out The Featured Artists, Cover Songs, And Tracklist How Beyoncé Is Honoring Black Music History With 'Cowboy Carter,' "Texas Hold Em," 'Renaissance' & More Songbook: The Complete Guide To Beyoncé's Albums, Visuals & Performances That Made Her A Cultural Force How Beyoncé Has Empowered The Black Community Across Her Music And Art | Black Sounds Beautiful 6 Takeaways From 'Renaissance: A Film By Beyoncé' Beyoncé's 'Dangerously In Love' Turns 20: How The Solo Debut Foreshadowed The Singer's Icon Status 5 Takeaways From Beyoncé's New Album 'Renaissance' The Creative Rebirth Of Beyoncé On '4' | For The Record Read More Friends and collaborators Eisa Davis and Lin-Manuel Miranda Photo: Jimmy Fontaine Facebook Twitter E-mail interview Lin-Manuel Miranda & Eisa Davis Discuss 'Warriors' Concept Album: "I Keep Finding New Yorks To Write" Facebook Twitter Email "It's a love letter to the movie," Miranda says of the recently released concept album, based on the cult classic 1978 film. From salsa to punk and beyond, the sounds of '70s NYC become a sonic playground. Alicia Ramírez | GRAMMYs / Oct 21, 2024 - 01:24 pm Davis are big on connection — whether they’re meeting someone in real life, delivering a performance onstage, or meeting over Zoom. The collaborators first met in the early aughts, when Davis was acting in "Passing Strange" and Miranda was performing in "In the Heights," which he also wrote music and lyrics for. "We both did those journeys from Off-Broadway to Broadway around the same time," Miranda tells GRAMMY.com. Their creative connection came quickly, he continues. "We were fans of each other's shows. Our casts were all friends, so we hung in New York playwright circles, the group of playwrights who were just like trying to make stuff for people of color as much as possible." Their knack for warm and engaging storytelling, as well as refusal to sacrifice play for space, quickly turned them into unavoidably dynamic artists. It’s not difficult to understand why they’ve earned a shelf-load of awards and shaped popular culture through their TV writing, songwriting, and performances on screen and stage. Miranda and Davis' collective energy translates into Warriors , their concept album inspired by the 1979 film The Warriors , out Oct. 18. Executive producer Nas and GRAMMY-winning producer Mike Elizondo assemble synths, evocative dembow, and soulful beats that bleed into the New York City streets. Suddenly, tracks veer into rock and punk territory, and these transitions come as a static shock, the equivalent of shuffling across the floor in warm socks and touching a doorknob. In discussion with GRAMMY.com, Miranda is vivacious and curious, speaking at a rapid clip, pausing for Davis to chime in or laugh as though he’s filing away an idea to solve or a surprise to share with listeners later. Davis has the intellect and energy of someone approaching an apex of inspiration, gushing about her and Miranda’s shared musical influences as passionately as she does her New York City woes. The pair delve into writing Warriors , their long-standing friendship, their collaborative practice, and, of course, the city that shaped them into the artists they are today. This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity. What were your initial conversations like about what would become Warriors ? Lin-Manuel Miranda: We've been friends for a long time, and when my brain let me know that this Warriors movie that you saw when you were four is taking up outsized real estate, and you really should finally get around to adapting it, and maybe there's a way to do it. Eisa was my first and only call. Eisa Davis: We have an aesthetic kinship. You hear it in all of Lin's work. It's stuff that I've tried to do in my work, which is to bring in this kind of hybridity of genre, bring in things that you wouldn't expect, whether it's like a kind of musical way. I wrote a play called "Angela's Mixtape," which is a memoir, back in 2009, and the idea was to make sure that we had a narrative that proceeded like a mixtape. Miranda: That’s [structure] all she thinks about! Davis: The conversation for this album has been building up in this subterranean way over these many years, and then we actually got to do this together — create a work that we both really feel strongly about. What does the collaborative process look like for you? Miranda: It's been in stages. I think the first year was, "What could this be?" [Editor's note: They've been working on Warriors for three years.] What was great was that we came from opposite sides when it came to the work itself. She had never seen the film but knew of the film's many hip-hop and cultural references. I have seen the film more than any other, so I already like the innovation to the structure she was bringing. We made each other a lot of playlists. When we did the first listening party of our demos,  I remember feeling really proud. [Those songs] were like everything from '70s funk acts and metal bands like Death, to more contemporary artists. I put some Lil Wayne stuff and some The Strokes on there, so we were trading musical sort of color swatches until we were writing the same thing. Davis: We got our genre and chased our vibes that way. I would free-write all of this character stuff and pass that over to Lin, and Lin would have all of these lyrical ideas again [that] had been just rambling around in his head. Then, we would go back and forth until it felt like it was indeed what we wanted to accomplish for these characters. I'd send him little voice memos with baselines on them or say, "Oh, here's a hook idea. Can we try that?" It was this fantastic back and forth with us being open to whatever the other person was thinking and see if that works, and we'll use it. And if it doesn't, we'll just toss it and keep moving. Lauryn Hill and Marc Anthony are some of the luminaries featured in Warriors . But how did you choose the newer talents or those less known to listeners outside New York’s Theater District to highlight? Miranda: We called all our friends to demo The Warriors , but we were already subconsciously casting the crew. I always knew Cowgirl was going to be Sasha Hutchings . We've been through "Hamilton" together as very close friends, and I knew that that chaotic energy was just right for Cowgirl. Our friends recorded our demos before we even had many instruments on it. Eisa and I looked at each other like they were the ones. "What f—ing pop star is gonna do better than what is happening in front of us?" Davis: They should all be pop stars, and that's what we get to do! If you hear what it is that they're able to accomplish on this record, what it is that they can do as actors, what it is that they're doing vocally, you're just kind of like, Yeah, they should be on the top of the Billboard charts . Miranda: The writing took us down a journey of discovery. Eisa felt very strongly that our DJ, which Lynn Thigpen plays in the movie, should be Jamaican, to give a nod to the Jamaican roots of hip-hop. I loved that idea. That brought us into the world of Shenseea and made us fall in love with Shenseea’s music. Then we were like, "Well, can we get her?" Because she's such a superstar within her genre. It's been fun in both ways, like the people we know, who we knew could deliver on this album, and those we didn't even know existed before we started writing it Including someone like Emmy winner and Academy Award nominee Colman Domingo — who isn’t just an extraordinary actor but an acclaimed playwright and director — feels like a statement. Did you write his songs with him in mind? Davis: He was in "Passing Strange" with me. He’s like a brother to me. He’s my family. Miranda: That’s the homie. Davis: We actually weren't thinking of him. But then suddenly, the idea occurred to us: we have a great person, too, and we've been working with Riggs [Morales] [Executive Vice President, A&R at Def Jam Recordings]. In some ways, it was almost like Colman was already under our noses, and then Riggs was like, "What about this Colman dude?" We're like, "Oh my gosh, he's perfect!" This will be exciting for all the Colman fans because he is here, rapping on wax for the first time. Miranda: Theater fans know Colman from "Passing Strange" and "The Scottsboro Boys." He's got theater chops. What's wonderful is the rest of the world has caught on and finally discovered his brilliance! Miranda: That’s how I feel about every artist on this album. Davis: There’s Joshua Henry. Miranda: He’s been in every show I’ve ever written. I even recorded his voice for one of the songs in "Bring It On [The Musical]." Davis: Again, this is someone known here in New York, and he does all of his own music on tours around the country and the world. But now, when people hear his vocals, they will say, "Okay, yes, is it like that? It's like that." "Derailed" and "Luther Interlude" show some punk and rock influences. Briefly describe the genesis of integrating them into the album. Miranda: When you go watch The Warriors , this Walter Hill classic this album is based on, it’s a rock score. Rock and synths and a very innovative soundtrack for its time. We also knew we were doing a love letter to the concept albums of the '70s: Jesus Christ Superstar , Genesis ’ The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway [ The Who’ s] Tommy , so we knew there'd be a rock element because that's that part of what's going on in that time period. Our thesis statement for getting to journey all the way through New York, from Coney Island to the Bronx and back, is we get to play in every musical subculture happening in New York then. You have an ode to the queer subculture that's coming up at that time with [characters] The Hurricanes at 96th Street. I changed the Turnbull ACs from a group of skinheads on a school bus to the greatest Fania song I could possibly write; Fania was revolutionizing salsa, so that’s an opportunity to play in that sandbox. We really used New York as a terrain and a playground for us to play with all of the many New Yorks encapsulated in New York in the late '70s, not just the ones in [the original] movie. Davis: When you were talking about metal and wondering about Luther [sung by Kim Dracula], I was just like, "How can we get at this villainy in this really exciting, unexpected way, musically?" So I was like, "Lin, why don't you listen to this band that had someone that I know as an actress, Jessica Pimentel?" She had a band called Alekhine's Gun, and I was just like, "Maybe Luther is in this sound." Miranda: She played the track, and I could feel my abuelas in heaven crossing themselves on my behalf, being like, "Oh my God." And I was like, "This is exactly the energy, this dark but virtuosic energy." Were there specific lyrics that blew the other away? Miranda: First and foremost, it's a love letter to the movie, so if you love this movie, your favorite quote will be there. And it's either a lyric or, in some cases, where I couldn't imagine adding music to it. Writing Mercy's song was surprising to me because Mercy is one of my favorite movie characters. Full stop. I love that she is the only woman on that block, but her gang seems f—ing terrified of her. She just has so much power. Even in the movie, she has so much power and writing that her kind of aria, when we first meet her, the whole sound and everything about it, surprised me. Davis: I think we were surprised by pretty much everything that wasn't something that we lifted directly from the film. Every time we would sit down and go through the song, you're discovering how to actually depict this silent scene in the film. So that was a surprise to see. "Okay, we're going to find a narrator." The DJ ends up being our narrator.  So again, as we were going, everything was a surprise. Miranda: The surprise is the point. We're the first audience, and when we surprise ourselves, it's good enough. This album is an amalgamation of sounds from New York City. What about this city is most magical to you? Miranda: I'm so crazy about not just the city's diversity, but the economic diversity of this city. There's too many of us to be here, but we figure it out, and we take care of each other. I really feel that in our city and the best and the worst of times. I keep finding New Yorks to write. I started in my neighborhood in "In The Heights."  I found two centuries underneath that for  "Hamilton." However, I was still writing about the same spots, like Burr lived on 162nd Street [in Washington Heights], and Hamilton lived on 145th Street. Then, with this [concept album], we get to go to 1979 and just play in all these different neighborhoods. Every time I turn a corner, I'm inspired here. Davis: The metaphor is that you can be totally unarmed, just like faced with the armies of the night, and still survive. That is New York in a nutshell. What is so magical about this place is that it is so difficult in so many ways to be here. You're just crushed up against each other. There's just no space. Everything stinks. Miranda: [ Laughs. ] Transferring from the A to the N/R [train line]! Davis: But the thing is, we all come here together because of each other, like we all are in New York because of the people who are there, and that's what's magical about it. It comes through in our writing. Latest News & Exclusive Videos Tucker Wetmore Owes His Country Stardom To His Mom, God & A Broken Leg Fred Hammond Performs "Change Your Mind" Natalia Lafourcade Shares Her 10 Most Important Songs: From "Nunca Es Suficiente" To "El Lugar Correcto" Conan Gray & John Mellencamp To Perform Republic Records Tribute At The 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala New Music Friday: Listen To Releases By Lorde, Megan Thee Stallion, Benson Boone & More Read More Omar Apollo Photo: Aitor Laspiur Facebook Twitter E-mail interview Omar Apollo Embraces Heartbreak And Enters His "Zaddy" Era On 'God Said No' Facebook Twitter Email Alongside producer Teo Halm, Omar Apollo discusses creating 'God Said No' in London, the role of poetry in the writing process, and eventually finding comfort in the record's "proof of pain." Glenn Rowley | GRAMMYs / Jun 27, 2024 - 01:21 pm "Honestly, I feel like a zaddy," Omar Apollo says with a roguish grin, "because I'm 6'5" so, like, you can run up in my arms and stay there, you know what I mean?" As a bonafide R&B sensation and one of the internet’s favorite boyfriends, Apollo is likely used to the labels, attention and online swooning that come with modern fame. But in this instance, there’s a valid reason for asking about his particular brand of "zaddyhood": he’s been turned into a Bratz doll. In the middle of June, the popular toy company blasted a video to its nearly 5 million social media followers showing off the singer as a real-life Bratz Boy — the plastic version draped in a long fur coat (shirtless, naturally), with a blinged-out cross necklace and matching silver earrings as he belts out his 2023 single "3 Boys" from a smoke-covered stage. The video, which was captioned "Zaddy coded," promptly went viral, helped along by an amused Apollo reposting the clip to his own Instagram Story. "It was so funny," he adds. "And it's so accurate; that's literally how my shows go. It made me look so glamorous, I loved it." The unexpected viral moment came with rather auspicious timing, considering Apollo is prepping for the release of his hotly anticipated sophomore album. God Said No arrives June 28 via Warner Records. In fact, the star is so busy with the roll-out that, on the afternoon of our interview, he’s FaceTiming from the back of a car. The day prior, he’d filmed the music video for "Done With You," the album’s next single. Now he’s headed to the airport to jet off to Paris, where he’ll be photographed front row at the LOEWE SS25 men’s runway show in between Sabrina Carpenter and Mustafa — the latter of whom is one of the few collaborators featured on God Said No . Apollo’s trusted co-writer and producer, Teo Halm, is also joining the conversation from his home studio in L.A. In between amassing credits for Beyoncé ( The Lion King: The Gift ), Rosalía and J Balvin (the Latin GRAMMY-winning "Con Altura"), SZA ("Notice Me" and "Open Arms" featuring Travis Scott ) and others, the 25-year-old virtuoso behind the boards had teamed up with Apollo on multiple occasions. Notably, the two collabed on "Evergreen (You Didn’t Deserve Me At All)," which helped Apollo score his nomination for Best New Artist at the 2023 GRAMMYs . In the wake of that triumph, Apollo doubled down on their creative chemistry by asking Halm to executive produce God Said No . (The producer is also quick to second his pal’s magnetic mystique: "Don't get it twisted, he's zaddy, for sure.") Apollo bares his soul like never before across the album’s 14 tracks,  as he processes the bitter end of a two-year relationship with an unnamed paramour. The resulting portrait of heartbreak is a new level of emotional exposure for a singer already known for his unguarded vulnerability and naked candor. (He commissioned artist Doron Langberg to paint a revealing portrait of him for the cover of his 2023 EP Live For Me , and unapologetically included a painting of his erect penis as the back cover of the vinyl release.) On lead single "Spite," he’s pulled between longing and resentment in the wake of the break-up over a bouncing guitar riff. Second single "Dispose of Me" finds Apollo heartsick and feeling abandoned as he laments, "It don’t matter if it’s 25 years, 25 months/ It don’t matter if it’s 25 days, it was real love/ We got too much history/ So don’t just dispose of me." Elsewhere, the singer offers the stunning admission that "I would’ve married you" on album cut "Life’s Unfair." Then, on the very next song — the bumping, braggadocious "Against Me" — Apollo grapples with the reality that he’s been permanently altered by the love affair while on the prowl for a rebound. "I cannot act like I’m average/ You know that I am the baddest bitch," he proclaims on the opening verse, only to later admit, "I’ve changed so much, but have you heard?/ I can’t move how I used to." More Omar Apollo News & Videos New Music Friday: Listen To New Releases From Kendrick Lamar, ROSÉ, Twenty One Pilots & More Omar Apollo Embraces Heartbreak And Enters His "Zaddy" Era On 'God Said No' How Danna Paola Created 'CHILDSTAR' By Deconstructing Herself On Omar Apollo's New EP 'Live for Me,’ Limitless Experimentation Created Catharsis Listen To GRAMMY.com's LGBTQIA+ Pride Month 2023 Playlist Featuring Demi Lovato, Sam Smith, Kim Petras, Frank Ocean, Omar Apollo & More Given the personal subject matter filling God Said No — not to mention the amount of acclaim he earned with Ivory — it would be understandable if Apollo felt a degree of pressure or anxiety when it came to crafting his sophomore studio set. But according to the singer, that was entirely not the case. "I feel like I wouldn’t be able to make art if I felt pressure," he says. "Why would I be nervous about going back and making more music? If anything, I'm more excited and my mind is opened up in a whole other way and I've learned so much." In order to throw his entire focus into the album’s creation, Apollo invited Halm to join him in London. The duo set up shop in the famous Abbey Road Studios, where the singer often spent 12- to 13-hour days attempting to exorcize his heartbreak fueled by a steady stream of Aperol spritzes and cigarettes. The change of scenery infused the music with new sonic possibilities, like the kinetic synths and pulsating bass line that set flight to "Less of You." Apollo and Halm agree that the single was directly inspired by London’s unique energy. "It's so funny because we were out there in London, but we weren't poppin' out at all ," the Halm says. "Our London scene was really just, like, studio, food. Omar was a frickin' beast. He was hitting the gym every day…. But it was more like feeding off the culture on a day-to-day basis. Like, literally just on the walk to the studio or something as simple as getting a little coffee. I don't think that song would've happened in L.A." Poetry played a surprisingly vital role in the album’s creation as well, with Apollo littering the studio with collections by "all of the greats," including the likes of Ocean Vuong, Victoria Chang, Philip Larkin, Alan Ginsberg, Mary Oliver and more. "Could you imagine making films, but never watching a film?" the singer posits, turning his appreciation for the written art form into a metaphor about cinema. "Imagine if I never saw [films by] the greats, the beauty of words and language, and how it's manipulated and how it flows. So I was so inspired." Perhaps a natural result of consuming so much poetic prose, Apollo was also led to experiment with his own writing style. While on a day trip with his parents to the Palace of Versailles, he wrote a poem that ultimately became the soaring album highlight "Plane Trees," which sends the singer’s voice to new, shiver-inducing heights. "I'd been telling Teo that I wanted to challenge myself vocally and do a power ballad," he says. "But it wasn't coming and we had attempted those songs before. And I was exhausted with writing about love; I was so sick of it. I was like, Argh, I don't want to write anymore songs with this person in my mind ." Instead, the GRAMMY nominee sat on the palace grounds with his parents, listening to his mom tell stories about her childhood spent in Mexico. He challenged himself to write about the majestic plane tree they were sitting under in order to capture the special moment. Back at the studio, Apollo’s dad asked Halm to simply "make a beat" and, soon enough, the singer was setting his poem to music. (Later, Mustafa’s hushed coda perfected the song’s denouement as the final piece of the puzzle.) And if Apollo’s dad is at least partially responsible for how "Plane Trees" turned out, his mom can take some credit for a different song on the album — that’s her voice, recorded beneath the same plane tree, on the outro of delicate closer "Glow." Both the artist and the producer ward off any lingering expectations that a happy ending will arrive by the time "Glow" fades to black, however. "The music that we make walks a tightrope of balancing beauty and tragedy," Halm says. "It's always got this optimism in it, but it's never just, like, one-stop shop happy. It's always got this inevitable pain that just life has. "You know, even if maybe there wasn't peace in the end for Omar, or if that wasn't his full journey with getting through that pain, I think a lot of people are dealing with broken hearts who it really is going to help," the producer continues. "I can only just hope that the music imparts leaving people with hope." Apollo agrees that God Said No contains a "hopeful thread," even if his perspective on the project remains achingly visceral. Did making the album help heal his broken heart? "No," he says with a sad smile on his face. "But it is proof of pain. And it’s a beautiful thing that is immortalized now, forever. "One day, I can look back at it and be like, Wow, what a beautiful thing I experienced . But yeah, no, it didn't help me," he says with a laugh. Latest News & Exclusive Videos Tucker Wetmore Owes His Country Stardom To His Mom, God & A Broken Leg Fred Hammond Performs "Change Your Mind" Natalia Lafourcade Shares Her 10 Most Important Songs: From "Nunca Es Suficiente" To "El Lugar Correcto" Conan Gray & John Mellencamp To Perform Republic Records Tribute At The 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala New Music Friday: Listen To Releases By Lorde, Megan Thee Stallion, Benson Boone & More Read More Beyoncé at the 2023 GRAMMYs. Photo: Michael Kovac/Getty Images for The Recording Academy Facebook Twitter E-mail video GRAMMY Rewind: Watch Beyoncé's Heartfelt Speech For Her Record-Breaking Win In 2023 Facebook Twitter Email Relive the night Beyoncé received a gramophone for Best Dance/Electronic Album for 'RENAISSANCE' at the 2023 GRAMMYS — the award that made her the most decorated musician in GRAMMY history. Daryn McElroy | GRAMMYs / Feb 2, 2024 - 05:12 pm Six years after her last solo studio album, Beyoncé returned to the music industry with a bang thanks to RENAISSANCE . In homage to her late Uncle Johnny, she created a work of art inspired by the sounds of disco and house that wasn't just culturally impactful — it was history-making. At the 2023 GRAMMYs, RENAISSANCE won Best Dance/Electronic Album. Marking Beyoncé's 32nd golden gramophone, the win gave the superstar the record for most gramophones won by an individual act. In this episode of GRAMMY Rewind , revisit the historic moment Queen Bey took the stage to accept her record-breaking GRAMMY at the 65th Annual GRAMMY Awards. Loading... "Thank you so much. I'm trying not to be too emotional," Beyoncé said at the start of her acceptance speech. "I'm just trying to receive this night." With a deep breath, she began to list her praises that included God, her family, and the Recording Academy for their continued support throughout her career. "I'd like to thank my Uncle Johnny, who is not here, but he's here in spirit," Beyoncé proclaimed. "I'd like to thank the queer community for your love and inventing this genre." Watch the video above for Beyoncé's full speech for Best Dance/Electronic Album at the 2023 GRAMMYs. Check back to GRAMMY.com for more new episodes of GRAMMY Rewind. Tune into the 2024 GRAMMYs on Sunday, Feb. 4, airing live on the CBS Television Network (8-11:30 p.m. LIVE ET/5-8:30 p.m. LIVE PT) and streaming on Paramount+ (live and on-demand for Paramount+ with SHOWTIME subscribers, or on-demand for Paramount+ Essential subscribers the day after the special airs). A Timeline Of Beyoncé's GRAMMY Moments, From Her First Win With Destiny's Child to Making History With 'Renaissance' Read More Read List 1 'Encanto' Sweeps The 2023 GRAMMYs: Disney's Animated Smash Wins 3 Categories 2 A Timeline Of Beyoncé's GRAMMY Moments, From Her First Win With Destiny's Child To Making History With 'Cowboy Carter' 3 Lin-Manuel Miranda & Eisa Davis Discuss 'Warriors' Concept Album: "I Keep Finding New Yorks To Write" 4 Omar Apollo Embraces Heartbreak And Enters His "Zaddy" Era On 'God Said No' 5 GRAMMY Rewind: Watch Beyoncé's Heartfelt Speech For Her Record-Breaking Win In 2023 TOP RECORDING ACADEMY About Governance Press Room Jobs News Awards Process DEI MEMBERSHIP Chapters Producers & Engineers Wing Songwriters & Composers Wing GRAMMY U Join Log In GRAMMYS Awards News Videos Genres Shop GRAMMY GO ADVOCACY About News Learn Act MUSICARES About Get Help Give News Programs & Events LATIN GRAMMYS Awards News Videos Cultural Foundation Members Press GRAMMY MUSEUM COLLECTION:live Museum Tickets Exhibits Education Support Programs Donate @ 2025 - Recording Academy. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Copyright Notice Contact Us Some of the content on this site expresses viewpoints and opinions that are not those of the Recording Academy and its Affiliates. Responsibility for the accuracy of information provided in stories not written by or specifically prepared for the Academy and its Affiliates lies with the story's original source or writer. Content on this site does not reflect an endorsement or recommendation of any artist or music by the Recording Academy and its Affiliates.