Alexa for Business: What Every Executive Should Know in 2025 Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Menu Services Search Engine Optimization Web Design Fractional Services PPC Management B2B Branding & Strategy Digital Marketing Consulting Services Fractional CMO Analytics B2B Email Marketing Agency Content Marketing Industries Software as a Solution (SaaS) Healthcare eCommerce Digital Marketing Agency Legal Professional Services Fintech & Financial Services Nonprofit Manufacturing Education Government About Awards Team Case Studies Resources Marketing Insights White Papers Webinars Call Us: (888) 846-5382 Contact Us Home Resources Articles Alexa for Business: What Every Executive Should Know in 2025 Business Strategy March 23, 2025 Alexa for Business: What Every Executive Should Know in 2025 Pranjal Bora Pranjal Bora is the Head of Product Management at Digital Authority Partners. After working at Sam's Club, Sears and... Read more Get in touch with Pranjal emerging technology Alexa Voice 54377 views Pranjal Bora Head of Product Management Pranjal Bora is the Head of Product Management at Digital Authority Partners. After working at Sam's Club, Sears and Ricoh Americas for the last decade, Pranjal brings a wealth of experience to our team in ecommerce, SaaS and manufacturing digital transformation. Expertise: Product Management, Mobile App Development, Web Development, Digital Transformation, Website Ada Compliance, Big Data, Artificial Intelligence. Read Less Amazon debuted the first Alexa in November 2014. Today, it’s become a household name in voice assistant technology, with over six million users in the United States. Alexa is making waves not only in households but also in the workplace. Launched in 2017, Alexa for Business is changing the way companies accomplish everyday tasks, from booking conference rooms for meetings to organizing weekly schedules. If this sounds like something you could use for your business, then this guide is for you! Here’s everything you need to know about Alexa and how it can make a difference in your workplace — straight from a leading voice design agency . What Is Alexa for Business? Alexa for Business: What Is Alexa for Business? Alexa for Business is your company’s very own personal workplace assistant. Just like how Alex and the Echo Dot provide much-needed assistance in the household, Alexa can do just about the same thing in the workplace. It’s a voice-powered AI assistant that helps businesses streamline daily operations. From automating tasks to scheduling meetings, Alexa provides teams with the speed and efficiency needed to have a productive workday. Like with other AI voice assistants, it uses natural language processing and machine learning to understand human voice and conversation. This lets users say a command, which Alexa accomplishes quickly and with greater accuracy. Alexa does more than take commands; it also offers features like software updates, multi-user account access, and centralized device management. Companies can even create their own Alexa skills . Alexa for Business: Digital Transformation in 2025 The workplace can get hectic sometimes. People are so busy juggling many things at once that it’s common to forget things now and then. However, with the recent popularity of voice assistants and voice technology, the workplace can become more productive and flexible. We have already seen Alexa’s success in houses with the Echo Dot. People at home can easily perform everyday tasks, from turning off the lights to helping out in the kitchen with timers, recipes, cooking tips, and more. This kind of efficiency and speed is now making its presence known in offices and workplaces. Alexa for Business: Digital Transformation What Can Alexa for Business Do? Businesses can operate Alexa in two main ways: as a personal assistant to perform individual tasks or via a shared device that multiple employees connect to. Let’s take a look at both of these scenarios… For example, let’s say you wake up one morning and are about to start the work day. The first thing you might want to know is what your schedule is for the day. All you have to do is ask, “Alexa, what’s my schedule for today?” Alexa will then go through your schedule, giving you a better idea of what you need to prepare. The same principle applies in the workplace. Now that you know you have a meeting to host, you can ask Alexa to start it immediately with the help of the location, calendar information, and local devices to start the meeting. This saves precious minutes and avoids delays from manually setting up. That’s just one example; other smart office applications include asking for directions, ordering new supplies, and booking vacant meeting rooms and appointments. It’s accomplishing small tasks like these that really make a difference. Alexa for Business can accomplish all this thanks to its extensive skillset. With a wide variety of skills already available, teams can even add their own skills to add more efficiency to their daily lives. These skills can be for either internal or client-facing use. How Much Does Alexa for Business Cost? Alexa for Business has two pricing components: a monthly fee for each shared device and a monthly fee based on the number of users. The 2025 cost breakdown is as follows: Shared devices: $7/month per device Enrolled users: $3/month per user This only means you’re paying for people actively using the Alexa skill, not for everyone within proximity of the Alexa device. Not everyone in the company may use it, after all. For example, say you install ten Alexa devices and have 20 enrolled users actively leveraging a skill. That means your monthly cost is 10 x 7 (devices) + 20 x 3 (users) = $130 per month. This applies to private skills built for your company. How Much Does Alexa for Business Cost? Which Products Work With Alexa for Business? You can integrate Alexa with many tools and solutions, such as Polycom, Skype, Vonage, and Salesforce. Alexa is compatible with customer relationship management (CRM) software and enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems. For example, Alexa could retrieve customer information, update customer records, and more. The same goes for ERP systems; you may ask Alexa to track inventory levels and shipments and gather order data for easier monitoring. Alexa can also be applied to various healthcare tasks, from managing patient conditions to providing better in-hospital service. We covered more real-life use cases of adopting Alexa in your healthcare system in this guide. Which Products Work With Alexa for Business? Companies That Use Alexa for Business Businesses everywhere are adopting Alexa and voice technology in general into their daily operations. Let’s take a look at a few specific examples. CapitalOne: CapitalOne has been using Alexa to help customers check their balances or perform routine account-related tasks. They’ve also built a brand new skill of monitoring data systems, shouldering some of the heavy workload for the IT department. Circa Resort & Casino: Circa Resort & Casino uses Alexa, mainly voice and ambient intelligence technology, to give guests more control and comfort over their environment. Whether calling customer service or ordering more towels for their room, Alexa has made everything a breeze for the guests and less work-heavy for the staff. 2025 Alexa for Business Update: It’s also worth mentioning that Microsoft had plans to integrate their very own AI assistant Cortana with Amazon’s Alexa. However, it ended up not happening as Microsoft invested its efforts solely into Cortana. Companies That Use Alexa for Business Use Cases in Business for Alexa Devices Let’s take a deeper dive into some of the use cases of this voice assistant. Video Conferencing Video conferencing has become more simplified thanks to Alexa for Business. Using a simple voice command, such as “Alexa, start the meeting,” all equipment being used for the call will be activated. Setting these up manually often takes more time than you think: Having Alexa do all of the work for you saves you both time and energy. Streamlining Daily Tasks With Alexa for Business, employees can improve speed and productivity by automating routine tasks. For example, instead of manually setting reminders to make phone calls or keeping track of daily to-do items, have Alexa set them for you. What’s more, Alexa accommodates voice recognition so anyone has instant access without having to sign up. Device Management Using Alexa’s convenient dashboard console, employees can monitor and manage all connected devices. Not only that but they can also add new skills and remove old ones from the system for easier tracking. This is great for users who aren’t familiar with Alexa technology as this central console gives a clear overview of Alexa’s controls, devices, and more. Email Organization You won’t need to sift through your crowded inbox and manually reply to email after email. You can have Alexa manage your emails via Amazon Echo. Amazon Echo uses Astrobot to integrate with Office 365 or Gmail to read, reply, and organize emails. Site Monitoring Your website may experience downtime and you might not even be aware of it. However, you’ll never miss a beat with what’s happening with your website, thanks to Alexa. It can monitor website downtime and send IT alerts and reports about your website. For example, you can integrate Alexa with Vigil, a Salesforce-powered tool that sends push notifications when your site experiences downtime. This is also helpful for keeping track of potential vulnerabilities in your site’s security. To fix your site issues and stay on top of 2025’s recommendations, talk to a Chicago Web Development Agency . Invoice Assistance Voice technologies like Alexa have led to a streamlined invoicing process with reduced errors and better organization. Save yourself the hassle of computations with Alexa’s Accounts Receivable Factoring skill that calculates invoice amounts and the rate of factoring. Schedule Management Managing schedules manually takes time — Alexa can help shoulder that work for you. You can use it to set reminders, coordinate meetings, and set specific actions to prevent missed deadlines. For example, some administrative tasks (like payroll) may be forgotten, so you can ask Alexa to set regular reminders. Alexa also accommodates calendar services; you can ask “What’s on my calendar?” and it will automatically run through your schedule. Order Local Services Whether you need to buy new office supplies or call someone in to fix the plumbing, Alexa is just one voice command away from providing you with the closest local services. This saves you the time of searching online or the energy of running to the nearest store. Use Cases in Business for Alexa Devices Challenges of Using Alexa for Business Despite all the benefits that Alexa for Business brings to the workplace, it’s not without its challenges. Let’s explore three reasons for caution: Data Security Human voice counts as biometric data, so some users may be hesitant to share this. Plus, voice technology gathers information from various sources to improve the accuracy of their devices. Amazon uses voice data for ads targeting their customers. In other words, Alexa might gather information that people don’t intend to share in the first place. Companies should be transparent about what they do with this data as well as give users the option to not be tracked. NLP Limitations and Contextual Understanding AI models and voice assistants have to be trained to understand certain words, phrases, and the context they are being used. If a conversation is too long or too complex, the voice assistant may not be able to interpret it the way the speaker intended. This may lead to irrelevant or incorrect outputs; wrong outputs could also lead to delays in processes. Furthermore, because voice assistants run on natural language processing (NLP) , they may not understand different human nuances in speech, such as sarcasm or idiomatic expressions. This may lead to our interactions with Alexa being more robotic and less natural. Integration With Existing Systems Voice technology has been around for a while, but it’s still a fairly new type of technology. Companies with existing systems, especially older or traditional ones, may find it difficult to adapt to this new technology and integrate it with their current systems. Integrating with current systems takes time, resources, and technical expertise, which some companies, especially newer ones, may lack. What’s Next for Alexa in 2025? Alexa is making huge strides in multiple areas, and it will only continue to grow over the years. In fact, there are already new developments with Amazon announcing its revamp with generative AI capabilities . It will be Alexa’s biggest upgrade so far. It intends to open the door for more conversational features that will increase sales and conversions for Amazon. Part of this new development will be responding to multiple prompts in sequence compared to just one at a time. However, there’s still one hurdle that Amazon is looking to solve, and that’s “ hallucinations .” “Hallucinations” refer to inaccurate, non-factual answers that the learning language model (LLM) generates. This could be attributed to many factors, such as insufficient training or biases. Since Alexa's capabilities are quite limited compared to other AI models, it may be a while before we see this issue completely fixed. Along with this AI overhaul, Amazon is also planning a monthly subscription fee . Since generative AI, in general, is expensive, this is Amazon’s way of compensating for the costs. In the past few years, despite being around for so long and going through numerous changes, Alexa has failed to turn a sufficient profit as Amazon was unable to monetize the product after purchase. This has led to several layoffs and speculation about possible shutdowns. Only time will tell if Amazon’s new AI-powered version of Alexa will bring in much-needed revenue or not. Companies that use Alexa daily will have to adapt as well once these updates happen. You can always turn to a digital agency like Digital Authority Partners to help you navigate these new changes. Rolling Out Alexa for Business Rolling Out Alexa for Business Alexa and voice technology in general have and will continue to play a major role in the digital transformation of the workplace. Its many practical uses have made things super easy and efficient for employees, and this is only the beginning. As more and more companies adopt this technology into their everyday routines, the need for a voice design agency remains a priority. Digital Authority Partners is a voice design agency that helps companies utilize voice technology to meet consumer demand and expand into new markets. We ease companies into the world of voice technology by providing voice roadmaps, skill development, optimization, and more! Send us a message now to get started! Want To Meet Our Expert Team? Book a meeting directly here Like what you just read? Share this article with your network and friends. Tweet Share Share Send How Can We Help? Fill out the short form below or call us at: (888) 846-5382 The next-gen digital partner for today’s makers & doers. Digital Authority Partners 420 West Huron, 1st Floor Chicago , IL 60654 (312) 820-9893 hello@digitalauthority.me Resources Services Case Studies Insights About Industries Locations One newsletter, once a week Today's top digital insights delivered straight to your inbox. Subscribe Thank you, you're all signed up! We'll be delivering you valuable newsbites to your inbox soon! Digital Authority Partners | Copyright © 202s2 All Rights Reserved. X Contact our team Full name This field is required. Email This field is required. The email address you entered is invalid. Phone number (optional) The phone number you entered is invalid. X Thank you! One of our consultants will get back to you within 24 hours. Manage Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Deny View preferences Save preferences View preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage consent Do you want to grow in 2025? Chat With Sales