Kaspar (play) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Plot summary 2 Major Themes 3 Further reading 4 Kaspar in Iran 5 References Toggle the table of contents Kaspar (play) 4 languages فارسی Français Nederlands Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Play written by Austrian playwright Peter Handke (1967) Kaspar & Other Plays First English edition Author Peter Handke Genre Drama Publisher Farrar, Straus and Giroux Publication date Published in English in 1967 Publication place Austria ISBN 0809015463 Kaspar is a play written by Austrian playwright Peter Handke . It was published in 1967. It was Handke's first full-length drama and was hailed by Max Frisch as the "play of the decade". [ 1 ] It depicts "the foundling Kaspar Hauser as a near-speechless innocent destroyed by society’s attempts to impose on him its language and its own rational values." [ 2 ] Plot summary [ edit ] Kaspar is loosely based on the story of Kaspar Hauser . "Raised in a dark hole, at 17 he wandered into a 1824 German town knowing only a single sentence and became a scientific curiosity: a nearly-adult human without language and external influences, a tabula rasa upon which society and its scientific teachers could write with impunity." [ 3 ] Major Themes [ edit ] Kaspar is about language and its ability to torture. In this play Handke "allows us to listen differently and to reflect on how language is forced upon us by a society where conformism is the norm and received speech an almost tyrannical exploitation of the individual." [ 4 ] It is also a play that suggests individuals are bound to negate themselves under the pressure of the societies that they live in. "What Kaspar experiences on stage can happen daily: The need or desire to conform, to observe and imitate someone else’s words and actions, to assert oneself and at the same time, negate oneself." [ 5 ] Individuals can also invent themselves using the language. In Kaspar , Handke writes: "Already you have a sentence with which you can make yourself noticeable . . . You can explain to yourself how it goes with you . . . You have a sentence with which you can bring order into every disorder . . ." [ 6 ] Handke himself wrote in the prologue to the play: "The play Kaspar does not show how IT REALLY IS or REALLY WAS with Kaspar Hauser. It shows what is POSSIBLE with someone. It shows how someone can be made to speak through speaking. The play could also be called speech torture." [ 7 ] One critique summarised the theme of Kaspar thus: "the inherent authoritative power of language itself to shape, twist, expand, delimit, and mediate human experience, the ultimate tragicomic story of socialization and civilization. [ 8 ] Further reading [ edit ] James R. Hamilton, "Handke's Kaspar, Wittgenstein's Tractates, and the successful representation of alienation," Journal of Dramatic Theory and Criticism , Spring 1995. M. Read, "Peter Handke's Kaspar and the power of negative thinking," Oxford Journal, 1993. Linda Eisenstein, "You Are The Lucky Owner of a Sentence," Theatre Perspectives International , May 1994. Kaspar in Iran [ edit ] Kaspar is a play by Peter Handke . Mohsen Moeini was the dramaturgist and director of the play, produced by Negin Mirhasani Vahed . This play went on stage in Av Hall. Its run was extended three time and it was widely praised by the audience. [ 9 ] References [ edit ] ^ Kaspar and Other Plays , published by Hill & Wang, translated by Michael Roloff, New York, 1989 ^ Encyclopædia Britannica , Biography of Peter Handke (Austrian Writer) ^ "You Are The Lucky Owner of a Sentence," A Review by Linda Eisenstein, Theatre Perspectives International , May 1994. ^ See production note by Austrian Cultural Forum which produced the play from 3 January to 12 February 2013 at Aya Theatre in London ^ "Home" . kaspar2010.blogspot.com . ^ Peter Handke, Kaspar and Other Plays , trans. M. Roloff (New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 1969), page-67 and 69. ^ Peter Handke, Kaspar and Other Plays , trans. M. Roloff (New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 1969), page-59. ^ Linda Eisenstein, "You Are The Lucky Owner of a Sentence," Theatre Perspectives International , May 1994. ^ "از پیش‌فروش نمایش «کاسپار» کارگاه‌های متمرکز تئاتر برگزار می‌شود" [The presale of "Caspar" show/focused theater workshops will be held]. mehrnews.com (in Persian). v t e Peter Handke Bibliography Drama Offending the Audience (1966) Kaspar (1967) The Hour We Knew Nothing of Each Other (1992) Storm Still (2010) Film Written and directed: The Left-Handed Woman (1978) The Absence (1992) Written only: The Goalkeeper's Fear of the Penalty (1972) The Wrong Move (1975) Wings of Desire (1987) Subject: Peter Handke: In the Woods, Might Be Late (2016) Poetry The Innerworld of the Outerworld of the Innerworld (1969) To Duration (1986) Prose The Goalie's Anxiety at the Penalty Kick (1970) Short Letter, Long Farewell (1972) A Sorrow Beyond Dreams (1972) A Moment of True Feeling (1975) The Weight of the World (1977) Slow Homecoming (1979) Repetition (1986) Once Again for Thucydides (1990) My Year in the No-Man's-Bay (1994) A Journey to the Rivers (1996) Crossing the Sierra de Gredos (2002) The Moravian Night (2008) Die Ballade des letzten Gastes (2023) Authority control databases : National Germany Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Kaspar_(play)&oldid=1115142935 " Categories : 1967 plays Plays by Peter Handke German-language plays Kaspar Hauser Hidden categories: CS1 Persian-language sources (fa) Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use dmy dates from April 2017 This page was last edited on 10 October 2022, at 01:08 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Kaspar (play) 4 languages Add topic