Vanguard’s new CEO sees success in ‘staying in our lane’ Subscribe Sign In News To the Trade New Showrooms E-Design 50 States Project Business Advice Trade Tales Sustainability Resources Industry Retail Watch Shop Talk DTC Brands Supply Chain Comings & Goings High Point Market News Digest Mergers & Acquisitions Media News Sources & Style The Tearsheet Latest Debuts Meet the Makers Collections Accents Accessories Appliances Art Bathrooms Bedrooms Cabinetry Fabric Flooring Furniture Hardware Kitchens Lighting Outdoor Paint Rugs Seating Softgoods Tables Tabletop Tile Upholstery Wallcovering Windows Jobs Find a Job Accounting Architecture Graphic Design Interior Design Landscape Design Office Management Public Relations Product Design Sales & Marketing Writing & Editing Post a Job Resume Board Classifieds Events Upcoming Events People & Parties Launch Workshops Course Archive Find an Expert Business Services Accounting & Bookkeeping Art Advisors Authors & Copywriters Book Packagers Business Consultants Legal Services Licensing Consultants M&A and Investment Advisors Marketing & PR Photographers Purchasing Agents Recruiters Sales & Independent Rep Firms Specialty Shops & Showrooms Stylists Web & Graphic Designers Skilled Trades 3D & Hand Renderers Cleaning Crews Contractors Decorative Artists & Painters Fabricators Lighting & Lampshade Makers Master Carpenters Movers Organizers Painters & Wallpaper Installers Plaster Workers Shippers and Receivers Textile Printers & Mills Upholstery Workrooms Window Treatments Podcasts The BOH Podcast Trade Tales Newest Episode Joanna Gaines on the power of taking a break from your business Newest Episode Why Beth Dotolo and Carolina Gentry get real about the design process on social media Magazine Current Issue Past Issues Spring 2025 Winter 2025 Fall 2024 Summer 2024 Spring 2024 Winter 2024 Fall 2023 Summer 2023 Spring 2023 Winter 2023 Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Mobile Nav Bar Mobile Menu News To the Trade New Showrooms E-Design 50 States Project Business Advice Trade Tales Sustainability Resources Industry Retail Watch Shop Talk DTC Brands Supply Chain Comings & Goings High Point Market News Digest Mergers & Acquisitions Media News Sources & Style The Tearsheet Latest Debuts Meet the Makers Collections Jobs Find a Job Post a Job Resume Board Classifieds Events Upcoming Events People & Parties Launch Workshops Course Archive Experts Business Services Skilled Trades Podcasts The BOH Podcast Trade Tales Magazine Current Issue Past Issues Newsletter Sign-up Sign In BECOME AN INSIDER BOH Insiders unlock access to weekly designer classes and exclusive Insider-only workshops Design News, 			Delivered New, Event, Job, and More —xx, your friends at Business of Home Vanguard’s new CEO sees success in ‘staying in our lane’ comings & goings | Jul 17, 2023 | Vanguard’s new CEO sees success in ‘staying in our lane’ By Fred Nicolaus There’s change at the top for Vanguard Furniture as one Bray replaces another. Last week, the Conover, North Carolina–based furnishings manufacturer announced that president Andy Bray would be stepping into the CEO role, succeeding his father and company co-founder, John Bray, who will remain as chairman of the board. For Andy Bray, a 30-year veteran of the family business, the move is more of a shift in mindset than a change of scenery. “As president, I always spent a lot of time on the operational side of the business and have had my eye on the balance sheet,” he tells Business of Home . “What makes me excited, and where I want to level up as CEO, is flying the plane at a higher altitude—paying attention to our company values, our vision, and adding the big picture to what I do on a daily basis.” What does the big picture for Vanguard look like? For one, the company will continue to explore outdoor, a category it entered for the first time last year. For another, it will continue to double down on customization. Bray says that Vanguard’s big bet on allowing buyers to extensively configure their purchases—an effort that has included overhauling its manufacturing process, as well as developing online customization tools—requires incredible focus, but has paid off. “For a long time, we’ve had the vision of being the industry leader in customized product, and we will continue down that path,” he says. “Managing the complexity of that is very difficult, and it’s what a lot of companies fear because it’s hard. If we were making white boucle sofas all day long, it would be great, but that’s not who we are.” Customization has been especially meaningful in an era when Vanguard, like many other American manufacturers, has increasingly sought designers as customers in the period following the Great Recession. Bray says that the trade continues to make up a larger and larger slice of Vanguard’s business, and will remain a strategic focus going forward. One direction Vanguard won’t be headed in under Bray’s leadership? Developing a large retail presence or going DTC. Bray’s experience has inspired him to commit to manufacturing. “I spent 10 years managing a retail enterprise, and my lesson was: You really have to decide what you want to be when you grow up. Either you’re going to wake up every morning and think about how you want to be a great retailer or be a great manufacturer, and it’s very difficult to be excellent at both,” he says. “We don’t have any designs to get into the retail business, nor the direct-to-consumer business. A lot of [companies] are peeking in that direction, but we see an opportunity in being the best manufacturer in the world and staying in our lane.” The succession comes at a transitional time in the furniture manufacturing industry. After three years of pandemic-fueled sugar high, there’s widespread consensus that the market has cooled and a cautious “what happens next?” vibe in the air. Bray downplays macroeconomic risks, pointing to the coming demographic shift of millennials rising into homebuying years, and says that the company’s focus on a higher-end consumer has helped it weather economic highs and lows. The bigger challenge is much closer to home: a lack of skilled labor coming down the pipeline. “What keeps me up at night is that some of the people that I’ve worked shoulder-to-shoulder with on a daily basis are irreplaceable. And they’re just not getting younger,” says Bray. “We have apprenticeship programs, and we sponsor a program in our local community college that trains people to join the industry. We’re meeting with some success, but it’s just not enough. … I think the market conditions are right for our industry, but it’s going to be an uphill battle if we can’t find workers in the U.S.” Homepage image: Andy Bray | Courtesy of Vanguard Furniture MORE: furniture comings & goings Want to stay informed? Sign up for our newsletter, which recaps the week’s stories, and get in-depth industry news and analysis each quarter by subscribing to our print magazine. Join BOH Insider for discounts, workshops and access to special events such as the Future of Home conference. Top Stories Top Stories Form Kitchens lays off staff, halts operations 1 Form Kitchens lays off staff, halts operations New looks from Bunny Williams Home, Campbell-Rey’s creations for The Lacquer Company, and more 2 New looks from Bunny Williams Home, Campbell-Rey’s creations for The Lacquer Company, and more Radnor unveils new Manhattan showroom, Jenni Kayne opens in Charleston, and more 3 Radnor unveils new Manhattan showroom, Jenni Kayne opens in Charleston, and more Joanna Gaines on the power of taking a break from your business 4 Joanna Gaines on the power of taking a break from your business Why the next 3 weeks are the most critical period of the tariff saga 5 Why the next 3 weeks are the most critical period of the tariff saga How do you adapt to economic challenges? 6 How do you adapt to economic challenges? The Expert’s new CEO wants to build a one-stop shop for designers 7 The Expert’s new CEO wants to build a one-stop shop for designers Samantha Stathis-Lynch’s verdant blossoming of embroidered linen, braided jute and floral-painted plates 8 Samantha Stathis-Lynch’s verdant blossoming of embroidered linen, braided jute and floral-painted plates Burke Decor shuts down its site 9 Burke Decor shuts down its site Jobs Project Manager Martin And Brockett Los Angeles, CA Showroom Administrative As... The Shade Store New york, NY Sales Director for NY Base... Cliff Young LTD New York, NY Kitchen Designer Ateliers Jacob Washington, DC Sr. Design Consultant Samuel & Sons Passementerie Dallas, TX Trade Account Executive Design Public Group New York, NY more jobs » Got a tip? Get in touch. tips@businessofhome.com Related articles The Expert’s new CEO wants to build a one-stop shop for designers Elle Decor names a new editorial lead, C-level exits at Schumacher and Hooker, and more A change at the top for Ruggable, Andrea Schumacher Interiors has a new COO, and more Janus et Cie has a new CEO, Asad Syrkett joins AD Italia, and more Pam Jaccarino moves to Material Bank sister site, Crate & Barrel’s new vice president of design, and more Benjamin Reynaert returns to Elle Decor, new CEOs at Skyline and Phillips Collection, and more Collections Coley Home Spring 2025 Lee Jofa Lee Jofa x Lilly Pulitzer Kravet Kravet x Brown Jordan Dedon Fllair Scout Design Studio Stateside Custom Craftsmanship Art & Forge Colley Collection All Collections » Jobs Project Manager Martin And Brockett Los Angeles, CA Showroom Administrative As... The Shade Store New york, NY Sales Director for NY Base... Cliff Young LTD New York, NY Kitchen Designer Ateliers Jacob Washington, DC Sr. Design Consultant Samuel & Sons Passementerie Dallas, TX Trade Account Executive Design Public Group New York, NY more jobs » Business of Home mission Statement Who We Are Business of Home is the daily media of record for the home industry, and the voice of authority for interior design professionals. Newsletter and social Newsletter Sign up for Design Daily to get the most important industry headlines in your inbox each morning. SUBMIT Magazine Subscribe Subscribe BOH offers a quarterly in-depth analysis of the topics that matter most to the interior design community—plus digital access to all magazine issues. Subscribe » Footer navigation About Us Contact Newsletters Site FAQ ©2025 Recurrent Ventures | Terms and Conditions | Privacy Policy Articles may contain affiliate links which enable us to share in the revenue of any purchases made.