5 Takeaways From Alphabet's Google I/O Developer Conference Keynote Skip to content News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Trade Search Search Please fill out this field. Search Search Please fill out this field. News News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Follow Us Company News Tech Sector News 5 Takeaways From Alphabet's Google I/O Developer Conference Keynote By Naomi Buchanan Full Bio Naomi Buchanan was a reporter at Investopedia breaking down news stories that impact investors. Learn about our editorial policies Published May 14, 2024 07:30 PM EDT Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai at Google I/O 2024. Andrej Sokolow / picture alliance / Getty Images Close Artificial intelligence (AI) took center stage at Alphabet's ( GOOGL ) annual developer conference, Google I/O, with the company unveiling several new AI initiatives. Here are the key takeaways. Gemini-Powered AI Assistant With Voice and Video Capabilities Coming Soon Google introduced Gemini Live, a voice AI agent, and Project Astra, a prototype AI assistant that responds to video input. Gemini Live, which is set to come in the summer, expands upon Gemini’s multimodal capabilities to allow the user to "have an in-depth two-way conversation using your voice." Google also showed a video demonstration where its AI agent, Project Astra, was able to identify objects shown on the camera feed and understand code shown on a computer screen, among other tasks. The Google news comes the day after Microsoft-backed ( MSFT ) OpenAI announced improved voice capabilities on ChatGPT powered by the new GPT-4o model. Image, Video, and Music Generated by AI Google unveiled AI-powered generation tools for images, videos, and music called Imagen 3, Veo, and Music AI Sandbox, respectively. The company introduced Imagen 3, a text-to-image generation model. Google said that the image generator is preferred in side-by-side comparisons with other image generators. Alphabet's chief executive officer, Sundar Pichai, said it is the "best model yet for rendering text" which has often been an indicator that an image is AI-generated. Users can sign up to try Imagen 3 on Labs.Google, its AI workspace, and it will later come to developers and enterprise customers. For generative video, Google announced Veo, which can create video content from text and video prompts. The system also has an experimental Video Effects tool. The company said that some of the Veo features will be available to some creators on Labs.Google. Google reported that it has been working with YouTube to create a music generator called Music AI Sandbox. The company said that the tool has been designed and tested with artists. AI Overview in Google Search Rolling Out in the US AI Overview powered by Gemini, which brings multi-step reasoning to Google Search, is starting its rollout in the U.S. Tuesday. The tool summarizes content from Search at the top of the page. It can use data from Google's other services like Maps to answer users' typed questions as well as respond to video inputs. The company said that AI Overview will be available in other countries soon. "Google Search is generative AI at the scale of human curiosity," Pichai said, adding that "this is our most exciting chapter of Search yet." Integrating Google AI Into Android Devices Google announced that its AI tech will be integrated into Android devices through Gemini Nano, the smallest Gemini model, to run AI locally. The company said that later this year Pixel phones will have multi-modality AI capabilities through Gemini Nano. "This means your phone can understand the world the way you understand," a Google employee explained at the event, adding that with Google Nano a device can respond to text, visual, and audio inputs. The model uses context gathered from the user's phone and runs the workload locally on the device, which could minimize some privacy concerns. The locally run AI tech minimizes latency that can occur when running AI on remote servers and can work without an internet connection since all the work is happening on the device. Gemini 1.5, Gemma Updates and Next Generation Hardware The company announced improvements to its AI model, Gemini 1.5 Pro, launched the new Gemini 1.5 Flash model, and added two new Gemma models, as well as unveiled a new version of its tensor processing unit (TPU). The Gemini 1.5 Pro changes include improvements for translation, coding, reasoning, and other uses to improve quality. The new Gemini 1.5 Flash is a smaller model that is optimized for more defined tasks where speed is the priority. Both Gemini 1.5 Pro and Gemini 1.5 Flash are available in preview starting Tuesday and will be generally available in June. Google also launched two new models, PaliGemma and Gemma 2, for Gemma, Google's family of "lightweight open models." PaliGemma is a vision-language open model, which the company says is the first of its kind, available Tuesday. Gemma 2 is the next generation of Gemma coming in June. Google unveiled the sixth generation of its TPU, Trillium, which the company said delivers 4.7 times improved computing performance per chip compared to its predecessor. The company also reiterated that it would be one of the first cloud providers to offer Nvidia's Blackwell GPUs in early 2025 . Do you have a news tip for Investopedia reporters? Please email us at tips@investopedia.com Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. Google I/O. " Google Keynote (Google I/O '24) ." X Platform. " @Google, 2:10 p.m. May 14, 2024 ." X Platform. " @GoogleDeepMind, 1:26 p.m. May 14, 2024 ." Google. " Gemini 1.5 Pro updates, 1.5 Flash debut and 2 new Gemma models ." Take the Next Step to Invest Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Partner Links Related Articles OpenAI Closes Up to $40B Funding Round, Valuing ChatGPT Maker at $300B Apple Plans to Move US-Bound iPhone Assembly to India From China, Report Says EU fines Apple, Meta $800M Combined for Violating Digital Markets Act Nvidia, xAI to Join BlackRock and Microsoft's $30 Billion AI Infrastructure Fund Nvidia Faces More Disruption From New China Export Curbs Than Expected, Morgan Stanley Says Beijing's Enforcement of Energy Rules Could Hit Nvidia's China Sales, Report Says Why New China Chip Export Curbs Could Affect Far More Than Just Nvidia, AMD Nvidia CEO Huang Flies to Beijing for Talks, Report Says Intel, TSMC Set To Form Chipmaking Joint Venture in the US, Report Says Meta Seeks White House Assistance in Handling EU Regulations, Report Says Meta Signs on to Be UFC's First 'Fan Technology Partner' Visa Offers Apple Millions to Get Credit Card Network Ops, Report Says Watch Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang Live Today Here Nvidia Considers Massive US Supply Chain Expansion, Report Says Amazon, Google, Meta Among Companies Backing Effort to Triple Nuclear Production Apple Leads Magnificent 7 Stocks Lower as 'Higher Than Expected' Trump Tariffs Land About Us Terms of Service Dictionary Editorial Policy Advertise News Privacy Policy Contact Us Careers Your Privacy Choices # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Investopedia is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies