The Walking Dead Season 11 Sets January 2023 Netflix Release Date New on Netflix Coming Soon Leaving Soon News & Previews K-Dramas Anime Games What to Watch Top 10s Library About Us Home Netflix News The Walking Dead Season 11 Sets January 2023 Netflix Release Date Netflix US will receive the final season in the New Year. By Kasey Moore · @kasey__moore December 9th, 2022 - 8:28 am Copy to clipboard Comments Picture: AMC The Walking Dead has now wrapped airing its eleventh and final supersized season on AMC and will touch down on Netflix in the United States in January 2023 (other regions will differ). Adapting the comics of the same name, the show has been a staple on both AMC and Netflix (depending on where you live) for years. Netflix US has carried the show since 2014, with new seasons arriving every year thereafter ( except season 10, which was delayed due to COVID-19 ). Season 11 is going out with a bang with an expanded season. The final season is set to consist of 24 episodes which is two more than season 10. As we’ve covered before, only The Walking Dead is on Netflix. The other spin-off series have all found their way onto other rival streaming services worldwide, whether Amazon Prime, Disney+, or somewhere else. Season 11 has been slowly released over a year, with the first batch of episodes dropping back in August 2021 and the finale airing on November 20th, 2022. The eleventh season will arrive on Netflix in at least 26 countries , according to Unogs. When will Season 11 of The Walking Dead be released on Netflix in the United States? Traditionally, Netflix has got new seasons just before the next one starts on AMC, but that won’t be the case here. We were originally expecting season 11 to arrive between 113 days and 161 days after their finale date, which would be somewhere between March and April 2023. Thankfully, you won’t have to wait that long, with the show now being confirmed to drop in January 2023 . The release date for The Walking Dead season 11 on Netflix US is January 6th, 2023. Release date for The Walking Dead on Netflix Until it heads to Netflix, season 11 is exclusive to AMC+ in the United States, whether through Amazon Prime Channels or directly. The Walking Dead season 11 – Picture: AMC Some international regions have already received 8 episodes of The Walking Dead season 11, including Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, India, and others. Netflix Canada has yet to confirm when they’ll receive The Walking Dead season 11. Will The Walking Dead leave Netflix after season 11 arrives? Yes, The Walking Dead will eventually leave Netflix, although how many years is unknown. We can look at other AMC shows for guidance. If The Walking Dead follows Hell on Wheels departure schedule, we’ll see the show leave Netflix sometime after 2026. Long-term outside the United States, the new streaming home of the show is exclusively on Disney+. That’s where the show currently resides in several regions, including the United Kingdom. In the US, we suspect the show will move exclusively to AMC+ eventually. One final note before we end this article. If you’re looking to sign up to Netflix for The Walking Dead , you’ll need to be on a premium tier as the show is unavailable for those on the ad tier. Are you looking forward to season 11 of The Walking Dead coming to Netflix? Let us know in the comments down below. Written by Kasey Moore Kasey Moore is the founder and editor-in-chief of What's on Netflix, the leading independent resource covering Netflix with over a decade of hands-on experience tracking Netflix’s new releases, removals, and breaking news. His reporting and data insights have been featured in leading publications including Variety, THR, Bloomberg, and Business Insider. ‘Guillermo Del Toro’s Pinocchio’ Making-of Documentary Added to Netflix ‘Sonic Prime’ Voice Cast and Where You’ve Heard Them Before Latest from What’s on Netflix Netflix News ‘Ransom Canyon’ Season 2: Will Netflix Renew or Cancel? Here’s What The Stats Say in Week 2… Netflix Games ‘Single’s Inferno: Choices’ Launches on Netflix Games on Android and iOS Netflix News ‘My Life with the Walter Boys’ Season 2 Eying Late Summer Return on Netflix; Season 3 In Early Development Netflix News Jill Winternitz Talks Filming ‘Havoc’ Action Scenes, Emotional Depth, and Working with Tom Hardy Netflix News Avatar: The Last Airbender Season 2 Netflix Release Date Estimate & Everything We Know So Far Netflix News ‘Olympo’: Netflix Release Date & Everything You Need to Know About The Spanish Teen Romance Series Netflix News Robert Rodriguez on What Happened to the Conan the Barbarian Netflix Series & We Can Be Heroes Success Netflix News ‘One Piece’ Season 2 Casts King Seki and Ham Burger K-Dramas / Netflix News New Netflix K-Drama ‘Perfect Job’ Cast Confirmed & Production Underway Netflix News ‘A Week Away’ Getting A Series Follow-up (But It Won’t Be At Netflix) K-Dramas / Netflix News ‘Lost in Starlight’ Netflix’s First Animated Korean Movie Sets May 2025 Release Coming Soon to Netflix What’s Coming to Netflix This Week: April 28th to May 4th, 2025 Coming Soon to Netflix What’s Coming to Netflix in May 2025 K-Dramas / Netflix News ‘Kiss Me for No Reason’ SBS K-Drama Sets September 2025 Netflix Release Netflix News Netflix TUDUM 2025 Movie and Series Lineup Revealed 19 new Netflix releases this week › 4,100+ Netflix Category Codes › 2025 Netflix Release Schedule › Netflix News In Your Inbox Join over 175,000+ subscribers! Invalid email address By subscribing, you are agreeing to our Terms and Conditions and our Privacy Policy . Thanks for subscribing! Recommended from What's on Netflix How To Watch ‘The Walking Dead’ Shows In Order on Netflix in 2025 All 20+ Canceled Netflix Series in 2024 ‘Bridgerton’ Season 4: First Look, Bridgerton Event & What We Know So Far The Biggest Netflix Originals We’ll be Saying Goodbye to in 2025 About & Contact Details Our Team Editorial / Corrections Policy Privacy/Cookie Policy Covering Netflix News Independently Since 2013. Recent / Popular Movie & Series Tags: The Two Popes She the People Madea's Destination Wedding My Happy Marriage The Six Triple Eight High Tides Con Mum Tires The Residence Black Doves 3 Body Problem Avatar Black Mirror Bridgerton Cobra Kai One Piece Outer Banks Stranger Things Sweet Magnolias The Lincoln Lawyer The Sandman Virgin River Wednesday Follow Us: Twitter / X What's on Netflix Netflix Daily Updates Google News Feedly RSS Feed What’s on Netflix is not owned by or affiliated with Netflix or any of its partners in any capacity. The authors of this site also have no affiliation with Netflix. All promotional material including but not limited to trailers, images and videos are all copyright to their respective owners. Netflix is a registered trademark of Netflix, Inc. What's on Netflix is a trading name of the UK company Posterity Information Technology LTD (GB07645255) © 2013-2025 What's on Netflix - All Rights Reserved. Search What's on Netflix Search