Cyberpunk 2077: How did the release go so wrong? Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Watch Live Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Cyberpunk 2077: How did the release go so wrong? 18 December 2020 Share Save Share Save Getty Images It's safe to say things haven't gone smoothly for the makers of Cyberpunk 2077. Probably the most anticipated release of 2020, it's a game that took years of work and millions of Euros for CD Projekt Red to get onto shelves and into online stores. It even stars Keanu Reeves. And, if you've played the game on a good PC, then you've probably had a pretty sweet time. But for a lot of people jumping into the Cyberpunk 2077 world on older consoles, they found the game riddled with bugs, with little resemblance to what had been promised by developers and even some reviewers. Sony removed the game from online stores and are giving refunds to anyone who bought it. Keanu Reeves talks to BBC Sounds podcast Press X to Continue CD Projekt Red had already offered refunds to players on either PS4 or Xbox who weren't happy and has said it will work to bring the game back to the Playstation store. On top of all this, game ranking website Opencritic accused the company of "deliberately attempting to misrepresent its product" to gamers. It says reviewers were only able to play the PC version before the game's release, meaning the positive scores it received were because its reviewers were playing on high-end computers - where the game works great. 'It looks like a Nintendo 64 game' Patrick Swift from Milton Keynes bought a copy of the game from the Microsoft Store to play on his Xbox. "I was really excited and everything but the first thing I notice is, it looks like a Nintendo 64 game," he tells Radio 1 Newsbeat. "I was really taken aback by that and about 10 minutes in - the game crashes." "It was just a really underwhelming experience after so much hype." Patrick Swift Patrick says, to him, the game looked like Nintendo 64 classic Goldeneye more than a AA title in 2020 Patrick says what he experienced in the game was "nothing like how it was advertised" and is "gutted" after waiting years to play it. Added to that, he's now struggling to get a refund from Microsoft - which has not taken the game from its store. 'It won't look like high-end PC' CD Projekt Red has apologised for not showing console gameplay before release. "We should have paid more attention to making it play better on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One," it said in an apology. It has said two large patches will come in early 2021 - one in January, the second in February. "They won't make the game on last-gen look like it's running on high-spec PC or next-gen console, but it will be closer to that experience than it is now," it added, admitting that some players would still not get the experience they expected. CD Projekt Red 'The fact that PlayStation has pulled it temporarily is huge," says Vic Hood from Techradar Vic Hood, the gaming editor at Techradar, says it's "huge" that one of the big games companies has removed a major title like this from its online store. "I can't think of the last time that's been done," she tells Newsbeat. But it's not the first time CD Projekt Red has released a game that's been buggy and problematic. The company also made The Witcher 3 - widely known, Vic says, as "one of the best". But that also launched with bugs - although they were much less serious than the Cyberpunk problems. "In terms of fans, it's I think it's going to take a bit for them to potentially build up their reputation," she says. "And that really depends on how quickly they solve this issue, how quickly they implement those bug fixes." Getty Images / Vic Hood Vic says it's extremely rare for games journalists to only be allowed to review releases on the platform chosen by the makers The company admitted it knew about the bugs, but now it's clear it didn't know the extent of the problem, and was unaware it wouldn't be as easy a fix as The Witcher 3. Some players found that their characters had their (customisable) genitals outside their clothes, for instance. Allow Twitter content? This article contains content provided by Twitter . We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy and privacy policy before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’ . Accept and continue John Perry, 26, has been having a tough time enjoying the game as it is. He's been playing it on his PS5, where a PS4 version is available. The official next-gen releases are scheduled for next year. "It's a buggy mess," he says. "I've had over 30 crashes which took me back to the grey screen. It's obviously not working." He requested a refund this morning, and says the game can "only get better". "At least the developers are admitting their fault about the issues they need to fix, which is a good thing." But the bugs people have experienced, and how serious they have been, have varied for different people. John Perry and Jordan Moseley Both John (left) and Jordan have asked for refunds through the PlayStation store Jordan Moseley, who's 28, says he's seen worse but does think what's going on is "immersion breaking". He's already requested a refund from Sony. But it's not all doom and gloom. He's played the game on PC too, and says that's a better experience. "It doesn't seem to have a whole lot of problems because it's a new PC so there's enough there for it to run properly." CD Projekt Red Looks good right? Well this wasn't what the game looked like for a lot of console gamers Vic says she was in two minds about whether she'd speak to Newsbeat about Cyberpunk, due to toxicity among fans of the franchise, which began as a table-top roleplaying game - a bit like Dungeons & Dragons. Games journalists have been targeted online for what they've written about the game and even the individual developers - who Vic says are rumoured to have worked up to 100 hours a week to finish the game - have been attacked too, since its release. "It's an executive issue, where they are the ones pulling the strings," she says. "There was frustration from people who had pre-ordered the game each time it was delayed and that probably played into a feeling of pressure on them. "It doesn't mean the game should have been released with those bugs, but I think that was a big factor of this." 'Some things need to be delayed' The game was due to be released on 16 April, but after first being delayed until September, then November, it eventually dropped in early December. Vic says that if there's one thing she hopes the games industry learns from the Cyberpunk 2077 experience, is that "there needs to be patience." "What I've learned from reviewing games and even being a fan is that if something is delayed, there are good reasons that it is delayed," she says. "Sometimes things need to be delayed, just so that they're right. It's so hard to fix something once a horse has bolted. That is much harder to do." Find out what the Press X To Continue team thought of the game - listen and subscribe now on BBC Sounds Follow Newsbeat on Instagram , Facebook , Twitter and YouTube . Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 weekdays - or listen back here . Sony and Microsoft will refund Cyberpunk sales Cyberpunk 2077 makers apologise for game glitches Cyberpunk 2077 a 'warning' about the future Gaming Xbox PlayStation Related Gamers shocked as Elder Scrolls IV revealed and launched on same day 7 days ago Technology Minecraft: 'We've spent five years rebuilding London' 19 Apr 2025 London Bafta winner keeps award hidden from young daughter 19 Apr 2025 Beds, Herts & Bucks More 14 Apr 2025 PS5 price jumps £40 as Sony cites 'challenging' market conditions The digital, disc-free edition of Sony's console has increased by roughly £70 since it first went on sale. 14 Apr 2025 Technology 14 Mar 2025 Heritage railway launches gaming carriage Kent & East Sussex Railway is launching a gaming carriage over the May half-term. 14 Mar 2025 England 11 Mar 2025 A dating app for video games tackles one of the industry's big issues Ludocene is taking a cue from Tinder in an attempt to address a big problem for smaller developers. 11 Mar 2025 Newsbeat 28 Feb 2025 How a monster Japanese success conquered the world The Monster Hunter series exploded in popularity globally after years of success in Japan. How did they do it? 28 Feb 2025 Newsbeat 18 Feb 2025 Too many video games, too little time - but could that be changing? Bigger, longer, better? Why the race to pack more hours into video games might be slowing. 18 Feb 2025 Newsbeat British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.