‘The Crown’ Season 4 Announces Release Date on Netflix Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close TV Recaps TV Movies Comedy Music What to Stream Books Theater Art Awards Coverage Podcasts Criticism About Newsletters New York App Cinematrix Archive Vulture Festival Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift Menu Menu Close Close TV Recaps TV Movies Comedy Music What to Stream Books Theater Art Awards Coverage Podcasts Criticism About Newsletters New York App Cinematrix Archive Vulture Festival Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Leave a Comment Search Search Close Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. trailer mix The Crown Season 4 Will Be Back in November With Thatcher’s Wig and Diana’s Wedding By Jackson McHenry , a Vulture critic covering theater, film, and TV Aug. 20, 2020 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account’s ‘Saved for Later’ section. Comment Get your hair spray and your lax conservative economic policies, because The Crown is speeding ahead into the 1980s this November. Netflix has released the first footage from the fourth season of its flagship British drama, which will follow Olivia Colman’s Queen Elizabeth into the next decade of her reign, and cover the rises of both Margaret Thatcher (Gillian Anderson in pearls and quite the updo ) and Lady Diana Spencer (Emma Corrin, seen briefly from the back in that iconic wedding dress ). This season’s filming wrapped early in March due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which means that once this season debuts on November 15, you’ll probably have to wait quite a bit longer for the last two installments, which will have Imelda Staunton take over the throne and feature Elizabeth Debicki as (especially tall) Diana . Related The Crown Carries on Splendidly in Season 3 Tags: the crown tv netflix trailer mix olivia colman gillian anderson emma corrin More Show Leave a Comment The Crown Season 4 Returns in November With Diana’s Wedding Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. Most Viewed Stories Cinematrix No. 399: April 29, 2025 Christie Brinkley Gave Billy Joel One Too Many Chances The Handmaid’s Tale Recap: Enemy of My Enemy The Best Books of 2025 (So Far) Below Deck Down Under Recap: The Calm Before the Storm Christie Brinkley Gave Billy Joel One Too Many Chances Cinematrix No. 399: April 29, 2025 The Handmaid’s Tale Recap: Enemy of My Enemy The Best Books of 2025 (So Far) Below Deck Down Under Recap: The Calm Before the Storm Sign In to Comment Most Popular Cinematrix No. 399: April 29, 2025 Christie Brinkley Gave Billy Joel One Too Many Chances The Handmaid’s Tale Recap: Enemy of My Enemy The Best Books of 2025 (So Far) Below Deck Down Under Recap: The Calm Before the Storm Christie Brinkley Gave Billy Joel One Too Many Chances Cinematrix No. 399: April 29, 2025 The Handmaid’s Tale Recap: Enemy of My Enemy The Best Books of 2025 (So Far) Below Deck Down Under Recap: The Calm Before the Storm Latest News from Vulture overnights 19 mins ago Andor Recap: Couple Goals Luthen has a new favorite couple to expertly puppeteer for Empire-heisting purposes. overnights Yesterday at 11:00 p.m. Andor Recap: Friends Everywhere This episode sets up an interesting parallel between Cassian and Syril, who temporarily switch planets for the similar purposes of sizing up Ghorman. overnights Yesterday at 10:00 p.m. The Valley Recap: Dave and Busted With Jax in time-out, Jesse torments Michelle and is now the uncontested No. 1 villain in the valley. overnights Yesterday at 10:00 p.m. Andor Recap: No Creature Comforts With Cassian and Bix, we’re seeing a pair of devoted but frayed rebel fighters in their downtime, which can be its own form of hell. space atlas Yesterday at 9:34 p.m. Where in the Galaxy Is Andor Now? Wheat planet? Jungle planet? Spider planet? Here are the Star Wars locales, both new and familiar, to get acquainted with this season. attention rkpfs Yesterday at 8:48 p.m. Bravo Will Get Las Culturistas in Los Angeles For the first televised broadcast of Bowen Yang and Matt Rogers’s Culture Awards. they're illusions michael! Yesterday at 5:51 p.m. Which Chilly Bobbed Blonde Would Win in a Fight? Stair Wars. it never ends Yesterday at 5:28 p.m. Please Exclude Them From the Narrative Neither Marvel nor Taylor Swift wants anything to do with the ongoing Baldoni-Lively case. chat room Yesterday at 3:59 p.m. Krysta Rodriguez Is Smash ’s TV Holdover “I always describe it to fans of the show as Smash fan fiction.” the festival circuit Yesterday at 3:05 p.m. The Ultimate Guide to 2025’s Can’t-Miss Music Festivals Plan ahead for marquee acts, tolerable travel, and … punk-rock bowling? Let’s go. ding! Yesterday at 2:01 p.m. Martin Short Hosting a Game Show? It’s a Match ! ABC’s bringing back Match Game – this time without Alec Baldwin. shhhh Yesterday at 1:40 p.m. Walton Goggins Blesses Us With a Teenjus Banger The actor’s Instagram clip of him rapping during a recording session for The Righteous Gemstones is meme fodder for the ages. overnights Yesterday at 12:00 p.m. The Handmaid’s Tale Recap: Enemy of My Enemy This season has been preparing us for this kind of treachery, and yet I was dumbstruck to see it happen. movie review Yesterday at 12:00 p.m. Thunderbolts* Really Is Marvel’s Answer to an A24 Movie The MCU’s anti-hero team-up is less Suicide Squad than Everything Everywhere All At Once . By Alison Willmore déjà vu Yesterday at 11:27 a.m. Beyoncé Brings Both Her Daughters to the Cowboy Carter Tour We swear, it’s déjà vu. father figures Yesterday at 11:00 a.m. What Is Up, Daddy Gang? It’s Your Call Her Daddy TV Show. Call Her Alex, Alex Cooper’s Hulu docuseries, will be directed by Ry Russo-Young. vulture recommends Yesterday at 10:43 a.m. Blue Prince Is Not Scary Unless you’re afraid of math. the uptown girl Yesterday at 10:17 a.m. Christie Brinkley Gave Billy Joel One Too Many Chances In her new memoir, the model recounts her ex-husband’s drunken outbursts, including a chaise longue thrown through patio doors. By Devon Ivie new look who dis Yesterday at 9:06 a.m. Wait, Is That Dwayne Johnson in the New Benny Safdie Movie? Johnson transforms into UFC fighter Mark Kerr for The Smashing Machine. influences Yesterday at 9:00 a.m. ‘I Had No Clue What I Was Doing’ How David Foster composed the complicated cartoon music for Boop! The Musical . By Devon Ivie More Stories Have an Account? Log In TV Movies Comedy Music Books What To Stream Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us About Vulture About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data vulture is a Vox Media Network . © 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All rights reserved.