College Football Awards Release Schedule: Everything You Need to Know ON SI SI SWIMSUIT SI TICKETS SI RESORTS SI SHOPS MY ACCOUNT SUBSCRIBE NOW KENTUCKY DERBY NFL NBA WNBA MLB GOLF SOCCER NCAAF NCAAB MEDIA BETTING FANTASY Mexico US College Football Awards Release Schedule: Everything You Need to Know College football award season has begun. Madison Williams | Dec 11, 2024 The Heisman Trophy is seen ahead of the ceremony. / Rich Graessle/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images Some of the biggest individual awards in college football will be announced on Thursday, Dec. 12 during a show hosted by ESPN. The ESPN show will present 23 of the top awards given to stars in college football this season. However, the sport's most coveted award, the Heisman Trophy, will have its own ceremony on Saturday, Dec. 14 to present the honor to this year's winner. Take a look at the full schedule for the award announcements. Overview of College Football Awards Season The 2024 regular season is officially over after the conference championships ended over the weekend, meaning it's now bowl season and College Football Playoff time . Before those kick off, though, the NCAA will hand out around 30 awards for this season. The Heisman Trophy is seen as the most prestigious and major award given each college football season. The iconic trophy is given to the most outstanding player from that season. Some of the other big awards include the Maxwell Award (Outstanding Player), Chuck Bednarik Award (Best Defensive Player), Biletnikoff Award (Best Receiver), the Davey O'Brien National Quarterback Award and the Home Depot Coach of the Year Award, to name a few. College Football Awards Announcement Schedule ESPN's College Football Award show on Thursday, Dec. 12 will broadcast 23 of the 30 college football awards given out, which are all listed below, including the Maxwell Award and Home Depot Coach of the Year. The show starts at 9 p.m. ET and runs through 11 p.m. ET. The Heisman Trophy will have its own ceremony and ESPN broadcast on Saturday, Dec. 14 starting at 8 p.m. ET. A few of the 2024 awards have already been announced. Colorado's Shedeur Sanders won the Johnny Unitas Golden Arm Award, which is given to the best senior or upperclassman quarterback. South Carolina edge rusher Kyle Kennard won the Bronko Nagurski Award, an award for the best defensive player voted on by the Football Writers Association of America and the Charlotte Touchdown Club. Colorado's Travis Hunter won the Lott IMPACT Trophy for the top defensive player. Hunter also took home the Paul Hornung Award for the most versatile player. The other awards not included during the ESPN show include the Lombardi Award and the Ted Hendricks Award. The Lombardi Award is given to the nation's best offensive or defensive lineman and the winner will be announced during its own ceremony on Dec. 11. The Ted Hendricks Award given to the Defensive End of the Year will be announced Dec. 16. Additionally, the Eddie Robinson Award given to the FCS Coach of the Year will be announced on Dec. 18. Here's a full schedule of the release dates of the college football awards. Award Date Johnny Unitas Golden Arm Award Nov. 29 Bronko Nagurski Award Dec. 9 Lott IMPACT Trophy Dec. 9 Paul Hornung Award Dec. 11 Lombardi Award Dec. 11 Maxwell Award Dec. 12 Chuck Bednarik Award Dec. 12 Home Depot Award Dec. 12 Biletnikoff Award Dec. 12 Davey O'Brien National Quarterback Award Dec. 12 Lou Groza Collegiate Place-Kicker Award Dec. 12 Ray Guy Award Dec. 12 Outland Trophy Dec. 12 Paycom Jim Thorpe Award Dec. 12 Doak Walker Award Dec. 12 Buddy Teevens Award Dec. 12 NCFAA Contributions to College Football Award Dec. 12 Disney Spirit Award Dec. 12 Allstate AFCA Good Works Team Dec. 12 William V. Campbell Trophy Dec. 12 John Mackey Award Dec. 12 Rimington Trophy Dec. 12 Walter Camp All-America Team & Player of the Year Dec. 12 Wuerffel Trophy Dec. 12 Frank Broyles Award Dec. 12 Burlsworth Trophy Dec. 12 Dick Butkus Award Dec. 12 Heisman Trophy Dec. 14 Ted Hendricks Award Dec. 16 Eddie Robinson Award Dec. 18 Who Are the Finalists for Major College Football Awards in 2024? The 2024 Heisman Trophy finalists are Oregon QB Dillon Gabriel, Colorado WR/CB Travis Hunter, Boise State RB Ashton Jeanty and Miami QB Cam Ward. Three of those players—Gabriel, Hunter and Jeanty—are also the favorites to win the Maxwell Award. Hunter, who has already won two awards, is also favorited for the Chuck Bednarik Award alongside Penn State's Abdul Carter and Ohio State's Caleb Downs and for the Biletnikoff Award alongside Arizona's Tetairoa McMillan and San Jose State's Nick Nash. Gabriel and Ward are finalists for the Davey O'Brien National Quarterback Award with Colorado's Shedeur Sanders, who has already won a quarterback award this season. Heisman finalist Jeanty is also a finalist for the Doak Walker Award for top running back alongside North Crarolina's Omarion Hampton and Iowa's Kaleb Johnson. More of the Latest Around College Football feed Published Dec 11, 2024 MADISON WILLIAMS Madison Williams is a staff writer on the Breaking and Trending News team at Sports Illustrated, where she specializes in tennis but covers a wide range of sports from a national perspective. Before joining SI in 2022, Williams  worked at The Sporting News. Having graduated from Augustana College, she completed a master’s in sports media at Northwestern University. She is a dog mom and an avid reader. Follow madisonwsports Home / College Football Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Takedown Policy Terms and Conditions SI Accessibility Statement Sitemap A-Z Index FAQ Cookie Settings © 2025 ABG-SI LLC - SPORTS ILLUSTRATED IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF ABG-SI LLC. - All Rights Reserved. The content on this site is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Betting and gambling content is intended for individuals 21+ and is based on individual commentators' opinions and not that of Sports Illustrated or its affiliates, licensees and related brands. All picks and predictions are suggestions only and not a guarantee of success or profit. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, crisis counseling and referral services can be accessed by calling 1-800-GAMBLER.