Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/TheCrownNetflix A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to TheCrownNetflix r/TheCrownNetflix r/TheCrownNetflix https://www.reddit.com/r/TheCrownNetflix/s/krIGVxSNvK Welcome to the Unofficial Subreddit for the Emmy Award-Winning Netflix Original Series 'The Crown' created by Peter Morgan. The Crown is a fictional drama series inspired by real events and tells the story of Queen Elizabeth II and the political and personal events that shaped her reign. This subreddit is a place to discuss the series and more that relate to the topic. The final season of The Crown is now available to stream. Members Online • Quest1743 The Crown Season 3 Cast Change Ruined Series I binged watched Season 1 and 2 of the crown in a couple of days. Couldn’t get enough of it and was quite sad when the last scene played out.  Some of the episodes were so riveting that I watched them more than once before moving on to Season 3. I read that the cast would change to reflect the older age of the characters, and although I thought the casting for the first two seasons was impeccable, I was so vested in the character’s fates that I went into the new series with an open mind and a bit of excitement. Sadly, the moment I got my first glimpse of the supposedly one year older queen, I knew I was in for a huge letdown. Claire Foy did such a wonderful job with the role of Queen Elizabeth that it would have been very difficult for anyone, no matter how high their caliber, to replace her.  Installing an actress that appeared at least 20 years older than the previous one when only one year had passed according to the date provided made that task an utter impossibility. The same holds true, although to a lesser extent, to the other main characters on the show.  The obvious vast age difference as well as their appearance bearing no resemblance whatsoever to their predecessors made it feel as though I was watching a different show altogether, and it was one that held little interest for me. Claire Foy’s Elizabeth had completely different mannerisms than Olivia Coleman.  The former actress relayed so much through her lovely blue eyes and the latter’s appeared vacant. No comparison. I read somewhere that Coleman at first was attempting to play her scenes as Foy would have but then abandoned that idea. Big mistake as Elizabeth’s character was set by the first actress and Coleman’s reactions in many scenes in season three and four were in direct opposition to established choices. Why did Netflix have to ruin such a good thing? They could have aged the characters in three and four with makeup and then come back in season five, which I think is going to be the last one now, with the Queen and Phillip in there Senior years, perhaps bringing them to the present with an older cast. Hopefully, one that would have some resemblance to the former actors. I sat through a few episodes in season 3 and another handful in season 4 after reading the episode recaps. When I did, I found myself picturing the original actors in the scenes I was watching and knowing how much better they would have been. I hate to say this because the acting in the later two seasons was not subpar. In fact many of the performances were excellent, but it was still like watching different characters than those I had invested in.  Having said that, I think the only actor that came close to being able to portray his predecessor in appearance and style was Tobias Menzies as Prince Philip. Then again, I am one of his fans and feel he can do no wrong in any role. So, I will rewatch season 1 and 2  until I’ve had my fill of the monarchy and then move on to something else with fond memories from one  of the best series I have found in the last few years. How I wish Netflix would have done this story right. It would’ve been extraordinary TV. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . https://www.reddit.com/r/TheCrownNetflix/s/krIGVxSNvK Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 10, 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2021 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics