Andy Murray Wins Wimbledon: British Celebrities Cheer × Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage Read Next: Warner Bros. Discovery Beats Lawsuit Over Superman Rights Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up Home News General News British Celebrities Cheer Andy Murray Wimbledon Win Twitter lights up after the Scot becomes the first British man to win the tournament in 77 years. By Georg Szalai , Stuart Kemp July 7, 2013 10:45am Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Getty Images Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment LONDON — Celebs, British or otherwise, cheered Scottish tennis star Andy Murray ‘s triumph on Sunday at London’s famous Wimbledon tournament. His three-set victory over Novak Djokovic meant the first British Wimbledon men’s singles title since Fred Perry in 1936. Among the tennis fans seen in the Wimbledon stands Sunday during the BBC’s live coverage were Hollywood star Bradley Cooper and Gerard Butler , who just like Murray is Scottish and was repeatedly shown cheering him on. The Wimbledon men’s final also attracted other high-profile Brits, including Victoria Beckham , soccer star Wayne Rooney and Prime Minister David Cameron . PHOTOS: Stars at Wimbledon: J.K. Rowling, Matthew Morrison, Pippa Middleton Among Fans at the Tournament Talent manager and Idol franchise creator Simon Fuller , who manages Murray as head of XIX Entertainment, was also in the Wimbledon stands. Others took to Twitter following Murray’s win. “Oh my God. What a match, what a player. Inspiring a Nation. Andy Murray!! Ya Beauty,” tweeted Ewan McGregor . Author Salman Rushdie said: “Andy Murray, first Briton to win Wimbledon wearing shorts! (77 yrs ago Fred Perry wore long trousers.) Bravo Andy! Great shorts! And shots!” Author and comedian Stephen Fry quipped: “So happy I did a little wee.” And Victoria Beckham ‏tweeted: “Congratulations to @andy_murray and his family. Wonderful day at #wimbledon!! So proud to be British! X vb.” Even Hugh Grant chimed in. “A propos of nothing in particular, I’d like to take this opportunity to remind everyone that I’m Scottish,” he tweeted. Congratulations also came from fellow tennis stars. “Pretty sure @andy_murray might have to change his twitter name to @sirandymurray…Well played and deserved!” tweeted Andy Roddick . Music star Cliff Richard and TV star/chef Gordon Ramsay had expressed hope before the match that Murray would win. “It’s hard to tell who is going to win, but my heart says please let him have it this time, because he is good enough to win it,” Richard told ITV. And Ramsay tweeted: “Good luck today @andy_murray. Fingers crossed. #wimbledon” “I understand how much everyone wanted to see a British winner at Wimbledon, so I hope you enjoyed it,” Murray told the BBC after his victory. Several places in London, including bars and shopping centers, had shown the final on big screens for free. For example, hundreds of people were shown in TV reports following the game on a screen near Tower Bridge. And at Victoria’s Cardinal Place shopping center, restaurants sold refreshments throughout the day and drew a crowd with the final, ITV reported. In Wimbledon itself, large crowds were shown turning out on a scorching-hot day on the so-called Murray Mount to watch the action on a giant screen. Security staff told supporters around midday that there was no space left on the mount but directed them to another screen that had been set up on court two, ITV reported. Related Stories Related Story BBC's Wimbledon Final Coverage Draws Biggest U.K. Tennis Audience Since at Least 1990 Related Stories Related Story London's Wimbledon Film & TV Studios Unveils Expansion Related Stories Related Story Stars at Wimbledon: J.K. Rowling, Matthew Morrison, Pippa Middleton Among Fans at the Tournament Related Stories Related Story German Public Broadcaster Fails to Get Wimbledon Woman’s Final Related Stories Related Story Wimbledon: BBC Has Most-Watched U.K. TV Moment of Year With Andy Murray Semi Read More About: international THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe Sign Up More from The Hollywood Reporter George Santos George Santos Sentenced to Over 7 Years in Prison for Fraud and Identity Theft music Controversial Irish Hip-Hop Group Kneecap Parts Ways With Booking Agency (Exclusive) Larry David Bill Maher Reacts to Larry David’s “Insulting” “My Dinner With Adolf” Essay: “It’s an Argument You Lost Just to Start It” THR Original Video Rainn Wilson Says “Left-Leaning News” Has a “Passion” Against Trump Administration THR, Esq Harvey Weinstein to Remain at Bellevue Hospital for Now music Cornell University Cancels Kehlani Concert Over Singer’s Pro-Palestine Remarks Shopping With THR Beyond Yoga’s Hollywood-Coveted Activewear Gets a Rare Price Drop — Shop These 10 Trending Styles By Erin Lassner 21 Affordable Luxury Gifts Under $200, From Aluminum Luggage to Cashmere Tees By Tim Chan Jennifer Aniston’s Favorite Low-Impact Body Sculpting Workout Is Hitting the Road This Spring — Here’s How to Join the Challenge From Home By Danielle Directo-Meston The Best Dyson Airwrap Alternatives On Sale for Mother’s Day, From Shark Beauty’s Star Hairstylist-Approved Tool to Our Favorite T3 Styler By Natalie Alcala , Danielle Directo-Meston THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Email Address Subscribe Today Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Most Popular ‘Andor’ Creator Explains That Shocking Assault Scene: “We’re All the Product of Rape” By James Hibberd Harvey Weinstein’s Life Behind Bars: “He’s Still Running Sh**” (Exclusive) By Phoebe Eaton Nikki Glaser Says Timothée Chalamet Almost Skipped Golden Globes Monologue So He Wouldn’t “Have to Deal” With Being Roasted: “I Get It” By Lexi Carson First Look at the Cover of ‘BTS: A Little Golden Book Biography’ (Exclusive) By Nicole Fell Departing ‘911’ Actor Says Heartfelt Goodbye: “It Has Been My Honor” By Rick Porter Must Reads No. 1 on the Call Sheet: Bella Ramsey Takes Charge of ‘The Last of Us’ By James Hibberd The Rage of ‘Adolescence’: Inside the Single-Shot Sensation Blowing Up the Manosphere By Lily Ford Tina Fey on Her New Netflix Series: “It Saved Me From Just Shrinking Up Like a Little Granny Apple Head” By Mikey O'Connell The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up PMC Logo Most Popular One of Taylor Swift’s Inner Circle Gave Heartbreaking Insight As To Why She’s Laying Low Top 50 Highest-Paid Athletes of All Time MFA Boston to Rescind Promised Gift of Benin Bronzes, Close Dedicated Gallery Ye Claims He Had Incestuous Relationship With Male Cousin, Describes Details In New Song You may also like The Best Yoga Mats for Any Practice, According to Instructors 1 year ago Ferrari’s First EV Might Have Synthetic Gears 5 hours ago Patrick Mahomes Questions Why He Kept “Nappy Hair For So Long” 7 hours ago Inside Gigi Perez’s Debut Album: ‘Sailor Song,’ The Track That Was Hardest to Finish & More 7 hours ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues E-edition Access The Hollywood Reporter About Us Media Kit Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage News Expand news menu Latest News Culture & Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Reviews Ratings Live Feed Heat Vision The Fien Print Music Expand music menu Grammys K-Corner Awards Expand awards menu News Awards Chatter Podcast Feinberg Forecast Behind The Screen The Race THR Presents Oscar Season Hub Lifestyle Expand lifestyle menu Person of Interest News Style Shopping Arts Real Estate Rambling Reporter Business Expand business menu THR, Esq Report Features Unions / Labor Film / TV Tax Credits Signings / Representation THR Charts Expand thr-charts menu Streaming Ratings Broadcast Ratings Weekend Box Office Chart More Essentials Expand more-essentials menu International News Video THR Podcasts Featured Voices Follow Us Follow THR on Facebook Follow THR on Instagram Follow THR on X Follow THR on YouTube Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Advertise Careers Contact Us Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. ad