Commercial applications of GPT-3 that are already live Conferences Research Videos Trainings MachineHack Careers Contact Brand Collaborations Instagram Linkedin Youtube Facebook Twitter Features Deep Tech Trends Startups News Branded Content AWS Fractal Intuit Nvidia CXO Corner GCC Corner Webinars Features Deep Tech Trends Startups News Branded Content AWS Fractal Intuit Nvidia CXO Corner GCC Corner Webinars Search Search Published on July 6, 2022 In AI Features Commercial applications of GPT-3 that are already live After running tests of GPT-3 on 2.1 million news articles, Algolia saw 91 percent precision, and it was able to accurately answer complex natural language questions, four times more often than BERT. by Sreejani Bhattacharyya OpenAI introduced Generative Pre-trained Transformer 3 (GPT-3) in 2020. It is an autoregressive language model that uses deep machine learning and NLP language models to generate text. This innovation has found a variety of use cases, especially in the NLP domain, such as copywriting, language translation, digital ad copies, chatbots etc. We list some of the commercial products that are built on GPT-3. Algolia Algolia is a search engine. When the OpenAI API launched , Algolia teamed up with the AI research lab to integrate GPT-3 with their advanced search technology to create their new ‘Answers’ product with better capabilities to understand the customers’ questions and provide answers to their questions. It also allows users to retrieve files, contacts, events or any object within the product through its APIs. After running tests of GPT-3 on 2.1 million news articles, Algolia saw 91 percent precision, and it was able to accurately answer complex natural language questions, four times more often than BERT. Copysmith AI Copysmith is an AI-powered content creation software. With Copysmith, the company wants to help people increase creativity and productivity. However, the company clarifies that the idea is not to replace human copywriters and writers. “Using our unique combination of proprietary machine learning and OpenAI’s GPT-3 technology, we can provide you with the finest raw materials you need to smith your message,” says the company. Copy.ai Copy.ai is a similar platform built on GPT-3. One can use it to write optimised blog posts in less time and produce digital ad copies on platforms like Google, Facebook, and Linkedin. It can also be used to create a website, sales copy and social media content. The user has to upload their copywriting project (one can choose from emails, social posts, long-form blog posts) and then enter a few sentences about their brand and products. The  AI content generator gives the user multiple options for each campaign.Then Copy.ai’s editor can alsorewrite paragraphs. In the last step user would just have to copy and paste the output into CMS for publishing. Replier.ai Replier.ai uses GPT-3 to respond to customer reviews. The system automatically creates GPT-3 configurations for each individual business and business category. Replier.ai will automatically pick up the previous review responses and use those to create new ones. This is critical because that will allow the AI to always provide unique and custom responses that follow your unique business style and tone. It applies some pre-formatting of the input review that needs to be replied to, we run GPT-3, and then we clean the output – because GPT-3 is not always accurate. We built a pretty advanced AI monitoring system to understand what GPT-3 is generating for our customers, so we continue to improve and detect bad behaviours and add proper fixes. Abtesting.ai This platform allows the user to enter the desired URL and create a few variations of the title, copy and call to action. The company says that its AI can recognise the title, copy and CTA and automatically suggest variations. One can integrate the company’s small javascript snippet in their webpage or install its WordPress or Wix plugin. “We create first experiment with some of the variations and run it using a multi-armed bandit approach,” the company’s description says. When the experiment reaches statistical significance, it considers the variations that worked best and uses an algorithm to mix them up and mutate them to run the next batch, as per the company. Jasper AI Jasper.ai is an AI writing assistant based on GPT-3. One can create original content with a high SEO ranking and content which is keyword-rich and plagiarism free. One can write and test more copy variations to increase sales and improve the return on ad spend. It helps to write in over 25 languages. Customers can scale up content marketing very fast and repurpose existing content to generate new results. Quickchat Quickchat is a multilingual conversational AI assistant powered by GPT-3. Quickchat chat bots can recognise and speak the user’s native language. They can automate customer support, online applications, searching through internal knowledge base etc. Users/businesses can also automate live chat conversations with the Quickchat AI widget. They can build AI Assistants for their clients or integrate them with proprietary software products. To be able to answer customer questions, chat bot needs access to information about the products. One can just upload FAQ’s, product descriptions, internal documentation and Quickchat takes care of the rest.  One can also connect Quickchat to the internal API, database or any other data structure to automate more complex processes using AI. Sreejani Bhattacharyya I am a technology journalist at AIM. What gets me excited is deep-diving into new-age technologies and analysing how they impact us for the greater good.  Reach me at sreejani.bhattacharyya@analyticsindiamag.com Related Posts GPT can do Better Toxicity Detection; Atleast that’s what OpenAI Thinks The Digital Transformation Journey of Vedanta Yet Another Language Model from Meta: Atlas What to Expect from Tesla AI Day 2022 Does India match up to the USA and China in AI-enabled warfare? Another bill bites the dust Association of Data Scientists GenAI Corporate Training Programs Enquire Today >> Our Upcoming Conference Data Engineering Summit 2025 India's Biggest conference on Data Engineering MAY. 15-16 2025 | 📍 Hotel Radisson Blu, Bengaluru Download the easiest way to stay informed Meet the Minds Behind the Innovation: AWS Summit Bengaluru 2025 Speakers Mohit Pandey Whether you’re driving business transformation or writing the next line of code, these speakers will spark ideas, share playbooks, and offer a rare behind-the-scenes look at how innovation happens. Empowering India’s Future: UiPath Vision for Agentic Automation Mohit Pandey Why the ADaSci Agentic AI Certification Stands Out Mohit Pandey Latest AI News Keysight Secures NATO Contract to Enhance Radar and Electronic Warfare Sanjana Gupta Meta Challenges OpenAI’s Social Media Plans, Launches AI App to Rival ChatGPT Siddharth Jindal AI-Driven Multimodal Models Reshape Indian Businesses, Deloitte Report Shalini Mondal Infosys Unveils AI Suite to Accelerate SAP S/4HANA Cloud Migration Mohit Pandey CtrlS Datacenters to Make ₹500 Crore Investment for Greenfield Facility in Bhopal Smruthi Nadig Subscribe to The Belamy: Our Weekly Newsletter Biggest AI stories, delivered to your inbox every week. Email Subscribe Flagship Events Data Engineering Summit 2025 May 15 - 16, 2025 | 📍 Hotel Radisson Blu, Bengaluru MachineCon GCC Summit 2025 June 20 to 22, 2025 | 📍 ITC Grand, Goa Cypher India 2025 Sep 17 to 19, 2025 | 📍KTPO, Whitefield, Bengaluru, India MLDS 2026 India's Biggest Developers Summit | 📍Nimhans Convention Center, Bengaluru Rising 2026 India's Biggest Summit on Women in Tech & AI 📍 Bengaluru Happy Llama 2025 AI Startups Conference. April 25, 2025 | 📍 Hotel Radisson Blu, Bengaluru, India GenAI Corner How Neo4j Uses Graph Technology With LLMs to Replace SaaS Applications Why Goa Wants You to Work From Its Beaches Indian IT Services Firms have Greater Insulation from H-1B Visa Disruption Adobe vs Canva—Who’s Shaping the Future of Creative AI in India? We’re Running the AI Race: ServiceNow on its 19% Subscription Revenue Growth in Q1 2025 AI Labs are Becoming the Brain of Every Smart Company AI Chip Boom Sparks 350% Surge in Global Electricity Use, Greenpeace Report Why Companies are Moving Away from Docker World's Biggest Media & Analyst firm specializing in AI Contact us ⟶ Advertise with us AIM publishes every day, and we believe in quality over quantity, honesty over spin. We offer a wide variety of branding and targeting options to make it easy for you to propagate your brand. Learn More ⟶ Branded Content AIM Brand Solutions, a marketing division within AIM, specializes in creating diverse content such as documentaries, public artworks, podcasts, videos, articles, and more to effectively tell compelling stories. Learn More ⟶ Corporate Upskilling ADaSci Corporate training program on Generative AI provides a unique opportunity to empower, retain and advance your talent Learn More ⟶ Hackathons With MachineHack you can not only find qualified developers with hiring challenges but can also engage the developer community and your internal workforce by hosting hackathons. Learn More ⟶ Talent Assessment Conduct Customized Online Assessments on our Powerful Cloud-based Platform, Secured with Best-in-class Proctoring Learn More ⟶ Research & Advisory AIM Research produces a series of annual reports on AI & Data Science covering every aspect of the industry. Request Customised Reports & AIM Surveys for a study on topics of your interest. Learn More ⟶ Conferences & Events Immerse yourself in AI and business conferences tailored to your role, designed to elevate your performance and empower you to accomplish your organization’s vital objectives. Learn More ⟶ AIM Launches the 4th Edition of Data Engineering Summit (DES) 2025 in Bengaluru The Data Engineering Summit (DES) 2025, presented by AIM Media House, returns for its fourth edition on May 15–16, Your AI journey starts here Email: info@aimmediahouse.com Our Offices AIM India 1st Floor, Sakti Statesman, Marathahalli – Sarjapur Outer Ring Rd, Green Glen Layout, Bellandur, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560103 AIM Americas 99 South Almaden Blvd. Suite 600 San Jose California 95113 USA Our Social Facebook Twitter Youtube Linkedin Instagram Telegram Who we are About Us Newsletters Videos Podcast Events Careers Sitemap Webinars CXO Corner GCC Corner Contact Us Our Brands AIM Research MachineHack Best Firm Certification Councils ADaSci PeMa Quadrant Collaborate Advertise with us Branded Content Bespoke Events Hackathons Talent Assessment Research & Advisory Corporate Trainings Our Conferences Cypher MachineCon USA Data Engineering Summit MachineCon GCC Summit MLDS Happy Llama The Rising Products VendorAI: AI Vendor Database GCC Explorer: List of GCCs in India Bot Bazaar: A Comprehensive Database of AI Startups in the USA Datalyze: Simulation-Based Gamified Learning for Data Analytics © Analytics India Magazine Pvt Ltd & AIM Media House LLC 2025 Terms of use Privacy Policy Copyright