Mark Zuckerberg: Founder and CEO of Meta (formerly Facebook) Skip to content News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Live Search Search Please fill out this field. Search Search Please fill out this field. News News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Follow Us Table of Contents Expand Table of Contents Early Life and Education Notable Accomplishments Mark Zuckerberg FAQs The Bottom Line Business Leaders CEOs Mark Zuckerberg: Founder and CEO of Meta (formerly Facebook) By Lucas Downey Full Bio Lucas Downey is the co-founder of MAPsignals.com, and an Investopedia Academy instructor. Learn about our editorial policies Updated June 19, 2022 Reviewed by JeFreda R. Brown Reviewed by JeFreda R. Brown Full Bio Dr. JeFreda R. Brown is a financial consultant, Certified Financial Education Instructor, and researcher who has assisted thousands of clients over a more than two-decade career. She is the CEO of Xaris Financial Enterprises and a course facilitator for Cornell University. Learn about our Financial Review Board Fact checked by Michael Logan Fact checked by Michael Logan Full Bio Michael Logan is an experienced writer, producer, and editorial leader. As a journalist, he has extensively covered business and tech news in the U.S. and Asia. He has produced multimedia content that has garnered billions of views worldwide. Learn about our editorial policies Close Mark Zuckerberg is a self-taught computer programmer and co-founder, chair, and chief executive officer of Meta ( META ), formerly known as Facebook. Originally named Facemash, Zuckerberg founded the social networking site in his Harvard University dorm room in 2004 along with Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, Chris Hughes, and Eduardo Saverin. According to Bloomberg , Zuckerberg's net worth as of June 10, 2022, was about $68.2 billion. Key Takeaways Mark Zuckerberg is a self-taught computer programmer and the co-founder, chair, and CEO of Meta (formerly Facebook). According to Bloomberg , Zuckerberg's net worth as of June 10, 2022, was about $68.2 billion. Facebook has 2.93 billion monthly active users as of the first quarter of 2022, making it the biggest social network in the world. In 2015, Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan, founded the Chan Zuckerberg foundation with the goal of delivering "...personalized learning, curing disease, connecting people, and building strong communities." In April 2018, Zuckerberg testified on Capitol Hill about Facebook's use of users' information, including the sharing of 87 million users' information to Cambridge Analytica. Investopedia / Alison Czinkota Early Life and Education On May 14, 1984, Mark Zuckerberg was born in White Plains, New York. As a child, he showed an affinity for computers. He learned the BASIC programming language at a nearby college, and at the age of 12, he developed an instant-messaging application that his father used in his office. Zuckerberg attended Harvard University but dropped out after his sophomore year to focus on developing Facebook. The site grew out of two earlier ventures: FaceMash, a website for ranking the attractiveness of other Harvard students, and HarvardConnection.com, an online social networking platform. In 2004, Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss and Divya Narendra, the three credited founders of HarvardConnection.com, sued Zuckerberg for allegedly stealing intellectual property from the website. They reached a multi-million dollar settlement of cash and stock options in 2008. The Winklevoss twins tried to reopen the lawsuit in 2011, but the court denied their request. Notable Accomplishments Facebook IPO and Acquisitions In mid-2005, Facebook raised $12.7 million in venture capital and expanded access to hundreds of universities and high schools. One year later, the social network opened to the general public, and Yahoo! offered $1 billion to buy the company—a bid that was swiftly rejected by Zuckerberg. In 2012, Facebook went public and became the most successful Internet initial public offering (IPO) in history when it raised $16 billion. That same year, Facebook bought the photo-sharing application Instagram, and Zuckerberg married Priscilla Chan in a surprise wedding the day after the IPO. Meta has acquired dozens of companies over the years, including Instagram for $1 billion in 2012, WhatsApp for $22 billion in cash and shares in 2014, Oculus VR for $2 billion in 2014, and several other companies ranging from artificial intelligence (AI) to identification platforms. Wealth and Philanthropy Zuckerberg has made headlines for his philanthropy , including his 2010 donation of $100 million to help schools in Newark, N.J. In 2014, the publication Philanthropy ranked Zuckerberg and Chan the most generous American donors of the previous year, after they donated 18 million shares of Facebook stock to the Silicon Valley Community Foundation, in Mountain View, Calif. On Dec. 1, 2015, Zuckerberg and Chan published a letter to their daughter Max, in which they announced the creation of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative "to join people across the world to advance human potential and promote equality for all children in the next generation." In the post, Zuckerberg and Chan said the "initial areas of focus will be personalized learning, curing disease, connecting people, and building strong communities" and that "we will give 99% of our Facebook shares—currently about $45 billion—during our lives to advance this mission." Controversy and Cambridge Analytica Meta has been accused, nearly since its inception, of collecting and selling the personal data, posts, and instant messages of its users. These accusations mounted shortly after the 2016 U.S. Presidential elections, with some alleging that U.S. voters had been under the influence of targeted ads financed by Russia. In March 2018, media outlets including The New York Times and The Observer reported that U.K.-based political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica had paid an outside researcher to collect data on 50 million Facebook users without their permission . The New York Times reported that Cambridge Analytica's goal was to use the data for its trademark "psychographic modeling," with the aim of "reading voters' minds" and potentially influencing the outcome of elections. $25 Billion The estimated ad revenue of Instagram in 2021. In April 2018, Facebook disclosed that the information of 87 million users had been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica, and not the 50 million as earlier reported. Later that month, Zuckerberg appeared on Capitol Hill to testify before House and Senate committees about Facebook's use of consumer data. In prepared remarks before the Senate, Zuckerberg noted that Facebook had been beneficial in connecting people during the #MeToo movement and various disasters. The statement went on to say that Zuckerberg and Facebook heard about Cambridge Analytica's involvement from the media, just like everyone else. Zuckerberg also outlined actions that Facebook intended to undertake to prevent future incidents of this nature, including "safeguarding our platform," "investigating other apps," and "building better controls." How Does Facebook Make Money? Facebook makes the bulk of its money through ads. The company sells ad space on its many platforms. These platforms include Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp. Facebook (Meta) also makes money by allowing users to pay to promote their pages/posts on the various platforms, which is also a form of advertising. What Is Mark Zuckerberg's Net Worth? As of June 10, 2022, Mark Zuckerberg's net worth is $68.2 billion. He earned his wealth as the founder and largest shareholder of Meta (formerly Facebook). Does Mark Zuckerberg Make $1 a Year? Technically, Mark Zuckerberg makes a salary of $1 a year at Facebook. His wealth, however, is tied up in the shares of Meta (formerly Facebook), of which he is the largest shareholder, making him one of the richest men in the world. The Bottom Line Zuckerberg started Facebook from his dorm room, turning it into one of the largest companies in the world. Through Facebook and its many acquisitions, such as Instagram and WhatsApp, Zuckerberg controls the majority of the way consumers consume content and interact with one another. Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. Bloomberg. " Mark Zuckerberg ." Statista. " Number of Monthly Active Facebook Users Worldwide as of 1st Quarter 2022 ." George Beahm. "Mark Zuckerberg: In His Own Words." Agate Publishing, 2018. United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. " Facebook v. ConnectU, Inc. ," Pages 4902-4912. Crunchbase. " Series A - Meta ." Inc. " Peter Thiel Talks About the Day Mark Zuckerberg Turned Down Yahoo's $1 Billion ." History. " Facebook Raises $16 Billion in Largest Tech IPO in U.S. History ." Meta. " Facebook to Acquire Oculus ." Meta. " Facebook to Acquire Instagram ." U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. " Form 8-K - October 4, 2014 ." Cision PR Newswire. " New Jersey Governor Chris Christie and Newark Mayor Cory A. Booker Join With Facebook Founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg to Advance a National Model for Improving Public Schools ." Chan Zuckerberg Initiative. " Letter to Max ." Statista. " Instagram - Statistics & Facts ." Meta. " An Update on Our Plans to Restrict Data Access on Facebook ." U.S. Senate. " Hearing Before the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary and the United Sates Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation - April 10, 2018 - Testimony of Mark Zuckerberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Facebook ," Pages 1-3. Business Insider. " Mark Zuckerberg Reveals Why He Only Makes $1 a Year ." Open a New Bank Account Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Partner Links Related Articles Top Women CEOs The 10 Richest People in the World Meet the Highest Paid CEOs: Who’s Earning the Most? Who Is Jordan Belfort, the Wolf of Wall Street? 10 Successful Young Entrepreneurs Valuing Startup Ventures Warren Buffett’s 2025 Portfolio: What Stocks He’s Betting Big On Right Now The One Trait Warren Buffett's Mentor Says Almost Always Leads Investors to Financial Disaster Who Is Larry Ellison? Steve Jobs and the Apple Story Entrepreneurs and Entrepreneurship: Definitions and Examples Who Is Jack Welch? Servant Leadership: Characteristics, Pros and Cons, Example Who Is Jamie Dimon? Would You Pass Warren Buffett's Hamburger Quiz? Henry Ford: American Industrialist and Founder of Ford Motor Company About Us Terms of Service Dictionary Editorial Policy Advertise News Privacy Policy Contact Us Careers Your Privacy Choices # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Investopedia is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies