ATP Rankings 2019: 3 Players who finished at the top × Tennis NFL NBA NHL WWE NCAAF MLB WNBA Golf Soccer MMA NCAAB US Olympics Trending AEW Shows Gaming Minecraft Music Word Games Answers Podcasts Movies Music Reality TV Daily Soaps K-Pop SK POP Streamers NASCAR IndyCar Notifications Log in Manage your profile Logout Tennis Tennis Schedule 2025 ATP Rankings WTA Rankings BNP Paribas Open List of All BNP Paribas Winners Miami Open Rafael Nadal Novak Djokovic Roger Federer Jannik Sinner Carlos Alcaraz Serena Williams Iga Swiatek Coco Gauff Aryna Sabalenka More Tennis ATP Finals 2024 ATP Rankings 2019: 3 Players who finished at the top ATP Rankings 2019: 3 Players who finished at the top By KP Modified Dec 01, 2019 06:40 GMT Follow Us Share 0 Discuss Follow Us Share 0 Discuss 0 Discuss What's your opinion? ATP Rankings 2019: 3 Players who finished at the top Discuss Now Rafael Nadal As the ATP season has come to an end with the conclusion of Nitto ATP finals, It is important to know who ended up at the top of the year-end ATP rankings. Here are the list and in-depth analysis of the top 3 year-end ATP ranking holders. Ad Top-3 ATP rank holder in men's singles 3. Roger Federer: Ad Trending Roger Federer Swiss star and record 20 grand slam holder Roger Federer finishes 2019 at the third spot in the ATP world tour rankings. He won a total of 4 titles this year, but failed to gain a single grand slam championship and finished the year with a win-loss record of 53-10 in total 14 tournaments. He won the Swiss indoor ATP 500 event for the record 10th time along with ATP Masters 1000 events in Miami. He also won the Halle Open for the record 10th time and Dubai open for the record 8th time. He also made the final of the Wimbledon championship for the 12th time but lost to Novak Djokovic in the final. Ad 2. Novak Djokovic: Novak Djokovic Serbian star Novak Djokovic finishes at the second ahead of Federer at the year-end ATP rankings. He has claimed 5 titles this season with a win-loss record of 57-11. He won the two grand slams The Australian Open for the record 7th time and the Wimbledon championship for the 5th time. He is now third on the overall grand slams list with a total of 16 grand slams (7 Australian Opens, one French Open, 5 Wimbledon Championships, and 3 US Open title). Along with it, he also acquired the two ATP Masters 1000 events in Paris and Madrid while the ATP 500 event in Tokyo. Ad 1. Rafael Nadal: Rafael Nadal Spanish champion Rafael Nadal claimed the season-ending top rank with 9,985 points for the fifth time in his career. II Grand-slam titles at the US Open and Roland Garros helped him to take a lead along with two ATP 1000 Masters titles in Canada and Rome. He is now only one grand slam short of the record of Roger Federer's 20 grand slams. Nadal won 58 matches in total out of 67 he played this year, which is an incredible book. He has also made the final of the Australian Open earlier this year, along with a semifinal finish at the Wimbledon championship. Besides, he helped Spain to win its 6th Davis cup title. Ad Below is the Statistical Comparison between the top three rank holders - Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic, and Roger Federer. Statistical comparison between the Top-3 player's achievements in 2019 Once again the younger generation is failing to weaken the dominance of the Big-3, Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic, and Roger Federer. Three of them have topped the year-end ATP rankings and proved that age is just the numbers and they are nevertheless far from over. × Was this article helpful? Thank You for feedback About the author KP ABCD Know More Who Are Roger Federer's Kids? Know All About Federer's Twins Quick Links ATP Finals 2024 USA Tennis Switzerland Tennis Roger Federer Rafael Nadal 2022 ATP Finals Results 2022 ATP Finals Schedule More from Sportskeeda Edited by SK_Mod_PJ More from Sportskeeda Fetching more content... What's your opinion? Post as Guest *No login required Cancel Post 1 ✕ ✕ No Results Found WWE NBA NFL MMA Tennis NHL Golf MLB Soccer F1 WNBA More NCAAF NCAAB NASCAR Popular Important Links About Us Write For Us Policies Grievance Redressal Editorial Standards Fact Check Affiliate Program Careers CSR Privacy Policy Contact Us Manage notifications Edition: English हिन्दी