How Greys Anatomy Season 17 Is Handling COVID Timeline Skip navigation! ADVERTISEMENT A community celebrating Black voices, Black art, and Black folx. Latines learning, remembering, healing, and finding joy in our diverse stories. Beautycon is a global platform that brings together beauty enthusiasts, brands, and industry leaders to explore the latest trends, innovations, and conversations shaping the future of beauty. Featured Channels Fitted Horoscopes Money Diaries Good Game Not Your Token Asian My Period Get The Latest Shopping Work & Money Sex & Wellness Beauty News Entertainment Fashion Politics Lifestyle Get In Touch United States Switch To United Kingdom Germany France Australia Now Reading Prepare For Two Timelines, Grey's Anatomy Fans Story from Grey’s Anatomy ADVERTISEMENT Grey’s Anatomy Season 17 Is About To Throw Two Very Different Timelines At You Ariana Romero Last Updated November 12, 2020 , 10:57 PM Photo: Courtesy of ABC. There is something hopeful about the 2020 return of Grey’s Anatomy . The medical drama has premiered a new season on ABC each fall since 2005. And, in the most uncertain year in recent memory , Grey’s Anatomy will keep up that streak with its season 17 premiere on Thursday, November 12 . Despite production delays due to the real-life threat of COVID-19, the story of Meredith Grey (Ellen Pompeo) will continue. Grey’s is a tale of industry-best doctors overcoming insurmountable medical odds in a major metropolitan hospital. And no matter how escapist the series is, it can’t avoid the reality of what life would look like for the professionals of Grey Sloan Memorial. That is why you can expect to juggle two very different timelines this season on Grey’s Anatomy . Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT Grey’s Anatomy showrunner Krista Vernoff confirmed that season 17 will open five weeks into the pandemic, Variety reports . This means it will be roughly late April or early May 2020 in Grey’s Anatomy world, since preventative lockdowns around the country began in March. Vernoff was initially reluctant to add a subject as heavy as a massively deadly real-life virus to her traditionally light and romance-driven drama, she told Variety in October. “I think that people have fatigue of COVID, and I think they turn to our show for relief,” Vernoff recalled telling her writers room at the beginning of production. But, writers like Naser Alazari, a doctor on staff who spent hiatus on the frontlines of a clinic, changed his boss’ mind. “This is the biggest medical story of our lifetime, and it is changing medicine permanently. And we have to tell this story,” he reportedly said. As we’ve seen in the trailer for Grey’s Anatomy season 17 , the series is no longer afraid of this part of the IRL timeline. Meredith, Miranda Bailey (Chandra Wilson), Jackson Avery (Jesse Williams), and Owen Hunt (Kevin McKidd) can all be seen in the clip trying to complete medical miracles in full PPE. Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT As the doctors of Grey Sloan battle the virus, Grey’s Anatomy will also flash back to the immediate aftermath of season 16 . The footage Grey’s shot before production was shut down in March will be used for this earlier timeline, where the coronavirus was not yet a threat. Few characters are more integral to that pre-COVID storyline than on-the-rocks couple Teddy Altman (Kim Raver) and Owen Hunt (Kevin McKidd). In the season 16 finale, “Put on a Happy Face,” Owen receives the worst possible accidental voicemail from Teddy hours before their wedding. The message is a recording of Teddy and Thomas Koracick’s (Greg Germann) final, explicit hookup. Owen cancels the wedding in the closing minutes of “Happy Face,” but does not tell Teddy why he did so. “We didn't mean to end right on Teddy just doing the worst thing possible,” Teddy’s portrayer, Kim Raver, told Entertainment Weekly ahead of the season 17 premiere. “It's so true to Grey's Anatomy that people are messy. Everyone is so messy. And I think that that is really the beautiful thing of the show is that they have their shining moments and then they have their very ugly human moments.” Although Grey’s will lean into its COVID-based timeline, don’t expect to lose those “human moments.” As writer/executive producer Vernoff said during a Television Academy panel this July, “Our conversations have been constantly about, 'How do we keep alive humor and romance while we tell these really painful stories?'” Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT How Greys Anatomy Season 17 Is Handling COVID Timeline Grey’s Anatomy • Entertainment • News • TV Shows written by Ariana Romero Photo: Courtesy of ABC. More from TV Unbothered Godfather Of Harlem Is Still That Show—And Rome Flynn Is H... The city of Harlem is synonymous with Black culture, arts, excellence, and identity. A hub for social and political activism, it laid the groundwork for th by Dontaira Terrell TV Shows America Is Still America-ing In The Last Of Us Season 2 In The Last Of Us Season 2, we’re five years into the future from when we were last with Joel (Pedro Pascal) and Ellie (Bella Ramsey), and, for the most by Patricia Karounos Entertainment These 6 Netflix Treats Are Worth Watching In April Last month gifted us a new Chappell Roan country single, a Kieran Culkin Oscar win and of course, St. Patrick’s Day. But for those of us with one eye alw by Alicia Lansom Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT Unbothered We Can’t Allow Racism To Distract From Adolescence’s Cruci... Incels, Andrew Tate, male rage and the menacing Manosphere: These are the images that come to mind when I think of the prominent themes grappled with in Ad by Estelle Uba Unbothered Paradise Is A Hit Because Sterling K. Brown Is The Hero TV... Welcome to “What’s Good,” a column where we break down what’s soothing, distracting, or just plain good in the streaming world with a “rooting fo by Kathleen Newman-B... Unbothered Severance Knows You Can’t Talk About Capitalism Without Ta... Spoilers ahead. Severance is the hit TV series everyone is talking about. The show focuses on four workers who choose to undergo a radical “severance pro by Banseka Kayembe Unbothered Let Meghan Markle Be Boring In Peace The concept of Netflix’s new lifestyle series With Love, Meghan seems simple enough: Here is Meghan Markle — or, as some know her, Meghan, Duchess by Alanna Bennett Unbothered Porsha Williams Returns To RHOA Season 16—New Drama, New... The time has finally come for Bravo fans who have patiently waited for the highly anticipated return of The Real Housewives of Atlanta. After an 18-month h by Giana Levy Entertainment These 7 Netflix Treats Are Worth Watching In March March means we’re one step closer to Spring and one step closer to knowing who will take home the biggest prize the cinematic landscape has to offer: the by Alicia Lansom Unbothered Bridgerton Season 4: Where Will We Find The Mondrichs & L... In The Bridgerton cinematic universe, Will and Alice Mondrich’s journey continues to stand out as one of the romantic drama series’ most grounded a by Dontaira Terrell TV Shows Love Is Blind Season 8 Is the Whitest It’s Ever Been Spoilers for Episodes 1-6 ahead. I’ve seen every season of Love Is Blind and I’ll be the first to say that the Netflix reality series deserves most of by Melanie Curry Unbothered Here’s Every New Black TV Show You Should Be Watching This ... by Kathleen Newman-B... Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT COMPANY About Us Jobs Advertising Feedback R29 Intelligence Licensing and Reuse of Content INFORMATION R29 Company News Terms Privacy Cookie Policy Accessibility Archives RSS Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information EDITIONS United Kingdom Germany France Australia NEWSLETTER SIGN-UP © 2025 REFINERY29 ADVERTISEMENT