How did Tampa get picked for the Super Bowl LV in 2021? | wtsp.com Skip Navigation Share on Facebook Share on SMS Share on Email Navigation News Back Local TBAYtoday Near Me Florida 10Investigates Nation World Brightside Nightside Health Money Entertainment VERIFY Latest News Stories Live Updates: 2 dead, 6 hospitalized after active shooter on FSU campus; 1 suspect in custody What we know about the accused gunman in the FSU school shooting Weather Back Forecast Radar 10-Day & Hourly Hurricane Headquarters Weather Cameras Traffic Weather Explainers Latest Weather Stories 10 Weather: April showers return by this afternoon 'We need the rain': Burn bans in place across Tampa Bay as drought conditions worsen Sports Back High School Sports Tampa Bay Buccaneers Tampa Bay Lightning Tampa Bay Rays College Sports Locked On Podcast Network Latest Stories Shedeur Sanders was not the only prospect to receive a prank call during the NFL draft Lightning fall to Panthers in Game 4 of NHL playoffs round 1 Search Search: Search Right Now Tampa, FL » 80° Tampa, FL » Weather Closings Advertise With Us 10 Investigates Community Connection Contests Great Day Live Hurricane Headquarters Connect Forever Family HeartThreads TV Listings Breaking News More ( ) » Sports How did Tampa get picked for the Super Bowl? We're less than a month away from the big game at Raymond James Stadium. To stream 10 Tampa Bay on your phone, you need the 10 Tampa Bay app. Download the 10 Tampa Bay app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Author: Jaclyn Fenton Published: 6:42 AM EST January 12, 2021 Updated: 6:35 PM EST January 14, 2021 TAMPA, Fla. — Super Bowl LV is just 26 days away from happening at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa. The last time a Super Bowl was hosted in Tampa, was 2009. Tampa was not originally supposed to host the big game in 2021. The game was set to be played in Los Angeles, but the NFL moved the game to Tampa back in 2017. Los Angeles will now host the 2022 Super Bowl. The reason L.A.'s Super Bowl got moved back? Its SoFi Stadium construction was delayed, back in 2017, and a stadium must be opened for two years before hosting the big game, according to a story on NFL.com. NFL owners vote to relocate @SuperBowl LV to Tampa Bay: https://t.co/8ApYxxCdFN (via @RapSheet ) pic.twitter.com/SFoX4V3lzx — NFL (@NFL) May 23, 2017 Tampa is a veteran when it comes to hosting Super Bowls. We've done it in 1984, 1991, 2001 and 2009. Statement from Visit Tampa Bay in 2017: “We are thrilled with the NFL’s decision to choose Tampa Bay for Super Bowl LV. As a community, we have become experts at hosting national and international events without a hitch – including four successful Super Bowls already, the last one in 2009. We look forward to working with our hospitality stakeholders over the coming months to meet the requirements for hosting the game. This community – Florida’s most diverse travel destination -- has changed dramatically in the years since 2009, thanks to the Tampa Riverwalk, dozens of incredible new restaurants, and hundreds of new hotel rooms. With billions of dollars in new projects on the horizon, visitors will have an even better experience awaiting them in Tampa Bay when they attend Super Bowl LV.” Related Articles The Cross-Bay Ferry is temporarily relocating Tampa Bay kids receive thousands of books, games, and school supplies in Super Bowl project Julian B. Lane Riverfront Park is closing ahead of the Super Bowl experience What other people are reading right now: Speaker Pelosi says House 'will proceed' to impeach President Trump Man seen carrying Pelosi's lectern in Capitol riot released on $25K bond Rudy Giuliani faces having membership to New York State Bar revoked Feds investigating case of Florida manatee found with 'Trump' marked on its back Sheriff: 71 men arrested in undercover Hillsborough County human trafficking investigation County-by-county COVID-19 vaccine information for Tampa Bay seniors ►Breaking news and weather alerts: Get the free 10 Tampa Bay app ► Stay In the Know! Sign up now for the Brightside Blend Newsletter Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out Jobs Terms of Service Privacy Policy Ad Choices EEO Public File Report FCC Online Public Inspection File Closed Caption Procedures Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information © 2025 WTSP-TV. All Rights Reserved.