Diablo 3 Season 27 Angelic Crucibles begins on August 26th - Maxroll.gg Browse Games NEWS All News News ARPG Diablo IV ARPG Diablo III ARPG Diablo II: R ARPG Monster Hunter Wilds ARPG Path of Exile ARPG Path of Exile 2 ARPG Last Epoch ARPG MMORPG Lost Ark MMORPG World of Warcraft MMORPG Throne And Liberty MMORPG LOOTER SHOOTER Destiny 2 Looter Shooter RPG Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 new Store All News Diablo III Powered By Home Build Guides Tier Lists Meta Resources D3Planner Leaderboards Team Diablo 3 News Season 27 begins on August 26th Author Maxroll Table of Contents 1 . Season 27 Release Date 2 . Season Theme 3 . Maxroll Updates Select Season 27 begins on August 26th Last Updated: May 20, 2023 Pin this Page Season 27 Release Date Season 27 “Light’s Calling,” will begin on August 26th at 5PM (PDT/CEST/KST) shortly after the next Diablo 3 update. This update is expected to be released on August 23rd. Read more on the official news post here . Season Theme Season 27 introduces Light’s Calling, our new seasonal theme. Valiant Nephalem who recover Angelic Crucibles, a new consumable item, may use them to Sanctify any equippable Legendary item, infusing it with one of three new class-specific powers at random. We wanted to use Angelic Crucibles to lean into the expertise of each class, further exemplifying its respective prowess, but through a nuanced lens. The High Heavens are home to ethereal splendor, bursting with boundless radiance—we wanted to provide players with a taste of untainted power as doled out from Heaven itself. Season 27 introduces Angelic Crucible s . These are a new consumable allowing Nephalems to sanctify their Legendary Items . Sanctifying an item reforges it with Primal Ancient stats and also adds a random Class-specific Sanctified Power . There are 3 exclusive Powers available per Class: Barbarian Sanctified Hammer of the Ancients Sanctified Whirlwind Sanctified Wrath of the Berserker Demon Hunter Sanctified Vengeance Sanctified Cluster Arrow Sanctified Strafe Necromancer Sanctified Death Nova Sanctified Army of the Dead Sanctified Command Golem Wizard Sanctified Arcane Orb Sanctified Magic Missile Sanctified Storm Armor Crusader Sanctified Fist of the Heavens Sanctified Falling Sword Sanctified Blessed Hammer Monk Sanctified Wave of Light Sanctified Way of the Hundred Fists Sanctified Seven-Sided Strike Witch Doctor Sanctified Haunt Sanctified Horrify Sanctified Gargantuan Some builds benefit more than others from Sanctified Items . We will have a dedicated guide for the full details on how each of these powers work and how to best implement them into your build! Brand-new Guides for the reworked Trag'oul's Avatar Death Nova Necromancer, Armor of Akkhan Condemn Crusader and Tal Rasha's Elements Meteor Wizard are also in the works! Maxroll Updates Our team is working hard to update Maxroll and all our content (Guides, Tier Lists, META) for Season 27 during the course of the next days! We expected to be finish our update process by Sunday, August 21st right when Season 26 ends. D3Planner will be updated completely once Patch 2.7.4 hits the live servers a few days later. An updated version is already available here . Meanwhile, we wish you the best of luck in the final days of Season 26. Stay tuned! The Maxroll D3 Team Related Posts News Diablo 3 Season 29 Patch 2.7.6 PTR Starts August 15th! maxroll News Season 28 begins on February 24th maxroll News Season 31 Maxroll and Tier Lists Updates Chewingnom News Season 30, Lords of Hell! dredscythe News Season 31, The Forbidden Archives! dredscythe News Season 33 Maxroll Guides & Tier Lists Updates Chewingnom Follow us on Terms of Service Privacy Policy Refund Policy Imprint Contact Us Cookie Policy © 2025 Maxroll Media Group, All Rights Reserved