LSU quarterback Joe Burrow wins Maxwell, Davey O'Brien awards - UPI.com Top News U.S. News World News Featured Odd News Entertainment Movies Music TV Science Health Sports NFL MLB NBA Soccer Voices Photos News US News World News Entertainment Sports Archive Almanac Trending Disney employee On This Day Sanctuary cities Famous birthdays Vancouver attack Margarita snake 'Thunderbolts* Eye-popping Colon cancers Sports News Dec. 13, 2019 / 9:40 AM LSU quarterback Joe Burrow wins Maxwell, Davey O'Brien awards By Alex Butler Louisiana State University Tigers quarterback Joe Burrow can add the Heisman Trophy to his trophy case if he edges out three other finalists for the award Saturday in New York City.  Photo by Art Foxall/UPI | License Photo Dec. 13 (UPI) -- LSU quarterback Joe Burrow raked in the hardware at the 2019 Home Depot College Football Awards, winning the Maxwell and Davey O'Brien awards, honors given to the best player and best quarterback in college football . Burrow was honored with the awards Thursday at the College Football Hall of Fame in Atlanta. The LSU quarterback led the nation with 48 passing scores and had just six interceptions this season for the undefeated Tigers. He also completed a national-best 77.9 percent of his throws for 4,715 yards in 2019. He is expected to be one the first players selected in the 2020 NFL Draft. "It's super special," Burrow said after winning the awards. "I have great people around me and a great coaching staff. That's the reason I've been able to be so successful." Related Ohio State's Chase Young wins Nagurski Trophy as nation's top defender No. 2 LSU stops No. 3 Alabama in college football showdown Tigers coach Ed Orgeron was named Home Depot Coach of the Year. "Nobody writes a book to tell you how to go out and be a coach," Orgeron said. "You have to go out and do it and learn from your mistakes. Hopefully you don't repeat the same mistakes." Wisconsin offensive lineman Tyler Biadasz won the Rimington Trophy, the award given to the best center in the game. Florida Atlantic's Harrison Bryant won the John Mackey Award, as the best tight end. Oregon's Penei Sewell won the Outland Trophy, as the best interior lineman. Wisconsin star Jonathan Taylor won the Doak Walker Award, as the best running back. LSU safety Grant Delpit won the Paycom Jim Thorpe Award, as the best defensive back. Georgia's Rodrigo Blankenship won the Lou Groza Award, as the nation's top kicker. Kentucky's Max Duffy was named the nation's top punter, claiming the Ray Guy Award. Ohio State star Chase Young won the Bednarik Award, an honor given to the best Defensive Player in college football. LSU's Ja'Marr Chase claimed the Biletnikoff Award, as the nation's top wide receiver. Burrow and Young are also among the finalists to take home the 2019 Heisman Trophy . Ohio State's Justin Fields and Oklahoma's Jalen Hurts are the other finalists. The Heisman Trophy award ceremony airs at 8 p.m. EST Saturday on ESPN. Topics College Football Ed Orgeron Doak Walker Heisman Trophy Jim Thorpe John Mackey John Walker Jalen Hurts Joe Burrow Latest Headlines NHL // 5 hours ago No criminal charges filed in 2023 on-ice death of hockey player Adam Johnson April 29 (UPI) -- No criminal charges will be filed against a fellow ice hockey player arrested on suspicion of manslaughter following the 2023 death of NHL player Adam Johnson, prosecutors announced Monday. Sports News // 7 hours ago Boise State signs football coach Spencer Danielson to five-year extension April 29 (UPI) -- The Boise State Broncos signed football coach Spencer Danielson to a five-year contract extension, the team announced Tuesday. NBA // 7 hours ago Sacramento Kings plan to hire Doug Christie as head coach April 29 (UPI) -- The Sacramento Kings are finalizing a deal to make Doug Christie their new head coach, a league source told UPI on Tuesday. NFL // 8 hours ago Washington Commanders cut kicker Zane Gonzalez, sign Matt Gay to record deal April 29 (UPI) -- The Washington Commanders agreed to a record one-year, fully guaranteed contract with kicker Matt Gay, his agency announced Tuesday. A league source told UPI that the Commanders plan to release kicker Zane Gonzalez. NBA // 9 hours ago UConn forward Alex Karaban withdraws from 2025 NBA Draft April 29 (UPI) -- UConn forward Alex Karaban, who won two national titles with the Huskies, withdrew his name from the 2025 NBA Draft and will return for his senior season, he announced Tuesday on social media. NFL // 11 hours ago San Francisco 49ers, tight end George Kittle agree to record $76.4M extension April 29 (UPI) -- The San Francisco 49ers signed tight end George Kittle to a four-year, $76.4 million contract extension, a source familiar with the agreement told UPI on Tuesday. Sports News // 11 hours ago Max Purcell receives 18-month ban for breaking tennis anti-doping rules April 29 (UPI) -- Australian Max Purcell, a two-time Grand Slam doubles champion, accepted an 18-month suspension for violating anti-doping rules, the International Tennis Integrity Agency announced Tuesday. NBA // 12 hours ago Jimmy Butler plays through pain, helps Warriors take 3-1 lead on Rockets April 29 (UPI) -- Jimmy Butler returned from a one-game injury absence, scoring 23 of his 27 points in the second half of a Golden State Warriors win over the Houston Rockets for a 3-1 playoff series lead. NHL // 12 hours ago Wyatt Johnston scores Stars' fastest playoff goal, sparks win vs. Avalanche April 29 (UPI) -- Wyatt Johnston needed just nine seconds to make an impact, scoring the fastest playoff goal in Dallas Stars history to spark a 6-2 triumph over the Colorado Avalanche in Game 5 of their first-round series. Sports News // 1 day ago At White House, Trump celebrates Philadelphia Eagles' Super Bowl victory April 28 (UPI) -- President Donald Trump on Monday celebrated the Philadelphia Eagles' LIX Super Bowl championship in February. Trending Stories At White House, Trump celebrates Philadelphia Eagles' Super Bowl victory San Francisco 49ers, tight end George Kittle agree to record $76.4M extension UConn forward Alex Karaban withdraws from 2025 NBA Draft Wyatt Johnston scores Stars' fastest playoff goal, sparks win vs. Avalanche Jimmy Butler plays through pain, helps Warriors take 3-1 lead on Rockets Follow Us Back to top About UPI Contact Corrections Advertisements Copyright © 2025 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy