Facebook to buy messaging app WhatsApp for $19bn - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Close menu BBC News Menu Home Israel-Gaza war War in Ukraine Climate Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech More Science Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures BBC Verify World News TV Newsbeat Business New Tech Economy Artificial Intelligence Technology of Business Africa Business Paths to Success Facebook to buy messaging app WhatsApp for $19bn Published 20 February 2014 comments 596 Comments Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Media caption, Facebook's $19bn WhatsApp deal explained in 60 seconds Facebook has bought messaging app WhatsApp in a deal worth a total of $19bn (£11.4bn) in cash and shares. It is the social networking giant's biggest acquisition to date. WhatsApp has more than 450 million monthly users and is popular with people looking to avoid text messaging charges. In a statement , external announcing the deal, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg described WhatsApp's services as "incredibly valuable". WhatsApp allows users to send messages over internet connections, avoiding text messaging fees. The company claims it is currently registering one million new users a day. It makes money by charging users a subscription fee of $1 per year, although it offers a free model as well. This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Media caption, The BBC's Dave Lee explains why some analysts think it may yet prove to be a good buy Silicon Valley's newest billionaires The deal to buy it includes $4bn in cash and approximately $12bn-worth of Facebook shares, plus an additional $3bn in stock to WhatsApp's founders and employees at a later date. On a conference call to discuss the deal, WhatsApp co-founder Jan Koum said he planned to operate the firm "independently and autonomously". He will also become a member of Facebook's board of directors. "We're excited and honoured to partner with Mark and Facebook as we continue to bring our product to more people around the world," Mr Koum said in a statement. Mr Zuckerberg said the prospect of a deal was first floated just 11 days ago. The Facebook founder said he believed WhatsApp was on track to have a billion users, but insisted he had no plans to place advertising on WhatsApp's interface, saying he did not think ads were the best way to make money from messaging systems. Once the deal is finalised, Mr Koum and co-founder Brian Acton are set to become Silicon Valley's newest billionaires. WhatsApp has about 50 employees in total. Siphoning billions Cathy Boyle, a senior analyst at research firm eMarketer, said WhatsApp was valuable to Facebook for several reasons beyond advertising, including its younger user base and its popularity overseas. "WhatsApp actually has greater penetration in a lot of international markets than Facebook," Ms Boyle told the BBC. She added that it was notable that Facebook's chief financial officer David Ebersman referred to the telecommunications industry when discussing the firm's purchase. "WhatsApp is trying to siphon the billions that the telecom industry would make from [traditional SMS text messaging]" she said. This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Media caption, WhatsApp users talk about what they like and dislike about the app Ben Bajarin, from California-based technology consultants Creative Strategies, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that the deal would allow Facebook to tap into a rapidly growing market. "WhatsApp is on a path towards a billion users," he said. "They're growing exponentially - much, much faster than Facebook. "For Facebook this is a key growth area where, even if they don't monetise this product, this is a way that Facebook can get the next billion smartphone consumers into their ecosystem... to touch them and engage with them in other ways than just the Facebook platform." Shares in Facebook dropped 5% in after hours trading before recovering slightly. Prior to this acquisition, Facebook's biggest purchase had been Instagram for $1bn in 2012. It had also reportedly offered $3bn to acquire photo messaging service Snapchat. More on this story The new billionaires behind WhatsApp Published 20 February 2014 WhatsApp - is it worth it? Published 20 February 2014 Is Facebook really losing members? Published 3 February 2014 Viber messaging app in Japanese deal Published 14 February 2014 Chat apps and the future of news Published 30 January 2014 Related internet links WhatsApp Facebook The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser View comments | 596 Top stories Trump congratulates Canada's Carney as they agree to meet in 'near future' Published 3 hours ago Trump celebrates 100 days in office by touting record and blasting foes Published 15 minutes ago Woman's eyesight saved by cutting-edge test after mystery infection Published 2 hours ago More to explore Life inside Iraq's 'Forbidden Zone' controlled by Turkey Net zero 'doomed' and royals 'on love island' Faisal Islam: Carney wants to lead a G7 fightback on Trump tariffs 'We want to trade': Vietnam's future caught between the US and China again Why is the M&S cyber attack chaos taking so long to resolve? How Spain powered back to life from unprecedented national blackout Kneecap: Rap group are no strangers to controversy, but is this time different? 'Why hit a single when you can hit six?' - the making of a teen IPL star US Politics Unspun: Cut through the noise with Anthony's Zurcher's newsletter - sign up Elsewhere on the BBC The true cost of China's booming cosmetic surgery industry Have your say on the BBC’s future The Doctor and Belinda face absolute terror Detectives recount cases that shaped their careers Most read 1 William and Kate visit Mull to celebrate wedding anniversary 2 Warning meters in 300,000 homes could stop working 3 Woman's eyesight saved by cutting-edge test after mystery infection 4 Blair says current net zero policies 'doomed to fail' 5 Trump congratulates Canada's Carney as they agree to meet in 'near future' 6 How Spain powered back to life from unprecedented national blackout 7 Crossbow attack suspect put 'massacre' plans online 8 Jenkyns at odds with Farage on special needs 9 Meghan uses 'HRH' title but denies breaking rules 10 Why is the M&S cyber attack chaos taking so long to resolve? BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.