2019 U.S. Open: Rafael Nadal beats Daniil Medvedev to win his 19th Grand Slam title - CBS News Latest U.S. Trump 100 Days World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio Local News Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes America Decides CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed CBS Village Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Davos Interviews A Moment With... Innovators & Disruptors Economy 4.0 U.S. Trump 100 Days World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports Watch CBS News U.S. Rafael Nadal wins U.S. Open, his 19th Grand Slam title, in hourslong match Updated on:  September 8, 2019 / 9:53 PM EDT / AP Rafael Nadal of Spain celebrates his victory over Daniil Medvedev of Russia on Sun., Sept. 8, 2019. Getty The 19th Grand Slam title that seemed so inevitable for Rafael Nadal during the first two-plus sets of the U.S. Open final suddenly seemed in doubt as Daniil Medvedev forced it to a fifth. What had all the makings of a crowning morphed into a real contest thanks to Medvedev, a man a decade younger and appearing in his first major final. Medvedev shifted styles, upped his level and received an unexpected boost from Arthur Ashe Stadium spectators. Truly tested for the only time in the tournament, the No. 2-seeded Nadal managed to stop Medvedev's surge and hold off his historic comeback bid, pulling out a 7-5, 6-3, 5-7, 4-6, 6-4 victory in 4 hours, 50 minutes of highlight-worthy action and feature-film-worthy drama on Sunday, collecting his fourth championship at Flushing Meadows. SEE MORE: Complete U.S. Open coverage from CBSSports.com Nadal is now within one major trophy of Roger Federer's record for Grand Slam titles won by a man. But this one did not come easily. Not at all. Sure seemed it might, with Nadal ahead by two sets and a break in the third at 3-2. But the No. 5-seeded Medvedev, a 23-year-old from Russia, did not go gently into the night. He broke right back to 3-all, then again to claim that set and yet again to end the fourth. Not since 1949 had a man won the U.S. Open final after trailing by two sets to one. Never before had Medvedev won a five-set match. Only once before had Nadal lost a Grand Slam match after taking the opening two sets. And yet the drama here was real. Rafael Nadal of Spain celebrates with the championship trophy. Getty Even at the very end — or when everyone, save Medvedev, perhaps, figured it was the very end — Nadal had trouble closing things out. After breaking to lead 3-2 in the fifth, in a game Medvedev led 40-love, Nadal broke again and served for the championship at 5-2. The way this back-and-forth tale was spun, though, it probably was inevitable that Medvedev would break there. And so he did, because Nadal double-faulted on break point after he was docked a serve for his third time violation of the evening. In the next game, Nadal held a pair of match points, but Medvedev, of course, avoided defeat yet another time, erasing one of those with a backhand winner, the other with a service winner. With fans screaming, "Close it out!" at the ensuing changeover, Nadal once more stepped to the baseline to try to serve it out, this time at 5-4. Naturally, he was forced to deal with another heart-in-throat break point, but came up with a stinging forehand that drew a long forehand from Medvedev. Two points later, it was over, and Nadal was splayed on his back on the court, the victor at Flushing Meadows for the fourth time. Add the Spaniard's haul in New York to his 12 titles at the French Open, two at Wimbledon and one at the Australian Open, and the 20-19 gap between Federer and Nadal is the closest it's been in 15 years. Federer led 1-0 after his breakthrough triumph at the All England Club in 2004, and he had four by the time Nadal got his first at Roland Garros in 2005. Federer, who lost in the quarterfinals at the U.S. Open, is 38, while Nadal is 33 — making him the oldest male champion at Flushing Meadows since 1970. He's also the first man to win five majors after turning 30. Rafael Nadal of Spain is congratulated by Daniil Medvedev of Russia after winning his Men's Singles final match. Getty Nadal says he wants to finish his career at No. 1 in the Grand Slam standings — ahead of Federer and Novak Djokovic, looming in third place currently with 16 — but also insists he won't base his happiness on how it all shakes out in the end. This one ended the way he wanted it to. The journey just took more detours than anyone could have anticipated. Perhaps sensing the end was near, Medvedev turned into a trickier foe. He alternated serve-and-volley surprises with a penchant for out-hitting Nadal at the baseline. For a stretch, it felt as if Medvedev simply could not miss. It was the kind of ball-striking and shape-shifting Medvedev showed while going 20-2 during the North American hard-court circuit, reaching four finals in a row. The Flushing Meadows fans that jeered Medvedev in Week 1 because of his on-court behavior — he trolled his detractors by sarcastically thanking them and telling him their vitriol was why he won — were pulling for him. Or, at least, pulling for more bang for the bucks they spent on tickets. They certainly got that. More from CBS News A transgender sports pioneer reflects on Trump's first 100 days When should you consider filing for bankruptcy? Catholic faithful flock to Pope Francis' tomb as eyes turn to conclave How Trump policies and Project 2025 match up after first 100 days Jeremy Renner on memoir and how breathing helped him survive accident In: Rafael Nadal U.S. Open © 2019 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. More from CBS News A transgender sports pioneer reflects on Trump's first 100 days When should you consider filing for bankruptcy? Catholic faithful flock to Pope Francis' tomb as eyes turn to conclave How Trump policies and Project 2025 match up after first 100 days Featured Trump's Speech Marking First 100 Days Poll On Trump's First 100 Days 2025 NBA Playoff Schedule 2025 NHL Playoff Schedule Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue Be the first to know Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting. Not Now Turn On