Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/smashbros A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to smashbros r/smashbros r/smashbros Welcome to Reddit's Smash Bros. community! Members Online • ckhordiasma Satoru Iwata: How the two of us made Super Smash Bros All I just bought this book called "Ask Iwata," which is basically a compilation of translated interviews that Satoru Iwata gave throughout his life. It's been a great read so far, and would recommend it, especially if you are a Nintendo fan or if you're a game designer/programmer. There was an excerpt about Super Smash Bros that I thought was pretty cool: The original Super Smash Bros. was released in 1999 for the Nintendo 64, but the prototype was created by myself and Masahiro Sakurai. At that stage, the game didn't include Nintendo characters. Sakurai took care of everything, from the planning and the specs to the design, modeling, and aminations, while I did all the programming single-handedly. One other person did the sound. This was basically the ultimate indie game. HAL Laboratory, where we were working at the time, handled a variety of software, but we were trying to determine our creative focus, the sort of games that only we could make. This was when Sakurai told me that he had a fun idea. I was encouraging and told him, "Put together something quick, so you can play with it. I'll do the programming if you plan everything out." Both of us had our hands full with other work, so finding the time wasn't easy. I had no time during the week, which meant spending the weekends programming. Sakurai would send the specs and files, and I'd put something together, asking, "Hey, how about this?" We passed the ball back and forth. It was an interesting experience. After the first round of programming, we knew that we had something special. But at the time, we never dreamed the game would grow to such great heights. As new titles were added to the Super Smash Bros. series, the cast of characters grew and new modes were introduced, so that each installment boasted an exceptional volume of content. In general, I think that making a game bigger is oftentimes not the way to make it better, but with Super Smash Bros. I see things differently. It felt right to squeeze as much in there as possible, like some kind of a bottomless vessel, the sort of game where quantity works. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 16, 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2021 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics