Christopher Nolan Reveals How He Would've Directed The Avengers - ComicBook.com Open Menu Close Menu Comics Movies TV Gaming Anime Facebook X YouTube Instagram Search Comics Comic News Comic Reviews Marvel DC Image BOOM! Studios Movies Movie News Movie Reviews Venom 3 Captain America 4 Thunderbolts* Superman Fantastic Four: First Steps Avengers: Doomsday TV TV News TV Reviews The Penguin Agatha All Along Peacemaker Daredevil: Born Again The Last of Us House of the Dragon Gaming Gaming News Video Game Reviews Nintendo Xbox PlayStation PC Anime Anime News Dragon Ball Demon Slayer Jujutsu Kaisen Naruto My Hero Academia One Piece Franchises DC Marvel Star Wars The Walking Dead Star Trek Power Rangers Facebook X YouTube Instagram Marvel Christopher Nolan Reveals How He Would’ve Directed The Avengers By Liam Crowley July 20, 2023, 6:17pm X Facebook Christopher Nolan has cemented himself as one of the biggest directorial box office attractions. Like Quentin Tarantino and Martin Scorsese, Nolan’s projects sell because they are inherently his stories. That said, Nolan did have his dance with intellectual property at the beginning of his career, as the filmmaker helmed The Dark Knight trilogy. Even a decade removed from the Christian Bale-led series’ finale, The Dark Knight movies are still revered by audiences today as being the best Batman films ever made, with many specifically calling The Dark Knight (2008) one of the greatest motion-pictures of all time. Videos by ComicBook.com While Nolan recently closed the door on returning to the world of comic book movies , he did take a walk down what if lane, specifically looking towards the Marvel Cinematic Universe. When asked what his iteration of The Avengers would’ve looked like, Nolan joked that the ensemble piece would feature even more of Robert Downey Jr.’s Tony Stark than in the original. “That is the multiverse conundrum,” Nolan told Wired regarding his take on Avengers . “Having worked with you (Robert) in Oppenheimer, there’d probably be a lot too much Tony Stark. You’d be running all over the movie a little bit.” Nolan added that he would bring his signature style of practical effects into the mix. “And not using CG,” Nolan continued. “Would you be prepared to get on one of those jetpacks [for Iron Man scenes]? The ones they make for real?” Downey agreed to Nolan’s jetpack suggestion while also offering his idea of what a Nolan-directed Avengers movie’s schedule would be. “If Christopher Nolan had directed The Avengers, we would still be shooting it,” Downey said. Downey is a MCU veteran, as Iron Man (2008) is the project that launched the multi-billion dollar franchise over 15 years ago. Coincidentally enough, Iron Man hit theaters just one month before Nolan’s The Dark Knight would premiere in cinemas. As mentioned, Nolan recently shut down the idea of doing another comic book project, but did tease that he is open to two major franchises : Star Wars and James Bond. “The influence of those movies in my filmography is embarrassingly apparent. It would be an amazing privilege to do one,” Nolan said about helming a Bond film. “At the same time, when you take on a character like that you’re working with a particular set of constraints.” Oppenheimer hits theaters on Friday, July 21st. Tagged: Christopher Nolan , Iron Man (ComicMovie) , Marvel Cinematic Universe , Marvel Studios , Oppenheimer , Robert Downey Jr. , The Dark Knight Next Article Comics Starter Pack: A Beginner’s Guide to the MCU’s Thunderbolts* → More Marvel Latest Marvel Rivals Update Brings Much-Needed Character Buffs and Nerfs Doom Faces Spider-Man, Hulk, Wolverine, & Cavillrine In Avengers: Doomsday Fan Trailer Thunderbolts Isn’t MCU’s Suicide Squad, Says Director (& He’s Right) 10 Daredevil Mistakes You’ll Never Be Able to Unsee All-New Venom Pits Mary Jane Against a Major Spider-Man Villain All the best geek news in your inbox Get access to exclusive stories on new releases, movies, shows, comics, anime, games and more! By signing up, you confirm that you have read and agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Policy . Most Viewed 20th Television Animation Anime 2 days ago The Simpsons Brings Back Missing Family Member After 8 Years Gear 2 days ago Here’s Every LEGO Set Launching On May 1st 2025 Adult Swim Anime 3 days ago Classic Anime Returning to Toonami for New Episodes After a Decade Star Wars 1 day ago George Lucas’ Original Plan for Anakin Skywalker’s Descent to the Dark Side Is Way More Evil Than You Could Imagine TV Shows 2 days ago Everything Coming to Netflix, Max, Disney+ & Other Streaming Services in May 2025 Movies 1 day ago Star Wars Is About to Join a Different Streaming Service for the First Time Movies 1 day ago You Only Have Two Days Left to Watch One of the Best Comedy Movies on Netflix TV Shows 1 day ago Returning Star Just Brought Best Part of AEW Run to WWE Facebook X YouTube Instagram Comics Comic News Comic Reviews Marvel DC Image BOOM! Studios Movies Movie News Movie Reviews Venom 3 Captain America 4 Thunderbolts* Superman Fantastic Four: First Steps Avengers: Doomsday TV TV News TV Reviews The Penguin Agatha All Along Peacemaker Daredevil: Born Again The Last of Us House of the Dragon Gaming Gaming News Video Game Reviews Nintendo Xbox PlayStation PC Anime Anime News Dragon Ball Demon Slayer Jujutsu Kaisen Naruto My Hero Academia One Piece Franchises DC Marvel Star Wars The Walking Dead Star Trek Power Rangers Contact Us Advertising About Careers Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright 2025 ComicBook.com. All rights reserved.