How Shazam! Fury of the Gods lassoed that Wonder Woman cameo ​ Skip to content Entertainment Weekly Search Please fill out this field. Newsletters Sweepstakes Search Please fill out this field. TV TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge Binge EW's Binge Podcast Episodes The Challenge The Golden Bachelor The Masked Singer RuPaul's Drag Race Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowstone Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge 9-1-1 The Masked Singer Outlander RuPaul's Drag Race Saturday Night Live Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowjackets Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Top Stories 1 Nancy Kwan recalls fight over underwear on 'World of Suzie Wong' set 2 Julia Garner talks joining 'Fantastic Four: First Steps' 3 Dominic Sessa cast as Anthony Bourdain in biopic 4 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' director breaks down trailer How Shazam! Fury of the Gods lassoed that Wonder Woman cameo Zachary Levi tells EW how Gal Gadot's surprise appearance came together: "I was just stoked that she was down to it." By Devan Coggan Devan Coggan Devan Coggan (rhymes with seven slogan) is a senior writer at Entertainment Weekly. Most of her personality is just John Mulaney quotes and Lord of the Rings references. EW's editorial guidelines Published on May 23, 2023 08:30AM EDT Billy Batson and his Shazamily aren't the only heroes in Shazam! Fury of the Gods . When the DC sequel hit theaters earlier this year, much of it focused on foster kid Billy ( Zachary Levi ), who teams up with his superpowered siblings to take down the nefarious Daughters of Atlas ( Helen Mirren , Lucy Liu , and Rachel Zegler ). But Fury of the Gods (now streaming on Max) also features another key DC figure: Gal Gadot 's Wonder Woman, who makes a surprise cameo near the end of the film. Wonder Woman technically appears in the film twice: About midway through, Billy has a dream that he's on a date with Diana in Paris, but the audience only sees the back of her head. Later in the film, Billy succumbs to his injuries and dies, only to be resurrected by Wonder Woman (who has the godlike powers to revive him). Gadot's appearance is technically a surprise, but Warner Bros. spoiled her cameo long before the film even hit theaters, releasing ads with Gadot. (Director David F. Sandberg was less than thrilled, and on Twitter he urged fans to avoid spoilers .) When EW spoke to Levi earlier this year, the actor opened up about how Gadot's cameo came together. "I was just stoked that she was down to it," Levi said. "She crushes it. It was really cool that Gal was down to play in our sandbox." Zachary Levi as Shazam; Gal Gadot as Wonder Woman. Warner Bros. (2) Levi added that because much of the film's story centers on Greek mythology, he and Sandberg had long hoped to bring in Wonder Woman. (After all, the Themysciran princess is also the daughter of Zeus.) Gadot was more than happy to don Diana's gauntlets again — but scheduling proved tricky. "She was busy working," Levi recalled. "She was shooting something else entirely, so we had a body double on our end. Then we were able to shoot her stuff on another side. I think they did a great job seamlessly cutting all that together. And I love that Billy is so in love with her. He's so infatuated, and he's so nervous! That was fun to tap into. It felt like going back to being my 17-year-old self." Wonder Woman isn't the first big DC name to pop up in the Shazam franchise. Superman appears in the final moments of the original 2019 film, although his face is never seen. So, if Levi were to make a third Shazam movie, is there another iconic DC character he'd like to snag for a cameo? "That's a really good question," he mused. "Maybe Green Lantern? I'd like to see Green Lantern help us fight the hordes of undead. I think that would be really cool." Notably, Fury of the Gods isn't the only film this year to have a surprise Gadot cameo. (Spoilers for another franchise ahead.) The actress also pops up in the final seconds of Fast X , reprising her role as onetime Fast & Furious family member Gisele . The character supposedly fell to her death at the end of 2013's Fast & Furious 6 , but Gisele arrives in the final minutes of Fast X to once again save the day — piloting a submarine to Antarctica to help rescue Letty (Michelle Rodriguez) and Cipher (Charlize Theron) from prison. As for Gadot's future as Wonder Woman? That remains in question. Plans for a third Wonder Woman movie were announced shortly after Wonder Woman 1984 hit theaters in 2020, but that project has since been put on hold. After James Gunn and Peter Safran took over as co-chairs of DC Studios last fall , they announced that the studio would not be moving forward with Patty Jenkins' planned Wonder Woman 3 . Time will tell whether Gadot will pop up in another, yet-to-be-announced project — or whether Shazam! Fury of the Gods will be her last outing as Diana. Want more movie news? Sign up for Entertainment Weekly 's free newsletter to get the latest trailers, celebrity interviews, film reviews, and more. Related content: Zachary Levi wants to fight zombies in the next Shazam movie Adam Brody and Jack Dylan Grazer on swapping bodies in Shazam! Fury of the Gods The Shazam! Fury of the Gods post-credits scenes, explained Patty Jenkins denies walking away from Wonder Woman 3 , addresses Rogue Squadron delay Read more: Movies Related Articles Sinners star Delroy Lindo on the lessons he learned from Da 5 Bloods Oscar snub, Blade , Anansi Boys , and more Welcome to the (retro)future: Inside the Fantastic Four's 'first steps' into the MCU The Fantastic Four: First Steps cast: All about the stars leading the franchise’s foray into the MCU (and who John Malkovich might be playing) Fantastic Four trailer reveals first look at Silver Surfer: 'Your planet has been marked for death' Harry Potter 's Jason Isaacs thinks he'll be 'long forgotten' once new Lucius Malfoy actor takes over in TV series Jon Bernthal takes 'a little' credit for Tom Holland nailing his Spider-Man audition, reveals advice he gave him Daredevil: Born Again boss addresses season 2, Defenders, Punisher post-credits scene, and more burning questions Real Housewives of New Jersey star's ex speaks out for first time about role in book that led to famous table flip Kelly Marie Tran reflects on coming out in spite of Star Wars harassment: 'Joy is an act of resistance' Alan Cumming says he's thrilled his 4.5-hour X-Men transformation is now only 90 minutes Michael Giacchino, Fantastic Four composer and Werewolf by Night director, breaks into comics (exclusive) Jim Carrey mourns Batman Forever costar Val Kilmer: 'A generational talent who left us an enviable legacy' Thunderbolts* finally unmasks its villain in new promo: 'Stronger than all of the Avengers' Julia Garner talks joining Fantastic Four: First Steps : 'Wait, isn't the Silver Surfer a man?' Ashley Johnson, the original Ellie of The Last of Us , makes season 2 voice cameo (exclusive) Marvel's X-factor: The long road to getting X-Men into the MCU Entertainment Weekly Newsletters Follow Us TV Movies Music What To Watch Binge Celebrity The Awardist Books Theater About Us Terms of Service Subscribe Advertise Careers Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Entertainment Weekly is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies