Google buys YouTube for $1.65bn | Media | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters Media This article is more than 18 years old Google buys YouTube for $1.65bn This article is more than 18 years old Mark Sweney and Bobbie Johnson Mon 9 Oct 2006 18.11 EDT Share Google tonight acquired YouTube in a $1.65bn (£884m) all share deal making the 18-month-old video-sharing website one of the fastest internet success stories ever. The deal, which dwarfs the $580m (£310m) that Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation paid for social networking website MySpace last year, puts Google ahead of its rivals as the internet moves into the video generation. The deal will see Google technology power search and advertising technology to YouTube. For Google, YouTube marks the culmination of a new wave digital land grab. Earlier this summer, Google struck a $900m three-year deal to provide search and advertising services to MySpace and other News Corp sites, beating rivals Yahoo! and Microsoft to secure the contract. Particularly galling for Microsoft was the fact that Google had previously beaten it to a $1bn deal with AOL. The Google/YouTube deal, which is entirely comprised of Google stock, will turn YouTube founders Chad Hurley and Steven Chen into instant multi-millionaires. Announcing the deal, Google chief executive Eric Schmidt said the two companies were a natural fit. "The YouTube team has built an exciting and powerful media platform that complements Google's mission," he said. "Our companies share similar values ... together we are natural partners to offer a compelling media entertainment service to users, content owners and advertisers." Rumours began to surface of a possible deal last week, and further reports over the weekend suggested that a deal could be imminent. The speculation came hot on the heels of the news that Yahoo! was considering a $1bn acquisition of Facebook, the social networking site. "YouTube is phenomenally valuable in terms of traffic and in the Internet sector this is important just like location is important in real estate," Sasa Zorovic, an analyst at Oppenheimer, told Reuters. YouTube, which launched just 18 months ago, has been massively successful and now shows more than 100 million videos every day. Users are allowed to create and share their own clips, as well as watch the work of others. But the site has remained controversial because much of its archives consist of copyrighted material that has been illegally stored by users. Universal, the world's largest record label, last month threatened to take legal action against YouTube's owners for such indiscretions. But Universal this week reversed its position and joined CBS and Sony BMG in partnering with the site, a sign that it was gaining increasing legitimacy with media organisations. A number of television broadcasters are already loading their own clips onto the site. Not everyone believes the issues of copyright infringement are finished, however. "I still need to hear how the copyright situation needs to be solved," said Josh Bernoff of Forrester Research. "In the absence of a solution to that, Google has just opened itself up to a huge lawsuit. This is pretty risky unless they have a solution to that problem." The move marks the latest in a long line of buyouts by Google, though it is far and away the biggest purchase that the company has made in its short history. The internet search giant had been trying to break into the video market with its own product, and last week Mr Schmidt announced that the company was putting a block on developing new products in order to concentrate on improving its existing ones. Explore more on these topics Media Digital media Web 2.0 Google Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)