Doug Bowser Explains Why Nintendo Switch 2 Is Launching In June – NintendoSoup Toggle navigation Switch Switch 2 Pokemon Merch Guides Reviews Store 0 items NintendoSoup Latest Nintendo News Doug Bowser Explains Why Nintendo Switch 2 Is Launching In June Doug Bowser Explains Why Nintendo Switch 2 Is Launching In June 2 days ago Iggy Comments 0 Comment When Nintendo announced that Nintendo Switch 2 will launch on June 5, 2025, some gamers were surprised by that, as they were expecting the console to launch in the later part of the year. In an NPR interview, Nintendo of America president Doug Bowser was asked about the decision to launch in June, and said that the company thought it was a very good timing after considering the game lineup they have ready to launch with the hardware. Here’s what he says in full: Why settle on June 5 as the release date? We like to think that the year is a year and that there are no specific time frames when you should or must launch video games. And so, as we looked at the games that we had prepared and ready to launch with the hardware, we thought June was a very good timing. It’s the start of summer season, and obviously, with a Nintendo Switch 2, you have a device that you can both play at home and play at home docked like a gaming console, or you can take it out of the dock and take it on the go. So it’s a perfect game for summer travel. What do you think? Let us know in the comments. Source: Link , Via Share this: Facebook X Switch 2 Switch 2 Post navigation PREVIOUS Rambi’s Theme Makes A Return To Donkey Kong Bananza NEXT You Can Drive Inside Daisy’s Palace In Mario Kart World What’s Hot Guide: How To Download Your Copy Of Mario Kart World From The Nintendo Switch 2 Mario Kart World Set Pokemon Fit Plushies Featuring Alola Pokemon Announced In Japan, Launching May 2025 Speedrunner Beats The Legend Of Zelda: Breath Of The Wild Switch 2 Edition At Preview Event Guide: List Of Nintendo Switch 2 Accessories Compatible With Nintendo Switch Nintendo Magazine 2025 Special Edition Featuring Switch 2 Now Available Online Rumor: Pokemon Gen 10 Setting Details Surface Guide: All You Need To Know About GameShare For Nintendo Switch 2 And Switch Build Your Own Animal Crossing Villager Design With This Fanmade Tool Social facebook twitter instagram youtube Find Search for: Search NintendoSoup Podcast NintendoSoup Store 1Print Games Feed | Privacy Policy | Contact | 任天汤 | 1Print Games Don’t miss the news! Keep yourself up to date on the latest Nintendo and Pokemon news with us on Facebook and Twitter . We do giveaways too! ×