Disney, 21st Century Fox Shareholders Approve $71.3 Billion Merger Toggle navigation Film TV Shorts Awards Tech VFX CG Animation VR/AR/MR Tools Biz Business Box Office Report Artist Rights Studios Cities Bay Area London Los Angeles Montreal New York City Vancouver Paris Toronto Country France Japan Canada UK Spain China Germany Ireland Mexico Charts & Data CALENDAR: 2024 Animated Movies Animation Industry Layoff Tracker Top 50 Most-Viewed Indie Youtube Shorts Search: Film TV Shorts Interviews Business VFX/Tech Artist Rights Box Office Festivals Business Disney Disney, 21st Century Fox Shareholders Approve $71.3 Billion Merger By Amid Amidi | 07/27/2018 11:28 pm | Be the First to Comment! Share Tweet Email 0 The Walt Disney Company and 21st Century Fox shareholders have voted in favor of Disney’s $71.3 billion buyout of a majority of Rupert Murdoch’s Fox assets. The deal between the two companies was announced last December . Last month, Comcast tried to outbid Disney , but Disney prevailed in the end. Shareholders from the two companies gathered for separate votes this morning at the New York Hilton. Voting was in favor at both meetings, with Disney shareholders nearly unanimous in their support of the takeover. More detailed coverage of today’s voting can be found on The New York Times and Variety . No ones knows at this point what the deal actually means. What we do know is that it’s a desperate Hail Mary on the part of Disney CEO Bob Iger and Fox chairman Rupert Murdoch to keep their old-guard media companies relevant as tech upstarts like Netflix, Amazon, Apple, and Facebook have aggressively moved into entertainment and content creation. Disney’s long-term plan is to forgo cable and satellite in favor of a ‘direct-to-consumer strategy,’ which Iger believes is “vital to the future of our media businesses” and the company’s “highest priority.” In terms of scale, the Fox acquisition dwarfs the previous ones that Iger made for Pixar, Marvel, and Lucasfilm, which cost around $16 billion total. This single Fox deal is 4.5x the size of those three companies combined. Disney now owns the film rights to Avatar, X-Men, Fantastic Four, Deadpool, The Grand Budapest Hotel, Hidden Figures, Gone Girl, Planet of the Apes, Ice Age, The Shape of Water, and The Martian, as well as tv rights to This Is Us, Modern Family, The Simpsons, Family Guy, The Americans, and dozens of other shows. They also get a controlling interest in the streaming service Hulu; FX Networks and National Geographic channels; and Indian media company Star, Tata Sky, and Endemol Shine Group. Around 5,000 to 10,000 Fox employees are expected to be laid off once regulatory approval is granted in various countries, and many Fox projects in development are guaranteed to be cancelled. As for the animation studio Blue Sky Studios and its parent Fox Animation, the future of both remains unknown at this point. Fox Animation had been expanding  its business, and had recently signed a deal with the U.K.’s Locksmith Animation to create a second pipeline for animated films, in addition to Blue Sky. Disney and Fox/Fox Searchlight currently have 48% of the market share at the 2018 U.S. box office. A single company controlling half of America’s theatrical movie spending is unprecedented territory. The merger is expected completed in the first half of 2019. At that time, Rupert Murdoch, whose Fox News Channel will remain separate, is set to become one of the largest individual shareholders of the Walt Disney Company. Bob Iger will stay on as CEO of Disney until late 2021 to oversee the integration of Fox’s businesses into Disney’s corporate culture. What Do You Think? Please enable JavaScript to view the poll powered by Disqus. Share Tweet Email 0 Read More: 21st Century Fox Bob Iger Rupert Murdoch Amid Amidi More Articles Amid Amidi is Cartoon Brew's Editor in Chief. Sponsored Stories from Cartoon Brew Sponsored by Basque Audiovisual A Year Of International Achievements And New Challenges For Basque Animation By Cartoon Brew Connect | 4 months ago Sponsored by Reallusion Learn How To Easily Turn Yourself Into An Animated Livestream Host With Cartoon Animator By Cartoon Brew Connect | 3 days ago Sponsored by San Jose State University SJSU Launches A Master Of Design In Animation For Aspiring Creators By Cartoon Brew Connect | 5 months ago Latest News from Cartoon Brew Cartoon Brew Pick ‘No Leaders, Please’ Is An Exploration Of The Fluid And Shapeshifting Nature Of Identity By Chris Robinson | 14 hours ago Feature Film Netflix To Release ‘KPOP Demon Hunters’ On June 20 By Amid Amidi | 15 hours ago Feature Film Annecy Selects 21 Animated Features For Competition Lineups By Amid Amidi | 2 days ago Feature Film Netflix Announces Annecy Festival Line-Up Including World Premiere Of ‘Fixed’ By Amid Amidi | 2 days ago Festivals Cartoon Network Studios 25th Anniversary Panel At Annecy Will Feature Genndy Tartakovsky, Craig McCracken, Rebecca Sugar, Pen Ward, And Others By Amid Amidi | 2 days ago Box Office Report Animated Films From Indie Distributors, Led By ‘The King Of Kings,’ Pack Theaters As Major Studios Continue To Ignore Animation By Amid Amidi | 3 days ago Anime GKIDS To Co-Produce And Distribute ‘100 Meters,’ New Film From ‘On-Gaku: Our Sound’ Director By Amid Amidi | 3 days ago Sponsored by Reallusion Learn How To Easily Turn Yourself Into An Animated Livestream Host With Cartoon Animator By Cartoon Brew Connect | 3 days ago Feature Film ‘Lesbian Space Princess’ Directors: “We Wanted To Make Something For All The ‘Little Gay Nerds’ Out There” By Kévin Giraud | 4 days ago Box Office Report ‘Jumbo’ Shatters ‘Frozen II’ Record In Indonesia, Becomes Highest-Grossing Animated Film In Country’s History By Amid Amidi | 7 days ago Cartoon Brew Pick The Oscar-Shortlisted Film ‘Eeva’ Has Debuted Online By Chris Robinson | 1 week ago Events This Sunday: The Animation Freakout Hangout, L.A.’s First All-Vintage Animation Festival By Amid Amidi | 1 week ago Share Tweet Email 0 About Cartoon Brew Staff Submit a Tip Comment Guidelines Contact us Advertise on Cartoon Brew Today ©2025 Cartoon Brew, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy 2 × ‹ › × Previous Next