James Cameron Explains How Expensive Avatar 2 Was to Make Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram Comic Book Movies and Superhero Movie News - SuperHeroHype Open Close Menu Movies TV Comics News Heroes Geek Culture Cosplay Videos Forums Shop Search Close Search Movies James Cameron Explains How Expensive Avatar 2 Was to Make November 22, 2022 By Dan Girolamo James Cameron will make his anticipated return to theaters with Avatar: The Way of Water later this year. As a noted perfectionist, Cameron has been working on this film for over 10 years. Between production delays and new technology, Avatar 2 will be one of the most expensive films ever made. With a rumored budget of $250 million, the film will need to make a substantial dent at the box office to turn a profit. When asked by GQ about the budget, Cameron bluntly said how expensive Avatar 2 was to make. “Very f***ing [expensive],” said Cameron. The director even told Disney and 20th Century Studios that the sequel is “the worst business case in movie history,” and to make a profit, Cameron said Avatar 2 needs to be “the third or fourth highest-grossing film in history. That’s your threshold. That’s your break even.” RELATED: Avatar: The Way of Water IMAX Poster Highlights New Flying Creatures Cameron is no stranger to big-budget productions. Terminator 2: Judgement Day , Titanic , and Avatar were all some of the most expensive films ever made upon their release. However, all three films became box office sensations, with Titanic and Avatar occupying two of the three spots for highest-grossing film of all time. With a proven track record of success, Cameron can now justify his work on expensive films. “And I used to be really defensive about that because it was always the first thing anybody would mention. And now I’m like, if I can make a business case to spend a billion dollars on a movie, I will fucking do it. Do you want to know why? Because we don’t put it all on a pile and light it on fire. We give it to people,” said Cameron. “If the studio agrees and thinks it’s a good investment, as opposed to buying an oil lease off of the north of Scotland, which somebody would think was a good investment, why not do it?” Avatar: The Way of Water hits theaters on December 16. Do you think Avatar 2 will become one of the highest-grossing films of all time? Leave your thoughts in the comments below! Recommended Reading: James Cameron: A Retrospective We are also a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program. This affiliate advertising program also provides a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites. Dan Girolamo Dan Girolamo is a multifaceted content creator with nearly a decade of experience in pop culture, sports, and entertainment. Dan has interviewed some of the top stars in the entertainment and sports industry, including Brendan Fraser, Alison Brie, Adam DeVine, Michael Bisping, and Machine Gun Kelly. 20th Century Studios Avatar 2 Avatar: The Way of Water Disney James Cameron Share article Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Pinterest Subscribe to our Newsletter Email Address Subscribe Trending Major X-Men Villain Gets Name Change Ahead of 2025 Event Originally known as En Sabah Nur, the Mutant called Apocalypse is one of the deadliest enemies of the X-Men. The… Comics 1 day ago Invincible Season 4’s Latest Update Will Excite Entire Fandom Invincible’s executive producer recently shared a Season 4 update, hinting at its release window in the animated superhero series. The… News 3 days ago Hailee Steinfeld Gives Production Update on Spider-Man: Beyond the Spider-Verse Hailee Steinfeld has given an update on Spider-Man: Beyond the Spider-Verse. Steinfeld voices Gwen Stacy in Sony’s Spider-Verse franchise, which… Movies 2 days ago Why Spider-Man Wasn’t in Daredevil: Born Again’s Finale Wondering why Spider-Man didn’t show up in Daredevil: Born Again’s explosive finale? Despite mounting chaos across New York City and… Guides 3 days ago Batman Turns to Oldest Ally to Save Joker in Hush 2 Part 2 Preview Years in Gotham City have given the Dark Knight a lot of friends and a lot of favors. Even so,… Comics 1 day ago Related James Cameron’s Wife ‘Bawled for 4 Hours’ After Watching Avatar: Fire and Ash While James Cameron’s Avatar franchise has heavily dominated the box office ever since its inception in 2009, it seems the… News 1 month ago Alien: Romulus Director Talks Support From Ridley Scott and James Cameron Alien: Romulus director Fede Álvarez revealed how previous franchise directors Ridley Scott and James Cameron contributed to the upcoming installment.… News 1 year ago Avatar 4K Review: Feeling Less Than Blu Avatar and its sequel get 4K physical discs at last. Movies 2 years ago Avatar 2 Video Celebrates Disney+ Release of The Way of Water Disney has released a new Avatar: The Way of Water video to celebrate Avatar 2’s arrival on Disney+, making the… Movies 2 years ago X About Us Contact Us Advertising Ad Choices Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions SuperHeroHype is a property of Evolve Media Holdings , LLC. © 2024 All Rights Reserved. | Affiliate Disclosure: Evolve Media Holdings, LLC, and its owned and operated subsidiaries may receive a small commission from the proceeds of any product(s) sold through affiliate and direct partner links.