Super Mario Odyssey 3D Adventure Video Game - Nintendo Switch | eBay Skip to main content Hi ! Hi! Sign in or register Daily Deals Brand Outlet Gift Cards Help & Contact Sell Watchlist Expand Watch List My eBay Expand My eBay Summary Recently Viewed Bids/Offers Watchlist Purchase History Buy Again Selling Saved Feed Saved Searches Saved Sellers My Garage Sizes My Collection Messages PSA Vault Expand Notifications Please sign-in to view notifications. Expand Cart Loading... eBay Home Shop by category Enter your search keyword All Categories Search Advanced Picture 1 of 4 Gallery Picture 1 of 4 Have one to sell? Sell now Share Thorns Warehouse (2733) 99.3% positive Seller's other items Seller's other items Contact seller Super Mario Odyssey 3D Adventure Video Game - Nintendo Switch US $81.75 or Best Offer Condition: Brand New Brand New More information - About this item condition Brand New An item that has never been opened or removed from the manufacturer’s sealing (if applicable). Item is in original shrink wrap (if applicable). See the seller's listing for full details. Buy It Now Super Mario Odyssey 3D Adventure Video Game - Nintendo Switch Sign in to check out Check out as guest Add to cart Make offer Add to Watchlist Oops! Looks like we're having trouble connecting to our server. Refresh your browser window to try again. Refresh Browser Breathe easy. Free shipping and returns. Shipping: Free USPS Priority Mail ® . See details for shipping Located in: Beverly Hills, Florida, United States Delivery: Estimated between Fri, May 2 and Wed, May 7 to 85033 Delivery time is estimated using our proprietary method which is based on the buyer's proximity to the item location, the shipping service selected, the seller's shipping history, and other factors. Delivery times may vary, especially during peak periods. Returns: 30 days returns . Seller pays for return shipping . See details - for more information about returns Payments: Diners Club Special financing available. See terms and apply now - for PayPal Credit, opens in a new window or tab Earn up to 5x points when you use your eBay Mastercard®. Learn more about earning points with eBay Mastercard Shop with confidence Top Rated Plus Top rated seller, fast shipping, and free returns. Learn more - Top Rated Plus - opens in a new window or tab eBay Money Back Guarantee Get the item you ordered or your money back. Learn more eBay Money Back Guarantee - opens new window or tab Report this item Report this item - opens in new window or tab About this item Seller assumes all responsibility for this listing. eBay item number: 387934105863 Item specifics Condition Brand New: An item that has never been opened or removed from the manufacturer’s sealing (if ... Read more about the condition Brand New: An item that has never been opened or removed from the manufacturer’s sealing (if applicable). Item is in original shrink wrap (if applicable). See the seller's listing for full details. See all condition definitions opens in a new window or tab Platform Nintendo Switch Release Year 2024 Rating E-Everyone MPN HACPAAACA Genre Platformer Publisher Nintendo Game Name Super Mario Odyssey UPC 0045496590741 Item description from the seller About this seller Thorns Warehouse 99.3% positive feedback • 8.4K items sold Joined Jul 2018 Usually responds within 24 hours Welcome to Thorns Warehouse! Since 2019, we have been a family-owned business dedicated to providing you with a diverse selection of high-quality products at great prices. Our mission is to offer ... See more Welcome to Thorns Warehouse! Since 2019, we have been a family-owned business dedicated to providing you with a diverse selection of high-quality products at great prices. Our mission is to offer exceptional customer service, ensuring your shopping experience is seamless and satisfying. With fast handling time, free shipping, free 30-day returns, and a commitment to customer satisfaction, you can shop with confidence. Our reputation is built on trust and reliability. Stay connected for updates on our latest products and exclusive deals. For even better prices, visit us at ThornsWarehouse.com. Thank you for choosing Thorns Warehouse. We look forward to serving you! See less Visit store Contact Save seller Detailed seller ratings Average for the last 12 months Accurate description 4.9 Reasonable shipping cost 5.0 Shipping speed 5.0 Communication 5.0 Seller feedback (2,640) Filter: All ratings All ratings Positive Neutral Negative 8***b (9) - Feedback left by buyer. Past month Verified purchase Great seller! Everything from shipping, packaging, value, and communication were excellent. Product was as described. Highly recommend! Inkognito Carnival of Spies in Venice Deduction Board Game Ares 2013 (#386897478074) e***t (192) - Feedback left by buyer. Past month Verified purchase GREAT item exactly as described! ACCURATE photos! GREAT packing! FAST shipping! GREAT communication! A++++++++++++++++++ Vintage Magic Mike Talking Robot 2002 Model B 1984 Smoking Action For Parts Only (#387440135763) b***b (1016) - Feedback left by buyer. Past month Verified purchase Item received in new condition, but in a box & not like pictured, fast shipping and great communication. Thanks Marbles Old Fashioned Match Safe (#386459535620) See all feedback Product ratings and reviews Learn more 4.9 1015 product ratings 5 963 users rated this 5 out of 5 stars 963 4 41 users rated this 4 out of 5 stars 41 3 3 users rated this 3 out of 5 stars 3 2 2 users rated this 2 out of 5 stars 2 1 6 users rated this 1 out of 5 stars 6 Good graphics Compelling gameplay Most relevant reviews See all 585 reviews by ewHQiXbRToG@Deleted Aug 29, 2018 Top favorable review AMAZING! Best game so far. Amazing graphics, beautiful, open world, mario has new outfits, ALOT of new features, It has EVERYTHING. It has EVERYTHING! Mario gets a lot of new outfits, the game is long with 999 possible power moons to get in the game (like how in past mario games you collected power stars, now its power moons.) My favorite thing so far is that in the desert, you can use a ride! He is like a lion named Jaxi. You can even get off the ride and if you dont go too far he's there when you get back. Now as for the graphics, they are amazing. Definetly the best graphics in a mario game so far. Its just a big open world game and the worlds are beautiful too! BEST MARIO GAME YET!!! ITS ACTUALLY THE MAIN REASON I BOUGHT A NINTENDO SWITCH! I have 2 of my in game screenshots below. It has EVERYTHING! Mario gets a lot of new outfits, the game is long with 999 possible power moons to get in the game (like how in past mario games you collected power stars, now its power moons.) My favorite thing so far is that in the desert, you can use a ride! He is like a lion named Jaxi. You can even get off the ride and if you dont go too far he's there when you get back. Now as for the graphics, they are amazing. Definetly the best graphics in a mario game so far. Its just a big open world game and the worlds are beautiful too! BEST MARIO GAME YET!!! ITS ACTUALLY THE MAIN REASON I BOUGHT A NINTENDO SWITCH! I have 2 of my in game screenshots below. Verified purchase: Yes Condition: Pre-Owned Sold by: dmzcloseouts by austivi1 Mar 26, 2019 A Fantastic Mario game I heard many great things about Super Mario Odyssey and I can say that I loved almost every minute of my journey in this game. Having no power ups was kinda weird but Capturing enemies is an awesome ability in exchange. Have you ever wondered what it was like to be a Paragoomba? How about a Cheep Cheep or even a T-Rex. This game has so much to do and so many things to collect. This is easily my favorite 3D Mario game hands down. The boss fights were pretty fun too. There's plenty of Kingdoms to explore. I heard many great things about Super Mario Odyssey and I can say that I loved almost every minute of my journey in this game. Having no power ups was kinda weird but Capturing enemies is an awesome ability in exchange. Have you ever wondered what it was like to be a Paragoomba? How about a Cheep Cheep or even a T-Rex. This game has so much to do and so many things to collect. This is easily my favorite 3D Mario game hands down. The boss fights were pretty fun too. There's plenty of Kingdoms to explore. Verified purchase: Yes Condition: New Sold by: tcgcards*com by gafulton Jun 05, 2018 Best. Mario. Ever. I love Mario games... played the old skool NES as a kid, loved MARIO 64 in high school, and nothing has compared to 64, for me, until now.   This was amazing.  Great graphics.  Intuitive gameplay and controls.  My 6 year old who has only ever games on an iPad latched onto this almost instantly and mastered the controls.   I played the game straight through and beat the final Bowser battle in about 10 hours- however there’s so much to do, I continued to play and for the next 2 weeks, we play for 2 hours a day and have yet to discover half of what’s available.    Amazing game.  Just buy it already!    Get it.  Just do it. I love Mario games... played the old skool NES as a kid, loved MARIO 64 in high school, and nothing has compared to 64, for me, until now.   This was amazing.  Great graphics.  Intuitive gameplay and controls.  My 6 year old who has only ever games on an iPad latched onto this almost instantly and mastered the controls.   I played the game straight through and beat the final Bowser battle in about 10 hours- however there’s so much to do, I continued to play and for the next 2 weeks, we play for 2 hours a day and have yet to discover half of what’s available.    Amazing game.  Just buy it already!    Get it.  Just do it. Verified purchase: Yes Condition: Pre-Owned Sold by: 2pac...... by yourbaconess Aug 24, 2018 Dangerously engaging and very forgiving Sometimes dangerously engaging. There's always another goal just five minutes away  and then suddenly it's been 3 hours. Performing special moves to get places can sometimes be difficult, but getting every single thing isn't necessary to advance through the game so even people like me who can't combo to save their life can enjoy it. Lots to do and discover even outside main plot, and has plenty even after the "end" Sometimes dangerously engaging. There's always another goal just five minutes away  and then suddenly it's been 3 hours. Performing special moves to get places can sometimes be difficult, but getting every single thing isn't necessary to advance through the game so even people like me who can't combo to save their life can enjoy it. Lots to do and discover even outside main plot, and has plenty even after the "end" Verified purchase: Yes Condition: Pre-Owned Sold by: superior661 by ramblinrose14 Dec 20, 2021 Great game for kids or adults! My 7 year old daughter loves playing this game on 2 player with me! It has just enough story and challenges to make it interesting but with the assist mode on keeps it easy enough for her to navigate and master. Can’t wait to keep exploring Mario worlds with her on our new switch!! My 7 year old daughter loves playing this game on 2 player with me! It has just enough story and challenges to make it interesting but with the assist mode on keeps it easy enough for her to navigate and master. Can’t wait to keep exploring Mario worlds with her on our new switch!! Verified purchase: Yes Condition: New Sold by: sodii Back to home page | See More Details about "Super Mario Odyssey - Nintendo Switch" Return to top | Listed in category: breadcrumb Electronics Video Games & Consoles Video Games See more Super Mario Odyssey - Nintendo Switch More to explore : Video Games for Nintendo Super Mario Odyssey Switches , Nintendo 3DS Super Mario 3D Land Video Games , Super Mario 3D Land Action & Adventure Nintendo Video Games , Odyssey Super Mario Nintendo Video Games , Nintendo 3DS Super Mario Land Action & Adventure Video Games , Nintendo 3DS Super Mario Bros. 2 Video Games , Paper Mario Nintendo 3DS Video Games , Nintendo 3DS New Super Mario Bros. Video Games , Super Mario Odyssey Video Games , Super Mario 3D World Video Games Shop Top Sellers and Highly Rated Products in Video Games Best Sellers The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom - Nintendo Switch Game Boy Advance Video: Pokémon -- Beach Blank-Out Blastoise & Go West Young Meowth (Nintendo Game Boy Advance, 2004) Mario Kart 8 -- Deluxe Edition (Nintendo Switch, 2017) [Physical] US Release Lunar Remastered Collection Nintendo Switch Ready to Ship Super Mario Bros Wonder - Nintendo Switch Top Rated Pokemon: Alpha Sapphire (Nintendo 3DS, 2014) Pokemon X (Nintendo 3DS, 2013) Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag (Sony PlayStation 4, 2013) Super Mario Bros Wonder - Nintendo Switch The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom - Nintendo Switch Related Searches Mario Odyssey Switch Mario Odyssey Super Mario Odyssey Digital Super Mario 3d World Switch Super Mario 3d Collection Switch Game Mario Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Mario Game Super Mario 3d All Stars Switch Super Mario Odyssey Nintendo Switch Bundle Super Mario on 3DS Super Mario Odyssey Vinyl Mario Odyssey Toys Juegos De Mario Nintendo Switch Super Mario 3d Mario Odyssey Amiibo About this seller Thorns Warehouse 99.3% positive feedback • 8.4K items sold Joined Jul 2018 Usually responds within 24 hours Welcome to Thorns Warehouse! Since 2019, we have been a family-owned business dedicated to providing you with a diverse selection of high-quality products at great prices. Our mission is to offer ... See more Welcome to Thorns Warehouse! Since 2019, we have been a family-owned business dedicated to providing you with a diverse selection of high-quality products at great prices. Our mission is to offer exceptional customer service, ensuring your shopping experience is seamless and satisfying. With fast handling time, free shipping, free 30-day returns, and a commitment to customer satisfaction, you can shop with confidence. Our reputation is built on trust and reliability. Stay connected for updates on our latest products and exclusive deals. For even better prices, visit us at ThornsWarehouse.com. Thank you for choosing Thorns Warehouse. We look forward to serving you! See less Visit store Contact Save seller Detailed seller ratings Average for the last 12 months Accurate description 4.9 Reasonable shipping cost 5.0 Shipping speed 5.0 Communication 5.0 Seller feedback (2,640) Filter: All ratings All ratings Positive Neutral Negative 8***b (9) - Feedback left by buyer. Past month Verified purchase Great seller! Everything from shipping, packaging, value, and communication were excellent. Product was as described. Highly recommend! Inkognito Carnival of Spies in Venice Deduction Board Game Ares 2013 (#386897478074) e***t (192) - Feedback left by buyer. Past month Verified purchase GREAT item exactly as described! ACCURATE photos! GREAT packing! FAST shipping! GREAT communication! A++++++++++++++++++ Vintage Magic Mike Talking Robot 2002 Model B 1984 Smoking Action For Parts Only (#387440135763) b***b (1016) - Feedback left by buyer. Past month Verified purchase Item received in new condition, but in a box & not like pictured, fast shipping and great communication. Thanks Marbles Old Fashioned Match Safe (#386459535620) See all feedback Copyright © 1995-2025 eBay Inc. All Rights Reserved. Accessibility , User Agreement , Privacy , Consumer Health Data , Payments Terms of Use , Cookies , CA Privacy Notice , Your Privacy Choices and AdChoice