Microsoft earns new US Army contract after fixing its combat mixed reality goggles | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI More Expand The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Menu Expand Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health COVID-19 Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters Command Line Installer Notepad Verge Deals Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. US Army orders more Microsoft AR headsets now that they no longer make soldiers want to barf Comments Drawer Tech / Microsoft US Army orders more Microsoft AR headsets now that they no longer make soldiers want to barf Microsoft’s latest HoloLens-like goggle prototypes aren’t causing nausea to soldiers testing them, earning the company a go-ahead new contract. Microsoft’s latest HoloLens-like goggle prototypes aren’t causing nausea to soldiers testing them, earning the company a go-ahead new contract. by Umar Shakir Sep 13, 2023, 5:29 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads A previous IVAS prototype sent to the Army by Microsoft. Image: US Army Umar Shakir is a news writer fond of the electric vehicle lifestyle and things that plug in via USB-C. He spent over 15 years in IT support before joining The Verge. The US Army is awarding Microsoft with another order of advanced mixed reality goggles designed for combat situations, Bloomberg reports . Microsoft had sent the Army a batch of 20 updated prototype headsets in late July, which were tested by two squads of soldiers in August who responded positively to improvements in its design: namely, they no longer felt nauseous and pained while wearing them. Microsoft, in the past year, has worked with the US Army to create HoloLens-like mixed reality headsets known as the Integrated Visual Augmentation System (IVAS), but initial reports in 2022 indicated it was causing headaches, nausea, and eyestrain in testing. The problematic headsets were part of an order of 5,000 headsets the Army started taking delivery in September 2022. The newer headsets, now on version 1.2, had “demonstrated improvements in reliability, low light sensor performance, and form factor,” Army spokesperson David Patterson tells Bloomberg . The US Army awarded Microsoft with another contract on September 5th for the new systems and to see if the company could scale production. The US Army had asked Congress to fund its purchase of 6,900 headsets from Microsoft, but it was denied earlier this year . Instead, Congress reduced the $400 million in funding the Army requested to just $40 million to improve the system. The Army awarded Microsoft that money plus an additional $125 million to continue development. The US Army plans to spend as much as $21.9 billion on the project, and the headset will undergo testing in 2025 by the Army for use in combat. Microsoft’s HoloLens tech continues to live on in these special military goggles, as the development of the home and work use cases of the headsets seems to have dropped off following layoffs affecting the teams involved in January. See More : AR Gadgets Microsoft News Policy Tech Virtual Reality Most Popular Most Popular The $20,000 American-made electric pickup with no paint, no stereo, and no touchscreen Meta is laying off employees in Reality Labs Yahoo wants to buy Chrome Netflix rolls out dialogue-only subtitles GameStop’s Switch 2 preorders started poorly, too Installer A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Microsoft Microsoft made an ad with generative AI and nobody noticed Microsoft’s design chief on human creation in the AI era Microsoft’s Xbox app is now available on LG smart TVs Microsoft 365 Copilot redesigned with new search, image, and notebook features Bethesda officially reveals Oblivion Remastered, available today Microsoft Copilot can now ‘see’ what’s on your screen in Edge Microsoft made an ad with generative AI and nobody noticed Dominic Preston 9:30 AM UTC Comments Comment Icon Bubble Microsoft’s design chief on human creation in the AI era Tom Warren Apr 24 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Microsoft’s Xbox app is now available on LG smart TVs Tom Warren Apr 23 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Microsoft 365 Copilot redesigned with new search, image, and notebook features Tom Warren Apr 23 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Bethesda officially reveals Oblivion Remastered, available today Tom Warren Apr 22 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Microsoft Copilot can now ‘see’ what’s on your screen in Edge Wes Davis Apr 16 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories 2:00 PM UTC My parents were extras in Apocalypse Now — is this their story? 55 minutes ago Google is killing software support for early Nest Thermostats 55 minutes ago Microsoft launches Recall and AI-powered Windows search for Copilot Plus PCs 2:20 AM UTC The Slate Truck is an EV pickup with no paint, no stereo, and no touchscreen Apr 24 Microsoft’s design chief on human creation in the AI era 11:42 AM UTC ChatGPT is getting a ‘lightweight’ version of its deep research tool The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved