2020 Tour de France - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Postponement 2 Teams 3 Pre-race favourites 4 Route and stages 5 Race overview Toggle Race overview subsection 5.1 Grand Départ and the first week 5.2 The second week and Pyrenees 5.3 The third week: the Alps, the time trial and the Champs-Élysées 6 Classification leadership and minor prizes 7 Final classification standings Toggle Final classification standings subsection 7.1 General classification 7.2 Points classification 7.3 Mountains classification 7.4 Young rider classification 7.5 Team classification 8 References 9 Bibliography 10 External links Toggle the table of contents 2020 Tour de France 33 languages العربية Asturianu Brezhoneg Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Español Esperanto Euskara Français Frysk Italiano עברית Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Magyar Македонски Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Polski Português Română Русский Slovenčina Slovenščina Српски / srpski Suomi Svenska Türkçe 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Cycling race Cycling race 2020 Tour de France 2020 UCI World Tour , race 12 of 21 Route of the 2020 Tour de France Race details Dates 29 August — 20 September 2020 [ 1 ] Stages 21 Distance 3,484.2 km (2,165 mi) Winning time 87h 20' 05" Results Winner Tadej Pogačar ( SLO ) ( UAE Team Emirates ) Second Primož Roglič ( SLO ) ( Team Jumbo–Visma ) Third Richie Porte ( AUS ) ( Trek–Segafredo ) Points Sam Bennett ( IRL ) ( Deceuninck–Quick-Step ) Mountains Tadej Pogačar ( SLO ) ( UAE Team Emirates ) Youth Tadej Pogačar ( SLO ) ( UAE Team Emirates ) Combativity Marc Hirschi ( SUI ) ( Team Sunweb ) Team Movistar Team ← 2019 2021 → The 2020 Tour de France was the 107th edition of the Tour de France , one of cycling's three Grand Tours . Originally scheduled to start on 27 June 2020, it was postponed until 29 August 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic in France . The race began in Nice on 29 August and concluded with its traditional run on the Champs-Élysées on 20 September. [ 2 ] A total of 176 riders from 22 teams participated in the race. The overall general classification was won for the first time by a Slovenian, Tadej Pogačar of UAE Team Emirates . His fellow countryman Primož Roglič ( Team Jumbo–Visma ) finished second, while Australian Richie Porte ( Trek–Segafredo ) came third. Alexander Kristoff won the bunch sprint on stage 1 to take the first yellow jersey of the tour. Julian Alaphilippe , who led much of the previous year's tour, took the lead of the race after winning stage 2. Alaphilippe received a 20-second penalty for receiving food too close to the finish on stage 5 and lost his lead to Adam Yates . Yates held the lead for four stages before losing significant time in the mountainous stage 9, handing the lead to Roglič. Roglič held the yellow jersey for 11 stages, but was overtaken during the penultimate stage 20 time trial by Pogačar. With only the traditional procession on the Champs-Élysées remaining, Pogačar held his lead on the final stage. The points classification was won by Deceuninck–Quick-Step 's Sam Bennett , marking the first time that Peter Sagan had not won the points classification in a Tour he finished. The mountains classification and the young rider classification were both won by Pogačar, making him the first rider to win the yellow, polka dot, and white jerseys in the same year. Pogačar is the first rider to win three distinctive jerseys since Eddy Merckx in 1972 , the first rider since Laurent Fignon in 1983 to win the Tour in his debut, and the first rider since Cadel Evans in 2011 to win the yellow jersey on the penultimate stage of the race. [ 3 ] Movistar Team won the team classification for the third consecutive year. Marc Hirschi of Team Sunweb was named the overall most combative rider. Pogačar won the most stages, with three. Postponement [ edit ] The 2020 Tour was in jeopardy of being cancelled as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic [ 4 ] resulting in a virtual Tour being held using Zwift . [ 5 ] On 14 April 2020 the International Cycling Union (UCI) announced the start of the 2020 Tour would be postponed until 29 August 2020, with the Giro d'Italia and Vuelta a España to follow in October. [ 6 ] Teams [ edit ] The team presentation in Nice Main article: List of teams and cyclists in the 2020 Tour de France The 2020 Tour de France peloton consisted of 22 teams. All nineteen UCI WorldTeams were entitled, and obliged, to enter the race. [ 7 ] Additionally, Amaury Sport Organisation (ASO), the organisers of the Tour, invited three second-tier UCI ProTeams to participate in the event. The teams were announced on 7 January 2020. With every team fielding eight riders, 176 riders started the race in Nice . As 30 riders abandoned during the race, 146 riders made it to the finish line on the Champs-Élysées in Paris. [ 8 ] Teams that participated: UCI WorldTeams AG2R La Mondiale Astana Bahrain–McLaren Bora–Hansgrohe CCC Team Cofidis Deceuninck–Quick-Step EF Pro Cycling Groupama–FDJ Ineos Grenadiers Israel Start-Up Nation Lotto–Soudal Mitchelton–Scott Movistar Team NTT Pro Cycling Team Jumbo–Visma Team Sunweb Trek–Segafredo UAE Team Emirates UCI ProTeams Arkéa–Samsic B&B Hotels–Vital Concept Total Direct Énergie Pre-race favourites [ edit ] This section is written like a personal reflection, personal essay, or argumentative essay that states a Wikipedia editor's personal feelings or presents an original argument about a topic. Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style . ( September 2020 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Bernal at the 2019 Tour de France Pre-race predictions in the media, as well as by the bookmakers , on the general classification , changed with the postponement of the Tour. Ineos Grenadiers 's Egan Bernal , the defending champion , sought to win a second consecutive title. Bernal's teammates, Geraint Thomas , who won in 2018 , as well as four-time Tour winner Chris Froome , both did not participate after sub-par showings in the Critérium du Dauphiné . Thibaut Pinot ( Groupama–FDJ ), who was among the top contenders the previous year but had to abandon due to injury, was another top contender. Team Jumbo–Visma 's duo of Primož Roglič , winner of the 2019 Vuelta a España , and Tom Dumoulin were also seen as top contenders, as was their teammate Steven Kruijswijk , who finished third the previous year, but had to withdraw from this year's race following an injury sustained in the Critérium du Dauphiné a few weeks prior to the Tour's start. Other riders considered as top contenders included: Miguel Ángel López ( Astana ), Romain Bardet , Emanuel Buchmann ( Bora–Hansgrohe ), who finished fourth in the previous year's Tour, Mikel Landa ( Bahrain–McLaren ), Guillaume Martin ( Cofidis ), Daniel Martínez (winner of the Critérium du Dauphiné), Nairo Quintana ( Arkéa–Samsic ), Tadej Pogačar ( UAE Team Emirates ), who finished third in the 2019 Vuelta a España , Richie Porte and Bauke Mollema ( Trek–Segafredo ). [ 9 ] [ 10 ] One of many outside contenders was Julian Alaphilippe , who wore the yellow jersey for 14 days the previous year and managed to finish fifth, but the Frenchman confirmed that his focus would be on winning stages and not targeting the general classification. [ 11 ] For the points classification , the big favorite was Slovakian Peter Sagan of Bora–Hansgrohe , who holds the record for the most wins of the points classification with seven. Some of the other favorites included Sam Bennett ( Deceuninck–Quick-Step ); Giacomo Nizzolo ( NTT Pro Cycling ), who won the Italian National Road Race Championships and the European Road Race Championships in the build-up to the Tour; Caleb Ewan ( Lotto–Soudal ), who won three stages the previous year; and Wout van Aert ( Team Jumbo–Visma ), winner of the 2020 Strade Bianche and 2020 Milan–San Remo . Other contenders are: Elia Viviani ( Cofidis ), Alexander Kristoff ( UAE Team Emirates ), Sonny Colbrelli ( Bahrain–McLaren ), and Matteo Trentin ( CCC Team ). [ 12 ] Leaders of the young rider , general and points classifications Egan Bernal , Julian Alaphilippe and Peter Sagan , respectively, lining up before stage 19 of the 2019 Tour de France Among the contenders for the mountains classification were the past three winners: 2017 winner Warren Barguil ( Arkéa–Samsic ), 2018 winner Julian Alaphilippe , and 2019 winner Romain Bardet ( AG2R La Mondiale ). Other notable top contenders included: Pierre Latour ( AG2R La Mondiale ); Pierre Rolland ( B&B Hotels–Vital Concept ); Ilnur Zakarin and Alessandro De Marchi ( CCC Team ), Guillaume Martin and Nicolas Edet ( Cofidis ); Dan Martin ( Israel Start-Up Nation ); Thomas De Gendt and Tim Wellens ( Lotto–Soudal ); Adam Yates ( Mitchelton–Scott ); Tiesj Benoot ( Team Sunweb ), Lilian Calmejane ( Total Direct Énergie ); and Davide Formolo and David de la Cruz ( UAE Team Emirates ). [ 13 ] The two main favorites for the young rider classification were defending champion Egan Bernal and Tour debutant Tadej Pogačar . Bernal's teammate Pavel Sivakov , as well as Colombian duo Sergio Higuita and Daniel Martínez ( EF Pro Cycling ), and David Gaudu ( Groupama–FDJ ) were also expected to do well in this classification. [ citation needed ] Two teams were considered the front-runners for the teams classification ; Ineos Grenadiers were led by defending champion Bernal and Carapaz; they previously won this classification in 2017 . Team Jumbo–Visma were led by Roglič and Dumoulin, as well as EF Pro Cycling and Trek–Segafredo . Movistar Team , which has won the teams classification in four of the last five Tours, were also expected to challenge for the classification despite losing several of their general classification leaders to other teams. [ citation needed ] Route and stages [ edit ] The start of the 2020 Tour (known as the Grand Départ ) took place in Nice . [ 14 ] This was the second occasion that the city has held the Grand Départ , the first being for the 1981 Tour de France . This was the 36th occasion on which the Tour de France has visited Nice, [ 15 ] and the first time since the 2013 Tour de France . [ 16 ] This year's race took place entirely within France. [ 17 ] Stage characteristics and winners [ 18 ] [ 19 ] Stage Date Course Distance Type Winner 1 29 August Nice to Nice 156 km (97 mi) Flat stage Alexander Kristoff ( NOR ) 2 30 August Nice to Nice 186 km (116 mi) Medium mountain stage Julian Alaphilippe ( FRA ) 3 31 August Nice to Sisteron 198 km (123 mi) Flat stage Caleb Ewan ( AUS ) 4 1 September Sisteron to Orcières-Merlette 160.5 km (99.7 mi) Hilly stage Primož Roglič ( SLO ) 5 2 September Gap to Privas 183 km (114 mi) Flat stage Wout van Aert ( BEL ) 6 3 September Le Teil to Mont Aigoual 191 km (119 mi) Hilly stage Alexey Lutsenko ( KAZ ) 7 4 September Millau to Lavaur 168 km (104 mi) Flat stage Wout van Aert ( BEL ) 8 5 September Cazères to Loudenvielle 141 km (88 mi) Mountain stage Nans Peters ( FRA ) 9 6 September Pau to Laruns 153 km (95 mi) Mountain stage Tadej Pogačar ( SLO ) 7 September Charente-Maritime Rest day 10 8 September Île d'Oléron to Île de Ré 168.5 km (104.7 mi) Flat stage Sam Bennett ( IRL ) 11 9 September Châtelaillon-Plage to Poitiers 167 km (104 mi) Flat stage Caleb Ewan ( AUS ) 12 10 September Chauvigny to Sarran 218 km (135 mi) Hilly stage Marc Hirschi ( SUI ) 13 11 September Châtel-Guyon to Puy Mary 191.5 km (119.0 mi) Medium mountain stage Daniel Martínez ( COL ) 14 12 September Clermont-Ferrand to Lyon 194 km (121 mi) Hilly stage Søren Kragh Andersen ( DEN ) 15 13 September Lyon to Grand Colombier 174.5 km (108.4 mi) Mountain stage Tadej Pogačar ( SLO ) 14 September Isère Rest day 16 15 September La Tour-du-Pin to Villard-de-Lans 164 km (102 mi) Mountain stage Lennard Kämna ( GER ) 17 16 September Grenoble to Méribel ( Col de la Loze ) 170 km (110 mi) Mountain stage Miguel Ángel López ( COL ) 18 17 September Méribel to La Roche-sur-Foron 175 km (109 mi) Mountain stage Michał Kwiatkowski ( POL ) 19 18 September Bourg-en-Bresse to Champagnole 166.5 km (103.5 mi) Flat stage Søren Kragh Andersen ( DEN ) 20 19 September Lure to La Planche des Belles Filles 36.2 km (22.5 mi) Mountain time trial Tadej Pogačar ( SLO ) 21 20 September Mantes-la-Jolie to Paris ( Champs-Élysées ) 122 km (76 mi) Flat stage Sam Bennett ( IRL ) Total 3,484.2 km (2,165.0 mi) Race overview [ edit ] Main articles: 2020 Tour de France, Stage 1 to Stage 11 and 2020 Tour de France, Stage 12 to Stage 21 Grand Départ and the first week [ edit ] Marc Hirschi wearing a face mask is interviewed after the 2nd stage. The journalist is maintaining a physical distance between him and the cyclist using a pole with the microphone attached to the end. The first three stages of the Tour would begin in Nice, France, in late August due to the worldwide pandemic. Stage one was intended to be a flat sprinter's stage around the city, and began as expected with a three rider breakaway. The break was caught early in the stage, after racing for the King of the Mountains points were split equally, with the jersey won by Fabien Grellier for getting there first. With 100 km to go, an unseasonable driving rainstorm moved in causing the roads to become treacherous throughout the remainder of the day. [ 20 ] Despite the peloton calling a truce in the interest of safety, Miguel Ángel López , John Degenkolb , Philippe Gilbert , Caleb Ewan , Rafael Valls , Julian Alaphilippe , George Bennett and many other riders were involved in crashes, causing several of them to abandon. With 3 km to go there was a large pileup along the Promenade des Anglais in downtown Nice. [ 21 ] The race jury decided anyone involved in this crash would receive the same time as the winner. Alexander Kristoff was involved in this crash, but because the sprinters' teams and leadout trains were not operating at top speed, as they would under normal conditions, he was able to make his way back to the front and beat the defending World Champion Mads Pedersen , as well as Bol , Bennett , Sagan and Viviani to win the stage and take the yellow jersey. Stage two saw better weather, as well as two Category 1 climbs. The previous stage, Gilbert fractured a kneecap and Valls broke his leg, and neither started the stage. [ 22 ] Attacks began early with Cosnefroy , Asgreen , Skujiņš , Gogl , Trentin , Sagan, Postlberger and Perez forming the escape bunch, but were unable to gain more than three minutes from the peloton. Cosnefroy attacked on the Col de la Colmiane, reaching the summit alone to claim the KOM points. By the time the main field reached the summit, the gap had closed to two minutes, as many riders were dropped from the peloton including the yellow jersey of Kristoff and Mads Pedersen . By the climb of the Col d'Eze with 40 km to go, the breakaway group had been caught and Nicolas Roche was the first over the top. [ 22 ] With 13 km to go in the stage, on the day's final climb, Alaphilippe attacked and was joined by Adam Yates and Marc Hirschi . Led by the Jumbo squad of Primož Roglič and Tom Dumoulin , the peloton chased, but the trio managed to stay away on the descent and build a small gap. During the pursuit, Michał Kwiatkowski bumped into Dumoulin, causing a violent crash and interrupting the pace Team Jumbo was setting in pursuit of the breakaway. [ 23 ] Approaching the finish line on the Promenade des Anglais, the peloton was only two seconds behind as Alaphilippe won the day and the yellow jersey for the second time in his career, as Hirschi, Yates, Greg Van Avermaet and Sergio Higuita rounded out the top 5. Stage three departed the Allianz Riviera en route to Sisteron . Jérôme Cousin , Perez and Cosnefroy were involved in the breakaway, with the latter two racing for the right to wear the polka dot jersey in the early stages. Perez won enough points to take the jersey from Cosnefroy and was therefore in the virtual jersey when they both fell back from the group to rejoin the peloton, leaving Cousin on his own with over a hundred kilometres to go. Perez, however, crashed into his team car, and then the side of the mountain on the descent when the car suddenly stopped in front of him and he was forced to abandon the race. [ 24 ] Cosnefroy retained the jersey as a result and would be in good position to defend it over the next few stages. Cousin was caught with 16 km to go. The sprint finish saw Sam Bennett appear to be in very good position to claim his first ever stage in the Tour de France when a late charging Ewan came by Sagan, Hugo Hofstetter , Giacomo Nizzolo as well as Bennett to take the win. [ 25 ] Stage four was anticipated to be the first test among the GC riders to see who was in the best form being as the stage finished with a climb. In the same region that Luis Ocaña had his famous solo breakaway in 1971 . The breakaway of six riders formed and took the majority of the intermediate sprint and mountains points with one of the riders, Tiesj Benoot crashing and actually splitting his seatpost in two. [ 26 ] Benoot avoided serious injury and continued the race as the breakaway eventually fragmented with the final escapee in Krists Neilands being caught as the final climb began. Wout van Aert and Sepp Kuss set the pacemaking late in the stage shaking off everyone but the group of favorites. Kuss drove a dominant pace all the way up the climb when with 500 meters to go Guillaume Martin attacked and Kuss peeled off as his teammate Roglič and the rest of the favorites pursued. Roglič won the stage definitively [ 27 ] with Tadej Pogačar coming in 2nd, Martin finishing 3rd, Nairo Quintana in 4th and Alaphilippe finishing 5th retaining the yellow jersey. Other favorites in Defending champ Egan Bernal, Dumoulin, Lopez, Mikel Landa and 2nd place overall Adam Yates also came across in good order. Stage five was a flat stage in which several breakaways were attempted, but none actually succeeded. Cosnefroy grabbed the two points to stay in the polka dot jersey while Sam Bennett took the intermediate sprint points and finished 3rd at the finish line, behind Cees Bol and stage winner Wout van Aert, to claim the green jersey from Sagan. The yellow jersey also switched riders as race leader Julian Alaphilippe accepted food inside 20 km to go, which is a penalty for safety reasons, and was docked twenty seconds. As a result, Yates took over the maillot jaune, although he was less than pleased to learn that he was being awarded it in this manner as he stated, "Nobody wants to take the jersey like this. I was on the bus and we were about to leave for the hotel when I got the call…. tomorrow I'll give it everything to defend the jersey…" [ 28 ] This was the second time being involved in a controversial swapping of the yellow jersey for Yates as during the 2016 edition when Chris Froome ended up running up Mont Ventoux Yates finished the stage and was temporarily officially in yellow by a few seconds over Froome, until after the stage was over and the Jury decided to give Froome the same time as Bauke Mollema who had also been involved in the incident, which allowed Froome to keep his lead. [ 29 ] Stage six began at Le Teil and finished at Mont Aigoual , a climb made famous by writer and semi-pro cyclist Tim Krabbé . The stage saw a large group of riders form an escape bunch including Van Avermaet, Roche, Cavagna , Powless , Herrada , Lutsenko , Oss and Edvald Boasson Hagen . Their gap eventually exceeded six minutes and Herrada, Van Avermaet, Lutsenko and Powless would survive to finish ahead of the peloton with Lutsenko riding away from everyone and soloing to victory. [ 30 ] Yates would perform well and defend his yellow jersey with a three-second advantage over Roglič, with the majority of the other GC contenders about ten seconds behind him. Stage seven saw a major split in the main field due in part to the weather, with very high crosswinds creating splits in the peloton, and due to the extreme pace set very early on in the stage by the Ineos Grenadiers and Team Bora on the first climb of the day, who were trying to drop the competition of Peter Sagan who was aiming to reclaim the green jersey from Bennett. [ 31 ] The plan worked out for both teams as not only were the sprinters and contenders for the stage win in Bennett, Nizzolo, Kristoff, Bol and Ewan left behind, but so were many of Bernal's competitors in the GC who lost over a minute by the end of the day. Riders who had their hopes at victory or a podium finish take a serious hit included Mollema, Pogačar, Landa , Porte and Carapaz while Bernal, Roglič, Dumoulin, Lopez, Yates, Urán , Pinot , Bardet , Quintana and Guillaume Martin survived in the lead group securing their position. The most significant breakaway attempt of the day came from veteran Belgian rider Thomas De Gendt , who rode solo for about 60 kilometers, but he was caught by the lead group long before the finish. At the finish line Wout van Aert took his second stage win in three days besting Boasson Hagen and Bryan Coquard at the line. Yates remained in the overall lead, Sagan was back in the green jersey and Bernal took the white jersey from Pogačar. The second week and Pyrenees [ edit ] Stage eight was a mountain stage where a breakaway of thirteen riders eventually formed and began to build a gap. Being as none of the escaped riders were a threat to the GC contenders the peloton allowed them to extend their advantage. The intermediate sprint was won by Cousin with Cosnefroy defending the polka dot jersey taking maximum points on the first climb of the day which was the infamous Col de Menté . With the gap back to the main field continuously growing it became clear the breakaway riders would fight amongst themselves for the stage win on the upcoming Port de Balès and Col de Peyresourde . Nans Peters and Ilnur Zakarin had the strongest legs and fought for the stage win, with Peters attacking and dropping Zakarin to solo to victory. [ 32 ] Toms Skujiņš and Carlos Verona both rode strongly, and eventually caught and dropped Zakarin to round out the stage podium. Zakarin crossed 4th and in 5th was Neilson Powless , who wasn't even supposed to be in the breakaway as Team EF intended to get either Dani Martínez or Hugh Carthy into the break, but Powless was in the right place at the right time when the attacks came. When asked about it following the race he stated, "It's amazing… it's incredible. If my role was to sit in the group and support Rigo ... I’d be happy, and that will be my role soon enough." [ 33 ] Among the GC contenders there were some shakeups, notably including top French contender Pinot seeing his chances slip away due to a back injury, Alaphilippe struggling and also losing over ten minutes and Tom Dumoulin losing two minutes. Gaining time was Tadej Pogačar , who attacked on the final climb making up some of the time he lost in the crosswinds the previous day, putting himself back into the top 10 in the process. Stage nine was the second Pyreneean mountain stage. Four riders had abandoned the race the previous stage leaving 168 riders to sign in and start the stage. [ 34 ] The breakaway attempts were thwarted from early on in the day as Jumbo and Ineos attempted to control and dictate the pace for the benefit of Roglič and Bernal. Cosnefroy jumped out front in the first 10 km in defense of the polka dot jersey and Swiss rider Marc Hirschi made a serious attack to escape but it never materialized. EF Pro Cycling and Trek–Segafredo also attempted to get a breakaway formed and Alaphilippe of Deceuninck–Quick-Step took a shot at trying to get away as well. Tom Dumoulin became the most powerful super-domestique in the race when he sacrificed himself for the team during the previous stage [ 35 ] and in conjunction with the climbing abilities of George Bennett, Wout van Aert and Sepp Kuss team Jumbo was proving to be the strongest team in the Tour. For the previous decade it has unquestionably been Team Sky/Ineos Grenadiers , however they were missing both Chris Froome and Geraint Thomas . Even without these former champs Ineos was still a threat to defend as champs and the jockeying of these teams controlled the race until Marc Hirschi broke free with 90 km to go on the first Cat-1 climb of the day. About eight other riders tried bridging the gap up to him and formed an escape group including Thibaut Pinot attempting to set something up for his Groupama–FDJ teammates to go for a stage win, Sébastien Reichenbach among them. Also taking their shot was Warren Barguil , Omar Fraile , Lennard Kämna and Dani Martínez, but they were not able to catch Hirschi, who had a gap extending beyond +2:00 and was the only rider up the road. Fabio Aru of team UAE Team Emirates , who had come into the race as team leader, fell into difficulty and off the back leaving Pogačar, who was riding in his first Tour, as the GC hope for the team. At most Hirschi had a gap exceeding +4:30 but by the time he began the final climb on the Col de Marie-Blanque a minute had been shaved off that. Van Aert and Kuss of Team Jumbo–Visma viciously attacked the climb at the head of the elite group and as the summit approached Hirschi's lead had been cut to about +0:30. Pogačar launched an attack with about 3 km to go, which was answered by most of the GC riders but the yellow jersey of Adam Yates began to fall behind. Egan Bernal was the next rider to attack and of the final group only Roglič, Landa and Pogačar went with him. With 2 km to go Hirschi, who had been riding solo for 88 km, pulled up as he realized he had been caught. He was not dropped however, so hope for the stage win was not yet lost, and these five riders rode on towards the finish. Hirschi launched his sprint first, however Pogačar and Roglič bested him on the line with Pogačar becoming the youngest stage winner in decades and Roglič becoming the first Slovenian rider to wear the yellow jersey as the majority of the other GC riders limited their losses to about ten seconds or so, not including time bonuses. [ 36 ] Bernal was now in 2nd +0:21 behind, Guillaume Martin was in 3rd at +0:28 with Quintana, Bardet, Uran and Pogačar not far behind him. Following the rest day stage ten was slated to be a flat stage along the Atlantic coast from the island of Oléron to the island of Île de Ré . Before the start of the stage it was revealed that Director of the Tour de France Christian Prudhomme had tested positive for COVID-19 . [ 37 ] He was not in any contact with riders or team members so the race wasn't effected but he did move into isolation for seven days. The attacks came as soon as 'the race is on' was declared with Stefan Küng of Team FDJ and Michael Schär of CCC Team being the two riders who escaped the peloton. The pace of the main field was for the most part controlled by Deceuninck and Lotto–Soudal as they intended the stage to finish in a bunch sprint. It would as the escapees never extended their lead much beyond +2:00 and were back within the bunch about 70 kilometers into the race at which point team Ineos Grenadiers and EF Pro Cycling took control of the pace. There were a few crashes, including one between 7th place Pogačar and 3rd place Guillaume Martin, neither of whom lost time but they both had to put in a hard chase to get back to the group. [ 37 ] Küng attacked again on the bridge to Île de Ré but was brought back and with 10 km to go the leadout trains began to form for the upcoming sprint. Coquard, Greipel, Pedersen and Elia Viviani were all there in the end but the podium was filled by Sagan, Ewan and Sam Bennett, who claimed his first stage win in the Tour de France. Bennett also reclaimed the green jersey from Sagan and would not relinquish the Maillot Vert for the rest of the Tour. This would end up becoming the first time Peter Sagan finished a Tour de France where he did not win the Points Competition. Stage eleven was another flat stage suited perfectly for a bunch sprint and this is what it turned out to be once the Most Combative Rider and only breakaway rider in Mathieu Ladagnous was caught by the bunch. In the final kilometers the leadout trains formed for Sagan and Bennett, who were fighting for the green jersey, as well as those going for the stage win in Coquard, Hoffstetter, Pedersen, Ewan, Van Aert, Mezgec and Clément Venturini of AG2R La Mondiale who was being led out by Oliver Naesen . Ewan won the day in a photo-finish with Sagan initially finishing 2nd followed by Bennett in 3rd. Ewan said of the win, "Once you have one you want two, and now I have two. I want a third on the Champs-Élysées ... I didn't know if I'd won because I threw my bike and was looking down… but sometimes you can just feel it." [ 38 ] Sagan was found guilty of improper sprinting and relegated to the bottom of the standings for the stage. This decision moved Bennett up to 2nd for the stage and made a notable difference in the green jersey standings. Stage twelve saw a six rider breakaway that was caught with less than 50 km to go, but the Most Combative Rider would not come from this escape group due to the way the stage ended. Team Sunweb had lost their GC hope in Tom Dumoulin in the off-season, and the rider they intended to support during the Tour, former green jersey winner Michael Matthews , [ citation needed ] was absent with injury so they had come into the race with nothing to hope for but stage wins. They had several riders survive in the final group and two of them attacked near the end of the stage but it was Marc Hirschi who was able to stay away. His teammates Roche, Benoot and Kragh-Andersen refused to cooperate with Reichenbach, Rolland, Schachmann, Quentin Pacher and the others trying to chase him down. After coming up just short twice already, Hirschi won the stage in convincing fashion with no changes coming in the overall situation. Stage thirteen saw numerous breakaway attempts early in the day but none of them managed to escape. About 60 km into the stage a large group of strong riders managed to get away and work together to continuously extend their advantage. Seventeen riders in the total including Geschke , Madouas , Schachmann , Alaphilippe, Powless, Kämna , Dani Martínez and Pierre Rolland among others. As the stage progressed their advantage grew and eventually reached +11:00 before it started coming down meaning the stage winner would come from this group. Late in the stage Powless of Team EF would attack and be joined by Schachmann of Team Bora, but eventually both of them would fall back and it would be their teammates Martínez and Kämna who would fight for the stage win with Martínez taking the victory by surging ahead in the final hundred meters before it came down to a sprint. Back down the road in the overall situation Primož Roglič attacked in an effort to build on his small lead. His attack worked as many of the GC contenders lost half a minute or more. Pogačar joined Roglič and stayed with him, as a result jumping from 7th place to 2nd place while Bernal dropped to 3rd. Bardet came into the day in 4th but along with Mollema suffered a crash and had to abandon the race. Martin fell out of the top 10 as Richie Porte rode strongly and broke into the top 10 for the first time. Stage fourteen was a 194-kilometer-long hilly stage with four categorized climbs, three small ones and a single Cat-2, the Col du Béal. It was a tailor-made stage for Sagan, who had won several stages like this throughout his career and had more stage wins than any other rider in the Tour. [ 39 ] His team, Bora–Hansgrohe , intended to control the breakaways as well as the entire peloton in order to put him in position to win. The early breakaway consisted of Stefan Küng and Edward Theuns with Theuns winning the maximum intermediate sprint points and Küng dropping him on the climbs to claim the KOM points. They were caught after being away for about 100 km and the surviving peloton controlled the race from then on. Sagan was able to claim more points than Bennett in the sprints but Team Sunweb was working hard to control the bunch as they had several surviving riders including Benoot , Andersen , Hirschi and even their sprinter Cees Bol , virtually any one of whom would be capable of winning the stage. [ 40 ] Inside 12 km to go numerous attacks came one after another from some of the strongest riders in the sport including Van Avermaet, Alaphilippe, Sagan, De Gendt, Benoot and Hirschi but all of these attempts were contained. The only rider to stay away was Søren Kragh Andersen who launched his attack with 3 km to go, which nobody was able to match. Andersen crossed the line alone claiming his first Tour stage win and +0:15 later Simone Consonni and Luka Mezgec rounded out the podium ahead of Peter Sagan who finished 4th. The overall situation at the end of the second week remained static. Roglič and Team Jumbo were firmly in command of the race as he maintained his lead of just under a minute on Pogačar and defending champ Bernal and just over a minute on Urán and Quintana . The hardest part of the Tour was just ahead however, as beginning in stage fifteen there would be four consecutive high mountain stages in the Alps, which would be followed by more climbing with a difficult individual time trial. The third week: the Alps, the time trial and the Champs-Élysées [ edit ] There were several attempts to get a breakaway formed early in stage fifteen but the accelerations of Sagan and Bennett fighting for intermediate sprint points frustrated all attempts. Eventually a group of eight would break free but they were unable to gain enough time to threaten for a stage win. Matteo Trentin of CCC Team , who was in 3rd place in the points competition, attacked the breakaway and gained a lead of about twenty seconds while claiming the maximum intermediate sprint points, but he was eventually caught by the other breakaway riders. Back down the road in the main field there was a fairly serious crash when Bob Jungels accidentally grazed the front tire of Sergio Higuita causing the latter to viciously crash into the pavement. He remounted and tried to ride on but before long the pain set in and Higuita realized he might have been seriously hurt and had to abandon. He was taken to the hospital as a precaution; fortunately x-rays showed no broken bones. [ 41 ] Later in the stage Michael Gogl of NTT Pro Cycling broke clear of the other breakaway riders and built a bit of a gap. Eventually Pierre Rolland of B&B Hotels–Vital Concept would also leave the rest of the escapees behind to join Gogl. These two were the final two riders up the road when the group of favorites caught them at the foot of the final climb, the Col du Grand Colombier , with the Rolland being awarded Most Combative Rider. On this climb Jumbo-Visma riders Van Aert, Bennett, Kuss and Dumoulin set a vicious pace that put many riders into serious difficulty including Guillaume Martin, Egan Bernal and Nairo Quintana. The climb was seventeen kilometers long and about halfway through Yates attacked and got away briefly, but was only able to stay away for a kilometer or so before he was caught. As it neared the final kilometer one of the only riders still strong enough to attack after the assault of the Jumbo-Visma riders was Richie Porte. [ 42 ] He went clear and only Roglič, Pogačar and Miguel Ángel López went with him. In the end Pogačar accelerated ahead of Roglič to take the stage victory as Porte crossed 3rd +0:05 later with Lopez in 4th three seconds beyond Porte. Coming in +0:15 behind Roglič and Pogačar was Enric Mas , Sepp Kuss , who had put in much of the work for Roglič, Mikel Landa and Adam Yates with Rigoberto Urán and veteran rider Alejandro Valverde of Movistar Team a few seconds after that. Quintana was able to limit his losses and remain in the top 10, but Bernal was not and this effectively ended the championship reign of Team Ineos. [ 43 ] Stage winner Pogačar commented after the stage, "I don't know what happened to Bernal, but Team Jumbo–Visma set a terrible pace and some riders paid for it." [ 42 ] Overall Roglič was still in command of the maillot jaune by +0:40 over Pogačar and +1:34 over Rigoberto Urán, with López, Yates, Porte and Landa within about two minutes going into the final rest day. Following the rest day the testing of the riders, trainers and staff continued as usual. Throughout the race a handful of staff from four different teams had come back positive but all 785 personnel inside the 'race bubble' tested negative prior to stage sixteen, [ 44 ] so all 156 riders still in the race signed in to start. It was a mostly clear day, about 75 degrees and included five categorized climbs with two Cat-2's and a Cat-1 among them. With less climbing than other high mountain stages major changes in the GC were not anticipated, but there would be no shortage of riders hoping for a stage win. As such the attacks and breakaway attempts began almost as soon as 'the race is on' was declared. Eight kilometers into the stage Pinot, Alaphilippe, Richard Carapaz of Team Ineos and twenty-two other riders went clear. Nine kilometers later Carapaz attacked again shaking up this group. By the time of the sixty kilometer mark there were twenty-three riders in the breakaway. The surviving peloton was content to let this group get away as Tony Martin and Robert Gesink took their turns for Jumbo-Visma at the front of the main field. Eventually the breakaway would have a gap exceeding +12:00, which would continue to widen, but the size of the group would be whittled down as the race rolled on. With 35 kilometers to go Quentin Patcher attacked and rode off the front of the group. After following a long turn at the front by Andrey Amador four others rode off in pursuit of Patcher with Carapaz, Reichenbach, Kämna and Alaphilippe. Several of these riders had claimed KOM points but Benoît Cosnefroy would still be in the polka dot jersey at the end of the day. As the stage neared the finish nearly +17:00 separated the leaders on the road from the group of favorites and eighteen of the breakaway riders would finish ahead of the elite group. Lennard Kämna launched the decisive move reaching the finish line more than a minute ahead of Carapaz, [ 45 ] who would be awarded the only red number for his combativeness. None of the breakaway riders were a threat to the overall leaders and there were no major attacks or changes in the standings among them. Stage seventeen was the queen stage and being as it included two Cat-HC climbs where the riders would climb above 6,000 feet in elevation on both occasions, it was the type of stage which could decide the Tour. Right from the start about twenty riders broke clear either chasing sprint points or trying to form an escape bunch to go for the stage win. Among them Thomas De Gendt tried his luck to attack the breakaway and built a bit of a gap. By the time they reached the first climb, Col de la Madeleine five riders were at the front. Carapaz, Alaphilippe and Kämna were battling each other for the second day in a row and Gorka Izagirre and Dan Martin were right there among them. Kämna was the first to fall back as this group would have a gap of better than six minutes before it started coming down. Martin eventually got dropped as the gap to the breakaway continued to steadily wither due to Damiano Caruso and Pello Bilbao of Team Bahrain–McLaren driving a hard pace at the front of the yellow jersey group for the benefit of Mikel Landa . As a result, the next riders over the first climb were in the elite group and Pogačar took the 3rd place mountains points which was enough for him to take the polka dot jersey from Cosnefroy. Going up the final climb, the Col de la Loze Carapaz was the only rider left out front but his gap was being reduced with each passing kilometer. Carapaz was eventually caught and as the stage approached the finish the pace set by Roglič dropped all of the surviving contenders except for Porte, Pogačar, 'Superman' Lopez and his own teammate Sepp Kuss. [ 46 ] It would be Lopez who launched the decisive move to claim the stage win and while both Roglič and Pogačar tried to chase him down he won the stage as Roglič added +0:15 to his lead over Pogačar and beyond that to everybody else in the race. Roglič now had a lead of +0:57 on Pogačar as Lopez jumped up to third on the podium at +1:26 behind. Porte, Yates, Uran and Landa were now all beyond +3:00 from Roglič, but separated from one another by barely twenty seconds. [ 47 ] Egan Bernal , Stefan Küng , Mikel Nieve and Jens Debusschere either did not start, did not finish or finished outside the time limit on stage seventeen leaving 150 riders to sign in at the start of stage eighteen. [ 48 ] In the case of Mikel Nieve this was notable because prior to his abandon he had finished every grand tour he had started his entire career, eighteen of them in a row, and finished inside the top 25 of every one of them. There was a neutral start to the stage, but after this section was cleared 'the race is on' was declared and the attacks came quickly. Sagan and Bennett continued battling for the green jersey with Bennett extending his lead by another five points at the first sprint of the day. 32 riders broke clear initially, but on the first climb of the day it would be reduced to 19. About an hour into the stage the active rider with the 2nd most career wins, German rider André Greipel of Team Arkéa–Samsic , called it quits and abandoned. Carapaz, Alaphilippe and Marc Hirschi were fighting amongst themselves for KOM points being as they were all within striking distance of the polka dot jersey of Pogačar. Hirschi took some points early but he would eventually crash while trying to rejoin the breakaway group, which he would never get back to, although he would be named most combative rider for the third time in the Tour. In the end the day belonged to Team Ineos as the final surviving riders were both Ineos riders in Michał Kwiatkowski and Richard Carapaz . They both celebrated while casually cruising across the finish line with Kwiatkowski getting the stage victory and Carapaz securing the polka dot jersey from Pogačar. [ 49 ] Among the GC riders Mikel Landa launched a furious attack to escape from the yellow jersey group and several highly placed riders lost time including Quintana, Yates and Uran. Richie Porte also fell back after getting a flat tire on the gravel section but he was able to make it back to the elite group meaning places 1-4 were the same as the previous day. 5th place was now occupied by Landa and in 6th place Enric Mas of Movistar Team was the only other rider within +5:00 of Roglič. With the high mountains finished Roglič seemed to be in a secure position as far as winning the Tour, but after the stage he was not about to declare the race over yet as he commented, "After the time trial there will be a decision known of the rankings but also tomorrow is another day to be really focused. It's far from being really safe." [ 49 ] Stage nineteen saw an early breakaway by Rémi Cavagna who attacked four kilometers into the stage. Not long after a chase group formed with the intent of bridging up to him. In this group was Geoffrey Soupe of Team Total Direct Énergie , Cyril Barthe , Dylan van Baarle and Max Walscheid . Also in this chase group was Guillaume Martin , although his presence was not welcome in the breakaway because he was highly placed in the general classification [ 50 ] which meant the peloton would be far more likely to increase their pace to prevent any advantage where the escape group might threaten for the stage win. Martin however, did not care as he was concerned with winning the Tour de France, but once he realized he could not realistically break back into the top 10 he fell back into the bunch. By the halfway point of the stage all of these chase riders would be back in the fold as Cavagna was still up the road with about a two-minute gap. He too would be caught before long and then later in the stage another breakaway of twelve riders went off the front. In this group were the three riders fighting for the green jersey in Bennett, Sagan and Matteo Trentin , who was not far behind Sagan in the points competition, on this last stage to win serious points before the finale in Paris. Sagan attacked this group twice, [ 51 ] trying to make it a decisive victory over Bennett but he could never break away. The only one who did break free was Søren Kragh Andersen who had gotten away from a similar breakaway group a week earlier. With sixteen kilometers left he got out in front and his advantage only grew from there. The Dane would win the stage by nearly a minute as Luka Mezgec and Jasper Stuyven rounded out the stage podium. The overall situation remained exactly the same going into the penultimate individual time trial of stage twenty. Of the early riders to complete the time trial, the best time of the day was put in by Rémi Cavagna, who would lead the race for several hours. Wout van Aert would eventually beat his time. Ninth place rider Tom Dumoulin would beat Van Aert's time by ten seconds to put himself in first position, placing him in serious contention for the stage win. Landa did not threaten to win the stage but rode strongly enough to jump to 4th place overall for the second time in his career. Fourth place rider Richie Porte , who fell short of Dumoulin's time by less than a second, moved into 3rd place overall. Porte took the final podium position, becoming just the second Australian rider to make a Tour de France podium . [ 52 ] Lopez would fall to 5th place in the general classification. Primož Roglič , wearing the maillot jaune , was the final rider to take the start gate two minutes after 2nd place Pogačar. By the time he hit the first checkpoint he too was riding strongly, but was a few seconds behind Pogačar, who was absolutely flying by this point. The performance was touted as "historic" and received comparisons to the LeMond-Fignon tour finish . As Pogačar approached the finish it was all but certain that he was going to win his third stage, win the white jersey, take the polka dot jersey from Carapaz and win the Tour de France by close to, if not over a minute. [ 53 ] Pogačar gained a minute and 56 seconds on Roglič, winning the stage, the general classification, mountains classification, and young rider's classification in the process. Pogačar became the first rider to win the tour on a penultimate time trial since Cadel Evans in 2011 and the first since Laurent Fignon to win the race in his Tour debut and the first since Eddy Merckx to win three jerseys in a single Tour. [ 54 ] Stage twenty one was the celebration ride into Paris for Pogačar and UAE Team Emirates . Once the circuit finish around the Champs-Élysées began the stage turned into the sprinters teams containing any attacks to see to it this coveted sprinters stage ended in a bunch sprint. As the finish approached Max Walscheid, Caleb Ewan, Wout van Aert, Bryan Coquard, former Champs-Élysées winner Alexander Kristoff of Team UAE, Elia Viviani of Team Cofidis and Hugo Hofstetter of Team Israel Start-Up Nation all fought their way to the front to go for the win but it was Sagan, Pedersen and Sam Bennett who filled the podium with Bennett taking the win and putting an exclamation point on his green jersey winning Tour. The final podiums included Sam Bennett in the green jersey, Marc Hirschi as the Most Combative Rider and the team competition was won by Movistar Team for the 3rd year in a row. The white jersey, polka dot jersey and yellow jersey were all won by Tadej Pogačar . Classification leadership and minor prizes [ edit ] Tadej Pogačar , Paris, stage 21. Four main individual classifications and a team competition were contested in the race. The most important was the general classification, calculated by adding each rider's finishing times on each stage. [ 55 ] Time bonuses (time subtracted) were awarded at the end of every stage apart from the time trial stages. The first three riders received 10, 6, and 4 seconds, respectively. [ 56 ] In an effort to animate racing in the general classification, time bonuses of 8, 5, and 2 seconds respectively were also awarded for the first three riders across a mountain summit, given out on eight climbs. These occurred on stages 2, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 16, and 18. [ 56 ] For crashes within the final 3 km (1.9 mi) of a stage, not including time trials and summit finishes, any rider involved received the same time as the group he was in when the crash occurred. [ 57 ] The rider with the lowest cumulative time was the winner of the general classification and was considered to be the overall winner of the Tour. [ 58 ] Additionally, there was a points classification. Riders received points for finishing among the highest placed in a stage finish, or in intermediate sprints during the stage. The points available for each stage finish were determined by the stage's type, and sprints, with the first fifteen places in all receiving points. In flat stages, 50 points were given to the stage winner, down to 2 points for 15th place. In hilly stages, the winner gained 30 points, also down to 2 points. In mountain stages, individual time trials and intermediate sprints, 20 points were given to the winners, down to 1 point. [ 55 ] The cyclist with the most points led the classification, and was identified with a green jersey. [ 55 ] There was also a mountains classification. Most stages of the race included one or more categorised climbs, in which points were awarded to the riders that reached the summit first. The climbs were categorised as fourth-, third-, second-, and first-category and hors catégorie , with the more difficult climbs rated lower. Mountains ranked hors catégorie gave 20 points to the first rider to cross the summit, down to 2 points to the 8th cyclist. For first-category climbs, 6 riders received points, with 10 for the first rider to reach the summit. Second-, third- and fourth-category climbs gave 5, 2 and 1 points to the first rider respectively. [ 56 ] Double points were awarded at the top of the Méribel Col de la Loze in the seventeenth stage, the highest point in the 2020 Tour at 2,304 m (7,559 ft) above sea level. [ 56 ] The cyclist with the most points led the classification, and wore a white jersey with red polka dots. [ 55 ] The final individual classification was the young rider classification, which was identical to the general classification, but including only riders under 26 years. In order to compete in the classification, riders were required to be born after 1 January 1995. [ 56 ] The leader of the young rider classification wore a white jersey. [ 55 ] The classification for the teams was calculated by adding together the times of the first three cyclists of a team on each stage; the leading team was the one with the lowest cumulative time. The number of stage victories and placings per team determined the outcome of a tie. [ 56 ] The riders on the team that led this classification were identified with yellow number bibs on the back of their jerseys and yellow helmets . [ 55 ] In addition, there was a combativity award given after each stage to the rider considered, by a jury, to have "made the greatest effort and who demonstrated the best qualities of sportsmanship". [ 56 ] No combativity awards were given for the time trials and the final stage. [ 56 ] The winner wore a red number bib for the following stage. [ 55 ] At the conclusion of the Tour, the overall super-combativity award was awarded by a jury. [ 56 ] A total of €2,293,000 was awarded in cash prizes in the race. [ 59 ] The overall winner of the general classification received €500,000, with the second and third placed riders receiving €200,000 and €100,000 respectively. [ 60 ] All finishers in the top 160 were awarded money. [ 60 ] The holders of the classifications were awarded on each stage they led; the final winners of the points and mountains were awarded €25,000, while the best young rider and most combative rider were awarded €20,000. [ 61 ] The team classification winners earned €50,000. [ 59 ] €11,000 was awarded to the winners of each stage of the race, with smaller amounts given to places 2–20. [ 60 ] There was also a special award with a prize of €5000: the Souvenir Henri Desgrange , given to the first rider to pass the summit of the highest climb in the Tour, the Col de la Loze on stage 17. [ 59 ] Classification leadership by stage Stage Winner General classification Points classification Mountains classification Young rider classification Team classification Combativity award 1 Alexander Kristoff Alexander Kristoff Alexander Kristoff Fabien Grellier Mads Pedersen Trek–Segafredo Michael Schär 2 Julian Alaphilippe Julian Alaphilippe Benoît Cosnefroy Marc Hirschi Benoît Cosnefroy 3 Caleb Ewan Peter Sagan Jérôme Cousin 4 Primož Roglič Tadej Pogačar EF Pro Cycling Krists Neilands 5 Wout van Aert Adam Yates Sam Bennett Wout Poels 6 Alexey Lutsenko Nicolas Roche 7 Wout van Aert Peter Sagan Egan Bernal Daniel Oss 8 Nans Peters Nans Peters 9 Tadej Pogačar Primož Roglič Movistar Team Marc Hirschi 10 Sam Bennett Sam Bennett Stefan Küng 11 Caleb Ewan Mathieu Ladagnous 12 Marc Hirschi Marc Hirschi 13 Daniel Martínez Tadej Pogačar EF Pro Cycling Maximilian Schachmann 14 Søren Kragh Andersen Stefan Küng 15 Tadej Pogačar Movistar Team Pierre Rolland 16 Lennard Kämna Richard Carapaz 17 Miguel Ángel López Tadej Pogačar Julian Alaphilippe 18 Michał Kwiatkowski Richard Carapaz Marc Hirschi 19 Søren Kragh Andersen Rémi Cavagna 20 Tadej Pogačar Tadej Pogačar Tadej Pogačar no award 21 Sam Bennett Final Tadej Pogačar Sam Bennett Tadej Pogačar Tadej Pogačar Movistar Team Marc Hirschi On stage 2, Peter Sagan , who was third in the points classification, wore the green jersey, because first placed Alexander Kristoff wore the yellow jersey as leader of the general classification, and second placed Mads Pedersen wore the white jersey as the leader of the young rider classification. On stage 18, Enric Mas , who was second in the young rider classification, wore the white jersey, because first placed Tadej Pogačar wore the polka-dot jersey as the leader of the mountains classification. On stage 21, Enric Mas , who was second in the young rider classification, wore the white jersey, because first placed Tadej Pogačar wore the yellow jersey as the leader of the general classification. For the same reason, Richard Carapaz , who was second in the mountains classification, wore the polka-dot jersey. Final classification standings [ edit ] Legend Denotes the winner of the general classification [ 62 ] Denotes the winner of the mountains classification [ 62 ] Denotes the winner of the points classification [ 62 ] Denotes the winner of the young rider classification [ 62 ] Denotes the winner of the team classification [ 62 ] Denotes the winner of the combativity award [ 62 ] General classification [ edit ] Final general classification (1–10) [ 63 ] Rank Rider Team Time 1 Tadej Pogačar ( SLO ) UAE Team Emirates 87h 20' 05" 2 Primož Roglič ( SLO ) Team Jumbo–Visma + 59" 3 Richie Porte ( AUS ) Trek–Segafredo + 3' 30" 4 Mikel Landa ( ESP ) Bahrain–McLaren + 5' 58" 5 Enric Mas ( ESP ) Movistar Team + 6' 07" 6 Miguel Ángel López ( COL ) Astana + 6' 47" 7 Tom Dumoulin ( NED ) Team Jumbo–Visma + 7' 48" 8 Rigoberto Urán ( COL ) EF Pro Cycling + 8' 02" 9 Adam Yates ( GBR ) Mitchelton–Scott + 9' 25" 10 Damiano Caruso ( ITA ) Bahrain–McLaren + 14' 03" Final general classification (11–146) [ 63 ] Rank Rider Team Time 11 Guillaume Martin ( FRA ) Cofidis + 16' 58" 12 Alejandro Valverde ( ESP ) Movistar Team + 17' 41" 13 Richard Carapaz ( ECU ) Ineos Grenadiers + 25' 53" 14 Warren Barguil ( FRA ) Arkéa–Samsic + 31' 04" 15 Sepp Kuss ( USA ) Team Jumbo–Visma + 42' 20" 16 Pello Bilbao ( ESP ) Bahrain–McLaren + 55' 56" 17 Nairo Quintana ( COL ) Arkéa–Samsic + 1h 03' 07" 18 Pierre Rolland ( FRA ) B&B Hotels–Vital Concept + 1h 08' 26" 19 Carlos Verona ( ESP ) Movistar Team + 1h 19' 54" 20 Wout van Aert ( BEL ) Team Jumbo–Visma + 1h 20' 31" 21 Marc Soler ( ESP ) Movistar Team + 1h 31' 53" 22 Gorka Izagirre ( ESP ) Astana + 1h 36' 12" 23 Esteban Chaves ( COL ) Mitchelton–Scott + 1h 38' 45" 24 Sébastien Reichenbach ( SUI ) Groupama–FDJ + 1h 39' 27" 25 Kenny Elissonde ( FRA ) Trek–Segafredo + 1h 40' 06" 26 Mikaël Cherel ( FRA ) AG2R La Mondiale + 1h 40' 51" 27 Valentin Madouas ( FRA ) Groupama–FDJ + 1h 42' 43" 28 Daniel Martínez ( COL ) EF Pro Cycling + 1h 55' 12" 29 Thibaut Pinot ( FRA ) Groupama–FDJ + 1h 59' 54" 30 Michał Kwiatkowski ( POL ) Ineos Grenadiers + 2h 06' 32" 31 Romain Sicard ( FRA ) Total Direct Énergie + 2h 13' 02" 32 Luis León Sánchez ( ESP ) Astana + 2h 13' 47" 33 Lennard Kämna ( GER ) Bora–Hansgrohe + 2h 15' 39" 34 George Bennett ( NZL ) Team Jumbo–Visma + 2h 15' 49" 35 Alexis Vuillermoz ( FRA ) AG2R La Mondiale + 2h 16' 19" 36 Julian Alaphilippe ( FRA ) Deceuninck–Quick-Step + 2h 19' 11" 37 Hugh Carthy ( GBR ) EF Pro Cycling + 2h 20' 31" 38 Emanuel Buchmann ( GER ) Bora–Hansgrohe + 2h 21' 57" 39 Rudy Molard ( FRA ) Groupama–FDJ + 2h 26' 53" 40 Jan Polanc ( SLO ) UAE Team Emirates + 2h 29' 54" 41 Dan Martin ( IRL ) Israel Start-Up Nation + 2h 30' 25" 42 Robert Gesink ( NED ) Team Jumbo–Visma + 2h 30' 35" 43 Bob Jungels ( LUX ) Deceuninck–Quick-Step + 2h 33' 30" 44 Jesús Herrada ( ESP ) Cofidis + 2h 34' 50" 45 Harold Tejada ( COL ) Astana + 2h 37' 02" 46 Alexey Lutsenko ( KAZ ) Astana + 2h 39' 37" 47 Hugo Houle ( CAN ) Astana + 2h 39' 54" 48 Simon Geschke ( GER ) CCC Team + 2h 44' 27" 49 Nicolas Edet ( FRA ) Cofidis + 2h 48' 44" 50 Greg Van Avermaet ( BEL ) CCC Team + 2h 49' 50" 51 Niklas Eg ( DEN ) Trek–Segafredo + 2h 50' 04" 52 Thomas De Gendt ( BEL ) Lotto–Soudal + 2h 51' 56" 53 Quentin Pacher ( FRA ) B&B Hotels–Vital Concept + 2h 54' 17" 54 Marc Hirschi ( SUI ) Team Sunweb + 2h 54' 34" 55 Nelson Oliveira ( POR ) Movistar Team + 3h 01' 41" 56 Neilson Powless ( USA ) EF Pro Cycling + 3h 03' 09" 57 Maximilian Schachmann ( GER ) Bora–Hansgrohe + 3h 03' 28" 58 Søren Kragh Andersen ( DEN ) Team Sunweb + 3h 06' 26" 59 Dylan van Baarle ( NED ) Ineos Grenadiers + 3h 07' 42" 60 Omar Fraile ( ESP ) Astana + 3h 13' 41" 61 Oliver Naesen ( BEL ) AG2R La Mondiale + 3h 22' 04" 62 Alberto Bettiol ( ITA ) EF Pro Cycling + 3h 24' 55" 63 Felix Großschartner ( AUT ) Bora–Hansgrohe + 3h 25' 17" 64 Nicolas Roche ( IRL ) Team Sunweb + 3h 27' 13" 65 Nans Peters ( FRA ) AG2R La Mondiale + 3h 27' 46" 66 Winner Anacona ( COL ) Arkéa–Samsic + 3h 32' 40" 67 Jan Hirt ( CZE ) CCC Team + 3h 34' 58" 68 Ben Hermans ( BEL ) Israel Start-Up Nation + 3h 37' 12" 69 Michael Schär ( SUI ) CCC Team + 3h 38' 55" 70 José Joaquín Rojas ( ESP ) Movistar Team + 3h 40' 49" 71 Jasper Stuyven ( BEL ) Trek–Segafredo + 3h 40' 52" 72 David de la Cruz ( ESP ) UAE Team Emirates + 3h 41' 20" 73 Michael Valgren ( DEN ) NTT Pro Cycling + 3h 41' 45" 74 Imanol Erviti ( ESP ) Movistar Team + 3h 48' 00" 75 Tiesj Benoot ( BEL ) Team Sunweb + 3h 48' 50" 76 Matej Mohorič ( SLO ) Bahrain–McLaren + 3h 49' 02" 77 Andrey Amador ( CRC ) Ineos Grenadiers + 3h 49' 04" 78 Cyril Gautier ( FRA ) B&B Hotels–Vital Concept + 3h 51' 57" 79 Matteo Trentin ( ITA ) CCC Team + 3h 52' 10" 80 Dario Cataldo ( ITA ) Movistar Team + 3h 52' 51" 81 Toms Skujiņš ( LAT ) Trek–Segafredo + 3h 53' 09" 82 Vegard Stake Laengen ( NOR ) UAE Team Emirates + 3h 53' 17" 83 Jack Bauer ( NZL ) Mitchelton–Scott + 4h 00' 34" 84 Peter Sagan ( SVK ) Bora–Hansgrohe + 4h 04' 15" 85 Krists Neilands ( LAT ) Israel Start-Up Nation + 4h 11' 03" 86 Pierre-Luc Périchon ( FRA ) Cofidis + 4h 14' 28" 87 Pavel Sivakov ( RUS ) Ineos Grenadiers + 4h 15' 38" 88 Luka Mezgec ( SLO ) Mitchelton–Scott + 4h 17' 07" 89 Jens Keukeleire ( BEL ) EF Pro Cycling + 4h 18' 47" 90 Dries Devenyns ( BEL ) Deceuninck–Quick-Step + 4h 20' 41" 91 Tejay van Garderen ( USA ) EF Pro Cycling + 4h 22' 20" 92 Casper Pedersen ( DEN ) Team Sunweb + 4h 24' 13" 93 Sonny Colbrelli ( ITA ) Bahrain–McLaren + 4h 24' 42" 94 Mathieu Ladagnous ( FRA ) Groupama–FDJ + 4h 24' 52" 95 Dayer Quintana ( COL ) Arkéa–Samsic + 4h 25' 50" 96 Cyril Barthe ( FRA ) B&B Hotels–Vital Concept + 4h 27' 07" 97 Daryl Impey ( RSA ) Mitchelton–Scott + 4h 28' 39" 98 Tom Van Asbroeck ( BEL ) Israel Start-Up Nation + 4h 33' 17" 99 Christopher Juul-Jensen ( DEN ) Mitchelton–Scott + 4h 34' 03" 100 Alessandro De Marchi ( ITA ) CCC Team + 4h 34' 06" 101 Edvald Boasson Hagen ( NOR ) NTT Pro Cycling + 4h 34' 19" 102 Kévin Ledanois ( FRA ) Arkéa–Samsic + 4h 35' 48" 103 Joris Nieuwenhuis ( NED ) Team Sunweb + 4h 38' 50" 104 Clément Venturini ( FRA ) AG2R La Mondiale + 4h 39' 08" 105 Daniel Oss ( ITA ) Bora–Hansgrohe + 4h 40' 46" 106 Connor Swift ( GBR ) Arkéa–Samsic + 4h 41' 59" 107 Christophe Laporte ( FRA ) Cofidis + 4h 44' 30" 108 Anthony Turgis ( FRA ) Total Direct Énergie + 4h 44' 57" 109 Roman Kreuziger ( CZE ) NTT Pro Cycling + 4h 45' 26" 110 Wout Poels ( NED ) Bahrain–McLaren + 4h 47' 23" 111 Marco Marcato ( ITA ) UAE Team Emirates + 4h 48' 47" 112 Simone Consonni ( ITA ) Cofidis + 4h 53' 50" 113 Rémi Cavagna ( FRA ) Deceuninck–Quick-Step + 4h 58' 46" 114 Kasper Asgreen ( DEN ) Deceuninck–Quick-Step + 5h 00' 04" 115 Hugo Hofstetter ( FRA ) Israel Start-Up Nation + 5h 00' 14" 116 Benoît Cosnefroy ( FRA ) AG2R La Mondiale + 5h 00' 43" 117 Fabien Grellier ( FRA ) Total Direct Énergie + 5h 01' 32" 118 Tony Martin ( GER ) Team Jumbo–Visma + 5h 05' 28" 119 Edward Theuns ( BEL ) Trek–Segafredo + 5h 08' 10" 120 Nils Politt ( GER ) Israel Start-Up Nation + 5h 09' 02" 121 Ryan Gibbons ( RSA ) NTT Pro Cycling + 5h 09' 32" 122 Bryan Coquard ( FRA ) B&B Hotels–Vital Concept + 5h 10' 32" 123 Geoffrey Soupe ( FRA ) Total Direct Énergie + 5h 10' 40" 124 Mads Pedersen ( DEN ) Trek–Segafredo + 5h 11' 03" 125 Jonas Koch ( GER ) CCC Team + 5h 12' 04" 126 Nikias Arndt ( GER ) Team Sunweb + 5h 13' 11" 127 Tim Declercq ( BEL ) Deceuninck–Quick-Step + 5h 14' 52" 128 Amund Grøndahl Jansen ( NOR ) Team Jumbo–Visma + 5h 17' 28" 129 Luke Rowe ( GBR ) Ineos Grenadiers + 5h 17' 50" 130 Michael Mørkøv ( DEN ) Deceuninck–Quick-Step + 5h 26' 21" 131 Mathieu Burgaudeau ( FRA ) Total Direct Énergie + 5h 27' 38" 132 Alexander Kristoff ( NOR ) UAE Team Emirates + 5h 28' 28" 133 Clément Russo ( FRA ) Arkéa–Samsic + 5h 28' 45" 134 Max Walscheid ( GER ) NTT Pro Cycling + 5h 29' 38" 135 Elia Viviani ( ITA ) Cofidis + 5h 30' 01" 136 Maxime Chevalier ( FRA ) B&B Hotels–Vital Concept + 5h 31' 30" 137 Kévin Reza ( FRA ) B&B Hotels–Vital Concept + 5h 31' 37" 138 Sam Bennett ( IRL ) Deceuninck–Quick-Step + 5h 32' 33" 139 Guy Niv ( ISR ) Israel Start-Up Nation + 5h 34' 43" 140 Cees Bol ( NED ) Team Sunweb + 5h 38' 16" 141 Niccolò Bonifazio ( ITA ) Total Direct Énergie + 5h 42' 13" 142 Jasper De Buyst ( BEL ) Lotto–Soudal + 5h 43' 07" 143 Marco Haller ( AUT ) Bahrain–McLaren + 5h 46' 27" 144 Caleb Ewan ( AUS ) Lotto–Soudal + 5h 50' 25" 145 Frederik Frison ( BEL ) Lotto–Soudal + 6h 01' 48" 146 Roger Kluge ( GER ) Lotto–Soudal + 6h 07' 02" Points classification [ edit ] Final points classification (1–10) [ 63 ] Rank Rider Team Points 1 Sam Bennett ( IRL ) Deceuninck–Quick-Step 380 2 Peter Sagan ( SVK ) Bora–Hansgrohe 284 3 Matteo Trentin ( ITA ) CCC Team 260 4 Bryan Coquard ( FRA ) B&B Hotels–Vital Concept 181 5 Wout van Aert ( BEL ) Team Jumbo–Visma 174 6 Caleb Ewan ( AUS ) Lotto–Soudal 170 7 Julian Alaphilippe ( FRA ) Deceuninck–Quick-Step 150 8 Tadej Pogačar ( SLO ) UAE Team Emirates 143 9 Søren Kragh Andersen ( DEN ) Team Sunweb 138 10 Michael Mørkøv ( DEN ) Deceuninck–Quick-Step 138 Mountains classification [ edit ] Final mountains classification (1–10) [ 63 ] Rank Rider Team Points 1 Tadej Pogačar ( SLO ) UAE Team Emirates 82 2 Richard Carapaz ( ECU ) Ineos Grenadiers 74 3 Primož Roglič ( SLO ) Team Jumbo–Visma 67 4 Marc Hirschi ( SUI ) Team Sunweb 62 5 Miguel Ángel López ( COL ) Astana 51 6 Benoît Cosnefroy ( FRA ) AG2R La Mondiale 36 7 Pierre Rolland ( FRA ) B&B Hotels–Vital Concept 36 8 Richie Porte ( AUS ) Trek–Segafredo 36 9 Nans Peters ( FRA ) AG2R La Mondiale 32 10 Lennard Kämna ( GER ) Bora–Hansgrohe 27 Young rider classification [ edit ] Final young rider classification (1–10) [ 63 ] Rank Rider Team Time 1 Tadej Pogačar ( SLO ) UAE Team Emirates 87h 20' 05" 2 Enric Mas ( ESP ) Movistar Team + 6' 07" 3 Valentin Madouas ( FRA ) Groupama–FDJ + 1h 42' 43" 4 Daniel Martínez ( COL ) EF Pro Cycling + 1h 55' 12" 5 Lennard Kämna ( GER ) Bora–Hansgrohe + 2h 15' 39" 6 Harold Tejada ( COL ) Astana + 2h 37' 02" 7 Niklas Eg ( DEN ) Trek–Segafredo + 2h 50' 04" 8 Marc Hirschi ( SUI ) Team Sunweb + 2h 54' 34" 9 Neilson Powless ( USA ) EF Pro Cycling + 3h 03' 09" 10 Pavel Sivakov ( RUS ) Ineos Grenadiers + 4h 15' 38" Team classification [ edit ] Final team classification (1–10) [ 63 ] Rank Team Time 1 Movistar Team 262h 14' 58" 2 Team Jumbo–Visma + 18' 31" 3 Bahrain–McLaren + 57' 10" 4 EF Pro Cycling + 1h 16' 43" 5 Ineos Grenadiers + 1h 32' 01" 6 Trek–Segafredo + 1h 39' 39" 7 Astana + 1h 47' 15" 8 AG2R La Mondiale + 2h 58' 47" 9 UAE Team Emirates + 3h 06' 46" 10 Mitchelton–Scott + 3h 25' 10" References [ edit ] ^ "Tour de France sets new planned August start on original course" . ESPN . 14 April 2020 . Retrieved 14 April 2020 . ^ "Tour de France to go ahead at end of August after coronavirus delay" . BBC Sport . Retrieved 15 April 2020 . ^ Stephanie Mahe (20 September 2020). "Fact Box Tour de France Champion Tadej Pogačar" . Reuters . Archived from the original on 2 November 2020. ^ "Tour de France set to be postponed amid coronavirus pandemic" . BBC Sport . Retrieved 14 April 2020 . ^ "Virtual Tour de France" . ^ "UCI reveal new men's and women's post-COVID-19 race calendar" . Cyclingnews.com . 5 May 2020 . Retrieved 5 May 2020 . ^ UCI cycling regulations 2020 , p. 215. ^ "Teams selected for the 2020 Tour de France" . Tour de France . Amaury Sport Organisation . Retrieved 7 January 2020 . ^ Ostanek, Daniel (25 August 2020). "Tour de France 2020: The contenders" . Cyclingnews . Retrieved 29 August 2020 . ^ Guinness, Rupert (28 August 2020). "The top 10 contenders who will fight to wear the yellow jersey in Paris" . Sydney Morning Herald . Retrieved 29 August 2020 . ^ Farrand, Stephen (27 August 2020). "Julian Alaphilippe: I'll be aggressive like always" . CyclingNews . Retrieved 29 August 2020 . ^ Benson, Daniel (28 August 2020). "Sean Kelly on this year's Tour de France sprinters and the battle for green" . CyclingNews . Retrieved 29 August 2020 . ^ Lowe, Felix (26 August 2020). "TOUR DE FRANCE 2020 – POLKA DOT JERSEY GUIDE: ADAM YATES V JULIAN ALAPHILIPPE?" . Eurosport . Retrieved 29 August 2020 . ^ "Tour de France: Britain's Chris Froome says 2020 Tour route is 'brutal' as he aims for fifth title" . BBC Sport . Retrieved 15 October 2019 . ^ "2020 Tour de France to start in Nice" . Cyclingnews.com . 12 March 2018 . Retrieved 6 July 2018 . ^ Wynn, Nigel (12 March 2018). "Nice announced as host for Tour de France 2020 Grand Départ" . Cycling Weekly . Retrieved 6 July 2018 . ^ "Official Route of Tour de France 2020" . Tour de France . Amaury Sport Organisation . Retrieved 10 September 2020 . ^ "Official route of Tour de France 2020" . Tour de France . Amaury Sport Organisation . Retrieved 20 May 2020 . ^ Windsor, Richard (25 October 2018). "Tour de France 2019 route revealed: Five summit finishes to celebrate 100th anniversary of the yellow jersey" . Cycling Weekly . Archived from the original on 21 June 2019 . Retrieved 18 December 2018 . ^ "Thibault Pinot on Tour de France Stage 1 Crash: it was like we were riding on ice" . Velonews.com. 29 August 2020. ^ "Highlights and Results From the 2020 Tour de France" . Bicycling.com. 20 September 2020. ^ a b "Julian Alaphilippe Finds His Way Back To Glory" . Letour.fr. 30 August 2020. ^ "Highlights and Results From the 2020 Tour de France" . Bicycling.com. 20 September 2020. ^ "anthony-perez-suffered-multiple-injuries-after-colliding-with-team-car-and-hitting-cliff-wall-at-tour-de-france-" . Alex Ballinger. 1 September 2020. ^ Luke McLoughlin (31 August 2020). "Tour de France 2020 Caleb Ewan Wins Stage 3 as it Happens" . The Guardian . ^ "Roglič sends warning to rivals with le tour stage 4 victory" . Reuters . 1 September 2020. ^ "Roglic send warning to rivals with le tour stage 4 victory" . Reuters. 1 September 2020. ^ "Tour de France Results" . Bicycling.com. 20 September 2020. ^ "Adam Yates: Froome is Rightful Wearer of the Yellow Jersey" . Barry Ryan. 14 July 2016. ^ "Alexey Lutsenko Takes Stage 6; American gets 4th" . Olympic Talk NBC Sports. 3 September 2020. ^ Julien Pretot (4 September 2020). "Tour Springs Into Life as Pogacar Loses Time and Van Aert Secures Double" . Reuters . ^ "Tour de France 2020 Stage 8 Result" . Procyclingstats.com. 5 September 2020. ^ "Stage 8 Recap" . EF.com. 5 September 2020. ^ "TDF Daily Stage 09" . BikeRaceInfo.com. 6 September 2020. ^ "Dumoulin Sacrificed for Roglic After Jumbo-Visma Shake the Tree" . Alistair Fotheringham. 5 September 2020. ^ "Pogačar Wins From Five-Up Sprint, Roglič Takes Yellow Jersey" . Velonews.com . 6 September 2020. ^ a b "TDF Daily Stage 10" . BikeRaceInfo. 8 September 2020. ^ "Results and Highlights From the 2020 Tour de France" . Bicycling.com. 20 September 2020. ^ "Most Stage Wins" . Pro Cycling Stats. 16 December 2020. ^ "2020 Tour de France, Stage 14 as it happened" . Tom Owen of Eurosport article updated. 9 December 2020. ^ "Stage 15 Recap" . Ef.com. 13 September 2020. ^ a b "Pogacar Wins Bernal Destroyed on First Major Tour de France Mountain Stage" . France24. 13 September 2020. ^ "Tadej Pogacar Edges Primoz Roglic" . NBC Sports. 13 September 2020. ^ "Lennard Kämna wins stage 16 as Primoz Roglic retains overall lead" . BBC Sport. 15 September 2020. ^ "TDF Daily TDF 2020 Stage 16" . Bike Race Info. 15 September 2020. ^ "Tour de France Stage 17 Live Report" . Barry Ryan. 16 September 2020. ^ "TDF Daily TDF 2020 Stage 17" . Bike Race Info. 16 September 2020. ^ "TDF Daily TDF 2020 Stage 18" . Bike Race Info. 17 September 2020. ^ a b "Tour de France, Michał Kwiatkowski wins stage 18" . cyclingnews.com. 17 September 2020. ^ "TDF Daily TDF 2020 Stage 19" . Bike Race Info. 18 September 2020. ^ "Dane Andersen Claims Stage 19" . Deutsche Welle. 18 September 2020. ^ Brendan Bradford (20 September 2020). "tour-de-france-2020-richie-porte-climbs-onto-tour-podium-with-impressive-time-trial" . Sporting News . ^ "Pogačar Crushes Roglič to seal Tour de France title" . Associated Press News . 19 September 2020. ^ Cited in the lead of this article. ^ a b c d e f g Race regulations 2020 , p. 31. ^ a b c d e f g h i Race regulations 2020 , p. 32. ^ Race regulations 2020 , p. 29. ^ Race regulations 2020 , p. 33. ^ a b c Race regulations 2020 , p. 19. ^ a b c Race regulations 2020 , p. 17. ^ Race regulations 2020 , pp. 17–19. ^ a b c d e f Race regulations 2020 , p. 25. ^ a b c d e f "Official classifications of Tour de France 2020" . Tour de France . Amaury Sport Organisation . Retrieved 19 September 2020 . Bibliography [ edit ] Race regulations (PDF) . Paris: Amaury Sport Organisation . 2020 . Retrieved 3 September 2020 . {{ cite book }} : |work= ignored ( help ) UCI cycling regulations (PDF) . Part 2, road races. Aigle, Switzerland: Union Cycliste Internationale . 12 June 2020 . Retrieved 3 September 2020 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Tour de France 2020 . Official website v t e 2020 UCI World Tour Races Tour Down Under Great Ocean Road Race UAE Tour Omloop Het Nieuwsblad Paris–Nice Strade Bianche Tour de Pologne Milan–San Remo Critérium du Dauphiné Il Lombardia Bretagne Classic Ouest–France Tour de France Tirreno–Adriatico BinckBank Tour La Flèche Wallonne Giro d'Italia Liège–Bastogne–Liège Gent–Wevelgem Tour of Flanders Vuelta a España Three Days of Bruges–De Panne Cancelled Volta a Catalunya E3 Binckbank Classic Tour of the Basque Country Tour de Romandie Eschborn-Frankfurt Tour de Suisse Clásica de San Sebastián RideLondon–Surrey Classic GP de Québec GP de Montréal EuroEyes Cyclassics Amstel Gold Race Dwars door Vlaanderen Paris–Roubaix Tour of Guangxi Teams AG2R La Mondiale Astana Bahrain–McLaren Bora–Hansgrohe CCC Team Cofidis Deceuninck–Quick-Step EF Pro Cycling Groupama–FDJ Ineos Grenadiers Israel Start-Up Nation Lotto–Soudal Mitchelton–Scott Movistar Team NTT Pro Cycling Team Jumbo–Visma Team Sunweb Trek–Segafredo UAE Team Emirates List of 2020 UCI WorldTeams v t e Tour de France By year men 1903 1904 1905 1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928 1929 1930 1931 1932 1933 1934 1935 1936 1937 1938 1939 1940 1941 1942 1943 1944 1945 1946 1947 1948 1949 1950 1951 1952 1953 1954 1955 1956 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966 1967 1968 1969 1970 1971 1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 By year women 2022 2023 2024 2025 Classifications ("Jerseys") Current General ( maillot jaune ) Points ( maillot vert ) Mountains ( maillot à pois ) Young rider ( maillot blanc ) Team ( classement d'équipes ) Combativity ( prix de combativité ) Former Combination ( maillot du combiné ) Intermediate sprints ( maillot rouge ) Directors Men's 1903–1935: Henri Desgrange 1936–1961: Jacques Goddet 1962–1986: Jacques Goddet and Félix Lévitan 1987: Jean-François Naquet-Radiguet 1988: Xavier Louy 1989–2006: Jean-Marie Leblanc 2007–present: Christian Prudhomme Women's 2022–present: Marion Rousse Finish locations 1903–1967: Parc des Princes 1968–1974: Vélodrome de Vincennes 1975–2023, 2025–present: Champs-Élysées final stage 2024: Promenade des Anglais Lists General classification winners Secondary classification winners Grands Départs Records and statistics Mountain passes and hills Highest points reached Additional topics During World War II Yellow jersey statistics Lanterne rouge Doping Hors catégorie Souvenir Jacques Goddet Souvenir Henri Desgrange Related articles Émilien Amaury Amaury Sport Organisation Pierre Dumas Géo Lefèvre Didi Senft La Course by Le Tour de France L'Étape du Tour Grand Tour Grande Boucle Féminine Internationale Tour de France Femmes Triple Crown of Cycling v t e 2020 Tour de France « 2019 2021 » Teams and cyclists Stage 1–11 Stage 12–21 v t e Tour de France general classification winners 1903–1919 1903 : Maurice Garin ( FRA ) 1904 : Henri Cornet ( FRA ) 1905 : Louis Trousselier ( FRA ) 1906 : René Pottier ( FRA ) 1907 : Lucien Petit-Breton ( FRA ) 1908 : Lucien Petit-Breton ( FRA ) 1909 : François Faber ( LUX ) 1910 : Octave Lapize ( FRA ) 1911 : Gustave Garrigou ( FRA ) 1912 : Odile Defraye ( BEL ) 1913 : Philippe Thys ( BEL ) 1914 : Philippe Thys ( BEL ) 1915: Not held due to World War I 1916: Not held due to World War I 1917: Not held due to World War I 1918: Not held due to World War I 1919 : Firmin Lambot ( BEL ) 1920–1939 1920 : Philippe Thys ( BEL ) 1921 : Léon Scieur ( BEL ) 1922 : Firmin Lambot ( BEL ) 1923 : Henri Pélissier ( FRA ) 1924 : Ottavio Bottecchia ( ITA ) 1925 : Ottavio Bottecchia ( ITA ) 1926 : Lucien Buysse ( BEL ) 1927 : Nicolas Frantz ( LUX ) 1928 : Nicolas Frantz ( LUX ) 1929 : Maurice De Waele ( BEL ) 1930 : André Leducq ( FRA ) 1931 : Antonin Magne ( FRA ) 1932 : André Leducq ( FRA ) 1933 : Georges Speicher ( FRA ) 1934 : Antonin Magne ( FRA ) 1935 : Romain Maes ( BEL ) 1936 : Sylvère Maes ( BEL ) 1937 : Roger Lapébie ( FRA ) 1938 : Gino Bartali ( ITA ) 1939 : Sylvère Maes ( BEL ) 1940–1959 1940: Not held due to World War II 1941: Not held due to World War II 1942: Not held due to World War II 1943: Not held due to World War II 1944: Not held due to World War II 1945: Not held due to World War II 1946: Not held due to World War II 1947 : Jean Robic ( FRA ) 1948 : Gino Bartali ( ITA ) 1949 : Fausto Coppi ( ITA ) 1950 : Ferdinand Kübler ( SUI ) 1951 : Hugo Koblet ( SUI ) 1952 : Fausto Coppi ( ITA ) 1953 : Louison Bobet ( FRA ) 1954 : Louison Bobet ( FRA ) 1955 : Louison Bobet ( FRA ) 1956 : Roger Walkowiak ( FRA ) 1957 : Jacques Anquetil ( FRA ) 1958 : Charly Gaul ( LUX ) 1959 : Federico Bahamontes ( ESP ) 1960–1979 1960 : Gastone Nencini ( ITA ) 1961 : Jacques Anquetil ( FRA ) 1962 : Jacques Anquetil ( FRA ) 1963 : Jacques Anquetil ( FRA ) 1964 : Jacques Anquetil ( FRA ) 1965 : Felice Gimondi ( ITA ) 1966 : Lucien Aimar ( FRA ) 1967 : Roger Pingeon ( FRA ) 1968 : Jan Janssen ( NED ) 1969 : Eddy Merckx ( BEL ) 1970 : Eddy Merckx ( BEL ) 1971 : Eddy Merckx ( BEL ) 1972 : Eddy Merckx ( BEL ) 1973 : Luis Ocaña ( ESP ) 1974 : Eddy Merckx ( BEL ) 1975 : Bernard Thévenet ( FRA ) 1976 : Lucien Van Impe ( BEL ) 1977 : Bernard Thévenet ( FRA ) 1978 : Bernard Hinault ( FRA ) 1979 : Bernard Hinault ( FRA ) 1980–1999 1980 : Joop Zoetemelk ( NED ) 1981 : Bernard Hinault ( FRA ) 1982 : Bernard Hinault ( FRA ) 1983 : Laurent Fignon ( FRA ) 1984 : Laurent Fignon ( FRA ) 1985 : Bernard Hinault ( FRA ) 1986 : Greg LeMond ( USA ) 1987 : Stephen Roche ( IRL ) 1988 : Pedro Delgado ( ESP ) 1989 : Greg LeMond ( USA ) 1990 : Greg LeMond ( USA ) 1991 : Miguel Induráin ( ESP ) 1992 : Miguel Induráin ( ESP ) 1993 : Miguel Induráin ( ESP ) 1994 : Miguel Induráin ( ESP ) 1995 : Miguel Induráin ( ESP ) 1996 : Bjarne Riis ( DEN ) 1997 : Jan Ullrich ( GER ) 1998 : Marco Pantani ( ITA ) 1999 : Results voided because of doping 2000–2019 2000 : Results voided because of doping 2001 : Results voided because of doping 2002 : Results voided because of doping 2003 : Results voided because of doping 2004 : Results voided because of doping 2005 : Results voided because of doping 2006 : Óscar Pereiro ( ESP ) 2007 : Alberto Contador ( ESP ) 2008 : Carlos Sastre ( ESP ) 2009 : Alberto Contador ( ESP ) 2010 : Andy Schleck ( LUX ) 2011 : Cadel Evans ( AUS ) 2012 : Bradley Wiggins ( GBR ) 2013 : Chris Froome ( GBR ) 2014 : Vincenzo Nibali ( ITA ) 2015 : Chris Froome ( GBR ) 2016 : Chris Froome ( GBR ) 2017 : Chris Froome ( GBR ) 2018 : Geraint Thomas ( GBR ) 2019 : Egan Bernal ( COL ) 2020–2039 2020 : Tadej Pogačar ( SLO ) 2021 : Tadej Pogačar ( SLO ) 2022 : Jonas Vingegaard ( DEN ) 2023 : Jonas Vingegaard ( DEN ) 2024 : Tadej Pogačar ( SLO ) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=2020_Tour_de_France&oldid=1250881502 " Categories : 2020 Tour de France 2020 UCI World Tour Tour de France by year August 2020 sports events in France September 2020 sports events in France Cycling events postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use dmy dates from August 2020 Wikipedia articles with style issues from September 2020 All articles with style issues All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from August 2020 Articles with unsourced statements from October 2021 CS1 errors: periodical ignored Commons category link from Wikidata Official website not in Wikidata This page was last edited on 13 October 2024, at 02:59 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents 2020 Tour de France 33 languages Add topic