Carlos Alcaraz Defeats Novak Djokovic to Win Second Wimbledon Title ​ Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals Royals Royals PEOPLE StyleWatch: Spring 2025 Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals StyleWatch Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe 1 Massive Brawl Erupts Among Carnival Cruise Passengers, Landing 24 People on ‘Do Not Sail’ List 2 Tourist Filming Himself on a Zipline Unknowingly Captures Chilling Footage of Massacre in India That Killed 26 3 Robert De Niro's Daughter Airyn Comes Out as Trans in Revealing Interview About Growing Up 'Out of the Limelight' 4 Bill Belichick's Girlfriend Jordon Hudson Wears Sparkling Ring on That Finger, Sparking Engagement Rumors Entertainment Sports Tennis Carlos Alcaraz Defeats Novak Djokovic to Win Second Wimbledon Men's Singles Title The Spanish tennis prodigy previously won Wimbledon in 2023 By Marina Watts Marina Watts Marina Watts is a Digital Writer, Music at PEOPLE. She has been working at PEOPLE since 2024. Her work has previously appeared on Bustle, The US Sun, Newsweek and OK! Magazine. People Editorial Guidelines Published on July 14, 2024 01:25PM EDT Comments Carlos Alcaraz in 2024. Photo: Frey/TPN/Getty Carlos Alcaraz has beaten Novak Djokovic to become 2024 Wimbledon champion, taking home his second trophy from the prestigious tennis tournament. On Sunday, July 14, Alcaraz, 21, beat Djokovic, 37, in straight sets of 6-2 6-2 7-6 (4) during the Wimbledon men's singles final on Centre Court at the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club, in London England. Though he won the first two sets, at one point in the third set, the players were on equal footing with five games each. However, Alcaraz pushed through the intense tiebreaker and won the highly coveted title. Following the match, Alcaraz called back to an interview he gave at 11 or 12 years old where he said it was his dream to win Wimbledon. "I'm repeating my dream…" he said, as per CBS Sports . "I've said it before, for me this is the most beautiful tournament, the most beautiful court and obviously the most beautiful trophy." Djokovic, meanwhile, praised his opponent for an "absolutely deserving" win. "He had it all today... He was an absolutely deserving winner today," he said. "Huge congratulations to him for amazing tennis." "You are only 21 years of age. This is incredible, keep it going. We'll see a lot of you, I'm sure." Carlos Alcaraz in 2024. Sean M. Haffey/Getty Carlos Alcaraz, 19, Wins US Open to Become Youngest-Ever No. 1 Men's Tennis Player Kate Middleton, who serves as the patron of the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club, handed out the trophies to the athletes . After speculation about whether or not the Princess of Wales, 42, would appear at the tennis tournament amid her cancer treatment , as she focuses on her recovery, Kensington Palace confirmed on Saturday, July 13, that she would attend on July 14. Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from celebrity news to compelling human interest stories. This isn't the first time Alcaraz has won Wimbledon — or the first time he won in the finals against Djokovic. In 2023, he broke Djokovic's four-time winning streak at Wimbledon, along with his 34-time winning streak overall. Had Djokovic won, he would have tied Roger Federer with eight Wimbledon titles. Carlos Alcaraz and Kate Middleton in 2024. HENRY NICHOLLS/AFP via Getty Carlos Alcaraz's Family: All About the Tennis Champion's Parents and Siblings As well as those victories, Alcaraz previously won the French Open in June 2024, fulfilling a childhood dream, as well as the US Open in 2022. The PEOPLE Puzzler crossword is here! How quickly can you solve it? Play now! The tennis prodigy told PEOPLE about what he did following the US Open. "I had a dinner with all the people that were here watching," Alcaraz said in August 2023 about his post-win celebrations. "And I got a tattoo as well!" Carlos Alcaraz in 2024. Sean M. Haffey/Getty The tattoo features the date he won the tournament. Between his left shoulder and elbow, located on his tricep reads "11.09.22." He also said that getting the tattoo was "the best" way to celebrate a major title, plus taking some time off from the sport. "For me, the best thing to do after a good victory is just to spend time at home with your family, friends that you are not usually with during the year," he says. "So just spending time with them at home." Close Leave a Comment You Might Like UConn Triumphs Over South Carolina to Claim Their Record 12th Women's NCAA Championship Title Entertainment April 06, 2025 Caroline Wozniacki Is Pregnant, Expecting 3rd Baby with Husband David Lee: ‘Officially Switching to Zone Defense’ Celebrity April 06, 2025 Jordan Chiles Wasn't 'Able to Move’ After ‘Devastating’ Olympics Medal Controversy: ‘I Still Struggle to Talk About It’ Entertainment April 02, 2025 Comments All comments are subject to our Community Guidelines . PEOPLE does not endorse the opinions and views shared by readers in our comment sections. Account Settings Sign Out Related Articles JuJu Watkins Breaks Silence on Season-Ending Injury, Says ‘Love and Support’ Gave Her 'So Much Hope’ What Time Is the Men's NCAA Championship? How to Watch and Stream the Final March Madness Game Injured Novak Djokovic Booed After He Quits Semifinal at Australian Open: ‘I Did Everything I Possibly Could’ Australian Broadcaster Apologizes After Calling Novak Djokovic a ‘Has-Been’ and 'Overrated': 'I've Let Down the Serbian Fans' Who Is Paige Lorenze, Tommy Paul's Girlfriend? All About the Influencer and Her Relationship with the Tennis Pro Carlos Alcaraz Has $39 Million in Prize Money — but Is Still Sleeping in a Twin Bed, Netflix Doc Reveals USC Women’s Basketball Star JuJu Watkins Suffers Season-Ending Injury: ‘Heartbroken’ All About Caroline Wozniacki's Husband, Former NBA All-Star David Lee Mikaela Shiffrin Recalls Being in 'Survival Mode' with Her Fiancé After Their Respective Ski Injuries (Exclusive) Pro Golfer Puts Tape Over His Mouth in Effort to 'Shut Myself Up' on the Course: 'That Was My Solution Today' Dominique Moceanu Says Demi Moore and Bruce Willis Threw the Team a 'Surprise Party' After Olympic Gold: 'Coolest Chick Ever' (Exclusive) Tennis Player Dramatically Collapses Mid-Game and Leaves Court in Wheelchair Who Is Jason Kelce's Wife? All About Kylie McDevitt Kelce Cooper Flagg’s Family: All About the Duke Basketball Star's Parents and Siblings Kate Middleton Has Proud Mom Moment as Princess Charlotte Shakes Hands with Wimbledon Champion Carlos Alcaraz NCAA Basketball Star Deletes Instagram After ‘Disgusting’ Online Harassment Following March Madness Loss PEOPLE Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies