How to be the first to get Super Mario Odyssey | iMore Skip to main content Open menu Close menu iMore Search Search iMore Subscribe US Edition US UK Australia Canada India News iPhone Mac Apple Watch Vision Pro iPad AirPods iOS iMore Show More HomeKit Apple TV CarPlay Apps iCloud Accessories Gaming Health & Fitness Security Music, Movies & TV Forum Newsletter About Us Apple Guides & Specials Why subscribe? Discover our tech & gadget manuals Read everything from iPhone to Apple Watch Mags delivered straight to your door or device From $15.99 View Trending iOS 18 Apple Intelligence macOS Sequoia iPhone 16 news Apple buyer's guide M4 iPad Pro Severance Season 2 Gaming Nintendo Switch How to be the first to get Super Mario Odyssey News By Lory Gil published 20 October 2017 When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . Super Mario Odyssey (Image credit: Nintendo) If you haven't already pre-ordered Super Mario Odyssey for Nintendo Switch, well, you should probably do so at Best Buy right now because you'll get an adorable Cappy Collectible Coin when you do. If you want to get your hands on a physical copy, Best Buy is holding a special launch event the night of October 27. The event starts at 12:01 ET, which also means if you live on the Best coast ... I mean West Coast, you can get it at 9:01 PM! According to Best Buy , about 600 locations will open at 12:01 a.m. ET on October 27. "That means 9:01 p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 26, for those on West Coast; 10:01 p.m. for gamers on Mountain Time and 11:01 p.m. for fans in Central Time." If you decide to preorder Super Mario Odyssey from Best Buy, you should head down to your local store on Saturday, October 21 between noon and 3:00 p.m. (local time) because there'll be an in-store demo taking place. If you play the demo, you'll get a free sticker book for your time. If you still don't own a Nintendo Switch, GameStop has a bundle you might be interested in. For $379, you'll get a special Super Mario Odyssey edition of Nintendo Switch (complete with red Joy-Cons), plus a digital download code of the game, a Super Mario Odyssey themed carrying case, and a screen protector. I think it's worth it just for the red Joy-Cons. Get More Switch Nintendo Switch $44.89 at Amazon $160.71 at G2A (US) $197.73 at Back Market (US) ○ How the new Switch V2 compares to the original model ○ Nintendo Switch Review ○ Best Nintendo Switch Games ○ Best microSD Cards for your Nintendo Switch ○ Best Travel Cases for Nintendo Switch ○ Best Nintendo Switch Accessories Master your iPhone in minutes iMore offers spot-on advice and guidance from our team of experts, with decades of Apple device experience to lean on. Learn more with iMore! Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Lory Gil Lory is a renaissance woman, writing news, reviews, and how-to guides for iMore. She also fancies herself a bit of a rock star in her town and spends too much time reading comic books.  If she's not typing away at her keyboard, you can probably find her at Disneyland or watching Star Wars (or both). Latest in Nintendo Switch Nintendo recap: New GameCube controller for Switch promises never to drift, if you can manage to buy one Nintendo recap: Next-gen console predicted for 2024 amid Zelda Switch OLED leaks Nintendo recap: You may be eligible for a Fortnite refund from the $520M settlement Are Pokémon Scarlet and Violet getting Expansion Pass DLC? Pokémon Scarlet and Violet Travel Abilities: How to unlock Surf, Glide, Climb, Dash, and Jump Best order to play Pokémon Scarlet and Violet: Gyms, Titans, and Team Star Bases Latest in News One more thing… Goodbye from iMore Jony Ive’s OpenAI hardware device could be his next world-changing design This new 4K projector is tempting me to replace my LG C2 TV, just so I can watch Slow Horses on a 200-inch display visionOS 2 is the first major software update for Apple Vision Pro, and now it's available macOS Sequoia (version 15) is now available for your Mac with some big upgrades watchOS 11 is now rolling out to all Apple Watch users with the Series 6 or newer LATEST ARTICLES 1 One more thing… Goodbye from iMore 2 Tapo TC73 pan/tilt AI camera is a vision of perfection 3 Aqara Smart Video Doorbell G4 review: fast notifications, needs more height 4 iFi GO blu review: The best Bluetooth mobile DAC right now 5 Jony Ive’s OpenAI hardware device could be his next world-changing design iMore is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . Terms and conditions Contact Future's experts Privacy policy Cookies policy Accessibility statement Careers Licensing External links disclosure About us Newsletter Advertise with us Android Central Windows Central © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036.