Yacuruna - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Characteristics 2 Underwater cities 3 Abduction 4 Shamanism 5 See also 6 References Toggle the table of contents Yacuruna 2 languages Français Runa Simi Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Mythical race of aquatic people living in underwater cities in the Amazon Basin The Yacuruna are a mythical water people of the Amazon basin who live in beautiful underwater cities, often at the mouths of rivers. Belief in the Yacuruna is most prominently found among indigenous people of the Amazon. [ 1 ] The term is derived from the Quechua language, yaku ("water") and runa ("man"). Characteristics [ edit ] The Yacuruna is described as being hairy with a backward-facing head and deformed feet. [ 2 ] Illustrations depict the Yacuruna as a man-like creature accompanied by a serpent and riding a crocodile. It is considered by many to be a god who has the power to change into an attractive man. [ 3 ] The Yacuruna roam the Amazon rainforest at night using black crocodiles as canoes. During the day they sleep at the bottoms of rivers and lakes with one eye open. [ 3 ] They have the ability to communicate with aquatic animals of the Amazon and have ultimate control over them. Locals believe that Yacuruna can transform into an Amazon river dolphins which are attracted to the odor of blood in menstruating women. Once the woman is found,  a Yacuruna will transform into a handsome and alluring man who then uses aphrodisiacs to kidnap her and bring her into his kingdom in the depths of the river. [ 3 ] Underwater cities [ edit ] Yacuruna are said to inhabit underwater cities that mirror upside-down human cities. The cities can be interpreted as reflections on the surface of the water. Within the city, the Yucuruna live in palaces of crystal with multicolored walls of fish scales and pearl, reclining on hammocks of feathers under a mosquito net of butterfly wings. The hammocks are snakes, with turtles for seats. [ 1 ] Abduction [ edit ] Yacuruna can be characterized as dangerous spirits who lure humans into the water by taking on human forms. When people of the Amazonian community disappear and do not return such as fishermen, husbands, and young girls (who become mysteriously pregnant), it is often assumed that they have been seduced and captured by the Yacuruna . [ 1 ] The abducted victims gradually transform into yacuruna : first, their eyes turn to resemble the Yacuruna , then their head and feet turn backward so that they cannot find their way home, and must continue onwards to the underwater city. [ 1 ] Transformation is irreversible and a victim may never return to his or her home. [ 2 ] Don Juan Flores Salazar describes a story of how his little sister was taken by a Yacuruna . One day she was swimming when she was pulled underwater and vanished. It was not until years later when he saw her again, still alive but had transformed into a mermaid . She had married a Yacuruna , and gained knowledge in becoming a healer of the waters. They complemented one another for he was a healer of the lands: he believed it was her destiny to become a Yacuruna . [ 4 ] Shamanism [ edit ] A Yacuruna can be summoned by a shaman to act as a familiar . It may pass on healing knowledge to a sick person or shaman, and in this way they establish trust. Once trust has been established, the Yacuruna will turn the person's head towards the front again, allowing the individual to return to the human world. [ 5 ] A yacuruna can be the source of shamanic powers, becoming a powerful ally to the shaman. [ 1 ] See also [ edit ] Tsunki Kelpie Neck (water spirit) References [ edit ] ^ a b c d e Beyer, Stephan (2009). Singing to the Plants . Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press. pp. 318– 321. ISBN 978-0-8263-4730-5 . ^ a b Luna, L.E. "Vegetalismo: Shamanism among the mestizo population of the Peruvian Amazon". Stockhold Studies in Comparative Religion . 27 . ^ a b c Pantone, Dan James. "Iquitos News and Travel Guide" . Iquitos Legend: Yacuruna . Retrieved 30 August 2021 . ^ Tindall, Robert (2008). The jaguar that roams the mind . Rochester, VT: Park Street. pp. 210– 211. ISBN 978-1594772542 . ^ Bear, J. (2000). Amazon magic: The life story of ayahuasquero and shaman don Agustin Rivas Vasquez . Taos, New Mexico: Calibri. p. 140. ISBN 978-0967425504 . Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Yacuruna&oldid=1281518306 " Categories : Mythological peoples Indigenous culture of the Amazon Piscine and amphibian humanoids Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata This page was last edited on 20 March 2025, at 21:37 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Yacuruna 2 languages Add topic