Links (golf) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Geographic location and course management 2 Determining factors 3 Notable courses 4 Playing style 5 References Toggle the table of contents Links (golf) 6 languages Dansk Deutsch Nederlands Norsk bokmål Svenska 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Style of golf course For the computer golf-simulation games, see Links (series) . St Andrews Links , Fife, Scotland A links is the oldest style of golf course , first developed in Scotland . Links courses are generally built on sandy coastland that offers a firmer playing surface than parkland and heathland courses. [ 1 ] The word "links" comes via the Scots language from the Old English word hlinc : "rising ground, ridge" [ 2 ] and refers to an area of coastal sand dunes and sometimes to open parkland; it is cognate with lynchet . "Links" can be treated as singular even though it has an "s" at the end and occurs in place names that precede the development of golf, for example Lundin Links in Fife. [ 3 ] It also retains this more general meaning in standard Scottish English . Links land is typically characterised by dunes, an undulating surface, and a sandy soil unsuitable for arable farming , but which readily supports various indigenous browntop bent and red fescue grasses. Together, the soil and grasses result in the firm turf associated with links courses and the "running" game. The hard surface typical of the links-style course allows balls to "run" out much further than on softer turf course after a fairway landing. Players will often land the ball well before the green and allow it to run up onto the green rather than landing it on the green in the more targeted-landing style used on softer surfaces. Geographic location and course management [ edit ] Links courses tend to be on, or at least very near to, a coast, and the term is typically associated with coastal courses. These courses are often amid dunes, with barely any water hazards and few, if any, trees. This reflects both the nature of the scenery where the sport originated and the limited resources available to golf course architects at that time. Soil movement, for example, had to be done by hand, and thus was kept to a minimum, as was irrigation. Even today, some links courses do not employ a greens staff, use only basic machinery such as hole cutters without boards, resulting in a hole that is cut unevenly, and use grazing animals to keep the grass cropped. [ citation needed ] Determining factors [ edit ] This section needs expansion . You can help by adding to it . ( April 2019 ) The 18th hole at the Old Head Golf Links on the Old Head of Kinsale Although the term links is often used loosely to describe any golf course, few golf courses have all of the design elements of true links courses, including being built on linksland. [ citation needed ] The presence of a seaside location does not guarantee a links golf course. [ citation needed ] Many famous courses regarded as links do not, as presently constituted, have all of the necessary characteristics (e.g., Pebble Beach Golf Links , Old Head Golf Links at Kinsale , The Ocean Course at Kiawah Island ). [ citation needed ] On the other hand, some courses located hundreds of miles from a seacoast, such as Whistling Straits , near Kohler , Wisconsin , on the Great Lakes , can have all of the characteristics of a seaside links except for proximity to saltwater. Notable courses [ edit ] Main article: List of links golf courses Links courses remain most common in Great Britain , especially in Scotland, as well as in Ireland. The Open Championship is always played on links courses, and this is one of the main features which differentiates it from the three major championships held in the United States . The first exception to this was the 2004 PGA Championship , which was played on a links-style course, Whistling Straits , located near Sheboygan , Wisconsin . [ 4 ] The 2015 U.S. Open was played at Chambers Bay , a British links-style course in University Place , Washington . Royal Adelaide Golf Club is a links course in Adelaide , South Australia , and was partly designed by Alister MacKenzie , who said of the location, "One finds a most delightful combination of sand dunes and fir trees. I have never seen a seaside course possess such magnificent sand craters, as those at Royal Adelaide." [ 5 ] Playing style [ edit ] The unique nature of links courses necessitates a distinct style of play. The challenges links traits present fall into two categories: topography, which tends to be characterised by uneven fairways, thick rough, and small, deep "pot bunkers "; and climatic, dominated by windy conditions created by their coastal location and lack of trees, and frequent intermittent rain squalls. Links topography favours a controlled style of golf, as hazards abound. Low and even bouncing shots allow balls to be skipped onto greens rather than high flights landed with strong backspin. Windy or blustery weather also calls for low, accurate shots. [ 6 ] Damp conditions demand concentration and caution. As many traditional links courses consist of an "outward" nine in one direction along the coast, and an opposite "inward" nine returning, players often have to cope with contrasting wind patterns in each half of their round. References [ edit ] ^ "Here are the 6 different types of golf courses, explained" . Golf . 31 May 2020 . Retrieved 2022-01-07 . ^ "links - Search Online Etymology Dictionary" . www.etymonline.com . ^ "Meaning of the Word Golf Links Course" . ^ "The 86th PGA Championship Course" . PGA/Turner Sports Interactive. 2004 . Retrieved 20 Mar 2015 . ^ "Royal Adelaide Golf Club" . greatgolfaustralia. 2016 . Retrieved 28 Mar 2016 . ^ "What Is Links Golf? - Golf Monthly" . Golf Monthly . 2017-10-03 . Retrieved 2018-05-20 . v t e Golf Overview History Glossary Outline Rules etiquette stroke play match play four-ball foursomes scoring Stableford handicap penalties playoffs Golf course links teeing ground hazards Equipment golf clubs golf ball tee Technical Golf swing drive Instruction Facilities Country club Golf club Driving range Pro shop Governing organizations International Golf Federation The R&A United States Golf Association Professional Golfers' Association (Great Britain and Ireland) Professional Golfers' Association of America Professional golf tours LPGA PGA Tour PGA European Tour American Society of Golf Course Architects World Golf Teachers Federation Majors ( Grand Slam , Triple Crown ) Men Masters Tournament Augusta National PGA Championship U.S. Open The Open Championship venues Challenge Belt Claret Jug Women Chevron Championship U.S. Women's Open Women's PGA Championship The Evian Championship Women's British Open Senior The Tradition Senior PGA Championship U.S. Senior Open Senior Players Championship Senior Open Championship Senior Women's Senior LPGA Championship U.S. Senior Women's Open International events Team Curtis Cup Eisenhower Trophy Espirito Santo Trophy European Amateur Team Championship European Ladies' Team Championship International Crown Presidents Cup Ryder Cup Solheim Cup Walker Cup World Cup Men's Women's Multi-sport event Summer Olympics Youth Asian Games Inter-Allied Games Island Games Mediterranean Games Pacific Games Pan American Games Summer World University Games Rankings Men No 1s top 10 Women Amateur Golfers Male golfers Female golfers Men's major championship winners chronologically Women's major championship winners chronologically Senior major championship winners Olympic medalists Most wins Asian Tour Challenge Tour European Tour European Senior Tour Japan Golf Tour Korn Ferry Tour Ladies European Tour LPGA Tour LPGA of Japan Tour PGA Tour PGA Tour Champions Lists of golf courses by feature Granted Royal status Links Olympic venues by country Canada Iceland India Norway Philippines Portugal South Africa Sweden United Kingdom by designer Coore & Crenshaw Pete Dye Robert Trent Jones Old Tom Morris Jack Nicklaus Greg Norman Donald Ross A. W. Tillinghast Countries Australia China India Ireland Philippines Russia Scotland Sweden Thailand United States Wales Years 1353–1850 1851–1945 1945–1999 2000–2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Variations Beach golf Disc golf Footgolf GolfCross Hickory golf Indoor golf Long drive Miniature golf Park golf Pitch and putt Shotgun start Skins game Snow golf Speed golf Urban golf Media Golf Channel personalities GolfTV Golf Digest Golf Magazine Golf World Golfweek Links Travel + Leisure Golf Video games JTBC Golf&Sports Miscellaneous Albatrosses in notable tournaments Architects Awards Caddie Caddie Hall of Fame Evans Scholars Foundation Great Triumvirate Greenskeeper Lowest rounds Furyk's 58 Open tournaments Jack Nicklaus Museum R&A World Golf Museum USGA Museum World Golf Hall of Fame Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Links_(golf)&oldid=1275307861 " Categories : Golf terminology Scots language Scottish English Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata EngvarB from May 2021 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from April 2019 Articles to be expanded from April 2019 All articles to be expanded Articles with unsourced statements from January 2015 This page was last edited on 12 February 2025, at 07:05 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Links (golf) 6 languages Add topic