Live-action Assassin's Creed television series | Assassin's Creed Wiki | Fandom Assassin's Creed Wiki Welcome to Assassin's Creed Wiki! Log in and join the community. READ MORE Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Assassin's Creed Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Content Database‎ Animals‎ Assassin Intel‎ Collectibles‎ History‎ Documents‎ Events‎ Items‎ Landmarks‎ Locations‎ People‎ Individuals‎ By ethnicity By nationality By occupation By organization By place of residence By title‎ By traits By year Unidentified individuals‎ Locations‎ Cities‎ Colonies‎ Geographical features Landmarks‎ Locations by country Structures‎ Organizations‎ Assassin Brotherhood‎ Cults‎ Families‎ Militaries Ship crews Templar Order Memories‎ By Animus‎ By individual‎ Skills‎ Assassin skills‎ Genetic skills‎ Templar skills‎ Weapons‎ Personal weapons‎ Weapons by century‎ Weapons by type‎ Games Assassin's Creed Ezio Trilogy Assassin's Creed II Brotherhood Revelations Kenway Saga Assassin's Creed III Liberation Black Flag Freedom Cry Rogue Initiate Duology Unity Syndicate Layla Saga Origins Odyssey Valhalla Mirage Upcoming games Shadows Jade Codename Hexe Other games Altaïr's Chronicles Bloodlines Discovery Project Legacy Initiates Pirates Chronicles Identity Rebellion Nexus VR Other Media Comics UbiWorkshop comics The Fall The Chain Brahman Titan Comics Assassin's Creed Templars Last Descendants – Locus Uprising Reflections Origins Dark Horse Comics Valhalla – Song of Glory Valhalla – Forgotten Myths Mirage – A Soar of Eagles French graphic novels The Ankh of Isis Trilogy The Hawk Trilogy Conspiracies Bloodstone Valhalla – The Hidden Codex Manga and manhua Awakening Blade of Shao Jun Dynasty Valhalla – Blood Brothers Shadows – Iga no Monogatari Korean webtoons Forgotten Temple Novels Novelizations The Secret Crusade Renaissance Brotherhood Revelations Forsaken Black Flag Unity The Movie Odyssey Underworld Ubisoft Publishing novels Heresy Origins – Desert Oath Valhalla – Geirmund's Saga Aconyte Books novels Valhalla – Sword of the White Horse The Golden City Mirage – Daughter of No One Engine of History – The Magus Conspiracy Engine of History – The Resurrection Plot Young adult novels Last Descendants Last Descendants – Tomb of the Khan Last Descendants – Fate of the Gods Fragments – The Blade of Aizu Fragments – The Highlands Children Fragments – The Witches of the Moors Other books Prophecy of the Emperor The Silk Road Escape Room Puzzle Book Films and TV series Lineage Ascendance Embers The Movie Live action series Animated series Anime series Audiobooks Gold Board games Brotherhood of Venice Roleplaying Game Community Staff Administrators Cristophorus35 Lady Kyashira Sol Pacificus Soranin Moderators Ahmairah Lacrossedeamon Sadelyrate Xangr8 Zero-ELEC Policies Manual of Style Community Guidelines Moderation Images Images Licensing Sourcing Licensing Guidelines Be Bold Achievements Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Assassin's Creed Wiki 25,266 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Content Database‎ Animals‎ Assassin Intel‎ Collectibles‎ History‎ Documents‎ Events‎ Items‎ Landmarks‎ Locations‎ People‎ Individuals‎ By ethnicity By nationality By occupation By organization By place of residence By title‎ By traits By year Unidentified individuals‎ Locations‎ Cities‎ Colonies‎ Geographical features Landmarks‎ Locations by country Structures‎ Organizations‎ Assassin Brotherhood‎ Cults‎ Families‎ Militaries Ship crews Templar Order Memories‎ By Animus‎ By individual‎ Skills‎ Assassin skills‎ Genetic skills‎ Templar skills‎ Weapons‎ Personal weapons‎ Weapons by century‎ Weapons by type‎ Games Assassin's Creed Ezio Trilogy Assassin's Creed II Brotherhood Revelations Kenway Saga Assassin's Creed III Liberation Black Flag Freedom Cry Rogue Initiate Duology Unity Syndicate Layla Saga Origins Odyssey Valhalla Mirage Upcoming games Shadows Jade Codename Hexe Other games Altaïr's Chronicles Bloodlines Discovery Project Legacy Initiates Pirates Chronicles Identity Rebellion Nexus VR Other Media Comics UbiWorkshop comics The Fall The Chain Brahman Titan Comics Assassin's Creed Templars Last Descendants – Locus Uprising Reflections Origins Dark Horse Comics Valhalla – Song of Glory Valhalla – Forgotten Myths Mirage – A Soar of Eagles French graphic novels The Ankh of Isis Trilogy The Hawk Trilogy Conspiracies Bloodstone Valhalla – The Hidden Codex Manga and manhua Awakening Blade of Shao Jun Dynasty Valhalla – Blood Brothers Shadows – Iga no Monogatari Korean webtoons Forgotten Temple Novels Novelizations The Secret Crusade Renaissance Brotherhood Revelations Forsaken Black Flag Unity The Movie Odyssey Underworld Ubisoft Publishing novels Heresy Origins – Desert Oath Valhalla – Geirmund's Saga Aconyte Books novels Valhalla – Sword of the White Horse The Golden City Mirage – Daughter of No One Engine of History – The Magus Conspiracy Engine of History – The Resurrection Plot Young adult novels Last Descendants Last Descendants – Tomb of the Khan Last Descendants – Fate of the Gods Fragments – The Blade of Aizu Fragments – The Highlands Children Fragments – The Witches of the Moors Other books Prophecy of the Emperor The Silk Road Escape Room Puzzle Book Films and TV series Lineage Ascendance Embers The Movie Live action series Animated series Anime series Audiobooks Gold Board games Brotherhood of Venice Roleplaying Game Community Staff Administrators Cristophorus35 Lady Kyashira Sol Pacificus Soranin Moderators Ahmairah Lacrossedeamon Sadelyrate Xangr8 Zero-ELEC Policies Manual of Style Community Guidelines Moderation Images Images Licensing Sourcing Licensing Guidelines Be Bold Achievements in: Articles containing pre-release information , Articles with conjectural titles , Assassin's Creed series English 中文 Live-action Assassin's Creed television series Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (2) You cannot know anything. Only suspect. This article contains content from pre-release sources that may or may not be reflective of canon upon release. This article therefore likely contains spoilers. I wanted to ask you something. Which is… what's your name? The title of this article is conjecture. Although the subject of this article is canon, no official name for it has been given. Live-action Assassin's Creed television series Production information Format Live-action Studio(s) Ubisoft Film & Television Network(s) Netflix A live-action Assassin's Creed television series is currently being developed by Ubisoft Film & Television . It is set to air on the Netflix streaming platform. [ 1 ] Ubisoft's Jason Altman and Danielle Kreinik were previously listed as executive producers on the series, [ 2 ] before both left Ubisoft. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] Production [ ] Development [ ] The series was revealed to be in the early stages of development in October 2020. Ubisoft partnered with Netflix to produce three separate Assassin's Creed series, one being an animated program, the second being anime , and the final being a live-action production. Although a showrunner has not been found, [ 1 ] Ubisoft's Jason Altman and Danielle Kreinik were announced as executive producers after the NXOnNetflix Twitter account posted a 10-second teaser video revealing the Netflilx logo in the Assassin insignia . [ 5 ] [ 2 ] In an April 2021 Eurogamer interview, Aymar Azaïzia confirmed that "[they had] secured a couple of talents and are working with them on the show". He was hesitant to share anything else, apart from the acknowledging that the team had learned from mistakes on the 2016 film starring Michael Fassbender , noting that the world of Assassin's Creed would better translate into a television series for easing newcomers into the franchise considering the large amount of background lore present. [ 6 ] On 14 June, Variety announced that Jeb Stuart had been enlisted to serve as writer and showrunner after his previous success creating the Netflix series Vikings: Valhalla , a continuation of the History Channel series Vikings . [ 7 ] In February 2022, Jeb Stuart provided an update to The Playlist , indicating that the casting process had not been initiated at that stage but suggested that the show would be shot internationally and feature unbelievable action. [ 8 ] That July, Executive Producer Danielle Kreinik left Ubisoft Film & and Television for Jerry Bruckheimer Television , leaving her involvement in the series unclear. [ 3 ] On 11 September, at the Ubisoft Forward event, franchise Vice President Executive Producer Marc-Alexis Côté revealed to Collider that the series was still in early development, promising "It's gonna be an epic, genre-bending live-action adaptation of our video game series." [ 9 ] In a January 2023 interview with Collider , Jeb Stuart stated in that he was no longer part of the project, citing the move of executives from Los Angeles to London and having different creative visions on the direction of the show as the reason for the separation. [ 10 ] That April, Jason Altman left Ubisoft for a position at Netflix, leaving the series without either executive producer. [ 4 ] In a February 2025 TechCrawler article, they claimed via an insider source that the series was on-hold until further notice. [ 11 ] Though a later April comment by Netflix Head of Gaming Alain Tascan to Game File contradicted this as he revealed it was still in active development. [ 12 ] [ 13 ] References [ ] ↑ 1.0 1.1 Goldberg, Lesley (27 October 2020). 'Assassin's Creed' Live-Action TV Series in the Works at Netflix . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on 27 October 2020. Retrieved on 27 October 2020. ↑ 2.0 2.1 Netflix Geeked (@NetflixGeeked) on Twitter "Netflix will be developing an Assassin's Creed live-action series. @Ubisofts's Jason Altman and Danielle Kreinik will serve as Executive Producers" ( screenshot ) ↑ 3.0 3.1 Danielle Kreinik . LinkedIn . Retrieved on 8 June 2024. ↑ 4.0 4.1 Jason Altman . LinkedIn . Retrieved on 8 June 2024. ↑ NetflixGeeked (@NetflixGeeked) on Twitter "Netflix + Assassin's Creed pic.twitter.com/yI2sItnMgi " ( screenshot ) ↑ Phillips, Tom (19 April 2021). Ubisoft details Assassin's Creed Black Flag webtoon sequel, Shao Jun books, Netflix projects . Eurogamer . Archived from the original on 19 April 2021. Retrieved on 20 April 2021. ↑ Otterson, Joe (14 June 2021). 'Assassin's Creed' Live-Action Netflix Series Enlists 'Die Hard's' Jeb Stuart as Showrunner (EXCLUSIVE) . Variety . Archived from the original on 14 June 2021. Retrieved on 9 July 2021. ↑ Moore, Kasey (22 July 2022). ‘Assassins Creed’ Series on Netflix: Everything We Know So Far . What's on Netflix . Archived from the original on 25 July 2022. Retrieved on 25 July 2022. ↑ Villei, Matt (11 September 2022). Ubisoft Calls Netflix's 'Assassin's Creed' Live-Action Series "Epic" and "Genre-Bending" . Collider . Archived from the original on 26 November 2022. Retrieved on 3 January 2023. ↑ Villei, Matt (2 January 2023). 'Assassin's Creed' Series Loses Showrunner Jeb Stuart [Exclusive] . Collider . Archived from the original on 3 January 2023. Retrieved on 2 January 2023. ↑ Mark (5 February 2025). Insider Claims Netflix’s ‘Assassin’s Creed’ Series Is on Hold, but a New Live-Action Movie is in the Works . TechCrawler. Archived from the original on 11 February 2025. Retrieved on 11 February 2025. ↑ Phillips, Tom (2 April 2025). Five years later, Netflix live-action Assassin's Creed still in "active" development . Eurogamer . Archived from the original on 8 April 2025. Retrieved on 8 April 2025. ↑ Totilo, Stephen (2 April 2025). Netflix’s ambitious gaming boss wants to “make history,” says recent cuts weren’t to save money . Game File. Archived from the original on 8 April 2025. Retrieved on 8 April 2025. Assassin's Creed series Main games Assassin's Creed • Assassin's Creed II ( Battle of Forlì • Bonfire of the Vanities ) • Brotherhood ( Copernicus Conspiracy • The Da Vinci Disappearance ) • Revelations ( The Lost Archive ) • Assassin's Creed III ( Benedict Arnold • The Tyranny of King Washington ) • Liberation • Black Flag ( Freedom Cry • Aveline ) • Rogue • Unity ( Dead Kings ) • Syndicate ( Jack the Ripper • The Last Maharaja • The Dreadful Crimes ) • Origins ( The Hidden Ones • The Curse of the Pharaohs ) • Odyssey ( Legacy of the First Blade • The Fate of Atlantis ) • Valhalla ( Wrath of the Druids • The Siege of Paris • Dawn of Ragnarök ) • Mirage Animus Hub Shadows ( Claws of Awaji ) • Hexe • Invictus Spin-off games Altaïr's Chronicles • Bloodlines • Discovery • Multiplayer • Project Legacy • Multiplayer Rearmed • Recollection • Pirates • Memories • Chronicles ( China | India | Russia ) • Identity • Arno's Chronicles • Rebellion • Freerunners • Jade • Assassin's Creed Netflix mobile game Virtual Reality The VR Experience • Escape the Lost Pyramid • The Temple of Anubis • Beyond Medusa's Gate • Nexus VR Table Top Arena • Monopoly • Vendetta • Top Trumps • Risk • Brotherhood of Venice ( Roma • Tokyo XXI • Creed vs Crows • Apocalypse ) • The Last Quest of Leonardo da Vinci • Universes Beyond • Roleplaying Game Compilations Ezio Trilogy • Anthology • Heritage Collection • The Americas Collection • The Ezio Collection • The Rebel Collection Novels Renaissance • Brotherhood • The Secret Crusade • Revelations • Forsaken • Black Flag • Unity • Underworld • Last Descendants series ( Last Descendants | Tomb of the Khan | Fate of the Gods ) • Heresy • The Official Movie Novelization • Desert Oath • Odyssey • The Ming Storm series ( The Ming Storm • The Desert Threat ) • Geirmund's Saga • Fragments ( The Blade of Aizu | The Highlands Children | The Witches of the Moors ) • The Silk Road • The Imperial Jade Seal ( Chang'an Wang ) • Sword of the White Horse • The Engine of History ( The Magus Conspiracy • The Resurrection Plot ) • Escape Room Puzzle Book • The Golden City • Daughter of No One • Dynasty Audio Renaissance • Brotherhood • The Secret Crusade • Revelations • Forsaken • Black Flag • Underworld • Last Descendants series ( Last Descendants | Tomb of the Khan | Fate of the Gods ) • The Official Film Tie-In • Desert Oath • Odyssey • Gold • Geirmund's Saga • The Ming Storm series ( The Ming Storm • The Desert Threat ) • Turbulence in the Ming Dynasty • Sword of the White Horse • The Engine of History ( The Magus Conspiracy • The Resurrection Plot ) Comics Assassin's Creed • The Fall • The Chain • Awakening • Brahman • Assassins • Templars • Last Descendants – Locus • Conspiracies • Uprising • Reflections • Origins • Bloodstone • Blade of Shao Jun • Dynasty • Song of Glory • Blood Brothers • Valhalla webcomic • Forgotten Myths • The Hidden Codex • Forgotten Temple • Visionaries • A Soar of Eagles • Iga no Monogatari Non-fiction Assassin's Creed guide / artbook / CE artbook • Assassin's Creed II guide / artbook / CE artbook • Brotherhood guide / artbook • Revelations guide / artbook • Encyclopedia • Assassin's Creed III guide / artbook • Black Flag guide / artbook / CE artbook • Rogue guide / artbook • Unity guide / artbook / CE artbook • The Complete Visual History • Syndicate guide / artbook / CE artbook • A Walk Through History • The Official Coloring Book • The Essential Guide • Movie Posters • Into the Animus • Incredibuilds • The Official Collection • Origins guide / artbook / CE artbook • Infographics • The Culinary Codex • Odyssey guide / artbook / CE artbook • Complete Character Guide • 2500 Years of History • Atlas • Discovery Books ( Ancient Egypt | Ancient Greece | Viking Age | In the Heart of Baghdad | The Japan of the Samurai ) • Where's the Assassin? • Valhalla artbook • Mirage artbook / CE artbook • Shadows artbook / CE artbook Film & Television Lineage • Ascendance • Embers • French Revolution • The Syndicate • Assassin's Creed • Live-action TV series • Animated TV series • Anime series Websites Abstergo.com • Animus Next • Council • Crack The Code • Discover Your Legacy • Initiates • Project Legacy • Project Widow • Pirates Demo • Question the Creed • The Twelve Trials • Unlock the Animus • Who's In Your Blood? • Your Blood Is Not Your Own • XIXth Century Search Engine Cancelled media The Invisible Imam • The Eye of Heaven • Lost Legacy • Utopia • Bloodsail • Alliance • Covers Collection Categories Categories : Articles containing pre-release information Articles with conjectural titles Assassin's Creed series Languages 中文 Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Horror Assassin's Creed Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Assassin's Creed Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab