CD Projekt assures investors that Cyberpunk 2077 is really, actually, definitely releasing December 10 | PC Gamer Skip to main content Open menu Close menu PC Gamer PC Gamer THE GLOBAL AUTHORITY ON PC GAMES Search Search PC Gamer Sign in View Profile Sign out Subscribe US Edition UK US Canada Australia Games Hardware News Reviews Guides Video Forum More PC Gaming Show Software Movies & TV Coupons Magazine Newsletter Community guidelines Affiliate links Meet the team About PC Gamer No offers found Popular Oblivion Remastered Marathon Baldur's Gate 3 Schedule 1 Marvel Rivals Games RPG Cyberpunk 2077 CD Projekt assures investors that Cyberpunk 2077 is really, actually, definitely releasing December 10 News By Andy Chalk published 25 November 2020 Also, The Witcher 3 is continuing to make truckloads of money. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . (Image credit: CD Projekt) Reach immortality with these Cyberpunk guides (Image credit: CD Projekt Red) Cyberpunk 2077 lifepaths : Which to choose Cyberpunk 2077 map : What you need to know Cyberpunk 2077 romance options Cyberpunk 2077 builds : Best so far Cyberpunk 2077 Braindance : How it works Cyberpunk 2077 cars : Race around Night City Cyberpunk 2077 hacking : How to do it CD Projekt released its third quarter consolidated financial results today, and there are two main points to take note of. One, The Witcher is still killing it: The company earned $28 million in revenues on the quarter, "mostly generated by sales of games from The Witcher universe," CFO Piotr Nielubowicz said. And two (and more important), Cyberpunk 2077 is still scheduled to arrive on December 10. The Cyberpunk launch date has been something of an ongoing concern, given the multiple delays it has seen this year. The original April 2020 date was pushed to September , and then September became November , and November ran into December . CD Projekt has been adamant that the December date is solid, but doubts have persisted, fueled at least in part by previous expressions of launch-day confidence that turned out to be not quite rock solid. Recall this gem, for instance, posted literally the day before the most recent delay was announced: You may like The Witcher 4 won't be out until sometime in 2027 at the soonest, CD Projekt says The Witcher 4 reveal trailer took 14 days of mocap, and CD Projekt wants you to think about what happened after it ended The Witcher 3 devs had to practically remake the game engine to make official modding possible @CyberpunkGame hi, before I book the 19th off work tomorrow can I have full confirmation the game is going to come out that day? No take backsies. #burntbefore #cantwait #Cyberpunk2077 #Cyberpunk October 26, 2020 Well fu** :( October 27, 2020 Knuckles got a little whiter following a suggestive tweet that came from an account that, earlier this year, made accurate calls on the cancellation of E3 and, to a lesser extent, a Nintendo Direct event. It was enough to prompt CD Projekt to take the unusual step of issuing an official denial . Uhhhhhhhhhhhh...So, what if #Cyberpunk2077 gets delayed..... Again. Like what if it doesn't launch this year. Like uh until 2021.... Just asking..... #cyberpunk November 9, 2020 Now, though, with just over two weeks before the scheduled December 10 release date, we have that date emblazoned, in very large characters, in official corporate documents. At least one copy of the game is also apparently in someone's hot little hands , and there's not much likelihood of (or point in) a delay once the boxes start moving out of the warehouse. Nothing is carved in stone: The universe is vast, and sometimes works in strange and unknowable ways. But at the very least, CD Projekt's commitment to the date means that any last-minute delay would be catastrophically humiliating. Fool me once, shame on you, fool me four times, well, come on guys. Get it together. CD Projekt really seems serious this time, though. Really really. The biggest gaming news, reviews and hardware deals Keep up to date with the most important stories and the best deals, as picked by the PC Gamer team. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. (Image credit: CD Projekt) If you haven't seen it yet, we've got an in-depth preview of Cyberpunk 2077 based on 15 hours of gameplay, plus some thoughts on which lifepath you might want to choose to start your adventures in Night City, and some of the most important places to visit once you get there. TOPICS CD Projekt Andy Chalk Social Links Navigation US News Lead Andy has been gaming on PCs from the very beginning, starting as a youngster with text adventures and primitive action games on a cassette-based TRS80. From there he graduated to the glory days of Sierra Online adventures and Microprose sims, ran a local BBS, learned how to build PCs, and developed a longstanding love of RPGs, immersive sims, and shooters. He began writing videogame news in 2007 for The Escapist and somehow managed to avoid getting fired until 2014, when he joined the storied ranks of PC Gamer. He covers all aspects of the industry, from new game announcements and patch notes to legal disputes, Twitch beefs, esports, and Henry Cavill. Lots of Henry Cavill. Read more The Witcher 4 won't be out until sometime in 2027 at the soonest, CD Projekt says The Witcher 4 reveal trailer took 14 days of mocap, and CD Projekt wants you to think about what happened after it ended The Witcher 3 devs had to practically remake the game engine to make official modding possible CD Projekt says it's not using generative AI on The Witcher 4 because it's 'quite tricky when it comes to legal IP ownership' PC Gamer magazine's new issue is on sale now: The Blood of Dawnwalker They can't keep getting away with this: Star Citizen has now raised over $800 million after 13 years, and it's still in alpha Latest in RPG The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion Remastered review Elden Ring legend Let Me Solo Her finally played Bloodborne, and came across new levels of pain: 'This boss took me more tries than any previous boss' Devs lament Oblivion Remastered's surprise release as Todd Howard eats their lunch: 'I noticed a complete stop in game sales from about 2 pm onward on Oblivion day' How to start Knights of the Nine in Oblivion and the remaster How to begin The Shivering Isles in Oblivion and the remaster Dragon Age creator says Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 is 'kind of to JRPGs what Baldur's Gate 3 was to CRPGs' Latest in News Wagon is a 1-bit card-based spiritual successor to survival classic The Oregon Trail, and wastes no time getting right into the cannibalism More than 19,000 NFT images briefly disappeared last week thanks to a server problem Splitgate 2 open beta test kicks off in May with a 'massive amount of new content' 'AI is going to become more and more difficult to detect': Fortnite has no plans to clean up increasing number of AI thumbnails cluttering up user-generated experiences Electronic Arts lays off hundreds of employees and cancels 2 'incubation projects' including a new Titanfall game Dune-inspired indie roguelike admits it kinda ran out of ideas, but releases out of early access anyway and goes 100% free: 'Only so many things you can do that fit into the 'lateral worm cannon' mold' HARDWARE BUYING GUIDES LATEST GAME REVIEWS 1 Best Steam Deck accessories in Australia for 2025: Our favorite docks, powerbanks and gamepads 2 Best graphics card for laptops in 2025: the mobile GPUs I'd want in my next gaming laptop 3 Best mini PCs in 2025: The compact computers I love the most 4 Best 14-inch gaming laptop in 2025: The top compact gaming laptops I've held in these hands 5 Best Mini-ITX motherboards in 2025: My pick from all the mini mobo marvels I've tested 1 The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion Remastered review 2 MSI Vector 16 HX AI gaming laptop review 3 Thrustmaster T.Flight HOTAS One Microsoft Flight Simulator Edition review 4 Be Quiet! Dark Mount gaming keyboard review 5 Be Quiet! Light Mount gaming keyboard review PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and conditions Privacy policy Cookies policy Advertise with us Accessibility Statement Careers © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up