LIVE BLOG: Tesla (TSLA) Q2 2020 earnings call summary NEWS Tesla SPACEX Elon Musk Shop Connect with us TESLARATI LIVE BLOG: Tesla (TSLA) Q2 2020 earnings call summary NEWS Tesla hired over 1,000 factory workers for its Semi program in NV: report Elon Musk jokes he will join Mr Beast’s “100 Men vs 1 Gorilla” challenge Big Tesla win? Sec Lutnick says cars with 85% domestic content will face zero tariffs Tesla reveals Semi fleet data, shows off new feature and infrastructure plans Tesla Vehicle Safety Report shows Autopilot is 10x better than humans Tesla Tesla hired over 1,000 factory workers for its Semi program in NV: report Tesla reveals Semi fleet data, shows off new feature and infrastructure plans Tesla Vehicle Safety Report shows Autopilot is 10x better than humans Like it or not, the new Tesla Model Y is a big hit in China Tesla Board member and Airbnb co-founder loads up on TSLA ahead of robotaxi launch SPACEX Starlink nears S Korea launch as satellite internet demand rises Starlink India’s license faces delay due to regulatory requirements SpaceX investment fuels Alphabet’s $8 billion profit surge T-Mobile cuts Starlink Cellular service price, eyes broader access SpaceX’s Starbase nears city status with voter support Elon Musk Tesla reveals Semi fleet data, shows off new feature and infrastructure plans Tesla fends off new attack that will hurt consumers more than anyone else Tesla Takedown group takes victory lap and aims for Starlink and SpaceX Kia gains Tesla Supercharger access and issues a big apology Tesla adds new child protection feature to mobile app Shop Investor's Corner LIVE BLOG: Tesla (TSLA) Q2 2020 earnings call summary (Credit: Tesla) Share Tweet Published 5 years ago on July 22, 2020 By Simon Alvarez Tesla’s ( NASDAQ:TSLA ) second-quarter earnings call comes on the heels of an impressive quarter that saw the electric car maker posting $6.036 billion in revenue and a $451 million non-GAAP net income, beating Wall Street’s estimates. As revealed in the company’s Q2 2020 Update Letter , Tesla currently sits on $8.6 billion in cash. The Tesla Model Y ramp is also proving faster than the Model 3 ramp, which should allow the company to increase its output at the Fremont factory in the coming quarters. Tesla Energy had some milestones as well, with the Megapack being profitable and Solar Roof installations tripling in Q2 compared to Q1. For today’s earnings call, Tesla executives are expected to address questions surrounding the company’s plans for the coming quarters, particularly its maintained guidance of 500,000 vehicle deliveries for the year. Updates on future projects such as the Cybertruck, Semi, and Roadster may also be mentioned, as well as more details on upcoming Gigafactories, particularly in the United States. The following are live updates from Tesla’s Q2 2020 earnings call. I will be updating this article in real-time, so please keep refreshing the page to view the latest updates on this story. The first entry starts at the bottom of the page. 15:35 PT: And that wraps up Tesla’s second quarter earnings call! The questions this time around were pretty interesting, though it was a bit tiring to hear inquiries about demand once more. That said, it was great hearing Tesla executives’ thoughts on its upcoming products, as well as facilities that are yet to be built. Overall, an enjoyable call. Thanks for staying with us today for this live blog. Till the next time! Advertisement 15:33 PT: Jeffries takes the last question. The inquiry focused on battery capacity and Giga Berlin, especially if Tesla would need to get cells from other countries for its German plant. Elon responded by stating that he can’t really talk about the plans for Giga Berlin, but there will be local production of cells at the upcoming facility. Elon jokes about workers’ mobility in Europe, stating that he suggests that workers’ time in the region are better used. 15:30 PT: An inquiry from Emmanuel Rosner from Deutsche Bank about the near term demand for Tesla’s vehicles has been asked. Elon Musk noted that demand is not a problem. “The things that are troubling us right now is not demand,” Musk said. A follow up question about Tesla’s 500k target for 2020 was expressed. Musk stated that it is hard to utilize a global supply chain, particularly during this year’s challenging times. He expressed his respect for companies and entities working the supply chain as well. (Credit: Tesla) 15:26 PT: Bernstein takes the floor, inquiring about operating margins and how it could be over time, as well as EV credits and how it could affect them. CFO Kirkhorn emphasizes that Tesla’s business is not managed with regulatory credits in focus. Elon Musk notes that Tesla buyers in the US don’t even get credits anymore, but despite this, sales have been doing well. Kirkhorn added that there is continued decline in the production costs of cars, especially in mature products like Model S, Model X, and Model 3. FSD and other software products, as well as future services like the Tesla Network, could also play a key role in operating margins. Kirkhorn admits that Tesla is in a journey here, so while the company benefits from regulatory credits now, this will not be the case in the long term. Elon wants Tesla’s cars to be more affordable. He admits that it’s the pain point that bothers him the most for now. That said, Tesla has made some headway in this sense. After all, the company’s vehicles are being reduced in price over time, and improvements in battery tech will only accelerate this. 15:21 PT: Wall Street’s questions begin. First up is Dan Levy of Credit Suisse with a question about gross margins and Tesla’s differing approach in its various production facilities. Zach Kirkhorn responds, stating that the Model Y margins are improving. He did state that Model Y is still more expensive to produce than the Model 3. Elon added that Giga Shanghai is getting more and more localized, which makes a massive difference to the overall cost of vehicles that are made there. This could be seen in the price adjustments of the Model 3 in the country. Automotive President Guillen added that lots of suppliers are enthusiastic about supporting Tesla in China. The same will likely be true for Berlin as well. 15:15 PT: Next up is the Tesla Insurance ramp, as well as if the company will require Tesla Insurance for the company’s upcoming ride hailing network. Zach Kirkhorn notes that the current version of Tesla Insurance is only Version 1, or 0.9 as Elon noted. The CFO reiterates that Tesla Insurance has a data advantage, which allows the company to provide a viable service for Tesla customers. Tesla hopes to ramp Tesla Insurance to other states by the end of the year. “At the heart of every competitive insurance is the accuracy of your information,” Musk said. (Credit: Tesla) 15:10 PT: Next up is a question about the Tesla Semi’s volume production. What does “volume production” mean? The first few units of the Tesla Semi will be used by Tesla to carry freight between Fremont and Nevada. There’s a lot of technology that will be going into the Semi, as suggested by Automotive President Jerome Guillen. He appears to be extremely excited for the Semi’s ramp, which is finally happening. When asked about the discontinued Standard Range Model Y, Elon jokingly asked nickel companies to mine more as long as it’s efficient and environmentally friendly way. As noted by Musk, cell shortage is still the limiting factor for Tesla. It appears that the more batteries Tesla has access to, the more vehicles and types of vehicles it could produce. 15:05 PT: Tesla retail shareholder questions begin. First off is Tesla Energy and how it is largely ignored by Wall Street. How disruptive is Autobidder? Elon Musk noted that collectively the energy sector is bigger than automotive, so Tesla Energy would likely be just as big as its EV business. Ron Baron has mentioned this before when he stated that Tesla Energy has the potential to become a $500 billion business on its own. Elon noted that Tesla’s mission is to accelerate the advent of sustainable energy. That push requires three parts: EVs, solar, and batteries. To accomplish the company’s primary goal, Tesla would have to ramp its energy business. The Megapack is seeing a lot of demand. “Autobidder is Autopilot for grid type batteries,” as it ensures that the battery does everything it can as efficiently as it can. Creating such a system is very representative of Tesla since the company is known for tapping into software to complete targets. Advertisement 15:00 PT: Responding to an inquiry about Autopilot, Elon explained that the driver assist system right now is pretty much operating in 2.5D. Operating in 4D is something completely different , and it will be game-changing. “The car will seem to have a giant improvement. It will probably roll out later this year. It will be able to do traffic lights, stops, turns, everything, pretty much. And then it will be a long march of (updates). It will definitely be better than human,” Musk said. An inquiry about the Alien Dreadnought. Elon states that there’s about 10,000 more engineering required for the factory than the product itself. “We’re certainly making progress,” Elon said, stating that the Dreadnought is starting to approach Version 1, referring to Gigafactory Nevada. Perhaps Gigafactory Shanghai, Gigafactory Berlin, and the Austin Gigafactory will be Version 2. Interestingly, Elon also noted that the Model Y will look the same in Gigafactory Berlin, but the technology will be different. Elon and other Tesla executives highlighted that the company loves manufacturing. The Alien Dreadnought is not all about replacing humans at all. The CEO seemingly plugs the maker movement once more, encouraging anyone interested to go into manufacturing. He is quite right about this. As Musk noted in the past, it’s difficult to have things when no one makes them. 14:50 PT: Questions from institutional investors begin. First up is about cheaper or region specific vehicles, or a product roadmap. Elon stated that while Tesla can’t reveal its product roadmap, it is reasonable to assume that Tesla would make a compact vehicle in the future. That said, he stated that there is still a long way to go with the Model 3, Model Y, and Cybertruck. Second question is about FSD and software offerings. Elon notes that by far, FSD today is the most important thing. He expects the upgrade to FSD the biggest asset value rise in automotive history. The CEO does have a point, considering that full self driving may very well change the transportation world. Emphasizing this point, Elon states that everything else seems small in comparison. After FSD, it’s probably going to be all about entertainment. Perhaps an app store is indeed in the pipeline sometime in the future. (Credit: Tesla) 14:45 PT: Zach Kirkhorn takes the floor and thanks Tesla employees. He highlights Tesla’s four quarters of profitability, stating that the company optimized hard by initiating cost savings initiatives. This allowed the company to balance out the hits the company received due to the pandemic and Fremont’s shutdown. The CFO stated that in Q2, Tesla opted to pass on some of these savings to customers, referring to the cost reductions of the company’s vehicles. Kirkhorn was also very optimistic about Tesla Energy, highlighting that the Megapack is now profitable. Solar and Solar Roof are also coming along nicely. 14:40 PT: The Tesla CEO also highlighted the Model S’ 400-mile EPA range, which is best in class. “I personally tested the latest (version of FSD) and I think it’s better profoundly than people realize. It’s almost getting to the point where I can go from my house to work without (requiring) interventions. This is why I’m confident about reaching feature complete FSD by the end of the year. (It’s because) I’m driving it,” he noted. Also, Battery Day hype. “Thanks again for your support of our long term mission,” Elon said, closing his opening remarks. “I’ve never been more optimistic about the future of Tesla,” he added. 14:35 PT: Elon Musk thanks the Tesla team for their efforts in Q2. He sounds quite optimistic as he highlights how Tesla was able to grow at a time like this, when legacy auto is DOWN a lot. Elon also announced that its next Gigafactory will be in Texas. Looks like Austin won this round. It’s 5 minutes from the airport and it’s about 2,000 acres. “It will be stunning. It’s right by the Colorado River. It will have a boardwalk… It will be an ecological paradise. It will be open to the public as well,” Musk noted. The Austin Gigafactory will produce the Cybertruck, the Model Y, and the Semi. Fremont will probably produce the next-generation Roadster. Elon also recognized Tulsa for a battle well fought. “‘I’d like to give a shoutout to Tulsa. I was super impressed… We will for sure consider Tulsa for future expansion of Tesla down the road,” the CEO noted. Tesla selects Texas as home to its next US factory "It will be an ecological paradise.” https://t.co/F4VxrNLFkf — TESLARATI (@Teslarati) July 22, 2020 14:32 PT: Tesla Investor Relations’ Martin Viecha takes the floor. Elon and Zach Kirkhorn, as well as other executives are present. Elon’s operating remarks begin. Advertisement 14:31 PT: And it’s time for the earnings call. Let’s go! 14:29 PT: Quick factoid: Tesla had a bear case of $10 per share courtesy of Morgan Stanley during the height of 2019’s headwinds. I guess that estimate was a bit off. 14:25 PT: I have to admit, I’m pretty excited for this one. Anyone who’s been following Tesla over the past year would remember how it was in Q2 2019. Last year, it felt like the sharks were smelling blood in the water. TSLAQ members were sure Tesla was going down, and it wasn’t until Q3 when things started settling down. Oh, what a difference a year makes. 14:20 PT: It is time once more for Tesla’s quarterly earnings report! This quarter was pretty crazy, with Fremont being closed for several weeks and a lot of drama resulting from its reopening. Despite all these headwinds, Tesla posted a profit for Q2. That’s pretty insane, especially since the company was able to accomplish this during a literal pandemic. The Q2 2020 Update Letter is full of interesting details. Let’s brace for impact, everyone. Advertisement Related Topics: $TSLA Elon Musk Featured Tesla Up Next Tesla selects Texas as home to its next US factory Don't Miss Tesla updates Model Y production rate, increased capacity at Fremont Simon Alvarez Simon is an experienced automotive reporter with a passion for electric cars and clean energy. Fascinated by the world envisioned by Elon Musk, he hopes to make it to Mars (at least as a tourist) someday.  For stories or tips--or even to just say a simple hello--send a message to  his email, simon@teslarati.com or his handle on X, @ResidentSponge . Advertisement You may like Tesla hired over 1,000 factory workers for its Semi program in NV: report Elon Musk jokes he will join Mr Beast’s “100 Men vs 1 Gorilla” challenge Big Tesla win? Sec Lutnick says cars with 85% domestic content will face zero tariffs Tesla reveals Semi fleet data, shows off new feature and infrastructure plans Tesla Vehicle Safety Report shows Autopilot is 10x better than humans Like it or not, the new Tesla Model Y is a big hit in China Comments Investor's Corner Tesla Board member and Airbnb co-founder loads up on TSLA ahead of robotaxi launch Tesla CEO Elon Musk gave a nod of appreciation for the Tesla Board member’s purchase. Published 13 hours ago on April 29, 2025 By Simon Alvarez (Credit: Tesla) Tesla Board member and Airbnb Co-Founder Joe Gebbia has loaded up on TSLA stock ( NASDAQ:TSLA ). The Board member’s purchase comes just over a month before Tesla is expected to launch an initial robotaxi service in Austin, Texas. Tesla CEO Elon Musk gave a nod of appreciation for the Tesla Board member in a post on social media. The TSLA Purchase As could be seen in a Form 4 submitted to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Monday, Gebbia purchased about $1.02 million worth of TSLA stock. This was comprised of 4,000 TSLA shares at an average price of $256.308 per share. Interestingly enough, Gebbia’s purchase represents the first time an insider has purchased TSLA stock in about five years. CEO Elon Musk, in response to a post on social media platform X about the Tesla Board member’s TSLA purchase, gave a nod of appreciation for Gebbia. “Joe rocks,” Musk wrote in his post on X. Gebbia has served on Tesla’s Board as an independent director since 2022, and he is also a known friend of Elon Musk. He even joined the Trump Administration’s Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) to help the government optimize its processes. Advertisement Just a Few Weeks Before Robotaxi The timing of Gebbia’s TSLA stock purchase is quite interesting as the company is expected to launch a dedicated roboatxi service this June in Austin. A recent report from Insider , citing sources reportedly familiar with the matter, claimed that Tesla currently has 300 test operators driving robotaxis around Austin city streets. The publication’s sources also noted that Tesla has an internal deadline of June 1 for the robotaxi service’s rollout, but even a launch near the end of the month would be impressive. During the Q1 2025 earnings call, Elon Musk explained that the robotaxi service that would be launched in June will feature autonomous rides in Model Y units. He also noted that the robotaxi service would see an expansion to other cities by the end of 2025. “The Teslas that will be fully autonomous in June in Austin are probably Model Ys. So, that is currently on track to be able to do paid rides fully autonomously in Austin in June and then to be in many other cities in the US by the end of this year,” Musk stated. Continue Reading Investor's Corner Tesla hints at ‘Model 2’ & next-gen EV designs Tesla’s Q1 2025 update confirms new models this year, with production tied to existing factory lines. Could it be time for the Model 2 debut? Published 5 days ago on April 24, 2025 By Maria Merano (Credit: Tesla) During its Q1 2025 earnings call, Tesla executives hinted at the much-rumored “Model 2” and other next-gen EV designs. Tesla slightly addressed whether or not it will be pushing forward with the debut of new models later this year in its latest earnings call. The company’s product development executive, Lars Moravy, shared some details about Tesla’s design process and the upcoming affordable models. “We’re still planning to release models this year. As with all launches, we’re working through, like, the last minute issues that pop up. We’re knocking them down one by one. At this point, I would say that the ramp might be a little slower than we had hoped initially…But there’s nothing that’s blocking us from starting production within the next, within the timeline laid out in the opening remarks. “And I will say it’s important to emphasize that, as we’ve said all along, the full utilization of our factories is the primary goal for these new products. And so the flexibility of what we can do within the form factor and, you know, the design of it is really limited to what we can do on our existing lines rather than building new ones. But we’ve been targeting the low cost of ownership. Monthly payment is the biggest differentiator for our vehicles, and that’s why we’re focused on bringing these new models with the, you know, the lowest price, to the market, within the constraints I just highlighted.” The Model 3 is a hell of a deal, ngl. With the federal tax credit, it'd be silly to get a comparably priced combustion-powered car. Now for the big question. Is the Model 3 currently the best-looking Tesla? https://t.co/5E37J9OKhU — TESLARATI (@Teslarati) April 24, 2025 Advertisement In January, Tesla’s Chief Financial Officer Vaibhav Taneja teased several new product introductions for this year . There is at least one product that most Tesla supporters and investors are hoping to see: the company’s affordable vehicles, which have been dubbed by the EV community as the “Model 2” or “Model Q.” Before Tesla’s Robotaxi event last year, many speculated that the company would also unveil its affordable next-gen vehicle. Gene Munster from Deepwater had expected Tesla to release a stripped-down version of the Model 3 as its affordable vehicle during the Robotaxi event. In the end, Tesla unveiled its Robotaxi vehicle and its Robovan design. It’s been a while since the Robotaxi event, and Tesla has kept mum about its affordable vehicle. Considering its Q1 2025 performance, TSLA investors look forward to catalysts that could boost the stock. The “Model 2” has been labeled a potential catalyst for Tesla . As such, TSLA investors and supporters have been itching for news about the new affordable vehicle. The main questions surrounding the “Model 2” revolve around its design and price. Based on Moravy’s statement, the “Model 2’s” design will heavily depend on Tesla’s current assembly lines and supply chain structures. Advertisement Continue Reading Elon Musk Tesla regains Piper Sandler’s confidence with Robotaxi plans & Q1 Results Piper Sandler says Tesla delivered the best-case scenario for bulls. $TSLA has catalysts ahead to silence the bears. Published 6 days ago on April 24, 2025 By Maria Merano (Credit: Tesla) Tesla gained Piper Sandler analyst Alexander Potter’s confidence following its Q1 2025 earnings call. Piper Sandler reaffirmed its Overweight rating and $400 TSLA price target, signaling optimism for the company’s robotaxi and affordable vehicle launches expected this year. The firm’s stance reflects Tesla’s resilience amid market challenges. Despite expectations of weak Q1 financials, Tesla’s stock edged up in after-hours trading, defying skepticism. Piper Sandler’s Alexander Potter noted that the results met the hopes of Tesla supporters, particularly as the company held firm on its timelines. Potter emphasized that anticipation for robotaxi details and new vehicle launches should keep critics at bay, supporting the $400 target. “In our preview last week, we predicted that (at best) Q1 would be a non-event. With the stock trading up slightly in the after-hours session, it appears our best-case scenario has materialized. Considering generally weak Q1 financials, we think this is the best result that TSLA bulls could’ve reasonably hoped for. “In our view, the most important Q1 takeaway is this: Tesla didn’t hedge expectations re: launching Robotaxis or lower-priced vehicles in 1H25. With <2 months until the end of June, investors can look forward to some interesting catalysts in the weeks ahead. In our view, this alone should be enough to keep the bears at bay, at least until we have a better idea re: the details of Tesla’s new products, as well as the scale/scope of the Robotaxi launch,” wrote Potter. Advertisement Tesla provides details on the impact of Trump’s auto tariff Wedbush Securities’ Dan Ives, a longtime TSLA bull, echoed Potter’s optimism for Tesla. Ives raised his price target for Tesla stock from $315 to $350 with a BUY rating. His Tesla upgrade came after Elon Musk’s announcement during the Q1 earnings call that he would reduce his involvement with DOGE, signaling a sharper focus on Tesla. Tesla’s steady Q1 performance and unwavering commitment to its 2025 roadmap, including the Robotaxi launch and lower-priced models, bolster investor confidence. Piper Sandler’s analysis underscores Tesla’s ability to navigate a competitive electric vehicle market while advancing its technological edge. The upcoming Robotaxi launch and affordable vehicle introductions are pivotal, with analysts expecting these initiatives to drive stock value through 2025. As Tesla prepares for these milestones, its stock movement reflects market trust in Musk’s vision. With Piper Sandler and Wedbush reaffirming bullish outlooks, Tesla’s strategic moves will remain under close scrutiny, positioning the company to capitalize on its innovation pipeline in a dynamic industry landscape. Continue Reading Latest Popular Videos News 3 hours ago Tesla hired over 1,000 factory workers for its Semi program in NV: report Lifestyle 6 hours ago Elon Musk jokes he will join Mr Beast’s “100 Men vs 1 Gorilla” challenge News 7 hours ago Big Tesla win? Sec Lutnick says cars with 85% domestic content will face zero tariffs News 4 weeks ago Tesla rolls out new, more affordable trim of the Model Y Juniper in U.S. News 4 weeks ago Tesla shares Optimus’ improved walk in new update video Elon Musk 4 weeks ago Tesla Germany reports 4,935 units sold in Q1 2025 News 3 months ago SpaceX completes second catch of lower stage, but loses Starship News 6 months ago Tesla flexes Robotaxi wireless charging — autonomy from top to bottom News 7 months ago Tesla unloads new Semi details: variants, efficiency, fleet data so far Advertisement Yea, we ❤️ these things. You got 'em? 3D MAXpider for 2026 Tesla Model Y ✅ Complete All-Weather Protection ✅ Triple-layer design ✅ Won't warp, won't distort, won't slide, perfect fit ✅ Ultra-premium look and comfort that  your Tesla deserves! 📹▶️ https://t.co/LUsuzI8TDk pic.twitter.com/0m8POOpTfe — TESLARATI (@Teslarati) April 13, 2025 Trending News 1 week ago Tesla’s Hollywood Diner is finally getting close to opening Elon Musk 2 weeks ago Tesla doubles down on Robotaxi launch date, putting a big bet on its timeline News 4 days ago Tesla is trying to make a statement with its Q2 delivery numbers News 2 weeks ago Tesla’s top investor questions ahead of the Q1 2025 earnings call Investor's Corner 1 week ago LIVE BLOG: Tesla (TSLA) Q1 2025 Company Update and earnings call News 2 weeks ago Tesla police fleet saves nearly half a million in upkeep and repair costs News 2 weeks ago Global EV sales climbed 29% in March, powered by China & Europe Elon Musk 2 weeks ago Tesla reportedly suspended Cybercab and Semi parts order amid tariff war: Reuters Home About Us Contact Us Advertise With Us Terms Privacy Copyright © TESLARATI. All rights reserved.