College Football Awards 2019: Results, Winners, Highlights and Twitter Reaction Bleacher Report CFB Home Scores Teams Recruiting Highlights B/R Sports on Max 34:58 Featured Video CFB DAILY W/ UNCLE LOU:  NFL DRAFT RECAP, PORTAL WINNERS AND LOSERS ATLANTA, GEORGIA - DECEMBER 07: Joe Burrow #9 of the LSU Tigers celebrates after throwing a touchdown pass to Terrace Marshall Jr. #6 (not pictured) in the third quarter against the Georgia Bulldogs during the SEC Championship game at Mercedes-Benz Stadium on December 07, 2019 in Atlanta, Georgia. (Photo by Kevin C. Cox/Getty Images) Kevin C. Cox/Getty Images College Football College Football Awards 2019: Results, Winners, Highlights and Twitter Reaction Joseph Zucker Dec 13, 2019 Joe Burrow is still two wins from a national championship, but the LSU quarterback added to his trophy cabinet Thursday as college football announced the winners for some of the game's top individual honors. Burrow has been one of the biggest stories all season, throwing for 4,715 yards and 48 touchdowns while helping guide the Tigers to a 13-0 record and the No. 1 seed in the College Football Playoff. Thursday night belonged to the Tigers star. TOP NEWS Deion Sanders, Colorado Land FSU WR Hykeem Williams in CFB Transfer Portal Bleacher Report 4h UNC Reportedly Concerned About Jordon Hudson's Influence on HC Bill Belichick Bleacher Report 23h College Football Players Poised for Bounce-Back Years in 2025 Bleacher Report 14h Award Winners Maxwell Award (Player of the Year): Joe Burrow, LSU Davey O'Brien National Quarterback Award (Best Quarterback): Joe Burrow, LSU Doak Walker Award (Best Running Back): Jonathan Taylor , Wisconsin Biletnikoff Award (Best Receiver): Ja'Marr Chase, LSU Chuck Bednarik Award (Defensive Player of the Year): Chase Young, Ohio State Outland Trophy (Best Interior Lineman): Penei Sewell , Oregon Jim Thorpe Award (Best Defensive Back): Grant Delpit , LSU Lou Groza Collegiate Place-Kicker Award (Best Kicker): Rodrigo Blankenship, Georgia Ray Guy Award (Best Punter): Max Duffy, Kentucky The Maxwell Award doesn't always predict the eventual Heisman Trophy winner. Tua Tagovailoa took home the honor last year but was runner-up to Oklahoma's Kyler Murray in the Heisman voting. However, the Maxwell more often than not provides a rough idea of how the Heisman race will play out. Burrow bookended the night, opening the show as the Davey O'Brien National Quarterback Award recipient and closing the festivities with the Maxwell Award. In both cases, he was the first winner from LSU. Burrow wasn't the only LSU player who received some hardware as he undoubtedly helped wide receiver Ja'Marr Chase earn the Biletnikoff Award. Chase is carrying on the tradition of dynamic Tigers pass-catchers with 73 receptions for 1,498 yards and 18 touchdowns as a sophomore. Tigers safety Grant Delpit was also the Jim Thorpe Award winner after registering 56 total tackles, two interceptions and six pass breakups during the regular season. Some wondered if Delpit was the most deserving candidate from his own team, though. Chase Young took what was arguably the easiest award to call when he was the Chuck Bednarik Award recipient. The Ohio State defensive end has been a terror all season, collecting 21 tackles for loss and 16.5 sacks in 11 games. Had he not served a two-game suspension, Young might have made a run at Elvis Dumervil's single-season sack record (20 sacks). In one of the night's tighter races, Wisconsin's Jonathan Taylor beat out Oklahoma State's Chuba Hubbard and Ohio State's J.K. Dobbins for the Doak Walker Award. He's the first back-to-back winner since Darren McFadden in 2006 and 2007. Taylor has run for 1,909 yards and 21 touchdowns this season, and he's already sixth all-time in rushing (6,080 yards). Were he to return for his senior year, he might make it three in a row. Some Cowboys fans might have thought Hubbard was snubbed. If this is his final awards show, Taylor made sure to go out in style. Rodrigo Blankenship added to his already incredible journey at Georgia by winning the Lou Groza Award. The Bulldogs kicker finished the regular season 25-of-31 on field-goal attempts and earned touchbacks on 60 of his 79 kickoffs. Whether you're nearsighted or farsighted, Blankenship was an inspiration. Burrow, Young, Justin Fields and Jalen Hurts have one more stop to make before they rejoin their teams for bowl season. The quartet are headed to New York City for Saturday's Heisman presentation. Assuming Burrow is the second LSU player to lift the Heisman, Fields and Young or Hurts could have the last laugh in the College Football Playoff. 34:58 CFB DAILY W/ UNCLE LOU:  NFL DRAFT RECAP, PORTAL WINNERS AND LOSERS TOP NEWS Colorado Lands FSU Transfer WR Bleacher Report 4h UNC Concerned About Belichick's GF Bleacher Report 23h Players Poised to Bounce Back 📈 Bleacher Report 14h Manning May Not Enter 2026 Draft Bleacher Report 1d Belichick Maintains Kraft Did Not Fire Him Bleacher Report 2d TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 10h Dylan Raiola Lands Adidas Contract, Joins Patrick Mahomes on Brand's Football Roster Bleacher Report • 1d Texas' Sarkisian Says Arch Manning Declined College Football 26 Video Game Cover Shoot Sark says he and Manning did not attend photo shoot at Rose Bowl in March (On3) Bleacher Report • 3d NFL Power Rankings for Every Team After the 2025 NFL Draft Steelers land at No. 17 Bleacher Report • 14h 7 2025 NFL Draft Picks We Wish We Would Have Seen Selections we wish would have happened in this year's draft Bleacher Report • 14h 2025 NBA Mock Draft with Lottery Simulation Sending Cooper Flagg to Eastern Conference TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 10h Dylan Raiola Lands Adidas Contract, Joins Patrick Mahomes on Brand's Football Roster Bleacher Report • 1d Texas' Sarkisian Says Arch Manning Declined College Football 26 Video Game Cover Shoot Sark says he and Manning did not attend photo shoot at Rose Bowl in March (On3) Bleacher Report • 3d NFL Power Rankings for Every Team After the 2025 NFL Draft Steelers land at No. 17 Bleacher Report • 14h 7 2025 NFL Draft Picks We Wish We Would Have Seen Selections we wish would have happened in this year's draft Bleacher Report • 14h 2025 NBA Mock Draft with Lottery Simulation Sending Cooper Flagg to Eastern Conference Bleacher Report About Advertise Contact Us Get Help Careers Sitemap Community Guidelines Privacy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Terms Of Use AdChoices B/R Sports on MAX B/R Creators Program Copyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.