Abdulrazak Gurnah | Books, Nobel Prize, Family, Theft, By the Sea, & Facts | Britannica Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Login https://premium.britannica.com/premium-membership/?utm_source=premium&utm_medium=nav-login-box&utm_campaign=evergreen SUBSCRIBE Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos Abdulrazak Gurnah Table of Contents Introduction Early life Education and teaching career Themes and Nobel Prize Novels Other works and honors References & Edit History Quick Facts & Related Topics Images Read Next 7 Nobel Prize Scandals 12 Novels Considered the “Greatest Book Ever Written” Britannica’s Book Bingo 9 Obscure Literary Terms 10 Captivating Contemporary Novels Set in the British Isles Discover Where Is “Old Zealand”? The Seven Sacraments of the Roman Catholic church 7 of the World’s Deadliest Shipwrecks The Death of Shakespeare New Seven Wonders of the World 7 of History's Most Notorious Serial Killers 7 Unique Burial Rituals Across the World Contents Literature Novels & Short Stories Novelists A-K Abdulrazak Gurnah Tanzanian-born British author Abdulrazak Gurnah won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 2021. (more) Abdulrazak Gurnah Tanzanian-born British author Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite verified Cite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. 			Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/biography/Abdulrazak-Gurnah Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites Library of Congress - A Conversation with Abdulrazak Gurnah, Nobel Prize winner in Literature 2021 BBC - Why Tanzanian Nobel laureate Abdulrazak Gurnah is hardly known back home The Guardian - Abdulrazak Gurnah wins the 2021 Nobel prize in literatur University of Kent - Abdulrazak Gurnah CBC - U.K.-based Tanzanian writer Abdulrazak Gurnah wins Nobel Prize in Literature The Nobel Prize - Abdulrazak Gurnah British Council - Literature - Abdulrazak Gurnah Ask the Chatbot a Question Written by Amy McKenna Amy McKenna is a senior editor, primarily focused on geography and history matters pertaining to sub-Saharan Africa. She joined Encyclopaedia Britannica in 2004. She was previously employed by Standard... Amy McKenna Fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Mar 24, 2025 • Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Quick Facts Born: 1948, Zanzibar [now in Tanzania] (age 77) (Show more) Awards And Honors: Nobel Prize (2021) (Show more) See all related content Abdulrazak Gurnah (born 1948, Zanzibar [now in Tanzania]) is a Tanzanian-born British author known for his novels about the effects of colonialism , the refugee experience, and displacement in the world. He won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 2021. Early life Gurnah was born to a Muslim family of Yemeni descent in the Sultanate of Zanzibar , an island that was then a British protectorate but is now part of Tanzania . When Gurnah was a teenager, a coup in 1964 overthrew the Arab rulers on Zanzibar and led to political upheaval and the persecution of Arab citizens in the following years. These events, as he explained to The New York Times in 2021, affected his later work as a writer: “The thing that motivated the whole experience of writing for me was this idea of losing your place in the world.” Education and teaching career He left the island in the late 1960s and went to Canterbury , England, where he attended Christ Church College (now Canterbury Christ Church University). Gurnah received a B.Ed. in 1976 and then taught secondary school in Dover , Kent, England. He went on to attend the University of Kent in Canterbury, where he earned a Ph.D. in 1982; his thesis was on the topic of “Criteria in the Criticism of West African Fiction.” While working toward a doctorate, Gurnah taught at Bayero University Kano in Nigeria from 1980 to 1982. He joined the University of Kent’s department of English in 1985, and there he lectured until his retirement as emeritus professor of English and postcolonial literatures in 2017. Themes and Nobel Prize Although Gurnah’s first language was Swahili , he writes in English. His work draws from a wide array of literary traditions, such as the surahs of the Qurʾān , Arabic and Persian poetry, and Shakespeare . Central to much of his writing are the themes of the long-reaching and destructive impact of colonialism and the upheaval experienced by immigrants and refugees. When Gurnah was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 2021, the prize committee cited “his uncompromising and compassionate penetration of the effects of colonialism and the fate of the refugee in the gulf between cultures and continents.” Novels By Gurnah’s own recollection, he began writing when he was about 21 years of age. His first novel , Memory of Departure (1987), was initially completed about 1973, but he was unable to find a publisher for it for 12 years and revised it continually during that time. The story, set in coastal East Africa , is told from the perspective of 15-year-old Hassan, who aspires to escape the violence and poverty of his small village by going to live with a relative in Kenya but does not find what he had hoped for. Gurnah’s fourth novel, Paradise (1994), is considered to be his breakthrough work. Set in East Africa in the early 20th century, it is a coming-of-age story about 12-year-old Yusuf, who has been sold to a trader by his father as repayment for a debt; his experiences include journeying into the interior of the continent and observing how the traditional way of life is being transformed by the encroachment of colonialism. Gurnah’s sixth novel, By the Sea (2001), is the tale of an aging Muslim refugee who uses an assumed identity to gain asylum and settle in England, where he eventually encounters the son of the man whose identity he has taken. In Desertion (2005) Gurnah illustrates the impact colonialism had on love and various relationships, opening with the story of Martin, an English scholar visiting in East Africa and his affair with Rehana; the tale begins in the late 19th century and continues through multiple generations. In Afterlives (2020) Gurnah examines the brutality of the German colonial presence in East Africa in the early 20th century and the impact that it has on the lives of Tanganyikans, particularly the characters Ilyas, Hamza, and Afiya. Gurnah’s other works include Pilgrims Way (1988), Dottie (1990), Admiring Silence (1996), The Last Gift (2011), and Gravel Heart (2017). Theft , Gurnah’s first novel after winning the Nobel Prize, was published in 2025. Set in the 1980s through the early 2000s, it follows three young people as they navigate life in post-independent Tanzania. Are you a student? Get a special academic rate on Britannica Premium. Subscribe Other works and honors He was the editor of Essays on African Writing 1: A Re-evaluation (1993), Essays on African Writing 2: Contemporary Literature (1995), and The Cambridge Companion to Salman Rushdie (2007). Long involved with the literary magazine Wasafiri , which had its inaugural issue in 1984, Gurnah served in various positions including editor, contributor, and advisory board member. In 2006 he was made a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature. Amy McKenna