Heritage South Credit Union wins Dora Maxwell Award for second consecutive year - Sylacauga News Home News PhotoNews Daily Digest Local Business Politics Education Features Obituaries Sports Weather PODCASTS SPECIAL CONTENT PhotoNews Businesses in our Backyard Bull Gap Journal Heritage South Credit Union Pledge of Allegiance Midweek Minute with the Superintendent Business of the Month First Responder of the Month RADIO MIX 106.5 WSGN KiX 100.3 Calendar Submit Your Event Contact Submit News About Us Advertise With Us Home News PhotoNews Daily Digest Local Business Politics Education Features Obituaries Sports Weather PODCASTS SPECIAL CONTENT PhotoNews Businesses in our Backyard Bull Gap Journal Heritage South Credit Union Pledge of Allegiance Midweek Minute with the Superintendent Business of the Month First Responder of the Month RADIO MIX 106.5 WSGN KiX 100.3 Calendar Submit Your Event Contact Submit News About Us Advertise With Us Search Home News PhotoNews Daily Digest Local Business Politics Education Features Obituaries Sports Weather PODCASTS SPECIAL CONTENT PhotoNews Businesses in our Backyard Bull Gap Journal Heritage South Credit Union Pledge of Allegiance Midweek Minute with the Superintendent Business of the Month First Responder of the Month RADIO MIX 106.5 WSGN KiX 100.3 Calendar Submit Your Event Contact Submit News About Us Advertise With Us Search Current Weather 65° Cloudy Currently on MIX 106.5 Don't You (Forget About Me) Simple Minds Currently on WSGN (You're My) Soul And Inspiration The Righteous Brothers CURRENTLY ON KiX 100.3 It's Five O'Clock Somewhere Alan Jackson & Jimmy Buffett Home Awards Heritage South Credit Union wins Dora Maxwell Award for second consecutive year Heritage South Credit Union wins Dora Maxwell Award for second consecutive year Mon, October 30, 2023 by SylacaugaNews.com Digital Team SHARE NOW SYLACAUGA, Ala. – Heritage South Credit Union (HSCU) has once again secured the esteemed Dora Maxwell Award for the state of Alabama as the financial institution was recognized for its exceptional community service endeavors. For the second successive year, Heritage South Credit Union’s commitment to community welfare has been acknowledged, highlighting HSCU’s dedication to enhancing the areas it serves. “Heritage South Credit Union not only strives to be the best financial institution in the areas we serve, but we also want to do as much as we can for our communities.” stated Kevin Whitman, Marketing Director. “Winning this prestigious award for the second year in a row for the state of Alabama shows that we are accomplishing what we are trying to do and motivates us to do even more. We are excited that we are in the process of establishing the HSCU Foundation which will aid us in expanding our charitable work in our communities.” The Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Award, established by CUNA, celebrates credit unions and chapters actively engaged in community-based projects. Named after a pioneering community activist, Dora Maxwell dedicated her life to credit union development and serving the underserved, embodying the values Heritage South Credit Union upholds. Heritage South now sets its sights on establishing the aforementioned HSCU Foundation, dedicated to amplifying its charitable outreach. The credit union’s consistent success, securing first place in the $50 to $250 million asset category, showcases its ongoing commitment to community betterment. Related Articles Sylacauga’s Laura Strickland named 2025 Chamber Professional of the Year Indian Valley Elementary named Gene Bottoms Pacesetter School in first year of eligibility Blue Bell honored with 2025 International Dairy Foods Association Food Safety Leadership Award Gaye and Monty Powell selected for 2024’s “Heart of Childersburg Award” Fayetteville’s Kenleigh McArthur named AHSVCA Class 1A Girls Volleyball Player of the Year, two other Lady Wolves receive All-State honors Heritage South Credit Union earns a special employment honor for the second year in a row Click here to e-mail the reporter. © 2016-2023, SylacaugaNews.com/Marble City Media LLC/RadioAlabama. All Rights Reserved. RadioAlabama’s network -- MIX 106.5 (& 98.3 HD2), WSGN, KiX 100.3 (& 1290 AM), 105.1 WRFS, KiX 96.3 (& 1050 AM), RadioAlabama Sports, and RA Digital -- along with SylacaugaNews.com reports local news around the clock and will keep you up-to-date during breaking news and weather. For real-time alerts from SylacaugaNews.com , text NEWS to 59925. Standard text message rates may apply. By signing up, you agree to receive ongoing text message alerts from RadioAlabama. Consent not required for purchase. Up to eight messages per month. Reply STOP to cancel. Reply HELP for help. Message & Data rates may apply. Terms and Conditions/Privacy Policy @ www.optspot.com/tnc . Current Weather 65° Cloudy Humidity: 97% Dew Point: 64° Wind: N 0 mph Visibility: 7 mi Pressure: 1022 mb Conditions as of 10:15pm Tonight L: 63° 1% Wednesday H: 86° 16% Wednesday Night L: 64° 2% Thursday H: 86° 15% Thursday Night L: 63° 45% Privacy Policy Terms of Service Trademark Notice Contest Rules Advertise With Us © SylacaugaNews.com | Marble City Media LLC | RadioAlabama . All Rights Reserved. Member Sylacauga Chamber of Commerce , Greater Coosa Valley Chamber of Commerce , Greater Talladega and Lincoln Area Chamber of Commerce , Coosa County Chamber of Commerce , Alexander City Chamber of Commerce , Dadeville Chamber of Commerce , Auburn Chamber of Commerce , Opelika Chamber of Commerce , Pell City Chamber of Commerce , Alabama Broadcasters Association , and National Association of Broadcasters . Home of Alabama’s 2017 Radio Station of the Year, Alabama’s Best Morning Show of 2016 and 2019, and the Alabama Broadcasters Association’s 2014 Broadcaster of the Year. Winner of 2013, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022 ABBY Awards for broadcast excellence. Honored with the 2018 Cornerstone Award from the Sylacauga Chamber of Commerce. Marble City Media LLC does not discriminate in advertising contracts on the basis of race or ethnicity and will not accept any advertising which is intended to discriminate on the basis of race or ethnicity. Powered by Skyrocket Radio . Weather information provided by Weatherology .