Emma Stone Accepts Best Actress Award At 2024 Oscars In 'Broken' Dress IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Travel plans? Our editors tested all of the gear you need for your trip Skip to Content Today Logo On the Show About TODAY Show Video 3rd Hour of TODAY Jenna & Friends Saturday TODAY Sunday TODAY Shop the Show Shop Shop the Show Travel Awards Gift Guides Ranked by Shop TODAY Steals & Deals Newsletter Wellness Start TODAY Mental Health Women's Health Fitness Sleep Diet & Nutrition Start TODAY Parents Baby Names Kids Health Family Babies Parenting Tips LOL Food Recipes On The Show Most Popular Recipes All Recipes Food News What to Cook This Week Life Astrology Essays Holidays Quotes Jokes Trivia Podcasts TODAY Jenna and Friends Sunday TODAY Making Space Open Book with Jenna Cooking Up a Storm Sign up / Sign in Hi Search Sign up / Sign in Hi Share this — Dashboard My Saved Newsletters Profile Search Today Search Sections Health & Wellness Parenting Food Shop Pop Culture News Life Style Shows TODAY 3rd Hour of TODAY TODAY with Jenna & Friends Saturday TODAY Sunday TODAY with Willie Geist Watch Full Episodes More News Life Books Trending Recipes Read With Jenna Astrology Inspirational Holidays Relationships TODAY Table Help Newsletters Start TODAY Jokes Shop TODAY Awards Citi Concert Series Listen All Day Follow today More Brands NBC News Logo MSNBC Logo Facebook Pinterest Email SMS Print Whatsapp Reddit Pocket Flipboard Twitter Linkedin On the Show Shop Wellness Start TODAY Parents Food Life Podcasts Awards Emma Stone emotionally accepts best actress Oscar holding ‘broken’ dress The "Poor Things" actor won the Academy Award for best actress. / Source : TODAY By Becca Wood Emma Stone scored a big win at the 2024 Oscars , taking home the award for best actress in a leading role. After hearing that she'd won the Academy Award for playing Bella Baxter in "Poor Things," a shocked Stone took to the stage while holding her dress. Initially addressing the wardrobe malfunction, Stone said, "My dress is broken. I think it happened during 'I'm Just Ken,'" she said, referring to Ryan Gosling's earlier performance . Catching her breath, Stone continued, "Oh boy, this is really — this is really overwhelming, sorry. OK. My voice is also a little gone, whatever! The women on the stage, you are all incredible, and the women in this category." Emma Stone accepts the award for best performance by an actress in a leading role for "Poor Things." Chris Pizzello / AP The actor took a moment to honor each of the women she was up against, telling Sandra Hüller, Annette Bening , Carey Mulligan and Lily Gladstone , "I share this with you." "I am in awe of you and it has been such an honor to do all of this together and I hope we get to keep doing more together," Stone said of her fellow nominees. Recalling "panicking" the other night that she had the potential to win this Oscar, Stone said "Poor Things" director Georgios “Yorgos” Lanthimos gave her some sound advice: "Please, take yourself out of it." "He was right because it's not about me. It's about a team that came together to make something greater than the sum of its parts. And that is the best part about making movies is all of us together," Stone said. Before wrapping her speech, Stone took a moment to thank her family, including her mom, dad, brother and husband, Dave McCary. But she didn't forget her gratitude for one more family member. “Most importantly, my daughter, who’s going to be 3 in three days and has turned our lives technicolor. I love you bigger than the whole sky, my girl,” she said. “Thank you so much. Don’t look at the back of my dress!” Later, Stone told reporters backstage she was sewn back into her dress. “I was so amazed by Ryan and what he was doing and that number just blew my mind and I was right there and I just was going for it and you know, things happen!” she said. She also said she “blacked out” after winning the big award. “I was very shocked,” she said. “I still feel like I’m spinning a little bit. It’s a huge honor, and I’m very surprised.” This year's Oscar win was her second. She took home the Academy Award for best actress in 2017 for "La La Land ." She was also previously nominated in the category of best actress in a supporting role for 2014's “Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance)” and 2018’s “The Favourite.” Aside from Stone's individual win, "Poor Things" took home Oscar wins in three other categories : costume design, production design and makeup and hairstyling. The film came into the Oscars with 11 nominations. Becca Wood Becca Wood is a news and trending reporter for TODAY Digital based in New York City. Follow her on Instagram and Twitter. More Trending Steve Granitz / WireImage Carrie Underwood re-wears her 2005 'American Idol' finale dress Celeb style / Updated William Thomas Cain / Getty Images When will I receive Social Security payments for May? What to know News / Updated Google Maps Bakery asks customers wearing ‘strong’ perfume to use drive-thru, sparking debate Restaurants / Updated MTV / Getty Images How many kids do Jay-Z and Beyoncé have? All about Blue Ivy, Rumi and Sir Parents / Updated Courtesy Zeina Zeitoun/TODAY What is za’atar? Everything you need to know about the Middle Eastern spice blend Ingredients / Updated Danny Lawson/WPA Pool / Getty Images Everything Kate Middleton has shared about her cancer diagnosis Health & Wellness / Updated Clifton Prescod / Netflix What Joe’s Last Words In The ‘You’ Series Finale Mean, According To Penn Badgley TV / Updated TODAY Illustration / Johnny Miller / Getty Images TODAY’s cookbook is out today! Here’s everything you need to know News / Updated @12in12an via Instagram Woman wears wedding dress to cross the London Marathon finish line in honor of her late husband News / Updated master1305 / Getty Images 29 Best Food Deals This Week, from Taco Bell to KFC Restaurants / Updated See More About Contact Help Visit TODAY Apps AD Choices Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice TERMS OF SERVICE TERMS OF SERVICE Careers Closed Captioning TODAY Sitemap Advertise TODAY Store Shop TODAY © 2025 NBCUniversal Media, LLC Apple®, Apple logo® and App Store® are registered trademarks of Apple Inc. NBC News Logo MSNBC Logo Today Logo