The Crown season 3 premiere: Olivia Colman and Helena Bonham Carter lead cast on the red carpet | London Evening Standard | The Standard The Standard Sign in News Sport Business Lifestyle Culture Going Out Homes & Property Comment Showbiz | Celebrity News The Crown season 3 premiere: Olivia Colman and Helena Bonham Carter lead cast on the red carpet The on-screen royal siblings were joined by Tobias Menzies, Gillian Anderson and Jason Watkins Close Isobel Frodsham 13 November 2019 Sign up to our free weekly newsletter for exclusive competitions, offers and theatre ticket deals Sign up I would like to be emailed about offers, event and updates from Evening Standard. Read our privacy notice . Olivia Colman and Helena Bonham Carter led the cast on the red carpet of the Crown premiere in London. The actresses both star as royal sisters Queen Elizabeth II and Princess Margaret in the newest season of the critically-acclaimed Netflix series. Fellow stars Jason Watkins, Tobias Menzies, Erin Doherty and Josh O'Connor also joined the duo at the screening at the Curzon cinema in Mayfair. Oscar award-winning actress Colman, 45, wore a simple black gown with crew neckline and A-line skirt with a train, which she held on to with a ring. The Crown: Season Three premiere 1 / 18 She also carried a teal clutch bag and accessorised her dress with matching green and black earrings. Meanwhile Bonham Carter matched her on-screen sister with a black prom-style dress with white and silver feathers and black high heeled shoes. Speaking about the show, Bonham Carter said it should be called "The Conjecture" as too little is known about the royals to be sure of their private lives. Princess: Helena Bonham Carter on the red carpet PA She said: “This is all projection. It’s very difficult. The whole point about The Crown is a lot of famous people we know nothing about.” According to Netflix, the third series will see “a new guard sweep into Downing Street, as Queen Elizabeth and her family struggle to meet the challenges of a rapidly changing Britain,” attempting to adapt to “a new, more liberated, but also more turbulent world. Royal blood: Olivia Colman and Tobias Menzies PA It covers 1964 to 1977, ending at the time of the Silver Jubilee, and will cover moments in history such as Harold Wilson’s time as Prime Minister, the Aberfan disaster and the Apollo 11 moon landing. Bonham Carter has replaced Vanessa Kirby as Princess Margaret, while The Durrells star Josh O’Connor joins the cast as a young Prince Charles. Menzies plays Prince Philip, Doherty stars as Princess Anne, Watkins as Harold Wilson, Ben Daniels as Lord Snowdon and Charles Dance as Lord Mountbatten. Read More Netflix will make Olivia Colman’s debut in The Crown free to watch Splendid landmark used as location in The Crown converted into flats Olivia Colman: The Queen is the ultimate feminist Colman’s role comes after a standout year which has seen her awarded an Oscar, a Bafta and a Golden Globe for her portrayal of Queen Anne in Yorgos Lanthimos’ film, the Favourite. Ahead of its release, the new series of The Crown has received generally positive reviews from critics. The Crown returns to Netflix on Sunday, November 17. With reporting from Press Association. MORE ABOUT The Crown Olivia Colman Helena Bonham Carter Have your say... VIEW COMMENTS Most Read 1 Showbiz London Marathon: celebrity finishing times 2025 How celebrities got on at the London Marathon 2025 2 London Primary schools could begin to shut in outer London boroughs amid exodus of families, campaigner warns Schools could begin to shut in outer boroughs amid exodus of families 3 Football Liverpool: Why Federico Chiesa is not guaranteed a Premier League winners’ medal Liverpool star not guaranteed Premier League winners’ medal 4 Football Arsenal 0-1 PSG: Gunners require Champions League rescue mission after first-leg defeat Arsenal require Champions League rescue mission after first-leg defeat 5 Lifestyle I have misophonia and TfL's lack of action on headphone dodgers is unbearable I have misophonia and TfL's lack of action on loudcasting is painful The Standard News Sport Business Lifestyle Culture Going Out Homes & Property Comment The London Standard Archive All Topics All Authors Newsletters Terms of use Contact Us Modern Slavery Act Syndication Privacy Notice Privacy Options Cookie Policy Code of conduct and complaints Advertisers Promotion Rules Contributors London Live The Independent The Independent US indy100