RESULTS - Simona Halep HOMEPAGE ABOUT RESULTS FOUNDATION GALLERY PHOTO GALLERY VIDEO GALLERY TEAM SIMO NEWS EN RO EN RO HOMEPAGE ABOUT RESULTS FOUNDATION GALLERY PHOTO GALLERY VIDEO GALLERY TEAM SIMO NEWS RESULTS Check Simona's WTA profile Simona - Beginnings Simona began playing tennis when she was 4 years old, being trained by her older brother, and at the age of 6 she was already practicing every day. She moved to Bucharest when she was 16 years old to continue her tennis career with Justine Henin and Andrei Pavel as role models. “ I don’t know exactly what age I was, I was going to tournaments and I was ashamed to warm myself up before the matches,” said Simona. “I was warming myself up in a corner or behind a building. I was a very shy child. The difference was in the attitude, the girls coming from the larger countries were more confident, more relaxed and accustomed to all sorts of things. In the early stages of my career, I was more restrained and took some time to get used to it. ” Simona began playing tennis when she was 4 years old, being trained by her older brother and at the age of six she was already practicing every day. She moved to Bucharest when she was 16 years old to continue her tennis career with Justine Henin and Andrei Pavel as role models. The first significant victory came in 2008 with a junior semi-final at the Australian Open and in May 2008,  she won two junior tournaments: ITF 10,000 in Bucharest and the Trofeo Bonfiglio tournament. Four months before turning 18, Simona climbed to the highest level in the Junior world rankings with the Roland Garros junior title. Simona - Her Journey 2009 marked the beginning of a period of success for Simona as she defeated a player ranked in the Top 100 for the first time. At the ITF tournament in Saint Raphael, Simona would beat none other than German Angelique Kerber, who was ranked No.95 in the WTA rankings at the time. 2010 brought her first standout performance at a WTA tournament, in Marbella, Spain. Simona battled through to the quarterfinals, passing among others Iveta Benešová (World No.70) and compatriot Sorana Cîrstea (then World No.36). She went on to play her first WTA singles final in Fès, Morocco. Rights after reaching the semi-finals of the ITF tournament in Biarritz in July 2010, Simona cracked the Top 100 in the WTA rankings for the first time. The name Simona Halep first appeared on the list of the 50 best female players in the world at the end of 2012, and one year later, in August 2013, Simona entered the Top 20 for the first time. In November of the same year, Simona also won the “Champions Tournament” in Sofia. It was the sixth tournament for Simona, where she was named “WTA’s Most Improved Player”, becoming the first Romanian player since Virginia Ruzici in 1978 to receive this distinction. Simona joined the prestigious Top 10 for the first time in January 2014, after advancing to her first quarterfinal at the Australian Open Grand Slam tournament. Simona - Tournaments won During her career, Simona has won 24 WTA tournaments (six in 2013, two in 2014, three in 2015, three in 2016, one in 2017, three in 2018, one in 2019, three in 2020 and two in 2022), the most important being her two Grand Slam titles – 2018 Roland Garros and 2019 Wimbledon – and the Premier Mandatory tournaments at Indian Wells and Madrid. Cookie Policy Two-time Grand Slam champion and ranked year-end World No.1 in 2017 and 2018 © Simona Halep 2022 FOLLOW US This website uses cookies. You can modify the cookies options here or you can continue navigating by just accepting the strictly necessary cookies, essentials for the optimal operation of this website. Strictly Necessary Statistics Open Settings Continue my visit Don’t miss Simona live message on New Year’s Eve! Close Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Cookies Policy The website www.simonahalep.com uses cookies in order to enable that your browsing be at suitable visual and technical parameters, in order to customize your browsing, the provided content and advertisements, in order to provide you with access to the social platforms and in order to analyse the traffic. You may find further details going over the below information and you may give your consent in order to use all or a part of the Cookies or you may opt for continuing to browse only with the running of the cookies absolutely required for the optimum operation of the website. You may always go back on your option. Strictly Necessary STRICTLY NECESSARY COOKIES This type of cookies stores the essential data for the site's basic features. Through them, the site is usable by activating basic functions such as page navigation, viewing in terms of bandwidth report of Internet access, access to secure areas on the site. At the same time, this cookies module ensures that if you change the pages, the changeover function from http to https is constantly accomplished. Last but not least, strictly necessary cookies help us to store your decision about the use of cookies on our website. This website is built on a Wordpress platform. The platform provider does not offer an option to disable the stricly necessary cookies, but they can be disabled using browser settings. These settings are usually available in the "options", "tools" or "favorites" menu of the internet browser you are using. At the same time, you have the option to access your browser's "Help" menu to learn more about cookie enabling / disabling / deleting mechanisms. Detailed information on how cookies can be managed, disabled, and deleted using browser settings for Internet surfing are available at the following addresses: Google Chrome ( https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/95647 ); Mozilla Firefox ( https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/enable-and-disable-cookies-website-preferences ) ; Internet Explorer ( https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17442/windows-internet-explorer-delete-manage-cookies ); Safari ( https://support.apple.com/kb/PH21411 ); Opera ( http://www.opera.com/help/tutorials/security/cookies/ ). Please note that the restriction of strictly necessary cookies may have an impact on some website features. Check below the full list of strictly necessary cookies we use: Name Description and Purpose Duration Deactivation and Deletion method PHPSESSID Contains the current user session used by the server to identify the current user. From browser settings; Wordpress partner does not allow individual deactivation cookie-disclaimer It is used to determine whether or not the information box about the use and consent of cookies is displayed. From browser settings; Wordpress partner does not allow individual deactivation wfwaf-authcookie-[hash] Performs a current user check before Wordpress is loaded. From browser settings; Wordpress partner does not allow individual deactivation wfCBLBypass It is a special case, it is only used when it is desired that certain users in a blocked country may be able to access the site From browser settings; Wordpress partner does not allow individual deactivation wordpress_test_cookie Through this cookie, Wordpress checks if the user's browser accepts or denies cookies settings From browser settings; Wordpress partner does not allow individual deactivation Statistic STATISTIC COOKIES The Statistic Cookies Module helps us collect information about how you interact with our website in order to improve our services and content so we can provide you with a more relevant and optimized experience. We use Google Analytics to collect information about how visitors use this site and to detect possible browsing issues. Google Analytics stores information about the pages visited, the duration of navigation on the website, the way the site was accessed, and the sections accessed within the pages. Name Description and Purpose Duration Deactivation and Deletion method Google Analytics: ga, _gid, _utma, _utmx, _utmxx, _utmz, __gads, _gat_gtag_UA[id] These cookies allow you to collect information about how visitors use this site and to detect possible navigation issues. Google Analytics stores information about the pages visited, the duration of the site's navigation, the way the site was visited, and the sections accessed within the pages. The site uses Google Analytics to be able to track whether the site meets user requirements and prioritize the improvement of the processes being carried out. Google provides more information about cookies on the Privacy Policy and Cookies Policy: https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/cookie-usage Google provides an "add-on" that gives you the possiblity to opt out of Google Analytics regardless of the pages accessed Cookies can be deleted / disabled from browser settings. You can disable statistic cookies using the check mark at the end of this section. Facebook Tracking pixel Facebook https://www.facebook.com/policies/cookies/ Cookies Policy The website www.simonahalep.com uses cookies in order to enable that your browsing be at suitable visual and technical parameters, in order to customize your browsing, the provided content and advertisements, in order to provide you with access to the social platforms and in order to analyse the traffic. You may find further details going over the below information and you may give your consent in order to use all or a part of the Cookies or you may opt for continuing to browse only with the running of the cookies absolutely required for the optimum operation of the website. You may always go back on your option. STRICTLY NECESSARY COOKIES This type of cookies stores the essential data for the site's basic features. Through them, the site is usable by activating basic functions such as page navigation, viewing in terms of bandwidth report of Internet access, access to secure areas on the site. At the same time, this cookies module ensures that if you change the pages, the changeover function from http to https is constantly accomplished. Last but not least, strictly necessary cookies help us to store your decision about the use of cookies on our website. This website is built on a Wordpress platform. The platform provider does not offer an option to disable the stricly necessary cookies, but they can be disabled using browser settings. These settings are usually available in the "options", "tools" or "favorites" menu of the internet browser you are using. At the same time, you have the option to access your browser's "Help" menu to learn more about cookie enabling / disabling / deleting mechanisms. Detailed information on how cookies can be managed, disabled, and deleted using browser settings for Internet surfing are available at the following addresses: Google Chrome ( https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/95647 ); Mozilla Firefox ( https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/enable-and-disable-cookies-website-preferences ) ; Internet Explorer ( https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17442/windows-internet-explorer-delete-manage-cookies ); Safari ( https://support.apple.com/kb/PH21411 ); Opera ( http://www.opera.com/help/tutorials/security/cookies/ ). Please note that the restriction of strictly necessary cookies may have an impact on some website features. Check below the full list of strictly necessary cookies we use: Name Description and Purpose Duration Deactivation and Deletion method PHPSESSID Contains the current user session used by the server to identify the current user. From browser settings; Wordpress partner does not allow individual deactivation cookie-disclaimer It is used to determine whether or not the information box about the use and consent of cookies is displayed. From browser settings; Wordpress partner does not allow individual deactivation wfwaf-authcookie-[hash] Performs a current user check before Wordpress is loaded. From browser settings; Wordpress partner does not allow individual deactivation wfCBLBypass It is a special case, it is only used when it is desired that certain users in a blocked country may be able to access the site From browser settings; Wordpress partner does not allow individual deactivation wordpress_test_cookie Through this cookie, Wordpress checks if the user's browser accepts or denies cookies settings From browser settings; Wordpress partner does not allow individual deactivation STATISTIC COOKIES The Statistic Cookies Module helps us collect information about how you interact with our website in order to improve our services and content so we can provide you with a more relevant and optimized experience. We use Google Analytics to collect information about how visitors use this site and to detect possible browsing issues. Google Analytics stores information about the pages visited, the duration of navigation on the website, the way the site was accessed, and the sections accessed within the pages. Name Description and Purpose Duration Deactivation and Deletion method Google Analytics: ga, _gid, _utma, _utmx, _utmxx, _utmz, __gads, _gat_gtag_UA[id] These cookies allow you to collect information about how visitors use this site and to detect possible navigation issues. Google Analytics stores information about the pages visited, the duration of the site's navigation, the way the site was visited, and the sections accessed within the pages. The site uses Google Analytics to be able to track whether the site meets user requirements and prioritize the improvement of the processes being carried out. Google provides more information about cookies on the Privacy Policy and Cookies Policy: https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/cookie-usage Google provides an "add-on" that gives you the possiblity to opt out of Google Analytics regardless of the pages accessed Cookies can be deleted / disabled from browser settings. You can disable statistic cookies using the check mark at the end of this section. Facebook Tracking pixel Sesiune https://www.facebook.com/policies/cookies/ Save Settings