MAXWELL AWARD & BEDNARIK AWARD FINALISTS SportsEngine Font Example skip navigation Maxwell Football Club Search Search MAXWELL AWARD & BEDNARIK AWARD FINALISTS By Maxwell Football Club , 11/26/24, 11:00AM  CST Share November 26, 2024 - PHILADELPHIA, PA FOR IMMEDIATE DISTRIBUTION Maxwell & Chuck Bednarik Award Finalist Announcement Maxwell Football Club Executive Director Mark Wolpert announced the 2024 finalists for the 88th Maxwell Award for the Collegiate Player of the Year and the 30th Chuck Bednarik Award for the Outstanding Defensive Player of the Year. The respective lists include a field of candidates for each of these awards as determined by the semifinalist voting process which ended Nov. 24th. All finalists are listed in alphabetical order by player’s school with position and class designated. Last season, the Maxwell Award went to Washington quarterback Michael Penix Jr. and the Chuck Bednarik Award was presented to North Carolina Linebacker Payton Wilson. The winners of the 88th Maxwell Award and the 30th Chuck Bednarik Award will be announced as part of the ESPN College Football Awards which will be broadcast live on ESPN on Thursday December 12, 2024. Voting for both of the collegiate awards presented by the Maxwell Football Club will begin on Tuesday November 26th and close on Saturday December 6th at 11:45pm EST. Eligible voters include Maxwell Football Club members, NCAA Head Football Coaches, Sports Information Directors and selected national media. All questions or concerning these Finalist or the awards presented by the Maxwell Football Club can be directed to Mr. Mark Wolpert (Maxwell Football Club Executive Director) mwolpert@maxwellfootballclub.org, or to Mr. Richard Cirminiello rcirminiello@maxwellfootballclub.org (Director of Collegiate Awards). ABOUT THE MAXWELL FOOTBALL CLUB – The Maxwell Football Club was founded in 1935 and is the oldest football organization of its kind in America. The Club recognizes excellence in performance at the high school, collegiate and professional levels of the game. The Maxwell Club is also deeply involved and fully vested in the community through programs to promote academic excellence, community volunteerism, and leadership. High school student-athletes around the country have an opportunity to participate in MFC Showcase events, free of charge, through the generosity of our corporate partners, the NFL Foundation, Bradford White, DCH Health System, SRA Inc, the ETC Foundation and the BABC Law Firm. To learn more about our story visit www.maxwellfootballclub.org. ABOUT PRO FOOTBALL FOCUS - PFF is widely recognized as the industry leader in the advanced data collection and analysis for American football. Since 2011, PFF has led football’s charge into the world of analytics. Their services are trusted by all 32 NFL teams and over 100 FBS programs. Major broadcast networks, national media outlets and player agencies all use PFF as a resource as well. PFF’s media network provides fans with apps, tools, podcasts and other content to help satisfy their thirst for deeper insights in the game. The Maxwell Award is a member of the National College Football Awards Association (NCFAA), which encompasses the most prestigious awards in college football. Founded in 1997, the NCFAA and its 25 awards now boast over 800 recipients, dating to 1935. Visit ncfaa.org to learn more about the association. Tag(s): Home News Press Releases Share Back to Previous Page Print This Page This website is powered by SportsEngine's Sports Relationship Management (SRM) software, but is owned by and subject to the  Maxwell Football Club privacy policy. ©2025 SportsEngine, Inc. Privacy Policy Page Search