Will the World Cup bring an economic win to Qatar? - FocusEconomics Log In EN ES Free Sample Report Contact Sales Solutions Get a Free Sample Report Access essential information in the shortest possible time. FocusEconomics reports cover more than 130 economies and over 30 key commodities. Select the reports most relevant to your business. Download now! Data Platform Data Solutions Economic Reports Countries Get a Free Sample Report Access essential information in the shortest possible time. FocusEconomics reports cover more than 130 economies and over 30 key commodities. Select the reports most relevant to your business. Download now! View All ASEAN Cambodia Indonesia Laos Malaysia Philippines Singapore Thailand Vietnam View All Central America Belize Costa Rica Dominican Republic El Salvador Guatemala Haiti Honduras Jamaica Nicaragua Panama Puerto Rico Trinidad and Tobago View All Central & Eastern Europe Bulgaria Croatia Czech Republic Hungary Poland Romania Slovakia Slovenia View All CIS Armenia Azerbaijan Belarus Georgia Kazakhstan Moldova Russia Ukraine Uzbekistan View All East Asia China Hong Kong Korea Mongolia Taiwan View All Euro Area Austria Euro Area France Germany Ireland Italy Netherlands Spain View All Latin America Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia Mexico Peru Venezuela View All Major Economies Canada Euro Area France Germany Japan Switzerland United Kingdom United States View All MENA Bahrain Egypt Iran Israel Lebanon Morocco Saudi Arabia Qatar UAE View All Nordics Denmark Finland Iceland Norway Sweden View All South Asia Afghanistan Bangladesh India Nepal Pakistan Sri Lanka View All South-Eastern Europe Albania Bosnia-Herz. Greece Kosovo Montenegro North Macedonia Serbia Turkey View All Sub-Saharan Africa Angola Botswana Ethiopia Ghana Kenya Nigeria South Africa Tanzania Uganda View All Indicators Get a Free Sample Report Access essential information in the shortest possible time. FocusEconomics reports cover more than 130 economies and over 30 key commodities. Select the reports most relevant to your business. Download now! Real Sector GDP GDP per capita Private Consumption Investment Industry Unemployment Fiscal Balance Public Debt Monetary and Financial Sector Inflation Interest Rate Money Exchange Rate External Sector Current Account Trade Balance Imports Exports International Reserves External Debt Commodities Get a Free Sample Report Access essential information in the shortest possible time. FocusEconomics reports cover more than 130 economies and over 30 key commodities. Select the reports most relevant to your business. Download now! Agricultural Cocoa Coffee Corn Cotton Palm Oil Rice Soybeans Sugar Wheat Wool Base Metals Alumina Aluminium Cobalt Copper Iron Ore Lead Molybdenum Nickel Steel (Europe) Steel (USA) Tin Zinc Energy Brent Crude Oil Coking Coal Gasoil Gasoline Natural Gas U.S. Natural Gas EU Thermal Coal Uranium WTI Crude Oil Precious Metals Gold Palladium Platinum Silver Insights News Forecasters Awards Back to Insights By FocusEconomics Share this article Free Sample Report Will the World Cup bring home an economic win for Qatar? 30-May-23 GDP Inflation The 2022 World Cup is marked by superlatives. It is the first time the global football tournament takes place in a Gulf nation. Qatar is the smallest country ever to host the month-long event. This year’s World Cup is also the most expensive—at least 20 times more pricey than past tournaments. Finally, the competition is arguably the most controversial in the Cup’s history, calling into question how Qatar will be rewarded for spending the historical sum. Qatar has a population shy of 3 million people, only around 300,000 of whom are permanent residents. The country gained independence in 1971, and by the mid-2000’s it became the world’s top LNG exporter, catapulting its development. The government now boasts a sovereign wealth fund worth USD 450 billion and one of the highest GDPs per capita in the world. The country has shelled out an estimated USD 220 billion, roughly 100% of GDP, since winning the bid in 2010. These funds were used to construct seven new stadiums, refurbish one older stadium, and create a new metro system linking these venues. Other huge infrastructure investments included upgrading an old airport, building hundreds of hotels and upgrading significant portions of the country’s roads Over one million tourists are expected to fill these new structures over the next month, providing a near-term boon to the economy—especially thanks to increased spending on food and hospitality supporting services. Increased domestic demand will also drive inflation up; our Consensus Forecast expects inflation to more than double from 2021’s figure and average 4.6% in 2022, well above the GCC average. Several factors limit how much revenue Qatar will reap from the Cup, however. FIFA will take home much of the profit generated during the games by selling its own products. Furthermore, host countries must give tax breaks on merchandise, food and other purchases from FIFA and its partner brands, limiting the boost to government coffers. Overall, official estimates are that the World Cup will generate USD 17 billion for the Qatari economy while it takes place. After the spectators depart, the significant investment in infrastructure may leave Qatar with mammoth structures that it has little use for, potentially creating oversupply in the hotel and real estate sectors. This wouldn’t be the first time a World Cup leaves such a legacy; one of the most expensive stadiums ever built for Brazil’s 2014 tournament was used as a bus depot shortly after the competition concluded. The soft power gains Qatar can expect from hosting the World Cup are more complex to quantify than the costs. On one hand, the extensive negative press that the event has been getting—with some European cities avoiding broadcasting the games in public—could sour relations between Qatar and the West. On the other hand, the Cup may go some way towards strengthening regional ties—important given the 2017 diplomatic rift between Qatar and other GCC member states—as neighbors benefit from the Cup. For instance, the UAE is seeing increased tourism numbers as some fans decide to reside in the country rather than in Qatar, and has introduced a multiple-entry visa for those attending the competition. Kuwait and Jordan are also receiving more tourists, and Saudi Arabia expects a spike in pilgrims and related hotel stays. Moreover, Qatar is wagering that the Cup will jump-start tourism in the longer term, too: The government is targeting 6 million visitors annually by 2030, up from 2 million in 2019. Finally, at least some of the infrastructure built for the competition—including a metro line in Doha and an airport—will serve a permanent economic purpose, dovetailing with the objectives of encouraging tourism and diversifying the economy. The legacy of the 2022 World Cup for Qatar remains an open-ended question. For now, our panelists expect GDP growth to more than triple this year from 2021’s modest 1.6%, only to halve next year as the economic buzz from the tournament fades into the background. On the outlook for Qatari GDP growth, analysts at S&P Global commented: “We anticipate an acceleration in GDP growth this year as non-hydrocarbon sectors such as tourism, transport, and construction benefit from Qatar’s hosting of the World Cup, which is expected to bring in about 1.2 million tourists. Economic growth thereafter is likely to be relatively soft through 2025. Government investment, much of which is outside the hydrocarbon sector, will gradually decline, with major infrastructure projects nearing completion.” Fitch Solutions said: “In Q422, the hosting of the tournament will have immediate positive effects on Qatar from the perspectives of real GDP growth and the balance of payments via higher consumption, government spending and services exports. On the other hand, the surge in Qatar’s population during the months of the World Cup tournament will lead to substantial demand-side pressure, which will contribute to above-trend inflation and will require a significant increase in goods imports, including food and beverages, as well as a fall in the volumes of LNG available for export.” By FocusEconomics Share this article Free Sample Report Previous Article Next Article Latest Insights 20-Nov-24 The Top 10 Largest Economies in the World in 2025 Have a read of our latest blog post on which economies our panelists expect to be the world’s largest in... By: FocusEconomics On: 20-Nov-24 Tags: China , GDP , United States , 27-Apr-25 How do 121 analysts see tariffs affecting the U.S. and global economies? Leer en Español Donald Trump’s on-again, off-again tariff announcements have thrown the world economic outlook into disarray. The IMF recently... By: FocusEconomics On: 27-Apr-25 22-Apr-25 Daniel Noboa Re-elected in Ecuador – What’s Next for the Economy? Leer en Español Centre-right Ecuadorian President Daniel Noboa secured a decisive re-election victory in the 13 April runoff vote, defeating... By: FocusEconomics On: 22-Apr-25 14-Apr-25 Trump’s tariffs: How are economists’ forecasts changing? Leer en Español U.S. tariffs reaching the highest level since 1930. The sharpest stock market crash since the pandemic. Government... By: FocusEconomics On: 14-Apr-25 11-Apr-25 China’s Economic Outlook for 2025 and Beyond In our latest insight piece, we look at the economic outlook for China’s economy for the coming years. By: FocusEconomics On: 11-Apr-25 Tags: China , GDP , Interest Rates , Latest News 23-Apr-25 Korea: GDP records sharpest contraction since Q4 2022 in the first quarter GDP reading: The economy contracted 0.2% on a seasonally adjusted quarter-on-quarter basis in the first quarter, contrasting the fourth quarter’s... By: FocusEconomics On: 23-Apr-25 23-Apr-25 Ukraine: National Bank of Ukraine keeps policy rate steady in April Central Bank decision: At its meeting in mid-April, the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) decided to leave its key policy... By: FocusEconomics On: 23-Apr-25 23-Apr-25 Indonesia: Bank Indonesia leaves rates unchanged in April Loosening cycle paused for third consecutive time: At its meeting on 22–23 April, Bank Indonesia (BI) maintained the BI-Rate at... By: FocusEconomics On: 23-Apr-25 18-Apr-25 Malaysia: GDP growth records fastest upturn since Q1 2023 in the first quarter Q1 growth records the best result in 2 years: A preliminary report shows that GDP growth increased to 4.2% year... By: FocusEconomics On: 18-Apr-25 Free sample report Access essential information in the shortest time possible. FocusEconomics provide hundreds of consensus forecast reports from the most reputable economic research authorities in the world. Download now Sub​scribe to our newsletter Name First Email Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Browse Countries Brazil China Euro Area France Germany India Italy Japan Russia United Kingdom United States All Countries Browse Regions ASEAN Central & Eastern Europe Central America and Caribbean CIS Countries East Asia Euro Area Latin America Major Economies Middle East & North Africa Nordic Economies Rest of the World South Asia South-Eastern Europe Sub-Saharan Africa Economic Indicators GDP Growth Inflation Rate Interest Rate Exchange Rate Unemployment Rate Fiscal Balance Current Account Balance All Indicators About us About Us Store Press Careers Contact Us Gran Via 657 E-08010 Barcelona, Spain info@focus-economics.com +34932651040 Connect with us © Copyright: FocusEconomics 2025 Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Terms and Conditions Close Left Media Arrows Left Media Circles Right Media Arrows Right Media Circles Arrow Quote Wave Address Email Telephone Man in front of screen with line chart Document with bar chart and magnifying glass Application window with bar chart Target with arrow Line Chart Stopwatch Globe with arrows Document with bar chart in front of screen Bar chart with magnifying glass and dollar sign Lightbulb Document with bookmark Laptop with download icon Calendar Icon Nav Menu Arrow Arrow Right Long Icon Arrow Right Icon Chevron Right Icon Chevron Left Icon Briefcase Icon Linkedin In Icon Full Linkedin Icon Filter Facebook Linkedin Twitter Pinterest X Download Fullscreen