Oscars 2020: Brad Pitt Finally Wins His First Acting Oscar | Vanity Fair Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu Menu Search Search Politics Business Hollywood Style Culture Royals Celebrity Video Podcasts Archive VF Shop What Is Cinema? Archive Magazine oscars 2020 Oscars 2020: Brad Pitt Finally Wins His First Acting Oscar The movie star picked up the statuette thanks to his role in Once Upon a Time…in Hollywood. By Yohana Desta February 9, 2020 brad pitt By Robyn Beck/Getty. Save this story Save Save this story Save Brad Pitt ’s first acting Oscar has finally arrived. At Sunday night’s Academy Awards, the movie star picked up the statuette for best supporting actor thanks to his breezy turn in Quentin Tarantino ’s Once Upon a Time…in Hollywood. In his acceptance speech, Pitt paid tribute to Tarantino, Hollywood’s stunt community, and, most importantly, his children. “This is for my kids, who color everything I do,” he said. “I adore you.” Pitt opened his speech with a political remark, noting that he only had 45 seconds to deliver his speech, which is “45 seconds more than the Senate gave John Bolton this week.” “I’m thinkin’ maybe Quentin does a movie about it,” Pitt said, commenting on Donald Trump ’s impeachment trial . “In the end the adults do the right thing.” This is Pitt’s second Oscar win, but his first statuette specifically for acting. He won an Oscar in 2014 for producing the drama 12 Years a Slave, the night’s best picture. At this year’s Oscars, Pitt was nominated in the best-supporting-actor category against Al Pacino ( The Irishman ), Joe Pesci ( The Irishman ), Anthony Hopkins ( The Two Popes ), and Tom Hanks ( A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood ), all of whom have won acting statuettes in the past. Pitt previously earned acting nominations for 12 Monkeys, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, and Moneyball. He also earned a nod in 2016 as a producer of best-picture nominee The Big Short. Pitt made sure to name-check Tarantino (“You are one of a kind”) and costar Leonardo DiCaprio (“I’ll ride on your coattails any day, man”). He also made a passionate plea for the Academy to “give a little love to our stunt coordinators and our stunt crews,” who are still not recognized with a stunt category at the Oscars. The actor has spent the last few months making the rounds on the awards circuit, collecting a small mountain of hardware (and slinging a handful of jokey punch lines along the way) thanks to his effortless performance as stoner stuntman Cliff Booth in Tarantino’s California-cool period piece. The role seemed tailor-made for Pitt, making him an Oscar front-runner early on in the season. At the outset it also looked like Pitt could be juggling two potential nominations, thanks to his vastly different but far more internal lead performance in the James Gray -directed astronaut drama, Ad Astra. Though Pitt earned strong reviews from critics, that film didn’t quite catch on with awards voters. Once Upon a Time, on the other hand, clicked instantly. “ Once Upon a Time…in Hollywood, ” Pitt mused. “Ain’t that the truth.” Once backstage , Pitt, who was handed his award by Regina King, stopped by the thank-you cam to thank an additional slew of folks whom he didn’t mention onstage. When asked by an Oscar aide what he wanted to do next, he kept things simple: “I was hoping to catch my breath,” Pitt responded. More Great Stories From Vanity Fair — Parasite power: Director Bong Joon Ho on his edgy Oscar contender — When will the awards be perfect and please everyone? — Our final Oscar predictions — A detective revisits the wild case of the missing Oscar statuettes 20 years later — Vanity Fair ’s official 2020 Oscar ballot is here! — What Oscar categories are really impossible to predict? — Laura Dern remembers her first Oscars , 45 years ago Looking for more? Sign up for our daily Hollywood newsletter and never miss a story. The Best Couples of the Oscars 2020: A Big Night for Moms 1 / 9 Chevron Chevron Steve Granitz/Getty Images Diane Ladd and Laura Dern Nobody’s first rodeo: Dern’s mom, Ladd, is an Oscar nominee herself. Yohana Desta Yohana Desta is a writer and filmmaker based in New York City. She joined Vanity Fair as a staff writer from 2016 to 2023, penning cover stories on high-profile stars like Chadwick Boseman , Kristen Stewart , and Issa Rae . As a seasoned moderator, she has led panels on behalf of A24, ... Read more Read More Oscars 2020 Oscars 2020 Live Blog And Updates: Dispatches From Inside the Ceremony Vanity Fair was inside the auditorium for the 92nd Academy Awards. Here’s what we saw. By Anthony Breznican , Joy Press , Joanna Robinson , Mark Harris , and Katey Rich OSCARS 2020 Oscars 2020: Disaster Averted as Rain Floods the Red Carpet Creative trash-can use was required to keep things running smoothly. By Erin Vanderhoof and Anthony Breznican Awards Season Inside the Secret, Last-Minute Rehearsals for Tonight's Academy Awards Onstage with Timothée Chalamet, Natalie Portman, Spike Lee, and Tom Hanks in the Oscar theater. By Anthony Breznican News What Was the New England Patriots’ Team Jet Doing at Guantánamo Bay? This six Lombardi Trophies painted on the tail of the gigantic red, white, and blue airplane are pretty hard to miss. A team spox told VF that the plane “was not used for any kind of deportation flight.” By Kase Wickman Politics New Polling Shows How Many People Hate Trump’s First 100 Days. What About the Next Thousand? The president’s chaos “is bringing a whole host of folks who weren’t necessarily with us three months ago into this chorus of resistance,” the DNC chair tells VF . The question for Democrats now is how to keep the chorus singing. By Eric Lutz Music Parris Goebel, Lady Gaga’s Coachella Choreographer, Talks Operas, Alexander McQueen, and Those Rihanna Rumors “Gaga kept telling me she wanted to do the show of her dreams,” the New Zealander recently told Vanity Fair of creating the pop star’s set in the California desert. By John Ross Royals Kate Middleton and Prince William Are “Stronger Than Ever” on Their 14th Anniversary, Friends Say Princess Kate’s cancer diagnosis last year made the Prince and Princess of Wales “prioritize family and each other over everything else,” a source tells Vanity Fair . Now, with their three kids in tow, the couple is “doing things the way they want to” and looking ahead to a bright future. By Katie Nicholl Royals Did Princess Diana Spend a Night Out in Drag With Freddie Mercury? In a new book, Dianaworld: An Obsession, author Edward White revisits a perhaps apocryphal tale about the late princess’s trip to a gay club in the late 1980s. By Erin Vanderhoof Royals Meghan Markle’s Strategy to Win Us Over With Pictures of Her Children Is Working After years of walking the line between privacy and publicity, the duchess seems to have figured out how to balance her desire for both. By Erin Vanderhoof Movies Bruce Springsteen Can’t Believe Everyone in the E Street Band Still Likes Each Other “Forget about bands breaking up—usually two people can't stay together,” The Boss says at a Q&A for the documentary Road Diary , a behind-the-scenes look at the group after a half century of music. By Anthony Breznican Business Mark Zuckerberg Says He’s “Raw-Dogging Reality” His reality just happens to include an underground tunnel and a statue of his wife in the front yard. By Issie Lapowsky Hollywood Terrence Howard Rejected Marvin Gaye Biopic Because He Didn’t Want to Kiss a Man The Oscar-nominated actor says he couldn’t “fake it” if asked to play a gay character: “If I kissed some man, I would cut my lips off.” By Savannah Walsh Facebook X Instagram Pinterest YouTube More from Vanity Fair Newsletters Subscribe Digital Edition Inside the Issue About Vanity Fair FAQ Contact Contact VF Manage Account Advertising Careers User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Condé Nast Store VF Media Kit Accessibility Help © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vanity Fair may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Entertainment Select international site United States LargeChevron Italy Spain France