Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/Xenoblade_Chronicles A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to Xenoblade_Chronicles r/Xenoblade_Chronicles r/Xenoblade_Chronicles This community is for fans of the Xenoblade Chronicles JRPG game series, as well as other 'Xeno' games by Monolith Soft. (Xenoblade, Xenosaga, and Xenogears.) Members Online • PhoenixBurning Xenoblade Chronicles 2: The Delayed Inferno - A critical analysis on the sequel to one of the greatest JRPG's ever made. Xenoblade 2 XENOBLADE CHRONICLES 2 Is a hard game to properly express my thoughts about. Do I like the game? Yes very much, but that comes with a lot of good will towards the games faults. Xenoblade 2 is a game that while extremely strong in some areas, very much lacks in others, there were periods where I hated this game, and periods where I adored it. I do believe its good aspects make up for its lacking ones, but those lacking aspects are glaring enough to really damper the experience at some points. Some things i'll rag on here can be very easily changed with patches, of which a few issues I would have had have already been fixed, but other issues are very deep-set, some I'll try to go over. The first Xenoblade Chronicles game is very possibly my favorite game ever made. Xenoblade Chronicles X wasn't for me, I liked a lot of what it did, but it didn't have what I adored about the first game. Xenoblade 2 is very much a proper "sequel" to the first in the series. This isn't as much a review, as it is an close look at what the game is as a sequel to one of the best JRPG's ever made, and as its own singular experience. I'll be going over every ticking part of this game one by one. There are minor spoilers within, but nothing that should ruin the experience. This is a mostly spoiler free analysis of what Xenoblade 2 is, and my OPINIONS on it. This can very much be used as a starter guide, or an introduction to the game for people on the fence, or just the thoughts of an internet stranger. STORY The world of Alrest is nothing but a vast ocean covered in clouds, its inhabitants, extremely large "Titans" that form enough landmass with their bodies to support entire ecosystems and communities of people. Each community of Humans (Of which there are multiple races with slightly different features) on each titan has a different kingdom, with its on social politics. From the independent Gormott, the empire-ship of Mor Ardain, the secluded kingdom of Tantal, to the religious sect of Indol, each titan is very much its own world. These titans surround the only formation in Alrest, the World Tree, a monumental tree that cuts into the sky. Legends and myth speak of a paradise at the top of this gigantic tree, Elysium, and the apparent creator of the world, "The Architect". The Titans are dying. These people have nowhere to go once they die out, a war is brewing for landmass of the still alive titans, political tensions are at a all time high. Rex is a 15 year old boy who is lucky enough to live on his own titan, who he lovingly nicknames " Gramps ". He works as a savager, a profession based on diving deep into the cloud sea for treasures of a long forgotten age. He is able to get by on his own, and send back money to his adoptive home in the Leftherian Archipelago. After being offered a job with a staggering payout of 200,000 Gold, enough to support himself and fund his donations back home, he eagerly accepts. Gramps recommendations to not take the job fell on death ears. Rex departs on a boat to the job site, with dozens of other salvagers in tow, and even Drivers to provide protection, much to Rex's surprise. Drivers are powerful warriors that use "Blades", a mysterious lifeform that are born from core crystals, Blades harness the ether (magic) in the air, and channel it to their driver, giving them superhuman strength and abilities. Everyone can't be a driver, as people who try to awaken a core crystal will often end up dead or severely injured. Rex meets Nia , a Driver of similar age, and her blade, Dromarch , a wise tiger, they speak a bit, and become acquaintances, she seems to like his overly positive attitude. The job begins with the salvaging site, being a capsized boat hauled from the depths of the ocean back to the surface. Rex is leaded by Nia, and other drivers Jin , and Malos . Once reaching the depths of the boat, and after Rex was able to open a door the others were not able too, they see a red clad girl in a cryo pod, with a sword in a pedestal. Jin and Malos talk, while Rex approaches the sword. Jin and Malos realise what he is doing and tell him to stop, but its too late, Rex has accidentally touched the enshrined sword. Rex is then murdered by Jin with a swift stab to the heart. Rex awakes in a dream scape, a beautiful lush green land, with the Girl waiting for him at the tree. She is Pyra , the "Aegis" a legendary blade of immense strength. She asks if Rex can take her to Elysium, to which he agrees. Rex is revived as the boat is told to be let go, using Pyra's power, he confronts Malos and Jin, saying its not smart to stab a man in the back. After an intense battle, Rex, and even Nia, who was about to fall into the ocean, is saved by Gramps, who is revealed to be able to fly. Thus begins the journey throughout every land of Alrest, as Rex quests to reach Elysium with Pyra. He becomes an important symbol of hope, for a possible migration to the mythical land of Elysium. He will have many enemies who wish to stop him, some obvious, some not. Allies that will help him on his journey, some obvious, some not. Rex will face many hardships and tests on his way to becoming the Driver of the Aegis, the fate of Alrest ultimately rest on him. A standard JRPG setup that takes many twists and turns that many will not be able to predict Though the story starts slow and cliched, after the excellent conclusion to Chapter 3, the game starts to pick up steam, eventually leading to chapters 7-10, which have so many amazing character and plot moments. The story became my driving reason to play the game, i always couldn't wait to see what happened next. There are some plot threads that aren't resolved or are never explained, but I feel this will tie in with the story DLC planned for this game in fall 2018. CHARACTERS Characters in Xenoblade 2 are generally very good. The main cast in specific is fantastic, mostly all being well developed and more then just one note personalities. Rex, the main protagonist, is unendingly optimistic, always trying his hardest. Though he seems very tiresome boring at first, he slowly shows much more of who he is, and the consequences of his actions finally set in. Though many will hate him, as I did at first, he goes through a very fresh take on the heroes journey, as his resolve is constantly tested and tempered with harsh defeats and failures. Pyra, Rex's blade, and the legendary Aegis, is a bit naive, but she grows to very much care about Rex, who is seeming to sacrifice everything for her to fufill his promise of getting to Elysium. Her alter ego, Mythra , who reveals herself early is much more calm and collected, showing the experience of hundreds of years that her position should suggest. Nia, the young Gormotti (cat people) girl, is a standout character, going through a lot of development during the course of the game, starting as an ally to Torna, the terrorist faction, then to an ally of Rex after he showed care for her, and watching her self doubt and eventual redemption to herself is captivating. Very much a standout character, and probably the most popular as time goes on, for good reason. Her blade Dromarch is one of the few characters that isn't developed all that much, but he serves as a calm mind for Nia, and cares very much about her well being and emotional state. The few scenes where he has relevance aren't wasted. Gramps also accompanies Rex, he has a very curious relationship with Pyra that goes back a long way, that unfortunately isn't covered all that much. He serves as a mentor and calm voice to Rex well. Tora , a Nopon (Small furball type race, staple mascot of the Xenoblade series) engineer, allies himself to Rex after seeing him display power as a Driver, something Tora desperately wants to be. Rex helps him finish his work on his own Artificial Blade, something Tora's family has spent 3 generations working on, he then becomes a valuable teammate to Rex. Though he serves the role of comedy relief, being very booksmart, but lacking very much in social interactions and wisdom. He does get his own arcs, but he is VASTLY outshined by his own creation, Poppi , the artificial blade. Playing the role of an innocent young girl with a large desire to learn about the world around her. She has some of the best character moments in the entire game, and is definitely one of the standout characters. Her relationship with Tora is well stated too, they do care about each other, and it shows over the game. Vandham is introduced early as a merc for hire, and a mentor to Rex, teaching him a few things in a short time span. He plays the battle hardened soldier role very well, telling harsh truths about Alrest, a world where fighting is normal, and no peace can be had. Rex disagrees with him, and Vandham loves that. He leads a small group of mercenaries for hire in a small village in Uraya, a jolly bunch, despite what the job would suggest. He manages to have some very powerful moments in the games story, as he sees Rex as someone with so much potential. His blade, Roc , unfortunately is given little screen time. Morag , a special inquisitor of the Mor Ardainian empire, older sister to the emperor, and driver to the most powerful blade in the Mor Ardain family, Brighid . She originally acts as an antagonist to Rex, but circumstances change, and their focuses align, making her serve as a very powerful ally. She is very calm and collected, showing her psyche as a high ranking military officer very well. Her relationship with her brother, the love and concern of her peoples safety, and how she manages to keep a calm head in even the most intense times. The few times she gets angry, she becomes truly menacing. Her blade, Brighid, is also similarly calm and collected, she serves as a mother figure to a lot of the party, giving them advice in key times, her relationship with Poppi is great and very wholesome. She also shares history with Pyra/Mythra, of which she keeps track of in her centuries old diary, her struggle to believe her past is one that is touched upon enough to feel real. Zeke , another character that starts as a thorn in the side to Rex, eventually reveals himself as an ally. Hes very headstrong, and serves as a great comedic relief at times, but also manages to have some of the most serious moments in the games story, he plays both sides very well. His political connections in Alrest due to his heritage are very interesting, and are well covered. His relationship with Nia is hilarious, as they often poke fun at each other. Pandoria is his blade, serving as a good friend and almost sisterlike figure to Zeke. Its clear they've been through a lot together, and its great to see her humor him all the time by doing ludicrous poses to match with his. Torna is the terrorist faction of Alrest, seeking for political disruption. It includes Malos, a curious but very well played harsh villian, Jin, another villain with a mysterious past and a very satisfying arc. Other members include Akhos, Mikhail, and Patroka, characters who all get their own screen time, and are all fun villains. They serve a very real threat to the world of Alrest, and confront Rex's party multiple times during the games story, sometimes they win, sometimes they lose. Other members of the cast like Amalthus, Fan la Norne, Chairman Bana, and the various leaders of the kingdoms of Alrest all play their parts well. For a game with 12 characters present at all times later in the game, they are all balanced very well, together they form an amazing cast of protagonists you want to root for, to learn more about. Some don't get as much development as others, but they all have their moments to shine. The supporting cast and villains all play their roles very well, with no real weak links. My half assed descriptions don't do the characters justice, and i'm trying to tiptoe around spoilers as best as possible. WORLD DESIGN The world of Alrest is brilliant, and is a joy to explore. Argentum is a good choice for a starting area, it has enough things to do, and plenty of things to mess around with before starting the main quest. Gormott is the players first real chance to dig in and explore a titan, though unfortunately, I think enemy placement was not done the best here, its much to easy for the level 80 pterodactyl creatures to aggro the player. I think its just alright, if not vanilla for the series. The first half of Uraya sucks too, until you get to the stomach, which is what I think the first really gorgeous area in the game. Mor Ardain is a great area, plenty of things to explore and do, with enemies of almost every level to test your mettle against. Up next is the Leftherian Archipeligo, which is a personal favorite, absolutely beautiful area, if not a bit light on things to do. Temperantia is a really neat area too, I didn't even know how big it was until I went back on my own terms. Tantal is HUGE, even by Xenoblade standards, it reminds me a lot of how Xenoblade X did level design. Some later areas like the Cliffs of Morytha and Morytha itself feel a bit halfbaked in terms of size, especially Morytha, which was one of the most interesting areas in the game. Cities are done fantastically too, they all feel like living, breathing places, realistic amount of living space, merchants for goods of every type, NPC's that don't just stand around all day and shift around to different places, plenty of people to talk to, everything. Monolith Soft have some of the best world designs in the entire business, and they prove it multiple times in this one game. Some of the later spoiler areas are breathtaking too, and tie in excellently with the story themes. Xenoblade 2's areas are very well furnished too, cities and landscapes are meticulously detailed, its a shame the Nintendo Switch can occasionally buckle under the games weight on occasion, it only makes one wonder what this games gorgeous landscapes could look like in 1080p with 60fps. I'm not covering performance here, but I will say the game overall runs very well docked, with only the most occasional of frame dips in very populated areas. This game does take a moderately large dip in resolution when undocked, but still manages to keep a mostly consistent frame rate due too resolution scaling. If I had to choose between stable frame rate, or stable resolution, it would be the frame rate, and i'm glad Monolith Soft felt the same way, but despite that, the frame rate still does struggle sometimes. GAMEPLAY - COMBAT Combat in Xenoblade 2 is very rewarding. Once you understand it, which for me, took almost 50 hours. I'm very bad at learning via text, being very much a lead by example person. I spent a good majority of the game trying to play Xenoblade 2 like it was Xenoblade 1 and X (ground), but its a completely different beast. Combo's are the name of the game, and are what you should be doing during combat the vast majority of the time, and I feel the game may understate this a bit. Blade combos, Driver combos, and Fusion combos are the 3 types of things you want to link, and I'll try to explain that in a bit. Simply walking around the overworld, pressing R to target an enemy, and pressing A will start a battle. Battles can also be started if aggressive enemies see or hear you in a close range, so be careful among the many wild creatures of Alrest. The barebone basics are that you control one "driver", lets say Rex, and you have up to 3 Blades you can actively switch between during battle. Each Blade has a unique weapon that grants you up to 3 arts, which are charged by auto attacking, which is just that, your character will attack the active enemy without any need for input, only that you are in range of the enemy. Auto attacking charges your Arts, which are more specialized attacks that sometimes have special abilities and properties. Using your arts will charge your Blades "Special" attack, which has 3 levels of increasing strength, and a forth of even higher strength that charges under certain circumstances. Using specials are the key to Blade combos, and will also charge your Party gauge, a very important resource with 3 sections, 1 section can be used to revive a downed teammate, and all 3 can be used for a potentially deadly Chain Attack. You have up to 2 other teammates that each have their own sets of up to 3 blades, and while their AI can lack sometimes, they will always prioritize combos. Getting into a bit more specifics, we have Blade Combos, now each Blade has a specific element out of 8 (Fire/Water, Ice/Wind, Ground/Electric, and Light/Dark. The slashes represent that they are opposites, that's important for later.), when a blade's special is used and they can be chained in certain orders of 3 for a high amount of damage, a special ability, and forming an elemental orb, the orb being the most important take away, and is always the element of the last attack used in the combo. One of my favorite combos (and by favorite, I mean the easiest one for me to remember because I was a dolt) was Fire>Water>Fire, which would cause a large area of effect explosion, and knock the enemy back (Helpful for cancelling enemy attacks, or even cheesing them by knocking them off a cliff, which is always satisfying.) Next up is Driver Combos, something that I delved even less into, much to my regrets. Certain Arts will have a "reaction" effect of either Break, Topple, Launch, or Smash. These attacks will cause that effect to the enemies if used in the correct order. Break arts will cause enemies to suffer from break for a short time, which is denoted by a purple bar above the enemies health bar. Using a Topple art on an enemy suffering Break will down them for a very short time, cancelling any attacks the enemy was starting. Follow that up with a Launch art for a very short stun, with the enemy comically spinning in the air. If you manage to follow that up with a Smash art, the enemy will be smashed into ground, dealing high damage. Successful smashing an enemy will cause that enemy to drop a bunch of loot, and large HP potions (potions that you can pick up during battle to instantly heal your party, some arts or specials can also cause these to drop). Certain party builds that can optimize Driver combos to their fullest can make quick work of most enemies, and while netting huge amounts of loot to boot. Fusion Combos are the best of both worlds, combining Blade combos with Driver combos. I don't even understand the full benefits of the system, but starting driver combos while an enemy is suffering the first or second level of a Blade combo will grant temporary attack, speed, and recharge buffs to your party, and if you can spam fusion combos, your parties DPS will skyrocket. I've hardly delved into this system at all, as it seems very complicated, but I've seen what proper use of Fusion combos can result in, and it seems like it can utterly decimate certain enemies in a very short amount of time. Chain Attacks are your ace in the hole, if you have a full party gauge, you can expend it to freeze time, and turn the game into a turn based system, as you chain specials into each other with heavily multiplied damage numbers. Usually you can only get 1 go around, meaning 3 attacks, 1 from each of your drivers. But if you have elemental orbs, formed from your Blade combos, you can extend these chain attacks by another round, meaning another 3 attacks of even heavier multipliers, by breaking these elemental orbs during chain attacks, which can be specifically targeted by using attacks of the opposite elements, or just hit randomly if not targeted. Break enough elemental orbs, and you can enter a full burst, where the party will unleash a stupid amount of attacks, and finish it with a level 4 special from the active party member. Chain attacks are the de facto ways of doing incredible amounts of damage, and are what you should be building up too the entire battle, at least against bosses and unique enemies. If you are confused, that's alright, as the game explains these systems well enough at a fair time, but the most important part is too understand that if the combat seems slow, it is, you need to use combos to efficiently destroy enemies in short times, I can not stress this enough, as I've seen many players (including myself) suffer in the early game because they didn't understand how important these combos were. GAMEPLAY - CORE CRYSTALS / BLADE BONDING In what is a very controversial mechanic in this game for many deep set players, Core Crystals are how you get more blades to your drivers, like Rex and Nia, and is a vital system for the games combat and exploration (more on that later). Core crystals can be found by opening chests, killing enemies, or multiple other ways. While most core crystals will grant "common" blades, they still have their own unique elements, weapons, and affinity trees. But if you are lucky, you can open a "rare" blade, who have completely unique appearances, affinity trees, voice actors, and even their own quest lines. There are quite a few rare blades to collect, a few are obtained through main or side quests, or even buying them in stores, but most of them are available through the core crystal function. Here's where some problems start to arrive. What if you bond a blade to a Driver who doesn't need that one, can I shift it to another driver? Yes, but the items to do so are extremely rare, and should not be wasted at any cost. "Overdrive Protocol" let you do this, but I very much recommend not using any of them until after Chapter 7, as some party things shift around at that point, possibly making earlier used Overdrives moot. Overdrives should have been much more easily attainable at any state of the game, the only way to get more after the 3 the game just gives to you is so needlessly complex, and isn't even ever told to the player. Considering how many could be needed to get optimal builds in the post game, the system is unnecessarily harsh. Another issue is that the more rare blades you get, the more and more rare future ones become, from even the highest tier cores. And while cores of the highest strength are easily farmable late game, that last rare blade (its always KOS-MOS ...) can still take dozens or those cores to get, and this also shines a lot of light on the issues that opening these cores can take a long time, and releasing all the blades you don't want can take even longer. This system also creates a lot of random elements between play throughs of the game, some players may have vastly easier times playing the game then others due to opening more or better rare blades. This goes both way though, some players may get really screwed by RNG One thing I do have to applaud Monolith/Nintendo for is not making Core Crystals micro-transaction based, something I feel almost every other publisher/developer would have done in 2017, the system seems almost comically designed for it to be honest. But it isn't, and the system we have now, even with how many problems it has, is vastly better then any system involving micro-transactions would have been. GAMEPLAY - MANAGEMENT Xenoblade 2 is a min-maxers paradise, there are so many systems to optimize your drivers and blades, its almost overwhelming. Drivers have Affinity charts, skill trees that give stat bonuses and passive effects, Art selections per weapon, which let you upgrade them and select 3 from a group of 4, Accessories, which are 2 items you can equip to give passive effects, Pouch Items, which are consumables that give passive bonuses based on how much your driver and their attuned blades enjoy them. Driver customization is pretty straightforward, the affinity skill trees are pretty small, as are the art customizations, and Pouch Items seem almost completely optional to me. The main customization comes from Blade management. Blades have weapon chips, which affect that blades damage/crit/block chances (Basically weapons, but only one time use unfortunately), affinity trees, huge skill trees that have to be filled with challenges ranging from "kill 3 of X enemy" to "do an entire side quest dedicated to this blade", and Aux cores, which are pretty much just accessories for your blades. Its not that bad individually, but considering each Driver can have 3 blades assigned, and even more in reserve, optimization can start to take a while. Even though there is a lot to do, most of these systems aren't essential, the only thing you should be doing consistently are upgrading your blades weapon chips, as the damage values are very important, the rest you can check up on every now and then, and some things like Aux cores and Pouch items can be almost completely ignored unless you plan on doing Post game content, or are really struggling with a boss. Something I won't go into length about here is the Merc system, as I feel its almost completely optional, and is only really there for people looking to do a lot of post game content. Just know its a system where you can deploy Blades you aren't using on time based missions to bring back rewards and exp. This will also progress these blades Affinity skill trees without having to do their specific missions, which is helpful for the crazies who want to do EVERY blades tree. GAMEPLAY - EXPLORATION Xenoblade as a series already has worlds that are fun to explore, just because of the unique world designs, they begged to be explored just by existing, and Xenoblade 2 has plenty of things to look for with exploring. Collection points grant anywhere from just a few, to dozens of items of a specific, or related item categories, which can be used for quests, to sell, or a few other things. Chests full of loot, be it money, weapon chips, aux cores, or core crystals can be found tucked away in all different parts of the world. A large amount of areas are sectioned off to be accessed by Field Skills, stat checks involving your blades. While the system is a great idea, it is executed rather poorly, as it only checks the stats of all blades assigned to your global party (not just your active 3 drivers), meaning you may have to spend a few minutes switching blades around your party members so you can pass the stat check, and then swap back for optimal combat setups. It wastes a lot of time, and is very irritating to constantly be switching around blades, as the UI can be a bit slow for it too. Thankfully, there are only 4-5 times the game checks for field stats in the required main story path around 5 times, majority of those being in one chapter. The ideal solution would have been optimizing 3X(Number of Drivers you have) number of blades for the stat check, meaning no min-maxing and spending minutes at a time in the menus would have to be done. Another annoyance in this, is that you can't unassigned Drivers main blades, meaning less room for the required blades you may or may not need. A unique feature to this game is High and Low tides, in some areas, if the tide is high, or low, it will grant access to new areas or secrets. It isn't utilized all that much, but when it is used, its a fun way to see the environment and geography in new ways. Finding Unique enemies, as always, is really fun and challenging, some are out in the open, and some take effort to find, being hidden by weather conditions, high or low tides, or time of day. After defeating one of these strong and unique enemies, a gravestone will mark their deaths, and you can interact with each gravestone to re-fight the enemy at any time, ideal for farming if the player wishes. The name should have been visible on the gravestone, but that's a small gripe. Ideally, a system I would love to see for Xenoblade's future is a bestiary, with possible drop rates for items, vague location for unfilled entries, and maybe a small lore passage or two. Maybe rewards for filling columns and pages ala the Collectopaedia in the original Xenoblade. Heart to Hearts, another series staple, makes its return, and is the best they've ever been. They let groups of characters have a conversation, with the player being able to choose a dialogue option. These are mainly just for character development, and/or humor, but hunting them down is always fun, as the character interactions are great. Where in past Xenoblade games, Heart to Hearts were locked off by affinity bonds between characters, nothing locks them off in Xenoblade 2, as soon as you find them, they are available. GAMEPLAY - SIDE CONTENT / ENDGAME There is most definitely a lot to do off the beaten path, generic side quests are generally fetch quests, but often times the writing provides some humor to alleviate the bland content. Some side quests are pretty involved, and have you exploring the entire world for macguffins, but unfortunately the rewards are usually lackluster, but occasionally there are good rewards, like permanent character upgrades. For those looking to get lost in the world of Alrest, side quests can take up hours at a time. Better side quests are definitely the Blade quests. Each one of the non story unique blades have their own (voice acted!) side quest that will actually give the blade some character (along with the one heart to heart most blades get.) The quests are usually pretty fun, and help add character and personality to characters that would otherwise just be Pokemon equivalents. Similarly, filling out the affinity skill trees is more hit and miss, some, like Zenobia , who has you fight 45 unique boss monsters, one for each of her skill nodes, ending with a quest against a sealed monster, which fits her character of "proud warrior always seeking a harder challenge." Its a lot of fun, even if it is grindy. On the other end of the spectrum, you have a blade quest for the cutest blade in the game, Ursula , which involves getting her out of her shy shell and help perform for an audience. What sounds fun at first is the most grindy "challenge" of the entire game, requiring you to do the same mercenary missions HUNDREDS of times, no exaggeration. With 30+ blade affinity trees to fill, completionists will definitely have their work cut out for them, and some will be more fun then others. Overall, its one of the strongest elements of the Rare Blade system, making a lot of these blades like Boreas , Electra , and Zenobia memorable as characters rather then just weapons. "Dev Levels" let you develop faction areas by completing quests, buying and selling from vendors, and doing merc missions for the area. As the dev level increases, more items in stores will become available, items will be cheaper, and more quests/missions will be available. By buying out stores, you can purchase the stores deed, which grant permanent auxiliary upgrades for your party, like more item find, movement speed, exp gain, and more. Buying the deeds are very worthwhile, as the subtle upgrades make a big difference in the long run. A mistake I made was not going for deeds as the story progressed, so I recommend doing such for new players. Endgame mostly consists of getting all the blades you want, finishing any quests you want to, optimizing your drivers and blades as much as you can, grinding Tiger Tiger for crystals, and then testing your strength against the 8 Superbosses, enemies who's levels exceed the 99 Level cap, with their being a monster 31 levels over your highest potential. These enemies will kick your ass if you don't know what you are doing, and finally downing them feels amazing, and once you start kicking their asses, you can continue to challenge yourself further by trying to solo them with only one driver. While it doesn't sound like much, there is a lot to do, and getting stronger never gets old. CHARACTER PERFORMANCES / LOCALIZATION I'm not a snob about dubs, and localization, so in my eyes, this game does localization pretty well. None of the character models were censored at all, but a fair amount of dialogue was (most of it involves Tora and his weird ass family). From what I did read of the localization changes I read, most of them seem pretty understandable. I am, however, fairly surprised that none of the character models were changed at all, not that I care at all, but I've seen quite a few people heavily praise the lack of model censorship compared to Xenoblade X's censorship (of which I thought was completely deserved.) Character performances are generally good, Rex does his job well with the key exception of anything involving anger or screaming, Nia is an amazing take on her character archetype, Tora has a lot of spunk and delivers the character very well, Morag is pretty good, and Zeke was very well done, being one of the most fun characters to listen too. Vandham is a standout role, delivering his lines with a lot of power.  The Architect was probably my favorite performance, despite them not having many lines. In a weird collaboration, the main drivers were voiced by European actors, and the blades were voiced by North American actors. Pyra and Mythra are both pretty good, but I think Mythra delivers her role better. Dromarch is good, but Poppi NAILS it, all 3 of her aged forms are fantastic, and she has some of the most powerful moments in the game. Brighid also has a lot of good moments, and delivers her soft words very well, and Pandoria is as properly spunky and fun as Zeke is. Another stand out role is the villain Malos, who nails his role as a villain that always has enjoyable screen presence. (continued in comments) Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 22, 2018 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 2018 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2018 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics