Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/Xenoblade_Chronicles A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to Xenoblade_Chronicles r/Xenoblade_Chronicles r/Xenoblade_Chronicles This community is for fans of the Xenoblade Chronicles JRPG game series, as well as other 'Xeno' games by Monolith Soft. (Xenoblade, Xenosaga, and Xenogears.) Members Online • Wisehunter13666 observations regarding reviews with the upcoming XDE release Xenoblade X Hey all! So, I wanted to point out that more often than some would believe, reviewers make mistakes, and sometimes, they, or at least aggregate sites, are willing to do corrections. Case in point, back on the release of Xenoblade 3, I noticed that IGN Spain released a review that was a full on copy of the US branch, just translated to Spanish (yeah, they did that), and gave the same score, 8, which is below the game´s average, and both the US and the Spain reviews were counting separately on metacritic. After I noticed that I found the email contact of metacritic team and warned them about, and they replied and rectified, dropping the IGN Spain from the aggregate. About more than a week ago, a Turkish website broke embargo review on XDE and sent a review to open critic, so basically a full month before the game release and quite before official embargo, and at that point, review codes were sent at max one week before, meaning that they clammed to have enough to make assessment of that massive game that fast. I contacted opencritic through email and they removed the review from the system and notified the reviewers about embargo. I also notified Nintendo about that. I recall a review for the original X by theEnemy that claimed that "unlike 1, X does not have a positional element in battle" which is obviously wrong, as X has positional arts and even relative height has an effect in battle, so I managed to call that review out. All that is to say that sometimes it is worth to call out when you see errors or false information in reviews or aggregates, as sometimes you may be listened. As for why bother doing that? it is because, for still growing franchises like Xenoblade, review scores and media appraisal has an great impact on sales. XDE was unfortunately not even featured in a direct, and would certainly appreciate an extra push sales wise. So do call out when you seem errors, even in previews, as that may help. ps: you can find video game portals contact information on the "contact us" usually at the bottom of their page. You can also always post comments on their articles and youtube videos. And don't wait for the reviews! You can do that right now for the previews and articles, predicting the kind of errors they may make in the final review! Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 2% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics