Ubisoft games are coming back to Steam | Rock Paper Shotgun Skip to main content Best class in The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion Remastered Monster Hunter Wilds best weapons tier list Blox Fruits codes Elden Ring boss locations Best Minecraft seeds 1.21 Past Wordle answers The Maw Latest News Reviews Hardware Features Videos Guides Bestest Bests Free games Discord Deals Podcasts RSS Supporters Go Support us Get our newsletter Sign in / Create account If you click on a link and make a purchase we may receive a small commission. Read our editorial policy . Home News Ubisoft games are coming back to Steam Assassin’s Creed Valhalla is first up News by CJ Wheeler Former News Reporter Published on Nov. 22, 2022 23 comments Follow Anno 1800 Several Ubisoft games are heading to Steam, signalling a return to Valve’s storefront for the publisher. In a statement to Eurogamer , Ubisoft confirmed that their open-world history ‘em up Assassin’s Creed Valhalla would be arriving on Steam on December 6th. It’ll be followed by other games from the publisher, although only RTS Anno 1800 and free to play skater Roller Champions have been touted so far. 5 Reasons Why You Should Give Roller Champions A Chance Watch on YouTube "We're constantly evaluating how to bring our games to different audiences wherever they are, while providing a consistent player ecosystem through Ubisoft Connect," a spokesperson for the publisher said. It could be that the success of Valve’s Steam Deck has caught Ubisoft’s attention. Back in summer 2021, the company’s CEO Yves Guillemot said they’d consider bringing games to the handheld “if it is big”. Ubisoft are just the most recent big publisher to bring their games back to Steam, following on from Activision launching Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 and Warzone 2.0 on the storefront in recent weeks. Ubisoft largely abandoned Steam in 2019 in favour of their own storefront, and exclusivity with the Epic Games Store that began with The Division 2. At that time, Ubisoft commented the deal with Epic was “a long-term positive”, with Epic taking less of a cut from game sales revenue than Valve. The most notable interaction between Ubisoft and Steam recently was the publisher turning off online features for many of their older games at the beginning of last month. You’ll be able to find Assassin’s Creed Valhalla on Steam from December 6th, with other games from the publisher arriving on the storefront at a later date. Are there any more recent Ubisoft games you’d like to see come to Steam? Read this next Terrify medieval peasants by riding a Monster Hunter mount in Assassin’s Creed: Valhalla Ubisoft say nah, no Steam Achievements for Assassin's Creed Valhalla Assassin's Creed Valhalla's final chapter is out early with a surprise Mirage link CJ Wheeler : CJ used to write about steam locomotives but now covers Steam instead. Likes visual novels, most things with dungeons and/or crawling, and any shooter with a suitably chunky shotgun. He’s from Yorkshire, which means he’s legally obliged to enjoy a cup of tea and a nice sit down. View comments (23) In this article Anno 1800 PC Follow Assassin's Creed: Valhalla PS4 , PS5 , Xbox One , Xbox Series X/S , PC Follow See 1 more Roller Champions PS4 , Xbox One , PC , Nintendo Switch Follow Related topics Action Adventure Free-to-play Historical Open World RPG Science Fiction Sports Strategy Ubisoft Ubisoft Montreal Rock Paper Shotgun is better when you sign in Sign in and join us on our journey to discover strange and compelling PC games. Sign in with Google Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Twitter Sign in with Reddit Sign in with email Latest News Splitgate 2 is almost ready for you try it out, as the Portal with actual guns shooter sets a date for its open beta Who knows if Stardew Valley is finished, but the dev behind it is "committed to not working" on it until Haunted Chocolatier is done Respawn reportedly lay off staff across Apex Legends and Star Wars Jedi teams, cancel two incubation projects Splinter Cell lives... in the form of Steam achievements for the 12 year old Blacklist Lush "pure stealth" metroidvania The Siege And The Sandfox launches in May Devolver Digital reveals Mycopunk, a FPS where you're a robot nobody wants trying to not get killed by fungus Borderlands 4 gets an earlier release date, as accidentally revealed by Randy Pitchford Latest Guides NYT Connections hint (Wed, 30 Apr) Wordle hint and answer today #1411 (April 30 2025) Oblivion Remastered: How to get Azura's Star Oblivion Remastered: How to get Skeleton Key NYT Connections hint (Tue, 29 Apr) Wordle hint and answer #1410 (April 29 2025) Oblivion Remastered: Nirnroot locations Top Discussions No, Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 wasn't "made" by 30 people 196 The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion Remastered review 78 Dark mode comes to Rock Paper Shotgun 61 Elder Scrolls 4 Oblivion's level scaling was a "mistake", says designer, so why is it in the remaster? 53 Baldur's Gate 3 devs Larian discuss making two new games at once: "in practice, we will probably be miserable" 31 Russia threatens to seize World Of Tanks studio's assets, accusing executives of "extremism" 22 Oblivion reigns over PC games this week, but there is still time for football, space cats and ghastly mansions 15 © 2025 Rock Paper Shotgun, an IGN Entertainment, Inc. brand. 18 Mansell Street Level 3, London, E1 8AA, United Kingdom. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission. Rock Paper Shotgun is a registered trademark of Gamer Network Limited, an affiliate of IGN Entertainment, Inc. Theme Auto Light Dark Helpful Links About Us Advertise with us Archive Authors Contact Us Corporate Site Interactive Maps Newsletters RSS Feeds Policies Accessibility Policy AdChoices Code of Conduct Cookie Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Review Policy Terms & Conditions Gamer Network Dicebreaker Digital Foundry Eurogamer GamesIndustry.biz Nintendo Life Pure Xbox Push Square Time Extension VG247