Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/football A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to football r/football r/football Home of Football. Official Sponsors of Redditch United. News, Rumours, Analysis, gossip and much more. Members Online • ClintExpress Opinion: The 2014 Germany squad was a paper champion and it catalysed their current decline. 💬Discussion Team Stage (Result) Reason Portugal Group Stage 1 (4-0) Portugal were too reliant on Cristiano Ronaldo (who played with a knee injury) which meant Germany faced no actual threat. There was also that incident where Muller exaggerated contact with Pepé that led to the latter being red-carded which only further damaged football's reputation as a sport heavily loaded with simulation. Ghana Group Stage 2 (2-2) Ghana were actually giving them hell which exposed several flaws in their defense that heavily depended on Neuer. USA Group Stage 3 (1-0) The USMNT's squad was full of German-born players whom Löw never gave any consideration, not to mention that Landon Donovan (who was effective at scoring from rebounds and counterattacks) was omitted—a decision which would prove costly given how often the USA pressured Germany without any results. It didn't help that Klinsmann was their manager as well, raising concerns of a potential repeat of the 1982 scandal where Germany and Austria colluded at the expense of Algeria. Speaking of them... Algeria Round of 16 (2-1) Much like their fellow Africans Ghana the Algerians pinned Germany to the wall and even scored albeit in an offside position thus nulled. It took extra time for both teams to score which makes one wonder how the Germans would've fared had it been Algeria in the group stage and Ghana in the KO stage instead. France Quarter-Final The first viable threat Germany faced in Brasil and even so Germany knew them well enough to score early in the firsr half. Brasil Semi-Final (7-1) Enough has been said about this infamous match that humiliated an entire nation of over 200 million inhabitants so let me ask different questions: What if it was Colombia that faced Germany at semifinals? What if referee Velasco actually had the cojones to call out every single foul directed at James Rodriguez during their own quarterfinal bout? This was one of the worst Brazil squads that only managed to make it this far due to awful officiating (see: Nishimura at the Croatia match) and getting extremely lucky in their R16 match with Chile. But that luck ended when Zuñiga broke Neymar's back, symbolizing how Brazil's tactics at the time relied heavily on him—Atlas has fallen and the world collapsed all over an entire nation. In a fairer world where there was no bias in favor of the host nation, Colombia would've not only won but also given Germany hell at semifinials (their combined speed, passing and pressure would've overwhelmed them) and we'd end up with a South American classic against Argentina. Alas, life rewards the thief... Argentina Final (1-0) 32 years prior to this game German goalkeeper Harald Schumacher clattered on France's Patrick Battiston in their semifinal match at the 1982 World Cup held in Spain. Despite the ball being already mere meters away from the Frenchman the German goalkeeper didn't care and committed what should've been both a red-card offense and perhaps assault that merited criminal charges due to Battiston being unresponsive and losing teeth in the process but shockingly referee Charles Corver did not see it that way and his negligence facilitated the deceitful Germans to reach the final only for Italy to avenge both Algeria and France and defeat their continental rivals 3-1 (ironically Italy themselves played dirty against Argentina, fouling Maradona every chance they had). In 2014 at the World Cup final history repeated itself when Manuel Neuer raised his knee in an attempt to divert the ball away from Argentina's Gonzalo Higuaín, striking him at full speed while inside the penalty box. Despite this referee Nicola Rizzoli not only did not call for a penalty (and a red card for Neurer), he inexplicably granted a free kick for Germany which led to people calling out bollocks. As it was in their 1982 semifinal against France, Germany were spared from disciplinary action by incompetent officiating and Gotze scored the only goal of the match. With a combination of awful refereeing throughout the entire tournament and being pitted against pushovers such the United States and Brazil, Germany won the World Cup in 2014 and donned a veil of "invincibility" that—with the exception of their 2-0 loss to France at the 2016 Euros—was enforced throughout their 2018 World Cup qualifying campaign. But the so-called German "invincibility" would later be exposed as a lie when Mexico defeated them 1-0 in the following World Cup itself and South Korea sent the disgraced ex-champions home by 2-0. Add their laughable 1-0 (via own goal) and 2-0 defeat by France and England at the 2020 Euro, early exit at the hands of Japan in Qatar 2022 and recent elimination by Spain as 2024 Euro hosts and you'll see why I find the 2014 Germany side to be the football equivalent of fool's gold and why so-called lesser sides exposed them ever since. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 12, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics