Outrageous North Korea propaganda shows country winning everything from World Cup to Olympic golds - The Mirror ‌ ‌ Skip to main content News Celebs Football Lifestyle More InYourArea Funeral Notices Shop Competitions Dating Offers Newsletter Signup Follow us on social Daily Mirror Icon Sport Football North Korea Outrageous North Korea propaganda shows country winning everything from World Cup to Olympic golds The images were predominantly produced in the 2000s and capture the nation's alleged sporting achievements Comments Sport Jake Polden Deputy Editor, Reach Sports Hub 11:17, 31 Oct 2017 Updated 14:43, 31 Oct 2017 The North Korea football team 'winning the World Cup' (Image: Kim Myog Guk/News Dog Media ) These are the outrageous North Korean propaganda artworks that show the country triumphing in everything from football and athletics to draughts. The paintings, which were predominantly produced in the 2000s, capture the nation's alleged sporting achievements. ‌ In the images, the North Korean football team can be seen crying tears of joy as they win the World Cup. ‌ While another picture shows the fictitious moment DPRK athlete Jong Song-ok defeated her western opponents at the 2000 Olympic Games to win gold. A painting of a North Korean boxer entitled 'For The Dignity of The Country' (Image: Kwon Su Bong/News Dog Media ) A Korean girl plays a board game against a middle-aged American (Image: Kim Hyon Myong/News Dog Media ) Article continues below The 43-year-old athlete did in fact win gold for North Korea at the 1999 World Athletics Championships in Seville. But it was reported that Kim Jong-il personally banned her from competing at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney or any other athletic competitions – in fear of national embarrassment if she lost the next race. A North Korean athlete 'defeating opponents' at the Olympic Games (Image: Yi Donghyon/News Dog Media ) ‌ A North Korean athlete holding the DPRK flag (Image: Oh Yong Gil/News Dog Media ) A final painting shows an unimpressed North Korean girl effortlessly challenge a middle-aged American man to a draughts match. This isn't the first time the North Korean regime has faked sporting triumphs in order to instil nationalistic pride into their people. ‌ A North Korean poster showing a footballer holding aloft a trophy (Image: News Dog Media ) A wrestler from the DPRK 'defeating an opponent' (Image: News Dog Media ) In 2014, a video appeared online showing North Korea's state controlled media telling their football fans that the national team had reached the World Cup final in Brazil. ‌ Kim Jong-un is a notorious fan of Manchester United football team and last month allegedly declared his hopes that North Korea players will be joining the Premier League. North Korea have apparently been to two World Cup finals, in 1966 and 2010 (Image: Yang Hyong Gajidong Choi/News Dog Media ) A North Korean painting showing female pilots (Image: Ri Hyok/News Dog Media ) ‌ It was also reported in DPRK press that Kim's late father landed eleven holes-in-one in his first and only ever round of golf in 1994. The North Korean national football team have only appeared in the World Cup twice in their history. A North Korean painting of Fisher Women at Work (Image: Gang Song Ryong/News Dog Media ) ‌ North Korea's estimated missile ranges Article continues below They famously reached the quarter-finals at their World Cup debut in 1966, beating Italy in the group stage. In 2009, the team qualified for the 2010 World Cup but lost 7-0 to Portugal. There were reports that the North Korean government punished the coach and players of the team by sending them on a hard labour in mines. However, FIFA's investigators could not confirm this. Follow Daily Mirror: Facebook X (Twitter) TikTok Instagram Snapchat Comments ‌ ‌ ‌ FIFA North Korea FIFA World Cup Kim Jong-un News Politics Football TV Showbiz Weird News Family Sport Travel Life & Style Money Fashion Tech Mums Motoring Film Follow Daily Mirror on socials: Marketplace Find a job Shop InYourArea mynewsassistant Find a local business Style Store Beauty Box Subscription Mirror Bingo Yimbly Shop Crosswords, Puzzles & Games Betting Free Bets Partner Stories About Us Contact Us Work for us Follow Us Sell Your Story Syndication & Licensing How to Complain Corrections & Clarifications Privacy Notice AI Notice Cookie Notice Terms and Conditions Notifications and alerts help Subscribe to Daily Mirror and Sunday Mirror newspapers Subscribe to tablet edition Newsletters preference centre Community Standards Irish Mirror © 2025 a Reach plc subsidiary ‌ At Reach and across our entities we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the sale or sharing of your data, at any time clicking the "Do Not Sell or Share my Data" button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Cookie Notice . Accept