Wonder Woman: All the Actresses Who've Played Her ​ Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals Royals Royals PEOPLE StyleWatch: Spring 2025 Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals StyleWatch Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe This week's Puzzler crossword is here! Can you solve it? Play now! Entertainment Movies Children & Family Movies Wonder Woman Over the Years: See All the Stars Who've Played the Action Icon Ellie Wood Walker's Wonder Woman debuted on TV in the '60s, but many other actresses have played the superhero since her iconic turn By Drew Mackie Drew Mackie Drew Mackie is a former reporter at PEOPLE. He left PEOPLE in 2016. People Editorial Guidelines Updated on June 8, 2023 12:19AM EDT Photo: CBS/Getty She's easily the most famous female superhero of all time, and she's doing it on her own. She's Wonder Woman , and she's been a solo superhero since her first DC Comics appearance in 1941. Though Gal Gadot took her to the big screen in 2017's Wonder Woman , until then, the best-known depiction was Lynda Carter 's iteration of the titular warrior in the pilot movie The New Original Wonder Woman , which premiered on ABC on Nov. 7, 1975. The film segued into the series titled Wonder Woman — beginning on April 21, 1976 — and ran for three seasons. However, Carter wasn't actually the original Wonder Woman. Here are the notable incarnations of the superheroine so far — and some of the more famous actresses associated with the Princess of the Amazons and her golden lasso. 01 of 11 Gal Gadot, 'Wonder Woman' (2017) Gal Gadot/Warner Bros. By the time the Man of Steel sequel , Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice , hit theaters in 2016, it had taken nearly 36 years for Wonder Woman to be realized on the big screen again in live action. The film also marked the first time Wonder Woman appeared in an official theatrical movie, albeit in a supporting role. Thanks to Gadot and director Patty Jenkins , the demigoddess got her turn in the spotlight in 2017's wildly successful Wonder Woman , with Gadot reprising the role later that year in Justice League and again in 2020's Wonder Woman 1984 . Gadot reunited with the crew once more for 2021's Zack Snyder's Justice League and is on deck for the upcoming third installment of the Wonder Woman feature . 02 of 11 Rosario Dawson, 'Justice League: Throne of Atlantis' (2015) Warner Bros.; Cindy Ord/Getty Images After voicing Artemis in the 2009 animated film Wonder Woman , Rosario Dawson found a home in the DC Animated Universe (DCAU) as the warrior princess herself in the sequel to 2014's Justice League: War . She would go on to voice the character in subsequent animated films, including Justice League vs. Teen Titans (2016), Justice League Dark (2017), Reign of the Supermen (2019), The Death and Return of Superman (2019), Wonder Woman: Bloodlines (2019) and Justice League Dark: Apokolips War (2020). Dawson also voiced Wonder Woman in 2021's Space Jam: A New Legacy (2021). At New York Comic-Con 2019, Dawson discussed representing Wonder Woman while honoring Carter as the first Latina to play the iconic character. "I … feel that Wonder Woman has been pushed in a lot of different spaces that I will never put down," Dawson said, per Comic Book Resources . "I remember when I began voicing Wonder Woman, and people were like, 'Finally, we're getting a Latina Wonder Woman.' And I was like, 'Lynda Carter was Latina.' I grew up with her, and I thought that was super awesome. It was a different iteration of her, but it was very inspiring, and it meant a lot to my grandmother, my mother and me." 03 of 11 Cobie Smulders, 'The LEGO Movie' (2014) Warner Bros/Kobal/Shutterstock; Frazer Harrison/Getty Images While there isn't a handy clip of the Lego version of Wonder Woman talking, How I Met Your Mother actress Cobie Smulders voiced the superhero in the 2014 animated film The LEGO Movie . The casting wasn't arbitrary, either. For a period, Joss Whedon considered making a live-action Wonder Woman movie and casting Smulders in the role, according to Vulture . This role was a small way of making good on that idea, which Smulders reprised in the 2019 sequel The LEGO Movie 2: The Second Part . 04 of 11 Michelle Monaghan, 'Justice League: War' (2014) Warner Bros.; Jeff Kravitz/FilmMagic Mission: Impossible III star Michelle Monaghan lent her voice to the character in 2014, leaving a lasting impression on fans. She sounded every bit as strong and battle-ready as audiences had hoped. It's as if the producers of these animated movies were working from a list of actresses who could have played Wonder Woman in real life, almost like they'd been pushing for a live-action version all along. Hmm… 05 of 11 Adrianne Palicki, 'Wonder Woman' (2011) Justin Lubin Ally McBeal creator David E. Kelley filmed a 2011 Wonder Woman pilot for NBC, but the network ultimately ditched the project. It leaked online, and fans were puzzled by how much the pilot departed from the traditional Wonder Woman backstory. However, most agreed Adrianne Palicki had the chops for the role. Previously, Palicki flexed her superpowers on an episode of the WB series Smallville in 2004, where she played Lindsay Harrison — a teenager who went missing during a meteor shower and later turned up as the Kryptonian girl named Kara. 06 of 11 Maggie Q, 'Young Justice' (2010) Warner Bros.; Matt Winkelmeyer/Getty Images This Cartoon Network series focused on the younger counterparts of the Justice League, but Wonder Woman was a prominent character nonetheless. In 2012, Nikita and Divergent actress Maggie Q voiced the princess warrior on seasons 1 and 2. She returned to the role in 2019 on season 3. Prior to Q lending her voice, her former Mission: Impossible III costar Keri Russell stepped into the boots of the immortal Amazon in the 2009 self-titled film. 07 of 11 Keri Russell, 'Wonder Woman' (2009) Warner Bros.; Paul Morigi/Getty Images Years before playing a Soviet agent on The Americans , Russell honed her tough-girl voice as the titular character in 2009's Wonder Woman — her first animated debut. (For the record, fans approved of Russell playing a live-action Wonder Woman too.) The Felicity star opened up to MovieWeb in 2009 on what it meant to voice the character behind the Lasso of Truth. "Obviously, growing up, I knew of the show," she told the outlet. "I can remember folding laundry with my mom while watching Lynda Carter on TV. So I knew a little bit, but I didn't know all the depths of the story we discover in this film. Ultimately, she's a very cool, strong, female warrior." Russell continued, "I just think Wonder Woman is cool. She's got her invisible jet and her armbands. There is something to be said about the gender issue, but I think more than anything Wonder Woman was just a good, cool comic, and that's why people read it. It wasn't, like, just throwing one to the ladies. She was tough and smart, and her superpowers were cool, so that's why I think Wonder Woman has staying power." 08 of 11 Lucy Lawless, 'Justice League: The New Frontier' (2008) Warner Bros.; Getty Images/Bob Riha, Jr. Wonder Woman, voiced by Susan Eisenberg, persisted as a character on the Justice League animated series for years. Still, it wasn't until 2008 that a household name voiced the character again: Lucy Lawless . Fitting, considering Lawless was already known for portraying a warrior princess on the adventure series Xena . 09 of 11 Lynda Carter, 'Wonder Woman' (1975) CBS/Getty Carter's performance as Wonder Woman was everything a '70s superhero should be. Since her acclaimed performance on the series, she appeared on an episode of Smallville in 2007 and on seasons 2 and 4 of Supergirl. In 2020, she made a cameo as golden warrior Asteria in Wonder Woman 1984 . Director Jenkins also teased Carter's return in the third Wonder Woman installment. Despite playing the role decades ago, Carter has continued to field questions about the character. At DC FanDome 2021 , Carter spoke about how she adapted Wonder Woman and the significance of appearing in the franchise. "I know what it was like from the inside out," she said. "I know what the legacy meant to me, and when I created the character, it wasn't on the comic book page — her kindness and her goodness. Her strength was her Lasso of Truth ... and that meant something to me." Carter added, "Who would have thought in my life — at this time in my life — that this gift would just present itself to me, and that's so cool. And that's what I'm hoping for all of the fans of Wonder Woman ... to know that your life is full of surprises, and the Wonder Woman in you is alive and well." 10 of 11 Cathy Lee Crosby, 'Wonder Woman' (1974) ABC Photo Archives/Disney General Entertainment Content via Getty Images Surprisingly, Carter wasn't the first live-action Wonder Woman. An unaired 1967 pilot titled Wonder Woman: Who's Afraid of Diana Prince? had Ellie Wood Walker playing the titular character and Planet of the Apes star Linda Harrison as Diana's alter ego and reflection. In 1974, Cathy Lee Crosby, best known for hosting That's Incredible! , donned the star-spangled costume (and blonde hair!) in the ABC TV movie that ultimately spawned the Carter-led series. 11 of 11 Jane Webb, 'The Brady Kids' (1972) CBS via Getty Images; ABC Believe it or not, this story begins with The Brady Bunch — specifically The Brady Kids , an animated spinoff of the sitcom that followed the siblings on magical adventures with talking animal characters. It was here that Wonder Woman appeared for the first time beyond the comic page in 1972, voiced by Jane Webb, who'd already lent her voice talents to Batgirl on The Batman/Superman Hour . Following Webb's iteration, Wonder Woman began appearing on animated series like Super Friends , with different actresses voicing the character. Still, it's just too weird not to mention that the beloved superhero got her showbiz start on The Brady Kids . Close You Might Like Tina Knowles Recalls Night Her Brother Was Beaten by Police: How 'It Changed My Family Forever' (Exclusive) Celebrity 22 hours ago Ellen Pompeo Reveals How Taylor Swift Gave Her 'Biggest Check' for Children's Charity 'Without Blinking an Eye' Celebrity April 02, 2025 Pedro Pascal Blasts J.K. Rowling as a 'Heinous Loser' for Her Anti-Trans Views Celebrity a day ago Related Articles Celebrities Who Were Girl Scouts Aoki Lee Simmons Poses for a Purpose After Previously Saying She Was Taking a Step Back from Modeling Sarah Ferguson, Bill Nye, Laverne Cox and More Join Global Citizen Now Action Summit Lineup (Exclusive) Lena Dunham Makes Rare Public Appearance Speaking at a Rally in Front of the U.S. Capitol Disney Heiress Believes Every Billionaire 'Who Can't Live on $999 Million Is Kind of a Sociopath' Melinda French Gates Says It’s 'Only Responsible' to Give Away Her 'Absurd' Fortune to Help Women & Girls (Exclusive) The Fall Guy ’s Heather Thomas Ultimately Left Hollywood in the '90s Because of Stalkers — One of Whom She Even Shot Barbie Ferreira Shares Where Her 'Confidence' Comes from to Chase Her Acting Dreams on Her Terms: 'I Have No Plan B' (Exclusive) Lady Gaga Says She Wanted to 'Be Protective and Loving' to the Trans Community with 2025 Grammys Speech JoJo Siwa Clarifies Her Sexuality on Celebrity Big Brother Weeks After Mickey Rourke's Exit Jinger Duggar Recalls 'Crying' Over Friends Who Wore Pants Due to Her Ultra Conservative Upbringing: 'I Was Broken-Hearted' John Boyega Says Star Wars Felt Like the 'Whitest, Elite Space': 'They're Okay with Us Playing the Best Friend' Gabrielle Union Felt ‘Invisible’ Being Typecast as ‘the Bitchy, Sassy Friend': 'Like My Beauty Wasn’t Wanted’ Watch as Sprightly Dick Van Dyke, 99, Wears a Mary Poppins T-shirt and Sings His Famous Songs at Wildfire Relief Fundraiser Jonathan Roumie Breaks Down in Tears as He Says ‘Nobody Thought’ The Chosen ‘Would Go Anywhere’ — Now Boasts Nearly 300 Million Viewers (Exclusive) Debra Messing, Mayim Bialik and More Stars Celebrate the 'Undeniable Impact of Jewish Voices' in And They're Jewish (Exclusive) PEOPLE Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies