Gianni Infantino re-elected FIFA president until 2027 - SWI swissinfo.ch Jump to home page Jump to navigation Jump to content Skip to search The Swiss voice in the world since 1935 Login Search Close Menu Close Search Search Home About us Democracy International Geneva Foreign Affairs Swiss Politics Science Multinational Companies Culture Life & Aging Swiss Abroad Switzerland: How To Swiss Films / Podcasts / Videos Debates Special reports Opinions Newsletters Search en English de Deutsch fr Français it Italiano es Español pt Português ja 日本語 ar العربية zh 中文 ru Русский News Life & Aging Gianni Infantino re-elected FIFA president until 2027 The Swiss lawyer was first elected as FIFA president in 2016. Pa Wire Gianni Infantino was re-elected as FIFA president during the 73rd Congress in Kigali, Rwanda, on Thursday. This content was published on March 16, 2023 - 12:03 2 minutes AP/Reuters/sb Other language: 1 EN original العربية ar إعادة انتخاب جياني إنفانتينو رئيسا للفيفا حتى موفى عام 2027 Read more: إعادة انتخاب جياني إنفانتينو رئيسا للفيفا حتى موفى عام 2027 The Swiss stood unopposed, making his re-election as head of football’s governing body, a formality. “It is an incredible honour and privilege, and a great responsibility,” Infantino said. “I promise to continue serving FIFA and football around the world. “To those that love me, and I know there are many, and those who hate me … I love you all.” Infantino confirmed Zurich-based FIFA’s income hit record levels in the last cycle from 2019-22 but promised to raise this again on the back of expanded men’s and women’s World Cup tournaments and the introduction of a 32-team Club World Cup. + FIFA president meets special prosecutors in Switzerland “Revenues rose to a record $7.5 billion (CHF7 billion) (to 2022) in a period that was hit by Covid-19. When I arrived, FIFA reserves stood at around $1 billion, today they are at almost $4 billion,” Infantino said. “But I am here for a four-year cycle only,” said Infantino, whose presidency can eventually run for 15 years through 2031. The Swiss lawyer was first elected in 2016 with FIFA in crisis after a sweeping United States federal investigation of corruption removed a swath of soccer officials in the Americas. The fallout also removed veteran FIFA president Sepp Blatter from office within months of being re-elected. + FIFA’s Infantino criticises ‘moral lessons’ of World Cup detractors Under Infantino, FIFA has created new and bigger competitions – raising its income and giving national teams more chances to qualify for the men’s and women’s World Cups, while facing down resistance from European soccer officials. FIFA’s support for 2022 World Cup host Qatar, where Infantino moved to live in 2021, and his close ties to Saudi Arabian soccer have also caused unease among rights activists and some European member federations. + FIFA president Gianni Infantino moves to Qatar Popular Stories More Life & Aging Zurich: how the world capital of housing shortages is tackling the problem Read more: Zurich: how the world capital of housing shortages is tackling the problem More Alpine Environment The Swiss Alps ski village that is luring nervous Americans Read more: The Swiss Alps ski village that is luring nervous Americans More Swiss Abroad The Böögg, Switzerland’s exploding psychic snowman Read more: The Böögg, Switzerland’s exploding psychic snowman More Swiss Abroad Switzerland Today Read more: Switzerland Today More Banking & Fintech Swiss franc surge sparks bets on negative interest rates Read more: Swiss franc surge sparks bets on negative interest rates Most Discussed Next Previous More Debate Hosted by: Pauline Turuban Did you immigrate to Switzerland? What are your experiences? What were the circumstances of your immigration to Switzerland? And what motivated your decision to stay or leave? Join the discussion Apr 1, 2025 7 Likes 26 Comments View the discussion More Debate Hosted by: Marc Leutenegger What are your experiences with housing shortages and rising property prices? Switzerland is steering towards a housing crisis. Are there solutions? Join the discussion Apr 25, 2025 1 Comments View the discussion More Debate Hosted by: Aylin Elçi How are mental illnesses treated in your country? In Switzerland more people are being referred to electrical therapies or psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy. Are there similar approaches where you live? Join the discussion Apr 23, 2025 1 Comments View the discussion More Debates News More Plane grazes hikers on Monte Rosa This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 A Geneva-registered tourist plane grazed some ski mountaineers on Saturday on a glacier on the Swiss side of the Monte Rosa massif. Read more: Plane grazes hikers on Monte Rosa More Sharp rise in reports of suspicious sports betting in Switzerland This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 Last year the Intercantonal Gambling Supervisory Authority received 184 reports of suspicious activities in connection with 166 sports competitions. Read more: Sharp rise in reports of suspicious sports betting in Switzerland More Swiss fencers apologise for diplomatic scandal with Israel This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 Two days after causing a diplomatic scandal at the U23 European Championships in Tallinn, the Swiss fencers responsible have published a jointly signed apology on Instagram. Read more: Swiss fencers apologise for diplomatic scandal with Israel More Air in climbing gyms more polluted than on streets This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 The concentration of potentially harmful chemicals in climbing gyms is sometimes higher than on busy roads, say researchers from Switzerland and Austria. Read more: Air in climbing gyms more polluted than on streets More SWISS reports lower profit in first quarter This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 Swiss International Air Lines (SWISS) achieved slightly higher sales at the start of the year. However, profits fell sharply, partly due to the late Easter. Read more: SWISS reports lower profit in first quarter More Switzerland’s first padel court on water built in Arosa This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 Switzerland's first padel tennis court on water will open on the Obersee in Arosa, canton Graubünden, for the 2025 summer season. Read more: Switzerland’s first padel court on water built in Arosa More Swiss drink significantly less wine This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 Wine consumption in Switzerland fell by almost 8% in 2024 compared to the previous year. Swiss wines are particularly affected by the decline. Read more: Swiss drink significantly less wine More Jackie Chan to be honoured for life’s work at Locarno Film Festival This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 Martial artist Jackie Chan will receive an Honorary Leopard, a lifetime achievement award, from the Locarno Film Festival in southern Switzerland in August. Read more: Jackie Chan to be honoured for life’s work at Locarno Film Festival More Novartis raises forecast again after strong Q1 results This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 Swiss pharmaceutical giant Novartis has continued the strong pace of growth of recent quarters in the first three months of 2025. Read more: Novartis raises forecast again after strong Q1 results More Swiss canton holds first general meeting on winegrowing This content was published on Apr 29, 2025 More than 250 professionals attended the first general meeting of the Valais wine industry on Monday in Conthey, western Switzerland. Read more: Swiss canton holds first general meeting on winegrowing Load more In compliance with the JTI standards More: SWI swissinfo.ch certified by the Journalism Trust Initiative You can find an overview of ongoing debates with our journalists here . Please join us! If you want to start a conversation about a topic raised in this article or want to report factual errors, email us at english@swissinfo.ch . Read more Next Previous More Swiss prosecutors drop private jet probe into FIFA boss This content was published on Mar 9, 2023 Allegations that FIFA president Gianni Infantino fraudulently used a private jet have been dismissed by Swiss prosecutors. Read more: Swiss prosecutors drop private jet probe into FIFA boss More Report: Qatar spied on meeting of Swiss prosecutor and FIFA president This content was published on Mar 12, 2023 Qatar allegedly spied on a meeting between FIFA president, Gianni Infantino, and Switzerland’s then-attorney general in 2017. Read more: Report: Qatar spied on meeting of Swiss prosecutor and FIFA president More FIFA’s Infantino criticises ‘moral lessons’ of World Cup detractors This content was published on Nov 19, 2022 Saying he feels "gay" and like a migrant worker, FIFA president Gianni Infantino derided criticism of Qatar 2022 as hypocrisy. Read more: FIFA’s Infantino criticises ‘moral lessons’ of World Cup detractors More FIFA clears Infantino in ethics violation case This content was published on Aug 20, 2020 FIFA’s independent ethics committee has cleared its president Gianni Infantino of any alleged breach of its code. Read more: FIFA clears Infantino in ethics violation case Follow us Stay informed daily about news in Switzerland with our Briefing in the SWI plus app for the Swiss abroad. Imprint Data Privacy Statement Terms of Use Rights to content and liability Jobs Play SWI About us Annual Report 2024 Newsletters Podcasts Contact SWI swissinfo.ch - a branch of Swiss Broadcasting Corporation SRG SSR RTS SRF RSI RTR SWI swissinfo.ch - a branch of Swiss Broadcasting Corporation SRG SSR