About - Johnny Mac Tennis Project, Inc. 212-792-8500​ | [email protected] Save Home About Mission Leadership Testimonials Financial Information Programs Community Tennis Excellence Program Advanced Training Players Scholarship Players Graduates Events Get Involved Contact Careers Donate Now OUR MISSION A 501(c)(3) nonprofit founded by tennis hall of famer John McEnroe, JMTP introduces tennis to thousands of under-resourced New York City area children.​ The Johnny Mac Tennis Project (JMTP) transforms young lives by removing the economic, racial and social barriers to success through tennis. Young tennis players face tremendous economic barriers to success. We offer an accessible, funded Tennis Pathway to Success® for student-athletes. At JMTP, we first introduce children to tennis as a fun and enduring way to stay healthy, fit, and socially active. For those who display talent and a deep commitment, we offer a funded pathway to excel in high-level competitive tennis, paving the way to college scholarships, rewarding careers, and, for a select few, the potential to achieve professional success. 16,500+ students reached through community programs 540 scholarships ​awarded scholarships awarded $10.7+M awarded in scholarships & community programming 41 college ​scholarships earned college ​scholarships earned ​LEADERSHIP John McEnroe Patrick McEnroe Ryann Cutillo Courtney Repoli Lisa Jouravleva JOHN MCENROE ​​Founder and Director, JMTA/JMTP​ ​John McEnroe, one of the greatest tennis players of all time, dreams of bringing the buzz back to American tennis. Between 1980 and 1985, this native New Yorker, received world rankings of #1 in singles for 170 weeks and #1 in doubles player for a record 257 weeks. John won seven Grand Slam singles titles, including four U.S. Open titles and three at Wimbledon. Considered by many to be the greatest doubles player ever, he won 10 Grand Slam doubles titles. Johnny Mac considered the  greatest Davis Cup player in history also captained the U.S. Davis Cup Team. He is an Emmy-nominated commentator for CBS, NBC, BBC, ESPN and USA. John graduated from New York City’s Trinity School and attended Stanford University, winning an NCAA team and singles title his freshman year. He continues to live in New York City, where he has raised his 6 children. Wanting to make tennis a game changer for every New York kid, regardless of means, John partnered with SPORTIME to open the John McEnroe Tennis Academy in September 2010 and the Johnny Mac Tennis Project (a 501(c)(3) organization), soon after.  Together they have created a Tennis Pathway to Success® that allows New York children to explore their athletic and other potential through tennis. John McEnroe knows that tennis can help kids adopt a healthy and active lifestyle, and develop the problem solving skills and self-discipline necessary for on- and off-court success. PATRICK MCENROE President of the Board/Co-Director, JMTA/JMTP​ Patrick grew up in Douglaston, NY and trained in the New York area. As a junior, he reached the semifinals of Wimbledon and the US Open boys' singles in 1983. Patrick then partnered Luke Jensen to win the French Junior doubles and the USTA Boys' 18 National and Clay Court titles in 1984. He made his first impact on the professional tour that same year, teaming up with brother John to win the doubles title at Richmond, Virginia. Patrick won the Men's Doubles Gold medal at the 1987 Pan American Games with Jensen, and helped Stanford University, as team captain, win the NCAA team championship in 1986 and 1988. He graduated from Stanford in 1988 with a degree in political science, and then joined the professional tennis tour. On the tour, Patrick won one singles title and 16 doubles titles, including the 1989 French Open Men's Doubles title, during his 10‐year professional career, and achieved career‐high rankings of World No. 28 in singles and World No. 3 in doubles. After retiring from the tour in 1998, Patrick had a successful run as U.S. Davis Cup captain, the longest tenured captain in U.S. history, winning the cup in 2007. After leaving his Davis Cup role in 2010, McEnroe focused on his television commentary work, and also served as the General Manager of Player Development for the USTA until mid-2015. Patrick joined Sportime and JMTA in 2017. RYANN CUTILLO Executive Director Ryann was born and raised on Long Island, NY where she trained at SPORTIME from the age of 5 through her college years. As a junior, Ryann was ranked in the top 15 nationally and #1 in the Eastern section in every age division, winning two New York State championships. She went on to play Division I tennis at Wake Forest University, captaining the team for 2 years. Ryann won over 100 career matches during her college career, and was a member of the All-ACC Academic team. Since graduating in 2012 with a BA in Psychology, Ryann has spent the last decade in high level business development, operations, and sales positions across the sports, digital media, and tech industries. She joined the SPORTIME/JMTA Team in 2021 and was chosen as the JMTP Executive Director in 2022. COURTNEY REPOLI Assistant Director Courtney, from Staten Island, NY, has a lengthy history with tennis. Her passion began playing on her high school tennis team and serving as captain her senior year, but her love of the sport really flourished off the court. Courtney attended The George Washington University in Washington, DC, where she studied Business Administration. While at GW, Courtney completed a five-year Master’s Degree in Tourism Administration with a concentration in Sports Management. During her time in DC, she had the opportunity to intern with the Washington Kastles, a World Team Tennis franchise, which led to her full-time employment with the team after graduating. In 2010, Courtney moved back to NY and worked with the NY Sportimes and eventually, the John McEnroe Tennis Academy and the Johnny Mac Tennis Project. After a few years away to grow her family and welcoming a son and a daughter, Courtney has returned as the Assistant Director of the Johnny Mac Tennis Project. LISA JOURAVLEVA Community Relations Manager Lisa grew up on Long Island, NY before moving to New Jersey at the age of 13. Lisa began playing tennis at 5 years old, and trained at SPORTIME Kings Park in her early years. As a junior, Lisa was consistently ranked within the top 10 in the Eastern Division, and within the top 150 nationally. She was a four-year letterwinner at Ramapo High School, where she earned all-county honors and led the team to sectional, county, and league titles. Lisa graduated from Bucknell University in 2018, where she double majored in Sociology and French. Having played in the number one singles and doubles position of the women’s tennis team lineup since freshman year, while also serving as captain her senior year, Lisa graduated with the 10th most wins in program history. Upon graduation, Lisa received the Bradley N. Tufts Award, presented in recognition of exceptional athletic achievement and contribution to Bucknell Athletics. After working in Digital Marketing for several years, Lisa’s love for tennis and the sports world drove her to receive her Masters in Sports Management from Columbia University. Upon receiving her degree in May 2023, she joined JMTP a few months later. ​Board of Directors ​Patrick McEnroe, President Tommy Amaker ​Joanne Evans Burns James Citrin ​Peter Desmond ​Clement King Marci Klein​ ​John McEnroe ​Mark McEnroe ​Mitchell Truwit Advisory Board Robert Botjer ​Peter Flaherty ​Stephen Hasker ​Claude Okin ​ ​ Anne Reuter ​Bennett Schlansky ​Young Professionals Council Andrew Eichenholz ​Kristin Norton ​Danny Pellerito ​Vicky Sec Alex Steinroeder Christine Stromberg Elizabeth Tsvetkov Sabrina Xiong Testimonials ​Ervin C., 1st Grade, P.S. 112 I like tennis because we get to run and I like to run. Tennis is so much fun. I learned about something that I never did before. Lara A., JMTA Scholarship Recipient ​I am truly grateful to have received a tennis scholarship. It has boosted my confidence and I love traveling to tournaments and competing. Geneva A., JMTA Scholarship Recipient Because of this scholarship, I've become more disciplined, learned how to strategize, and am starting to believe that I can be great at whatever I choose to do. Sophia H.,1st Grade, Our Lady Queen of Angels I like tennis because I wanted to learn tennis and I did. I also like going to tennis because we play games with the ball and rackets. Thank you for teaching me how to play tennis. I had so much fun! Stephen S., 1st Grade, P.S. 112 I learned about tennis and the coach taught me to balance the ball on the racket. And I learned about hitting the ball over the net. And I like the part when we play together. ❮ ❯ Form 990 click here audited financials click here Annual Report click here Johnny Mac Tennis Project C/O SPORTIME Randall’s Island One Randall’s Island, New York, NY 10035 [email protected] \ Tel: 212-792-8500 ​© Johnny Mac Tennis Project, Inc. All rights reserved. Home About Mission Leadership Testimonials Financial Information Programs Community Tennis Excellence Program Advanced Training Players Scholarship Players Graduates Events Get Involved Contact Careers Donate Now Donate