Is there a new Zelda game in 2025? Pocket Tactics Main menu Apple Android Switch Steam Deck More Bluesky Facebook X RSS About us Meet the team How we test Editorial policy Join the team Advertise with us Privacy policy Terms of use Accessibility statement Manage cookies Network N Media Search We may earn a commission when you buy through links in our articles. Learn more . Is there a new Zelda game in 2025? We're always ready for a new Zelda game, so we've created a guide with all the latest news and speculation on the inevitable next title. James Osborne Published: Apr 2, 2025 Hyrule Warriors Age of Imprisonment The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Want the lowdown on a new Zelda game? You're in the right place. Zelda fans are, without a doubt, some of the luckiest in the world. Since its debut, the franchise has churned out frequent instant classics, from Ocarina of Time to the most recent Tears of the Kingdom and Echoes of Wisdom. Alongside Pokémon and Mario, it's one of Nintendo's biggest juggernauts. So, what's next for the franchise? Here, we uncover all the latest news and speculation about the next Zelda title, including a release date estimate, platform predictions, and gameplay speculation. For more Nintendo news, see our guide to the Nintendo Switch 2 , and our picks for the best Nintendo Switch games . Or, for a retrospective, read our Tears of the Kingdom review . New Zelda game release date speculation Nintendo has confirmed that the new Zelda game will release in winter 2025, on the Switch 2. The game is Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment , and takes place during the Imprisoning War that we learn about in Tears of the Kingdom. The GameCube version of Wind Waker is also coming to Nintendo Switch Online when the Switch 2 releases, with some upgrades to its performance. Nintendo is also working on a live-action Zelda movie. Following in the footsteps of the animated Mario movie (and its Bowser-sized commercial success), the Zelda movie is set to bring the adventures of Link and Zelda to the big screen. Directed by Wes Ball, the project aims to have a tone similar to a Studio Ghibli movie from Hayao Miyazaki, which sounds perfect to us. New Zelda game gameplay predictions Nintendo has hinted that the next mainline Zelda game will not be a direct sequel to Tears of the Kingdom. This is a break from recent form, as we've seen Tears of the Kingdom continue on from Breath of the Wild almost exactly in terms of gameplay. So, it opens up a whole new world of possibilities for the next Zelda game, suggesting that the format could change completely. Throughout Zelda's long history, the series has transitioned through multiple gameplay styles. We've had top-down games, side-scroller platforming games, 3D open-world games, games with multiplayer elements, and much more. So, where the Zelda franchise goes next is anyone's guess. Maybe it will continue in the same style as Breath of the Wild and Tears of the Kingdom, perhaps another in the same styles as the Link's Awakening remake and Echoes of Wisdom – be it a remake or new game, we're happy with either. For now, that's everything we know about what's next for Zelda. If you want to read more fun Nintendo articles, check out our guides to the new Pokémon game and new Mario game . Or, if you enjoy Zelda you might like Genshin Impact, in which case you should see our list of Genshin Impact codes and Genshin Impact tier list . James Osborne Pokémon was James’ first obsession, and when he zones out you can be certain he’s playing the Pallet Town theme in his head. Recently, he’s been spending more time in Teyvat than Hyrule and checking out the latest Samsung phones. Star Rail is keeping him busy too, but he’s getting increasingly impatient for Zenless Zone Zero. Before joining Pocket Tactics James was published in PCGamesN, and covered all things film and TV as a staff writer at The Digital Fix, while freelancing for a number of the biggest entertainment sites in the world. Even then, he wrote about Pokémon, Zelda, and Mario whenever he could, but he now disagrees with his own ranking of the Pokémon movies. More from Pocket Tactics © 2025 Powered by Network N Media Terms and conditions About us Careers