Andy Goodell - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Career 2 Personal life 3 References 4 External links Toggle the table of contents Andy Goodell 3 languages العربية تۆرکجه مصرى Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia American politician This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification . Please help by adding reliable sources . Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libelous . Find sources: "Andy Goodell" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( February 2022 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Andy Goodell Goodell in 2021 Member of the New York State Assembly from the 150th district In office January 1, 2011 – December 31, 2024 Preceded by William Parment Succeeded by Andrew Molitor Chautauqua County Executive In office January 1, 1990 – December 31, 1997 Preceded by John A. Glenzer Succeeded by Mark W. Thomas Personal details Born ( 1954-12-01 ) December 1, 1954 (age 70) Jamestown, New York , U.S. Political party Republican Spouse Lisa Goodell Children 4 Relatives Charles Goodell (uncle) Roger Goodell (cousin) Residence(s) Jamestown, New York, U.S. Alma mater Williams College Cornell Law School Profession Politician Signature Website Official website Andrew W. Goodell (born December 1, 1954) [ 1 ] is an American politician who was elected to the New York State Assembly in 2010. He is a Republican .  Previously, Goodell was the County Executive of Chautauqua County, New York . Goodell represents the 150th Assembly District , which is numerically the last, and geographically the westernmost, of the 150 districts in the Assembly and, as of the 2012 redistricting, aligns with the boundaries of Chautauqua County. Career [ edit ] Goodell is the managing partner of the law firm of Goodell & Rankin. He has been practicing law since 1982 and was admitted to practice by the New York State Bar Association, The District of Columbia Bar and the  Virginia State Bar. His practice areas included Real Estate Law, Business Law, Corporate Law, Banking Law, Municipal Law and Litigation. [ 2 ] Previously, he served as County Executive for eight years. [ 3 ] Goodell announced his intentions to run against incumbent Democratic assemblyman William Parment in summer 2010. After Parment dropped his re-election bid, Democrats chose former county legislator and frequent candidate Nancy Bargar as Goodell's opponent, whom Goodell dispatched in the general election in November 2010. [ citation needed ] Personal life [ edit ] Goodell is a magna cum laude graduate of Cornell Law School , where he received the American Jurisprudence Award for Administrative Law and was a member of the Cornell Law Review . [ citation needed ] He also has a degree in political economics and mathematics from Williams College . [ citation needed ] He is a member of the Goodell family, whose members also include former U.S. senator Charles Goodell and current National Football League commissioner Roger Goodell . [ 4 ] References [ edit ] ^ "Legislative Preview: Meet The New Members" . The Capitol . Manhattan Media . January 6, 2011 . Retrieved March 17, 2011 . [ permanent dead link ] ^ Top Attorneys of North America ^ "Andy Goodell: Biography" . New York State Assembly . Retrieved March 17, 2011 . ^ Lovett, Ken. "Assemblyman Goodell 2nd Most Famous In Own Family - NY Daily News" . nydailynews.com . Retrieved 2018-09-07 . External links [ edit ] New York State Assembly member website Political offices Preceded by John A. Glenzer Chautauqua County, New York Executive January 1, 1990 – December 31, 1997 Succeeded by Mark W. Thomas New York State Assembly Preceded by William Parment New York State Assembly, 150th District January 1, 2011 – present Incumbent Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Andy_Goodell&oldid=1266756154 " Categories : 1954 births Living people Republican Party members of the New York State Assembly Cornell Law School alumni Williams College alumni People from Jamestown, New York New York (state) lawyers County executives in New York (state) 21st-century members of the New York State Legislature Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from July 2017 Articles with permanently dead external links Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata BLP articles lacking sources from February 2022 All BLP articles lacking sources All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from July 2018 This page was last edited on 2 January 2025, at 02:44 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Andy Goodell 3 languages Add topic