American Heritage Credit Union Awarded Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Community Service Award | American Heritage Credit Union Skip to main content Be aware of phishing phone calls, text messages, or emails that may ask you to provide your American Heritage Online Teller account information, or debit/credit card information such as number, expiration date, CVV and/or PIN. Stay vigilant as scammers may prompt you to call a fake customer service number or visit a "spoofed" website. American Heritage will not contact you to ask for this information, so if you suspect a scam involving your account, please contact us immediately. To learn more about member security please click here. Search Login Menu Routing Number: 236082944 Rates Locations Pay A Loan Live Chat Video Advisor Open an account Apply For a Loan Personal Accounts Online & Mobile Access Checking Accounts Savings Accounts High-Yield Savings Account Money Market Certificates & IRAs Youth Accounts Independence Debit Card Credit Cards Loans & Cards Mortgages Home Equity Loans Credit Cards Auto Loans Personal Loans Vacation Loan Share Loans Student Loans How to Pay a Loan Services Online & Mobile Banking Video Advisor My CU Home Connection Insurance Membership Benefits Shared Branching How to Switch to American Heritage Overdraft Protection Additional Services Invest Investment & Retirement Center Insurance Real Estate Services Certificates & IRAs Education Learning Center Planning for Life Stages Financial Calculators Events & Webinars Blog Buying or Selling a Home Privacy & Security About Us Why American Heritage Careers Contact Us Become a Member In The Community Membership Benefits Membership Discounts Workplace Partner Program News Member Security Events Business Deposits Checking Savings Online & Mobile Access Business Solutions Business Services IRC Merchant Services Payroll Services Financing Commercial Loans Small Business Loans Business Credit Cards Workplace Partner Personal Business Routing Number: 236082944 Rates Locations Pay a Loan Live Chat Accounts Online & Mobile Access Checking Accounts Savings Accounts High-Yield Savings Account Money Market Certificates & IRAs Youth Accounts Independence Debit Card Credit Cards Loans & Cards Mortgages Home Equity Loans Credit Cards Auto Loans Personal Loans Vacation Loan Share Loans Student Loans How to Pay a Loan Services Online & Mobile Banking Video Advisor My CU Home Connection Insurance Membership Benefits Shared Branching How to Switch to American Heritage Overdraft Protection Additional Services Invest Investment & Retirement Center Insurance Real Estate Services Certificates & IRAs Education Learning Center Planning for Life Stages Financial Calculators Events & Webinars Blog Buying or Selling a Home Privacy & Security About Us Why American Heritage Careers Contact Us Become a Member In The Community Membership Benefits Membership Discounts Workplace Partner Program News Member Security Events Video Advisor Open an account Apply For a Loan Online Login News Stay up-to-date with the latest news and see what American Heritage has been doing for our members and the community! Home About Us News Back to Listing American Heritage Credit Union Awarded Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Community Service Award By: American Heritage 02.25.19 On Monday, March 25th, The Pennsylvania Credit Union Association (PCUA) announced American Heritage Credit Union (American Heritage) as the winner of the 2019 Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Community Service Award. The award honors credit unions that strengthen local institutions and materially improve the lives of non-members through community outreach programs. The award will be presented to American Heritage at the 2019 PCUA Annual Meeting in May. American Heritage is being recognized for its Kids-N-Hope Foundation, which raises money through its fundraising events to support the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) and many other hospitals within American Heritage’s field of membership. Since its inception in 1996, the American Heritage Kids-N-Hope Foundation has raised over $1.6 million for local pediatric healthcare. Through the support of the Foundation, the Music Therapy Program is offered to the patients at CHOP and has allowed the hospital to purchase musical equipment, provide a music therapist and bring in musical performers specially trained in assisting children with developmental disabilities. This past year, American Heritage also donated a Giraffe OmniBed Carestation to St. Mary’s NeoNatal Intensive Care Unit in Langhorne, PA, and purchased a NAO Robot for CHOP for their music and physical therapy programs. This is the 24th time that American Heritage has been honored with the first place Dora Maxwell Award at the state level. American Heritage has won the award 12 times at the national level. “Being recognized with the Dora Maxwell Award is a true statement to the impact that our Foundation makes on our communities” states Bruce Foulke, President & CEO of American Heritage. “Helping the communities where we serve is a vital part of our mission, and the Kids-N-Hope Foundation is the core of my passion. I am extremely grateful for our Board of Directors, employees and members who helped make this award possible. With their donations and volunteerism, we are able to help thousands of children and their families who are involved with the Foundation.” About American Heritage Credit Union American Heritage Credit Union is a $2.5 billion, member-owned financial cooperative serving more than 800 Workplace Partners and more than 185,000 members, with more than 35 locations across Philadelphia, Bucks, Montgomery, Delaware and Camden Counties. Founded in 1948, American Heritage Credit Union is now one of the 100 largest credit unions in the United States and named the # 1 credit union in the state of Pennsylvania by Forbes. For more information about American Heritage Credit Union please visit AmericanHeritageCU.org. Back to Listing American Heritage Credit Union Awarded Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Community Service Award By: American Heritage 02.25.19 On Monday, March 25th, The Pennsylvania Credit Union Association (PCUA) announced American Heritage Credit Union (American Heritage) as the winner of the 2019 Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Community Service Award. The award honors credit unions that strengthen local institutions and materially improve the lives of non-members through community outreach programs. The award will be presented to American Heritage at the 2019 PCUA Annual Meeting in May. American Heritage is being recognized for its Kids-N-Hope Foundation, which raises money through its fundraising events to support the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) and many other hospitals within American Heritage’s field of membership. Since its inception in 1996, the American Heritage Kids-N-Hope Foundation has raised over $1.6 million for local pediatric healthcare. Through the support of the Foundation, the Music Therapy Program is offered to the patients at CHOP and has allowed the hospital to purchase musical equipment, provide a music therapist and bring in musical performers specially trained in assisting children with developmental disabilities. This past year, American Heritage also donated a Giraffe OmniBed Carestation to St. Mary’s NeoNatal Intensive Care Unit in Langhorne, PA, and purchased a NAO Robot for CHOP for their music and physical therapy programs. This is the 24th time that American Heritage has been honored with the first place Dora Maxwell Award at the state level. American Heritage has won the award 12 times at the national level. “Being recognized with the Dora Maxwell Award is a true statement to the impact that our Foundation makes on our communities” states Bruce Foulke, President & CEO of American Heritage. “Helping the communities where we serve is a vital part of our mission, and the Kids-N-Hope Foundation is the core of my passion. I am extremely grateful for our Board of Directors, employees and members who helped make this award possible. With their donations and volunteerism, we are able to help thousands of children and their families who are involved with the Foundation.” About American Heritage Credit Union American Heritage Credit Union is a $2.5 billion, member-owned financial cooperative serving more than 800 Workplace Partners and more than 185,000 members, with more than 35 locations across Philadelphia, Bucks, Montgomery, Delaware and Camden Counties. Founded in 1948, American Heritage Credit Union is now one of the 100 largest credit unions in the United States and named the # 1 credit union in the state of Pennsylvania by Forbes. For more information about American Heritage Credit Union please visit AmericanHeritageCU.org. Want to stay up to date with news from American Heritage? Sign up to be notified about press releases from American Heritage and messages from our CEO Click Here to Sign Up Read the latest Patriot Newsletter The American Heritage membership family keeps growing, and so do American Heritage services and our list of community events. Our newsletters provide members and sponsors with quick and convenient ways to keep tabs on the latest news from American Heritage. Read Now This Credit Union is Federally Insured by NCUA Equal Housing Opportunity Equal Opportunity Lender 800-342-0008 Routing Number #236082944 2060 Red Lion Road Philadelphia, PA 19115 Privacy Statement Disclosures Terms of Use About Us Why American Heritage News Careers Learning Center In The Community Membership Benefits Open an Account Member Services Locations Live Chat Video Advisor Report a Lost or Stolen Card Account Maintenance Request Forms FAQ Copyright ©2025 American Heritage Credit Union. All Rights Reserved.