The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time - Zelda Dungeon Wiki, a The Legend of Zelda wiki Search Guides News Content Social Community Search Go Guides Echoes of Wisdom Tears of the Kingdom Breath of the Wild Tri Force Heroes A Link Between Worlds Skyward Sword Spirit Tracks Phantom Hourglass Twilight Princess The Minish Cap The Wind Waker Oracle of Ages Oracle of Seasons Majora’s Mask Ocarina of Time Link’s Awakening A Link to the Past The Adventure of Link The Legend of Zelda News Fan Content Nintendo News Zelda News Content Artists of Legend Best Zelda Ever Caption Contest Fan Fiction Friday Hyrule Compendium Inspired By Zelda Photoshop Contest The Champions’ Cast Zelda Warfare Zelda Runners Social Discord YouTube Twitch Facebook Twitter Instagram Community Wiki Discord Forums Games Echoes of Wisdom Tears of the Kingdom Breath of the Wild Tri Force Heroes A Link Between Worlds Skyward Sword Spirit Tracks Phantom Hourglass Twilight Princess The Minish Cap The Wind Waker Oracle of Ages Oracle of Seasons Majora’s Mask Ocarina of Time Link’s Awakening A Link to the Past The Adventure of Link The Legend of Zelda Wiki Forums Editorials Podcast Dungeon Runners Daily Debate Original Content All Original Content Artists of Legend Best Zelda Ever Caption Contest Diversity in Zelda Fan Fiction Friday Game Review Hyrule Compendium Legendary Pictures Inspired By Zelda Photoshop Contest The Zelda Cast Tier Force Heroes What If? Social Discord YouTube Twitch Instagram Facebook (Dungeon) Facebook (Informer) Twitter Bluesky Threads The Legend of Zelda Walkthrough The Gathering Level 1: The Eagle Level 2: The Moon Level 3: The Manji Level 4: The Snake Video Walkthrough Level 5: The Lizard Level 6: The Dragon Level 7: The Demon Level 8: The Lion Level 9: Death Mountain Guides Door Repairs Fairy Fountains Heart Containers Money Making Game Potion Shops Secret Rupees Shops Warps Info & Media Bosses Characters Dungeons Enemies Items Old Man Quotes Story The Adventure of Link Walkthrough 1. Parapa Palace 2. Midoro Palace 3. Island Palace 4. Maze Island Palace Video Walkthrough 5. Ocean Palace 6. Hidden Palace 7. Great Palace Guides Bosses Heart Containers Level Ups Link Dolls Magic Containers Info & Media Characters Enemies Items Spells Story A Link to the Past Walkthrough 1. Zelda's Rescue 2. Eastern Palace 3. Desert Palace 4. Tower of Hera 5. Hyrule Castle Tower 6. Dark Palace 7. Swamp Palace 8. Skull Woods 9. Gargoyle's Domain 10. Ice Palace 11. Misery Mire 12. Turtle Rock 13. Ganon's Tower Guides Bottles Fairy Fountains Glitches Heart Pieces Warps Weapon Upgrades Info & Media Bosses Characters Enemies Items Story Link's Awakening Walkthrough 1. Tail Cave 2. Bottle Grotto 3. Key Cavern 4. Angler's Tunnel 5. Catfish's Maw Video Walkthrough 6. Face Shrine 7. Eagle's Tower 8. Turtle Rock 9. The Awakening Guides Heart Pieces Photographs Secret Seashells Trading Sequence Info & Media Bosses Characters Enemies Interactive Map Items Ocarina of Time Walkthrough 1. Inside The Deku Tree 2. Princess of Destiny 3. The Mighty Collection 4. Dodongo's Cavern 5. Inside Jabu-Jabu's Belly 6. Timely Appearance 7. Forest Temple Master Quest Walkthrough Video Walkthrough 8. Fire Temple 9. Ice Cavern 10. Water Temple 11. Within The Well 12. Shadow Temple 13. Spirit Temple 14. Ganon's Castle Side Quests Big Poes Epona Gold Skulltulas Gerudo Training Masks Pieces of Heart Trading Sequence Guides Fairy Fountains Fishing Pond Forest Stage Ocarina Songs Scarecrow's Song Soft Soil Locations Upgrades Info & Media Bosses Characters Enemies Gossip Stones Items Secret Grottos Shops Story Majora's Mask Walkthrough 1. First Three Days 2. Southern Swamp 3. Woodfall Temple 4. Collection 5. Snowhead 6. Snowhead Temple 7. Spring, Ranch, Graveyard Video Walkthrough 8. Great Bay & Zora Cape 9. Great Bay Temple 10. Ikana Canyon 11. Well & Ikana Castle 12. Stone Tower Temple 13. The Moon Guides Anju & Kafei Quest Bottles Heart Pieces Keaton Quiz Masks Skulltula Houses Stray Fairies Sword Quests Info & Media Bombers' Notebook Bosses Characters Codes Enemies FAQs Gossip Stones Story Oracle of Seasons Walkthrough 1. Gnarled Root Dungeon 2. Snake's Remains 3. Poison Moth's Lair 4. Dancing Dragon Dungeon 5. Unicorn's Cave 6. Ancient Ruins 7. Explorer's Crypt 8. Sword & Shield Maze 9. Onox's Castle 10. Room of Rites Guides Bosses Heart Pieces Magical Rings Trading Sequence Info & Media Characters Enemies Items Story Oracle of Ages Walkthrough 1. Spirit's Grave 2. Wing Dungeon 3. Moonlit Grotto 4. Skull Dungeon 5. Crown Dungeon 6. Mermaid's Cave 7. Jabu-Jabu's Belly 8. Ancient Tomb 9. The Black Tower 10. Room of Rites Guides Heart Pieces Magical Rings Trading Sequence Tunes Info & Media Bosses Characters Enemies Items Story The Wind Waker Walkthrough 1. Outset Island 2. Forsaken Fortress 3. Windfall Island 4. Dragon Roost Island 5. Dragon Roost Cavern 6. Forest Haven 7. Forbidden Woods 8. Nayru's Pearl 9. Tower of the Gods 10. Hyrule Castle 11. Earth Temple 12. Wind Temple 13. The Triforce 14. Ganon's Tower Guides Big Octos Blue ChuChu Locations Heart Pieces Trading Sequence Treasure Charts Withered Trees Info & Media Bosses Bottles Characters Enemies Items Songs Upgrades The Minish Cap Walkthrough 1. Deepwood Shrine 2. Cave of Flames 3. Fortress of Winds 4. Temple of Droplets 5. Palace of Winds 6. Dark Hyrule Castle Guides Bottles Fairy Fountains Goron Quest Heart Containers Swordsman Newsletters Tiger Scrolls Wind Crests Info & Media Bosses Characters Enemies Figurines Items Story Twilight Princess Walkthrough 1. Ordon Village 2. The Twilight 3. Faron Woods: Twilight 4. Forest Temple 5. Kakariko Village: Twilight 6. Death Mountain 7. Goron Mines 8. Lanayru Province: Twilight Video Walkthrough 9. Lake Hylia: Sidequests 10. Lakebed Temple 11. The Master Sword 12. Gerudo Desert 13. Arbiter's Grounds 14. Scaling Snowpeak 15. Snowpeak Ruins 16. Sacred Grove: Round Two 17. Temple of Time 18. In Search of the Sky 19. City in the Sky 20. Palace of Twilight 21. Cave of Ordeals 22. Hyrule Castle Guides Golden Bugs Ice Block Cavern Malo Mart & Magic Armor Pieces of Heart Poe Souls Sacred Grove Guardians Info & Media Bosses Bottles Characters Enemies Howling Stones Story Upgrades Phantom Hourglass Walkthrough 1. Mercay Island 2. Temple of Fire 3. Ocean King Part II 4. Temple of Wind 5. Ocean King Part III 6. Temple of Courage 7. Ghost Ship Video Walkthrough 8. Ocean King Part IV 9. Goron Temple 10. Temple of Ice 11. Ocean King Part V 12. Mutoh's Temple 13. Ocean King Part VI Guides Courage Gems Fishing Guide Heart Containers Maze Island Ocean King Speed Guide Power Gems Sand of Hours Trading Sequence Treasure Maps Wisdom Gems Info & Media Bosses Big Plays Characters Enemies Golden Frogs Goron Questions Items Ship Parts Soundtrack Treasures Spirit Tracks Walkthrough 1. The Beginning 2. The Forest Realm 3. Tower of Spirits 2 4. The Snow Realm 5. Tower of Spirits 3 6. The Ocean Realm Video Walkthrough 7. Tower of Spirits 4 8. The Fire Realm 9. Tower of Spirits 5 10. The Sand Realm 11. Tower of Spirits 6 12. The Dark Realm Guides Force Gems Heart Containers Rabbit Locations Stamp Stations Train Parts Treasure Info & Media Bosses Characters Enemies Items Story Skyward Sword Walkthrough 1. Skyloft 2. Faron Woods 3. Skyview Temple 4. Eldin Volcano 5. Earth Temple 6. Lanayru Desert 7. Lanayru Mining Facility 8. Isle of Songs 9. Lake Floria Video Walkthrough 10. Ancient Cistern 11. Lanayru Sand Sea 12. Sandship 13. Volcano Summit 14. Fire Sanctuary 15. Thunderhead 16. Song of the Hero 17. Sky Keep 18. Final Showdown Guides Bottles Bugs Goddess Cubes Gratitude Crystals Heart Pieces Upgrades Info & Media Bosses Characters Enemies Items Story Treasure A Link Between Worlds Walkthrough 1. Eastern Palace 2. House of Gales 3. Tower of Hera 4. Hyrule Castle 5. Thieves' Hideout 6. Desert Palace 7. Dark Palace 8. Swamp Palace 9. Skull Woods 10. Turtle Rock 11. Ice Ruins 12. Lorule Castle Guides Bottle Locations Heart Pieces Maiamai Locations Master Ore Locations Info & Media Bosses Characters Enemies Items Upgrades Breath of the Wild Walkthrough 1. Great Plateau 2. Dueling Peaks 3. Hateno Village 4. Zora's Domain 5. Vah Ruta Dungeon 6. Goron City 7. Vah Rudania Dungeon 8. Gerudo Town 9. Vah Naboris Dungeon 10. Rito Village 11. Vah Medoh Dungeon 12. Captured Memories 13. The Master Sword 14. Hyrule Castle 15. Champions' Ballad Guides Downloadable Content Dragon Parts Guide Interactive Map Korok Seed Locations Side Quest Catalogue Shrine Locations Star Fragment Guide Info & Media Animals Armor Elixirs Enemies Enemy Drops Equipment Food Hyrule Compendium Key Characters Key Items Locations Materials Meals Memories Tears of the Kingdom Walkthrough 1. Great Sky Island 2. Lookout Landing 3. Rito Village 4. Wind Temple 5. Goron City 6. Fire Temple 7. Water Temple 8. Lightning Temple 9. Hyrule Castle 10. Construct Factory Guides Interactive Map Shrine Guides Sky Shrines Hebra Shrines Central Hyrule Shrines Eldin Shrines Akkala Shrines Lanayru Shrines Gerudo Shrines Necluda Shrines Faron Shrines Info & Media Animals Armor Elixirs Frozen Food Hyrule Compendium Key Characters Key Items Lightroots Locations Materials Meals Memories Roasted Food Echoes of Wisdom Walkthrough 1. Suthorn Forest 2. Suthorn Ruins 3. Jabul Waters 4. Jabul Ruins 5. Gerudo Desert 6. Gerudo Sanctum 7. Hyrule Castle 8. Eldin Volcano 9. Eldin Temple 10. Faron Wetlands 11. Faron Temple 12. Hebra Mountain 13. Lanayru Temple 14. Eternal Forest 15. Null's Body Guides Heart Pieces Interactive Map Main Quests Might Crystals Side Quests Stamp Locations Info & Media Automatons Echoes Enemies Items Slumber Dojo Training Sessions Smoothie Other Games Hyrule Warriors Gold Skulltulas Heart Pieces Age of Calamity Challenges Koroks Quests Treasure Chests Four Swords Four Swords Adventures FSA Walkthrough Tri Force Heroes TFH Walkthrough Cadence of Hyrule More Games Zelda Game Watch Zelda Game  & Watch BS Legend of Zelda Ancient Stone Tablets Navi's Trackers Link's Crossbow Training Battle Quest Zelda CD-i Games Link: The Faces of Evil Faces of Evil Walkthrough Zelda: The Wand of Gamelon Wand of Gamelon Walkthrough Zelda's Adventure Tingle Games Tingle's Rosy Rupeeland Tingle's Balloon Trip of Love Tingle's Balloon Fight Too Much Tingle Pack Zelda Fan Games Lost Isle Isle of Rebirth The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time From Zelda Dungeon Wiki Jump to navigation Jump to search Want an adless experience? Log in or Create an account . Ocarina of Time Release Platform Date Nintendo 64 November 21, 1998 November 23, 1998 December 11, 1998 Nintendo GameCube November 7, 2003 November 14, 2003 November 17, 2003 March 19, 2004 2002 South Korea Wii Virtual Console February 23, 2007 rst February 26, 2007 February 26, 2007 Wii U Virtual Console July 2, 2015 July 2, 2015 December 22, 2015 iQue Player November 17, 2003 Nintendo 3DS ( Ocarina of Time 3D ) June 16, 2011 June 17, 2011 June 19, 2011 June 30, 2011 September 27, 2012 Nintendo Switch : NS Online + Expansion Pack 🌎 October 25, 2021 Credits Developer Nintendo EAD Publisher Nintendo Co., Ltd. Producer Shigeru Miyamoto Director Shigeru Miyamoto Yoichi Yamada Eiji Aonuma Yoshiaki Koizumi Guides Walkthrough Text Walkthrough Video Walkthrough List: Bean Bed Locations Big Poes Bosses Bottles Characters Races Enemies Epona Quest Fairy Fountains Fishing Pond Forest Stage Gerudo Training Grounds Glitches Gold Skulltulas Gossip Stones Heart Pieces Items Masks Scarecrow's Song Shops Ocarina Songs Trading Sequence Upgrades Media Gallery Beta Version Ending Screenshots Image Gallery Music Midis Soundtrack Hyrule Symphony Re-Arranged In-depth guide: Ocarina of Time Walkthrough The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time is the fifth installment in The Legend of Zelda series . It is preceded by Link's Awakening and followed by Majora's Mask . Ocarina of Time was praised by critics and players alike for its intuitive storyline and time travel mechanics and its 3D graphical style , which was new technology at the time. Like previous Zelda titles, Ocarina of Time was directed and produced by Shigeru Miyamoto , who also worked on Nintendo titles including the Super Mario series and Donkey Kong . Ocarina of Time was very well received by critics and it is one of the few video game titles to have received a perfect score from gaming magazine Famitsu . Ocarina of Time has received numerous awards and perfect scores in multiple gaming magazines. The game was originally released on the Nintendo 64 in numerous versions , and emulated versions of the title have been released on Nintendo GameCube (GCN), Wii , Wii U , and Nintendo Switch ; it was available in China on the iQue Player (iQue); while a remake is available for the Nintendo 3DS . The base game mechanic behind Ocarina of Time is its titular "time travel" concept in which the hero travels backward and forward seven years in time by removing the Master Sword from its pedestal in the Temple of Time or vice versa. This blade is in turn used to defeat the game's boss monsters and seal the King of Evil, Ganondorf , in the Sacred Realm . Time travel is also used heavily in the various side stories and side quests. The other massive innovation is the use of the Ocarina of Time . The use of this instrument allows the hero to teleport to various locations, influence certain elements of the scenery, influence the time of day and the weather, speak with the hero's friend Saria , and summon your horse. This aspect introduced a heavy use of instruments in the series and has popularized the ocarina instrument since. Contents 1 Story 2 Gameplay 2.1 Races 2.2 Characters 2.3 Enemies 2.4 Bosses and Mini-Bosses 2.5 Dungeons 2.6 Items 2.7 Locations 2.8 Heart Pieces 3 Reception 4 Beta 5 Other Media 6 Merchandise 7 Trivia 8 Gallery 8.1 Scene Artwork 8.2 Characters 8.3 Bosses 8.4 Screenshots 8.4.1 Beta screenshots 8.5 Videos 9 References Story Main article: Ocarina of Time Story Spoiler Alert! This section describes a subject that is sensitive to plot development. The story of Ocarina of Time revolves around the Gerudo King and evil wizard, Ganondorf's rise to power and the hero, Link 's quest to defeat him and return peace to the land of Hyrule once again. The game opens with the hero's mentor and protector, the Great Deku Tree , sending a fairy, Navi , to inform the hero about his new responsibilities. Navi escorts the hero to the Great Deku Tree who explains that Ganondorf has come to the land of Hyrule and is vying for power. The hero leaves his home in Kokiri Forest and travels to Hyrule Castle to meet Princess Zelda . She explains to Link about a dream that she had in which all of Hyrule was covered in dark clouds. She asks Link to collect the Spiritual Stones of Fire and Water . The young hero goes to Hyrule Castle Town and watches the Princess being pursued by Ganondorf. At this point, Princess Zelda gives Link the Ocarina of Time. Link continues onward, undaunted, to the Temple of Time where he receives the Master Sword. After removing the Master Sword from the Pedestal of Time , the hero falls into a deep sleep for seven years, guarded by the sage Rauru. When Link awakens, he discovers that much has changed during the seven years he spent sleeping. Rauru explains to Link what he must do, giving him hints on how and where to find the other sage medallions. With the help of Sheik , the hero travels to the temples and awakens the six Sages . The hero travels to the Temple of Time once more where he discovers that Sheik is actually Zelda. Ganondorf comes and captures the princess. The hero travels to Ganondorf's castle. Ganondorf confronts him for a final showdown, in which he utilizes the power hidden in the Master Sword and the Light Arrows to weaken and then defeat Ganondorf. The hero and Princess Zelda manage to escape, but before they can leave the ruins, they are confronted by Ganondorf in his true form (Ganon). The hero defeats him once again, and with the aid of Princess Zelda and the six other Sages, traps the evil king in the Sacred Realm. The Princess thanks the hero and returns him to his childhood. Gameplay Ocarina of Time is the first game in The Legend of Zelda series to introduce a fully 3D environment. Ocarina of Time also pioneered the Z-targeting combat mechanic, which allows the player to lock onto an enemy or other objects. It is also useful for non-combat situations, such as locating important elements in a dungeon room, or talking to a character who is out of reach. This mechanic is now a staple of the 3D games in The Legend of Zelda series. At a certain point in the game, the player may choose to complete a side quest where the player obtains Link's horse Epona. This allows the player to cross Hyrule at a much faster pace than before. Races Ocarina of Time was the first game in the franchise to feature several vastly different races. The different races are based on the different terrains throughout the main regions of the game. Ocarina of Time Races [edit] [hide] [show] Hylian Gerudo Sheikah Kokiri Goron Zora Deku Scrub [[ Ocarina of Time ]] [[ Ocarina of Time Races ]] [[ Races ]] Characters Ocarina of Time Characters [edit] [hide] [show] Main Characters Sages Essential Characters Business People Animals Special Enemies Other Link (Child) Link (Adult) Zelda (Child) Zelda (Adult) Ganondorf Ganon Navi Sheik Rauru Saria Darunia Ruto Impa Nabooru Zelda Dampé Death Mountain Trail Gatekeeper Deku Tree Sprout Gerudo Warrior Great Deku Tree Kaepora Gaebora King Zora Link the Goron Malon Mido Phantom Guide Talon Bazaar Owner Bean Seller Bombchu Bowling Alley Operator Bombchu Shop Owner Buyer Carpet Merchant Fishing Hole Man Gerudo Master of Horseback Archery Granny Happy Mask Salesman Medicine Shop Owner Medigoron Poe Collector Shooting Gallery Owner Treasure Chest Shop Manager Ganondorf's Steed Epona Fabulous Five Froggish Tenors Link's Cow Richard Amy Beth Dark Link Deku Scrub Brothers Flat Joelle Kotake Koume Meg Sharp Skull Kid Biggoron Bonooru Cucco Lady Cursed Rich Family Cursed Rich Man Dancing Couple Din Fado Farore Gerudo Guard Goddess of the Sand Graveyard Boy Great Fairy of Courage Great Fairy of Magic Great Fairy of Power Great Fairy of Wisdom Hero of the Gorons Hot Rodder Goron Ichiro Ingo Jiro Keaton King of Hyrule Knights of Hyrule Know-It-All Brothers Kokiri Twins Lake Scientist Link's Mother Mamamu Yan Man Carrying Sack Man on a Roof Man Who Could See the Truth Master Craftsman Master Craftsman's Son Nayru Phonogram Man Pierre Running Man Sabooro Sages Shikashi Shiro Soldier Twin Jugglers Twin Jugglers Wounded Soldier [[ Ocarina of Time ]] [[ Ocarina of Time Characters ]] [[ Characters ]] Enemies Ocarina of Time Enemies [edit] [hide] [show] Common Overworld Child Adult Traps Armos Beamos Big Skulltula Fire Keese Gold Skulltula Keese Like Like Mad Scrub Stalfos Skulltula Skullwalltula Wallmaster Wolfos Big Deku Baba Big Poe Business Scrub Club Moblin Cucco Deku Baba Deku Scrub Guay Leever Moblin Octorok Peahat Peahat Larva Poe Skull Kid Stalchild Tektite Baby Dodongo Bari Biri Dodongo Gohma Larva Lizalfos Parasitic Tentacle Shabom Stinger Tailpasaran Withered Deku Baba Anubis Blue Bubble Dinolfos Floormaster Freezard Gerudo Guard Gerudo Thief Gibdo Green Bubble Ice Keese Iron Knuckle Red Bubble ReDead Shell Blade Spike Torch Slug White Bubble White Wolfos Blade Trap Boulder Door Mimic Eyeball Switch Falling Spikes Fire Eyeball Flame Wall Floor Spikes Flying Jar Flying Tile Guillotine Ice Blade Molten Rock Red Jelly Spiked Roller Whirling Scythe [[ Ocarina of Time ]] [[ Ocarina of Time Enemies ]] [[ Enemies ]] Bosses and Mini-Bosses Ocarina of Time Bosses [edit] [hide] [show] Bosses Mini-Bosses Queen Gohma King Dodongo Barinade Phantom Ganon Volvagia Morpha Bongo Bongo Twinrova Ganondorf Ganon Deku Scrub Lizalfos Big Octo Stalfos Poe Sisters Flare Dancer White Wolfos Dark Link Dead Hand Gerudo Thief Dinalfos Iron Knuckle [[ Ocarina of Time ]] [[ Ocarina of Time Bosses ]] [[ Bosses ]] Dungeons Ocarina of Time Dungeons [edit] [hide] [show] Child Dungeons Adult Dungeons Inside the Deku Tree Dodongo's Cavern Inside Jabu-Jabu's Belly Bottom of the Well Forest Temple Fire Temple Ice Cavern Water Temple Shadow Temple Gerudo Training Ground Spirit Temple Ganon's Castle [[ Ocarina of Time ]] [[ Ocarina of Time Dungeons ]] [[ Dungeons ]] Items Ocarina of Time Items [edit] [hide] [show] C-Button Items Equipment Inventory Bottle Items Pick-Up Dungeon Masks Trading Sequence Quest Items Deku Stick Deku Nut Fairy Slingshot Bomb Bombchu Boomerang Fairy Ocarina Ocarina of Time Magic Bean Fairy Bow Fire Arrow Ice Arrow Light Arrow Hookshot Longshot Megaton Hammer Lens of Truth Din's Fire Farore's Wind Nayru's Love Kokiri Sword Master Sword Giant's Knife Biggoron's Sword Deku Shield Hylian Shield Mirror Shield Kokiri Tunic Goron Tunic Zora Tunic Kokiri Boots Iron Boots Hover Boots Deku Seeds Bullet Bag Quiver Goron's Bracelet Silver Gauntlets Golden Gauntlets Bomb Bag Silver Scale Golden Scale Adult's Wallet Giant's Wallet Gerudo Token Stone of Agony Shard of Agony Bottle Ruto's Letter Lon Lon Milk Red Potion Green Potion Blue Potion Fairy Blue Fire Fish Bug Poe Spirit Big Poe Spirit Piece of Heart Recovery Heart Magic Jar Deku Seed Arrow Bomb Rupee Gold Skulltula Token Dungeon Map Compass Small Key Boss Key Heart Container Keaton Mask Skull Mask Spooky Mask Bunny Hood Mask of Truth Goron Mask Zora Mask Gerudo Mask Pocket Egg Pocket Cucco Cojiro Odd Mushroom Odd Potion Poacher's Saw Broken Goron's Sword Prescription Eyeball Frog World's Finest Eye Drops Claim Check Kokiri's Emerald Goron's Ruby Zora's Sapphire Light Medallion Forest Medallion Fire Medallion Water Medallion Shadow Medallion Spirit Medallion Weird Egg Zelda's Letter [[ Ocarina of Time ]] [[ Ocarina of Time Items ]] [[ Items ]] Locations In Ocarina of Time , Link starts off in his home at Kokiri Forest. The forest is where the first dungeon of the game takes place inside the Great Deku Tree. In Kokiri Forest, there are many townsfolk, including the leader Mido and Link's best friend, Saria. There is a place called the Lost Woods within the forest. Saria has a hideout there next to the Forest Temple , which is unreachable as a kid. Out of Kokiri Forest, there is a place called Hyrule Field , the largest area in the game. Every location is connected to it, with Hyrule Field being at the center of these locations acting as almost a hub world. As a kid, Link must run very far across the field. As an adult, Link can have an optional event to get a horse, Epona , which makes travel much more efficient in Hyrule Field. The next area Link can visit is the Market, which is where the majority of townsfolk, stores, and games are located. The Bazaar, a store with many convenient wares such as the Hylian Shield is first encountered at the Market. There is also a Potion Shop, which sells potions to refill Link's life and Magic Meter. Next is the Happy Mask Shop , which gives Link the option to embark on a series of side quests selling masks. If Link completes these missions, he can obtain the Mask of Truth . Ocarina of Time Locations [edit] [hide] [show] Kokiri Forest Hyrule Castle & Field Death Mountain Zora's River Gerudo Valley Child Dungeons Adult Dungeons Kokiri Forest Great Deku Tree's Meadow Lost Woods Sacred Forest Meadow Hyrule Castle Castle Courtyard Hyrule Castle Town Market Back Alley Temple of Time Hyrule Field Lon Lon Ranch Death Mountain Death Mountain Crater Death Mountain Trail Goron City Graveyard Kakariko Village Zora's Domain Zora's Fountain Zora's River Lake Hylia Fishing Pond Gerudo Valley Gerudo's Fortress Haunted Wasteland Desert Colossus Inside the Deku Tree Dodongo's Cavern Inside Jabu-Jabu's Belly Bottom of the Well Forest Temple Fire Temple Ice Cavern Water Temple Shadow Temple Gerudo Training Ground Spirit Temple Ganon's Castle [[ Ocarina of Time ]] [[ Ocarina of Time Locations ]] [[ Locations ]] Heart Pieces Main article: Ocarina of Time Heart Pieces Ocarina of Time features 36 heart pieces scattered across Hyrule. It takes four Pieces of Heart to form a full Heart Container, meaning there are 9 potential Heart Containers for you to find! This combined with the 3 starting heart containers, as well as the 8 heart containers obtained from completing the dungeons allows Link's total health to increase to 20 hearts. Reception Reviews for Ocarina of Time were extremely good. The most notable being IGN's review for the game which was a perfect 10/10. [1] This perfect score was the very first IGN had ever given out.  This game is commonly referred to as the best Zelda game and one of the best games ever. Beta The beta for Ocarina of Time holds many mysteries. Although nobody knows for sure what the original plot of the game was in the beta, there are some facts known. In early stages of development, the Lost Woods were a fully 3D environment. Remnants of a location dubbed the Unicorn Fountain by fans have also been found in Ocarina of Time 's code, though it cannot be found in the regular game. One early video showed Link receiving the full Triforce , causing many rumors that it could be obtained in the game. Several people suggested that the Unicorn Fountain was related to the Triforce. However, there is no proof that the Triforce ever was or is in the game's code. Another cool fact about the beta is that the medallions received from the Sages were items that granted special powers. It is believed that they were initially used to warp instead of the Ocarina of Time. An unnamed group of ROM Hackers managed to find a frozen NPC in the game's data of a character who they believed was supposed to replace Navi. The hackers are currently working at trying to make her fully functional and hope to eventually release a patch that makes her compatible with the current game. Additionally, the code for two medallions that are not seen in the game appeared that translate into Wind Medallion and Earth Medallion. An expansion to Ocarina of Time , known as Ura Zelda, was planned to make use of the Nintendo 64 Disk Drive and add new dungeons. [2] However, due to poor reception and little support of the Disk Drive, the project was scrapped. Afterward, Eiji Aonuma , the director of the Zelda franchise, asked Miyamoto for permission to make an entirely new Zelda game within a year so that he did not have to work on it any longer. [3] Miyamoto agreed, and this game became Majora's Mask , code-named Zelda Gaiden (Zelda Side-Story) at the time. The rest of Ura Zelda most likely became Master Quest . Other Media The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time (Manga) is the official manga for Ocarina of Time . It is written and illustrated by Akira Himekawa , and it is divided into two volumes. The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time (Comic) was published in a special edition of the European Club Nintendo magazine in 1998. This comic provides the background story to Ocarina of Time . The Legend of Zelda: The Abridged Series is a fan-made parody series released on YouTube by adamwestslapdog . Instructional Manuals : North America N64 Japan French/Dutch North America GCN & Master Quest Merchandise How to Draw The Legend of Zelda is a guide book to drawing some of the characters, enemies, and bosses from Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask . Ocarina of Time has more merchandise than that of any other Zelda title. UFO catcher plushes, figures by BD&A, statues by First 4 Figures, and even some clothing to name a few. Multiple versions of the soundtrack were released, mostly in Japan: The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Original Soundtrack The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Hyrule Symphony The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Nintendo Power Soundtrack The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D Official Soundtrack The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Re-Arranged Album The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time (Nintendo of Europe Soundtrack) The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Vol. II The Lost Tracks Trivia The title screen music is a reference to the song played when the Recorder is used in The Legend of Zelda . Gallery Scene Artwork Main article: Gallery:Ocarina of Time Child Link's first encounter with Ganondorf Adult Link and Sheik playing their instruments Link fighting Ganondorf Characters Main article: Gallery:Ocarina of Time Characters Child Link Child Zelda Adult Link w/ Fairy Bow Ganondorf Bosses Main article: Gallery:Ocarina of Time Bosses N64 model of Barinade Link fighting Volvagia Official artwork of Ganon Screenshots Beta screenshots Darknut (earlier) Darknut (later) Octorok Stalfos " Unicorn Fountain " Videos American Commercial European Commercial Japanese Commercial French Beta Commercial/Demo Brazilian Commercial Game Intro Zelda Dungeon Video Walkthrough References ↑ IGN ↑ " Ura Zelda is based on The Ocarina of Time for 64DD. " — Shigeru Miyamoto, IGN August 27th, 1999 ↑ " Ultimately, other staff members handled The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time: Master Quest. Still, as someone who has been in charge of the dungeons, I just couldn't get that excited over making a flip-side for them. I couldn't see it turning into a new The Legend of Zelda, either. But we'd been told to make The Legend of Zelda. It isn't as though we could just say, "I don't want to", and end it there. At that point, Miyamoto-san gave us a tradeoff: he said, if we could make a new The Legend of Zelda game in one year, then it wouldn't have to be a "flip-side". " — Eiji Aonuma, Iwata Asks: Spirit Tracks The Legend of Zelda Games [edit] [hide] [show] The Legend of Zelda The Adventure of Link A Link to the Past ( GBA ) Link's Awakening ( DX ) ( 2019 ) Ocarina of Time ( Master Quest ) ( 3D ) Majora's Mask ( 3D ) Oracle of Seasons Oracle of Ages Four Swords ( Anniversary Edition ) The Wind Waker ( HD ) Four Swords Adventures The Minish Cap Twilight Princess ( HD ) Phantom Hourglass Spirit Tracks Skyward Sword ( HD ) A Link Between Worlds Tri Force Heroes Breath of the Wild Tears of the Kingdom Echoes of Wisdom Spin-offs Navi Trackers Link's Crossbow Training Link: The Faces of Evil Zelda: The Wand of Gamelon Zelda's Adventure Tingle's Rosy Rupeeland Game Watch Game & Watch Battle Quest ( Nintendo Land ) Collector's Edition Hyrule Warriors ( Legends , Definitive Edition ) Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment Crossovers Super Smash Bros. Super Smash Bros. Melee SoulCalibur II Super Smash Bros. Brawl NES Remix NES Remix 2 Super Smash Bros. 3DS/Wii U Super Mario Maker 2 Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Cadence of Hyrule Nintendo World Championships: NES Edition Japan-only BS The Legend of Zelda BS Triforce of the Gods BS Ancient Stone Tablets Tingle's Balloon Trip of Love Tingle's Balloon Fight DS Too Much Tingle Pack [[ Games ]] Retrieved from " https://www.zeldadungeon.net/wiki/index.php?title=The_Legend_of_Zelda:_Ocarina_of_Time&oldid=794731 " Categories : Games Ocarina of Time Hidden category: Articles That Contain Spoilers Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main Page Recent Changes Root Category Help Contribute Current Projects Wanted Pages Stub Articles Random Page Random Image Tools What links here Related changes Special pages Printable version Permanent link Page information Community Article Nominations Image Nominations Fanart Policies Administrators Patrollers ZD Staff Wiki Stats 17,353 articles 51,651 images This page was last edited on April 14, 2025, at 16:43. Privacy Policy About Zelda Dungeon Wiki Disclaimers Mobile view