Virtual Reality vs. Augmented Reality vs. Mixed Reality - Intel Skip To Main Content Toggle Navigation Sign In My Intel My Tools ? Sign Out English Select Your Language Bahasa Indonesia Deutsch English Español Français Português Tiếng Việt ไทย 한국어 日本語 简体中文 繁體中文 Toggle Search Search < Close Search Panel Advanced Search close Sign In to access restricted content Using Intel.com Search You can easily search the entire Intel.com site in several ways. Brand Name: Core i9 Document Number: 123456 Code Name: Emerald Rapids Special Operators: “Ice Lake”, Ice AND Lake, Ice OR Lake, Ice* Quick Links You can also try the quick links below to see results for most popular searches. Product Information Support Drivers & Software Recent Searches Sign In to access restricted content Advanced Search All of these terms Any of these terms Exact term only Find results with All Results Product Information Support Drivers & Software Documentation & Resources Partners Communities Corporate Show results from Only search in Title Description Content ID Search Sign in to access 												restricted content. VR vs. AR vs. MR: What You Need to Know The browser version you are using is not recommended for this site. Please consider upgrading to the latest version of your browser by clicking one of the following links. Safari Chrome Edge Firefox Demystifying the Virtual Reality Landscape The differences between Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality, and Mixed Reality, and how you can get ready to experience a new reality for yourself. What Does It Take to Explore VR, AR, and MR? Research headsets; VR, AR and MR capabilities; and requirements of the hardware and software. Determine if your current computer system can handle the load. If it can’t, decide on a desktop or laptop that meets recommended requirements and has a high-performing CPU. Ensure the computer, the headset, and the game will all work well together. By Learn more about this landscape and the requirements for a computing system that can handle the demands of these new, immersive experiences. 1 Learn more about this landscape and the requirements for a computing system that can handle the demands of these new, immersive experiences. 1 The border between the virtual and real world continues to break down, providing breathtaking experiences that, a short time ago, could only be found in the imagination of sci-fi writers. Virtual Reality (VR) has been the “next big thing” for several years, but its time has finally come as a way to generate realistic images, sounds, and other sensations that put you smack in the middle of a spectacular imaginary world. Augmented Reality (AR), which adds virtual stuff to your real world environment, is contributing to the buzz, and both technologies should become a big part of our future. With Mixed Reality (MR), you can play a virtual video game, grab your real world water bottle, and smack an imaginary character from the game with the bottle. Imagination and reality have never been so intermingled. So much is happening so fast that the differences between VR, AR, and MR can seem a little puzzling at first. Each of these spellbinding technologies are accessible to almost everyone, but before you throw down your hard-earned money for the latest head-mounted display, let’s take a closer look at what you’ll need for an amazing VR, AR, or MR experience. The History and Future of Virtual Reality We’ve been trying to capture “Virtual Reality” for much longer than just the past five to ten years. There were popular peer-through toys in the 1950s and enclosed flight simulators debuted in the 1960s, but the idea of VR goes back even further. As early as the 1930s, science fiction writers, inventors, and tinkerers dreamt of an environment where you could escape from reality via art and machines. We were weighing questions about Virtual Reality vs. Augmented Reality vs. Mixed Reality long before we had the technology to make them possible. Technology has caught up to fiction, and market researchers predict rapid growth for the VR industry. VR and AR Meet MR First things first, let’s define the terminology. Virtual Reality can be used as an umbrella term to describe other technologies similar to, but different from, an actual Virtual Reality experience. But what's the difference between Augmented Reality and Mixed Reality? Here are some more details: Virtual Reality VR is the most widely known of these technologies. It is fully immersive, which tricks your senses into thinking you’re in a different environment or world apart from the real world. Using a head-mounted display (HMD) or headset, you’ll experience a computer-generated world of imagery and sounds in which you can manipulate objects and move around using haptic controllers while tethered to a console or PC. Augmented Reality AR overlays digital information on real-world elements. Pokémon GO* is among the best-known examples. Augmented reality keeps the real world central but enhances it with other digital details, layering new strata of perception, and supplementing your reality or environment. Mixed Reality MR brings together real world and digital elements. In mixed reality, you interact with and manipulate both physical and virtual items and environments, using next-generation sensing and imaging technologies. Mixed Reality allows you to see and immerse yourself in the world around you even as you interact with a virtual environment using your own hands—all without ever removing your headset. It provides the ability to have one foot (or hand) in the real world, and the other in an imaginary place, breaking down basic concepts between real and imaginary, offering an experience that can change the way you game and work today. Using Virtual Reality Technologies From gaming, to movies, to medicine, the uses for Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality, and Mixed Reality are expanding. Healthcare —For training, such as for surgical simulations Film and TV —For movies and shows to create unique experiences Virtual travel —For virtual trips to an art museum—or another planet—all from home Professional sports —For training programs like STRIVR to help pro and amateur athletes Gaming —For over 1,000 games already available, from first-person shooters to strategy games to role-playing adventures What You’ll Need: Headsets There are many, many VR headsets available, all with varying performance levels and prices. Entry-level gear, such as Google Cardboard*, uses your mobile phone as the screen, whereas PC-operated devices, like the HTC Vive* or Oculus Rift*, are immersive—providing a premium VR environment. Microsoft has their Windows* 10 Mixed Reality platform that uses fully immersive headsets offered by Acer, Asus, Dell, HP, Lenovo, and Samsung. Some AR headsets are available on the market today, with more rumored to be coming in the future. The Microsoft Hololens*, Google Glass*, and the Meta 2* headset are great examples. Every PC-connected HMD will have different system requirements, so if you’re buying a new Virtual Reality headset, make sure you check with the HMD vendor for their recommended and minimum system requirements. What You’ll Need: Computers If you are looking for a new computer and you’re interested in VR, you’ll need something that can handle heavy loads. When it comes to high-end desktops or laptops for Virtual Reality (and other advanced tasks like gaming or video editing), the CPU, GPU, and memory are the most critical components. Without these high-performing components working in sync, you could have a pretty miserable experience. A powerful system will ensure that you’ll have fun as you lean in, stand up, or walk around. VR that lags makes it impossible for the virtual world to respond as you expect, which can lead to more than just disappointment; it increases the risk of motion sickness. A high-end processor assists in positional tracking and controls how real and immersive your virtual environment will be, so you'll enjoy a deeper experience in a higher-fidelity environment. For a great VR experience, consider the latest generation Intel Core™ i7 processor. A discrete graphics processing unit (GPU) is recommended, or in the case of Oculus Rift*, HTC Vive*, and Windows Mixed Reality Ultra*, it is required. The GPU is responsible for rendering the high resolution, immersive images needed for VR. Oculus, HTC , and Microsoft all have profiler tools that you can download from their websites, and you can use to run on your PC to determine if it meets the minimum requirements for their VR headsets. Choose Your Experience New VR and AR technologies and products continue to come to market, making new environments accessible to the masses. Virtual, Augmented, Mixed—the choice for a new reality is up to you. Let your imagination, and your readiness to try new gear, enhance your experience! Key VR Terms to Know Use this chart to learn more VR terms and definitions. Term Description Why It Matters Frames per second (FPS) Frequency at which a system can display consecutive images, or frames Without a high and constant frame rate (greater than 60 FPS), the motion won’t look right, and you could even feel sick Field of view The angle of the observable world that can be seen If the window of view is too narrow, you could end up making unnatural head rotations Degrees of Freedom (DoF) The number of directions that an object can move or rotate. The six degrees of freedom are pitch, roll, yaw, left and right, forward and backward, up and down More DoFs allow you to move more naturally in VR Latency The amount of time it takes a system to react/respond to movements or commands Latency is critical when it comes to the presence inside Virtual Reality—if the system doesn’t respond instantly, it doesn’t feel real View all Show less Experience the Benefit of Intel Powered Devices Desktops From pocket-sized devices to high performance towers, Intel®-powered desktops come in a range of packages for any need. The latest desktops free you to store, create, and share your most precious content. Learn more Laptops Seize portable possibilities with new Intel Core™ processor-based laptops. Equipped with unprecedented power and responsiveness, you’ll be able to take your productivity, creativity, and entertainment to the next level. Learn more Product and Performance Information 1 Intel® technologies' features and benefits depend on system configuration and may require enabled hardware, software or service activation. Performance varies depending on system configuration. No product or component can be absolutely secure. Check with your system manufacturer or retailer or learn more at https://www.intel.com . Get Help Company Overview Contact Intel Newsroom Investors Careers Corporate Responsibility Inclusion Public Policy © Intel Corporation Terms of Use *Trademarks Cookies Privacy Supply Chain Transparency Site Map Recycling Your Privacy Choices California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Opt-Out Icon Notice at Collection Intel technologies may require enabled hardware, software or service activation. // No product or component can be absolutely secure. // Your costs and results may vary. // Performance varies by use, configuration and other factors. // See our complete legal Notices and Disclaimers . // Intel is committed to respecting human rights and avoiding causing or contributing to adverse impacts on human rights. See Intel’s Global Human Rights Principles . Intel’s products and software are intended only to be used in applications that do not cause or contribute to adverse impacts on human rights.