Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/Xenoblade_Chronicles A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to Xenoblade_Chronicles r/Xenoblade_Chronicles r/Xenoblade_Chronicles This community is for fans of the Xenoblade Chronicles JRPG game series, as well as other 'Xeno' games by Monolith Soft. (Xenoblade, Xenosaga, and Xenogears.) Members Online • restingcups Newish Fan's Confusion on XC2's Criticisms Xenoblade 2 Keep in mind this post is not about any other Xenoblade game than Xenoblade 2, I am not comparing anything I am purely talking about Xenoblade 2 so I would greatly appreciate it (probably to no avail) if we could keep civil game tribalism away. So as someone who completed this game relatively recently, it's a game that quickly became one of my favorite JRPGs, and had almost no personal gripes with. That's not to say that there aren't clear criticisms to be made with some of the game's mechanics and particularly the game's story, but a lot of it I didn't mind or even sort of liked to let it slide. Naturally, as any fan would, I went hunting for peoples' reactions to my favorite parts of the game, and noticed something pretty interesting. People who streamed the game back during its release seemed to be not particularly fond of it, while people who streamed the game more recently seemed to love it. Talking with some people outside of the Xenoblade community who have played the games as well, it seems people who played it at launch had either dropped it then and never looked back, or generally did not have fond memories of it. With the release of Xenoblade 3 on the horizon, theres' also been a bunch of streamers who started out with XC2, had a bad impression of it, but are now starting the first game as an effort to get caught up before XC3's launch. This provided a more nuanced and modern array of criticisms of the game, hearing takes such as XC2's chain attacks, being too streamlined and boring, XC2's early game aggro type distribution being unbalanced, and some other takes that I honestly haven't heard very much. So what changed? I know there were a few balance patches, gacha ux got a bit of a tweak, the dlc came out, etc; but I feel as though none of these were meaningful enough changes to really make a difference. Maybe if you were trying to 100% the game or beat the challenge modes sure, I can see the struggle even to present day, but there's no reason any casual player should have such a tedious time through it all. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 6, 2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2022 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics