5 facts about the World Cup – and the people who are watching | Pew Research Center Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World Newsletters Press My Account Donate Contacted By Us? Read our research on: Economic Conditions Donald Trump Artificial Intelligence Search Research Topics Topics Politics & Policy International Affairs Immigration & Migration Race & Ethnicity Religion Age & Generations Gender & LGBTQ Family & Relationships Economy & Work Science Internet & Technology News Habits & Media Methodological Research Full Topic List Regions & Countries Asia & the Pacific Europe & Russia Latin America Middle East & North Africa North America Sub-Saharan Africa Multiple Regions / Worldwide Formats Feature Fact Sheet Video Data Essay Publications Our Methods Short Reads Tools & Datasets Experts About Us Research Topics Publications Short Reads Tools & Datasets About Pew Research Center Newsletters Press My Account Contacted By Us? Search Read Our Research On: Economic Conditions Donald Trump Artificial Intelligence Home Research Topics Short Reads | June 16, 2014 X Facebook Threads LinkedIn WhatsApp Share 5 facts about the World Cup – and the people who are watching By Michael Lipka Aside from the Olympics, there are few events that garner as much global coverage as the World Cup. Of all the numbers associated with the event – 32 teams, 64 matches, 736 players , each team’s odds of winning – some of the biggest (with the exception of the World Cup’s reported $11.5 billion price tag ) are the numbers of people who will be watching. Here are five facts about World Cup viewership in the United States and around the world: About 3.2 billion people around the world (roughly 46% of the global population) watched at least a minute of the 2010 World Cup in South Africa on TV in their homes, according to a report produced for FIFA by the British firm KantarSport. This is slightly lower than the number of people who reportedly saw at least a minute of the 2012 London Olympics (3.6 billion), according to a report produced for the International Olympic Committee . Nearly 1 billion people (909.6 million) tuned in for at least a minute of the 2010 World Cup final, in which Spain defeated the Netherlands, a similar viewership number to the London Olympics’ opening ceremonies . In the United States, 94.5 million people (about 31% of the population) watched at least 20 consecutive minutes of the last World Cup, an increase of 19% over the 2006 World Cup in Germany. Compared to the U.S., World Cup host Brazil is far more interested in soccer, with 80% of the population watching at least 20 minutes of the matches in 2010. A similar share of Americans (28%) said they plan to watch World Cup games this summer, according to a recent Washington Post-ABC News survey , which also found that more Americans called soccer “a big bore” (28%) than said it is “exciting” (19%). In a Pew Research survey conducted in January , 22% of Americans said they were “especially looking forward to” the World Cup, nearly the same share as when we asked about the 2010 World Cup in January of that year (23%). No other event mentioned in the 2014 survey found fewer people anticipating the event; more than twice as many people (51%) said they were looking forward to this fall’s midterm elections. The world will be watching Brazil – both for this summer’s World Cup and the 2016 Summer Olympics – but Brazilians are skeptical about whether the world will see Brazil in a positive light. About a third (35%) of Brazilians said the World Cup will help their country’s international image, while roughly four-in-ten (39%) said it will hurt Brazil’s image, according to a survey we conducted in April . Topics Share This Link: X Facebook Threads LinkedIn WhatsApp Share Michael Lipka is an associate director focusing on news and information research at Pew Research Center . Related TOPICS Most Popular 1 Republican Opinion Shifts on Russia-Ukraine War 2 Decline of Christianity in the U.S. Has Slowed, May Have Leveled Off 3 The shares of young adults living with parents vary widely across the U.S. 4 Pope Francis and public opinion: Key findings from our surveys 5 Americans more likely to support than oppose continuing federal funding for NPR and PBS 901 E St. NW, Suite 300 Washington, DC 20004 USA (+1) 202-419-4300 | Main (+1) 202-857-8562 | Fax (+1) 202-419-4372 | Media Inquiries Research Topics Politics & Policy International Affairs Immigration & Migration Race & Ethnicity Religion Age & Generations Gender & LGBTQ Family & Relationships Economy & Work Science Internet & Technology News Habits & Media Methodological Research Follow Us Email Newsletters Instagram Facebook X Tumblr YouTube RSS Feed ABOUT PEW RESEARCH CENTER Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan, nonadvocacy fact tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends shaping the world. It does not take policy positions. The Center conducts public opinion polling, demographic research, computational social science research and other data-driven research. Pew Research Center is a subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts , its primary funder. © 2025 Pew Research Center About Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Feedback Careers Contact Us