Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/Xenoblade_Chronicles A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to Xenoblade_Chronicles r/Xenoblade_Chronicles r/Xenoblade_Chronicles This community is for fans of the Xenoblade Chronicles JRPG game series, as well as other 'Xeno' games by Monolith Soft. (Xenoblade, Xenosaga, and Xenogears.) Members Online • MotherBaseGrey Top 1% Poster Xenoblade X : Definitive Edition sales predictions? Xenoblade X As of 2024, I’d say the Xenoblade series has become a consistent 2-million-seller on average. While Xenoblade Chronicles 2 (XC2) is the only game that has definitively crossed the 2-million sales threshold so far, both Xenoblade Chronicles 3 (XC3) and Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition (XC:DE) are on the verge. So, it’s reasonable to consider that 2 million is a benchmark for the series now. Now, this brings us to the curious case of Xenoblade Chronicles X (XCX)! The original XCX seems to have sold around 800,000 copies internationally, about 100,000 less than the original Xenoblade Chronicles managed. This difference is generally attributed to the Wii U’s poor performance and Xenoblade still being a relatively new series at the time. Given the massive install base of the Switch and the broader fanbase the series has attracted since 2018, I believe XCX:DE could likely sell similarly to XC3 and XC:DE, around the 1.8-million mark. In an optimistic scenario, it might even reach 2 million or 2.3 million, though that might be a bit hopeful. XC2 had several unique advantages in terms of marketability that XC3, XC:DE, and XCX:DE lack (or may not have). For one, it benefited from the excitement around the Switch itself, being the first major RPG released on the platform. Xenoblade was a series many had heard of but hadn’t experienced, and XC2 was heavily promoted: it was featured in multiple Switch Directs and showcased at the initial Switch presentation, all contributing to its impressive 2.7 million sales. In contrast, XC3, XC:DE, and XCX:DE don’t have the same promotional push as XC2 did. XC3 and XC:DE each only had one Direct showcase, compared to XC2’s four, while XCX:DE hasn’t received any Direct yet, which could impact its visibility. Additionally, we’re seven years into the Switch’s lifecycle, so the initial hype, with new Switch owners buying titles to justify their console purchase, has cooled. This trend is typical with Nintendo consoles; historically, sequels on the same console often sell less. To sum it up, I expect XCX:DE to sell at least 1.3 million within the first month of launch, likely reaching 1.7 to 1.8 million by year’s end—and perhaps 2 million in the best case. But that’s just my speculation. What do y’all think? Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics