Tiger Woods timeline of 844 days since last PGA Tour event, 2021 Genesis Invitational car crash | Sporting News Skip to main content Shop Tickets United States [English] Editions United States [English] Argentina Australia Brasil Canada India 日本 México 대한민국 España ไทย United Kingdom United States [Español] Việt Nam NFL NFL Home News Teams Scores Schedule Standings NFL Teams AFC East Buffalo Bills Miami Dolphins New England Patriots New York Jets AFC North Baltimore Ravens Cincinnati Bengals Cleveland Browns Pittsburgh Steelers AFC South Houston Texans Indianapolis Colts Jacksonville Jaguars Tennesse Titans AFC West Denver Broncos Kansas City Chiefs Las Vegas Raiders Los Angeles Chargers NFC East Dallas Cowboys New York Giants Philadelphia Eagles Washington Commanders NFC North Chicago Bears Detroit Lions Green Bay Packers Minnesota Vikings NFC South Atlanta Falcons Carolina Panthers New Orleans Saints Tampa Bay Buccaneers NFC West Arizona Cardinals Los Angeles Rams San Francisco 49ers Seattle Seahawks NBA NBA Home News Teams Playoffs Scores Schedule Standings NBA Teams Atlantic Boston Celtics Brooklyn Nets New York Knicks Philadelphia 76ers Toronto Raptors Central Chicago Bulls Cleveland Cavaliers Detroit Pistons Indiana Pacers Milwaukee Bucks Southeast Atlanta Hawks Charlotte Hornets Miami Heat Orlando Magic Washington Wizards Northwest Denver Nuggets Minnesota Timberwolves Oklahoma City Thunder Portland Trail Blazers Utah Jazz Pacific Golden State Warriors LA Clippers Los Angeles Lakers Phoenix Suns Sacramento Kings Southwest Dallas Mavericks Houston Rockets Memphis Grizzlies New Orleans Pelicans San Antonio Spurs MLB MLB Home News Teams Scores Schedule Standings Transactions MLB Teams AL East Baltimore Orioles Boston Red Sox New York Yankees Tampa Bay Rays Toronto Blue Jays AL Central Chicago White Sox Cleveland Guardians Detroit Tigers Kansas City Royals Minnesota Twins AL West Athletics Houston Astros Los Angeles Angels Seattle Mariners Texas Rangers NL East Atlanta Braves Miami Marlins New York Mets Philadelphia Phillies Washington Nationals NL Central Chicago Cubs Cincinnati Reds Milwaukee Brewers Pittsburgh Pirates St. Louis Cardinals NL West Arizona Diamondbacks Colorado Rockies Los Angeles Dodgers San Diego Padres San Francisco Giants NHL NHL News Playoffs Scores Schedule Standings Golf Golf News Leaderboard ••• Explore More Soccer NCAAMB NCAAWB NCAAF WNBA Boxing MMA WWE F1 NASCAR Tennis College High School Darts Horse Racing More Sports Fantasy Betting Watch Watch How to Watch Streaming Services fubo Sling Paramount+ Peacock ESPN+ Apple TV DAZN Best Streaming Services Best VPN Services Listen SiriusXM Lifestyle Lifestyle See More The Scene Entertainment Fashion Money Relationships Sneakers Trending Essentials Tickets Stadium Guides Golf News Leaderboard ••• News Leaderboard Featured NFL NBA MLB NHL Sports NFL NBA MLB NHL Soccer NCAAF NCAAMB NCAAWB WNBA Boxing MMA WWE F1 NASCAR Golf Tennis College High School Darts Horse Racing More Sports Explore More Fantasy Betting Watch The Scene Tickets Stadium Guides Editions United States [English] Argentina Australia Brasil Canada India 日本 México 대한민국 España ไทย United Kingdom United States [Español] Việt Nam About Us Careers Privacy Policy Privacy Preferences Tiger Woods timeline of 844 days since last PGA Tour event, 2021 Genesis Invitational car crash Joe Rivera • • It's been a long time since Tiger Woods teed it up in a PGA Tour event. Sure, Woods has played in majors and exhibitions, but has yet to rejoin the PGA Tour since his appearance in the Zozo Championship in 2020. On Thursday, Woods re-debuts in Los Angeles, marking his first official PGA Tour event since late 2020. Since then, Tiger's been through a decent amount, as you may or may not know: He was in a car crash that nearly left him as an amputee, he's become a champion in the Tour vs. LIV Golf battle and he's been inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame. Now, he's embarking on the PGA Tour, once again, as he enters the twilight of his legendary career. MORE: PGA Expert betting predictions for Genesis Invitational 2023 It's been over 800 days since Tiger vied for a PGA Tour event win. Here's a look back at what Tiger's been up to since his last Tour event: Tiger Woods timeline since he last played in the PGA Tour October 2020: Tiger Woods plays in the 2020 Zozo Championship. He finishes tied for 72nd in the event, a year after starting in and winning) it. December 2020: Woods undergoes his fifth surgery to correct back issues. It will keep him off the course for a few months, but not permanently. February 2021: Woods is injured in a single-car crash that nearly ends with his leg amputated . Woods was speeding, coincidentally on his way to a media event two days after the final round of the Genesis Invitational, which he attended as tournament host. October 2021: Months of rehab and questions over Tiger's future on the course leads to Woods being photographed alongside son Charlie Woods at a junior event in Florida. Woods, still on recovery and rehab, is Tiger Woods photographed back on golf course with son Charlie https://t.co/JS1YWs1KNx pic.twitter.com/JvKjLlwgaX — GolfWRX (@GolfWRX) October 9, 2021 November 2021: The first video of Woods swinging a golf club since his accident surfaces. The caption reads: "Making progress." Making progress pic.twitter.com/sVQkxEHJmq — Tiger Woods (@TigerWoods) November 21, 2021 MORE: Tiger Woods' remarkable recovery from car crash to Masters December 2021: Woods plays alongside his 12-year-old son Charlie at the PNC Championship in Florida, and he clarifies that a return to the PGA Tour will be complicated — and that he's not planning to return on a full-time basis. I'm not going to play a full schedule ever again. I'm going to have to pick and choose what events, and even then, my body might not cooperate with that. So I don't know how many events I'm going to be playing in. And it's going to be up to training sessions, practice sessions, recovery tactics, all those different things to be able to do this again because it didn't look good there for a while about it. March 2022: Woods is inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame. He doesn't comment on his future plans during the event. April 2022: Woods labels himself as a "game-time decision" to play in the 2022 Masters and ultimately plays in the event. He finishes in 47th place in his first official golf event since he played in the 2020 Zozo Championship. May 2022: In the PGA Championship at Southern Hills, Woods withdraws from the event after shooting a career-worst round. He labors through the event with apparent issues with his surgically repaired right leg. July 2022: Playing at his favorite course in golf in the 2022 Open Championship, Woods misses the cut at St. Andrews. He shoots a 78 and a 75, finishing +9 and out of the tournament. Afterward, he hints at retirement from the event — potentially signaling the beginning of the end of a Hall of Fame career. MORE: Everything you need to know about Tiger Woods' son, Charlie August 2022: In junction with TMRW Sports and Rory McIlroy, Woods announces the start of TGL, set to launch in 2024. The golf league is a tech-based approach to golf. December 2022: Woods plays exhibitions in consecutive weeks, participating in The Match alongside McIlroy against Justin Thomas and Jordan Spieth, followed by the two-day PNC Championship family event with son Charlie. Joe Rivera Joe Rivera is in his seventh year with The Sporting News, handling NFL, MLB and some things pro wrestling. A proud-ish Rutgers University graduate, Rivera combines a new-school flair with an old-school soul. He loves dingers, wrestling, comic books, movies, music and really bad puns. He is also a card-carrying BBWAA member and teaches Multimedia Sports Reporting at his alma mater. You can find him and tweet him @JoeRiveraSN , if you're into that sort of thing. Crafted for fans since 1886 Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Privacy Preferences Sporting News NFL Teams NBA Teams MLB Teams Soccer Teams F1 Teams Copyright @ 2025 Sporting News Holdings Images by Getty Images, Imagn and AP Images. All Rights Reserved.