CAF fills its committees and FIFA Council seats - Inside World Football Home Americas News Concacaf Gold Cup 2023 News Bracket / Schedule Teams Stadiums Match Reports Match Previews Gold Cup 2021 News Bracket / Schedule Teams Venues Match Previews Match Reports Gold Cup 2019 Concacaf W Championship 2022 W Gold Cup 2024 News Match Previews Match Reports Teams Fixtures and results Stadia Nations League 2024 News Teams Venues History/Stats Match Previews Fixtures Asia News Competitions Federations Development Asian Cup 2023 News Fixture and Results Match Previews Match Reports Stadiums Teams History Europe Euro 2024 Euro Nations League FIFA Marketing Broadcast Finance Match-fixing Integrity Performance CAF fills its committees and FIFA Council seats 12th March 2025 March 12 – Egypt’s Hany Abo Rida and Morocco’s Fouzi Lekjaa have retained their seats on the FIFA Council, while Souleiman Waberi, Ahmed Yahya, Djibrilla Hamidou and Ibrahim Kanizat have been elected as the new African representatives. Samuel Eto’o has won a seat on the CAF executive committee. At Wednesday’s extraordinary general assembly of the Confederation of African Football (CAF) in Cairo, Egypt, the continent’s six seats on FIFA’s highest decision-making body came up for election. With 49 and 35 votes respectively, Lekjaa and Rida, two long-standing powerbrokers in the African game, won re-election for a seat on the body that comes with an annual compensation of $250,000. Djibrilla Hamidou of Niger, a colonel nicknamed Pelé, also gained 35 votes while Waberi of Djibouti and Yahya of Mauritania each secured 29 votes. Last year, Waberi, the third vice-president of CAF, resigned from his position as president of the Djiboutian Football Federation after being suspended by the Ministry of Sports. Comoros’ Kanizat Ibrahim, CAF’s fifth vice president, won the female quota seat, winning the vote against incumbent Council member Isha Johansen from Sierra Leone and Burundi’s Lydia Nsekera, an IOC member who previously sat on the Council. There had been 12 candidates for six seats with current FIFA Council member Mathurin de Chacus of Benin withdrawing from the race at the last minute. Previously, Mamoutou Touré, another current FIFA Council member, had decided not to stand again, under pressure from a corruption investigation at home. Touré, at present, is imprisoned. Ahead of the FIFA Council ballot, CAF boss Patrice Motsepe had said: “I said to Gianni, can we do some magic and put all of them in the FIFA Council and change the laws of FIFA? There are 13 candidates for six positions and every single one of them – whether it’s Pinnick, whether it’s Waberi, Senghor, Yahya – the list goes, Fouzi, Madame Kanizat, Isha, our wonderful lady from Burundi. World Class! Absolutely. So I have confidence in who you think are the right people. Some of the members association phoned me and said, ‘President, I’ve never been so important during the elections’.” With 28 votes, Nigeria’s Amaju Pinnick, a loyal FIFA footsoldier, missed out on retaining a seat. Yahya and Waberi both received 29 votes. The Mauritanian had met with other African football officials and FIFA officials in Nouakchott in the run-up to the elections. Cameroonian football boss and former FC Barcelona legend Samuel Eto’o was one of five officials elected unopposed to CAF’s executive committee. Mustapha Ishola Raji of Liberia retained his seat while Wallace Karia (Tanzania), Kurt Simeon-Okraku (Ghana) and Sadi Walid (Algeria) will be new members. Elvis Chetty of the Seychelles lost his place to Feizal Sidat of Mozambique and Samir Sobha of Mauritius. Bestine Kazadi Ditabala of DR Congo won the female seat. Eto’o’s election was not without controversy. Last week, CAS had cleared Eto’o to run in the elections after he was excluded by CAF’s governance committee in January. Eto’o has a chequered track record, but Motsepe believes that “he has a contribution to make” and “will restore Cameroon to the glory days.” Contact the writer of this story at moc.l 1745987244 labto 1745987244 ofdlr 1745987244 owedi 1745987244 sni@i 1745987244 tnuk. 1745987244 ardni 1745987244 mas 1745987244 Follow us: Home Search Sign up for our daily news bulletin Latest News PSG have the edge as they take 1-0 lead and Arsenal back to Paris for final showdown Leyton Orient aim to write East End rags to riches story under new US owner Disney+ launches 4th season of Welcome to Wrexham as club value near £150m Cleber Xavier reunites with Neymar to put Santos season back on track Toney and Firmino strike for Al Ahli to send them into AFC Champions League Elite final Football Asia Football Americas News from North and Central America and the Caribbean Columnists Inside Insight Mihir Bose David Owen Lee Wellings John Yan Andrew Warshaw Osasu Obayiuwana Matt Scott Massimo Cecchini Sports Law: Dr Laila Mintas HJC Martin Volkmar 4QuestionsFor4Leaders About us Contact Privacy Terms & Conditions Acceptable Use Policy