Fiesta flourishes in Spain after World Cup victory News Sports Entertainment Lifestyle Opinion Advertise Obituaries eNewspaper Legals SPORTS Fiesta flourishes in Spain after World Cup victory World Cup title gives country a break from political, financial woes. Alan Clendenning Associated Press MADRID - Spain erupted with its biggest fiesta in memory Monday when its soccer team returned to a jubilant nation after winning the World Cup, giving elated Spaniards a break from months of economic gloom and political squabbling. Hundreds of thousands of people - if not more - jammed Madrid's historic avenues as an open air bus ferried the national team down stately avenues to cheers from Spaniards decked out in a sea of red and yellow, the colors of the Spanish flag. The celebration in Madrid, where national unity is at its strongest, was expected. But there were striking examples of support from unlikely places: The well-off Catalonia region, which has long sought greater autonomy, and the separatist Basque region, where anything pro-Spain is often shunned. The massive Madrid street party came after players visited Madrid's Royal Palace, normally used only for dreary state affairs. But team chatted and drinks with King Juan Carlos, who hugged many players and gave coach Vicente del Bosque friendly punches on the cheek and the chest. Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. "You are an example of sportsmanship, nobility, good play and team work," said the king. Team members then traveled to government headquarters, where they were greeted by Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, ministers and hundreds of ecstatic children invited to the event. "They won the cup but it belongs to all Spaniards," shouted a delighted Zapatero. Goalkeeper and captain Iker Casillas said the victory meant "Spain's name will be on top of the world for the next four years." Next came an open-air bus ride through Madrid's historic center, the epicenter of the celebration for the second day in a row. Crowds overflowed into the street and surrounded the team bus, virtually all sporting the red and yellow national colors along the five-kilometer (three-mile) route as the bus crawled through the crowd with the players raising the gold World Cup trophy into the air. As the parade snaked down the Gran Via in the heart of Madrid, Spanish air force fighter jets flew overhead spewing out the colors of the national flag. On the bus, the players waved flags and saluted the screaming fans below. Such was the multitude clogging the streets and avenues that the team arrived more than hour late at the finishing esplanade. Madrid town hall urged no more people to go to the park area, as it had already reached its 150,000 capacity. "For us Spaniards this is important. It is a way of showing that Spain is united," said Roberto Lopez, a 48-year-old car salesman. "It's not Galicia on one side and Catalonia on the other." Juan Mateos, a 35-year-old civil servant described the celebrations as "a bit of anesthetic to forget about our problems." The party started when the players' plane touched down, with dozens of airport workers cheering from the runway. It taxied to a stop as cars driving by on nearby highways blared their horns in support. A roar of approval rose as Casillas stepped from the plane and raised the trophy. The crowd chanted "Campeones! Campeones!" (Champions! Champions!). The spectacle was "very important, it helps us forget a lot of things, like the economic crisis, for example, or people's domestic issues," said Javier Sanchez, a 42-year-old photographer from Madrid. But will the ecstasy last? Could this be Spain's moment to unite under a single flag? Or is it a fleeting instance of patriotism following near economic chaos when the country was targeted as one of the European nations most likely to default on debt like Greece? Spain has been depressed by a debt crisis, 20 percent unemployment and nationalist regions fighting to separate from the country or at least win much greater autonomy and near-nation status. While the spotlight was on Madrid, the win led to a rare sight in the Catalonia region's capital of Barcelona: Spanish flags waving side-by-side with Catalonia's own red and yellow flag. "It has been very strange, but now it is being tolerated," said Saray Lozano, a 31-year-old taxi driver from Barcelona. "If it weren't for football, you might get rocks thrown at you" for displaying Spain's national symbol. Careers Staff Directory Accessibility Sitemap Legals Public notice certification Our Ethical Principles USA TODAY Network Style Guide Responsible Disclosure Subscription Terms & Conditions Advertiser Acceptance Policy Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Contact Us Support Local Business Advertise Your Business Promote your Event Buy and Sell Licensing & Reprints Legal Notices Help Center Subscriber Guide Manage Account Give Feedback Subscribe Today Newsletters Facebook X Instagram eNewspaper NIE Jobs Cars Homes Classifieds Pay Your Ad Bill Shopping 10BEST LocaliQ Digital Marketing Solutions © 2025 www.jacksonville.com. All rights reserved.