Eric Schmidt | Biography & Facts | Britannica Money History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Health & Medicine Science Technology Browse Biographies Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Infographics Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Household Finance Investing Trading Retirement Companies Biographies Finance & the Economy Read More Google Sheryl Sandberg Marissa Mayer Table Of Contents Biographies Business Executives Eric Schmidt American engineer and business executive Print Cite Share Links Also known as: Eric Emerson Schmidt Written by Robert Lewis Robert Lewis Assistant Editor, Encyclopaedia Britannica. Fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. Updated: Apr. 23, 2025 Read More Google Sheryl Sandberg Marissa Mayer Table Of Contents Open full sized image Eric Schmidt, 2011. © Frederic Legrand - COMEO/Shutterstock.com in full: Eric Emerson Schmidt born: April 27, 1955, Washington, D.C. , U.S. (age 70) Eric Schmidt (born April 27, 1955, Washington, D.C. , U.S.) is an American information technology executive who served (2001–11) as chairman and CEO of Google Inc. , overseeing a vast expansion of the company’s activities. In March 2025 he joined aerospace start-up Relativity Space, Inc. as CEO . Schmidt grew up in Blacksburg, Virginia, where his father was a professor of economics at Virginia Tech . He entered Princeton University as an architecture student but changed his major to electrical engineering before graduating in 1976. He then studied computer science (M.S., 1979; Ph.D., 1982) at the University of California , Berkeley. From 1979 to 1983 Schmidt worked for the Xerox Corporation at its Xerox PARC installation in Palo Alto , California. He became a software manager at Sun Microsystems in 1983, only one year after the founding of the company. In 1985 he was promoted to vice president of Sun’s software products division, and in 1988 he became vice president of the Sun general systems group. In 1991 Sun Microsystems was reorganized, and Schmidt was made president of one of its offshoots, Sun Technology Enterprises. In 1994 he returned to Sun Microsystems as chief technology officer. At Sun he was involved in the development of the Java programming language, and he enthusiastically promoted its use in his capacity as a company executive. In 1997 Schmidt left Sun to become chairman and CEO of Novell, Inc. The tech company was then in need of innovative leadership, as its NetWare network operating system was losing market share to Microsoft NT. Schmidt’s efforts revived the company somewhat but could not reverse a long-term decline. In March 2001 Schmidt was hired by Google as board chairman. Less than five months later he was given the additional title of CEO. At this time Google’s two founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin , became president of products and president of technology, respectively. According to a Silicon Valley witticism, Schmidt was hired as “adult supervision” for the founders, who were still in their twenties. In fact, the three ran Google as a triumvirate. Schmidt is credited with introducing elements of conventional business structure into the company. He oversaw Google’s initial public offering of stock in August 2004 and also served as a company spokesperson. Google, already the proprietor of a successful search engine , introduced many new products and services during Schmidt’s tenure, notably Google News (2002), Blogger (2003), Google Books (2004), Gmail (2004), Google Earth (2005), and Google Maps (2005). Google acquired the YouTube video sharing site in 2006 and the advertising company DoubleClick the following year. In 2008 Google challenged Microsoft with the Chrome Web browser and Apple with the Android mobile operating system. In 2011 Page reclaimed the Google CEO position he had left 10 years earlier, and Schmidt took the new title of executive chairman , withdrawing from day-to-day management of the company. In 2015, when a new holding company called Alphabet, Inc. was formed, with Google as a subsidiary, Schmidt became executive chairman of the Alphabet board of directors. In 2018 Schmidt stepped down as chairman, but remained affiliated with the company as a technical advisor until 2020. In 2025 Schmidt was named CEO of aerospace technology company Relativity Space. Schmidt’s books included The New Digital Age (2013; written with Jared Cohen), Google: How Google Works (2014; written with Jonathan Rosenberg and Alan Eagle), and Trillion Dollar Coach: The Leadership Playbook of Silicon Valley’s Bill Campbell (2019; written with Jonathan Rosenberg and Alan Eagle). With Henry Kissinger and Daniel Huttenlocher he published The Age of AI: And Our Human Future (2021). Robert Lewis About Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions © 2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.