Paul Pogba Wins Young Player Award at 2014 World Cup Bleacher Report NFL Draft NFL NBA NHL CFB Shop Play Betting B/R Sports on Max 01:30 Featured Video UCL Semifinals are Here 🤩 BRASILIA, BRAZIL - JUNE 30:  Paul Pogba of France celebrates scoring his team's first goal during the 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil Round of 16 match between France and Nigeria at Estadio Nacional on June 30, 2014 in Brasilia, Brazil.  (Photo by Jeff Gross/Getty Images) Jeff Gross/Getty Images World Football Paul Pogba Wins Young Player Award at 2014 World Cup Timothy Rapp Jun 6, 2018 Fans of Juventus already know just how special Paul Pogba is. But at the 2014 World Cup, the rest of the world got to see for themselves as the dynamic young midfielder played a huge part in France's run to the quarterfinals. For his efforts, Pogba was named as the Best Young Player at this year's tournament. Pogba beat out the Netherlands' Memphis Depay and fellow Frenchman Raphael Varane for the award, per FIFA.com . TOP NEWS Ranking the 10 Best NFL Free Agents Available After 2025 Draft Bleacher Report 17h WWE NXT Results, Winners, Live Grades, Reaction, Highlights from April 29 Bleacher Report 17m 2025 NBA Mock Draft with Lottery Simulation Sending Cooper Flagg to Eastern Conference Bleacher Report 17h In five total appearances (four starts), Pogba scored a goal and added an assist, earning a 7.36 average match rating from WhoScored.com . According to that site, he averaged a key pass and three successful dribbles per game while completing 81.7 percent of his passes. Ian Walton/Getty Images Pogba's goal was a key one, as it gave France a 1-0 lead over Nigeria in the round of 16. ESPN FC provides the highlight: France would go on to win that game 2-0, and there was little question from anyone who watched the match that Pogba was the best player on the pitch during that contest. Pogba's World Cup wasn't perfect. He lost his cool against Honduras and like most of his teammates was stifled by Germany. In general, though, Pogba not only excelled but also showed marked improvement from one game to the next. Overall, there was more good than bad. Not surprisingly, the plaudits for Pogba have come fast and furious at this year's World Cup. Dominic Fifield of The Guardian passed along several examples of the praise headed Pogba's way from two folks who know a thing or two about the beautiful game: " Pierre Mankowski, who coached the under-20s to World Cup success in Turkey last year with Pogba as his captain, listed his qualities as 'technique, power, finesse, vision, mental strength... he has everything.' 'Paul is extraordinary,' he told France Football. 'The day he thinks he’s ‘arrived’ there’ll be reason to be worried but, at the moment, he is just full of ambition and drive as to where he wants to go.' Even Patrick Vieira has marvelled at the abilities the young player possesses. 'People compare us but, where I would win more tackles, Paul is more technically gifted than I ever was, and far more at ease on the ball,' said the former World Cup winner. 'I’d busy myself with defensive duties, but he is only looking to charge forward. He can be one of the best in the world.' " Pogba has often been compared to the French legend, so the fact that Vieira has said Pogba is the more technically skilled player should pretty much say it all. The fact that Pogba has played such a big role for both Juventus and his country at a World Cup before he's even turned 22 also says quite a bit about the youngster's future. He not only has at least two more World Cups in him but also a decade left to dominate European football. Folks who saw him play at this year's World Cup got a glimpse of what is on the horizon for the burgeoning superstar. He wasn't just the best young player at this year's tournament; he also served notice that he might be the best player, period, four years from now in Russia. 01:30 UCL Semifinals are Here 🤩 TOP NEWS Ranking Top 10 Free Agents Post-Draft Bleacher Report 17h WWE NXT Results and Grades ✍️ Bleacher Report 17m Latest Projections and Pro Comps ✍️ Bleacher Report 17h Vikings Give All-Pro LB $23M Bleacher Report 4h NFL Draft Picks We Wanted to See 👀 Bleacher Report 17h TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 12h Spurs' Stephon Castle Wins 2024-25 NBA Rookie of the Year over Risacher, Wells Spurs rookie takes home the award after averaging 14.7 PPG Bleacher Report • 1d 2026 NFL Mock Draft: B/R's Way-Too-Early Predictions Eagles land CB Avieon Terrell Bleacher Report • 17h MLB's Biggest Winners and Losers 30 Games Into 2025 Season Dodgers woes open the door for rest of NL West Bleacher Report • 2h Giannis Says Actions of Tyrese Haliburton's Dad 'Unacceptable' After Pacers Beat Bucks Tyrese's father posts message after altercation with Giannis 📲 Bleacher Report • 3h Pacers Stun Fans with OT Comeback as Haliburton Game-Winner Eliminates Giannis, Bucks TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 12h Spurs' Stephon Castle Wins 2024-25 NBA Rookie of the Year over Risacher, Wells Spurs rookie takes home the award after averaging 14.7 PPG Bleacher Report • 1d 2026 NFL Mock Draft: B/R's Way-Too-Early Predictions Eagles land CB Avieon Terrell Bleacher Report • 17h MLB's Biggest Winners and Losers 30 Games Into 2025 Season Dodgers woes open the door for rest of NL West Bleacher Report • 2h Giannis Says Actions of Tyrese Haliburton's Dad 'Unacceptable' After Pacers Beat Bucks Tyrese's father posts message after altercation with Giannis 📲 Bleacher Report • 3h Pacers Stun Fans with OT Comeback as Haliburton Game-Winner Eliminates Giannis, Bucks Bleacher Report About Advertise Contact Us Get Help Careers Sitemap Community Guidelines Privacy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Terms Of Use AdChoices B/R Sports on MAX B/R Creators Program Copyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.