[Jual] - DVD movie,Tv Series,Anime format Divx | Page 72 | Forum Indowebster - IDWS Log in or Sign up Forum Indowebster - IDWS Jual/Beli > DVD & CD > Movies > Disarankan registrasi memakai email gmail. Problem reset email maupun registrasi silakan email kami di inquiry@idws.id menggunakan email terkait. Untuk kamu yang mendapatkan peringatan "Koneksi tidak aman" atau "Your connection is not private" ketika mengakses forum IDWS, bisa cek ke sini yak. Problem Registrasi dan Reset Password Mengatasi "Koneksi Tidak Aman" [Jual] DVD movie,Tv Series,Anime format Divx Discussion in ' Movies ' started by ponchan2 , Oct 4, 2010 . Thread Status: Not open for further replies. Page 72 of 72 < Prev 1 ← 67 68 69 70 71 → 72 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 Waiting For Spring (2018) Size: 1000mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Tao Tsuchiya, Takumi Kitamura, Yuta Koseki Synopsis: Mitsuki Haruno (Tao Tsuchiya) has a timid personality and she doesn't have any friends at school. Towa Asakura (Takumi Kitamura) is Mitsuki Haruno’s classmate. He is on their school's basketball team. Due to a case, Mitsuki Haruno begins to hang out with four good looking basketball players: Towa Asakura, Rui Miyamoto (Yu Inaba), Kyosuke Wakamiya (Hayato Isomura) and Ryuji Tada (Yosuke Sugino). Her school life changes profoundly. Mitsuki Haruno begins to have feeling for Towa Asakura and Towa Asakura holds feelings for her, but, Mitsuki Haruno meets her childhood friend Aya Kamiyama (Yuta Koseki). He came from USA and is a basketball player at another high school. He likes Mitsuki Haruno. Kasane: Beauty and Fate (2018) Size: 1200mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Horror Staring: Tao Tsuchiya, Kyoko Yoshine, Tadanobu Asano Synopsis: Kasane Fuchi (Kyoko Yoshine) is the daughter of a beautiful, legendary actress. Kasane has excellent acting skills as well, but she is not attractive. She has a hard time due to her unattractiveness. Kasane has a lipstick left behind by her late mother. The lipstick holds a strange power. Whenever Kasane applies the lipstick and kisses someone, she takes that person's face. Meanwhile, Nina Tanzawa (Tao Tsuchiya) is a beautiful actress with poor acting skills. She meets Kasane Fuchi and their fates change. Perfect World (2018) Size:600mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Takanori Iwata, Hana Sugisaki, Kenta Suga Synopsis: Tsugumi Kawana (Hana Sugisaki) works at an interior design company. She happens to meet her first love Itsuki Ayukawa (Takanori Iwata) from her high school days. He is now an architect and in a wheelchair because of an accident. Kohi ga Samenai Uchi ni (2018) Size: 1100mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Kasumi Arimura, Kentaro Ito, Haru Synopsis: Kazu Tokita (Kasumi Arimura) works at cafe “Funiculi Funicula,” which her relative Nagare Tokita (Motoki Fukami) runs. Their is a mysterious rumor that if a customer takes a specific seat at the cafe, that customer can travel back to a time of their choice. The specific rules for going back into the past are: 1. you can't meet people who did not visit the cafe 2. if you do something different in the past, it won't change the present 3. only one seat in the cafe is able to take someone into the past and if the seat is occupied, you have to wait until that customer leaves 4. when you go back to the past, you stay in the seat 5. the time you can stay in the past is from pouring the coffee into the cup until the coffee gets cold and you have to finish the coffee before it gets cold. 4 miracles take place at the cafe. Ikigami: The Ultimate Limit (2008) Size: 1300mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Thriller Staring: Shota Matsuda, Akira Emoto, Takashi Sasano Synopsis: A place, somewhere, that bears a strong resemblance in history and environment to Japan. Its return to prosperity after defeat in war is due to a certain law, a pillar of the state. This is the Special Law for the Maintenance of National Prosperity. 24 hours before this capsule is to bring about death, an official of the Ministry of Health and Welfare brings a letter announcing impending death, an ikigami. Those who receive this ikigami letter have 24 hours of absolute freedom to do anything and everything they want. Kengo Fujimoto has made his way through university and taken a job with the Ministry. His work now is delivering these ikigami letters. Kyo, Kaerimasu (2019) Size: 500mb Format: HDTV 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Atsushi Ito, Haruka Kinami, Mari Natsuki Synopsis: Katsuhiro (Atsushi Ito) works at a bank in Tokyo. Without complaint, Katushiro works for his wife Chika (Haruka Kinami) and their son. His wife suddenly takes their son to her parents' home in Yamanashi. Since then, Katsuhiro goes to Yamanashi and comes back to Tokyo once every month. 1 year passes. Chika tells Katsuhiro that she wants to live together with him in Yamanashi. Around that time, Katsuhiro has an unpleasant customer Namiko (Mari Natsuki). The Spy Gone North (2018) Size: 1300mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Crime Staring: Jung-min Hwang, Sung-min Lee, Jin-Woong Cho Synopsis: In 1993, former military officer Suk-young Park is recruited as a spy by South Korea's National Intelligence Service, and given the code name "Black Venus". He is then sent to infiltrate a group of high-ranking North Korean officials based in Beijing, with the ultimate goal of acquiring information on the North's nuclear program. After becoming close to Myong-un Ri, a key power broker, Black Venus succeeds beyond his wildest dreams of gaining the trust of North Korea's leadership. But political machinations on both sides of the border threaten to derail his accomplishments. House of the Disappeared (2017) Size: 750mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Thriller Staring: Kim Yunjin, TaecYeon, Jo Jae-Yun Synopsis: 25years ago, Mi-Hee (Kim Yunjin) was an ordinary housewife, married to Chul-Joong (Jo Jae-Yun) and having a son. Suddenly, her husband died and her son went missing. This all took place at their house. Mi-Hee was imprisoned for the past 25 years. She is now released from prison and goes back to the home where everything took place. Hidden Man (2018) Size: 1250mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Action Staring: Eddie Peng, Fan Liao, Yun Zhou Synopsis: A young swordsman in 1930's China returns home to try and solve a five-year-old murder case. Described as the third installment of the gangster trilogy that includes "Let The Bullets Fly" and "Gone With The Bullets." The Wandering Earth (2019) Size: 1000mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Sci Fi Staring: Jing Wu, Chuxiao Qu, Guangjie Li Synopsis: The sun is dying out. The earth will soon be engulfed by the inflating sun. To save the human civilization, scientists draw up an escape plan that will bring the whole human race from danger. With the help of thousands of infusion powered engines, the planet earth will leave the solar system and embark on a 2,500 year journey to the orbit of a star 4.5 light years away. Integrity (2019) Size: 1200mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Crime Staring: Ching Wan Lau, Nick Cheung, Kar Yan Lam Synopsis: The chief investigator of ICAC Chan King-chi (Sean Lau)'s childhood friend Hui Chik-yiu (Nick Cheung) does a spy job in the smuggler company even after he mysteriously fleets to Australia just before the summoned court appearance as a witness of the crime of the company. However, The chief investigator of ICAC Chan King-chi (Sean Lau) knows everything what Hui Chik-yiu does even after he fleets to Australia, and Chan King-chi's fatal mistake finally throws out everything ICAC team does during the most of the time in the film, and the mysterious manipulator kills corroborators of his coordinated crimes. Chan King-chi's mistake is that he does not officially record and register the spy Hui Chik-yiu. As the result, all proves and evidences are ineffective at court. It is fatally unintelligent and lack of professionalism, and it makes us not indulgent to the most of the time they spent in this film before the moment. Furthermore, ICAC is incapable to deal with the smuggling scheme and it Gully Boy (2019) Size: 1300mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Ranveer Singh, Alia Bhatt, Siddhant Chaturvedi Synopsis: "Gully Boy" is a film about a 22-year-old boy "Murad" from a ghetto in Mumbai, India. The son of a driver, his parents worked hard to get him educated so that he could have a white collar job. Meanwhile, Murad realizes his calling to be a rapper. Authentic Hip Hop in India is a recent phenomenon and like anywhere else in the world, is rising from the streets. Art is a distant dream for the colonized poor of India and this story is about Murad's journey from realizing his love for rap and chasing his dream to inadvertently transcending his class. The film showcases street rap from the crevices of Mumbai's by lanes. The poetry is conscious of the city's socio-economic fabric and highlights the challenges faced by the disenfranchised youth in the minority population. Badla (2019) Size: 1000mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Crime Staring: Amitabh Bachchan, Tapsee Pannu, Begonia Villalba Synopsis: A dynamic young entrepreneur finds herself locked in a hotel room with the corpse of her dead lover. She hires a prestigious lawyer to defend her and they work together to figure out what actually happened. 2.0 (2018) Size: 1300mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Rajinikanth, Akshay Kumar, Amy Jackson Synopsis: 8 years after Chitti was dismantled due to destruction he caused. Vaseegaran has created new human robot Nila which can understand human feelings better. The cell phones in the city start to disappear from everywhere. A creature in the form of bird creates havoc in the city causing destruction. Vaseegaran believes it to be the fifth element force and decides to get Chitti back in action. When Vaseegaran traces the location of missing cellphones with help of Chitti and Nila he finds that its not the fifth force but a human force done by late professor Pakshi Rajan. Ek Ladki Ko Dekha Toh Aisa Laga (2019) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Anil Kapoor, Juhi Chawla, Sonam Kapoor Synopsis: Some love stories are not simple, Sweety's is one such story. She has to contend with her over-enthusiastic family that wants to get her married, a young writer who is completely smitten by her, a secret that she harbours close to her heart and ultimately the truth that her true love might not find acceptance in her family and society. Resolving these issues proves hilarious, touching and life changing. Sonchiriya (2019) Size: 1200mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Sushant Singh Rajput, Bhumi Pednekar, Manoj Bajpayee Synopsis: This is the story of a group of rebels in Chambal. The year is 1975. The Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi, has declared Emergency in the country. Man Singh (Manoj Bajpayee) meanwhile leads a gang in Chambal, a region that more or less is lawless. Vakil Singh (Ranvir Shorey) and Lakhna (Sushant Singh Rajput) are important members of this gang. Man Singh is in need of money to procure new arms. Based on a tip from Lacchu (Jaspal Sharma), he and his men descend to Brahmpuri village. A marriage is taking place in this hamlet where the groom is about to get a huge amount of gold and cash. Man Singh and his gang reaches the marriage venue in order to loot this wealth. However, the cops, led by Virender Gujjar (Ashutosh Rana) ambush the gang. In the tough fight, Man Singh and half of the gang get killed. Vakil, Lakhna and others escape. Vakil, now the leader of the gang, accuses Lakhna of betraying them and calling the cops. Lakhna is fed up of being a rebel and wants to surrender. Meanwhile, Petta (2019) Size: 1200mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Rajinikanth, Vijay Sethupathi, Nawazuddin Siddiqui Synopsis: Though he works as a hostel warden, there is more to Kaali than meets the eye. Things take an interesting turn when Kaali's path crosses with a group of dreaded gangsters. Athirah (2016) Size: 600mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Cut Mini Theo, Christoffer Nelwan, Nino Prabowo Synopsis: Athirah's life is shattered when another woman enters her husband's life. In a time and cultural background where polygamy is still widely accepted, Athirah struggles alone with the hurt and humiliation. Meanwhile, Athirah's eldest son, Ucu, has to go through his teenage years with uncertainty. While trying to understand what is going on in his family, Ucu falls in love with Ida. His effort to approach Ida isn't easy and Ucu's frustration deepens when he discovers that his mother is pregnant again. A portrait of an Indonesian family in South Sulawesi circa 1960 that still resonates today. TV Series Asia: Heavenly Sword and Dragon Slaying Sabre (2019) Episode: 50 (Complete) Size: 6DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Joseph Zheng, Chen Yu Qi, Zhu Xu Dan Synopsis: This is the last part of the trilogy which began with Legend of the Condor Heroes and continued in Return of the Condor Heroes. Heavenly Sword and Dragon Slaying Sabre took place nearly 100 years after the events of Return of the Condor Heroes in a China ruled by the Mongolian Yuan Dynasty. Legend said that whoever obtains the Heavenly Sword and Dragon Slaying Saber can rule the world. Zhang Wuji was orphaned at a young age by schemes to discover secrets of these two weapons. Despite his preference to live a non-violent life, Wuji found himself embroiled in the struggles for power and must fight to save himself and others he loves... ponchan2 , May 2, 2019 #1421 Ramasinta Tukang Iklan Hai, IDWS Mania! Mohon bantuannya supaya IDWS berkembang dengan ikuti sosial media kami di: Discord Forum IDWS - Facebook IDWS - Instagram IDWS - Twitter IDWS ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 Smuggling Hendrix (2018) Format: 720p AMZN WEB-DL Size: 800MB Genre: Comedy Staring: Adam Bousdoukos, Fatih Al, Vicky Papadopoulou Synopsis: Yiannis, a faded musician who is about to leave Cyprus for a better life abroad, sees his plans turned upside down when his dog runs away and crosses the Buffer Zone that separates the "Greek South" from the "Turkish North". Can he smuggle him back in? The Lego Movie 2: The Second Part (2019) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 1000MB Genre: Animation Staring: Chris Pratt, Elizabeth Banks, Will Arnett Synopsis: It's been five years since everything was awesome and the citizens are facing a huge new threat: Lego Duplo invaders from outer space, wrecking everything faster than they can rebuild. The Professor and the Madman (2019) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 999MB Genre: Biography Staring: Natalie Dormer, Mel Gibson, Stephen Dillane Synopsis: Professor James Murray begins work compiling words for the first edition of the Oxford English Dictionary in the mid 19th century, and receives over 10,000 entries from a patient at Broadmoor Criminal Lunatic Asylum, Dr. William Minor. Miss Bala (2019) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 950MB Genre: Action Staring: Gina Rodriguez, Thomas Dekker, Vivian Chan Synopsis: Gloria finds a power she never knew she had when she is drawn into a dangerous world of cross-border crime. Surviving will require all of her cunning, inventiveness, and strength. Based on the Spanish-language film. Arctic (2018) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 1GB Genre: Adventure Staring: Mads Mikkelsen, Maria Thelma Smáradóttir, Tintrinai Thikhasuk Synopsis: A man stranded in the Arctic after an airplane crash must decide whether to remain in the relative safety of his makeshift camp or to embark on a deadly trek through the unknown in hopes of making it out alive. The Catcher Was a Spy (2018) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 700mb Genre: Biography Staring: Paul Rudd, Pierfrancesco Favino, Tom Wilkinson Synopsis: A major league baseball player, Moe Berg, lives a double life working for the Office of Strategic Services. An Interview with God (2018) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 950MB Genre: Drama Staring: Brenton Thwaites, Yael Grobglas, David Strathairn Synopsis: Paul Asher, an up-and-coming journalist, returns home from covering the war in Afghanistan and finds his life is falling apart - his marriage is failing and he's in the grips of a personal crisis he doesn't yet understand. Even more pressing, a soldier that Paul befriended in Afghanistan is struggling at home and Paul is desperately trying to help him. But, Paul's life takes a strange twist when he's offered an interview that he finds impossible to resist - an interview with someone who claims to be God. JT LeRoy (2018) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 900MB Genre: Biography Staring: Kristen Stewart, Laura Dern, Jim Sturgess Synopsis: A young woman named Savannah Knoop spends six years pretending to be the celebrated author JT LeRoy, the made-up literary persona of her sister-in-law. Body at Brighton Rock (2019) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 700MB Genre: Adventure Staring: Karina Fontes, Casey Adams, Emily Althaus Synopsis: Wendy, a part-time summer employee at a mountainous state park, takes on a rough trail assignment at the end of the season, trying to prove to her friends that she's capable enough to do the job. When she takes a wrong turn and ends up deep in the backcountry, she stumbles upon what might be a potential crime scene. Stuck with no communication after losing her radio and with orders to guard the site, Wendy must fight the urge to run and do the harder job of staying put - spending the night deep in the wilderness, facing down her worst fears and proving to everyone - including herself - that she's made of stronger stuff than they think she is. I Spit on Your Grave: Deja Vu (2019) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 1.3GB Genre: Thriller Staring: Camille Keaton, Jamie Bernadette, Maria Olsen Synopsis: Jennifer Hills is back. Forty years after 1978's I Spit On Your Grave shocked the world with its story of a beautiful career woman assaulted and left for dead, and her notorious revenge on those responsible, cinema's most lethal lady vengeance returns in the most anticipated sequel of all time. Reuniting star Camille Keaton and original director Meir Zarchi, I Spit On Your Grave: Déjà vu sends now successful writer Jennifer Hills hurtling back to where it all began - to face the wrath of the families of those she murdered. Kidnapped along with her daughter scream queen star Jamie Bernadette, it's a tense game of hunt - or be hunted - against a lethal gang of degenerates overseen by a violently unhinged matriarch Maria Olsen. Meir Zarchi delivers the next explosive saga in the most controversial tale of an eye-for-an-eye ever committed to celluloid. Some grudges refuse to be buried- David Maquire. Lo spietato (2019) 720p Format: NF WEB-DL Size: 950MB Genre: Crime Staring: Riccardo Scamarcio, Sara Serraiocco, Alessio Praticò Synopsis: A rebellious teen grows up to become one of Milan's most ambitious criminals during the golden years of the 'ndrangheta Mafia in the 1980s. Happy Death Day 2U (2019) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 950MB Genre: Horror Staring: Jessica Rothe, Israel Broussard, Phi Vu Synopsis: Having survived the farcical but utterly life-threatening events in Happy Death Day (2017), the feisty sorority sister, Tree Gelbman, finds herself in the same college dorm, thankful to be alive. However, this time, it's Carter's roommate, Ryan, who claims that he is reliving the same paradoxical day over and over again, as a mysterious paranoid killer in a single-toothed baby-faced mask with a big kitchen knife has made a habit of murdering him. Under those circumstances, a valiant but vain attempt to face the challenge, once more, will send Tree back to square one, trapped in an all too familiar and blood-drenched time loop. How many deaths separate Tree from a truly happy birthday? Styx (2018) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 800MB Genre: Drama Staring: Susanne Wolff, Gedion Oduor Wekesa, Kelvin Mutuku Ndinda Synopsis: "Styx" depicts the transformation of a strong woman torn from her contented world during a sailing trip. When she becomes the only person to come to the aid of a group of refugees shipwrecked on the high seas, she is shown the limits of her importance and of the empathy of her cultural milieu. She is left slipping impotently from one nightmare to the next, and by the end she is forced to recognize that there is no way to counter the cruelties of real life. Only chance can save her. What Men Want (2019) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 950MB Genre: Comedy Staring: Taraji P. Henson, Kristen Ledlow, Josh Brener Synopsis: A woman is boxed out by the male sports agents in her profession, but gains an unexpected edge over them when she develops the ability to hear men's thoughts. The Prodigy (2019) Format; 720p WEB-DL Size: 750MB Genre: Horror Staring: Jackson Robert Scott, Taylor Schilling, Peter Mooney Synopsis: In her much-anticipated foray into the horror-thriller genre, Golden Globe and Emmy nominee Taylor Schilling stars in THE PRODIGY as Sarah, a mother whose young son Miles' disturbing behavior signals that an evil, possibly supernatural force has overtaken him. Fearing for her family's safety, Sarah must choose between her maternal instinct to love and protect Miles and a desperate need to investigate what or who is causing his dark turn. She is forced to look for answers in the past, taking the audience on a wild ride; one where the line between perception and reality becomes frighteningly blurry. Sharkwater Extinction (2018) Format: 720p AMZN WEB-DL Size: 700MB Genre: Documentary Staring: Rob Stewart, Rebecca Aldworth, Will Allen Synopsis: Discovering that sharks are being hunted to extinction, and with them the destruction of our life support system - activist and filmmaker Rob Stewart embarks on a dangerous quest to stop the slaughter. Following the sharks - and the money - into the elusive pirate fishing industry, Stewart uncovers a multi-billion dollar scandal that makes us all accomplices in the greatest wildlife massacre ever known. Destroyer (2018) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 1.1GB Genre: Action Staring: Nicole Kidman, Toby Kebbell, Tatiana Maslany Synopsis: Destroyer follows the moral and existential odyssey of LAPD detective Erin Bell who, as a young cop, was placed undercover with a gang in the California desert with tragic results. When the leader of that gang re-emerges many years later, she must work her way back through the remaining members and into her own history with them to finally reckon with the demons that destroyed her past. Cold Pursuit (2019) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 950MB Genre: Action Staring: Liam Neeson, Laura Dern, Micheál Richardson Synopsis: Quiet family man and hard-working snowplow driver Nels is the lifeblood of a glitzy resort town in the Rocky Mountains because he is the one who keeps the winter roads clear. He and his wife live in a comfortable cabin away from the tourists. The town has just awarded him "Citizen of the Year." But Nels has to leave his quiet mountain life when his son is murdered by a powerful drug lord. As a man who has nothing to lose he is stoked by a drive for vengeance. This unlikely hero uses his hunting skills and transforms from an ordinary man into a skilled killer as he sets out to dismantle the cartel. Nels' actions ignite a turf war between a manically unpredictable gangster known as Viking and a rival gang boss. Justice is served in one final spectacular confrontation that will leave (almost) no one unscathed. Fighting with My Family (2019) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 1GB Genre: Comedy Staring: Dwayne Johnson, Lena Headey, Vince Vaughn Synopsis: A former wrestler and his family make a living performing at small venues around the country while his kids dream of joining World Wrestling Entertainment. Dragged Across Concrete (2018) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 1.4GB Genre: Action Staring: Mel Gibson, Vince Vaughn, Tory Kittles Synopsis: The script centers on two policemen, one an old-timer (Gibson), the other his volatile younger partner (Vaughn), who find themselves suspended when a video of their strong-arm tactics become the media's cause du jour. Low on cash and with no other options, these two embittered soldiers descend into the criminal underworld to gain their just due, but instead find far more than they wanted awaiting them in the shadows. Last edited: May 7, 2019 ponchan2 , May 3, 2019 #1422 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 Dragon Ball Super: Broly (2018) Size: 800mb Format: Blu ray 720p Synopsis: Goku and Vegeta encounter Broly, a Saiyan warrior unlike any fighter they've faced before. Date A Live III (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1500mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: The third season of Date A Live. BanG Dream! 2nd Season (2019) Episode: 13 (Complete) Size: 1600mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: Second season of the BanG Dream! series. Yakusoku no Neverland (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1500mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: Surrounded by a forest and a gated entrance, the Grace Field House is inhabited by orphans happily living together as one big family, looked after by their "Mama," Isabella. Although they are required to take tests daily, the children are free to spend their time as they see fit, usually playing outside, as long as they do not venture too far from the orphanage—a rule they are expected to follow no matter what. However, all good times must come to an end, as every few months, a child is adopted and sent to live with their new family... never to be heard from again. However, the three oldest siblings have their suspicions about what is actually happening at the orphanage, and they are about to discover the cruel fate that awaits the children living at Grace Field, including the twisted nature of their beloved Mama. Watashi ni Tenshi ga Maiorita! (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1500mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: One day, fifth-grader Hinata Hoshino brings her friend Hana Shirosaki to her house, and Hinata's sister Miyako, a college student, falls in love with Hana at first sight. Miyako manages to get along with Hana somehow, but her clumsy behavior and shyness make Hana wary. Even so, Hana gradually opens up to Miyako, who wants to become closer to her. Mob Psycho 100 II (2019) Episode: 13 (Complete) Size: 2100mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: Second Season of ONE's Mob Psycho 100. Toaru Majutsu no Index III (2019) Episode: 26 (Complete) Size: 3300mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: As tensions within the Dark Side of Academy City rise, members of GROUP and ITEM decide to not just blindly fulfill their orders anymore but to try and uncover Aleister Crowley's true motives and the connection between worlds of science and magic. Meanwhile, a powerful figure operating from the shadows aims to plunge the whole world into chaos and bring forth their own twisted version of salvation. Toaru Majutsu no Index III continues the story of Touma, as he, Accelerator, and Hamazura all fight to save their friends and loved ones, while trying to stop the destruction of humanity. Sword Art Online: Alicization (2019) Episode: 24 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+600mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: "Where...am I...?" Before he knows it, Kirito has made a full-dive into an epic, fantasy-like virtual world. With only a murky recollection of what happened right before he logged in, he starts to wander around, searching for clues. He comes upon an enormous, pitch dark tree (the Gigas Cedar), where he encounters a boy. "My name is Eugeo. Nice to meet you, Kirito." Although he is supposedly a resident of the virtual world – an NPC – the boy shows the same array of emotions as any human being. As Kirito bonds with Eugeo, he continues to search for a way to log out of this world. Meanwhile, he remembers a certain memory deep down within him. He remembers racing through the mountains with Eugeo as a child... A memory that he should not have in the first place. And in this memory, he sees someone other than Eugeo, a young blond girl. Her name is Alice. And it is a name that must never be forgotten... Captain Tsubasa (2018) Episode: 52 (Complete) Size: 2DVD+2000mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: Captain Tsubasa is the passionate story of an elementary school student whose thoughts and dreams revolve almost entirely around the love of soccer. 11-year-old Tsubasa Oozora started playing football at a very young age, and while it was mostly just a recreational sport for his friends, for him, it developed into something of an obsession. In order to pursue his dream to the best of his elementary school abilities, Tsubasa moves with his mother to Nankatsu city, which is well-known for its excellent elementary school soccer teams. But although he was easily the best in his old town, Nankatsu has a lot more competition, and he will need all of his skill and talent in order to stand out from this new crowd. He encounters not only rivals, but also new friends like the pretty girl Sanae Nakazawa and the talented goalkeeper, Genzo Wakabayashi, who shares the same passion as Tsubasa, and will prove to be a treasured friend in helping him push towards his dreams. Representing Japan in the FIFA World Cup is Tsubasa’s ultimate dream, but it will take a lot more than talent to reach it. Hinomaruzumou (2018) Episode: 24 (Complete) Size: 3200mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: It is a divine ritual, a martial art, a combat sport—it's sumo!! A "small" new student, Ushio Hinomaru, appears before the weak little sumo club of Oodachi High School! The words "big" and "heavy" are the rules to this sport, which does not fit this newbie any inch, but this guy goes and does what...?! Ushio and the small sumo club climbs its way to the top! The goal is Hinoshita Kaisan! (a title for the highest rank in professional sumo, equivalent of Yokozuna) A fired up high school sumo tale—no retakes allowed!! *Hinoshita Kaisan - A title for the highest rank in professional sumo, equivalent of Yokozuna. Tsurune: Kazemai Koukou Kyuudoubu (2018) Episode: 13 (Complete) Size: 1400mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: The story follows Minato Narumiya. Minato played Japanese archery in middle school, but after a certain incident, he ran away from the sport. In high school, Minato meets new friends, and together as part of their school's archery club they aim to win the prefectural tournament. Kaze ga Tsuyoku Fuiteiru (2018) Episode: 23 (Complete) Size: 2700mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: Kakeru, a former elite runner at high school, is chased for stealing food. He is saved by a Kansei University student Haiji, who is also a runner. Haiji persuades Kakeru to live in the old apartment "Chikuseisou" where he plans to team up with fellow residents to enter Hakone Ekiden Marathon, one of the most prominent university races in Japan. Kakeru soon finds out that all of the residents except for Haiji and himself are complete novices. Revisions (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1500mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: "This is a prophecy for you, where five people will meet huge adversaries, and only you can protect everyone." Daisuke Toujima is a second-year high school student who was abducted when he was young. He was involved in a special phenomenon—Shibuya Drift—with his childhood friends Gai, Ru, Marimari, and Keisaku. They were transferred to the center of Shibuya over 300 years into the future. What's waiting for them is endless wilderness and forest, Interspersed ruin, future citizens, and "Revisions" which are huge mechanical monsters. Trampled by the monsters without understanding the situation, a girl who has the same name as the person who saved Daisuke when he was abducted, Miro, provided a mobile suit "String Puppet" and told them to save Shibuya. With separated paths, adversaries, destined prophecies, the boys, and girls are on their journey to return to their original time. Doukyonin wa Hiza, Tokidoki, Atama no Ue (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1100mb Synopsis: Novelist Subaru Mikazuki, who is shy and not good with other people, and Haru, the cat that has been living a severe stray life. This is a story of them suddenly living together and describes the happiness of living together from both points of view. Mahou Shoujo Tokushusen Asuka (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1500mb Synopsis: Due to the invasion of Disas—enigmatic creatures of soil from the land of the dead—mankind, who was on the verge of crisis, was saved by the efforts of magical girls who had obtained a mysterious magical power... Three years later, new incidents suddenly occur, tearing apart the normalcy of the girls who had each returned to their normal lives. The saviours of humanity, those magical girls called "The Magical Five" now live each day fighting for their lives, even as they are trifled with by fate... Domestic na Kanojo (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1500mb Synopsis: Natsuo Fujii is in love with his teacher, Hina. Attempting to forget his feelings towards her, Natsuo goes to a mixer with his classmates where he meets an odd girl named Rui Tachibana. In a strange turn of events, Rui asks Natsuo to sneak out with her and do her a favor. To his surprise, their destination is Rui's house—and her request is for him to have *** with her. There's no love behind the act; she just wants to learn from the experience. Thinking that it might help him forget about Hina, Natsuo hesitantly agrees. After this unusual encounter Natsuo now faces a new problem. With his father remarrying, he ends up with a new pair of stepsisters; unfortunately, he knows these two girls all too well. He soon finds out his new siblings are none other than Hina and Rui! Now living with both the teacher he loves and the girl with whom he had his "first time," Natsuo finds himself in an unexpected love triangle as he climbs ever closer towards adulthood. Last edited: May 16, 2019 ponchan2 , May 5, 2019 #1423 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 Then Came You (2018) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 950MB Genre: Adventure Staring: Asa Butterfield, Maisie Williams, Nina Dobrev Synopsis: A hypochondriac working as an airport baggage handler is forced to confront his fears when a British teenager with a terminal illness enlists him to help her carry out her eccentric bucket list. Prodigy (2018) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 900MB Genre: Thriller Staring: Jeffrey Arrington, Adrianne White, Tyler Roy Roberts Synopsis: Set in the not too distant future, Erik Black is a broken soul due to the loss of his wife Emily. Disillusioned and happy living a life of isolation, he spends his days self-medicating and without any real sense of purpose. But all of that changes when he is asked, by his estranged son, to help him reach an undisclosed destination. There, he tells his father, he will receive a divine message; one that he believes will change the course of humanity. In order to survive the ordeal, father and son must stick together while fostering a belief in something greater than themselves. Discovering the true meaning of sacrifice, Erik will risk everything to deliver his son so that he can in turn deliver the message the world has been waiting for. PRODIGY is a father-and-son dramatic thriller full of adventure and humanity, that builds to a nail-biting conclusion. Amidst a journey of self-discovery, Erik is given one last chance at redemption as his faith and ability to deal with his past demons Matriarch (2018) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 750MB Genre: Horror Staring: Charlie Blackwood, Julie Hannan, Scott Vickers Synopsis: An expecting Mother (Rachel) and husband (Matt) crash their car in the countryside and are offered shelter by a farmer and his wife. Rachel soon realizes the farmer's children are in fact stolen. Just as they try to escape from the farm Rachel goes into labor..... High Life (2018) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 1GB Genre: Adventure Staring: Robert Pattinson, Juliette Binoche, André Benjamin Synopsis: Takes place beyond the solar system in a future that seems like the present. About a group of criminals who accept a mission in space to become the subjects of a human reproduction experiment. They find themselves in the most unimaginable situation after a storm of cosmic rays hit the ship. Storm Boy (2019) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 850MB Genre: Adventure Staring: Jai Courtney, Geoffrey Rush, David Gulpilil Synopsis: A beautiful and contemporary retelling of Colin Thiele's classic Australian tale. 'Storm Boy' has grown up to be Michael Kingley, a successful retired businessman and grandfather. When Kingley starts to see images from his past that he can't explain, he is forced to remember his long-forgotten childhood, growing up on an isolated coastline with his father. He recounts to his grand-daughter the story of how, as a boy, he rescued and raised an extraordinary orphaned pelican, Mr Percival. Their remarkable adventures and very special bond has a profound effect on all their lives. Based on the beloved book, Storm Boy is a timeless story of an unusual and unconditional friendship. Ruben Brandt, Collector (2018) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 900MB Genre: Animation Staring: Iván Kamarás, Gabriella Hámori, Zalán Makranczi Synopsis: A psychotherapist suffers violent nightmares inspired by legendary works of art. Four of his patients, expert thieves, offer to steal the works, since he believes that once he owns them, the nightmares will disappear. He becomes a wanted criminal know as "The Collector". Who will dare to catch him and his gang? Homecoming: A Film by Beyoncé (2019) Format: 720p NF WEB-DL Size: 1.1GB Genre: Documentary Staring: Beyoncé, Blue Ivy Carter, Jay Z Synopsis: This intimate, in-depth look at Beyoncé's celebrated 2018 Coachella performance reveals the emotional road from creative concept to cultural movement. Excursion (2018) Format: 720p AMZN WEB-DL Size: 700MB Genre: Mystery Staring: Johnny Mindlin, Richard Canal, Sophie Wilson Synopsis: London, present time: Tom wakes up in the middle of the night to see his twenty year old self, Tomas, pointing a gun at his face. Tomas just traveled through time from 1980's USSR to see how Socialism is prospering. As a dedicated party member and future soldier, has been chosen specifically by the Socialist government for this vital experiment. Tom laughs in his face and shows him the events of last twenty years. It becomes very clear to Tomas that there has been a huge mistake. He has to do all he can, to save Socialism from its fate, at any cost. Once Upon a Time in London (2019) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 900MB Genre: Crime Staring: Holly Earl, Andy Beckwith, Dominic Keating Synopsis: Dramatising the violent reign of two of London's most notorious gangsters, Billy Hill (Leo Gregory) and Jack 'Spot' Comer (Terry Stone), ONCE UPON A TIME IN LONDON charts the legendary rise and fall of a nationwide criminal empire that lasted until the mid-fifties and which paved the way for the notorious Kray Twins and The Richardsons. I Still See You (2018) Format; 720p BRRip Size: 950MB Genre; Thriller Staring: Bella Thorne, Richard Harmon, Dermot Mulroney Synopsis: Bella Thorne stars in this spellbinding and romantic supernatural thriller. Ten years after an apocalyptic event left the world haunted by ghosts, Roni (Thorne) receives a threatening message from beyond the grave. Joining forces with a mysterious classmate, Kirk, Roni descends into a shadow world that blurs the bounds of the living and the dead-and begins a desperate race against time to stop a cunning killer. Only Mine (2019) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 700MB Genre: Thriller Staring: Amber Midthunder, Brett Zimmerman, Chris Browning Synopsis: Tormented and left for dead by a scorned lover, a woman finds the strength within herself to recover and retaliate against her abuser. Hell of a Night (2019) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 700MB Genre: Horror Staring: Rachael Hevrin, Grace Powell, Ella Taylor Synopsis: After moving to a new town, a young college student retreats to the country for a weekend of solace when she quickly finds out that she is not alone and needs to fight for her life. Dagenham (2018) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 900MB Genre: Horror Staring: Doraly Rosa, Bradley Doughty, Nikolaos Brahimllari Synopsis: A desperate mothers fight against drugs, death and desperation in the deprived town of Dagenham. Someone Great (2019) Format: 720p NF WEB-DL Size: 700MB Genre: Comedy Staring: Gina Rodriguez, LaKeith Stanfield, Brittany Snow Synopsis: Aspiring music journalist Jenny (Gina Rodriguez) has just landed her dream job at an iconic magazine and is about to move to San Francisco. Rather than do long distance, her boyfriend of nine years (Lakeith Stanfield) decides to call it quits. To nurse her broken heart, Jenny gathers up her two best friends Erin (DeWanda Wise) and Blair (Brittany Snow) for one outrageous last adventure in New York City. From writer/director Jennifer Kaytin Robinson (creator of MTV's Sweet/Vicious) SOMEONE GREAT is a hilarious and heartfelt story of friendship, love, and what it means to let go of your twenties and enter adulthood. Daddy Issues (2018) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 700MB Genre: Drama Staring: Madison Lawlor, Montana Manning, Andrew Pifko Synopsis: Maya, a 19-year-old queer pixie, spends her days working on her art and cyberstalkng her insta-crush, the sexually fluid fashion designer, Jasmine. One night Maya boldly meets Jasmine IRL, there's an insta-spark and the two begin an inspiring romantic relationship that gives Maya her first taste of true love and Jasmine the inspiration she needs to jump start her career. It's all gumdrops and fairytales until Maya discovers Jasmine's in a co-dependent relationship with a neurotic sugar daddy. What started as a dream come true turns into a beautiful nightmare. Drunk Parents (2019) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 800MB Genre: Comedy Staring: Alec Baldwin, Salma Hayek, Jim Gaffigan Synopsis: Frank and Nancy are a married couple living in a British-style big house. They proudly send their only daughter to college. But it turns out that the wealth of the family is not unlimited - To pay for the education of their daughter and hide financial collapse from her close ones, Frank and Nancy secretly arrange a garage sale at night, pouring it all in with alcohol. Maine (2018) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 700MB Genre: Drama Staring: Rae Becka, Matthew Brown, Pete Burris Synopsis: While solo thru-hiking the Appalachian Trail, a married woman from Spain's journey to reclaim her identity becomes sidetracked when a lone American hiker pursues her. Remi, Nobody’s.Boy (2019) Format: 720p NF WEB-DL Size: 900MB Genre: Drama Staring: Daniel Auteuil, Maleaume Paquin, Virginie Ledoyen Synopsis: The adventures of the young Rémi, an orphan, collected by the gentle Madam Barberin. At the age of 10 years, he is snatched from his adoptive mother and entrusted to the signor Vitalis, a mysterious itinerant musician. Has its sides, he will learn the harsh life of acrobat and sing to win his bread. Accompanied by the faithful dog capi and of the small monkey Joli-Coeur, his long trip through France, made for meetings, friendships and mutual assistance, leads him to the secret of its origins. Every 21 Seconds (2018) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 900MB Genre: Drama Staring: Shannon Brown, Kelly Thiebaud, Jim O'Heir Synopsis: A happy, loving and successful man is brutally attacked in a case of mistaken identity that results in a severe TBI (Traumatic Brain Injury). As he attempts to recover against seemingly overwhelming odds, he must find the strength to survive and become the husband and father he once was. Led by his amazing wife, his family and friends do their best to stay together and provide the support needed. During his recovery, he finds a common bond with the unlikeliest of people, a brash and somewhat unhinged Marine Veteran. The Upside (2019) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 1GB Genre: Drama Staring: Kevin Hart, Bryan Cranston, Nicole Kidman Synopsis: Philip is a disabled white billionaire, who feels that life is not worth living. To help him in his day to day routine, he hires Del, an African American parolee, trying to reconnect with his estranged wife. What begins as a professional relationship develops into a friendship as Del shows his grouchy charge that life is worth living. ponchan2 , May 6, 2019 #1424 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 The Convent (2019) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 700MB Genre: Horror Staring: Michael Ironside, Rosie Day, Hannah Arterton Synopsis: Early in the seventeenth century, a young woman, Persephone, is falsely accused, arrested and put on trial for her life. Her fate seems sealed but for the timely intervention of a stranger, the mysterious Reverend Mother, who offers Persephone not just sanctuary, but hope. For the Reverend Mother is the self-appointed leader of a small religious retreat, a secluded Priory, where she and her fellow Sisters can devote their lives to the Lord and seek atonement for their pasts. But upon her arrival, Persephone is plagued with terrifying visions and soon realizes that it's not Salvation that awaits her, but a battle for her very soul itself. I’ll Take Your Dead (2019) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 700MB Genre: Horror Staring: Aidan Devine, Ava Preston, Jess Salgueiro Synopsis: I'll Take Your Dead follows William who has a simple job, he makes dead bodies disappear. This isn't something he likes to or even wants to do, but through circumstances out of his control, his little farm house in the country has become a dumping ground for the casualties of the gang related murders in the nearby city. His daughter Gloria has become used to rough looking men dropping off corpses and is even convinced that some of them are haunting their house. After a woman's body, is dumped at the house, William begins his meticulous process when he realizes, she's not actually dead. As the gang activity increases, William patches the woman up and holds her against her will until he can figure out what to do with her. As they begin to develop a very unusual respect for each other, the woman's murderers get word that she's still alive and make plan to go finish what they started. Waiting for the Miracle to Come (2018) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 650MB Genre: Drama Staring: Charlotte Rampling, Willie Nelson, Sophie Lowe Synopsis: An aspiring trapeze artist discovers a cryptic letter her recently deceased father once wrote directing her to a gold mine in a remote California desert. Upon arriving in a mysterious town, she finds herself at the gates of "The Beautiful Place," a house occupied by retired vaudeville stars Jimmy and Dixie Riggs. As she gets to know the eccentric couple, she discovers her words were directing her to a reward far more valuable than gold. Apollo 11 (2019) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 900MB Genre: Documentary Staring: Buzz Aldrin, Joan Ann Archer, Janet Armstrong Synopsis: A look at the Apollo 11 mission to land on the moon led by commander Neil Armstrong and pilots Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins. The Last Summer (2019) Format: 720p NF WEB-DL Size: 900MB Genre: Comedy Staring: K.J. Apa, Maia Mitchell, Norman Johnson Jr. Synopsis: A group of young people in Chicago come together during the summer before they head off to college. Extremely Wicked, Shockingly Evil, and Vile (2019) Format: 720p NF WEB-DL Size: 900MB Genre: Biography Staring: Lily Collins, Zac Efron, Angela Sarafyan Synopsis: A courtroom frenzy ensues and sweeps 1970s America when a young single mother reluctantly tips the attention of a widespread manhunt toward her longtime boyfriend Wine Country (2019) Format: 720p NF WEB-DL Size: 850MB Genre: Comedy Staring: Amy Poehler, Rachel Dratch, Ana Gasteyer Synopsis: When a group of longtime girlfriends goes to Napa for the weekend to celebrate their friend's 50th birthday, tensions from the past boil over. Never Grow Old (2019) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 950MB Genre: Action Staring: John Cusack, Emile Hirsch, Antonia Campbell-Hughes Synopsis: An Irish undertaker profits when outlaws take over a peaceful American frontier town, but his family comes under threat as the death toll rises. Isn’t It Romantic (2019) Format: 720p BRRip Size: 850MB Genre: Drama Staring: Rebel Wilson, Liam Hemsworth, Adam Devine Synopsis: A young woman disenchanted with love mysteriously finds herself trapped inside a romantic comedy. Her Smell (2019) Format: 720p WEB-DL Size: 1.1GB Genre: Drama Staring: Elisabeth Moss, Cara Delevingne, Dan Stevens Synopsis: A self-destructive punk rocker struggles with sobriety while trying to recapture the creative inspiration that led her band to success. My Dad Wrote a P*rn* (2019) Format: 720p AMZN WEB-DL Size: 500MB Genre: Comedy Staring: Alice Levine, Jamie Morton, James Cooper Synopsis: A comedy special based on the British comedy podcast of the same name. Movie Asia: My Long Awaited Love Story (2016) Size: 1200mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Tabe Mikako, Takahashi Issei, Shison Jun Synopsis: Riko Shirono doesn't have any big expectations for a man in her life, but she works as a love simulation game planner. She receives a request for a new love game from app company TIMEIS. Soichiro Kurokawa is the CEO for the company. He is almost perfect, but he can't understand a woman’s mind. One day, Soichiro, who likes his subordinate Momose, asks Riko to teach him about love techniques. Due to Riko’s help, Soichiro and Momose get close, but Riko finds herself becoming attracted to Soichiro. Jo Pil-Ho: The Dawning Rage (2019) Size: 1gb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Crime Staring: Lee Sun-Kyun, Jeon So-Nee, Park Hae-Joon Synopsis: Story follows a bad police officer as he confronts an even more vicious society. Photograph (2019) Size: 950mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Sanya Malhotra, Sachin Khedekar Synopsis: Two lives intersect in Mumbai and go along together. A struggling street photographer, pressured to marry by his grandmother, convinces a shy stranger to pose as his fiancée. The pair develops a connection that transforms them in ways that they could not expect. From Ritesh Batra (The Lunchbox). TV Series: Lucifer Season 4 (2019) Episode:10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Tom Ellis, Lauren German, Kevin Alejandro Synopsis: Lucifer, bored from his sulking life in hell, comes to live in Los Angeles. While there, he helps humanity with its miseries through his experience and telepathic abilities to bring people's deepest desires and thoughts out of them. While meeting with a girl in his nightclub (called Lux), a shootout involving him and the girl leads him to become a LAPD consultant who tries to punish people for their crimes through law and justice. Roswell, New Mexico (2019) Episode: 13 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Jeanine Mason, Nathan Parsons, Michael Vlamis Synopsis: A reimagining of Roswell, which centers on the residents of New Mexico, where aliens live undercover among humans. The Society (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+1000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Kathryn Newton, Gideon Adlon, Sean Berdy Synopsis: A group of teenagers struggles to survive after they're mysteriously transported to a replica of their wealthy town with no trace of their parents. The Rookie (2019) Episode: 20 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+2000mb Format: Web DL720p Staring: Nathan Fillion, Alyssa Diaz, Richard T. Jones Synopsis: The series follows John Nolan, a 40-year-old man who moves from his comfortable, small-town life to Los Angeles to pursue his dream of being a police officer for the Los Angeles Police Department. He must navigate the dangerous, humorous, and unpredictable world of a "young" cop, determined to make his second shot at life count. Dead to Me (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 2400mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Christina Applegate, Linda Cardellini, James Marsden Synopsis: A series about a powerful friendship that blossoms between a tightly wound widow (Applegate) and a free spirit with a shocking secret. The Innocents (2019) Episode: 8 (Complete) Size: 3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Sorcha Groundsell, Percelle Ascott, Guy Pearce Synopsis: The Innocents is a teenage supernatural love story, which revolves around two teenagers, Harry and June, who run away from their repressive family to be together. After this, they are thrown into a journey of self-discovery, due to the secrets kept by their parents, which test their love. Besides this, their respective extraordinary gifts end up unleashing powerful forces, who intend on dividing them forever. Street Food Season 1:  Asia (2019) Episode: 13 Size: 2200mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Daniel Lee Gray, Philip Hersh Synopsis: Exploring the rich culture of street food in some of the world's most colorful cities. Grisse / Gresik (2018) Episode: 8 (Complete) Size: 3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Adinia Wirasti, Marthino Lio, Alexandra Gottardo Synopsis: Set in the mid 1800’s within the colonial period of the Dutch East Indies, the series chronicles the story of a group of unlikely individuals who lead a rebellion against a brutal governor and suddenly find themselves in control of a Dutch garrison town called Grisse. The stories revolve around a number of unique characters, each from diverse backgrounds and creeds who unite for the chance to determine their own destiny from the yoke of tyranny. TV Series Asia: Confession (2019) Episode: 16 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: HDTV 720p Staring: Lee Joon-Ho, Yoo Jae-Myung, Shin Hyun-Bin Synopsis: A case involving the hidden truth behind the law prohibiting double jeopardy. When Choi Do-Hyun (Lee Joon-Ho) was a boy, he had a heart disease. He spent most of his childhood in a hospital. He miraculously had a chance for a heart transplant. Right after the successful heart transplant surgery, his father was accused of murder. His father received the death penalty. To investigate his father's case, Choi Do-Hyun now works as a lawyer. Last edited: May 14, 2019 ponchan2 , May 10, 2019 #1425 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 Batman vs. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2019) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Animation Staring: Troy Baker, Eric Bauza, Darren Criss Synopsis: Batman, Batgirl and Robin forge an alliance with The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles to fight against the Turtles' sworn enemy, The Shredder, who has teamed up with Ra's Al Ghul and The League Of Assassins. Greta (2018) Size: 840mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Isabelle Huppert, Chloë Grace Moretz, Maika Monroe Synopsis: A young woman befriends a lonely widow who's harboring a dark and deadly agenda toward her. Birds of Passage (2018) Size: 1,1gb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Carmiña Martínez, José Acosta, Natalia Reyes Synopsis: During the marijuana bonanza, a violent decade that saw the origins of drug trafficking in Colombia, Rapayet and his indigenous family get involved in a war to control the business that ends up destroying their lives and their culture. Egg (2018) Size: 800mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Christina Hendricks, Alysia Reiner, David Alan Basche Synopsis: Centers on conceptual artist Tina (Reiner), when she introduces her eight-month pregnant art school rival (Hendricks) to her non-traditional surrogate Kiki (Camp), the truth outs and the patriarchy fights to hang on. Chasing Bullitt (2018) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Jan Broberg, Andre Brooks, Dorian Cirillo-Murray Synopsis: January 1971- After an unexpected confrontation with his agent, Hollywood legend Steve McQueen makes a reluctant deal. He'll choose his next acting gig on one condition: his agent has to help him locate the iconic Ford Mustang GT 390 from his seminal film BULLITT. On his journey across the desert and back to Los Angeles, Steve ruminates on his triumphs and losses. Through his memories, a picture of the man's reality is slowly revealed: a crumbling marriage, therapy, financial troubles, and a waning career. Tater Tot & Patton (2017) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Jessica Rothe, Bates Wilder, Forrest Weber Synopsis: A wayward millennial escapes to a South Dakota ranch, unhinging her Uncle's placid alcoholic life. Movie Asia: Anoko no Toriko (2018) Size: 1000mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Ryo Yoshizawa, Yuko Araki, Yosuke Sugino Synopsis: Yori Suzuki (Ryo Yoshizawa), Shizuku Tachibana (Yuko Araki) and Subaru Tojo (Yosuke Sugino) were friends when they were children. They promised that they would all become stars, but they moved away. Now, Yori Suzuki is a high school student. He looks rather plain with glasses, but Shizuku Tachibana is a popular model and Subaru Tojo is a popular actor. Yori Suzuki decides to pursue his dream. He also has feelings for Shizuku Tachibana and transfers to the high school where she attends. Yori and Shizuku meet again. Yori becomes an assistant for Shizuku on her CM shootings. He happens to appear in a CM and gains popularity as the "mysterious boy." Meanwhile, Shizuku Tachibana and Subaru Tojo are cast for a stage performance. When the curtain drops after their successful first performance, Subaru Tojo confesses his feelings to Shizuku Tachibana. Yori Suzuki also overhears his words. The Least of These: The Graham Staines Story (2019) Size: 900mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Sharman Joshi, Stephen Baldwin, Shari Rigby Synopsis: As the social fabric of life in rural India disintegrates in the late 1990s, journalist Manav Banerjee (Sharman Joshi) moves with his pregnant wife to the State of Orissa in hope of a better life and the promise of a lucrative career. When speculation mounts that local Australian missionary Graham Staines (Stephen Baldwin) is illegally proselytizing leprosy patients, Manav agrees to investigate undercover for the newspaper. What he finds is a series of revelations that are difficult to fathom and even harder to explain, and Manav is forced to make a choice between his own ambition and the truth. In the end, his actions spark a tragic event that is felt around the world. Based on a true story and shot on location in India, "THE LEAST OF THESE" beautifully illustrates the power of love, hope and forgiveness to overcome hate. TV Series: Into the Badlands Season 3 (2019) Episode: 16 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+2000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Daniel Wu, Orla Brady, Emily Beecham Synopsis: Regent Sunny, a highly-skilled fighter and the deadliest "Head Clipper" for Baron Quinn battles the Nomads to rescue a mysterious boy named M.K. who harbors a dark secret about his past. But when he brings him back to The Fort to train as a "Colt", a Clipper-in-training, things quickly get out of hand with another trainee. When first blood is drawn, M.K. loses control of himself as if something takes over his body, making the boy valuable to an opposing baron, The Widow. Meanwhile, Sunny discovers M.K.'s pendant has the same image as the one on his childhood compass of a place called Azra, the boy's home. In order to seek out the truth about his own past, Sunny wants to know more of this city beyond the Badlands, and must find a way out, especially now that his lover Veil is illegally pregnant with his child. The Oath Season 2 (2018) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Ryan Kwanten, Katrina Law, Cory Hardrict Synopsis: Explores a world of gangs made up of those sworn to protect and shed light on corrupt and secret societies. And what if the Policemen use the criminals to arrest others. The Flash Season 5 (2018) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Grant Gustin, Candice Patton, Danielle Panabaker Synopsis: Barry Allen is a Central City police forensic scientist with a reasonably happy life, despite the childhood trauma of a mysterious red and yellow lightning killing his mother and framing his father. All that changes when a massive particle accelerator accident leads to Barry being struck by lightning in his lab. Coming out of coma nine months later, Barry and his new friends at S.T.A.R labs find that he now has the ability to move at superhuman speed. Furthermore, Barry learns that he is but one of many affected by that event, most of whom are using their powers for evil. Determined to make a difference, Barry dedicates his life to fighting such threats, as The Flash. While he gains allies he never expected, there are also secret forces determined to aid and manipulate him for their own agenda. TV Series Asia: Welcome to Waikiki 2 (2019) Episode: 16 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: HDTV 720p Staring: Kim Sun-Ho, Lee Yi-Kyung, Shin Hyun-Soo Synopsis: "Welcome to Waikiki Season 2" depicts the friendships, love and dreams of young people. Lee Joon-Ki (Lee Yi-Kyung) is an unpopular actor. He runs the guest house Waikiki, but the guest house is facing bankruptcy. To revive the guest house, Lee Joon-Ki drags his friends Cha Woo-Sik (Kim Sun-Ho) and Kook Ki-Bong (Shin Hyun-Soo), who all graduated from the same high school, to invest in the guest house. Cha Woo-Sik is a picky person and he wants to become a singer. Due to Lee Joon-Ki, he puts all his money into Waikiki. Kook Ki-Bong used to be a promising baseball player, but he now plays in the minor leagues. Due to Lee Joon-Ki, he also puts all his money into Waikiki. Along with these 3 men, Han Soo-Yeon (Mun Ka-Young), Kim Jung-Eun (Ahn So-Hee) and Cha Yoo-Ri (Kim Ye-Won) all begin to live at Waikiki. Doctor Prisoner (2019) Episode: 32 (Complete) (30menit/Episode) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: HDTV 720p Staring: Namgung Min, Kwon Na-Ra, Kim Byung-Chul Synopsis: Na Yi-Je (Namgung Min) is a surgeon with excellent skills and he also is a kind person. He gets involved in a medical accident which he did not cause. The medical accident leads Na Yi-Je to get kicked out of the hospital where he works. He then begins work as the chief of a prison medical clinic. Tokusatsu: Kamen Rider Heisei Generations FOREVER (2019) Size: 2500mb Format: Blu ray 720p Synopsis: A powerful Time Jacker named Tid appears and creates two powerful warriors, Another Double and Another Den-O and orders them to pursue a young boy named Shingo. While Sougo Tokiwa attempts to protect him, he meets a young Kamen Rider fan named Ataru, who demoralizes the existence of the Kamen Riders. What does he mean? Meanwhile, Sento Kiryu attempts to take on Tid alone, but is brainwashed and manipulated by the Time Jacker as a result. With the mystery uncovered, Sougo and Sento head to the Kurogatake Mountains where they must face their true enemy. ponchan2 , May 16, 2019 #1426 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 update buat list besok save slot update update ponchan2 , May 20, 2019 #1427 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 save slot save slot for update save slot ponchan2 , Jun 10, 2019 #1428 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 update dl buat besok.. update slot aja update update update.. update.. ponchan2 , Jun 11, 2019 #1429 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 Good Omens (2019) Episode: 6 (Complete) Size: 2700mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: David Tennant, Michael Sheen, Frances McDormand Synopsis: A tale of the bungling of Armageddon features an angel, a demon, an eleven-year-old Antichrist, and a doom-saying witch. -Happy! Season 1 (2018) Episode: 8 (Complete) Size: 2500mb Format: Blu ray 720p -Happy! Season 2 (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 3500mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Christopher Meloni, Ritchie Coster, Lili Mirojnick Synopsis: Nick Sax awakes on a hospital gurney. He's a hit man who used to be a cop; it's all part of the job. What's troubling Sax isn't his serious injury, but the seriously perky flying blue horse that claims it is the imaginary friend of someone who is in serious trouble. The horse's name? Happy, of course. Adapted from a Grant Morrison story. Hawaii Five-0 Season 9 (2018) Episode: 25 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3400mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Alex O'Loughlin, Scott Caan, Taylor Wily Synopsis: Steve McGarrett comes to Hawaii to avenge his father's death but when the governor offers his own task force, he accepts. He picks up team members on the way, Danny Williams, the head detective on his father's case, Chin Ho Kelly, a former HPD Detective who was fired for accused corruption and McGarrett's father's old patrol partner, Kono Kalakaua, a Cadet at the Police Academy who's 1 week from graduating, Lori Weston entry to Five-O temporarily, how Catharine Rollins a girl friend of Steve and Captain Lou Grover, a former Chicago PD Head of SWAT. How to Sell Drugs Online (Fast) (2019) Episode: 6 (Complete) Size: 1600mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Maximilian Mundt, Danilo Kamber, Lena Klenke Synopsis: To win back the love of his life, a high school student and his best friend launch Europe's largest online drug business from their teenage bedroom. I Am the Night (2019) Episode: 6 (Complete) Size: 2100mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Chris Pine, India Eisley, Jefferson Mays Synopsis: Inspired by true events, "I Am the Night" tells the gripping story of Fauna Hodel (India Eisley), a teenage girl who is given away at birth, and grows up outside of Reno, Nevada. Fauna lives more-or-less comfortably with the mysteries of her origin, until one day she makes a discovery that leads her to question everything. As Fauna begins to investigate the secrets of her past, she meets a ruined reporter (Chris Pine), haunted by the case that undid him. Together they follow a sinister trail that swirls ever closer to an infamous Los Angeles gynecologist, Dr. George Hodel (Jefferson Mays), a man involved in some of Hollywood's darkest debauchery, and possibly, its most infamous unsolved crime. Jessica Jones Season 3 (2019) Episode: 13 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+2000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Krysten Ritter, Rachael Taylor, Eka Darville Synopsis: Ever since her short-lived stint as a superhero ended in tragedy, Jessica Jones has been rebuilding her personal life and career as a hot-tempered, sardonic private detective in Hell's Kitchen, New York City. Plagued by self-loathing and a wicked case of PTSD, Jessica battles demons from within and without, using her extraordinary abilities as an unlikely champion for those in need. Especially if they're willing to cut her a check. - Knightfall Season 1 (2018) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 3200mb Format: Blu ray 720p - Knightfall Season 2 (2019) Episode: 8 (Complete) Size: 2500mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Tom Cullen, Pádraic Delaney, Simon Merrells Synopsis: Knightfall chronicles the mysterious but true accounts of the Knights Templar, the elite warriors of the Crusades. It delves into the great secrets protected by the Templars and tells the story of faith, loyalty and brotherhood that help sustain these warriors on the battlefield, and the dark events that would forever sear the infamous date of Friday the 13th into the world's psyche. - Modern Family Season 9 (2018) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p - Modern Family Season 10 (2019) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Ed O'Neill, Sofía Vergara, Julie Bowen Synopsis: Told from the perspective of an unseen documentary filmmaker, the series offers an honest, often-hilarious perspective of family life. Parents Phil and Claire yearn for an honest, open relationship with their three kids, but a daughter who is trying to grow up too fast, another who is too smart for her own good, and a rambunctious young son make it challenging. Claire's dad Jay and his Latina wife Gloria are raising two sons together, but people sometimes believe Jay to be Gloria's father. Jay's gay son Mitchell and his partner Cameron have adopted a little Asian girl, completing one big -- straight, gay, multicultural, traditional -- happy family. NCIS: Los Angeles Season 10 (2019) Episode: 24 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Chris O'Donnell, Daniela Ruah, Barrett Foa Synopsis: The Naval Criminal Investigation Service's Office of Special Projects takes on the undercover work and the hard to krack cases in LA. Key agents are G. Callen and Sam Hanna, streets kids risen through the ranks. NCIS: New Orleans Season 5 (2019) Episode: 24 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Scott Bakula, Lucas Black, Rob Kerkovich Synopsis: A spin-off of NCIS (2003) about the local field office of NCIS that investigates criminal cases involving military personnel in The Big Easy, a city known for its music, entertainment and decadence. This colorful city that harbors a dark side is a magnet for service personnel on leave, and when overindulgence is followed by trouble, Special Agent Dwayne Pride's team is at its best. New Amsterdam (2018) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+2500mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Ryan Eggold, Janet Montgomery, Freema Agyeman Synopsis: Dr. Max Goodwin is brilliant, charming -- and the new medical director at America's oldest public hospital. While he's set on tearing down the bureaucracy to provide exceptional care, the doctors and staff are not so sure. They've heard this before, and no one else has delivered on those promises. Not taking "no" for an answer, Max disrupts the status quo and proves he will stop at nothing to breathe new life into this understaffed, underfunded and underappreciated hospital -- the only one in the world capable of treating Ebola patients, prisoners from Rikers Island and the president of the United States all under one roof -- and return it to the glory that put it on the map. Inspired by Bellevue in New York City. - Powers Season 2 (2015) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p - Powers Season 3 (2016) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p - Powers Season 4 (2017) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format; Web DL 720p - Powers Season 5 (2018) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Omari Hardwick, Naturi Naughton, Joseph Sikora Synopsis: "Power" tells the story of James "Ghost" St. Patrick, a wealthy New York City nightclub owner who caters to the city's elite. He wants to build an empire, turn the club into a Fortune 500 business, but there's just one problem: Ghost is living a double life. When he is not in the club, he is the kingpin of the most lucrative drug network in New York for a very high-level clientele. His marriage, family and business all become unknowingly threatened as he is tempted to leave his criminal life behind and become the rags-to-riches businessman he wants to be most of all. Pretty Little Liars: The Perfectionists (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Hayley Erin, Sasha Pieterse, Janel Parrish Synopsis: Everything about the town of Beacon Heights seems perfect, but in the aftermath of the town's first murder, behind every Perfectionist hides secrets, lies and much needed alibies. Quicksand (2019) Episode: 6 (Complete) Size: 2000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Hanna Ardéhn, Felix Sandman, David Dencik Synopsis: Based on the Swedish novel "Störst av allt" by Malin Persson Giolito. After a school shooting in Stockholm's wealthiest suburb Danderyd the seemingly normal 18 years old girl Maja is accused of murder. But during the trial details of her relationship with five other students, parents and a teacher are revealed. Is she really the murderer or just another victim? Riverdale Season 3 (2019) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 2DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: K.J. Apa, Lili Reinhart, Camila Mendes Synopsis: After the death of one of the rich and popular Blossom twins on the 4th of July, the small town of Riverdale investigates the murder. The series starts in September, the beginning of a new school year, that brings with it new students, relationships, and reveals the mysteries of the past 4th of July. SEAL Team Season 2 (2019) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+2500mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: David Boreanaz, Max Thieriot, Jessica Paré Synopsis: The lives of the elite Navy S.E.A.L.s as they train, plan and execute the most dangerous, high-stakes missions our country can ask. - Station 19 Season 1 (2018) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 3000mb Format: Web DL 720p - Station 19 Season 2 (2019) Episode: 17 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+1000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Jaina Lee Ortiz, Jason George, Grey Damon Synopsis: This spinoff of the critically acclaimed show Grey's Anatomy follows the lives of the men and women of firehouse station 19 in Seattle, Washington. Supergirl Season 4 (2018) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Melissa Benoist, Mehcad Brooks, Chyler Leigh Synopsis: Years ago, Krypton was about to explode and Kal-El was sent to Earth to escape that fate. However, his older cousin, Kara, was also intended to accompany the infant as his protector. Unfortunately, Kara was accidentally diverted into the timeless Phantom Zone for years before finally arriving on Earth decades later and found by her cousin who had grown into Superman. Years later, Kara Danvers is a young professional adrift in a thankless job until a fateful crisis ignites a sense of purpose using Kryptonian powers she had long hidden. Inspired, Kara decides to emulate her cousin's superheroic ways, only to find her foster sister introducing her to the secret Department of Extra-Normal Operations, dedicated to fighting alien menaces including those Kara inadvertently led to Earth. Now with such help, the Maid of Might takes her place as Earth's newest champion with new friends and enemies challenging her world. Superstore Season 4 (2019) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 3300mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: America Ferrera, Ben Feldman, Lauren Ash Synopsis: A look at the lives of employees at a big box store. S.W.A.T. Season 2 (2019) Episode: 23 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Shemar Moore, Stephanie Sigman, Alex Russell Synopsis: Follows a locally born and bred S.W.A.T. lieutenant who is torn between loyalty to the streets and duty to his fellow officers when he's tasked to run a highly-trained unit that's the last stop for solving crimes in Los Angeles. 3% Season 3 (2019) Episode: 8 (Complete) Size: 2600mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Bianca Comparato, Vaneza Oliveira, Rodolfo Valente Synopsis: A world divided into progress and devastation. The link between the two sides - Offshore and Inland - is a rigorous and painstaking system called The Process. Everyone in Inland has a chance to go through The Process to live a better life in Offshore. But only 3% make it through. Alta mar / High Seas (2019) Episode: 8 (Complete) Size: 3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Ivana Baquero, Jon Kortajarena, Alejandra Onieva Synopsis: Two sisters discover disturbing family secrets after a string of mysterious deaths occur on a luxury ship traveling from Spain to Brazil in the 1940s. - Barry Season 1 (2018) Episode: 8 (Complete) Size: 2000mb Format: Web DL 720p - Barry Season 2 (2019) Episode: 8 (Complete) Size: 2000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Bill Hader, Stephen Root, Sarah Goldberg Synopsis: Disillusioned at the thought of taking down another "mark," depressed, low-level hit man Barry Berkman seeks a way out. When the Midwesterner reluctantly travels to Los Angeles to execute a hit on an actor who is bedding a mobster's wife, little does Barry know that the City of Angels may be his sanctuary. He follows his target into acting class and ends up instantly drawn to the community of eager hopefuls, especially dedicated student Sally, who becomes the object of his affection. While Barry wants to start a new life as an actor, his handler, Fuches, has other ideas, and the hit man's criminal past won't let him walk away so easily. Better Call Saul Season 4 (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Bob Odenkirk, Rhea Seehorn, Jonathan Banks Synopsis: Before Saul Goodman, he was Jimmy McGill. And if you're calling Jimmy, you're in real trouble. The prequel to "Breaking Bad" follows small-time attorney Jimmy McGill as he transforms into Walter White's morally challenged lawyer, Saul Goodman. Black Mirror Season 5 (2019) Episode: 3 (Complete) Size: 1600mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Daniel Lapaine, Hannah John-Kamen, Michaela Coel Synopsis: Set in a world only minutes from our own, "Black Mirror" unveils how modern technologies can backfire and be used against their makers, every episode set in a slightly different reality with different characters combating different types of technologies. Black Summer (2019) Episode: 8 (Complete) Size: 3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Jaime King, Justin Chu Cary, Christine Lee Synopsis: A mother, torn from her daughter, embarks upon a harrowing journey, stopping at nothing to find her. Thrust alongside a small group of American refugees, she must brave a hostile new world and make brutal decisions during the most deadly summer of a zombie apocalypse. Blindspot Season 4 (2018) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+2500mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Sullivan Stapleton, Jaimie Alexander, Rob Brown Synopsis: A woman with no memories of her past (Jane Doe), is found naked in Times Square with her body fully covered in intricate tattoos. Her discovery sets off a vast and complex mystery that immediately ignites the attention of the FBI, which begins to follow the road map of her tattoos into a larger conspiracy of crime, while bringing her closer to discovering the truth about her identity. Catch-22 (2019) Episode: 6 (Complete) Size: 2200mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Christopher Abbott, Kyle Chandler, Daniel David Stewart Synopsis: Captain John Yossarian, a World War II bombardier, is stationed on the island of Pianosa. He is an individualist who seeks to protect his own life by fleeing to the hospital, since a "catch-22" in the Air Force regulations prevents him from being grounded for illness or obtaining a leave. Charmed (2018) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+2500mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Melonie Diaz, Madeleine Mantock, Sarah Jeffery Synopsis: This reboot of the original series centers on three sisters in a college town who discover they are witches. Between vanquishing supernatural demons, tearing down the patriarchy, and maintaining familial bonds, a witch's work is never done. Chernobyl (2019) Episode: 5 (Complete) Size: 3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Jessie Buckley, Jared Harris, Stellan Skarsgård Synopsis: In April 1986, a huge explosion erupted at the Chernobyl nuclear power station in northern Ukraine. This series follows the stories of the men and women, who tried to contain the disaster, as well as those who gave their lives preventing a subsequent and unthinkably worse one. Brooklyn Nine-Nine Season 6 (2019) Episode: 18 (Complete) Size: 3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Andy Samberg, Stephanie Beatriz, Terry Crews Synopsis: Captain Ray Holt takes over Brooklyn's 99th precinct, which includes Detective Jake Peralta, a talented but carefree detective who's used to doing whatever he wants. The other employees of the 99th precinct include Detective Amy Santiago, Jake's over achieving and competitive partner; Detective Rosa Diaz, a tough and kept to herself coworker; Detective Charles Boyle, Jake's best friend who also has crush on Rosa; Detective Sergeant Terry Jeffords, who was recently taken off the field after the birth of his twin girls; and Gina Linetti, the precinct's sarcastic administrator. Chicago Med Season 4 (2019) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+2500mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Nick Gehlfuss, Yaya DaCosta, Torrey DeVitto Synopsis: An emotional thrill ride through the day-to-day chaos of the city's most explosive hospital and the courageous team of doctors who hold it together. They will tackle unique new cases inspired by topical events, forging fiery relationships in the pulse-pounding pandemonium of the emergency room. Chicago P.D. Season 6 (2019) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+2500mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Jason Beghe, Jesse Lee Soffer, Patrick John Flueger Synopsis: District 21 of the Chicago Police Department is made up of two distinctly different groups. There are the uniformed cops who patrol the beat and go head-to-head with the city's street crimes. And there's the Intelligence Unit, the team that combats the city's major offenses - organized crime, drug trafficking, high profile murders and beyond. Cloak & Dagger Season 2 (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Olivia Holt, Aubrey Joseph, Gloria Reuben Synopsis: Tandy Bowen and Tyrone Johnson, two teenagers from different backgrounds, acquire superpowers while forming a romantic relationship. They soon realize that their powers work better when they are together, but their feelings for each other make their already complicated world even more challenging. Dark Season 2 (2019) Episode: 8 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Karoline Eichhorn, Louis Hofmann, Maja Schöne Synopsis: Year 2019. Events take place in a small German town called Winden. Two months ago, Jonas returned to the school with his father committing suicide. A couple of weeks ago when he came back, he learns that a child is lost in the town. Days of searching have remained unsuccessful and the whole town is on the thorn. With the disappearance of one of the children who have gone out to have fun together in order to get away from the tension of their parents, things get mixed up in the town. Designated Survivor  Season 3 (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Kiefer Sutherland, Adan Canto, Italia Ricci Synopsis: Kiefer Sutherland stars as Tom Kirkman, a lower-level cabinet member who is suddenly appointed President of the United States after a catastrophic attack on the US Capitol during the State of the Union, on the highly anticipated series Designated Survivor. In this dramatic thriller, Kirkman will struggle to keep the country and his own family from falling apart, while navigating the highly-volatile political arena and while leading the search to find who is responsible for the attack. Doom Patrol (2019) Episode: 15 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+2000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Diane Guerrero, April Bowlby, Alan Tudyk Synopsis: A re-imagining of one of DC's most beloved group of outcast Super Heroes: Robotman, Negative Man, Elasti-Girl and Crazy Jane, led by modern-day mad scientist Dr. Niles Caulder (The Chief). The Doom Patrol's members each suffered horrible accidents that gave them superhuman abilities - but also left them scarred and disfigured. Traumatized and downtrodden, the team found purpose through The Chief, who brought them together to investigate the weirdest phenomena in existence - and to protect Earth from what they find. Part support group, part Super Hero team, the Doom Patrol is a band of super-powered freaks who fight for a world that wants nothing to do with them. Picking up after the events of Titans, Doom Patrol will find these reluctant heroes in a place they never expected to be, called to action by none other than Cyborg, who comes to them with a mission hard to refuse, but with a warning that is hard to ignore: their lives will never, ever be the same. Empire Season 5 (2019) Episode: 18 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+1500mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Terrence Howard, Taraji P. Henson, Jussie Smollett Synopsis: Lucious, the founder and CEO of a successful record label has been diagnosed with ALS. He must choose one of his three sons to take over the company when he dies. Meanwhile, his ex wife and co-founder, Cookie, has been released from prison and wants to reclaim her rightful place in the company. FBI (2018) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Missy Peregrym, Zeeko Zaki, Ebonee Noel Synopsis: Procedural drama about the inner workings of the New York office of the FBI, bringing to bear all the Bureau's skills, intellect and mind-blowing technology to keep New York and the country safe. Game of Thrones Season 8 + GOT Last Watch (2019) Episode:8+1 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+1000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Emilia Clarke, Peter Dinklage, Kit Harington Synopsis: In the mythical continent of Westeros, several powerful families fight for control of the Seven Kingdoms. As conflict erupts in the kingdoms of men, an ancient enemy rises once again to threaten them all. Meanwhile, the last heirs of a recently usurped dynasty plot to take back their homeland from across the Narrow Sea. Last edited: Jun 29, 2019 ponchan2 , Jun 16, 2019 #1430 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 Run the Race (2018) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Mykelti Williamson, Frances Fisher, Kristoffer Polaha Synopsis: Against the backdrop of high school football and track, two brothers in a small Southern town face escalating problems with two different world views, straining - but ultimately strengthening - the bonds of brotherhood. Saints Rest (2018) Size: 700mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Music Staring: Hani Furstenberg, Allie Trimm, Dana Ivgy Synopsis: A musical drama set in small-town Iowa, SAINTS REST tells the story of two estranged sisters, who over the course of one summer, form a connection through their shared love of music, as they grieve the recent death of their mother. Sauvage / Wild (2018) Size: 950mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Félix Maritaud, Eric Bernard, Nicolas Dibla Synopsis: Leo is 22 and sells his body on the street for a bit of cash. The men come and go, and he stays right here - longing for love. He doesn't know what the future will bring. He hits the road. His heart is pounding. See You Yesterday (2019) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Adventure Staring: Eden Duncan-Smith, Dante Crichlow, Astro Synopsis: After her brother is killed in a miscarriage of justice, aspiring inventor Claudette 'CJ' Walker uses her scientific mind to create two time machines, one for her, and the other for her friend Sebastian. As they use the machines to try and alter the day CJ's brother died, they come to learn the ultimatum of time travel: All Actions Have Consequences. Starfish (2018) Size: 800mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Sci Fi Staring: Virginia Gardner, Christina Masterson, Eric Beecroft Synopsis: A unique, intimate portrayal of a girl grieving for the loss of her best friend, which just so happens to take place on the day the world ends. Stockholm (2018) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Biography Staring: Ethan Hawke, Noomi Rapace, Mark Strong Synopsis: Based on the absurd but true 1973 bank heist and hostage crisis in Stockholm that was documented in the New Yorker as the origins of the 'Stockholm Syndrome'. T-34 (2018) Size: 1200mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: War Staring: Alexander Petrov, Irina Starshenbaum, Viktor Dobronravov Synopsis: The Great Patriotic War is going on. Junior Lieutenant Nikolay Ivushkin in a small truck, along with the driver Vasya, barely survived, break away from the German tank. Ivushkin arrives at the headquarters located in the village of Nefyodovka, where he is appointed commander of the only surviving tank. Soon the tanks of the German Hauptmann Klaus Jäger arrive at the site. In battle, Ivushkin destroys the entire tank company of Yager (in a number of cases, with one projectile, two tanks at a time). However, the T-34 has serious damage, and Klaus destroys it. Ivushkin and mechanic-driver Stepan Vasilyonok were wounded and captured. The Accused (2018) Size: 950mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Crime Staring: Lali Espósito, Leonardo Sbaraglia, Inés Estévez Synopsis: Dolores Dreier, lives the life of a young student until her best friend is brutally murdered. Two years later, she is the only one accused of the crime in a case of great media exposure that has put her in the center of the scene: everyone has an opinion about her innocence or guilt. Dolores prepares for the isolated trial at home, while the Dreier family works as a team willing to do everything to defend their daughter. But as the process progresses and the pressure increases, secrets and suspicion appear within the family. Cornered by the evidence, Dolores will have to face her own doubts about what really happened. The Aftermath (2019) Size: 1000mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Keira Knightley, Ned Wills, Pandora Colin Synopsis: Set in postwar Germany in 1946, Rachael Morgan (Keira Knightley) arrives in the ruins of Hamburg in the bitter winter, to be reunited with her husband Lewis (Jason Clarke), a British colonel charged with rebuilding the shattered city. But as they set off for their new home, Rachael is stunned to discover that Lewis has made an unexpected decision: They will be sharing the grand house with its previous owners, a German widower (Alexander Skarsgård) and his troubled daughter. In this charged atmosphere, enmity and grief give way to passion and betrayal. The Beach Bum (2019) Size: 900mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Matthew McConaughey, Snoop Dogg, Isla Fisher Synopsis: A rebellious stoner named Moondog lives life by his own rules. The Best of Enemies (2019) Size: 1000mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Biography Staring: Taraji P. Henson, Sam Rockwell, Babou Ceesay Synopsis: Civil rights activist Ann Atwater faces off against C.P. Ellis, Exalted Cyclops of the Ku Klux Klan, in 1971 Durham, North Carolina over the issue of school integration. The Cleaning Lady (2018) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Horror Staring: Alexis Kendra, Stelio Savante, Rachel Alig Synopsis: As a means to distract herself from an affair, a love-addicted woman befriends a cleaning lady, badly scarred by burns. She soon learns, these scars run much deeper than the surface. The Cold Blue (2018) Size: 650mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Documentary Staring: Eric Nelson Synopsis: In 1943, director William Wyler crafted 'Memphis Belle,' a tribute to the titular WWII bomber. Using footage from the National Archives shot by Wyler and his team, director Erik Nelson has created a new film, featuring narration from some of the last surviving B-17 pilots. The Edge of Democracy (2019) Size: 1000mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Documentary Staring: Dilma Rousseff, Michel Temer, Eduardo Cunha Synopsis: A cautionary tale for these times of democracy in crisis, the personal and political fuse in The Edge of Democracy to explore one of the most dramatic periods in Brazilian history. Combining unprecedented access to Presidents Lula da Silva and Dilma Rousseff with accounts of her own family's complex political and industrial past, filmmaker Petra Costa (Elena, 2012) witnesses their rise and fall and the tragically polarized nation that remains. The Hummingbird Project (2018) Size: 900mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Thriller Staring: Jesse Eisenberg, Alexander Skarsgård, Salma Hayek Synopsis: In this modern epic, Kim Nguyen exposes the ruthless edge of our increasingly digital world. Cousins from New York, Vincent (Eisenberg) and Anton (Skarsgård) are players in the high-stakes game of High Frequency Trading, where winning is measured in milliseconds. Their dream? To build a fiber-optic cable straight between Kansas and New Jersey, making them millions. But nothing is straightforward for this flawed pair. Anton is the brains, Vincent is the hustler, and together they push each other and everyone around them to breaking point on their quixotic adventure. Constantly breathing down their necks is their old boss Eva Torres (Hayek) a powerful, intoxicating and manipulative trader who will stop at nothing to come between them and beat them at their own game. No matter what the cost, Vincent and Anton are determined to cut through America, only to find redemption at the end of their line, not through money, but through family and reconnecting to the land. The Kid (2019) Size: 950mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Biography Staring: Jake Schur, Leila George, Chris Pratt Synopsis: The story of a young boy who witnesses Billy the Kid's encounter with Sheriff Pat Garrett. The Mustang (2019) Size: 900mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Matthias Schoenaerts, Jason Mitchell, Bruce Dern Synopsis: The story of Roman Coleman, a violent convict, who is given the chance to participate in a rehabilitation therapy program involving the training of wild mustangs. The Odds (2018) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Horror Staring: Abbi Butler, James J. Fuertes, Katie Gunn Synopsis: A young woman joins an underground game of pain endurance, hoping to win the prize; US$1 million. She soon discovers the game's rigged, and the real opponent is the man- a sadistic psychopath, who's created the game. As things progress, she's forced to endure ever-increasing torturous pain, as her opponent engages ever-more horrific methods to manipulate and defeat her. The Perfection (2018) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Thriller Staring: Logan Browning, Allison Williams, Alaina Huffman Synopsis: When troubled musical prodigy Charlotte (Allison Williams) seeks out Elizabeth (Logan Browning), the new star pupil of her former school, the encounter sends both musicians down a sinister path with shocking consequences. The Poison Rose (2019) Size: 800mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Thriller Staring: Brendan Fraser, John Travolta, Morgan Freeman Synopsis: Inspired by classic film noir, "The Poison Rose" stars John Travolta as Carson Phillips, an ex-football star turned PI, who's got a soft spot for a lady in distress. Like the classic tales spun by the masters, he takes on a routine missing persons case which slowly reveals itself to be a complex interwoven web of crimes, suspects and dead bodies. When he discovers his long lost daughter is the number one suspect, he races a ticking clock to save her, solve the murders, and uncover the town's dirty secrets. The Professor (2018) Size: 700mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Johnny Depp, Rosemarie DeWitt, Odessa Young Synopsis: After learning about his terminal diagnosis, a college professor decides to live his life to the fullest by drinking, smoking and expressing real thoughts for the people around him. While going through the stages, he come to terms with the great truth of his life as he mends broken relationships, embraces the people in his life and learns to ignite his inner good spirit. The Professor and the Madman (2019) Size: 1200mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Biography Staring: Natalie Dormer, Mel Gibson, Sean Penn Synopsis: Professor James Murray begins work compiling words for the first edition of the Oxford English Dictionary in the mid 19th century, and receives over 10,000 entries from a patient at Broadmoor Criminal Lunatic Asylum, Dr. William Minor. The Queen's Corgi (2019) Size: 850mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Animation Staring: Rusty Shackleford, Jo Wyatt, Leo Barakat Synopsis: This is about the adventure of Rex (Jack Whitehall), the British monarch's (Dame Julie Walters') most beloved dog, who loses track of his mistress and stumbles across a clan with dogs of all kinds confronting and fighting each other. During his epic journey to return to the Queen, Rex falls in love and discovers his true self. The Russian Five (2018) Size: 900mb Format; Web DL 720p Genre: Documentary Staring: Jeff Daniels, Jim Devellano, Sergei Fedorov In the late 1980s, the Detroit Red Wings worked to finally break their decades long Stanley Cup drought by extracting players from the Soviet Union, and in the process, changed the way North American hockey is played. The Wolf's Call (2019) Size: 950mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: François Civil, Omar Sy, Mathieu Kassovitz Synopsis: In the near future, a French submarine finds itself in a crisis situation. Us (2019) Size: 1100mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Horror Staring: Lupita Nyong'o, Winston Duke, Elisabeth Moss Synopsis: In order to get away from their busy lives, the Wilson family takes a vacation to Santa Cruz, California with the plan of spending time with their friends, the Tyler family. On a day at the beach, their young son Jason almost wanders off, causing his mother Adelaide to become protective of her family. That night, four mysterious people break into Adelaide's childhood home where they're staying. The family is shocked to find out that the intruders look like them, only with grotesque appearances. Vault (2019) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Crime Staring: Theo Rossi, Clive Standen, Samira Wiley Synopsis: Vault tells a story about a group of small time criminals in 1975 who attempt to pull off the biggest heist in American history; stealing over $30 million from the Mafia in the smallest state in the union, Rhode Island. We Have Always Lived in the Castle (2018) Size: 800mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Mystery Staring: Taissa Farmiga, Alexandra Daddario, Crispin Glover Synopsis: Merricat, Constance and their Uncle Julian live in isolation after experiencing a family tragedy six years earlier. When cousin Charles arrives to steal the family fortune, he also threatens a dark secret they've been hiding. Wonder Park (2019) Size: 750mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Animation Staring: Sofia Mali, Jennifer Garner, Ken Hudson Campbell Synopsis: une, an optimistic, imaginative girl, discovers an incredible amusement park called Wonderland hidden in the woods. The park is full of fantastical rides and talking, funny animals - only the park is in disarray. June soon discovers the park came from her imagination and she's the only one who can fix it, so she bands together with the animals to save this magical place and bring back the wonder in Wonderland. XY Chelsea (2019) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Documentary Staring: Chelsea Manning, Nancy Hollander, Vincent J. Ward Synopsis: A look at the life and career of Chelsea Manning, a trans woman soldier in the United States Army, who was sentenced to serve 35 years at an all-male military prison for leaking information about the country's wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Zoo / Death do Us Part (2018) Size: 800mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Horror Staring: Zoë Tapper, Ed Speleers, Antonia Campbell-Hughes Synopsis: A couple try to save their marriage during a zombie apocalypse. Last edited: Jun 23, 2019 ponchan2 , Jun 22, 2019 #1431 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 100 Things (2018) Size: 1000mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Florian David Fitz, Matthias Schweighöfer, Miriam Stein Synopsis: Best friends Toni and Paul decide to relinquish all of their belongings for 100 days, whereby they receive one of their items back on each day. During this challenge the two realize, that the only thing they cannot be without is their friendship. A story about contemporary materialism and the quest for the truely important things in life. A Madea Family Funeral (2019) Size: 900mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Tyler Perry, Cassi Davis, Patrice Lovely Synopsis: A joyous reunion in small-town Georgia turns into an unexpected nightmare when Madea, Joe, Aunt Bam and other family members gather for an anniversary party that turns out to be a sham. Instead of fun and relaxation, Madea and the gang soon find themselves attending an elaborate funeral that doesn't quite go according to plan. A Star Is Born: Encore Edition (2018)  Size: 1300mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Music Staring: Lady Gaga, Bradley Cooper, Sam Elliott Synopsis: Seasoned musician Jackson Maine (Bradley Cooper) discovers-and falls in love with-struggling artist Ally (Gaga). She has just about given up on her dream to make it big as a singer - until Jack coaxes her into the spotlight. But even as Ally's career takes off, the personal side of their relationship is breaking down, as Jack fights an ongoing battle with his own internal A Young Man with High Potential (2018) Size: 700mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Thriller Staring: Adam Ild Rohweder, Paulina Galazka, Pit Bukowski Synopsis: When the brilliant but sexually inexperienced computer science student PIET is turned down by bright and beautiful KLARA, he is deeply hurt. He takes a dose of a sleep medication, leading to a tumultuous night during which he loses his innocence in more ways than one. All Is True (2018) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Biography Staring: Kenneth Branagh, Judi Dench, Ian McKellen Synopsis: A look at the final days in the life of renowned playwright William Shakespeare. Always Be My Maybe (2019) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Ali Wong, Randall Park, James Saito Synopsis: A pair of childhood friends end up falling for each other when they grow up. Aniara (2018) Size: 900mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Sci Fi Staring: Emelie Jonsson, Bianca Cruzeiro, Arvin Kananian Synopsis: A spaceship carrying settlers to Mars is knocked off course, causing the consumption-obsessed passengers to consider their place in the universe. Avengement (2019) Size: 700mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Scott Adkins, Craig Fairbrass, Thomas Turgoose Synopsis: While released on furlough from prison, a lowly criminal evades his guards and returns to his old haunts to take revenge on the people that made him a cold-hearted killer. It's an epic, bloody battle to search for the soul he lost years ago on the streets of an unforgiving city. Batman vs Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2019) Size: 850mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Animation Staring: Troy Baker, Eric Bauza, Darren Criss Synopsis: Batman, Batgirl and Robin forge an alliance with The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles to fight against the Turtles' sworn enemy, The Shredder, who has teamed up with Ra's Al Ghul and The League Of Assassins. Blackbear / Submission (2019) Size: 750mb Format:: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Scott Pryor, Darrin Dewitt Henson, Kevin Sizemore Synopsis: After two marines make it home following an ISIS interrogation, one struggles to survive while the other fights his way back into the mixed martial arts world that he left behind years ago... looking for a fight worth living for. Booksmart (2019) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Kaitlyn Dever, Beanie Feldstein, Jessica Williams Synopsis: On the eve of their high school graduation, two academic superstars and best friends realize they should have worked less and played more. Determined not to fall short of their peers, the girls try to cram four years of fun into one night. Burn Your Maps (2016) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Adventure Staring: Vera Farmiga, Virginia Madsen, Jacob Tremblay Synopsis: A family in emotional turmoil is taken by surprise in this quirky adventure where an eccentric 8-year-old American boy, Wes, has an existential epiphany - He believes that he is in fact a Mongolian goat herder. Captain Marvel + Extra (2019) Size: 1600mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Action Staring: Brie Larson, Samuel L. Jackson, Ben Mendelsohn Synopsis: After crashing an experimental aircraft, Air Force pilot Carol Danvers is discovered by the Kree and trained as a member of the elite Starforce Military under the command of her mentor Yon-Rogg. Six years later, after escaping to Earth while under attack by the Skrulls, Danvers begins to discover there's more to her past. With help from S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Nick Fury, they set out to unravel the truth. Captive State (2019) Size: 1000mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Sci Fi Staring: John Goodman, Ashton Sanders, Jonathan Majors Synopsis: Set in a Chicago neighborhood nearly a decade after an occupation by an extraterrestrial force, 'Captive State' explores the lives on both sides of the conflict - the collaborators and dissidents. Chasing Happiness (2019) Size: 800mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Documentary Staring: Nick Jonas, Joe Jonas, Kevin Jonas Synopsis: A behind-the-scenes look at the life and work of The Jonas Brothers as they prepare their first album in six years. City of Lies (2018) Size: 1000mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Biography Staring: Johnny Depp, Forest Whitaker, Toby Huss Synopsis: Russell Poole and Jack Jackson investigate the murders of rappers Notorious B.I.G. and Tupac Shakur. Daughter of the Wolf (2019) Size: 700mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Gina Carano, Richard Dreyfuss, Brendan Fehr Synopsis: A military veteran hunts the men who kidnapped her son. Deadwood: The Movie (2019) Size: 900mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Timothy Olyphant, Ian McShane, Molly Parker Synopsis: Events unfold in 1889 - about ten years after the series ended - as dignitaries and most of the series regulars gather to celebrate South Dakota's statehood. When Sen. George Hearst makes an offer to Charlie Utter for his property claim, and Charlie declines, the results are explosive. Domino (2019) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Crime Staring: Carice van Houten, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, Guy Pearce Synopsis: A Copenhagen police officer seeks justice for his partner's murder by a mysterious man. Dumbo (2019) Size: 1000mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Adventure Staring: Colin Farrell, Michael Keaton, Danny DeVito Synopsis: Holt was once a circus star, but he went off to war and when he returned it had terribly altered him. Circus owner Max Medici (Danny DeVito) hires him to take care of Dumbo, a newborn elephant whose oversized ears make him the laughing stock of the struggling circus troupe. But when Holt's children discover that Dumbo can fly, silver-tongued entrepreneur V.A. Vandevere (Michael Keaton), and aerial artist Colette Marchant (Eva Green) swoop in to make the little elephant a star. Escape Plan: The Extractors (2019) Size: 850mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Action Staring: Sylvester Stallone, Dave Bautista, 50 Cent Synopsis: The daughter of a Hong Kong tech executive goes missing in what appears to be a routine ransom job. As Breslin and his crew delve deeper, they discover the culprit is the deranged son of one of their former foes, who also kidnapped Breslin's love and is holding her inside the massive prison known as Devil's Station. Fast Color (2018) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Sci Fi Staring: Gugu Mbatha-Raw, David Strathairn, Lorraine Toussaint Synopsis: A woman is forced to go on the run when her superhuman abilities are discovered. Years after having abandoned her family, the only place she has left to hide is home. Five Feet Apart (2019) Size: 1000mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Haley Lu Richardson, Cole Sprouse, Moises Arias Synopsis: Seventeen-year-old Stella spends most of her time in the hospital as a cystic fibrosis patient. Her life is full of routines, boundaries and self-control all of which get put to the test when she meets Will, an impossibly charming teen who has the same illness. There's an instant flirtation, through restrictions dictate that they must maintain a safe distance between them. As their connection intensifies, so does the temptation to throw the rules out the window and embrace that attraction. Followme (2019) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Horror Staring: Kara Kingsward-Hughes, Scarlett Davies, Maria Louis Synopsis: Three British women from London, consisting of a YouTuber and her two friends, go missing from a motel in California while travelling from Los Angeles to San Francisco after posting on social media using the the hashtag #followme. Funny Story (2018) Size: 700mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Matthew Glave, Emily Bett Rickards, Jana Winternitz Synopsis: Walter, a middle-aged, has been TV actor, who is still beloved by the fans of the cult high fantasy show he starred in, is invited to his estrange millennial daughter Nic's woodland wedding. Glad to be able to see her again, he accepts the invite and travels to her house in the woods with her cute friend, Kim, with whom he has *** in the heat of the moment after a drunk karaoke night in a bar. However, when he later realizes in shock that she is actually the girl his daughter is suppose to marry, he becomes deeply conflicted about whether or not they should come clean and admit their one night stand to Nic, which Kim is decisively against. Meanwhile, he also has to get used to his daughter's unorthodox female friends, who are also there for the wedding. Gloria Bell (2018) Size: 950mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Julianne Moore, John Turturro, Caren Pistorius Synopsis: A free-spirited woman in her 50s seeks out love at L.A. dance clubs. Greta (2018) Size: 950mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Mystery Staring: Isabelle Huppert, Chloë Grace Moretz, Maika Monroe Synopsis: A young woman befriends a lonely widow who's harboring a dark and deadly agenda toward her. Happy as Lazzaro (2018) Size: 1100mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Adriano Tardiolo, Agnese Graziani, Alba Rohrwacher Synopsis: This is the tale of a meeting between Lazzaro, a young peasant so good that he is often mistaken for simple-minded, and Tancredi, a young nobleman cursed by his imagination. Life in their isolated pastoral village Inviolata is dominated by the terrible Marchesa Alfonsina de Luna, the queen of cigarettes. A loyal bond is sealed when Tancredi asks Lazzaro to help him orchestrate his own kidnapping. This strange and improbable alliance is a revelation for Lazzaro. A friendship so precious that it will travel in time and transport Lazzaro in search of Tancredi. His first time in the big city, Lazzaro is like a fragment of the past lost in the modern world. Head Count (2018) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Horror Staring: Isaac Jay, Ashleigh Morghan, Bevin Bru Synopsis: A group of teenagers unknowingly summon a paranormal presence during their weekend trip to the Joshua Tree desert. This monster mimics their appearances to hide among them and seeks to separate them into groups of five to complete its deadly ritual. Hotel Mumbai (2018) Size: 1100mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Thriller Staring: Dev Patel, Armie Hammer, Nazanin Boniadi Synopsis: A gripping true story of humanity and heroism, HOTEL MUMBAI vividly recounts the 2008 siege of the famed Taj Hotel by a group of terrorists in Mumbai, India. Among the dedicated hotel staff is the renowned chef Hemant Oberoi (Anupam Kher) and a waiter (Academy Award-Nominee Dev Patel, Slumdog Millionaire) who choose to risk their lives to protect their guests. As the world watches on, a desperate couple (Armie Hammer, Call Me By Your Name and Nazanin Boniadi, "Homeland") is forced to make unthinkable sacrifices to protect their newborn child. I Am Mother (2019) Size: 950mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Sci Fi Staring: Luke Hawker, Rose Byrne, Maddie Lenton Synopsis: A teenage girl is raised underground by a kindly robot "Mother" -- designed to repopulate the earth following the extinction of mankind. But their unique bond is threatened when an inexplicable stranger arrives with alarming news. Ice on Fire (2019) Size: 800mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Documentary Staring: Raymond Baltar, Leonardo DiCaprio, Linwood Gill Synopsis: Can we reverse climate change? Ice on Fire explores the many ways we reduce carbon inputs to the atmosphere and, more important, how to "draw" carbon down, bringing CO2 out of the atmosphere and thus paving the way for global temperatures to go down. Reversing climate change is urgent, given that the world passed 400 parts per million CO2 in the atmosphere resulting in climate instability across the globe. We have heard the predictions but now climate related events are a daily reality - summer 2018 was the hottest on record, storms are stronger, droughts are longer, the arctic ice is thin or non-existent and antarctica is melting faster than predicted. Through visiting visionaries and scientists young and old, the film explores the deep hope that we can turn away from the brink. And, just as we figure out drawdown, we face an added complexity, the release of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas in the arctic, that is now entering the atmsphere. As the film says: "Is it game over? Last Summer (2018) Size: 800mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Noa Thomas, Gruffydd Weston, Rowan Jones Synopsis: During a long hot summer in the 1970s, four boys roam free through a neglected rural paradise, until a tragedy strikes that sets them against the adult world and changes their lives forever. Murder by Numbers (2002) Size: 1000mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Mystery Staring: Sandra Bullock, Ben Chaplin, Ryan Gosling Synopsis: Richard Haywood, a Californian high school's coolest kid, secretly teams up with another rich kid in his class, brilliant nerd Justin 'Bonaparte' Pendleton, whose erudition, specially in forensic matters, allows them to plan elaborately perfect murders, just for the kick, for which they set up Richard's marijuana supplier, their school's janitor Ray Feathers, as a psychotic serial killer. The case is assigned to detectives Cassie 'the hyena' Mayweather, who carries a sequoia-size chip on the shoulder from her previous life, and her brilliant new partner, Sam Kennedy, who just transferred from the vice squad; they can work together very well, and even fit romantically, but fall out over different professional attitudes towards the investigation, which Captain Rod Cody and her understandably vindictive abused ex, Assistant D.A. Al Swanson, soon ban her from when she disobeys instructions and hand to him. When the plotting boys both dig class-mate Lisa Mills, their unnatural bond comes. Murder Mystery (2019) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Adam Sandler, Jennifer Aniston, Luke Evans Synopsis: A New York cop and his wife go on a European vacation to reinvigorate the spark in their marriage, but end up getting framed and on the run for the death of an elderly billionaire. Norm of the North: King Sized Adventure (2019) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Animation Staring: Jennifer Cameron, Brian Dobson, Michael Dobson Synopsis: An ancient Chinese artifact has been stolen by a villainous archaeologist named Dexter. With the help of his Lemming friends, Norm must keep his word and embark on a journey across the world to help recover the artifact for the people of China. Outlaws Don't Get Funerals (2019) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Robert Pike Daniel, Justin Taite, Rya Meyers Synopsis: An outlaw and his ex-con grandfather team up for a big score, but a ruthless killer stands in their way. Plus One (2019) Size: 800mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Maya Erskine, Jack Quaid, Ed Begley Jr. Synopsis: In order to survive a summer of wedding fever, longtime single friends, Ben and Alice, agree to be each other's plus one at every wedding they've been invited to. Rim of the World (2019) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Adventure Staring: Jack Gore, Miya Cech, Benjamin Flores Jr. Synopsis: Four misfit teenagers join forces to save the world when an alien invasion interrupts their summer camp. Rolling Thunder Revue: A Bob Dylan Story by Martin Scorsese (2019) Size: 1100mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Documentary Staring: Bob Dylan, Allen Ginsberg, Patti Smith Synopsis: Rolling Thunder Revue: A Bob Dylan Story by Martin Scorsese' captures the troubled spirit of America in 1975 and the joyous music that Dylan performed during the fall of that year. Part documentary, part concert film, part fever dream, 'Rolling Thunder' is a one of a kind experience, from master filmmaker Martin Scorsese. ponchan2 , Jun 23, 2019 #1432 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 The Big Bang Theory Season 12 (Final Season) (2018) Episode: 24 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Johnny Galecki, Jim Parsons, Kaley Cuoco Synopsis: Leonard Hofstadter and Sheldon Cooper are both brilliant physicists working at Cal Tech in Pasadena, California. They are colleagues, best friends, and roommates, although in all capacities their relationship is always tested primarily by Sheldon's regimented, deeply eccentric, and non-conventional ways. They are also friends with their Cal Tech colleagues mechanical engineer Howard Wolowitz and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali. The foursome spend their time working on their individual work projects, playing video games, watching science-fiction movies, or reading comic books. As they are self-professed nerds, all have little or no luck with women. When Penny, a pretty woman and an aspiring actress from Omaha, moves into the apartment across the hall from Leonard and Sheldon's, Leonard has another aspiration in life, namely to get Penny to be his girlfriend. The Blacklist Season 6 (2019) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+7000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: James Spader, Megan Boone, Diego Klattenhoff Synopsis: A highly articulate, erudite and intelligent businessman and mastermind, "Red" Reddington, has allegedly been on the "10 Most Wanted List" of various U.S. law enforcement agencies for over 20 years. The legend is that Red is as elusive as he is clever, controlling a labyrinth of creative enterprises, coupled with uncanny ability to gather and finesse information at the drop of a hat. On the first day at FBI for a new female profiler fresh out of Quantico, Red offers to bandy wits with the FBI. Red promises to deliver various criminals and plots previously unknown to any branch of law enforcement... and all Red requests in return is to choose his muse. The Flash Season 5 (2018) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 2DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring; Grant Gustin, Candice Patton, Danielle Panabaker Synopsis: Barry Allen is a Central City police forensic scientist with a reasonably happy life, despite the childhood trauma of a mysterious red and yellow lightning killing his mother and framing his father. All that changes when a massive particle accelerator accident leads to Barry being struck by lightning in his lab. Coming out of coma nine months later, Barry and his new friends at S.T.A.R labs find that he now has the ability to move at superhuman speed. Furthermore, Barry learns that he is but one of many affected by that event, most of whom are using their powers for evil. Determined to make a difference, Barry dedicates his life to fighting such threats, as The Flash. While he gains allies he never expected, there are also secret forces determined to aid and manipulate him for their own agenda. - The Good Fight Season 1 (2017) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p - The Good Fight Season 2 (2018) Episode: 13 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+1000mb Format: Web DL 720p - The Good Fight Season 3 (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Christine Baranski, Rose Leslie, Cush Jumbo Synopsis: When Diane Lockhart's life savings are lost, she must start from scratch at a new firm. Grey's Anatomy Season 15 (2019) Episode: 25 (Complete) Size: 2DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Justin Chambers, Ellen Pompeo, Chandra Wilson Synopsis: A medical based drama centered around Meredith Grey, an aspiring surgeon and daughter of one of the best surgeons, Dr. Ellis Grey. Throughout the series, Meredith goes through professional and personal challenges along with fellow surgeons at Seattle Grace Hospital. - The Night Shift Season 3 (2016) Episode: 13 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p - The Night Shift Season 4 (2017) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Eoin Macken, Jill Flint, Brendan Fehr Synopsis: A group of doctors from the Army return to work the night shift at a hospital in San Antonio. The Rain Season 2 (2019) Episode: 6 (Complete) Size: 2200mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Alba August, Lucas Lynggaard Tønnesen, Mikkel Boe Følsgaard Synopsis: The world as we know it has ended. Six years after a brutal virus carried by the rain wiped out almost all humans in Scandinavia, two Danish siblings emerge from the safety of their bunker to find all remnants of civilization gone. Soon they join a group of young survivors and together set out on a danger-filled quest through abandoned Scandinavia, searching for any sign of life. Set free from their collective past and societal rules the group has the freedom to be who they want to be. In their struggle for survival, they discover that even in a post-apocalyptic world there's still love, jealousy, coming of age, and many of the problems they thought they'd left behind with the disappearance of the world they once knew. The Resident Season 2 (2019) Episode: 23 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Matt Czuchry, Emily VanCamp, Manish Dayal Synopsis: It centers on an idealistic young doctor who begins his first day under the supervision of a tough, brilliant senior resident who pulls the curtain back on all of the good and evil in modern day medicine. Lives may be saved or lost, but expectations will always be shattered. The Twilight Zone (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Jordan Peele, David Epstein, Shalyn Ferdinand Synopsis: An updated version of the classic anthology series featuring various tales of science fiction, mystery, and horror. Too Old to Die Young (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+2000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Miles Teller, Augusto Aguilera, Nell Tiger Free Synopsis: Detective Martin Jones, who leads a double life as a killer for hire in Los Angeles' deadly underground, suffers an existential crisis which leads him deeper into a blood splattered world of violence. Warrior (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Andrew Koji, Olivia Cheng, Jason Tobin Synopsis: Set during the Tong Wars in the late 1800s, Ah Sahm, a martial arts prodigy originating from China to San Francisco, ends up becoming a hatchet man for the most powerful tong in Chinatown What We Do in the Shadows (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 2000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Kayvan Novak, Matt Berry, Natasia Demetriou Synopsis: A look into the daily (or rather, nightly) lives of three vampires who've lived together for over 100 years, in Staten Island. When They See Us (2019) Episode: 4 (Complete) Size: 2500mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Asante Blackk, Caleel Harris, Ethan Herisse Synopsis: Five teens from Harlem become trapped in a nightmare when they're falsely accused of a brutal attack in Central Park. Based on the true story. Young Sheldon Season 2 (2018) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Iain Armitage, Zoe Perry, Lance Barber Synopsis: It's 1989 and 9-year-old Sheldon Cooper has skipped four grades to start high school along with his less-intellectual older brother. As he struggles to be understood by his family, classmates and neighbours, his mother arms him with the best tool she can come up with: reminding bullies his dad is the football coach and his brother is on the team. His twin sister doesn't share his exceptional mind, but she has a much clearer vision of what life has in store for the young genius. Jim Parsons, who plays the adult version of Sheldon on "The Big Bang Theory (2007)," ponchan2 , Jun 29, 2019 #1433 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 Anoko no Toriko (2018) Size: 1000mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Ryo Yoshizawa, Yuko Araki, Yosuke Sugino Synopsis: Yori Suzuki (Ryo Yoshizawa), Shizuku Tachibana (Yuko Araki) and Subaru Tojo (Yosuke Sugino) were friends when they were children. They promised that they would all become stars, but they moved away. Now, Yori Suzuki is a high school student. He looks rather plain with glasses, but Shizuku Tachibana is a popular model and Subaru Tojo is a popular actor. Yori Suzuki decides to pursue his dream. He also has feelings for Shizuku Tachibana and transfers to the high school where she attends. Yori and Shizuku meet again. Yori becomes an assistant for Shizuku on her CM shootings. He happens to appear in a CM and gains popularity as the "mysterious boy." Meanwhile, Shizuku Tachibana and Subaru Tojo are cast for a stage performance. When the curtain drops after their successful first performance, Subaru Tojo confesses his feelings to Shizuku Tachibana. Yori Suzuki also overhears his words. Dark Figure of Crime (2018) Size: 1000mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Crime Staring: Kim Yun-Seok, Ju Ji-Hoon, Moon Jeong-Hee Synopsis: Hyung-Min (Kim Yun-Seok) is a detective in Busan. He doesn't care about getting promotions, but instead focuses on solving cases. At a small restaurant in a traditional market, he meets up with Tae-O (Ju Ji-Hoon) through an informant. Tae-O discloses that he received money to bury the body of someone. As he is about to reveal the location of the body, cops descend on the restaurant and arrest Tae-O for the murder of his girlfriend. While riding a cart on a golf course, Tae-O receives a phone call from Hyung-Min in prison. Hyung-Min reveals another bombshell. He states that he has killed 6 other people. Hyung-Min visits Tae-O in prison and there Tae-O drops hints about the 6 other murders. Hyung-Min's intuition tells him that Tae-O is telling the truth, while others are skeptical of Tae-O's confession. Hyung-Min now sets out to find the murdered victims without knowing their identities. Fall in Love at First Kiss (2019) Size: 1700mb Format:  Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Darren Wang, Jelly Lin, Kenji Chen Synopsis: When a fool falls in love with someone way out of her league, is there hope for a happy ending? Xiang Qin is an ordinary girl who has a persistent crush on Jiang Zhi Shu. After she pours her feelings to him and gets cruelly rejected, Xiang Qin considers giving up for good. However, things happen and her dad takes her along to move in temporarily with Zhi Shu's family. In a sweet and pure romance set in high school, Xiang Qin's cheerful buoyancy shines. Zhi Shu begins to wonder whether Xiang Qin is merely a deviation or the person that he's fated to be with. Furie (2019) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Jennifer Alyx, Lê Bình, Pham Anh Khoa Synopsis: Veronica Ngo stars as an ex-gangster who is lying low in the countryside after becoming a mother, but she can't escape her violent past when her daughter is kidnapped. Hamon: Yakuza Boogie (2017) Size: 950mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Kuranosuke Sasaki, Yu Yokoyama, Keiko Kitagawa Synopsis: Keisuke Ninomiya (Yu Yokoyama) works as a construction consultant. Through his work, he becomes acquainted with yakuza Yasuhiko Kuwabara (Kuranosuke Sasaki). One day, film producer Koshimizu brings a movie investment proposal to yakuza leader Shimada. Shimada decide to invest in the film and he assigns Yasuhiko Kuwabara to oversee his investment in the film. Film producer Koshimizu though runs away with their investment money. Keisuke and Yasuhiko struggle to get Shimada’s money back from Koshimizu. Kesari (2019) Size: 1300mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Akshay Kumar, Parineeti Chopra, Suvinder Vicky Synopsis: This period war-drama showcases the 1897 Battle of Saragarhi. The plot focuses on Havildar Ishar Singh who led a platoon of 21 Sikhs against an invading army of 10,000 Afghans to defend the North-West Frontier Province. The event is considered as one of the greatest last-stands in history. Laatu (2018) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Gagan Kokri, Aditi Sharma, Karamjit Anmol Synopsis: It is a satirical take on a battle against government & its employees who are unwilling to work for the betterment & welfare of society. From the panchayat to the employees in electricity department are all reluctant to work for the revolution in the village by sticking to the superstitions of the villagers. Love Guide For Dumpees (2015) Size: 1400mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Yoon Kye-Sang, Han Ye-Ri, Park Byung-Eun Synopsis: Jung-Hoon (Yoon Kye-Sang) meets Si-Hoo (Han Ye-Ri) at his ex-girlfriend's wedding. Both Jung-Hoon and Si-Hoo were dumped in relationships. After they drink together, they end sleeping together. To get over their exes, Jung-Hoon and Si-Hoo decide to meet 9 more times. After that, they promise to never see other again. Manikarnika: The Queen of Jhansi (2019) Size: 1100mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Kangana Ranaut, Rimi Sen, Danny Denzongpa Synopsis: Story of Rani Lakshmibai, one of the leading figures of the Indian Rebellion of 1857 and her resistance to the British Rule. Mard Ko Dard Nahin Hota (2018) Size: 1200mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Abhimanyu Dasani, Radhika Madan, Prateek Parmar Synopsis: It is a story of a young boy Surya who has a rare condition of Congenital Insensitivity to pain meaning he can not feel pain, and he sets out to learn martial arts and hunt down muggers. Nisekoi: False Love (2018) Size: 1200mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Kento Nakajima, Ayami Nakajo, Natsumi Ikema, Haruka Shimazaki Synopsis: Raku Ichijo (Kento Nakajima) is an only son and a high school student. His father is the leader of yakuza group Shuei-gumi. Raku Ichijo doesn't like to fight and he studies hard. His dream is to become a public official. One day, he passes the entrance gate at his high school and is kicked inadvertently by Chitoge Kirisaki (Ayami Nakajo). She is a new transfer student at the school. Chitoge Kirisaki is the only daughter of a rival gang leader. To keep the peace between the rival gangs led by their fathers, Raku Ichijo and Chitoge Kirisaki decide to act as boyfriend and girlfriend. P Storm (2019) Size: 800mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Action Staring: Louis Koo, Kevin Cheng, Raymond Lam Synopsis: After "Z Storm", "S Storm" and "L Storm", comes "P Storm". Louis Koo returns as William Luk, this time going undercover as a prisoner to investigate correctional officers who are receiving bribes. In prison, he meets Yuan and finds out that the prisoner has conspired with the governor. Meanwhile, Ming, an officer from ICAC, is working with Liang, an officer from the Bureau of Anti-corruption, to go after Yun, a corrupt Mainland officer also known as White Glove. William then decides to work with Ming to target a group of criminals across Hong Kong and Mainland China. Saint☆Oniisan / Saint Young Men (2018) Size: 850mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Sometani Shota, Matsuyama Kenichi, Sato Jiro Synopsis: What if Jesus and Buddha were living on Earth in modern times? What if they shared an apartment in Japan? Saint☆Oniisan is a humorous drama about daily lives of Jesus Christ and Gautama Buddha who are living together as roommates in a Tokyo apartment while taking a vacation on Earth. The comedy often involves jokes about Christianity, Buddhism, and all things related, as well as the main characters' attempts to hide their identities and understand modern society in Japan. Shadow (2018) Size: 1200mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Action Staring: Chao Deng, Li Sun, Ryan Zheng Synopsis: Set during China's Three Kingdom's era (AD 220-280). The story of a great king and his people, who will be expelled from their homeland and will aspire to claim it. The king, violent and ambitious, of mysterious methods and motives; his general, a visionary who yearns to win the final battle but needs to prepare his plans in secret; the women of the palace, who struggle to find redemption in a world where they have no place; and a commoner called "Lord of all the world", will be the characters around who turn the inexorable forces of this story. Simmba (2018) Size: 1300mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Ranveer Singh, Sara Ali Khan, Sonu Sood Synopsis: Simmba is an orphan from Shivgadh from where our beloved Singham was born and raised. Contrary to the philosophies of Singham, Simmba believes that a Corrupt Officer's life is an ideal life which inspires him to become one. While Simmba enjoys all the perks of being an immoral and unethical Police Officer, a twist in the tale transforms him and forces him to choose the righteous path. Single (2015) Size: 950mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Raditya Dika, Annisa Rawles, Chandra Liow Synopsis: A single men desperately looking for a girl that brings him into an unforgettable journey Sunny: Our Hearts Beat Together (2018) Size: 1400mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Suzu Hirose, Elaiza Ikeda, Haruma Miura url= https://ibb.co/njR0zms ] [/url] Synopsis: Nami (Ryoko Shinohara) is a 40-year-old housewife. She meets her high school friend Serika (Yoko Maki) for the first time in many years, but Serika now has terminal cancer. Serika tells Nami that she wants to meet her old friends from the "Sunny" club before she dies. Nami attempts to round up their friends for a reunion. Svaha: The Sixth Finger (2019) Size: 1300mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Mystery Staring: Jung-jae Lee, Ji-tae Yu, Min Tanaka Synopsis: Pastor Park works to expose suspicious religious groups. He's hired to look into the cult group Deer Mount. Meanwhile, Police Captain Hwang investigates a murder case and the main suspect is a member of the Deer Mount cult. Tabineko Report (2018) Size: 1600mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Adventure Staring: Sota Fukushi, Yuko Takeuchi, Alice Hirose Synopsis: Satoru (Sota Fukushi) is a young man with a warm heart. He has a cat named Nana, but, due to circumstances, he can't raise cat Nana anymore. He travels with Nana to find a person who will take care of Nana. During his travels, he meets various people like his childhood friend and his first love. His unknown past and secret are revealed. The Hungry Lion (2017) Size: 1200mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Urara Matsubayashi, Atomu Mizuishi, Mariko Tsutsui Synopsis: A teacher is taken away by the police for having *** with a minor and possessing child pornography. Rumors spread that student Hitomi Sugimoto (Urara Matsubayashi) appears in the video. As fake news and half truths run rampant, tragedy strikes. The Wrath (2018) Size: 1000mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Horror Staring: Seo Young-Hee, Son Na-Eun, Lee Tae-Ri Synopsis: In the household of Lee Gyeong-jin, a high-ranking official of Joseon Kingdom, three sons die from an unidentified horror. A woman pregnant with a child of the third son soon learns of the evil spirit that haunts the house. Ui Rabu (2018) Size: 800mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Hinako Sakurai, Sho Hirano, Tina Tamashiro Synopsis: Rin (Sho Hirano), Yuu (Hinako Sakurai), Koyomi (Tina Tamashiro) and Keita (Hayato Isomura) are friends at high school. They all live in the same apartment building. Rin and Yuu like each other, but they don't tell each other how they feel. To hide his feelings for Yuu, Rin often makes biting remarks to her. Yuu doesn't know that Rin likes her and she isn't confident enough to tell him her feelings. Kazuma (Kentaro Ito) then appears in front of them. Veerey Ki Wedding (2018) Size: 1000mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Pulkit Samrat, Jimmy Sheirgill, Kriti Kharbanda Synopsis: What happens when the most eligible bachelor in Delhi, Veerey messes up his first meeting with the father of his beloved? The most fatal blow to the loved-up couple: NO blessing from the father-in-law! Not helping the matter further, is Veerey's elder cousin brother, Balli, who threatens the would-be in-laws with dire consequences if anyone dares to break Veerey's heart. Zero (2018) Size: 1500mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Shah Rukh Khan, Anushka Sharma, Katrina Kaif Synopsis: The story revolves around Bauua Singh (Shah Rukh Khan), a vertically challenged man, who is full of charm and wit, with a pinch of arrogance. Born to a wealthy family and raised in an environment of affluence and indulgence, Bauua was never failed by Meerut or its people. But when he meets two women (Katrina Kaif, Anushka Sharma), his experiences with these women take him on a journey to complete his 'incompleteness' and broaden his horizons to find a purpose he never knew he had. The Liquidator (2017) Size: 1300mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Deng Chao, Ethan Juan, Liu Shishi Synopsis: A criminal psychologist and a forensic fingerprint expert works together to track down a serial killer who targets people who have been acquitted of notable crimes and uses their guilt as his modus operandi. The Pool (2018) Size: 800mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Horror Staring: Theeradej Wongpuapan, Ratnamon Ratchiratham Synopsis: Day, an insecure art director of a commercial production company is left alone to clear up a 6-meter deep deserted pool after the shooting. He falls asleep on an inflatable raft due to an unbearable fatigue. When he wakes up again the water level has sunk so low that he cannot climb out of the pool on his own. He screams for help but the only thing that hears him is some creature from a nearby crocodile farm. TV series: Abyss (2019) Episode: 16 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring:  Park Bo-Young, Ahn Hyo-Seop, Kwon Soo-Hyun Synopsis: Ko Se-Yeon (Kim Sa-Rang) is a beautiful prosecutor and she is good at her job. She gets into an accident and dies. Due to mysterious bead Abyss, Ko Se-Yeon is revived, but she now has a different appearance. Ko Se-Yeon (Park Bo-Young) now possesses a common appearance. The mysterious bead Abyss revives dead persons, but they gain a different appearance. Their appearance depends on how good their spirit was. Meanwhile, Cha Min (An Se-Ha) is the successor of a cosmetics company. He is smart, humble and has a good heart. He is also unattractive. Cha Min gets into an accident and dies. Due to the mysterious bead Abyss, he comes back to life with a different appearance. Cha Min (Ahn Hyo-Seop) now has a handsome appearance. Ko Se-Yeon begins to work as an attorney at a law firm. Cha Min begins to work for Ko Se-Yeon at the law firm. Anata no Ban Desu (2019) Episode: 10+1 SP (Complete) Size: 3200mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Tomoyo Harada, Kei Tanaka, Yoshihiko Hakamada Synopsis: Nana (Tomoyo Harada) and Shota (Kei Tanaka) are a newlywed couple and Nana is 15 years older than Shota. Nana works as a designer and Shota works as a gym trainer. They both enjoy mystery. The newlywed couple then move to an apartment and they attend a resident's meeting there. Nana and Shota become involved in murder cases that take place at the apartment. Residents get murdered one by one. Some residents have a motive, but those suspects have an alibi. Because of this, an arrest has yet to be made. Hakui no Senshi (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 3400mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Ayami Nakajo, Asami Mizukawa, Nozomu Kotaki Synopsis: Haruka Tachibana (Ayami Nakajo) is a rookie nurse with a bright personality. Natsumi Mihara (Asami Mizukawa) is 34-year-old veteran nurse. She is struggling at work and with her love life. While Haruka Tachibana and Natsumi Mihara work as nurses at a place that deals with life and death, they laugh and cry. The two women grow as persons in the process. Her Private Life (2019) Episode: 16 (Complete) size: 1DVD+3500mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Park Min-Young, Kim Jae-Wook, Ahn Bo-Hyun Synopsis: Sung Deok-Mi (Park Min-Young) works as a curator at an art gallery. She is a huge fan of idol group member Shi-An and secretly runs a fan website about him. Because of her affection for Shi-An, she has experienced several personal break-ups. Sung Deok-Mi now focuses only her job and doing activities as Shi-An's fan in her private life. One day, Ryan (Kim Jae-Wook) begins work as the new director of the art gallery where Sung Deok-Mi. He was once a famous painter, but he does not paint anymore. Ryan doesn't have much interest in other people, but he happens to learn that Sung Deok-Mi is a fan of Shi-An and runs his fan website. Ryan takes an interest in Sung Deok-Mi. My Fellow Citizens (2019) Episode: 36 (Complete) (30menit/eps) Size: 2DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Choi Si-Won, Lee Yoo-Young, Kim Min-Jung Synopsis: Yang Jung-Kook (Choi Si-Won) is a veteran conman, but he has never been arrested. One day, his girlfriend suddenly runs off with the money they were going to use for their marriage. Yang Jung-Kook is extremely upset and he goes out to drink. He meets Kim Mi-Young (Lee Yoo-Young). She is going through a hard time herself because of her boyfriend's cheating ways. Yang Jung-Kook tells her that he runs a business and Kim Mi-Young tells him that she works for a small company. Kim Mi-Young is actually a detective. They find comfort with each other and they develop a relationship romantically. On their wedding day, Kim Mi-Young reveals to Yang Jung-Kook that she is actually a detective. Meanwhile, Park Hoo-Ja (Kim Min-Jung) is a mysterious woman. She runs a private loan business that she inherited from her father. Her father was swindled by Yang Jung-Kook. Park Hoo-Ja finds Yang Jung-Kook and blackmails him into running for a national assembly seat. Persona (2019) Episode: 4 (Complete) Size: 1100mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: IU, Bae Doo na, Park Hae Soo Synopsis: "Persona" contains 4 separate stories and each story is directed by a different director. All four directors created their stories while motivated by IU. Platinum Town (2019) Episode: 5 (Complete) Size: 1700mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Yo Oizumi, Rei Dan, Hiroyuki Hirayama Synopsis: Set in Hokkaido, Japan. Tetsuro Yamasaki (Yo Oizumi) is an elite salaryman for Yotsui General Trading Company. One day, his childhood friend Kenji Kumazawa (Hiroyuki Hirayama) asks Tetsuro to attend a school reunion. When Tetsuro goes to his small hometown of Midorihara, he sees that his hometown has changed a lot and is in financial crisis. Tetsuro quit his job at the trading company and works to lead his hometown out of the crisis. Tetsuro's ex-girlfriend Erika Nakazato (Rei Dan) and rival Yukio Kojima (Atsuro Watabe) are surprised. His hometown has put a lot of money into non-proftiable public works. In order to save his hometown, in the face of economic downturn, Tetsuro devices a plan to construct a theme park for older people. He faces many obstacles. Radiation House (2019) Episode: 11 (Complete) Size: 3300mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Masataka Kubota, Tsubasa Honda, Alice Hirose Synopsis: Iori Igarashi (Masataka Kubota) is a radiographer. He is proud of his job and he is also sincere. He received recognition for his work in the U.S. and he is now back in Japan. Iori Igarashi begins work at a general hospital. Meanwhile, An Amakasu (Tsubasa Honda) works as a radiologist at the same hospital where Iori Igarashi now works. Her father is the ex-director of the hospital. She wants to help patients, but she places a priority on administrative rules and running the hospital efficiently. An Amakasu seems to look down on radiographers who don't possess a doctor's license, but she actually lacks confidence in herself. After An Amakasu meets Iori Igarashi, she changes. Save Me Season 2 (2019) Episode: 16 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Um Tae-Goo, Cheon Ho-Jin, Esom Synopsis: Residents in a small town fall into a state of chaos due to the presence of a false religious group. Kim Min-Cheol (Um Tae-Goo) was once a promising judo athlete in his high school days, but, due to his personality with a strong sense of justice, he went in and out of prison. One day, he hears that his hometown of Wolchoori is designated as a an area to be submerged and residents will receive compensation. Kim Min-Cheol goes back to Wolchoori. He sees strangers in the town and feels something weird. Choi Kyung-Seok (Cheon Ho-Jin) comes to Wolchoori. He looks like a nice man with a smile on his face. The residents don't trust him at first, but he helps them receive compensation and they begin to trust him. Choi Kyung-Seok then tries to set up a religious organization. Kim Young-Sun (Esom) is the younger sister of Kim Min-Cheol. Her life at home is bleak. She is studying nursing and hopes to leave Wolchoori as soon as possible. Her brother Kim Min-Cheol returns home, but her life is still bleak as usual. At that time pastor Sung Cheol-Woo (Kim Young-Min) approaches her. Special Labor Inspector Mr. Jo (2019) Episode: 32 (30menit/eps) (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Kim Dong-Wook, Kim Kyung-Nam,  Ryu Deok-Hwan Synopsis: Jo Jin-Gab (Kim Dong-Wook) was once a promising judo athlete. He protested against corruption at a game and he was kicked out of the sport. After that, Jo Jin-Gab became a gym teacher. Again, he could not control his anger against the son of the school's chairman. Jo Jin-Gab was once again kicked out of his profession. Jo Jin-Gab then successfully pass the exam to become a public officer. Working as a public officer, he does not have to worry about being kicked out of his job. He tries to live peacefully, but he is then transferred to work as a labor inspector at the Ministry of Employment and Labor. Facing many people who wield their power unjustly, Jo Jin-Gab reverts back to his old self. Switched (2018) Episode: 6 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Kaya Kiyohara, Daiki Shigeoka, Tomohiro Kamiyama Synopsis: Shunpei Kaga (Daiki Shigeoka), Koshiro Mizumoto (Tomohiro Kamiyama) and Ayumi Kohinata (Kaya Kiyohara) have been close friends sine they were children. Koshiro Mizumoto confesses his feelings for popular Ayumi Kohinata and their relationship develops romantically. On the day of their first date, Ayumi Kohinata and her unpopular classmate Zenko Umine (Miu Tomita) suddenly change bodies. Ayumi Kohinata is devastated and nobody believes her, except for Shunpei Kaga. Ayumi Kohinata looks for a way to get her body back. The Banker (2019) Episode: 32 (30menit/eps) (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Kim Sang-Joong, Chae Shi-Ra, Kim Tae-Woo Synopsis: No Dae-Ho (Kim Sang-Joong) is an honest and sincere man. He works as a branch manager of Daehan Bank which is located in a small city. The branch is on a soon to be shutdown list. Surprisingly, No Dae-Ho is promoted to an auditor at the bank's headquarters in Seoul. No Dae-Ho faces corruption at the bank. The Judgement (2019) Episode: 13 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+500mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Kenneth Won, Kacha Nontanan Anchuleepradit, Thanabordee Jaiyen Synopsis: After a traumatic incident at a party makes her a target of gossip and derision, a young college student tries to change her school's toxic culture. The Secret Life of My Secretary (2019) Episode: 32 (30menit/eps) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Kim Young-Kwang, Jin Ki-Joo, Kim Jae-Kyung Synopsis: A romance story between Do Min-Ik (Kim Young-Kwang) and Jung Gal-Hee (Jin Ki-Joo). Do Min-Ik works as a director of the mobile media 1 team at T&T. He is smart and excellent at his job. His secretary is Jung Gal-Hee. Do Min-Ik often does childish things like calling Jung Gal-Hee continually. Jung Gal-Hee carries out Do Min-Ik's orders without complaints. She looks soft, but she hides her tough side. Shudan Sasen (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Masaharu Fukuyama, Teruyuki Kagawa, Anne Nakamura Synopsis: Hiroshi Kataoka (Masaharu Fukuyama) works at a bank. He receives a promotion to manager of the Kamata branch. He is also informed that the Kamata branch will be shut down and he does not have to work hard. After the branch's shutdown, he will work again at the bank's headquarters. Hiroshi Kataoka is embarrassed by the situation. He sees the branch employees work hard and they do not know the branch will close. Hiroshi Kataoka is conflicted between his job and his employees. Shousetsu O (2019) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 2500mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Alan Shirahama, Yu Koyanagi, Nanami Sakuraba Synopsis: Toyotaka Yoshida (Alan Shirahama) is a novelist. He was the winner of a big writing prize in his past, but he has been in a slump since then. Toyotaka Yoshida feels the limit of his writing ability and is thinking about quitting. Around this time, he meets his Shuntaro Koyanagi (Yu Koyanagi) who is his friend and editor and Haruka Sakura (Nanami Sakuraba) who is a fan. Voice Season 3 (2019) Episode: 16 (Complete) Size: 1DVD+3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Lee Ha-Na, Lee Jin-Wook, Kwon Yool Synopsis: Emergency 112 call center members deal with an international evil cartel. The group is involved in the internet's dark web. ponchan2 , Jun 30, 2019 #1434 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 Diamond no Ace: Act II part 1 (2019) Episode: 13 (On Going) Size: 1300mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: Picking up the next year after the end of the fall tournament, Seidou High School baseball team battle it out with new and old faces as they begin their tournament run at Koshien. Kenja no Mago (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1200mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: In the kingdom of Earlshide, Merlin Walford was once regarded as a national hero, hailed for both his power and achievements. Preferring a quiet life however, he secludes himself deep in the rural woods, dedicating his time to raising an orphan that he saved. This orphan is Shin, a normal salaryman in modern-day Japan who was reincarnated into Merlin's world while still retaining his past memories. As the years pass, Shin displays unparalleled talent in both magic casting and martial arts, much to Merlin's constant amazement. On his 15th birthday however, it becomes apparent that Shin only developed his combat skills and nothing else, leaving him with blatant social awkwardness, a lack of common sense, and a middling sense of responsibility. As a result, Shin enrolls in the kingdom's Magic Academy to hone his skills and mature among other teenagers. However, living a normal life is impossible, as he is established as a local celebrity almost as soon as he arrives. Kenja no Mago follows Shin Walford's high school life in the capital as he makes new friends, learns about the world, and fights off the various forces of evil surrounding him and his city. Kimetsu no Yaiba (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1500mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: Since ancient times, rumors have abounded of man-eating demons lurking in the woods. Because of this, the local townsfolk never venture outside at night. Legend has it that a demon slayer also roams the night, hunting down these bloodthirsty demons. For young Tanjirou, these rumors will soon to become his harsh reality... Ever since the death of his father, Tanjirou has taken it upon himself to support his family. Although their lives may be hardened by tragedy, they've found happiness. But that ephemeral warmth is shattered one day when Tanjirou finds his family slaughtered and the lone survivor, his sister Nezuko, turned into a demon. To his surprise, however, Nezuko still shows signs of human emotion and thought... Thus begins Tanjirou's quest to fight demons and turn his sister human again. Sewayaki Kitsune no Senko-san (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 850mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: The everyday life of Nakano, a salaryman working for an exploitative company, is suddenly intruded upon by the fox, Senko-san (800-year-old little girl). Whether it be cooking, cleaning, or special service(?)... she'll heal his exhaustion with her tender "care." Tate no Yuusha no Nariagari (2019) Episode: 25 (Complete) Size: 3000mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: The Four Cardinal Heroes are a group of ordinary men from modern-day Japan summoned to the kingdom of Melromarc to become its saviors. Melromarc is a country plagued by the Waves of Catastrophe that have repeatedly ravaged the land and brought disaster to its citizens for centuries. The four heroes are respectively bestowed a sword, spear, bow, and shield to vanquish these Waves. Naofumi Iwatani, an otaku, becomes cursed with the fate of being the "Shield Hero." Armed with only a measly shield, Naofumi is belittled and ridiculed by his fellow heroes and the kingdom's people due to his weak offensive capabilities and lackluster personality. When the heroes are provided with resources and comrades to train with, Naofumi sets out with the only person willing to train alongside him, Malty Melromarc. He is soon betrayed by her, however, and becomes falsely accused of taking advantage of her. Naofumi then becomes heavily discriminated against and hated by the people of Melromarc for something he didn't do. With a raging storm of hurt and mistrust in his heart, Naofumi begins his journey of strengthening himself and his reputation. Further along however, the difficulty of being on his own sets in, so Naofumi buys a demi-human slave on the verge of death named Raphtalia to accompany him on his travels. As the Waves approach the kingdom, Naofumi and Raphtalia must fight for the survival of the kingdom and protect the people of Melromarc from their ill-fated future. Dororo (2019) Episode: 24 (Complete) Size: 2700mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: The greedy samurai lord Daigo Kagemitsu’s land is dying, and he would do anything for power, even renounce Buddha and make a pact with demons. His prayers are answered by 12 demons who grant him the power he desires by aiding his prefecture's growth, but at a price. When Kagemitsu's first son is born, the boy has no limbs, no nose, no eyes, no ears, nor even skin—yet still, he lives. This child is disposed of in a river and forgotten. But as luck would have it, he is saved by a medicine man who provides him with prosthetics and weapons, allowing for him to survive and fend for himself. The boy lives and grows, and although he cannot see, hear, or feel anything, he must defeat the demons that took him as sacrifice. With the death of each one, he regains a part of himself that is rightfully his. For many years he wanders alone, until one day an orphan boy, Dororo, befriends him. The unlikely pair of castaways now fight for their survival and humanity in an unforgiving, demon-infested world. Senryuu Shoujo (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 600mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: Yukishiro Nanako is a cute, cheerful high school girl with one peculiar trait—instead of verbal communication, she writes senryuu (a type of haiku) poems to relay her thoughts. Together with ex-delinquent Busujima Eiji, they are budding freshmen of the school's Literature Club. Even though Nanako doesn't talk, with the power of senryuu, the adorable pair has no problem enjoying their fun school-life through the tune of 5-7-5 syllables. Fairy Gone (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1200mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: "Once upon a time, fairies were tools of war." The story takes place in a world where fairies possess and dwell in animals, giving them mysterious abilities. By removing the organs of a possessed animal and transplanting them into humans, fairies can be summoned as an alter ego and be used as a weapon. Such individuals who used fairies as war tools were called "Fairy Soldiers." Once the war was over and they completed their roles, the soldiers lost their purpose. Some began working for the government, some joined the mafia, and some even became terrorists, as each chose their own way to live. Nine years have passed since the war. The protagonist Mariya is a new recruit of "Dorothea," an organization which investigates and suppresses fairy-related crimes. Amidst the unstable political situation, criminals with lingering wounds from the war and past conflicts emerge and engage in terrorism as an act of revenge. This is the story of Fairy Soldiers, fighting for their own justice in a chaotic postwar world. Mayonaka no Occult Koumuin (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1000mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: Miyako Arata is newly assigned to the Shinjuku Ward Office's Nighttime Regional Relations Department. Each of Tokyo's 23 wards has one such department, established to mitigate paranormal and occult-related events. Arata's special skill is the understanding of non-human speech, and the story begins with him encountering a youkai at Shinjuku Gyoen park who refers to him as the legendary Heian-era exorcist, Abe no Seimei. Shoumetsu Toshi (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1500mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: One day, a city suddenly disappears. Takuya, a professional by-the-contract courier and lone wolf, meets Yuki, the only survivor from the city's extinction. The two rely on a message from Yuki's father, who was heard to be missing, and head toward the disappeared city, Lost. However, unexpected obstacles strike before the pair, with the reality especially shocking for Yuki. Before them are the feelings of those left behind, a mysterious group manipulating in the shadows, and unveiling the hidden conspiracy. Takuya and Yuki, who both were initially strangers, would deepen their bond during the journey and unravel the mystery of the Lost city. Bakumatsu: Crisis (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1200mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: The Bakumatsu was an era in which the souls of young men burned with anxiety for their country's future. Takasugi Shinsaku, a soldier of fortune from Choshu, sneaks aboard a government ship with his comrade Katsura Kogorou in search of a mysterious "timepiece" with the power to manipulate time that he fears the government wishes to keep for themselves. Rather than allow such power to fall into the wrong hands, Takasugi plans to destroy the artifact, but having obtained it, the artifact is quickly stolen, forcing the pair to follow the mysterious thief to the seat of government in Kyoto. However, when they arrive in the capital, they discover that the government has been overthrown and the deity Susanoo now reigns in its place. The streets of the city and the people in them are much different than Takasugi and Katsura remembered. The times may have changed but their mission hasn't - Takasugi and Katsura resolve to reset time and save their nation from the nefarious forces trying to hijack it. Hitoribocchi no Marumaru Seikatsu (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1200mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: Hitori Bocchi suffers from extreme social anxiety, she's not good at talking to people, takes pretty extreme actions, is surprisingly adept at avoiding people, her legs cramp when she overexerts herself, gets full of herself when alone, will vomit when exposed to extreme tension and often comes up with plans. Now she is entering middle school and her only friend, Yawara Kai, is attending a different school. This leaves Bocchi alone, surrounded by new classmates with whom she must make friends before Kai will talk to her again. Sarazanmai (2019) Episode: 11 (Complete) Size: 1400mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: Kazuki Yasaka, an 8th grader living in Asakusa, is turned into a Kappa along with his classmates Toi and Enta by a mysterious creature named Keppi, after they break inadvertently a statue of a Kappa, the guardian god of the city. They are then ordered by Keppi, who claims to be the first heir to the throne of Kappa Kingdom, to fight against the Kapa-zombies, bioarms created by his enemies, if they want to return to their human form. In order to kill them, they have to make a specific sound called "Sarazanmai" which is produced only when the three of them are united, but the three boys cannot connect at first. In addition, one of their secrets is revealed to each other every time they emit the sound! They finally accept to take risks to collect the "Plates of Hope," given by Keppi when they defeat the Kapa-zombies, and which can make their wishes come true. However, some trouble occurs over the plates...! Along the course of the fights against the Kapa-zombies, their fierce past and inner conflicts keep getting revealed. This is the sarcastic fantasy of three boys who don't feel connected to their important ones, getting to realize the real meaning of bonds. Bokutachi wa Benkyou ga Dekinai (2019) Episode: 13 (Complete) Size: 1200mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: His late father always said that a useless man should strive to be useful, so to that end, third-year high school student Nariyuki Yuiga dedicated himself to becoming a high-achieving student in his school, despite his history of poor grades. In order to give his destitute family a better life, his ultimate goal is to obtain the special VIP nomination, a prestigious scholarship covering all future university tuition fees. Although Nariyuki could feasibly be a shoe-in for the nomination, he is constantly overshadowed by classmates Rizu Ogata and Fumino Furuhashi in mathematics and literature, respectively. To his delight, Nariyuki receives the nomination, but there's a catch: he has to tutor his two star classmates, who are each hopelessly mediocre at the other’s subject of expertise! To make matters worse, the subjects they are horrible at are the same subjects they want to pursue for their future. As the time to submit university applications draws nearer, Nariyuki must find an effective tutoring method for the girls before it's too late. Bungou Stray Dogs Season 3 (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1100mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: Third season of Bungou Stray Dogs. Isekai Quartet (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 550mb Format; HDTV 720p Synopsis: A mysterious switch appeared one day. Upon pressing it, they were sent to a different alternative world!! There are also characters from other alternative worlds gathered together...!? RobiHachi (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1500mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: Neo Tokyo, the year G.C. (Galaxy Century) 0051, which marks a half century since first contact was made. Humans have obtained super light-speed navigation technology and formed a commonwealth of planets with aliens. A streak of bad luck is continuing for self-proclaimed freelance reportage writer Robby Yarge, who is around 30 years old. He fails at work, so his contract is cut. His girlfriend leaves him, he nearly dies in a traffic accident, and debt collectors come after him. One day, a bag snatcher steals Robby's bag, and a young man helps him. Hatchi Kita, an 18-year-old part-time worker, catches the criminal and returns Robby's bag. Robby offers him his gratitude and a meal in return. The pair discover they are complete opposites and soon part ways. However, Hatchi turns up again in Robby's life as a debt collector. Hatchi explains that it's his part-time job working for the loan shark Yan. A cat-and-mouse chase begins, and Yan's Finance president Yan takes his subordinates Aro and Gra along for the ride. Robby manages to elude Hatchi and escape to space while shaking off Yan's group. Robby thinks of escaping to Isekandar, a distant and legendary planet in the Milky Way that is said to bring happiness to those who go there. Though Robby thought he had escaped to space alone, he discovers Hatchi inside his spaceship. The two decide to travel across the galaxy together in search of Isekandar. Shingeki no Kyojin Season 3 (2019) Episode: 22 (Complete) Size: 3200mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: the third season of Shingeki no Kyojin. Last edited: Jul 2, 2019 ponchan2 , Jul 1, 2019 #1435 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 1/1 (2018) Size: 800mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Lindsey Shaw, Judd Nelson, Dendrie Taylor Synopsis: Breathless, daring, and undone in a million pieces. Describing both the film's style and main character, 1/1 submerges the audience into the mind of Lissa, a twenty-year-old girl trapped in rural Pennsylvania, who grapples with ***, drugs, love and loss. When a possible pregnancy forces Lissa to take a hard look at her life, both her and the structure of the film mature, illuminating a brighter path ahead. Adolescence (2018) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Mickey River, India Eisley, Romeo Miller Synopsis: A teenager from an abusive household falls in love with a free-spirited runaway that leads him into the fast-lane lifestyle of drugs and addiction which threatens to destroy him. After (2019) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Selma Blair, Josephine Langford, Hero Fiennes Tiffin Synopsis: Based on Anna Todd's novel, AFTER follows Tessa (Langford), a dedicated student, dutiful daughter and loyal girlfriend to her high school sweetheart, as she enters her first semester in college. Armed with grand ambitions for her future, her guarded world opens up when she meets the dark and mysterious Hardin Scott (Tiffin), a magnetic, brooding rebel who makes her question all she thought she knew about herself and what she wants out of life. Avalanche (2019) Size: 700mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Stelio Savante, Autumn Withers, Gideon Emery Synopsis: A librarian, his wife, and her lover become trapped in a house together and are forced to navigate the chaotic fallout of their indiscretions. Bittersweet Symphony (2019) Size: 650mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Suki Waterhouse, Jennifer Grey, Poppy Delevingne Synopsis: Iris Evans (Suki Waterhouse) stars as a musician who has just completed her first soundtrack to a Hollywood feature and who finds her personal life getting complicated. Giant Little Ones (2018) Size: 800mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Josh Wiggins, Darren Mann, Taylor Hickson Synopsis: Franky Winter has long been best friends with his high school classmate, Ballas Kohl, much like their parents, Carly and Ray Winter and Angie and Nic Kohl, have been friends, although Ray is now the odd person out since the recent divorce when he realized he was in love with a man, his current partner, Brendan. Franky and Ballas are among the popular group of students, and are on the school swim team together, Ballas the team captain. While Ballas has just started a sexual relationship with Jessica, Franky in turn could have his choice of any girl - at least according to the scuttlebutt provided to him by his friend Mouse, a boy trapped in a girl's body, from what she overhears in the girls' washroom - but has chosen to date Cil, they planning to have their first sexual encounter the night of his seventeenth birthday party. Franky's first was almost Ballas' younger sister, Tash, who has just returned to school following "the incident" for which she is now labeled a slut and she In This Gray Place (2018) Size: 800mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Aleksander Ristic, Marcus Johns, Angela Nordeng Synopsis: Aaron, a petty criminal from the wrong side of the tracks teams with his girlfriend's brother to rob a pawnshop. When the robbery goes south he barricades himself in a rest stop bathroom triggering a standoff with the police. As his reality slowly unstitches Aaron struggles to balance his unfaltering love for Laura with the inevitability of his situation. Featuring commanding performances from Aleksander Ristic, Angela Nordeng, and Marcus Johns, IN THIS GRAY PLACE is a memorable, beautiful story of a desperate man clashing with destiny. Killers Anonymous (2019) Size: 800mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Gary Oldman, Jessica Alba, David Alexander Synopsis: A support group of killers is held regularly, the participants sit in a circle of trust and share their transgressions. Little (2019) Size: 1000mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Regina Hall, Issa Rae, Marsai Martin Synopsis: A woman is transformed into her younger self at a point in her life when the pressures of adulthood become too much to bear. Making Babies (2018) Size: 700mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Eliza Coupe, Steve Howey, Ed Begley Jr. Synopsis: After years of "manually" trying to conceive, John and Katie Kelly put their bodies, wallet and marriage through the ringer of modern infertility treatments. Pet Sematary (2019) Size: 1000mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Horror Staring: Jason Clarke, Amy Seimetz, John Lithgow Synopsis: Louis Creed, his wife Rachel, and their two children, Gage and Ellie, move to a rural home where they are welcomed and enlightened about the eerie 'Pet Sematary' located nearby. After the tragedy of their cat being killed by a truck, Louis resorts to burying it in the mysterious pet cemetery, which is definitely not as it seems, as it proves to the Creeds that sometimes, dead is better. Romulus & Remus: The First King (2019) Size: 1100mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Alessandro Borghi, Alessio Lapice, Fabrizio Rongione Synopsis: Romulus and Remus are 18-year-old shepherds brothers living in peace near the Tiber river. Convinced that he is bigger than gods' will, Remus believes that he is meant to become king of the city he will found together with his brother. But their tragic destiny is already written. This incredible journey will lead the two brothers to creating one of the greatest empires the world has ever seen. Shaft (2019) Size: 950mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Action Staring: Samuel L. Jackson, Jessie T. Usher, Richard Roundtree Synopsis: JJ, aka John Shaft Jr. (Usher), may be a cyber security expert with a degree from MIT, but to uncover the truth behind his best friend's untimely death, he needs an education only his dad can provide. Absent throughout JJ's youth, the legendary locked-and-loaded John Shaft (Jackson) agrees to help his progeny navigate Harlem's heroin-infested underbelly. And while JJ's own FBI analyst's badge may clash with his dad's trademark leather coat, there's no denying family. Besides, Shaft's got an agenda of his own, and a score to settle that's professional and personal. Shazam! (2019) Size: 1200mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Action Staring: Zachary Levi, Mark Strong, Asher Angel Synopsis: In Philadelphia, Billy Batson is an abandoned child who is proving a nuisance to Child Services and the authorities with his stubborn search for his lost mother. However, in his latest foster home, Billy makes a new friend, Freddy, and finds himself selected by the Wizard Shazam to be his new champion. Now endowed with the ability to instantly become an adult superhero by speaking the wizard's name, Billy gleefully explores his new powers with Freddy. However, Billy soon learns that he has a deadly enemy, Dr. Thaddeus Sivana, who was previously rejected by the wizard and has accepted the power of the Seven Deadly Sins instead. Now pursued by this mad scientist for his own power as well, Billy must face up to the responsibilities of his calling while learning the power of a special magic with his true family that Sivana can never understand. Tapestry (2019) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Tina Louise, Stephen Baldwin, Burt Young Synopsis: Tapestry is the story of a man (Stephen Baldwin) in the midst of a heavy personal and spiritual crisis. Aided by his Father (Burt Young), and his family, he embarks on a personal journey that will forever change him. The 16th Episode (2019) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Horror Staring: Aouatefe Lahmani, Einar Kuusk, Rosine Young Synopsis: Three You tubers struggling to get more views on their adventure channel, travel to the mythical city of Casablanca, unaware that it hides a terrifying secret. The Best of Enemies (2019) Size: 1200mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Biography Staring: Taraji P. Henson, Sam Rockwell, Babou Ceesay Synopsis: Civil rights activist Ann Atwater faces off against C.P. Ellis, Exalted Cyclops of the Ku Klux Klan, in 1971 Durham, North Carolina over the issue of school integration. The Hummingbird Project (2018) Size: 1000mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Thriller Staring: Jesse Eisenberg, Alexander Skarsgård, Salma Hayek Synopsis: In this modern epic, Kim Nguyen exposes the ruthless edge of our increasingly digital world. Cousins from New York, Vincent (Eisenberg) and Anton (Skarsgård) are players in the high-stakes game of High Frequency Trading, where winning is measured in milliseconds. Their dream? To build a fiber-optic cable straight between Kansas and New Jersey, making them millions. But nothing is straightforward for this flawed pair. Anton is the brains, Vincent is the hustler, and together they push each other and everyone around them to breaking point on their quixotic adventure. Constantly breathing down their necks is their old boss Eva Torres (Hayek) a powerful, intoxicating and manipulative trader who will stop at nothing to come between them and beat them at their own game. No matter what the cost, Vincent and Anton are determined to cut through America, only to find redemption at the end of their line, not through money, but through family and reconnecting to the land. There Is No Place Like Home (2018) Size: 1000mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Stefano Accorsi, Carolina Crescentini, Elena Cucci Synopsis: A big family that like any other one includes relatives that see each other often and others that rarely meet, reunite to celebrate the 50th wedding anniversary of grandma Alba and grandpa Pietro in a big Villa, on the island they moved to. Because of weather conditions they all remain stranded on the island and the idyll between them seems to be over. Through the Ashes (2019) Size: 800mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Keely Dervin, Joseph Camilleri, Daniel Edward Miller Synopsis: A vicious man-made fire leaves the once idyllic suburb of Eternity reduced to rubble. Emerging from the ashes is Sloan, a housewife who spent months hidden alone in an underground bunker. Shocked by the fire's aftermath and her stark new reality, Sloan sets out to find her missing family amongst the wreckage. Befriended by an amicable guide named Peeky Joe, the pair journey through a radiation-riddled wasteland in search of The Disciples, a ruthless gang known to force survivors into slavery. But battling the new world order may take her to a point of no return in this action-packed post-apocalyptic thriller. The Professor (2018) Size: 900mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Johnny Depp, Rosemarie DeWitt, Odessa Young Synopsis: After learning about his terminal diagnosis, a college professor decides to live his life to the fullest by drinking, smoking and expressing real thoughts for the people around him. While going through the stages, he come to terms with the great truth of his life as he mends broken relationships, embraces the people in his life and learns to ignite his inner good spirit. Romeo Akbar Walter (2019) Size: 1100mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: John Abraham, Jackie Shroff, Mouni Roy Synopsis: During the India-Pakistan war of 1971, an Indian banker is recruited by RAW (Research and Analysis Wing) for a covert operation deep inside Pakistan. The Gangster, The Cop, The Devil (2019) Size: 900mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Crime Staring: Ma Dong-Seok, Kim Moo-Yul, Kim Sung-Kyu Synopsis: Jang Dong-Soo (Ma Dong-Seok) is a gang boss in Cheonan. He becomes the target of serial killer Kang Kyung-Ho (Kim Sung-Kyu). Jang Dong-Soo survives and he is the only person to have survived from an attack by Kang Kyung-Ho. Detective Jung Tae-Seok (Kim Moo-Yul) hates organized crime members, but he works with Jang Dong-Soo to catch serial killer Kang Kyung-Ho. ponchan2 , Jul 2, 2019 #1436 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 After (2019) Size: 1000mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Josephine Langford, Hero Fiennes Tiffin, Khadijha Red Thunder Synopsis: Based on Anna Todd's novel, AFTER follows Tessa (Langford), a dedicated student, dutiful daughter and loyal girlfriend to her high school sweetheart, as she enters her first semester in college. Armed with grand ambitions for her future, her guarded world opens up when she meets the dark and mysterious Hardin Scott (Tiffin), a magnetic, brooding rebel who makes her question all she thought she knew about herself and what she wants out of life. Beneath Us (2019) Size: 700mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre; Horror Staring: Lynn Collins, Rigo Sanchez, Josue Aguirre Synopsis: Everyday, thousands of immigrants line the parking lots of hardware stores and climb into cars with strangers they've never met, all for the promise of paid work. In Beneath Us, a group of undocumented workers are lured into the home of Liz Rhodes with the promise of their biggest payday, only to discover the terrifying fate she has in store for them. Cold Blood (2019) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Action Staring: Jean Reno, Sarah Lind, Joe Anderson Synopsis: A hit-man lives isolated in a cabin at the edge of a lake. One day, an injured woman arrives in front of his house. To save her, he could well risk his own life. Harmony (2018) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Fantasy Staring: Jacqueline McKenzie, Eamon Farren, Jessica Falkholt Synopsis: Born with an energetic power to absorb fear from others, a young woman must find love to balance the fears of her own and fight an ever growing storm of negative energy. Ophelia (2018) Size: 850mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Daisy Ridley, Naomi Watts, Clive Owen Synopsis: A re-imagining of Hamlet, told from Ophelia's perspective. Play or Die (2019) Size: 750mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Horror Staring: Charley Palmer Rothwell, Roxane Mesquida, Laetitia Chambon Synopsis: Welcome to Paranoia, the ultimate escape game. Rule #1: Nothing is real. Rule #2: One of you will die. Lucas and Chloe, two passionate gamers, decide to participate to Paranoia, a very exclusive escape game. After solving a first riddle, they make it to the location of the finale in an abandoned mental hospital, lost in a frightening forest. There, four other participants are waiting on them. They soon realize that only one of them will get out of there alive. Based on the best selling novel "Puzzle" by Franck Thilliez, with more than 330'000 copies sold: "Hellish settings, characters manipulated like puppets, all the key ingredients to great suspense. All the pieces of the puzzle fit perfectly". The Public (2018) Size: 1100mb Format: Blu ray 720p Genre: Drama Staring: Alec Baldwin, Taylor Schilling, Emilio Estevez Synopsis: In "the public" an unusually bitter Arctic blast has made its way to downtown Cincinnati and the front doors of the public library where the action of the film takes place. The story revolves around the library patrons, many of whom are homeless, mentally ill and marginalized, as well as an exhausted and overwhelmed staff of librarians who often build emotional connections and a sense of obligation to care for those regular patrons. At odds with library officials over how to handle the extreme weather event, the Patrons turn the building into a homeless shelter for the night by staging an "Occupy" sit in. What begins as an act of civil disobedience becomes a stand off with police and a rush-to-judgment media constantly speculating about what's really happening. This David versus Goliath story tackles some of our nation's most challenging issues, homelessness and mental illness and sets the drama inside one of the last bastions of democracy-in-action: your public library. Kakugo wa Iika Soko no Joshi (2018) Size: 1200mb Format: Web DL 720p Genre: Comedy Staring: Taishi Nakagawa, Erika Karata, Teppei Koike Synopsis: Towa Furuya (Taishi Nakagawa) is a handsome high school student. Since he was little, he has always been surrounded by women. He believes that he is popular with women, but he has never had a girlfriend in his life. One day, Towa Furuya’s classmate tells him "you're the type of guy where girls only look at." Towa Furuya gets upset and states that he will make Misono Miwa his girlfriend. Misono Miwa is a beautiful girl and she is popular with guys, but she turns down their advances. Towa Furuya confesses his feelings to Misono Miwa, but she also turns him down. Towa Furuya doesn't give up and his feelings get stronger for her. He discovers that she likes art teacher Takatsugu Masaki. TV Series: 9-1-1 Season 2 Part 1 (2018) Episode: 10 (Complete) Size: 3000mb Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Angela Bassett, Peter Krause, Oliver Stark Synopsis: Explores the high-pressure experiences of police, paramedics and firefighters who are thrust into the most frightening, shocking and heart-stopping situations. They must try to balance saving people with solving problems in their own lives. Stranger Things Season 3 (2019) Episode: 8 (Complete) Size: 1DVD Format: Web DL 720p Staring: Millie Bobby Brown, Finn Wolfhard, Winona Ryder Synopsis: In a small town where everyone knows everyone, a peculiar incident starts a chain of events that leads to the disappearance of a child, which begins to tear at the fabric of an otherwise peaceful community. Dark government agencies and seemingly malevolent supernatural forces converge on the town, while a few locals begin to understand that there's more going on than meets the eye. Anime: One Punch Man Season 2 (2019) Episode: 12 (Complete) Size: 1600mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: The second season of One Punch Man. Fruits Basket part 1 (2019) Episode: 13 (On Going) Size: 1200mb Format: HDTV 720p Synopsis: Tooru Honda has always been fascinated by the story of the Chinese Zodiac that her beloved mother told her as a child. However, a sudden family tragedy changes her life, and subsequent circumstances leave her all alone. Tooru is now forced to live in a tent, but little does she know that her temporary home resides on the private property of the esteemed Souma family. Stumbling upon their home one day, she encounters Shigure, an older Souma cousin, and Yuki, the "prince" of her school. Tooru explains that she lives nearby, but the Soumas eventually discover her well-kept secret of being homeless when they see her walking back to her tent one night. Things start to look up for Tooru as they kindly offer to take her in after hearing about her situation. But soon after, she is caught up in a fight between Yuki and his hot-tempered cousin, Kyou. While trying to stop them, she learns that the Souma family has a well-kept secret of their own: whenever they are hugged by a member of the opposite ***, they transform into the animals of the Chinese Zodiac. With this new revelation, Tooru will find that living with the Soumas is an unexpected adventure filled with laughter and romance. Last edited: Jul 6, 2019 ponchan2 , Jul 3, 2019 #1437 ponchan2 M   V   U Offline Lurking Around Joined: Feb 15, 2009 Messages: 640 Trophy Points: 71 Ratings: +71 / -0 Update List 6 Juli 2019 cekidot poswan gan... *Contact via Whatsapp (08996075628), Line: ponchan2, Email: vandivx@gmail.com Jangan post di thread karena jarang saya cek ​ ponchan2 , Jul 6, 2019 #1438 (You must log in or sign up to reply here.) Show Ignored Content Page 72 of 72 < Prev 1 ← 67 68 69 70 71 → 72 Thread Status: Not open for further replies. Log in with Facebook Your name or email address: Do you already have an account? No, create an account now. Yes, my password is: Forgot your password? Verification: Swipe to Verify Tahun proklamasi Indonesia (En: Year of Indonesia independence's day) Stay logged in Forum Indowebster - IDWS Jual/Beli > DVD & CD > Movies > About Forum IDWS IDWS, dari kami yang terbaik-untuk kamu-kamu (the best from us to you) yang lebih dikenal dengan IDWS adalah sebuah forum komunitas lokal yang berdiri sejak 15 April 2007 . Dibangun sebagai sarana mediasi dengan rekan-rekan pengguna IDWS dan memberikan terbaik untuk para penduduk internet Indonesia menyajikan berbagai macam topik diskusi. Forum software by XenForo™ ©2010-2017 XenForo Ltd. IDWS Networks IT Solutions Internet Content Solution Internet Hosting Provider Connect with us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Forums Forums Quick Links Calendar Recent Posts Groups Groups Quick Links IDWS Radio Donasi Gatotkaca Movies & TV Series Movies & TV Series Quick Links Profile Creative Community Fansubs & Encoders Movie Maker H & E H & E Quick Links Games PC Games Online Games Free Talk Maxindo Games R&D Gadget Zone Hardware Zone Software Zone Free Talk Zone Travelling and Culinary Sports Center Soccer Meramu / Meracik Request Resep Otomotif Flora dan Fauna Music Music Quick Links Indie Radio Help Jual/Beli Jual/Beli Quick Links Official, Feedback & Testimonial Computer Stuff Processor & Motherboard Software Keyboards, Mouse & Input Desktop PC Casing, Power Supply & Cooling Monitor & Display Memory Networking & Communications Sound, Graphics & Video Card Notebook Printer, Scanner & Ink Drives & Storage Aksesoris & perangkat lainnya Toys and Hobbies Action Figures Model Kit Die-cast, Mini 4wd & R/C Airsoft Cards Others Toys and Hobbies Flora Dan Fauna Flora (Tumbuhan) Fauna (Hewan) Collectibles Art & Handicraft Antique Book Shop Handphone & PDA Kartu Perdana Pulsa Aksesoris, Sparepart & Service Handphone Video Games Console & Handheld Games Online Gaming Aksesoris,Sparepart & Service Video Games Elektronik Gadgets & Aksesoris Kamera & Aksesoris Elektronik Lainnya DVD & CD Audio Movies Others DVD & CD Gadget & Console Games Fashion & Mode Baju Sepatu Tas & Dompet Aksesoris Distro Clothing Branded Second Hand Others Fashion & Mode Makanan & Minuman Makanan & Minuman Otomotif Kendaraan Roda Empat Perlengkapan & Aksesoris Kendaraan Roda 4 Kendaraan Roda Dua Perlengkapan & Aksesoris Kendaraan Roda 2 Audio dan Video Interior, Exterior dan Aksesoris Jasa Jasa Download Kartu Kredit Jasa Lainnya Properties Others Shopping Corner DMCA Menu Style Odele Apr 30, 2025 at 11:43 AM US Server .9 Contact Us Help Top RSS Privacy Policy Search Engine by Digital Point ▲ ▼