Google Pixel 6: Ultimate Buyer's Guide X search Dark Light Light home Home ultimate-tech-gift Android & Tech Gift Guide ic_android-buyers-guide2x Buyer Guides deals Best Cell Phone Deals deals Best Cell Phone Deals deals Black Friday Deals 2024 all-news All the latest Android & Tech News amazon Amazon News android Android bolt All Android News android Android Apps phone Android Best Phones Rankings ic_best-android-games2x Android Games ic_best-android-games2x Android Games News bolt PlayStation bolt Xbox android-news Android News android-tv Android TV best-android-phones Best Android Phones Rankings android Android OS Version's _460 Android OS Version News android Android OS Version 14 android Android OS Version 15 bolt Android OS Version 16 reviews Android and Tech Reviews android-phones Android Phones _460 Android Phone News best-android-phones Android Best Phones Rankings asus ASUS pixel Google Pixel bolt All Google Pixel News pixel Google Pixel 9 bolt Google Pixel 10 pixel Google Pixel Fold pixel Google Pixel Fold 2 huawei Huawei uniF2DB HONOR motorola Motorola nokia Nokia oneplus OnePlus bolt All OnePlus News oneplus OnePlus 12 bolt OnePlus 13 oneplus OnePlus Open phone OPPO samsung Samsung News bolt All Samsung News samsung Samsung Galaxy S24 samsung Samsung Galaxy S25 samsung Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 6 bolt Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 7 samsung Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 6 bolt Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7 sony Sony xiaomi Xiaomi android-tablets Android Tablets _460 Apple News phone All Apple News phone Apple iPhone 15 phone Apple iPhone 16 bolt Apple iPhone 17 phone Apple iPad vr Apple Vision Pro phone Apple Watch ic_android-buyers-guide2x Buyer Guides carriers Carriers carriers Carrier News carriers AT&T uniF1A0 Google Fi bolt Verizon android-app-game Gaming News android-app-game Android Games android-app-game Xbox android-app-game PlayStation uniF1A0 Google News _460 All Google News bolt Google Gemini uniF1A0 Gmail calendar Google Calendar chrome Google Chrome pencil Google Docs uniF1A0 Google Drive pencil Google Keep uniF1A0 Google Maps uniF1A0 Google Messages android-app-game Google Play pixel Google Pixel _460 All Google Pixel News pixel Google Pixel 9 bolt Google Pixel 10 pixel Google Pixel Fold pixel Google Pixel Fold 2 pixel Google Pixel Tablet pixel Google Pixel Watch uniF1A0 Google Photos uniF1A0 Google Sheets uniF1A0 Google Translate android-tv Google TV uniF1A0 Google Voice giveaway Giveaways mobile-events Mobile Events News mobile-events Mobile Events News giveaway Awards ces CES google-io Google I/O News ifa IFA News mbc Mobile World Congress News samsung Samsung _460 All Samsung News samsung Samsung Galaxy Buds samsung Samsung Galaxy S24 samsung Samsung Galaxy S25 samsung Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 samsung Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 samsung Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 6 bolt Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 7 samsung Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 6 bolt Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7 special-features Special Features android-tv Streaming _460 All Streaming News android-tv Direct TV Stream android-tv Disney Plus android-tv ESPN Plus android-tv Fubo android-tv Peacock android-tv Hulu android-tv Netflix android-app-game PlayStation samsung Samsung TV Plus android-tv Tubi TV youtube YouTube youtube YouTube Music youtube YouTube TV tech-news Tech News tech-news All Tech News bolt Artificial Intelligence home Smart Home vr VR android-app-game PlayStation android-app-game Xbox tech-news Wearables News uniF2CE Audio about About _460 Advertise fire Our Team contact Contact Us eye Privacy Policy jobs Jobs envelope_alt Submit News Tips Sign Up! envelope_alt Get the latest Android News in your inbox every day arrow_right Skip to content MENU Shape CLOSE cross Best Cell Phone Deals All Best Cell Phone Deals Buyers Guide Android & Tech Gift Guide Android News All Android News Android Apps Android Games Android OS Version All Android OS Version News Android Version 14 Android Version 15 Android Version 16 Android Tablets Android TV Android Phones All Android Phone News Best Android Phones Apple iPhone ASUS Google Pixel All Google Pixel News Google Pixel 9 Google Pixel 10 Google Pixel Fold Google Pixel Fold 2 Huawei HONOR Motorola Nokia OnePlus All OnePlus Device News OnePlus 12 OnePlus 13 OnePlus Open OPPO Samsung All Samsung Device News Samsung Galaxy S23 Samsung Galaxy S24 Samsung Galaxy S25 Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 6 Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 7 Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 6 Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7 Sony Xiaomi Google News All Google News Google Gemini Gmail Google Calendar Google Chrome Google Docs Google Drive Google Fi Google Keep Google Maps Google Messages Google Photos Google Pixel All Google Pixel Device News Google Pixel 9 Google Pixel 10 Google Pixel Fold Google Pixel Fold 2 Google Pixel Tablet Google Pixel Watch Google Play Google Sheets Google Translate Google TV Google Voice YouTube YouTube Music YouTube TV Android & Tech Reviews Audio Tech News All Tech News Apple News Artificial Intelligence News PlayStation Smart Home Streaming All Streaming News Direct TV Stream Disney Plus ESPN Plus Fubo Hulu Netflix Peacock Samsung TV Plus Tubi TV YouTube YouTube Music YouTube TV VR News Wearables News Xbox search _481 TRENDING Google Pixel 9a Preview Android Version 16 Samsung Galaxy S25 News Best Cell Phone Deals Dark Light Light Trusted By Millions facebook +1.7m X_logo_2023_original +460.7k youtube +91k instagram +50.6k Path 13.7K linkedin2 +20k rss +87k Independent, expert Android News you can trust, since 2010. Publishing more Android than anyone else. 32 Today 852 This Month 133,688 All Time Newsletter Stay Up to date with the latest Android News Sign up to receive the latest Android News every weekday: Only send updates once a week Sign up! Leave this field empty if you're human: Android Headlines / Android News / Google Pixel 6: Ultimate Buyer's Guide Google Pixel 6: Ultimate Buyer's Guide By Alexander Maxham March 05, 2024 Update : Google has announced it is extending the update life-cycle for the Pixel 6. Originally it was set to stop receiving updates in October of 2025, that has now been extended to October 2026 , for 5 years of updates. On October 19, 2021, Google unveiled the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro during a virtual event, marking a significant evolution in the Pixel series. This new iteration introduces several groundbreaking changes, notably moving away from the traditional “XL” model and metal back design, offering a premium smartphone experience at a corresponding price point instead. The launch of the Pixel 6 is particularly noteworthy as it debuts Google’s proprietary Tensor SoC, a first for the tech giant’s smartphones. Additionally, it features an upgraded primary camera sensor, the first since the release of the Pixel 2, promising enhanced photography capabilities. The Pixel 6 promises an array of impressive features, but we aim to delve deeper, offering a comprehensive analysis to help you determine its value for money. We’ll also uncover some details Google might have omitted. Here’s everything you need to know to make an informed decision about the Google Pixel 6 . When did the Pixel 6 go on sale? Pre-orders started on October 19, with general availability on October 28 in the US. Other countries will likely get the Pixel 6 a bit later on, likely due to the global chip shortage. How much is the Pixel 6? The Google Pixel 6 starts at $599 in the US. That’s not quite the most expensive Pixel ever made, but it’s pretty close. The Pixel 6 Pro is, indeed, the most expensive. This is actually cheaper than the Pixel 5 was last year, at least in the US. In the US, the Pixel 5 was priced at $699 due to there only being a mmWave model. But it was equivalent to $599 elsewhere since there were both Sub-6 and mmWave 5G models available. It’s quite a feat for Google to release a much more impressive phone that likely cost a bit more to make for a lower price than its predecessor. But it’s definitely good to see. Should I wait for a price drop? There are more premium Pixel phones this year, and with the chipset shortage around the world, the Pixel 6 may not get a price drop anytime soon. In fact, we may see it go up in price if you wait too long. Not because Google is going to raise the prices but because it will run out of stock, and scalpers will then sell them on sites like eBay, Swappa, Amazon, and others for much more. If you’re due for an upgrade and want to get the Pixel 6, we’d recommend not wasting any time. With the ongoing chip shortage, there’s no real way to tell if you’ll be able to get one later on down the road or not. Where can I buy the Pixel 6? The Google Pixel 6 will be available at all of the usual retailers that sell the Pixel. That includes the Google Store, Best Buy, AT&T, T-Mobile and Verizon. Carriers will have some special deals for the Pixel 6, but you can finance your Pixel 6 purchase through Google Fi, in addition to AT&T, T-Mobile, and Verizon. In case you don’t want to pay for the whole thing right now. What carriers will support the Pixel 6? In the US, all three major carriers will support the Pixel 6. This includes AT&T, T-Mobile, and Verizon. The Pixel 6 will support mmWave and Sub-6 5G networks. So, you will get fast speeds from all three networks on 5G. In addition to that, a number of MVNO’s will also support the Pixel 6. That includes Straight Talk, Mint Mobile, Cricket, Metro by T-Mobile, Xfinity Mobile, Spectrum Mobile, Google Fi, and more. However, some of them will not sell the Pixel 6, so you will want to buy it unlocked from Google. We do know that Google Fi will sell it, but you can also bring an unlocked Pixel 6 over to Google Fi. What colors does the Pixel 6 come in? The Google Pixel 6 will come in three colors. Those include Stormy Black, Sorta Seafoam, and Kinda Coral. All three are two-toned finishes, with the camera bar being black in all colors. The Stormy Black is black and a sort of dark gray above the camera bar. While the Sorta Seafoam is like a teal and yellow. And then there’s the Kinda Coral color that is a light orange and red. Each color is pretty cool looking, but most people will probably go for the Stormy Black model. And we’d expect that Google will have more stock of that one, compared to the other colors. Google Pixel 6 colors What are the specs of the Pixel 6? Here are the specs for the Google Pixel 6. You can check out a more detailed spec list here. Google Pixel 6 Screen size 6.4-inch FHD+ OLED 90Hz, 20:9 Aspect Ratio Dimensions 158.6 x 74.8 x 8.9mm Weight 207g Processor Google Tensor SoC RAM 8GB LPDDR5 Storage 128GB, 256GB UFS 3.1 Cameras 50MP (Main), 12MP (Ultrawide) 8MP (Front) Battery 4614mAh; Qi wireless charging Security & OS Updates 5 Years of Pixel Updates Colors Stormy Black, Kinda Coral, Sorta Seafoam Price $599 Release Date October 28 What updates has Google Pixel 6 received? Google has pushed out several updates to the Pixel 6 since it was released in October 2021. Google has also promised that the Pixel 6 will get Android updates until October 2024 , meaning Android 15 is likely to be its last. And Security Updates until October 2026. November 2021: November Security Update was pushed out. January 2022: The January Security Update as well as a huge bug fixing update was released. February 2022 : Google released the February 2022 security update. March 2022: Google pushed out the latest security update. April 2022: Google pushed out the April 2022 security update, which was based on Android 12.1. May 2022: Google’s May 2022 update was pushed out to Google Pixel 6 and 6 Pro. June 2022: The June 2022 update was pushed out along with the latest feature drop. July 2022: The July 2022 security update made it out to the Pixel 6 series. August 2022: The August 2022 security update and Android 13 was pushed out to Pixel 6. September 2022: Google pushed out the latest security fixes. October 2022 : Pixel 6 received the October 2022 security update. November 2022: The November 2022 security update was released. December 2022: Google released the December 2022 security update and the latest Feature Drop for Pixel 6. January 2023: Google released the January 2023 Security update. February 2023: The February 2023 security update was released based on Android 13. March 2023: Google released yet another Feature Drop, along with the March 2023 Security update. April 2023: Google Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro received the April 2023 security update. May 2023: Pixel 6 series received the May 2023 Security update. June 2023: The June 2023 security update was released, along with a new Feature Drop. July 2023: Google released the July 2023 security update to Pixel 6. August 2023: The August 2023 security update was released. September 2023: The September 2023 security update was released, and was supposed to come with Android 14 but that was delayed. October 2023: Google released Android 14, along with the October Feature Drop and the October 2023 Security Update. November 2023: Google released the November 2023 Security Update, based on Android 14. December 2023: The final update for 2023 arrives in the form of a security update. January 2024: Google releases the January 2024 security update, along with the first Feature Drop of the year. February 2024: Google pushes out the February 2024 security update. March 2024: The Pixel 6 series receives the March 2024 security update and a new Feature Drop. April 2024 : Google’s Pixel 6 received a new security update. May 2024 : The May security update was pushed out to the Google Pixel 6 series. What new features did Google debut this year? Google really focused on the camera this year, which makes sense. That’s because this is the first year that Google has actually updated the camera sensor in the Pixel since the Pixel 2, which was released back in 2017. So there are a lot of changes to the camera this year, and a few new modes, too. A lot of the other software features that were added are actually Android 12 features that you’ll find on other Pixels and other Android phones. New camera features The camera has always been a big focus of the Pixel smartphones. And this year, there are a few new features available, to help you take full advantage of these new sensors. First up is Magic Eraser, which is an AI-powered tool that will automatically suggest objects to remove with just a tap. Google will also allow you to manually circle and object to remove it. Allowing you to get rid of those photobombers after you have taken the photo. Google has also announced Face Unblur for the Pixel 6 series. This will allow you to change the blur after you take the picture to make sure that the face is not blurred. This can be an issue if you are taking a photo with people at different distances from the camera. Real Tone is here to help you photograph all different skin colors. Typically, cameras will show a bias towards those that are lighter skinned. With the Pixel 6, Google worked with a diverse set of expert image makers and photographers to tune their Auto White Balance, AE and stray light algorithms to ensure that Google’s camera and imagery products work for everyone. This feature cannot be disabled, however. Google has also improved video this time around. Thanks to the new chipset that Google designed for Pixel, HDRnet is able to be processed live on 4K video. That is going to provide you with rich, vivid colors, improved night time performance and enhanced tone mapping. Material You This is not exclusive to the Pixel 6, but Material You is here with Android 12. Basically, your theme on your Pixel 6 will change based on your wallpaper. The operating system is designed to take out some highlight colors and use it for the clock on the lock screen, the quick toggles in the notification shade and even within apps. So you can change your wallpaper and really completely change your entire phone’s look and feel. Privacy Dashboard This is another Android 12 feature that will be available on every Android 12-powered smartphone. But the Privacy Dashboard will clearly show you what permissions were used in the past 24 hours. You can see how often something like your location was used. By clicking on each permission, you can see what app used it and when. Additionally, Google has also added indicators to the status bar, that indicate when the camera and/or microphone are being used. This will help you find those apps that are using those permissions and shouldn’t be. Recorder Recorder is one of our favorite apps that debuted on the Pixel 4 two years ago. And now it has gotten even better. It now supports English, Japanese and German. Recorder also allows you to share a video clip to social media. How long will I get updates for? One of the issues with Android smartphones has always been updates. Most smartphone makers do promise two years of updates now, with Samsung moving to three for this year’s smartphones. But that’s still nothing compared to Apple, who updated the iPhone 6S to iOS 15 this year – a phone that came out in 2015. Google is upping its game with software updates this year. Promising at least four years of OS updates, and at least five years of security updates. That means that your Pixel 6 will get updated at least until Android 16 in 2025. That’s pretty impressive for Google, but how is this major jump possible? One word. Tensor . Now that Google is controlling every bit of hardware and software on the Pixel 6, it can guarantee updates for longer periods. Unlike when they used Qualcomm chipsets, they would have to wait for Qualcomm to release binaries for those SoCs before they could work on an update. That is the case for every manufacturer too. That’s something that Apple had over Google and the rest of Android. It makes every part of the iPhone from hardware to software. So it can really dictate how things are done. And now we’re starting to see that from Google starting with the Pixel 6. Now, Google says four years of OS updates, but in all honesty, you might see even more. The Pixel (the original Pixel) was only supposed to get two years, but got at least three years of updates. So this is huge for Google. What cases are available for the Pixel 6? Google will of course offer its popular cases for the Pixel 6. And they do sort of match the colors of the Pixel 6. But there are other cases available too. Here’s a small handful of Pixel 6 cases that you can pick up for your new phone. Google Case Google is no longer releasing fabric cases for the Pixel. Instead, it uses a plastic case that is made from 100% recycled material. So you can pick up a first-party case and protect your Pixel, and it’s also good for the environment. These cases come in three different colors for each Pixel 6 model. The Pixel 6 cases come in Stormy Sky, Light Rain and Cotton Candy. Spigen Liquid Air Armor The Spigen Liquid Air Armor is another popular option, and it’s under $20. This is a matte black case, so if you’re not one for colors, then this is a good option, too. This is a pretty slim case and has military-grade protection. So you can drop your phone and not worry about it breaking. In this case, I will keep it intact. Spigen Liquid Air Armor - Amazon Caseology Vault Protective Case If you want a case that is a bit more protective against the elements and potential drop, there’s also the Caseology Vault case. This is a case that they make for just about every phone. And it looks really nice. It adds a nice bit of grip to the back, and comes in sage green, black and grey. Caseology Vault Protective Case - Amazon Spigen Ultra Hybrid If you decided to get the Sorta Seafoam or Kinda Coral options, then this is the case you’ll probably want. It’s a clear case from Spigen, so you can still show off the color of your new Pixel 6 smartphone. It does have the reinforced sides and corners. So that if you do drop your new Pixel 6, you’ll be covered. Spigen Ultra Hybrid - Amazon Should I buy the Pixel 6 or Pixel 6 Pro? Now, the big question is whether you should buy the Pixel 6 or the Pixel 6 Pro. There are some major differences between the two, actually. You should buy the Pixel 6 if you don’t want to spend a grand on a new phone if you want a smaller screen, and if you don’t want a telephoto camera. If money isn’t an issue, and you want a bigger screen (and battery), then the Pixel 6 Pro is going to be the better option for you. Update: In 2024, you should not buy the Pixel 6 unless you can get a really good deal on it. It’s not two, almost three generations old, and will be receiving its final OS update this fall with Android 15 . It will, however, continue to get security updates until October 2027. Share this page facebook linkedin2 X_logo_2023_original reddit comments_alt link Copyright ©2024 Android Headlines. All Rights Reserved. This post may contain affiliate links. See our privacy policy for more information. Related Articles Google's Pixel 10 display may have this key upgrade Google's Pixel 10 display might come with a key upgrade that allows users to adjust… Apr 29, 2025 ·      By Justin Diaz YouTube app for TV got a lot better with these new features YouTube, the world's most popular video platform, is available on several platforms. Google offers dedicated… Apr 29, 2025 ·      By Jean Leon Audio Overviews now speak your language with several new options Google's NotebookLM tool officially rolled out last year, but language support was a little lacking… Apr 29, 2025 ·      By Justin Diaz Alexander Maxham Head Editor X_logo_2023_original envelope_alt Alex has written for Androidheadlines since 2012 as Editor of the site and traveled the World to many of the biggest Smartphone and Technology events. Alex has a background in Technology and IT and Deep Passion for Everything Android and Google. His specialties lay in Smartphones of all budgets, Accessories, Home Automation and more. Contact him at [email protected] View Comments Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. Main About Us Authors Contact Us Advertise Join Our Team Privacy Policy Privacy Manager Deals & More Best Cell Phone Deals Best Tech Deals Product Reviews Newsletter Giveaways Android News Android News Tech News Google News News and Tips All the latest Android & Tech news Sign Up! envelope_alt Get the latest Android News in your inbox every day arrow_right Copyright © 2025 Android Headlines. All rights reserved. Site by Reaction. Newsletter Stay Up to date with the latest Android News Sign up to receive the latest Android News every weekday: Only send updates once a week Sign up! Leave this field empty if you're human: