Colombian cyclist is the first to bring Tour de France's yellow jersey to Latin America - Plain English Skip to content Plain English Pricing Why Plain English? Free Samples Sign in Sign up Plain English Search for: Pricing Why Plain English? Free Samples Sign in Sign up Search for: Pricing Why Plain English? Free Samples Sign in Sign up Search for: filip bossuyt from Kortrijk, Belgium , CC BY 2.0 , via Wikimedia Commons Story Colombian cyclist is the first to bring Tour de France’s yellow jersey to Latin America Egan Bernal is the youngest in 110 years to win the Tour Today's expression: Make a push Explore more: Sports & Recreation Lesson #182 filip bossuyt from Kortrijk, Belgium , CC BY 2.0 , via Wikimedia Commons August 19, 2019: Colombian Egan Bernal became the first cyclist from Latin America, and the youngest in over 110 years, to win the Tour de France. He took the lead in the second-to-last stage of the three-week race, passing Julian Alaphillippe on the highest paved pass in the Alps. The 22-year-old from Zipaquirá recovered from injuries and several surgeries this year to win cycling's most prestigious race. Plus, learn what it means to "make a push." Take control of your English Use active strategies to finally go from good to great See how Listen Learning speed Full speed Free trial Sharpen your listening Listen to a full-speed version of our Stories and Expressions on the web or on your phone in a podcast app Start free trial Learn Transcript Activities Dig deeper Talk about it (0) No translations Español 中文 Français Português 日本語 Italiano Deutsch Türkçe Polski Egan Bernal is the first South American to win the Tour de France Hi there, great to have you with us for episode 182 of Plain English, the best podcast for learning English. All the learning resources for this episode can be found at PlainEnglish.com/182. The producer of the show is JR; I’m Jeff; and you are part of the best audience in the world. On today’s program: He trailed for 18 of the 21 stages, but in the 19th stage, 22-year-old Egan Bernal took the lead in the Tour de France on the highest paved route in the Alps. With an assist from Mother Nature , that was all he needed to capture the yellow jersey. Later on in the program, we’ll talk about the English phrase “to make a push” and I’ll have a cycling-related quote for you. Before we do that, I wanted to mention our email list. JR sends out some additional learning resources with each episode—a summary of the topic, links to articles in English about the main topic, and a description of one extra word or phrases from the episode. That adds up to 104 new words or phrases a year, if you stay subscribed for a year—and some of you have been on the list for a year. To get on there, just visit PlainEnglish.com/mail . First Tour de France victory for Colombia Twenty-two-year-old Egan Bernal from the small Colombian town of Zipaquirá is the first Latin American to win the Tour de France and the youngest to do so in 110 years. He trained outside Bogotá and developed his climbing skills in the Andes mountains. Bernal did not emerge at the head of the pack until late in the race. In the nineteenth stage out of twenty-one, he saw an opportunity to make a push for the lead on a steep climb up the highest paved route in the Alps. A minute and 30 seconds separated him from the leader at the time, Julian Alaphillippe of France. By the time he reached the peak of Col de l’Iseran, which is 9,000 feet, or 2,700 meters, above sea level , he was leading by 45 seconds. The long descent would have been Alaphillippe’s chance to make up some ground against the Colombian, but an avalanche blocked the path and the race was shortened for the day. By that point, all Bernal had to do was hold his lead for one more competitive stage, which he did, becoming the first Colombian to take the famous yellow jersey home to the Andes. His hometown of Zipaquirá gave him a hero’s welcome . The modest Bernal turned down an offer of a parade, opting instead for a festival in the town square. Thousands of people came out to cheer on their national hero, many of them lining up as early as 5:00 a.m. On stage, Bernal thanked his coach, Fabio Rodriguez, to whom he donated his white jersey, which he won for being the best young rider on the Tour. He donated his yellow jersey to the Colombian Cycling Federation. Zipaquirá is the hometown of another famous Colombian cyclist, Efraín Forero, who won the first Vuelta a Colombia bicycle race in 1975. The Tour de France is the world’s most prestigious bicycle race and was first organized in 1903. It consists of 21 day-long stages and takes place over 23 days . The tradition is that the leader in every stage wears a yellow jersey for that stage; the yellow jersey can change hands multiple times during the race. But the overall winner takes the yellow jersey home. Bernal wore the yellow jersey for only the final two stages, but the final one is the one that counts . The tour route changes every year, and this year’s route was 2,162 miles (or 3,480 kilometers), starting in Brussels, extending down the western half of France, crossing the Pyrenees mountains and then Alps on its loop back toward Italy. The final ceremonial stage always features the competitors cycling into central Paris. This year, 176 riders from 22 teams competed. Bernal started riding on a secondhand bike at the age of five, and soon thereafter started entering races . He began racing mountain bikes formally at the age of 14, with dreams of making the Olympics in 2016. But he got an offer to switch to road racing , and soon he was on Team Sky, now called Ineos, one of the most prestigious road-racing teams in the world. The road to the Tour de France was not easy for Bernal this year: in fact, it’s a bit of a miracle that he competed at all . In the past year alone, he fell three times and needed surgery on his collarbone , cheekbone , jaw , and nose. In May, during his training for the Giro d’Italia, he had another accident and was unable to move for weeks. That was in May! The Tour de France started on July 6! What a competitor , and a good face for the sport of cycling. Cycling, as you know, suffered years in which almost every prominent athlete was implicated in a doping scandal — so much so that any competitor, rightly or wrongly, was immediately suspected of using performance-enhancing drugs . That unfortunate legacy is mostly in the past now. Bernal’s teammate and 2018 tour winner Geraint Thomas said that cycling is one of the cleanest sports around due to strict on-site drug testing during races. If I couldn’t move for weeks in May, I would not be on a bike at 9,000 feet above sea level in July, I can tell you that much. Time to say hello to some listeners. First up, 17-year-old Jonathan from Sweden is listening and practicing to improve at school. I think I mentioned this before, but I love hearing from people who are, shall we say, on the edges of the age brackets. I’m so jealous of our younger listeners who are getting such an early start on their second language, and I’m inspired by those who are working on English later in life , too. On that point, you might be curious about the average age of our listeners, so I checked Google Analytics for the web page, and here’s what I found. 46 percent of you are between 25 and 34; another 23 percent are between 35 and 44. That’s our sweet spot of listeners, but about 10 percent of you are younger than 25 and five percent are older than 65. Age is just a number, right! And speaking of demographics , the audience is 56 percent male. Anyway, thanks Jonathan for being part of the 10 percent and representing the younger cohort of listeners. I also want to say hi to Tapas from Kolkata, India; Kitty from Taiwan; and Leonardo from Peru. Leonardo enjoyed the episode on happiness and asked me for one thing that made me happy in the previous day. I told him two things, but one of them was that I think I successfully brought a plant back to life . Sometimes it’s the simple things, right? Related: How to measure happiness (and how to improve it) Learn English the way it’s really spoken Start free trial Free trial We speak your language Learn English words faster with instant, built-in translations of key words into your language Start free trial See how it works Free trial We speak your language Learn English words faster with instant, built-in translations of key words into your language Start free trial See how it works Free trial We speak your language Learn English words faster with instant, built-in translations of key words into your language Start free trial See how it works Free trial We speak your language Learn English words faster with instant, built-in translations of key words into your language Start free trial See how it works Free trial We speak your language Learn English words faster with instant, built-in translations of key words into your language Start free trial See how it works Free trial We speak your language Learn English words faster with instant, built-in translations of key words into your language Start free trial See how it works Free trial We speak your language Learn English words faster with instant, built-in translations of key words into your language Start free trial See how it works Free trial We speak your language Learn English words faster with instant, built-in translations of key words into your language Start free trial See how it works Free trial We speak your language Learn English words faster with instant, built-in translations of key words into your language Start free trial See how it works Expression: Make a push Next: Activities Quiz Listening Pronunciation Vocabulary Grammar Free Member Content Join free to unlock this feature Get more from Plain English with a free membership Join now Free trial Test your listening skills Improve your listening and learn to understand every word with this interactive listening exercise that gives you immediate feedback Start free trial Try it out Free trial Upgrade your pronunciation Improve your accent with voice-recorder exercise that lets you compare your pronunciation to a native speaker’s Start free trial Try it out Free trial Build your vocabulary Learn how to use advanced English vocabulary in this interactive exercise based on the Plain English story you just heard Start free trial Try it out Free trial Improve your grammar Practice choosing the right verb tense and preposition based on real-life situations Start free trial Try it out Expression: Make a push Next: Dig deeper Free Member Content Join free to unlock this feature Get more from Plain English with a free membership Join now Expression: Make a push Next: Talk about it Free trial Practice writing about this story Get involved in this story by sharing your opinion and discussing the topic with others Start free trial Expression: Make a push English in your inbox 2x weekly lessons to help you improve your English faster Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Name * Email * Sign me up! No junk. Unsubscribe anytime About Help Center About Plain English Why Plain English? Contact Features Resources All Resources Listening Speaking Join Free Trial Plain English Plus+ Starter Membership Forever Free ©2025 Plain English. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT wpDiscuz Insert Please wait while you are redirected to the right page...