Game Review: “The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time” - Cal Times Skip to Content Home Staff About Photo Gallery Videos More Cal Times RSS Feed Flickr YouTube Instagram X Facebook Submit Search Search News COVID-19 Resources Sports Lifestyles Fraternity and Sorority Life Opinion Entertainment Advertising PRINT EDITION FACEBOOK More Open Navigation Menu Cal Times News COVID-19 Resources Sports Lifestyles Fraternity and Sorority Life Opinion Entertainment Advertising PRINT EDITION FACEBOOK More Cal Times Open Search Bar Search this site Submit Search Open Navigation Menu Cal Times News COVID-19 Resources Sports Lifestyles Fraternity and Sorority Life Opinion Entertainment Advertising PRINT EDITION FACEBOOK More Cal Times Open Search Bar Search this site Submit Search Get the Cal Times delivered to your Inbox! Email address: Leave this field empty if you're human: Trending Stories 1 Creativity Shines at Strike a Spark: A Celebration of Art and Innovation 2 Evening of Creativity: Best of Broadway 3 A Q-&-A Guide To Course Substitutions 4 BBNO$ Talks Inspiration, Challenges, and Collaborations in Exclusive Interview at PennWest Edinboro’s Spring Concert 5 Trip Down Memory Lane: Adamson Stadium Categories: Entertainment Opinion Game Review: “The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time” Review of the first 3D Zelda game Owen Haluska , Staff Writer November 15, 2024 Owen Haluska Welcome to CalTimes’s Game Review series! Here we will be reviewing and critiquing popular games, whether they are old or new. If you have any suggestions, please email us! “The Legend of Zelda” has been a cornerstone of the fantasy gaming industry for years, and the history mainly starts with “Ocarina of Time”. Released in 1998, the game is the first 3D installment in the “Legend of Zelda” series. The third dimension added plenty of new ways to engage in combat and explore the world of Hyrule. The main gameplay revolves around action, adventuring, and puzzle-solving. In “Ocarina of Time”, you play as Link, a young boy living in the forest, who is summoned to save Hyrule. He is given a sword and a shield to start out, and is sent out to meet with Princess Zelda. She believes that Ganondorf, the evil Gerudo King, is trying to steal the Triforce, which is a relic that grants the holder godlike power. Zelda sends Link to gather some spiritual stones, but when he gets back, Ganondorf has already attacked. Link goes to grab the legendary Master Sword to defeat Ganondorf, but doing so leads Ganondorf directly to the Triforce. Link’s spirit was frozen for seven years after this event, awoken only when he was old enough to wield the Master Sword and defeat Ganondorf to save Hyrule. The game then follows Link as he travels the world of Hyrule to find the seven Sages that can help him. He also has the power to travel between time with the Master Sword, allowing him to go between adult and child. “Ocarina of Time” shines in almost every facet, but I was specifically drawn to the story, setting, and characters. The overall story is very strong and in my opinion the strongest in the series. The setting of Hyrule also shines, as it feels massive for a game released in 1998. The different corners of Hyrule are also beautiful and are themed in different ways. My favorite places in the game were Zora’s Domain, which is the water-based home of the fish-like Zora, and the Kokiri Forest, which is the beginning area full of the child-fairy race of Kokiri. The characters in all of the explorable places were very well-designed and had amazing personalities, with my favorites being Sheik and Princess Ruto. Story continues below advertisement In terms of gameplay, I was shocked to find out that it is surprisingly smooth and fun considering how old the game is. The camera was a bit annoying at times but I think it was made up for with how great the combat and movement felt. The only big gripe I had with the gameplay was that some of the puzzle-solving temples were insanely tedious and hard to figure out. The Water Temple in particular was impossible to figure out without a guide and I have no idea how a child would be able to get past it. Another part of the game that I fell in love with was the music. Koji Kondo’s direction for the soundtrack makes it one of the best video game soundtracks I have ever listened to. It is full of iconic tracks, with every area’s music sounding perfect. It’s a game I recommend playing with the sound on for the full experience. Rating: 9.5/10 This is a game that I think everyone should play at least once and is one of the greatest games of all time. It received critical acclaim on its release, and time has cemented it as one of the best games ever. Multiple members of the industry have cited “Ocarina of Time” as a huge inspiration for other games such as Okami, Grand Theft Auto III, Uncharted, Dark Souls, and Shadow of the Colossus, to name a few. It has long lived on as a game people regularly play, whether it is casually, speedrunning, or modifications. There’s no denying that the game is a classic that should be enjoyed by all gamers. View Story Comments 2 Like This Story Share on Facebook Share on X Email this Story Print this Story Leave a Comment Tags: game review Video Game Review More to Discover More in Entertainment Album of the Week: “The Stranger” BBNO$ Talks Inspiration, Challenges, and Collaborations in Exclusive Interview at PennWest Edinboro’s Spring Concert Evening of Creativity: Best of Broadway A Hilarious Tribute: A Minecraft Movie Brownsville Drive-in Launches 2025 Season Behind the Scenes of PennWest Califoria’s “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” A Q-&-A Guide To Course Substitutions April 24, 2025 • Michael Vinsick , News Editor Album of the Week: “The Stranger” April 24, 2025 • Evelyn Esek , Editor Trip Down Memory Lane: Adamson Stadium April 24, 2025 • Kayla Brill , Staff Writer BBNO$ Talks Inspiration, Challenges, and Collaborations in Exclusive Interview at PennWest Edinboro’s Spring Concert April 24, 2025 • Nikkisha Thompson , Staff Writer Evening of Creativity: Best of Broadway April 24, 2025 • Kayla Brill , Staff Writer Creativity Shines at Strike a Spark: A Celebration of Art and Innovation April 24, 2025 • Nikkisha Thompson , Staff Writer Vulcan Baseball Splits Games with Seton Hill April 17, 2025 • Owen Haluska , Sports Editor Penn West California Dance and Cheer Teams Shine at Nationals April 17, 2025 • Kayla Brill , Staff Writer Penn West California Strike a Spark April 16, 2025 April 17, 2025 • Elena Dupaly , Photographer Student Innovation Takes Center Stage at 10th Annual Strike-A-Spark Conference April 10, 2025 • Debbie Goh , Faculty Contributor Facebook Instagram X YouTube Flickr RSS Feed Search this site Submit Search 250 University Avenue California, PA 15419 Home Staff About Photo Gallery Videos © 2025  • Advertise • FLEX Pro WordPress Theme by SNO • Log in Comments (0) Share your thoughts... All Cal Times Picks Reader Picks Sort: Newest Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Spam Control Field. Verification Field. Name * Email * Close Close Modal Window Close