‘Avatar 2: The Way Of Water’ Review: A Major Disappointment, Bro Subscribe To Newsletters Trump Tracker Billionaires Billionaires View All Billionaires World's Billionaires Forbes 400 America's Richest Self-Made Women China's Richest India's Richest Indonesia's Richest Korea's Richest Thailand's Richest Japan's Richest Australia's Richest Taiwan's Richest Singapore's Richest Philippines' Richest Hong Kong's Richest Malaysia's Richest Money & Politics 2024 Election Innovation Innovation View All Innovation AI Big Data Cloud Cloud 100 Consumer Tech Creator Economy Cybersecurity Digital Transformation Enterprise Commerce Enterprise Security and Protection Enterprise Tech Enterprise Growth Strategy Future Of Work Gaming Healthcare Innovation Rules Retail Industry SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Science Social Media Sustainability & Climate Transportation Venture Capital Technology VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program TikTok BrandVoice | Paid Program Leadership Leadership View All Leadership C-Suite CEO Network CFO Network CHRO Network CIO Network CMO Network Leadership Strategies Careers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Education Forbes EQ | Paid Program ForbesBLK ForbesWomen Under 30 Working Remote Over 50 Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Money Money View All Money Banking & Insurance ETFs & Mutual Funds Fintech Hedge Funds & Private Equity Investing Investor Hub Markets Personal Finance Retirement Taxes Top Advisor | SHOOK Wealth Management Forbes Digital Assets Forbes Digital Assets Home Web3 Community News Crypto Prices NFT Prices Research Learn Crypto Basics BTC DeFi Web3 Education NFTs Crypto Investments Events Crypto Portfolios Business Business View All Business Aerospace & Defense Energy Food & Drink Hollywood & Entertainment Law Manufacturing Media Policy Retail SportsMoney Entertainment Digest Small Business Small Business View All Small Business Entrepreneurs Franchises Small Business Strategy Lifestyle Lifestyle View All Lifestyle Arts Boats & Planes Cars & Bikes Dining ForbesLife Forbes Travel Guide Spirits Style & Beauty Travel Vices Watches Real Estate Real Estate View All Real Estate Commercial Real Estate Forbes Global Properties Residential Real Estate Forbes Vetted Forbes Vetted View All Forbes Vetted Mattress & Sleep Bed Frames Mattresses Mattress Toppers Pillows Sheets & Bedding Sleep Products Home Bathroom Cleaning & Laundry Decor Furniture Heating & Cooling Hobbies Home Office Kitchen & Dining Outdoor Pets Storage & Organization Tools Wine & Bar Fashion Accessories Clothing Eyewear Footwear Jewelry Handbags & Purses Lingerie & Sleepwear Outdoor & Fitness Apparel Outerwear Watches Kids & Baby Gear Baby Gear Kids Clothes & Accessories Nursery Pregnancy & Postpartum Toys & Books Gear Apparel & Accessories Bikes Camping & Hiking Climbing Fishing & Hunting Fitness Golf Running Tennis & Racket Sports Tools & Tech Training & Recovery Water Sports Wellness Winter Sports Beauty & Grooming Haircare Makeup Nailcare Shaving Skincare Personal Products Wellness & Self Care Tech & Electronics Audio Cameras Computers, Tablets & Accessories Gaming Home Office Online Tools Smart Home Devices Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories Streaming TVs Travel Cruises Hotels & Lodging Luggage Travel Products Gifts Father's Day Holiday Mother's Day Valentine's Day Wedding Deals Black Friday Cyber Monday Amazon Prime Day Beauty & Grooming Big Sales Fashion Gear Home Tech & Electronics Travel Deals Mattress & Sleep Forbes 101 Advisor Advisor Best Credit Cards Of 2025 Compare Credit Cards Balance Transfer Credit Cards Cash Back Credit Cards Travel Credit Cards Business Credit Cards Mortgages & Loans Best Mortgage Lenders Today's Mortgage Rates Today's Refinance Rates Best Personal Loans Loans For Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Student Loan Lenders Best Student Loan Refinance Lenders Business Loans Banking Best Online Banks CD Rates High-Yield Savings Accounts Money Market Account Life Insurance Cheap Life Insurance No Exam Life Insurance Travel Insurance Covid-19 Travel Insurance Cheap Travel Insurance Companies Best Car Insurance Compare Car Insurance Quotes Cost Of Car Insurance Cheap Car Insurance Pet Insurance How Much Is Pet Insurance? Cheap Pet Insurance Business Services Best LLC Services Best Registered Agent Services How To Set Up An LLC How To Start A Business Cost To Start An LLC Best Payroll Services Best HR Software Best HRIS Systems Best PEO Services Best Applicant Tracking Systems Best Website Builders Best Web Hosting Services Best Domain Registrar Best Ecommerce Platform Best Landing Page Builder Best VoIP Service What Is VoIP? Best Answering Services Best Call Center Software Best Cloud Phone System Best Project Management Software Free Project Management Software Best Task Management Software Free Task Management Software Best Gantt Chart Software Best VPN Best Free VPN Best Cheap VPN Best Antivirus Software Best Password Managers Home Services Best Moving Companies Best Long Distance Moving Companies Best Car Shipping Companies Best Interstate Moving Companies How Much Do Movers Cost? Best Home Warranty Companies Cheapest Home Warranty Companies Are Home Warranties Worth It? Home Warranty Cost Best Home Appliance Insurance Best Solar Companies Best Solar Panels Cost Of Solar Panels Solar Tax Credit By State Are Solar Panels Worth It? Best Pest Control Companies Best Termite Control Companies Best Mosquito Control Companies Pest Control Cost How Much Do Exterminators Cost? Best Home Security Companies Best Home Security Systems Home Security System Cost Cheapest Home Security Systems Best Wireless Home Security Systems Best Internet Providers Cheapest Internet Plans Fastest High Speed Internet Providers Best Internet Only Plans Best Fiber Internet Providers Forbes Advisor UK Health Health Healthy Aging Best Medical Alert Systems Medicare Medicare Advantage Plans Medicare Supplement Plans Medicare Advantage By State Health Insurance Hearing Aids Best Hearing Aids Senior Living Mind Best Online Therapy Best CBD Gummies Best CBD Oil Best Protein Powders Lists Video Newsletters Newsletters Crypto Confidential Editorial Newsletters Forbes Games Forbes Games View All Forbes Games Frase by Forbes Pinpoint by LinkedIn Queens by LinkedIn Crossclimb by LinkedIn Forbes Magazine Forbes Magazine Forbes Asia Free Issue of Forbes Latest Latest Coronavirus Coverage Daily Cover Stories Dark Capital Editors' Picks Breaking News Featured Featured 2025 Best-In-State Wealth Advisors List 2025 America's Top Women Wealth Advisors AI’s Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It DNA of Success Embracing And Bracing For AI Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program Your Four-Part Blueprint To Unlock AI Value In 2025 | Paid Program Diners Club International Celebrates 75 Years | Paid Program Leadership Lessons: Small Business Playbook Potential Has No Age Summit | Paid Program Celebrating The Power Of Partnership: Why Teamwork Is Key In the Fight Against Cancer | Paid Program Protecting What Matters Most: How Gerber Life Insurance Offers Affordable Coverage For Your Whole Family | Paid Program Presented by EY - Beyond The Blueprint: How These Four CEOs Built Billion-Dollar Businesses | Paid Program 2/3 By 2030: Philip Morris International Marks A Milestone  And Aims For A Smoke-Free Future | Paid Program 2025 America's Top Wealth Advisors Forbes Insights: Your Guide To Marketing In The Era Of AI | Paid Program The Undergrad's New Journey To Real-World Ready | Paid Program Forbes Insights: Your Five-Step Strategy To Unleash AI’s Value In Marketing | Paid Program Forbes Video Series: AI 50 AI 50 List By The Numbers: Meet The Forbes 30 Under 30 Europe Class Of 2025 United To End Blood Cancer: Meet The Leaders Turning Passion Into Progress | Paid Program Advertise with Forbes Report a Security Issue Editorial Values and Standards Site Feedback Contact Us Careers at Forbes Tips Corrections Privacy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms AdChoices Reprints & Permissions © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. Subscribe To Newsletters ‘Avatar 2: The Way Of Water’ Review: A Major Disappointment, Bro By Erik Kain Follow Author Share Save Comment BETA This is a BETA experience. opt-out here Innovation Gaming ‘Avatar 2: The Way Of Water’ Review: A Major Disappointment, Bro By Erik Kain , Senior Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. I write about TV shows, movies, video games, entertainment & culture. Follow Author Dec 16, 2022, 05:21pm EST Share Save Comment This article is more than 2 years old. Avatar 2 The Way Of Water is a mess. Credit: 20th Century Studios I didn’t see Avatar: The Way Of Water on an IMAX 3D screen because the nearest IMAX to where I live is at the Grand Canyon and they don’t show this kind of movie on that screen (even if they did it’s being renovated until next Spring). The nearest IMAX is two-and-a-half hours away, and while I’m willing to drive to Phoenix to get out of the snow, it’s kind of a long ways to go for a movie. So I made a deal with myself. If I liked Way Of Water enough on a smaller screen—I saw it in 48 frames-per-second 3D—then I’d take the kids down to the Valley over Christmas Break and we’d watch it again on the biggest, bestest screen we could find. Well, scrap those plans. I doubt I’ll watch Avatar 2 again on any screen unless James Cameron would like to pay my travel expenses and buy me tickets and maybe take me out to dinner first. That’s what it would take to drag me back to the theaters to watch this 3 hour and 12 minute cartoon again. A few thoughts: Yes, this is a cartoon. It’s almost entirely CGI. When live-action characters (humans) enter the picture, which isn’t often, you’re reminded that you’re watching an expensive cartoon and it’s honestly a little jarring. There’s some uncanny valley stuff here, but mainly the Navi just look super fake compared to the humans, and the humans feel super out-of-place surrounded by Navi. Who Framed Roger Rabbit did it better. Sure, the graphics in this video game are great but the story? Eh. Not so much. 48fps 3D is awful. I hate it. It’s too clear, too sharp and too fake-looking. You know the TruMotion “smoothing” you can do on your TV at home? That’s what it’s like. I read that you get used to it after a few minutes but this is a bald-faced lie. It’s nice 3D and all, but it just doesn’t look right. The ‘soap opera effect’ drives me crazy. The movie is too long! It’s an hour too long. If I were making the decisions at 20th Century and Disney, I would have made them cut an hour of this wildly indulgent film. That’s the best way I can describe Way Of Water. James Cameron is being indulgent here to excess. There’s an arrogance on display that I just find very off-putting. And he’s being indulged by the studio with this massive SFX budget, the 3D, the IMAX format, the runtime. All of it. It’s arrogant and self-indulgent and I think the novelty that made that okay in the first film has worn off for audiences, or at least it has for me. The ‘wow’ factor is gone and all I see is an expensive cartoon. Water Navi Credit: 20th Century Studios MORE FROM FORBES ADVISOR Best Travel Insurance Companies By Amy Danise , Editor Best Covid-19 Travel Insurance Plans By Amy Danise , Editor There are some fun moments in the movie! I loved the tulkun, a hyper-intelligent species of whale that can communicate telepathically. I thought they did some really neat stuff with all the ocean and aquatic bits, which is no surprise given James Cameron’s love of the ocean that permeates so much of his work, in better films like Titanic and The Abyss. Some of the fights—while too long—were exciting and action-packed and had cool special effects. There were some funny and heartwarming scenes. I was entertained when I wasn’t bored. I can’t wait for video games to have graphics as crisp and high-definition! But the story is a mess. It’s a retread of the first film. The mustache-twirling villains are after the precious resources of Pandora. This time it’s a golden whale goo that halts human aging. Last time it was the hilariously named Unobtanium. New resource, same plot. Now we have water Navi with bigger tails who can swim underwater for a really long time. Now we have underwater scenery instead of jungles. But the bad guys are coming with their guns and their bombs and their bombs and their guns. And the Navi—a crude analog for the indigenous people of our own world—remain the Noble Savage trope they were in the last film, only less interesting now. The White Savior, Jake Sully, has been fully integrated into their community, but whatever interesting stuff defined them prior to his arrival, it’s all taken a back seat now to him and his family. Sully’s stick together! we are reminded. More than once. Avatar: The Way Of Water Credit: 20th Century Studios However beautiful some of the CGI and scenery is in Way Of Water, it’s often broken up by weird editing, jarring cuts and even more jarring zooms. Multiple times throughout the film there’s aggressive digital zooms that rip you out of any sense of immersion. My kids talked about this on our drive home after, so it’s not just your humble narrator who found this off-putting. Worse, still, was the dialogue, especially among Jake’s children. For some reason, all the kids constantly say “bro” or “cuz” to each other. I guess it’s because Cameron and his writers think this is how the young people talk these days or something. But even if that is how kids in the US talk in 2022—it isn’t, not to this degree—it makes no sense on an alien planet. It’s not like Jake is saying “bro” all the time (he often uses military jargon which makes more sense and it makes sense when the kids use it). Did the kids pick this up from . . . the human scientists? It’s so cringey and weird. It reminds me of the bad dialogue in the new Willow series. “I got you, bro!” “Yeah, bro, let’s go, bro!” “Hey cuz, let’s do this!” Shut. Up. Shut up! This isn’t how people talk, let alone Navi people raised in a traditional tribe! It’s awful. Truly awful. The writing feels much worse than in the first Avatar and that film didn’t have particularly compelling dialogue to begin with. In the end, we have a film that follows many of the same beats as its predecessor, is overly-reliant on special effects instead of a good script, and has much too much going on at all times to really help establish this as a meaningful sequel that sets up a compelling franchise we want to keep diving into in three (or more?) movies. Frankly, the conflict with the humans is just dull and uninspired at this point. I’m tired of cartoon villains and Noble Savages and things going boom left and right. I want more of the good character stuff, more of the spiritual and intimate stuff, more swimming with intelligent whales and less blowing stuff up. I would have loved it if this were an adventure movie, with Jake and his family heading out into the wide, wild world and facing struggles that had nothing to do with the human colonizers. Instead, we get endless fight scenes that reminded me a bit of the agonizingly never-ending battles in Aquaman (though the water scenes in this film are much, much better and less unintentionally hilarious). Ultimately, Avatar: The Way Of Water is just not all that good or cerebral or exciting. It’s predictable, shallow and bombastic. This is a low-brow action movie dressed in the glitzy trappings of a high-brow sci-fi flick. Once you take off the 3D glasses, or the rose-tinted ones, the illusion is shattered. I can’t say don’t watch Avatar 2 in theaters. It’s still a crazy example of where technology, CGI and film has come over the years and I’m sure it’s a wild ride in IMAX 3D. But don’t go in with very high expectations, either. If the seats in my theater had been more comfortable, I’m pretty sure I would have taken a nice long nap. But then I would have had to watch it again to pen this review, and that would be . . . unfortunate. Watch my video review below : The Score — And A Discussion Of The Score Rating: 3 out of 6 stars. Or on the Revised Little Man scale, the Neutral Man: Little Man Scale Credit: San Francisco Chronicle / Austin Kleon / Erik Kain For a little bonus read, check out Roger Ebert’s discussion on rating movies using star or number scales and why the above Little Man scale from the San Francisco Chronicle is his favorite. This design, however, is an altered version. I tweaked the new version that Austin Kleon came up with that replaced the fourth image of the man sitting up with a smile in his face (#4) with the man sitting back in his chair expressionless (#3). I think they each represent something different so I put them all together for a six-point scale rather than five, in which: The man jumping up and clapping (6) is a movie you absolutely love; The man clapping in his chair (5) is one you really enjoy and recommend; The man sitting up with the content smile (4) is a good movie, but nothing special; The man sitting back expressionless (3) doesn’t hate it but it’s not really something you’d encourage others to spend money on. The sleeping man (2) is bored but doesn’t hate the picture enough to leave; The missing man (1) well, you get the idea. Making this scale 6 rather than 5 actually pulls it in-line with the Thumbs Up/Thumbs Down binary from Siskel and Ebert’s TV show. 1-3 = Thumbs Down (you won’t recommend people go see it, regardless of how much you disliked it or not) while 4-6 = Thumbs Up (go see it, but maybe you just liked it or maybe you loved it). In any case, I like this system. I may use it, though I will likely redesign the design since it’s not mine entirely! Maybe it should even be a seven-point scale with a man standing and clapping for those rare films that deserve a standing ovation. Have you seen Avatar: The Way Of Water yet? Let me know what you thought of it on Twitter or Facebook . Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn . Check out my website or some of my other work . Editorial Standards Forbes Accolades LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Digital Terms of Sale Terms of Service Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Reprints & Permissions Forbes Press Room Advertise