Egan Bernal becomes first Colombian to win the Tour de France | Tour de France 2019 | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us Football Cricket Rugby union Tennis Cycling F1 Golf Boxing Rugby league Racing US sports 1:57 How Egan Bernal became the youngest Tour de France winner in 110 years – video Tour de France 2019 This article is more than 5 years old Egan Bernal becomes first Colombian to win the Tour de France This article is more than 5 years old Team Ineos rider crowned champion after ride to Paris Caleb Ewan sprints to victory in final stage Jeremy Whittle in Paris Sun 28 Jul 2019 15.17 EDT Last modified on Mon 29 Jul 2019 03.21 EDT Share Egan Bernal has become the first Colombian to win the Tour de France , sealing victory as darkness fell across Paris on Sunday. As a spectacular 21st stage of the 2019 Tour took in the Palais du Louvre, the Place de la Concorde and the Champs Élysées, Caleb Ewan proved the fastest of a fatigued peloton in the traditional sprint finish to the three-week race. The Australian Ewan came from well back in the pack to outsprint Dylan Groenewegen and collect his third stage win of the Tour as the sun set over the Arc de Triomphe at the end of the 130km stage from Rambouillet. Just behind, Bernal crossed the line alongside last year’s winner Geraint Thomas to secure his first Grand Tour victory in only his second career three-week race. Egan Bernal wins Tour de France and all of Colombia celebrates Read more Peter Sagan celebrated winning the green jersey of points classification for a record seventh time, but it was Bernal’s remarkable triumph that sent shockwaves through the sport. The 22-year-old was mobbed by teammates and delirious Colombian fans who had flooded the city of lights to celebrate a long-awaited success in the world’s most famous bicycle race. Speaking from the top step of the podium on the Champs Élysées, Bernal told ITV4: “Today I am the most happy guy in the world. I just won the Tour de France and I can’t believe it.” Bernal, who spoke in English, Italian, Spanish and French, added: “I think I should say thank you to all my team, thank you ‘G’ [Thomas] for the opportunity and all the team for their support and belief in me.” Dave Brailsford, the Team Ineos principal, said: “I don’t think he knows what’s hit him yet. I don’t think he has any idea what’s just happened to him. In sport, we lose way more than we win. As for him being the first ever Colombian, having been to Colombia and seen millions of people just when Egan won the Tour of Colombia, the place went bananas. “His status in cycling has changed now. He came into this race and it was ‘Geraint and Egan’, whereas now I think people will perceive him and ride against him in a different light. Geraint Thomas drew a lot of attention and that allowed Egan to go under the radar a little bit.” View image in fullscreen Australia’s Caleb Ewan celebrates winning the final stage after coming from nowhere. Photograph: Anne-Christine Poujoulat/AFP/Getty Images As Brailsford and his staff celebrated a 10th Grand Tour win since 2012, Romain Bardet took the King of the Mountains classification while the long-term race leader and fellow French favourite, Julian Alapahilippe, who spent 14 days in the yellow jersey and won two stages, was awarded the “super combativity” prize for most aggressive rider. At 22, and third youngest winner in the history of the Tour, Bernal also claimed the best young rider classification, in addition to the yellow jersey. But despite his prowess in the mountain stages, Bernal also finished the Tour without a stage win, as did teammate Chris Froome in 2017. Mountain man Egan Bernal caps meteoric rise with Tour de France victory Read more Bernal is widely tipped to go on to further Grand Tour success after this breakthrough win for South American cycling, but Brailsford is wary of the impact stardom may have on the young Colombian. “The big thing is that the status of his life will change and at a relatively young age,” he said. “He’s got all his 20s to adapt to that. I think it will go one way or another for him. Some carry on and get used to the world they live in and everything they have to deal with and other people don’t. “A lot of the guys who became successful for us were older, late 20s, and the life-change came after they got used to life at a certain level. When it happens younger you adapt quicker so you grow up in a different world from some of the other guys. His agent I know very well and is close to him. He’s got a good network around him and his coach is really important now. So we need to sit down and have a plan.” Thomas, who was lying second overall in the 2017 edition when he was forced to abandon the race after a crash on stage nine, was proud of his efforts even though he was unable to retain his title. “[I was] second in the Tour de France two years ago, I was here with a broken collarbone and my arm in a sling and watching Froomey win his fourth, and really just disappointed not to be able to ride my bike, and I would’ve taken second then, but it just shows how times and expectations have moved on,” Thomas said. “But I think I can be proud of how I just managed to get in decent enough shape. This year has just been mainly downs, it hasn’t been a smooth ride at all, and even in the race it was one thing after the next. But I can be happy with it, I gave it everything, didn’t let the downs affect me and just kept pressing on. To be second to a teammate makes it OK. If it was Kruijswijk sitting on the top step, and I was second then for sure I would be a lot more disappointed.” Explore more on these topics Tour de France 2019 Egan Bernal Tour de France Team Ineos Cycling Share Reuse this content Comments (…) Sign in or create your Guardian account to join the discussion Most viewed Most viewed Football Cricket Rugby union Tennis Cycling F1 Golf Boxing Rugby league Racing US sports News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)