The Blacklist season 10 release date, cast and plot Search Latest News TV Reality TV US TV Movies Soaps Showbiz Tech Digital Spy 25th Anniversary Digital Spy Holidays Features All Videos Newsletter Forums Follow About Us Write For Us Cookies Policy Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content TV Movies Soaps Tech News Forums Newsletter Havoc ending Buy new DS magazine Alison Hammond outfits You season 5 review Hollyoaks' shock comeback We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. TV US TV The Blacklist season 10 release date, cast, plot and everything you need to know The Blacklist season 10 release date, cast, plot and everything you need to know What lies in store next? By Iona Rowan Updated: 16 January 2023 NBC Universal The Blacklist spoilers follow. The Blacklist 's combination of twist-filled scripts, fast-paced direction, and brilliant performances has kept it going as strong today as it did when it first aired back in 2013, so it's not surprising that NBC renewed the crime thriller for another season . But what can we expect from the next chapter? Here's everything you need to know about The Blacklist season 10. What to Read Next The Blacklist season 10 release date: When will episodes air? NBC Universal The airdate has finally been confirmed, and we'll be getting new season 10 episodes of The Blacklist on Sunday, February 26 at 8/7c on NBC. It's great news for fans. The move from Friday to Sunday could potentially open up the show to a wider audience. It's a more traditional slot for a show like this – even if that does mean it'll have more like-for-like competition, going up against NCIS: Los Angeles and The Equalizer on CBS. And we could even end up seeing a Blacklist movie, whether the shift is successful or not. "That construct of the windowing combined with the fact that streamers really want movies, movies are driving platforms, has, in my opinion, made the movie business economically better," NBC CEO Jeff Shell said (via The Express ). "[NBCU is] making twice as many movies as our nearest competitors, and we're buying all that content and moving it into Peacock to establish the streaming service." The Blacklist appears on both NBC and Peacock, so a movie could be a way to keep the narrative going, even if the show itself does end as a result of this Sunday night experiment. Speaking about the show's success in a previous interview with Westchester County Tourism & Film , The Blacklist 's location manager Tom Scutro shared: "It's been a great run. It's hard to believe this all started in 2013. I've worked on the show since we started, except for the pilot episode. We're thrilled to be returning for a tenth season, which we'll start filming after Labor Day." The Blacklist season 10 cast: Who's in it? NBC/NBCU After watching the thrilling season-nine finale of The Blacklist , all fans can think about now is who will be back for season ten. We, of course, expect its star/executive producer James Spader to return as criminal mastermind-turned-supergrass analyst Raymond 'Red' Reddington. As for the other major players, we'd also expect Donald Ressler (Diego Klattenhoff), Harold Cooper (Harry Lennix) and Dembe Zuma (Hisham Tawfiq) to all make a comeback. Two major cast members who sadly won't be returning for the next instalment are Amir Arison, who debuted as FBI Special Agent Aram Mojtabai in the very first season of the show, and Laura Sohn, who joined in season six as FBI agent Alina Park (via Deadline ). Arison is reportedly leaving to make his Broadway debut in The Kite Runner , an opportunity that he says he "could not pass up". Meanwhile, Sohn is leaving to pursue other projects, though no specific details of these are yet known. " The Blacklist has changed my life – I have made lifelong friends, learned so much along the way, and have met countless wonderful people from all over the world who support the show," Arison shared in a lengthy message on Twitter . "It is not lost on me how lucky I am to have been able to work and evolve with a role for nine years with this special cast, crew, and so many dedicated artists." Even though Arison is leaving, the door is open for him to make guest appearances or even a full return in the future as his character's exit story is that he is stepping away from the FBI and moving to Brooklyn – the finale even had a nod to his next project by saying that he might see a Broadway show while in New York. We've also had news that a new character will be making their debut in season 10. Siya Malik (played by Anya Banerjee) will get introduced in the new episodes. Those that have been watching the show since season one might be excited to know that she's got connections to the past. She is the daughter of the late Meera Malik (Parminder Nagra), who was unfortunately assassinated (via NBC ). Michael Bonini ( New Amsterdam ) has also appeared to reveal that he'll be making an appearance at some point in season 10, captioning an Instagram post with the words:  "Philly's Finest" (via Express ). The Blacklist season 10 plot: What will happen? NBC Despite the premise of season 10 being kept under wraps for the time being, the season nine finale gave fans a pretty good idea of the direction it will take. Towards the end of the season, we discovered that Red's seemingly loyal advisor Marvin Gerard (Fisher Stevens) was the one responsible for the death of his beloved Elizabeth (Megan Boone). But even after being exposed and his subsequent death, he left one last parting gift, much to the detriment of Red. When crossing paths with him in prison, Marvin told Wujing (Chin Han), one of the very first Blacklisters from season one, that he was caught because Red and the FBI were working together, before handing him a list of others Red helped put away. Now, Wujing is out for vengeance, armed with a list of other Blacklisters whom he plans to recruit to hunt down and eliminate Red with him. Just as Red's quest for revenge comes to an end, it appears as though he'll be receiving it come season 10. The Blacklist season 10 trailer: When can I watch it? No finished footage means no trailer. Sorry, folks. Keep your eyes and ears peeled for our update, because you'll see it here first. The Blacklist season 10 will air on Sundays at 8/7c on NBC in the US, and is yet to get a release in the UK. Best Entertainment and Tech Deals Shop Sky deals across TV, broadband and mobile Shop at Sky TV Credit: Sky Shop Google Pixel 7a phones Shop at Amazon Credit: Google Coronation Street X Joanie - Gilroy Retro Newton And Ridley Sweatshirt Shop at joanieclothing.com Credit: Joanie Clothing LEGO Disney and Pixar ‘Up’ House Shop at Amazon Credit: LEGO LEGO 007 Aston Martin DB5 James Bond Shop at Amazon Credit: LEGO Sign up for Apple TV+ Shop at Apple Credit: Apple TV+ Heartstopper Volume 5 Pre-Order Now Credit: Hodder Children's Books Barbie The Movie doll Shop at Amazon Credit: Barbie Sign up for Disney+ Shop at Disney+ Credit: Disney+/Lucasfilm Ted Lasso x Nike: AFC Richmond home kit Shop at Pro Direct Sport Credit: Nike The Woman in Me by Britney Spears Pre-Order Now Credit: Gallery UK/Simon & Schuster Jojo: Finally Home by Johannes Radebe Pre-Order Now Credit: Hodder & Stoughton The Witcher wolf pendant Shop at Amazon Credit: Amazon Barbenheimer - Barbie v Oppenheimer T-shirt Shop at printerval.com Credit: Printerval Barbenheimer T-shirt Shop at Etsy Credit: Etsy Best PS5 deals - where to buy PS5 today? Shop at Various Credit: PlayStation Anker PowerCore Essential 20,000 PD Power Bank Shop at Amazon Credit: Anker Iona Rowan Freelance Reporter, Digital Spy After completing her joint honours degree in Journalism and English Literature at Cardiff University, Iona joined Digital Spy as a Content Production Intern in 2022. In that role, Iona wrote across both news and features, specialising in TV and movies. Following her internship, Iona now contributes to DS as a freelance reporter. Iona has reported from the Black Adam red carpet, and interviewed celebrities ranging from Love Island stars to the cast of Disney's live-action The Little Mermaid . Advertisement - Continue Reading Below The Blacklist De Niro's Netflix series adds The Blacklist list Why was The Blacklist cancelled? The Blacklist airs Raymond Reddington's fate The Blacklist confirms date for final episode Advertisement - Continue Reading Below The Blacklist future revealed after season 10 The Blacklist season 10 will have throwback twist Two The Blacklist cast members exit the show The Blacklist future announced beyond season 9 Law & Order actor joins The Blacklist season 9 The Blacklist season 9 reveals major time jump The Blacklist losing another key player The Blacklist delivers huge season 8 finale twist Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Features Exclusives US TV Reality TV Soaps Spoilers Coronation Street EastEnders Emmerdale Home and Away Hollyoaks Casualty Neighbours Waterloo Road Doctors Black Friday Gaming Showbiz LGBTQ+ Spy Star Wars Marvel Anime Doctor Who WWE Netflix Disney+ Apple TV+ Prime Video NOW DIGITAL SPY, PART OF THE HEARST UK ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2025 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved. RSS About & Contact Details Terms &amp; Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Complaints Sitemap Advertising Cookies Choices