Malika Andrews: A Trailblazer for Women in Sports Broadcasting - Hollywood Insider Home Latest Reviews Global LGBTQ Cinema TV Culture Fashion Awards Animation Tech Sports Lifestyle Features Culture Fashion News Cinema TV Culture Fashion Behind The Scenes Videos Series Trailers Our Values Write For Us Advertise With Us Substance & Meaningful Entertainment Against Gossip & Scandal Independent Media Network Global Stories From Local Perspective Factual Culture News Subscribe to our FREE magazine Substance & Meaningful Entertainment Against Gossip & Scandal Independent Media Network Global Stories From Local Perspective Factual Culture News Cinema TV Culture Awards Music Lifestyle Fashion Videos Malika Andrews: A Trailblazer for Women in Sports Broadcasting Kaili Spooner Kaili Spooner Kaili Spooner’s passion lies in sports journalism and Black TV/Film, and her writing strongly aligns with The Hollywood Insider’s values of delivering factual and in-depth coverage. While her future career goal is to be a sports journalist and do social media work for the NBA/WNBA, for now, she balances her academic pursuits with being a collegiate volleyball player at SSU and unwinding with her favorite comedy and drama sitcoms at home. Aug 27, 2024 Through perseverance, hard work, and determination, Malika Andrews has climbed the ranks in the sports media industry. Currently, she is a distinguished sports journalist and reporter, hosting NBA Today and all editions of NBA Countdown on ESPN . Her influence extends across multiple ESPN platforms, including ESPN.com , ESPN Radio , and SportsCenter . Andrews is beloved by NBA fans worldwide for her deep knowledge of basketball, her infectious laugh and smile, her vibrant personality, and her distinctive style. Beyond her fanbase, she serves as an inspiring role model for many aspiring young girls, particularly those of color, who share her passion for sports media. Things to do: Subscribe to The Hollywood Insider’s YouTube Channel, by clicking here. Limited Time Offer – FREE Subscription to The Hollywood Insider Click here to read more on The Hollywood Insider’s vision, values and mission statement here – Media has the responsibility to better our world – The Hollywood Insider fully focuses on substance and meaningful entertainment, against gossip and scandal, by combining entertainment, education, and philanthropy. Early Life & Career Beginnings Andrews was born in Oakland, California, to Mike, a personal trainer, and Caren, an art teacher, and raised alongside her younger sister Kendra Andrews. During eighth grade, she attended the K-12 college preparatory, Head Royce School, and was later kicked out because of a drastic drop in grades and studying, due to mental health struggles. After graduating at 17, from a boarding school in Utah; she attended the University of Portland, earned a bachelor of arts degree, and graduated with honors. While at the University of Portland, she was a sports writer, and sports editor, and eventually became the editor-in-chief of The Beacon , her university student newspaper. One of her most notable college accomplishments was reporting on a player who suffered a brain bleed after crashing into a wall. In due time, her article influenced the university to put up padding to prevent future injuries. In addition to her on-campus involvement, she partook in many newspaper internships, including the Associated Press, Chicago Tribune, and New York Times . “Television is something that came out of my love of reporting,” Andrews told Argent Work . “Television emerged from my love of reporting,” Andrews told Argent Work. Initially, she envisioned a career in newspapers, driven by her passion for writing and reading, and never anticipated ending up on air. During her college years, Andrews made a significant connection with Adrian Wojnarowski , a renowned sports reporter. She had written a front-page story for her college newspaper about Terry Porter, a former Portland Trail Blazer who had just been hired as the University of Portland’s head men’s basketball coach. Coincidentally, Wojnarowski was on campus at the time, recording a podcast with Porter. He came across Andrews’ article, was impressed, and reached out to meet her. This encounter blossomed into a mentorship, with Wojnarowski guiding her budding career. When Wojnarowski joined ESPN, Andrews, influenced by their numerous conversations, decided to leave the Chicago Tribune and embark on a new path. She spent three years as a print reporter for ESPN, a decision that would eventually pave the way for her successful television career. WATCH THE TRAILER of the Film and the Revolution: ‘Can I Go Home Now?’ The Children Around the World Continue to Ask the question Life At ESPN In October 2018, Malika joined ESPN as an online writer and has flourished in her professional career ever since. Early in her tenure at ESPN, she covered teams such as the Milwaukee Bucks and the Chicago Bulls . Later she moved to New York to report on the New York Knicks and Brooklyn Nets. Her breakout moment came during her sideline reporting for ESPN during the 2020 NBA Playoffs. That same year, she was one of the first reporters to enter the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex for the completion of the 2019-20 NBA season in “The Bubble”, a bio-secure environment at Walt Disney World. This was created to isolate players from the outside world during the final eight games of the season and throughout the 2020 NBA Playoffs, to avoid being infected by the COVID-19 virus . Due to her attention to detail and stellar reporting skills, Malika Andrews led the 2020 NBA draft telecast with virtual interviews of the top draftees. Andrews continued to flourish after 2020, an unprecedented time for the sports world. On July 6, 2021, she was announced as ABC’s sideline reporter for the NBA Finals coverage, replacing Rachel Nichols. In March 2022, Andrews appeared in a short film entitled ‘Playoffs’ on NBA Lane, promoting the 2022 NBA Playoffs. Since 2021, she has been the host of ESPN’s NBA Today, while also hosting NBA Countdown on Wednesdays. On June 26 and 27, 2024, she hosted both days of the 2024 NBA Draft in Brooklyn and Manhattan; making this her third consecutive year as the event’s host. Related article: Why Queen Elizabeth II Is One Of The Greatest Monarchs | Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II of United Queendom of Great Britain & Northern Ireland (Video Insight) Related article: – Want GUARANTEED SUCCESS? Remove these ten words from your vocabulary| Transform your life INSTANTLY Related article: NBA COVID-19 Controversies: Ball or Fall Making History Andrews is no stranger to success and has been on a relentless grind since stepping into her passion. While in college, she won the Best Writer Award among Oregon students in 2016. She has been recognized by the Society of Professional Journalists, the National Association of Black Journalists, and the Columbia Scholastic Press Association for her work as ESPN’s only Black female NBA reporter. Her tenure at ESPN earned her the distinction of being the youngest sideline reporter for a broadcast during the 2020 NBA Bubble. In 2021, she was named one of Forbes’ 30 Under 30 in the sports industry and was nominated for an Emmy for “Outstanding Personality – Emerging On-Air Talent.” Though she did not win that year, being in the running for such a prestigious award was an honor. The following year, she won the Sports Emmy for “Outstanding Personality – Emerging On-Air Talent”, a testament to her talent and dedication. One of her most notable accomplishments is making history as the first woman to host an NBA Draft on June 23, 2022. Though she doesn’t focus merely on the accolades, it is clear that her hard work and dedication to her craft have not gone unnoticed. Related article: EVOLUTION: Every Ryan Gosling Role From 1995 to 2020, All Performances Exceptionally Poignant Related article: EVOLUTION: Every Henry Cavill Role From 2001 to 2021, All Performances Exceptionally Poignant Related article: All Best Actor/Actress Speeches From The Beginning Of Oscars 1929-2019 | Hollywood Insider Related article: A’ja Wilson: Las Vegas Aces Star Makes U.S. Women’s Basketball Olympic Team Overcoming Challenges Malika has worked hard to become one of ESPN’s top reporters, but her journey has not been without its challenges. On June 12, 2024, People Magazine featured an article detailing Andrews’ struggles with depression, mental illness, an eating disorder, and more. During her teen years, she spent three years in residential therapy institutions to treat her anxiety and depression, including a wilderness therapy program. By sharing her story, Andrews hopes to inspire greater compassion and understanding for others, as one never knows the battles others may be facing. Reflecting on her past, she explained, “I was a lost kid, but I wasn’t a bad kid. Little me didn’t deserve that. I did deserve help.” Andrews’ candidness about her struggles underscores her resilience and adds depth to her already impressive career. One of the most beautiful outcomes of Malika Andrews’ time away at therapy programs was her growing love for horses. While in Utah, she was allowed to take riding lessons and bonded with a horse named Dante. “I started working with him, and I fell in love. Suddenly, I had something to pour joy into,” she shared with People. She later brought Dante home and continued to ride him until college. Horseback riding has become her escape from an industry where audiences constantly scrutinize and where men predominantly dominate. Her fiancé, ESPN reporter Dave McMenamin, supports her passion by gifting her riding lessons and reminding her to prioritize self-care and personal interests outside of work. In addition to riding, Andrews continues to attend therapy, relying on the support of her fiancé and family. “I have a job I love, a partner I love, a life I love that’s worth fighting for,” she says. “That doesn’t mean that it isn’t difficult a lot of days. I’m still finding my way.” Related article: Understanding the Star Wars Timeline Related article: A Tribute to Francis Ford Coppola: One of Cinema’s Unforgettable Directors | ‘Megalopolis’, ‘The Godfather’ & More Related article: #metoo Revolution: Powerful Questions That Need Answers Related article: FACT-CHECKED Series: Timothee Chalamet and 32 Facts about The Young Superstar Related article: Purple and BOLD: Why Kobe Bryant is a Legend Beyond Basketball, Such Was His Power and Prolific Legacy Breaking Barriers Malika Andrews’ career continues to elevate as she has made a significant impact in the sports industry, serving as an inspiring leader for women of color. In a relatively short time, she has achieved what many journalists only dream of, excelling with her exceptional writing skills, charisma, basketball knowledge, and resilience. As a Black woman in sports media , she stands as a beacon for others, demonstrating that perseverance and excellence can shatter glass ceilings. Her work as a reporter and journalist has earned her admiration and respect nationally. It will be exciting to see what other accolades she garners in the coming years and how she continues to ascend in both her career and life. By Kaili Spooner Click here to read The Hollywood Insider’s CEO Pritan Ambroase’s love letter to Cinema, TV and Media . An excerpt from the love letter: The Hollywood Insider’s CEO/editor-in-chief Pritan Ambroase affirms, “ We have the space and time for all your stories, no matter who/what/where you are. Media/Cinema/TV have a responsibility to better the world and The Hollywood Insider will continue to do so. Talent, diversity and authenticity matter in Cinema/TV, media and storytelling. In fact, I reckon that we should announce “talent-diversity-authenticity-storytelling-Cinema-Oscars-Academy-Awards” as synonyms of each other. We show respect to talent and stories regardless of their skin color, race, gender, sexuality, religion, nationality, etc., thus allowing authenticity into this system just by something as simple as accepting and showing respect to the human species’ factual diversity. We become greater just by respecting and appreciating talent in all its shapes, sizes, and forms. Award winners, which includes nominees, must be chosen on the greatness of their talent ALONE. I am sure I am speaking for a multitude of Cinema lovers all over the world when I speak of the following sentiments that this medium of art has blessed me with. Cinema taught me about our world, at times in English and at times through the beautiful one-inch bar of subtitles. I learned from the stories in the global movies that we are all alike across all borders. Remember that one of the best symbols of many great civilizations and their prosperity has been the art they have left behind. This art can be in the form of paintings, sculptures, architecture, writings, inventions, etc. For our modern society, Cinema happens to be one of them. Cinema is more than just a form of entertainment, it is an integral part of society. I love the world uniting, be it for Cinema, TV, media, art, fashion, sport, etc. Please keep this going full speed.” More Interesting Stories From The Hollywood Insider – Want GUARANTEED SUCCESS? Remove these ten words from your vocabulary| Transform your life INSTANTLY – A Tribute to Martin Scorsese: A Complete Analysis of the Life and Career of the Man Who Lives and Breathes Cinema – Do you know the hidden messages in ‘Call Me By Your Name’? Find out behind the scenes facts in the full commentary and In-depth analysis of the cinematic masterpiece – A Tribute To The Academy Awards: All Best Actor/Actress Speeches From The Beginning Of Oscars 1929-2019 | From Rami Malek, Leonardo DiCaprio To Denzel Washington, Halle Berry & Beyond | From Olivia Colman, Meryl Streep To Bette Davis & Beyond – In the 32nd Year Of His Career, Keanu Reeves’ Face Continues To Reign After Launching Movies Earning Over $4.3 Billion In Total – “John Wick”, “Toy Story 4”, “Matrix”, And Many More Author Kaili Spooner Kaili Spooner's passion lies in sports journalism and Black TV/Film, and her writing strongly aligns with The Hollywood Insider's values of delivering factual and in-depth coverage. While her future career goal is to be a sports journalist and do social media work for the NBA/WNBA, for now, she balances her academic pursuits with being a collegiate volleyball player at SSU and unwinding with her favorite comedy and drama sitcoms at home. View all posts You might also like… Inequality in Broadcasting: Let Us Watch Women's Sports NFL Broadcasting in the Age of Player Empowerment:… A’ja Wilson: Las Vegas Aces Star Makes U.S. Women’s… Beyond the Game: The Inspiring Journey of Candace… A Tribute to Steph Curry: How “The Baby-Faced… Blockbuster: The Intersection of Sports and Entertainment Kaili Spooner Kaili Spooner’s passion lies in sports journalism and Black TV/Film, and her writing strongly aligns with The Hollywood Insider’s values of delivering factual and in-depth coverage. While her future career goal is to be a sports journalist and do social media work for the NBA/WNBA, for now, she balances her academic pursuits with being a collegiate volleyball player at SSU and unwinding with her favorite comedy and drama sitcoms at home. Kaili Spooner Kaili Spooner’s passion lies in sports journalism and Black TV/Film, and her writing strongly aligns with The Hollywood Insider’s values of delivering factual and in-depth coverage. While her future career goal is to be a sports journalist and do social media work for the NBA/WNBA, for now, she balances her academic pursuits with being a collegiate volleyball player at SSU and unwinding with her favorite comedy and drama sitcoms at home. [tptn_list] Newsletter Subscription First * First Enter Your Email * Captcha Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ Related Articles Inequality in Broadcasting: Let Us Watch Women's Sports NFL Broadcasting in the Age of Player Empowerment:… A’ja Wilson: Las Vegas Aces Star Makes U.S. Women’s… Beyond the Game: The Inspiring Journey of Candace… A Tribute to Steph Curry: How “The Baby-Faced… Blockbuster: The Intersection of Sports and Entertainment © 2022 Hollywood Insider Corp. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy | About Our Ads Quick Links Write for us Contact Us About Us Got Tips? Advertise Follow Us Charity Partner 2025 ©  Hollywood Insider – News Entertainment & Culture. All Rights Reserved. | Powered and Designed by: WEBSITEITUP Limited Time Offer: Join for FREE today and get unlimited The Hollywood Insider is against gossip and scandal, fully focused on substance & meaningful entertainment. We choose quality over quantity, compassion over oppression, wisdom over intelligence. Newsletter Subscription First * First Enter Your Email * Captcha Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ × We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. Ok