'Grey's Anatomy' season 17 premiere: Debbie Allen says fans will be blown away - ABC News ABC News Video Live Shows Shop Log In Stream on Culture 'Grey's Anatomy' season 17 premiere: Debbie Allen says fans will be blown away "You're going to see things you don't think you're going to see," she teased. 4:50 'Grey's Anatomy' season 17 premiere: Debbie Allen says fans will be blown away ABC By Candice Williams November 12, 2020, 11:34 AM Debbie Allen says the seventeenth season of "Grey's Anatomy" won't hold back any punches when it returns tonight for its two-hour premiere. Allen, who stars as Dr. Catherine Fox on the show, told ABC Audio that fans should expect the unexpected on the heart-stopping return of the series. "'Grey's Anatomy' season 17 is going to blow the audience and the fans away," she said. "That's all I can tell you." MORE: Ellen Pompeo reveals which 'Grey’s Anatomy' cast departures affected her most Although Allen, who also serves as one of the show's directors, is not offering any details on what fans will see, she does offer a brief explanation as to why you "don't [want to] miss it." "Everybody's in it," she revealed. "You're going to see things you don't think you're going to see." Editor’s Picks 'Grey’s Anatomy' star reveals which cast departures affected her most 'Grey's Anatomy' star Kelly McCreary gives a behind-the-scenes set tour amid COVID-19 'Grey's Anatomy' star Caterina Scorsone opens up about Down syndrome and her family The season 17 premiere will be a crossover event with "Grey's Anatomy" and "Station 19," starting at 8|7c on ABC. It will reportedly be set weeks into the COVID-19 pandemic. "Grey's" showrunner Krista Vernoff previously spoke about why the ABC medical drama will touch on the COVID-19 pandemic. Ellen Pompeo in a scene from "Grey's Anatomy." ABC "There's no way to be a long-running medical show and not do the medical story of our lifetimes," she shared during the Television Academy's "Quaranstreaming: Comfort TV That Keeps Us Going" panel in July. After speaking will real doctors and medical professionals on the front lines, she said she felt the the show had "an opportunity and a responsibility to tell some of those stories." Ellen Pompeo in a scene from "Grey's Anatomy." ABC The new season of "Grey's Anatomy" kicks off tonight with a two-hour premiere starting at 9 p.m. ET on ABC. Check out a behind-the-scenes tour of the show's set from Kelly McCreary, who stars as Dr. Maggie Pierce in the ABC hospital drama, here . Sponsored Content by Taboola Popular Reads Trump has lowest 100-day approval rating in 80 years: POLL Apr 27, 12:04 AM Pope Francis updates: Pope Francis' coffin has been closed Apr 25, 5:50 PM Trump admin live updates: Trump rallies with supporters to mark 100 days 1 hour ago US fighter jet rolls off aircraft carrier, sinks into ocean, Navy says Apr 28, 4:36 PM ABC News Live 24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events ABC News Network Privacy Policy Your US State Privacy Rights Children's Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads About Nielsen Measurement Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Contact Us © 2025 ABC News