Artificial Intelligence (AI) Amazon Jobs Teams Locations Job categories Resources Accommodations Benefits Inclusive experiences Interviewing at Amazon Leadership Principles Working at Amazon FAQ Locale Language: en-US Amazon Jobs Search Search Locale Language: en-US Search for jobs Title or keyword Location Search Search Artificial Intelligence Cutting-edge research meets large-scale application Amazon is improving customers’ lives with practical, useful generative AI innovations. We’ve been developing and deploying AI and machine learning models to power customer experiences for over 25 years. We do this for both customer-facing services and internal operations—from the recommendation engines that personalize the shopping experience on Amazon.com to the AI-powered robots that optimize order fulfillment in our warehouses. We’ve launched entirely new businesses based on AI, like Alexa , our general-purpose, personal AI. And more than 100,000 enterprise customers are using the AI and ML services offered through Amazon Web Service (AWS) . Today, Amazon develops world-class technology at all three layers of the “generative AI stack,” including best-in-class infrastructure, AI models, and AI applications. Our approach is to blend breakthrough research with real-world impact, harnessing the power of generative AI to transform every customer experience. Learn about the ways Amazon is innovating with AI. Latest AI news Equal opportunity Amazon is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate on the basis of protected veteran status, disability, or other legally protected status. Career areas Teams Locations Job categories Hourly jobs Military hiring University talent Resources Accommodations Benefits Inclusive experiences Interviewing at Amazon Leadership Principles Working at Amazon FAQ Start your Amazon journey Share your resume and basic info to get personalized job recommendations and more. Create an account Amazon sites Amazon.com About Amazon Amazon Web Services Amazon Ads Amazon Design Amazon Science Social LinkedIn Instagram Facebook YouTube X Privacy Conditions of use Cookie preferences Legal disclosures and notices Translation disclaimer © 1996-2025, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates server-rendered production build for production in us-west-2