Season 7 | The Blacklist Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In The Blacklist Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Cast Cast Characters Season 1 Characters FBI Agents Criminals Employed by Raymond Reddington Incarcerated Deceased Season 2 Characters Crew Writers Season 1 Crew Creators Executive Producers Directors Season 2 Crew Season 3 Crew Show Season 8 Season 9 Season 10 The Blacklist (Comic) The Blacklist: Conspiracy The Blacklist: Redemption Helping Out Policies Getting Started Wiki tutorial Help pages Orphaned pages Broken redirects Wanted pages Community Recent blog posts Forum Community News Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content The Blacklist Wiki 698 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Cast Cast Characters Season 1 Characters FBI Agents Criminals Employed by Raymond Reddington Incarcerated Deceased Season 2 Characters Crew Writers Season 1 Crew Creators Executive Producers Directors Season 2 Crew Season 3 Crew Show Season 8 Season 9 Season 10 The Blacklist (Comic) The Blacklist: Conspiracy The Blacklist: Redemption Helping Out Policies Getting Started Wiki tutorial Help pages Orphaned pages Broken redirects Wanted pages Community Recent blog posts Forum Community News in: Season 7 Episodes Season 7 Edit Edit source History Purge Talk (0) Season 7 Season Information Announced March 11, 2019 Episodes 19 Aired October 4, 2019 - May 15, 2020 Executive Producers Jon Bokenkamp John Davis John Eisendrath John Fox James Spader J. R. Orci Lukas Reiter Laura A. Benson Stars James Spader Megan Boone Diego Klattenhoff Harry Lennix Amir Arison Hisham Tawfiq Premiere “ Louis T. Steinhil ” Finale “ The Kazanjian Brothers ” Season Chronology Previous Season 6 Next Season 8 NBC's The Blacklist ​​​​​​ was renewed for a seventh season on March 11, 2019 . It premiered on Friday, October 4, 2019 , at 8/7c. The season was set to consist of 22 total episodes, but however the number of episodes was shortened to 19 due to production shutting down indefinitely . Contents 1 Synopsis 2 Episodes 3 Trivia 4 Gallery 5 Videos 6 External Links Synopsis [ ] After being abducted by Katarina Rostova, Raymond "Red" Reddington finds himself alone in hostile territory, unsure of who, if anyone, he can trust. Surrounded by old enemies and new allies, Red must stay one step ahead of the Blacklist's most dangerous criminal, who will stop at nothing to unearth the very truth Red wants no one to know about. To find it, Katarina will insinuate herself into the life of Elizabeth Keen, who has finally reunited with her daughter Agnes. Episodes [ ] Season Seven Episodes No. in Season No. in Series Title Directed by Written by Original air date 1 134 “ Louis T. Steinhil ” Bill Roe John Eisendrath Jon Bokenkamp October 4, 2019 Synopsis: After being abducted by Katarina Rostova, Raymond "Red" Reddington finds himself alone in hostile territory unsure of who, if anyone, he can trust. With few leads to go on, Liz and the Task Force venture into unknown danger as they race to find him. 2 135 “ Louis T. Steinhil: Conclusion ” Cort Hessler Lukas Reiter October 11, 2019 Synopsis: Liz, Dembe and the Task Force continue to search for Red. Red attempts to escape his abductors with help from a surprise ally, but discovers he is not Katarina Rostova’s only target in her hunt for information. 3 136 “ Les Fleurs Du Mal ” Lisa Robinson Kelli Johnson Taylor Martin October 18, 2019 Synopsis: Aram goes undercover to infiltrate a secret society of wealthy thrill-seekers, whose entertainment hinges upon spectacular acts of violence. Meanwhile, Red tries to negotiate with a former associate involved in the Townsend Directive, while Katarina Rostova takes steps to insinuate herself into Liz's life. 4 137 “ Kuwait ” Stephanie Marquardt Sean Hennen October 25, 2019 Synopsis: Cooper's moral compass is tested when an officer whom he served with as young man, long presumed to be dead, resurfaces as a POW. 5 138 “ Norman Devane ” Kurt Kuenne Noah Schechter November 1, 2019 Synopsis: Liz and the Task Force investigate an infamous assassin who has a long history of weaponizing diseases, but has now turned to even more insidious activities. Meanwhile, Red and Dembe travel to Cuba in search of a lead, and Aram considers a new relationship. 6 139 “ Dr. Lewis Powell ” Christine Gee Sam Christopher November 8, 2019 Synopsis: Red alerts the FBI to the suspicious death of a scientist specializing in artificial intelligence research. Meanwhile, Francesca Campbell further entangles herself in Red's criminal activities. 7 140 “ Hannah Hayes ” Adam Weisinger Daniel Cerone November 15, 2019 Synopsis: The Task Force investigates the unexplained disappearance and sudden re-emergence of a governor. Meanwhile, Red and Dembe surveil someone close to Katarina Rostova, as she inadvertently involves Agnes in an operation of her own. 8 141 “ The Hawaladar ” Paul Holahan Jon Bokenkamp Lukas Reiter November 22, 2019 Synopsis: Desperate for information about the whereabouts of a longtime friend, Red directs the Task Force to find a blacklister who specializes in untraceable money transfers. Meanwhile, Liz receives some disturbing news from her daughter Agnes. 9 142 “ Orion Relocation Services ” Stephanie Marquardt Sean Hennen Taylor Martin December 6, 2019 Synopsis: Red and Liz investigate Orion Relocation Services, an organization that surreptitiously facilitates the disappearance and relocation of criminals. Meanwhile, Katarina delves into the memories of an old friend in order to get additional information about the Townsend Directive. 10 143 “ Katarina Rostova ” Daniel Willis Daniel Cerone December 13, 2019 Synopsis: Red and the Task Force pay a visit to a former blacklister, as an explosive confrontation leads Liz to make a critical choice. 11 144 “ Victoria Fenberg ” Bill Roe T Cooper Allison Glock-Cooper March 20, 2020 Synopsis: With the help of the Task Force, Red tracks a gifted art forger who has thwarted his plans to sell stolen pieces. Aram’s love life becomes increasingly complicated. Liz and Ressler confide in each other. 12 145 “ Cornelius Ruck ” John Terlesky Lukas Reiter March 27, 2020 Synopsis: Secluded on a private island, Red reunites with an old flame and a ring of thieves in a plot to make millions off stolen art. Plans are quickly derailed, however, when guests on the island mysteriously show up dead. 13 146 “ Newton Purcell ” Michael Caracciolo Noah Schechter April 3, 2020 Synopsis: The Task Force investigates a series of attacks on data centers perpetrated by a blacklister with a peculiar condition, as Liz conducts a secret investigation on the side. Meanwhile, Glen desperately tries to prove his value to Red after a shipping mishap. 14 147 “ Twamie Ullulaq ” Victor Nelli, Jr. Daniel Cerone April 10, 2020 Synopsis: A Blacklist case becomes personal for Agent Park when the team investigates a mysterious disappearance in the Alaska Triangle. Meanwhile, Aram enlists Red’s help to find out what really happened to Elodie’s husband. 15 148 “ Gordon Kemp ” Andrew McCarthy Jonathan Shapiro Lukas Reiter April 17, 2020 Synopsis: A blacklist case forces Liz to choose sides between Red and the Task Force. Meanwhile, Red tries to calm a panicked Ilya Koslov, who believes he is under surveillance. 16 149 “ Nyle Hatcher ” Tessa Blake Katie Bockes April 24, 2020 Synopsis: Liz and the Task Force take on a cold case that may have some new victims. Meanwhile, Red tries to help a friend of Dembe who is in danger. 17 150 “ Brothers ” Mahesh Pailoor Sean Hennen May 1, 2020 Synopsis: Ressler is forced to confront past trauma and family secrets when his brother takes him back home for a risky job. 18 151 “ Roy Cain ” Daniel Willis Aiah Samba May 8, 2020 Synopsis: As the Task Force investigates a kidnapping executed by seemingly impossible abductors, Dembe lands in a perilous situation. Meanwhile, a recent health scare causes Red to think about a successor. 19 152 “ The Kazanjian Brothers ” Michael Caracciolo Kelli Johnson Sam Christopher May 15, 2020 Synopsis: The Task Force investigates an accountant who works for lucrative criminals in order to find the violent and thuggish brothers hired for his protection. Meanwhile, Liz must make a momentous decision. Trivia [ ] The final episode is animated due to the COVID-19 pandemic shutdown. This decision was made when the writers determined that the final episode they had produced would not work as a finale, but the next one, which was halfway finished, would. The animators were given 5 weeks to make the episode. Gallery [ ] Videos [ ] The Blacklist Draws on Animation to Complete Season 7 Amid CoVid Comic-Con@Home 2020 External Links [ ] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Blacklist_(TV_series) http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2741602/ http://www.nbc.com/the-blacklist/ http://www.thefutoncritic.com/showatch/blacklist/listings/ http://www.youtube.com/user/NBCBlacklist Season 7 Episodes · Louis T. Steinhil · Louis T. Steinhil: Conclusion · Les Fleurs Du Mal · Kuwait · Norman Devane · Dr. Lewis Powell · Hannah Hayes · The Hawaladar · Orion Relocation Services · Katarina Rostova · Victoria Fenberg · Cornelius Ruck · Newton Purcell · Twamie Ullulaq · Gordon Kemp · Nyle Hatcher · Brothers · Roy Cain · The Kazanjian Brothers · Categories Categories : Season 7 Episodes Add category Cancel Save Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. The Blacklist Wiki is a FANDOM TV Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab