What is Doge and why is Musk cutting so many jobs? Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Watch Live Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters What is Doge and why is Musk cutting so many jobs? 18 February 2025 Share Save James FitzGerald and Holly Honderich BBC News, London and Washington DC Share Save Watch: Musk defends government cuts in surprise White House appearance A new advisory body created by US President Donald Trump and led by the world's richest man has been tasked with cutting US government jobs and other spending. Elon Musk is leading this effort to drastically reduce the federal workforce and weed out what he sees as taxpayers' money being wasted. But his Department of Government Efficiency (Doge) has encountered legal obstacles, allegations of conflicts of interest, and fears that it will wreak serious damage. Explaining his actions to reporters in the Oval Office, Musk defended his plans and denied the assertion of rival Democrats that he embodied a "hostile takeover" of government. Polling suggests cutting government spending has widespread support. What is Doge? Despite its full name, Doge is not an official government department, which would have had to be established by an act of Congress. Instead it came into being through one of Trump's presidential executive orders, and operates as an advisory body with at least four employees dedicated to each government agency. Part of Doge's mission, says the order, relates to IT upgrades aimed at boosting efficiency. It must finish its work by July 2026. Many of Doge's staff appear to be young people with tech backgrounds. Who is Musk and what is his net worth? Is Elon Musk a government employee? Yes. Musk initially said he would perform his role as an outside volunteer but the White House later said he was operating as an unpaid special government employee. That designation is officially defined as those working for the government for 130 days or less in a year. To some supporters of this new body, Doge's outsider status - as well as its somewhat vague mandate - will increase its effectiveness. "They're a little more untethered to the bureaucracy itself and to the systems that slow processes down around here," Republican Senator Kevin Cramer of North Dakota told the BBC. "I think the lack of parameters is part of what will make them effective." Getty Images Musk was among the attendees at Trump's inauguration What has Doge done so far? Its mission, says Musk, is to save taxpayers' money and reduce US national debt, which stands at $36tn (£28.9tn). Initially he said he hoped to save as much as $2tn a year, but later tempered this estimate. Musk has said he wants to end the "tyranny of the bureaucracy", what he describes as a fourth branch of government working against Trump's agenda. Critics of his work see a simpler ideological motivation at play. "They are not going to go into agencies that are doing things they like. They are going into agencies they disagree with," Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former Republican director of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), told Reuters news agency. It is unclear how much money Doge has managed to save so far, although its X account gives regular, celebratory updates on what they say has been cut. Among its headline-making actions are: Doge representatives entering various departments to monitor spending. Trump says they have identified "fraud and abuse", without giving evidence As part of a war on "woke" policies, Musk said his team had "saved taxpayers over $1 billion in crazy DEI [diversity, equity and inclusion] contracts" Taking an axe to USAID, America's main foreign aid organisation that funds projects in dozens of countries - which both men call wasteful Making a buyout offer to two million government employees to try to slash the size of the federal workforce Attempting to take control of, and possibly shut down, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). This was set up to protect consumers after the 2007-2008 financial crisis – but is accused by Republicans of overreach What do Americans think? Doge enjoys broad popular support, a poll by the BBC's US partner CBS News has suggested. This indicated that a majority of Americans - especially Republican voters - supported its work, even if they disagreed over how much influence Musk should have personally. Americans weigh up Musk's influence The size of the permanent workforce currently exceeds two million and one of the largest increases was in 2023, partly due to major investment by the Biden administration in infrastructure projects. David Ditch, a senior analyst at the Economic Policy Innovation Center, a conservative think tank, says Doge's work is needed. "They're shining a very bright spotlight on various parts of the federal government and they asking, whether it's the American public, whether it's moderate members of the Republican caucus - is this how you want America's tax dollars to be used?" What opposition has Doge faced? Political opponents and government watchdogs accuse Doge of acting without transparency and spreading misinformation about government spending - and accuse Musk of overstepping his authority as an unelected official. Critics highlight Musk's potential conflicts of interest, given the billions in contracts his businesses hold with the US government. Trump and Musk deny that any issues will arise. Multiple groups including unions and state attorneys general have sued Doge and the wider Trump administration over their plans, and Democrats accuse them of tampering with funding approved by Congress that is outside the president's scope. The White House denies that the work has broken any laws. Several times, the courts have stepped in to halt the cost-cutting moves, at least once blocking Doge directly when a judge stopping the agency from accessing personal data held within US Treasury records. They have scored some small victories, though. A federal judge in Washington DC ruled that Doge's work can proceed while the litigation plays out. 'Dumbstruck' - inside Musk's race to upend government When speaking to reporters in the Oval Office, Musk said he expected to be scrutinised for his work, but insisted that Americans had voted for "common sense" government reform. But pundits question whether he can enact his bold pledges. Elaine Kamark, a senior fellow in governance studies at the Brookings Institution, told the BBC that efforts to streamline government spending "can be done", highlighting her own work for President Bill Clinton in the 1990s. But she labelled Musk's idea of slashing a third of government spending "ridiculous", since so much of the budget was mandatory, including popular programmes like Social Security and Medicare. With additional reporting by Jessica Parker and Cai Pigliucci Elon Musk US election 2024 Donald Trump Watch Barron Trump: Then and now Aged just 10 when his father first became president, he's now well over six feet tall, and goes to New York University. 20 Jan 2025 US & Canada Watch: Trump's 'golden age' speech in 82 seconds The US president spoke about his plans for the second Trump administration, as well as criticising the 'corrupt establishment'. 20 Jan 2025 US & Canada 'I Donald John Trump'... 47th US president sworn in Watch the historic moment when the 45th president is returned to power as he takes the oath of office. 20 Jan 2025 US & Canada Tech CEOs, celebs and presidents - who's inside Trump's inauguration Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos were among those invited inside the Capitol for Donald Trump's swearing in. 20 Jan 2025 Thousands protest in Washington DC ahead of Trump inauguration Thousands of people joined in on demonstrations as the United States prepares to inaugurate its new president. 18 Jan 2025 US & Canada Biden gives warnings on climate and oligarchy in farewell speech The outgoing US president warned against power in the hands of the wealthy, the threat of the tech industry and climate change. 16 Jan 2025 US & Canada Watch key moments from Rubio and Bondi's confirmation hearings Trump's pick for US attorney general was pressed on claims of election fraud and pardons for January 6 rioters. 15 Jan 2025 Watch key moments from Pete Hegseth's confirmation hearing Donald Trump's defence secretary nominee was asked about his stance on women in combat and his alleged excessive drinking. 14 Jan 2025 US & Canada Watch moment Kamala Harris certifies US election result Harris, who Trump defeated in the 2024 election, presided over the event as required by the US Constitution. 6 Jan 2025 US & Canada A look at Trump's new top team... in 85 seconds Among the allies the president-elect has chosen to join his administration are contentious figures, including among fellow Republicans. 16 Nov 2024 US & Canada Trump names vaccine sceptic RFK Jr for health secretary The president-elect has nominated RFK to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. 14 Nov 2024 US & Canada FBI video shows moment man sets ballot box on fire The suspect used an “improvised incendiary device” to start the fire in Portland, Oregon, ahead of the US election. 14 Nov 2024 Why is Kamala Harris still asking for campaign donations? A week after losing the election, Kamala Harris's team are still appealing for funds. 14 Nov 2024 US & Canada What a Republican trifecta means for Trump's second term Republicans have won control of both chambers of Congress, yielding Trump limited congressional oversight for at least 2 years. 13 Nov 2024 US & Canada ‘Welcome back’ - Watch moment Biden congratulates Trump The president and president-elect shook hands as part of a long-standing tradition signifying the transfer of power. 13 Nov 2024 US & Canada What we can expect from Trump and Biden's meeting Given all the things they’ve said about each other, Joe Biden and Donald Trump’s meeting could be really awkward. 13 Nov 2024 US & Canada 'I think Putin believes that he knows how to play Trump' - John Bolton 'I think Putin believes that he knows how to play Trump', says Trump's former adviser John Bolton. 7 Nov 2024 Putin congratulates 'courageous' Trump on election win The Russian president says he was impressed by Trump's reaction to the first assassination attempt against him. 7 Nov 2024 World Watch: Biden urges Democrats to 'get back up' after Trump win The president addressed Americans from the White House for the first time since Donald Trump's election victory. 7 Nov 2024 US & Canada US voters on one reason Trump won... and why Harris lost After Donald Trump's decisive victory, we asked Americans what they think made the difference for each campaign. 6 Nov 2024 US & Canada More 4 Apr 2025 Laura Loomer: Far-right activist who met Trump before he fired NSC officials The conspiracy theorist reportedly urged Trump to fire several National Security Council officials, a claim denied by the president. 4 Apr 2025 US & Canada 24 Mar 2025 Meet Usha Vance, the second lady of the United States The Vances met as students, when they joined a discussion group on “social decline in white America”. 24 Mar 2025 US & Canada 11 Mar 2025 Indian Americans worried over US ties under Trump, survey reveals Indian Americans are optimistic about India’s future, but wary of US-India ties under a second Trump term. 11 Mar 2025 World 4 Mar 2025 JD Vance: The 'hillbilly' Maga loyalist who became vice-president The conservative from Ohio shot to fame writing about his hard upbringing and is now next in line to the US presidency. 4 Mar 2025 US & Canada 25 Feb 2025 Who is on Trump's top team? Trump's inner circle includes the world's richest man, a former NFL player, and a Wall Street financer. 25 Feb 2025 US & Canada British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.