CFDA Awards 2019: Brandon Maxwell Wins Womenswear Designer of the Year Skip to main content X WWD Footwear News Sourcing Journal WWD Weekend Beauty Inc Fairchild Live Got a Tip? Plus Icon Today's Digital Daily April 29, 2025 WWD Account Welcome Manage Account Log Out Log In Sign Up Click to expand the Mega Menu site categories Fashion Business Beauty Men's Runway Home/Design Eye WWD Weekend LEADING VOICES Events Shop Click to Expand Search Input Plus Icon Click to Close Search Input WWD Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Read Next: Brides Like ‘90s-style Wedding Gowns, Brown Flowers and Lace-like Nails, Pinterest Says Click to Expand Search Input Plus Icon Click to Close Search Input Account Welcome Manage Account Log Out Log In Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon Today's Digital Daily Account Welcome Manage Account Log Out Log In Sign Up WWD Close the menu Account Welcome Manage Account Log Out Log In Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up Parent item Expand the sub menu Child item Child item Child item Child item Parent item Expand the sub menu Child item Child item Child item Child item Parent item Expand the sub menu Child item Child item Child item Child item Parent item Expand the sub menu Child item Child item Child item Child item Parent item Expand the sub menu Child item Child item Child item Child item Parent item Expand the sub menu Child item Child item Child item Child item Follow Us Alerts & Newsletters Enter your Email Subscribe Sign Up This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader Advertise About Contact Customer Service Icon Link Plus Icon Copyright © 2021 Penske Business Media, LLC. All rights reserved. © 2021 Penske Media Corporation Fashion Chanel Cruise 2026: Celebrating Cinema, Italy and Craft Business Saks Bondholders Prove to Be a Tough Sell Business White House Slams Amazon Over Reported Tariff Transparency Fashion Fashion Scoops Brandon Maxwell Wins 2019 CFDA Award for Womenswear Designer of the Year The American designer has quickly become a favorite among celebrities and famous figures, including Michelle Obama, the Duchess of Sussex and Karlie Kloss. By Layla Ilchi Plus Icon June 3, 2019, 10:24pm Share this article on Facebook Share this article on X Share this article on Flipboard Share this article on Pin It Share this article on Tumblr Share this article on Reddit Share this article on LinkedIn Share this article on WhatsApp Share this article on Email Print this article Share this article on Talk Share this article on Facebook Share this article on X Share this article on Flipboard Share this article on Pin It Share this article on Tumblr Share this article on Reddit Share this article on LinkedIn Share this article on WhatsApp Share this article on Email Print this article Share this article on Talk View ALL 69 Photos Share this article on Facebook Share this article on X Share this article on Flipboard Share this article on Pin It Share this article on Tumblr Share this article on Reddit Share this article on LinkedIn Share this article on WhatsApp Share this article on Email Print this article Share this article on Talk Share this article on Facebook Share this article on X Share this article on Flipboard Share this article on Pin It Share this article on Tumblr Share this article on Reddit Share this article on LinkedIn Share this article on WhatsApp Share this article on Email Print this article Share this article on Talk Brandon Maxwell has won the Womenswear Designer of the Year Award at the CFDA Fashion Awards 2019. The American fashion designer has had his namesake label since 2015, quickly becoming a favorite among celebrities and famous figures, including former First Lady Michelle Obama , Duchess of Sussex Meghan Markle and Karlie Kloss, among others. Before becoming a fashion designer, Maxwell got his start as a stylist, working under Nicola Formichetti, who introduced him to his now-good friend, Lady Gaga . Maxwell and Gaga have teamed up for many of her looks throughout her career, including most, recently the razor-back black dress she wore to pick up her Academy Award for Best Original Song, “Shallow,” for the film, “A Star Is Born,” and her camp-filled four outfit changes at this year’s Met Gala. Maxwell is currently serving as a judge on the Bravo reboot of “Project Runway,” alongside fellow judges former Teen Vogue editor in chief Elaine Welteroth and Elle editor in chief Nina Garcia, mentor Christian Siriano, and host Karlie Kloss. The designer won the CFDA Emerging Womenswear Designer of the Year Award in 2016. He has also won the 2018 International Woolmark New York Semifinal Prize Award and the 2016 Fashion Group International Rising Star Award. In 2016, he was also a finalist for the LVMH Prize. See more from the 2019 CFDA Awards here. Tags cfda CFDA Awards 2019 Lady Gaga Meghan Markle Michelle Obama Newsletters Sign up for WWD news straight to your inbox every day Sign up WWD Recommends Katie Welch on Playing a Vital Instrument in Rare’s Orchestra Beauty Features By Ryma Chikhoune Skims, Versace and Dockers: How Tariffs Turned the Fashion Deal Market Into the Price Is Right Fashion Features By Evan Clark Jennifer Lopez Zips Up in Bubblegum Pink Catsuit for F1 Grand Prix of Saudi Arabia Celebrity News By Julia Teti The Midas Touch of Roberto Coin: Crafting Elegance in Every High-Quality Jewel Most Popular Bob Marley's Family Launches Luxury Fragrance Line Inspired by His Legacy With Six Mood-enhancing Scents JD Vance's Wife Usha Dons Asian-inspired Dress in India During Visit… Melania Trump Wears Mackage and Roger Vivier to Easter Egg Roll Noah Cyrus Joins Shaboozey at 2025 Coachella in Romantic… Scientists Discover a New Color 'Olo' With Lasers WWD Get all the top news stories and alerts straight to your inbox. Enter your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. The Essentialist Get An 'Instant Gorgeous Glow' With Patrick Ta Body… LoveShackFancy x 1-800-Flowers Blooms You Can… An Editor-Tested Guide to Lancôme Beauty Products WWD Get all the top news stories and alerts straight to your inbox. Enter your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. PMC Logo Most Popular Damon Wayans Is 'Walking Away With Deep Gratitude' After 'Poppa's House' Cancellation: 'This Show Gave Me More Than I Could've Ever Imagined' 'Andor' Creator Explains That Shocking Assault Scene: "We're All the Product of Rape" Bath & Body Works' Hand Soaps Just Hit Their Lowest Price of the Season — Stock Up for $3 Each Mary J. Blige Sued By Her Former Stylist, Misa Hylton, For $5 Million You May Also Like WWD LA Beauty Forum 4 days ago West Coast Port Union Slams Trump’s ‘Reckless, Shortsighted’ Tariff Policy 2 hrs ago Baffert Returns to Churchill Downs and NBC’s Derby Coverage 3 hrs ago A Ruth Asawa Retrospective Finds the Fun in Her Game-Changing Art 14 hrs ago Subscribe Customer Service Customer Service WWD About Us Advertising Subscribe WWD FAQ Digital Daily FAQ Accessibility Legal Privacy Policy AdChoices EU Privacy Preferences Terms of Use California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram LinkedIn LinkedIn X X Newsletter Sign Up Your Email Subscribe Subscribe By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up WWD and Women's Wear Daily are part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Fairchild Publishing, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD WWD Close the menu Account Welcome Manage Account Log Out Log In Sign Up Fashion Expand fashion menu Fashion Trends Fashion Features Fashion Scoops Designer & Luxury Ready-To-Wear Accessories Jewelry Footwear Handbags Business Expand business menu Financial Government & Trade Legal Mergers & Acquisitions Marketing & Promotion Human Resources Business Features Technology Real Estate Markets Media Retail Beauty Expand beauty menu Beauty Features Skin Care Fragrance Hair Products Body Care Wellness Men's Expand mens menu Mens Accessories Mens Clothing Furnishings Mens Designer Luxury Mens Lifestyle Mens Retail Business Mens Sportswear Mens Fashion Runway Expand runway menu Men’s Fall 2024 Pre-Fall 2024 Spring Ready-to-Wear 2024 Fall Couture 2023 Resort 2024 Denim Expand denim menu Sustainability Expand sustainability menu Business Environment Social Impact Materials Innovation Home/Design Expand home-design menu Interior Design Furniture Lighting Architecture Materials Home Decor WWD Weekend Expand wwd-weekend menu Special Series Expand special-series menu Awards Shows WWD Celebrates Hispanic Heritage Month Leading Voices in Fashion and Beauty Video Podcast Studio Fairchild Live RetailRx Community Events Expand events menu Eye Expand eye menu Parties People Lifestyle Celebrity Real Estate Shop Expand shop menu Beauty Fashion Home Follow Us Follow WWD on Facebook Follow WWD on Instagram Follow WWD on LinkedIn Follow WWD on X Alerts & Newsletters Enter your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Advertising Help Accessibility Icon Link Plus Icon WWD and Women's Wear Daily are part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Fairchild Publishing, LLC. All Rights Reserved. © 2021 Penske Media Corporation ad