Bohemian Rhapsody director Bryan Singer says sexual misconduct claims are 'homophobic smear' | Bryan Singer | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Bryan Singer in 2013. Photograph: Matt Sayles/Invision/AP View image in fullscreen Bryan Singer in 2013. Photograph: Matt Sayles/Invision/AP Bryan Singer This article is more than 6 years old Bohemian Rhapsody director Bryan Singer says sexual misconduct claims are 'homophobic smear' This article is more than 6 years old Singer denies allegations contained in an article in the Atlantic magazine that the film-maker knowingly engaged in underage sex Andrew Pulver Wed 23 Jan 2019 08.37 EST Last modified on Thu 24 Jan 2019 19.55 EST Share Bohemian Rhapsody director Bryan Singer has responded to the Atlantic’s article containing allegations of sexual misconduct against him by four men as “vendetta journalism” and a “homophobic smear piece”. In a statement released to Deadline , Singer said: “The last time I posted about this subject, Esquire magazine was preparing to publish an article written by a homophobic journalist who has a bizarre obsession with me dating back to 1997. After careful fact-checking and, in consideration of the lack of credible sources, Esquire chose not to publish this piece of vendetta journalism. “That didn’t stop this writer from selling it to The Atlantic ,” he added. “It’s sad that The Atlantic would stoop to this low standard of journalistic integrity. Again, I am forced to reiterate that this story rehashes claims from bogus lawsuits ... And it is no surprise that, with Bohemian Rhapsody being an award-winning hit, this homophobic smear piece has been conveniently timed to take advantage of its success.” The Atlantic magazine published allegations that all involved claims of underage sex. Victor Valdovinos, who said he worked as an extra on Singer’s 1998 film Apt Pupil, claims that Singer sexually assaulted him when he was 13 years old, including “grabb[ing] my genitals and … masturbating it” in a locker room on the film set. Two other men – referred to pseudonymously as Eric and Andy – accuse Singer of having sex with them knowing they were under the age of consent of 18 in California, where the events allegedly took place. (They say they were 17 and 15 respectively.) Another man, named pseudonymously as Ben, said he had oral sex with Singer when he “was either 17 or 18”. Singer’s legal representative Andrew Brettler denied the allegations, and said that Singer has never been arrested for or charged with any crime and that Singer categorically denies ever having sex with, or a preference for, underage men. Brettler is described in the article as disputing a number of details, saying Valdovinos did not produce any documentation showing he had worked on Apt Pupil. In October, Singer posted a message on social media in anticipation of an article in Esquire magazine, accusing journalists of “a reckless disregard for the truth, making assumptions that are fictional and irresponsible”. In 2017, Singer denied accusations by Cesar Sanchez-Guzman, who had alleged that, as a 17-year-old in 2003, he was sexually assaulted by Singer on a yacht. Singer was fired from Bohemian Rhapsody before filming ended, but remains the sole credited director due to union regulations. Singer has consistently denied wrongdoing, and was recently reported to have been hired to direct a remake of the 1980s action flick Red Sonja . Millennium Films, which has employed Singer to direct a remake of the fantasy Red Sonja, said it was staunchly supporting him. In a statement on Thursday, Millennium Films chief executive Avi Lerner said he was going forward with the project. Lerner dismissed the accusations of sexual misconduct as “fake news” and said that “in America people are innocent until proven guilty.” “I am very comfortable with this decision,” Lerner said. Explore more on these topics Bryan Singer Film industry The Atlantic news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)