Raiders honor National Teacher of the Year Juliana Urtubey | Raiders News | Sports VIEW E-EDITION 25¢ for 3 mos Support local journalism. Only 25¢ for 3 months MANAGE ACTIVATE SIGN IN Hi SIGN OUT 70°F News Local Sports Business Opinion Crime Entertainment Dining Out Investigations Obits 70°F Clear Las Vegas, NV Home Latest Headlines Things To Do In Vegas Top 100 Restaurants 2025 NV Legislature Paying the Price 7@7 video Israel at War Local Traffic Las Vegas Weather East Valley Henderson Las Vegas Downtown Nevada North Las Vegas Southwest Summerlin/Centennial Hills The Strip Remembering Oct. 1, 2017 Local Columns Bob Morris Deborah Wall Natalie Burt Sports Raiders News Golden Knights Athletics UNLV UNLV Football UNLV Basketball Nevada Preps Betting Sports Betting 101 Las Vegas Sportsbooks Formula 1 Aces Sports Columns Ed Graney Todd Dewey Adam Hill Poker On TV/Radio MMA and UFC Golf Business Casinos & Gaming Energy Housing Tourism Entrepreneurs Real Estate News Business Press Sheldon Adelson (1933-2021) Dining Out Entertainment Kats Arts & Culture Celebrity Dining Out Movies Nightlife Shows Music TV TV Guide News Education Politics and Government 2025 NV Legislature Nevada Clark County Las Vegas Nation and World Science and Technology News Columns Road Warrior Military Investigations What Are They Hiding? Remembering Jeff German Dangerous Driving Police Accountability Alpine Fire Crime Courts Homicides Robberies Shootings Homicide Tracker Faces of Death Row Opinion Editorials Letters Opinion Columns Debra J. Saunders Michael Ramirez cartoons Victor Joecks Richard A. Epstein Victor Davis Hanson Drawing Board Life Comics Puzzles Health Home and Garden Outdoors & Recreation Las Vegas Hiking Guide Travel Live Well RJ Magazine Videos Podcasts RJ Awards Obituaries Today’s Obituaries Submit an obit Autos Auto News Dealer News Classifieds Place a Classified Ad Homes Provided Content New Homes Real Estate Millions Real Estate News Classifieds Place a Classified Ad Jobs Internships Classifieds Service Directory Transportation Merchandise Legal Information Real Estate Classifieds Garage Sales Pets Rentals FAQ Place a Classified Ad Contests and Promotions Best of Las Vegas Contests TV Guide Partnered Content Business Nevada State Bank Verizon Business Education Touro University Entertainment Food La Bonita Health P3 Health Partners Home and Garden Live Well Local City of Las Vegas Find My Forever KINROSS Gold Star Student Prairie Fire Real Estate Ignite Funding IS Luxury – Discover Deluxe Desert IS Luxury – Mastering Modern Luxury Retail D&R Diamonds Travel Black Desert Resort Travel Nevada Subscriptions Newsletters Contact Us Advertise with Us Home >> Sports >> Raiders News Raiders News Raiders honor National Teacher of the Year from Las Vegas On Thursday, the Las Vegas Raiders honored Juliana Urtubey from Kermit R. Booker Sr. Elementary School in Las Vegas, who was recently named the 2021 National Teacher of the Year. Raiders honor National Teacher of the Year from Nevada More Stories Carr discusses injury, family tragedy at Las Vegas church appearance Raiders post-draft depth chart: Defense hoping newcomers can contribute Raiders starter returns to offseason workouts after seeking new deal Raiders’ 1st-round pick is betting co-favorite for rookie of the year Las Vegas Review-Journal May 13, 2021 - 5:54 pm On Thursday, the Las Vegas Raiders honored Juliana Urtubey from Kermit R. Booker Sr. Elementary School in Las Vegas, who was recently named the 2021 National Teacher of the Year. Last week, the special education teacher and learning strategist was honored on “CBS This Morning” and by first lady Jill Biden, a fellow educator. Urtubey is the first Latino Teacher of the Year since 2005 to win the award, according to the Council of Chief State School Officers, which oversees the presentation. Urtubey was named the 2021 Nevada Teacher of the Year in September, and represented the state in the national competition. As the National Teacher of the Year, she’ll receive a paid year off from classroom duties, which will be covered by the state and district, while the council arranges travel and speaking tours. Posted on: Education , Football , Local , News , NFL , Raiders News , Sports Tagged: fanzone , mc-sports , Raiders , rj-has-vdo MOST READ In case you missed it Like and follow Vegas Nation THE LATEST Carr discusses injury, family tragedy at Las Vegas church appearance By Adam Hill / RJ April 29, 2025 - 3:55 pm April 29, 2025 - 3:55 pm Former Raiders quarterback Derek Carr discussed his recent shoulder injury during a speech at ChurchLV in Las Vegas on Sunday. Raiders post-draft depth chart: Defense hoping newcomers can contribute By Vincent Bonsignore / RJ April 29, 2025 - 1:14 pm April 29, 2025 - 1:14 pm The Raiders experienced a lot of turnover on the defensive side of the ball this offseason and are hoping some of their new players can contribute right away. Raiders starter returns to offseason workouts after seeking new deal By Vincent Bonsignore / RJ April 29, 2025 - 8:53 am April 29, 2025 - 8:53 am One of the Raiders starting offensive linemen is working out with the team again after seeking a contract extension. Raiders’ 1st-round pick is betting co-favorite for rookie of the year By Todd Dewey / RJ April 28, 2025 - 4:58 pm April 28, 2025 - 4:58 pm Caesars Sportsbook has made Ashton Jeanty, the Raiders’ first-round pick at sixth overall, the betting co-favorite for NFL offensive rookie of the year. Raiders post-draft depth chart: New playmakers change offense’s outlook By Vincent Bonsignore / RJ April 28, 2025 - 1:13 pm April 28, 2025 - 1:13 pm The Raiders offense looks a lot more potent after the team selected several playmakers in the 2025 NFL draft, including running back Ashton Jeanty. National experts’ grades for Raiders’ 2025 NFL draft are pouring in By Adam Hill / RJ April 27, 2025 - 7:00 pm April 27, 2025 - 11:11 pm Here is a look at what national outlets are saying about the Raiders’ first draft under general manager John Spytek and coach Pete Carroll, including final grades. Popular former Raider making NFL comeback By Adam Hill / RJ April 27, 2025 - 6:44 pm April 27, 2025 - 6:44 pm The player sat out the 2024 season after spending his first five seasons with the Raiders, including a Pro Bowl appearance. 3 takeaways from Raiders’ first draft class under new regime By Vincent Bonsignore / RJ April 27, 2025 - 5:43 pm April 27, 2025 - 5:43 pm The Raiders added explosiveness and deepened the competition at several positions with their 11-player NFL draft class over the past three days. Hill: A 310-pound wildcat QB? Raiders draft versatile class By Adam Hill / RJ April 26, 2025 - 7:53 pm April 26, 2025 - 7:53 pm The Raiders aren’t going to make national headlines with their draft class, but it was clear they had a plan and executed it by identifying versatility and elite traits. Grades for all 11 players drafted by the Raiders By Adam Hill / RJ April 26, 2025 - 6:57 pm April 26, 2025 - 6:57 pm Here are the 11 players selected by the Raiders in the NFL draft, with analysis, grades and potential roles for each one during his rookie season. MORE STORIES INFO & EDITIONS Traffic Las Vegas Weather e-Edition Download our Apps Contests and Promotions Partnered Content SOLUTIONS Advertise with Us Place a Classified Ad FAQ At The Scene Store Rights and Permissions SUBSCRIPTIONS Subscriptions Put The Paper On Hold Report A Delivery Issue Newsletter Sign Up CONNECTIONS Contact Us Letter to Editor News Tips and Press Releases Work for LVRJ Internships AFFILIATE PUBLICATIONS Best of Las Vegas Business Press Pahrump Valley Times Boulder City Review LV New Homes Guide Vegas Nation rj magazine Lightning Digital Las Vegas News Raiders News Las Vegas Sphere Oakland A's Move Las Vegas Casinos Las Vegas Crime Las Vegas Shows Sports Betting F1 Las Vegas Las Vegas Restaurants Lake Mead Las Vegas Weather Copyright © 2019 Las Vegas Review-Journal, Inc. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP x By continuing to browse or by clicking "I Accept Cookies" you agree to our Terms of Service and our Privacy Policy , including our Privacy Notice for California Residents , and to the storing of first-party and third-party cookies on your device and consent to the disclosure of your personal information to our third party service providers or advertising partners to optimize your experience, analyze traffic and personalize content. I Accept Cookies