Tesla (TSLA) Q2 2020 earnings call: Top 4 things to watch out for NEWS Tesla SPACEX Elon Musk Shop Connect with us TESLARATI Tesla (TSLA) Q2 2020 earnings call: Top 4 things to watch out for NEWS Tesla hired over 1,000 factory workers for its Semi program in NV: report Elon Musk jokes he will join Mr Beast’s “100 Men vs 1 Gorilla” challenge Big Tesla win? Sec Lutnick says cars with 85% domestic content will face zero tariffs Tesla reveals Semi fleet data, shows off new feature and infrastructure plans Tesla Vehicle Safety Report shows Autopilot is 10x better than humans Tesla Tesla hired over 1,000 factory workers for its Semi program in NV: report Tesla reveals Semi fleet data, shows off new feature and infrastructure plans Tesla Vehicle Safety Report shows Autopilot is 10x better than humans Like it or not, the new Tesla Model Y is a big hit in China Tesla Board member and Airbnb co-founder loads up on TSLA ahead of robotaxi launch SPACEX Starlink nears S Korea launch as satellite internet demand rises Starlink India’s license faces delay due to regulatory requirements SpaceX investment fuels Alphabet’s $8 billion profit surge T-Mobile cuts Starlink Cellular service price, eyes broader access SpaceX’s Starbase nears city status with voter support Elon Musk Tesla reveals Semi fleet data, shows off new feature and infrastructure plans Tesla fends off new attack that will hurt consumers more than anyone else Tesla Takedown group takes victory lap and aims for Starlink and SpaceX Kia gains Tesla Supercharger access and issues a big apology Tesla adds new child protection feature to mobile app Shop Investor's Corner Tesla (TSLA) Q2 2020 earnings call: Top 4 things to watch out for Tesla Model Y Performance delivery center (Credit: i1Tesla/YouTube) Share Tweet Published 5 years ago on July 21, 2020 By Joey Klender Tesla ( NASDAQ: TSLA ) will report its Q2 2020 performance in an Earnings Call on Wednesday, July 22, 2020. Ahead of the call, investors and supporters of the electric automaker will be waiting to see if the company will turn its fourth straight profit, which would be a company record. However, four things could ultimately affect Tesla’s performance during the second quarter of the year, which could lead to the company’s inclusion in the S&P 500 index. TheStreet believes that investors should pay attention to these four themes in the Q2 2020 Earnings Update Letter and Call. 1. Impact of Price Cuts Tesla has reduced the prices of all four of its available vehicles so far in 2020. The move stimulated demand for the company’s electric cars, but analysts are conflicted about whether the strategy was a good business move or an indication that demand is lagging. However, it more than likely is not the latter, as Tesla managed to deliver 90,650 vehicles in the second quarter, beating Wall Street estimates handily. The company’s revenue for Q2 compared to its overall delivery figure for the quarter will give more insight into what the price cuts did to Tesla’s demand. 2. Free Cash Flow TSLA shares have continued to rise in value nearly every day for the past few months. The run is particularly incredible because it has mainly occurred during the COVID-19 pandemic, which continues to tear through the United States, where the electric automaker is based. With the company’s surge in price per share, Tesla has overtaken Toyota as the most valuable automaker in the world . The company’s bulls believe Tesla can scale production around the globe, and the company is certainly looking to do that. With plans to open another production facility in the U.S. soon, Giga Berlin under construction , and rumors of another Asian and U.K. located factory in the works, there is no reason to believe that the company can’t assume worldwide success. 3. China Demand China has become one of the main parts of Tesla’s success as an automaker in 2020. The company currently only produces the Model 3 at Giga Shanghai now, but the vehicle has been selling well according to figures from the China Passenger Car Association (CPCA). Tesla will look to expand its production to the Model Y soon as it is building the Shanghai factory’s “Phase 2” currently. Dan Ives, an analyst for Wedbush Securities, said, “strong Model 3 demand out of China remains a ray of shining light (and we believe was a clear standout in 2Q) for Tesla in a dark global macro.” He also believes that Tesla could deliver 150,000 vehicles this year in China alone. Advertisement Giga Shanghai is currently holding a 200,000 annual vehicle production rate, Tesla said in the Q1 Earnings Call. It will be interesting to see if that number has increased. 4. Full-Year Outlook Tesla has managed to power through the COVID-19 pandemic with relatively small amounts of damage. However, the company’s outlook for all of 2020 has not been updated. Both the Fremont and Shanghai production facilities were closed for one and a half months, and two weeks, respectively. The company expected to deliver 500,000 cars this year, but in the first half of the year, only 179,000 were successfully given to consumers. Tesla said it would modify its full-year guidance in Q2 during the Q1 Earnings Call, so the revisions to the company’s goals will likely be included with the Update Letter. Disclosure: I have no ownership in shares of TSLA and have no plans to initiate any positions within 72 hours. Related Topics: $TSLA Featured Tesla Up Next Tesla applies to sell new China-Made Model 3s with ternary batteries Don't Miss Tesla (TSLA) Q2 2020 earnings results: What Wall Street expects Joey Klender Joey has been a journalist covering electric mobility at TESLARATI since August 2019.   In his spare time, Joey is playing golf, watching MMA, or cheering on any of his favorite sports teams, including the Baltimore Ravens and Orioles, Miami Heat, Washington Capitals, and Penn State Nittany Lions.  You can get in touch with joey at joey@teslarati.com . He is also on X @KlenderJoey .  If you're looking for great Tesla accessories, check out shop.teslarati.com Advertisement You may like Tesla hired over 1,000 factory workers for its Semi program in NV: report Big Tesla win? Sec Lutnick says cars with 85% domestic content will face zero tariffs Tesla reveals Semi fleet data, shows off new feature and infrastructure plans Tesla Vehicle Safety Report shows Autopilot is 10x better than humans Like it or not, the new Tesla Model Y is a big hit in China Tesla Board member and Airbnb co-founder loads up on TSLA ahead of robotaxi launch Comments Investor's Corner Tesla Board member and Airbnb co-founder loads up on TSLA ahead of robotaxi launch Tesla CEO Elon Musk gave a nod of appreciation for the Tesla Board member’s purchase. Published 13 hours ago on April 29, 2025 By Simon Alvarez (Credit: Tesla) Tesla Board member and Airbnb Co-Founder Joe Gebbia has loaded up on TSLA stock ( NASDAQ:TSLA ). The Board member’s purchase comes just over a month before Tesla is expected to launch an initial robotaxi service in Austin, Texas. Tesla CEO Elon Musk gave a nod of appreciation for the Tesla Board member in a post on social media. The TSLA Purchase As could be seen in a Form 4 submitted to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Monday, Gebbia purchased about $1.02 million worth of TSLA stock. This was comprised of 4,000 TSLA shares at an average price of $256.308 per share. Interestingly enough, Gebbia’s purchase represents the first time an insider has purchased TSLA stock in about five years. CEO Elon Musk, in response to a post on social media platform X about the Tesla Board member’s TSLA purchase, gave a nod of appreciation for Gebbia. “Joe rocks,” Musk wrote in his post on X. Gebbia has served on Tesla’s Board as an independent director since 2022, and he is also a known friend of Elon Musk. He even joined the Trump Administration’s Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) to help the government optimize its processes. Advertisement Just a Few Weeks Before Robotaxi The timing of Gebbia’s TSLA stock purchase is quite interesting as the company is expected to launch a dedicated roboatxi service this June in Austin. A recent report from Insider , citing sources reportedly familiar with the matter, claimed that Tesla currently has 300 test operators driving robotaxis around Austin city streets. The publication’s sources also noted that Tesla has an internal deadline of June 1 for the robotaxi service’s rollout, but even a launch near the end of the month would be impressive. During the Q1 2025 earnings call, Elon Musk explained that the robotaxi service that would be launched in June will feature autonomous rides in Model Y units. He also noted that the robotaxi service would see an expansion to other cities by the end of 2025. “The Teslas that will be fully autonomous in June in Austin are probably Model Ys. So, that is currently on track to be able to do paid rides fully autonomously in Austin in June and then to be in many other cities in the US by the end of this year,” Musk stated. Continue Reading Investor's Corner Tesla hints at ‘Model 2’ & next-gen EV designs Tesla’s Q1 2025 update confirms new models this year, with production tied to existing factory lines. Could it be time for the Model 2 debut? Published 5 days ago on April 24, 2025 By Maria Merano (Credit: Tesla) During its Q1 2025 earnings call, Tesla executives hinted at the much-rumored “Model 2” and other next-gen EV designs. Tesla slightly addressed whether or not it will be pushing forward with the debut of new models later this year in its latest earnings call. The company’s product development executive, Lars Moravy, shared some details about Tesla’s design process and the upcoming affordable models. “We’re still planning to release models this year. As with all launches, we’re working through, like, the last minute issues that pop up. We’re knocking them down one by one. At this point, I would say that the ramp might be a little slower than we had hoped initially…But there’s nothing that’s blocking us from starting production within the next, within the timeline laid out in the opening remarks. “And I will say it’s important to emphasize that, as we’ve said all along, the full utilization of our factories is the primary goal for these new products. And so the flexibility of what we can do within the form factor and, you know, the design of it is really limited to what we can do on our existing lines rather than building new ones. But we’ve been targeting the low cost of ownership. Monthly payment is the biggest differentiator for our vehicles, and that’s why we’re focused on bringing these new models with the, you know, the lowest price, to the market, within the constraints I just highlighted.” The Model 3 is a hell of a deal, ngl. With the federal tax credit, it'd be silly to get a comparably priced combustion-powered car. Now for the big question. Is the Model 3 currently the best-looking Tesla? https://t.co/5E37J9OKhU — TESLARATI (@Teslarati) April 24, 2025 Advertisement In January, Tesla’s Chief Financial Officer Vaibhav Taneja teased several new product introductions for this year . There is at least one product that most Tesla supporters and investors are hoping to see: the company’s affordable vehicles, which have been dubbed by the EV community as the “Model 2” or “Model Q.” Before Tesla’s Robotaxi event last year, many speculated that the company would also unveil its affordable next-gen vehicle. Gene Munster from Deepwater had expected Tesla to release a stripped-down version of the Model 3 as its affordable vehicle during the Robotaxi event. In the end, Tesla unveiled its Robotaxi vehicle and its Robovan design. It’s been a while since the Robotaxi event, and Tesla has kept mum about its affordable vehicle. Considering its Q1 2025 performance, TSLA investors look forward to catalysts that could boost the stock. The “Model 2” has been labeled a potential catalyst for Tesla . As such, TSLA investors and supporters have been itching for news about the new affordable vehicle. The main questions surrounding the “Model 2” revolve around its design and price. Based on Moravy’s statement, the “Model 2’s” design will heavily depend on Tesla’s current assembly lines and supply chain structures. Advertisement Continue Reading Elon Musk Tesla regains Piper Sandler’s confidence with Robotaxi plans & Q1 Results Piper Sandler says Tesla delivered the best-case scenario for bulls. $TSLA has catalysts ahead to silence the bears. Published 6 days ago on April 24, 2025 By Maria Merano (Credit: Tesla) Tesla gained Piper Sandler analyst Alexander Potter’s confidence following its Q1 2025 earnings call. Piper Sandler reaffirmed its Overweight rating and $400 TSLA price target, signaling optimism for the company’s robotaxi and affordable vehicle launches expected this year. The firm’s stance reflects Tesla’s resilience amid market challenges. Despite expectations of weak Q1 financials, Tesla’s stock edged up in after-hours trading, defying skepticism. Piper Sandler’s Alexander Potter noted that the results met the hopes of Tesla supporters, particularly as the company held firm on its timelines. Potter emphasized that anticipation for robotaxi details and new vehicle launches should keep critics at bay, supporting the $400 target. “In our preview last week, we predicted that (at best) Q1 would be a non-event. With the stock trading up slightly in the after-hours session, it appears our best-case scenario has materialized. Considering generally weak Q1 financials, we think this is the best result that TSLA bulls could’ve reasonably hoped for. “In our view, the most important Q1 takeaway is this: Tesla didn’t hedge expectations re: launching Robotaxis or lower-priced vehicles in 1H25. With <2 months until the end of June, investors can look forward to some interesting catalysts in the weeks ahead. In our view, this alone should be enough to keep the bears at bay, at least until we have a better idea re: the details of Tesla’s new products, as well as the scale/scope of the Robotaxi launch,” wrote Potter. Advertisement Tesla provides details on the impact of Trump’s auto tariff Wedbush Securities’ Dan Ives, a longtime TSLA bull, echoed Potter’s optimism for Tesla. Ives raised his price target for Tesla stock from $315 to $350 with a BUY rating. His Tesla upgrade came after Elon Musk’s announcement during the Q1 earnings call that he would reduce his involvement with DOGE, signaling a sharper focus on Tesla. Tesla’s steady Q1 performance and unwavering commitment to its 2025 roadmap, including the Robotaxi launch and lower-priced models, bolster investor confidence. Piper Sandler’s analysis underscores Tesla’s ability to navigate a competitive electric vehicle market while advancing its technological edge. The upcoming Robotaxi launch and affordable vehicle introductions are pivotal, with analysts expecting these initiatives to drive stock value through 2025. As Tesla prepares for these milestones, its stock movement reflects market trust in Musk’s vision. With Piper Sandler and Wedbush reaffirming bullish outlooks, Tesla’s strategic moves will remain under close scrutiny, positioning the company to capitalize on its innovation pipeline in a dynamic industry landscape. Continue Reading Latest Popular Videos News 3 hours ago Tesla hired over 1,000 factory workers for its Semi program in NV: report Lifestyle 6 hours ago Elon Musk jokes he will join Mr Beast’s “100 Men vs 1 Gorilla” challenge News 7 hours ago Big Tesla win? Sec Lutnick says cars with 85% domestic content will face zero tariffs News 4 weeks ago Tesla rolls out new, more affordable trim of the Model Y Juniper in U.S. News 4 weeks ago Tesla shares Optimus’ improved walk in new update video Elon Musk 4 weeks ago Tesla Germany reports 4,935 units sold in Q1 2025 News 3 months ago SpaceX completes second catch of lower stage, but loses Starship News 6 months ago Tesla flexes Robotaxi wireless charging — autonomy from top to bottom News 7 months ago Tesla unloads new Semi details: variants, efficiency, fleet data so far Advertisement Yea, we ❤️ these things. You got 'em? 3D MAXpider for 2026 Tesla Model Y ✅ Complete All-Weather Protection ✅ Triple-layer design ✅ Won't warp, won't distort, won't slide, perfect fit ✅ Ultra-premium look and comfort that  your Tesla deserves! 📹▶️ https://t.co/LUsuzI8TDk pic.twitter.com/0m8POOpTfe — TESLARATI (@Teslarati) April 13, 2025 Trending News 1 week ago Tesla’s Hollywood Diner is finally getting close to opening Elon Musk 2 weeks ago Tesla doubles down on Robotaxi launch date, putting a big bet on its timeline News 4 days ago Tesla is trying to make a statement with its Q2 delivery numbers News 2 weeks ago Tesla’s top investor questions ahead of the Q1 2025 earnings call Investor's Corner 1 week ago LIVE BLOG: Tesla (TSLA) Q1 2025 Company Update and earnings call News 2 weeks ago Tesla police fleet saves nearly half a million in upkeep and repair costs News 2 weeks ago Global EV sales climbed 29% in March, powered by China & Europe Elon Musk 2 weeks ago Tesla reportedly suspended Cybercab and Semi parts order amid tariff war: Reuters Home About Us Contact Us Advertise With Us Terms Privacy Copyright © TESLARATI. All rights reserved.