Basmala - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Name 2 Use and significance Toggle Use and significance subsection 2.1 Hadith 2.2 Tafsir 3 Numerology Toggle Numerology subsection 3.1 Gematria 4 Unicode 5 See also 6 Notes 7 References 8 Further reading 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Basmala 64 languages Acèh Afrikaans አማርኛ العربية অসমীয়া Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা Башҡортса Български Català Dagbanli Deutsch Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Galego ГӀалгӀай Hausa हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית ქართული Қазақша Kiswahili Latina Lietuvių മലയാളം Bahasa Melayu Minangkabau Nederlands 日本語 Нохчийн Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پنجابی پښتو Polski Português Русский Shqip Simple English سنڌي Slovenščina Soomaaliga کوردی Sunda Svenska தமிழ் Татарча / tatarça తెలుగు ไทย ትግርኛ Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Türkmençe Українська اردو 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Islamic phrase meaning "In the name of Allah" For other uses, see Bismillah and In the name of Allah (disambiguation) . The basmala on the oldest surviving Quran . Rasm : " ٮسم الله الرحمں الرحىم " Basmala calligraphy A calligraphic rendition of the Bismllah Mughal -era calligraphy The Basmala ( Arabic : بَسْمَلَة , basmala ; also known by its opening words Bi-smi llāh ; بِسْمِ ٱللَّٰهِ , "In the name of God ") is the titular name of the Islamic phrase “In the name of God , the Most Gracious , the Most Merciful ” (Arabic: بِسْمِ ٱللَّٰهِ ٱلرَّحْمَٰنِ ٱلرَّحِيمِ , bi-smi llāhi r-raḥmāni r-raḥīm i ). [bis.mi‿l.laː.hi‿r.raħ.maː.ni‿r.ra.ħiː.m] It is one of the most important phrases in Islam and frequently recited by Muslims before performing daily activities and religious practices, including prayer .The Basmalah should not be confused with the Tasmiyah (Arabic: تَسْمِيَّة ), which refers specifically to saying Bi-smi llāh ( بِسْمِ ٱللَّٰهِ ) alone. The Basmala is usually used at the start of the recitation of verses or surahs from the Qur'an, while the Tasmiyah is commonly used at the beginning of daily activities, such as eating, traveling, or slaughtering animals. It (The Basmala) is used in over half of the constitutions of countries where Islam is the state religion or more than half of the population follows Islam, usually the first phrase in the preamble , including those of Afghanistan , [ 1 ] Bahrain , [ 2 ] Bangladesh , [ 3 ] Brunei , [ 4 ] Egypt , [ 5 ] Iran , [ 6 ] Iraq , [ 7 ] Kuwait , [ 8 ] Libya , [ 9 ] Maldives , [ 10 ] Pakistan , [ 11 ] Saudi Arabia , [ 12 ] Tunisia , [ 13 ] and the United Arab Emirates . [ 14 ] In the Quran , it is recited before each chapter ( surah ), except for the ninth chapter At-Tawbah . [ Notes 1 ] [ 15 ] Scholarly debates regarding its inclusion in the Qur'anic text reached consensus with the 1924 Cairo Edition , where it was included as the first verse ( āyah ) of Al-Fatiha and remained an unnumbered line preceding each of the 112 other chapters. [ 16 ] Historically, the Islamic Basmala appears to be related to earlier variants of the phrase appearing in Arabian inscriptions dating back to the 5th and 6th centuries. [ 17 ] Name [ edit ] The traditional name for the phrase in Classical Arabic was Tasmiyah . Other common phrases in Islam were also given their own names based on verb form 2 verbal nouns, including Tasbih . The word basmala was derived from a slightly unusual procedure, in which the first four pronounced consonants of the phrase bismi-llāhi... were used to create a new quadriliteral root: [ 18 ] b-s-m-l ( ب-س-م-ل ). This quadriliteral root was used to derive the noun basmala and its related verb forms , meaning "to recite the basmala ". The method of coining a quadriliteral name from the consonants of multiple words in a phrase is also used to create the name '"Hamdala" for Alhamdulillah , instead of the traditional name of Tahmid . [ 18 ] The same procedure is also used to create the term Hawqala . Use and significance [ edit ] Thuluth simple script According to Lane , ar-raḥmān has the more intensive meaning, taken to include as objects of "sympathy" both the believer and the unbeliever, and may therefore be rendered  as "the Compassionate"; ar-raḥīm , on the other hand, is taken to include as objects the believer in particular, may be rendered as "the Merciful"  (considered as expressive of a constant attribute). In the Qur'an, the Basmala , is usually numbered as the first verse of the first sura , but, according to the view adopted by Al-Tabari , it precedes the first verse. Apart from the ninth sura (" At-Tawba "), Al-Qurtubi reported that the correct view is that the Basmala ignored at the beginning of At-Tawba because Gabriel did not refer to the Basmala in this surah. Another view says that Muhammad died before giving a clarification if At-Tawba is part of Quran 8 ( al-ʾanfāl ) or not. [ 19 ] [ Notes 1 ] It occurs at the beginning of each subsequent sura of the Qur'an and is usually not numbered as a verse except at its first appearance at the start of the first sura . The Basmala occurs as part of a sura' s text in verse 30 of the 27th sura (" An-Naml "), where it prefaces a letter from Sulayman to Bilqis , the Queen of Sheba . The Basmala is used extensively in everyday Muslim life, said as the opening of each action in order to receive blessing from God . [ 20 ] Reciting the Basmala is a necessary requirement in the preparation of halal food. In the Indian subcontinent, a Bismillah ceremony is held for a child's initiation into Islam. The three definite nouns of the Basmala— Allah , ar-Rahman and ar-Rahim —correspond to the first three of the traditional 99 names of God in Islam. Both ar-Rahman and ar-Rahim are from the same triliteral root R-Ḥ-M , "to feel sympathy, or pity". Around 1980, IRIB used it before starting their newscasts. Hadith [ edit ] Thuluth script There are several ahadith encouraging Muslims to recite it before eating and drinking. For example: Jabir reported: I heard Messenger of Allah (saw) saying, "If a person mentions the Name of Allah upon entering his house or eating, Satan says, addressing his followers: 'You will find nowhere to spend the night and no dinner.' But if he enters without mentioning the Name of Allah, Satan says (to his followers); 'You have found (a place) to spend the night in,' and if he does not mention the Name of Allah at the time of eating, Satan says: 'You have found (a place) to spend the night in as well as food.'" — From Al Bukhari and Muslim Aisha reported:  "The Prophet said, "When any of you wants to eat, he should mention the Name of God in the beginning (Bismillah).  If he forgets to do it in the beginning, he should say Bismillah awwalahu wa akhirahu (I begin with the Name of God at the beginning and at the end)". — From At-Tirmidhi and Abu Dawud Umaiyyah bin Makshi reported: "The Prophet was sitting while a man was eating food.  That man did not mention the Name of God till only a morsel of food was left.  When he raised it to his mouth, he said, Bismillah awwalahu wa akhirahu .  The Prophet smiled at this and said, "Satan had been eating with him but when he mentioned the Name of God , Satan vomited all that was in his stomach". — From Abu Dawud and Al-Nasa'i Wahshi bin Harb reported: "Some of the Sahaba of the Prophet said, 'We eat but are not satisfied.'  He said, 'Perhaps you eat separately.'  The Sahaba replied in the affirmative.  He then said, 'Eat together and mention the Name of God over your food.  It will be blessed for you.' — From Abu Dawood A tradition ascribed to Muhammad states: [ 21 ] All that is contained in the revealed books is to be found in the Qur’an and all that is contained in the Qur’an is summed up in the surat al-fatihah ("The opening one") while this is in its turn contained in the formula Bismillahi-r-Rahmani-r-Rahim ("In the name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful"). A tradition ascribed to Imam Ali states: [ 21 ] The basmalah is in essence contained in the first letter, Ba, and this again in its diacritical point , which thus symbolizes principal Unity. Tafsir [ edit ] Basmala calligraphy In a commentary on the Basmala in his Tafsir al-Tabari , al-Tabari writes: "The Messenger of Allah (the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) said that Jesus was handed by his mother Mary over to a school in order that he might be taught. [The teacher] said to him: 'Write "Bism (In the name of)".' And Jesus said to him: 'What is "Bism"?' The teacher said: 'I do not know.' Jesus said: 'The "Ba" is Baha’u'llah (the glory of Allah), the "Sin" is His Sana’ (radiance), and the "Mim" is His Mamlakah (sovereignty)." [ 22 ] Numerology [ edit ] Bismillah al-Rahman al-Rahim "In the name of God , the Most Gracious , the Most Merciful " . Bismillah al-Rahman al-Rahim "In the name of God , the Most Gracious , the Most Merciful " . Gematria [ edit ] According to the standard Abjadi system of numerology , the total value of the letters of the Islamic Basmala, i.e. the phrase — is 786 . [ 23 ] This number has therefore acquired a significance in folk Islam and Near Eastern folk magic and also appears in many instances of pop-culture, such as its appearance in the 2006 song '786 All is War' by the band Fun-Da-Mental . [ 23 ] A recommendation of reciting the basmala 786 times in sequence is recorded in Al-Buni . Sündermann (2006) reports that a contemporary " spiritual healer " from Syria recommends the recitation of the basmala 786 times over a cup of water, which is then to be ingested as medicine. [ 24 ] 786 as a number, however, does not appear in Quran or Hadith. [ 25 ] It has also become common to abbreviate the phrase by typing "786", especially in online communication, and especially among South Asian Muslims. [ citation needed ] License plates, phone numbers, and serial numbers on currency containing 786 have garnered a particularly high price in South Asia and Dubai. [ 26 ] [ 27 ] Businesses in Myanmar have displayed 786 to indicate that they are owned by Muslims. [ 28 ] Unicode [ edit ] In Unicode , the Basmala is encoded as one ligature at code point U+FDFD ﷽ in the Arabic Presentation Forms-A block. Unicode HTML entity references Character Name Transcription Arabic English &#65021; &#xFDFD; ﷽ Arabic ligature BISMILLAH AR-RAHMAN AR-RAHEEM Bi-smi llāhi r-raḥmāni r-raḥīm بسم اللّٰه الرحمن الرحيم In the name of Allah , the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful See also [ edit ] Islam portal List of Christian terms in Arabic Glossary of Islam Al-Fatiha Besiyata Dishmaya Bshuma in Mandaeism Deus vult and the Trinitarian formula in Christianity Inshallah Names of God in Islam Shahada Six Kalimas Notes [ edit ] ^ a b See, however, the discussion of the eighth and ninth sura s at Al-Anfal (the eighth sura ). References [ edit ] ^ "Afghanistan Constitution" . International Constitutional Law Project . Retrieved 5 January 2016 . ^ "Constitution of the State of Bahrain" (PDF) . Constitution Finder . University of Richmond. Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 June 2015 . Retrieved 5 January 2016 . ^ "The Constitution of the People's Republic of Bangladesh" . Laws of Bangladesh . Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs . Retrieved 5 January 2016 . ^ "Constitution of Brunei Darussalam (as revised 1984)" (PDF) . Constitution Finder . University of Richmond. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 March 2016 . Retrieved 5 January 2016 . ^ "Constitution of the Arab Republic of Egypt 2014" (PDF) . Egypt State Information Service . Retrieved 5 January 2016 . ^ "Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran" . International Constitutional Law Project . Retrieved 5 January 2016 . ^ "Iraqi Constitution" (PDF) . Republic of Iran - Ministry of Interior - General Directorate of Nationality . Archived from the original (PDF) on 28 November 2016 . Retrieved 5 January 2016 . ^ "Kuwait Constitution" . International Constitutional Law Project . Retrieved 5 January 2016 . ^ "Libya's Constitution of 2011" (PDF) . Constitute Project . Retrieved 5 January 2016 . ^ "Constitution of the Republic of Maldives 2008" (PDF) . Republic of Maldives Ministry of Tourism . Retrieved 5 January 2016 . ^ "The Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan" (PDF) . National Assembly of Pakistan . Retrieved 5 January 2016 . ^ "The Constitution of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia" (PDF) . Constitute Project . ^ "The Constitution of the Republic of Tunisia" (PDF) . Venice Commission . Council of Europe . Retrieved 5 January 2016 . ^ "Constitution of the United Arab Emirates" (PDF) . Refworld The Leader in Refugee Decision Support . United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees . Retrieved 5 January 2016 . ^ Ali, Kecia; Leaman, Oliver (2008). Islam: the key concepts (Repr. ed.). London: Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-39638-7 . ^ William A. Graham "Basmala" Encyclopaedia of the Qur'an , Vol. 1 ^ Ahmad al-Jallad (2020). "The Linguistic Landscape of pre-Islamic Arabia: Context for the Qur’an", in Mustafa Shah & Muhammad Abdel Haleem (eds.), The Oxford Handbook of Quranic Studies . Oxford University Press, p. 123. doi : 10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199698646.013.44 . ^ a b A New Arabic Grammar of the Written Language by J.A. Haywood and H.M. Nahmad (London: Lund Humphreys, 1965), ISBN 0-85331-585-X , p. 263. ^ "The reason behind that At-Tawbah is the only Surah without Basmala" . quranonline.net . 16 April 2019 . Retrieved 2020-06-23 . ^ "Islamic-Dictionary.com Definition" . Archived from the original on 2015-12-08 . Retrieved 2011-11-18 . ^ a b Titus Burckhardt (2008) [1959]. An Introduction to Sufi Doctrine . World Wisdom Inc., Bloomington IN, USA. ISBN 1933316500 . p. 36. ^ Momen, M. (2000). Islam and the Bahá'í Faith . Oxford, UK: George Ronald. p. 242. ISBN 0-85398-446-8 . In note 330 on page 274 of the same book Dr. Momen states the following: "At-Tabarí, Jámi’-al-Bayán , vol. 1, p.40. Some of the abbreviated editions of this work (such as the Mu’assasah ar-Risálah, Beirut, 1994 edition) omit this passage as does the translation by J. Cooper (Oxford University Press, 1987). Ibn Kathír records this tradition, Tafsír , vol. 1, p. 17. As-Suyútí in ad-Durr al-Manthúr , vol. 1, p. 8, also records this tradition and gives a list of other scholars who have cited it including Abú Na’ím al-Isfahání in Hilyat al-Awliya’ and Ibn ‘Asákir in Taríkh Dimashq ." ^ a b Shah & Haleem (eds.), The Oxford Handbook of Qur'anic Studies , Oxford University Press, 2020, pp581, 587-88 ^ Katja Sündermann, Spirituelle Heiler im modernen Syrien: Berufsbild und Selbstverständnis - Wissen und Praxis , Hans Schiler, 2006, p. 371 . ^ "The Curious Tale of 786 and its Spiritual Connection in Islam" . Ummah.com . 24 January 2024 . Retrieved 23 February 2025 . ^ G, Sarika. "Why does the Muslim religion respect the number 786?" . Retrieved 23 February 2025 . ^ Mirza, Mizbahuddin (June 2024). "The Myth of 786" . Retrieved 23 February 2025 . ^ Bookbinder, Alex (9 April 2013). "969: The Strange Numerological Basis for Burma's Religious Violence" . The Atlantic . Retrieved 23 February 2025 . Further reading [ edit ] Carra de Vaux, Bernard ; Gardet, Louis (1960–2007). "Basmala". In Bearman, P. ; Bianquis, Th. ; Bosworth, C.E. ; van Donzel, E. ; Heinrichs, W.P. (eds.). Encyclopaedia of Islam, Second Edition . doi : 10.1163/1573-3912_islam_COM_0102 . Graham, William A. (2010). "Basmala". In Fleet, Kate; Krämer, Gudrun ; Matringe, Denis; Nawas, John; Rowson, Everett (eds.). Encyclopaedia of Islam, Three . doi : 10.1163/1573-3912_ei3_COM_23497 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Basmala . Bismillah Samples , a collection of bismillah art-forms. Bismallah in Tadabbur-i-Qur'an (archived). Meaning of Bismillah Beyond Probability , God's Message in Mathematics. Series 1: The Opening Statement of the Quran (The Basmalah). The Blessed Basmala – Seeking a healing cure by means of Basmala, the pure v t e Salah (Islamic prayer) Islamic prayers - Prayer compensation - Woman prayer Categories and types Regular mandatory prayers Fajr ( Fajr nafl prayer , Qunut ) Zuhr Asr Maghrib Isha ( Chafa'a , Witr ) Jumu'ah (weekly Friday prayer) Communal mandatory prayers Salat al-Janazah Prayers for the absent Eid prayers (according to some Islamic scholars) Congregational prayers Jumu'ah Tarawih Eid prayers Rain prayer Eclipse prayer Supererogatory prayers Prayers of the tradition Voluntary prayers Duha Ishraq Tahajjud Night nafl prayer [ ar ] Tarawih Tawassul Chafa'a Witr Tahiyyat masjid [ ar ] Occasional prayers Salat al-Istikharah Salat al-Tawba Sick prayer [ ar ] Need prayer [ ar ] Fear prayer [ ar ] Tasbih prayer [ ar ] Eid prayers Tarawih (Ramadan) Prayer unit ( raka'ah ) and its constituents Intention ( Niyyah ) Basmala Takbir Al-Fatiha Standing ( Qiyam ) Recitation Qira'at Proper pronunciation ( Tajwid ) Tilawa Loud prayer [ ar ] Silent prayer [ ar ] Supplication ( Qunut ) Bowing ( Ruku ) Prostration Sujud Sujud Sahwi Sujud Shukr Sujud Tilawa Sitting in salah ( Tashahhud ) Peace greeting ( Taslim ) Reverence ( Khouchouâa [ ar ] ) Contentment Mosque Mihrab Podium ( Minbar ) Sermon ( Khutbah ) Prayer hall ( Musalla ) Prayer rug ( sajjādah ) Conditions Prayer call Adhan Iqama Salah times Prayer forbidden times Prayer direction ( Qibla ) Islamic hygienical jurisprudence Ritual purity in Islam Junub Menstruation in Islam Istihadha Najis Bath ( Ghusl ) Ablution ( Wudu ) Dry ablution ( Tayammum ) Screen or barrier ( Sutrah ) Category v t e Islamic calligraphy Styles Arabic Hijazi Jeli Thuluth Kairouani Kufic Maghrebi Muhaqqaq Mashq Naskh Thuluth Ottoman Diwani Tawqi (Tevki) Ruq'ah Persian Nasta'liq Taʿlīq Others Sini Objects Arabic calligraffiti Arabic miniature Basmala Firman Hilya Islamic illuminated manuscript Mughal miniature Muraqqa Ottoman illumination Ottoman miniature Persian miniature Tughra Islamic zoomorphism Calligraphers List of Ottoman calligraphers List of Persian calligraphers Tools Techniques Kasheeda Qalam Word heaping Organizations Al-Furqan Islamic Heritage Foundation Museum of Turkish Calligraphy Art Society of Iranian Calligraphists Influences Pseudo-Kufic Part of Islamic arts Authority control databases International FAST National Germany United States Israel Other İslâm Ansiklopedisi Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Basmala&oldid=1287926879 " Categories : Islamic terminology Arabic words and phrases Al-Fatiha Quranic verses Arabic calligraphy Religious formulas Dhikr Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Pages using Template:Script with unknown input Articles containing Arabic-language text Pages with Arabic IPA All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2015 Commons category link is on Wikidata This page was last edited on 29 April 2025, at 09:03 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Basmala 64 languages Add topic