2021 NBA Draft results, picks, grades, trades as Cade Cunningham, Jalen Green, Evan Mobley top class; plus 2022 mock - The Athletic NFL NBA MLB NHL NCAAF NCAAM NCAAW Tennis Premier League Golf WNBA Peak Global Sports MLS NWSL Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Football Soccer Formula 1 Olympics Sports Business Opinion Betting Memorabilia and Collectibles College Sports FIFA Club World Cup Culture Motorsports NASCAR Women's Hockey MMA Boxing The Pulse Newsletter Cities Maple Leafs vs. Senators NBA Playoff Bracket Connections: Sports Edition Newsletters 2021 NBA Draft results, picks, grades, trades as Cade Cunningham, Jalen Green, Evan Mobley top class; plus 2022 mock That's a wrap on the 2021 NBA Draft.  Check out The Athletic NBA staff's insights from Thursday's event in Brooklyn below. July 31, 2021 at 5:17 PM EDT Brian LaFrance Summary That's a wrap on the 2021 NBA Draft. Check out The Athletic NBA staff's insights from Thursday's event in Brooklyn below. Sam Vecenie's and John Hollinger's instant grades and analysis And here is the first-round draft order and picks: Round 1 Cade Cunningham , Oklahoma State (Detroit) Jalen Green , G League Ignite (Houston) Evan Mobley , USC (Cleveland) Scottie Barnes , Florida State (Toronto) Jalen Suggs , Gonzaga (Orlando) Josh Giddey , Australia (Oklahoma City) Jonathan Kuminga , G League Ignite (Golden State) Franz Wagner , Michigan (Orlando) Davion Mitchell , Baylor (Sacramento) Ziaire Williams , Stanford (Memphis via New Orleans) James Bouknight , Connecticut (Charlotte) Joshua Primo , Alabama (San Antonio) Chris Duarte , Oregon (Indiana) Moses Moody , Arkansas (Golden State) Corey Kispert , Gonzaga (Washington) Alperen Sengun , Turkey (Houston via Oklahoma City) Trey Murphy III , Virginia (New Orleans via Memphis) Tre Mann , Florida (Oklahoma City) Kai Jones , Texas (Charlotte via New York) Jalen Johnson , Duke (Atlanta) Keon Johnson , Tennessee (LA Clippers via New York) Isaiah Jackson , Kentucky (Pacers via Wizards via Lakers) Usman Garuba , Spain (Houston) Josh Christopher , Arizona State (Houston) Quentin Grimes , Houston (New York via LA Clippers) Bones Hyland , VCU (Denver) Cameron Thomas , LSU (Brooklyn) Jaden Springer , Tennessee (Philadelphia) Day'Ron Sharpe , North Carolina (Brooklyn via Phoenix) Santi Aldama , Loyola (Md.) (Memphis via Utah) For analysis of the second-round picks, check out Sam and John's grades and fits . MORE READING » Way-too-early 2022 mock draft » Cade Cunningham is the new face of the Pistons » Jalen Green scouting report » Meet Evan Mobley, the Cavs' pick at No. 3 » Fashion statements at the 2021 draft (Photo: Brian Babineau / NBAE via Getty Images) Apr 30, 2025 Connections: Sports Edition Spot the pattern. Connect the terms Find the hidden link between sports terms Play today's puzzle July 31, 2021 at 1:43 PM EDT Kelsey Russo · Staff Writer, Cavaliers 'I was in shock' Ever since Evan Mobley and his older brother, Isaiah, were young and playing against each other, they talked about playing in the NBA. They would play one-on-one matchups, competing for bragging rights. When Evan eventually was recruited to also play for USC alongside his brother, that’s when the reality of his dream to play in the NBA seemed to solidify. That dream came to full fruition Thursday. “I was in shock,” Evan Mobley said. “Like, I really made it. I’m here. Just gotta continue what I’m doing, keep staying in the gym and keep getting better.” GO FURTHER Advertisement July 31, 2021 at 10:38 AM EDT Anthony Slater · Senior Writer, Warriors One-on-one with Joe Lacob Joe Lacob was part of the Warriors contingent that flew out to Miami to meet Jonathan Kuminga. He watched both Moses Moody workouts at the franchise’s San Francisco facility. He sat in on just about every draft meeting, traveled to the combine and, if you grilled him on prospects — even second rounders — he’d have a formed opinion. He’s extremely involved in the pre-draft process and has never hidden that. So it’s no surprise that Lacob is hyped about the Warriors’ draft haul. Read more about that excitement . GO FURTHER July 30, 2021 at 10:48 PM EDT John Hollinger · Senior Writer, NBA Best, worst and weirdest Thursday’s NBA Draft was chalk for all of five picks, and then things got weird. Generally, it’s a sign of iffy depth in a draft class when the reach picks start early, and man, did they come early in this one. GO FURTHER July 30, 2021 at 6:02 PM EDT The Athletic NBA Staff Celtics, Hawks, Kings make deal The Celtics' Tristan Thompson is headed to Sacramento in a three-team involving the Hawks and Kings. Boston first traded the center to Atlanta for guard Kris Dunn, center Bruno Fernando and a 2023 second-round pick, sources confirmed to The Athletic. A source also confirmed Thompson is headed to Sacramento in exchange for guard Delon Wright. More details on the day-after-draft trade. July 30, 2021 at 2:49 PM EDT The Athletic NBA Staff Westbrook and Washington As Bradley Beal spent the last few weeks mulling his future with the organization, as The Athletic previously reported , Russell Westbrook also was deciding his own. The former MVP, who is from the L.A. area, spent parts of the offseason discussing the possibility of teaming up with four-time champion LeBron James and eight-time All-Star Anthony Davis. Now he'll get that chance after Thursday's draft-day trade . Our Shams Charania and Fred Katz break down what happened, what it means and more. GO FURTHER July 30, 2021 at 1:34 PM EDT Sam Vecenie · Senior Writer, NBA Draft Winners, losers and more Honestly, there were moments in the 2021 draft that blew my mind, with teams making selections with nary a mention of that potential outcome passing by my desk. This was probably the draft with the fewest picks I had a true inclination on since 2017, with picks all over the place coming out of nowhere to turn the evening upside down. Let's drive into 30 thoughts from Thursday's draft . GO FURTHER Advertisement July 30, 2021 at 11:25 AM EDT Eric Koreen · Senior Writer, Raptors Future in front? Scottie Barnes' lack of offense says a lot about what the Raptors are trying to do and, more crucially, when they are trying to do it. For so long, the Raptors have been trying to balance the present and the future, with one nudging ahead of the other and vice versa at varying points. Well, it appears the future has taken the lead, and it might stay there for a long while. GO FURTHER July 30, 2021 at 10:21 AM EDT Marcus Thompson II · Senior Columnist, Bay Area 'Not done' It was a good night for Golden State. But … The occasion was tempered a bit by the remaining to-do list. There are still a few major shortages on the Warriors’ roster, and neither of the picks solved the Warriors’ most immediate need. “We need to add some veterans,” Bob Myers said. “We’re not done.” GO FURTHER July 30, 2021 at 9:48 AM EDT Kelly Iko · Staff Writer Jalen Green exclusive Talk to anyone close to Jalen Green, and they’ll tell you who he is: Always laughing. Cheerful. Genuinely happy for the success of others. It’s why he screamed “Yea Scott! What I tell you, Scott!” when he ran into close friend Scottie Barnes in the hallway before embracing him in a bear hug. Barnes was drafted fourth overall by the Toronto Raptors, the first surprise of the evening. “I’m just a goofy, outgoing person,” Green told The Athletic in an exclusive draft night interview . “I like talking to people, connecting with people. I care about people. That’s just who I am, a very loving person. But at the same time, I still got that side to me.” Green is someone who moves in love. And the minute commissioner Adam Silver called Green’s name and announced he would be a Houston Rocket, the entire arena gave the love right back. (Photo: Brad Penner / USA Today) GO FURTHER July 30, 2021 at 9:08 AM EDT The Athletic NBA Staff Jazz, Thunder make a deal The Utah Jazz have agreed to send center Derrick Favors to the Oklahoma City Thunder, sources tell The Athletic 's Shams Charania and Tony Jones . Utah will send a future first-round pick to the Thunder, a top-10 protected pick with the conditions beginning in 2024, according to sources. GO FURTHER July 30, 2021 at 8:30 AM EDT Sam Vecenie · Senior Writer, NBA Draft 2022 mock draft The best way to look at something like this so early in the process is to consider it more of a watch list than an actual ranking. That is especially true in this class. Why? The presence of many high-upside players who, for one reason or another, might be blocked in terms of playing time or scheme or merely might take more than one year to become a genuine draft prospect. Here's the first look at next year's class. GO FURTHER Advertisement July 30, 2021 at 1:32 AM EDT The Athletic NBA Staff Scouting reports Wondering how some of the draft's top picks might fit with their new teams? Look no further: » Cade Cunningham » Jalen Green » Evan Mobley » Scottie Barnes » Jalen Suggs » Josh Giddey » Franz Wagner » Davion Mitchell GO FURTHER July 30, 2021 at 1:07 AM EDT Sam Vecenie · Senior Writer, NBA Draft Top undrafted players Top undrafted players, according to Sam Vecenie (with final Big Board rankings): 32. Austin Reaves 47. Justin Champagne 49. Moses Wright 51. McKinley Wright 53. Joel Ayayi 56. Aaron Henry 60. Matthew Hurt Of the top 60 on my board drafted, 53 were drafted, and sources told me at least two undrafted steered toward undrafted for advantageous two-ways. GO FURTHER July 30, 2021 at 12:58 AM EDT Law Murray · Staff Writer, Clippers Clippers make moves The Clippers started this draft with one first-round pick, slotted at 25. Of course, they didn't stand pat. First, they moved up to No. 21 for Keon Johnson. Then they flipped a future second for Jason Preston at 33. And they weren't satisfied, getting themselves a second one-and-done prospect to bring Kentucky wing Brandon Boston Jr. back to Southern California at 51; Boston played at Sierra Canyon, where he was a highly- anked recruit. Boston had a rough time scoring at Kentucky, with only 11.5 points on 11.6 field goal attempts per game last season. But his shot has potential. He has 3-point range, and he made his free throws. Boston is 6-foot-7 and is slight at 188 pounds but long with a 6-11 wingspan. Like Johnson and Preston, Boston gets steals, averaging 1.3 per game at Kentucky. The outline of a 3-and-D player is there, and Boston turns 20 years old just after Thanksgiving. It's an exciting move for the Clippers this late in the game. July 30, 2021 at 12:51 AM EDT The Athletic NBA Staff That's a wrap With the final pick of the 2021 NBA Draft, the Indiana Pacers selected Georgios Kalaitzakis from Greece. GO FURTHER July 30, 2021 at 12:28 AM EDT Eric Koreen · Senior Writer, Raptors Homecoming for Banton If you flipped over from the Olympics on the CBC, Canada's national public broadcaster, to the NBA Draft, that didn't mean you had to sacrifice your fill of pride for the maple leaf. With their first of two consecutive second-round picks, the Raptors picked Dalano Banton of Nebraska 46th overall. He's a 6-foot-9 guard, which is all well and good. More importantly: He's Canadian. This is the first time the Raptors have ever picked a Canadian in the draft. Anthony Bennett, Khem Birch, Chris Boucher, Oshae Brissett, Cory Joseph and Jamaal Magloire are the other gentlemen with Canadian passports to play for the Raptors, but none of them were drafted by the team. Advertisement July 30, 2021 at 12:14 AM EDT The Athletic NBA Staff More names to know More second-round draft picks to get to know: » Greg Brown » Kessler Edwards » Sharife Cooper » B.J. Boston » Luka Garza » Charles Bassey » Aaron Wiggins » Jericho Sims July 30, 2021 at 12:11 AM EDT Jason Jones · Staff Writer, Culture A little surprised Davion Mitchell was asked at least three times during his call with local media if he worked out for the Kings prior to the draft. It was something he did not want to discuss. It would be no surprise if his agent did not have him work out for the Kings. If time is at a premium, it would make sense to skip a team that has invested so much in guards recently. Mitchell admitted he was surprised the Kings drafted him. GO FURTHER July 29, 2021 at 11:57 PM EDT Law Murray · Staff Writer, Clippers Preston enters point guard mix The Clippers dipped back into the draft to secure Jason Preston, a player I actually did target as an option for the team last week. In that story, I noted that Preston had length at 6-4 and put up serious digits in the MAC. The Clippers have a lot to figure out at point guard with Reggie Jackson's contract up and Patrick Beverley and Rajon Rondo entering the last year of their deals. Now, the Clippers have some flexibility, while Preston gets to show why the Clippers made him a priority with an early second-round pick. GO FURTHER Load more updates National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Culture Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two LNH Memorabilia & Collectibles Men's College Basketball Men's World Cup Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News UK Women's Football WNBA Women's College Basketball Women's Euros Women's Hockey Women's World Cup The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Montréal (français) Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Support Sitemap