Birmingham public company to acquire Raleigh business - Birmingham… | Birmingham Business Journal Agree & Join LinkedIn By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . Skip to main content LinkedIn Articles People Learning Jobs Games Join now Sign in Birmingham Business Journal’s Post Birmingham Business Journal 31,079 followers 6mo Report this post A rock crusher is being sold to a big name in the construction business. Bham public company to acquire 50-year-old Raleigh business bizjournals.com 2 Like Comment Share Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter To view or add a comment, sign in More Relevant Posts Capital Aggregates 478 followers 7mo Edited Report this post “Instead of all these smaller companies, it’s one company that is doing 10 million-plus tons a year. From the outside, it’s a much bigger operation. We want to let people know that we are a rapidly growing company. We’re seeing what we’re capable of doing.” - Jamie Jones, COO of Capital Aggregates  Check out this article published by Pit & Quarry magazine covering the consolidation of our aggregate companies! Operations reorganize as Capital Aggregates https://www.pitandquarry.com 66 Like Comment Share Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter To view or add a comment, sign in Andrew Scherer Managing Partner at Scherer Partners LLC 6mo Edited Report this post Scherer Partners is pleased to announce the successful sale of our client SUPERIOR IRON WORKS, INC. to EXTREME STEEL INC. Thanks to Chris Curtin , Jane Marlowe , and Anthony Otten , who helped bring this transaction to a favorable outcome for all stakeholders. Full release below. ________________________________________________________  Scherer Partners LLC and BMI Mergers & Acquisitions announce the successful sale of their client, Superior Iron Works, Inc. to Extreme Steel. Inc.  Superior Iron Works is a leading Washington, DC Metro-based complex metal fabricator & erector. Founded in 1968, the Company was acquired in 2013 by Michael Kane (President), Melanie Clements (CFO) and Gary Essex (Chief Estimator). Superior fabricates and installs complex roof structures, shade structures, canopy structures, and stair rails. Superior works primarily on commercial projects split equally between new construction and renovation of landmark buildings.  Extreme Steel, Inc is headquartered in Winchester, VA. ESI is committed to setting and exceeding the standard in the architectural and structural steel industry – with the right tools, the right ideas and the right people. With 313 employees working in three plants and multiple field locations, the company puts safety first, which accounts for a supportive, creative and professional work environment and a job done right. The acquisition solidifies Extreme’s position as one of the dominant steel fabrication and erection companies in the DMV (District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia) area. This acquisition builds on ESI's capabilities with the addition of a fabrication facility and service center in Sterling, VA bringing their total facilities in the DMV to four and expanding its resources to continue servicing customers above and beyond expectations.  Scherer Partners LLC, is an investment bank, specializing in M&A for lower middle firms. For both sellers and buyers. Scherer Partners delivers services across numerous industries including construction and engineering, business and professional services, and government contracting. To learn more visit www.schererpartners.com .  BMI Mergers & Acquisitions is a boutique nationwide M&A advisory firm specializing in lower-middle market transactions. Consistently ranked by Axial as a Top 25 Lower Middle Market Investment Bank, BMI has offices in New York, Philadelphia, Allentown, Charlotte, and Raleigh. BMI’s team of senior M&A professionals has extensive industry knowledge in many sectors, including facilities services, construction, business and professional services, manufacturing and distribution. To learn more, visit www.bmimergers.com . 67 17 Comments Like Comment Share Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter To view or add a comment, sign in SRM Concrete 17,965 followers 5mo Report this post SRM Concrete has acquired Ken’s Redi-Mix, a concrete supplier with locations in Goodrich and Clio, Michigan.  SRM Concrete’s CEO, Jeff Hollingshead stated, “We’re excited to start batching concrete with our new team members. We gained two great sites and an experienced group of people today, and we're looking forward to stretching our capabilities in the area while continuing to provide excellent service.”  The acquisition marks SRM’s 14th location in Southeast Michigan. https://lnkd.in/eM-9Bc5m 276 12 Comments Like Comment Share Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter To view or add a comment, sign in FRD | Furukawa Rock Drill USA, Inc. 2,140 followers 9mo Report this post With the Encore Recertification Program, you can choose the tiered level of service that best meets your needs. But, the program offers even more flexibility with some additional benefits. You can purchase one program tier, but retain the option to upgrade to the next tier while paying only for the level of service that is performed. You can also purchase any additional parts required for proper repair – without additional installation charges.  Find out more about how the Encore Recertification Program can maximize performance in this blog post: https://loom.ly/SJK2SFc #compactor #constructionequipment #constructionmachinery #rockdrilling #demolition #miningindustry #equipmentdistribution 19 Like Comment Share Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter To view or add a comment, sign in Trottier Piling (2004) Ltd 590 followers 9mo Report this post Let's Talk Foundations!   We're curious about your experiences and insights on piling and foundation work!  🔹 What's the most challenging piling project you've worked on? 🔹 Share your most memorable construction story!  Drop your comments below and let’s get a conversation started! Your expertise and experiences could inspire others in our community. https://trottierpiling.ca/ #ConstructionTalk #PilingProjects #FoundationStories #IndustryInsights #CommunityEngagement #TrottierPiling #Piling #Shoring #PileFoundations #PilingManitoba #PilingContractor #FoundationConstruction #ConstructionIndustry #ConstructionServices 1 Like Comment Share Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter To view or add a comment, sign in Concrete Products 8,545 followers 4mo Report this post Vulcan Materials Company has entered a definitive agreement to acquire Superior Ready Mix Concrete L.P. of Escondido, Calif. The transaction spans 13 ready mixed and two asphalt plants, plus six #aggregatesoperations adding more than 50 years of quality reserves to Vulcan’s California franchise.   Details: https://ow.ly/G8WM50Uppeg 217 6 Comments Like Comment Share Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter To view or add a comment, sign in Jeremy Wentz Manager -Fleet & Procurement at Knife River Corporation 4mo Report this post Knife River Enters Definitive Agreement to Acquire Strata Corporation December 20, 2024  BISMARCK, N.D.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Knife River Corporation (NYSE: KNF) announced today that it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Strata Corporation, a leading construction materials and contracting services provider in North Dakota and northwestern Minnesota. Based on Strata’s projected 2025 Adj. EBITDA, the purchase price of $454 million reflects a multiple in the high single digits. Founded in 1910, Strata is an aggregates-based, vertically integrated company with over 75 aggregates locations, extensive aggregate reserves and rail assets to bring those reserves to market. The company has 28 ready-mix plants, three asphalt plants and a contracting services division that specializes in asphalt paving and concrete construction. Strata is headquartered in Grand Forks, North Dakota, and will provide infill growth for Knife River’s Central Segment. “Strata is respected among its peers and in its communities, and is well-known for its strong culture and expertise,” said Knife River President and CEO Brian Gray. “It is a great success story – growing from a single gravel operation into a leading supplier of construction materials that employs over 900 team members during the peak season. We look forward to completing the transaction and welcoming the Strata team to the Life at Knife.” The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2025, subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions. Knife River expects to use cash on hand and the proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt to finance the acquisition. “We believe this acquisition is a prime example of our ‘Competitive EDGE’ strategy to profitably grow our business,” Gray said. “We expect Strata to be accretive to Knife River’s Adj. EBITDA margin within the first year. Strata’s high-quality assets allow us to expand our service territory within a region we know well. We believe this is a great, long-term fit for us.” Strata was founded 114 years ago as Bradshaw Gravel Supply. Majority shareholder James Bradshaw oversaw much of the company’s growth during his 46 years as president. “It’s not easy building a family business and it’s even harder coming to the point where you are ready to step away from it,” Bradshaw, Strata’s chairman and CEO, said. “I believe there is a great fit between Strata and Knife River. Both companies are strongly aligned with our cultures of putting people first and operating with integrity. We want what is best for our team and their future, and we believe that is with Knife River.” https://lnkd.in/g6NpFfnw Knife River Enters Definitive Agreement to Acquire Strata Corporation investors.kniferiver.com 161 7 Comments Like Comment Share Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter To view or add a comment, sign in Pit & Quarry magazine 16,109 followers 4mo Report this post Eagle Materials came to an agreement this week to acquire BULLSKIN STONE & LIME, LLC , an aggregate-producing company located in western Pennsylvania.  Says Michael Haack, president and CEO of Eagle Materials: “The acquisition ... advances Eagle’s long-term growth strategy by adding a pure-play #aggregates #business that complements and extends our network of aggregates quarries and cement plants and terminals in the region.” Eagle Materials acquiring Bullskin Stone in $152M deal | Pit & Quarry https://www.pitandquarry.com 47 Like Comment Share Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter To view or add a comment, sign in Bermont Materials 120 followers 3mo Report this post Ever thought about what holds up the highways and bridges we rely on every day?  It starts with the ground beneath your feet. Sourcing and preparing the right aggregates isn’t just the first step in construction. It’s the foundation for everything.  Every stone, sand, and gravel mix is carefully chosen and processed. Because the strength of your project depends on it.  From mining to delivery, it’s about setting the stage for builders to succeed. Bermont doesn’t just provide materials. We provide peace of mind.  Because great projects don’t just happen. They start here. …more 16 Like Comment Share Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter To view or add a comment, sign in 31,079 followers View Profile Follow More from this author Alabama's 1% earners club: Here's what it takes to make it Birmingham Business Journal 6mo Six-figure jobs surged in the second quarter. Here's where to find them. Birmingham Business Journal 9mo Explore topics Sales Marketing IT Services Business Administration HR Management Engineering Soft Skills See All LinkedIn © 2025 About Accessibility User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Choices Cookie Policy Copyright Policy Brand Policy Guest Controls Community Guidelines العربية (Arabic) বাংলা (Bangla) Čeština (Czech) Dansk (Danish) Deutsch (German) Ελληνικά (Greek) English (English) Español (Spanish) فارسی (Persian) Suomi (Finnish) Français (French) हिंदी (Hindi) Magyar (Hungarian) Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian) Italiano (Italian) עברית (Hebrew) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) मराठी (Marathi) Bahasa Malaysia (Malay) Nederlands (Dutch) Norsk (Norwegian) ਪੰਜਾਬੀ (Punjabi) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese) Română (Romanian) Русский (Russian) Svenska (Swedish) తెలుగు (Telugu) ภาษาไทย (Thai) Tagalog (Tagalog) Türkçe (Turkish) Українська (Ukrainian) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) 简体中文 (Chinese (Simplified)) 正體中文 (Chinese (Traditional)) Language Sign in to view more content Create your free account or sign in to continue your search Sign in Welcome back Email or phone Password Show Forgot password? Sign in or By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . New to LinkedIn? Join now or New to LinkedIn? Join now By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy .