Road To Nintendo Switch 2: ‘Super Mario Odyssey’ Subscribe To Newsletters Trump Tracker Billionaires Billionaires View All Billionaires World's Billionaires Forbes 400 America's Richest Self-Made Women China's Richest India's Richest Indonesia's Richest Korea's Richest Thailand's Richest Japan's Richest Australia's Richest Taiwan's Richest Singapore's Richest Philippines' Richest Hong Kong's Richest Malaysia's Richest Money & Politics 2024 Election Innovation Innovation View All Innovation AI Big Data Cloud Cloud 100 Consumer Tech Creator Economy Cybersecurity Digital Transformation Enterprise Commerce Enterprise Security and Protection Enterprise Tech Enterprise Growth Strategy Future Of Work Gaming Healthcare Innovation Rules Retail Industry SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Science Social Media Sustainability & Climate Transportation Venture Capital Technology VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program TikTok BrandVoice | Paid Program Leadership Leadership View All Leadership C-Suite CEO Network CFO Network CHRO Network CIO Network CMO Network Leadership Strategies Careers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Education Forbes EQ | Paid Program ForbesBLK ForbesWomen Under 30 Working Remote Over 50 Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Money Money View All Money Banking & Insurance ETFs & Mutual Funds Fintech Hedge Funds & Private Equity Investing Investor Hub Markets Personal Finance Retirement Taxes Top Advisor | SHOOK Wealth Management Forbes Digital Assets Forbes Digital Assets Home Web3 Community News Crypto Prices NFT Prices Research Learn Crypto Basics BTC DeFi Web3 Education NFTs Crypto Investments Events Crypto Portfolios Business Business View All Business Aerospace & Defense Energy Food & Drink Hollywood & Entertainment Law Manufacturing Media Policy Retail SportsMoney Entertainment Digest Small Business Small Business View All Small Business Entrepreneurs Franchises Small Business Strategy Lifestyle Lifestyle View All Lifestyle Arts Boats & Planes Cars & Bikes Dining ForbesLife Forbes Travel Guide Spirits Style & Beauty Travel Vices Watches Real Estate Real Estate View All Real Estate Commercial Real Estate Forbes Global Properties Residential Real Estate Forbes Vetted Forbes Vetted View All Forbes Vetted Mattress & Sleep Bed Frames Mattresses Mattress Toppers Pillows Sheets & Bedding Sleep Products Home Bathroom Cleaning & Laundry Decor Furniture Heating & Cooling Hobbies Home Office Kitchen & Dining Outdoor Pets Storage & Organization Tools Wine & Bar Fashion Accessories Clothing Eyewear Footwear Jewelry Handbags & Purses Lingerie & Sleepwear Outdoor & Fitness Apparel Outerwear Watches Kids & Baby Gear Baby Gear Kids Clothes & Accessories Nursery Pregnancy & Postpartum Toys & Books Gear Apparel & Accessories Bikes Camping & Hiking Climbing Fishing & Hunting Fitness Golf Running Tennis & Racket Sports Tools & Tech Training & Recovery Water Sports Wellness Winter Sports Beauty & Grooming Haircare Makeup Nailcare Shaving Skincare Personal Products Wellness & Self Care Tech & Electronics Audio Cameras Computers, Tablets & Accessories Gaming Home Office Online Tools Smart Home Devices Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories Streaming TVs Travel Cruises Hotels & Lodging Luggage Travel Products Gifts Father's Day Holiday Mother's Day Valentine's Day Wedding Deals Black Friday Cyber Monday Amazon Prime Day Beauty & Grooming Big Sales Fashion Gear Home Tech & Electronics Travel Deals Mattress & Sleep Forbes 101 Advisor Advisor Best Credit Cards Of 2025 Compare Credit Cards Balance Transfer Credit Cards Cash Back Credit Cards Travel Credit Cards Business Credit Cards Mortgages & Loans Best Mortgage Lenders Today's Mortgage Rates Today's Refinance Rates Best Personal Loans Loans For Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Student Loan Lenders Best Student Loan Refinance Lenders Business Loans Banking Best Online Banks CD Rates High-Yield Savings Accounts Money Market Account Life Insurance Cheap Life Insurance No Exam Life Insurance Travel Insurance Covid-19 Travel Insurance Cheap Travel Insurance Companies Best Car Insurance Compare Car Insurance Quotes Cost Of Car Insurance Cheap Car Insurance Pet Insurance How Much Is Pet Insurance? Cheap Pet Insurance Business Services Best LLC Services Best Registered Agent Services How To Set Up An LLC How To Start A Business Cost To Start An LLC Best Payroll Services Best HR Software Best HRIS Systems Best PEO Services Best Applicant Tracking Systems Best Website Builders Best Web Hosting Services Best Domain Registrar Best Ecommerce Platform Best Landing Page Builder Best VoIP Service What Is VoIP? Best Answering Services Best Call Center Software Best Cloud Phone System Best Project Management Software Free Project Management Software Best Task Management Software Free Task Management Software Best Gantt Chart Software Best VPN Best Free VPN Best Cheap VPN Best Antivirus Software Best Password Managers Home Services Best Moving Companies Best Long Distance Moving Companies Best Car Shipping Companies Best Interstate Moving Companies How Much Do Movers Cost? Best Home Warranty Companies Cheapest Home Warranty Companies Are Home Warranties Worth It? Home Warranty Cost Best Home Appliance Insurance Best Solar Companies Best Solar Panels Cost Of Solar Panels Solar Tax Credit By State Are Solar Panels Worth It? Best Pest Control Companies Best Termite Control Companies Best Mosquito Control Companies Pest Control Cost How Much Do Exterminators Cost? Best Home Security Companies Best Home Security Systems Home Security System Cost Cheapest Home Security Systems Best Wireless Home Security Systems Best Internet Providers Cheapest Internet Plans Fastest High Speed Internet Providers Best Internet Only Plans Best Fiber Internet Providers Forbes Advisor UK Health Health Healthy Aging Best Medical Alert Systems Medicare Medicare Advantage Plans Medicare Supplement Plans Medicare Advantage By State Health Insurance Hearing Aids Best Hearing Aids Senior Living Mind Best Online Therapy Best CBD Gummies Best CBD Oil Best Protein Powders Lists Video Newsletters Newsletters Crypto Confidential Editorial Newsletters Forbes Games Forbes Games View All Forbes Games Frase by Forbes Pinpoint by LinkedIn Queens by LinkedIn Crossclimb by LinkedIn Forbes Magazine Forbes Magazine Forbes Asia Free Issue of Forbes Latest Latest Coronavirus Coverage Daily Cover Stories Dark Capital Editors' Picks Breaking News Featured Featured 2025 Best-In-State Wealth Advisors List 2025 America's Top Women Wealth Advisors AI’s Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It DNA of Success Embracing And Bracing For AI Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program Your Four-Part Blueprint To Unlock AI Value In 2025 | Paid Program Diners Club International Celebrates 75 Years | Paid Program Leadership Lessons: Small Business Playbook Potential Has No Age Summit | Paid Program Celebrating The Power Of Partnership: Why Teamwork Is Key In the Fight Against Cancer | Paid Program Protecting What Matters Most: How Gerber Life Insurance Offers Affordable Coverage For Your Whole Family | Paid Program Presented by EY - Beyond The Blueprint: How These Four CEOs Built Billion-Dollar Businesses | Paid Program 2/3 By 2030: Philip Morris International Marks A Milestone  And Aims For A Smoke-Free Future | Paid Program 2025 America's Top Wealth Advisors Forbes Insights: Your Guide To Marketing In The Era Of AI | Paid Program The Undergrad's New Journey To Real-World Ready | Paid Program Forbes Insights: Your Five-Step Strategy To Unleash AI’s Value In Marketing | Paid Program Forbes Video Series: AI 50 AI 50 List By The Numbers: Meet The Forbes 30 Under 30 Europe Class Of 2025 United To End Blood Cancer: Meet The Leaders Turning Passion Into Progress | Paid Program Advertise with Forbes Report a Security Issue Editorial Values and Standards Site Feedback Contact Us Careers at Forbes Tips Corrections Privacy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms AdChoices Reprints & Permissions © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. Subscribe To Newsletters Road To Nintendo Switch 2: ‘Super Mario Odyssey’ By Mitch Wallace Follow Author Share Save Comment Innovation Gaming Road To Nintendo Switch 2: ‘Super Mario Odyssey’ By Mitch Wallace , Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. I write about video games, technology and pop culture. Follow Author Apr 25, 2025, 03:08am EDT Share Save Comment Super Mario Odyssey Credit: Nintendo Yesterday, in my new Road to Nintendo Switch 2 series, we took a look at Super Mario 3D World + Bowser’s Fury . Today, in the second entry, we’re tackling 2017’s excellent Super Mario Odyssey , the last mainline 3D Mario game to have been released. Unless you count Bowser’s Fury , that is, even though it’s more of a half-game than a full Mario experience. A Mario sampling, if you will. A dash of Mario. No cap. (Please refer to the joke I made in the last article, for the love of God, before you judge me on the internet). Let’s get this out of the way: Super Mario Odyssey might be the best platformer I’ve ever played. It’s so incredibly fun to control and experience that it could possibly be illegal in some states and countries, so please check with your local government and law enforcement before partaking. It’s honestly one of those games wherein proper progression seems superfluous; you can simply run around as Mario and feel utter joy without the need to collect anything or beat a level or, let’s face it, rescue the princess. All this time later, the visuals are still stunning and make great use of the Switch’s aging hardware. Super Mario Odyssey Credit: Nintendo I guess what I’m trying to say is Super Mario Odyssey is proof of Nintendo’s enduring reputation, at least in my mind, as the video game industry’s Disney. This is a game that’s impossible not to play. The mechanics and colorful world are enticing in a way that simply isn’t present in most games, and I do wonder what creates such a gravitational pull. Play Puzzles & Games on Forbes FEATURED | Frase By Forbes ™ Unscramble The Anagram To Reveal The Phrase Play Now Pinpoint By Linkedin Guess The Category Play Now Queens By Linkedin Crown Each Region Play Now Crossclimb By Linkedin Unlock A Trivia Ladder Play Now I guess it has something to do with the way Nintendo approaches game design, how they zero in on what makes a video game fun . Fun comes first, and then they build experiences around this feeling, and the resulting quality is undeniable. I guess this is why they can charge $450 for what is basically an upgraded Switch. People will pay for that Nintendo seal of quality, as it were. In Super Mario Odyssey , Bowser kidnaps Peach to… marry her? I think that’s the story. There’s various mentions of wedding dresses and weddings and general sacred promises. Just a dinosaur trying to recite his heartfelt vows to a helpless princess. A tale as old as time, really. So you follow Bowser and his bunny henchmen (I’m not joking) around the world in Mario’s trusty spaceship, the Odyssey, in an effort to save the day. Grabbing a design page from Pikmin , you help Mario gather moons in different environments to power said spaceship so you can globetrot and save Peach from her dreaded wedded bliss. Super Mario Odyssey Credit: Nintendo Mario’s hat Cappy is the star of the show here, and you can throw it at an assortment of enemies and objects to transform our heroic plumber into myriad forms. This includes everything from a literal t-rex, to a manhole cover, to a giant slab of sirloin, a caterpillar, and even everyone’s old green pal, Yoshi. The transformations play a huge role in the game, and it feels damn good to use the hat, almost as if it’s always been part of the gameplay. In this sense, Mario has a permanent weapon to use, rather than needing to seek out power-ups for projectile offense. There aren’t any power-ups in Super Mario Odyssey , by the way, not in the transitional sense. No fire flowers or mushrooms to grow, basically. So yes, you’re globetrotting and using your hat to transform into all manner of in-game things, and collecting ubiquitous Power Moons, and it’s a total blast. Like Super Mario 3D World + Bowser’s Fury , Super Mario Odyssey feels completely handcrafted. The attention to detail oozes out of every pixel, and there’s a real sense of discovery and adventure permeating every lush location. Within each level, you can collect coins to upgrade Mario with different outfits, and this gives the game a welcome RPG-lite flavor. One of the later outfits is a Super Mario 64 polygonal getup and it’s glorious . Plus, it foreshadows a visit to the classic Nintendo 64 Mushroom Kingdom hub later on in the game, and that’s just downright rad. The nostalgia, it burns . Super Mario Odyssey Credit: Nintendo By the way, this game is another showcase for the Pro controller. Man, it drives like an absolute dream , minus any of the finicky motion controls. It’s weird that Nintendo was still forcing waggle inputs into a game back in 2017 , and playing Odyssey now, it’s very apparent how annoying they still are. I can only hope that they’re less keen on implementing motion stuff with the Switch 2. This said, it took me around 15 hours to complete my initial playthrough of Super Mario Odyssey , though I’m already going back in to grab more coins and Power Moons. I really want to buy the elusive Skeleton Suit, as well as more stickers for my Odyssey. I do wish you could further customize the spaceship, but at least you can decorate the sitting room with statues and trinkets. I also wish there were some gameplay segments that let you directly control the Odyssey, maybe in the vein of Star Fox , but it’s a nitpick. The bottom line is, Super Mario Odyssey could be the best platforming game ever made, at least until Mario officially hits the Switch 2 in the coming years . There isn’t a better controlling, better looking (even at 1080p!), better designed platformer around, in my humble opinion. I just wish Nintendo had released some DLC for the game, as it’s ripe for expansion. I’ll have to content myself with Bowser’s Fury for the time being, though it couldn’t be more different than Odyssey . Super Mario Odyssey Credit: Nintendo Maybe we’ll get a remaster for Switch 2, because playing this title in 4K would be marvelous. Or maybe Nintendo will issue one of those controversial upgrade packs for the game, allowing owners to bring Super Mario Odyssey over to the Switch 2 with new bells and whistles. Only time—terrible, horrific time—will tell. Well, that about wraps up this edition of Road to Nintendo Switch 2. Stay tuned for the next installment, which should slash expectations, if you know what I mean. (How could you know? It’s a surprise!) Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn . Check out my website . Editorial Standards Forbes Accolades LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Digital Terms of Sale Terms of Service Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Reprints & Permissions Forbes Press Room Advertise