Jim Beach - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Early life 2 Family 3 In popular culture 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Jim Beach 13 languages العربية Català Español Հայերեն Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Magyar Nederlands Norsk bokmål Polski Português Sicilianu Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia British music manager For the American politician, see James Beach . Jim Beach Born Henry James Beach ( 1942-03-09 ) 9 March 1942 (age 83) Gloucester , England Nationality British Other names Miami Occupations Lawyer music manager Spouse Claudia Beach Children 2; including Matilda Henry James Beach [ 1 ] [ 2 ] (born 9 March 1942), known as Jim Beach or "Miami" Beach , is a British lawyer and band manager, best known for being the long-time manager of the rock band Queen , its individual members and the comedy group Monty Python . [ 3 ] He was nicknamed "Miami" by Freddie Mercury , a play on his surname. He took over as manager of the band in 1978 after he had acted on their behalf as a lawyer. Beach is co-founder of Transistor Project, together with Blur 's Dave Rowntree . [ 4 ] Beach is also the co-founder of the Mercury Phoenix Trust , which promotes AIDS prevention worldwide. [ 5 ] Beach lives in Montreux , Switzerland. [ 6 ] Early life [ edit ] Beach was born in Gloucester . He was educated at Cheltenham College and Queens' College, Cambridge , where he read law. [ 7 ] He was a member of the Cambridge Footlights and in 1963 went on a road tour of England and Scotland with Monty Python 's Eric Idle and Graeme Garden as the piano player. [ 3 ] Family [ edit ] He is married to Claudia Beach and has a daughter, Matilda, and a son, Ol. Ol Beach is the frontman for the band Yellowire and was formerly the keyboard player for the rock band Wire Daisies , discovered by Queen's Roger Taylor . [ 8 ] In popular culture [ edit ] Beach was a producer in the 2018 film Bohemian Rhapsody . He was portrayed in the film by Tom Hollander . [ 9 ] References [ edit ] ^ Jones, Lesley-Ann (15 June 2012). Freddie Mercury . Sperling & Kupfer. ISBN 9788873396192 – via Google Books. ^ "Henry James "Miami" Beach" . Endole Directory . Retrieved 11 December 2018 . ^ a b Idle, Eric (2018). Always Look on the Bright Side of Life: A Sortabiography . Crown Archetype. pp. Chapter 5. ISBN 978-1984822581 . ^ "Music Veterans Launch E-Label with outside Line". New Media Age . 13 May 2004. ^ "About us" . Mercuryphoenixtrust.com . Retrieved 20 February 2019 . ^ "Archived copy" . Archived from the original on 24 October 2018 . Retrieved 24 October 2018 . {{ cite web }} :  CS1 maint: archived copy as title ( link ) ^ 'University News', Times , 26 June 1964. ^ "MESSAGE FROM JIM BEACH" . Brianmay.com . 20 August 2010. Archived from the original on 15 November 2018 . Retrieved 11 December 2018 . ^ https://www.empireonline.com/movies/news/aidan-gillen-tom-hollander-head-bohemian-rhapsody/ External links [ edit ] Jim Beach at IMDb v t e Queen Brian May Roger Taylor Freddie Mercury John Deacon Studio albums Queen Queen II Sheer Heart Attack A Night at the Opera A Day at the Races News of the World Jazz The Game Flash Gordon Hot Space The Works A Kind of Magic The Miracle Innuendo Made in Heaven Live albums Live Killers Live Magic At the Beeb Live at Wembley '86 Queen on Fire – Live at the Bowl Queen Rock Montreal Hungarian Rhapsody: Queen Live in Budapest Live at the Rainbow '74 A Night at the Odeon On Air Compilations Greatest Hits Greatest Hits II Classic Queen The 12″ Collection Queen Rocks Greatest Hits III Stone Cold Classics The A–Z of Queen, Volume 1 Absolute Greatest Deep Cuts, Volume 1 (1973–1976) Deep Cuts, Volume 2 (1977–1982) Deep Cuts, Volume 3 (1984–1995) Icon Queen Forever Greatest Hits in Japan Box sets The Complete Works Queen CD Single Box The Crown Jewels The Platinum Collection: Greatest Hits I, II & III The Singles Collection Volume 1 The Singles Collection Volume 2 The Singles Collection Volume 3 The Singles Collection Volume 4 On Air Extended plays Queen's First E.P. Five Live (with George Michael ) Soundtracks Flash Gordon Bohemian Rhapsody Videography We Will Rock You Live in Rio Queen at Wembley We Are the Champions: Final Live in Japan The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert Greatest Video Hits 1 Queen Rocks Greatest Video Hits 2 Queen on Fire – Live at the Bowl Queen Rock Montreal Hungarian Rhapsody: Queen Live in Budapest Live at the Rainbow '74 A Night at the Odeon Tours A Day at the Races Tour News of the World Tour Jazz Tour Crazy Tour The Game Tour Hot Space Tour The Works Tour The Magic Tour Tributes One Night of Queen Queen at the Ballet Queen Extravaganza Tour Dragon Attack: A Tribute to Queen Stone Cold Queen: A Tribute Killer Queen: A Tribute to Queen A Night at the Hip Hopera God Save the Queen Tie Your Mix Down: A Queen Tribute Related Discography Songs Awards and nominations Concert tours The Story of Bohemian Rhapsody Queen + Paul Rodgers ( The Cosmos Rocks ) Queen + Adam Lambert Smile The Cross The Brian May Band Queen: The Eye We Will Rock You (musical) We Will Rock You: 10th Anniversary Tour Deacy Amp Mercury Phoenix Trust Mountain Studios Red Special Spike Edney Jim Beach John Reid List of "Bohemian Rhapsody" cover versions SingStar Queen Bohemian Rhapsody (film) accolades The Queen Family Singalong Category Authority control databases International ISNI VIAF WorldCat National United States France BnF data Poland Israel Other IdRef This UK musical biography article is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Jim_Beach&oldid=1265559433 " Categories : 1942 births English music managers Living people Alumni of Queens' College, Cambridge English expatriates in Switzerland People from Montreux Golden Globe Award–winning producers British music biography stubs Hidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as title Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use dmy dates from March 2016 Use British English from March 2016 Articles with hCards All stub articles This page was last edited on 27 December 2024, at 14:09 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Jim Beach 13 languages Add topic