Mark Cavendish scorches to record win on stage 13 of Tour de France 2021 | Cycling Weekly Cycling Weekly EST. 1891 US Edition UK US Australia Subscribe × Search Sign in View Profile Sign out News Racing Reviews Buying Guides Fitness Gravel Magazine Big Ride Challenge More CW Heritage Coupons Newsletter About us Sign up to our newsletter Newsletter Cycling Weekly Magazine Why subscribe? With a Cycling Weekly subscription you can improve your performance with our expert practical, nutritional and training tips Every week get exclusive interviews, fitness tips and product reviews Plus detailed bike, kit and accessory reviews from the experts! What are you waiting for? From $56.99 View Trending Giro d'Italia 2025 Cycling TV Guide CW Magazine Subscription Best Gravel Tyres 2025 Racing Tour de France Mark Cavendish scorches to record win on stage 13 of Tour de France 2021 The British sprinter was once again untouchable in the final Sign up to our newsletter Newsletter When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . Mark Cavendish wins stage 13 of the 2021 Tour de France (Image credit: Getty Images) By Alex Ballinger published 9 July 2021 Mark Cavendish won yet again on stage 13 of the Tour de France 2021 after another remarkable performance. It was a tense final in Carcassonne as riders fought for position to get into the final kilometres in perfect position, but Cavendish showed his class to outsprint Jasper Philipsen (Alpecin-Fenix) and Iván García (Bahrain-Victorious). The Manxman now has 34 stage wins in the Tour de France, equalling the record set by Eddy Merckx. Cavendish's Deceuninck - Quick-Step lead-out rider Michael Mørkøv also sprinted to a phenomenal second place. Tadej Pogačar (UAE Team Emirates) finished safely in the bunch to maintain his race lead for another day. How it happened Stage 13 of the 2021 Tour de France looked to be another tense battle between the breakaway and the sprinters, after the breakaway secured the victory on stage 12. Get The Leadout Newsletter The latest race content, interviews, features, reviews and expert buying guides, direct to your inbox! Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Running over 219km from Nîmes to Carcassonne the undulating course featured one categorised climb, the Côte du Pic Saint-Loup (5.5km at 3.7 per cent), but with countless uncategorised climbs along the way. Tour de Francae 2021 stage 13 profile (Image credit: ASO) The stage opened with another lively battle for a breakaway to form, with a number of groups looking like they had made the escape, before Deceuninck - Quick-Step would inevitably close down the gap. After 30km, three riders finally got a gap however and were allowed enough of a leash to think about staying out for the day. Omer Goldstein (Israel Start-Up Nation), Sean Bennett (Qhubeka-NextHash) and Pierre Latour (TotalEnergies) were the three riders to get away, as the peloton were happy to let them slip free. The trio extended their advantage as they climbed the only categorised climb of the day, pulling out almost five minutes before the bunch decided to bring them safely back within range, mostly entirely under the impetus of Deceuninck - Quick-Step’s Tim Declerq. As the breakaway then swept up the points at the intermediate sprint, 113km from home, Sonny Colbrelli (Bahrain Victorious) led the bunch across the line to take 13 points in the green jersey competition, followed by Michael Matthews (Team BikeExchange). Cavendish didn’t challenge the sprint, but still secured eight points. The race was then calm until around 70km from the line, when Philippe Gilbert (Lotto-Soudal) lit things up in the bunch with a surprise attack, sparking another flurry of attacks in the bunch. That caused a reaction from the breakaway, with Goldstein sprinting away from his companions with only Latour able to follow, as Bennett was quickly dropped. But the accelerations also caused a crash in the bunch around 62km out, with Simon Yates (Team BikeExchange) and Tim Declerq among the large group of riders that fell into a steep ravine after the incident on a gradual left-hand turn. Yates tried to rejoin the peloton, but eventually abandoned the 2021 Tour de France. The breakaway was finally caught 53km from the line, with Quentin Pacher (B&B Hotels p/b KTM) launching a solo attack and quickly pulling out a minute gap as the bunch slowed. Pacher was caught 20km from home, as the GC teams moved up to race for the extended 4.5km cut-off point for overall times. Into the final 4.5km and Deceuninck swept to the front of the bunch to take over from Ineos Grenadiers, with Kasper Asgreen leading into the final 2km before Bahrain Victorious also tried to move up. Into the final kilometre and Deceuninck led once again with a full strength lead-out, but Team DSM surged up suddenly bringing up a handful of other riders,with Cavendish looking blocked in with 500m to go. Cavendish found himself behind Nacer Bouhanni (Arkéa-Samsic), but he found his way back to Michael Mørkøv’s wheel inside the final 250m. Ivan Garcia (Movistar) launched an early sprint and looked like he might sneak the victory, but Mørkøv pulled hard to get Cavendish back into the fight, with Cavendish launching his sprint inside the final 25m, blasting past Philipsen, Garcia and Mørkøv to make history. The Tour de France 2021 continues with a brutal mountain stage in the Pyrenees on stage 14, from Carcassonne to Quillan, over 183km. Tour de France 2021, stage 13: Nîmes to Carcassonne (219.9km) 1. Mark Cavendish (GBr) Deceuninck-Quick-Step, in 5-04-29 2. Michel Mørkøv (Den) Deceuninck-Quick-Step 3. Jasper Philipsen (Bel) Alpecin-Fenix 4. Iván García Cortina (Esp) Movistar Team 5. Danny van Poppel (Ned) Intermarché - Wanty - Gobert Matériaux 6. Alex Aranburu (Esp) Astana-Premier Tech 7. Christophe Laporte (Fra) Cofidis 8. André Greipel (Ger) Israel Start-Up Nation 9. Magnus Cort (Den) EF Education-Nippo 10. Jasper Stuyven (Bel) Trek-Segafredo, all at same time General classification after stage 13 1. Tadej Pogačar (Slo) UAE Team Emirates, in 52-27-12 2. Rigoberto Urán (Col) EF Education-Nippo, at 5-18 3. Jonas Vingegaard (Den) Jumbo-Visma, at 5-32 4. Richard Carapaz (Ecu) Ineos Grenadiers, at 5-33 5. Ben O'Connor (Aus) Ag2r-Citroën, at 5-58 6. Wilco Kelderman (Ned) Bora-Hansgrohe, at 6-16 7. Alexey Lutsenko (Kaz) Astana-Premier Tech, at 6-30 8. Enric Mas (Esp) Movistar Team, at 7-11 9. Guillaume Martin (Fra) Cofidis, at 9-29 10. Pello Bilbao (Esp) Bahrain-Victorious, at 10-28 Thank you for reading 20 articles this month* Join now for unlimited access Enjoy your first month for just £1 / $1 / €1 Join now Already have an account ? Sign in here *Read 5 free articles per month without a subscription Join now for unlimited access Try first month for just £1 / $1 / €1 Join now Already have an account ? Sign in here Alex Ballinger Social Links Navigation Alex Ballinger is editor of BikeBiz magazine, the leading publication for the UK cycle industry, and is the former digital news editor for CyclingWeekly.com. After gaining experience in local newsrooms, national newspapers and in digital journalism, Alex found his calling in cycling, first as a reporter, then as news editor responsible for Cycling Weekly's online news output, and now as the editor of BikeBiz. Since pro cycling first captured his heart during the 2010 Tour de France (specifically the Contador-Schleck battle) Alex covered three Tours de France, multiple editions of the Tour of Britain, and the World Championships, while both writing and video presenting for Cycling Weekly. He also specialises in fitness writing, often throwing himself into the deep end to help readers improve their own power numbers.  Away from the desk, Alex can be found racing time trials, riding BMX and mountain bikes, or exploring off-road on his gravel bike. He’s also an avid gamer, and can usually be found buried in an eclectic selection of books. Latest Tadej Pogačar was dominant at Liège-Bastogne-Liège, but I hope for a competitive Tour de France The Slovenian has finished on the podium of the last six Monuments, the first man to do so - when will he stop dominating? By Tom Thewlis Sidi Laghèe Sprinter shoe review: super rigid meets super plush over an espresso Does a collab between Sidi and Sartoria Ciclistica translate beyond the fashionable cafés of Lake Como? By Simon Fellows You might also like Tadej Pogačar was dominant at Liège-Bastogne-Liège, but I hope for a competitive Tour de France The Slovenian has finished on the podium of the last six Monuments, the first man to do so - when will he stop dominating? By Tom Thewlis Jonas Vingegaard confirms race schedule ahead of Tour de France Danish climber will only ride the Critérium du Dauphiné in June, but will take part in two altitude camps By Tom Thewlis Remco Evenepoel hails end of 'dark period' and announces racing return Olympic champion says comeback from training crash has been 'the hardest battle of my life so far' By Tom Thewlis 'We need to keep the biggest race in the sport free' - Petition calling for Tour de France to remain on free-to-air television reaches 10,000 signatures As things stand, the Tour will be not be free to watch in 2026, but a petition is seeking to change the way it is categorised by the UK government By Adam Becket Could Caleb Ewan be Ineos Grenadiers' first Tour de France sprinter since Mark Cavendish? 'That's my goal' "All I can do is try to win as much as possible and prove that I deserve to be there," says Australian By Tom Davidson Extra wildcard team approved for Tour de France, Giro d'Italia and Vuelta a España Number of teams to increase from 22 to 23 at men's Grand Tours By Tom Davidson Jonas Vingegaard out of Volta a Catalunya after Paris-Nice crash Visma-Lease a Bike say two-time Tour de France winner needs more time to recover from wrist injury sustained in France last week By Tom Thewlis 'We've all got a little bit extra in us this year' - Ineos Grenadiers recapture 'fighting spirit' with aggressive Paris-Nice display British team continue to put tumultuous 2024 behind them with momentum and a new found mentality By Tom Thewlis View More ▸ Useful links Racing Tour de France Giro d'Italia Vuelta a España Olympics buyers-guides Best road bikes Best gravel bikes Best smart turbo trainers Best cycling computers Reviews Editor\'s Choice Bike Reviews Component Reviews Clothing Reviews Cycling Weekly about us Contact Future's experts Terms and conditions Privacy policy Cookies policy Advertise with us Cycling Weekly is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . © Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury, Bath BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up