Fired Bohemian Rhapsody director Bryan Singer says 'thank you' for Golden Globes | Movies | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Shunned … Bryan Singer, who was not mentioned in the Golden Globes acceptance speeches. Photograph: Action Press/Rex/Shutterstock View image in fullscreen Shunned … Bryan Singer, who was not mentioned in the Golden Globes acceptance speeches. Photograph: Action Press/Rex/Shutterstock Movies This article is more than 6 years old Fired Bohemian Rhapsody director Bryan Singer says 'thank you' for Golden Globes This article is more than 6 years old ‘What an honor,’ says film-maker who was dropped from the Freddie Mercury biopic, winner of the award for best film (drama) Andrew Pulver Mon 7 Jan 2019 09.55 EST Last modified on Mon 7 Jan 2019 09.56 EST Share Bryan Singer , the credited director of Queen and Freddie Mercury biopic Bohemian Rhapsody who was conspicuously not thanked by the film’s award winners at the Golden Globes , has posted a thank-you note on social media. Allow Instagram content? This article includes content provided by Instagram. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. To view this content, click 'Allow and continue' . Allow and continue Singer posted an image himself on Instagram in the director’s chair working on a scene that recreates Queen’s celebrated I Want to Break Free music video, and wrote: “What an honor. Thank you #HollywoodForeignPress.” In a surprise result, Bohemian Rhapsody won two Golden Globes at Sunday’s ceremony, taking best film (drama) and best actor (drama) for Rami Malek. However, Singer, who was fired from the production before the shoot was finished, did not attend the ceremony, and was entirely ignored in both acceptance speeches. Singer was replaced by Eddie the Eagle director Dexter Fletcher, but union rules meant only Singer received credit. While Singer’s departure from the film was rumoured to be due to a series of unexplained absences and clashes with Malek, Singer said in a statement that producers 20th Century Fox had refused to give him enough time off to deal with “pressing health matters”. Ten things we learned from the Golden Globes: A Star is Born fades but Roma really can't win Read more Singer has also been dogged with allegations of sexual assault for a number of years. In 2014, a Los Angeles court dropped a sex abuse case against Singer by an anonymous actor on the the grounds there was no legal basis for it . In a separate lawsuit, actor Michael Egan III alleged Singer had sexually abused him as a 17-year-old. Egan dropped the suit in August 2014 , while Egan’s lawyer subsequently apologised to other accused figures who had brought a legal complaint against Egan for the “untrue and provably false allegations”. In December 2017, Singer denied accusations by Cesar Sanchez-Guzman who alleged that, as a 17-year-old in 2003, he was sexually assaulted by Singer on a yacht. Singer has consistently denied wrongdoing, and was recently reported to have secured a high-profile job directing a remake of 80s action flick Red Sonja . Explore more on these topics Film Golden Globes 2019 Golden Globes Bryan Singer Bohemian Rhapsody Instagram Awards and prizes news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)