Novak Djokovic disqualified from US Open after hitting lineswoman with ball Primary Menu Sections US News Metro Long Island Politics World News Page Six Sports NFL MLB Olympics NBA NHL College Football College Basketball WNBA Post Sports+ Sports Betting Business Personal Finance Opinion Entertainment TV Movies Music Celebrities Awards Theater Shopping Lifestyle Weird But True Sex & Relationships Viral Trends Human Interest Parenting Fashion & Beauty Food & Drink Travel Health Wellness Fitness Health Care Medicine Men’s Health Women’s Health Mental Health Nutrition Real Estate Alexa Media Tech Science Space Environment Wildlife Archaeology Astrology Video Photos Today’s Paper Covers Columnists Horoscopes Crosswords & Games Sports Odds Podcasts Careers Email Newsletters Official Store Home Delivery Tips Search Email New York Post Open main sports navigation Sports Sports Sports Betting Sports+ Columnists NFL MLB NBA NHL Olympics NCAAB NCAAF WNBA Sports Entertainment Golf Tennis Wrestling MMA Soccer Sports Sports Betting Sports+ Columnists NFL MLB NBA NHL Olympics NCAAB NCAAF WNBA Sports Entertainment Golf Tennis Wrestling MMA Soccer Search Search Recommended Skip to main content Sports Novak Djokovic disqualified from US Open after hitting lineswoman with ball By Marc Berman Published Sep. 6, 2020 Updated Sep. 7, 2020, 10:10 a.m. ET Explore More Tennis pro Gaby Dabrowski says doctor dismissed symptom that turned out to be breast cancer Tennis great Pam Shriver reunited with trophies stolen during LA wildfires USTA announces major change to US Open schedule The overwhelming US Open favorite Novak Djokovic was stunningly defaulted from his fourth-round match versus Spain’s Pablo Carreno Busta on Sunday after striking a lineswoman in the throat with a ball hit in frustration. The USTA called it an “offending incident,’’ which occurred late in the first set with Djokovic trailing 6-5. The move served as a monumental decision rocking a tournament already reeling from having no fans in Flushing. The Grand Slam rulebook calls for a disqualification for “abuse of ball” when it is struck with “negligent disregard for consequences.’’ Soeren Friemel, the tournament referee, said he didn’t believe Djokovic hit the lineswoman intentionally, but the key was he took the ball out of his pocket and struck it with anger and caused injury. Djokovic, according to Friemel, admitted he was angry but pleaded his case about the randomness of the ball hitting her. “It’s a very tense moment,’’ Friemel said in a Zoom call. “It’s essential to get the facts right. That’s why it was a longer discussion. I don’t have the option of looking at any replay. But the impact and the speed of the ball has an impact on the decision. We were told he hit it straight at the line umpire and hit the line umpire hard and she was hurt. It’s [not just] intent but result.’’ Djokovic, who was 29-0 this year and the Open’s No. 1 seed, spoke calmly with the tournament referees for 10 minutes to explain his side. It did not appear Djokovic intentionally hit the lineswoman after Carreno Busta had taken the lead. Djokovic, 33, blindly hit the ball to the back wall, striking the woman, who stayed down for a few minutes looking in deep pain before she was removed from the court. Djokovic’s face registered alarm after the ball struck her and he rushed directly to her. Djokovic could be heard on the audio saying the lineswoman walked off on her own and didn’t have to go to the hospital. “You’re going to choose a default in this situation? My career, Grand Slam, center stage,” Djokovic could be heard saying. According to a tennis official, the lineswoman was treated by Dr. Brian Daniles, director of player medical services. She was moved to Louis Armstrong Stadium where the officials area is located and was said to be doing OK. Novak Djokovic of Serbia tends to a line judge whom he hit in the throat with his ball during his men’s singles fourth-round match against Pablo Carreno Busta of Spain on Day Seven of the 2020 US Open at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center on Sept. 6, 2020, in Queens. Getty Images The absence of fans at the Open allowed the disqualification to go off in near-silence — as opposed to the booing that would’ve normally occurred after such a controversial decision. After shaking hands with Carreno Busta, Djokovic left the court — and then the grounds 20 minutes later without doing a post-match Zoom interview, ducking into a car in the parking lot. It did not appear the officials looked at the replays. Djokovic also had hit a ball in anger after a point earlier in the set — much harder. In his younger days, he was known for those outbursts of temper. The USTA said in a statement that Djokovic would lose the prize money he won for winning three rounds, would lose rankings points and be fined for violating tennis’ code. “In accordance with the Grand Slam rulebook, following his actions of intentionally hitting a ball dangerously or recklessly within the court or hitting a ball with negligent disregard of the consequences, the US Open tournament referee defaulted Novak Djokovic from the 2020 US Open,’’ a USTA statement said. See Also Novak Djokovic is 'empty' after US Open fiasco His opponent thought the USTA did the right thing. “Of course I think this was not intentional,’’ Carreno Busta said. “I don’t think that any one of us, of the players, do this kind of thing intentional. It’s just the moment. It’s just I broke him the serve, and, you know, he throw the ball. I think that it was bad luck, no? You cannot do this, but of course I think that Novak never, never wants to hit the line umpire. “The rules are the rules,’’ the Spaniard added. “The referee and the supervisor do the right thing, but is not easy to do it, no?” It was a stunning end to Djokovic’s bid to post an undefeated season and move within two Grand Slams of Roger Federer. The Open is missing fans and already missing Federer and Rafael Nadal. Who knows if Djokovic would’ve prevailed after injuring his shoulder in a fall to the court earlier in the set. Carreno Busta never saw the moment unfold after his passing shot. “I was looking to my coach, celebrating the break,’’ he said. “When I turn back again, the line umpire was on the floor. I’m very apprehensive with these kind of things, so I was a little bit in shock.’’ Filed under novak djokovic us open tennis 9/6/20 Read Next Kendall Jenner, NBA star fuel dating rumors Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Larry Brooks For Rangers youngsters, World Championship chance a reward Mike Vaccaro This is just the beginning of what looks like a classic Knicks rivalry Joseph Staszewski Epic TLC match exposed WWE's major WrestleMania mistake Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Trending Now in Sports This story has been shared 75,439 times. 75,439 Hall of Famer unloads on Shedeur Sanders for '$50 million' NFL draft mistake This story has been shared 27,327 times. 27,327 Alarmed by CBS disaster, Bill Belichick insiders say girlfriend Jordon Hudson is a 'runaway train' This story has been shared 19,302 times. 19,302 Jordon Hudson releases fiery Bill Belichick email in latest twist after interview fiasco More Stories Page Six Gene Hackman's wife Betsy Arakawa's final autopsy reveals tragic new details of her death NYPost Hall of Famer unloads on Shedeur Sanders for '$50 million' NFL draft mistake Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Email YouTube Sections & Features US News Metro World News Sports Sports Betting Business Opinion Entertainment Fashion & Beauty Shopping Lifestyle Real Estate Media Tech Science Health Travel Astrology Video Photos Alexa Covers Horoscopes Sports Odds Podcasts Crosswords & Games Columnists Classifieds Post Sports+ Subscribe Articles Manage Newsletters & Feeds Email Newsletters RSS Feeds NY Post Official Store Home Delivery Subscribe Manage Subscription Delivery Help Help/Support About New York Post Editorial Standards Customer Service Apps Help Community Guidelines Contact Us Tips Newsroom Letters to the Editor Licensing & Reprints Careers Vulnerability Disclosure Program Apps iPhone App iPad App Android Phone Android Tablet Advertise Media Kit Contact © 2025 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved Terms of Use Subscription Terms Privacy Notice Sitemap Your California Privacy Rights Do Not Sell My Personal Information