‘The Last of Us’ Season 2: Everything We Know So Far Search Subscribe My Bookmarks Entertainment Style Food Drinks Sports Lifestyle News & Politics Archive Newsletter About Us Follow Other Editions Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content Entertainment Style Lifestyle Shopping News & Politics Subscribe sign in Search The Last of Us Entertainment TV The Last of Us Season 2: Everything We Know The Last of Us Season 2: Everything We Know Pedro Pascal’s return to the small screen is coming sooner than you think. By Brady Langmann and Josh Rosenberg Published: Feb 19, 2025 5:38 PM EST Save Article 8 This story contains spoilers from the season 1 finale of The Last of Us but not the video game The Last of Us Part II . You’re safe. (For now.) According to the new posters for The Last of Us season 2 , “Every Path Has a Price.” The road ahead—at long last!—also has a release date. The seven-episode season of HBO ’s Emmy-awarded doomsday drama will premiere much sooner than we thought. The first episode hits HBO and Max on Sunday, April 13. “Five years after the events of the first season, Joel and Ellie are drawn into conflict with each other and a world even more dangerous and unpredictable than the one they left behind,” the show teased in the official press release. The Last of Us also debuted three posters featuring Joel ( Pedro Pascal ), Ellie (Bella Ramsey), and newcomer Abby (Kaitlyn Dever). Fans of the video game have likely sat on the edge of their seat ever since Abby was confirmed for season 2, but I promise we will not spoil even a molecule of the drama that will likely unfold in season 2 just yet. Excited for the return of 'The Last of Us'? Don't miss essential news, interviews, and recaps in our newsletter. Sign Up Now If you were one of the lucky attendees of the 2025 CES tech conference in Las Vegas this week, you likely saw a firsthand preview of the latest in survival technology : a new teaser for The Last of Us season 2. HBO decided to showcase the new footage alongside keynote addresses for AI home security and fancy air purifiers . (On second thought, you might need those if the infected strike in 2025.) Thankfully, the trailer debuted for fans outside of the conference as well, showcasing some of the new characters set to join season 2. The latest teaser (below) features Abby, Dina (Isabela Merced), and Isaac Dixon (Jeffrey Wright) as they join Joel and Ellie  in their fight for survival. “It doesn’t matter if you have a code like me,” Abby tells the audience. “There are just some things everyone agrees are just wrong.” For everything else we know about The Last of Us season 2, follow along below. View full post on Youtube What Happened at the End of Season 1 Again? In the first season of the HBO series, the unlikely duo of Joel and Ellie set out on a cross-country trip to find a cure for a deadly fungal infection that turns victims into zombies. (We’re simplifying, we know.) For some reason, Ellie is immune to the epidemic. The duo eventually find doctors that can operate on her to find a cure, but the tests would likely end in Ellie sacrificing her life for the cause. Unable to give up his companion, Joel “rescues” Ellie and murders all the doctors in the hospital. Now he’s forced to live with his decision—which he is also hiding from Ellie. Those who know exactly what goes down between Joel and Ellie in the second installment understand the major ramifications to come, but we won’t spoil anything just yet. “If that does take place in the show,” Ramsey told Esquire in our cover story on Pascal , referencing a particular plotline, “I don’t know that I’m emotionally ready for it.” The Last of Us proved to be a smash hit—even setting viewership records during its 2023 airing. The series also managed to keep fans of the video game relatively happy with a faithful retelling of its dark, emotional story. View full post on Youtube What Will Happen in Season 2? Of course, season 2, like season 1, will have a clear road map to follow: 2020’s divisive game The Last of Us Part II . Still, showrunner Craig Mazin and creator Neil Druckmann hope that the remainder of the show will have something for anyone who watches—from newcomers to devoted fans of the video games. The sequel has even more material to cover than its predecessor—which compiled all of its events into the first season’s nine episodes. “This should be fairly obvious to anyone by now, but I don’t fear killing characters,” Mazin revealed to Esquire. “But the important thing to note is that neither Neil nor I feel constrained by the source material.” If you need reassurance that the HBO series will successfully pull off any changes to the game, just look at episode 3’s story of Bill and Frank, or even the flashback scenes of Ellie and Riley from episode 7. “We will present things, but it will be different,” Mazin told Variety . “Sometimes it will be different radically, and sometimes it will be barely different at all. But it’s going to be different, and it will be its own thing. It won’t be exactly like the game. It will be the show that Neil and I want to make.” According to our 2023 interview with Pascal, the adaptation will remain true to the game in season 2 “like entirely, I think.” The actor added in Esquire’s accompanying “Explain This” video that “it wouldn’t make sense to follow the first game so faithfully only to stray severely from the path.” And on the Sundance Film Festival red carpet for the premiere of his film Freaky Tales, Pascal told Deadline that the showrunners are “always going to find ways to build on the incredible source material that they have and surprise us with how they can use that material in a different format like a television show.” Still, the leading man maintained that he “wouldn’t want to spoil it for anybody, and the truth is, I don’t actually have all of the information as of yet.” Courtesy of HBO No words, just mullet. While season 1 of the postapocalyptic HBO drama covered the entire first video game, the second and most recent game will receive multiple seasons. For Last of Us fans, that’s good news! More of the show we love— and more of Pedro Pascal’s new mullet. But with the fantastic news of four (!) potential seasons down the pipeline—more on that below—the showrunners are also rolling out a “less is more” approach with season 2. According to Mazin and Druckmann, it will consist of only seven episodes when it finally premieres in 2025. For reference, that’s two fewer episodes than season 1. “The story material that we got from Part II of the game is way more than the story material that was in the first game, so part of what we had to do from the start was figure out how to tell that story across seasons,” Mazin told Deadline . “When you do that, you look for natural break points, and as we laid it out, this season the natural break point felt like it came after seven episodes.” Though further seasons may not arrive until 2027 and beyond, it’s clear that the success of season 1 demanded that the showrunners think outside the box for the show’s potential longevity. “One thing is absolutely for sure: I don’t see how we could tell the story that remains after season 2 is complete in one more season,” Mazin teased. “We feel like it’s almost assuredly going to be the case that—as long as people keep watching and we can keep making more television—season 3 will be significantly larger. And indeed, the story may require season 4.” Still, Mazin and Druckmann do not want to follow in Game of Thrones’ controversial footsteps by going beyond the source material. Speculation surrounding a third Last of Us game in the near future may help the series continue to season 4, but only Druckmann can confirm news of that magnitude. “Our focus is the two games,” he told Deadline. “There’s quite a bit of material there that we’re taking our time with, and we’re looking at each piece individually to make sure it’s got its own arc, its own journey that the characters go on, but there is a grander plan that ties all the seasons together.” Courtesy of HBO Ellie (Bella Ramsey) is about five years older in the next chapter of the series. Is Anyone New Joining the Cast of The Last of Us Season 2? Yes. HBO has officially locked in the actors for the second season’s most important players: Abby, Jesse, and Dina. Kaitlyn Dever ( Dopesick ) is officially on board as Abby—aka the most influential member of The Last of Us Part II . Though we won’t spoil anything here, just know that fans of the video game who are aware of what lies ahead have been eagerly awaiting this announcement. We’ll leave you with a short teaser from HBO that describes Abby as “a skilled soldier whose black-and-white view of the world is challenged as she seeks vengeance for those she loved.” According to Deadline , Dever emerged as the front-runner after the end of the SAG-AFTRA strike back in November. “Our casting process for season 2 has been identical to season 1: We look for world-class actors who embody the souls of the characters in the source material,” Mazin and Druckmann said in an official statement. “Nothing matters more than talent, and we’re thrilled to have an acclaimed performer like Kaitlyn join Pedro, Bella and the rest of our family.” Fans also saw a glimpse of the undisclosed new character played by Catherine O’Hara ( Schitt’s Creek ), who is seemingly a therapist for poor ol’ Joel ( Pedro Pascal ). “You can’t heal something unless you’re brave enough to say it out loud,” she tells him. “No matter how bad, say it out loud. What did you do?” If you watched season 1, you might understand why Joel is a bit hesitant to reveal what he did. Oh, and the new trailer casually drops our first look at Kaitlyn Dever’s Abby, which ... we’ll save that conversation for later. But that’s not all. Two other major players have been cast for season 2. Young Mazino ( BEEF ) was announced as Jesse, and Isabela Merced ( Madame Web ) will play Dina. Jesse is a selfless member of the duo’s new community, according to HBO, while fans of The Last of Us Part II will recognize Dina as Ellie’s eventual love interest. (Merced also starred alongside Dever in the Shakespearean film Rosaline in 2022.) Speaking about casting Mazino, the Last of Us cocreators stated that he is “one of those rare actors who is immediately undeniable the moment you see him.” revisit our 'TLOU' season 1 coverage What to Watch After 'The Last of Us' Why The Last of Us Picked That Linda Ronstadt Song 'The Last of Us' Creator: Piano Frog Was a Mistake Who Will Direct Season 2? To tell the next shocking chapter of the story, The Last of Us has assembled a killer lineup of directors. Alongside Druckmann and Mazin, the series has picked up recent Emmy winner Mark Mylod ( Succession ), Kate Herron ( Loki ), Nina Lopez-Corrado ( Perry Mason ), and Stephen Williams ( Watchmen ), Deadline reported. Peter Hoar, who directed season 1’s beloved third episode, “Long, Long Time,” will also return. inside the pedro-verse Pedro Pascal Has the Sneakers Everybody Wants It's Pedro Pascal's World Now Pedro Pascal Was Red Hot at the Met Gala What About Beyond Season 2? Well, even though the series plans to use much of the plot of The Last of Us Part II, there’s a big question about whether it will end after just three seasons. What happens when HBO runs out of material? Will Mazin and Druckmann start dreaming up new plot points to finish the TV series, à la Game of Thrones ? It’s a tough choice, especially since Druckmann and his video-game company, Naughty Dog, are reportedly busy with the next installment in the Last of Us game franchise. “Our plan is to do it not just for one more season. We should be around for a while,” Mazin told a panel in Las Vegas, according to Deadline . Earlier, he told IndieWire , “Even though we were green-lit for a season of television, Neil and I felt like we can’t just make a season of television without considering what would come after. There is more The Last of Us to come. And I think the balance is not always just about within an episode or even episode to episode but season to season.” That includes, potentially, the announcement of a third Last of Us video game. That’s all we’ll say about that! In the coming months, Esquire will break down even more information about how the HBO series will adapt the franchise’s brutal second entry. For now? Just enjoy the good news: Clickers will be sniffing you out well beyond 2025. more great TV: The 25 TV Shows That Will Matter in 2025 The 10 Best TV Shows of 2024 The 40 Best HBO Series of All Time, Ranked Advertisement - Continue Reading Below The Last of Us How the Seraphites Will Change 'The Last of Us' What Is the W.L.F. in 'The Last of Us' Season 2? ‘The Last of Us’ Episode 3 Is a Lot to Take In How Will ‘The Last of Us’ Move On After THAT? Advertisement - Continue Reading Below ‘TLOU’ Creator Dropped a Hint About Joel’s Future The Best Reactions to ‘The Last of Us’ S2 Death How the Huge ‘TLOU’ Scene Happened in the Game ‘TLOU’ Episode 2 Goes Past the Point of No Return Gabriel Luna on  'The Last of Us' Shocker There’s More to Eugene‘s Story in ‘The Last of Us’ Pedro Pascal and Bella Ramsey on ‘TLOU’ Season 2 ‘The Last of Us’ Director Knows S2 Is Daunting Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Newsletter About Us Media Kit Press Room Contact Us Community Guidelines Advertise Online Customer Service Subscribe Other Hearst Subscriptions Events &amp; Promotions Giveaways A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads