Every Actress Who Has Played Queen Elizabeth on 'The Crown' (and What She's Said About It) ​ Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals Royals Royals PEOPLE StyleWatch: Spring 2025 Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals StyleWatch Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe This week's Puzzler crossword is here! Can you solve it? Play now! Royals British Royal Family British Royal Family History Every Actress Who Has Played Queen Elizabeth on The Crown (and What She's Said About It) Here are the lessons Claire Foy, Olivia Colman and Imelda Staunton have learned from stepping into Queen Elizabeth's historic heels By Janine Henni Janine Henni Janine Henni is a Royals Staff Writer for PEOPLE Digital, covering modern monarchies and the world's most famous families. Like Queen Elizabeth, she loves horses and a great tiara moment. People Editorial Guidelines Updated on April 24, 2024 10:04AM EDT Claire Foy as Queen Elizabeth II on 'The Crown'; Olivia Colman as Queen Elizabeth II on 'The Crown'; Imelda Staunton as Queen Elizabeth II on 'The Crown'. Photo: Netflix Heavy is the head that wears The Crown . Claire Foy , Olivia Colman and Imelda Staunton have all risen to the challenge of playing Queen Elizabeth on the Netflix hit, bringing grace and gumption to each season of her life. With The Crown having bid fans a final farewell in December 2023 with an indelible season 6 finale , let’s look back on what the three stars have said about portraying the Queen on the small screen during the show’s seven-year run. 01 of 06 Claire Foy, Season 1 Actress Claire Foy in character as Queen Elizabeth II on ‘The Crown’; Queen Elizabeth II waving to the public during her wedding to Prince Phillip at Westminster Abbey on Nov. 20, 1947. Photograp/Rex USA; Popperfoto/Getty Ahead of its November 2016 series premiere, Foy told Variety she was "very proud" to originate the role of the Queen in season 1 of The Crown . "I found she's very challenging as a person for me to play because we're not massively similar — vocally, physically, and she's [a] very [in control], stoic person," she told the outlet. "That's what I thought would be brilliant about it. I would have to get involved and go the whole way." Foy added that she did "loads of research" to prepare for the part, starting with the Queen's style of speaking. "The voice was a good way into it. It wasn't so much her voice but the voice of the time. It was so different from how we speak now," she said. "That was key to get my head around. I love watching the old family videos of them in private life." 02 of 06 Claire Foy, Season 2 Actress Claire Foy in character as Queen Elizabeth II on ‘The Crown’; Queen Elizabeth II in the Long Library at Sandringham shortly after making the traditional Christmas Day broadcast to the nation. Alex Bailey/Netflix; PA Images/Getty After receiving a nomination in the same category the year prior, Foy went on to win the Emmy for outstanding lead actress in a drama series . (Her reprisal as Queen Elizabeth in season 4 of The Crown won her the Emmy for outstanding guest actress in a drama series in 2021.) Before the second season premiered, the actress spoke to The Wrap in August 2017 about how her approach to the part had changed. "The first season was highly emotional, and this time around I've been able to enjoy the differences between me and her a bit more," she told the site. "It's very difficult to play someone who everyone has a preconception about and not sort of let that in — it's hard enough alone to imagine yourself as the Queen." Foy added that she found confidence in "anchoring" her portrayal of the Queen to the shock following the death of her father, King George VI . "It was there in Peter's writing, and I knew early on that the crux of the whole story was the fact that her father died," she said of creator Peter Morgan 's storyline. "It was an earthquake." 03 of 06 Olivia Colman, Season 3 Actress Olivia Colman in character as Queen Elizabeth II on ‘The Crown’; Queen Elizabeth ll during the Silver Jubilee Tour in Wellington, New Zealand, on Feb. 27, 1977. Netflix; Getty With a change of cast to reflect the passage of time, Queen Elizabeth's tiara passed to Colman for seasons 3 and 4 of The Crown . Before the third season hit the streamer in November 2019, the actress said she was inspired by Foy's portrayal as she took over the character. "I think I was doing an impression of Claire for the first couple of weeks' filming, definitely channeling her, but then I just started to do what the script says and I've fallen in love with the Queen," Colman told Radio Times magazine, per The Guardian . "She's changed my views on everything." Sparkling in the part, Colman was nominated for an Emmy for outstanding lead actress in a drama series for season 3 of The Crown and would win the statuette for depicting the monarch in season 4. 04 of 06 Olivia Colman, Season 4 Actress Olivia Colman in character as Queen Elizabeth II on ‘The Crown’; Queen Elizabeth II at Balmoral, Scotland, in 1972. Sophie Mutevelian/Netflix; Fox Photos/Hulton Archive/Getty Colman opened up about feeling a hotter spotlight as she returned to the role of Queen Elizabeth before season 4 premiered in November 2020. Though she’d won the Academy Award for Best Actress for playing Queen Anne in The Favourite in 2019, the star said it didn't deter her nerves about portraying Queen Elizabeth. "It's definitely more daunting to play someone that everyone knows," she told Deadline . " The beauty of Queen Anne is that no one can tell me she didn't sound like that, but everyone can tell me what the Queen sounds like, and that's slightly annoying… It's much harder to play people that everyone has a vision of, a picture of, and has ideas about." On her own background before The Crown , she added: "I've never joined a show that's already been up and running and successful. But I was such an enormous fan of the show that I didn't really think about it." 05 of 06 Imelda Staunton, Season 5 Actress Imelda Staunton in character as Queen Elizabeth II on ‘The Crown’; Queen Elizabeth II in the green drawing room at home in Windsor Castle. Netflix; Tim Graham Photo Library/Getty When The Crown season 5 hit Netflix in late 2022, all eyes were on Staunton, the last actress to reign as the Queen on the series. " I'm delighted to be here , inheriting the role of Queen Elizabeth from two outstanding actresses. … I will do my utmost to maintain the very high standard that they set," Staunton said in a video on X (formerly Twitter) released in September 2021. "Hopefully I look calm, collected and capable. My stomach, meanwhile, is doing somersaults," she continued, seated at a desk much like the one the Queen used in real life. "On behalf of the cast and crew, we look forward to bringing you the next season of The Crown in November 2022." 06 of 06 Imelda Staunton, Season 6 Actress Imelda Staunton in character as Queen Elizabeth II on ‘The Crown’; Queen Elizabeth II reviewing troops on her arrival in Moscow on Oct. 17, 1994. SplashNews; Tim Graham Picture Library/Getty Staunton continued her royal role for the sixth and final season of The Crown . However, as the actress recalled, filming for season 6 came at a remarkably sorrowful time: Production was paused after Queen Elizabeth died on Sept. 8, 2022 . " We filmed the day after the funeral , and I felt it was difficult for the other people looking at me 'cause we have a lot of supporting artists and they were all looking at this act of playing the person who had been buried yesterday," Staunton told Entertainment Tonight in November 2022. "So, it was odd." "Everyone was extremely sad, and I know I was very inconsolable that evening," Staunton added. "My reaction surprised me. Of course, I would feel something. But having lived with her very closely for two years, it felt strange." Following the December 2023 series finale, Staunton told NPR what she felt The Crown ’s long-term legacy would be: “Well, I think that we were in a piece of television that was a huge experiment. I think the experiment paid off. And to be part of something that has used so many actors, so many crew members, that we all wanted the standard to be as high as it possibly could at every minute of every single day was a great thing to be part of. And I feel so proud and grateful to have been there.” Close You Might Like The Best Shows on Netflix to Stream Now Entertainment December 05, 2022 Was Kate Middleton's Next Royal Outing Just Revealed amid Her Children's School Break? Royals April 11, 2025 Queen Elizabeth’s Godson Dies After Suffering Severe Head Injury Royals April 02, 2025 Related Articles Princess Anne's Son-in-Law Mike Tindall Says He Would 'Definitely Turn Down' a Royal Title Queen Elizabeth Remembered on U.K. Mother's Day in Throwback Royal Family Photo Shared by King Charles Ciao, Italia! King Charles and Queen Camilla Receive a Royal Welcome in Rome for State Visit Prince William and Prince Harry's Former Bodyguard Graham 'Crackers' Craker Dies at 77: Reports King Charles Plays an Instrument Made from a Carrot amid Return to Royal Work After Hospitalization Princess Isabella of Denmark's 18th Birthday Comes with a Royal Price Tag! All About the Upcoming Bash Prince William Hires Princess Diana's Lawyers in Surprising Break from King Charles Did Queen Mary of Denmark Skip a Tiara at Glam Banquet in France Due to Protocol? Queen Camilla Goes on a Giant Easter Egg Hunt in Her First Outing Since King Charles' Hospitalization Prince William's Latest Project on His Vast Estate to Restore Ancient Environment Takes Shape Meghan Markle Gifts As Ever Products to Kris Jenner, Zoe Saldaña and More Stars: 'So Excited' King Charles Returns to Public-Facing Work After Hospitalization for Cancer Treatment Side Effects Prince William Is Taking His Earthshot Prize to Its Fifth Continent (and David Beckham Can't Wait!) Prince Harry 'Heartbroken' Over Charity Fallout amid Claims He Sent 'Unpleasant' Message to Sentebale Chairwoman Kate Middleton Marks U.K. Mother's Day with Touching Tribute to Mother Nature After Last Year's Photo Editing Controversy Prince Harry Hopes Inquiry into His Charity Fallout Will 'Unveil the Truth' That 'Forced' Him to Resign PEOPLE Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies