iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max: the most powerful and advanced smartphones - Apple Apple Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home Entertainment Accessories Support 0 + Newsroom Open Newsroom navigation Close Newsroom navigation Apple Services Apple Stories Search Newsroom Close PRESS RELEASE September 10, 2019 iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max: the most powerful and advanced smartphones Featuring a Stunning Pro Display, A13 Bionic, Cutting-Edge Pro Camera System and Longest Battery Life Ever in iPhone with iPhone 11 Pro Max Introducing iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max, the most powerful and advanced smartphones ever. Cupertino, California — Apple today announced iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max , a new pro line for iPhone that delivers advanced performance for users who want the very best smartphone. The new Super Retina XDR display is a pro display with the brightest display ever in an iPhone. The powerful Apple-designed A13 Bionic chip provides unparalleled performance for every task while enabling an unprecedented leap in battery life to easily get through the day. A new triple-camera system provides a pro-level camera experience with an Ultra Wide, Wide and Telephoto camera, delivering huge improvements to low-light photography and offering the highest quality video in a smartphone that is great for shooting action videos. iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max come in four gorgeous finishes including a beautiful new midnight green, and will be available for pre-order beginning Friday, September 13 and in stores beginning Friday, September 20. iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max come in gorgeous midnight green, space gray, silver and gold finishes. “iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max are the most powerful and advanced smartphones we have ever made. They are packed with sophisticated technology that pros can count on to get their work done, and for anyone who wants the very best device made, even if they are not a pro,” said Phil Schiller, Apple’s senior vice president of Worldwide Marketing. “iPhone 11 Pro has the first triple-camera system in iPhone and is far and away the best camera we’ve ever made, it provides our customers with great range of creative control and advanced photo and video editing features in iOS 13. The Super Retina XDR is the brightest and most advanced display in iPhone and the A13 Bionic chip sets a new bar for smartphone performance and power efficiency.” iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max shoot the highest quality video in a smartphone and record brilliant 4K video with extended dynamic range and cinematic video stabilization. Pro Design and Display iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max have a textured matte glass back and polished stainless steel band, and come in four stunning finishes including a beautiful new midnight green. The most powerful devices are also designed to be durable — iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max feature the toughest glass ever in a smartphone and are rated IP68 for water resistance up to 4 meters for up to 30 minutes, and are protected against everyday spills including coffee and soda. 1 The new Super Retina XDR display, a custom-designed OLED, provides users an immersive HDR viewing experience for movies and other high-definition video with up to 1,200 nits brightness. Super Retina XDR features wide color support with system-wide color management and True Tone to offer a more natural viewing experience. With a 2 million-to-one contrast ratio with true blacks, pro users can enjoy a more vivid viewing experience for HDR videos and photos, and the Super Retina XDR display is even more power efficient. Customers can interact with their favorite apps in a quick, seamless way with Haptic Touch deeply integrated across iOS 13 to provide app shortcuts for everyday tasks right from the Home screen, including taking a selfie in Camera, checking an appointment in Calendar or previewing email within Mail with just a simple press. iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max have a textured matte glass back and feature the toughest glass ever in a smartphone. Fastest Performance with the Best Battery Life A13 Bionic, the fastest chip ever in a smartphone, provides unparalleled performance for every task iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max handle and features up to 20 percent faster CPU and GPU than A12. A13 Bionic is built for machine learning, with a faster Neural Engine for real-time photo and video analysis, and new Machine Learning Accelerators that allow the CPU to deliver more than 1 trillion operations per second. Together, A13 Bionic and iOS 13 make up the best machine learning platform in a smartphone. All of this compute, graphics and ML performance is delivered while still enabling an unprecedented leap in battery life, with iPhone 11 Pro offering up to four more hours of battery life in a day than iPhone X S , and iPhone 11 Pro Max offering up to five hours more than iPhone X S Max. The Apple-designed A13 Bionic sets a new bar for smartphone performance and power efficiency. A Pro Camera System for Everyone iPhone 11 Pro introduces a transformative triple-camera system with all-new Ultra Wide, Wide and Telephoto cameras, deeply integrated into iOS to create a pro-level camera experience designed for everyone. iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max set a new standard in video, with the highest quality video ever in a smartphone. Each camera in the triple-camera system records brilliant 4K video with extended dynamic range and cinematic video stabilization. With a wider field of view and large focal plane, the Ultra Wide camera is great for shooting action videos. Users can easily zoom between each of the three cameras, while Audio Zoom matches the audio to the video framing for more dynamic sound. With iOS 13, powerful video editing tools are accessible to everyone with the ability to rotate, crop, increase exposure and apply filters to videos instantly. These adjustments are easy to apply and review at a glance, so even a novice can create professional quality video projects. The all-new Ultra Wide, Wide and Telephoto cameras offer a wider field of view, great for taking landscape or architecture photos, tight shots and more. With the tight integration between hardware and software, iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max take the traditional camera experience even further in a way only Apple can. The all-new Ultra Wide camera fundamentally changes the camera experience by capturing four times more scene, great for taking landscape or architecture photos, tight shots and more. The new Wide sensor with 100 percent Focus Pixels and advanced software enables Night mode, and delivers huge improvements to photos shot in indoor and outdoor low-light environments, resulting in brighter images with natural colors and reduced noise. The triple-camera system takes Portrait mode to a new level with the ability to choose Wide and Telephoto framing, enabling Portrait mode with a wider field of view, great for taking portraits of multiple people. The Telephoto camera features a larger ƒ/2.0 aperture to capture 40 percent more light compared to iPhone Xs for better photos and videos. The new triple-camera system offers major advancements in photography, including Night mode. The new triple-camera system offers major advancements in photography, including Night mode. The new triple-camera system offers major advancements in photography, including Night mode. The new triple-camera system offers major advancements in photography, including Night mode. previous next Next-generation Smart HDR uses advanced machine learning to recognize subjects in the frame and intelligently relight them for more natural-looking images with greater detail. A new True Tone flash is over 30 percent brighter. Deep Fusion, coming later this fall, is a new image processing system enabled by the Neural Engine of A13 Bionic. Deep Fusion uses advanced machine learning to do pixel-by-pixel processing of photos, optimizing for texture, details and noise in every part of the photo. A redesigned camera interface provides a more immersive experience that works together with the triple-camera system and all-screen display to let users see and capture the area outside of the frame. For the first time, users can easily record video without switching out of Photo mode with QuickTake by simply holding the shutter button to start recording. With QuickTake, users can easily record video by simply holding the shutter button. The new TrueDepth camera introduces a new 12MP camera with a wider field of view to capture selfies, and next-generation Smart HDR enables more natural-looking photos. Expressive selfie videos take on a whole new look with the TrueDepth camera that now records 4K video at up to 60 fps and 120 fps slo-mo. Additional Features The new Apple-designed U1 chip uses Ultra Wideband technology, the first ever in a smartphone, for spatial awareness. With iOS 13.1 coming on September 30, AirDrop gets even better with directionally aware suggestions. Face ID, the most secure facial authentication in a smartphone, gets up to 30 percent faster and easier to use with improved performance at varying distances and support for more angles. Spatial audio provides an immersive surround sound experience and Dolby Atmos delivers powerful, moving audio to iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max. Gigabit-class LTE up to 1.6Gbps and Wi-Fi 6 allow for even faster download speeds 2 and Dual SIM with eSIM. 3 Featuring iOS 13 iOS 13 on iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max delivers a seamless experience with software and hardware integration unlike any other smartphone. iOS 13 introduces a dramatic new look with Dark Mode, a more private way to sign in to apps and websites with Sign In with Apple, and an all-new Maps experience. 4 With advanced Camera and Photos features, photo editing is more comprehensive and intuitive with powerful new tools that now extend to video editing. Portrait Lighting adjustments can be made right in the Camera app to adjust the intensity of light on a subject, and a new High-Key Mono effect creates a beautiful, monochromatic look for Portrait mode photos. iOS 13 introduces advanced Camera and Photos features such as Portrait Lighting adjustments. iOS 13 introduces advanced Camera and Photos features such as Portrait Lighting adjustments. iOS 13 introduces advanced Camera and Photos features such as Portrait Lighting adjustments. previous next Pricing and Availability iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max will be available in 64GB, 256GB and 512GB models in midnight green, space gray, silver and gold starting at $999 and $1,099 , respectively. Customers can also get iPhone 11 Pro for $24.95 a month 5 or $599 with trade-in 6 and iPhone 11 Pro Max for $29.12 a month or $699 with trade-in from apple.com , in the Apple Store app and Apple Stores. iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max are also available through Apple Authorized Resellers and select carriers (prices may vary). Customers in the US, Puerto Rico, the US Virgin Islands and more than 30 other countries and regions will be able to pre-order iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max beginning at 5 a.m. PDT on Friday, September 13 with availability beginning Friday, September 20. Through Apple’s iPhone Upgrade Program, customers in the US can get iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max with the protection of AppleCare+, choose their carrier (no multiyear service contract required) and have the opportunity to upgrade to a new iPhone every year. The iPhone Upgrade Program is available for iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max at apple.com and Apple Stores in the US with monthly payments starting at $49.91 . Customers who would like to pay monthly for their iPhone — including those trading in their current device or joining or upgrading through the iPhone Upgrade Program — can use the Apple Store app on their iPhone to get pre-approved until 9 p.m. PDT on Thursday, September 12, before iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max pre-order begins. iOS 13 will be available on September 19 as a free software update for iPhone 6s and later. Additional software features will be available on September 30 with iOS 13.1. 7 Apple Arcade on the App Store will be available with iOS 13 as a subscription for $4.99 per month and is launching with a one-month free trial. 8 Users get unlimited access to the entire catalog of over 100 new, exclusive games, all playable across iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Mac and Apple TV. Apple TV+ will be available on the Apple TV app on iPhone, iPad, Apple TV, iPod touch, Mac and other platforms, including online ( tv.apple.com ), for $4.99 per month with a seven-day free trial. Starting today, customers who purchase any iPhone can enjoy one year of Apple TV+ for free. 9 Apple Arcade on the App Store and Apple TV+ on the Apple TV app join Apple’s breakthrough services that include Apple Music, Apple News+, Apple Pay and iCloud. Every customer who buys iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max from Apple will be offered free Personal Setup in-store or online to help customize their iPhone by helping transfer their data, wiping data from an old device, setting up email, highlighting new apps from the App Store and more. Customers get 3 percent Daily Cash when they buy iPhone 11 Pro or iPhone 11 Pro Max from Apple with Apple Card. Customers can extend their limited warranty with AppleCare+ and AppleCare+ with Theft and Loss, and get 24/7 priority access to technical support. Customers interested in learning more about iPhone 11 and iPhone 11 Pro can join one of Apple’s new Today at Apple sessions, Quick Tips. Quick Tips are 15-minute drop-in sessions focused on some of the most popular features of iPhone, like photography. The new Quick Tip sessions begin Friday, September 20. Images of iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max Download all images Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, and Apple TV. Apple’s five software platforms — iOS, iPadOS, macOS, watchOS, and tvOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay, and iCloud. Apple’s more than 100,000 employees are dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world better than we found it. 1 iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max are splash-, water- and dust-resistant, and were tested under controlled laboratory conditions with a rating of IP68 under IEC standard 60529 (maximum depth of 4 meters up to 30 minutes). Splash, water and dust resistance are not permanent conditions, and resistance might decrease as a result of normal wear. Do not attempt to charge a wet iPhone; refer to the user guide for cleaning and drying instructions. Liquid damage not covered under warranty. 2 Speeds vary based on site conditions and carrier. For details on LTE support, contact your carrier and see apple.com/iphone/LTE . 3 Use of Dual SIM requires two wireless service plans (which may include restrictions on roaming). Certain restrictions apply to use. 4 The new map is available now in select cities and states, and will roll out across the US by the end of 2019 and to more countries in 2020. 5 Monthly pricing is available to qualified customers and requires a 0 percent APR, 24-month installment loan with Citizens One, and iPhone activation with AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile or Verizon. Last installment payment may be less depending on remaining balance. Full terms apply. 6 Trade-in values vary. iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max promotional pricing is after trade-in of iPhone X in good condition. Additional trade-in values require purchase of a new iPhone, subject to availability and limits. Sales tax may be assessed on full value of new iPhone. You must be 18 years old. Offer may not be available in all countries. In-store trade-in requires presentation of a valid, government-issued photo ID (local law may require saving this information). Additional terms from Apple or Apple’s trade-in partners may apply. 7 For more information, visit apple.com/ios/ios-13 . Some features may not be available in all regions or all languages. 8 $4.99 per month after free trial. No commitment. Plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled. 9 $4.99 per month after free trial. One subscription per Family Sharing group. Offer good for three months after eligible device activation, starting November 1, 2019. Plan automatically renews until cancelled. Restrictions and other terms apply. Press Contacts Apple Media Helpline media.help@apple.com Latest News UPDATE Apple surpasses 60 percent reduction in global greenhouse gas emissions April 16, 2025 APPLE STORIES Meet four emerging filmmakers bending cultural and creative lines with iPhone 16 Pro Max April 15, 2025 UPDATE Get active with Apple Watch April 14, 2025 Apple Newsroom The latest news and updates, direct from Apple. Read more Stay up to date with the latest articles from Apple Newsroom. Dismiss Get Notifications Apple Footer  Apple Newsroom iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max: the most powerful and advanced smartphones Shop and Learn Shop and Learn Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home AirTag Accessories Gift Cards Apple Wallet Apple Wallet Wallet Apple Card Apple Pay Apple Cash Account Account Manage Your Apple Account Apple Store Account iCloud.com Entertainment Entertainment Apple One Apple TV+ Apple Music Apple Arcade Apple Fitness+ Apple News+ Apple Podcasts Apple Books App Store Apple Store Apple Store Find a Store Genius Bar Today at Apple Group Reservations Apple Camp Apple Store App Certified Refurbished Apple Trade In Financing Carrier Deals at Apple Order Status Shopping Help For Business For Business Apple and Business Shop for Business For Education For Education Apple and Education Shop for K-12 Shop for College For Healthcare For Healthcare Apple in Healthcare Mac in Healthcare Health on Apple Watch Health Records on iPhone and iPad For Government For Government Shop for Government Shop for Veterans and Military Apple Values Apple Values Accessibility Education Environment Inclusion and Diversity Privacy Racial Equity and Justice Supply Chain About Apple About Apple Newsroom Apple Leadership Career Opportunities Investors Ethics & Compliance Events Contact Apple More ways to shop: Find an Apple Store or other retailer near you. Or call 1-800-MY-APPLE. United States (English) Español Copyright © 				 				2025 				 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Legal Site Map