Your guide to what’s new in Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 | PlayStation (US) Game overview What's new in Marvel's Spider-Man 2? YOUR GUIDE TO WHAT'S NEW IN MARVEL'S SPIDER-MAN 2 Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 isn’t just about Peter Parker and Miles Morales getting amazing suit updates. There’s so much more happening beneath the surface for these Super Heroes. Amazing new abilities, vicious new villains and an expanded Marvel’s New York awaits… FIGHT CRIME WITH DEEPER COMBAT Both Peter Parker and Miles Morales have changed since their previous games, which means how they play has also evolved. Whether you’re a newcomer or a seasoned web-head to their slick moves, there’s plenty to get stuck into. Wall-crawlers’ gadgets have been improved to integrate even better with the combo system, which only adds to the improvisational fun that makes you truly feel like Spider-Man, as you can begin an air combo with the enemy-launching Symbiote Strike, or yank hapless opponents together with the Web Grabber and follow it up with further attacks. The new parry mechanic is essential to dealing with some of the undodgeable strikes particular enemies use. You can still swing away to escape, but a well-timed parry not only stops the incoming attack but leaves an enemy vulnerable to further damage. And then there's the new Web Line mechanic which lets you craft your own high wire paths across specific points in the environment, giving you even more control and flexibility over stealth takedowns. “With Peter’s symbiote you’ll see more abilities around power and strength, while Miles’ new bioelectricity abilities are much more volatile than before. This all represents the internal journey and turmoil they’re going through in the story.” – Bryan Intihar, Senior Creative Director REACH NEW HEIGHTS WITH UPGRADED TRAVERSAL Building on top of the classic web-swinging fun that the previous two games delivered, Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 introduces the ability to glide using Web Wings. But they aren’t just a flashy addition from the comics and movies – they entirely change how you navigate around Marvel’s New York. “We wanted to create new traversal opportunities because of how we’ve built the environment, and also complement the web-swinging. It’s really fun and a big difference maker.” – Bryan Intihar, Senior Creative Director Now you can build up height and speed with web-swinging before quickly switching to Web Wings to glide in areas like Queens, where there are few tall buildings. With the new interactive elements like super slingshots and wind tunnels that act as jet streams, Spider-Man has never been faster in the air. BIGGER, BRAINIER AND MORE BRUTAL BAD GUYS Your opponents are bringing something new, too. They won’t just try to out-fight you, but they’ll also aim to out-think you. Enemies like Kraven the Hunter’s allies use techniques, counters and equipment to stalk Spider-Man like prey, forcing you to change up your tactics. And if the henchmen have been blessed with an upgrade, then you can expect something even more intimidating from the bosses. Between Kraven’s wily viciousness and the sheer overwhelming might of Lizard and Venom, there’s a level of brutality and strength from Spider-Man’s nemeses that you didn’t see in the previous games. “Boss fights were a big focus for us. They change and evolve with each phase, and battles can start inside or below ground, and move seamlessly above ground or outside. There’s another level of spectacle that we haven't done in previous titles.” – Bryan Intihar, Senior Creative Director TACKLE A RICHER STORY WITH MORE FREEDOM For the first time in the series, you can now switch between both Spider-Men, using their individual skills to explore different parts of the story. This isn’t just a simple character swap mechanic – how you use them is fundamental to how you progress through the game. While there are moments where the narrative will require you to control either Miles or Peter during specific scenes, there are also times when you can switch between the two on a whim. The choice is yours on how you want to use their specific powers to take on certain activities and crimes. “We wanted players to express their own play style and have the freedom of choice. So if you feel Miles or Peter’s own abilities will be more effective in certain places, you can decide which one you want to play as.” – Ryan Smith, Game Director POWER-UP AND PERSONALIZE ENHANCED SKILL TREES With the Spider-Men slinging around some serious upgrades, it makes sense that the skill trees have experienced a boost, too. There are now three different skill trees to develop as the game progresses. The two individual strands focus on what makes each hero unique, such as Miles’ bioelectricity and invisibility, and Peter’s Spider-Arms and Symbiote powers. However, there’s now a third strand shared by both characters, which is something entirely new to the series. With it you can build on the combat and traversal skills that you would want in either Spider-Man, creating a more rounded – and appropriately – symbiotic duo. EXPLORE A VASTLY BIGGER MAP “The new boroughs add a new feel to the missions and fights. We always want to make the game world feel like a character itself.” – Ryan Smith, Game Director If you thought Marvel’s New York was just how you left it before, think again. With Peter and Miles facing off against some of their greatest challenges yet, you’re going to need as much space as possible to stand a chance. Enter the addition of Brooklyn and Queens, which nearly doubles the size of the city and offers even more familiar locations that are important to both Spider-Men. Fans can expect to spot places like Brooklyn Visions Academy, Midtown High School, and Aunt May’s house, where Peter is living presently. And don’t worry too much about the East River between these two new boroughs – your Web Wings can easily help you get across it… DISCOVER MORE SECRETS AND CUSTOMIZABLE SUITS Marvel’s New York will naturally be hiding lots of enigmatic and rewarding secrets in its streets and skylines, but one thing which has been given a Super Hero glow-up are the suits you can unlock for Miles and Peter. With new suit styles you can vary different colour patterns to spin your Spider-Man a fresh look, but the new suit tech system allows you to upgrade various attributes, like traversal, damage and health. And from that you can make even more choices to equip specific elements of that attribute. In short, your Spider-Man is tailor-made to your needs. BETTER TECH MEANS BETTER PERFORMANCE Insomniac Games has crafted something to take advantage of the mighty capabilities of PS5. Lots of enhancements that make Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 feel and play differently are thanks to the system’s impressive tech. Elements like the new and improved pace that both Spider-Men can now traverse the world are attributable to the power of the high-speed SSD, as are things like instantly switching between the heroes, and big spectacle boss battles that seamlessly span across environments. It’s all part of delivering an epic Spider-Man adventure directly into your hands. “Wait until you see how fast travel is, now. It’s insanely cool.” – Bryan Intihar, Senior Creative Director AVAILABLE ON PLAYSTATION STORE Editions: Standard Edition Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 $69.99 Add to Cart Add to Wishlist Add to Cart Add to Wishlist Digital Deluxe Edition Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Five unique suits for Peter. Five unique suits for Miles. Additional Photo Mode items. 5 Skill Points. Early Unlock Suits and Gadget $79.99 Add to Cart Add to Wishlist Add to Cart Add to Wishlist EXPLORE GAMES FROM THE MARVEL'S SPIDER-MAN FRANCHISE Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales Learn more Marvel's Spider-Man Learn more Marvel's Spider-Man Remastered Learn more ©2024 MARVEL. ©2024 Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC. Developed by Insomniac Games, Inc. Home Games Marvel's Spider-Man 2 Your guide to what’s new in Marvel’s Spider-Man About About SIE Careers PlayStation Studios PlayStation Productions Corporate History of PlayStation Products PS5 PS4 PS VR2 PS Plus Accessories Games Values Environment Accessibility Online safety Diversity, equity & inclusion Support Support hub PlayStation Safety PSN Status PlayStation Repairs Password reset Manuals Resources PSN terms of service PS Store cancellation policy Age ratings Health warning Developers Glossary Connect iOS app Android APP Join our playtesting program © 2025 Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC All content, games titles, trade names and/or trade dress, trademarks, artwork and associated imagery are trademarks and/or copyright material of their respective owners. All rights reserved. More info United States Legal Privacy policy Website terms of use Site map Do not share my personal information