Chapter 12 (XCX) | Xenoblade Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Xenoblade Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio WiseAdventurer NDS123 Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Xenoblade Wiki 24,638 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio WiseAdventurer NDS123 Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki in: Pages with spoilers , New Los Angeles Missions , Story Missions Chapter 12 (XCX) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) For the chapter in the plot, see Chapter 12: Into the Core . The future doesn't belong to you! For those who have not completed games in the Xenoblade Chronicles series , this page contains spoilers regarding the plot. Discretion is advised. Chapter 12 Story Mission Secure the Lifehold Core. Client Vandham Location BLADE Barracks Restrictions Prerequisites Chapter 11 A Girl's Wings Required Elma , Lin Restricted Nagi Rewards Credits 100,000 Credits Experience 3,000 EXP Other Ranged Attack Probe Chapter 12 (Japanese: 第12章　魂の在所 , Daijūnishō: Tamashii no Zaisho ) is a Story Mission in Xenoblade Chronicles X . It can be received from Vandham at the BLADE Barracks in New Los Angeles . This mission corresponds to Chapter 12 of the main plot . This is one of three chapters that have story exclusive areas. However, this is the only chapter in the original version to also have a story exclusive region , separate from the five Miran continents and New Los Angeles. Upon completing this mission, level 60 Skell frames and a number of new superweapons are unlocked in the AM Terminal 's Develop New Gear menu, Support Missions are unlocked at the Network Console , and a few Tyrants are added to the world. Objectives [ ] "Talk to Commander Vandham in New LA 's BLADE Tower ." "Head to the waters off Cauldros ." West of FN Site 501 "Head via Skell to the Lifehold Core off the western coast of Cauldros." Several Galdrs , Quos , Qmoevas , and Xerns can be found in the area, but defeating them is not required by the mission objectives. "Enter the Lifehold Core ." After completing this objective, the game cannot be saved until the mission is completed. A prompt at this point gives the player a chance to leave and make further preparations before proceeding. "Head to the center of the Lifehold Core." "Defeat the Vita ." "Defeat the soldier chimeras ." (10) "Defeat Lao ." Results [ ] "You defeated Luxaar and secured the Lifehold Core." Categories Categories : Pages with spoilers New Los Angeles Missions Story Missions Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Sci-fi Xenoblade Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Xenoblade Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab