Adventures with Luigi™ Starter Course - About Us - LEGO.com About Us The LEGO Group The LEGO Group History Management The LEGO® Brand Ownership Policies and Reporting Contact Fan Engagement and Programs Public Policy LEGO® Newsroom Products Design & Innovation Creative Play 20 April 2021 New ‘Adventures with Luigi™ Starter Course’ sees Luigi join his brother in the LEGO® Super Mario™ universe Download all assets - 157 MB Requested by fans from all over the world… It’s LEGO® Luigi™ time! Billund, April 20th, 2021: Today, the LEGO Group has announced that fan-favorite Luigi™ will join the LEGO® Super Mario™ universe with an unveiling of the new LEGO Super Mario Adventures with Luigi Starter Course. The new product lets kids team up with the green-clad LEGO Luigi for new exciting brick-built adventures. Featuring the interactive and highly anticipated LEGO Luigi figure, this is the latest extension of the LEGO Super Mario product line, the result of a unique partnership with Nintendo that has introduced an entirely new way to play with LEGO bricks. While based on a traditional LEGO brick product, the LEGO Super Mario play experience is unique in that kids can freely build Super Mario courses and bring to life their LEGO Mario and LEGO Luigi figures in fun, interactive ways. Available for pre-order from today, the new Starter Course continues to expand the fun-packed and interactive LEGO Super Mario universe and introduces children to Luigi – Mario's brother and partner in many adventures. LEGO Luigi includes his recognizable and charming personality, with his unique voice, and is one LEGO plate taller than LEGO Mario, staying true to Luigi’s iconic look and traits. Similar to the Adventures with Mario Starter Course, this new set is an additional entry point to the world of LEGO Super Mario and is compatible with the Mario Starter Course, all Expansion Sets, collectible Character Packs and Power-Up Packs. Both Starter Courses offer fans nearly limitless ways to expand, rebuild, customize and create their own action-packed challenges in a highly interactive experience with LEGO Mario or LEGO Luigi. Built with the same technology as his brother, LEGO Luigi comes with a color sensor, LCD screen to display many different reactions to movement, and a speaker that plays iconic sounds and music from the Super Mario video game series. With LEGO Luigi, kids aged 6+ can ‘level up’ their play with new additions to the LEGO Super Mario experience. When moving LEGO Luigi from the Start Pipe to the Goal Pole, players can earn digital coins in real-life level-play by helping LEGO Luigi complete a spinning seesaw challenge, interacting with the new Pink Yoshi and defeating Boom Boom and a Bone Goomba. The 71387 Adventures with Luigi Starter Course includes brown-colored bricks signifying the Tower biome that will trigger a new sound from LEGO Luigi and a ? Block designed to offer exciting extra rewards. The LEGO Super Mario product line offers a unique play experience in which players will get instant feedback for creative ways to build and play. The news was also shared in a video posted by the LEGO Group and Nintendo earlier today. "We are very pleased to add Mario's twin brother, Luigi, to the LEGO Super Mario family with the new LEGO Super Mario Adventures with Luigi Starter Course," said Takashi Tezuka, Executive Officer and Game Producer of Nintendo Co., Ltd. "Please welcome him as a companion on your adventures in the world of LEGO Super Mario. The addition of Luigi and Mario together creates new kinds of fun play. I look forward to see what exciting journeys kids will take with these two characters." “LEGO play lets children unleash their imaginations, and we’re so excited Luigi has arrived to help them create even more LEGO Super Mario adventures,” said Julia Goldin, Chief Product & Marketing Officer, the LEGO Group. “Everybody loves Luigi! With his unique personality, green cap and distinctive moustache, he has been highly requested by fans all over the world, and we are thrilled to welcome him to this interactive playset that is really changing the way people engage with Super Mario and LEGO play.” The 280-piece Adventures with Luigi Starter Course can be built, rebuilt and combined with all other LEGO Super Mario sets in many fun ways to create new LEGO Super Mario worlds and continue enjoying them indefinitely. The free LEGO Super Mario app, developed by the LEGO Group, is compatible with all LEGO Super Mario products and keeps track of scores to encourage continuous rebuilding. It offers building instructions, creative tips and a safe platform for kids to share ideas to further enhance the physical and creative play experience. The LEGO® Super Mario™ Adventures with Luigi Starter Course is available for pre-order starting today at www.lego.com/preorder-luigi and selected retailers. It will launch for general sale globally from August 1st, 2021 on www.lego.com/supermario and other retailers (71387 will launch in Japan on July 10th). The recommended retail price for the Adventures with Luigi Starter Course is 59.99 EUR/USD. Notes to Editors For more information, please contact: [email protected] For Nintendo media inquiries:  Eddie Garcia, [email protected] , Golin. About Nintendo Nintendo Co., Ltd., headquartered in Kyoto, Japan, has created franchises that have become household names worldwide, including Mario™, Donkey Kong™, The Legend of Zelda™, Metroid™, Pokémon™, Animal Crossing™, Pikmin™ and Splatoon™, through its integrated hardware and software products. Nintendo aims to deliver unique, intuitive entertainment experiences for everyone, manufacturing and marketing video game devices such as the Nintendo Switch™ family of systems, developing and operating applications for smart devices, and collaborating with partners on a range of other entertainment initiatives like visual content and theme parks. Nintendo has sold more than 5 billion video games and over 779 million hardware units globally. From the launch of the Nintendo Entertainment System™ more than 30 years ago, through today and into the future, Nintendo’s continuing mission is to create unique entertainment that puts smiles on the faces of people all over the world. A wholly owned subsidiary, Nintendo of America Inc., based in Redmond, Wash., serves as headquarters for Nintendo’s operations in the Americas. For more information about Nintendo, please visit the company’s website at https://www.nintendo.com/ . Download all assets - 157 MB Related articles Products June 16, 2020 The LEGO Group and Nintendo reveal full product range for new LEGO® Super Mario™ play experience The wait is over… today’s full reveal shows fans how they can ‘level up’ their LEGO® Super Mario™ gameplay, creating exactly the LEGO universe they want their beloved character to come to life in! Design & Innovation January 26, 2021 THE LEGO GROUP AND UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP ANNOUNCE LEGO® VIDIYO™ - A NEW MUSIC VIDEO MAKER EXPERIENCE TO CAPTURE THE BEAT OF YOUR WORLD! Designed to help children unleash their creativity, LEGO® VIDIYO™ lets you direct, produce, star in and share unique music videos in a safe social environment Press Releases April 16, 2021 New LEGO® Harry Potter™ sets explore the wonderment of the Wizarding World™ Today, the LEGO Group and Warner Bros. Consumer Products have revealed a new captivating mix of LEGO® sets to help young witches and wizards explore the enchanting adventures of Harry Potter’s second year at Hogwarts™.