Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/NintendoSwitch A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to NintendoSwitch r/NintendoSwitch r/NintendoSwitch The central hub for all news, updates, rumors, and topics relating to the Nintendo Switch & Nintendo Switch 2. We are a fan-run community, not an official Nintendo forum. Members Online • Jibbslice Constructive Criticism of Super Mario Odyssey Discussion Spoilers for the whole game. This is a critique of Super Mario Odyssey. Super Mario Odyssey is good game. However, I believe it has flaws keeping it from being a perfect experience as it doesn't quite reach expectations, imo. My goal is not to bash this game; my goal is to inform people of its shortcomings, as well as dispense ideas on improvement so that hopefully, we can get an even better sequel. There are a lot of valid points brought up in these two Odyssey Critique videos: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kYJx5xt2cB0 - I basically agreed with every point. It is 2 HOURS though, so you might be better off just reading this. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KErVp2-9Vi0 -I didn't quite agree with everything in this video, but there's some good material. Before the critique starts, I want to explain the things this game does very well. The movement is fantastic! Mario without a doubt hasn't controlled this good in any Mario game prior. Mario's animations are fluid and expressive, and he kinda feels like more of a character. Second, Snapshot Mode is GODLY . I've never really been a photographer, but lining up interesting shots with Mario is tons of fun, and what brings me back to Odyssey most. I love to see Mario's varied expressions in different locations and situations. My only complaint, which is a nitpick, is that Mario's jiggly nose gets in the way of my shots sometimes... Though it is admittedly funny. The boot out system is gone. While it never really bothered me personally, I could see why it bothered others, especially in stages like Tick Tock Clock and Tall, Tall Mountain. It's clear Nintendo was listening to fans when they made this change, and that's respectable. I love the costumes. No only are lots of them references to multiple outfits Mario has worn in the past, but they are just lots of fun to wear and discover. While I have thought of the idea of them having different perks when equipping them, I have came to the resolution that because they were cosmetic in the first place, they should stay that way (If it ain't broke, don't fix it). Just add a Toad outfit that literally makes you Toad, similar to the skeleton outfit, and I'll ascend . Controls & Cappy Like I said before, Mario's controls are solid. The only complaints are how the Long Jump cancels and resets your current momentum instead of improving it (I mean, do you even understand the sport this move is named after, Nintendo?) and other similar movement nitpicks. But that's besides the point; one of my main gripes with the moveset, along with many others, is the implementation of motion controls. There are a number of moves only executable through the use of motion controls, such as the Up cap throw and the homing attack. Others include being able to pull off moves quicker by shaking your controller. While these moves are basically optional, it's the fact that they are gated behind motion controls that makes them irritating. It's true that moves such as the down throw and spin throw are executable without motion controls, but they are both clunkier/slower without them, which is sad, considering how many buttons are mapped to the same function. These buttons could have been used for these moves. Simplicity isn't a bad thing, but when they are making you use a control scheme that I'd argue most are uncomfortable with, and they could've done it otherwise, it just starts to feel spiteful on Nintendo's part. The worst thing about them is how intrusive they feel in handheld mode. While they feel pretty natural when docked, which is a plus, it's a different story in handheld mode, where you have to shake the whole screen to use these moves. This problem grows when you realise the Switch Lite exists, making you have to shake the whole screen if you want to use any of these moves, unless you have another controller paired. The fact that this wasn't fixed for its release is baffling. Mario and Cappy need more ways to mix their moves together and collaborate, beside the Cap Jump combo. For players familiar with the moveset, and especially speedrunners, this is one of the most used techs (In combination with wall jumps, etc.). While I think it's great, it feels like it's one of the only advanced options that Mario can Cappy can perform, and I fear it will get stale over time. So basically, I believe there needs to be more options to follow up each cap throw. While this can be viewed as a nitpick, this would definitely increase the game's feel in a positive way, and allow players to find their favorite methods of traversal. Here are some Quality of Life suggestions that would improve a sequel: Allow the long jump to play off of existing momentum, and have more moves that can carry your momentum in general. Give us a move that works like the dive from earlier games and map it to the A button, but tweak the animation and name to make it able to be told apart. Map the motion controls to buttons and button combinations. Make the "shake the controller to go faster" moves and variants be executable through buttons. (Basically 3#) Give more ways for Mario and Cappy to directly interact to diversify their options. Maybe give Cappy the ability to copy a capture's body and project it onto Mario (in simple terms, the item storage from Mario World). This would allow for more in depth and creative puzzle solving, and allow Mario to have access to another ability at all times. The Capture Mechanic The Capture mechanic is basically the flagship ability of Odyssey, though I don't believe they really cranked out all of its potential. Basically, the capture targets have really simplistic movesets. Again, simplicity isn't necessarily a bad thing, and for the captures, I feel like it was literally the point; the thing is, Mario's great moveset kind of overshadows them. Mario is just so much more fun to control than most of the enemies. It's no surprise that Yoshi and Bowser are so much fun; not only do they control a lot like Mario, they have their signature abilities on top of that. Don't get it wrong, I don't want every capture to feel like Mario, but I do think the game would benefit a lot from having the captures have deeper movesets. There are some I believe are just fine, such as the Gushen with its spin move and flight, Pokio with its spin attack and super jump, Wiggler and Uproot (both stretch in a different ways, covering each other) and Goombas/Lava Bubbles/Bullets etc.  just because they literally have no limbs. But I feel the others  could feel more complex. Have each capture have a couple more moves. Here are my examples: As previously mentioned, they aren't bad, as well as Pokio; but allow Gushen to be able stay still and aim their water, as well as go into first person, like Sunshine. Give Pokio a move that makes them be able to move quicker. Let the frog long jump. Give Fire/ Hammer Bro the ability to wall jump, and aim their projectiles in different ways depending on the button pressed. Allow Chargin' Chucks be able to hop, dive, and throw a football/baseball. Let the T-rex be able tail whip and give them a ram attack. Glydon gets to double jump and dive bomb. Kingdoms and Progression The kingdoms are the worlds that you traverse in Odyssey. My main issue with the kingdoms is some seem very small (not much larger than worlds in 64), like Lake, Lost, and Snow, and that most aren't' very different from level tropes we've seen a dozen times. Credit where credit is due, though.  Metro is a trope we have not seen in a mainline 3D Mario game, and it's very fun, and Luncheon is visually interesting and distinct. Even Wooded, while being very close to Forest/Jungle trope, adds lots of mechanical motifs and hazards to make it stand out. More examples include Cap, Bowser's, and the Moon Kingdoms. But for the others,  I don't think it was nearly enough to show us that Mario truly is going to all sorts of places he's never seen before, when we see these themes so often. In addition, Ruined Kingdom, a unique looking area, is actually a glorified boss arena, which is very disappointing considering all the potential it had. I don't think they should call areas like this "Kingdoms", as they feel like cut content at best, and there shouldn't be additional moons in them either. To add onto this, there are sections in these kingdoms on the road to the boss that are linear, which feels kind of jarring. Jarring, as in this game has a lot more in common with 3D Land and World than expected. With this in mind, I really think they should bring back those dedicated Bowser platforming levels, and bake more platforming into the kingdom overworlds themselves. On the Progression side of things, I really wished they had a hub world. At first I was optimistic, considering Galaxy 2 had one as well, but seeing it is a straight line is kind of upsetting. What's worse is that you have to go through all the kingdoms at some point, even if the game lets you choose which one you go to first from time to time. While this doesn't feel like an issue for most, one of the features that made Galaxy and 64 great is that you could choose which stages to play, while skipping others that you don't like as much, allowing for a lot of freedom for players. In contrast, Odyssey has you play through all the game's kingdoms, with each requiring a minimum amount of moons to progress from. This also makes collecting extra moons kind of useless if you aren't gonna play past the credits. I believe the linear progression system alone greatly diminishes the replayability of the game , as you have to travel to all the kingdoms in a very similar route. Although I must say, this system seems perfect for speedrunning. But if you aren't into that, like myself, then it just feels like the game is rushing you onto the next kingdom. Here are some changes I'd make for the Kingdom and Progression system: Make all kingdoms themes that haven't been seen in a mainline 3D Mario game before, besides callback/legacy kingdoms. Allow us to customize the hub world with the souvenirs Animal Crossing style. Replace the small boss arena kingdoms with Bowser levels like in SM64 and the Galaxy games. Bonus: Instead of having  us jump through paintings for a moon, let us buy a warp paintings in the regional shops, allowing us to make our own "Peach's Castle" in the Hub World. Moons Power Moons are the main collectable of this game, and I have quite a lot to say about them. I'll be straight with you all; I'm not a fan of how they implemented the moons in this game. Moons are everywhere. My problem is how you can earn a moon by basically doing anything, and there are 999 of these things (880 objectives). Power Moons are basically like Korok Seeds, with the main difference being that they are the main collectable . Doing mundane tasks such as planting seeds, catching a bunny, throwing rocks, ground pounding on a shiny spot,  all reward you with moons. All of these objectives are also repeated multiple times, which is to be expected, but I'd say this is an example of too much. This is especially the case when it comes to the moons that are earned for talking to NPCs like Captain Toad and nothing else (although Bench Friends is wholesome, it gets a pass). You can even get moons for straight up buying them. I am aware that these games are designed to be kids games, but not only did the games prior offer more challenge, this problem carries over into the post game, which should be where things ramp up. Of course, there are the story based moons, but even then, there are some that require you to talk to NPCs and that's it. What works is great, but I wish there was more of that. Even after finishing the game and start opening up the moon rocks- post game content- the game still hands you moons floating in plain sight. I know that people may I'm being a bit harsh, so let me clarify that Nintendo actually did have a reason for designing the game like this. It has been stated that the game was designed for playing on the go. The reason while so many moons are so easy to get and why there are so many of them is so that people can pick up the game and play it in short bursts, while also feeling like they accomplished something. While this makes total sense (other than the fact that the forced motion controls greatly contradicts this design choice), I can't help but think the game suffered because of it. Having them this easy to collect kind of devalues them in general. When you can be awarded moons for completing a whole challenge room, but then buy them in groups of ten at the shop- the only way to get 999 moons, mind you- I am left feeling confused. In previous games, it always was the journey to the mcguffin, not earning the mcguffin itself, and in pursuit of gameplay suitable for short bursts,  Super Mario Odyssey seems to forget that. There's nothing wrong with trying something new, and I understand that I am mentioning the past games a lot; but as they marketed this game as a return to form, I kinda expected the object of the game to be more in line with what Nintendo is selling you on. How could Nintendo change this? Well, they could shift the focus to the home console audience. As the Switch is a hybrid, I feel making the first game tailored more to handheld play and the second game tailored to home console play is fitting. To achieve this, as I mentioned before, they should bring back the hub world. They should also tweak the way moons are obtained. In addition: Have much less moons, with more substantial objectives. Going off of the kingdoms all being around Wooded Kingdom size, I'd say either 20-30 in each, including the story path. Have purple coins take the place of the moons that were in plain sight/tucked in corridors and increase the number of them. Add even cooler purchasable goods (Like the paintings to kingdoms I mentioned before). There are lots of additional moons gated behind doing the kingdom story moons first. Instead, have those moons be harder to get due to the obstacles Bowser created, but not impossible. This could act as an optional difficulty setting for seasoned players. Here are some more examples of changing up the moon system: if a stage has Captain Toad, instead of giving you a moon for finding him in one of his locations, instead have him give you one only after you recover one of his lost treasures. The thing is, the treasures are cursed, spawning obstacles and enemies on your trail to the captain. Another example is the dress up moons. Instead of having them being handed out for only wearing a costume, have them unlock a challenge room based off of the costume you're wearing. For example, wearing the Cowboy outfit unlocks a wild west area where you capture a Sherm, shooting targets and cutouts of various enemies, as well as other Sherms. Wearing the Spacesuit unlocks an anti gravity platforming challenge. Wearing the Crazy Cap outfit in one of the shops unlocks a employees only room that has you platforming on conveyor belts, boxes, and crates. Things like that would improve the game substantially. Challenge Rooms & 2D Sections It feels like the game kinda relies too heavily on these. When I first played through the game, it felt like the bulk of the fun was found in these rooms. A lot of these challenge rooms have a very basic design, as if they were built directly from a level editor. They're made up of an assortment of colored blocks (though they do have a nice ripple effect when walking on them). There are some challenge rooms that commit to the theme of the kingdom, and I wish they were all like that, or at least had better theming. Each challenge room has a main moon, and a secondary moon that you find somewhere within the area. The secondary moon basically requires you to walk off the beaten path a bit without much else. As Joseph Anderson explained in his video (first link located above), there is one challenge room in Cascade Kingdom that has you flinging Chain Chomps into each other. For the secondary moon, instead of just noticing something and getting rewarded, you get an additional, final challenge to test your skills. I think that most save for a few should be designed like this. The idea of becoming 2D Mario and going through a traditional challenge was pretty cool. Although, I think the idea fell flat (no pun intended). These rooms generally aren't that interesting, and that's all I really have to say about them. What I think they would benefit from is being designed like short, 2D Mario levels, that incorporate the gimmicks of the kingdom they're present in, unless they're puzzle based. It would be cool if there was a room that had constantly going from 2D to 3D to beat the course. Summary/TL;DR: Odyssey's weaknesses- There are too many moons stuffed everywhere, with most requiring little to no effort to find/collect. Instead of a hub world, you progress through all the main kingdoms in a linear line, with little variations. Most Kingdoms have very standard Mario level tropes, and too many aren't very large. Bosses are pretty easy, and most require you to wait for their attack phase before you can attack again. The "meat" of the game lies in the challenge rooms, opposed to the kingdom overworlds. 2D sections are pretty basic. While not required, some moves are locked behind motion controls, including better variants. Captures are very simple, and are often overshadowed by Mario. The Co-op isn't very fun. The post game is still mostly easy. Fixes Have less moons, with meatier objectives. Scrap all moons out in the open and hiding somewhere, and have purple coins take their place. Add a hub world, allowing the player to choose their path, skipping kingdoms if they wish. Have the game commit to more varied Kingdom themes, all around the size of, if not slightly larger than, Wooded Kingdom. Have more engaging bosses that allow you to skip phases if you are skilled enough. Bake more platforming into the kingdoms themselves, and have challenge rooms designed similar to Galaxies and 3D World stages. Have 2D sections be designed as wackier 2D Mario levels. Allow all moves to be executed through buttons/button combinations, and add more moves that carry your momentum both in the air and on the ground. Give captures more flexible movesets, and allow Cappy and Mario to interact in more ways. Add Luigi as player 2 with an identical moveset, and have Toadette run Balloon World. Have the game be generally more difficult (Like Galaxy 2 from 1) and have the post game put up a significant challenge. Thanks to anyone who actually took the time to read all this. I know this is definitely an unpopular opinion (I was genuinely anxious when posting this), but I really felt like I had to express my feelings and concerns. I honestly felt bad not liking this game as much as most, before I watched videos on the topic. Like I said, I don't hate this game, but I did wish it was better in multiple fields. There are tons of great mechanics that had so much potential, so I hope they're fully taken advantage of in a future sequel. I hope this has spurred ( friendly ) discussion. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 24, 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2020 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics