What is Conversational AI? - Conversational AI Chatbots Explained - AWS Skip to main content Click here to return to Amazon Web Services homepage About AWS Contact Us Support English My Account Sign In Create an AWS Account Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. Login Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. View profile Log out Amazon Q Products Solutions Pricing Documentation Learn Partner Network AWS Marketplace Customer Enablement Events Explore More Close عربي Bahasa Indonesia Deutsch English Español Français Italiano Português Tiếng Việt Türkçe Ρусский ไทย 日本語 한국어 中文 (简体) 中文 (繁體) Close My Profile Sign out of AWS Builder ID AWS Management Console Account Settings Billing & Cost Management Security Credentials AWS Personal Health Dashboard Close Support Center Expert Help Knowledge Center AWS Support Overview AWS re:Post Click here to return to Amazon Web Services homepage Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. Login Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. View profile Log out Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. View profile Log out Get Started for Free Contact Us Products Solutions Pricing Introduction to AWS Getting Started Documentation Training and Certification Developer Center Customer Success Partner Network AWS Marketplace Support AWS re:Post Log into Console Download the Mobile App What is Cloud Computing? Cloud Computing Concepts Hub Artificial Intelligence What is Conversational AI? Create an AWS Account Explore Free AI Offers Build, deploy, and run artificial intelligence applications in the cloud for free Check out Artificial Intelligence Services Innovate faster with the most comprehensive set of AI services Browse AI Trainings Build in-demand AI skills with course, tutorial, and resources Read AI & Machine Learning Blogs Read about the latest AWS AI & ML product news and best practices What is conversational AI? What are the benefits of conversational AI? What are some use cases of conversational AI? How does conversational AI work? What are the types of conversational AI? What is the difference between conversational AI and generative AI? How can AWS support your conversational AI requirements? What is conversational AI? Conversational artificial intelligence (AI) is a technology that makes software capable of understanding and responding to voice-based or text-based human conversations. Traditionally, human chat with software has been limited to preprogrammed inputs where users enter or speak predetermined commands. Conversational AI goes much beyond that. It can recognize all types of speech and text input, mimic human interactions, and understand and respond to queries in various languages. Organizations use conversational AI for various customer support use cases, so the software responds to customer queries in a personalized manner. What are the benefits of conversational AI? Conversational AI technology brings several benefits to an organization's customer service teams. Improved customer experience Conversational AI chatbots can provide 24/7 support and immediate customer response—a service modern customers prefer and expect from all online systems. Instant response increases both customer satisfaction and the frequency of engagement with the brand. Additionally, you can integrate past customer interaction data with conversational AI to create a personalized experience for your customers. For instance, it can make recommendations based on past customer purchases or search inputs. Improved operational efficiency You can use conversational AI solutions to streamline your customer service workflows. They can answer frequently asked questions or other repetitive input, freeing up your human workforce to focus on more complex tasks. You can also gain cost benefits at scale. It can be costly to establish around-the-clock customer service teams in different time zones. It’s much more efficient to use bots to provide continuous support to customers around the globe. Wider accessibility Conversational AI can be used to improve accessibility for customers with disabilities. It can also help customers with limited technical knowledge, different language backgrounds, or nontraditional use cases. For example, conversational AI technologies can lead users through website navigation or application usage. They can answer queries and help ensure people find what they're looking for without needing advanced technical knowledge. What are some use cases of conversational AI? Conversational AI has several use cases in business processes and customer interactions. We’ve grouped these use cases into four broad categories. Informational In an informational context, conversational AI primarily answers customer inquiries or offers guidance on specific topics. For instance, your users can ask customer service chatbots about the weather, product details, or step-by-step recipe instructions. Another example would be AI-driven virtual assistants, which answer user queries with real-time information ranging from world facts to news updates. Data capture You can use conversational AI tools to collect essential user details or feedback. For instance, you can create more humanlike interactions during an onboarding process. Another scenario would be post-purchase or post-service chats where conversational interfaces gather feedback about the customer journey—experiences, preferences, or areas of dissatisfaction. Transactional In transactional scenarios, conversational AI facilitates tasks that involve any transaction. For instance, customers can use AI chatbots to place orders on ecommerce platforms, book tickets, or make reservations. Some financial institutions employ AI-powered chatbots to allow users to check account balances, transfer money, or pay bills. These uses are convenient for your customers and improve their experiences. Proactive When you use conversational AI proactively, the system initiates conversations or actions based on specific triggers or predictive analytics. For example, conversational AI applications may send alerts to users about upcoming appointments, remind them about unfinished tasks, or suggest products based on browsing behavior. Conversational AI agents can proactively reach out to website visitors and offer assistance. Or they could provide your customers with updates about shipping or service disruptions, and the customer won’t have to wait for a human agent. How does conversational AI work? Conversational AI works using three main technologies. Natural language processing Natural language processing (NLP) is a set of techniques and algorithms that allow machines to process, analyze, and understand human language. Human language has several features, like sarcasm, metaphors, sentence structure variations, and grammar and usage exceptions. Machine learning (ML) algorithms for NLP allow conversational AI models to continuously learn from vast textual data and recognize diverse linguistic patterns and nuances. Read about NLP » Natural language understanding Natural language understanding (NLU) is concerned with the comprehension aspect of the system. It ensures that conversational AI models process the language and understand user intent and context. For instance, the same sentence might have different meanings based on the context in which it's used. NLU uses machine learning to discern context, differentiate between meanings, and understand human conversation. This is especially crucial when virtual agents have to escalate complex queries to a human agent. NLU makes the transition smooth and based on a precise understanding of the user's need. Natural language generation After understanding the user's input, the system formulates a coherent and contextually appropriate response. Natural language generation (NLG) enables virtual agents to construct humanlike sentences in a clear, relevant, and linguistically natural manner. NLG uses powerful deep learning algorithms to formulate responses in context. Moreover, as AI chatbots interact more with users and human agents, their responses become refined and more flexible over time. What are the types of conversational AI? Conversational AI includes various systems designed to interact with users in natural, human-like ways through text or voice. Chatbots Chatbots have user conversations through text chat. Traditionally, chatbots were rule-based and operated on predefined scripts to handle straightforward tasks like answering FAQs. Modern conversational AI chatbots are powered by large language models and can understand conversation context and user sentiment. They can manage more complex interactions and solve customer problems more proactively. They also learn and adapt to user behavior over time, providing increasingly relevant responses. Voice assistants Voice assistants can interact with users through natural language speech. Systems like Amazon Alexa interpret and respond to spoken commands, integrating with smart devices to facilitate hands-free assistance. They can be used for tasks like controlling home automation devices, retrieving information, or managing schedules. AI Assistants AI Assitants, also known as copilots, are conversational AI solutions integrated into employee and business user workflows. They integrate with the organization's knowledge sources and digital systems and assist with employee tasks. For example, copilots provide code suggestions and answer questions about code or generate analytics reports from natural language conversations. They can take over administrative and other digital tasks, allowing employees to focus on problem-solving. Other types Conversational AI can be implemented outside of traditional software applications—like as virtual shopping assistants or interactive kiosks. They can also have social use cases for casual, empathetic conversations. You may also have industry-specific chatbots like educational bots that help students with learning and tutoring or healthcare bots that assist with patient health management. What is the difference between conversational AI and generative AI? Generative artificial intelligence ( generative AI ) is a type of AI that can create new content and ideas, including conversations, stories, images, videos, and music. Like all artificial intelligence, generative AI is powered by ML models. In particular, they use very large models that are pretrained on vast amounts of data and commonly referred to as foundation models (FMs). Apart from content creation, you can use generative AI to improve digital image quality, edit videos, build manufacturing prototypes, and augment data with synthetic datasets. Read about generative AI » Read about foundation models » Conversational AI vs. generative AI Conversational AI and generative AI have different end goals. The goal of conversational AI is to understand human speech and conversational flow. You can configure it to respond appropriately to different query types and not answer questions out of scope. In contrast, generative AI aims to create new and original content by learning from existing customer data. In one sense, it will only answer out-of-scope questions in new and original ways. Its response quality may not be what you expect, and it may not understand customer intent like conversational AI. Having said this, it’s important to note that many AI tools combine both conversational AI and generative AI technologies. The system processes user input with conversational AI and responds with generative AI. This solves challenges for use cases beyond the scope of conversational AI. How can AWS support your conversational AI requirements? Amazon Web Services (AWS) has many offerings to support your work with conversational AI. Amazon Lex is a fully managed AI service with advanced natural language models. You can use it to design, build, test, and deploy conversational interfaces in applications. Powered by the same conversational engine as Alexa, it provides high-quality speech recognition and language understanding capabilities. With Amazon Lex, you can add sophisticated, AI-powered chatbots to new and existing applications. Amazon Kendra is an easy-to-use conversational search service. It allows you to discover information stored within the vast amount of content spread across your company. For example, you can find data from manuals, research reports, FAQs, human resources documentation, and customer service guides. When you type a question, Amazon Kendra understands the context and returns the most relevant results, whether that means a precise answer or an entire document. The AWS Solutions Library make it easy to set up chatbots and virtual assistants . You can build your conversational interface using generative AI from data collection to result delivery. Use the foundation model that best fits your needs inside a private, secure computing environment with your choice of training data. Get started with conversational AI on AWS by creating an account today. Next Steps on AWS Check out additional product-related resources Innovate faster with AWS generative AI services Sign up for a free account Instant get access to the AWS Free Tier. Sign up Start building in the console Get started building in the AWS management console. Sign in Sign In to the Console Learn About AWS What Is AWS? What Is Cloud Computing? AWS Accessibility What Is DevOps? What Is a Container? What Is a Data Lake? What is Artificial Intelligence (AI)? What is Generative AI? What is Machine Learning (ML)? AWS Cloud Security What's New Blogs Press Releases Resources for AWS Getting Started Training and Certification AWS Trust Center AWS Solutions Library Architecture Center Product and Technical FAQs Analyst Reports AWS Partners Developers on AWS Developer Center SDKs & Tools .NET on AWS Python on AWS Java on AWS PHP on AWS JavaScript on AWS Help Contact Us Get Expert Help File a Support Ticket AWS re:Post Knowledge Center AWS Support Overview Legal AWS Careers Create an AWS Account Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age. Language عربي Bahasa Indonesia Deutsch English Español Français Italiano Português Tiếng Việt Türkçe Ρусский ไทย 日本語 한국어 中文 (简体) 中文 (繁體) Privacy | Accessibility | Site Terms | Cookie Preferences | © 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Ending Support for Internet Explorer Got it AWS support for Internet Explorer ends on 07/31/2022. Supported browsers are Chrome, Firefox, Edge, and Safari. Learn more » Got it