When does 'The Last of Us' come out? Date, time, cast, where to watch Watch Party Newsletter Best TV shows of 2025 📺 Win $100 📚 The Essentials ✨ U.S. Politics Sports Entertainment Life Money Travel Opinion Crossword ONLY AT USA TODAY: Newsletters For Subscribers From the Archives Crossword eNewspaper Magazines Investigations Podcasts Video Humankind WITNESS (True Crime) Just Curious Best-selling Booklist Legals OUR PORTFOLIO: 10BEST USAT Wine Club USAT Savings Shopping Blueprint WITNESS (True Crime) Southern Kitchen Home Internet TV HBO Max Add Topic What time does 'The Last of Us' come out? Release date, cast, where to watch Anthony Robledo Jay Cannon USA TODAY Hear this story Spoiler alert: This story includes details from "The Last of Us" Season 2 Episode 2. Can " The Last of Us " top last week's shocking episode ? America will find out Sunday night, April 26 as the third episode of Season 2 releases. Fans are still reacting after the jarring death of Joel Miller (Pedro Pascal) in the latest episode of the HBO series . Pascal himself acknowledged it would shake fans. "I have nothing but respect for the level of investment that people have in a video game or a television show or a movie or a book," Pascal said. "I've flung books across the room because its impact is so profound on me in experiencing a story. If it is incredibly painful for people, that's obviously a brilliant achievement of the storytelling." Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. With or without Joel Miller, Season 2 marches on. Here's how to watch the next episode. Review: ‘The Last of Us’ Season 2 finds its horrors but loses the plot Watch the Last of Us on Sling + Max When does the next episode of the 'The Last of Us' Season 2 come out? Release date, time The next episode of "The Last of Us" Season 2 will drop on Sunday, April 27 at 9 p.m. ET/6 p.m. PT on HBO and its streaming service Max. New episodes will release every Sunday, with the season finale dropping on Sunday, May 25. 'The Last of Us' Season 2 episode schedule Season 2 of "The Last of Us" premiered on April 13 and will have 7 episodes. Here's what the upcoming schedule looks like: Episode 3: Sunday, April 27 Episode 4: Sunday, May 4 Episode 5: Sunday, May 11 Episode 6: Sunday, May 18 Episode 7 (season finale): Sunday, May 25 'The Last of Us' returns with Season 2: Release date, cast, episodes and more Why a 'very injured' Pedro Pascal passes 'Last of Us' action duties to Bella Ramsey 'The Last of Us' Season 2 begins with major changes to the video game: What's different? ‘The Last of Us’ Season 2 finds its horrors but loses the plot: Review 'Last of Us' new cast brings grit, glory, and ‘Beef’: Who are they? How to watch 'The Last of Us' New episodes of "The Last of Us" will air on HBO and be available to stream weekly on Sundays at 9 p.m. ET/6 p.m. PT on Max. Season 1 of the series is also available to stream on Max. Max subscription plans begin at $9.99 a month with ads while ad-free subscriptions cost $16.99 a month. The highest tier, which is $20.99 a month, includes the ability to stream on four devices and offers 4K Ultra HD video quality and 100 downloads. HBO also offers bundles with Hulu and Disney+ . Watch 'The Last of Us' Season 2 with Sling + Max 'The Last of Us' Season 2 cast Pedro Pascal and Bella Ramsey returned to reprise their leading roles as Joel and Ellie in "The Last of Us" Season 2. The remaining Season 2 cast also includes the following: Gabriel Luna as Tommy Miller Rutina Wesley as Maria Miller Catherine O'Hara as Gail Kaitlyn Dever as Abby Anderson Isabela Merced as Dina Young Mazino as Jesse Ezra Benedict Agbonkhese as Benjamin Tati Gabrielle as Nora Ariela Barer as Mel Spencer Lord as Owen Danny Ramirez Jeffrey Wright Watch the 'The Last of Us' Season 2 trailer Will there be a 'The Last of Us' Season 3? Yes. Ahead of Season 2's premiere, HBO announced "The Last of Us" would be returning for a third season. However, it is unclear if Season 3 will be the show's final season. Deadline reported that Druckmann and Mazin said they were previously contemplating making up to four seasons. We occasionally recommend interesting products and services. If you make a purchase by clicking one of the links, we may earn an affiliate fee. USA TODAY Network newsrooms operate independently, and this doesn’t influence our coverage. Contributing: Saman Shafiq, Bryan Alexander and Brendan Morrow, USA TODAY Featured Weekly Ad About Us Newsroom Staff Ethical Principles USA TODAY Network Style Guide Responsible Disclosure Request a Correction Press Releases Accessibility Sitemap Subscription Terms & Conditions Advertiser Acceptance Policy Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Contact Us Help Center Manage Account Give Feedback Get Home Delivery eNewspaper USA TODAY Shop USA TODAY Print Editions Licensing & Reprints Advertise With Us Careers Internships Support Local Business News Tips Submitting letters to the editor Podcasts Newsletters Mobile Apps Facebook X Instagram LinkedIn Threads YouTube Reddit Flipboard 10BEST USAT Wine Club USAT Savings Shopping Best-selling Booklist Southern Kitchen Jobs Sports Betting Sports Weekly Studio Gannett Classifieds Home Internet Blueprint WITNESS (True Crime) © 2025 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Satellite Information Network, LLC.