Who Plays Young Claire Foy in 'The Crown' Season 6? Viola Prettejohn as Princess Elizabeth Casting Story - Netflix Tudum Skip to main content Sign In By Netflix Search Home Top 10 Trending What to Watch Shows Movies Podcasts Shop Netflix Shop Exclusive merch from your Netflix faves Podcasts Hear more about Netflix’s TV shows and films Popular The Life List Squid Game Adolescence You When Life Gives You Tangerines Black Mirror Wednesday Ransom Canyon Weak Hero The Residence Who Plays Young Claire Foy in 'The Crown' Season 6? Viola Prettejohn as Princess Elizabeth Casting Story - Netflix Tudum Casting Call How The Crown Cast Its Queens Casting director Robert Sterne spills his royal secrets. By Anne Cohen Dec. 14, 2023 Real monarchs may derive their authority from a higher power, but on the set of The Crown , queens are anointed by casting director Robert Sterne. The series’ six seasons span more than 50 years of Queen Elizabeth II’s life and reign , and throughout, Sterne has been tasked with finding the right actors to bring creator Peter Morgan’s vision to life — not once, not twice, but three times. In a surprising twist, The Crown recast its leads every two seasons, an unprecedented ask that Sterne says drew him to the project from the beginning. “It was a unique challenge,” he tells Tudum. “[I’ve] never done a job where you had to do it again in two years’ time, and it was daunting.” Related Stories Explainer How Does The Crown End? Inside the Series Finale March 5, 2024 Who’s Who May We Present the Cast of The Crown Season 6 Dec. 23, 2023 Passport Where Was The Crown Filmed? Inside Every Season 6 Location Dec. 22, 2023 Did You Know? 32 Staggering Facts You Didn’t Know About The Crown Aug. 5 Sterne worked alongside legendary casting director Nina Gold to find talent for the first three seasons before taking over for Seasons 4 through 6. Over the years, he’s perfected the art of blending veteran and prestige talent with memorable new faces: In Season 4, he led the search for the unique performer able to embody Princess Diana during her early courtship with Prince Charles, eventually landing on newcomer Emma Corrin, who then passed the torch to Elizabeth Debicki in Season 5. The final season sees the screen debut of Ed McVey, Meg Bellamy , and Luther Ford in the roles of Prince William, Kate Middleton, and Prince Harry as they come of age in the early aughts. The series finale brings together all three versions of Queen Elizabeth for a dramatic and emotional sequence. “I love that episode,” he says. “To see them interact is amazing.” As The Crown takes its final bow, Sterne is sad to say goodbye, but proud of what he’s accomplished. “We said we were going to do six [seasons], and we’ve done it,” he says. Ahead, he gives a sneak peek at how he pulled it all off. Matt Smith as Prince Philip in The Crown , Season 2. Robert Viglasky/Netflix Jonathan Pryce as Prince Philip in The Crown , Season 5. Alex Bailey/Netflix Why did The Crown recast its main characters every two seasons? “We knew that if we were going to [film] over those periods of time, we didn’t want to have those original actors in just increasing layers of makeup. People are different people at different times in their life. So, Matt Smith played the strutting alpha male version of [Prince Philip], which Tobias Menzies [also] has with a bit of steel, but then has his midlife breakdown, and then you get Jonathan Pryce who’s got this alpha male thing, plus all this amazing soulfulness as well. The combination of those three people playing that role gives so much more than if you just had one actor playing in makeup all the way through.” How do you cast characters based on real people? “We really encourage the actors not to do impersonations — people trying to get too quickly to the point where they are physically like the character, or doing mannerisms  — because it becomes a bit two-dimensional, and it means that you are making judgements about the characters before you’ve even started working with the other actors and on the scripts. When they’ve got the part, they can work with all these amazing voice and movement teams and work it out and construct it properly [later]. But for the casting of it, you want somebody who’s going to be open to having a discussion about how they feel that person really is. It’s about getting a connection going with that character.” What was the most unexpected casting decision in the series? “When Erin Doherty came in and played Princess Anne, I didn’t see that one coming. She’s nothing like [her in real life]. I’d seen her in a play, and she was really brilliant and transformed herself. She came in and she said, ‘I know this woman. I’ve been watching YouTube videos of her for hours. I love her and I know who she is.’ And then she just did it. She didn’t do an impersonation. She just found a way in that was funny and moving.” Claire Foy as Queen Elizabeth in The Crown , Season 2. Robert Viglasky/Netflix Was Claire Foy always going to play Queen Elizabeth? “When we first started, there was just this amazing script. The structure was there, but then you have to embody it. We saw loads of people, I remember. But when Claire came in, she just was brilliant and just nailed it. Claire had the most difficult job of everybody because she had to start it. And the portrayal of the queen in this series is a woman who doesn’t really want any great fuss, wants to live at home with the horses and the dogs, and actually just wants to do the right thing. [She’s] an ordinary woman who’s put in extraordinary circumstances. You just had access to that woman. And the way Claire did that made everybody watch it, and really want to really engage with her. She set the bar. For all of these characters, you have to bear in mind not only who they are in the next chunk of their lives (in terms of the real-life characters), but who played them before, and how they played them.” What was Claire Foy’s audition like? “I remember she came in, and she was expecting a baby. I think I had to read with her. There was a scene with Churchill, I think. We did a couple of scenes. I just remember how brilliant she was. We were just like, ‘We’ve got the girl. She’s it.’ ” Olivia Colman as Queen Elizabeth in The Crown , Season 4. Liam Daniel/Netflix Imelda Staunton as Queen Elizabeth in The Crown , Season 6. Keith Bernstein/Netflix How far in advance did The Crown cast Olivia Colman and Imelda Staunton? “Once we’d seen what Claire was doing, we had to sit down and think, ‘Well, who is going to be next?’ Claire didn’t play the grandeur or the haughtiness or the majesty of the monarch. She played an accessibility, [so] you feel that you completely understand [her as a] woman. And there’s something [similar] about Olivia, there’s an accessibility to her, the idea of an ordinary woman in extraordinary circumstances. You feel you’ve got instant access to her. And that’s what she brought, which is taking over from what Claire brought to that part. “And then you go on to Imelda [Staunton], who’s one of the finest that we’ve got in the UK, but also has an accessibility to her. She lets you in, and she was just the perfect next person. And when she said yes, we had a party.” Viola Prettejohn as young Princess Elizabeth in The Crown , Season 6. Who plays young Princess Elizabeth in Season 6? “Viola Prettejohn. I knew that she looked like Claire Foy, so she came to mind. There were a couple of people who I thought of, but when we started putting the Elizabeths and Margarets together, it was clear. She had all the qualities of Claire Foy. She looked like her, but she had a kind of openness and a seriousness. There’s a bit of her that wants to break out of herself, but she’s holding herself back — all of those things that you associate with the way Claire played Elizabeth. [Viola] was like a mini version.” Did any of the actors do chemistry reads? “We’ve done quite a lot of chemistry reading over the years. We did chemistry reads with Meg and Ed [who play Prince William and Kate in Season 6], with Ed and Luther [who plays Prince Harry in Season 6]. I loved the chemistry read with Josh and Emma [Prince Charles and Diana in Season 4]. “Josh was in the middle of shooting, so we didn’t do it in a casting space. We went to one of the sets, some stately home somewhere, [after] they’d finished shooting for the day. It would’ve been one of [Prince Charles’ and Diana’s] quite high-octane scenes about their marriage problems. We sat in a big dining room, and just set up two chairs. I put my little camera on a tripod, and we just did it in there. And it was great. They understood their characters, they were interacting generously and openly, and there was a sweetness. It’s difficult to describe, isn’t it? With chemistry, you can see it.” Watch The Crown Season 6 now. Drama Article My List Watch Explore The Crown 6 Seasons TV-MA 2016 Inspired by real events, this fictional dramatization tells the story of Queen Elizabeth II and the political and personal events that shaped her reign. All About The Crown Let's Talk How The Crown Anointed a New Generation of Stars Peter Morgan on casting Josh O'Connor, Emma Corrin, and Vanessa Kirby. By Anne Cohen Aug. 14 First Look Everything You Need to Know About ‘The Crown’ Season 6 Kate Middleton struts her stuff and the queen contemplates her future. By Phillipe Thao July 17 Explainer How ‘The Crown’ Season 6 Explores Grief Through Visions of Diana and Dodi “When people die, there is a certain energy of them that remains very close.” By Phillipe Thao March 5, 2024 What To Watch These 12 Shows Like The Crown Are Fit for Royalty There’s more palace intrigue and royal romance where that came from. By Mary Sollosi March 5, 2024 Podcasts Step Inside the Palace One Last Time with The Crown: The Official Podcast Go behind the scenes with Netflix’s royals for the dramatic farewell season. By Stephan Lee Jan. 2, 2024 Behind the Scenes See What the Cast Gets up to Between Takes in These Candid ‘The Crown’ Photos Go behind the scenes in this supersized photo gallery. By Jean Bentley Dec. 20, 2023 News Celebrate the Final Season of The Crown with a Regal Costume Retrospective Six seasons’ worth of royal fashion appear in a new exhibition in London. By Mary Sollosi Dec. 20, 2023 Deep Dive How The Crown Created Kate Middleton’s Sexy Runway Dress “That was deliberate. She wore that to catch William’s attention.” By Phillipe Thao Dec. 19, 2023 Shop The Crown GO TO NETFLIX SHOP Discover More Casting Call Casting Call You Can Compete in the New Wonka-Inspired Series The Golden Ticket For the first time ever, Wonka’s Chocolate Factory doors are opening. By Olivia Harrison March 20 Casting Call Michelle Yeoh Is In Charge, And That’s How ‘The Brothers Sun’ Like It “I haven’t really done a full-blown gangster movie in this way.” By Tara Bitran Jan. 4, 2024 Casting Call Watch Aria Mia Loberti and Nell Sutton’s ‘All the Light We Cannot See’ Auditions Director Shawn Levy calls their discoveries “something of a miracle.” By Phillipe Thao Nov. 10, 2023 Casting Call Mark Hamill Goes to the Dark Side for ‘The Fall of the House of Usher’ The Star Wars legend was excited to get his hands dirty as Arthur Pym. By Tara Bitran Oct. 12, 2023 Casting Call Who Is Source Joan in ‘Black Mirror’ Season 6? Meet the OG Joan of “Joan Is Awful,” Kayla Lorette, who’s very much not awful. By Tara Bitran June 21, 2023 Casting Call Watch Milan Carter’s ‘FUBAR’ Audition Tape “I did at least 50 self tapes before I picked one to send in.” By Phillipe Thao May 25, 2023 Casting Call ‘Your Place or Mine’ Has Some 'Crazy' Casting The rom-com’s director also created Crazy Ex-Girlfriend. Can you spot the cameos? By Henry Goldblatt Feb. 10, 2023 Casting Call Let’s Play Six Degrees of ‘You People’ The stars of the new opposites-attract rom-com have more in common than you think. By Bill Keith Jan. 27, 2023 Discover More Drama News Dark Comedy Sirens Comes Calling This Spring Julianne Moore, Meghann Fahy and Milly Alcock star in the series on May 22. By Tudum Staff 4:09 pm News The Alluring Sirens Trailer Has Come Calling The series comes ashore May 22. By Ariana Romero 4:00 pm 2025 Preview All the New Netflix Movies Coming This Summer Your streaming getaway awaits. By Tudum Staff 2:00 pm Explainer HAVOC’s Bloody and Chaotic Ending Explained: Does Walker Live? Director Gareth Evans takes us inside the action film’s brutal final moments. By Keisha Hatchett 7:00 am Who’s Who Say Hello to the You Season 5 Cast From the Goldbergs to the Lockwoods to Bronte and beyond. By Ariana Romero Yesterday 9:48 pm Deep Dive You By the Numbers An obsessive (and obsessive’s) guide to everything that happens in the series. By Kristin Iversen Yesterday 7:15 pm Deep Dive You Season 5 Ending: Penn Badgley Explains How Joe Goldberg’s Story Concludes “Somebody killing Joe wouldn’t be justice. It would be vengeance.” By Chancellor Agard Yesterday 5:00 pm Behind the Scenes Beyond the Thrills: The Unexpected Bond in Black Doves Keira Knightley, Ben Whishaw, and Joe Barton discuss the intimate relationship at the heart of the series. By Alex Frank Yesterday 3:42 pm Related Videos What To Watch What Geeked Week Stars Are Watching on Netflix Dive into the queue with stars from 'One Piece,' 'Cobra Kai,' and more. Sept. 28 3:41 What To Watch What to Watch After Vikings: Valhalla 9 shows and movies featuring epic sagas and historical dramas. July 18 3:08 What To Watch Wedding Scenes that Demand a Rewatch Get ready to swoon, laugh, and maybe shed a tear. June 4 3:16 Trailer The Crown Season 6, Part 2 Trailer "Now is the time." The epic conclusion of the award winning series is here. Feb. 12, 2024 2:31 What To Watch These Historical Dramas Will Take You Way Back Choose your time period. Nov. 10, 2023 1:57 Trailer ‘The Crown’ Season 6, Part 1 Trailer The final season of the award-winning series begins November 16. Oct. 31, 2023 2:05 What To Watch ‘Sex Education’, ‘The Crown’, and Other British Shows You Can’t Miss Shows to transport you over the pond. Sept. 29, 2023 2:19 Up Close Jonathan Pryce Discusses Playing Prince Philip on ‘The Crown’ It's important to remember that the show is not a documentary. Nov. 21, 2022 3:45 Latest News First Look See First-Look Photos from Sirens April 28 12 photos Deep Dive Weak Hero Class 2 : Everything You Need to Know About the Action K-Drama 3:21 pm Skip Intro Rashida Jones Discusses Her Return to Black Mirror , Her Family, and More on Skip Intro 3:00 pm 28:00 Deep Dive The Bullies Get Their Dues in Weak Hero Class 1 2:07 pm Up Close You Cast and Showrunners Talk All About the Final Season 1:00 pm 26:56 News HAVOC Starring Tom Hardy Is Now Streaming 7:00 am More News Popular Now New on Netflix New on Netflix in April 2025 Stream new episodes of You, Black Mirror, Love on the Spectrum , and more. By Erin Corbett April 17 News Wednesday Season 2 Will Snap Back This Summer Jenna Ortega returns as Wednesday Addams for a  “darker, more complex” journey. By Ariana Romero April 23 News Black Mirror Claims the No. 1 Spot on the English TV List Plus: The Life List is the most-watched English film, and Korean shows dominate. By Terrence Doyle April 22 Explainer Ransom Canyon Ending Explained: Do Quinn and Staten Finally Get Together? Love, land, and a mystery — let’s unpack the romantic Western drama. By Brookie McIlvaine April 21 Popular Releases Back To Top About Tudum Netflix Shop Top 10 Podcasts Sign Into Netflix Home Privacy Terms of Use Cookie Preferences Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Ad Choices © 2025 netflix Close Search Close Hi, undefined!