The Crown Season 4 Air Date, Cast, News, Spoilers - Emma Corrin Confirmed As Princess Diana in Season 4 Search Subscribe Sign Up for Gems of Wisdom T&C Snob's Guide to Travel T&C Guide to College Admission My Bookmarks Society The Scene Style Leisure Follow Newsletter Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content Luxury Style Travel Leisure Society Subscribe sign in Leisure Arts & Culture The Crown Season 4: Everything We Know So Far The Crown Season 4: Everything We Know So Far It will drop in its entirety on November 15. By Caroline Hallemann Published: Oct 13, 2020 4:46 PM EDT Save Article Fans of The Crown , the Netflix series chronicling Queen Elizabeth's reign, won't have to wait too long for the show's next chapter. Season four is set to drop in its entirety on November 15, just in time for a Thanksgiving binge. Watch the first trailers here, then read everything we know so far about the new episodes. View full post on X View full post on Youtube The season will premiere November 15. In an interview with Harper's Bazaar, Josh O'Connor, who plays Prince Charles in the series, first hinted that season four could arrive later this year. "We’re well into it now," he said about filming the show's next chapter. "We’ve got many months left, they’ve got a few episodes in, so it’s really exciting. And I think it will be the best yet, actually. I’m really looking forward to finishing that and then getting to share it sometime in 2020, I guess." And in August, Netflix finally confirmed a release date: November 15, 2020. Seasons three and four were filmed back-to-back ensuring that fans of the show wouldn't have to wait such a long time between installments. Des Willie Princess Diana on her wedding day in The Crown . The first photos from season four were recently revealed. Enrico Borra/Splash News Josh O’Connor and Emma Corrin in character as Prince Charles and Princess Diana during filming of The Crown’s fourth season. This snapshot shows actors Connor, who plays Prince Charles, and Emma Corrin , who has been cast as Princess Diana, filming in Spain, but recreating an iconic moment from Charles and Diana's 1983 royal tour of Australia . Notably this official visit was the first time that Diana had traveled overseas, and also Prince William's first royal tour at just nine months old. Here's another picture of Corrin in costume, again recreating that iconic tour of Australia: Splash News There will be a few changes to the cast for season four. Gillian Anderson will play Margaret Thatcher . Getty / Splash Gillian Anderson in costume as Margaret Thatcher (right) alongside the politician herself (left). Gillian Anderson ( The X-Files , Sex Education ) is set to play the first woman prime minister of the UK The show announced the news on social media, noting that season four was already in production. "Thatcher was undoubtedly formidable but I am relishing exploring beneath the surface and, dare I say, falling in love with the icon who, whether loved or despised defined an era," Anderson said in a statement. Previously, several outlets had reported that she'd been cast, but The Crown had yet to comment on the news. View full post on X The first image of Anderson in costume ( above ) surfaced in mid-October, as filming on the fourth season began. Princess Diana will also be introduced in season four. Getty /  Faye Thomas In April, Netflix shared the news that Emma Corrin, a relative newcomer who has appeared on Grantchester , will be playing the late Princess of Wales . "I have been glued to the show and to think I'm now joining this incredibly talented acting family is surreal," Corrin said in a statement about the role. "Princess Diana was an icon and her effect on the world remains profound and inspiring. To explore her through Peter Morgan's writing is the most exceptional opportunity, and I will strive to do her justice." Diana will be introduced in season four, which has begun filming. Previously, the Sun published what it purported to be an ad for the role, which called for an actress between the ages of 18 and 20. "We need a mesmerizing new young star with extraordinary range," it reads, per the Sun . "She has to play charming comedy, flirt and social exhibitionist on the world stage, desperate and lonely self-harmer at her lowest ebb and the kind of psychological intensity of Mia Farrow in Rosemary’s Baby." Most of the rest of the season's cast is already in place. While there was an enormous upheaval between seasons two and three—showrunner Peter Morgan famously recast the entire show—the majority of the characters will be played by the same actors in seasons three and four. For example, Olivia Colman will star as Queen Elizabeth in both seasons, and Helena Bonham-Carter will portray Princess Margaret. Des Willie Helena Bonham Carter as Margaret. "It was very sad to say goodbye to the season one and two cast; they were brilliant and we'd all become friends," executive producer Suzanne Mackie told the Hollywood Reporter of the process . "But I don't think any other show has recast its characters between seasons, so there is something both nerve-wracking and exhilarating too." Elizabeth and Philip: A Royal Love Story For More on Queen Elizabeth Here's what else we know about the plot so far. Michael Fagan will make an appearance in season four. Buckingham Palace's most famous intruder, who broke into the Queen's bedroom in 1982, will reportedly make an appearance in the show's fourth chapter. According to the Daily Mail , he'll be played by actor Tom Brooke. Actor Josh O'Connor says that season four will show a "different side" of Prince Charles. "I don't want to give anything away, but I'll say that hopefully, people will feel sorry for Charles in season three, and then, maybe, we'll change that in season four," he said in an interview with T&C about season three. "Certainly, it feels like there's a definite shift being told in season three. And all across four, there's definitely a different side to Charles that we're going to see. Ollie Upton Emma Corrin as Princess Diana and Josh O’Connor as Prince Charles in season 4. The royal wedding will play a role in the story. This plot point likely won't come as much of a surprise to those familiar with royal history, but the first teaser trailer for the season reveals a first look of Corrin in Diana's iconic wedding gown. "The Emanuels, who designed the original, gave us the patterns, and then it was made for me," Corrin told British Vogue . "We were filming the scene when you first see her in the wedding dress—I think it was Lancaster House in London—and I had a team of about 10 people helping me put it on, because it's massive." "I walked out and everyone went completely silent," she said. A scene will reportedly take place outside the Barnado's Champion Children Awards. Corrin was photographed in January filming at the Savoy Hotel, and recreating one of Diana's iconic appearances at the event. Another scene recreates Princess Diana's famous flight on the Concorde in 1989. See photos from filming that scene here. Here are a few other predictions we have for the plot. There will be a cast change once again for seasons five and six. In July 2020, Netflix confirmed that the show's sixth season will be its last. It will reportedly take the series into the early 2000s, and reverses a previous announcement that the series would end after five chapters. In January of 2020, Morgan confirmed that season five would be the final chapter of the series. "At the outset I had imagined The Crown running for six seasons but now that we have begun work on the stories for season five it has become clear to me that this is the perfect time and place to stop," Morgan said, per the Hollywood Reporter . "I’m grateful to Netflix and Sony for supporting me in this decision." But now, it seems the original plan to run for six seasons is back in place . "As we started to discuss the storylines for series five, it soon became clear that in order to do justice to the richness and complexity of the story we should go back to the original plan and do six seasons," Morgan said, confirming the news alongside Netflix to the Hollywood Reporter . Imelda Staunton (of Harry Potter and Downton Abbey fame) will play the Queen in seasons five and six, and Lesley Manville will play Princess Margaret . Netflix has also confirmed that Elizabeth Debicki will play Princess Diana in the show's final chapters. Caroline Hallemann Digital Director Caroline Hallemann is the Digital Director at Town & Country, where she covers culture, society, and entertainment, as well as the British royal family, among a variety of other topics. Prior to leading the digital team at T&C, she served as the brand's Senior News Editor and Digital News Director, and has previously held positions at Travel + Leisure, DailyCandy, and Parenting Magazine. Caroline is also currently writing a book about the Kennedy family and the British royals, and she lives in Nashville, Tennessee with her husband and their son, Tommy. You can find her on Instagram at the handle @challemann and on TikTok at @carolinehallemann. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below The Crown The Crown Stars Join Netflix's Pride & Prejudice Imelda Staunton Is Now a Dame King Charles & Princess Anne Through the Years King Charles III's Life in Photos Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Dior’s Sporty Spring 2025 Runway Inside Princess Diana’s Love Affair with NYC Dominic West Brings out the Velvet at The Emmys Meet Elizabeth Debicki's Boyfriend Kristian Elizabeth Debicki Misses Playing Princess Diana Queen Camilla's Life in Photos 'The Crown' Creator Reveals His Next Project William & Kate Were Roommates at St Andrews Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Newsletter Contact Us Subscribe Other Hearst Subscriptions Advertise Online About Us Press Room Customer Service A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads