Microsoft's Army headsets making soldiers sick Primary Menu Sections US News Metro Long Island Politics World News Page Six Sports NFL MLB Olympics NBA NHL College Football College Basketball WNBA Post Sports+ Sports Betting Business Personal Finance Opinion Entertainment TV Movies Music Celebrities Awards Theater Shopping Lifestyle Weird But True Sex & Relationships Viral Trends Human Interest Parenting Fashion & Beauty Food & Drink Travel Health Wellness Fitness Health Care Medicine Men’s Health Women’s Health Mental Health Nutrition Real Estate Alexa Media Tech Science Space Environment Wildlife Archaeology Astrology Video Photos Today’s Paper Covers Columnists Horoscopes Crosswords & Games Sports Odds Podcasts Careers Email Newsletters Official Store Home Delivery Tips Search Email New York Post Search Search trending now Skip to main content Hall of Famer unloads on Shedeur Sanders for '$50 million' NFL... Trump embarrasses Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer AGAIN by calling... Mark Zuckerberg, Priscilla Chan to close free school for... Alarmed by CBS disaster, Bill Belichick insiders say girlfriend... Trump fires Kamala Harris' husband Doug Emhoff ‘Roseanne’ star Michael Fishman breaks silence on his absence... Trump spars with ABC anchor over tariff policy, deportations and... Amal Clooney could be barred from US under Trump sanctions over... Breaking News Judge who allegedly helped illegal migrant evade ICE is relieved of 'her official duties' — days after FBI arrest Tech Microsoft’s HoloLens headsets for Army make soldiers sick and ‘would have gotten us killed’ By Devin Sean Martin Published Oct. 14, 2022 Updated Oct. 14, 2022, 7:26 a.m. ET Explore More Wall Street on edge as more ‘Magnificent 7’ tech stocks report earnings this week Fed-up Canadians ditch Big Tech giants for obscure alternatives in latest trade war boycott OpenAI in talks to buy AI-coding tool Windsurf for about $3B: report Microsoft’s hi-tech headsets being tested by the Army have left soldiers feeling sick and have  flaws that “would have gotten us killed,” according to published reports. The “HoloLens” headset, designed to give soldiers a “heads-up display” similar to a fighter pilot, has caused more than 80% of soldiers testing the augmented reality goggles to report feeling nauseous, getting headaches or suffering eyestrain, according to a US Army report that Bloomberg and Business Insider claims to have obtained. Army brass has also reportedly warned that the HoloLens emits a glow that could give away a soldier’s position on the battlefield. It also limits a soldier’s field of view and is too bulky for easy transport, according to the report. One soldier who used the goggles during a “recent” field test reportedly said: “The devices would have gotten us killed.” 4 Soldiers don a prototype of the U.S. Army’s Integrated Visual Augmentation System (IVAS) and wield a Squad immersive Virtual Trainer (SiVT) during a training environment test event. REUTERS 4 The Defense Department handed Microsoft a 10-year, $21.88 billion contract for the gear in March. The Defense Department handed Microsoft a 10-year, $21.88 billion contract for the gear in March, but has put its initial order for 5,000 headsets on hold to allow Microsoft to “correct deficiencies.” “The system is still experiencing too many failures of essential functions,” said Nickolas Guertin, the testing director for the DoD, in a summary of the product’s initial tests. 4 The DoD handed Microsoft a 10-year, $21.88 billion contract for the headsets last March REUTERS Dubbed the Integrated Visual Augmentation System (IVAS) by the Department of Defense, the AR headsets are supposed to let commanders project information onto a visor in front of a soldier’s face. They would also provide night vision and “heightened situational awareness,” according to Microsoft. Guertin demanded Microsoft improve soldiers’ discomfort and fix the possible life-threatening flaws. 4 “We are moving forward with the production and delivery of the initial set of devices,”  Microsoft said. NurPhoto via Getty Images Lawmakers are closely assessing the testing to decide whether to approve the $424.2 million the Army proposed to spend on the program this fiscal year, Bloomberg reported. The 10-year contract calls for the production of 120,000 headsets. “Our close collaboration with the Army has enabled us to quickly build” and modify the device “to develop a transformational platform that will deliver enhanced soldier safety and effectiveness,” Microsoft said in a statement. “We are moving forward with the production and delivery of the initial set of devices.” Filed under army Department of Defense government spending microsoft 10/14/22 Read Next Elon Musk under federal investigation tied to $44B Twitter... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 66,567 times. 66,567 Hall of Famer unloads on Shedeur Sanders for '$50 million' NFL draft mistake This story has been shared 25,924 times. 25,924 Mark Zuckerberg, Priscilla Chan to close free school for low-income Bay Area students a decade after it opened This story has been shared 24,113 times. 24,113 Trump embarrasses Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer AGAIN by calling her onstage at 100 days event: 'Well, I hadn't expected to speak' Now on Page Six Ellen Pompeo and husband Chris Ivery pose for rare photo with their kids at Hollywood Walk of Fame ceremony Katy Perry claps back at ‘unhinged’ haters after she’s brutally roasted for ‘cringe’ tour, Blue Origin space flight Sarah Michelle Gellar channels Carrie Bradshaw with impressive new closet: ‘Who needs Mr. Big?!’ See All Now on Decider Alyssa Farah Griffin Says “You Gotta Respect” Bill Belichick’s Girlfriend Jordon Hudson After That “Wonderfully Awkward” Interview: “She’s Got Him Under Control” See All Video Carnival Cruise brawl gets 24 banned | Reporter Replay What to Shop Now Way Day is back and bigger than ever — shop the 80 best deals available now The 20 chicest sofas to snag during Wayfair's Way Day sale — from cloud couches to futons Rugs at Wayfair are up to 81% off during the biggest sale of the year The Post Wanted guide on what to buy during Way Day: Our favorites from the *big* sale 17 amazing Wayfair kitchen deals I'm begging you to score this Way Day before they're gone Soldiers don a prototype of the U.S. Army's Integrated Visual Augmentation System (IVAS) and wield a Squad immersive Virtual Trainer (SiVT) during a training environment test event. The Defense Department handed Microsoft a 10-year, $21.88 billion contract for the gear in March. The DoD handed Microsoft a 10-year, $21.88 billion contract for the headsets last March “We are moving forward with the production and delivery of the initial set of devices,"  Microsoft said. You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement More Stories Page Six Prince William to strip Meghan Markle of royal title after he becomes king: report NYPost Hall of Famer unloads on Shedeur Sanders for '$50 million' NFL draft mistake Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Email YouTube Sections & Features US News Metro World News Sports Sports Betting Business Opinion Entertainment Fashion & Beauty Shopping Lifestyle Real Estate Media Tech Science Health Travel Astrology Video Photos Alexa Covers Horoscopes Sports Odds Podcasts Crosswords & Games Columnists Classifieds Post Sports+ Subscribe Articles Manage Newsletters & Feeds Email Newsletters RSS Feeds NY Post Official Store Home Delivery Subscribe Manage Subscription Delivery Help Help/Support About New York Post Editorial Standards Customer Service Apps Help Community Guidelines Contact Us Tips Newsroom Letters to the Editor Licensing & Reprints Careers Vulnerability Disclosure Program Apps iPhone App iPad App Android Phone Android Tablet Advertise Media Kit Contact © 2025 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved Terms of Use Subscription Terms Privacy Notice Sitemap Your California Privacy Rights Do Not Sell My Personal Information