How Stefanos Tsitsipas could become the unlikely year-end No 1 Part of the network Light Dark Home Tennis News Live Scores Tournaments Grand Slams Australian Open French Open Wimbledon US Open Tours & Events ATP Tour WTA Tour Davis Cup Billie Jean King Cup Players ATP Andy Murray Carlos Alcaraz Jannik Sinner Nick Kyrgios Novak Djokovic Rafael Nadal WTA Aryna Sabalenka Coco Gauff Elena Rybakina Emma Raducanu Iga Świątek Jessica Pegula Legends Roger Federer Serena Williams Facts & Stats Dark Light Home Tennis News Live Scores Tournaments Grand Slams Australian Open French Open Wimbledon US Open Tours & Events ATP Tour WTA Tour Davis Cup Billie Jean King Cup Players ATP Andy Murray Carlos Alcaraz Jannik Sinner Nick Kyrgios Novak Djokovic Rafael Nadal WTA Aryna Sabalenka Coco Gauff Elena Rybakina Emma Raducanu Iga Świątek Jessica Pegula Legends Roger Federer Serena Williams Facts & Stats Home Tennis News How Stefanos Tsitsipas could become the unlikely year-end No 1 How Stefanos Tsitsipas could become the unlikely year-end No 1 James Richardson 08 Nov 2022 1:53 PM Stefanos Tsitsipas on court Stefanos Tsitsipas has an outside shot at pipping Spaniards Carlos Alcaraz and Rafael Nadal to the year-end No 1 ranking. Should Tsitsipas get the business done at the ATP Finals in Turin he would become the first man to end the season at No 1 without winning a Grand Slam. In order for Tsitsipas to achieve the feat he will have to win all five of his matches in Turin. If Rafael Nadal does not reach the final and Tsitsipas does not win all of his matches then Alcaraz, who is out of the event injured, will end the season at No 1. The players ranked No 2 to No 9 in the rankings will make up the field in Turin. Tsitsipas being in contention for the top ranking is something of a surprise given his injury problems at the end of the 2021 season. He surprised his own doctors by making it to the 2022 Australian Open after pulling out of the 2021 season finals after an elbow injury. Tsitsipas is in a position to be No 1 at year-end thanks to the consistency of his efforts throughout 2022. Despite the odd early exit Tsitsipas was a regular quarterfinalist on the tour and won four titles during the term including the successful defence of his Monte Carlo Masters title. He is happy to be turning out in Italy with a chance to make up for a disappointing end to the 2021 season. “I unfortunately played just one match and I didn’t really have the opportunity to show my real game out there,” he said of last season. “I’m really excited to be playing in Italy. The Italians are really passionate when it comes to tennis. They put a lot of their energy out on the courts and the stadiums. They have a great culture in tennis the last couple of years. “They’ve always loved my game, they’ve always greeted me very nicely. They have a sort of different aura when it comes to the game, which I appreciate a lot. “I always have a great time playing in Italy in front of the Italian kids — a lot of them show up to watch the tennis,” he said. “And also other amateur enthusiasts and followers of the sport that not only watch the game, but also bring in the ambience and create an atmosphere that elevates us players to play game.” Tsitsipas says that he is mindful of accumulating rankings and Race to Turin points throughout the season. “I do chase points a lot,” he admitted. “I know they are very important. Tsitsipas added: “I understand their value, what they can offer in terms of a ranking upgrade or having a better season than the ones before. I calculate, of course, I try to use my mind to improve in terms of points, things like defending and all that stuff. He also said: “I always am willing to go play tournaments if that’s going to give me points, if that’s going to help me get better in the rankings.” READ MORE: Patrick Mouratoglou explains two key aspects that have helped turn Holger Rune into a world beater Related Articles Ewan West 21 Apr 2025 Prize money and points earned by Rune, Alcaraz, Fils, Tsitsipas, Ruud at 2025 Barcelona Open A prize money and ranking points breakdown after the Barcelona Open. ATP Tour News Oliver Paton 17 Apr 2025 Stefanos Tsitsipas reveals the ‘biggest’ reason as to why he especially excels on clay courts "I feel like you have to kind of be smart about it and now where the limit is." ATP Tour News Kevin Palmer 14 Apr 2025 Carlos Alcaraz takes top prize, as Stefanos Tsitsipas is on the slide – Tennis365 Heroes and Villains Our Tennis365 'Heroes and Villains' will be published every Monday and one man dominates this week's review. ATP Tour Billie Jean King Cup Oli Dickson Jefford 13 Apr 2025 ATP Rankings Winners & Losers Monte Carlo: Alcaraz No 2, Djokovic No 5, Tsitsipas -8, Musetti rises We look at the biggest rankings swings in Monte Carlo ahead of Sunday's final. ATP Tour News Features How Jannik Sinner’s drug ban had a negative impact on his biggest rivals 29 Apr 2025 When did Nick Kyrgios last play at the French Open? Aussie star teases surprise Roland Garros return 29 Apr 2025 Iga Swiatek and Novak Djokovic hit by the same problem – and it will be hard to correct 29 Apr 2025 Facts & Stats The ATP stars with the best clay win rates in a season: Nadal’s 100% records, Muster’s crazy 65-2 campaign 29 Apr 2025 Madison Keys continues stunning record against top-30 opponents as she books Iga Swiatek rematch 29 Apr 2025 Iga Swiatek emulates outstanding Martina Hingis milestone as she survives Madrid Open scare 29 Apr 2025 Video WATCH: Madrid Open plunged into darkness as national power outage causes cancellation on Monday 28 Apr 2025 WATCH: Jannik Sinner returns to ‘official’ practice after suspension 17 Apr 2025 First player born in each year to win ATP match: Featuring Sinner, Alcaraz, Fonseca, Dedura-Palomero 16 Apr 2025 Planet Sport Network Planet Sport Group Planet Sport Corporate Site Corporate, Marketing & B2B Enquiries Planet Sport Partners Sky Sports SABC Sport Racing and Sports Tennis365 Info About Tennis365 Contact Us Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy & Cookie Notice Preferences & Consent Settings Social Facebook X Instagram © Planet Sport Limited 2025 • All Rights Reserved