Malika Andrews to Debut as NBA Draft Reporter - Front Office Sports Loading stock data... Got a tip? Sign In Sign Up Sign In Sign Up Categories Column 1 Athletes College Athletics Commerce Deals Column 2 Executives Fitness Gaming Innovation Column 3 Law Finance Media Retail Column 4 Stadiums & Real Estate Sports Betting Tech World Wednesday, April 30, 2025 More Newsletters Shows Video Games Sign In Sign Up Sports Football Basketball Baseball Hockey Soccer Women’s Sports College Athletics More Sports Golf Olympics Tennis Motorsports Combat Sports Emerging Sports Industries Media Finance Stadiums & Real Estate Private Equity Tech Law Retail Franchises Asset Class Tuned In Events Leagues of Their Own Private Equity Floods Into Sports Huddle In The Hamptons Tuned In The New Ownership Class Honors Most Innovative Awards Rising 25 Explore About Company News Submit a Tip Advertise Contact Careers Shop Media Malika Andrews to Debut as NBA Draft Reporter The NBA’s first virtual draft night takes place on Nov. 18. Adam Silver and Mark Tatum will announce picks from ESPN’s studios. By Torrey Hart Nov 12, 2020  |  03:34 pm Ashley Landis/Pool Photo-USA TODAY Sports The upcoming 2020 NBA Draft, the 18th straight one ESPN has broadcast, will be the first done from the company’s Bristol, Conn. studios thanks to pandemic limitations. NBA Commissioner Adam Silver and Deputy Commissioner Mark Tatum will appear on-site to announce picks, while up to 60 draftees will appear virtually, ESPN announced. The league is sending top prospects an “NBA Draft Gifting Locker” with all 30 NBA team hats, a personalized Spalding basketball, Beats headphones, earphones and a personal speaker, and an Oculus 2 headset. ESPN reporter Malika Andrews, widely lauded for her work as a reporter inside the league’s restarted season bubble, will make her debut as the draft telecast reporter. Maria Taylor, who recently made her debut as an NFL sideline reporter, held the role in 2018 and 2019. Along with Andrews, Rece Davis will return to host ESPN’s coverage alongside a panel of analysts including Jay Bilas, Jay Williams and Mike Schmitz. ESPN NBA insider Adrian Wojnarowski will once again appear to provide news updates. Draft analyst Bobby Marks will also appear in studio, providing “front office insights and commentary.” ESPN will be providing coverage of draft headquarters for up to eight teams, it said, while commentary and vignettes will focus on the “individual stories of top players.” In April, the network drew criticism for focusing on NFL prospects’ personal trauma when introducing them during the 2020 NFL Draft, but later said that showing those obstacles was part of telling the “human side” of their stories. The WNBA found success as the first professional sports league to carry out a virtual, televised draft during the pandemic. On April 17, the league’s three-round, 36-pick event on ESPN went off largely without a hitch — and recorded its best ratings in 16 years. MLB and the NHL also held virtual drafts during the pandemic. Share Tweet Facebook Linkedin Whatsapp Email Copy Link Link Copied Share Link Copied Latest Stories exclusive 8 hours ago WME Looks to Sell Off Baseball Agency Due to Union Pressure The situation arises as Endeavor is once again a private company. 9 hours ago Shaq’s New GM Role + Nate Burleson on the Future of Football Nate Burleson joins for the debut episode of Front Office Sports Today. 9 hours ago NFL Draft Hits Historic Viewership Highs Thanks to Sanders Saga Drama around the fall of Shedeur Sanders likely contributes to robust viewership. What to Read exclusive by Ryan Glasspiegel Dwyane Wade, Candace Parker Expected to Join Amazon NBA Coverage Parker would be a studio analyst for both NBA and WNBA games. by David Rumsey NBA Playoffs TV Ratings Surge, With ESPN on Record Pace The 11 NBA games that aired on ESPN or ABC averaged 4.45 million viewers. opinion by Daniel Roberts The Era of Messy NBA Team Sales The eye-popping Celtics sale to Bill Chisholm is far from wrapped up. by Amanda Christovich Pac-12 Gets One-Year Test-Run Media Deal Before Expansion It’s the next step in the league’s rebuild. Featured Today by Ryan Glasspiegel How DJ Adam Amin Mixes Baseball With Bangers Amin is one of Fox’s top NFL and MLB voices. April 27, 2025 The Celtics Succession Plan Remains Murky The transfer of power to a private-equity group is still unresolved. April 26, 2025 The Rays Groundskeepers Are Adjusting to Life Outside the Dome After nearly three decades in a dome, Tampa groundskeepers were forced outside. April 25, 2025 The Former NBA Agent Who Became a Pickleball Deputy Commissioner Chris Patrick went from representing Jimmy Butler to pickleball deputy commissioner. More in Media by Eric Fisher NFL Draft Hits Historic Viewership Highs Thanks to Sanders Saga Drama around the fall of Shedeur Sanders likely contributes to robust viewership. April 25, 2025 Goodell: Three NFL Games Every Christmas Moving Forward The league is returning to scheduling three games on the holiday this season. April 25, 2025 NFL Draft Round 1 Draws 13.6M Viewers, Second-Highest Ever With stars staying on the board, viewers tuned in. Sponsored Game On: Portfolio Players Stories, Brought to You by E*TRADE from Morgan Stanley Portfolio Players is our bi-weekly spotlight on the athletes and investors reshaping the business of sports. This week, venture capitalist Kai Cunningham unpacks why athletes land top deals and how the usual investing rules don’t always apply. April 25, 2025 Knicks, Rangers to See Big Cut in MSG Networks Media-Rights Fees The teams will each see big reductions in their local media-rights fees. April 24, 2025 Comcast Leans On Sports As Revenue Slides and Cord-Cutting Grows NBC Sports’ rights portfolio remains a company bedrock. April 23, 2025 Disney’s Fubo Takeover Now Faces DOJ Antitrust Review The deal struck by the ESPN parent company could be in jeopardy. April 23, 2025 Roku’s New Plan to Relieve Streaming Headaches The streaming company introduces new tools to direct fans to games. Front Office Sports covers the influence of sports on business and culture. Front Office Sports Column 1 Homepage Newsletters Shows Events Column 2 Learning Video Honors Shop Company Column 1 About Us Advertise Company News Press Column 2 Careers Contact Submit a Tip Terms of Use Privacy Policy © 2025 Front Office Sports. All Rights Reserved. 460 Park Avenue South, 7th Floor • New York, NY 10016 Privacy Manager Sign up for our daily newsletter. The biggest stories and best analysis on the business of sports. The Memo is your must-read bulletin, delivered to your inbox twice every weekday and twice on weekends. Email * Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Subscribe Δ This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. ×