Thomas Kirk Kristiansen - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 References Toggle the table of contents Thomas Kirk Kristiansen 1 language Dansk Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Danish billionaire businessman Thomas Kirk Kristiansen Born ( 1979-02-18 ) 18 February 1979 (age 46) Billund , Denmark Alma mater Aarhus Business College Title Chairman of Kirkbi and The Lego Group Parent Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen Thomas Kirk Kristiansen (born 18 February 1979) is a Danish fourth-generation owner of The Lego Group . Together with his father Kjeld , and sisters Agnete and Sofie , they split ownership of a 75% stake in the company. [ 1 ] Among the children of Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen , Thomas is the one who takes the most active part in managing the company. [ 2 ] In 2007, he joined the board of directors of the LEGO Foundation. In 2016, Thomas Kristiansen became deputy chairman of the company, and in 2020 he was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors. On May 1, 2023, his father passed the title of Chairman of Kirkbi and the Lego Group to Thomas. [ 3 ] Thomas is married to the tournament rider Signe Kirk Kristiansen with whom he has a daughter. [ 4 ] Thomas Kristiansen made the 2023 Forbes Billionaires List with an estimated wealth of $6.8 billion and occupied the 368th position as of 31 January 2024. [ 1 ] References [ edit ] ^ a b "Thomas Kirk Kristiansen" . Forbes . Retrieved 18 April 2022 . ^ Kaj Højgaard (15 February 2019). "Søskende vil eje LEGO i fællesskab" . TVSyd . Retrieved 18 April 2022 . ^ Pelletier, Ashley (1 May 2023). "Kirk Kristiansen Family Passes The LEGO Group to a New Generation" . The Toy Book . Retrieved 18 November 2023 . ^ Ingrid Raagard (31 March 2019). "Warum der neue Boss früher Lego nicht mochte" . Bild . Retrieved 18 April 2022 . v t e Lego The Lego Group Kirkbi People Kristiansen family Ole Kirk Christiansen Godtfred Kirk Christiansen Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen Thomas Kirk Kristiansen Sofie Kirk Kristiansen Agnete Kirk Thinggaard Notable executives Jørgen Vig Knudstorp Bali Padda Niels Christiansen History Timeline Interlego AG v Tyco Industries Inc Kirkbi AG v Ritvik Holdings Inc Product ranges Current Architecture Art Avatar Batman BrickHeadz Brick Sketches Cars City Creator Icons Modular Buildings Despicable Me Disney Dreamzzz Duplo Dune Education Friends Gabby's Dollhouse Harry Potter Ideas Jurassic World The Lord of the Rings Mario Minecraft Minifigures Monkie Kid Ninjago Overwatch Simpsons Sonic Speed Champions Spider-Man Star Wars Super Heroes Technic Trains Discontinued 4+ Adventurers Agents Alpha Team The Angry Birds Movie Aqua Raiders Aquazone Atlantis Avatar: The Last Airbender Primo / Baby Belville Ben 10: Alien Force Bionicle Castle Dacta DC Super Hero Girls Dino DOTS Elves Exo-Force Fabuland FORMA Fusion Galidor Games Ghostbusters Hero Factory Hidden Side Homemaker Indiana Jones Jack Stone Juniors Legends of Chima The Lego Batman Movie The Lego Movie The Lego Ninjago Movie Life of George The Lone Ranger Mars Mission Mindstorms Mixels Monster Fighters Nexo Knights Ninja Pharaoh's Quest Pirates Pirates of the Caribbean Power Miners The Powerpuff Girls Prince of Persia Racers RoboRiders Rock Raiders Scooby-Doo Space Speed Racer SpongeBob SquarePants Sports Spybotics Stranger Things Studios Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Toy Story Trolls World Tour Ultra Agents Unikitty! Vidiyo Wild West World Racers Znap Other products Games Serious Play Media Films & TV series The Lego Movie franchise Lego Masters Piece by Piece Software Lego Digital Designer Lego Life List of video games Ninjago Lego Club Magazine Lego White Noise Theme parks Legoland Billund California Deutschland Dubai Florida Japan Korea Malaysia New York Sichuan Windsor Legoland Discovery Centre Boston Chicago Dallas Fort Worth Kansas City Toronto Westchester Events BrickCon BrickFair BrickFest Brickfête Brick Fiesta Brickworld FIRST Lego League FIRST Lego League Jr. Robofest In popular culture The Brick Bible " Brick Like Me " A Lego Brickumentary The Lego Story The Toys That Made Us Related companies Bandai BrickLink Epic Games Gameloft Hasbro Mattel Merlin Entertainments Spin Master Tomy TT Games Traveller's Tales WildBrain Studios Other topics BrainPop Brickfilm Clones LDraw Lego fandom Lego House LUGNET Minifigure Hilary Page Tokio Express Violence and Lego Category This business-related Danish biographical article is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Thomas_Kirk_Kristiansen&oldid=1218464411 " Categories : 1979 births Living people Danish businesspeople Danish billionaires 20th-century Danish businesspeople 21st-century Danish businesspeople Kristiansen family Danish business biography stubs Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use dmy dates from April 2024 Articles with hCards All stub articles This page was last edited on 11 April 2024, at 21:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Thomas Kirk Kristiansen 1 language Add topic