Google Pixel 5a To Be Launched In August – The Tennessee Tribune Close Menu Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram Home About Us Digital Subscription Advertisement Contact Us Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram Advertise With Us Home COVID-19 Resource Center Dr. Henry Louis Gates’ PSA Radio Featured News State Local National/International News Global Business Commentary Finance Local Business Investigative Stories Affordable Housing DCS Investigation Gentrification Editorial National Politics Local News Local Editorial Political Editorial Editorial Cartoons Cycle of Shame Community History Tennessee Chattanooga Clarksville Knoxville Memphis Public Notices Women Let’s Talk with Ms. June Education College American Baptist College Belmont University Fisk HBCU Meharry MTSU University of Tennessee TSU Vanderbilt Elementary High School Lifestyle Art Auto Tribune Travel Entertainment 5 Questions With Books Events Film Review Local Entertainment Family Food Drinks Health & Wellness Home & Garden Featured Books Religion National Religion Local Religion Obituaries National Obituaries Local Obituaries Faith Commentary Sports MLB Sounds NBA NCAA NFL Predators Titans NHL Other Sports Golf Professional Sports Sports Commentary Metro Sports Media Video Photo Galleries Take 10 Trending With The Tribune Classified Obituaries Local Obituaries National Obituaries Bypass Google Pixel 5a To Be Launched In August By zenger.news August 17, 2021 No Comments 3 Mins Read Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Telegram Pinterest Tumblr Reddit Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Email WASHINGTON — Tech giant Google is planning to launch its latest flagship smartphone, Pixel 5a 5G , soon. Google is expected to unveil the smartphone as early as Aug. 17. Some new information and photographs of various parts of the device have been leaked. The upcoming device might look pretty much the same as the Pixel 4a 5G. The Pixel 5a 5G is expected to have a dual rear camera and a fingerprint scanner on the back. It will be roughly the same size as its predecessor, the Pixel 4a 5G, with a 6.2-inch OLED display on the front. The new pictures also reveal an essential specification that the phone will come with a massive 4,680mAh battery, more significant than what we have seen in any Pixel phone so far. The phone will launch on Aug. 17 while previous rumors indicate an Aug. 26 release in stores, said an official source. As for the price, rumors suggest that the phone will retail for $450. The Pixel 5a 5G should not be confused with Google’s upcoming Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro, which will have an entirely new design and come with Google silicon inside. They will launch sometime this fall, as per Google. Meanwhile, Google is rolling out its in-phone recording feature — “Android Phone app call recorder” to users in more markets worldwide. The recorder, launched in the US last year for many users, is finally coming to more countries. “The first time you record a call, you’ll be advised you must comply with local laws related to recording calls. Many jurisdictions require consent by all parties to record the call,” Google said on its support page . “To protect the privacy of all users, when you start recording, both parties are notified with a disclosure that the call is being recorded. When you stop recording, both parties are notified with a disclosure that the call is no longer being recorded.” The primary reason behind the rollout is the legal limitations in some regions where call recording without the contact’s prior consent is illegal. The Google phone app is available on the Play Store for users from other countries now. The feature will be rolling out globally “as a server-side update” and “some people in India already have the feature.” “The update will come to countries with loose call recording laws, which includes many other countries given only one side of the conversation needs to consent to record a call legally,” said an official source. After the feature is released, a new “call recording” sub-section will be available in the app’s settings, where the users could change how soon they want to auto-delete their recordings or never delete them. (With inputs from ANI) Edited by Saptak Datta and Praveen Pramod Tewari The post Google Pixel 5a To Be Launched In August appeared first on Zenger News . Share. Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email zenger.news Website Related Posts Michigan To Host Black Tech Weekend In The Fall August 6, 2023 Terracon Foundation Awards $25,000 Grant to Tennessee Tech University August 6, 2023 Creative Soulz Helping Futures June 1, 2023 Graduate Develops App to Help Special Needs Children Enhance Their Social Skills December 16, 2021 New Technology Measures Whether Green Inventions Can Really Help Planet Earth October 21, 2021 Israel, UAE Plan To Fly To The Moon Together October 21, 2021 Comments are closed. Business Best Lawyers® Names Bailey, Hargrove, Haynes, and Stakely Lawyers of the Year April 24, 2025 BlackPressUSAUPDATE: PepsiCo Meets with Sharpton Over DEI Rollbacks, Future Action Pending April 22, 2025 FUNdraising Good Times Building family philanthropy Part Two of a two part series April 22, 2025 1 2 3 … 381 Next Education Education Fisk University Honors the Class of 2025 with Baccalaureate and Commencement Ceremonies By admin April 26, 2025 NASHVILLE, TN — Fisk University is set to celebrate the accomplishments of the Class of… TSU’s Spring Commencement Ceremonies to  Feature Inspiring Keynote Speakers April 24, 2025 TSU’s Dr. Robbie K. Melton Named a 2025 Leading Woman in AI April 24, 2025 Challenging Plyler in Tennessee April 16, 2025 Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram About Us Digital Subscription Store Advertise With Us Contact © 2025 The Tennessee Tribune -  Site Designed by No Regret Media . Submit Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel. Our Spring Sale Has Started You can see how this popup was set up in our step-by-step guide: https://wppopupmaker.com/guides/auto-opening-announcement-popups/ ×