2022 Oscars: 'Encanto' wins best animated feature at Academy Awards; Lin-Manuel Miranda misses out on EGOT - ABC7 Los Angeles 24/7 Live Los Angeles Orange County Inland Empire Ventura County California Welcome, Mickey mickey@disney.com Manage MyDisney Account Log Out Oscars Disney's 'Encanto' wins best animated feature at 2022 Oscars; Lin-Manuel Miranda misses out on EGOT Monday, March 28, 2022 The team behind 'Encanto' accepts the Oscar for best animated feature film at the 94th Academy Awards on Sunday. LOS ANGELES -- Parents of young children are all-too-familiar with the magic of "Encanto," and the Disney hit won the best animated feature award at the 2022 Oscars. "Encanto" was also nominated for score and original song for its moving ballad "Dos Oruguitas." Those awards went to Hanz Zimmer for "Dune," and Billie Eilish and Finneas O'Connell for the title track in "No Time to Die," respectively. "Encanto" tells the story of a family from Colombia named the Madrigals who receive magical gifts in their town that shares its name with the animated musical. The character Mirabel, voiced by Stephanie Beatriz, sets out to save her family's magic. The film won the animated feature Academy Award for Walt Disney Animation Studios on Sunday night. Not counting films from its Pixar subsidiary, Disney has won the animation Oscar four times since it was first handed out in 2002. Disney previously won the award for 2013's "Frozen," 2014's "Big Hero 6" and 2016's "Zootopia." PHOTOS | Find all 2022 Oscars red carpet looks here Lin-Manuel Miranda, who scored eight original songs for "Encanto," would have joined the elite "EGOT" club of winners of an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar and Tony if "Dos Oruguitas" had won. The song was tapped as the Oscar submission from "Encanto" before another Miranda-penned song from the movie , "We Don't Talk About Bruno," became a runaway hit. This was Miranda's second Academy Award nomination in the best original song category; he was previously nominated for "How Far I'll Go" from "Moana" in 2017. Miranda missed Sunday's ceremony after his wife tested positive for COVID-19. Colombian singer-songwriter Sebastián Yatra performed "Dos Oruguitas" on the Oscars stage. The song's name translates as "Two Caterpillars" and played in the background during a flashback showing the traumatic origins of the Madrigal family's powers. Storytellers Spotlight: Why Lin-Manuel Miranda prepared his whole life to make story of 'Encanto' a reality Lin-Manuel Miranda sat down with On The Red Carpet to share how "Encanto" exemplifies the power of being seen and heard. While "Encanto's" story is charming and its songs catchy, Miranda alluded that its real power comes from representation, giving underrepresented Latino children a moment to be seen and heard. This power was exemplified in the story of Kenzo Brooks , a 2-year-old Black boy who saw "Encanto's" Afro-Latino character Antonio Madrigal and thought it was himself on the screen. "I've been preparing all my life for this moment because I wanted to help create characters that kids would see themselves in. I wanted to write songs that depicted those house parties that I grew up in. And you're always kind of writing for your inner child," he told On The Red Carpet . The Associated Press contributed to this report. The Walt Disney Co. is the parent company of this station. Report a correction or typo Copyright © 2025 OnTheRedCarpet.com. All Rights Reserved. Related Topics ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT LOS ANGELES OSCARS ACADEMY AWARDS AWARD SHOWS MOVIE NEWS DISNEY MUSIC DISNEY+ STREAMING SERVICE ON THE RED CARPET Oscars The Oscars mandate voters watch all nominated movies Oscars to add stunt design award for its 100th ceremony Oscar-winning director freed by Israel, friend says Conan O'Brien to return as host of the 2026 Oscars Watch Live ON NOW Top Stories Palisades residents express concerns about controlled fire testing 2 hours ago Thousands of striking county workers march through DTLA More than 1/3 of CA households are struggling to make ends meet: Study 1 hour ago Trump discusses first 100 days in ABC interview 1 hour ago Newsom announces AI-driven efforts to help state reduce traffic jams Luka Dončić donates $5K to restore vandalized Kobe Bryant mural Tariff uncertainty threatens to raise drug prices, experts warn Loved ones demand justice after 20-year-old killed in Pomona shooting Topics Home Weather Traffic U.S. & World Politics Consumer Regions Los Angeles Orange County Inland Empire Ventura County California More Live Video Apps ABC7 En Español Investigations Shop Company Submit News Tips TV Listings About ABC7 Meet the News Team Jobs/Internships ABC7 Merchandise Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Children's Privacy Policy Your US State Privacy Rights Terms of Use Interest-Based Ads Public Inspection File FCC Applications Copyright © 2025 KABC Television, LLC. All Rights Reserved.