Imelda Staunton, Dominic West, Elizabeth Debicki at The Crown Season 5 Premiere - Netflix Tudum Skip to main content Sign In By Netflix Search Home Top 10 Trending What to Watch Shows Movies Podcasts Shop Netflix Shop Exclusive merch from your Netflix faves Podcasts Hear more about Netflix’s TV shows and films Popular Weak Hero The Life List Squid Game You Adolescence Black Mirror Ransom Canyon When Life Gives You Tangerines Wednesday Stranger Things Imelda Staunton, Dominic West, Elizabeth Debicki at The Crown Season 5 Premiere - Netflix Tudum Still Moving for Netflix Red Carpet ‘The Crown’ Stars Can’t Wait for You to Finally Watch Season 5 Imelda Staunton, Dominic West and more on-screen royals spoke to Tudum at the red carpet premiere in London. By Jean Bentley Nov. 8, 2022 Season 5 of The Crown is finally debuting on Netflix on Nov. 9 — and the show’s cast is so ready for fans to dive in. “You want to just get it out there,” Dominic West (who takes over the role of Prince Charles in Seasons 5 and 6) told Tudum on the red carpet at the show’s London premiere. “Finally, [people can] make their judgments based on seeing the show rather than speculating about it.” Related Stories What To Watch 13 Shows Like Bridgerton to Watch After Finishing Season 3 June 17 What To Watch 16 Essential Historical TV Series to Watch Right Now March 5 What To Watch These 12 Shows Like The Crown Are Fit for Royalty March 5, 2024 What To Watch 15 British Shows to Take You Straight Across the Pond April 29, 2024 The drama’s fifth season is set in the ’90s, a time when public opinion of the royal family was at an all-time low and some people were beginning to question the monarch’s (now played by Imelda Staunton) relevance. To round things out, it’s also the decade in which Princess Diana ( Elizabeth Debicki ) and Prince Charles’ marriage finally fully crumbled. But despite the grim times depicted on-screen, Jonny Lee Miller, who plays Prime Minister John Major this season, is also eager to get the new episodes in front of audiences. “I’m always excited for things to come out and for people to see them,” he said on the carpet. “That’s the whole point. It’s exciting. We’re quite proud of the work and being able to be involved in the show.” The feeling of pride in their work is echoed by Jonathan Pryce, who plays Prince Philip — although he does admit to Tudum that he hasn’t actually seen the full season yet. “It’s nice to have something to do with my free nights,” he joked. But Olivia Williams, who takes on the role of Camilla Parker Bowles, knows people “will be very interested to see what we’ve done with it. I think it’s both fair and fascinating,” she said at the premiere. 1 / 33 From left: Jonny Lee Miller, Imelda Staunton, Dominic West, Elizabeth Debick, Jonathan Pryce and Lesley Manville. Images: Still Moving for Netflix Imelda Staunton Dominic West Jonny Lee Miller Elizabeth Debicki Claudia Harrison Gillian Anderson Claudia Harrison From left: Teddy Hawley, Elizabeth Debicki and Timothee Sambor Marcia Warren Prasanna Puwanarajah Dominic and Senan West Jude Akuwudike Jonathan Pryce Elizabeth Debicki and Dominic West Peter Morgan James Murray Prasanna Puwanarajah Marcia Warren Teddy Hawley Elizabeth Debicki From left: Elizabeth Debicki, Dominic West, Imelda Staunton and Jonathan Pryce Khalid Abdalla Elizabeth Debicki Olivia Williams Peter Morgan Elizabeth Debicki Lesley Manville Elizabeth Debicki Jonathan Pryce Imelda Staunton Lesley Manville Salim Daw and Khalid Abdalla What keeps the show fair and fascinating in Staunton’s eyes is that everyone involved in the production handles the story with great care. “Peter Morgan always wants to be respectful and give all the characters dignity and empathy, and let the audience imagine what it’s like being that family who, day in, day out, just went to work every day,” said the actor who portrays Queen Elizabeth II herself. “I think the outpouring of gratitude that was shown at the queen’s funeral was to do with her ability to just keep working every day.” The Crown Season 5 premieres on Netflix on Nov. 9. Red Carpet Article My List Watch Explore The Crown 6 Seasons TV-MA 2016 Inspired by real events, this fictional dramatization tells the story of Queen Elizabeth II and the political and personal events that shaped her reign. All About The Crown Let's Talk How The Crown Anointed a New Generation of Stars Peter Morgan on casting Josh O'Connor, Emma Corrin, and Vanessa Kirby. By Anne Cohen Aug. 14 Did You Know? 32 Staggering Facts You Didn’t Know About The Crown There were 45,816 extras, 719 locations, and 1 propped that never moved. By Phillipe Thao Aug. 5 First Look Everything You Need to Know About ‘The Crown’ Season 6 Kate Middleton struts her stuff and the queen contemplates her future. By Phillipe Thao July 17 Explainer How ‘The Crown’ Season 6 Explores Grief Through Visions of Diana and Dodi “When people die, there is a certain energy of them that remains very close.” By Phillipe Thao March 5, 2024 Explainer How Does The Crown End? Inside the Series Finale “Elements of the final episode were always in my mind.” By Lucy Ford March 5, 2024 Podcasts Step Inside the Palace One Last Time with The Crown: The Official Podcast Go behind the scenes with Netflix’s royals for the dramatic farewell season. By Stephan Lee Jan. 2, 2024 Who’s Who May We Present the Cast of The Crown Season 6 Here’s a guide to the characters of the drama’s final chapter. By Tara Bitran Dec. 23, 2023 Passport Where Was The Crown Filmed? Inside Every Season 6 Location From Scottish universities to Mediterranean getaways. By Tara Bitran Dec. 22, 2023 Shop The Crown GO TO NETFLIX SHOP Discover More Red Carpet Red Carpet Netflix Hard-Launches Summer with the Ultimate Reality Crossover Event Your favorite Netflix Reality Universe stars together, in one room for one night only. By Cole Delbyck May 31 Red Carpet Michelle Buteau Gets Her Flowers at the ‘Survival of the Thickest’ Premiere The star and creator was the belle of the ball as the cast celebrated the upcoming series in New York City. By Cole Delbyck July 12, 2023 Red Carpet Chris Hemsworth Leaps into Action at the ‘Extraction 2’ Premiere The Aussie A-lister storms the red carpet for his explosive new sequel. By Kase Wickman June 13, 2023 Red Carpet Arnold Schwarzenegger and His Puppet Suit Up for the ‘FUBAR’ Red Carpet The actor goes undercover in the upcoming action-comedy spy series. By Phillipe Thao May 23, 2023 Red Carpet Netflix’s Queer Stars Go All Out for a Night of Pride Get into the gays and the glamour. By Cole Delbyck May 13, 2023 Red Carpet What Happens When All of the UK’s Young TV Stars Go to the Same Party? Inside Netflix and British Vogue ’s BAFTA TV celebration. By Tudum Staff May 12, 2023 Red Carpet Jennifer Lopez Kills on ‘The Mother’ Red Carpet The star plays a trained sniper in Niki Caro’s new action thriller. By Anne Cohen May 11, 2023 Red Carpet How Real-Life (College) Queens Got Ready for the ‘Queen Charlotte’ Premiere They’re fixing their crowns and captivating the red carpet. By Ariana Romero April 28, 2023 Related Videos What To Watch What Geeked Week Stars Are Watching on Netflix Dive into the queue with stars from 'One Piece,' 'Cobra Kai,' and more. Sept. 28 3:41 What To Watch What to Watch After Vikings: Valhalla 9 shows and movies featuring epic sagas and historical dramas. July 18 3:08 What To Watch Wedding Scenes that Demand a Rewatch Get ready to swoon, laugh, and maybe shed a tear. June 4 3:16 Trailer The Crown Season 6, Part 2 Trailer "Now is the time." The epic conclusion of the award winning series is here. Feb. 12, 2024 2:31 What To Watch These Historical Dramas Will Take You Way Back Choose your time period. Nov. 10, 2023 1:57 Trailer ‘The Crown’ Season 6, Part 1 Trailer The final season of the award-winning series begins November 16. Oct. 31, 2023 2:05 What To Watch ‘Sex Education’, ‘The Crown’, and Other British Shows You Can’t Miss Shows to transport you over the pond. Sept. 29, 2023 2:19 Up Close Jonathan Pryce Discusses Playing Prince Philip on ‘The Crown’ It's important to remember that the show is not a documentary. Nov. 21, 2022 3:45 Latest News Making Of The Six Triple Eight Tells the Heroic Story of the 6888th Battalion 12:15 am News Tickets Are on Sale Now For Stranger Things: The First Shadow Play on Broadway 12:12 am News Head Back to the Arctic for North of North Season 2 12:00 am Official Player Guide Single’s Inferno: Choices : Your Guide to the Hottest Island On the Planet Yesterday 9:21 pm Deep Dive Everything You Need to Know About Single’s Inferno: Choices , the Mobile Game Yesterday 9:20 pm News You Returns for Its Final Season and Immediately Tops the Charts Yesterday 6:59 pm More News Popular Now Who’s Who Say Hello to the You Season 5 Cast From the Goldbergs to the Lockwoods to Bronte and beyond. By Ariana Romero Yesterday 12:00 am Deep Dive Weak Hero Class 2 : Everything You Need to Know About the Action K-Drama Si-eun is back to fend off bad guys at a new school riddled with bullies. By Ingrid Ostby April 25 New on Netflix New on Netflix in April 2025 Stream new episodes of You, Black Mirror, Love on the Spectrum , and more. By Erin Corbett April 17 Who’s Who Meet the 18 Netflix Reality Universe Stars Facing Off in Battle Camp Stars from Love Is Blind , The Circle, and more will collide in the competition. By Olivia Harrison April 25 Popular Releases Back To Top About Tudum Netflix Shop Top 10 Podcasts Sign Into Netflix Home Privacy Terms of Use Cookie Preferences Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Ad Choices © 2025 netflix Close Search Close Hi, undefined!