The New Nobel Prize In Literature Scandal, Explained Skip To Content logo/forward/small Open Search Field Close Search Field Search Submit Get our Newsletters Shop our Store JEWISH. INDEPENDENT. NONPROFIT. Support Our Work Support Us Search Submit Campus Antisemitism Israel Republish our articles פֿאָרווערטס Newsletters Events Podcasts News Culture Food Israel Opinion Yiddish Archive Support Our Work Learn more ways to give About Jobs Help Contact Us Store Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Campus Antisemitism Israel Republish our articles פֿאָרווערטס Culture The New Nobel Prize In Literature Is Scandalous. Here’s Why. Copy to clipboard Share on Facebook Share on X Share on Bluesky Share on Reddit Share on Email Print Article Republish Article Olga Tokarczuk at the London Book Fair 2017 Image by David Levenson/Getty Images By Talya Zax October 10, 2019 In the hours since the Swedish Academy announced Olga Tokarczuk and Peter Handke as newly-minted winners of the Nobel Prize in Literature, much has been made of the contrast between then. Tokarczuk, the 2018 laureate — whose award comes a year late, after a scandal derailed 2018 committee’s deliberations — is a Polish novelist whose critical eye toward her country’s government and history has made her the target of a nationalist backlash. Handke, the 2019 winner, is an Austrian writer almost as well known for his vocal defense of Serbian war criminal Slobodan Milosevic as for his highly-regarded novels, plays and films. Forwarding the News Thoughtful, balanced reporting from the Forward and around the web, bringing you updated news and analysis each day. Terms (Required) I agree to the Forward's Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Email (Required) While Tokarczuk’s win has been widely lauded — The Guardian declared her “the dreadlocked feminist winner the Nobel needed” — Handke’s provoked immediate and widespread displeasure. PEN America, an organization that advocates for writers’ liberty, wrote that it was “dumbfounded by the selection of a writer who has used his public voice to undercut historical truth and offer public succor to perpetrators of genocide.” The Slovenian public intellectual Slavoj Žižek told the Guardian that “In 2014, Handke called for the Nobel to be abolished, saying it was a ‘false canonisation’ of literature. The fact that he got it now proves that he was right.” The controversy over Handke’s support of Milosevic dates back 20 years, but the striking political differences between him and Tokarczuk reached a point of particular clarity in 2014. In that year, Handke was given the International Ibsen Prize, but mass outrage led him to reject the prize money while still accepting the award. In his accompanying speech, he said his critics should “go to hell.” (He’d previously met controversy over a literary award in 2006, when he turned down Germany’s Heinrich Heine prize after authorities attempted to withdraw it after he attended Milosevic’s funeral.) 2014 also marked the release of Tokarczuk’s most ambitious work, “The Books of Jacob,” the novel that set off much of the rancor directed at her by Polish nationalists. The book, which has yet to appear in English, is centered on the historical figure of Jakub Frank, a Jewish-born 18th-century religious leader. Frank, believed to have been born with the name Jakub Leibowicz, oversaw a messianic sect that incorporated significant portions of Christian practice into Judaism; he led mass baptisms of his followers. As Ruth Franklin reported in a New Yorker profile this past summer, Tokarczuk spent almost a decade researching Frank and the Poland in which he lived. The result is a book that, by the account of those who have read it, delivers a picture of the many intricate and unpredictable ways in which the story of Poland is tied to the story of its Jews. “There’s no Polish culture without Jewish culture,” Tokarczuk told Franklin. The novel’s release shortly predated an escalation in Polish nationalism tied to the Law and Justice party’s ascent to power in 2015. But the forces that fueled that escalation were already prevalent. When Tokarczuk accepted the Nike Prize, the country’s highest literary honor, for “The Books of Jacob,” she said in a speech that the country had “committed horrendous acts as colonizers, as a national majority that suppressed the minority, as slaveowners, and as the murderers of Jews.” She was quickly inundated by threats so alarming that her publishers briefly hired bodyguards. In the five years since, she has witnessed the Law and Justice party take an increasingly hard line on censoring certain conversations about Poland’s relationship with Jews. In 2016, the government began a campaign against the Princeton historian Jan Gross, known for his groundbreaking work on the massacre at Jedwabne, in which Poles murdered 1,600 of their Jewish neighbors. In 2018, the Law and Justice party’s government made it illegal to blame Poland or Polish nationals for Nazi crimes. POLIN, a groundbreaking Polish museum of Jewish history, has been leader-less for five months , as its director, who oversaw a number of exhibits highly critical of Poland’s policy toward Jews, awaits official reappointment — despite having been re-approved for the job. “The subject of my book [‘The Books of Jacob’] — a multicultural Poland — was not comfortable for proponents of this new version of history,” Tokarczuk told PEN Transmissions , a journal run by the English iteration of PEN, in May, 2018. She was taken by surprise by the amount of rage the book provoked — not to mention her comment on receiving the Nike. But rather than retreat, she has continued to speak out on behalf of the communities she sees her government as wishing to sideline. In a January op-ed for The New York Times following a Polish radical’s on-air murder of the open-minded young Gdansk mayor Pawel Adamowicz, Tokarczuk wrote of a Polish populist narrative that “scapegoats… the so-called crazy leftists, queer-lovers, Germans, Jews, European Union puppets, feminists, liberals and anyone who supports immigrants.” “We have a suffocating atmosphere of hate,” she wrote, “a highly emotional stalemate in which there can only be traitors and heroes.” So on the one hand is Tokarczuk, a proponent of multiculturalism who has remained vocal despite facing profound antagonism for her stance — and grown more so since her first major encounter with that antagonism in 2014. And on the other is Handke, eulogizer of Milsoevic, who dictated the Bosnian genocide during the Balkan wars of the 1990s and died while on trial for war crimes against the Hague. He too has remained committed to his position; the “go to hell” of 2014, one of his last known public comments on the matter, speaks volumes. The Polish government, Tokarczuk told PEN Transmissions, “want[s] to control and define history, to rewrite the memory about our past, obliterating any dark sides.” “In such a time as we live in now in Poland the role of the writer is very special,” she said. “We have to be honest and decent people, to write about the world in the right way.” Related 5 Months After His Selection, The Director Of The Polish Jewish Museum Waits To Be Reinstated – Here’s Why Related Carolyn Forché, Ilya Kaminsky Among National Book Award Finalists Correction, October 11, 12:30 p.m.: A previous version of this article referred to POLIN as a Holocaust museum. It is in fact a museum of Polish Jewish history. Talya Zax is the Forward’s opinion editor. Contact her at [email protected] or on Twitter, @TalyaZax . [email protected] @TalyaZax The Forward is free to read, but it isn’t free to produce I hope you appreciated this article. Before you go, I’d like to ask you to please support the Forward . Now more than ever, American Jews need independent news they can trust, with reporting driven by truth, not ideology. We serve you, not any ideological agenda. At a time when other newsrooms are closing or cutting back, the Forward has removed its paywall and invested additional resources to report on the ground from Israel and around the U.S. on the impact of the war, rising antisemitism and polarized discourse. Readers like you make it all possible. Support our work by becoming a Forward Member and connect with our journalism and your community. This is a great time to support independent Jewish journalism you rely on.  Make a gift today! —  Rachel Fishman Feddersen, Publisher and CEO Support our mission to tell the Jewish story fully and fairly. $90 $180 $360 Other amount Free morning newsletter Forwarding the News Thoughtful, balanced reporting from the Forward and around the web, bringing you updated news and analysis each day. Terms (Required) I agree to the Forward's Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Email (Required) FAST FORWARD Why the Antisemitism Awareness Act now has a religious liberty clause to protect ‘Jews killed Jesus’ statements Trump nominee Ed Martin, who praised a Nazi sympathizer, also compared Biden to Hitler Heavy police presence blocks anti-Israel protest in Brooklyn from reaching Jewish neighborhood Shop the Forward Store 100% of profits support our journalism Accessory Our founder, Ab Cahan Tote bag Apparel 1960s Yiddish hipi hoodie Premium pullover hoodie Apparel It's spelled Khanike tee Premium tee Apparel The Forverts est. 1897 hoodie Women's premium hoodie Dive In Film & TV In ‘The Rehearsal,’ Nathan Fielder fights the removal of his Holocaust fashion episode By PJ Grisar 4 min read Culture In a Haredi Jerusalem neighborhood, doctors’ visits are free, but the wait may cost you By Miriam Herman 6 min read Culture I have seen the future of America — in a pastrami sandwich in Queens By Andrew Silverstein 7 min read Culture Trump wants to honor Hannah Arendt in a ‘Garden of American Heroes.’ Is this a joke? By Mira Fox 4 min read Explore Most Popular 1 Culture Trump wants to honor Hannah Arendt in a ‘Garden of American Heroes.’ Is this a joke? By Mira Fox 4 min read 2 Fast Forward Why the Antisemitism Awareness Act now has a religious liberty clause to protect ‘Jews killed Jesus’ statements By Jacob Kornbluh 2 min read 3 Fast Forward The invitation said, ‘No Jews.’ The response from campus officials, at least, was real. By Grace Gilson 3 min read 4 Opinion A Holocaust perpetrator was just celebrated on US soil. I think I know why no one objected. By Lev Golinkin 4 min read In Case You Missed It Opinion The secret cost of Israel’s wars ravaged my family. It’s only getting worse By Yael Braudo-Bahat 2 min read Yiddish מחשבֿות פֿון אַן אַהיים־געקומענעם (אַ מלחמה־טאָגגבוך) Reflections of a soldier after returning home (a wartime diary) דער מחבר איז אַ סטודענט אינעם ירושלימער העברעיִשן אוניווערסיטעט, אינעם צווייטן יאָר ייִדיש־לימוד פֿון יאיר בן מנחם 2 min read Fast Forward Why the Antisemitism Awareness Act now has a religious liberty clause to protect ‘Jews killed Jesus’ statements By Jacob Kornbluh 2 min read News At Harvard, reports on antisemitism and anti-Palestinian bias reflect campus conflict over Israel By Arno Rosenfeld 5 min read Shop the Forward Store 100% of profits support our journalism Accessory Our founder, Ab Cahan Tote bag Apparel 1960s Yiddish hipi hoodie Premium pullover hoodie Apparel It's spelled Khanike tee Premium tee Apparel The Forverts est. 1897 hoodie Women's premium hoodie 4 m READ Dive In Explore Share on Facebook Share on X Republish Article Close Republish This Story Please read before republishing We’re happy to make this story available to republish for free, unless it originated with JTA, Haaretz or another publication (as indicated on the article) and as long as you follow our guidelines . You must comply with the following: Credit the Forward Retain our pixel Preserve our canonical link in Google search Add a noindex tag in Google search See our full guidelines for more information, and this guide for detail about canonical URLs. To republish, copy the HTML by clicking on the yellow button to the right; it includes our tracking pixel, all paragraph styles and hyperlinks, the author byline and credit to the Forward. It does not include images; to avoid copyright violations, you must add them manually, following our guidelines . Please email us at [email protected] , subject line “republish,” with any questions or to let us know what stories you’re picking up. The New Nobel Prize In Literature Is Scandalous. Here’s Why. Copied to clipboard For Web: Copy HTML Copied to clipboard For Print: Copy Plain Text About Contact Us Help Jobs Membership Newsletters Republication Guidelines Store Advertise Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube The Forward is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. We have removed our paywall, making all our content free for the first time in our history. Become a member and support independent Jewish journalism. THE JEWISH DAILY FORWARD ℠ Copyright © 2025 The Forward Association, Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Support our work! Donate We don't support Internet Explorer Please use Chrome, Safari, Firefox, or Edge to view this site.