Watch The Walking Dead | Netflix Netflix Home Netflix Home Sign In Episodes More to Watch Plans The Walking Dead The Walking Dead Email address Email address Email address Email address Email address Join Now Join Now Join Now Join Now Join Now Endless entertainment starting at $7.99 The Walking Dead Email address Email address Email address Email address Email address Join Now Join Now Join Now Join Now Join Now Endless entertainment starting at $7.99 The Walking Dead 2021 11 Seasons ⁨TV-MA⁩ Horror In the wake of a zombie apocalypse, survivors hold on to the hope of humanity by banding together to wage a fight for their own survival. Starring: Andrew Lincoln, Steven Yeun, Norman Reedus Episodes Select Season Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Season 5 Season 6 Season 7 Season 8 Season 9 Season 10 1h 7m 1. Days Gone Bye Rick searches for his family in a world terrorized by the walking dead. Morgan and Duane help teach Rick the new rules for survival. 44m 2. Guts Rick unknowingly causes a group of survivors to be trapped by walkers and must confront an enemy far more dangerous than the undead. 45m 3. Tell It to the Frogs Rick goes back to Atlanta to retrieve the bag of guns and save a man's life. Lori and Shane deal with the return of someone they thought was dead. 44m 4. Vatos Rick's mission to Atlanta is jeopardized when things go awry. Jim becomes unhinged in the camp. 45m 5. Wildfire Rick leads the group to the CDC after the attack. Jim must make a terrible life and death decision. 45m 6. TS-19 Rick and the group are allowed into the CDC by a strange doctor. But not all is what it seems in their newly found haven. More Details Watch offline Available to download Genres TV Dramas, TV Horror, TV Shows Based on Comics This show is ... Dystopian, Ominous, Horror, Cult Favorite, Post Apocalypse, Golden Globe Nominee, Based on a Comic, Gory, Zombies, TV Audio English [Original], Spanish (Latin America) Subtitles English, Spanish (Latin America) Cast Andrew Lincoln, Steven Yeun, Norman Reedus, Chandler Riggs, Melissa McBride, Lauren Cohan, Danai Gurira, Alanna Masterson, Sonequa Martin-Green, Josh McDermitt You Might Also Like The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon Fear the Walking Dead The Walking Dead: The Ones Who Live Tribes of Europa Sweet Home All of Us Are Dead Outside Reality Z Black Summer Trending Now You Black Mirror Havoc Ransom Canyon Love on the Spectrum Despicable Me 4 Adolescence Den of Thieves 2: Pantera iHostage Young Sheldon A Plan To Suit Your Needs Standard with ads 1080p Good video quality Less ads than you might think $7.99 /mo Standard 1080p Good video quality No ads $17.99 /mo Premium 4K + HDR Best video quality Immersive sound (spatial audio) No ads $24.99 /mo Discover your next favorites, plus new releases every week More About Netflix Join Now Join Now Join Now Join Now Join Now Questions? Call 1-844-505-2993 FAQ Help Center Account Media Center Investor Relations Jobs Netflix Shop Redeem Gift Cards Buy Gift Cards Ways to Watch Terms of Use Privacy Cookie Preferences Corporate Information Contact Us Speed Test Legal Notices Only on Netflix Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Ad Choices Select Language English Español Questions? Call 1-844-505-2993 FAQ Help Center Account Media Center Investor Relations Jobs Netflix Shop Redeem Gift Cards Buy Gift Cards Ways to Watch Terms of Use Privacy Cookie Preferences Corporate Information Contact Us Speed Test Legal Notices Only on Netflix Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Ad Choices Select Language English Español