Peter Handke – Facts – 2019 - NobelPrize.org Skip to content Open the search menu Close the search menu Close Mobile Menu Toggle Mobile Menu Nobel Prizes & laureates All Nobel Prizes All Nobel Prizes 2024 Physics prize Chemistry prize Medicine prize Literature prize Peace prize Prize in economic sciences About About the prize Alfred Nobel Award ceremonies Nomination Organisation Stories Educational Events & museums Open the search menu Close the search menu Header Search Submit a search term Enhanced Page Navigation Peter Handke – Facts – 2019 Nobel Prize in Literature 2019 Summary Laureates Peter Handke Facts Biographical Nobel Lecture Prize presentation Banquet speech Interview Nobel diploma Photo gallery Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech Share this Facebook X LinkedIn Email this page Peter Handke Facts Navigate to: Summary -- Facts -- Biographical -- Nobel Lecture -- Prize presentation -- Banquet speech -- Interview -- Nobel diploma -- Photo gallery Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech © Nobel Media. Photo: A. Mahmoud Peter Handke Nobel Prize in Literature 2019 Born:		6 December 1942, Griffen, Austria Residence at the time of the award: 					Chaville, France Prize motivation: 					“for an influential work that with linguistic ingenuity has explored the periphery and the specificity of human experience” Prize share: 				1/1 Life Peter Handke was born in a village named Griffen, located in the Kärnten region in southern Austria. His mother Maria belonged to the Slovenian minority. His father was a German soldier he would not meet before reaching adulthood himself. Instead, he and his siblings grew up with his mother and her new husband. After attending a Christian high school in Klagenfurt he studied law at the University of Graz but broke off his studies a few years later when his debut novel Die Hornissen (1966) was published. Since 1990 he has been based in Chaville, southwest of Paris, from where he has made many productive journeys. Work Peter Handke is one of the most influential writers in Europe after the Second World War. His bibliography contains novels, essays, note books, dramatic works and screenplays. Already in the 1960s Handke set his mark on the literary scene. He distanced himself from prevailing demands on community-oriented and political positions. His works are filled with a strong desire to discover and to bring his discoveries to life by finding new literary expressions for them. One of his books is A Sorrow Beyond Dreams, written after his mother’s suicide. To cite this section MLA style: Peter Handke – Facts – 2019. NobelPrize.org. Nobel Prize Outreach 2025. Fri. 25 Apr 2025. <https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/literature/2019/handke/facts/> Back to top Back To Top Takes users back to the top of the page Nobel Prizes and laureates Nobel Prizes 2024 Six prizes were awarded for achievements that have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind. The 12 laureates' work and discoveries range from proteins' structures and machine learning to fighting for a world free of nuclear weapons. See them all presented here. Explore prizes and laureates Look for popular awards and laureates in different fields, and discover the history of the Nobel Prize. Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Decrease the year by one - Choose a year you would like to search in Increase the year by one + Explore About the Nobel Prize organisation The Nobel Foundation Tasked with a mission to manage Alfred Nobel's fortune and has ultimate responsibility for fulfilling the intentions of Nobel's will. The prize-awarding institutions For more than a century, these academic institutions have worked independently to select Nobel Prize laureates. Outreach organisations Several outreach organisations and activities have been developed to inspire generations and disseminate knowledge about the Nobel Prize. Press Contact FAQ Privacy policy Terms of use For developers Media player Careers Join us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Nobel Prize Copyright © Nobel Prize Outreach 2025 Scroll to top