Veteran British actor David Warner, star of The Omen and Tron, dies aged 80 | Movies | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games David Warner in 2015. Photograph: Frank Baron/The Guardian View image in fullscreen David Warner in 2015. Photograph: Frank Baron/The Guardian Movies This article is more than 2 years old Veteran British actor David Warner, star of The Omen and Tron, dies aged 80 This article is more than 2 years old The stage and screen veteran’s multifaceted career included roles in Titanic, Time Bandits and Straw Dogs, as well as a renowned Hamlet for the RSC Steve Rose Mon 25 Jul 2022 06.48 EDT Last modified on Wed 10 Aug 2022 11.17 EDT Share The veteran British actor David Warner has died aged 80 . The BBC reported that Warner died from “a cancer-related illness” and that his family confirmed the news “with an overwhelmingly heavy heart”. David Warner: a life in pictures Read more Warner’s varied career spanned cinema, stage, television and radio. He was regarded as the finest Hamlet of his generation on stage, then gravitated into cinema as a character actor, travelling from British 1960s cinema to the sci-fi universes of Tron, Doctor Who and Star Trek to James Cameron’s Titanic, in which he played the malicious enforcer Spicer Lovejoy. In a statement to the BBC, Warner’s family said: “Over the past 18 months he approached his diagnosis with a characteristic grace and dignity … He will be missed hugely by us, his family and friends, and remembered as a kind-hearted, generous and compassionate man, partner and father, whose legacy of extraordinary work has touched the lives of so many over the years. We are heartbroken.” Warner was born in Manchester, in 1941. His parents were unmarried and he spent time in the care of both, describing his childhood as “troubled” and “messy”. His Russian-Jewish father sent him to a succession of boarding schools. His mother disappeared from his life when he was a teenager, he revealed. After school he studied at the prestigious Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in London. From the outset, Warner was insecure about his acting ability and his looks. Tall (6 foot 2) and rangy, he never imagined himself as a leading man. But after joining the Royal Shakespeare Company, aged 21, he was cast as the lead in Karel Reisz’s critically acclaimed film Morgan, A Suitable Case For Treatment , and the RSC cast him as Hamlet in 1965. Warner’s portrayal of Shakespeare’s prince as a proto-student radical horrified traditional critics but chimed with the younger audiences. “When I was a kid and saw Shakespeare, I never heard the actors for all the posturing and declaiming,” he later said. “I thought surely kids today were the same as I was, not wanting Shakespeare shoved down their throats. I wanted to make them come back again, of their own free will.” View image in fullscreen David Warner, left, with Gregory Peck in The Omen Photograph: Ronald Grant After a disastrous production of I, Claudius in 1973 Warner developed stage fright. He focused on film acting, and often played villains, as in Terry Gilliams’ Time Bandits, time-travel sci-fi Time After Time, and pioneering computer adventure Tron. He worked with Sam Peckinpah on three films: The Ballad of Cable Hogue, Straw Dogs and Cross of Iron. Other significant roles included The Omen and The Man With Two Brains. Warner moved to Hollywood in 1987, where he lived for 15 years. During that time, in addition to Titanic, he was a regular fixture in US television, cropping up in everything from Star Trek (he has played three different characters in the franchise) to Doctor Who, Twin Peaks and The League of Gentlemen’s Apocalypse . In his 70s he was still in demand. He recently played Admiral Boon in Disney revamp, Mary Poppins Returns. In 2005 he also returned to the stage to play King Lear in Chichester. This article was amended on 25 July 2022. Warner’s acting credits included The League of Gentlemen’s Apocalypse, not The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, as an earlier version said. Explore more on these topics Film David Warner Titanic Doctor Who Star Trek The Omen Twin Peaks news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story David Warner: a life in pictures 25 Jul 2022 David Warner: a fiercely charismatic actor who raised the IQ of his movies 25 Jul 2022 … … comments Most viewed Most viewed Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)