Brad Pitt may win an Oscar for Once Upon a Time — but not his first ​ Skip to content Entertainment Weekly Search Please fill out this field. Newsletters Sweepstakes Search Please fill out this field. TV TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge Binge EW's Binge Podcast Episodes The Challenge The Golden Bachelor The Masked Singer RuPaul's Drag Race Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowstone Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge 9-1-1 The Masked Singer Outlander RuPaul's Drag Race Saturday Night Live Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowjackets Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Brad Pitt is poised to win an Oscar on Sunday — but it wouldn't be his first By Maureen Lee Lenker Maureen Lee Lenker Maureen Lee Lenker is a senior writer at Entertainment Weekly with over seven years of experience in the entertainment industry. An award-winning journalist, she's written for Turner Classic Movies, Ms. Magazine , The Hollywood Reporter , and more. She's worked at EW for six years covering film, TV, theater, music, and books. The author of EW's quarterly romance review column, "Hot Stuff," Maureen holds Master's degrees from both the University of Southern California and the University of Oxford. Her debut novel, It Happened One Fight , is now available. Follow her for all things related to classic Hollywood, musicals, the romance genre, and Bruce Springsteen. EW's editorial guidelines Published on February 6, 2020 10:54PM EST Brad Pitt appears primed to win his first acting Oscar on Sunday night. The Once Upon a Time in Hollywood star is heavily favored to take home Best Supporting Actor at the 92nd Academy Awards after sweeping the category in previous awards shows this season. Yet it wouldn’t be the first piece of Oscar hardware to his credit: Pitt already has a Best Picture Oscar, which he won back in 2014 for producing 12 Years a Slave . Not only that, Pitt’s name was the first one read aloud by presenter Will Smith when the film won, and he was the first person to speak on behalf of the winning team. “Thank you all, thank you for this incredible honor you’ve bestowed on our film tonight,” he said. “I know I speak for everyone standing behind me that it’s been an absolute privilege working on Solomon’s story, and we all get to stand up here tonight because of one man who brought us all together to tell that story, and that is the indomitable Mr. Steve McQueen.” The McQueen-directed historical drama tells the true story of Solomon Northup (Chiwetel Ejiofor), a free black man who was abducted and sold into slavery in 1841 and fought for 12 years to return to his family. Pitt was integral to the producing team, backing the project in development and beyond through his production company Plan B Entertainment. So much so that while accepting Best Picture, McQueen thanked him, saying, “Without him, this film just would not have been made.” (Pitt also appears in the film in a small supporting role.) YouTube 12 Years a Slave marks Pitt’s only Oscar victory thus far, but he’s been nominated a total of six times. He once again shared the Best Picture nomination with his Plan B associates Dede Gardner and Jeremy Kleiner for 2015’s The Big Short . In 1996, he scored his first acting nod for his supporting role in Twelve Monkeys , and he’s been nominated for Best Actor twice, for 2008’s The Curious Case of Benjamin Button and 2011’s Moneyball . He also shared a Best Picture nomination with the team behind Moneyball . A win for Once Upon a Time in Hollywood would cap a spectacular awards season for Pitt, during which he’s been honored for his work by his peers and beloved by audiences for his hilarious acceptance speeches . Rick Dalton’s booze might not need no buddy, but Pitt’s Best Picture Oscar sure could use one. Related content: Brad Pitt reveals Leonardo DiCaprio’s affectionate nickname for him Brad Pitt wins SAG Award, thanks Margot Robbie and Margaret Qualley’s feet Brad Pitt doesn’t remember the first rule of Fight Club Close Read more: The Awardist Related Articles Rob Reiner told Kathy Bates she would never win the Oscar for Misery Noah Wyle on that tribute to his grandfather on The Pitt , why making the show was a risk Hacks stars Jean Smart and Hannah Einbinder on their 'darker turn' and taking risks on season 4 Kendrick Lamar leads 2025 American Music Awards nominations: See the full list Eva Mendes shouts out husband Ryan Gosling for helping convince Oscars to add stunt category: 'HUGE success!' Scarlett Johansson, Harris Dickinson directorial debuts face off, new Pedro Pascal movie joins 2025 Cannes lineup Demi Moore says 'human part' of her 'has disappointment' over Oscars loss: 'Would have been wonderful' Tori Spelling calls Shannen Doherty's absence from Oscars 'In Memoriam' 'triggering,' just like her dad and Luke Perry 2025 Emmy nominations predictions: Outstanding Drama, Comedy, and Limited Series Sterling K. Brown on his journey in Paradise , why he thought about his wife for one scene, This Is Us fans, and more Halle Berry questions if being first Black Best Actress Oscar winner mattered: 'Did it really change anything?' Oscar winners who also have Razzies Comedian Nate Bargatze to host 2025 Emmys for the first time New Will Smith album references Oscars slap, 'complicated,' 'crazy' marriage: 'Keep his wife's name out of your mouth' Michelle Yeoh reacts to a mom's viral request to borrow her SAG Awards dress for daughter's wedding: 'I'm so flattered' Pachinko star Minha Kim often asks herself, 'What would Sunja do?' Entertainment Weekly Newsletters Follow Us TV Movies Music What To Watch Binge Celebrity The Awardist Books Theater About Us Terms of Service Subscribe Advertise Careers Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Entertainment Weekly is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies