Details on the new 3D Mario game for Switch 2 Menu ninetofive-toys chevron-down Switch Site YouTube Facebook Twitter Instagram Podcast Toggle search" Search for: ninetofive-google 9to5Google ninetofive-mac 9to5Mac ninetofive-electrek Electrek ninetofive-dronedj DroneDJ ninetofive-spaceexplored SpaceExplored About 9to5Toys Do not sell or share my personal information Privacy Settings Deals News Steals Amazon Apple LEGO Best Buy Smartphone Accessories Tested with 9to5Toys TV Gaming YouTube Facebook Twitter Instagram Podcast Nintendo Switch 2 Direct Countdown [T-6 Days]: Details on the new 3D Mario game for Switch 2 Justin Kahn - Mar. 27th 2025 2:30 pm PT Twitter icon @justinkahnmusic Apps Games News nintendo T-6 Days 3D Mario chevron-right Comments Our countdown to the Nintendo Switch 2 Direct continues today with a closer look at the launch games, and more specifically the rumors, leaks, and details on the upcoming 3D Mario game. We are now just 6 days away from the full reveal of Nintendo Switch 2 and more than likely the first-party games it will be launching with (in what is likely just a couple months now) so let’s dive in. New Nintendo Switch 2 3D Mario game When Nintendo first officially debuted the Switch 2, the only game we actually saw was a few brief glimpse at what was almost certainly Mario Kart 9 (or some new Mario Kart game). Many believe, and for good reason, that title (whatever it is exactly) will indeed be a launch game, and potentially a day 1 release for Nintendo Switch 2. But what about a proper Mario game? Shortly after the first-look trailer for Nintendo Switch 2 debuted, rumors were running rampant regarding a new 3D Mario game for Switch 2 – you would think Nintendo would have to have more than just the famous plumber’s kart racer in the works for its next-generation of gaming. Switch 2 launch games: Official retail listing mentions new 3D Mario game, Zelda remake, Pokemon, Metroid, more Now, it would make sense to see a new 2D Mario side-scroller launch alongside Nintendo’s new console – that would certainly fit the bill, but Nintendo did just recently release the wonderful Super Mario Bros. Wonder and it might be too soon for a new classic-style platformer – this is the insanely anticipated Nintendo Switch 2 so anything could happen and Nintendo might have been secretly developing one specifically for this launch, but it seems unlikely. What does seem likely is a new 3D Mario game, and not just because everyone on the internet seems to be suggesting it is. Very quickly after the Switch was revealed, we all the sudden spotted major retailer listings mentioning a “new 3D Mario” game on Nintendo eShop gift card listings: 2025 Games: Metroid Prime 4: Beyond, New 3D Mario, New Mario Kart, A Legend of Zelda Remake/Remaster, Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition, Pokemon Legends: Z-A This, in combination with a near endless string of rumors suggesting a new three dimensional Mario game, alongside the fact that, by just about anyone’s estimation, Nintendo would be due for a new one whether the Switch 2 was coming this year or not anyway, leans further credence to the fact that we are very much likely under a week away from hearing about it officially. Here’s a list of the 3D Mario titles that have released on the Switch – note there is only technically one new title joined by a pair of remakes/re-releases (for the most part): Super Mario Odyssey – released October 2017 Super Mario 3D All-Stars – released September 2020 Super Mario 3D World + Bowser’s Fury – released February 2021 What is the new Switch 2 Mario game going to be? A brand new entry in the Super Mario 3D World series? Super Mario Odyssey 2? Super Mario Galaxy 3 maybe? No one knows for sure, but I think just about any one of those would have the Mushroom Kingdom in a frenzy. Super Mario Galaxy 3 might even shut the whole internet down. I for one hope it’s none of those. Super Mario Odyssey was good, but not great for me. And as amazing as a new Super Mario Galaxy game would be, I just want to it to be something entirely new. Or at least new in the way Super Mario Bros. Wonder is – familiar enough, but (mostly) entirely fresh in terms of the setting and gameplay mechanics. So what then will it be? Again, we don’t know, but the rumor regarding something that ties into the Super Mario Bros. film franchise could be interesting. I, on the surface, despise the idea of games directly tied to movies, but this could be compelling. The recent rumors suggesting a 3D Mario game being tied to the soon to be film franchise don’t specially say the new game is a remake of the film, or even one that follows the same story, but rather one that features stages set in the same universe as the movie – one rumored stage was based on the “real-world” Brooklyn from the Super Mario Bros. movie. This sounds like it could be Super Mario Odyssey 2, but probably not, or rather I hope not. Maybe the plumber brothers start in the same Brooklyn as the movie and get warped away to a new kingdom altogether…that could be interesting. When will the Switch 2 3D Mario game release? Well if we don’t even know what the game is, we certainly don’t know its release date. But a recent report from reliable sources suggests Nintendo will be running a 3-phase release schedule for Switch 2 games – launch games in phase 1, phase 2 releases in October and November, and a third phase for holiday titles. This really isn’t saying much, but with Mario Kart 9 largely expected to be a day one launch title, and maybe even bundled with the console at launch, one might be safe to assume the 3D Mario Switch 2 game will launch during the next two phases – five of the last six major 3D Mario games going way back to 2004 have released in either October or November….just saying. Report: ‘Inside sources’ detail Nintendo’s Switch 2 launch game release schedule, more Add 9to5Toys to your Google News feed. Google News FTC: 9to5Toys is reader supported, we may earn income on affiliate links Subscribe to the 9to5Toys YouTube Channel for all of the latest videos, reviews, and more! Guides Apps Games The best games and apps deals across all platforms: iPhone, iPad, Mac, Android, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, Wii U, 3DS News 9to5Toys: New tech/lifestyle product news. Up to the minute reporting on the latest technology and lifestyle product introductions, in-depth reviews and notable consumer price fluctuations… nintendo About the Author Justin Kahn Twitter icon @justinkahnmusic Justin is a senior deal Jedi over at 9to5Toys where he heads up our game/app coverage and more. He also covers all things music for 9to5Mac, including the weekly Logic Pros series exploring music production on Mac and iOS devices Justin Kahn's favorite gear Apple AirPods Pro 2 Anker 25,000mAh Power Bank Nintendo Switch 2 guide – Pre-order tonight: Start ti... 9to5Toys News Weekly recap – Nintendo Switch 2 hands-... Official Mario Kart World Direct showcase – 3 days to... Official Nintendo Switch 2 gameplay stream DAY 2: Mario... Countdown to the Nintendo Switch 2 Direct with 9to5Toys... Nintendo Switch 2 Direct: Releases June 5, Mario Kart W... Here’s a look at the 24 new characters being adde... 9to5Toys News Weekly recap: Switch 2 pre-order date lea... Load more... Show More Comments Popular in the Community