Francis Ford Coppola - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Early life and education 2 Career Toggle Career subsection 2.1 1960–1969: Early works 2.2 1970–1979: The Godfather and acclaim 2.2.1 Patton (1970) 2.2.2 The Godfather (1972) 2.2.3 The Conversation (1974) 2.2.4 The Godfather Part II (1974) 2.2.5 Apocalypse Now (1979) 2.3 1980–1989: Hard Times 2.4 1990–1999: Continued work 2.4.1 The Godfather Part III (1990) 2.4.2 Bram Stoker's Dracula (1992) 2.4.3 Jack (1996) 2.4.4 The Rainmaker (1997) 2.5 2000–2018: Career fluctuations 2.5.1 Supernova re-edit 2.5.2 Apocalypse Now Redux 2.6 Return 2.6.1 Further director's cuts 2.7 2019–present 2.7.1 Megalopolis (2024) 2.7.2 Future projects 3 Commercial ventures Toggle Commercial ventures subsection 3.1 American Zoetrope 3.1.1 Zoetrope Virtual Studio 3.1.2 Pinocchio dispute with Warner Bros. 3.1.3 Contact dispute with Carl Sagan/Warner Bros. 3.2 Uptown Theater 3.3 Francis Ford Coppola Presents 3.4 Wineries 3.4.1 Francis Ford Coppola Winery 3.4.2 Inglenook Winery 3.4.3 Domaine de Broglie 3.5 Resorts 3.6 Cafe and restaurant 3.7 Literary publications 3.8 Cannabis brand 3.9 Whisky advertisement 4 Personal life Toggle Personal life subsection 4.1 Family 4.2 Politics 5 Favorite films 6 Filmography 7 Awards and honors 8 Bibliography 9 See also 10 Notes 11 References 12 Works cited 13 External links Toggle the table of contents Francis Ford Coppola 89 languages Afrikaans العربية Aragonés Asturianu Azərbaycanca বাংলা Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца) भोजपुरी Български Bosanski Brezhoneg Català Čeština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Gaeilge Galego 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hrvatski Ido Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa ಕನ್ನಡ Kapampangan ქართული Қазақша Kreyòl ayisyen Кыргызча Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Limburgs Magyar Македонски Malagasy മലയാളം मराठी მარგალური مصرى Bahasa Melayu Монгол Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Occitan ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پنجابی پښتو Polski Português Română Runa Simi Русский Shqip Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska தமிழ் తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt Winaray 吴语 粵語 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia American filmmaker (born 1939) Francis Ford Coppola Coppola in 2024 Born ( 1939-04-07 ) April 7, 1939 (age 86) Detroit , Michigan, U.S. Education Hofstra University ( BA ) University of California, Los Angeles ( MFA ) Occupations Film director producer screenwriter Years active 1962–present Works Full list Spouse Eleanor Neil ​ ​ ( m. 1963 ; died 2024 ) ​ Children Gian-Carlo Roman Sofia Parents Carmine Coppola (father) Italia Pennino (mother) Family Coppola Awards Full list Signature Francis Ford Coppola ( / ˈ k oʊ p əl ə / KOH -pə-lə ; [ 1 ] [ 2 ] [ 3 ] born April 7, 1939) [ 4 ] is an American filmmaker. He is considered one of the leading figures of the New Hollywood and one of the greatest filmmakers of all time. [ a ] Coppola is the recipient of five Academy Awards , a BAFTA Award , three Golden Globe Awards , and two Palmes d'Or , in addition of nominations for two Emmy Awards and a Grammy Award . Coppola started his career directing The Rain People (1969) and co-writing Patton (1970), the latter of which earned him and Edmund H. North the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay . Coppola's reputation as a filmmaker was cemented with the release of The Godfather (1972) and The Godfather Part II (1974) which both earned Academy Awards for Best Picture , and the latter earned him Best Director . The films revolutionized the gangster genre . [ 12 ] Coppola released the thriller The Conversation (1974), which received the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival . His next film, the Vietnam War epic Apocalypse Now (1979), had a notoriously lengthy and strenuous production and also won the Palme d'Or, making Coppola one of only ten filmmakers to have won the award twice. He later directed films such as The Outsiders and Rumble Fish (both 1983), The Cotton Club (1984), Peggy Sue Got Married (1986), The Godfather Part III (1990), Bram Stoker's Dracula (1992), and The Rainmaker (1997). He also produced American Graffiti (1973), The Black Stallion (1979), and The Secret Garden (1993). Dissatisfaction with the studio system led to his retreat to independent and experimental filmmaking with the films Youth Without Youth (2007), Tetro (2009) and Twixt (2011), culminating in the $120 million-budgeted Megalopolis (2024), which he financed himself. [ 13 ] Coppola's father Carmine was a composer whose music featured in his son's films. Many of his relatives have found success in film: his sister Talia Shire is an actress, his daughter Sofia is a director, his son Roman is a screenwriter and his nephews Jason Schwartzman and Nicolas Cage are actors. [ 14 ] In 1997, he cofounded the literary magazine Zoetrope: All Story with Adrienne Brodeur . Coppola resides in Napa, California , and since the 2010s has been a vintner , owning a family-branded winery of his own. [ 15 ] In 2024, Coppola was a Kennedy Center Honoree . [ 16 ] Early life and education [ edit ] Francis Ford Coppola was born in Detroit , Michigan, in 1939, to father Carmine Coppola (1910–1991), [ 17 ] a flautist with the Detroit Symphony Orchestra and mother Italia Coppola (née Pennino; 1912–2004), a family of second-generation Italian immigrants. His paternal grandparents came to the United States from Bernalda , Basilicata . [ 18 ] His maternal grandfather, popular Italian composer Francesco Pennino, emigrated from Naples , Italy. [ 19 ] At the time of Coppola's birth, his father was an arranger and assistant orchestra director for The Ford Sunday Evening Hour , an hour-long concert music radio series sponsored by the Ford Motor Company . [ 20 ] [ 21 ] Coppola was born at Henry Ford Hospital , and those two connections to Henry Ford inspired the Coppolas to choose the middle name "Ford" for their son. [ 22 ] [ 23 ] Francis is the middle of three children: his older brother was August Coppola , and his younger sister is actress Talia Shire . [ 18 ] Two years after Coppola's birth, his father was named principal flutist for the NBC Symphony Orchestra , under the baton of Arturo Toscanini , and the family moved to New York. They settled in Woodside, Queens , where Coppola spent the remainder of his childhood. Having contracted polio as a boy, Coppola was bedridden for large periods of his childhood, during which he did homemade puppet theater productions. He developed an interest in theater after reading A Streetcar Named Desire (1947) at age 15. [ 24 ] He created 8 mm feature films edited from home movies with titles such as The Rich Millionaire and The Lost Wallet . [ 25 ] Although Coppola was a mediocre student, his interest in technology and engineering earned him the childhood nickname "Science". [ 26 ] He trained initially for a career in music and became proficient in the tuba , eventually earning a music scholarship to the New York Military Academy . [ 25 ] In all, Coppola attended 23 schools [ 27 ] before he eventually graduated from Great Neck North High School . [ 28 ] He entered Hofstra University in 1955 as a theater arts major. There, he was awarded a scholarship in playwriting. This furthered his interest in directing theater, though his father disapproved and wanted him to study engineering. [ 24 ] Coppola was profoundly impressed by Sergei Eisenstein 's film October: Ten Days That Shook the World (1928), especially the quality of its editing , and decided to pursue cinema rather than theater. [ 24 ] He said he was influenced to become a writer by his brother August. [ 27 ] Coppola also credits the work of Elia Kazan for influencing him as a writer and director. [ 27 ] Coppola's classmates at Hofstra included James Caan , Lainie Kazan and radio artist Joe Frank . [ 28 ] [ 29 ] He later cast Kazan and Caan in his films. While pursuing his bachelor's degree, Coppola was elected president of the university's drama group, The Green Wig, and its musical comedy club, the Kaleidoscopians. He merged the two groups into The Spectrum Players, and under his leadership, the group staged a new production each week. Coppola also founded the cinema workshop at Hofstra and contributed prolifically to the campus literary magazine. [ 25 ] He won three D. H. Lawrence Awards for theatrical production and direction and received a Beckerman Award for his outstanding contributions to the school's theater arts division. [ 30 ] While a graduate student, Coppola studied under professor Dorothy Arzner , whose encouragement was later acknowledged as pivotal to Coppola's career. [ 24 ] Career [ edit ] 1960–1969: Early works [ edit ] After earning his theater arts degree from Hofstra in 1960, Coppola enrolled in UCLA Film School attending with Bart Patton and Pete (John) Broadrick. [ 25 ] [ 31 ] There, he directed a short horror film, The Two Christophers , inspired by Edgar Allan Poe 's " William Wilson " and Ayamonn the Terrible , a film about a sculptor's nightmares coming to life. [ 26 ] He also met undergraduate film major Jim Morrison , future frontman of The Doors . [ 32 ] In the early 1960s, Coppola made $10 per week [ 33 ] (roughly equivalent to $103 per week today). [ 34 ] Looking for a way to earn some extra money, he found that many colleagues from film school made money filming erotic productions known as "nudie-cuties" or "skin flicks", which showed nudity without implying any sexual act. [ 35 ] At 21, Coppola wrote the script for The Peeper , a short comedy film about a voyeur who tries to spy on a sensual photo shoot in the studio next to his apartment. Coppola found an interested producer, who gave him $3,000 to shoot the film. He hired Playboy Bunny Marli Renfro to play the model and had his friend Karl Schanzer play the voyeur. With The Peeper finished, Coppola found that the cartoonish aspects of the film alienated potential buyers, who did not find the 12-minute short exciting enough to screen in adult theaters . [ 36 ] After much rejection, Coppola received an opportunity from Premier Pictures Company, a small production company that invested in The Wide Open Spaces , an erotic western written and directed by Jerry Schafer, which had been shelved for more than a year. Both Schafer's film and The Peeper featured Renfro, so the producers paid Coppola $500 to combine the two films. After Coppola re-edited the picture, it was released as the softcore comedy Tonight for Sure (1962). [ 36 ] Another production company, Screen Rite Pictures, hired Coppola to do a similar job: re-cutting the German film Mit Eva fing die Sünde an [ de ] ( Sin Began with Eve ), directed by Fritz Umgelter . Coppola added new color footage with British model June Wilkinson and other nude starlets. [ 37 ] The re-edited film was released as The Bellboy and the Playgirls . That same year, producer/director Roger Corman hired Coppola as an assistant. Corman first tasked Coppola with dubbing and re-editing the Soviet science fiction film Nebo Zovyot (1959), which Coppola turned into the sex-and-violence monster movie Battle Beyond the Sun (1962). [ 28 ] Impressed by Coppola's perseverance and dedication, Corman hired him as a dialogue director for Tower of London (1962), sound man for The Young Racers (1963) and associate producer and one of many uncredited directors for The Terror (1963). [ 30 ] Coppola's first feature film was Dementia 13 (1963). While on location in Ireland for The Young Racers , Corman persuaded Coppola to use that film's leftover funds to make a low-budget horror movie . [ 30 ] Coppola wrote a brief draft in one night, incorporating elements from Hitchcock's Psycho , [ 38 ] and the result impressed Corman enough to give the go-ahead. On a budget of $40,000 ($20,000 from Corman and $20,000 from another producer who wanted to buy the movie's English rights), [ 38 ] Coppola directed Dementia 13 over the course of nine days. The film recouped its expenses and later became a cult film among horror buffs. It was on the set of Dementia 13 that Coppola met the woman he would marry, Eleanor Jessie Neil . In 1965, Coppola won the annual Samuel Goldwyn Award for best screenplay written by a UCLA student for Pilma, Pilma . [ 25 ] The honor secured him a job as a scriptwriter with Seven Arts . During this time, Coppola also co-wrote the scripts for This Property Is Condemned (1966) and Is Paris Burning? (1966). Coppola bought the rights to David Benedictus 's novel You're a Big Boy Now (1963) and merged it with a story idea of his own, resulting in his UCLA thesis project You're a Big Boy Now (1966), which earned him his Master of Fine Arts Degree from UCLA School of Theater, Film and Television in 1967. [ 30 ] [ 39 ] [ 40 ] The film also received a theatrical release via Warner Bros. and earned critical acclaim. [ 28 ] Francis Ford Coppola in 1973 Following the success of You're a Big Boy Now , Coppola was offered to work on an adaptation of the musical Finian's Rainbow starring dance legend Fred Astaire and Petula Clark in her first American film. Producer Jack L. Warner was not impressed by Coppola's shaggy-haired, bearded, " hippie " appearance and generally left him to his own devices. Coppola took the cast to the Napa Valley for much of the outdoor shooting, but those scenes were in sharp contrast to those filmed on a Hollywood soundstage, resulting in a disjointed look. None the less, Finian's Rainbow (1968) was a critical and commercial success. Clark received a Golden Globe Best Actress nomination. The film introduced Coppola to George Lucas , who became a lifelong friend and a production assistant on his next film. The Rain People (1969) was written, directed, and initially produced by Coppola himself, though as the movie advanced, he exceeded his budget and the studio had to underwrite the remainder of the movie. [ 28 ] It won the Golden Shell at the 1969 San Sebastián International Film Festival . Coppola wanted to subvert the studio system, which he felt had stifled his visions, intending to produce mainstream pictures to finance off-beat projects and give first-time directors a chance. While touring Europe, Coppola was introduced to alternative filmmaking equipment and, inspired by the bohemian spirit of Lanterna Film, decided he would build a deviant studio that would conceive and implement unconventional approaches to filmmaking. He decided to name his future studio "Zoetrope" after receiving a gift of zoetropes from Mogens Scot-Hansen, founder of Lanterna Film. Upon his return home, Coppola and Lucas searched for a mansion in Marin County to house the studio. However, in 1969, with equipment flowing in and no mansion found yet, the first home for Zoetrope Studio was a warehouse in San Francisco on Folsom Street . [ 41 ] Andrew Sarris , in The American Cinema (1968), wrote: "[Coppola] is probably the first reasonably talented and sensibly adaptable directorial talent to emerge from a university curriculum in film-making ... [He] may be heard from more decisively in the future." [ 42 ] 1970–1979: The Godfather and acclaim [ edit ] Patton (1970) [ edit ] Coppola co-wrote the script for Patton starting in 1963 along with Edmund H. North . This earned him his first Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay . However, it was not easy for Coppola to convince Franklin J. Schaffner that the opening scene would work. Coppola later revealed in an interview, I wrote the script of Patton . And the script was very controversial when I wrote it, because they thought it was so stylized. It was supposed to be like, sort of, you know, The Longest Day . And my script of Patton was—I was sort of interested in the reincarnation. And I had this very bizarre opening where he stands up in front of an American flag and gives this speech. Ultimately, I wasn't fired, but I was fired, meaning that when the script was done, they said, "Okay, thank you very much," and they went and hired another writer and that script was forgotten. And I remember very vividly this long, kind of being raked over the coals for this opening scene. [ 43 ] When the title role was offered to George C. Scott , he remembered having read Coppola's screenplay earlier. He stated flatly that he would accept the part only if they used Coppola's script. "Scott is the one who resurrected my version," said Coppola. [ 44 ] The movie opens with Scott's rendering of Patton's famous military "Pep Talk" to members of the Third Army, set against a huge American flag. Coppola and North had to tone down Patton's actual language to avoid an R rating ; in the opening monologue, the word "fornicating" replaced "fucking" when criticizing The Saturday Evening Post . Over the years, this opening monologue has become an iconic scene and has spawned parodies in numerous films, political cartoons, and television shows. The Godfather (1972) [ edit ] The Godfather (1972) was a turning point in Coppola's career. However, he faced several difficulties while filming. Paramount had owned the rights to Mario Puzo 's novel , about an American mafia family, for several years. Coppola was not Paramount's first choice to direct; Sergio Leone was initially offered the job but declined in order to direct his own gangster opus, Once Upon a Time in America . [ 45 ] Robert Evans wanted the picture to be directed by an Italian American to make it "ethnic to the core". [ 46 ] [ 47 ] Evans' chief assistant Peter Bart suggested Coppola, as a director of Italian ancestry who would work for a low sum and budget after the poor reception of The Rain People . [ 48 ] [ 46 ] Coppola initially turned down the job because he found Puzo's novel sleazy and sensationalist, describing it as "pretty cheap stuff". [ 49 ] [ 50 ] At the time, Coppola's studio American Zoetrope owed over $400,000 to Warner Bros. for budget overruns on THX 1138 and, when coupled with his poor financial standing, along with advice from friends and family, Coppola reversed his initial decision and took the job. [ 51 ] [ 52 ] Coppola was officially announced as director of the film on September 28, 1970. [ 53 ] He agreed to receive $125,000 and six percent of the gross rentals. [ 54 ] [ 55 ] Coppola later found a deeper theme for the material and decided it should be not just be a film about organized crime, but also a family saga and a metaphor for capitalism in America. [ 46 ] The story follows the Corleone family as patriarch Vito Corleone passes the reins of power to his son Michael . There was disagreement between Paramount and Coppola on casting; Coppola wanted to cast Marlon Brando as Vito, though Paramount wanted either Ernest Borgnine or Danny Thomas . Orson Welles was also considered. At one point, Coppola was told by the then-president of Paramount that "Marlon Brando will never appear in this motion picture." After pleading with the executives, Coppola was allowed to cast Brando only if he appeared in the film for much less money than his previous films, would perform a screen test, and put up a bond saying that he would not cause a delay in the production (as he had done on previous film sets). [ 56 ] Coppola chose Brando over Borgnine on the basis of Brando's screen test, which also won over the Paramount leadership. Coppola would later recall: The Godfather was a very unappreciated movie when we were making it. They were very unhappy with it. They didn't like the cast. They didn't like the way I was shooting it. I was always on the verge of getting fired. So it was an extremely nightmarish experience. I had two little kids, and the third one was born during that. We lived in a little apartment, and I was basically frightened that they didn't like it. They had as much as said that, so when it was all over I wasn't at all confident that it was going to be successful, and that I'd ever get another job. [ 38 ] The film was a critical and commercial success, setting the box office record. [ 57 ] Pauline Kael wrote: Coppola, a young director who has never had a big hit, may have done the movie for money, as he claims—in order to make the pictures he really wants to make, he says—but this picture was made at peak capacity. He has salvaged Puzo’s energy and lent the narrative dignity. Given the circumstances and the rush to complete the film and bring it to market, Coppola has not only done his best but pushed himself farther than he may realize. The movie is on the heroic scale of earlier pictures on broad themes, such as On the Waterfront , From Here to Eternity , and The Nun’s Story . It offers a wide, startlingly vivid view of a Mafia dynasty. The abundance is from the book; the quality of feeling is Coppola’s ... The direction is tenaciously intelligent. Coppola holds on and pulls it all together. The trash novel is there underneath, but he attempts to draw the patterns out of the particulars. It’s amazing how encompassing the view seems to be—what a sense you get of a broad historical perspective, considering that the span is only from 1945 to the mid-fifties, at which time the Corleone family, already forced by competitive pressures into dealing in narcotics, is moving its base of operations to Las Vegas. [ 58 ] In addition to Brando, the film starred Al Pacino , James Caan , John Cazale and Robert Duvall . It featured Richard Castellano , Sterling Hayden , Diane Keaton and Coppola's sister Talia Shire . Brando won the Academy Award for Best Actor , which he refused to accept. The film won Best Picture and the Best Adapted Screenplay . Coppola was nominated for Best Director but lost to Bob Fosse for Cabaret . [ 59 ] For the score , Coppola commissioned Nino Rota , who had scored many Fellini films. Gordon Willis 's chiaroscuro cinematography was acclaimed, as was Dean Tavoularis 's period production design. [ 60 ] The film routinely ranks near the top of polls for the greatest movies ever. It was ranked third, behind Citizen Kane (1941) and Casablanca (1942), on the American Film Institute 's inaugural AFI's 100 Years...100 Movies list in 1997. In 2007, it had moved to second place, ahead of Casablanca and behind Kane . [ 61 ] David Thomson writes that " The Godfather deserved all its success because it had the nerve to take its 175 minutes slowly ...  It has a calm faith in narrative control that had not been current in Hollywood for twenty years. It was like a film of the forties in its nostalgic decor; its command of great supporting actors; in Gordon Willis's bold exploration of a film noir in color; and in its fascination with evil." [ 40 ] The Conversation (1974) [ edit ] The Conversation (1974) further cemented Coppola's reputation. It was influenced by Michelangelo Antonioni 's Blowup (1966) [ 62 ] and generated much interest when news leaked that it featured the same surveillance and wire-tapping equipment that members of the Nixon administration used to spy on political opponents in the Watergate scandal . Coppola claimed that this was purely coincidental, as the script for The Conversation was completed in the mid-1960s. However, audiences interpreted the film as a reaction to Watergate and its fallout. It stars Gene Hackman as Harry Caul, "the best bugger on the West Coast", hired to spy on a young couple played by Cindy Williams and Frederic Forrest . It features Cazale as his partner, Stan. The movie was a critical success and won Coppola his first Palme d'Or at the 1974 Cannes Film Festival . [ 63 ] Coppola's brother-in-law David Shire wrote the score and Walter Murch edited the picture, as Coppola started work on his next project. [ 64 ] The Godfather Part II (1974) [ edit ] The Godfather Part II is both prequel and sequel to the first film, telling parallel stories of the rise of young Vito Corleone and the fall of his son Michael. After its five-hour-long preview, George Lucas told Coppola, "You have two films. Take one away, it doesn't work." Coppola claims it was the first major motion picture to use "Part II" in its title; he was influenced by Sergei Eisenstein 's two-part Ivan the Terrible . [ 65 ] Paramount was initially opposed to his decision to name the movie The Godfather Part II . According to Coppola, the studio's objection stemmed from the belief that audiences would be reluctant to see a film with such a title, as the audience would supposedly believe that, having already seen The Godfather , there was little reason to see an addition to the original film. However, the success of The Godfather Part II began the Hollywood tradition of numbered sequels. [ 66 ] The movie received tremendous critical acclaim, with many deeming it superior to its predecessor. Kael wrote: Coppola has plunged us back into the sensuality and terror of the first film. And, with the relentlessness of a master, he goes farther and farther. The daring of Part II is that it enlarges the scope and deepens the meaning of the first film ... The first film covered the period from 1945 to the mid-fifties. Part II, contrasting the early manhood of Vito (played by Robert De Niro ) with the life of Michael, his inheritor (AI Pacino), spans almost seventy years. We saw only the middle of the story in the first film; now we have the beginning and the end. Structurally, the completed work is nothing less than the rise and decay of an American dynasty of unofficial rulers ... Part II has the same mythic and operatic visual scheme as the first; once again the cinematographer is Gordon Willis. Visually the film is, however, far more complexly beautiful than the first, just as it’s thematically richer, more shadowed, more full. Willis’s workmanship has developed, like Coppola’s; even the sequences in the sunlight have deep tones — elegiac yet lyrical, as in The Conformist , and always serving the narrative, as the Nino Rota score also does. [ 67 ] In addition to Pacino, Cazale, Duvall, Keaton and Shire reprised their roles from the first film. Newcomers included Michael V. Gazzo and Pacino's mentor Lee Strasberg . The Godfather Part II was nominated for 11 Academy Awards and won six, including Best Picture, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Director. [ 68 ] De Niro won Best Supporting Actor for his portrayal of Vito, making him and Brando the first actors to win Oscars for playing the same character. The film ranked at No. 32 on AFI's inaugural 100 Years...100 Movies list, maintaining its position ten years later. [ 61 ] It  is ranked No. 1 on TV Guide 's "50 Best Movies of All Time" [ 69 ] and at No. 7 on Entertainment Weekly ' s list of the "100 Greatest Movies of All Time". [ 70 ] Together, the two Godfather s placed at No. 4 on Sight & Sound 's 2002 list of the ten greatest films of all time. [ 71 ] Thomson writes that "it exhibited a mastery of so many periods and locations as to be entrancing." [ 40 ] It was one of the last major American motion pictures to be filmed in Technicolor . [ 72 ] Apocalypse Now (1979) [ edit ] Following the success of The Godfather , The Conversation and The Godfather Part II , Coppola began filming Apocalypse Now , an adaptation of Joseph Conrad 's Heart of Darkness (1899) set in Cambodia during the Vietnam War . It follows Willard ( Martin Sheen ) as he journeys upriver to find and assassinate the rogue Kurtz (Brando). The production in the Philippines was plagued by numerous problems, including typhoons, nervous breakdowns, the firing of Harvey Keitel , Sheen's heart attack, Brando arriving overweight and unprepared and extras from the Philippine military and half of the supplied helicopters leaving in the middle of scenes to fight rebels. It was delayed so often it was nicknamed Apocalypse When? [ 73 ] Apocalypse Now premiered at the 1979 Cannes Film Festival , where Coppola made grandiose claims, among them: "My film is not about Vietnam, it is Vietnam." [ 73 ] Despite such pronouncements, and complaints from critics that the film's message was confused, it shared the Palme d'Or with Volker Schlöndorff 's The Tin Drum [ 63 ] and won Oscars for Best Cinematography ( Vittorio Storaro ) and Best Sound (Murch, Mark Berger , Richard Beggs and Nat Boxer .) [ 74 ] Roger Ebert wrote: In his book The Films of My Life , the French director François Truffaut made a curious statement. He used to believe, he says, that a successful film had to simultaneously express "an idea of the world and an idea of cinema." But now, he writes, "I demand that a film express either the joy of making cinema or the agony of making cinema. I am not at all interested in anything in between; I am not interested in all those films that do not pulse." It may seem strange to begin a review of Franics Coppola's Apocalypse Now with those words, but consider them for a moment and they apply perfectly to this sprawling film. The critics who have rejected Coppola's film mostly did so on Truffaut's earlier grounds; they have arguments with the ideas about the world and the war in Apocalypse Now ... Like all great works of art about war, Apocalypse Now essentially contains only one idea or message, the not-especially enlightening observation that war is hell. We do not go to see Coppola's movie for that reason—something Coppola, but not some of his critics, knows well. Coppola also knows well (and demonstrated in the Godfather films) that movies aren't especially good at dealing with abstract ideas—for those you'd be better turning to the written word—but they are superb for presenting moods and feelings, the look of a battle, the expression of a face, the mood of a country. Apocalypse Now achieves greatness not by analyzing our "experience" in Vietnam, but by re-creating, in characters and images, something of that experience. An example: the scene in which Robert Duvall, as a crazed lieutenant colonel, leads his troops in a helicopter assault on a village is, quite simply, the best movie battle scene ever filmed. It's simultaneously numbing, depressing and exhilarating: as the rockets jar from the helicopters and spring through the air, we're elated like kids for a half second, until the reality of the consequences sinks in... What's great in this film, and what will make it live for many years and speak to many audiences, is what Coppola achieves on the level Truffaut was discussing: the moments of agony and joy in making cinema. Some of those moments come at the same time; remember again the helicopter assault and its unsettling mixture of horror and exhilaration. Remember the weird beauty of the massed helicopters lifting over the trees in long shot, and the insane power of Wagner 's music, played loudly during the attack, and you feel what Coppola was getting at: those moments as common in life as art, when the whole huge grand mystery of the world, so beautiful, so terrible, seems to hang in the balance. [ 75 ] The film's reputation has grown and it is now regarded by many as a masterpiece of the New Hollywood and is frequently cited as one of the greatest movies ever made, ranking at Number 19 on the 2022 Sight and Sound poll. [ 76 ] For the film, Murch was the first person to receive a credit as a Sound Designer. [ 77 ] The documentary Hearts of Darkness: A Filmmaker's Apocalypse (1991), directed by George Hickenlooper , Fax Bahr and Francis's wife, Eleanor Coppola , who was present through the production, chronicles the difficulties the crew went through making Apocalypse Now and features behind-the-scenes footage filmed by Eleanor. Coppola famously stated, "We were in the jungle, there were too many of us, we had access to too much money, too much equipment and little by little, we went insane." [ 78 ] 1980–1989: Hard Times [ edit ] Coppola (left) and Petro Vlahos Apocalypse Now marked the end of the 'golden phase' of Coppola's career. [ 28 ] His Las Vegas-set musical fantasy One from the Heart (1982), while pioneering in its use of video-editing techniques, ended with a disastrous box-office gross of US$636,796 against a $26-million budget, [ 79 ] and he was forced to sell the 23-acre Zoetrope Studio in 1983. [ 30 ] He would spend the rest of the decade working to pay off his debts. Ebert wrote that the film was "a ballet of graceful and complex camera movements occupying magnificent sets, and somehow the characters get lost in the process ... The storyteller of The Godfather has become a technician here. There are chilling parallels between Coppola’s obsessive control of this film and the character of Harry Caul, the wiretapper in Coppola’s The Conversation (1974), who cared only about technical results and refused to let himself think about human consequences." [ 80 ] Later critical evaluation has been more positive; Thomson calls the film "enchanting and touching". [ 40 ] One From the Heart starred Forrest, Teri Garr , Raúl Juliá , Nastassja Kinski and was scored by Tom Waits . In 1983, he directed The Outsiders , an adaptation of the novel of the same name by S. E. Hinton . Coppola credited his inspiration for making the film to a suggestion from middle school students who had read the novel. The Outsiders is notable for being the breakout film for a number of young actors who would go on to become major stars, including Matt Dillon , Ralph Macchio and C. Thomas Howell . Also in the cast were Patrick Swayze , Emilio Estevez , Diane Lane , Tom Cruise and Rob Lowe (in his film debut). Carmine Coppola wrote and edited the score, including the title song "Stay Gold", which was based on Robert Frost 's "Nothing Gold Can Stay" and performed by Stevie Wonder . He directed Rumble Fish , filmed at the same time as The Outsiders on-location in Tulsa, Oklahoma and based on the novel of the same name by Hinton, who co-wrote the screenplay. Shot in black-and-white as an homage to German expressionism , Rumble Fish centers on the relationship between a revered former gang leader ( Mickey Rourke ) and his younger brother, Rusty James (Dillon). The film bombed at the box office, earning a meager $2.5 million against a $10 million budget. [ 81 ] In 1984, Coppola directed the Robert Evans-produced The Cotton Club , based on the novel by James Haskins and centered on the eponymous Harlem jazz club. The film was nominated for several awards, including the Golden Globes for Best Director and Best Picture (Drama) and Oscars for Best Film Editing and Best Art-Direction. However, the film failed at the box-office, earning only $25.9 million of the $47.9 million privately invested by brothers Fred and Ed Doumani. [ 82 ] The same year, he directed "Rip Van Winkle", an adaptation of Washington Irving 's short story starring Harry Dean Stanton for Shelley Duvall 's Faerie Tale Theatre . [ 83 ] In 1986, Coppola directed Captain EO , a 17-minute space fantasy for Disney theme parks executive produced by George Lucas and starring Michael Jackson . [ 84 ] Coppola, formerly a member of Writers Guild of America West , left and maintained financial core status in 1986. [ 85 ] Also in 1986, Coppola released the comedy Peggy Sue Got Married starring Kathleen Turner , Jim Carrey and Coppola's nephew Nicolas Cage . The film earned Coppola positive reviews and Turner her first and only Oscar nomination. It was Coppola's first box-office success since The Outsiders [ 86 ] and ranked number 17 on Entertainment Weekly ' s list of "50 Best High School Movies". [ 87 ] The following year, Coppola re-teamed with James Caan for Gardens of Stone , but the film was overshadowed by the death of Coppola's eldest son Gian-Carlo during the film's production. The movie was not a critical success and underperformed commercially, earning only $5.6 million against a $13 million budget. [ 88 ] Coppola directed Tucker: The Man and His Dream the year after that. The film is a biopic based on the life of Preston Tucker and his attempt to produce and market the Tucker '48 ; Coppola had originally conceived the project as a musical with Brando leading. Ultimately, it was Jeff Bridges who played the role of Tucker. Budgeted at $24 million, the film received positive reviews and earned three nominations at the 62nd Academy Awards , but grossed a disappointing $19.65 million at the box office. It garnered two awards: Martin Landau won the Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actor and Dean Tavoularis took BAFTA's honors for Best Production Design . In 1989, Coppola teamed up with fellow Oscar-winners Martin Scorsese and Woody Allen for the anthology film New York Stories . Coppola directed the " Life Without Zoë " segment, starring Shire and co-written with his daughter Sofia . "Life Without Zoë" was mostly panned by critics and was generally considered to be the segment that brought the film's overall quality down. [ 89 ] [ 90 ] Hal Hinson of The Washington Post wrote a particularly scathing review, stating: "It's impossible to know what Francis Coppola's Life Without Zoë is. Co-written with his daughter Sofia, the film is a mystifying embarrassment; it's by far the director's worst work yet." [ 91 ] Zoetrope Studios finally filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 1990, after which its name was changed to American Zoetrope. [ 28 ] 1990–1999: Continued work [ edit ] The Godfather Part III (1990) [ edit ] Main article: The Godfather Part III Coppola at the 1996 Cannes Film Festival In 1990, he released the third and final chapter of The Godfather series: The Godfather Part III . Coppola felt that the first two films had told the complete Corleone saga. Coppola intended Part III to be an epilogue to the first two films. [ 92 ] In his audio commentary for Part II , he stated that only a dire financial situation caused by the failure of One from the Heart (1982) compelled him to take up Paramount 's long-standing offer to make a third installment. [ 93 ] Coppola and Puzo preferred the title The Death of Michael Corleone , but Paramount Pictures found that unacceptable. [ 92 ] While not as critically acclaimed as the first two films, [ 94 ] [ 95 ] [ 96 ] it was still commercially successful, earning $136 million against a $54 million budget. [ 97 ] Some reviewers criticized the casting of Coppola's daughter Sofia , who stepped into the leading role of Mary Corleone , which was abandoned by Winona Ryder just as filming began. [ 94 ] Despite this, The Godfather Part III went on to gather seven Academy Award nominations, including Best Director and Best Picture . The film failed to win any of these awards, which made it the only film in the trilogy to do so. In September 2020, for the film's 30th anniversary, it was announced that a new cut of the film titled Mario Puzo's The Godfather, Coda: The Death of Michael Corleone would have a limited theatrical release in December 2020 followed by digital and Blu-ray. [ 98 ] Coppola said the film is the version he and Puzo had originally envisioned, and it "vindicates" its status among the trilogy and his daughter Sofia's performance. [ 99 ] [ 100 ] Bram Stoker's Dracula (1992) [ edit ] Main article: Bram Stoker's Dracula (1992 film) In 1992, Coppola directed and produced Bram Stoker's Dracula . Adapted from Bram Stoker 's novel , it was intended to follow the book more closely than previous film adaptations. [ 101 ] Coppola cast Gary Oldman as the titular role, with Keanu Reeves , Winona Ryder , and Anthony Hopkins in supporting roles. The movie became a box-office hit, grossing $82,522,790 domestically, making it the 15th highest-grossing film of the year. [ 102 ] It fared even better out of the country, grossing $133,339,902 for a total worldwide gross of $215,862,692 against a budget of $40 million, [ 103 ] making it the ninth highest-grossing film of the year worldwide. [ 104 ] The film won Academy Awards for Costume Design , Makeup and Sound Editing . Jack (1996) [ edit ] Main article: Jack (1996 film) Coppola's next project was Jack , which was released on August 9, 1996. It starred Robin Williams as Jack Powell, a ten-year-old boy whose cells are growing at four times the normal rate due to Werner syndrome , which makes him look like a 40-year-old man at the age of ten. With Diane Lane , Brian Kerwin , and Bill Cosby , Jack also featured Jennifer Lopez , Fran Drescher and Michael McKean in supporting roles. Although a moderate box-office success, grossing $58 million domestically on an estimated $45 million budget, [ 105 ] it was panned by critics, many of whom disliked the film's abrupt contrast between actual comedy and tragic melodrama. [ 106 ] It was also unfavorably compared with the 1988 film Big , in which Tom Hanks also played a child in a grown man's body. [ 107 ] Most critics felt that the screenplay was poorly written, not funny, and had unconvincing and unbelievable drama. [ 108 ] Other critics felt that Coppola was too talented to be making this type of film. [ 109 ] Although ridiculed for making the film, Coppola has defended it, saying he is not ashamed of the final cut of the movie. He had been friends with Robin Williams for many years and had always wanted to work with him as an actor. [ 110 ] When Williams was offered the screenplay for Jack , he said he would only agree to do it if Coppola agreed to sign on as director. The Rainmaker (1997) [ edit ] Main article: The Rainmaker (1997 film) The last film Coppola directed in the 1990s, The Rainmaker , was based on the 1995 novel of the same name by John Grisham . An ensemble courtroom drama , the film was well received by critics. [ 111 ] Roger Ebert gave The Rainmaker three stars out of four, remarking: "I have enjoyed several of the movies based on Grisham novels ... but I've usually seen the storyteller's craft rather than the novelist's art being reflected. By keeping all of the little people in focus, Coppola shows the variety of a young lawyer's life, where every client is necessary and most of them need a lot more than a lawyer." [ 112 ] James Berardinelli also gave the film three stars out of four, saying that "the intelligence and subtlety of The Rainmaker took me by surprise" and that the film "stands above any other filmed Grisham adaptation." [ 113 ] Grisham said of the film: "To me it's the best adaptation of any of [my books] ... I love the movie. It's so well done." [ 114 ] The film grossed about $45 million domestically, [ 115 ] more than the estimated production budget of $40 million, but a disappointment compared to previous films adapted from Grisham novels. [ citation needed ] According to Coppola, starting from this film onwards, he stopped working as a "professional director", preferring to act more like a student who tried to understand what meant making a film, choosing to self-finance some "very small, low-budget" movies. Thus, those films weren't meant to be successful but instead teach him what making films really mean, learning a lout about acting to the point of carrying out unusual rehearsals. [ 116 ] 2000–2018: Career fluctuations [ edit ] Supernova re-edit [ edit ] Main article: Supernova (2000 film) In the late 90's Coppola was a board member of MGM, and in discussion of films they already had which could not be released, Supernova was among the most expensive. He was approached to supervise several of these, including The Fantastiks and Supernova , which he used his American Zoetrope facility in Northern California . This work included digitally placing Angela Bassett 's and James Spader 's faces on the bodies of (a computer-tinted) Robin Tunney and Peter Facinelli so that their characters could have a love scene . [ 117 ] However, Coppola's re-edited version had negative test screening and didn't get the PG-13 rating by the MPAA that the studio wanted. Creature designer Patrick Tatopoulos , whose special effects were mostly cut out from the film, said that Walter Hill wanted the film to be much more grotesque, strange, and disturbing, while MGM wanted to make it more of a hip, sexy film in space, and not with full-blown makeup effects. "I hope that my experience in the film industry has helped improve the picture and rectified some of the problems that losing a director caused", said Coppola. [ 117 ] By October 1999, MGM decided to sell the film. [ 118 ] The film was eventually released on January 17, 2000, almost two years later than planned. [ 119 ] Coppola at the 2001 Cannes Film Festival Coppola was the jury president at the 1996 Cannes Film Festival and he also took part as a special guest at the 17th Midnight Sun Film Festival in Sodankylä , Finland, [ 120 ] and the 46th International Thessaloniki Film Festival in Thessaloniki , Greece. Apocalypse Now Redux [ edit ] In the late '90s, Coppola began revisiting his films and creating new director's cuts for release on home video. The first movie to receive this treatment was Apocalypse Now . The new version, Apocalypse Now Redux , restored 49 minutes that had been cut from the film before its original release in 1979, notably a visit to a French plantation. A number of actors came in to rerecord their lines for the deleted scenes, which were of inconsistent audio quality, and new music was composed. This version was released in cinemas in 2001 and later released on DVD. In 2006, it was collected with the theatrical cut on a deluxe DVD; subsequent home video releases have included both versions. A. O. Scott wrote: " Apocalypse Now Redux arrives in this slack season to remind us of a lost era of visionary cinema, a time of creative self-confidence that frequently flirted with hubris, but also a time of risk taking and high seriousness. The artistic vision on display in Apocalypse Now -- the divine madness that inspired Mr. Coppola to risk his health, his sanity, his fortune and the well-being of his cast, crew and family -- is ultimately less impressive, and less important to the film's durable power, than the art itself." [ 121 ] In 2005, Coppola created a new cut of The Outsiders for home video. This version, titled The Outsiders: The Complete Novel , added more than 20 minutes of footage and removed three scenes, bringing the film's runtime from 91 minutes to 114 minutes. It also added new music by Michael Seifert and Dave Pruitt and several period songs to Carmine Coppola's score. Coppola included both the theatrical cut and "The Complete Novel" on all subsequent home video releases. Return [ edit ] After a ten-year hiatus, Coppola returned to directing with Youth Without Youth in 2007, based on the novella of the same name by Romanian author Mircea Eliade . The film received generally negative reviews from critics. [ 122 ] It was made for about $19 million and had a limited release, only managing $2,624,759 at the box-office. [ 123 ] As a result, Coppola announced his plans to produce his own films in order to avoid the marketing input that goes into most films, which are intended to appeal to too wide an audience. In 2009, Coppola released Tetro . It was set in Argentina , with the reunion of two brothers. The story follows the rivalries born out of creative differences passed down through generations of an artistic Italian immigrant family. [ 124 ] The film received generally positive reviews from critics. [ 125 ] [ 126 ] The Rotten Tomatoes site's consensus was: "A complex meditation on family dynamics, Tetro 's arresting visuals and emotional core compensate for its uneven narrative." [ 126 ] Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave the film three stars, praising it for being "boldly operatic, involving family drama, secrets, generations at war, melodrama, romance and violence", Ebert also praised Vincent Gallo 's performance and claimed that Alden Ehrenreich is "the new Leonardo DiCaprio ". [ 127 ] Todd McCarthy of Variety gave the film a B+, judging that "when Coppola finds creative nirvana , he frequently has trouble delivering the full goods". [ 128 ] Richard Corliss of Time gave the film a mixed review, praising Ehrenreich's performance, but claiming Coppola "has made a movie in which plenty happens, but nothing rings true". [ 129 ] The film made $2,636,774 worldwide, [ 130 ] against a budget of $5,000,000. Twixt , starring Val Kilmer , Elle Fanning , Joanne Whalley , and Bruce Dern , and narrated by Tom Waits , was released to film festivals in late 2011 [ 131 ] and was released theatrically in early 2012. It received critical acclaim in France, [ 132 ] but mostly negative reviews elsewhere. [ 133 ] In 2015, Coppola stated That's why I ended my career: I decided I didn't want to make what you could call 'factory movies' anymore. I would rather just experiment with the form, and see what I could do, and [make things] that came out of my own. And little by little, the commercial film industry went into the superhero business, and everything was on such a scale. The budgets were so big, because they wanted to make the big series of films where they could make two or three parts. I felt I was no longer interested enough to put in the extraordinary effort a film takes [nowadays]. [ 134 ] Distant Vision is a semi-autobiographical unfinished live broadcast project created in real-time. Proof of concepts were tested before limited audiences at Oklahoma City Community College in June 2015 and UCLA School of Theater in July 2016. [ 135 ] Further director's cuts [ edit ] In 2015, Coppola found an old Betamax tape with his original cut of The Cotton Club and decided to restore it. He had cut about a half hour out of the film before its original release at the insistence of the film's European financial backers. Due to a combination of music rights, the loss of the original negative, audio issues, and MGM's lack of interest in the project, Coppola wound up spending 500,000 dollars of his own money restoring the film. [ 136 ] It was finally finished in 2017 and premiered at the Telluride Film Festival in 2019 as The Cotton Club Encore . After finishing work on The Cotton Club , Coppola began work on a director's cut of his first movie, Dementia 13 . For this film, Coppola removed several minutes of footage that had been added by the film's producer, Roger Corman. [ 137 ] In 2019, he followed it up with another director's cut of Apocalypse Now , this time called "The Final Cut". It removed 20 minutes of footage that had been included in Apocalypse Now Redux and restored the film from the original negative for the first time. [ 138 ] In December 2020, a re-edit of Godfather III , The Godfather Coda: The Death of Michael Corleone had a limited theatrical release, followed by digital and Blu-ray release in 2021. [ 139 ] Coppola stated that The Godfather: Part IV was never made because Mario Puzo died before they had a chance to write the film. [ 140 ] Andy García has since claimed the film's script was nearly produced. [ 140 ] Coppola's most recent director's cut to date was B'Twixt Now and Sunrise , a shortened version of his film Twixt . It was given a select re-release in 2022. [ 141 ] At the 94th Academy Awards , they celebrated the 50th anniversary of The Godfather . Coppola attended alongside Robert De Niro and Al Pacino who were greeted with a standing ovation. [ 142 ] 2019–present [ edit ] Megalopolis (2024) [ edit ] Main article: Megalopolis (film) In April 2019, Coppola announced that he planned to direct Megalopolis , which he had been developing for many years prior. [ 143 ] Speaking to Deadline , he said: "I plan this year to begin my longstanding ambition to make a major work utilizing all I have learned during my long career, beginning at age 16 doing theater, and that will be an epic on a grand scale, which I've titled Megalopolis ." [ 144 ] He had planned to direct the movie, a story about the aftermath and reconstruction of New York City after a mega-disaster, many years earlier, but after the real-life disaster of the September 11 attacks , the project was seen as being too sensitive. [ 145 ] In August 2021, it was announced that Coppola had begun discussions with actors for the project and that he was aiming to begin principal photography in the fall of 2022. [ 146 ] In April 2022, it was reported that filming was to take place from September 6, 2022, to February 2, 2023. In May 2022, the star cast was revealed: Adam Driver , Forest Whitaker , Nathalie Emmanuel , Jon Voight , and Laurence Fishburne . [ 147 ] In July, it was reported that filming would instead begin in November 2022 at Trilith Studios in Fayetteville , Georgia . [ 148 ] [ 149 ] In August, it was revealed that Aubrey Plaza , Talia Shire , Shia LaBeouf , Jason Schwartzman , Kathryn Hunter , Laurence Fishburne , James Remar , and Grace VanderWaal joined the cast. [ 150 ] [ 151 ] In early October, it was announced that Chloe Fineman , Dustin Hoffman , Bailey Ives, Isabelle Kusman, and D.B. Sweeney would also be joining the cast. [ 152 ] On February 29, 2024, Deadline reported that Megalopolis will be released in IMAX in Fall 2024. [ 153 ] On April 9, 2024, it was revealed that Megalopolis would be premiering in competition at the 77th Cannes Film Festival . Future projects [ edit ] Main article: Francis Ford Coppola's unrealized projects In August 2024, one month ahead of the release of Megalopolis , Coppola told Rolling Stone that he is not going to retire after his longtime passion project's release, intending to work on two projects: an adaptation of The Glimpses of the Moon with "strong dance and musical elements" [ 154 ] he plans to produce in England and Distant Vision , a "live cinema" project he's been working on since 2015 that tells the fictionalized story of three generations within an Italian American family during the phenomenon of television 's invention. [ 116 ] Commercial ventures [ edit ] American Zoetrope [ edit ] Main article: American Zoetrope In 1971, Coppola produced George Lucas' first feature film, THX 1138 . Shortly after completion of production they brought the finished film to Warner Bros. , along with several other scripts for potential projects at their newly founded company, American Zoetrope. However, studio executives strongly disliked all of the scripts, including THX , and demanded that Coppola repay the $300,000 they had loaned him for the Zoetrope studio, as well as insisting on cutting five minutes from the film. The debt nearly closed Zoetrope and forced Coppola to reluctantly focus on The Godfather . [ 155 ] American Zoetrope produced the film Clownhouse , the director of which, Victor Salva , was convicted of child sexual abuse and child pornography offences occurring during the making of that film. [ 156 ] In 2006, Coppola said, "You have to remember, while this was a tragedy, that the difference in age between Victor and the boy was very small -- Victor was practically a child himself." Salva was 29 at the time while the boy was 12. [ 157 ] Zoetrope Virtual Studio [ edit ] American Zoetrope also administers the Zoetrope Virtual Studio, a complete motion picture production studio for members only. Launched in June 2000 as the culmination of more than four years of work, it brings together departments for screenwriters, directors, producers and other filmmaker artists, as well as new departments for other creative endeavors such as the short story vending machine project. [ 158 ] Pinocchio dispute with Warner Bros. [ edit ] In the late 1980s, Coppola started considering concepts for a motion picture based upon the 19th-century Carlo Collodi novel The Adventures of Pinocchio , and in 1991, Coppola and Warner Bros. began discussing the project as well as two others, one involving the life of J. Edgar Hoover and the other based on the children's novel The Secret Garden . These discussions led to negotiations for Coppola to both produce and direct the Pinocchio project for Warner Bros. as well as The Secret Garden (which was made in 1993 and produced by American Zoetrope , but directed by Agnieszka Holland ) and Hoover , which never came to fruition. A film was eventually made by Clint Eastwood in 2011 titled J. Edgar , which was distributed by Warner Bros. However, in mid-1991, Coppola and Warner Bros. came to a disagreement over the compensation to Coppola for his directing services on Pinocchio . [ 159 ] In 1994, Coppola later approached another studio, Columbia Pictures , to produce the film. [ 160 ] Warner Brothers then wrote to Columbia, stating it had held the rights to Coppola's project, which led to Columbia later dropping the project. Coppola filed a lawsuit against Warner Bros, alleging they had wrongfully prevented Columbia Pictures from making the film. [ 161 ] The parties deferred this issue and a settlement was finally reached on July 3, 1998, when the jurors in the resultant court case awarded Coppola $20 million as compensation for losing the Pinocchio film project. [ 162 ] On that same day, Warner Bros. stated it would appeal the decision. [ 163 ] A week later, Coppola was awarded a further $60 million in punitive damages on top, stemming from his charges that Warner Bros. sabotaged his intended version. [ 161 ] However, in October 1998, then-Superior Court Judge Madeleine Flier reversed the jury's $60 million award to Coppola. [ 164 ] Warner Bros. and Coppola then appealed each other's ruling, in which Coppola sought to have his $60 million award restored. In March 2001, the California Court of Appeals decided against Coppola on both counts. [ 165 ] In July 2001, the California Supreme Court refused to hear the appellate decision, bringing the litigation battle to a conclusive end. [ 166 ] Contact dispute with Carl Sagan/Warner Bros. [ edit ] Main article: Contact During the filming of Contact on December 28, 1996, Coppola filed a lawsuit against Carl Sagan and Warner Bros. Sagan had died a week earlier, [ 167 ] [ 168 ] and Coppola claimed that Sagan's novel Contact was based on a story the pair had developed for a television special back in 1975 titled First Contact . [ 167 ] Under their development agreement, Coppola and Sagan were to split proceeds from the project as well as any novel Sagan would write with American Zoetrope and Children's Television Workshop Productions . The television program was never produced, but in 1985, Simon & Schuster published Sagan's Contact and Warner Bros. moved forward with development of a film adaptation. Coppola sought at least $250,000 in compensatory damages and an injunction against production or distribution of the film. [ 167 ] Even though Sagan was shown to have violated some of the terms of the agreement, the case was dismissed in February 1998 because Coppola had waited too long to file suit. [ 169 ] Uptown Theater [ edit ] George Altamura, a real estate developer, announced in 2003 that he had partnered with several people, including Coppola, in a project to restore the Uptown Theater in downtown Napa , California, in order to create a live entertainment venue. [ 170 ] Francis Ford Coppola Presents [ edit ] Coppola is the owner of Francis Ford Coppola Presents , a lifestyle brand under which he markets goods from companies he owns or controls. It includes films and videos, resorts, cafes, a literary magazine, a line of pastas and pasta sauces called Mammarella Foods, and a winery. [ 171 ] [ 172 ] [ 173 ] Wineries [ edit ] Francis Ford Coppola Winery [ edit ] The Francis Ford Coppola Winery near Geyserville, California , [ 174 ] located on the former Chateau Souverain Winery, [ 175 ] where he has opened a family-friendly facility, is influenced by the idea of the Tivoli Gardens in Copenhagen , [ 176 ] with swimming pools, bocce courts, and a restaurant. The winery displays several of Coppola's Oscars along with memorabilia from his movies, including Vito Corleone 's desk from The Godfather and a restored 1948 Tucker Sedan as used in Tucker: The Man and His Dream . In August 2021, Coppola sold Francis Ford Coppola Winery and Virginia Dare Winery to Delicato Family Wines. [ 177 ] Inglenook Winery [ edit ] Coppola, with his family, expanded his business ventures to include winemaking in California's Napa Valley , when in 1975, he purchased the former home and adjoining vineyard of Gustave Niebaum in Rutherford, California using proceeds from The Godfather . [ 178 ] His winery produced its first vintage in 1977 with the help of his father, wife, and children stomping the grapes barefoot. Every year, the family has a harvest party to continue the tradition. [ 179 ] After purchasing the property, he produced wine under the Niebaum-Coppola label. He purchased the former Inglenook Winery chateau in 1995, [ 180 ] and renamed it to Rubicon Estate Winery in 2006. On April 11, 2011, Coppola acquired the Inglenook trademark [ 181 ] paying more, he said, for the trademark than he did for the entire estate [ 182 ] and announced that the estate would once again be known by its historic original name, Inglenook. Its grapes are entirely organically grown. Domaine de Broglie [ edit ] In October 2018, Coppola and family purchased the Vista Hills winery in Dayton, Oregon, [ 183 ] and in 2019 renamed it to Domaine de Broglie. [ 184 ] Resorts [ edit ] Palazzo Margherita in Bernalda , owned by Coppola Included in the Francis Ford Coppola Presents lifestyle brand are several hotels and resorts, part of Coppola's Hideaway company. The Blancaneaux Lodge in Belize , which from the early 1980s was a family retreat until it was opened to the public in 1993 as a 20-room luxury resort and The Turtle Inn, in Placencia , Belize, (both of which have won several prestigious awards including "Travel + Leisure's World's Best: Best Resort in Central & South America"); [ 185 ] [ 186 ] La Lancha in Lago Petén Itzá , Guatemala ; [ 187 ] Jardín Escondido in Buenos Aires , Argentina; [ 188 ] Palazzo Margherita in Bernalda , Italy; [ 189 ] and the All-Movie Hotel in Peachtree City, Georgia , US. [ 190 ] Cafe and restaurant [ edit ] In San Francisco, Coppola owns a restaurant named Cafe Zoetrope , located in the Sentinel Building where American Zoetrope is based. [ 191 ] It serves traditional Italian cuisine and wine from his personal estate vineyard . For 14 years from 1994, Coppola co-owned the Rubicon restaurant in San Francisco along with Robin Williams and Robert De Niro . Rubicon closed in August 2008. [ 192 ] Literary publications [ edit ] Coppola bought into the San Francisco-based magazine City of San Francisco in 1973, [ 193 ] [ 194 ] with the intent of publishing [ 195 ] [ 196 ] [ 197 ] [ 198 ] a "service magazine" that informed readers about sights and activities in selected cities. [ 199 ] The magazine was unsuccessful, [ 200 ] and he lost $1.5 million on this venture. [ 201 ] In 1997, Coppola founded Zoetrope: All-Story , a literary magazine devoted to short stories and design. The magazine publishes fiction by emerging writers alongside more recognizable names, such as Woody Allen , Margaret Atwood , Haruki Murakami , Alice Munro , Don DeLillo , Mary Gaitskill , and Edward Albee ; as well as essays, including ones from Mario Vargas Llosa , David Mamet , Steven Spielberg , and Salman Rushdie . Each issue is designed, in its entirety, by a prominent artist, one usually working outside his / her expected field. Previous guest designers include Gus Van Sant , Tom Waits , Laurie Anderson , Marjane Satrapi , Guillermo del Toro , David Bowie , David Byrne , and Dennis Hopper . Coppola serves as founding editor and publisher of All-Story . Cannabis brand [ edit ] In 2018, Coppola launched Sana Company LLC and released a cannabis brand known as The Grower's Series. [ 202 ] [ 203 ] The collection was created in partnership with the Humboldt Brothers, a Humboldt County cannabis farm. [ 204 ] Coppola debuted the brand in San Francisco , California in October 2018 at the private cannabis dining club series known as Thursday Infused, organized by The Herb Somm, Jamie Evans . [ 205 ] [ 203 ] Coppola packaged The Grower's Series in a mock black tin wine bottle resembling his wine brand. [ 206 ] The Grower's Series showcases three cannabis strains : a sativa , indica and hybrid. [ 207 ] Whisky advertisement [ edit ] Coppola appeared in a commercial for Suntory Reserve in 1980 alongside Akira Kurosawa ; the commercial was filmed while Kurosawa was making Kagemusha , which Coppola produced with George Lucas. [ 208 ] Personal life [ edit ] Family [ edit ] See also: Coppola family In 1963, Coppola married writer and documentary filmmaker Eleanor Jessie Neil . She went on to co-direct Hearts of Darkness: A Filmmaker's Apocalypse . Together they had three children, Gian-Carlo Coppola , Roman Coppola , and Sofia Coppola , all of whom became filmmakers. Gian-Carlo died in 1986 at the age of 22 due to a speedboating accident. He had one child, Gia Coppola , also a filmmaker. Nicolas Cage and Jason Schwartzman are Coppola's nephews. He had an extramarital affair with Melissa Mathison —who would later write E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial —that began when she was his assistant on The Godfather Part II and lasted through the making of Apocalypse Now , nearly leading to Coppola's divorce. [ 209 ] Eleanor Coppola died on April 12, 2024, at the age of 87. [ 210 ] Politics [ edit ] During the 1980 United States presidential election , Coppola filmed a mass televised rally for California Governor and Democratic Party presidential candidate Jerry Brown at the Wisconsin State Capitol in Madison . The rally failed in its goal to draw attention away from the other Democratic primary candidates Jimmy Carter and Ted Kennedy , forcing Brown to drop out of the race. [ 211 ] Over the years, Coppola has worked with several Democratic political candidates, including Mike Thompson and Nancy Pelosi for the U.S. House of Representatives , and Barbara Boxer and Alan Cranston for the U.S. Senate . [ 212 ] Favorite films [ edit ] In 2012, Coppola participated in the Sight & Sound film polls of that year. It is held every ten years to select the greatest films of all time, by asking contemporary directors to select ten films of their choice. [ 213 ] Coppola's selections were: The Apartment (United States, 1960) Ashes and Diamonds (Poland, 1958) The Bad Sleep Well (Japan, 1960) The Best Years of Our Lives (United States, 1946) I Vitelloni (Italy, 1953) The King of Comedy (United States, 1983) Raging Bull (United States, 1980) Singin' in the Rain (United States, 1952) Sunrise (United States, 1927) Yojimbo (Japan, 1961) Filmography [ edit ] Further information: Francis Ford Coppola filmography Directed features Year Title Distributor 1963 Dementia 13 American International Pictures 1966 You're a Big Boy Now Warner Bros.-Seven Arts 1968 Finian's Rainbow 1969 The Rain People 1972 The Godfather Paramount Pictures 1974 The Conversation The Godfather Part II 1979 Apocalypse Now United Artists 1982 One from the Heart Columbia Pictures 1983 The Outsiders Warner Bros. Rumble Fish Universal Pictures 1984 The Cotton Club Orion Pictures 1986 Peggy Sue Got Married TriStar Pictures 1987 Gardens of Stone 1988 Tucker: The Man and His Dream Paramount Pictures 1990 The Godfather Part III 1992 Bram Stoker's Dracula Columbia Pictures 1996 Jack Buena Vista Pictures 1997 The Rainmaker Paramount Pictures 2007 Youth Without Youth Sony Pictures Classics 2009 Tetro American Zoetrope 2011 Twixt 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment 2024 Megalopolis Lionsgate Films Awards and honors [ edit ] Main article: List of awards and nominations received by Francis Ford Coppola For The Godfather Part II and The Conversation , Coppola was the third director to have two nominations for Best Picture in the same year. Victor Fleming was the first, with Gone with the Wind and The Wizard of Oz in 1939; Alfred Hitchcock repeated the feat the next year with Foreign Correspondent and Rebecca . Since Coppola, two other directors have done the same: Herbert Ross with The Goodbye Girl and The Turning Point in 1977 and Steven Soderbergh with Erin Brockovich and Traffic in 2000. He is one of ten directors to receive the Palme d'Or twice, for The Conversation and Apocalypse Now . On October 15, 2024, after having received the statue of the Capitoline Wolf, Rome's highest honor, a street in the same capital city was named after him as a further sign of the connection between the filmmaker and the city. [ 214 ] In 2024, he was honored by the Kennedy Center . [ 16 ] Introducing him, his friend George Lucas said: “What Francis does creatively is jump off cliffs. When you spend enough time with Francis, you begin to believe you can jump off cliffs, too.” [ 215 ] He is scheduled to receive the AFI Life Achievement Award in April, 2025. [ 216 ] Awards and nominations received for films directed by Coppola Year Title Academy Awards BAFTA Awards Golden Globe Awards Nominations Wins Nominations Wins Nominations Wins 1966 You're a Big Boy Now 1 1 3 1968 Finian's Rainbow 2 5 1972 The Godfather 10 3 5 1 7 6 1974 The Conversation 3 5 2 4 The Godfather Part II 11 6 4 1 6 1979 Apocalypse Now 8 2 9 2 4 3 1982 One from the Heart 1 1983 Rumble Fish 1 1984 The Cotton Club 2 2 1 2 1986 Peggy Sue Got Married 3 2 1988 Tucker: The Man and His Dream 3 1 1 1 1 1990 The Godfather Part III 7 7 1992 Bram Stoker's Dracula 4 3 4 1997 The Rainmaker 1 Total 55 14 31 8 42 10 Bibliography [ edit ] Coppola and Eiko on Bram Stoker's Dracula (1992), co-authored with Eiko Ishioka The Godfather Notebook (2016) Live Cinema and Its Techniques (2017) See also [ edit ] Film portal United States portal Coppola family tree List of wine personalities List of celebrities who own wineries and vineyards Notes [ edit ] ^ Attributed to multiple sources: [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] [ 9 ] [ 10 ] [ 11 ] References [ edit ] ^ "THE GODFATHER, CODA: THE DEATH OF MICHAEL CORLEONE | Francis Ford Coppola Featurette" . Paramount Pictures. November 17, 2020. Archived from the original on April 6, 2022 . Retrieved April 6, 2022 . ^ "A Special Message from Director Francis Ford Coppola" . StudioCanal UK. September 9, 2021. Archived from the original on April 6, 2022 . Retrieved April 6, 2022 . ^ "This Is YouTube" . YouTube. March 4, 2010. Archived from the original on April 6, 2022 . Retrieved April 6, 2022 . ^ Francis Ford Coppola at the Encyclopædia Britannica ^ "Francis Ford Coppola: 10 essential films" . British Film Institute . April 5, 2019. Archived from the original on January 11, 2020 . Retrieved September 19, 2019 . ^ "The 50 greatest directors and their 100 best movies" . entertainment weekly.com April 19, 1996 . Archived from the original on October 29, 2020 . Retrieved October 27, 2020 . ^ "BFI – Sight & Sound – Top Ten Poll 2002 Poll – The Critics' Top Ten Directors" . Archived from the original on June 23, 2011. ^ "The Greatest Directors Ever by Total Film Magazine" . Filmsite.org . Archived from the original on July 2, 2014 . Retrieved April 19, 2009 . ^ "The 25 Most Influential Directors of All Time" . MovieMaker . July 7, 2002. Archived from the original on December 2, 2023 . Retrieved December 2, 2023 . ^ "Greatest Film Directors" . filmsite.org . Archived from the original on September 5, 2019 . Retrieved December 2, 2023 . ^ "Where to begin with Francis Ford Coppola" . BFI . February 28, 2022 . Retrieved April 15, 2025 . ^ Barry, Langford (2005). Film Genre: Hollywood and Beyond . Edinburgh University Press. p. 134. ^ Rubin, Rebecca (September 25, 2024). "Francis Ford Coppola's $120 Million-Budgeted 'Megalopolis' Could Open to Disappointing $5 Million" . Variety . Variety Media, LLC . Retrieved March 7, 2025 . ^ "A Coppola family tree" . Entertainment Weekly . Archived from the original on August 14, 2024 . Retrieved July 26, 2024 . ^ "Francis Ford Coppola Explains His Passion For Wine" . Forbes Magazine . Archived from the original on May 14, 2014 . Retrieved July 26, 2024 . ^ a b "Francis Ford Coppola" . The Kennedy Center . ^ Saxon, Wolfgang (April 27, 1991). "Carmine Coppola, 80, Conductor And Composer for His Son's Films" . The New York Times . Archived from the original on December 30, 2016 . Retrieved February 16, 2017 . ^ a b Cowie, Peter (1988). Coppola: a biography . Da Capo Press. 2. ISBN 978-0-306-80598-1 . ^ Cabanatuan, Michael (January 23, 2004). "Italia Coppola – mother of filmmaker" . SFGate. Archived from the original on March 25, 2014 . Retrieved May 14, 2014 . ^ "The Dream And Its Men Francis Ford Coppola And George Lucas Immortalize A Legendary Car And Its Inventor on Film" . Sun Sentinel . August 14, 1988. Archived from the original on June 16, 2013 . Retrieved May 25, 2013 . ^ "Francis Ford Coppola" . The New York Times . Archived from the original on June 1, 2013 . Retrieved May 25, 2013 . ^ Jones, Jenny M. (September 21, 2021). The Annotated Godfather (50th Anniversary Edition): The Complete Screenplay, Commentary on Every Scene, Interviews, and Little-Known Facts . Running Press. ISBN 978-0-7624-7382-3 . Archived from the original on February 10, 2024 . Retrieved June 12, 2022 . ^ Delicato, Armando (2005). Italians in Detroit . Arcadia Publishing. ISBN 978-0-7385-3985-0 . Archived from the original on February 10, 2024 . Retrieved June 12, 2022 . ^ a b c d "Francis Ford Coppola" . Academy of Achievement . Archived from the original on March 23, 2019 . Retrieved March 26, 2020 . ^ a b c d e "Francis Ford Coppola" . Archived from the original on July 27, 2010 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ a b "Francis Ford Coppola biography" . Archived from the original on July 10, 2010 . Retrieved November 30, 2010 . ^ a b c "Francis Ford Coppola" . Inside the Actors Studio . Season 7. Episode 14 . Bravo . Archived from the original on May 24, 2015. ^ a b c d e f g "Francis Ford Coppola biography" . Yahoo! Movies. Archived from the original on August 23, 2010 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ McKenna, Kristine (September 17, 2008). "Joe Frank: Off the Radio – Page 1 – Stage – Los Angeles" . LA Weekly . Archived from the original on October 2, 2013 . Retrieved May 25, 2013 . ^ a b c d e "Francis Ford Coppola Biography" . Archived from the original on December 13, 2010 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ "Points of Pride – Hofstra University, New York" . www.hofstra.edu . Archived from the original on May 23, 2017 . Retrieved May 8, 2017 . ^ "SparkNotes: Apocalypse Now: Score and Soundtrack" . www.sparknotes.com. Archived from the original on May 4, 2012 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ Coppola, Francis Ford (2004). Francis Ford Coppola: Interviews . Univ. Press of Mississippi. ISBN 978-1-57806-666-7 . Archived from the original on February 10, 2024 . Retrieved June 21, 2022 . ^ 1634–1699: McCusker, J. J. (1997). How Much Is That in Real Money? A Historical Price Index for Use as a Deflator of Money Values in the Economy of the United States: Addenda et Corrigenda (PDF) . American Antiquarian Society . 1700–1799: McCusker, J. J. (1992). How Much Is That in Real Money? A Historical Price Index for Use as a Deflator of Money Values in the Economy of the United States (PDF) . American Antiquarian Society . 1800–present: Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. "Consumer Price Index (estimate) 1800–" . Retrieved February 29, 2024 . ^ Jones, Jenny M. (September 21, 2021). The Annotated Godfather (50th Anniversary Edition): The Complete Screenplay, Commentary on Every Scene, Interviews, and Little-Known Facts . Running Press. ISBN 978-0-7624-7382-3 . Archived from the original on February 10, 2024 . Retrieved June 21, 2022 . ^ a b Guerra, Felipe M. (October 28, 2020). "The Nude-Father: the 'erotic' films directed by Francis Ford Coppola" . FanFare . Archived from the original on October 23, 2020 . Retrieved November 18, 2020 . ^ Phillips, Gene D. (April 23, 2014). Godfather: The Intimate Francis Ford Coppola . University Press of Kentucky. ISBN 978-0-8131-4672-0 . Archived from the original on February 10, 2024 . Retrieved June 21, 2022 . ^ a b c "Francis Ford Coppola Biography and Interview" . www.achievement.org . American Academy of Achievement . Archived from the original on March 23, 2019 . Retrieved April 2, 2019 . ^ "Profile: Francis Ford Coppola" Archived July 16, 2014, at the Wayback Machine , UCLA School of Theater, Film, and television, Executive Board ^ a b c d Thomson, David . The New Biographical Dictionary of Film . p. 201-2. ^ "A Brief History of American Zoetrope" . Archived from the original on September 25, 2010 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ Sarris, Andrew (1968). The American Cinema (Paperback ed.). New York, NY: EP Dutton and Co., Inc. p. 210. ^ "An Interview with Francis Ford Coppola" . achievement.org. Archived from the original on March 23, 2019 . Retrieved April 2, 2019 . ^ Phillips, Gene (2004). "1 Point of Departure" . Godfather The Intimate Francis Ford Coppola . Lexington, Kentucky: The University Press of Kentucky. p. 32 . ISBN 0-8131-2304-6 . ^ Frayling, Christopher (1981). Spaghetti Westerns: Cowboys and Europeans from Karl May to Sergio Leone . Routledge. p. 215. ISBN 978-0-7100-0503-8 . Archived from the original on February 10, 2024 . Retrieved December 27, 2020 . ^ a b c Mark Seal (March 2009). "The Godfather Wars" . Vanity Fair . Archived from the original on July 14, 2014 . Retrieved July 15, 2014 . ^ Welsh, Phillips & Hill 2010 , p. 104. ^ Phillips 2004 , p. 89. ^ Phillips 2004 , p. 88. ^ Lebo 1997 , p. 23. ^ " "The Godfather" Turns 40" . CBS News . March 15, 2012. Archived from the original on July 17, 2014 . Retrieved July 15, 2014 . ^ The Godfather DVD commentary featuring Francis Ford Coppola, [2001] ^ Jones 2007 , p. 18. ^ Lebo 2005 , p. 25. ^ Cowie 1997 , p. 11. ^ The Godfather DVD Collection documentary A Look Inside , [2001] ^ "Motion Picture History Has Been Made (advertisement)" . Variety . August 2, 1972. p. 10 . Retrieved December 10, 2023 – via Internet Archive . ^ Kael, Pauline (March 10, 1972). "Alchemy" . The New Yorker . ^ "The 45th Academy Awards" . October 5, 2014. ^ Ebert, Roger. The Great Movies . p. 198. ^ a b "Citizen Kane Stands the test of Time" (PDF) . American Film Institute . Archived (PDF) from the original on August 11, 2011 . Retrieved October 21, 2010 . ^ Ondaatje, Michael . The Conversations . p. 152. ^ a b "Palme d'or: the 1970s" . Cannes Film Festival . April 20, 2020. ^ Ondaatje, Michael. The Conversations . p. 157. ^ Karr, Mary (December 2, 2024). "Francis Ford Coppola apologizes for starting Hollywood sequel trend" . The A.V. Club . ^ "Francis Ford Coppola Has Found Himself Outside Hollywood. He's okay with that" . The Washington Post . December 2, 2024. ^ Kael, Pauline (December 23, 1974). "Fathers and Sons" . The New Yorker . ^ "The 47th Academy Awards" . October 6, 2014. ^ "50 Greatest Movies (on TV and Video) by TV Guide Magazine" . Archived from the original on March 31, 2014 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ "100 Greates Movies of All Time by Entertainment Weekly" . Archived from the original on March 31, 2014 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ "10 Best Films of All Time Polls by Sight & Sound Magazine" . Archived from the original on November 18, 2010 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ "The 70s and Technicolor" . The Technicolor Group . ^ a b Ryan, Tim (October 15, 2010). "Francis Ford Coppola: The RT Interview. The great director reflects upon his masterpiece Apocalypse Now" . Rotten Tomatoes . Archived from the original on October 20, 2010 . Retrieved November 30, 2010 . ^ "The 52nd Academy Awards" . March 2022. ^ Ebert, Roger (June 1, 1979). "Apocalypse Now". Chicago Sun Times . ^ "The Greatest Films of All Time" . Sight and Sound . ^ Ondaatje, Michael . The Conversations . p. 53. ^ Maslin, Janet (November 27, 1991). "Hearts of Darkness: A Filmmaker's Apocalypse (1991)" . The New York Times . Archived from the original on May 15, 2014 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ "One from the Heart" . Boxofficemojo.com. Archived from the original on October 11, 2017 . Retrieved October 19, 2010 . ^ Ebert, Roger (1982). "One From the Heart". Chicago Sun-Times . ^ " Rumble Fish " . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on June 25, 2009 . Retrieved December 30, 2008 . ^ Greatest Box-Office Bombs, Disasters and Flops of All-Time Archived November 22, 2010, at the Wayback Machine . Retrieved October 18, 2010. ^ "Faerie Tale Theatre – Rip Van Winkle (1984)" . Rotten Tomatoes . Archived from the original on December 4, 2009 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ Taylor, Trey (September 27, 2018). "Michael Jackson and the Making of Disney's 'Captain EO' " . Paper . Archived from the original on November 13, 2019 . Retrieved November 13, 2019 . ^ "WGAW Financial Core List" . www.wga.org . Archived from the original on August 13, 2023 . Retrieved August 17, 2023 . ^ "Peggy Sue Got Married" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on September 12, 2011. ^ "Entertainment Weekly's 50 Best High School Movies" . Archived from the original on September 5, 2008. ^ "Gardens of Stone" . Archived from the original on March 23, 2011 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ "New York Stories: DVD Information" . Archived from the original on November 23, 2010 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ "New York Stories by Roger Ebert" . Chicago Sun-Times . Archived from the original on November 7, 2011 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ "New York Stories (PG)" . The Washington Post . March 3, 1989. Archived from the original on January 21, 2012 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ a b " 'The Godfather: Part III' makes a little more sense in the streaming era" . sfchronicle.com. December 26, 2019. Archived from the original on December 27, 2019 . Retrieved December 28, 2019 . ^ "DVD commentary featuring Francis Ford Coppola". The Godfather Part II DVD . 2005. ^ a b The Godfather Part III Archived December 19, 2010, at the Wayback Machine . Retrieved October 18, 2010. ^ "The Godfather Part III by Hal Hinson" . The Washington Post . December 25, 1990. Archived from the original on February 8, 2011 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ "The Godfather Part III (1990)" . Archived from the original on March 15, 2011 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ "The Godfather Part III" . Archived from the original on November 19, 2010 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ "Adam Beach's 'Monkey Beach' to Open Hybrid Vancouver Film Fest" . hollywoodreporter.com. September 3, 2020. Archived from the original on September 4, 2020 . Retrieved September 3, 2020 . ^ Itzkoff, Dave (December 2, 2020). "How Francis Ford Coppola Got Pulled Back In to Make 'The Godfather, Coda' " . The New York Times . ISSN 0362-4331 . Archived from the original on December 2, 2020 . Retrieved December 16, 2020 . ^ Parker, Ryan (December 3, 2020). "Francis Ford Coppola Says 'Godfather: Part III' Recut Vindicates Film, Daughter Sofia" . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on January 26, 2021 . Retrieved December 3, 2020 . ^ "Bram Stoker's Dracula (1992)" . Archived from the original on September 21, 2010 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ "1992 Domestic Grosses" . Boxofficemojo.com. Archived from the original on June 29, 2007 . Retrieved November 30, 2010 . ^ Movie Dracula – Box Office Data, News, Cast Information Archived April 19, 2009, at the Wayback Machine from The Numbers ^ "Dracula box-office collections" . Archived from the original on July 26, 2012 . Retrieved November 30, 2010 . ^ "Jack" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on January 20, 2019 . Retrieved October 21, 2019 . ^ Blackwelder, Rob. "SPLICEDwire: "Jack" review" . SPLICEDwire . Rob Blackwelder. Archived from the original on December 10, 2017 . Retrieved October 21, 2019 . ^ Ebert, Roger. "Jack movie review & film summary (1996)" . RogerEbert.com . Ebert Digital. Archived from the original on October 21, 2019 . Retrieved October 21, 2019 . ^ Baumgarten, Marjorie. "Jack - Movie Review" . The Austin Chronicle . Archived from the original on October 21, 2019 . Retrieved October 21, 2019 . ^ Gleiberman, Owen. "Jack" . Entertainment Weekly . Archived from the original on October 21, 2019 . Retrieved October 21, 2019 . ^ "Francis Ford Coppola - Biography" . IMDb . IMDb.com, Inc. Archived from the original on April 10, 2018 . Retrieved October 21, 2019 . ^ "The Rainmaker" . Rotten Tomatoes . November 21, 1997. Archived from the original on September 27, 2010 . Retrieved October 19, 2010 . ^ Ebert, Roger (November 21, 1997). " The Rainmaker review" . Chicago Sun-Times . Retrieved March 14, 2025 – via RogerEbert.com . ^ Berardinelli, James (1997). " The Rainmaker review" . Reelviews . Retrieved March 14, 2025 . ^ Jordan, Tina (February 6, 2004). "Grisham v. Grisham: John Grisham issues judgment on all his novels" . Entertainment Weekly . Archived from the original on June 26, 2009 . Retrieved February 13, 2004 . ^ "The Rainmaker (1997)" . Archived from the original on June 7, 2011 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ a b Fear, David (August 25, 2024). "Francis Ford Coppola: 'I Have Nothing Left to Lose' " . Rolling Stone . Archived from the original on September 24, 2024 . Retrieved August 27, 2024 . ^ a b Horn, John (January 14, 2000). "A film named after a disaster of stellar proportions? Hmm...: Supernova: Directed by Walter Hill. And Jack Sholder. And Francis Ford Coppola". National Post . p. B3. ^ "TNMC Movies: Bad Movie News: Supernova" . tnmc.org . Archived from the original on March 6, 2016. ^ Lights, camera ... new director Harrison, Genevieve. The Guardian (1959-2003) [London (UK)] June 16, 2000: B8. ^ Cangialosi, Jason (November 14, 2011). " 'Sodankyla Forever' Explores Legacy of War at 34th Starz Denver Film Festival" . Yahoo! Movies . Archived from the original on May 18, 2013 . Retrieved December 12, 2020 . ^ Scott, A. O. (August 3, 2001). "CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK: Aching Heart of Darkness" . The New York Times . ^ "Youth Without Youth (2007)" . Rotten Tomatoes . December 14, 2007. Archived from the original on August 31, 2010 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ "Youth Without Youth" . Archived from the original on August 8, 2011 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ "Tetro" . ComingSoon.net . Coming Soon Media, L.P. Archived from the original on October 24, 2008 . Retrieved August 6, 2008 . ^ "Tetro (2009): Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on June 15, 2009 . Retrieved June 23, 2009 . ^ a b "Tetro Movie Reviews, Pictures" . Rotten Tomatoes . IGN Entertainment. Archived from the original on June 9, 2009 . Retrieved June 23, 2009 . ^ "Tetro Movie Review – Roger Ebert" . Chicago Sun-Times . June 17, 2009. Archived from the original on June 6, 2011 . Retrieved June 23, 2009 . ^ McCarthy, Todd (May 14, 2009). "Tetro Review" . Variety . Archived from the original on June 19, 2009 . Retrieved June 23, 2023 . ^ Corliss, Richard (June 11, 2009). "Coppola's Tetro: An Offer You Can Refuse" . Time . Archived from the original on June 15, 2009 . Retrieved June 23, 2023 . ^ "Tetro (2009)" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on October 3, 2009 . Retrieved July 9, 2010 . ^ Davies, Steven. "International One-Sheet For Francis Ford Coppola's New Mystery Thriller 'Twixt'; Horror Movie Entertainment News and Reviews" . Horror-asylum.com. Archived from the original on April 5, 2012 . Retrieved November 1, 2012 . ^ "Francis Ford Coppola's 'Twixt' opens in France to critical acclaim • Hypable" . Hypable.com. April 13, 2012. Archived from the original on January 3, 2013 . Retrieved November 1, 2012 . ^ "Twixt (2012)" . Rotten Tomatoes . July 23, 2013. Archived from the original on April 8, 2015 . Retrieved April 11, 2015 . ^ "The Reason Francis Ford Coppola Basically Quit Making Movies" . cinemablend.com. October 7, 2015. Archived from the original on April 7, 2020 . Retrieved April 7, 2020 . ^ "Hollywood legend brings vision to OCCC" . Archived from the original on October 21, 2016 . Retrieved October 11, 2016 . ^ Thompson, Anne (September 1, 2017). "Francis Ford Coppola: Why He Spent $500K to Restore His Most Troubled Film, 'The Cotton Club' " . IndieWire . Archived from the original on September 1, 2017 . Retrieved September 1, 2017 . ^ Squires, John (August 4, 2021). "Francis Ford Coppola's Horror Movie 'Dementia 13' Being Added to the Vestron Video Blu-ray Series" . Bloody Disgusting . Archived from the original on August 4, 2021 . Retrieved August 4, 2021 . ^ O'Falt, Chris (April 29, 2019). " 'Apocalypse Now': 5 Things You Need to Know About Coppola's New 'Final Cut' " . IndieWire . Archived from the original on April 30, 2019 . Retrieved April 30, 2019 . ^ Peter Bradshaw (December 1, 2020). "The Godfather Coda: The Death of Michael Corleone review – Coppola edits the past" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on December 15, 2020 . Retrieved December 5, 2020 . ^ a b Morris, Andy (March 16, 2011). "The Godfather Part IV" . GQ . Archived from the original on March 8, 2012 . Retrieved March 26, 2020 . ^ Rialto Pictures [@RialtoPictures] (September 29, 2022). "Kick off spooky season with a double feature of two of Francis Ford Coppola's darkest films — B'TWIXT NOW AND SUNRISE, starring Val Kilmer & Elle Fanning, and DEMENTIA 13, his first film — at @alamodrafthouse locations nationwide starting tomorrow!" ( Tweet ) . Retrieved January 11, 2023 – via Twitter . ^ "Francis Ford Coppola's 'The Godfather' Receives 50-Year Tribute At Oscars 2022" . Outlook . March 28, 2022. Archived from the original on August 2, 2023 . Retrieved August 2, 2023 . ^ "Francis Ford Coppola Says He Has Abandoned 'Megalopolis' Project" . The Moviefone Blog . Archived from the original on June 12, 2012 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ Fleming, Mike Jr. (April 3, 2019). "Francis Ford Coppola Ready To Make 'Megalopolis' And Is Eyeing Cast" . Deadline . Archived from the original on April 4, 2019 . Retrieved August 18, 2019 . ^ "10 Best Films Never Made" . Bangstyle.com. April 17, 2012. Archived from the original on May 31, 2013 . Retrieved May 25, 2013 . ^ Lovitt, Maggie (August 30, 2021). "Francis Coppola Eyeing Oscar Isaac, Forest Whitaker, Jessica Lange, Zendaya, and More for His Long-Awaited 'Megalopolis' " . Collider . Archived from the original on September 1, 2021 . Retrieved September 1, 2021 . ^ Fleming, Mike Jr. (May 12, 2022). "Francis Coppola Sets 'Megalopolis' Cast: Adam Driver, Forest Whitaker, Nathalie Emmanuel, Jon Voight & Filmmaker's 'Apocalypse Now' Teen Discovery Laurence Fishburne" . Deadline . Archived from the original on May 12, 2022 . Retrieved May 13, 2022 . ^ Ho, Rodney (July 13, 2022). "Francis Ford Coppola's 'Megalopolis' with Adam Driver coming to shoot in Georgia" . The Atlanta Journal-Constitution . Archived from the original on July 13, 2022 . Retrieved August 31, 2022 . ^ McCall, Kevin (July 14, 2022). "Francis Ford Coppola's Passion Project 'Megalopolis' to Shoot in Georgia" . Collider . Archived from the original on November 2, 2022 . Retrieved August 31, 2022 . ^ Kroll, Justin (August 22, 2022). "Aubrey Plaza Joins Adam Driver In Francis Coppola's 'Megalopolis' " . Deadline . Archived from the original on November 26, 2022 . Retrieved August 23, 2022 . ^ Grobar, Matt (August 31, 2022). " 'Megalopolis': Shia LaBeouf & Jason Schwartzman Among Six New Additions To Francis Ford Coppola Epic" . Deadline . Archived from the original on August 31, 2022 . Retrieved August 31, 2022 . ^ Fleming, Mike Jr. (October 4, 2022). "Francis Coppola Sets Final Casting For Epic 'Megalopolis'; Film Shooting This Fall In Georgia" . Deadline Hollywood . Archived from the original on October 4, 2022 . Retrieved October 12, 2022 . ^ Wiseman, Andreas (February 29, 2024). "Cannes 2024: What's In The Mix? (Part One)" . Deadline Hollywood . Archived from the original on May 15, 2024 . Retrieved February 29, 2024 . ^ Collin, Robbie (September 13, 2024). "Francis Ford Coppola: 'Hollywood doesn't want me any more' " . The Daily Telegraph . Archived from the original on September 15, 2024 . Retrieved September 15, 2024 . ^ Featured Filmmaker: Francis Ford Coppola – IGN Archived May 11, 2011, at the Wayback Machine . Retrieved October 18, 2010. ^ Welkos, Robert (October 25, 1995). "Disney Movie's Director a Convicted Child Molester : Hollywood: He says, 'I paid for my mistakes dearly,' but victim of incident several years ago urges boycott of 'Powder.' " . Los Angeles Times . Archived from the original on August 15, 2022 . Retrieved August 25, 2022 . ^ Goldstein, Patrick (June 11, 2006). "Victor Salva's horror stories" . Los Angeles Times . Archived from the original on September 30, 2022 . Retrieved August 25, 2022 . ^ "A Short-Story Vending Machine, Dispensing Free Stimulation" . KQED . May 22, 2016. Archived from the original on September 9, 2021 . Retrieved September 9, 2021 . ^ "In the Court of Appeal of the State of California Second Appellate District" . Schleimer Law. Archived from the original on July 16, 2011 . Retrieved October 18, 2010 . ^ Brennan, Judy (July 17, 1994). "No Lie: Coppola Eyes 'Pinocchio' " . Los Angeles Times . Archived from the original on September 2, 2022 . Retrieved September 2, 2022 . ^ a b Pollack, Andrew (July 10, 1998). "Coppola Awarded $80 Million For Unmade Pinocchio Movie" . The New York Times . Archived from the original on September 2, 2022 . Retrieved September 2, 2022 . ^ Matzer, Malta (July 3, 1998). "Jury Awards $20 Million to Coppola in 'Pinocchio' Suit" . Los Angeles Times . Archived from the original on September 2, 2022 . Retrieved September 2, 2022 . ^ "Studio will appeal $20 million award" . United Press International . July 3, 1998 . Retrieved September 2, 2022 . ^ "Coppola Loses $60 Million Award" . Sun-Sentinel . October 16, 1998. Archived from the original on September 2, 2022 . Retrieved September 2, 2022 . ^ Campbell, Duncan (March 22, 2001). "Coppola loses $20m compensation for lost Pinocchio" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on September 2, 2022 . Retrieved September 2, 2022 . ^ Shprintz, Janet (July 18, 2001). "State top court cuts 'Pinocchio' loose" . Variety . Archived from the original on September 2, 2022 . Retrieved September 2, 2022 . ^ a b c "Zoetrope sues over 'Contact' " . Variety . December 30, 1996. Archived from the original on January 4, 2021 . Retrieved January 5, 2021 . ^ Shprintz, Janet (February 13, 2000). "Coppola loses 'Contact' " . Variety . Archived from the original on October 25, 2012 . Retrieved January 28, 2009 . ^ Karon, Paul (February 17, 1998). "Coppola's 'Contact' claim is dismissed" . Variety . Archived from the original on October 25, 2012 . Retrieved January 28, 2009 . ^ Osborne, Heather (July 17, 2003). "Altamura tells students he's headed for silver screen" . Napa Valley Register . Napa, CA: Lee Enterprises, Inc. Archived from the original on April 1, 2017 . Retrieved September 2, 2014 . ^ "Italia Coppola: The Amazing Cook" . www.coppolafeast.com . Archived from the original on January 22, 2021 . Retrieved December 16, 2020 . ^ "The good food father" . The Guardian . October 14, 2001. Archived from the original on October 22, 2021 . Retrieved December 16, 2020 . ^ "The Family Coppola | Food" . www.thefamilycoppola.com . Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved December 16, 2020 . ^ "Discover Our Wines &#124" . Francis Ford Coppola Winery . Archived from the original on May 18, 2013 . Retrieved May 25, 2013 . ^ Davis, Kip (October 15, 2010). "Coppola's wine chateau also is family-friendly" . Napa Valley Register . Napa, CA: Lee Enterprises, Inc. Archived from the original on October 18, 2010 . Retrieved October 15, 2010 . ^ "Vision" . Francis Coppola Winery . Archived from the original on May 12, 2013 . Retrieved May 25, 2013 . ^ Worobiec, MaryAnn (June 24, 2021). "Delicato Family Wines Acquires Francis Ford Coppola Winery" . Wine Spectator . Archived from the original on June 24, 2021. ^ Hamlin, Suzanne (July 10, 1996). "A Director's Vision for Celebrating Food, Wine and Film" . The New York Times . Rutherford, CA. Archived from the original on February 10, 2024 . Retrieved October 15, 2010 . ^ "Francis Ford Coppola Winemaker and Sommelier Interviews" . Novus Vinum. September 17, 2008. Archived from the original on May 11, 2011 . Retrieved November 30, 2010 . ^ "Q&A: Francis Ford Coppola Explains His Passion For Wine" . Forbes . June 17, 2013. Archived from the original on May 14, 2014 . Retrieved May 14, 2014 . ^ Laube, James (April 11, 2011). "Coppola Reunites Inglenook Name with Its Vineyards" . Wine Spectator. Archived from the original on December 10, 2011 . Retrieved December 5, 2011 . ^ Lechmere, Adam (June 2, 2011). "Francis Ford Coppola to return Inglenook to 'lower alcohol' " . Decanter . Archived from the original on June 4, 2013 . Retrieved May 25, 2013 . ^ Weed, Augustus (October 25, 2018). "Francis Ford Coppola's Wine Company Buys Oregon's Vista Hills Vineyard" . Wine Spectator . Archived from the original on August 5, 2019. ^ Archer, L. M. (March 5, 2019). "The Family Coppola Unveils Domaine de Broglie" . Wine Business . Archived from the original on May 23, 2022. ^ "Blancaneaux Lodge, Belize Luxury Hotels – Blancaneaux Lodge at Coppola Resorts" . Coppolaresorts.com. Archived from the original on May 17, 2013 . Retrieved May 25, 2013 . ^ "Turtle Inn, Luxury Resorts in Belize – Turtle Inn at Coppola Resorts" . Coppolaresorts.com. Archived from the original on May 26, 2013 . Retrieved May 25, 2013 . ^ "La Lancha, Boutique Hotels Guatemala – La Lancha at Coppola Resorts" . Coppolaresorts.com. Archived from the original on May 17, 2013 . Retrieved May 25, 2013 . ^ "Jardin Escondido" . Coppolaresorts.com. Archived from the original on May 18, 2013 . Retrieved May 25, 2013 . ^ "Palazzo Margherita – Francis Ford Coppola Luxury Hotel in Bernalda Italy" . Coppolaresorts.com. Archived from the original on May 26, 2013 . Retrieved May 25, 2013 . ^ Bergeson, Samantha (July 10, 2024). "You Can Now Stay Where Megalopolis Was Completed: Introducing Coppola's All-Movie Hotel" . IndieWire . Archived from the original on July 10, 2024 . Retrieved July 10, 2024 . ^ "Cafe Zoetrope" . Cafecoppola.com. Archived from the original on May 25, 2013 . Retrieved May 25, 2013 . ^ "Rubicon Shuttered | News | News & Features" . Wine Spectator. Archived from the original on August 14, 2014 . Retrieved May 25, 2013 . ^ "Citizen Coppola" . Time . June 30, 1975. p. 1. Archived from the original on October 7, 2008 . Retrieved October 20, 2023 . "Citizen Coppola" . Time . June 30, 1975. p. 2. Archived from the original on February 4, 2010 . Retrieved October 20, 2023 . ^ Schwartz, Stephen (February 10, 2010). "Coppola's Descent into Journalism: Apocalypse Then" . Anderson Valley Advertiser . Archived from the original on October 31, 2023 . Retrieved October 20, 2023 . ^ Richardson, Peter (August 27, 2016). "Warren Hinckle: Remembering the Godfather of Gonzo" . Truthdig . Archived from the original on October 31, 2023 . Retrieved October 20, 2023 . ^ "Francis Ford Coppola" . Encyclopedia.com . Archived from the original on October 31, 2023 . Retrieved October 20, 2023 . ^ "Warren Hinckle" . The Nation . April 2, 2010. Archived from the original on December 5, 2022 . Retrieved October 20, 2023 . ^ McDonell, Terry (April 23, 2018). "Warren Would Have Written a Better Headline" . Alta Journal . Archived from the original on October 31, 2023 . Retrieved October 20, 2023 . ^ Babitz, Eve (2019). "All This and The Godfather Too". I Used To Be Charming . New York: New York Review of Books. p. 34. ISBN 9781681373799 . ^ "COPPOLA'S MAGAZINE" . Deseret News . April 17, 1996. Archived from the original on October 31, 2023 . Retrieved October 20, 2023 . ^ "Francis Ford Coppola(1939–):Biography from Baseline's Encyclopedia of Film" . Archived from the original on December 3, 2010 . Retrieved October 27, 2010 . ^ Rense, Sarah (November 5, 2018). "Francis Ford Coppola Made a Cannabis to Go With His Wine" . Esquire . Archived from the original on August 25, 2021 . Retrieved August 25, 2021 . ^ a b Shapiro, Katie. "Francis Ford Coppola Goes From Wine To Weed With New Cannabis Lifestyle Company" . Forbes . Archived from the original on August 25, 2021 . Retrieved August 25, 2021 . ^ "Coppola adds cannabis to his wine empire" . Santa Rosa Press Democrat . November 2, 2018. Archived from the original on August 25, 2021 . Retrieved August 25, 2021 . ^ "Francis Ford Coppola Debuts Cannabis Line at Thursday Infused" . Cannabis Now . October 31, 2018. Archived from the original on August 25, 2021 . Retrieved August 25, 2021 . ^ Carl, Tim (November 10, 2018). "Tim Carl: Coppola and Cannabis, a veteran vintner releases 'The Growers' Series' " . Napa Valley Register . Archived from the original on August 25, 2021 . Retrieved August 25, 2021 . ^ "Francis Ford Coppola's New Cash Crop: $99 Eighth-Ounces" . Leafly . January 12, 2019. Archived from the original on October 22, 2021 . Retrieved October 22, 2021 . ^ Baldvin, Henry (February 16, 2016). "See these Japanese whisky commercials!" . Archived from the original on October 28, 2019 . Retrieved March 26, 2020 . ^ Wasson, Sam (2003). The Path to Paradise: A Francis Ford Coppola Story . New York: Harper. p. 178. ISBN 9780063037847 . [Eleanor Coppola] had discovered [Francis] was having an affair, several affairs; there was, for starters, Playboy Bunny Linda Carpenter... There was the kids' former babysitter, his assistant on Godfather II, Melissa Mathison. They had been seeing each other since then. ^ Coyle, Jake; Bahr, Lindsey (April 12, 2024). "Eleanor Coppola, matriarch of a filmmaking family, dies at 87" . Associated Press . Archived from the original on April 13, 2024 . Retrieved April 12, 2024 . ^ dmoe@madison.com, 608-252-6446, DOUG MOE (March 27, 2015). "Doug Moe: 35 years on, recalling 'Apocalypse Brown' " . madison.com . Archived from the original on November 7, 2021 . Retrieved November 7, 2021 . {{ cite web }} :  CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list ( link ) ^ Francis Ford Coppola Archived May 17, 2008, at the Wayback Machine . Newsmeat. ^ "Francis Ford Coppola" . BFI . Archived from the original on February 23, 2016 . Retrieved July 4, 2022 . ^ "Rome honours Francis Ford Coppola" . October 15, 2024. ^ "Kennedy Center pays tribute to Coppola, Raitt and The Apollo" . National Public Radio . December 9, 2024. ^ Shukla, Piyush (October 31, 2024). "Francis Ford Coppola to Receive 50th AFI Life Achievement Award" . adda247 . Retrieved November 5, 2024 . Works cited [ edit ] Chown, Jeffrey (May 1988). Hollywood Auteur: Francis Coppola . Praeger Publishers. ISBN 978-0-275-92910-7 . Cowie, Peter (1997). The Godfather Book . London: Faber and Faber Limited. ISBN 978-0-571-19011-9 . Jones, Jenny M. (2007). The Annotated Godfather: The Complete Screenplay . New York: Black Dog & Leventhal. ISBN 978-1-57912-739-8 . Archived from the original on October 25, 2015 . Retrieved July 15, 2014 . Lebo, Harlan (1997). The Godfather Legacy: The Untold Story of the Making of the Classic Godfather Trilogy . London, England: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-0-684-83647-8 . Archived from the original on June 5, 2020 . Retrieved September 26, 2016 . Lebo, Harlan (2005). The Godfather Legacy: The Untold Story of the Making of the Classic Godfather Trilogy Featuring Never-Before-Published Production Stills . London, England: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-0-7432-8777-7 . Archived from the original on November 9, 2015 . Retrieved September 26, 2024 . Welsh, James M.; Phillips, Gene D.; Hill, Rodney F. (2010). The Francis Ford Coppola Encyclopedia . Lanham, Maryland: Scarecrow Press. ISBN 978-0-8108-7651-4 . Archived from the original on March 28, 2017 . Retrieved July 15, 2014 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Francis Ford Coppola . Francis Ford Coppola at IMDb Francis Ford Coppola: Texas Monthly Talks, YouTube video posted on November 24, 2008 2007 Francis Ford Coppola Video Interview with InterviewingHollywood.com ( Archived February 17, 2016, at the Wayback Machine ) Bibliography at the University of California Berkeley Library "Perfecting the Rubicon: An interview with Francis Ford Coppola" "Back to Bernalda" by Coppola, T , December 8, 2012. v t e Francis Ford Coppola Filmography Awards and nominations Bibliography Unrealized projects Films directed Dementia 13 (1963) You're a Big Boy Now (1966) Finian's Rainbow (1968) The Rain People (1969) The Godfather (1972) The Conversation (1974) The Godfather Part II (1974) Apocalypse Now (1979; Redux , 2001) One from the Heart (1982) The Outsiders (1983) Rumble Fish (1983) The Cotton Club (1984) Captain EO (1986; short film) Peggy Sue Got Married (1986) Gardens of Stone (1987) Tucker: The Man and His Dream (1988) New York Stories (segment "Life Without Zoë", 1989) The Godfather Part III (1990) Bram Stoker's Dracula (1992) Jack (1996) The Rainmaker (1997) Youth Without Youth (2007) Tetro (2009) Twixt (2011) Megalopolis (2024) Written only Is Paris Burning? (1966) This Property Is Condemned (1966) Patton (1970) The Great Gatsby (1974) Produced only American Graffiti (1973) Mary Shelley's Frankenstein (1994) Don Juan DeMarco (1994) The Florentine (1999) The Virgin Suicides (1999) Enterprises American Zoetrope Zoetrope: All-Story Rubicon Estate Winery Distant Vision Awards for Francis Ford Coppola v t e Academy Award for Best Picture 1951–1975 Arthur Freed (1951) Cecil B. DeMille (1952) Buddy Adler (1953) Sam Spiegel (1954) Harold Hecht (1955) Michael Todd (1956) Sam Spiegel (1957) Arthur Freed (1958) Sam Zimbalist (1959) Billy Wilder (1960) Robert Wise (1961) Sam Spiegel (1962) Tony Richardson (1963) Jack L. Warner (1964) Robert Wise (1965) Fred Zinnemann (1966) Walter Mirisch (1967) John Woolf (1968) Jerome Hellman (1969) Frank McCarthy (1970) Philip D'Antoni (1971) Albert S. Ruddy (1972) Tony Bill , Julia Phillips and Michael Phillips (1973) Francis Ford Coppola , Gray Frederickson and Fred Roos (1974) Michael Douglas and Saul Zaentz (1975) 1976–2000 Robert Chartoff and Irwin Winkler (1976) Charles H. Joffe (1977) Michael Cimino , Michael Deeley , John Peverall and Barry Spikings (1978) Stanley R. Jaffe (1979) Ronald L. Schwary (1980) David Puttnam (1981) Richard Attenborough (1982) James L. Brooks (1983) Saul Zaentz (1984) Sydney Pollack (1985) Arnold Kopelson (1986) Jeremy Thomas (1987) Mark Johnson (1988) Lili Fini Zanuck and Richard D. Zanuck (1989) Kevin Costner and Jim Wilson (1990) Ron Bozman , Edward Saxon and Kenneth Utt (1991) Clint Eastwood (1992) Branko Lustig , Gerald R. Molen and Steven Spielberg (1993) Wendy Finerman , Steve Starkey and Steve Tisch (1994) Bruce Davey , Mel Gibson and Alan Ladd Jr. (1995) Saul Zaentz (1996) James Cameron and Jon Landau (1997) Donna Gigliotti , Marc Norman , David Parfitt , Harvey Weinstein and Edward Zwick (1998) Bruce Cohen and Dan Jinks (1999) David Franzoni , Branko Lustig and Douglas Wick (2000) 2001–present Brian Grazer and Ron Howard (2001) Martin Richards (2002) Peter Jackson , Barrie M. Osborne and Fran Walsh (2003) Clint Eastwood , Tom Rosenberg and Albert S. Ruddy (2004) Paul Haggis and Cathy Schulman (2005) Graham King (2006) Ethan Coen, Joel Coen and Scott Rudin (2007) Christian Colson (2008) Kathryn Bigelow , Mark Boal , Nicolas Chartier and Greg Shapiro (2009) Iain Canning , Emile Sherman and Gareth Unwin (2010) Thomas Langmann (2011) Ben Affleck , George Clooney and Grant Heslov (2012) Dede Gardner , Anthony Katagas , Jeremy Kleiner , Steve McQueen and Brad Pitt (2013) Alejandro G. Iñárritu , John Lesher and James W. Skotchdopole (2014) Blye Pagon Faust , Steve Golin , Nicole Rocklin and Michael Sugar (2015) Dede Gardner , Jeremy Kleiner and Adele Romanski (2016) J. Miles Dale and Guillermo del Toro (2017) Jim Burke , Brian Currie, Peter Farrelly , Nick Vallelonga and Charles B. Wessler (2018) Bong Joon-ho and Kwak Sin-ae (2019) Mollye Asher, Dan Janvey, Frances McDormand , Peter Spears and Chloé Zhao (2020) Fabrice Gianfermi, Philippe Rousselet , Patrick Wachsberger (2021) Daniel Kwan, Daniel Scheinert and Jonathan Wang (2022) Emma Thomas , Charles Roven , and Christopher Nolan (2023) Alex Coco , Samantha Quan , and Sean Baker (2024) v t e Academy Award for Best Director 1927–1950 Frank Borzage (1927/28; Dramatic Picture) Lewis Milestone (1927/28; Comedy Picture) Frank Lloyd (1928/29) Lewis Milestone (1929/30) Norman Taurog (1930/31) Frank Borzage (1931/32) Frank Lloyd (1932/33) Frank Capra (1934) John Ford (1935) Frank Capra (1936) Leo McCarey (1937) Frank Capra (1938) Victor Fleming (1939) John Ford (1940) John Ford (1941) William Wyler (1942) Michael Curtiz (1943) Leo McCarey (1944) Billy Wilder (1945) William Wyler (1946) Elia Kazan (1947) John Huston (1948) Joseph L. Mankiewicz (1949) Joseph L. Mankiewicz (1950) 1951–1975 George Stevens (1951) John Ford (1952) Fred Zinnemann (1953) Elia Kazan (1954) Delbert Mann (1955) George Stevens (1956) David Lean (1957) Vincente Minnelli (1958) William Wyler (1959) Billy Wilder (1960) Jerome Robbins and Robert Wise (1961) David Lean (1962) Tony Richardson (1963) George Cukor (1964) Robert Wise (1965) Fred Zinnemann (1966) Mike Nichols (1967) Carol Reed (1968) John Schlesinger (1969) Franklin J. Schaffner (1970) William Friedkin (1971) Bob Fosse (1972) George Roy Hill (1973) Francis Ford Coppola (1974) Miloš Forman (1975) 1976–2000 John G. Avildsen (1976) Woody Allen (1977) Michael Cimino (1978) Robert Benton (1979) Robert Redford (1980) Warren Beatty (1981) Richard Attenborough (1982) James L. Brooks (1983) Miloš Forman (1984) Sydney Pollack (1985) Oliver Stone (1986) Bernardo Bertolucci (1987) Barry Levinson (1988) Oliver Stone (1989) Kevin Costner (1990) Jonathan Demme (1991) Clint Eastwood (1992) Steven Spielberg (1993) Robert Zemeckis (1994) Mel Gibson (1995) Anthony Minghella (1996) James Cameron (1997) Steven Spielberg (1998) Sam Mendes (1999) Steven Soderbergh (2000) 2001–present Ron Howard (2001) Roman Polanski (2002) Peter Jackson (2003) Clint Eastwood (2004) Ang Lee (2005) Martin Scorsese (2006) Joel Coen and Ethan Coen (2007) Danny Boyle (2008) Kathryn Bigelow (2009) Tom Hooper (2010) Michel Hazanavicius (2011) Ang Lee (2012) Alfonso Cuarón (2013) Alejandro González Iñárritu (2014) Alejandro González Iñárritu (2015) Damien Chazelle (2016) Guillermo del Toro (2017) Alfonso Cuarón (2018) Bong Joon-ho (2019) Chloé Zhao (2020/21) Jane Campion (2021) Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert (2022) Christopher Nolan (2023) Sean Baker (2024) v t e Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay 1940–1975 Preston Sturges (1940) Herman J. Mankiewicz and Orson Welles (1941) Michael Kanin and Ring Lardner Jr. (1942) Norman Krasna (1943) Lamar Trotti (1944) Richard Schweizer (1945) Muriel Box and Sydney Box (1946) Sidney Sheldon (1947) No award (1948) Robert Pirosh (1949) Charles Brackett , D. M. Marshman Jr. , and Billy Wilder (1950) Alan Jay Lerner (1951) T. E. B. Clarke (1952) Charles Brackett , Richard L. Breen , and Walter Reisch (1953) Budd Schulberg (1954) Sonya Levien and William Ludwig (1955) Albert Lamorisse (1956) George Wells (1957) Nathan E. Douglas and Harold Jacob Smith (1958) Clarence Greene , Maurice Richlin , Russell Rouse , and Stanley Shapiro (1959) I. A. L. Diamond and Billy Wilder (1960) William Inge (1961) Ennio De Concini , Pietro Germi , and Alfredo Giannetti (1962) James Webb (1963) S. H. Barnett , Peter Stone and Frank Tarloff (1964) Frederic Raphael (1965) Claude Lelouch and Pierre Uytterhoeven (1966) William Rose (1967) Mel Brooks (1968) William Goldman (1969) Francis Ford Coppola and Edmund H. North (1970) Paddy Chayefsky (1971) Jeremy Larner (1972) David S. Ward (1973) Robert Towne (1974) Frank Pierson (1975) 1976–2000 Paddy Chayefsky (1976) Woody Allen and Marshall Brickman (1977) Robert C. Jones , Waldo Salt , and Nancy Dowd (1978) Steve Tesich (1979) Bo Goldman (1980) Colin Welland (1981) John Briley (1982) Horton Foote (1983) Robert Benton (1984) William Kelley , Pamela Wallace , and Earl W. Wallace (1985) Woody Allen (1986) John Patrick Shanley (1987) Ronald Bass and Barry Morrow (1988) Tom Schulman (1989) Bruce Joel Rubin (1990) Callie Khouri (1991) Neil Jordan (1992) Jane Campion (1993) Quentin Tarantino and Roger Avary (1994) Christopher McQuarrie (1995) Joel Coen and Ethan Coen (1996) Ben Affleck and Matt Damon (1997) Marc Norman and Tom Stoppard (1998) Alan Ball (1999) Cameron Crowe (2000) 2001–present Julian Fellowes (2001) Pedro Almodóvar (2002) Sofia Coppola (2003) Pierre Bismuth , Michel Gondry and Charlie Kaufman (2004) Paul Haggis and Bobby Moresco (2005) Michael Arndt (2006) Diablo Cody (2007) Dustin Lance Black (2008) Mark Boal (2009) David Seidler (2010) Woody Allen (2011) Quentin Tarantino (2012) Spike Jonze (2013) Alejandro G. Iñárritu , Nicolás Giacobone , Alexander Dinelaris Jr. , and Armando Bo (2014) Tom McCarthy and Josh Singer (2015) Kenneth Lonergan (2016) Jordan Peele (2017) Nick Vallelonga , Brian Currie and Peter Farrelly (2018) Bong Joon-ho and Han Jin-won (2019) Emerald Fennell (2020) Kenneth Branagh (2021) Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert (2022) Justine Triet and Arthur Harari (2023) Sean Baker (2024) v t e Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay 1928–1950 Benjamin Glazer (1928) Hanns Kräly (1929) Frances Marion (1930) Howard Estabrook (1931) Edwin J. Burke (1932) Victor Heerman and Sarah Y. Mason (1933) Robert Riskin (1934) Dudley Nichols (1935) Pierre Collings and Sheridan Gibney (1936) Heinz Herald, Geza Herczeg, and Norman Reilly Raine (1937) Ian Dalrymple , Cecil Arthur Lewis , W. P. Lipscomb , and George Bernard Shaw (1938) Sidney Howard (1939) Donald Ogden Stewart (1940) Sidney Buchman and Seton I. Miller (1941) George Froeschel , James Hilton , Claudine West , and Arthur Wimperis (1942) Philip G. Epstein , Julius J. Epstein , and Howard Koch (1943) Frank Butler and Frank Cavett (1944) Charles Brackett and Billy Wilder (1945) Robert Sherwood (1946) George Seaton (1947) John Huston (1948) Joseph L. Mankiewicz (1949) Joseph L. Mankiewicz (1950) 1951–1975 Harry Brown and Michael Wilson (1951) Charles Schnee (1952) Daniel Taradash (1953) George Seaton (1954) Paddy Chayefsky (1955) John Farrow , S. J. Perelman , and James Poe (1956) Pierre Boulle , Carl Foreman and Michael Wilson (1957) Alan Jay Lerner (1958) Neil Paterson (1959) Richard Brooks (1960) Abby Mann (1961) Horton Foote (1962) John Osborne (1963) Edward Anhalt (1964) Robert Bolt (1965) Robert Bolt (1966) Stirling Silliphant (1967) James Goldman (1968) Waldo Salt (1969) Ring Lardner Jr. (1970) Ernest Tidyman (1971) Francis Ford Coppola and Mario Puzo (1972) William Peter Blatty (1973) Francis Ford Coppola and Mario Puzo (1974) Bo Goldman and Lawrence Hauben (1975) 1976–2000 William Goldman (1976) Alvin Sargent (1977) Oliver Stone (1978) Robert Benton (1979) Alvin Sargent (1980) Ernest Thompson (1981) Costa-Gavras and Donald E. Stewart (1982) James L. Brooks (1983) Peter Shaffer (1984) Kurt Luedtke (1985) Ruth Prawer Jhabvala (1986) Bernardo Bertolucci and Mark Peploe (1987) Christopher Hampton (1988) Alfred Uhry (1989) Michael Blake (1990) Ted Tally (1991) Ruth Prawer Jhabvala (1992) Steven Zaillian (1993) Eric Roth (1994) Emma Thompson (1995) Billy Bob Thornton (1996) Curtis Hanson and Brian Helgeland (1997) Bill Condon (1998) John Irving (1999) Stephen Gaghan (2000) 2001–present Akiva Goldsman (2001) Ronald Harwood (2002) Philippa Boyens , Peter Jackson , and Fran Walsh (2003) Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor (2004) Larry McMurtry and Diana Ossana (2005) William Monahan (2006) Joel Coen and Ethan Coen (2007) Simon Beaufoy (2008) Geoffrey S. Fletcher (2009) Aaron Sorkin (2010) Alexander Payne , Jim Rash , and Nat Faxon (2011) Chris Terrio (2012) John Ridley (2013) Graham Moore (2014) Adam McKay and Charles Randolph (2015) Barry Jenkins and Tarell Alvin McCraney (2016) James Ivory (2017) Charlie Wachtel , David Rabinowitz, Kevin Willmott and Spike Lee (2018) Taika Waititi (2019) Christopher Hampton and Florian Zeller (2020) Sian Heder (2021) Sarah Polley (2022) Cord Jefferson (2023) Peter Straughan (2024) v t e AFI Life Achievement Award John Ford (1973) James Cagney (1974) Orson Welles (1975) William Wyler (1976) Bette Davis (1977) Henry Fonda (1978) Alfred Hitchcock (1979) James Stewart (1980) Fred Astaire (1981) Frank Capra (1982) John Huston (1983) Lillian Gish (1984) Gene Kelly (1985) Billy Wilder (1986) Barbara Stanwyck (1987) Jack Lemmon (1988) Gregory Peck (1989) David Lean (1990) Kirk Douglas (1991) Sidney Poitier (1992) Elizabeth Taylor (1993) Jack Nicholson (1994) Steven Spielberg (1995) Clint Eastwood (1996) Martin Scorsese (1997) Robert Wise (1998) Dustin Hoffman (1999) Harrison Ford (2000) Barbra Streisand (2001) Tom Hanks (2002) Robert De Niro (2003) Meryl Streep (2004) George Lucas (2005) Sean Connery (2006) Al Pacino (2007) Warren Beatty (2008) Michael Douglas (2009) Mike Nichols (2010) Morgan Freeman (2011) Shirley MacLaine (2012) Mel Brooks (2013) Jane Fonda (2014) Steve Martin (2015) John Williams (2016) Diane Keaton (2017) George Clooney (2018) Denzel Washington (2019) Julie Andrews (2022) Nicole Kidman (2024) Francis Ford Coppola (2025) v t e BAFTA Award for Best Direction 1968–2000 Mike Nichols (1968) John Schlesinger (1969) George Roy Hill (1970) John Schlesinger (1971) Bob Fosse (1972) François Truffaut (1973) Roman Polanski (1974) Stanley Kubrick (1975) Miloš Forman (1976) Woody Allen (1977) Alan Parker (1978) Francis Ford Coppola (1979) Akira Kurosawa (1980) Louis Malle (1981) Richard Attenborough (1982) Bill Forsyth (1983) Wim Wenders (1984) No Award (1985) Woody Allen (1986) Oliver Stone (1987) Louis Malle (1988) Kenneth Branagh (1989) Martin Scorsese (1990) Alan Parker (1991) Robert Altman (1992) Steven Spielberg (1993) Mike Newell (1994) Michael Radford (1995) Joel Coen (1996) Baz Luhrmann (1997) Peter Weir (1998) Pedro Almodóvar (1999) Ang Lee (2000) 2001–present Peter Jackson (2001) Roman Polanski (2002) Peter Weir (2003) Mike Leigh (2004) Ang Lee (2005) Paul Greengrass (2006) Joel Coen and Ethan Coen (2007) Danny Boyle (2008) Kathryn Bigelow (2009) David Fincher (2010) Michel Hazanavicius (2011) Ben Affleck (2012) Alfonso Cuarón (2013) Richard Linklater (2014) Alejandro G. Iñárritu (2015) Damien Chazelle (2016) Guillermo del Toro (2017) Alfonso Cuarón (2018) Sam Mendes (2019) Chloé Zhao (2020) Jane Campion (2021) Edward Berger (2022) Christopher Nolan (2023) Brady Corbet (2024) v t e Directors Guild of America Award for Outstanding Directing – Feature Film 1948–1975 Joseph L. Mankiewicz (1948) Robert Rossen (1949) Joseph L. Mankiewicz (1950) George Stevens (1951) John Ford (1952) Fred Zinnemann (1953) Elia Kazan (1954) Delbert Mann (1955) George Stevens (1956) David Lean (1957) Vincente Minnelli (1958) William Wyler (1959) Billy Wilder (1960) Jerome Robbins and Robert Wise (1961) David Lean (1962) Tony Richardson (1963) George Cukor (1964) Robert Wise (1965) Fred Zinnemann (1966) Mike Nichols (1967) Anthony Harvey (1968) John Schlesinger (1969) Franklin J. Schaffner (1970) William Friedkin (1971) Francis Ford Coppola (1972) George Roy Hill (1973) Francis Ford Coppola (1974) Miloš Forman (1975) 1976–2000 John G. Avildsen (1976) Woody Allen (1977) Michael Cimino (1978) Robert Benton (1979) Robert Redford (1980) Warren Beatty (1981) Richard Attenborough (1982) James L. Brooks (1983) Miloš Forman (1984) Steven Spielberg (1985) Oliver Stone (1986) Bernardo Bertolucci (1987) Barry Levinson (1988) Oliver Stone (1989) Kevin Costner (1990) Jonathan Demme (1991) Clint Eastwood (1992) Steven Spielberg (1993) Robert Zemeckis (1994) Ron Howard (1995) Anthony Minghella (1996) James Cameron (1997) Steven Spielberg (1998) Sam Mendes (1999) Ang Lee (2000) 2001–present Ron Howard (2001) Rob Marshall (2002) Peter Jackson (2003) Clint Eastwood (2004) Ang Lee (2005) Martin Scorsese (2006) Joel Coen and Ethan Coen (2007) Danny Boyle (2008) Kathryn Bigelow (2009) Tom Hooper (2010) Michel Hazanavicius (2011) Ben Affleck (2012) Alfonso Cuarón (2013) Alejandro G. Iñárritu (2014) Alejandro G. Iñárritu (2015) Damien Chazelle (2016) Guillermo del Toro (2017) Alfonso Cuarón (2018) Sam Mendes (2019) Chloé Zhao (2020) Jane Campion (2021) Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert (2022) Christopher Nolan (2023) Sean Baker (2024) v t e Directors Guild of America Lifetime Achievement Award – Feature Film Cecil B. DeMille (1952) John Ford (1953) Henry King (1955) King Vidor (1956) Frank Capra (1958) George Stevens (1959) Frank Borzage (1960) William Wyler (1965) Alfred Hitchcock (1967) Fred Zinnemann (1969) David Lean and William A. Wellman (1972) George Cukor (1980) Rouben Mamoulian (1981) John Huston (1982) Orson Welles (1983) Billy Wilder (1984) Joseph L. Mankiewicz (1985) Elia Kazan (1986) Robert Wise (1987) Ingmar Bergman (1989) Akira Kurosawa (1991) Sidney Lumet (1992) Robert Altman (1993) James Ivory (1994) Woody Allen (1995) Stanley Kubrick (1996) Francis Ford Coppola (1997) Steven Spielberg (1999) Martin Scorsese (2002) Mike Nichols (2003) Clint Eastwood (2005) Norman Jewison (2009) Miloš Forman (2012) Ridley Scott (2016) Spike Lee (2021) Ang Lee (2024) v t e Donostia Award Lifetime Achievement Award at the San Sebastián International Film Festival 1986: Gregory Peck / Gene Tierney 1987: Glenn Ford 1988: Vittorio Gassman 1989: Bette Davis 1990: Claudette Colbert 1991: Anthony Perkins 1992: Lauren Bacall 1993: Robert Mitchum 1994: Lana Turner 1995: Susan Sarandon / Catherine Deneuve 1996: Al Pacino 1997: Michael Douglas / Jeremy Irons 1998: Jeanne Moreau / Anthony Hopkins / John Malkovich 1999: Anjelica Huston / Fernando Fernán Gómez / Vanessa Redgrave 2000: Michael Caine / Robert De Niro 2001: Julie Andrews / Warren Beatty / Francisco Rabal 2002: Jessica Lange / Bob Hoskins / Dennis Hopper / Francis Ford Coppola 2003: Robert Duvall / Sean Penn / Isabelle Huppert 2004: Annette Bening / Jeff Bridges / Woody Allen 2005: Willem Dafoe / Ben Gazzara 2006: Max von Sydow / Matt Dillon 2007: Liv Ullmann / Richard Gere 2008: Meryl Streep / Antonio Banderas 2009: Ian McKellen 2010: Julia Roberts 2011: Glenn Close 2012: Oliver Stone / Ewan McGregor / Tommy Lee Jones / John Travolta / Dustin Hoffman 2013: Carmen Maura / Hugh Jackman 2014: Denzel Washington / Benicio del Toro 2015: Emily Watson 2016: Sigourney Weaver / Ethan Hawke 2017: Ricardo Darín / Monica Bellucci / Agnès Varda 2018: Hirokazu Kore-eda / Danny DeVito / Judi Dench 2019: Penélope Cruz / Costa-Gavras / Donald Sutherland 2020: Viggo Mortensen 2021: Johnny Depp / Marion Cotillard 2022: Juliette Binoche / David Cronenberg 2023: Javier Bardem / Víctor Erice / Hayao Miyazaki 2024: Pedro Almodóvar / Cate Blanchett v t e Film Society of Lincoln Center Gala Tribute Honorees Charlie Chaplin (1972) Fred Astaire (1973) Alfred Hitchcock (1974) Joanne Woodward and Paul Newman (1975) George Cukor (1978) Bob Hope (1979) John Huston (1980) Barbara Stanwyck (1981) Billy Wilder (1982) Laurence Olivier (1983) Claudette Colbert (1984) Federico Fellini (1985) Elizabeth Taylor (1986) Alec Guinness (1987) Yves Montand (1988) Bette Davis (1989) James Stewart (1990) Audrey Hepburn (1991) Gregory Peck (1992) Jack Lemmon (1993) Robert Altman (1994) Shirley MacLaine (1995) Clint Eastwood (1996) Sean Connery (1997) Martin Scorsese (1998) Mike Nichols (1999) Al Pacino (2000) Jane Fonda (2001) Francis Ford Coppola (2002) Susan Sarandon (2003) Michael Caine (2004) Dustin Hoffman (2005) Jessica Lange (2006) Diane Keaton (2007) Meryl Streep (2008) Tom Hanks (2009) Michael Douglas (2010) Sidney Poitier (2011) Catherine Deneuve (2012) Barbra Streisand (2013) Rob Reiner (2014) Robert Redford (2015) Morgan Freeman (2016) Robert De Niro (2017) Helen Mirren (2018) Spike Lee (2020) Cate Blanchett (2022) Viola Davis (2023) Jeff Bridges (2024) Pedro Almodóvar (2025) v t e Golden Eagle Lifetime Achievement Award [ ru ] National Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences of Russia Yevgeny Samoylov / Francis Ford Coppola (2005) Georgiy Daneliya / Robert De Niro (2006) Roman Polanski / Edward Gimpel [ ru ] (2007) Vladimir Naumov (2008) Faye Dunaway / Aleksei Petrenko (2009) Anouk Aimée / Oleg Strizhenov (2010) Claudia Cardinale / Grigoriy Dobrygin (2011) Valentin Gaft (2012) Viktor Vekselberg / Vadim Yusov (2013) Georgiy Daneliya / Mark Zakharov (2014) Stanislav Govorukhin / Ivan Tverdovski [ ru ] (2015) Nikita Mikhalkov (2016) Vasily Livanov (2017) Alexander Kalyagin (2018) Vasily Lanovoy (2019) Alisa Freindlich (2020) Svetlana Druzhinina (2021) v t e Golden Globe Award for Best Director 1943–1975 Henry King (1943) Leo McCarey (1944) Billy Wilder (1945) Frank Capra (1946) Elia Kazan (1947) John Huston (1948) Robert Rossen (1949) Billy Wilder (1950) László Benedek (1951) Cecil B. DeMille (1952) Fred Zinnemann (1953) Elia Kazan (1954) Joshua Logan (1955) Elia Kazan (1956) David Lean (1957) Vincente Minnelli (1958) William Wyler (1959) Jack Cardiff (1960) Stanley Kramer (1961) David Lean (1962) Elia Kazan (1963) George Cukor (1964) David Lean (1965) Fred Zinnemann (1966) Mike Nichols (1967) Paul Newman (1968) Charles Jarrott (1969) Arthur Hiller (1970) William Friedkin (1971) Francis Ford Coppola (1972) William Friedkin (1973) Roman Polanski (1974) Miloš Forman (1975) 1976–2000 Sidney Lumet (1976) Herbert Ross (1977) Michael Cimino (1978) Francis Ford Coppola (1979) Robert Redford (1980) Warren Beatty (1981) Richard Attenborough (1982) Barbra Streisand (1983) Miloš Forman (1984) John Huston (1985) Oliver Stone (1986) Bernardo Bertolucci (1987) Clint Eastwood (1988) Oliver Stone (1989) Kevin Costner (1990) Oliver Stone (1991) Clint Eastwood (1992) Steven Spielberg (1993) Robert Zemeckis (1994) Mel Gibson (1995) Miloš Forman (1996) James Cameron (1997) Steven Spielberg (1998) Sam Mendes (1999) Ang Lee (2000) 2001–present Robert Altman (2001) Martin Scorsese (2002) Peter Jackson (2003) Clint Eastwood (2004) Ang Lee (2005) Martin Scorsese (2006) Julian Schnabel (2007) Danny Boyle (2008) James Cameron (2009) David Fincher (2010) Martin Scorsese (2011) Ben Affleck (2012) Alfonso Cuarón (2013) Richard Linklater (2014) Alejandro G. Iñárritu (2015) Damien Chazelle (2016) Guillermo del Toro (2017) Alfonso Cuarón (2018) Sam Mendes (2019) Chloé Zhao (2020) Jane Campion (2021) Steven Spielberg (2022) Christopher Nolan (2023) Brady Corbet (2024) v t e Golden Globe Award for Best Screenplay 1965–1975 Robert Bolt (1965) Robert Bolt (1966) Stirling Silliphant (1967) Stirling Silliphant (1968) Bridget Boland , John Hale and Richard Sokolove (1969) Erich Segal (1970) Paddy Chayefsky (1971) Francis Ford Coppola and Mario Puzo (1972) William Peter Blatty (1973) Robert Towne (1974) Bo Goldman and Lawrence Hauben (1975) 1976–2000 Paddy Chayefsky (1976) Neil Simon (1977) Oliver Stone (1978) Robert Benton (1979) William Peter Blatty (1980) Ernest Thompson (1981) John Briley (1982) James L. Brooks (1983) Peter Shaffer (1984) Woody Allen (1985) Robert Bolt (1986) Bernardo Bertolucci , Mark Peploe , and Enzo Ungari (1987) Naomi Foner (1988) Oliver Stone and Ron Kovic (1989) Michael Blake (1990) Callie Khouri (1991) Bo Goldman (1992) Steven Zaillian (1993) Quentin Tarantino (1994) Emma Thompson (1995) Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski (1996) Ben Affleck and Matt Damon (1997) Marc Norman and Tom Stoppard (1998) Alan Ball (1999) 2001–present Stephen Gaghan (2000) Akiva Goldsman (2001) Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor (2002) Sofia Coppola (2003) Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor (2004) Larry McMurtry and Diana Ossana (2005) Peter Morgan (2006) Joel Coen and Ethan Coen (2007) Simon Beaufoy (2008) Jason Reitman and Sheldon Turner (2009) Aaron Sorkin (2010) Woody Allen (2011) Quentin Tarantino (2012) Spike Jonze (2013) Alejandro G. Iñárritu , Nicolás Giacobone , Alexander Dinelaris Jr. , and Armando Bo (2014) Aaron Sorkin (2015) Damien Chazelle (2016) Martin McDonagh (2017) Brian Hayes Currie, Peter Farrelly , and Nick Vallelonga (2018) Quentin Tarantino (2019) Aaron Sorkin (2020) Kenneth Branagh (2021) Martin McDonagh (2022) Justine Triet and Arthur Harari (2023) Peter Straughan (2024) v t e Golden Globe Award for Best Original Score 1940s Life with Father – Max Steiner (1947) The Red Shoes – Brian Easdale (1948) The Inspector General – Johnny Green (1949) 1950s Sunset Boulevard – Franz Waxman (1950) September Affair – Victor Young (1951) High Noon – Dimitri Tiomkin (1952) On the Beach – Ernest Gold (1959) 1960s The Alamo – Dimitri Tiomkin (1960) The Guns of Navarone – Dimitri Tiomkin (1961) To Kill a Mockingbird – Elmer Bernstein (1962) (1963) The Fall of the Roman Empire – Dimitri Tiomkin (1964) Doctor Zhivago – Maurice Jarre (1965) Hawaii – Elmer Bernstein (1966) Camelot – Frederick Loewe (1967) The Shoes of the Fisherman – Alex North (1968) Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid – Burt Bacharach (1969) 1970s Love Story – Francis Lai (1970) Shaft – Isaac Hayes (1971) The Godfather – Nino Rota (1972) Jonathan Livingston Seagull – Neil Diamond (1973) The Little Prince – Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe (1974) Jaws – John Williams (1975) A Star is Born – Kenneth Ascher and Paul Williams (1976) Star Wars – John Williams (1977) Midnight Express – Giorgio Moroder (1978) Apocalypse Now – Carmine Coppola and Francis Ford Coppola (1979) 1980s The Stunt Man – Dominic Frontiere (1980) No Award (1981) E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial – John Williams (1982) Flashdance – Giorgio Moroder (1983) A Passage to India – Maurice Jarre (1984) Out of Africa – John Barry (1985) The Mission – Ennio Morricone (1986) The Last Emperor – David Byrne , Ryuichi Sakamoto and Cong Su (1987) Gorillas in the Mist – Maurice Jarre (1988) The Little Mermaid – Alan Menken (1989) 1990s The Sheltering Sky – Richard Horowitz and Ryuichi Sakamoto (1990) Beauty and the Beast – Alan Menken (1991) Aladdin – Alan Menken (1992) Heaven & Earth – Kitarō (1993) The Lion King – Hans Zimmer (1994) A Walk in the Clouds – Maurice Jarre (1995) The English Patient – Gabriel Yared (1996) Titanic – James Horner (1997) The Truman Show – Burkhard Dallwitz and Philip Glass (1998) The Legend of 1900 – Ennio Morricone (1999) 2000s Gladiator – Lisa Gerrard , Hans Zimmer (2000) Moulin Rouge! – Craig Armstrong (2001) Frida – Elliot Goldenthal (2002) The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King – Howard Shore (2003) The Aviator – Howard Shore (2004) Memoirs of a Geisha – John Williams (2005) The Painted Veil – Alexandre Desplat (2006) Atonement – Dario Marianelli (2007) Slumdog Millionaire – A. R. Rahman (2008) Up – Michael Giacchino (2009) 2010s The Social Network – Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross (2010) The Artist – Ludovic Bource (2011) Life of Pi – Mychael Danna (2012) All Is Lost – Alex Ebert (2013) The Theory of Everything – Jóhann Jóhannsson (2014) The Hateful Eight – Ennio Morricone (2015) La La Land – Justin Hurwitz (2016) The Shape of Water – Alexandre Desplat (2017) First Man – Justin Hurwitz (2018) Joker – Hildur Guðnadóttir (2019) 2020s Soul – Trent Reznor , Atticus Ross , and Jon Batiste (2020) Dune – Hans Zimmer (2021) Babylon – Justin Hurwitz (2022) Oppenheimer – Ludwig Göransson (2023) Challengers – Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross (2024) v t e Golden Lion for Lifetime Achievement 1969–2000 Luis Buñuel (1969) Orson Welles (1970) John Ford / Marcel Carné / Ingmar Bergman (1971) Charlie Chaplin / Anatoli Golovnya / Billy Wilder (1972) Alessandro Blasetti / Luis Buñuel / Frank Capra / George Cukor / Jean-Luc Godard / Alexander Kluge / Akira Kurosawa / Michael Powell / Satyajit Ray / King Vidor / Sergei Yutkevich / Cesare Zavattini (1982) Michelangelo Antonioni (1983) Federico Fellini (1985) Paolo and Vittorio Taviani (1986) Luigi Comencini / Joseph L. Mankiewicz (1987) Joris Ivens (1988) Robert Bresson (1989) Miklós Jancsó / Marcello Mastroianni (1990) Mario Monicelli / Gian Maria Volonté (1991) Francis Ford Coppola / Jeanne Moreau / Paolo Villaggio (1992) Claudia Cardinale / Robert De Niro / Roman Polanski / Steven Spielberg (1993) Suso Cecchi d'Amico / Ken Loach / Al Pacino (1994) Woody Allen / Giuseppe De Santis / Goffredo Lombardo / Ennio Morricone / Alain Resnais / Martin Scorsese / Alberto Sordi / Monica Vitti (1995) Robert Altman / Vittorio Gassman / Dustin Hoffman / Michèle Morgan (1996) Gérard Depardieu / Stanley Kubrick / Alida Valli (1997) Warren Beatty / Sophia Loren / Andrzej Wajda (1998) Jerry Lewis (1999) Clint Eastwood (2000) 2001–present Éric Rohmer (2001) Dino Risi (2002) Dino De Laurentiis / Omar Sharif (2003) Manoel de Oliveira / Stanley Donen (2004) Hayao Miyazaki / Stefania Sandrelli (2005) David Lynch (2006) Tim Burton (2007) Ermanno Olmi (2008) John Lasseter (2009) John Woo (2010) Marco Bellocchio (2011) Francesco Rosi (2012) William Friedkin (2013) Thelma Schoonmaker / Frederick Wiseman (2014) Bertrand Tavernier (2015) Jean-Paul Belmondo / Jerzy Skolimowski (2016) Jane Fonda / Robert Redford (2017) David Cronenberg / Vanessa Redgrave (2018) Pedro Almodóvar / Julie Andrews (2019) Ann Hui / Tilda Swinton (2020) Roberto Benigni / Jamie Lee Curtis (2021) Catherine Deneuve / Paul Schrader (2022) Liliana Cavani / Tony Leung Chiu-wai (2023) Sigourney Weaver / Peter Weir (2024) v t e Golden Orange Honorary Award Ömer Lütfi Akad (1983) Sezer Sezin (1984) Metin Erksan (1987) Helen Mirren / Taylor Hackford / Norman Jewison (2006) Shekhar Kapur / Francis Ford Coppola / Hanna Schygulla (2007) Maximilian Schell / Mickey Rourke / Kevin Spacey / Michael J. Warner (2008) v t e Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Director 1980–1999 Robert Greenwald – Xanadu (1980) Michael Cimino – Heaven's Gate (1981) Ken Annakin – The Pirate Movie / Terence Young – Inchon (1982) Peter Sasdy – The Lonely Lady (1983) John Derek – Bolero (1984) Sylvester Stallone – Rocky IV (1985) Prince – Under the Cherry Moon (1986) Norman Mailer – Tough Guys Don't Dance / Elaine May – Ishtar (1987) Blake Edwards – Sunset / Stewart Raffill – Mac and Me (1988) William Shatner – Star Trek V: The Final Frontier (1989) John Derek – Ghosts Can't Do It (1990) Michael Lehmann – Hudson Hawk (1991) David Seltzer – Shining Through (1992) Jennifer Lynch – Boxing Helena (1993) Steven Seagal – On Deadly Ground (1994) Paul Verhoeven – Showgirls (1995) Andrew Bergman – Striptease (1996) Kevin Costner – The Postman (1997) Gus Van Sant – Psycho (1998) Barry Sonnenfeld – Wild Wild West (1999) 2000–2019 Roger Christian – Battlefield Earth (2000) Tom Green – Freddy Got Fingered (2001) Guy Ritchie – Swept Away (2002) Martin Brest – Gigli (2003) Pitof – Catwoman (2004) John Asher – Dirty Love (2005) M. Night Shyamalan – Lady in the Water (2006) Chris Sivertson – I Know Who Killed Me (2007) Uwe Boll – In the Name of the King , Postal , and Tunnel Rats (2008) Michael Bay – Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen (2009) M. Night Shyamalan – The Last Airbender (2010) Dennis Dugan – Jack and Jill and Just Go with It (2011) Bill Condon – The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Part 2 (2012) Elizabeth Banks , Steven Brill , Steve Carr , Rusty Cundieff , James Duffy, Griffin Dunne , Peter Farrelly , Patrik Forsberg, Will Graham, James Gunn , Bob Odenkirk , Brett Ratner , and Jonathan van Tulleken – Movie 43 (2013) Michael Bay – Transformers: Age of Extinction (2014) Josh Trank – Fantastic Four (2015) Dinesh D'Souza and Bruce Schooley – Hillary's America: The Secret History of the Democratic Party (2016) Tony Leondis – The Emoji Movie (2017) Etan Cohen – Holmes & Watson (2018) Tom Hooper – Cats (2019) 2020–present Sia – Music (2020/21) Christopher Ashley – Diana the Musical (2021) Colson Baker and Mod Sun – Good Mourning (2022) Rhys Frake-Waterfield – Winnie-the-Pooh: Blood and Honey (2023) Francis Ford Coppola – Megalopolis (2024) v t e Inkpot Award (1990s) 1990 Karen Berger Bob Burden Tom DeFalco William Gaines Jim Henson Randy and Jean-Marc Lofficier Grant Morrison Bob Overstreet Mary Reynante Bob Schreck Ken Steacy Rick Sternbach Charles Vess 1991 Alicia Austin Clive Barker Dan Barry Dan DeCarlo Creig Flessel Neil Gaiman Ted "Dr. Seuss" Geisel Keith Giffen George Gladir Joe Haldeman Lynn Johnston Carol Kalish Don Maitz Sheldon Moldoff Steve Oliff Julie Roloff Stan Sakai 1992 Carina Burns-Chenelle Bob Chapman Francis Ford Coppola Robin Doig Alan Grant Bill Griffith Ray Harryhausen Marc Hempel Jim Lee Milo Manara Scott McCloud Todd McFarlane Rowena Morrill Diane Noomin Louise Simonson Dick Sprang Vernor Vinge Mark Wheatley 1993 Jim Aparo Gary Carter Phil Foglio Robert Goodwin Ferd Johnson Don Martin Dave McKean Clydene Nee Paul Norris Paul Power P. Craig Russell Mark Schultz Vincent Sullivan Michael Whelan Roger Zelazny 1994 Mike Carlin Paul Chadwick Al Feldstein Stan Goldberg Roberta Gregory Chad Grothkopf Jerry Ordway Bud Plant Mike Richardson John Romita, Jr. Richard Rowell Lucius Shepard Mickey Spillane J. Michael Straczynski Rumiko Takahashi 1995 Roger Corman Greg Hildebrandt (Brothers Hildebrandt) Tim Hildebrandt (Brothers Hildebrandt) Ryoichi Ikegami Irv Novick Joe Sinnott 1996 Donna Barr Mort Drucker Joe Giella Jim Mooney Kurt Schaffenberger François Schuiten David Siegel 1997 Dick Ayers Steve Bissette Terry Brooks Bob Haney Russ Heath Carol Lay Michael Moorcock Janice Tobias George Tuska 1998 John Broome Eddie Campbell Nick Cardy David Glanzer Fred Guardineer Lorenzo Mattotti Paul S. Newman John Severin Joe Simon Naoko Takeuchi Mark Yturralde 1999 Tom Batiuk Chuck Cuidera Samuel R. Delany Arnold Drake Sam Glanzman Larry Gonick Irwin Hasen Sue Lord Complete list 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s v t e Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award Darryl F. Zanuck (1938) Hal B. Wallis (1939) David O. Selznick (1940) Walt Disney (1942) Sidney Franklin (1943) Hal B. Wallis (1944) Darryl F. Zanuck (1945) Samuel Goldwyn (1947) Jerry Wald (1949) Darryl F. Zanuck (1951) Arthur Freed (1952) Cecil B. DeMille (1953) George Stevens (1954) Buddy Adler (1957) Jack L. Warner (1959) Stanley Kramer (1962) Sam Spiegel (1964) William Wyler (1966) Robert Wise (1967) Alfred Hitchcock (1968) Ingmar Bergman (1971) Lawrence Weingarten (1974) Mervyn LeRoy (1976) Pandro S. Berman (1977) Walter Mirisch (1978) Ray Stark (1980) Albert R. Broccoli (1982) Steven Spielberg (1987) Billy Wilder (1988) David Brown and Richard D. Zanuck (1991) George Lucas (1992) Clint Eastwood (1995) Saul Zaentz (1997) Norman Jewison (1999) Warren Beatty (2000) Dino De Laurentiis (2001) John Calley (2009) Francis Ford Coppola (2010) Kathleen Kennedy and Frank Marshall (2018) Barbara Broccoli and Michael G. Wilson (2024) v t e Kennedy Center Honorees (2020s) 2020 Debbie Allen Joan Baez Garth Brooks Midori Dick Van Dyke 2021 Justino Díaz Berry Gordy Lorne Michaels Bette Midler Joni Mitchell 2022 George Clooney Amy Grant Gladys Knight Tania León U2 2023 Billy Crystal Renée Fleming Barry Gibb Queen Latifah Dionne Warwick 2024 Francis Ford Coppola Grateful Dead Bonnie Raitt Arturo Sandoval The Apollo Complete list 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s 2020s v t e Mary Pickford Award Rod Steiger (1996) Jodie Foster (1997) Alan J. Pakula (1998) Maximilian Schell (1999) Francis Ford Coppola (2000) Karl Malden (2001) Robert Evans (2002) Arnon Milchan (2003) Susan Sarandon (2004) Gena Rowlands (2005) Martin Landau (2006) Kathy Bates (2007) Louis Gossett Jr. (2008) Michael York (2009) Vanessa Williams (2010) Mitzi Gaynor (2011) Terence Stamp (2012) Mike Medavoy (2013) Ellen Burstyn (2014) Louise Fletcher (2015) Edward James Olmos (2016) Dabney Coleman (2017) Rade Šerbedžija (2018) Stacy Keach (2019) Tilda Swinton (2020) Tom Skerritt (2021) Diane Warren (2022) Jon Landau (2023) James Woods (2024) v t e National Board of Review Award for Best Director 1945–1975 Jean Renoir (1945) William Wyler (1946) Elia Kazan (1947) Roberto Rossellini (1948) Vittorio De Sica (1949) John Huston (1950) Akira Kurosawa (1951) David Lean (1952) George Stevens (1953) Renato Castellani (1954) William Wyler (1955) John Huston (1956) David Lean (1957) John Ford (1958) Fred Zinnemann (1959) Jack Cardiff (1960) Jack Clayton (1961) David Lean (1962) Tony Richardson (1963) Desmond Davis (1964) John Schlesinger (1965) Fred Zinnemann (1966) Richard Brooks (1967) Franco Zeffirelli (1968) Alfred Hitchcock (1969) François Truffaut (1970) Ken Russell (1971) Bob Fosse (1972) Ingmar Bergman (1973) Francis Ford Coppola (1974) Robert Altman / Stanley Kubrick (1975) 1976–2000 Alan J. Pakula (1976) Luis Buñuel (1977) Ingmar Bergman (1978) John Schlesinger (1979) Robert Redford (1980) Warren Beatty (1981) Sidney Lumet (1982) James L. Brooks (1983) David Lean (1984) Akira Kurosawa (1985) Woody Allen (1986) Steven Spielberg (1987) Alan Parker (1988) Kenneth Branagh (1989) Kevin Costner (1990) Jonathan Demme (1991) James Ivory (1992) Martin Scorsese (1993) Quentin Tarantino (1994) Ang Lee (1995) Joel Coen (1996) Curtis Hanson (1997) Shekhar Kapur (1998) Anthony Minghella (1999) Steven Soderbergh (2000) 2001–present Todd Field (2001) Phillip Noyce (2002) Edward Zwick (2003) Michael Mann (2004) Ang Lee (2005) Martin Scorsese (2006) Tim Burton (2007) David Fincher (2008) Clint Eastwood (2009) David Fincher (2010) Martin Scorsese (2011) Kathryn Bigelow (2012) Spike Jonze (2013) Clint Eastwood (2014) Ridley Scott (2015) Barry Jenkins (2016) Greta Gerwig (2017) Bradley Cooper (2018) Quentin Tarantino (2019) Spike Lee (2020) Paul Thomas Anderson (2021) Steven Spielberg (2022) Martin Scorsese (2023) Jon M. Chu (2024) v t e National Society of Film Critics Award for Best Director 1966–2000 Michelangelo Antonioni (1966) Ingmar Bergman (1967) Ingmar Bergman (1968) François Truffaut (1969) Ingmar Bergman (1970) Bernardo Bertolucci (1971) Luis Buñuel (1972) François Truffaut (1973) Francis Ford Coppola (1974) Robert Altman (1975) Martin Scorsese (1976) Luis Buñuel (1977) Terrence Malick (1978) Woody Allen / Robert Benton (1979) Martin Scorsese (1980) Louis Malle (1981) Steven Spielberg (1982) Paolo Taviani and Vittorio Taviani (1983) Robert Bresson (1984) John Huston (1985) David Lynch (1986) John Boorman (1987) Philip Kaufman (1988) Gus Van Sant (1989) Martin Scorsese (1990) David Cronenberg (1991) Clint Eastwood (1992) Steven Spielberg (1993) Quentin Tarantino (1994) Mike Figgis (1995) Lars von Trier (1996) Curtis Hanson (1997) Steven Soderbergh (1998) Mike Leigh (1999) Steven Soderbergh (2000) 2001–present Robert Altman (2001) Roman Polanski (2002) Clint Eastwood (2003) Zhang Yimou (2004) David Cronenberg (2005) Paul Greengrass (2006) Paul Thomas Anderson (2007) Mike Leigh (2008) Kathryn Bigelow (2009) David Fincher (2010) Terrence Malick (2011) Michael Haneke (2012) Joel Coen and Ethan Coen (2013) Richard Linklater (2014) Todd Haynes (2015) Barry Jenkins (2016) Greta Gerwig (2017) Alfonso Cuarón (2018) Greta Gerwig (2019) Chloé Zhao (2020) Ryusuke Hamaguchi (2021) Charlotte Wells (2022) Jonathan Glazer (2023) Payal Kapadia (2024) v t e Laureates of the Prince or Princess of Asturias Award for the Arts Prince of Asturias Award for the Arts 1981: Jesús López Cobos 1982: Pablo Serrano 1983: Eusebio Sempere 1984: Orfeón Donostiarra 1985: Antonio López García 1986: Luis García Berlanga 1987: Eduardo Chillida 1988: Jorge Oteiza 1989: Oscar Niemeyer 1990: Antoni Tàpies 1991: Victoria de los Ángeles , Teresa Berganza , Montserrat Caballé , José Carreras , Pilar Lorengar , Alfredo Kraus and Plácido Domingo 1992: Roberto Matta 1993: Francisco Javier Sáenz de Oiza 1994: Alicia de Larrocha 1995: Fernando Fernán Gómez 1996: Joaquín Rodrigo 1997: Vittorio Gassman 1998: Sebastião Salgado 1999: Santiago Calatrava 2000: Barbara Hendricks 2001: Krzysztof Penderecki 2002: Woody Allen 2003: Miquel Barceló 2004: Paco de Lucía 2005: Maya Plisetskaya and Tamara Rojo 2006: Pedro Almodóvar 2007: Bob Dylan 2008: Sistema de Orquesta Juvenil e Infantil de Venezuela 2009: Norman Foster 2010: Richard Serra 2011: Riccardo Muti 2012: Rafael Moneo 2013: Michael Haneke 2014: Frank Gehry Princess of Asturias Award for the Arts 2015: Francis Ford Coppola 2016: Núria Espert 2017: William Kentridge 2018: Martin Scorsese 2019: Peter Brook 2020: Ennio Morricone and John Williams 2021: Marina Abramović 2022: Carmen Linares and María Pagés 2023: Meryl Streep 2024: Joan Manuel Serrat v t e Saturn Award for Best Director Mel Brooks (1974/75) Dan Curtis (1976) George Lucas / Steven Spielberg (1977) Philip Kaufman (1978) Ridley Scott (1979) Irvin Kershner (1980) Steven Spielberg (1981) Nicholas Meyer (1982) John Badham (1983) Joe Dante (1984) Ron Howard (1985) James Cameron (1986) Paul Verhoeven (1987) Robert Zemeckis (1988) James Cameron (1989/90) James Cameron (1991) Francis Ford Coppola (1992) Steven Spielberg (1993) James Cameron (1994) Kathryn Bigelow (1995) Roland Emmerich (1996) John Woo (1997) Michael Bay (1998) Lilly Wachowski and Lana Wachowski (1999) Bryan Singer (2000) Peter Jackson (2001) Steven Spielberg (2002) Peter Jackson (2003) Sam Raimi (2004) Peter Jackson (2005) Bryan Singer (2006) Zack Snyder (2007) Jon Favreau (2008) James Cameron (2009) Christopher Nolan (2010) J. J. Abrams (2011) Joss Whedon (2012) Alfonso Cuarón (2013) James Gunn (2014) Ridley Scott (2015) Gareth Edwards (2016) Ryan Coogler (2017) Jordan Peele (2018/2019) J. J. Abrams (2019/2020) Matt Reeves (2021/2022) James Cameron (2022/2023) Denis Villeneuve (2023/2024) v t e Writers Guild of America Award for Best Original Screenplay Original Drama (1969–1983) William Goldman (1969) Francis Ford Coppola & Edmund H. North (1970) Penelope Gilliatt (1971) Jeremy Larner (1972) Steve Shagan (1973) Robert Towne (1974) Frank Pierson (1975) Paddy Chayefsky (1976) Arthur Laurents (1977) Nancy Dowd , Robert C. Jones & Waldo Salt (1978) Mike Gray , T. S. Cook & James Bridges (1979) Bo Goldman (1980) Warren Beatty & Trevor Griffiths (1981) Melissa Mathison (1982) Horton Foote (1983) Original Comedy (1969–1983) Paul Mazursky & Larry Tucker (1969) Neil Simon (1970) Paddy Chayefsky (1971) Peter Bogdanovich , Buck Henry , David Newman & Robert Benton (1972) Melvin Frank & Jack Rose (1973) Mel Brooks , Norman Steinberg , Andrew Bergman , Richard Pryor & Alan Uger (1974) Robert Towne & Warren Beatty (1975) Bill Lancaster (1976) Woody Allen & Marshall Brickman (1977) Larry Gelbart & Sheldon Keller (1978) Steve Tesich (1979) Nancy Meyers , Harvey Miller & Charles Shyer (1980) Steve Gordon (1981) Don McGuire , Larry Gelbart & Murray Schisgal (1982) Lawrence Kasdan & Barbara Benedek (1983) Original Screenplay (1984–present) Woody Allen (1984) William Kelley & Earl W. Wallace (1985) Woody Allen (1986) John Patrick Shanley (1987) Ron Shelton (1988) Woody Allen (1989) Barry Levinson (1990) Callie Khouri (1991) Neil Jordan (1992) Jane Campion (1993) Richard Curtis (1994) Randall Wallace (1995) Joel Coen & Ethan Coen (1996) James L. Brooks & Mark Andrus (1997) Marc Norman & Tom Stoppard (1998) Alan Ball (1999) Kenneth Lonergan (2000) Julian Fellowes (2001) Michael Moore (2002) Sofia Coppola (2003) Pierre Bismuth , Michel Gondry , & Charlie Kaufman (2004) Paul Haggis & Bobby Moresco (2005) Michael Arndt (2006) Diablo Cody (2007) Dustin Lance Black (2008) Mark Boal (2009) Christopher Nolan (2010) Woody Allen (2011) Mark Boal (2012) Spike Jonze (2013) Wes Anderson & Hugo Guinness (2014) Tom McCarthy & Josh Singer (2015) Barry Jenkins & Tarell Alvin McCraney (2016) Jordan Peele (2017) Bo Burnham (2018) Bong Joon-ho & Han Jin-won (2019) Emerald Fennell (2020) Adam McKay & David Sirota (2021) Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert (2022) David Hemingson (2023) Sean Baker (2024) v t e Writers Guild of America Award for Best Adapted Screenplay Adapted Drama (1969–1983) Waldo Salt (1969) Robert Anderson (1970) Ernest Tidyman (1971) Francis Ford Coppola & Mario Puzo (1972) Waldo Salt & Norman Wexler (1973) Francis Ford Coppola & Mario Puzo (1974) Bo Goldman & Lawrence Hauben (1975) William Goldman (1976) Alvin Sargent (1977) Oliver Stone (1978) Robert Benton (1979) Alvin Sargent (1980) Ernest Thompson (1981) Costa-Gavras & Donald E. Stewart (1982) Julius J. Epstein (1983) Adapted Comedy (1969–1983) Arnold Schulman (1969) Ring Lardner Jr. (1970) John Paxton (1971) Jay Presson Allen (1972) Alvin Sargent (1973) Lionel Chetwynd & Mordecai Richler (1974) Neil Simon (1975) Blake Edwards & Frank Waldman (1976) Larry Gelbart (1977) Elaine May & Warren Beatty (1978) Jerzy Kosiński (1979) Jim Abrahams , David Zucker & Jerry Zucker (1980) Gerald Ayres (1981) Blake Edwards (1982) James L. Brooks (1983) Adapted Screenplay (1984–present) Bruce Robinson (1984) Richard Condon & Janet Roach (1985) Ruth Prawer Jhabvala (1986) Steve Martin (1987) Christopher Hampton (1988) Alfred Uhry (1989) Michael Blake (1990) Ted Tally (1991) Michael Tolkin (1992) Steven Zaillian (1993) Eric Roth (1994) Emma Thompson (1995) Billy Bob Thornton (1996) Curtis Hanson & Brian Helgeland (1997) Scott Frank (1998) Alexander Payne & Jim Taylor (1999) Stephen Gaghan (2000) Akiva Goldsman (2001) David Hare (2002) Shari Springer Berman & Robert Pulcini (2003) Alexander Payne & Jim Taylor (2004) Larry McMurtry & Diana Ossana (2005) William Monahan (2006) Joel Coen & Ethan Coen (2007) Simon Beaufoy (2008) Jason Reitman & Sheldon Turner (2009) Aaron Sorkin (2010) Alexander Payne , Jim Rash & Nat Faxon (2011) Chris Terrio (2012) Billy Ray (2013) Graham Moore (2014) Adam McKay & Charles Randolph (2015) Eric Heisserer (2016) James Ivory (2017) Nicole Holofcener & Jeff Whitty (2018) Taika Waititi (2019) Sacha Baron Cohen , Anthony Hines, Dan Swimer , Peter Baynham , Erica Rivinoja, Dan Mazer , Jena Friedman , Lee Kern & Nina Pedrad (2020) Sian Heder (2021) Sarah Polley (2022) Cord Jefferson (2023) RaMell Ross & Joslyn Barnes (2024) v t e Cannes Film Festival jury presidents 1946–1975 Georges Huisman (1946) Georges Huisman (1947) Georges Huisman (1949) André Maurois (1951) Maurice Genevoix (1952) Jean Cocteau (1953) Jean Cocteau (1954) Marcel Pagnol (1955) Maurice Lehmann (1956) André Maurois (1957) Marcel Achard (1958) Marcel Achard (1959) Georges Simenon (1960) Jean Giono (1961) Tetsurō Furukaki (1962) Armand Salacrou (1963) Fritz Lang (1964) Olivia de Havilland (1965) Sophia Loren (1966) Alessandro Blasetti (1967) André Chamson (1968) Luchino Visconti (1969) Miguel Ángel Asturias (1970) Michèle Morgan (1971) Joseph Losey (1972) Ingrid Bergman (1973) René Clair (1974) Jeanne Moreau (1975) 1976–2000 Tennessee Williams (1976) Roberto Rossellini (1977) Alan J. Pakula (1978) Françoise Sagan (1979) Kirk Douglas (1980) Jacques Deray (1981) Giorgio Strehler (1982) William Styron (1983) Dirk Bogarde (1984) Miloš Forman (1985) Sydney Pollack (1986) Yves Montand (1987) Ettore Scola (1988) Wim Wenders (1989) Bernardo Bertolucci (1990) Roman Polanski (1991) Gérard Depardieu (1992) Louis Malle (1993) Clint Eastwood (1994) Jeanne Moreau (1995) Francis Ford Coppola (1996) Isabelle Adjani (1997) Martin Scorsese (1998) David Cronenberg (1999) Luc Besson (2000) 2001–present Liv Ullmann (2001) David Lynch (2002) Patrice Chéreau (2003) Quentin Tarantino (2004) Emir Kusturica (2005) Wong Kar-wai (2006) Stephen Frears (2007) Sean Penn (2008) Isabelle Huppert (2009) Tim Burton (2010) Robert De Niro (2011) Nanni Moretti (2012) Steven Spielberg (2013) Jane Campion (2014) Joel and Ethan Coen (2015) George Miller (2016) Pedro Almodóvar (2017) Cate Blanchett (2018) Alejandro González Iñárritu (2019) Spike Lee (2021) Vincent Lindon (2022) Ruben Östlund (2023) Greta Gerwig (2024) Juliette Binoche (2025) v t e Coppola family 1st generation Carmine Coppola Anton Coppola Italia Coppola 2nd generation August Coppola Francis Ford Coppola Talia Shire Eleanor Coppola Jack Schwartzman 3rd generation Nicolas Cage Jason Schwartzman Robert Coppola Schwartzman Sofia Coppola Roman Coppola Gian-Carlo Coppola Marc Coppola Christopher Coppola 4th generation Gia Coppola See also Palazzo Margherita (Bernalda) John Schwartzman Authority control databases International ISNI VIAF FAST WorldCat National Germany United States France BnF data Japan Italy Australia Czech Republic Spain Portugal Netherlands Norway Latvia Croatia Chile Korea Sweden Poland Israel Catalonia Academics CiNii Artists ULAN MusicBrainz Museum of Modern Art Grammy Awards FID People Trove Deutsche Biographie DDB Other IdRef SNAC Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Francis_Ford_Coppola&oldid=1287058008 " Categories : Francis Ford Coppola 1939 births Living people 20th-century American male writers 20th-century American screenwriters 21st-century American male writers 21st-century American screenwriters American horror film directors American male screenwriters American viticulturists American writers of Italian descent Best Adapted Screenplay Academy Award winners Best Directing Academy Award winners Best Director BAFTA Award winners Best Director Golden Globe winners Best Original Screenplay Academy Award winners Best Screenplay Golden Globe winners Coppola family David di Donatello winners Directors Guild of America Award winners Directors of Best Picture Academy Award winners Directors of Palme d'Or winners Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences Film directors from California Film directors from Michigan Film directors from New York City Film producers from California Film producers from Michigan Film producers from New York (state) Golden Globe Award–winning musicians Golden Lion for Lifetime Achievement recipients Golden Orange Honorary Award winners Hofstra University alumni Inkpot Award winners Jamaica High School (New York City) alumni John L. Miller Great Neck North High School alumni New York Military Academy alumni Officers of the Legion of Honour People from the San Francisco Bay Area People from Rutherford, California People from Woodside, Queens People of Campanian descent People of Lucanian descent Producers who won the Best Picture Academy Award Recipients of the Praemium Imperiale Screenwriters from California Screenwriters from Michigan Screenwriters from New York (state) UCLA Film School alumni Writers from Detroit Writers Guild of America Award winners Hidden categories: Articles with Encyclopædia Britannica links Webarchive template wayback links CS1: unfit URL CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use American English from March 2020 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from September 2024 Biography with signature Articles with hCards All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from March 2025 Commons link from Wikidata This page was last edited on 23 April 2025, at 18:35 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Francis Ford Coppola 89 languages Add topic