The Economic Impact of Hosting the Olympics Skip to content News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Trade Search Search Please fill out this field. Search Search Please fill out this field. News News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Follow Us Table of Contents Expand Table of Contents Costs of Hosting the Olympics Advantages and Disadvantages Debt Resulting From the Olympics Examples of Olympics Cost FAQs The Bottom Line Economy Economics The Economic Impact of Hosting the Olympics By Jennifer Wills Full Bio Jennifer Wills is a grant proposal writer for the nonprofit and for-profit sectors. He has 13+ years of experience as a financial coach. Learn about our editorial policies Updated October 21, 2024 Reviewed by Charles Potters Fact checked by Pete Rathburn Fact checked by Pete Rathburn Full Bio Pete Rathburn is a copy editor and fact-checker with expertise in economics and personal finance and over twenty years of experience in the classroom. Learn about our editorial policies Robert Hradil / Getty Images Close The Olympics represents one of the world's largest sporting events and becoming a host can leave the country with a lasting legacy. But, the economic impact of hosting the Olympics tends to be less positive than anticipated. Because most cities have ended up falling massively in debt after hosting the games, cities without the necessary infrastructure may be better off not submitting bids. Key Takeaways Many countries and the cities within them bid tens of millions of dollars for the chance to host the Olympics. Many believe that the level of tourism and foreign investment that result from hosting the games can be an economic boon. Others see the games as overly expensive, leaving cities and nations with massive debts and economic woes. Costs Incurred When Hosting the Olympics Hosting the games is even more costly than the bidding process. For example, Paris spent a staggering total of $9.1 billion to fund the Olympic Games in 2024. London spent £8.77 billion (about $12 billion in 2024 dollars) to host the Olympics and Paralympics in 2012. The city said it went over budget by £2.4 billion or $3.2 billion. Sydney paid about 6.5 billion AUD (that's roughly $4.4 billion in 2024 dollars) for the Olympics in 2000. This figure includes venues, infrastructure, and event-related costs. Once a city wins a bid for hosting the Olympics, cities commonly add roads, build or enhance airports, and construct rail lines to accommodate the large influx of people. Housing for the athletes in the Olympic Village, as well as at least 40,000 available hotel rooms and specific facilities for the events, must be created or updated as well. Overall, infrastructure costs may range from $3 billion to $50 billion. Advantages and Disadvantages of Hosting the Olympics Advantages Cities hosting the Olympics gain temporary jobs due to infrastructure improvements that continue benefiting the cities into the future. For example, Rio de Janeiro constructed 15,000 new hotel rooms to accommodate tourists. Another advantage of hosting the Olympics is the impact on the host nation's travel and tourism industry. Thousands of sponsors, media, athletes , and spectators typically visit a host city for six months before and six months after the Olympics , which brings in additional revenue. Disadvantages Job creation for Olympic host cities doesn't always pan out as projected. For example, when Salt Lake City hosted the 2002 Olympics, the city added only 7,000 jobs, about 10% of the number that officials predicted. Most of these jobs went to workers who were already employed, meaning unemployment statistics did not budge significantly. Furthermore, many of the profits realized by construction firms, hotels, and restaurants flow to international companies rather than to the local economy . Host nations often generate minimal income and, in some cases, none at all. The London 2012 Olympic Committee said the games generated £2.41 billion (roughly $3.18 billion in USD in 2024 dollars) compared to expenses of £2.38 billion ($3.14 billion in USD). The Vancouver games in Canada brought in $1.88 billion (CAD) in operating revenue and realized $1.88 billion (CAD) in operating expenses . Pros Infrastructure improvements Boost to host's travel and tourism industry Cons No real boost to employment Profit doesn't necessarily benefit local economy Debt Resulting From Creating Olympic Facilities Many of the arenas constructed for the Olympics are not one-time costs. Rather, they represent ongoing expenses. For example, Sydney’s stadium costs $30 million annually in maintenance. Similarly, Beijing’s Bird’s Nest arena costs $10 million in annual maintenance. In addition, when a city borrows to finance construction, it can be on the hook for repayment long after the games are over. It wasn't until 2006 that Montreal finished paying off its debt from the 1976 games. This is the case even if the facilities are themselves defunct. For instance, most of the facilities created for the Athens Olympics in 2004 contributed to Greece’s debt crisis and remain empty. Fast Fact As of 2024, Los Angeles is the only host city that realized a profit from the games, mostly because the infrastructure required of them already existed. Examples of Olympics Cost The 1976 Olympics in Montreal At the time of the event, Montreal was undergoing a dramatic surge in terms of its global profile. In conjunction with the Expo ’67 World Fair, which was held to celebrate the nation’s centenary, the games helped to transform the city into a world-renowned location. The governing body soon ran into the familiar budgetary issues, as their estimated costs of $360 million fell drastically short of the final $1.6 billion bill. The Montreal Games ended up leaving a 30-year legacy of debt and financial disaster for the city, with the decaying, custom-built venues remaining a forlorn eyesore for decades. The 2004 Olympics in Athens Some economists trace the beginning of Greece’s ongoing economic woes to the Olympics held in Athens in 2004. The event stands as the embodiment of excess and irresponsible spending. Its total cost was an estimated $15 billion, which far surpassed the original budgeted amount. A significant portion of the overrun was due in part to the additional security costs incurred in the aftermath of 9/11. The 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro The first case of the Zika virus was reported in Brazil in 2015 and quickly spread across the country. At the time, experts estimated that Latin America and the Caribbean (which includes Brazil) would experience a significant drop in tourism, resulting in as much as $64 billion in revenue with a loss of as much as $7 billion to $18 billion to the region between 2015 and 2017. Many athletes withdrew from the 2016 games following health concerns over the Zika virus in Brazil. Many spectators also decided to skip the Olympics that year. Although the Brazilian government added 2,000 healthcare professionals to help, the country’s debt crisis put an additional strain on the healthcare system. Scientists determined that the water used for boating and swimming events was contaminated with raw sewage and “super bacteria,” which increased the health concerns. According to the Council on Foreign Relations, the games cost the country $20 billion. Out of this figure, $13 billion was footed by the city of Rio de Janeiro. The 2020 (2021) Olympics in Tokyo Japan won the 2020 games by bidding $12 billion, pushing out rival Italy to win the hosting spot. But then the COVID-19 pandemic hit in the spring of 2020, and the decision was made to postpone the Olympics to the summer of 2021. Postponing the games added additional expenses to the $13 billion bill, including $300 million for COVID-19 countermeasures. When 2021 brought a surge of COVID-19 in many parts of the world, including in Japan, the decision was made to bar spectators. Without fans, international tourism did not provide the spending needed to make up for the costs incurred by the Japanese government. How Does Hosting the Olympics Affect the Economy? The Olympics can bring a range of benefits and drawbacks to its host city. Countries and cities are often compelled to bid for the privilege of hosting the games, in hopes that it will stimulate the development of infrastructure, draw tourisms dollars, and boost employment. However, in many instances, the games have failed to deliver on their projected economic boons, leaving host cities with debt and defunct facilities. Is Paris 2024 on Budget? In a January 2024 interview with Bloomberg, the CEO of the Games organizing committee indicated that the Paris Olympics was on track to meet its cost goals. Central to the city's bid was an aim to have 95% of infrastructure be either existing or temporary, so as to keep building and maintenance costs low. How Much Did the 2024 Olympics Cost? The Paris 2024 Olympic Games cost an estimated $9.1 billion USD. Compared to other countries' spending, Paris managed to stay on a lower budget than most. The Bottom Line Hosting the Olympics tends to result in severe economic deficiencies for cities. Unless a city already has the existing infrastructure to support the excess crowds pouring in, not hosting the Olympics may be the best option. Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. Statista. " Cost of the Summer Olympic Games from 1996 to 2020, with a forecast for 2024 ." Mayor of London, London Assembly. " The Olympic Legacy – Worth the Cost? " OpenGov NSW. " New South Wales Auditor-General's Report 2002 ." Page 4. American Economic Association. “ Going for the Gold: The Economics of the Olympics .” Pages 203, 205. College of the Holy Cross. “ The Labor Market Effects of the Salt Lake City Winter Olympics .” Page 7. International Olympic Committee. " The Organising Committee for the London 2012 Olympic Games (LOCOG) Has Today Published Its Final Report and Accounts for the Six-Month Period to 31 March 2013 ." Olympic.ca. " Vancouver 2010 Press Release ." International Olympic Committee. " The Economics of Montreal 1976 ." Athens Journal of Sports. " Post-Olympic Use of the Olympic Venues: The Case of Greece ." International Journal of Humanities and Social Science. " On the Financial Advantage of Hosting the Olympics ." Page 11. College of the Holy Cross. " The Rise and Fall (and Rise and Fall) of the Olympic Games as an Economic Driver ." Page 13. Columbia Global Reports. " Zika Will Likely Hurt Tourism. That Might Not Be a Bad Thing ." John Hopkins University. " Economic Impact of Zika Outbreak Could Exceed $18B in Latin America, Caribbean ." PAHO. " Timeline - Emergence of Zika Virus in the Americas ." Council on Hemispheric Affairs. “ Super Bacteria in Rio de Janeiro’s Olympic Arenas .” Council on Foreign Relations. " The Economics of Hosting the Olympic Games ." Olympics.com. " Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games Postponed to 2021 ." International Olympic Committee. " Tokyo 2020 Organising Committee Publishes Final Balanced Budget ." National Library of Medicine. " COVID-19 Risk Assessment for the Tokyo Olympic Games ." Bloomberg. " Paris 2024 CEO: Final Stretch of Olympics Budget to Be Critical ." Open a New Bank Account Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Partner Links Open a New Bank Account Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Related Articles What Is Social Economics, and How Does It Impact Society? What Is a Decile? Definition, Formula to Calculate, and Example How Is Economic Utility Measured? Microeconomics Definition, Uses, and Concepts What Happens When Inflation and Unemployment Are Positively Correlated? Market: What It Means in Economics, Types, and Common Features Could Trump's Tariffs Cause a Worldwide Recession? Recession: Definition, Causes, Examples and FAQs Demand: How It Works Plus Economic Determinants and the Demand Curve LIBID vs. LIBOR: What's the Difference? 4 Economic Concepts Consumers Need to Know What Is the Balance of Payments (BOP)? Which Countries Have the Highest Tariffs? The Impact of China Devaluing the Yuan in 2015 Market Failure: What It Is in Economics, Common Types, and Causes Business Cycle: What It Is, How to Measure It, and Its 4 Phases About Us Terms of Service Dictionary Editorial Policy Advertise News Privacy Policy Contact Us Careers Your Privacy Choices # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Investopedia is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies