The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom - Zelda Wiki Zelda Wiki Want to contribute to this wiki? Sign up for an account , and get started ! Come and join our Discussions ! READ MORE Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Zelda Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Interactive Maps Content Bosses Characters Dungeons Enemies Items Locations Objects Quests Songs Game Translations Getting involved Getting started Guidelines Knight Challenges Rules Sandbox Wanted pages Image requests Image alteration Image retrieval Articles lacking images Community Staff More Similar wikis Mario Wiki Smashpedia Nintendo Wiki Wikitroid Pikmin Wiki Pokémon Wiki Gamepedia Gamepedia support Report a bad ad Help Wiki Contact us Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Zelda Wiki 11,761 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Interactive Maps Content Bosses Characters Dungeons Enemies Items Locations Objects Quests Songs Game Translations Getting involved Getting started Guidelines Knight Challenges Rules Sandbox Wanted pages Image requests Image alteration Image retrieval Articles lacking images Community Staff More Similar wikis Mario Wiki Smashpedia Nintendo Wiki Wikitroid Pikmin Wiki Pokémon Wiki Gamepedia Gamepedia support Report a bad ad Help Wiki Contact us in: 3D Games English Deutsch (Fandom) Español Français Polski Português do Brasil 中文 中文（臺灣） The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (19) Quick Links Characters Bosses Creatures Enemies Dungeons Locations Items Objects Translations Credits The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Developer(s) Nintendo EPD Monolith Soft Publisher(s) Nintendo Designer(s) Hidemaro Fujibayashi (director), Eiji Aonuma (producer), Yohei Fujino, Yasutaka Takeuchi, Mari Shirakawa Release date(s) United States of America: • May 12, 2023 Japan: • May 12, 2023 Canonicity Canon Predecessor Breath of the Wild Successor Echoes of Wisdom The Legend of Zelda: Tears Of The Kingdom is the twentieth main installment in The Legend of Zelda series . It was released for the Nintendo Switch on May 12, 2023. Contents 1 Plot 2 Gameplay 3 Game Information 3.1 Development 3.2 Timeline Placement 4 Reception 4.1 Awards 5 Listings 5.1 Characters 5.2 Bosses 5.3 Enemies 5.4 Dungeons 5.5 Locations 5.6 Items 5.7 Armor 5.8 Shields 5.9 Weapons 5.10 Bows 5.11 Food Ingredients 5.12 Key Items 5.13 Zonai Devices 5.14 Materials 5.15 Translations 5.16 Credits 6 Sales 7 Nomenclature 8 Gallery 9 External Links 10 References Plot [ ] An unknown period of time after the events of Breath of the Wild , Link and Zelda are exploring a secret passage hidden beneath Hyrule Castle . Although King Rhoam had warned Zelda in the past that not even the royal family was to go there, she believes that what lies beneath is connected to the strange phenomena spreading throughout Hyrule , referred to as " Gloom ". As they travel, they find ancient ruins that Zelda identifies as being of Zonai origin. They eventually find a mural depicting a great war against a being usually referred to as "The Demon King" , the stories of which had been passed down by the royal family. Another mural shows the Zonai descending towards Hyrule, which causes Zelda to realize that the "gods" that descended from the heavens to found the royal family must have been the Zonai. In the deepest chamber , Link and Zelda find a mummified Ganondorf emanating Gloom, bound by a disembodied arm. As they enter, the arm falls off and drops a teardrop-shaped gem. As Zelda picks it up, Ganondorf comes to life and strikes with a surge of Gloom. Link blocks the attack with the Master Sword , but Ganondorf's dark power decays the blade , saps Link's strength, and leaves his right arm blackened and weakened. Ganondorf reveals that he knows Link and Zelda and mocks the former's inability to harm him, mentioning that someone called "Rauru" had entrusted him. Ganondorf sends a surge of Gloom that causes Hyrule Castle to rise into the sky before falling deep underground. Zelda falls into a chasm, as Link drops the used-to-be Master Sword and attempts to catch Zelda, only for to her disappear into a flash of light. Link nearly falls in as well, but is grabbed by the disembodied arm and teleported away. When he reawakens, he finds that the arm has replaced his own. A voice says that Zelda had told him about Link, and that Link's arm had to be replaced to ensure that he did not die from his injuries. Recovering the Decayed Master Sword , he leaves the chamber he woke up in to find himself on an island floating in the sky . He descends to another island, meeting a Steward Construct who gives him Zelda's Purah Pad at her request. It directs Link to the Temple of Time , but upon reaching it, Link finds that he cannot enter. He then meets a ghostly figure identifying himself as Rauru, who informs Link that the arm he now possesses was once his own and that its power might be restored if Link visits three of the shrines on the island and gains their sacred light. After opening the gate, Link finds a larger teardrop-shaped gem that changes into an apparition of Zelda, granting him the Recall power before vanishing. Link's path is then blocked by a second sealed door, which he lacks the vitality to open. Rauru advises Link to visit the island's last shrine and offer it to their Goddess Statue , which will restore some of the vitality he lost to the Gloom. After doing so, Link is able to open the door. Rauru advises Link to continue visiting shrines to recover his strength before passing on, telling Link that it will be up to him to aid Zelda. At the highest point of the Temple, Link finds a glowing light that reacts with the Master Sword. Placing it into the light, the Sword vanishes and is received by Zelda at an unknown location. Link spots a dragon , which parts the clouds beneath the island to reveal the kingdom of Hyrule beneath it. He receives a telepathic message from "Zelda" asking him to find her, beginning his quest to save Hyrule once again. Link returns to Hyrule, learning that the earlier events, called the " Upheaval ", has caused chaos across Hyrule. Link then goes to investigate the mysterious reports of disturbances and Zelda's appearance throughout Hyrule. In the process, Link defeats four monsters occupying ancient Zonai temples with the aid of four acquaintances – Tulin of the avian Rito tribe where they climb to the Stormwind Ark and beat the monster Colgera , Sidon of the aquatic Zora tribe who, with Link, beats the sludge octopus Mucktorok in the Water Temple , Riju of the desert-dwelling Gerudo tribe, where Link helps beat the monstrous Queen Gibdo inside the Lightning Temple , and Yunobo of the mountain-dwelling Goron tribe where Marbled Gohma nests in a volcano near the lost city of Gordonia. With each defeated monster, Link finds Secret Stones , Zonai artifacts that increase the innate power of their users. Spiritual forms of ancient sages appear to Link and his companions, appointing Link's companions as new sages and passing down the Stones. After handling the monsters, Link tracks down "Zelda" to Hyrule Castle. At the castle, "Zelda" reveals itself to be an impostor in Ganondorf's service before being defeated by Link and his companions. Link further encounters Mineru , an ancient sage utilizing spiritual projection to stay in the physical world, and provides her with an artificially constructed mechanical body. Through Mineru, the sages' spirits, and a number of dragon tears scattered throughout Hyrule, Link learns of Zelda's fate. The mysterious artifact which vanished with Zelda was a Secret Stone, and she was transported through time through the distant past. There, she met Rauru, who was revealed to be the first king of Hyrule. In the past, Ganondorf murdered Rauru's wife, Queen Sonia , and acquired her Secret Stone, turning himself into the "Demon King". Rauru sacrifices himself to seal away Ganondorf. Zelda then receives the Master Sword, and in order to restore it, she transformed into a dragon by consuming her Secret Stone. Prior to her transformation, she tasked the past sages to provide aid to Link in the future. In the present, Link retrieves the Master Sword from Zelda's dragon form, and heads to Ganondorf's location far beneath the castle. There, Link fights Ganondorf's army with the aid of the Sages' successors and Mineru before engaging in combat with Ganondorf himself. Nearing defeat, Ganondorf consumes his Secret Stone, becoming a demonic dragon in a final attempt to kill Link. Zelda's draconic form arrives and assists Link in shattering the secret stone, causing the Demon Dragon to implode, killing Ganondorf. With the help of Rauru and Sonia's spirits, Zelda regains her true physical appearance, and Link regains his right arm, and the two fall onto the surface of Hyrule via a pond. Some time later, on the Sky Island where Link had awakened, Mineru bids goodbye to Zelda and Link before her spirit disperses, while the Sages' successors vow to protect Hyrule. Gameplay [ ] Link facing off against a Silver Bokoblin on a horse . The gameplay of Tears of the Kingdom is similar to its predecessor. Additions include rail grinding and mechanical automations that Link can build using the Ultrahand ability, including a car, hot-air balloon, boats, and numerous other things. Link can use the Fuse ability to fuse weapons with objects to make them stronger, he can also fuse things to his shield and arrows . In the March 28, 2023 gameplay, Eiji Aonuma showed off four new runes: Recall , Fuse, Ultrahand, and Ascend . [ 1 ] Game Information [ ] Development [ ] Development of the twentieth game in The Legend of Zelda series began in 2017 after the production for Breath of the Wild concluded. [ 2 ] During the E3 2019 Nintendo Direct , it was announced that it would be a sequel to Breath of the Wild . [ 3 ] [ 4 ] The idea of creating a direct sequel came from the fact that Eiji Aonuma , producer of Breath of the Wild , wanted to revisit the same Hyrule while incorporating a new story and gameplay mechanics. [ 5 ] Initially, new ideas were thought of for DLC but evolved into a new game when too many were gathered. [ 6 ] During the announcement of Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity on September 8, 2020, Eiji Aonuma said that Nintendo was still working on the game and that the fans would have to wait before getting any news. Later, in a December interview, Nintendo of America president Doug Bowser added that the contents of the game would be shown when they felt they had enough to show. [ 7 ] The second trailer and first gameplay showcase aired on June 15th, 2021, during the E3 2021 Nintendo Direct . [ 8 ] A portion of gameplay was shown, featuring a number of abilities and the new world of Hyrule . An estimated release date for the game was also announced to be sometime during 2022. On March 29, 2022, Nintendo released a video where Eiji Aonuma announced that development time had been extended, with the game being set to release in the spring of 2023. A short gameplay clip was premiered that showcased Link 's new outfit and a heavily damaged Master Sword . [ 9 ] The third trailer for the game was shown in the September 13, 2022 Nintendo Direct, where the title, The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom , and release date, May 12, 2023, were revealed. [ 10 ] However, Nintendo UK did not livestream the Nintendo Direct as a mark of respect during the national period of mourning for Queen Elizabeth II. [ 11 ] Nintendo UK later acknowledged the announcement in a Twitter post on October 3rd. [ 12 ] Development on the game was confirmed to be complete on March 28, 2023. Timeline Placement [ ] Tears of the Kingdom is the sequel to Breath of the Wild , featuring the same Link and the same Hyrule. It is set an unspecified number of years after Breath of the Wild , hinted only in Sidon's Character Profile entry and by the fact that Rhondson and Hudson now have a young daughter, Mattison . [ 13 ] Fujibayashi and Aonuma briefly commented on the connection of Breath of the Wild and Tears of the Kingdom to the rest of the timeline, but did not confirm anything. [ 14 ] The events of Ganondorf's rise to power in the past are not a loose retelling of Ocarina of Time . [ 15 ] While a new timeline has not been published since 2016, it is assumed that Tears of the Kingdom is set in the same distant future as Breath of the Wild due to its status as a sequel. Reception [ ] This section of the page is incomplete. You can help Zelda Wiki by expanding it . The announcement of Tears of the Kingdom under the name " Breath of the Wild 2" which Nintendo Called at the time "The Sequel to Breath of the Wild" was celebrated by fans across the world as Breath of the Wild was one of the most popular games on the Nintendo Switch and was known throughout the gaming community, especially after winning the Game of the Year award at the 2017 Japan Game Awards. [ 16 ] Many fans speculated about whether Princess Zelda would be a playable character or if multiplayer would be added, but when asked, Aonuma declined to answer. [ 17 ] When the title of Tears of the Kingdom was revealed during the September 13, 2022 Nintendo Direct , many fans were unsure whether the name referred to tears as in crying, or tears as in rips. [ 18 ] Nintendo cleared up the confusion a few days later and confirmed that the name refers to tears as in crying. [ 19 ] According to the review aggregators Metacritic (96/100) and OpenCritic (97%), Tears of the Kingdom received "universal acclaim". [ 20 ] [ 21 ] Awards [ ] Event Award Result The Game Awards 2020 Most Anticipated Game Nominated The Game Awards 2021 Most Anticipated Game Nominated The Game Awards 2022 Most Anticipated Game Won The Game Awards 2023 Game of the Year Nominated Best Game Direction Nominated Best Art Direction Nominated Best Score and Music Nominated Best Action/Adventure Game Won Player's Voice Nominated Listings [ ] Characters [ ] Name Race/People Where Found Description Link Hylian "The Swordsman", Hero of Hyrule Princess Zelda Hylian Princess of Hyrule. (The Sage of Time) King Rauru Zonai Source of the Right Arm. Ganondorf Gerudo The Menace Unleashed/Master of the Secret Stone. Queen Sonia Hylian Beedle Hylian Stables; Kara Kara Bazaar Merchant of bugs and arrows Naydra Dragon Lanayru Sky Spirit of Ice Master Kohga Yiga The Depths Leader of the Yiga Clan Korok Korok AroundHyrule Steward Construct Zonai Construct Sky Islands, Hyrule, Depths Maker Construct Zonai Construct Ranger Construct Zonai Construct Sidon Zora Zora's Domain Prince of the Zora (The Sage of Water) Tulin Rito Rito Village Young Rito Warrior (The Sage of Wind) Riju Gerudo Gerudo Town Chief of the Gerudo (The Sage of Lightning) Yunobo Goron Goron City President of YunoboCo (The Sage of Fire) The Great Deku Tree Tree Korok Forest Great Spirit of Korok Forest Purah Hylian (Sheikah) Lookout Landing Head of Lookout Landing. Robbie Hylian (Sheikah) Hateno Ancient Tech Lab Head of Purah Pad Development. Josha Hylian (Sheikah) Lookout Landing Head of Depths Research. Impa Hylian (Sheikah) The Sheikah Elder. Paya Hylian (sheikah) Kakariko Village Kakariko Village Chief. Yona Zora Zora's Domain Caretaker to the Zora. Hestu Korok Korok Forest Spirited Musician of Korok Forest. Teba Rito Rito Village Rito Village Elder. Kaneli Rito Flight Range Former Rito Village Elder. Harth Rito Addison Hylian Mylie Hylian Juney Hylian Pitar Hylian Konba Hylian Aliza Hylian Amali Rito Notts Rito Kheel Rito Kotts Rito Cree Rito Genli Rito Bosses [ ] Scourge of the Wind Temple: Colgera Clearly Not Himself: Yunobo Rising from the Death Mountain Crater: Moragia Scourge of the Fire Temple: Marbled Gohma Ambusher of Mipha Court: Sludge Like Scourge of the Water Temple: Mucktorok Scourge of the Lightning Temple: Queen Gibdo (2 Battles) The Demon King's Phantom Saboteur: Phantom Ganon Scourge of the Spirit Temple: Seized Construct Leader of the Yiga Clan / Wielder of Ultimate Yiga Power: Master Kohga (4 Battles) War in the Depths of Hyrule: The Demon King's Army The Menace Unleashed / Master of the Secret Stone: Demon King Ganondorf Draconified Demon King: Demon Dragon Enemies [ ] Bokoblins Bokoblin Black Bokoblin Blue Bokoblin Silver Bokoblin Stalkoblin Armoured Bokoblin Variant Moblins Moblin Black Moblin Blue Moblin Silver Moblin Stalmoblin Taluses Stone Talus Stone Talus {Luminous) Stone Talus (Rare) Battle Talus Frost Talus Igneo Talus Lizalfos Lizalfos Black Lizalfos Blue Lizalfos Electric Lizalfos Fire-Breath Lizalfos Ice-Breath Lizalfos Silver Lizalfos Stalizalfos Keese Keese Electric Keese Fire Keese Ice Keese Hinox Hinox Black Hinox Blue Hinox Stalnox Gleeoks King Gleeok Flame Gleeok Frost Gleeok Thunder Gleeok Like Likes Like Like Fire Like Ice Like Rock Like Shock Like Bubbulfrogs Aerocuda Chuchu Chuchu Electric Chuchu Fire Chuchu Ice Chuchu Gibdo Moth Gibdo Flux Construct Evermean Frox Little Frox Blue-White Frox Obsidian Frox Octoroks Octorok Forest Octorok Rock Octorok Snow Octorok Treasure Octorok Water Octorok Boss Bokoblin Boss Bokoblin Blue Boss Bokoblin Black Boss Bokoblin Silver Boss Bokoblin Wizzrobes Ice Wizzrobe Blizzrobe Electric Wizzrobe Thunder Wizzrobe Fire Wizzrobe Meteo Wizzrobe Constructs Soldier Constructs Soldier Construct I Soldier Construct II Soldier Construct III Soldier Construct IV Captain Constructs Captain Construct I Captain Construct II Captain Construct III Captain Construct IV Training Construct Lynels Lynel Blue-Maned Lynel Silver Lynel White-Maned Lynel Armored Lynel Horriblins Horriblin Blue Horriblin Black Horriblin Silver Horriblin Molduga Gloom Spawn Dungeons [ ] Wind Temple - The Legendary Stormwind Ark Fire Temple - Lost Gorondia Rediscovered Water Temple - The Great Wellspring of Hyrule Ancient Zora Waterworks Lightning Temple - The Mural's Myth, Risen from the Sands Hyrule Castle Spirit Temple - The Vessel of Spirit's Resting Place Construct Factory Gloom's Lair Locations [ ] Hyrule Field Skyview Tower Hyrule Plain Hyrule Castle Imprisoning Chamber Gloom's Lair Great Plateau Korok Forest The Depths South Hyrule Sky Peninsula Great Sky Island Eventide Island Pondside Cave Mining Cave Bottomless Cave Beneath Hyrule Castle Subsoil Temple of Time (Sky) Lost Woods Gerudo Town Rito Village Goron City Sanctum Items [ ] Name Defense Factor Special Status In-Game Description Archaic Legwear 1 None Simple, classic legwear. They're well-worn and showing their age, but they've still got a few good years left in them. It can be a bit cumbersome to have to tie the straps. Archaic Warm Legwear 2 Cold Resistance Warm greaves believed to be from ta very long time ago. Despite the old look, the heat retaining material makes it pleasantly resistant to cold temperatures. Armor [ ] Name Defense Factor Special Status In-Game Description Archaic Tunic 1 None Old-fashioned upper-body wear. It's got some holes, but the soft cloth feels good to the touch. It's hard to keep it wrinkle-free. Glide Shirt 2 Skydive Mobility Up The cloth sewn to this shirt helps it "catch" air, increasing the wearer's ability to glide while they plummet from the sky. Rubber Armor 3 Shock Resistance This armor has built-in electricity resistance thanks to its source material—an ancient marvel called "rubber." Such technology does not exist in this modern age. Yiga Armor 1 Stealth Up Armor supplied to members of the Yiga Clan. Defensive parts are minimized for silence, so it's lacking in protection. Ember Shirt 2 Hot Weather Attack Used in ancient rituals, this item is made of heat-absorbing cloth that produces flame in high-temperature environments. Frostbite Shirt 2 Cold Weather Attack Made for ancient rituals, this item's cold-absorbing cloth produces frost in low-temperature environments. Tunic of the Wind 3 None Legend has it this armor was once cherished by a hero who sailed the Great Sea. It's said to have been a gift from his grandmother. Tunic of Time 3 None Legend has it this armor was once worn by a hero who traveled through time. It can be worn by a child or an adult. Miner's Top 3 Glow A shirt featuring lamps of various sizes filled with bioluminescent material. Made to help with excavating dark environments. Soldier's Armor 4 None Hyrulean guards praised this armor for its superior defense. Made from sturdy plates of metal, the high level of craftsmanship that went into it is obvious with just a glance. Snowquill Tunic 3 Cold Resistance Lined with molted Rito feathers, this tunic was made by Rito artisans for Hylians visiting cold climates. The feathers are stacked in each layer to retain body heat. Shields [ ] Name Fused Components Defence Status Effects Special Status Durability Is Metal Description Old Wooden Shield None 2 None None Yes An aged, worn-out wooden shield. It can withstand lighter attacks, such as arrows. Shield of the Mind's Eye None 16 None None Yes A small Sheika-made shield. Its design is intended to decrease blind spots without sacrificing too much defense. Strong Zonaite Shield None 26 None Lowers energy consumption of attached devices No A shield used by Zonai and made of zonaite. It is moderately durable and lowers the energy consumption of an attached Zonai device. Mighty Zonaite Shield None 50 None Lowers energy consumption of attached devices No A shield used by Zonai and made of zonaite. It is very durable and draws on its stored energy to more efficiently use an attached Zonai device. Soldier's Shield None 16 None None No A shield once used by the guards of Hyrule Castle. It's easy to handle, but its core is made of wood, so it can catch fire. Hylian Shield None 90 None None Yes A shield passed down through the Hyrulean royal family, along with the legend of the hero who wielded it. Its defensive capabilities and durability outshine all other shields. Kite Shield None 14 Durability Up + None Rito warriors cherish this shield. Its unique shape is designed with mid-battle flight in mind to facilitate aerial combat. Royal Shield None 55 None None A shield issued to the Hyrulean royal family's immediate guard detail. It boasts a high defense, but these days it's more a collector's item due to its ornamentation. Sea-Breeze Shield None 65 None None Weapons [ ] This section of the page is incomplete. You can help Zelda Wiki by expanding it . Bows [ ] Name Fused Components (attack damage) Attack Damage Status Effect Special Effects Durability Is Metal Description Soldier's Bow 14 None None Yes Construct Bow 5 None None No A bow used by a Captain Construct. Though simply built, it is made of fireproof materials and won't catch fire as wooden bows do. Strong Construct Bow 11 None None No A sturdy bow for a Captain Construct. Besides being fireproof, it's been strengthened to allow for more powerful shots. Zonaite Bow 30 Shot length increased when draining Energy Cell power No Steel Lizal Bow 36 Yes Food Ingredients [ ] Name Status Effect Where found Description Key Items [ ] Purah Pad Decayed Master Sword Energy Cell Travel Medallion Prototype Sage's Will Bubbul Gem Yiga Schematic Schema Stone Monster Medals Shrine of light keys Paraglider Zonai Devices [ ] Fan - A Zonai device that produces wind with its internal propeller. It's likely that the Zonai made smart use of this wind power to transport objects and generate thrust Wing - A Zonai device that can harness lift to ride the wind. To fly farther, try balancing in the center of the wing. Portable Pot - A Zonai Device for cooking food almost anytime, anywhere. It lasts for cooking one recipe only. The device is easier to use on flat surfaces. Flame Emitter - A Zonai device that shoots fire. It's thought to have been originally used as protection from monsters. Frost Emitter - A Zonai device that blasts out freezing air, handy for slowing and defeating some monsters. Also, some materials change their properties when exposed to very cold air. Shock Emitter - A Zonai device that shiits a shocking bolt from its horn when struck. Oddly, only the horn conducts the bolt. The rest of the head is safe to hold. Cannon - A Zonai device that fires shots in intervals. The shot it explodes when hitting the target. It's a powerful device, but it can be tricky to get the firing angle just right.0 Steering Stick -  A Zonai device that can control direction when attached to a conveyance. It'll activate all connected Zonai devices at once. Balloon - A Zonai device that rises when filled with hot air. The hotter the air, the quicker it rises. Big Wheel - A powered Zonai device that wants to move! Its a big, mean wheel that excels at tearing through environments that might challenge smaller wheels. It can handle shallow water. Battery - A Zonai device that holds concentrated Zonai charge energy. Use it to provide temporary power for other Zonai devices. Big Battery - A battery with an improved compression rate. Though disposable, it holds multiple times as much energy as a normal battery. Stabilizer - A perfectly balanced Zonai device that stands upright when activated. It was used to secure footholds in unstable places, such as sky islands. Hydrant - A Zonai device that gushes water when struck. According to legend, sky islands saw water shortages long ago but became lush and fertile thanks to this technology. Cart - A Zonai device built to move efficiently over flat surfaces. Apply force to get it moving, so long as it has a power source. Sled - A Zonai device with a slick underside th Time Bomb - A Zonai device for a timed explosion. Its blast can activate other Zonai devices. Mirror - A Zonai device that focuses and reflects light. It can provide powerful, long distance illumination that can ward off some monsters. Homing Cart - A Zonai device that automatically heads for monsters. It's believed to have been used by the Zonai as a security measure. Construct Head - A Zonai device that always faces when it deems an enemy. Attach a combat Zonai device to the head for homing attacks. Spring - A Zonai device that contracts and then expands with enough power to bounce objects away from it. Materials [ ] Puffshroom Korok Frond Zonai Charge Soldier Construct Horn Keese Eyeball Moblin Guts Raw Meat Rushroom Lizalfos Talon Black Lizalfos Tail Black Lizalfos Horn Amber Hylian Tomato White Chuchu Jelly Chuchu Jelly Keese Wing Apple Hyrule Herb Raw Bird Drumstick Stamella Shroom Muddle Bud Red Chuchu Jelly Like Like Stone Acorn Ruby Sapphire Topaz Opal Shard of Dinraal's Spike Diamond Rock Salt Blue Moblin Horn Moblin Fang Yellow Chuchu Jelly Bokoblin Fang Blue Bokoblin Horn Golden Apple Fire Fruit Zonaite Stambulb Ancient Arowana Skyshroom Toasty Skyshroom Dazzle Fruit Brightbloom Seed Brightcap Bubbul Gem Translations [ ] This section of the page is incomplete. You can help Zelda Wiki by expanding it . Credits [ ] This section of the page is incomplete. You can help Zelda Wiki by expanding it . Sales [ ] Tears of the Kingdom has currently sold over 10 million copies during its first week, making it the second-best-selling game in the franchise, right behind Breath of the Wild (with over 30 million copies sold). [ 22 ] It is currently the second-best selling game of 2023. [ 23 ] [ 24 ] Nomenclature [ ] Names in other regions Language Name Meaning Japanese ゼルダの伝説　ティアーズ オブ ザ キングダム ( Zeruda no Densetsu Tiāzu Obu Za Kingudamu ) [ 25 ] Same as English. Chinese TR 薩爾達傳說 王國之淚 ( Sàěrdá Chuánshuō Wángguó Zhī Lèi ) [ 26 ] Same as English. Dutch The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom [ 27 ] French EU The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom [ 28 ] German The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom [ 29 ] Italian The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom [ 30 ] Korean 젤다의 전설 티어스 오브 더 킹덤 ( Jelda-ui Jeonseol Tieoseu Obeu Deo Kingdeom ) [ 31 ] Same as English. Portuguese EU The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom [ 32 ] Spanish EU The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom [ 33 ] Spanish LA The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom [ 34 ] This table was generated using translation pages . Gallery [ ] View Gallery External Links [ ] Official North American site Official Japanese Site References ↑ "You're going to immediately jump past this paragraph to the trailer below, so here are the quick bits you need to know: there's rail grinding akin to Sonic and Splatoon, a new homing arrow, a big, dumb goofy car Link can drive and a new hoverboard, and all around the game continues to look great." — Blake Hester, New Legend Of Zelda: Tears Of The Kingdom Trailer Shows Vehicles, Homing Arrows, Rail Grinding, And More , Game Informer, published Feb 8, 2023, retrieved Feb 15, 2023. ↑ Creating a Champion , Dark Horse Books, pg. 424 ↑ "The sequel to The Legend of #Zelda: Breath of the Wild is now in development for #NintendoSwitch!" — Nintendo of America, Nintendo of America on Twitter: "The sequel to The Legend of #Zelda: Breath of the Wild is now in development for #NintendoSwitch!..." , Twitter, published June 11, 2019, retrieved June 11, 2019. ↑ Cite error: Invalid <ref> tag; no text was provided for refs named E3 2019 ↑ Cite error: Invalid <ref> tag; no text was provided for refs named Game Informer ↑ "Initially we were thinking of just DLC ideas, but then we had a lot of ideas and we said, "This is too many ideas, let's just make one new game and start from scratch."" —Eiji Aonuma ( Breath Of The Wild Is Getting A Sequel Because The Team Had Too Many DLC Ideas (And Other Info From Zelda's Producer) ) ↑ "You’ve followed Nintendo long enough to know that as we progress on any title, and we deem it’s the right moment, we will share with the community where we are in the development. At this point, though, I have nothing more that I can share on those titles." — Russ Frushtik, Doug Bowser on Nintendo’s obsession with March 31, plus Joy-Con drift and the Switch Pro rumors , Polygon, published Dec 16, 2020, retrieved Aug 7, 2021. ↑ Cite error: Invalid <ref> tag; no text was provided for refs named E3 2021 ↑ Cite error: Invalid <ref> tag; no text was provided for refs named YouTube 2023 ↑ "The sequel to The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild is The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom!" — Nintendo of America, [1] , Twitter, published June 11, 2019, retrieved September 13, 2022. ↑ "As a mark of respect during this period of national mourning, we will not livestream tomorrow’s Nintendo Direct. It will be published as a video-on-demand on our YouTube channel at 16:00 (UK time) tomorrow." — Nintendo UK, [2] , Twitter, published September 12, 2022, retrieved September 13, 2022. ↑ "The Legend of #Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom." — Nintendo UK, @NintendoUK , Twitter, published October 3, 2022, retrieved October 8, 2022. ↑ " Link earned his complete trust when they worked together to save the domain years before. He now considers him his closest companion. " — Sidon's Character Profile ( Tears of the Kingdom ) ↑ An interview with the developer of "The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom" ↑ Aonuma And Fujibayashi Talk Tears Of The Kingdom's Reception And Their Approach To The Timeline ↑ "The Japan Game Awards 2017 (organized by the Computer Entertainment Supplier's Association CESA; Chairman: Hideki Okamura) has announced the award winners for the "Games of the Year Division". "The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild" of Nintendo Co., Ltd. received the most prestigious Grand Award. Nintendo has won the Grand Award for the second consecutive years." — The Grand Award goes to "The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild" , Japan Game Awards (PDF), published September 21, 2017, retrieved September 21, 2022. ↑ Colin Stevens and Samuel Claiborn, HERE'S WHAT ZELDA: BREATH OF THE WILD SEQUEL'S CREATOR IS WILLING TO SAY ABOUT CO-OP - E3 2019 , IGN, published June 12, 2019, retrieved June 13, 2019. ↑ "The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom was named on screen during the latest Nintendo Direct - but many fans still had questions. Namely, was that "tears" as in crying? Or "tears" as in something being torn up?" — Tom Phillips, Here's how you pronounce Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, Nintendo says , Eurogamer.net, published September 16, 2022, retrieved September 21, 2022. ↑ "But only one way is actually correct, and Nintendo has now confirmed to Eurogamer... it is tears as in crying ." — Tom Phillips, Here's how you pronounce Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, Nintendo says , Eurogamer.net, published September 16, 2022, retrieved September 21, 2022. ↑ https://www.metacritic.com/game/switch/the-legend-of-zelda-tears-of-the-kingdom ↑ https://opencritic.com/game/14343/the-legend-of-zelda-tears-of-the-kingdom ↑ " Nintendo Switch software "The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom" has sold over 10 million copies worldwide within three days of its release ". May 17, 2023. Archived from the original on May 17, 2023. Retrieved May 17, 2023. ↑ Wesley LaBlanc, The Legend Of Zelda: Tears Of The Kingdom Is Already The Second Best Selling Game Of 2023 , Game Informer, published June 27, 2023, retrieved July 20, 2023. ↑ Guide et astuces pour The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom , La Porte des Jeux. ↑ "ゼルダの伝説　ティアーズ オブ ザ キングダム" — 『ゼルダの伝説　ブレス オブ ザ ワイルド』続編。『ゼルダの伝説　ティアーズ オブ ザ キングダム』は、2023年5月12日発売。 , Nintendo Japan, published September 14, 2022, retrieved September 14, 2022. ↑ "薩爾達傳說 王國之淚" — 《薩爾達傳說 曠野之息》續篇——《薩爾達傳說 王國之淚》的後續資訊公開！ 《皮克敏４》、《Fire Emblem™ Engage》和《星之卡比 Wii 豪華版》等 Nintendo Switch軟體的最新資訊公開！ , Nintendo Hong Kong, published September 13, 2022, retrieved September 16, 2022. ↑ "The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom wordt op 12 mei 2023 uitgebracht op de Nintendo Switch." — Nintendo Nederland, The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom – Verschijnt op 12 mei 2023 (Nintendo Switch) , YouTube (video), published September 13, 2022, retrieved September 26, 2022. ↑ "The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom sortira le 12 mai 2023 sur Nintendo Switch." — Nintendo France, The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom – Sortie le 12 mai 2023 (Nintendo Switch) , YouTube (video), published September 13, 2022, retrieved September 26, 2022. ↑ "The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom" — The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom , Nintendo Germany, published September 13, 2022, retrieved September 16, 2022. ↑ "The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom per Nintendo Switch sarà disponibile dal 12 maggio 2023." — NintendoItalia, The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom – In arrivo il 12 maggio 2023 (Nintendo Switch) , YouTube (video), published September 13, 2022, retrieved September 26, 2022. ↑ "젤다의 전설 티어스 오브 더 킹덤" — 『젤다의 전설 브레스 오브 더 와일드』의 속편 『젤다의 전설 티어스 오브 더 킹덤』, 『파이어 엠블렘 인게이지』, 『피크민 4』, 『별의 커비 Wii 디럭스』 등, Nintendo Switch 소프트웨어의 최신 정보를 전달! , Nintendo Korea, published September 13, 2022, retrieved September 14, 2022. ↑ "The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom chega à Nintendo Switch a 12 de maio de 2023." — Nintendo Portugal, The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom (Nintendo Switch) – 12/05/23 , YouTube (video), published September 13, 2022, retrieved September 26, 2022. ↑ "The Legend of #Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom" — @NintendoES , Twitter, published September 13, 2022, retrieved September 16, 2022. ↑ "The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom" — @MxNintendo , Twitter, published September 13, 2022, retrieved September 16, 2022. Games Main Series Spin-off Other The Legend of Zelda · The Adventure of Link · A Link to the Past ( & Four Swords ) · Link's Awakening ( DX ; Nintendo Switch ) · Ocarina of Time ( Master Quest ; 3D ) · Majora's Mask ( 3D ) · Oracle of Ages · Oracle of Seasons · Four Swords ( Anniversary Edition ) · The Wind Waker ( HD ) · Four Swords Adventures · The Minish Cap · Twilight Princess ( HD ) · Phantom Hourglass · Spirit Tracks · Skyward Sword ( HD ) · A Link Between Worlds · Tri Force Heroes · Breath of the Wild · Tears of the Kingdom · Echoes of Wisdom Zelda (Game & Watch) · The Legend of Zelda Game Watch · Link's Crossbow Training · My Nintendo Picross: Twilight Princess · Cadence of Hyrule · Game & Watch: The Legend of Zelda CD-i games The Faces of Evil · The Wand of Gamelon · Zelda's Adventure Hyrule Warriors series Hyrule Warriors ( Legends ; Definitive Edition ) · Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity Satellaview games BS The Legend of Zelda · Ancient Stone Tablets Tingle series Freshly-Picked Tingle's Rosy Rupeeland · Tingle's Balloon Fight DS · Too Much Tingle Pack · Ripened Tingle's Balloon Trip of Love Animal Crossing · SoulCalibur II · WarioWare series · Nintendo Badge Arcade · Captain Rainbow · Nintendo Land · Scribblenauts Unlimited · Mario Kart 8 Super Smash Bros. series Super Smash Bros. · Super Smash Bros. Melee · Super Smash Bros. Brawl · Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS · Super Smash Bros. for Wii U · Super Smash Bros. Ultimate 3D Games in The Legend of Zelda series All Hyrule Warriors · Hyrule Warriors Legends · Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity · Hyrule Warriors: Definitive Edition · Link's Crossbow Training · Mario Kart 8 Deluxe · Nintendo Land · SoulCalibur II · The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds · The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild · The Legend of Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom · The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening (Nintendo Switch) · The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask · The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask 3D · The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time · The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D · The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Master Quest · The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass · The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword · The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword HD · The Legend of Zelda: Spirit Tracks · The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom · The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker · The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker HD · The Legend of Zelda: Tri Force Heroes · The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess · The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess HD de-niwa:The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Categories Categories : 3D Games Languages Deutsch (Fandom) Español Français Polski Português do Brasil 中文 中文（臺灣） Community content is available under GNU Free Documentation License unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Zelda Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab