Las Vegas Raiders new president Sandra Douglass Morgan makes first comments as first Black female president in NFL history Skip to main content Advertising NFL Total Access Sandra Douglass Morgan makes first comments as first Black female president in NFL history Newly hired Las Vegas Raiders team president Sandra Douglass Morgan makes her first comments as the NFL's first ever Black female president of an NFL team. NOW PLAYING video Garafolo: 'Bunch of conversations' still needed for Brady to become part owner of Raiders | 'The Insiders' NFL Network Insider Mike Garafolo details former NFL quarterback Tom Brady's proposed partial ownership of the Las Vegas Raiders. NOW PLAYING video Saints DE Cam Jordan joins the final episode of 'NFL Total Access' New Orleans Saints defensive end Cam Jordan joins "NFL Total Access" one last time on the show's final episode. NOW PLAYING video Brian Urlacher joins final episode of 'NFL Total Access' to reflect on his 2003 interview In honor of the fact that Pro Football Hall of Fame linebacker Brian Urlacher was the very first guest to be interviewed on "NFL Total Access" back in 2003, the Chicago Bears legend joins TA one last time to be the final guest to be interviewed on the show. NOW PLAYING video 'NFL Total Access' signs off for the final time after 20 years On the final episode of "NFL Total Access" NFL Network's Mike Yam, and David Carr, Kimmi Chex and Michael Robinson invite crew members who work on the show to stand in front of the camera and joint hem for one last sign off after twenty years on the air. NOW PLAYING video Carr: Chiefs' WR additions should be 'terrifying for the rest of the league' | 'NFL Total Access' In a segment on "NFL Total Access", NFL Network's David Carr explains why the Kansas City Chiefs' additions to the wide receiver room should be "terrifying for the rest of the league" moving forward. NOW PLAYING video Brian Dawkins talks Eagles' leadership void with retirements from Kelce, Cox | 'NFL Total Access' Former Philadelphia Eagle Brian Dawkins talks Eagles' leadership void with retirements from Jason Kelce, Fletcher Cox. NOW PLAYING video Contract implications for QBs entering final year of their deals | 'NFL Total Access' In a segment on "NFL Total Access", NFL Network insider Ian Rapoport breaks down the contract implications for three quarterbacks in particular as they enter the final year of their contract — Miami Dolphins QB Tua Tagovailoa, Dallas Cowboys QB Dak Prescott, and Jacksonville Jaguars QB Trevor Lawrence. NOW PLAYING video Michigan Wolverines RB Donovan Edwards joins 'NFL Total Access' Fresh off the announcement that he'd be on the cover of the new College Football 25 video game, Michigan Wolverines running back Donovan Edwards joins "NFL Total Access" for a wide-ranging interview. NOW PLAYING video Which revenge game are you most excited for? | 'NFL Total Access' Which revenge game are you most excited for? NOW PLAYING video Giants unveil new 'Century Red' uniforms ahead of '24 season New York Giants unveil new 'Century Red' uniforms ahead of '24 season. NOW PLAYING video Goff on new contract with Lions: No-trade clause was more important than money Quarterback Jared Goff on new contract with Detroit Lions: No-trade clause was more important than money. NOW PLAYING video Predicting all 17 games on Houston Texans' 2024 slate | 'Schedule Release '24' NFL Network's Michael Robinson and Maurice Jones-Drew predict all 17 games of the Houston Texans' 2024 slate. NOW PLAYING video Joe Buck breaks down top 'Monday Night Football' matchups in '24 Play-by-play announcer Joe Buck breaks down the most interesting matchups on the 2024 slate of "Monday Night Football" contests. NOW PLAYING video Mitch Holthus reacts to being named the 2024 'Kansan of the Year' Kansas City Chiefs play-by-play announcer Mitch Holthus reacts to being named the '24 'Kansan of the Year' and more. NOW PLAYING video Which Christmas Day game will have bigger impact on AFC title race? | 'NFL Total Access' The "NFL Total Access" crew discuss which Christmas Day game will have bigger impact on AFC title race. NOW PLAYING video 'NFL Total Access' builds the ideal Thanksgiving day slate of games "NFL Total Access" builds the ideal Thanksgiving day slate of games NOW PLAYING video Predicting all 17 games on Kansas City Chiefs' 2024 slate | 'Schedule Release '24' The "NFL Total Access" crew breaks down the Kansas City Chiefs 2024 schedule NOW PLAYING video Netflix and Skydance Sports producing upcoming docuseries on Jerry Jones Netflix and Skydance Sports producing upcoming docuseries on Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones. NOW PLAYING video Giants featured on new 'Hard Knocks: Offseason' this July New York Giants featured on new 'Hard Knocks: Offseason' this July. NOW PLAYING video Which international series game are you most excited to watch? | 'NFL Total Access' Which international series game are you most excited to watch? NOW PLAYING video Kevin O'Connell optimistic about Justin Jefferson contract negotiation | 'NFL Total Access' Minnesota Vikings head coach Kevin O'Connell is confident everything will get worked out with wide receiver Justin Jefferson contract negotiations. NOW PLAYING video Odell Beckham Jr.: 'I've given my entire life to this game... there's no way I won't end it on a high note' Wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr. on joining the Miami Dolphins. NOW PLAYING video Cousins explains how he's approaching Falcons' QB room with Penix Jr. Atlanta Falcons quarterback Kirk Cousins explains how he's approaching the Falcons' quarterback room now that the team has drafted rookie quarterback Michael Penix Jr. as a potential successor. NOW PLAYING video Garafolo: Aaron Rodgers must 'beware' of Leonard Floyd in Week 1 of '24 | 'NFL Total Access' During a segment on "NFL Total Access", NFL Network insider Mike Garafolo explains why New York Jets quarterback Aaron Rodgers must "beware" of San Francisco 49ers edge rusher Leonard Floyd during their "Monday Night Football" matchup in Week 1 of the 2024 NFL regular season. NOW PLAYING video Brooks: Three matchups I can't wait to see revealed during 'Schedule Release '24' | 'NFL Total Access' NFL Network's Bucky Brooks explains why he has his eyes on the following three matchups ahead of the release of the NFL's 2024 regular season schedule: the Kansas City Chiefs at San Francisco 49ers, the Denver Broncos at Pittsburgh Steelers and the Las Vegas Raiders at Miami Dolphins. Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. Big left arrow icon Big right arrow icon Close icon Copy Url Three dots icon Down arrow icon Email icon Email icon Exit Fullscreen icon External link icon Facebook logo Football icon Facebook logo Instagram logo Snapchat logo YouTube logo TikTok logo Spotify logo LinkedIn logo Grid icon Key icon Left arrow icon Link icon Location icon Mail icon Menu icon Open icon Phone icon Play icon Radio icon Rewind icon Right arrow icon Search icon Select icon Selected icon TV icon Up arrow icon User icon Audio icon Add to calendar icon NFC icon AFC icon NFL icon Carousel Icon List View Website Instagram Twitter Facebook Snapchat Shop Icon Profile Overlay Avatar Add Airplay Arrow Left Arrow Right Arrow Up Arrow Down Audio Back 5s Back 10s Back 30s Calendar Chart Check Down Left Right Up Chromecast Off Chromecast On Close Closed Captions Bench Off Bench On Broad Off Broad On Vertical Off Vertical On Comment Dock Done Download Draft Fantasy Filter Forward 5s Forward 10s Forward 30s Full Screen Off Full Screen On Gamepass Games Insights Key Leave Live Combine Draft Fantasy Menu Games Menu Network Menu News Menu Playoffs Menu Pro Bowl Menu Shop Menu Standings Menu Stats Menu Super Bowl Menu Teams Menu Tickets Menu More Horizontal More Vertical My Location Network News Pause play Multiple Players Single Player Playlist Playoffs Pro Bowl Purge Refresh Remove Search Settings Share Android Share Copy URL Share Email Share Facebook Share Instagram Share iOS Share Snapchat Share Twitter Skip Next Skip Previous Standings Star Stats Swap Teams Tickets Video Visibility Off Visibility On Volume Hi Volume Low Volume Medium Volume Mute Warning Website Caret down Caret up At News Play Audio Gallery Promo Chevron right The browser you are using is no longer supported on this site. It is highly recommended that you use the latest versions of a supported browser in order to receive an optimal viewing experience. The following browsers are supported: Chrome, Edge (v80 and later), Firefox and Safari. Got it!