Pretty Woman: The Musical | Music Theatre International Skip to main content Music Theatre International Main menu Shows Browse Shows 10-Minute Musicals Browse Collections Broadway Junior Broadway Senior Concert Selections Future Releases Resources MTI Production Resources Community Marketplace MTI Classroom Dramatic Moments Town Halls Concert Dance Help / FAQs Help Center Get Started FAQs Streaming FAQs News News Email List Sign-Up About Us About MTI Contact Us MyMTI Accounts MyMTI HOME Apply for a License Request a Perusal Pay an Invoice Region MTI MTI Europe MTI Australasia Search Callboard close Pretty Woman: The Musical Select a Show Version Print View Follow Share Pretty Woman: The Musical Broadway Version Fall in love all over again with one of the most beloved romances of all time! This title is currently unavailable for licensing. Perusal and license applications are not available until release. This title is currently restricted. Expected general release is unknown. Click "Follow" to be among the first to know when this title is released. The classic film starring Julia Roberts is now a hit musical! Pretty Woman: The Musical , features an original score by Grammy Award-winner Bryan Adams ("Summer of '69," "Everything I Do") and his longtime songwriting partner Jim Vallance, and a book by the movie's legendary director Garry Marshall and screenwriter J.F. Lawton. Once upon a time in the late '80s, unlikely soulmates Vivian and Edward overcame all odds to find each other… and themselves. Experience the moments you love from the movie - and get to know these iconic characters in a whole new way - in this dazzlingly theatrical take on a love story for the ages. Pretty Woman: The Musical will lift your spirits and light up your heart. Show Essentials 19 Roles + Ensemble PG13 Rated 2 Acts Full Cast Info Book by Garry Marshall J.F. Lawton Music & Lyrics by Bryan Adams Jim Vallance Full Billing Songs Full Song List Cost Estimator Estimate the approximate cost of your licensing fees by providing a few details about your production. Estimate Your Cost Upcoming Similar Shows Legally Blonde The Musical 9 to 5 The Musical Sister Act Kinky Boots Tags Contemporary Broadway Comedy Romance Book Musical Period/Historical New Acquisitions Explore Connect Media Clips from the Broadway production of Pretty Woman. Pretty Woman's journey to Broadway. The Broadway cast of Pretty Woman performs "You're Beautiful" on The View. The Broadway cast of Pretty Woman performs "Rodeo Drive" on The View. The classic song "Oh, Pretty Woman" makes it Broadway debut in Pretty... "You and I" from Pretty Woman "Don't Forget to Dance" from Pretty Woman Watch the Broadway cast of Pretty Woman rehearse "Welcome to Hollywood". Questions & Answers Ask a Question See All Questions There don't appear to be any questions submitted. Callboard Year In Review 2019 Year in Review: How Do You Measure a Year? Celebrating an incredible year of musical theater at MTI. Read More New Acquisition MTI Acquires Rights to Pretty Woman: The Musical This is gonna be big...HUGE! We are so excited to welcome Pretty Woman: The Musical to the MTI Family. Read More Music Theatre International 423 West 55th Street Second Floor New York, NY 10019 T: +1 (212) 541-4684 F: +1 (212) 397-4684 Music Theatre International: Europe 12-14 Mortimer Street London W1T 3JJ T: +44 (0)20 7580 2827 F: *44 (0)20 7436 9616 Music Theatre International (Australasia) Ground Floor, Suite 2 20-22 Albert Road, South Melbourne, 3205 Victoria, Australia T: +61 3 9581 2222 ©MTI Enterprises Inc. All Rights Reserved. Secondary Menu Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Contact Follow us Facebook US Twitter US YouTube US Instagram US Thoughts on our site? Send Feedback