Leak reveals Google Pixel 5a from every angle | Tom's Guide Skip to main content Open menu Close menu Tom's Guide Tom's Guide Search Search Tom's Guide Sign in View Profile Sign out RSS Newsletters Newsletter US Edition Australia UK US Canada Best Picks Phones Streaming TVs Computing AI Mattresses Videos More Newsletter News Fitness Reviews How Tos Home Best VPN Deals Coupons Antivirus Entertainment Wellness Security Laptops Smart Home Audio Gaming Forums Trending Switch 2 Pre-Orders iPhone 17 Air Best laptops Best Mattress Best TVs Wordle Today Phones Android Phones Google Phones Leak reveals Google Pixel 5a from every angle News By Richard Priday published 25 February 2021 See what the Google Pixel 5a looks like from every side Comments (0) When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . (Image credit: Steve Hemmerstoffer/Voice) Another leak has revealed what the Google Pixel 5a will look like for every angle; get ready for a simple yet attractive Android phone. This new look comes courtesy of a 360-degree video from Steve "Onleaks" Hemmerstoffer on Voice . While the Pixel 5a might look a lot like the Google Pixel 4a , that's not a bad thing, as the latter handset was one of our picks for the best cheap phones . Google Pixel 4a 5G review : 5G phone value Find your next device on our list of the best Android phones Plus: iPhone 13 leak just revealed big 5G upgrade — and it's made by Samsung This follows on from the first major Pixel 5a leak just a couple of days ago, which revealed some images and specs that we discuss below. You may like Google Pixel 9a leak seemingly confirms design and colors — here’s the new look Google Pixel 9a revealed in leaked hands-on video — here’s what we know The new video below shows off a familiar-looking phone that keeps Google's soft-textured plastic back from previous Pixel a-series phones. Interestingly the power button in this video is the same color as the body, a departure from the contrasting colors Google has chosen for the past couple of years. On the Pixel 5a's front face, we see a flat 6.2-inch FHD OLED display with a punch-hole camera in the top left corner. The back reveals a dual-camera array, made up of a main and an ultrawide sensor. The smaller sensor below them is believed to be a phase detection auto-focus system, which continually checks the light coming into the camera sensors to ensure your subject is in focus. (Image credit: Steve Hemmerstoffer/Voice) Below is the rear fingerprint sensor that has been common to the Pixel a-series phones since the original Google Pixel 3a . It's not as fancy looking as facial recognition systems or under-display fingerprint sensors, but it's still convenient and reliable. Sign up to get the BEST of Tom's Guide direct to your inbox. Get instant access to breaking news, the hottest reviews, great deals and helpful tips. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. From what we can see so far, the Pixel 5a seems to be a reheated Google Pixel 4a 5G in terms of the design, cameras and display. The Pixel 4a 5G is an excellent mid-range phone, but we would have liked to see more changes between one generation and the next. It's possible these changes may appear under the Pixel 5a's skin. Hemmerstoffer's leaks haven't told us anything about the phone's chipset, or the resolution of the camera sensors. These may end up being downgraded, but with good reason. The Pixel 4a that the 5a will replace is only $349. If Google wants to keep that price, which undercuts rival phones like the iPhone SE , then it will have to cut back on some of the 4a 5G's features. Google launched the Pixel 4an August, with the Pixel 4a 5G following it in November. The Pixel 3a launched in May the previous year, however, which is likely when the Pixel 5a will appear this year too. Whenever it does debut, we have high hopes it'll get a place in our best Android phones rankings. More: New Framework Laptop comes with a completely upgradeable design Today's best Google Pixel Buds 2 deals No price information Check Amazon We check over 250 million products every day for the best prices See more Phones News See all comments (0) Richard Priday Social Links Navigation Assistant Phones Editor Richard is based in London, covering news, reviews and how-tos for phones, tablets, gaming, and whatever else people need advice on. Following on from his MA in Magazine Journalism at the University of Sheffield, he's also written for WIRED U.K., The Register and Creative Bloq. When not at work, he's likely thinking about how to brew the perfect cup of specialty coffee. Read more Google Pixel 9a leak seemingly confirms design and colors — here’s the new look Google Pixel 9a revealed in leaked hands-on video — here’s what we know Google Pixel 9a specs just fully leaked ahead of iPhone 16E launch Google Pixel 9a leak just confirmed a major design change — here's the new look Pixel 9a leak reveals Google's budget phone keeps this disappointing design feature Google Pixel 9a spotted at wrestling event — here a live look at what it can do Latest in Google Phones I tested astrophotography on my Pixel 9a — here's the results I put the Pixel 9a and Pixel 8a through a 9-round, 100-photo camera face-off — and the results were surprising I’m not worried about the Pixel 9a’s selfie camera glitch — and neither should you Best Google Pixel 9a cases in 2025 Google Pixel 9a review live — test results, camera samples and iPhone 16e comparisons Google Pixel 10 Fold price just leaked — and it could be a tipping point for foldable phones Latest in News ChatGPT was down — live updates on short outage This newly discovered iOS flaw could completely brick your iPhone with a single line of code Google Chrome U-turns on its use of trackers – here's how to stop them CMF Phone 2 Pro is official — and it could be the budget phone of the year Bissell just launched its latest cordless stick vacuum — and it's perfectly timed for pet-shedding season Netflix just got a new Western thriller movie — and it's already crashed the top 10 No comments yet Comment from the forums LATEST ARTICLES 1 Google Chrome U-turns on its use of trackers – here's how to stop them 2 Hurry! Amazon is knocking up to $150 off all KitchenAid stand mixers 3 Gamakay TK75 HE review 4 This newly discovered iOS flaw could completely brick your iPhone with a single line of code 5 ChatGPT was down — live updates on short outage Tom's Guide is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . Terms and conditions Contact Future's experts Privacy policy Cookies policy Accessibility Statement Advertise with us About us Archives Careers © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up