Three Other Subs Visiting Titanic Almost Suffered Same Fate As Titan arrow-down comments printer search bell top-nav right-arrow NDTV World Profit हिंदी MOVIES IPL 2025 FOOD LIFESTYLE HEALTH TECH Games Big Bonus SHOPPING APPS Rajasthan MPCG Marathi Advertisement US UK Middle East India Global Asia Europe Australia Americas Africa Videos Bollywood Sports World News Diaspora News Science & Knowledge Climate & Environment Web Stories NDTV World - US Stream NDTV World - UK Stream Featured Stories Offbeat Stories Opinion People Photos Study Abroad Student Reporter Login Three Other Subs Visiting Titanic Almost Suffered Same Fate As Titan facebook twitter WhatsApp comments Settings Change Font Size A A Focus on Story home World News Three Other Subs Visiting Titanic Almost Suffered Same Fate As Titan This Article is From Jun 26, 2023 Three Other Subs Visiting Titanic Almost Suffered Same Fate As Titan James Cameron has made 33 dives to the wreckage of the Titanic but experienced a close call in 1995. Edited by: Amit Chaturvedi World News Jun 26, 2023 12:22 pm IST Published On Jun 26, 2023 12:03 pm IST Last Updated On Jun 26, 2023 12:22 pm IST Read Time: 5 mins Share Twitter WhatsApp Facebook Reddit Email The Titan sub, operated by OceanGate, suffered a "catastrophic implosion". The disappearance and "catastrophic implosion" of the Titan sub, which was taking five tourists to see the wreckage of the Titanic, was one of the most unsettling events in recent years. The incident raised questions about the vessel's safety and on the great depths people go to see what remains of a ship that sank in 1912. There are 10 sea vessels that can reach the depths of 4,000 metres or greater and Titan, owned by OceanGate, was the only one that wasn't certified by any regulatory body, according to the BBC . OceanGate had been warned by both industry experts and one of its senior employees that the sub might be unsafe. Still, a visit to the Titanic wreck at a depth of 3,700 metres is one of the most popular and dangerous expeditions in the world. Less than 250 people have personally viewed the wreckage that was discovered 75 years after the sinking of the Titanic. One of them is filmmaker James Cameron whose interest in shipwrecks served as a motivation for him to make ' Titanic '. It won the Best Picture Oscars in 1998. The director has taken 33 dives himself to the wreckage of the Titanic, according to USA Today . In 1995, he was on a third dive with submersible pilot Dr Anatoly Sagalevich and a Russian engineer. They unexpectedly encountered a sandstorm on the ocean floor. "Anatoly said 'Oh, no', something you never want to hear a pilot say, and we locked eyes for a second," Mr Cameron recalled in his 2009 biography ' The Futurist '. The strong currents sapped the sub's power supply and they were almost out of batteries. The crew aborted the dive but instead of going to the ocean floor, the vessel stopped rising and sank back to the ocean floor. Mr Cameron and his crew waited for half an hour before trying again, but the sub stopped at 80 feet. The water current, however, kept blowing them away from the Titanic. On their third attempt, the crew saw the vessel rise from the 80-feet mark and away from the near-freezing temperature, breaking the surface five hours later. There are some previous expeditions too experienced close calls that could have cost the crew their lives. In 1991, Canadian undersea physician Dr Joe MacInnis undertook an expedition, not just to carry out biological and geological studies but also capture the wreckages in IMAX film. Two Russian submersibles made 17 dives during the entire expedition, but the last one hit a snag. After shooting the wreckage, the researchers tried to lift the platform but realised it was stuck. A second submersible that arrived to help them saw the left landing skid had slipped under a mass of wires. It then gave them the directions on how to manoeuvre their way out of the tangle. "We had that second pilot, that second sub, self-rescue capability. So we were very fortunate," Ms MacInnis told Times Radio. Michael Guillen also decided to visit the Titanic wreck in 2000, hoping to become the first reporter in 88 years to do so. But as his sub crossed the debris field between the ship's front section and the stern, Mr Guillen found they were speeding up. Like Mr Cameron's crew, they were caught in one of the deep sea's unpredictable currents. "A split-second later, our sub slammed into the Titanic's propeller. I felt the shock of the collision; shards of reddish, rusty debris showered down on our submersible, obscuring my view through the porthole," Mr Guillen later wrote in his book 'Believing is Seeing'. They spent an hour stuck in the great depth before their sub started rising again. Show full article Track Latest News Live on NDTV.com and get news updates from India and around the world Follow us: Titanic Submersbile , Titan Submersible , James Cameron Related News Chilling Audio Of Moment Doomed Titanic Submersible Imploded Released James Cameron On Avatar 3: "People Might Say, 'That's Not What I Signed Up For'" Royal Challengers Bengaluru IPL 2025 Retentions: Full List Of Players Retained And Released Trending News How Suspending Indus Waters Treaty Hurts Pakistan, Ex Top Official Explains "With You As You Hunt Down...": US Spy Chief To PM Modi On Kashmir Attack Lashkar Chief Hafiz Saeed's Role Revealed In Pahalgam Terror Attack Live: J&K Lt Governor Meets Army Chief, Says Every Perpetrator Must Be Hunted "Hid Behind Washroom, Saw A Girl Asking To Be Killed": J&K Attack Victim's Wife Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Quick Links Latest News PNR Status Education News Business News Sports News MP Chhattisgarh News NDTV Profit Marathi News UP Board Result 2025 LIVE Updates Board Exam Results 2025 UP Board 10th Result LIVE UP Board 12th Result LIVE Pahalgam Terror Attack LIVEUpdates Advertisement Follow us on facebook twitter instagram linkedin youtube whatsapp threads snapchat About Us Advertise EPG Services Channels Disclaimer Feedback Investors Redressals Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Partner Content Archives NDTV Group Sites News Hindi Business Movies Cricket Food Tech Education Health Lifestyle MPCG Rajasthan Marathi This website follows the DNPA Code of Ethics © Copyright NDTV Convergence Limited 2025. All rights reserved. Edition INDIA World Search for News, Photos and Videos Get App for Better Experience Get it on Google Play Download on the App Store Get App for Better Experience Install Now News Updates Live TV India Latest Video Profit Movies Cricket Cities Featured Elections Notifications Opinion Web Stories Trends Feature More Links Offbeat Science People South Education Tech Food Sports Health Lifestyle Photos TV Schedule Big Bonus Shopping Toolbox Follow Us On Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube Whatsapp Threads Snapchat arrow-down search search olympic crypto_icon arrow-rgt arrow-next arrow-up close reddit-fill facebook-fill whatsapp-fill cog left-arrow snapchat-fill astrology-icn