Sports > Football Jeffrey Webb or Jack Warner, whats the difference? Pages: << < (2/5) > >> Sam : Both of the have de same initials too. JW Flex : CONCACAF president Jeffrey Webb has been re-elected unopposed. GOAL.COM Jeffrey Webb was thankful after being re-elected as CONCACAF president for a second term Thursday. Webb took over as president in 2012 and will continue in that role, after he was re-elected unopposed at the governing body's 30th Ordinary Congress. The 50-year-old from the Cayman Islands was delighted to be given the opportunity to continue as president. “CONCACAF is — more than ever—united by one vision,” Webb said in a news release. “We represent our region on the global stage with one strong and cohesive voice. The invisible barriers that have hampered the region’s progress for decades are diminishing, and we are seeing unprecedented levels of success both on and off the pitch.” Many representitives at the congress spoke in favor of maintaing Sepp Blatter as the FIFA President, while Blatter himself congratulated Webb on his re-election. “What makes the strength of this confederation is solidarity and unity,” Blatter said, according to a CONCACAF news release. “For this remarkable leadership, congratulations to Jeffrey Webb and compliments to CONCACAF Executive Committee and Member Associations.” In addition to Webb's election, Jamaica's Horace Burrell was re-elected as Vice-President of CONCACAF, Caribbean Zone and Mexico's Justino Compean was re-elected as Vice-President of CONCACAF, North American Zone. Panama FA president Pedro Chaluja was elected as CONCACAF Executive Committee Member, Central American Zone, while Sonia Bien-Aime, of the Turks and Caicos, will become the first to fill the position of Female Member on the CONCACAF Executive Committee. Eduardo Li of Costa Rica was elected as FIFA Executive Committee Member representing the CONCACAF Central American Zone in what was set the be the only contested seat before Rafael Salguero of Guatemala pulled out of the race. Deeks : Guys, we had our chance! We benefitted in some ways. I would say the negatives far outweigh the positives. We qualified  for the  WC and hosted 2 junior WC. We cannot say it did not benefit us. Well Jack came out with the most benefits. Look what allyuh want from Webb to do Even though CFU has the numbers, it does not have the money. So they have to use the votes in the best way that they can get benefit for the Caribbean. The reason why the CFU had so much influence in the past, was the fact that one of their officials was a FIFA VP. Webb, Burrell are FIFA officials, but not in the key decision making positions of the federation. And I don't see that happen again. Having had to deal with Jack for such a long time, they don't want a Caribbean man again. Well a Spanish will probably be the exception. With all the power Jack had, he never stepped on the toes of the Mex and the U.S. Almost everything Jack did was approved by those two. Plus their team are so strong it does not matter. They always qualified for the big dance. To me the Gold Cup is the big irony. This competition should be rotated to different countries , but Concacaf has  convinced their members that it is better to play the tournament where they make the most money. Can TT or JA host this tourney and make the kind of money that is made in the US. The only way this may change is when Mex and the U.S. gets knocked out in the opening round or quarterfinals. Then the crowds will not come. So it is up to the individual federations to improve their national teams. FIFA, US, Mex will not do that for us. Allyuh could huff and puff about Webb, it would not make a difference. Let us Trini work on fixing we football and start beating US, Mex, CR, Hondo consistently. Then it would not matter what CFU or Concacaf do. We will be strong and can qualify no matter what. Is the the up-island turn now, buckle up and take the ride. Sando : Sam, on spot again. I see Jeffrey Webb were named in a FIFA scandal and will be charged along with Warner. http://www.socawarriors.net/forum/index.php?topic=52279.msg926242#msg926242 Sam : I told you so, no difference, both blasted crooks. It good. Cant give a black man power, he does abuse it and steal from his own people. Pages: << < (2/5) > >> Go to full version