Chloé Zhao Wins Best Director, The First Woman Of Color To Receive That Oscar : Live Updates: Oscars 2021 : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu Newsletters NPR Shop Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Fresh Air Up First Featured Embedded The NPR Politics Podcast Throughline Trump's Terms More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Chloé Zhao Wins Best Director, The First Woman Of Color To Receive That Oscar : Live Updates: Oscars 2021 The Nomadland director was also the first woman to receive four Oscar nominations in a single year, in the Best Film Editing, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Director and Best Picture categories. Live Updates: Oscars 2021 Academy Awards nominees, winners and highlights Live Updates: Oscars 2021 Chloé Zhao Is The First Woman Of Color To Win Oscar For Best Director April 25, 2021 8:59 PM ET Mandalit del Barco Enlarge this image Director Chloé Zhao at the 2021 Oscars. She was the first woman to receive four Oscar nominations in a single year. Pool/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Pool/Getty Images Director Chloé Zhao at the 2021 Oscars. She was the first woman to receive four Oscar nominations in a single year. Pool/Getty Images Chloé Zhao has won the Oscar for directing Nomadland, becoming the first woman of color to win the award and the second woman to win (Katheryn Bigelow, was the first ). Zhao was also the first woman to get four Oscar nominations in a single year, in the Best Film Editing, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Director and Best Picture categories. Nomadland offers a glimpse into the lives of older Americans who live and travel in their vehicles, mainly for economic reasons, embracing it as a nomadic lifestyle. The film's cast includes real-life nomads. Sponsor Message Movie Reviews In 'Nomadland,' Discover The Joy And Sorrow Of The Road Less Traveled Pop Culture Happy Hour 'Nomadland' Is An Empathetic, Immersive Journey Zhao and Frances McDormand, who produced and stars in Nomadland , traversed the country for months, meeting the nomads and incorporating their experiences into the film. "I'm looking for some kind of truth," Zhao told NPR. "I'm looking for some kind of authentic moments." Zhao grew up in Beijing and attended a boarding school in London before moving to Los Angeles to finish high school. She got her bachelor's degree in political science, then studied film at NYU, where one of her teachers was director Spike Lee. At NYU, Zhao began creating her cinematic style of blending fiction and documentary. For her first feature film in 2015, Songs My Brothers Taught Me , she also used non-actors. She shot it at the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota. "There was such an American message and identity in these images," Zhao told NPR "The clash between the old and the new, seeing a Lakota boy on bareback on a horse at a gas station, and he's wearing a Tupac T-shirt, is very special. So that's how I first went there." Songs My Brother Taught Me premiered at the Sundance Film Festival. Her second feature, The Rider , premiered at the Cannes Film Festival in 2017. It told the story of a young rodeo rider who suffers a traumatic brain injury and received the festival's Art Cinema Award. Next up for Zhao: the November release of her directorial debut in the Marvel cinematic universe, The Eternals . Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor