Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/thelastofus A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to thelastofus r/thelastofus r/thelastofus Welcome to the largest community for fans of The Last of Us Part I, Part II, and the HBO series. Endure and survive!  For the ideal browsing experience, use old.reddit.com for this subreddit.  Please read our rules before submitting content! Members Online • nerveonya [SPOILERS] The Last of Us Part 2. What the trailer tells us about Joel and why I think it is brilliant. Discussion Joel is going to either be dead at the start of the game, or die in the very first chapter, and the story will be about Ellie taking ruthless revenge on whoever killed him (fireflies prob). I know what you're thinking, "That would so cheesy, so hacky". But The Last of Us was never about the plot, it was about the relationship between Joel and Ellie, 2 characters that have lost people they loved and slowly open themselves up to one another. I have seen a lot of people talk about why they think Joel is dead based on the trailer, but I haven't seen anyone talk about how it could be interesting in a way that respects the characters. That's what this post is about. But first, the evidence to support the theory: - You will be playing as Ellie in the game -Joel's line of "You really gonna go through with this?". Not "are we really gonna go through with this" or "you really wanna go through with this?" Which can both be interpreted more openly. We're talking about Joel, who literally doomed the human race because he couldn't let the world take his daughter away a second time. So if he is not dead, we have to believe that he is ok staying on the sidelines while Ellie goes a takes what is clearly a personal revenge against someone. There was hatred in her eyes, someone hurt her, and Joel's not going to want to go with her to exact revenge? -Joel's first shot has some definite afterlife symbolism, with him suddenly appearing as a black silhouette bathed in light. Okay, so now my rant on why I think this is cool. Throughout the first game, we get to know Ellie the same way that Joel does. And we get an idea of her fears and how she feels about her immunity. "How is it that you're never scared?" "Who says that I'm not?" "What are you scared of?" "Let's see... Scorpions are pretty creepy. Um... Being by myself. I'm scared of ending up alone." . "Everyone I have cared for has either died or left me. Everyone - fucking except for you! So don't tell me I would be safer with somebody else, because the truth is I would just be more scared." . "I'm still waiting for my turn." "Ellie..." "Her name was Riley, and she was the first to die. And then it was Tess. And then Sam." "None of that is on you" "No, you don't understand" Ellie is suffering from severe survivor's guilt. She has had to watch the people she loves die around her while she survives because...why? She didn't do anything to become immune, she didn't earn it. it's complete dumb luck. She shouldn't be alive. Her biggest fear, bigger than dying, is being abandoned. Being alone. I'm still waiting for my turn . Then there is the "dream" she has of being on a plane full of people about to crash, and going up to the cockpit only to find that she doesn't know how to operate the controls. She is in a position to save all of these people, but it doesn't matter because she can't fly a plane. My point is this: had she been given the choice, Ellie would have, without a single doubt, chosen to die . She would have gladly given up her life if it meant saving the human race. She's not afraid of dying, she's afraid of ending up alone. That was her opportunity to actually do something with this gift she was given, and Joel took it away from her. Ellie is a smart girl. If the truth really was that the fireflies had done their tests on her and realized there was no possibility of a cure, why did she wake up still in her hospital gown in the back seat of his truck? Why would they not wake her up, let her change, and then leave? Why would the firefly leader (forget her name) not say goodbye to her? They obviously knew eachother. She also knows the fireflies wouldn't have just let Joel take her from them, that he wouldve had to take her by force. Ellie knows Joel is lying, but she is willing to force herself to believe him because, if she faced the reality of what Joel did, she would have to either leave him or kill him or hate him for the rest of her life. And that ending is just so incredible. Joel squares up, looks her directly in the eyes and lies to her. And her response of "ok' is given in a tone that says "ok, we're committed to this delusion, I'm on board, let's go live out the rest of our lives in peace". So... Joel dies, now how do you think Ellie reacts to this? She breaks. The reality of what Joel did comes crashing back to her. He blew her chance of saving the human race, of finding peace, so that they could be together. And now he's left her. She is going to go out, and kill "Every. Single. One" of the people that killed Joel, not caring if she dies. She literally snaps. So she might do things like, slaughter an entire house of people, and then just start strumming a guitar while one of the bodies bleeds on the floor next to her, ignoring the gash on her forehead. That scene was scary, to see Ellie who always showed extreme turmoil when she killed someone in the first game, having that kind of disregard for killing all those people. Now, how Joel fits into this. From Game Director Neil Druckmann: "if the first game was really about the love between these two characters, this story is the counter of that. This is story is about hate, through Ellie this time." Ellie is going to be seeing and talking to Joel constantly throughout this game. And she will no longer be deluding herself about what Joel did and how she feels about it. She hates him. He did this terrible, unforgivable thing so they could be together, and then left her alone just like everyone else. So, to wrap this up, Ellie will be much different in this game than in the first one. Her actions fueles by hate, hate of Joel's killers, hate of Joel himself, and hate of herself, for allowing herself to get that close to someone. In terms of emotionally opening up to people, that's never going to happen again. And we are going to be getting a few cool scenes of Ellie angrily yelling at Joel for leaving her alone in this world. TL;DR: Joel dies. And Ellie's mind projects him from time to time as a coping mechanism so that she can work through feelings of betrayal she holds toward him. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 4, 2016 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 2016 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2016 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics