'Encanto' Composer Germaine Franco on Making Oscar Music History 'Encanto' Composer Germaine Franco on Making Oscar Music History Plus Icon Film Plus Icon TV Plus Icon What To Watch Plus Icon Music Plus Icon Docs Plus Icon Digital & Gaming Plus Icon Global Plus Icon Awards Circuit Plus Icon Video Plus Icon What To Hear VIP Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Got a Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Variety Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Variety Plus Icon Read Next: ‘In Rhythm’ Named Eva Maria Daniels Prize Winner at Stockfish Film Festival – Film News in Brief Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Home Awards Awards Mar 12, 2022 10:15am PT Oscar-Nominated ‘Encanto’ Composer Germaine Franco Has Already Made Film-Music History By Jon Burlingame Plus Icon Jon Burlingame @jonburlingame Latest L.A Chamber Orchestra Honors Warner Bros. Pictures’ Music President Paul Broucek: ‘Good Guy, Very Good Ears’ 4 days ago New Seth MacFarlane Album Boasts Never-Before-Heard Frank Sinatra Arrangements (EXCLUSIVE) 7 days ago ‘El Mal’ Triumphs in Oscars’ Best Original Song Category to Give ‘Emilia Perez’ a Win 2 months ago See All Nolwen Cifuentes for The Hollywood Reporter Composer Germaine Franco ‘s Oscar nomination for “ Encanto ” is a landmark moment in film music: – She is the first Latina to be nominated in that category; – She is only the sixth woman ever to be nominated for an original score; – And she is the first woman to score a Disney film. But ask any of her colleagues in the profession and they’ll tell you something else: that it’s a triumph for a musically talented, genuinely kind person who has worked hard her entire life, dating back decades to her childhood in El Paso, Texas, just across the border from where her grandparents were born in Chihuahua and Durango, Mexico. Related Stories VIP+ Celtics Sale Shows Media’s New Pot of Gold: Sports Teams as Mega-Brands 'Casino,' 'Meet the Parents' and 'American Psycho' Among 2025 Tribeca Talks, Reunions and Retrospectives - Film News in Brief Franco landed the “Encanto” assignment in part because she had firmly established the Mexican backdrop of Disney’s 2017 film “Coco” via her orchestrations and original songs. Says Lin-Manuel Miranda, who is also nominated as songwriter for “Encanto”: “I admired her work on ‘Coco’ and it was really important to me that we have a Latino music team. Our first meeting went really well and she spoke so powerfully about the themes and the instrumentation.” Popular on Variety For Franco, “Encanto” is the culmination of a lifetime of dedication to music. She started taking percussion and piano lessons at age 10, although, as she says, “my mom says I started sooner because I was always banging on pots and playing around on the family piano before I started formal lessons.” By age 16 she was studying classical music at Rice University in Houston while also starting her own Latin jazz band. “I just wanted to play music,” she says. “I didn’t think about all the barriers and the roadblocks. I would travel to Mexico on my own during spring breaks in college, just hang out with musicians and play.” She went on to become the sole woman percussionist in Berlin’s World Orchestra in the 1980s, playing classical music by day and in salsa bands at night. She came to L.A. to study with Cuban percussionist Luis Conte, became music director of the Los Angeles Theatre Center and began writing music for plays. In 1991 she scored a short for Universal’s Hispanic Film Project, the start of her career in films. Composer John Powell (“How to Train Your Dragon”) had met and worked with Franco’s brother, multimedia artist Michael Petry, in London during the ’80s and ’90s, and hired Franco as an assistant in 2003. “Back then he was doing five or six films a year,” she recalls. “She was so wonderful and talented,” Powell remembers. “She did all the things that assistants do for you. She became my co-producer on scores, riding point on everything – singers, musicians, sessions, also playing marimba. As a percussionist, you have a broad knowledge, a sense of rhythm and pitch and melody.” Over the next decade she also arranged, orchestrated and wrote additional music (on Powell scores including “Kung Fu Panda,” “Bolt” and “Rio,” and on “The Book of Life” with Gustavo Santaolalla) while also writing her own music for documentaries and shorts. She finally left her full-time post with Powell and scored the 2015 Sundance hit “Dope.” The work continued to come: the action comedy “Tag,” the fantasy “Little,” the adventure “Dora and the Lost City of Gold,” theme-park rides based on “Kung Fu Panda” and more. “Just because my last name is Franco, doesn’t mean I only write Latin music,” she notes. While acknowledging her groundbreaking status as a successful woman in a very male-dominated profession, Franco doesn’t see herself as a leader. “I just do the work, and hope that people respond to it in a good way. But I do feel the need to show young women, especially people of color, that you can accomplish things when you are tenacious, have the desire, and do the work. You must practice, you must orchestrate, you must learn how to write for an orchestra.” Already a winner of an Annie and the Society of Composers & Lyricists’ original score honors for “Encanto,” she may well claim a few more statues on the way to the Oscars. Says Powell: “Her personal empathy and kindness comes out in her music and her relationship with story. She feels it deeply. Those emotions will come out in music, and that music will fit the film. But she is an artist in her own right.” Read More About: Encanto, Germaine Franco, Music for Screens Jump to Comments More from Variety Deepfake-Enabled Fraud Has Already Caused $200 Million in Financial Losses in 2025, New Report Finds Why the Theatrical Window Debate at CinemaCon Feels Hopeless 2025 NBA Playoffs Hold Promise of a Ratings Rebound JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Most Popular ‘The Smashing Machine’ Trailer: Dwayne Johnson Is Unrecognizable as UFC Legend Mark Kerr in Benny Safdie’s Biopic From A24 ‘Thunderbolts*’ Review: That Mysterious Asterisk Masks the Real Reason to Watch These Six Marvel Rejects Beyoncé Set List: Every Song Played on ‘Cowboy Carter’ Tour Opener in Los Angeles Nathan Fielder Depicts Paramount+ as Nazis After Streamer Removed ‘Nathan for You’ Episode Due to ‘Sensitivities’ Around… John Lithgow Says He ‘Absolutely’ Didn’t Expect Any J.K. Rowling Backlash After Joining HBO’s ‘Harry Potter’ Series: ‘Why Is This a Factor… Pedro Almodóvar Slams Trump in Fiery Speech at Lincoln Center Honors: ‘You Will Go Down in History as a Catastrophe’ Bill Belichick CBS Interview Interrupted by Girlfriend Jordan Hudson After Relationship Question: ‘We’re Not Talking About This’ Ryan Coogler's 'Sinners' Is the First Oscar Movie of 2025 Terrence Howard Turned Down Marvin Gaye Biopic Because He Didn’t Want to Kiss a Man: ‘I Would Cut My Lips Off’ ‘Back to the Future’ Screenwriter Bob Gale Says There Will ‘Never’ Be Another Sequel, ‘Prequel’ or ‘Spinoff’: ‘It’s Just Fine the Way It Is… Must Read Legit ACTORS ON ACTORS BROADWAY | George Clooney and Patti LuPone Get Honest By Andrew Wallenstein 1 week TV Reeling From Bill Owens' Shock Exit, '60 Minutes' Staffers Warn Shari Redstone to Back Off Shopping Pete Davidson on Going Tattoo-Free and His Concern for Young Men and Social Media: ‘They Don’t Even Have a F—ing Shot’ Film Ryan Coogler Dissects ‘Sinners’: How the Blockbuster Filmmaker Reinvented the Vampire Movie on a Near-Impossible Timeline TV Bill Hader to Co-Write, Potentially Star in Jonestown Series in Development at HBO (EXCLUSIVE) Sign Up for Variety Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Variety Confidential A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast More From Our Brands Rolling Stone Natasha Lyonne Bets on AI With Directorial Debut ‘Uncanny Valley’ Robb Report Riva Residenze Just Unveiled Yacht-Inspired Apartments in Fort Lauderdale. Here’s a Look Inside. Sportico Baffert Returns to Churchill Downs and NBC’s Derby Coverage WWD Keira Knightley Is Ready to Pass the ‘Pride & Prejudice’ Baton to Emma Corrin TVLine The Handmaid’s Tale Recap: June Witnesses a Crushing Betrayal in Real-Time Variety About Us Newsletter Variety Events Luminate - Film & TV Advertise Media Kit Careers Customer Service Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Variety Magazine Subscribe Variety Digital Login Group Subscriptions Variety Archives Back Issues Help VIP+ Subscribe Login Learn More FAQ Connect Instagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Variety The Business of Entertainment Subscribe Today Have a News Tip? Let us know Variety Close the menu Expand the sub menu Film News Reviews Podcasts Box Office Events Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu TV News Reviews Podcasts Ratings Pilot Scorecard Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu What To Watch Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Music News Album Reviews Concert Reviews Hitmakers Music For Screens Grammys Expand the sub menu Docs Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Tech Features Global VIP+ Tech Expand the sub menu Global News Asia Markets & Festivals Features Expand the sub menu Awards Circuit News Film Predictions TV Predictions Video Artisans Columns Awards Circuit Podcast Expand the sub menu Video Popular Cover Shoots - Behind the Scenes Actors on Actors Power of Women Events Artisans Expand the sub menu What to Hear Lists & Features Expand the sub menu VIP+ Daily Commentary Special Reports Video Expand the sub menu More Coverage Obituaries - submit obituaries to obits@variety.com Photos Podcasts Scene Voices Theater Expand the sub menu More Variety Live Media Summits Vscore Luminate - Film & TV Variety Archives Variety500 Industry Executives Have a News Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Alerts and Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Follow Us Got a Tip? Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Advertise About Contact Us Variety is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Variety Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Icon Link Plus Icon ad