Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/TheBlackList A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to TheBlackList r/TheBlackList r/TheBlackList Subreddit for "The Blacklist", an American crime thriller television series that premieres on NBC. Members Online • DownAP The Blacklist's Terrible Ending false I just finished watching the series finale, and man, it's so bad that it is laughable. It's like the writers tried their best to ruin it all(to be fair they've been doing it for the last 4 seasons). So, to break it down, let's start with the very ending. Red's stupid death Reddington is on his way to return the bull head that he got some episodes ago to a ranch, in Spain. On his way he encounters this bull that ends up killing him(we get to see the bull charging Red and the next scene is his dead body lying on the ground). Instead of a thrilling showdown with Ressler, we get some pointless, avoidable bull encounter. The writers were incredibly lazy, they just wanted him dead. Dembe's speech Right before Red's death, Dembe holds a speech that tried to gaslight us into accepting Red's demise as some kind of poetic thing. He goes on about how Red embraced life and death fearlessly crap, again, lazy and manipulative writing trying to make us okay with that joke of an ending. Hudson's fate Hudson and Nixon eventually caught on to Dembe being the one who tipped off Reddington about the plane. They decided to transfer him to another FBI facility for interrogation. However, things took a wild turn when Red and his crew crashed into their operation to save Dembe. In a moment of sheer madness, Hudson shot Dembe in the neck, prompting Red to retaliate by shooting Hudson dead on the spot. Red's identity Remember that tweet promising hints about Red's true identity? Well, guess what? It turned out to be a complete lie. They built up this whole mythology only to toss it aside without a second thought. We were left with nothing, no hints, no answers, absolutely NOTHING. No funeral, Just Donald and Red's dead body As if it couldn't get any worse than this, the show wraps up without ANY closure. No funeral for Red, no resolution for the characters we've been attached for the last years. Instead the final scene is Ressler calling Cooper after finding his lifeless body. The end. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 3% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 13, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics