Niels Christiansen - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Education 2 Career 3 Board posts 4 References Toggle the table of contents Niels Christiansen 4 languages العربية Dansk Français Nederlands Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Danish businessman For the footballer, see Niels Kristensen . For the rower, see Niels Kristensen (rower) . Niels B. Christiansen Born ( 1966-04-12 ) 12 April 1966 (age 59) Sonderborg , Denmark Alma mater Technical University of Denmark ( BA , MS ) INSEAD ( MBA ) Occupation Businessman Known for Former CEO of Danfoss ; CEO of Lego Title President and CEO of The Lego Group Term October 2017 – present Predecessor Bali Padda Niels B. Christiansen (born 12 April 1966) is a Danish businessman who is the current president and chief executive officer of The Lego Group . Christiansen was managing director and chief executive officer of Danfoss from October 2008 to July 2017, when he was succeeded by Kim Fausing. [ 1 ] In August 2017, Lego announced that Christiansen would take over as chief executive officer in October. [ 2 ] From January 2025, Christiansen has also been CEO of LEGO Holding. [ 3 ] Education [ edit ] As a student from Aabenraa State School, Christiansen graduated as a civil engineer from the Technical University of Denmark in 1991. He completed an MBA from INSEAD in 1993. [ 4 ] Career [ edit ] Christiansen was a Management Consultant at McKinsey from 1991 to 1995 and Vice President of Corporate Development at the Hilti Corporation from 1995 to 1997, before being employed by GN netcom. From 2000 to 2003, he was the managing director and chief executive officer of GN Netcom , and from 2003 to 2004, he was the Group Executive Vice President of GN Store Nord. [ 2 ] In 2004, Christiansen joined Danfoss, holding positions at the company such as COO (2005–2006), deputy managing director (2006–2008), and managing director and chief executive officer (2008–2017). [ 5 ] On 1 October 2017 he became the managing director and chief executive officer of the LEGO Group. On 1 January 2025 he became the chief executive officer of LEGO Holding. Board posts [ edit ] Christiansen is chairman of the Board of Demant A/S and a member of the Board of the Tetra Laval Group. [ 6 ] References [ edit ] ^ "Christiansen steps down as Danfoss CEO" . coolingpost.com . 24 March 2017. Archived from the original on 19 February 2023 . Retrieved 18 February 2023 . ^ a b "The Lego Group appoints Niels B. Christiansen as CEO" . lego.com . Archived from the original on 19 February 2023 . Retrieved 6 August 2018 . ^ "Niels B. Christiansen - About Us - LEGO.com" . www.lego.com (in Danish) . Retrieved 2025-04-11 . ^ "Niels B. Christiansen, Chair" . demant.com . Archived from the original on 2023-02-19 . Retrieved 2023-02-19 . ^ "Danfoss Group Executive Team" . www.danfoss.dk . Archived from the original on 31 July 2017 . Retrieved 6 August 2018 . ^ "The Lego Group Appoints Niels B. Christiansen as CEO" . businesswire.con . 10 August 2017. Archived from the original on 19 February 2023 . Retrieved 19 February 2023 . v t e Lego The Lego Group Kirkbi People Kristiansen family Ole Kirk Christiansen Godtfred Kirk Christiansen Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen Thomas Kirk Kristiansen Sofie Kirk Kristiansen Agnete Kirk Thinggaard Notable executives Jørgen Vig Knudstorp Bali Padda Niels Christiansen History Timeline Interlego AG v Tyco Industries Inc Kirkbi AG v Ritvik Holdings Inc Product ranges Current Architecture Art Avatar Batman BrickHeadz Brick Sketches Cars City Creator Icons Modular Buildings Despicable Me Disney Dreamzzz Duplo Dune Education Friends Gabby's Dollhouse Harry Potter Ideas Jurassic World The Lord of the Rings Mario Minecraft Minifigures Monkie Kid Ninjago Overwatch Simpsons Sonic Speed Champions Spider-Man Star Wars Super Heroes Technic Trains Discontinued 4+ Adventurers Agents Alpha Team The Angry Birds Movie Aqua Raiders Aquazone Atlantis Avatar: The Last Airbender Primo / Baby Belville Ben 10: Alien Force Bionicle Castle Dacta DC Super Hero Girls Dino DOTS Elves Exo-Force Fabuland FORMA Fusion Galidor Games Ghostbusters Hero Factory Hidden Side Homemaker Indiana Jones Jack Stone Juniors Legends of Chima The Lego Batman Movie The Lego Movie The Lego Ninjago Movie Life of George The Lone Ranger Mars Mission Mindstorms Mixels Monster Fighters Nexo Knights Ninja Pharaoh's Quest Pirates Pirates of the Caribbean Power Miners The Powerpuff Girls Prince of Persia Racers RoboRiders Rock Raiders Scooby-Doo Space Speed Racer SpongeBob SquarePants Sports Spybotics Stranger Things Studios Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Toy Story Trolls World Tour Ultra Agents Unikitty! Vidiyo Wild West World Racers Znap Other products Games Serious Play Media Films & TV series The Lego Movie franchise Lego Masters Piece by Piece Software Lego Digital Designer Lego Life List of video games Ninjago Lego Club Magazine Lego White Noise Theme parks Legoland Billund California Deutschland Dubai Florida Japan Korea Malaysia New York Sichuan Windsor Legoland Discovery Centre Boston Chicago Dallas Fort Worth Kansas City Toronto Westchester Events BrickCon BrickFair BrickFest Brickfête Brick Fiesta Brickworld FIRST Lego League FIRST Lego League Jr. Robofest In popular culture The Brick Bible " Brick Like Me " A Lego Brickumentary The Lego Story The Toys That Made Us Related companies Bandai BrickLink Epic Games Gameloft Hasbro Mattel Merlin Entertainments Spin Master Tomy TT Games Traveller's Tales WildBrain Studios Other topics BrainPop Brickfilm Clones LDraw Lego fandom Lego House LUGNET Minifigure Hilary Page Tokio Express Violence and Lego Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Niels_Christiansen&oldid=1285067785 " Categories : Danish business executives 1966 births People from Sønderborg Municipality Living people Danish chief executives Lego people Technical University of Denmark alumni INSEAD alumni Hidden categories: CS1 Danish-language sources (da) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles with hCards This page was last edited on 11 April 2025, at 13:58 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Niels Christiansen 4 languages Add topic