Bohemian Rhapsody win causes controversy, awkwardness at Golden Globes ​ Skip to content Entertainment Weekly Search Please fill out this field. Newsletters Sweepstakes Search Please fill out this field. TV TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge Binge EW's Binge Podcast Episodes The Challenge The Golden Bachelor The Masked Singer RuPaul's Drag Race Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowstone Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge 9-1-1 The Masked Singer Outlander RuPaul's Drag Race Saturday Night Live Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowjackets Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Bohemian Rhapsody win causes controversy, awkwardness at Golden Globes By James Hibberd James Hibberd James Hibberd is the former editor at large at Entertainment Weekly . He left EW in 2021. EW's editorial guidelines Published on January 7, 2019 01:10AM EST Bohemian Rhapsody surprised Hollywood by winning the top drama prize at the Golden Globes on Sunday night, but the film’s big honor quickly turned awkward and controversial. After cast and producers took the stage to accept the award for Best Motion Picture – Drama, producer Graham King notably didn’t mention the film’s director, Bryan Singer. Neither did star Rami Malek when he took home Best Actor in a Drama for his portrayal of Freddie Mercury. Alex Bailey/Fox Singer’s absence from the stage and lack of shout-outs are perhaps not surprising considering his history with the film and personal controversies. Singer was reportedly fired from Bohemian Rhapsody roughly two weeks before filming was completed amid reports of on-set turmoil yet retained his directing credit. Moreover, for years Singer has been repeatedly accused of sexual misconduct; in December 2017, he was sued by a man claiming thedirector raped him when he was 17 years old. (Singer has dismissed such reports as “false accusations and bogus lawsuits.”) Within moments of the film’s win, people on Twitter were quick to notice both the lack of mention of Singer on stage and the fact his film was honored so heavily on a night when many celebrities vocally and visibly supported the Time’s Up and #MeToo movement (see some examples of the online reaction below). Adding to the online debate was the film itself. Bohemian Rhapsody received mixed reviews from critics (even though Malek’s performance was widely praised), yetbeat out Black Panther , BlacKkKlansman , If Beale Street Could Talk and odds-on favorite A Star Is Born for the win. Backstage at the Globes, producer Graham King was asked by reporters about the Singer omission and the online backlash. “That’s not something we should talk about tonight,” King said, adding, “every single person collaborated and did [the film] out of passion [for] making this story. That was everybody.” Continued Malek, “There was only one thing we needed to do, celebrate Freddie Mercury. He is a marvel. Nothing was going to compromise us. We’re giving him the love, celebration and adulation he deserves.” Singer previously addressed his departure from the film in a statement: “ Bohemian Rhapsody is a passion project of mine. With fewer than three weeks to shoot remaining, I asked Fox for some time off so I could return to the U.S. to deal with pressing health matters concerning one of my parents. This was a very taxing experience, which ultimately took a serious toll on my own health. Unfortunately, the studio was unwilling to accommodate me and terminated my services. This was not my decision and it was beyond my control. Rumors that my unexpected departure from the film was sparked by a dispute I had with Rami Malek are not true. While, at times, we did have creative differences on set, Rami and I successfully put those differences behind us and continued to work on the film together until just prior to Thanksgiving. I wanted nothing more than to be able to finish this project and help honor the legacy of Freddie Mercury and Queen, but Fox would not permit me to do so because I needed to temporarily put my health, and the health of my loved ones, first.” Here are some of the reactions on Twitter Sunday night: UPDATE : The filmmaker reacted to his win on Instagram with a photo of directing a scene from the film while on set: “What an honor. Thank you #HollywoodForeignPress.” —Lynette Rice contributed to this report. Read more: The Awardist Golden Globes Related Articles Nikki Glaser returning to host 2026 Golden Globes as first back-to-back host in 11 years Ke Huy Quan 'teared up' when Demi Moore won her first Golden Globe: 'I know what that was like' How to watch 2025 Golden Globes — and everything else you need to know about the starry awards show Viola Davis just got even more iconic as Golden Globes name her the 2025 Cecil B. DeMille Award recipient 2025 Golden Globes winners announced: See the full list, from Best Actress surprises to Emilia Pérez domination Demi Moore shares morning after reaction to Golden Globes win: 'F--- yeah!' The most shocking snubs and surprises from the 2025 Golden Globe nominations 2025 Golden Globes nominations revealed: See the full list of nominees, from Emilia Pérez domination to Ariana Grande in Wicked The best and worst moments from the 2025 Golden Globes How to watch the 2025 Golden Globes nominations Glenn Close censored for using profanity during live Golden Globes broadcast Demi Moore's daughter shuts down speculation that mom snubbed Kylie Jenner at Golden Globes: 'Give it all a break' Nikki Glaser reveals the racy jokes cut from her Golden Globes monologue: 'We can't say that on TV' 'Mother' Michelle Yeoh and 'zaddy' Jeff Goldblum 'slay the house down boots' and embrace queer terms at Golden Globes Selena Gomez reacts to Golden Globes nominations from her couch: 'I am so grateful' Ariana DeBose reacts to teleprompter glitch live on stage at Golden Globes: 'You're welcome!' Entertainment Weekly Newsletters Follow Us TV Movies Music What To Watch Binge Celebrity The Awardist Books Theater About Us Terms of Service Subscribe Advertise Careers Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Entertainment Weekly is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies