Poll Results: Oscars 2022 — Best  Animated Feature Movie - IMDb Menu Movies Release Calendar Top 250 Movies Most Popular Movies Browse Movies by Genre Top Box Office Showtimes & Tickets Movie News India Movie Spotlight TV Shows What's on TV & Streaming Top 250 TV Shows Most Popular TV Shows Browse TV Shows by Genre TV News Watch What to Watch Latest Trailers IMDb Originals IMDb Picks IMDb Spotlight IMDb Podcasts Awards & Events Oscars Cannes Film Festival Star Wars Asian Pacific American Heritage Month Summer Watch Guide STARmeter Awards Awards Central Festival Central All Events Celebs Born Today Most Popular Celebs Celebrity News Community Help Center Contributor Zone Polls For Industry Professionals Language English (United States) Language Fully supported English (United States) Partially supported Français (Canada) Français (France) Deutsch (Deutschland) हिंदी (भारत) Italiano (Italia) Português (Brasil) Español (España) Español (México) All All Watchlist Sign In EN Fully supported English (United States) Partially supported Français (Canada) Français (France) Deutsch (Deutschland) हिंदी (भारत) Italiano (Italia) Português (Brasil) Español (España) Español (México) Use app JavaScript Required This page may not function properly without JavaScript enabled ◄ IMDb Polls Poll: Oscars 2022 — Best  Animated Feature Movie A poll by urbanemovies Which 2022 Academy Awards nominee for 'Best Animated Feature Film of the Year' do you think should win the Oscar? Get complete The Oscars (2022) coverage on IMDb's Award Central Oscars Guide. After voting, discuss the topic here or take other 2022 Oscar polls here. Results of 854 votes: 1. Encanto (2021) 314 2. Raya and the Last Dragon (2021) 162 3. The Mitchells vs. the Machines (2021) 143 4. Luca (2021) 127 5. Flee (2021) 108 Original Danish Title: Flugt Related Polls IMDb Poll Board: Favorite Netflix Movie A poll by BonaFideBOSS Here are IMDb poll board members' favorite Netflix original movies. Which of their picks do you like the most? ❖ Discuss or share your favorite Netflix movie here! The Best Movie Quotes of 2021 A poll by Master_Strange Which one is your favorite Quote from these Popular 2021 Movies? Discuss Here | The Best TV Series Quotes of 2021 Movies That Skipped Theatres A poll by pbn Here are some of the many movies that were intended for theatrical release, but were moved online in key markets. Which one would you still like to see in a theatre? Discuss here People's Choice Awards 2021 Winners A poll by brijeshmarand People's Choice Awards 2021 was held at the Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California on 7th December, 2021. Here is the list of movies and TV show winners as voted by the people. Check out the full l… IMDb Pride Month Picks: Must-See LGBTQ+ Movies and TV Shows A poll by mariojacobs Which is your favorite LGBTQ+ title? Source: IMDb Editors  Join the Discussion Here in the IMDb Poll Community Forum Most Anticipated Animated Movies of 2021 A poll by ShuvoIMDb Here are some of the major and much anticipated Animated movies that will be released in 2021. Which animated movie are you waiting for?  Discuss Here After Voting The Best Disney+ Shows and Movies A poll by mariojacobs Which is your favorite Disney+ original series or film? Source here. (updated October 2021)  Join the Discussion Here in the IMDb Poll Community Forum Artificial Intelligence Sci-Fi Movie A poll by khadafimusaad Which movie from this list is your favorite Artificial Intelligence-themed sci-fi movie? Please discuss here. Best Sci-Fi Movie of 2021 A poll by BonaFideBOSS Which of these 2021 science fiction movies is the best? Discuss here [ See more: Best of 2021 Polls ] Netflix Contenders A poll by pbn Netflix listed these movies for awards consideration at the end of 2021. Which one do you think is most deserving of awards? Discuss here after voting Disney Contenders A poll by pbn Disney Studios listed these movies for awards consideration at the end of 2021. Which one do you think is most deserving of awards? Discuss here after voting 2022 Oscar Predictions: Best Picture A poll by Dibyayan_Chakravorty Which of these films do you think is the biggest potential to win the 2022 Oscar for Best Picture? After voting, you may discuss the poll here. Favorite Animated Comedy Movie A poll by CyrilMartin Movies that have at least 50,000 votes and an IMDb rating of at least 7.5 are considered. Which among these is your favorite animated comedy movie? Discuss here Oscars 2022 —  Fan-Voted Favorite Movie A poll by urbanemovies On March 27, 2022, two new open-ended, fan-driven awards, Fan Favorite and Cheer Moment, will be awarded for the first time at the 94th Academy Awards ceremony. The new awards will hopefully increase … Annie Awards 2022 - Best Animated Feature A poll by TsarStepan Which of the following nominees best deserves to win the Best Feature award for the 2022 Annie Awards? Let's discuss the best of the major animation studios have to offer over here! Best Movie Poster of 2021 A poll by BonaFideBOSS Which of these 2021 movies posters is your favorite? ? Fullscreen Discuss here [ See more: Best of 2021 Polls ] Best Movie Villain of 2021 A poll by Paok-Kilkis Who is the best villain from a movie released in 2021? Discuss the list here! Col Needham's 9 Stars Movies A poll by mariojacobs Col Needham (born 1967) is an English entrepreneur who is the founder and CEO of IMDb.  His all-time favorite movie quote from Grand Canyon (1991): "All of life's riddles are answered in the movi… Face-Off: Sony Pictures Animation — Academy Awards A poll by mariojacobs Sony Pictures Animation is an American computer-animated movie production company. It is owned by Sony Pictures Entertainment. The company was founded in May 2002.  Which is your favorite Sony Picture… The Best Animated Sci-Fi Movie A poll by BonaFideBOSS Which of these top-rated animated sci-fi movies is the best? Discuss here IMDb Polls Follow @IMDb on Twitter Poll FAQ Share this page: How Many Have You Seen? Find out right here . Clear your history Recently Viewed Get the IMDb app Sign in for more access Sign in for more access Follow IMDb on social Get the IMDb app For Android and iOS Help Site Index IMDbPro Box Office Mojo License IMDb Data Press Room Advertising Jobs Conditions of Use Privacy Policy Your Ads Privacy Choices IMDb, an Amazon company © 1990- 2025 by IMDb.com, Inc.