How Steve Jobs Helped Guarantee Tim Cook’s Success At Apple Subscribe To Newsletters Trump Tracker Billionaires Billionaires View All Billionaires World's Billionaires Forbes 400 America's Richest Self-Made Women China's Richest India's Richest Indonesia's Richest Korea's Richest Thailand's Richest Japan's Richest Australia's Richest Taiwan's Richest Singapore's Richest Philippines' Richest Hong Kong's Richest Malaysia's Richest Money & Politics 2024 Election Innovation Innovation View All Innovation AI Big Data Cloud Cloud 100 Consumer Tech Creator Economy Cybersecurity Digital Transformation Enterprise Commerce Enterprise Security and Protection Enterprise Tech Enterprise Growth Strategy Future Of Work Gaming Healthcare Innovation Rules Retail Industry SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Science Social Media Sustainability & Climate Transportation Venture Capital Technology VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program TikTok BrandVoice | Paid Program Leadership Leadership View All Leadership C-Suite CEO Network CFO Network CHRO Network CIO Network CMO Network Leadership Strategies Careers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Education Forbes EQ | Paid Program ForbesBLK ForbesWomen Under 30 Working Remote Over 50 Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Money Money View All Money Banking & Insurance ETFs & Mutual Funds Fintech Hedge Funds & Private Equity Investing Investor Hub Markets Personal Finance Retirement Taxes Top Advisor | SHOOK Wealth Management Forbes Digital Assets Forbes Digital Assets Home Web3 Community News Crypto Prices NFT Prices Research Learn Crypto Basics BTC DeFi Web3 Education NFTs Crypto Investments Events Crypto Portfolios Business Business View All Business Aerospace & Defense Energy Food & Drink Hollywood & Entertainment Law Manufacturing Media Policy Retail SportsMoney Entertainment Digest Small Business Small Business View All Small Business Entrepreneurs Franchises Small Business Strategy Lifestyle Lifestyle View All Lifestyle Arts Boats & Planes Cars & Bikes Dining ForbesLife Forbes Travel Guide Spirits Style & Beauty Travel Vices Watches Real Estate Real Estate View All Real Estate Commercial Real Estate Forbes Global Properties Residential Real Estate Forbes Vetted Forbes Vetted View All Forbes Vetted Mattress & Sleep Bed Frames Mattresses Mattress Toppers Pillows Sheets & Bedding Sleep Products Home Bathroom Cleaning & Laundry Decor Furniture Heating & Cooling Hobbies Home Office Kitchen & Dining Outdoor Pets Storage & Organization Tools Wine & Bar Fashion Accessories Clothing Eyewear Footwear Jewelry Handbags & Purses Lingerie & Sleepwear Outdoor & Fitness Apparel Outerwear Watches Kids & Baby Gear Baby Gear Kids Clothes & Accessories Nursery Pregnancy & Postpartum Toys & Books Gear Apparel & Accessories Bikes Camping & Hiking Climbing Fishing & Hunting Fitness Golf Running Tennis & Racket Sports Tools & Tech Training & Recovery Water Sports Wellness Winter Sports Beauty & Grooming Haircare Makeup Nailcare Shaving Skincare Personal Products Wellness & Self Care Tech & Electronics Audio Cameras Computers, Tablets & Accessories Gaming Home Office Online Tools Smart Home Devices Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories Streaming TVs Travel Cruises Hotels & Lodging Luggage Travel Products Gifts Father's Day Holiday Mother's Day Valentine's Day Wedding Deals Black Friday Cyber Monday Amazon Prime Day Beauty & Grooming Big Sales Fashion Gear Home Tech & Electronics Travel Deals Mattress & Sleep Forbes 101 Advisor Advisor Best Credit Cards Of 2025 Compare Credit Cards Balance Transfer Credit Cards Cash Back Credit Cards Travel Credit Cards Business Credit Cards Mortgages & Loans Best Mortgage Lenders Today's Mortgage Rates Today's Refinance Rates Best Personal Loans Loans For Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Student Loan Lenders Best Student Loan Refinance Lenders Business Loans Banking Best Online Banks CD Rates High-Yield Savings Accounts Money Market Account Life Insurance Cheap Life Insurance No Exam Life Insurance Travel Insurance Covid-19 Travel Insurance Cheap Travel Insurance Companies Best Car Insurance Compare Car Insurance Quotes Cost Of Car Insurance Cheap Car Insurance Pet Insurance How Much Is Pet Insurance? Cheap Pet Insurance Business Services Best LLC Services Best Registered Agent Services How To Set Up An LLC How To Start A Business Cost To Start An LLC Best Payroll Services Best HR Software Best HRIS Systems Best PEO Services Best Applicant Tracking Systems Best Website Builders Best Web Hosting Services Best Domain Registrar Best Ecommerce Platform Best Landing Page Builder Best VoIP Service What Is VoIP? Best Answering Services Best Call Center Software Best Cloud Phone System Best Project Management Software Free Project Management Software Best Task Management Software Free Task Management Software Best Gantt Chart Software Best VPN Best Free VPN Best Cheap VPN Best Antivirus Software Best Password Managers Home Services Best Moving Companies Best Long Distance Moving Companies Best Car Shipping Companies Best Interstate Moving Companies How Much Do Movers Cost? Best Home Warranty Companies Cheapest Home Warranty Companies Are Home Warranties Worth It? Home Warranty Cost Best Home Appliance Insurance Best Solar Companies Best Solar Panels Cost Of Solar Panels Solar Tax Credit By State Are Solar Panels Worth It? Best Pest Control Companies Best Termite Control Companies Best Mosquito Control Companies Pest Control Cost How Much Do Exterminators Cost? Best Home Security Companies Best Home Security Systems Home Security System Cost Cheapest Home Security Systems Best Wireless Home Security Systems Best Internet Providers Cheapest Internet Plans Fastest High Speed Internet Providers Best Internet Only Plans Best Fiber Internet Providers Forbes Advisor UK Health Health Healthy Aging Best Medical Alert Systems Medicare Medicare Advantage Plans Medicare Supplement Plans Medicare Advantage By State Health Insurance Hearing Aids Best Hearing Aids Senior Living Mind Best Online Therapy Best CBD Gummies Best CBD Oil Best Protein Powders Lists Video Newsletters Newsletters Crypto Confidential Editorial Newsletters Forbes Games Forbes Games View All Forbes Games Frase by Forbes Pinpoint by LinkedIn Queens by LinkedIn Crossclimb by LinkedIn Forbes Magazine Forbes Magazine Forbes Asia Free Issue of Forbes Latest Latest Coronavirus Coverage Daily Cover Stories Dark Capital Editors' Picks Breaking News Featured Featured 2025 Best-In-State Wealth Advisors List 2025 America's Top Women Wealth Advisors AI’s Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It DNA of Success Embracing And Bracing For AI Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program Your Four-Part Blueprint To Unlock AI Value In 2025 | Paid Program Diners Club International Celebrates 75 Years | Paid Program Leadership Lessons: Small Business Playbook Potential Has No Age Summit | Paid Program Celebrating The Power Of Partnership: Why Teamwork Is Key In the Fight Against Cancer | Paid Program Protecting What Matters Most: How Gerber Life Insurance Offers Affordable Coverage For Your Whole Family | Paid Program Presented by EY - Beyond The Blueprint: How These Four CEOs Built Billion-Dollar Businesses | Paid Program 2/3 By 2030: Philip Morris International Marks A Milestone  And Aims For A Smoke-Free Future | Paid Program 2025 America's Top Wealth Advisors Forbes Insights: Your Guide To Marketing In The Era Of AI | Paid Program The Undergrad's New Journey To Real-World Ready | Paid Program Forbes Insights: Your Five-Step Strategy To Unleash AI’s Value In Marketing | Paid Program Forbes Video Series: AI 50 AI 50 List By The Numbers: Meet The Forbes 30 Under 30 Europe Class Of 2025 United To End Blood Cancer: Meet The Leaders Turning Passion Into Progress | Paid Program Advertise with Forbes Report a Security Issue Editorial Values and Standards Site Feedback Contact Us Careers at Forbes Tips Corrections Privacy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms AdChoices Reprints & Permissions © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. Subscribe To Newsletters How Steve Jobs Helped Guarantee Tim Cook’s Success At Apple By Tim Bajarin Follow Author Share Save Innovation Consumer Tech How Steve Jobs Helped Guarantee Tim Cook’s Success At Apple By Tim Bajarin , Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Tim Bajarin covers the tech industry’s impact on PC and CE markets. Follow Author Sep 02, 2021, 10:00am EDT Share Save This article is more than 3 years old. Tim Cook and Steve Jobs together at a press conference at Apple's Cupertino headquarters. (Photo by ... More Kimberly White/Corbis via Getty Images) Corbis via Getty Images Last week, Tim Cook celebrated his 10th anniversary of being Apple's CEO. He assumed this role before Steve Job's death and has done what my British friends would be called a "Bang-Up" job. The two charts below show exactly how successful Cook has been since he took over the CEO role. Apple's market cap went from $348 billion to $2.5 trillion in those ten years. And Apple's share price grew tenfold under his leadership. A decade of leadership from Tim Cook saw Apple thriving. Apple, Morningstar Apple's share price growth under Tim Cook's leadership for the last ten years. Yahoo Finance MORE FOR YOU DOGE-Trolling Ransomware Hackers Demand $1 Trillion In Chilling Attack Google Starts Scanning Your Photos—3 Billion Users Must Now Decide Google Confirms Gmail Update—How To Keep Your Email Account When Tim Cook took over as CEO, I was bombarded with media and other industry requests about Cook and was asked if I thought he could be successful. I went on record on both TV and in print saying that Tim Cook was not only the right person to take this role, but that I was extremely bullish about his success potential. I was certain of this because I had strong knowledge of Job’s role of preparing Cook for the CEO position. I got a lot of negative feedback for my viewpoint, and those who remember this time saw a lot of negative commentary about Cook that neither he nor anybody else could replace Steve Jobs. On that last point, I agreed with this view. Jobs was a very unique person whose vision and "gut feel" about what consumers would want well before they knew what they needed was unparalleled. In that sense he was one-of-a-kind. However, his actual management skills, especially in the early 1980s, and even when he was at NeXT, were often called into question. During Jobs' first stint at Apple, before he was forced to leave the company in 1985, I had a few interesting encounters with him and his management style. One particular one that stood out happened in the early days of Apple management crafting their Desktop Publishing strategy. Jobs, and then CEO, John Sculley, knew of my research on this topic. They asked me to come and meet with them to go over a new marketing focus on which they wanted my feedback. As we were going through the new marketing material, a manager with direct reports to Jobs knocked on the door and interrupted our meeting. Jobs let him in and he told Jobs about some idea or issue for which he sought Jobs' feedback. Jobs had been known for his outbursts at employees, and suffice it to say, I saw one of these confrontations in person. Using expletives, Jobs told the manager, in no uncertain terms, that he "did not know what he was talking about." He chastised this guy in a very loud manner. Jobs' lack of management skills was a big part of why Apple's board forced him out, although there were other issues that caused this rift. History shows that removing Jobs at that time, was the right decision. When he started NeXT, his management style was still confrontational. However, towards the end when it became clear that his vision for NeXT would not be successful, his management style calmed down significantly. A few friends who worked for NeXT until its demise have told me that in a way, Jobs' was humbled by this defeat, and believed he learned some serious life lessons he would need in his second career at Apple. When Jobs came back to Apple as iCEO or interim CEO as he called it in 1997, I met with him on his second day in charge of his old company. We talked about what he would do to save Apple, which included going back and taking care of their core customers as well as putting a big emphasis on industrial design. I had interacted directly with Jobs since 1982, but the 1997 Jobs was very different compared to the one I knew when he was last at Apple. He clearly had matured and had a much calmer demeanor. He seemed to be more focused. I remember walking away from that meeting shaking my head and questioning who was the guy I just met with at Apple HQ. He was 100% different than the last time he and I had met in person in 1988. It turned out that one of the life lessons Jobs learned while he was in his wilderness period at NeXT and the years between the closing of NeXT and going back to Apple, was the importance of mentoring and preparing his management team to be less dependent on him. While at Apple in the early days, he micromanaged just about everything related to running the company. However, when he returned to Apple, he was more willing to delegate responsibility, and more importantly, learned to rely on and trust his top managers. One particular manager he leaned on was Tim Cook. He had come to Apple from IBM and was a no-nonsense, get-things-done type of person. When Jobs came back to Apple in 1997 he found Apple's supply chain in total disarray. He tasked Tim Cook to clean up their supply chain and by 2001, Apple had a world-class manufacturing operation and supply chain. There were other top managers he began to trust, like Phil Schiller, who became head of WW Marketing, but it was Cook who impressed him the most. We now know that even by the time Jobs was diagnosed with cancer in 2003, he had begun a more intense process of mentoring Mr. Cook. And we know now that he saw him as his successor. While Jobs lived for another eight years, he spent countless hours with Cook, and other lieutenants mentoring and tutoring them during those years. In hindsight, we now know he was preparing them for a time when he would not be there to guide them. One other thing you might not know about Apple is that all Apple management hires go through a very intense onboarding process when they come to Apple. Apple is very unique and has its own culture. If a new management person does not learn about Apple's culture and how they operate, they would fail miserably. That onboarding process has become legendary and is why so many people at Apple are still lifers. This is why I was so confident that when Tim Cook took over as CEO, that he would be successful. He spent years learning Jobs' thought process and the way he would go about making decisions when he came back to Apple in 1997. Tim Cook is by no means a "Mini-Me" of Jobs. He is his own man and highly trained thinker and manager. However, he developed this level of leadership under Jobs' tutelage. His decisions on driving Apple forward are clearly his own. Jobs prepared him for the role and was willing to entrust Apple's future to him, without any hesitations. Jobs' 10-year process of preparing a successor at Apple is why its sales and price share are soaring. Tim Cook continues to carry on Jobs' overall vision for Apple and I still expect him to excel in this role for years to come. Follow me on Twitter . Check out my website . Editorial Standards Forbes Accolades LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Digital Terms of Sale Terms of Service Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Reprints & Permissions Forbes Press Room Advertise