The Last Of Us Season 2 Release Schedule - When Do Episodes Air? Search About Men's Health My Bookmarks MVP Exclusives Shop Health Fitness Workouts Weight Loss Entertainment Sex and Relationships Life Technology and Gear Style Nutrition Grooming Men's Health Awards Video Newsletter Follow Promotions Subscribe Other Editions Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content Fitness Health Gear Grooming Training Lab Subscribe sign in Search Best Beard Trimmers Best Chinos Deadlift vs. Squat Marvel Movie Ranking Best Walking Workouts Entertainment What to Watch on Max The Last Of Us Brings Pedro Pascal and Bella Ramsey Back for 7 Episodes of Post-Apocalyptic Drama The Last Of Us Brings Pedro Pascal and Bella Ramsey Back for 7 Episodes of Post-Apocalyptic Drama HBO's post-apocalyptic hit pushes the action into the future—and you won't want to miss a single episode. By Evan Romano Published: Apr 28, 2025 1:44 PM EDT Save Article Our product picks are editor-tested, expert-approved. We may earn a commission through links on our site. Why Trust Us? HBO CURRENTLY HAS everyone who broadly "likes TV" in a grip. Seriously! How else do you define going right from the culturally dominant force that was The White Lotus season 3 into the much-awaited second season of The Last of Us , which was, oh, that's right—just its own culturally dominant force when its first season debuted back in 2023? Season 2 of The Last of Us, which comes from co-creators Craig Mazin and Neil Druckmann and finds stars Pedro Pascal and Bella Ramsey returning, picks up right where season 1 left off—briefly. We see the aftermath of (spoiler!) Joel's massacre of the fireflies after he refused to go along with their plan to create a cure by sacrificing Ellie , which allows us to meet Abby (Kaitlyn Dever), the daughter of the doctor who was going to perform the procedure on Ellie, and who Joel murdered. Abby is seeking revenge—and that's all we get before the show jumps five years into the future. And to the future we go. Joel and Ellie, both now half a decade older, are hardly what we would refer to as thriving, but are at least a part of a functional community in Jackson, Wyoming (the same one we met Tommy in during episode 6 of season 1 ). There are new characters, including a therapist for Joel (played by Catherine O'Hara) and a couple friends for Ellie (played by Isabela Merced and Young Mazino ). And, of course, there are Cordyceps-infected mushroom zombies; They're just kept at arms length, held away by a good system the people of Jackson have developed. The start of The Last of Us season 2 is focused more on these kids of interpersonal problems; Ellie is dealing mostly with the people her age, while Joel is wondering why his surrogate daughter keeps pushing him away. But as the season goes along, the tension is sure to rise. Not only is the constant threat of mushroom zombies lurking, but we know that Abby and her contingent are out there looking for revenge—and sooner or later, they're going to catch up. It's that constant tension, combined with the way that The Last of Us develops its characters, that makes season 2 continue to be a terrific watch. You won't want to miss an episode, and, if you keep reading and know when everything comes out, you won't have to. Watch The Last of Us season 2 Here HBO When is the next episode of The Last of Us season 2 coming out? Episodes of The Last of Us air on HBO on Sunday nights at 9:00 EST, and are available to stream on Max at the same time. The next episode will release on Sunday, May 4. How many episodes of The Last of Us season 2 are left? Season 2 of The Last of Us will run for seven episodes, shorter than the first season's total of nine. That means there's four episodes—and four more weeks of post-apocalyptic zombie drama—remaining in season 2 of The Last of Us. Here's the complete release schedule for HBO's The Last of Us season 2 Episode 1, "Future Days" - Now streaming as of April 13 Episode 2, " Through the Valley " - Now streaming as of April 20 Episode 3, " The Path " - Now streaming as of April 27 Episode 4, " TBA " - Streaming on May 4 Episode 5, " TBA " - Streaming on May 11 Episode 6, " TBA " - Streaming on May 18 Episode 7, " TBA " - Streaming on May 25 Related Stories The Jacket Joel Wears in 'The Last of Us' Is Back 'The Last of Us' Almost Had a Different Ending How HBO Changes ‘The Last of Us’ From the Game Evan Romano Evan is the culture editor for Men's Health, with bylines in The New York Times, MTV News, Brooklyn Magazine, and VICE. He loves weird movies, watches too much TV, and listens to music more often than he doesn't. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below What to Watch on Max The Story of the Coffee Beans in ‘The Last of Us' Did That Really Happen on The Last of Us ? One ‘Last of Us’ Mystery Isn’t Even in the Game Why ‘The Last of Us’ Put Joel In Therapy Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 10 Walton Goggins Shows and Movies to Watch Next That Wild 'White Lotus' Season 3 Ending, Explained Every Character on 'The White Lotus,' Ranked ‘The White Lotus’ Is Coming Back for Season 4 You Need To Be Watching ‘The White Lotus’ Season 3 A Legendary Actor Enters ‘The White Lotus’ How Patrick Schwarzenegger Shocked ‘White Lotus’ ‘The White Lotus’ Gets Real Gross (Again) Advertisement - Continue Reading Below About Men's Health Newsletter Customer Care E-prints, Reprints Advertise Subscribe Give a Gift Manage Email Preferences Other Hearst Subscriptions Media Kit MVP Membership Perks MVP Training Lab A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads