Shape of Water Oscars rewind: How it won Best Picture - GoldDerby Skip to content ACM Awards 2025 American Music Awards 2025 Emmy Awards Nominations 2025 Grammy Nominations 2026 Tony Awards Nominations 2025 Entertainer of the Year Morgan Wallen 14/1 ▲ Female Artist Lainey Wilson 7/1 ▲ Male Artist Morgan Wallen 17/2 ▲ Duo Brothers Osborne 8/1 ▲ Group Old Dominion 14/5 ▲ New Female Artist Ella Langley 14/5 ▲ New Male Artist Shaboozey 7/1 ▲ New Duo or Group The Red Clay Strays 9/2 ▲ Album of the Year Lainey Wilson (Whirlwind) 7/1 ▲ Single of the Year Shaboozey (A Bar Song [Tipsy]) 10/1 ▲ Song of the Year Ella Langley feat. Riley Green (You Look Like You Love Me) 8/1 ▲ Visual Media Lainey Wilson (4x4xU) 17/2 ▲ Musical Event Ella Langley feat. Riley Green (You Look Like You Love Me) 9/1 ▲ LOG IN | REGISTER Make Your Predictions Go MAKE YOUR PREDICTIONS LOG IN | REGISTER Go Predictions Combined Experts Editors Users Movies TV Reality TV Music Theater Videos Newsletters Forums Popular Movies Music TV Reality TV ✖ Predictions Emmy Predictions by Experts Emmy Predictions by Editors Emmy Predictions by Top 24 Users Tony Predictions by Experts Tony Predictions by Editors Tony Predictions by Top 24 Users Grammy Predictions by Editors Grammy Predictions by Top 24 Users Odds & Rankings Emmy Odds Tony Odds Grammy Odds Charts & Graphs Box Office Odds Reality Reality News & Recaps Reality Photo Galleries American Idol Predictions Survivor Predictions Forums Television Movies Reality Music General Discussion Theater Daytime TV Games Leaderboards Best Prediction Scores: All Best Prediction Scores: Recent Best Prediction Scores: Reality Leaderboards: All Points Predictions: Compare Accuracy Rates Official Contest Rules Videos 'Awards Magnet' Podcast 'Reality Derby' Podcast 2025 Meet the Experts Panels: Roundtable Q&As 2025 Oscar Contenders: Exclusive Interviews 2025 Emmy Contenders: Exclusive Interviews More Photo Galleries The 'Gold Star' Seal How Voting Works How to Make Predictions Sign Up for our FREE Newsletters Search Members Trivia Quizzes Make Your Predictions Oscars rewind: How Guillermo del Toro’s ‘The Shape of Water’ won Best Picture Jeffrey Kare @JeffreyKare Film December 14, 2022 1:00PM Fox Searchlight After having its world premiere at the 2017 Venice International Film Festival, Guillermo del Toro 's " The Shape of Water " was awarded the coveted Golden Lion. From that moment on experts penciled it into their predictions as a front-runner going into the Oscars. Although at that stage in the race, there was still quite a long road ahead. Now that del Toro's new animated film " Pinocchio " has made its Netflix streaming debut, let's take a look back at how his "Shape of Water" Oscars windfall took shape. SEE Eddie Redmayne (‘The Good Nurse’): ‘From an actor’s point of view, this is one of those dream roles’ [Exclusive Video Interview] Set during the Cold War in 1960s Baltimore, "The Shape of Water" follows Elisa Esposito ( Sally Hawkins ), a lonely mute woman who works as a janitor in an underground research facility. She eventually meets and is intrigued by a mysterious amphibious man ( Doug Jones ) who is being held captive there, and the two of them develop a close bond that leads her to try to rescue him. Early on in the season "The Shape of Water" earned Best Picture nominations from various critics groups, prevailing in Dallas-Fort Worth, St. Louis, and the Alliance of Women Film Journalists. Going into the Golden Globe Awards, the movie had seven nominations overall. It was expected to win three accolades, including Best Film Drama. The other two were Best Film Director (del Toro) and Best Score ( Alexandre Desplat ), both of which it indeed prevailed in. However, Martin McDonagh 's crime drama "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" overperformed that night. It not only won Best Film Drama Actress for Frances McDormand (which was expected), it also won Best Film Supporting Actor for Sam Rockwell (over Willem Dafoe for "The Florida Project"), Best Film Screenplay for McDonagh (over Greta Gerwig for "Lady Bird"), and Best Film Drama. Four days later, though, the Critics Choice Film Awards took place and "The Shape of Water" won four times: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Score, and Best Production Design. Nine days after that it won the Producers Guild of America Award. Suddenly, the race was on for the Oscar. SEE 2022 IDA Documentary Awards: ‘All That Breathes’ wins 3 including Best Feature When Oscar nominations were announced, "The Shape of Water" led with 13 bids overall, including all the key categories that are usually required to win Best Picture (directing, acting, screenplay, and editing). "Three Billboards" also did well by receiving seven noms. Although one important category it was notably snubbed in was Best Director for McDonagh. It was especially shocking given that he was nominated for directing at each of the four major precursors: Golden Globes, Critics Choice, DGA, and BAFTA. Up to that point, only four films had managed to win Best Picture without a directing nomination: 1927's "Wings," 1932's "Grand Hotel," 1989's "Driving Miss Daisy," and 2012's "Argo." You'd think that would give "The Shape of Water" a leg up over "Three Billboards." However, despite the former not missing any important categories at all on nomination morning, it had not received a Screen Actors Guild nomination for best ensemble cast. At the time, that was concerning because no film since "Braveheart" back in 1995 had managed to win the Academy Award for Best Picture without a SAG ensemble bid. It was especially worth taking into account since in the previous two years the predicted frontrunners going into Oscar night, "The Revenant" and "La La Land," notably weren't recognized for their ensembles at SAG, and both were upset for Best Picture by SAG winner "Spotlight" and SAG nominee "Moonlight," respectively. And there was a third Oscar contender some were thinking was a possible dark horse for the win: Jordan Peele 's psychological horror film "Get Out." Despite being released the weekend before the previous Oscars, it was not only a huge box office hit, but also stayed in the conversation all year long due to its social commentary on race relations in America. It was consistently nominated for Best Picture precursors by critic and industry groups. And "Get Out" managed to receive four Oscar nominations, all of which were in major above-the-line categories: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor ( Daniel Kaluuya ), and Best Original Screenplay. SEE Oscar winners vying for TV Golden Globes: Kevin Costner, Jessica Chastain, Hilary Swank … However, each of the three aforementioned contenders had disadvantages. In addition to "Three Billboards" getting snubbed for Best Director, it was also plagued with controversy over how it handled its racial themes . With "Get Out," one important bid it didn’t receive on Oscar nomination morning was Best Film Editing. "Birdman" managed to overcome that hurdle just three years earlier, but before that you'd have to go back to 1980 when "Ordinary People" won without an editing bid. Plus, "Get Out" was a horror movie, a genre that typically isn't in the academy's wheelhouse. And in addition to "The Shape of Water" not receiving a SAG ensemble nomination, some were questioning whether it was going to be seen as “too weird” by older academy members as the story involves a woman falling in love with a fish man. Going into Oscar night, the consensus of Gold Derby users settled on "Three Billboards" because of the momentum it had at that point in the race with wins from the Golden Globes , SAG Awards, and BAFTAs . Meanwhile, Guillermo del Toro pretty much had Best Director locked up after having swept the season. As the presentation of the awards commenced, no one film seemed to dominate. "Blade Runner 2049" won Best Visual Effects and Best Cinematography. "Call Me By Your Name" won Best Adapted Screenplay. "Darkest Hour" won Best Makeup and Hairstyling and Best Actor for Gary Oldman . "Dunkirk" won Best Sound Editing, Best Sound Mixing, and Best Film Editing. "I, Tonya" won Best Supporting Actress for Allison Janney . "Phantom Thread" won Best Costume Design for Mark Bridges (who also won a jet ski for giving the shortest acceptance speech). SEE Golden Globe nominations: Who’s up and who’s down in the Oscar race? Then for Best Original Screenplay, "Get Out" beat "Three Billboards," so things weren't looking good for the latter; the last film to have won Best Picture without a corresponding win for directing or writing was "Chicago" back in 2002. So the winner was still anybody's guess. At the end of the night, Faye Dunaway and Warren Beatty reunited on stage to present Best Picture just one year after their infamous mishap with that category when Dunaway mistakenly announced "La La Land" as the winner before it was revealed that it was actually "Moonlight." As the clip montage of the nine nominees played, audiences watching both at the Dolby Theatre and from their homes were on the edge of their seats. "Get Out" had only won Best Original Screenplay up to that point. "The Shape of Water" had won Best Director, Best Production Design, and Best Original Score. "Three Billboards" had won Best Actress and Best Supporting Actor. When the montage was over, Beatty finally said, "And the Oscar goes to ... 'The Shape of Water.'" In the end, of the three top-tier contenders with an important nomination missing, the one with nothing missing from the academy prevailed. While "The Shape of Water" didn't receive a SAG ensemble bid, perhaps it was in sixth place given the ensemble nature of the movie. Plus, it at least still had two individual acting noms there for Sally Hawkins and Richard Jenkins . We’ve seen in subsequent years that if your film isn’t nominated for best ensemble, but is still recognized in other categories at SAG, then that shouldn’t be too detrimental to your chances of winning the Oscar for Best Picture. Just ask "Green Book" and "Nomadland." PREDICT the 2023 Oscar nominees through January 24 Make your predictions at Gold Derby now. Download our free and easy app for Apple/iPhone devices or Android (Google Play) to compete against legions of other fans plus our experts and editors for best prediction accuracy scores. See our latest prediction champs . Can you top our esteemed leaderboards next? Always remember to keep your predictions updated because they impact our latest racetrack odds, which terrify Hollywood chiefs and stars. Don't miss the fun. Speak up and share your huffy opinions in our famous forums where 5,000 showbiz leaders lurk every day to track latest awards buzz. Everybody wants to know: What do you think? Who do you predict and why? Oscar odds for Best Picture Who will win? Guillermo del Toro movies: All 12 films ranked from worst to best +7 More 2 thoughts on “Oscars rewind: How Guillermo del Toro’s ‘The Shape of Water’ won Best Picture” Adrian Khoo says: December 14, 2022 at 3:29 pm Everything, Everywhere All At Once would capture the glorious days of Ben Hur PLUS itvwoulf win the SAG Ensemble. Reply steven marcus says: December 14, 2022 at 6:46 pm I hope no one watching The Good Nurse and or Capturing the Killer Nurse sees them as anything but films “based” on real life, since they have so many deletions and misstatements of facts to render them poor historically.  I happen to know this for a fact, I was the person who actually called and reported the cases at Somerset Medical Center! Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ More News from GoldDerby Emmy Experts Slugfest: New Episodes Weekly Awards Magnet hosts Christopher Rosen and Joyce Eng are here to discuss the big twist on The Last of Us and what it’ll mean for the Emmys. Also, is the momentum for The Pitt going to carry it to a bunch of nominations? Click the photo above to watch the video. Watch Our Chats with 2025 Emmy Contenders Watch our chats with Kristen Bell ( Nobody Wants This ) and many more 2025 Emmy contenders… Javier Bardem ( Monsters ) Adam Brody ( Nobody Wants This ) Nicola Coughlan ( Bridgerton ) Ted Danson ( A Man on the Inside ) Brett Goldstein ( Shrinking ) Stephen Graham, Owen Cooper ( Adolescence ) Sarah Catherine Hook ( The White Lotus ) Stephanie Koenig ( English Teacher ) Jack Lowden ( Slow Horses ) Diego Luna ( La Maquina ) James Marsden ( Paradise ) Margo Martindale ( The Sticky ) Rose McIver ( Ghosts ) Cristin Milioti ( The Penguin ) Olivia Munn (Your Friends and Neighbors) Sarah Polly (The Studio) Natalie Portman ( Lady in the Lake ) Jason Segel (Shrinking) Rufus Sewell ( The Diplomat ) Michael Urie ( Shrinking ) Jessica Williams ( Shrinking ) Michelle Williams ( Dying for Sex ) Our Users' Best Prediction Scores TV Shows Awards Season Scores Recent Week Scores ACE Eddie Awards 2025 Username Accuracy % Points Won 1. Zach Laws 77.78 6955 2. Kevin_Schwaller 77.78 5532 3. BBravo 77.78 5532 See more Oscars 2025 Username Accuracy % Points Won 1. Coldover 86.96 73055 2. Bsrbara 86.96 54265 3. Dinoix 86.96 42664 See more SAG Awards 2025 Username Accuracy % Points Won 1. Voyage 93.33 6161 2. LLLhawks 86.67 10780 3. Madley 86.67 9279 See more MPSE Golden Reel Awards 2025 Username Accuracy % Points Won 1. Pete 75.00 19861 2. Rafaeltxeira 66.67 11563 3. Mark Johnson 66.67 7526 See more See All TV Shows Leaderboards Make or update my predictions Our Users' Best Prediction Scores TV Shows Awards Season Scores Recent Week Scores ACE Eddie Awards 2025 Username Accuracy % Points Won 1. Zach Laws 77.78 6955 2. Kevin_Schwaller 77.78 5532 3. BBravo 77.78 5532 See more Oscars 2025 Username Accuracy % Points Won 1. Coldover 86.96 73055 2. Bsrbara 86.96 54265 3. Dinoix 86.96 42664 See more SAG Awards 2025 Username Accuracy % Points Won 1. Voyage 93.33 6161 2. LLLhawks 86.67 10780 3. Madley 86.67 9279 See more MPSE Golden Reel Awards 2025 Username Accuracy % Points Won 1. Pete 75.00 19861 2. Rafaeltxeira 66.67 11563 3. Mark Johnson 66.67 7526 See more See All TV Shows Leaderboards Make or update my predictions Most Popular Topics 2025 Emmy Awards Drama Categories (Part 12) Started by Chris Beachum 4 weeks ago 2025 Emmy Awards Drama Categories (Part 14) Started by Chris Beachum 1 week ago 2026 Grammy Predictions (Part 4) Started by Chris Beachum 1 month ago 2026 Grammy Predictions (Part 5) Started by Chris Beachum 2 weeks ago 2025 Emmy Awards Drama Categories (Part 13) Started by Chris Beachum 3 weeks ago Oscars Playback Take a trip back to the Academy Awards ceremonies of the recent past with Gold Derby’s Oscars Playback series. Hosts Joyce Eng and Christopher Rosen recap every Oscar ceremony of the 1990s and 2000s. Joyce and Chris tackle the highs and lows of each show and see how the winners aged. It’s a wonderful night for Oscar, whenever you watch! About Us Advertise Newsletter Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights AdChoices EU Privacy Preferences Contact Us Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Deadline variety.com IndieWire TV Line BGR WWD Footwearnews Gold Derby is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Gold Derby Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Deadline Media ad