Splatoon 2 - Inkipedia, the Splatoon wiki Anonymous Not logged in Create account Log in Search Splatoon 2 From Inkipedia, the Splatoon wiki Namespaces Page Discussion More More Languages Page actions Read View source History Purge cache Splatoon 2 ​ Splatoon 2 North American box art Developer(s) Nintendo EPD Publisher(s) Nintendo Producer(s) Hisashi Nogami Director(s) Yusuke Amano Seita Inoue Shintaro Sato Platform(s) Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch 2 [1] Release Worldwide: 21 July 2017 TW : 1 December 2017 [2] KR : 2 May 2019 [3] JP , HK & TW: 8 October 2021 (with DLC) Genre(s) Third-person shooter Mode(s) Single-player , multiplayer Media Game card Digital download (Nintendo eShop) Game size(s) 6.1 GB (standalone) 8.1 GB (with DLC) Age rating(s) JP: All Ages by CERO DE : 6+ by USK PT : 6+ by PEGI RU : 6+ by RARS EU : 7+ by PEGI NA : Everyone 10+ by ESRB AU : Parental Guidance by ACB StrategyWiki has an article about: Splatoon 2 Splatoon 2 is a third-person shooter developed and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo Switch console, and the sequel to the Wii U game Splatoon . The game builds further on the ink-based shooting mechanics introduced in Splatoon , with the general gameplay being identical, but adds new content including new weapons , stages , and a new horde mode named Salmon Run . The game was first teased on 20 October 2016 during the reveal trailer for the Nintendo Switch and released worldwide on 21 July 2017 . [4] A physical version of the game with its Octo Expansion DLC built in was released in Japan, [5] Hong Kong, [6] and Taiwan [7] on 8 October 2021 . The game proved to be massively successful, selling over 2.5 times as many units as Splatoon (13.6 million [8] vs. 4.95 million) [9] and going on to become approximately the eighteenth-best-selling Nintendo Switch title. Splatoon 2 was nominated for the "Best Family Game" and "Best Multiplayer" awards at The Game Awards 2017 , but lost to Super Mario Odyssey and PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds respectively. Splatoon 2 's sequel, named Splatoon 3 , was announced for the Nintendo Switch on 17 February 2021 . It released on 9 September 2022 . Contents 1 Development 2 Story 2.1 Base game 2.2 Octo Expansion DLC 3 Gameplay 4 Characters 4.1 Protagonists 4.2 Secondary 4.3 Antagonists 5 Modes 6 Stages 6.1 Shifty Station 7 Weapons 8 Changes and additions 8.1 Mode changes 8.2 New ranked mode 8.3 New main weapons 8.3.1 Shooters 8.3.2 Rollers 8.3.3 Chargers 8.3.4 Sloshers 8.3.5 Splatlings 8.3.6 Dualies (New) 8.3.7 Brellas (New) 8.4 New sub weapons 8.5 New special weapons 9 Gallery 10 Trivia 11 Names in other languages 12 See also 13 References 14 External links Development Although teased with the reveal of the Switch console, Nintendo did not officially confirm this or any other game showcased in the video as being in development at the time. [10] [11] The title was officially unveiled on 13 January 2017 at the Nintendo Switch Presentation in Tokyo, Japan [12] and a demo was playable at Switch hands-on events. The Splatoon 2 Global Testfire demo was playable from 24 to 26 March 2017 . [13] There are three versions of the game: Japanese, North American/Oceanian, and European. The purpose of the three versions is to separate region-based content such as Splatfests , especially ones containing advertisements. Previously, Oceania received the European version of the first Splatoon before receiving the North American version of this game. Each version has its own translations of the game, even with slight differences between the North American/Oceanian and European versions' English, French, and Spanish translations. For the European version, the game was also localized to Dutch, German, Italian, and Russian. Story Base game The events of the story mode take place two years after the completion of the first game's Octo Valley mode, while Cap'n Cuttlefish is on vacation with Agent 3 . Callie and the Great Zapfish have disappeared and Marie recruits the player, designated Agent 4 , to storm Octo Canyon to search for them. The Squid Sisters Stories mention the snow globe DJ Octavio was imprisoned in is shattered and Cap'n Cuttlefish's shack is smashed. This mode is set in Octo Canyon, a place similar to Octo Valley from the first game. Octo Expansion DLC Main article: Octo Expansion The events of the Octo Expansion story mode take place at the same time as the base game's story does. The Octo Expansion is the 'vacation' Agent 3 and Cap'n Cuttlefish are on, which is referenced within the base game's single-player campaign. When Cap'n Cuttlefish and Agent 3 were in Octo Valley , Agent 3 battled against an Octoling that somehow led to both the Octoling and Cap'n Cuttlefish being captured and taken deep underground to an abandoned station in the Deepsea Metro , ran by the Kamabo Corporation . With the Octoling having lost their memory, they are nicknamed ' Agent 8 ' and team up with Cap'n Cuttlefish to ride the Deepsea Metro and escape the facility, along the way collecting mem cakes , which are physical manifestations of Agent 8's lost memories. Agent 8 and Cap'n Cuttlefish meet mysterious and shady characters such as the Telephone , C.Q. Cumber , Iso Padre and familiar faces such as Pearl , Marina , and Agent 3 . Gameplay Like its prequel, Splatoon 2 is a third-person shooter game focused on online multiplayer battles, in which eight players are divided into two teams of four. Players have two main forms and may switch between the two at will: their humanoid form, in which they can use weapons to spread ink and splatter opponents, and their squid form, which they can use to swim through ink at great speed and up walls, recharge the player's ink tank faster (while in their ink) and hide in their team's ink. Players can also utilize sub weapons , such as Splat Bombs , and special weapons , such as Splashdowns . In the primary game mode, Turf War , players are awarded points based on the amount of turf (ground) they cover in their team's ink— the team that covers the most territory within three minutes wins the match. Characters Main article: Character Protagonists Inklings Octolings Agent 4 Agent 8 Secondary Off the Hook Pearl Marina Squid Sisters Callie Marie Judd and Li'l Judd Murch Sheldon Flow and Craymond Jelfonzo Bisk Crusty Sean Mr. Grizz Cap'n Cuttlefish Agent 3 C.Q. Cumber Iso Padre Antagonists Octarians Salmonids DJ Octavio Commander Tartar Modes Main article: Mode Octo Canyon Regular Battle Turf War Salmon Run Ranked Battle Splat Zones Tower Control Rainmaker Clam Blitz Splatfest Battle League Battle Private Battle Octo Expansion (DLC) Stages Main article: Stage A total of twenty-three stages are normally playable in Splatoon 2 . Of these stages, fourteen are brand new, while the other nine are returning from Splatoon . Multiplayer stages in Splatoon 2 The Reef Musselforge Fitness Starfish Mainstage Humpback Pump Track Inkblot Art Academy Sturgeon Shipyard Moray Towers Port Mackerel Manta Maria Kelp Dome Snapper Canal Blackbelly Skatepark MakoMart Walleye Warehouse Shellendorf Institute Arowana Mall Goby Arena Piranha Pit Camp Triggerfish Wahoo World New Albacore Hotel Ancho-V Games Skipper Pavilion Shifty Station Shifty Station During Splatfests , a special stage called Shifty Station would be added to the rotation. The layout of this stage changed each Splatfest, and each layout was eventually made available in Private Battles with separate names. These stages are only available in private Turf War battles. Shifty Station Wayslide Cool The Secret of S.P.L.A.T. Goosponge Windmill House on the Pearlie Fancy Spew Zone of Glass Cannon Fire Pearl The Bunker Games Grapplink Girl Zappy Longshocking A Swiftly Tilting Balance Sweet Valley Tentacles The Switches The Bouncey Twins Railway Chillin' Gusher Towns The Maze Dasher Flooders in the Attic The Splat in our Zones The Ink is Spreading Bridge to Tentaswitchia The Chronicles of Rolonium Furler in the Ashes MC.Princess Diaries Weapons Main article: Weapon List of main weapons in Splatoon 2 List of sub weapon sets in Splatoon 2 List of special weapon sets in Splatoon 2 Changes and additions Splatoon 2 features both new and revamped stages , weapons (such as the Splat Dualies ), special weapons (such as the Splashdown and Inkjet ), and gear items, as well as additional character customization in the form of hairstyles and legwear. The game also allows for local multiplayer with up to eight people. Certain elements of the Heads-Up Display have also been revamped, showing the weapons each player has and whether their Special Weapons are ready to be used. Judd is accompanied by a new cat with a smaller, younger and near-identical appearance to Judd's, named Li'l Judd . After update version 2.0.0 the max level will be 99 (instead of 50 in the original game). After the player talks to Judd after reaching level 99 the player will have the option to restart at level ★1 and continue leveling up. In addition to the new level cap after the update, players will be able to change their gear without having to leave the match room. Mode changes All ranked modes from the original Splatoon returned in Splatoon 2 . All three have been changed in at least one way. The Rainmaker shoots large blaster-like exploding shots instead of a large ink tornado. Splat Zones has a new HUD UI that shows how much of the zone is captured. Tower Control now has checkpoints where the tower stops for approximately 5 seconds. Salmon Run is a new co-op mode, in which players collect Power Eggs and Golden Eggs by defeating Salmonids to complete missions. League Battle is a new online mode replacing Squad Battle , in which teams of two or four battle other teams to gain points in two hours. Private Battles are now available for Local Multiplayer, and a new feature called LAN Play allows docked Switches to play Private Battles on a LAN without an Internet connection. [14] A spectating mode called Spectator View has been added for Private Battles only. New ranked mode On 13 December 2017 in the 2.1.0 patch, the first brand-new mode for Splatoon 2 was introduced. The mode Clam Blitz was added to the Ranked Battle stage schedule, alongside Splat Zones, Rainmaker, and Tower Control. The objective of Clam Blitz is to pick up clams, which are scattered around the stage, and deposit them into the goal near the opposing team's base. The team who scores 100 points by depositing clams, or has the most points scored when the timer runs out, wins the match. New main weapons Shooters Kensa Splattershot Jr. Kensa Splattershot Kensa .52 Gal Kensa Splattershot Pro Kensa Luna Blaster Hero Blaster Replica Clash Blaster Clash Blaster Neo Kensa Rapid Blaster Grizzco Blaster Kensa L-3 Nozzlenose Squeezer Foil Squeezer Rollers Kensa Splat Roller Kensa Dynamo Roller Flingza Roller Foil Flingza Roller Kensa Octobrush Herobrush Replica Chargers Firefin Splat Charger Kensa Charger Firefin Splatterscope Kensa Splatterscope E-liter 4K Custom E-liter 4K E-liter 4K Scope Custom E-liter 4K Scope Goo Tuber Custom Goo Tuber Grizzco Charger Sloshers Hero Slosher Replica Kensa Sloshing Machine Bloblobber Bloblobber Deco Explosher Custom Explosher Grizzco Slosher Splatlings Kensa Mini Splatling Hero Splatling Replica Ballpoint Splatling Ballpoint Splatling Nouveau Nautilus 47 Nautilus 79 Dualies (New) Dapple Dualies Dapple Dualies Nouveau Clear Dapple Dualies Splat Dualies Enperry Splat Dualies Kensa Splat Dualies Hero Dualie Replicas Glooga Dualies Glooga Dualies Deco Kensa Glooga Dualies Dualie Squelchers Custom Dualie Squelchers Dark Tetra Dualies Light Tetra Dualies Brellas (New) Splat Brella Sorella Brella Hero Brella Replica Tenta Brella Tenta Sorella Brella Tenta Camo Brella Undercover Brella Undercover Sorella Brella Kensa Undercover Brella Grizzco Brella New sub weapons Curling Bomb Autobomb Toxic Mist Fizzy Bomb Torpedo New special weapons Baller Splat-Bomb Launcher Booyah Bomb Bubble Blower Ink Armor Ink Storm Inkjet Splashdown Sting Ray Tenta Missiles Ultra Stamp Gallery ➤ View the gallery Trivia From 5 July 2017 to 17 July 2017 , Nintendo of Denmark held a competition with fifteen winners of the prize of four tickets to LEGOLAND valid through the 2017 season. The contestants had to mail in the right answer to the question: "Which colorful shooting-game releases on the 21st July [the same year] for the Nintendo Switch?" and write "Sommerkonkurrence" (summer competition) as the topic to [email protected] . Three options were given: Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo Switch , Pokkén Tournament DX , or Splatoon 2 . The right answer was Splatoon 2 . The competition was concluded on the 17th and the winners were contacted through mail. [15] Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo Switch (which later turned out to be Super Smash Bros. Ultimate ) did not exist at the time of this contest and Pokkén Tournament DX was released on 22 September 2017 . In Hong Kong, both the Japanese and North American/Oceanian versions are offered in the country's eShop. [16] Ratings were also given out to both versions in South Korea, [17] but only the North American/Oceanian version was released, physically and digitally. The signature ink color set of this game is similar to one of the Turf War color sets in Splatoon , as well as the Squid Sisters ' color scheme. Names in other languages Language Name Meaning Japanese スプラトゥーン2 supuratūn 2 Splatoon 2 Chinese 斯普拉遁2 [18] Sī pǔ lā dùn 2 Splatoon 2 See also Splatoon 2 credits References ↑ Nintendo Switch Game Compatibility with Nintendo Switch 2 - Nintendo US ↑ Announcement of Nintendo Switch launch in Taiwan ↑ Announcement of Splatoon 2 's official release in South Korea ↑ Nintendo Direct - 4.12.2017 ↑ @Nintendo on Twitter ↑ Nintendo of Hong Kong - Nintendo Switch專用遊戲軟體最新資訊公開！ 多款支援中文作品預定發售！ ↑ Nintendo of Taiwan - Nintendo Switch專用遊戲軟體最新資訊公開！ 多款支援中文作品預定發售！ ↑ 2023 CESA Games White Papers (Computer Entertainment Supplier's Association JP, 2023) ↑ IR Information: Financial Data - Top Selling Title Sales Units - Wii U Software ↑ First Look at Nintendo Switch ↑ Nintendo fans pick apart Switch reveal video | Eurogamer.net ↑ Splatoon 2 - Nintendo Switch Presentation 2017 Trailer ↑ Splatoon 2 boxart, screenshots, fact sheet | Nintendo Everything ↑ Live from Squid Research Lab ↑ Sommerkonkurrence! | Nintendo.dk ↑ Nintendo Hong Kong eShop Price Announcement ↑ GAME RATING and ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE - Search results for "스플래툰" ↑ Report 5 External links External links: Official Japanese Splatoon 2 Website Official American English Splatoon 2 website Official European English Splatoon 2 website Official Australian Splatoon 2 website Nintendo Switch Presentation 2017 Trailer Launch Trailer Games in the Splatoon series Games Splatoon • Splatoon 2 • Splatoon 3 Paid DLC Splatoon 2: Octo Expansion • Splatoon 3: Expansion Pass ( Wave 1: Inkopolis • Wave 2: Side Order ) Retrieved from " https://splatoonwiki.org/w/index.php?title=Splatoon_2&oldid=667238 " Categories : Games Splatoon 2 Navigation Navigation Main page Recent changes Random page Random file Policy Help Splatoon Games Manga Merchandise Explore Abilities Brands Characters Events Gear Modes Music Stages Weapons Community How can I help? Staff Current projects Ink Pump Proposals Discord Strategy Wiki tools Wiki tools Special pages Cargo data Page tools Page tools User page tools More What links here Related changes Printable version Permanent link Page information Page logs Other projects In other languages Español Français Categories Categories Games Splatoon 2 This page was last edited on 25 April 2025, at 21:33. Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 unless otherwise noted. Privacy policy About Inkipedia Disclaimers