Longmenshan Fault - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Morphology 2 References 3 External links Toggle the table of contents Longmenshan Fault 3 languages 日本語 Norsk bokmål 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 30°N 105°E ﻿ / ﻿ 30°N 105°E ﻿ / 30; 105 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Seismic fault in China A USGS map of the Sichuan earthquake zone showing dozens of aftershocks within the Longmen Shan mountain region. Tectonic map of the Tibetan Plateau showing the main structures Longmenshan Fault Chinese 龙门山断层 Transcriptions Standard Mandarin Hanyu Pinyin Lóngménshān Duàncéng Wade–Giles Lúngménshān Tuànts'éng The Longmenshan Fault ( Chinese : 龙门山断层 ) is a thrust fault which runs along the base of the Longmen Mountains in Sichuan province in southwestern China .  The strike of the fault plane is approximately NE. [ 1 ] Motion on this fault is responsible for the uplift of the mountains relative to the lowlands of the Sichuan Basin to the east. Representing the eastern boundary of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau , it is a border formation between the Bayan Kola block in the Plateau and the South China block in the Eurasian plate . The 2008 Wenchuan , 2013 Lushan and 2022 Ya'an earthquakes occurred along this fault. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] A study by the China Earthquake Administration (CEA) states: [ 2 ] "The late-Cenozoic deformations in this fault ( that caused the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake ) are concentrated in the Guanxian - Jiangyou fracture (hill-front fracture), Yingxiu - Beichuan fracture (mid-fracture), Wenchuan - Mao County fracture (hill-back fracture), and their related folds.  The recent M s 8.0 earthquake occurred on the Yingxiu-Beichuan fracture, as a result of Longmenshan thrust pushing southeastward combined with clockwise shears. [ 4 ] Since Holocene (10,000), Yingxiu-Beichuan fracture has had evident activities.  Its long-term geological slip rate is slower than 1 mm per year.  GPS observations confirm the current structural deformation of the Longmenshan formation to be characterized by thrust and right-handed shears, but with a low deformation rate.  Therefore, Longmenshan formation and its internal fractures constitute a special type that has low earthquake frequences but the potential to cause super strong earthquakes. [ 5 ] " Morphology [ edit ] The American Geophysical Union publication Tectonics describes the 5 km high escarpment thus: "In the Longmen Shan region, however, the topographic margin of the Tibetan Plateau is one of the world's most remarkable continental escarpments. Elevations rise from circa 600 m in the southern Sichuan Basin to peaks exceeding 6500 m over a horizontal distance of less than 50 km. Regional topographic gradients typically exceed 10% along this mountain front and rival any other margin of the plateau." [ 6 ] References [ edit ] ^ Dong Jia, Dong; Wei, Guoqi; Chen, Zhuxin; Li, Benliang; Zeng, Qing; Yang, Guang; et al. (September 2006). "Longmen Shan fold-thrust be ilt and its relation to the western Sichuan Basin in central China: New insights from hydrocarbon exploration" . AAPG Bulletin . 90 (9): 1425– 1447. doi : 10.1306/03230605076 . ^ a b "汶川8.0級地震成因分析 (Cause Analysis of the M8.0 Wenchuan earthquake)" (in Chinese). China Earthquake Administration. 2008-05-30 . Retrieved 2008-09-07 . {{ cite web }} :  CS1 maint: url-status ( link ) ^ Wang, Amber (1 June 2022). "Four dead as twin quakes shake Chinese city, epicentre of deadly 2013 shock" . South China Morning Post . Retrieved 2 June 2022 . ^ Chinese : 晚新生代的構造變形主要集中在灌縣-江油斷裂（前山斷裂）、映秀-北川斷裂（中央斷裂）和汶川-茂縣（後山斷裂）及其相關褶皺之上，這次8級強震發生在映秀-北川斷裂之上，是龍門山逆衝推覆體向東南方向推擠並伴隨順時針剪切共同作用的結果 ^ Chinese : 映秀-北川斷裂全新世（10000年）以來具有明顯的活動性，其長期地質滑動速率小於每年1毫米。GPS觀測表明龍門山構造帶的現今構造變形也是以逆衝和右旋剪切為特徵，但變形速度不大。因而，龍門山構造帶及其內部斷裂屬於地震活動頻度低但具有發生超強地震的潛在危險的特殊斷裂。 ^ E. Kirby, P. W. Reiners, M. A. Krol, K. X. Whipple, K. V. Hodges, K. A. Farley, W. Tang, and Z. Chen, Eric (2002). "Late Cenozoic evolution of the eastern margin of the Tibetan Plateau" . Tectonics . 21 (1): 1–1–1–20. Bibcode : 2002Tecto..21.1001K . CiteSeerX 10.1.1.468.3531 . doi : 10.1029/2000TC001246 . S2CID 2593411 . {{ cite journal }} :  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list ( link ) External links [ edit ] Map of faults in SW China – MIT University of Arizona Simplified geologic map of the Longmen Shan region of the eastern margin of the Tibetan Plateau. China Virtual Museum of Earthquakes, map charting the Five Seismic Belts in China 30°N 105°E ﻿ / ﻿ 30°N 105°E ﻿ / 30; 105 v t e Tectonic plates of East and North Asia ( Eurasian plate - Pacific plate Convergence Zone) Large Amur plate Okhotsk plate Philippine Sea plate Yangtze plate Small Mariana plate Okinawa plate Philippine Mobile Belt Faults and rift zones Aomori Bay West Coast Fault Zone Baikal Rift Zone Haiyuan Fault Fukozu Fault Futagawa-Hinagu fault zone Idosawa Fault Itoigawa-Shizuoka Tectonic Line Izu–Bonin–Mariana Arc Japan Median Tectonic Line Longmenshan Fault Neodani Fault Nojima Fault Northeastern Japan Arc Philippine Fault System Senya Fault Tanna Fault Ulakhan Fault Urasoko fault Trenches and troughs Kuril Trench Mariana Trench Japan Eastern margin of the Sea of Japan Izu–Ogasawara Trench Japan Trench Nankai Trough Okinawa Trough Ryukyu Trench Sagami Trough Suruga Trough Philippines Manila Trench Philippine Trench Others Boso triple junction Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Longmenshan_Fault&oldid=1280832769 " Categories : Geology of China Seismic faults of Asia Geography of Sichuan Cenozoic China Hidden categories: CS1 maint: url-status CS1 Chinese-language sources (zh) Articles containing simplified Chinese-language text CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles containing Chinese-language text Coordinates on Wikidata This page was last edited on 16 March 2025, at 18:40 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Longmenshan Fault 3 languages Add topic