Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/marvelstudios A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to marvelstudios r/marvelstudios r/marvelstudios This subreddit is dedicated to discussing Marvel Studios' films and series and anything else related to the MCU. Members Online • LeGrandAmiral Joss Whedon's Avengers films were "better" than The Russo Brothers' Avengers Films Hello there, I think that the Joss Whedon's take on the Avengers films were better than The Russo Brothers'. Here are the main reasons why I think that Joss Whedon may have been a "better" Avengers films director: The films are more RELATABLE to the real world. Even in a universe filled with superheroes, aliens, robots, etc., Whedon's films were better at convincing the audience that the movie took place in the world we live in. Authority figures such as the police or medical workers are present in the films. EXAMPLES: (I) At the beginning of The Avengers, we can see that SHIELD is working with NASA to study the Tesseract. Personnel and their families were asked to evacuated when the Tesseract became unstable. (II) Regular people dining at a Café and visiting a Bank were included in the Battle of New York (III) NATO was mentioned in Avengers: Age of Ultron (AOU). 2. Most actions that take place in the films have major CONSEQUENCES and carry emotional weight. Minor characters to major leads suffer from injuries and casualties, showing that the characters are really at war, which emphasizes on the vulnerability of the characters (superpowered or otherwise) and the threat of the villain's plan. EXAMPLES: (I) Nick Fury and Maria Hill discuss about "trapped men" and casualties after the SHIELD facility collapses. (II) Phil Coulson was killed during his duty onboard the Helicarrier (III) Quicksilver dies from gunfire while trying to shield a civilian from harm. 3. The SETTING of major battles and fight scenes. In Whedon's films, many major battles take place in Urbanized areas filled with many civilians. The Russos' films mostly have battles take place at large and Isolated sites. I think that Whedon's use of cityscapes add an extra layer of realism and excitement to the films. EXAMPLES: Battle of New York vs. Sanctum Sanctorum Battle Both take place in New York, but in Whedon's you get to see civilians being killed or injured in the middle of the fight (This is further elaborated in the news broadcasts at the end of the film). The NYPD and army were deployed to counter the threat. The World Security Council decides to launch a missile to end the war. In the Russos', we only the heroes and villains fight each other in Manhattan. No mentions from officials about the Black Order's attack on the city. Battle of Sokovia vs. Avengers Headquarters Battle. Sokovia: Many civilians  were injured or killed. The Sokovian police were present to defend the city-state.  SHIELD arrives to rescue the survivors. Avengers Headquarters: Only the Avengers and their allies and Thanoa and his army were present at the scene. No mentions of what happened after the battle. Everything that happened was seen in the perspective of the heroes. There are many other reasons to support my opinion but these are the main reasons why I think that Whedon's perspective of the Avengers may be better than The Russo Brothers'. Nevertherless, I think that the Russo Brothers still did an amazing  job with the MCU dims that they directed. What do you think? Which director(s) do you prefer and why? Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of November 21, 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of November 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2019 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics