Fuleco - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Creation and design 2 Controversy 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Fuleco 25 languages العربية বাংলা Català Deutsch Español فارسی Français Galego 한국어 Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Nederlands Norsk bokmål Polski Português Română Русский کوردی Suomi ไทย Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 粵語 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Fictional character Fuleco Official artwork First appearance 2014 FIFA World Cup In-universe information Species Brazilian three-banded armadillo Nationality Brazilian Fuleco ( Portuguese: [fuˈlɛku] ) was the official mascot of the 2014 FIFA World Cup , hosted in Brazil . Fuleco is a Brazilian three-banded armadillo , a species of armadillo which is native to Brazil and categorized as a vulnerable species on the IUCN Red List . Fuleco was officially launched as part of Brazilian broadcaster TV Globo 's weekly Fantástico entertainment show on 25 November 2012. His name is a portmanteau of the Portuguese words fu tebo l ("football") and eco logia ("ecology"). The mascot, with his message of environmental concerns, ecology and sport, turned out to be very popular with football teams around the world. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] [ 6 ] Creation and design [ edit ] Fuleco's birthday coincides with New Year's Day . [ 5 ] He is a Brazilian three-banded armadillo , which is an endangered species , and plays a major part in the environmental drive. Over 90% of Brazilians believe Brazil 2014 should be environmentally friendly . [ 1 ] The name Fuleco was chosen over the names Amijubi ( Amizade – "Friendship" and Júbilo – "Joy") and Zuzeco ( Azul – "Blue" and Ecologia – "Ecology") by more than 1.7 million football fans. Fuleco won with 48% of the vote. [ 7 ] The final mascot design was chosen after FIFA and the Local Organizing Committee had analyzed 47 different proposals created by six different Brazilian agencies. The designs were further analyzed through extensive research carried out amongst its primary target audience, Brazilian children between the ages of five and twelve, with the favourite being the armadillo, created by 100%Design. [ 2 ] Fuleco is seen as a cheerful and appealing personality. Independent research carried out on behalf of FIFA stated that 89% of Brazilians questioned said they had seen the mascot, and it gained favourable scores as a likeable character. [ 1 ] Controversy [ edit ] Brazilian protestors demonstrating against the World Cup portray Fuleco as a symbol of greed. Environmental group the Caatinga Association, an organization whose campaigning helped FIFA choose the armadillo as its mascot, claimed that FIFA has not given any money to support the endangered species. [ 8 ] FIFA acknowledged that it does not have any connection with organisations attempting to help the species despite expecting to make profits from selling merchandise based on their mascot. [ 8 ] See also [ edit ] Environmental issues in Brazil FIFA World Cup mascots Wildlife of Brazil Vinicius and Tom References [ edit ] ^ a b c Fuleco wins name game FIFA.com. Retrieved 12 January 2013 ^ a b Armadillo alert: Official Mascot introduced to the world FIFA.com. Retrieved 12 January 2013 ^ Armadillo a big hit with the kids FIFA.com. Retrieved 12 January 2013 ^ Excitement surrounds Armadillo visit to Mineirão FIFA.com. Retrieved 12 January 2013 ^ a b Fuleco establishing himself as a Brazilian football great FIFA.com. Retrieved 12 January 2013 ^ Fuleco é escolhido como nome da mascote da Copa de 2014 Uol Copa 2014 ( In Portuguese ). Retrieved 12 January 2012 ^ Fuleco establishing himself as a Brazilian football great FIFA.com. Retrieved 12 January 2012 ^ a b Payne, Marissa (7 July 2014). "Environmental conservationists call FIFA out for misusing its 'Fuleco' armadillo mascot" . The Washington Post . Retrieved 10 July 2014 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Fuleco . FIFA's official webpage on Fuleco Preceded by Zakumi FIFA World Cup mascot Fuleco FIFA 2014 Succeeded by Zabivaka v t e 2014 FIFA World Cup Stages Group stage Group A Group B Group C Group D Group E Group F Group G Group H Knockout stage Brazil v Germany Final General information Qualification Awards Bids Broadcasting rights Controversies Marketing Matches Officials Opening ceremony Preparations Seeding Squads Venues Official symbols 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil (video game) Adidas Brazuca (ball) Caxirola (musical instrument) Fuleco (mascot) One Love, One Rhythm (album) We Are One (Ole Ola) (song) v t e 2014 FIFA World Cup finalists Champions Germany Runners-up Argentina Third place Netherlands Fourth place Brazil Quarter-finals Belgium Colombia Costa Rica France Round of 16 Algeria Chile Greece Mexico Nigeria Switzerland United States Uruguay Group stage Australia Bosnia and Herzegovina Cameroon Croatia Ecuador England Ghana Honduras Iran Italy Ivory Coast Japan Portugal Russia South Korea Spain Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fuleco&oldid=1278503057 " Categories : 2014 FIFA World Cup Fictional armadillos Anthropomorphic mammals Brazilian mascots FIFA World Cup mascots Mascots introduced in 2014 Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Pages with Portuguese IPA Commons category link from Wikidata This page was last edited on 2 March 2025, at 21:29 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Fuleco 25 languages Add topic