LEGO Foundation CEO steps down Learning Through Play Why Play Play unlocks essential skills Play boosts wellbeing for life Play is for everyone, everywhere Let's Play Stories Research About Us The LEGO Foundation Governance, leadership, and policies Our courses Get in touch Join our team Translate Search October 2022 LEGO Foundation CEO steps down For the past years, the activity level in the LEGO Foundation has increased significantly as the Foundation has set an ambition to reach 75 million children by 2032. Together, the Board of Directors and CEO Anne-Birgitte Albrectsen have decided on a strategy for how to deliver on this ambition over the coming years. However, over the past months, the Board of Directors and Anne-Birgitte Albrectsen have found that there are fundamentally different views on how the organization should be led in the next phase. Consequently Anne-Birgitte Albrectsen will be leaving the LEGO Foundation. The LEGO Foundation Board of Directors is committed to providing the continuity needed for the LEGO Foundation to deliver on its important strategy and mission. Thomas Kirk Kristiansen, Chairman of the LEGO Foundation, comments: “Anne-Birgitte Albrectsen has brought significant global development and humanitarian experience to the LEGO Foundation. She has emphasized diversity and inclusion in the Foundation and for of all children, so they may develop and learn successfully in and out of school environments. Her experience in both government and non-government organizations has been an important element in elevating the capacity of the Foundation to execute strong programs and significantly increase its grant making capability. Today, the LEGO Foundation is recognized as one of the largest private donors in education and there is an ambition to reach even more children in the future. The Board of Directors have together with Anne-Birgitte Albrectsen decided on a strategy to deliver on this ambition. However, in the past months the Board of Directors and Anne-Birgitte Albrectsen have found there are fundamentally different views on how the organization should be led in the next phase. Consequently, Anne-Birgitte Albrectsen is leaving the LEGO Foundation.” Anne-Birgitte Albrectsen will be leaving the Foundation effective today. A process will be initiated to find a successor for the role as CEO of the LEGO Foundation. The Board of Directors will provide temporary leadership of the Foundation until the successor is announced. Why Play? Let's Play How We Play About Us The LEGO Foundation Højmarksvej 8 7190 Billund Cvr. nr.: 12458339 LEGO, the LEGO logo and LEGO DUPLO are trademarks of the LEGO Group. ©2025 The LEGO Group Cookie Policy Privacy Policy