Lego's CEO on the business case for play Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Watch Live Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Lego's CEO on the business case for play 25 July 2024 Share Save Adrienne Murray Share Save BBC/ Klawe Rzeczy As digital innovation reshapes the toy market, the BBC's Executive Lounge meets with Lego's Chief Executive, Niels B Christiansen, to discuss why playing around is good for children, adults and business. Inside Lego's factory in Billund, Denmark, rows of moulding machines churn out tiny plastic pieces as robots shuttle around the shop floor. There are cupped hands, pairs of green legs, small black wheels and colourful flower petals. In all, thousands of different shape and colour combinations, that designers repurpose in new and inventive ways to make the latest play sets. Tens of billions of these bricks and bobs will be produced this year. The name 'LEGO' is an abbreviation of the Danish words leg godt meaning "play well" and at its heart is the iconic brick, a basic interlocking building block which remains practically unchanged since it was first patented in 1958 . Today the company says it produces more than 15,900 different types of bricks. After bumper sales during the Covid-19 pandemic, the $109bn (£84bn) global toy market is facing new headwinds, such as competition with video games , squeezed consumer spending , and falling birth rates worldwide . Niels B Christiansen joined Lego as CEO in 2017, of what was already the world's largest toymaker, and has continued the firm's ascent, out-selling Japanese video game conglomerate Bandai Namco, and major American toy and entertainment corporations Hasbro and Mattel. Even as the global toy market stalled last year, Lego bucked the trend, growing its revenue to almost $8bn (£6bn). He's been steering the firm's digital expansion, while maintaining its strength in physical play. The toymaker's highest reach, is in the US and European markets, but the firm has pushed into China, where it now has over 500 stores, as well as the Middle East and Asia Pacific. Now it's also set its sights on India. "It's where we're not that well known, but hopefully 10 or 20 years from now, that's very different," says Christiansen. But as it expands, Lego also faces an ever-growing challenge – what to do about its environmental impact. Research by environmental scientists at the University of Plymouth in the UK, for example, estimates that Lego blocks can take between 100-1,300 years to break down in the ocean . Plastic Lego pieces lost at sea from a cargo ship in 1997 also continue to wash up on beaches in the UK more than two decades later. "It's something that is important for our consumers," says Christiansen. "I get a lot of letters from kids asking, 'What can you do? Can you make the bricks out of something that is more sustainable?'." EXECUTIVE LOUNGE The BBC's series features interviews with executive leaders making innovative, data-driven decisions helping shape the future of business – and paving the path for other leaders to thrive. Read more conversations here . Lego has been wrestling with how to tackle the problem for some time and in 2021 began experimenting with a prototype brick made from recycled plastic bottles . But in 2023 it axed plans for its recycled polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bricks – something it had hoped would allow it to reduce reliance on fossil-fuels – after discovering they didn't reduce carbon emissions . The company has also experimented with using bioplastics, and has been producing some softer components using that material, but says it is unsuitable for its iconic, hard bricks. "We're not trying to get away from plastic," says Christiansen. "We definitely believe plastic is a fantastic material and it allows 20, 40 and 60 years of durability." But a growing body of research is indicating that pollution caused by long-lasting plastics, which break down into small microplastics rather degrading away, are infiltrating almost every ecosystem on Earth. There is now increasing concern about the impact this is having on environmental and human health . Christiansen says Lego has been investing in new materials and hopes to replace many of its products with oil-free alternatives. "This year, we aim to have a significant part of our products made with a good chunk of material coming from non-fossil bases," he says. "It's going to be a journey, but by 2032, we'll get there." There is a reason why Lego wants durability in its products. They get played with hard, and by people of all ages. Among the top-sellers are homegrown themes like Lego City and Ninjago, and collaborations like Star Wars and Harry Potter. "Half of what we do are our own IPs [intellectual property]," Christiansen explains, while the other half are brands licensed from other companies." The Lego Group The Lego Campus (Credit: The Lego Group) The company has also successfully courted grownups, with its "18+" range of model buildings and flowers, tapping into a wider so-called " kidult " trend, which Frederique Tutt, an analyst at consumer behaviour market research firm Circana, tells the BBC is driven by nostalgia, fandom and the mindfulness trend. Lego has, however, evolved far beyond bricks and mini-figures, releasing a string of movies, TV shows, video games and mobile apps. Looking ahead the biggest growth opportunities are in "digital play", particularly gaming. "That's where kids spend time and where they find interest," Christiansen says, adding that he believes Lego is "uniquely positioned" to offer a new kind of "hybrid play". Lego produces its own video games and has partnered the hugely popular platforms Minecraft, Roblox and Fortnite. Meanwhile a raft of on-screen superheroes with blocky bodies and iconic oval heads are the result of tie-ups with Marvel and DC. A Focus Features film out this October illustrates the life story of American singer and producer Pharrell Williams in animated Lego . Research indicates that children experience psychological and developmental benefits through play , however adults benefit too, and that also applies to our workplaces, where research shows that being playful can boost creativity, improve teamwork and reduce absenteeism, Still headquartered in the small town of Billund, it was founded as a family-owned business ninety years back, and Lego's vast campus reflects its playfulwork culture. With asymmetric architecture, a sweeping yellow staircase, meeting spaces around a campfire crafted from Lego bricks and even a mini-golf course on the roof, Lego's offices rival the likes of Google. The thinking here was about creating a fun workplace to "wow and inspire", where staff are encouraged by office literature to see the world through "the eyes of a child". Many adults build with their families, and it's a way to engage with kids. But there are also adults building for themselves – Niels B Christiansen Below, Niels B Christiansen tells the BBC about how the market for play is evolving and how playfulness itself can be a tool for better leadership and workplaces. How has a product as simple as Lego endured for so many decades? The basic "system in play", as we call it, this modular system with different bricks, allows you to create anything you can imagine. We keep evolving it and now we have 750 products, and half of the products are new every year. So, yes, the platform may be there for a long time, but what you can do with it, and the models we have, are very different and super relevant today. You ' ve said that the toy market is the most downbeat in many years. Why is it so challenging right now? I think that was the truth for last year, and that was a bit of a correction year for the toy industry , which had seen quite a boost during the pandemic times . We've seen the toy market growing, but less than the digital side of the "play" market , and that is probably how it's going to be going forwards. The Lego Group has been fortunate to grow faster than the market ; we're actually doing quite well on both the physical and the digital side. We live in an increasingly digital world. How are you adapting your products to deal with that? It is about bridging. We know kids really like to play physically and parents would really like their kids to do that . And we know that playing in the physical world allows you to acquire competencies or capabilities that will really serve you for life; around creativity, social well-being, social connections and problem solving . Of course, we also want to be where kids are, and be relevant to them. We know that kids are on screen, and we are uniquely positioned to bridge that gap. We call it hybrid play. We can be in video games, but we can relate that to the real world. We can even have physical versions of the play you do digitally, and the other way around. Do you still regard your main competitors to be traditional toymakers? Or is it now businesses in the digital and entertainment spheres? If I was to really dial down, it's actually a competition for children's time and attention. And that can be both on the physical and digital side. Kids do not really think about, "Oh now I'm playing digitally", "Oh now I ' m playing physically". They can seamlessly jump between the two, and I think it's important that we think the same way. We won't do something on the digital side that is totally detached from the physical side. We'll actually try to make that seamless with, of course, a lot of emphasis on the physical element. We've had the same family owners for 90 years. The values and the intentions of getting Lego play to kids, is just the same. Even in our boardroom, there are Lego bricks on the table – Niels B Christiansen One area that you say you've seen grow is adult play-sets. Who are these consumers? I don't think we can characterise them as being one type. We've always had AFOLs, or "Adult Fans of Lego". Probably historically , it's been weighted towards male consumers. But that's changing. A lot of women are now building Lego sets. Many adults build with their families, and it's a way to engage with kids. But there are also adults building for themselves. I think it's the process of building, creating and getting together that's really attractive in a world where things are happening so very fast. Are there aspects of play that you bring into your leadership style? Our leadership model, we call the leadership playground, because we also believe that play is important in leadership, and we've actually modelled it after kids. There are elements of how kids behave that are really beneficial for leadership. We've distilled it into being focused; you can see your kid sitting down on the floor being really focused on building a Lego model. Also being curious about what could be done differently and asking all the questions to get wiser. And then being brave , because learning is about being brave and getting better. Now, we also really play, and that revolves around our Lego campus. It's a very playful environment. I think it's important if you want to create these fantastic play experiences. It must be part of us to also allow play and have that as part of who we are. If we didn't do that, we couldn't serve kids in the right way. Even in our boardroom, there are Lego bricks on the table, so people will be building throughout. Every year we allow every employee two days fully paid when they actually go out and play. So, we have many initiatives that foster play. The Lego Group Looking down at The Lego House (Credit: The Lego Group) What tangible benefits do you see from bringing play into the workplace? If you walk around here, it is not the most corporate environment, because that's not who we are. I think it's super important that as a company, the values and the atmosphere reflects what we're doing, so in that sense, the [benefits are the] type of people we attract, and the creativity that we want to see. We do have a very good retention rate. You cannot keep this engine going without tapping into very creative people or skillful people. Play boosts creativity. But does it also boost productivity? Or can it sometimes be a distraction? In any business, you want to have a bit of both. If you go into one of our factories you can see how we deal with immense complexity, very efficiently. However we probably lean a little bit on the creative side, because that's who we are, and that is a real competence. If our portfolio was boring, I mean, the 50% new products that come every year, if the kids don't like those, then we're in trouble. So, if you're not creative, you can forget about being productive. This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity. -- If you liked this story, sign up for The Essential List newsletter – a handpicked selection of features, videos and can't-miss news, delivered to your inbox twice a week. Executive lounge Features Watch Lilly Sabri talks after two year silence on social media The fitness influencer went silent after a story about her fiancee allegedly cheating went viral. 2 hrs ago World of Business Highly unlikely for tariffs to be ratcheted up, expert says David Waddell says markets have sniffed out that there are reasons to be less pessimistic in this environment. 3 hrs ago Opening Bell Week in Markets - 25 Apr 2025 A weekly summary of the big stories from financial markets around the world. 3 hrs ago World of Business Exploring the desert secrets of a lost Nabataean world An art critic uncovers mysteries from this ancient culture within Saudi Arabia's sandy landscape. 10 hrs ago Culture & Experiences The tech that can help you pick better perfumes Can AI help this BBC reporter simplify her perfume choices? 1 day ago Tech Now Watch rare Gobi bear's reaction to finding water So rare they were thought to be a myth and undertake arduous journeys of up to 100 miles to find water. 2 days ago Natural wonders The spectacle of a great Pelican feeding bonanza The dam at Marsh Lake, Minnesota, has created an unexpected opportunity for pelicans. 3 days ago Natural wonders The ancient history of Iceland's warring Viking families The Travel Show visits an immersive experience that brings to life a brutal battle between Iceland's Vikings. 4 days ago Adventures Yannick Nézet-Séguin: From child podigy to modern maestro The renowned conductor and music director of the Met Opera reveals how a calling became his lifelong journey. 4 days ago Arts in Motion Explore the tiny biodegradable pacemaker for newborns Researchers have created a pacemaker smaller than a grain of rice that does not require open surgery to implant. 7 days ago Innovation Why you might be younger than you think you are There is a difference between our chronological and biological age, which we have the power to control. 16 Apr 2025 Health Decoded Malaysian trade minister on US tariffs Malaysia's minister Zafrul Aziz will be representing the ASEAN bloc in its negotiations with the US. 16 Apr 2025 World of Business Ten striking images of an Earth scarred by humans From a shipwrecking yard in Bangladesh to a river of iron dioxide in Canada, a deep dive in Ed Burtynsky's work. 16 Apr 2025 Earth Up-close with giant river otters as they learn how to fish It takes three years for an otter cub to master the complexities of a successful hunt. 15 Apr 2025 World of wonder A historic look at the iconic VW campervan The Travel Show sets off on a journey to celebrate an instantly recognisable travel icon, the VW campervan. 14 Apr 2025 Adventures Week in Markets - 11 Apr 2025 A weekly summary of the big stories from financial markets around the world. 11 Apr 2025 World of Business Inside one of the world's most remote restaurants 'Off-Map Destination' winner Wolfgat offers a menu made from hyper-local and foraged ingredients. 11 Apr 2025 World's Table 'Economic uncertainty will lower investment' - 11 Apr 2025 Tech sector venture capitalist says the global economic uncertainty will mean less investment for private equity. 11 Apr 2025 Opening Bell The bitcoin miners in rural Zambia Tech Now visits Zambia to see how Bitcoin is helping to provide villagers with electricity. 11 Apr 2025 Tech Now 'One to one' with John Lennon and Yoko Ono BBC's Tom Brook explores never-before-seen footage and shares his personal connection with the new documentary. 10 Apr 2025 Film & TV More 7 hrs ago Inside the fortress that inspired Hamlet As Radiohead and the RSC launch an innovative reinterpretation of Hamlet, a visit to the play's setting in Denmark brings a new dimension to the tragedy. 7 hrs ago Travel 8 hrs ago The 10 best films of 2025 so far BBC film critics Caryn James and Nicholas Barber pick their cinema highlights of the year so far, from a brutal war epic to an ambitious period vampire drama. 8 hrs ago Culture 9 hrs ago The photo that captures Covid's terrible toll In April 2020, Indonesian photographer Joshua Irwandi captured one of the most chilling and poignant images of Covid-19's toll. 9 hrs ago Future 1 day ago The eight Asian sauces to keep in your pantry From Korea's doenjang and gochujang to Hong Kong's XO sauce and East Asia's fish sauce, Asian cuisines provide hundreds of ways to flavour and season dishes. 1 day ago Travel 1 day ago The masterpiece full of coded messages about WW1 Esoteric and pioneering, the paintings of a lesser-known Pre-Raphaelite, Evelyn De Morgan, explored the trauma and meaning of war – and prefigured current fantasy art. 1 day ago Culture British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.