2030 World Cup: ‘Right time’ for Morocco’s sixth bid - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Athletics Cycling More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Olympic Sports Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Winter Sports Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Sport Africa 2030 World Cup: ‘Right time’ for Morocco’s sixth bid Published 21 March 2023 Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Morocco became the first African nation to reach the semi-finals of a World Cup before going out to France in Qatar last year Morocco's sports minister has said he is "confident" now is the "right time" for the country to launch a sixth attempt to host football's men's World Cup. The North African nation have joined Spain and Portugal in a joint bid for 2030 , replacing Ukraine who have been forced to pull out due to the ongoing war with Russia. "It's a natural bid - Spain, Portugal and Morocco have close ties," Chakib Benmoussa told BBC Sport Africa in the Rwandan capital, Kigali, where Morocco's part in the bid was announced last week at World Cup organisers Fifa's annual congress . "[Spain and Portugal] have invested a lot in infrastructure and in developing football and we think the bid has a lot of chance." Morocco joining its two European neighbours makes this the first confirmed transcontinental bid in World Cup history. "Geographically, distances are closer than other groups where we are and which will organise the World Cup in future," Benmoussa explained. "We are confident that it will be the right time." South Africa is the only African nation ever to win the right to host a World Cup, holding the 2010 edition after beating, among others, Morocco and Egypt in the bidding process. "I think it is a unique proposal," South Africa Football Association president Danny Jordaan, the man who led organisation of the 2010 tournament, told BBC Sport Africa. "Portugal and Spain are members of Uefa and Morocco is a member of the Caf, so it brings together for the first time in the history of world football two continental bodies." "We want to wish Morocco well, and of course Portugal and Spain will give them a significant boost." Image source, Fifa Image caption, Morocco's failed bid for the 2026 World Cup would have included 14 stadiums across these 12 cities Moroccans confident Morocco's failed bids have all come in the last 30 years, having previously put their hat in the ring to host World Cups in 1994, 1998, 2006, 2010 and 2026. But this is a first joint bid, something which is raising hopes inside the country itself, according to Moroccan football journalist Amine El Amri. "People are generally really confident compared to the other bids in the past," he said, pointing to the expansion of the competition due to take place in 2026 when the USA, Canada and Mexico will also join forces as part of a tri-nation bid. "With the passing of time and the passing of bids, the general public in Morocco have understood that it doesn't need to be as costly as it is for one country to host the World Cup, especially a format where there are 48 teams instead of 32." What to expect from World Cup 2026 How USA, Canada and Mexico won the right to host 2026 World Cup "Especially because the other two partners, Spain and Portugal, have infrastructure (and) logistics to help Morocco, so I think it's a very strong bid." Morocco's recent performance in Qatar could also boost their chances, having become the first Africans to reach the semi-finals of a World cup - a success that was attributed to the country's development at all levels of the game. Morocco also successfully hosted last year's Women's Africa Cup of Nations with the Atlas Lionesses reaching the final where they lost to South Africa . Can Africa capitalise on success of Wafcon in Morocco? A centennial rival The Morocco-Portugal-Spain proposal is one of two confirmed bids for 2030, taking on another multi-nation pitch from South America featuring Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay . Uruguay hosted, and won, the first World Cup in 1930, a fact that makes the 2030 edition a centennial anniversary, something that will lend their bid stronger sentimental value. LISTEN: Uruguay 1930 - the first World Cup For now at least, Benmoussa has refused to be drawn on the opposition. "We don't know all the groups who will be bidding. "We work until next year, maybe spring 2024, before knowing all the competitors, but of course we have to do our best to have the best bidding documents." A split in African support? The waters could yet be muddied further by another potential North African challenger, with an additional multi-nation being mooted - but this time one that spans three continents, with speculation that Egypt could team up with Greece and Saudi Arabia. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Patrice Motsepe has led the Confederation of African Football since March 2021 and wants to ensure Fifa delegates from Africa don't split their vote for the 2030 World Cup host So could the support of Fifa delegates in Africa be split?  Not according to the man in charge of African football, Patrice Motsepe. "From an African perspective, we really want to make sure that an African nation is indeed part of a successful bid," the president of the Confederation of Africa Football (Caf) told BBC Sport Africa. "We will engage and make sure that we don't get our votes dispersed, that there's a focus, and that's why I'm encouraging and welcome the announcement by Morocco, as well as the expression of interest and engagements that Egypt has been busy with." The 2030 World Cup host will be decided by Fifa's member associations at next year's congress which will be held in Osaka, Japan. Related topics Morocco Africa Sport Football FIFA World Cup Top stories PSG pass masters make Rice and Arsenal's fears come true Published 5 hours ago We have to do something special in Paris - Arteta Published 5 hours ago Rudiger given six-game ban for throwing object at referee Published 6 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC On the frontline with the London Ambulance Service Yinka Bokinni explores the life of Sean 'Diddy' Combs Detectives recount cases which shaped their careers Join the hunt for Scotland's perfect pads Elsewhere in Sport 'Why hit a single when you can hit six?' - the making of a teen IPL star 'One of football's greatest thinkers' - how Guardiola inspired Champions League trio Sciver-Brunt replaces Knight as England captain Will Ferrari turn their season around? The runner who went viral and sparked a campaign for change for women 'Liverpool still need new blood' - where will Slot strengthen? Who are the big winners & losers from the NFL Draft? 'How are we still here?' - Class of 92 graduates still going strong 'PSG worry me more than Real Madrid' Video 'PSG worry me more than Real Madrid' A mole, a Lion and a confession - Premiership Rugby talking points Could Wrexham really reach the Premier League? Meet the heavyweight who teaches in sign language The contenders to derail England's home World Cup Eubank narrowly beats Benn - extended highlights. Video Eubank narrowly beats Benn - extended highlights Soap opera twists and fatherly love - but what next for Eubank and Benn? Man City beat Forest to reach FA Cup final. Video Man City beat Forest to reach FA Cup final Who has made Troy's Premier League team of the week? London Marathon breaks world record for most finishers 'Twenty times' - but now Man Utd must exit 'Ice Age' Resilient England finally get test they needed Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.