Assassin's Creed Valhalla on Steam Login Store Home Discovery Queue Wishlist Points Shop News Stats Community Home Discussions Workshop Market Broadcasts About Support Change language Get the Steam Mobile App View desktop website © Valve Corporation. All rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries. Privacy Policy | Legal | Steam Subscriber Agreement | Refunds STORE Home Discovery Queue Wishlist Points Shop News Stats COMMUNITY Home Discussions Workshop Market Broadcasts About SUPPORT Install Steam login | language 简体中文 (Simplified Chinese) 繁體中文 (Traditional Chinese) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) ไทย (Thai) Български (Bulgarian) Čeština (Czech) Dansk (Danish) Deutsch (German) Español - España (Spanish - Spain) Español - Latinoamérica (Spanish - Latin America) Ελληνικά (Greek) Français (French) Italiano (Italian) Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian) Magyar (Hungarian) Nederlands (Dutch) Norsk (Norwegian) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese - Portugal) Português - Brasil (Portuguese - Brazil) Română (Romanian) Русский (Russian) Suomi (Finnish) Svenska (Swedish) Türkçe (Turkish) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Українська (Ukrainian) Report a translation problem Your Store Your Store Home Community Recommendations Recently Viewed Steam Curators New & Noteworthy New & Noteworthy Popular Top Sellers Most Played New Releases Upcoming Releases News & Updates Recently Updated Promos & Events Special Offers Sale Events Steam Replay Steam Next Fest The Steam Awards Categories Categories Special Sections Free To Play Demos Early Access Steam Deck Great on Deck Controller-Friendly Remote Play VR Titles VR Hardware Software Soundtracks macOS SteamOS + Linux For PC Cafés Genres Action Action Arcade & Rhythm Fighting & Martial Arts First-Person Shooter Hack & Slash Platformer & Runner Third-Person Shooter shmup Adventure Adventure Adventure RPG Casual Hidden Object Metroidvania Puzzle Story-Rich Visual Novel Role-Playing Role-Playing Action RPG Adventure RPG JRPG Party-Based Rogue-Like Strategy RPG Turn-Based Simulation Simulation Building & Automation Dating Farming & Crafting Hobby & Job Life & Immersive Sandbox & Physics Space & Flight Strategy Strategy Card & Board City & Settlement Grand & 4X Military Real-Time Strategy Tower Defense Turn-Based Strategy Sports & Racing Sports & Racing All Sports Fishing & Hunting Individual Sports Racing Racing Sim Sports Sim Team Sports Themes Themes Adult Only Anime Horror Mystery & Detective Open World Sci-Fi & Cyberpunk Space Survival Player Support Player Support Co-Operative LAN Local & Party MMO Multiplayer Online Competitive Singleplayer Points Shop News Labs All Games > Action Games > Assassin's Creed Franchise > Assassin's Creed Valhalla Community Hub Assassin's Creed Valhalla Assassin's Creed Valhalla Developer Ubisoft Montreal Publisher Ubisoft Released Dec 6, 2022 Assassin’s Creed Valhalla is an action-adventure game in which you are a Viking warrior raised on tales of battle and glory. Explore a dynamic open world set in England’s Dark Ages. Raid your enemies and grow your settlement to earn your place among the gods in Valhalla. Recent Reviews: Mostly Positive (674) - 71% of the 674 user reviews in the last 30 days are positive. All Reviews: Mostly Positive (28,119) - 70% of the 28,119 user reviews for this game are positive. Release Date: Dec 6, 2022 Developer: Ubisoft Montreal Publisher: Ubisoft Tags Popular user-defined tags for this product: Open World Action Adventure RPG Singleplayer Vikings Multiplayer Third Person Action-Adventure Violent Stealth Assassin Action RPG Story Rich Historical Female Protagonist Atmospheric Medieval Character Customization Mythology + Reviews All Reviews: Mostly Positive (70% of 28,119) All Time Recent Reviews: Mostly Positive (71% of 674) Recent Sign in to add this item to your wishlist, follow it, or mark it as ignored Links & info Features Single-player Steam Achievements Captions available In-App Purchases HDR available Incorporates 3rd-party DRM: Denuvo Anti-tamper Requires 3rd-Party Account: Ubisoft Connect account (Supports Linking to Steam Account) Requires agreement to a 3rd-party EULA Assassin's Creed Valhalla EULA Languages : English and 13 more Interface Full Audio Subtitles English ✔ ✔ ✔ French ✔ ✔ ✔ Italian ✔ ✔ ✔ German ✔ ✔ ✔ Spanish - Spain ✔ ✔ ✔ Arabic ✔ ✔ Simplified Chinese ✔ ✔ Traditional Chinese ✔ ✔ Korean ✔ ✔ Spanish - Latin America ✔ ✔ Japanese ✔ ✔ ✔ Polish ✔ ✔ Portuguese - Brazil ✔ ✔ ✔ Russian ✔ ✔ ✔ See all 14 supported languages Ratings Blood and Gore Intense Violence Partial Nudity Sexual Themes Strong Language Use of Alcohol Use of Drugs Interactive Elements In-Game Purchases Users Interact Age rating for: ESRB View Steam Achievements (92) Includes 92 Steam Achievements View all 92 Title: Assassin's Creed Valhalla Genre: Action , Adventure , RPG Developer: Ubisoft Montreal Publisher: Ubisoft Franchise: Assassin's Creed Release Date: Dec 6, 2022 Visit the website Facebook X Instagram Discord TikTok View update history Read related news View discussions Find Community Groups Embed Check out the entire Assassin's Creed collection on Steam Buy Assassin's Creed Valhalla $59.99 Add to Cart Buy Assassin's Creed Valhalla - Deluxe Edition $79.99 Add to Cart Buy Assassin's Creed Valhalla - Ragnarok Edition $99.99 Add to Cart Buy Assassin's Creed Valhalla - Complete Edition $139.99 Add to Cart Buy Assassin's Creed Bundle BUNDLE (?) Includes 16 items: Assassin's Creed Unity , Assassin's Creed - Rogue , Assassin's Creed Syndicate , Assassin's Creed Black Flag - Gold Edition , Assassin's Creed™: Director's Cut Edition , Assassin's Creed II , Assassin's Creed 3 Remastered Edition , Assassin's Creed Freedom Cry , Assassin's Creed Origins , Assassin's Creed Odyssey - Standard Edition , Assassin's Creed Valhalla , Assassin's Creed Brotherhood , Assassin's Creed Revelations , Assassin's Creed Liberation , Assassin’s Creed® Mirage , Assassin's Creed Shadows Bundle info -10% -17% $517.36 $430.49 Add to Cart Add to Account Content For This Game Browse all (4) Assassin's Creed® Valhalla - Dawn of Ragnarök $39.99 Assassin's Creed® Valhalla - Season Pass $39.99 Assassin's Creed® Valhalla - The Siege of Paris $24.99 Assassin's Creed® Valhalla - Wrath of the Druids $24.99 $129.96 Add all DLC to Cart View Community Hub Reviews “a must-play” 5/5 – Daily Star “Valhalla is a roaring success” Gamesradar+ “Valhalla is the ultimate Assassin's Creed experience” 9 – Gamereactor Comparison Grid Complete Edition COMPLETE EDITION Choose the COMPLETE EDITION, including the base game, the season pass, the Ultimate Cosmetics Pack, and the Dawn of Ragnarök Expansion! The COMPLETE EDITION includes: -   Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Base Game -   Season pass including the Wrath of the Druids and The Siege of Paris expansions. -   UltimateChoose the RAGNARÖK EDITION, the most ambitious expansion in franchise history, including the game and the epic Dawn of Ragnarök expansion! -   WIELD NEW DIVINE POWERS: Embody Odin, the Norse god of Battle and Wisdom, and harness new divine powers. -   EXPLORE AN EXCITING MYTHICAL NEW WORLD: Embark on a desperate quest through a breathtaking world. -   FACE BRUTAL ENEMIES OF ICE AND FIRE: Complete a legendary Viking saga and save your son in the face of the gods’ doom. Also includes Forgotten Saga, a FREE new rogue-lite game mode for all Assassin's Creed Valhalla players. Pack features the Berserker Bundle (Gear Set, Settlement Pack, and Longship Pack). -   Dawn of Ragnarök Expansion: Embrace your destiny as the Norse god Odin and complete your saga. Also Includes Forgotten Saga, a FREE new rogue-lite game mode for all Assassin's Creed Valhalla players. Ragnarok Edition RAGNARÖK EDITION Choose the RAGNARÖK EDITION, the most ambitious expansion in franchise history, including the game and the epic Dawn of Ragnarök expansion! -   WIELD NEW DIVINE POWERS: Embody Odin, the Norse god of Battle and Wisdom, and harness new divine powers. -   EXPLORE AN EXCITING MYTHICAL NEW WORLD: Embark on a desperate quest through a breathtaking world. -   FACE BRUTAL ENEMIES OF ICE AND FIRE: Complete a legendary Viking saga and save your son in the face of the gods’ doom. Also includes Forgotten Saga, a FREE new rogue-lite game mode for all Assassin's Creed Valhalla players. Deluxe Edition DELUXE EDITION Choose the DELUXE EDITION, including the game and Ultimate Pack! The Deluxe Pack includes: -   Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Base Game -   The Berserker Gear Pack: the Bearded Axe, a new Raven skin, the ferocious Hati Wolf mount, and more. -   The Berserker Longship Pack: a majestic Longship with a unique figurehead and sails. -   The Berserker Settlement Pack: new ways to customize your settlement in England. -   A Set of Runes to sharpen weapons or improve gear. Also includes the Forgotten Saga, a FREE new rogue-lite game mode for all Assassin's Creed Valhalla players. About This Game ABOUT THE GAME In Assassin’s Creed Valhalla, you are Eivor, a fierce Viking warrior raised on tales of battle and glory. Explore a mysterious and beautiful open world set against the brutal backdrop of England’s Dark Ages. WRITE YOUR VIKING SAGA Advanced RPG mechanics allow you to shape the growth of your character and influence the world around you. With every choice you make, from political alliances and combat strategy to dialogue and gear progression, you will carve your own path to glory in this open world! VISCERAL COMBAT SYSTEM Dual-wield powerful weapons such as axes, swords, and even shields to relive the ruthless fighting style of the Viking warriors. Brutally decapitate your foes, vanquish them from afar, or stealthily assassinate targets with your hidden blade. Launch massive assaults against Saxon troops and fortresses throughout England. A DARK AGE OPEN WORLD Sail from the harsh and mysterious shores of Norway to the beautiful but forbidding kingdoms of England and beyond. Immerse yourself in the Viking way of life through fishing, hunting, drinking games, and more. GROW YOUR SETTLEMENT Construct and upgrade buildings that allow for deep customization, including a barracks, blacksmith, tattoo parlor, and more. Recruit new members to your clan and personalize your Viking experience. Mature Content Description The developers describe the content like this: This Game may contain content not appropriate for all ages, or may not be appropriate for viewing at work: Some Nudity or Sexual Content, Frequent Violence or Gore, General Mature Content System Requirements Minimum: Requires a 64-bit processor and operating system OS: Windows 10 (versions 64 bits uniquement) Processor: AMD Ryzen 3 1200 3.1 GHz / Intel Core i5-4460 3.2 GHz Memory: 8 GB RAM Graphics: AMD R9 380 /NVIDIA GeForce GTX 960 DirectX: Version 12 Storage: 160 GB available space Recommended: Requires a 64-bit processor and operating system OS: Windows 10 (versions 64 bits uniquement) Processor: AMD Ryzen 5 1600 3.2 GHz / Intel Core i7-4790 3.6 GHz Memory: 8 GB RAM Graphics: AMD R9 380 /NVIDIA GeForce GTX 960 DirectX: Version 12 Storage: 160 GB available space © 2022 Ubisoft Entertainment. All Rights Reserved. Assassin’s Creed, Ubisoft, and the Ubisoft logo are registered or unregistered trademarks of Ubisoft Entertainment in the US and/or other countries. View all What Curators Say 288 Curators have reviewed this product. Click here to see them. Customer reviews for Assassin's Creed Valhalla Overall Reviews: Mostly Positive (28,119 reviews) Recent Reviews: Mostly Positive (674 reviews) Review Type All (30,302) Positive (21,091) Negative (9,211) Purchase Type All (30,302) Steam Purchasers (28,119) Other (2,183) Language All Languages (30,302) Your Languages (11,683) Customize Date Range To view reviews within a date range, please click and drag a selection on a graph above or click on a specific bar. Show graph Lifetime Only Specific Range (Select on graph above) Exclude Specific Range (Select on graph above) Playtime Filter reviews by the user's playtime when the review was written: No Minimum Over 1 hour Over 10 hours Over 100 hours No minimum to No maximum Played across all devices Played mostly on Steam Deck Display Show reviews in selected display order Summary Most Helpful Recent Funny Use new helpfulness system. Only applies to Summary and Most Helpful views. Learn More Off-topic Review Activity When enabled, off-topic review activity will be filtered out.  This defaults to your Review Score Setting. Read more about it in the blog post . Enabled Show graph Hide graph Filters Filters Excluding Off-topic Review Activity Playtime: Played Mostly on Steam Deck Loading reviews... Loading reviews... Loading reviews... Loading reviews... Loading reviews... There are no more reviews that match the filters set above Adjust the filters above to see other reviews Loading reviews... Review Filters You can use this widget-maker to generate a bit of HTML that can be embedded in your website to easily allow customers to purchase this game on Steam. Enter up to 375 characters to add a description to your widget: Create widget Copy and paste the HTML below into your website to make the above widget appear Popular user-defined tags for this product: (?) Sign In Sign in to add your own tags to this product. Sign In © 2025 Valve Corporation.  All rights reserved.  All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries. VAT included in all prices where applicable. Privacy Policy | Legal | Steam Subscriber Agreement | Refunds | Cookies View mobile website About Valve | Jobs | Steamworks | Steam Distribution | Support | Recycling | Gift Cards | | |