NBA Draft 2021: Top center prospects | NBA.com Navigation Toggle Home Tickets Key Dates 2025 Playoffs Schedule 2024-25 Regular Season League Pass Schedule 2024-25 NBA CrunchTime VR Schedule National TV Games Featured NBA TV Bracket Latest News Series Schedule Play-In Tournament Home Top Stories NBA Awards Draft Features Events Key Dates Transactions Future Starts Now History More Stats Home Dunk Score Players Teams Leaders Stats 101 Cume Stats Lineups Tool Media Central Game Stats Draft Quick Links Contact Us Atlantic Boston Celtics Brooklyn Nets New York Knicks Philadelphia 76ers Toronto Raptors Central Chicago Bulls Cleveland Cavaliers Detroit Pistons Indiana Pacers Milwaukee Bucks Southeast Atlanta Hawks Charlotte Hornets Miami Heat Orlando Magic Washington Wizards Northwest Denver Nuggets Minnesota Timberwolves Oklahoma City Thunder Portland Trail Blazers Utah Jazz Pacific Golden State Warriors LA Clippers Los Angeles Lakers Phoenix Suns Sacramento Kings Southwest Dallas Mavericks Houston Rockets Memphis Grizzlies New Orleans Pelicans San Antonio Spurs Players Home 2024-25 Audio Pronunciation Guide Player Stats Starting Lineups Free Agent Tracker Transactions Home Full Court Guess Rank IQ Player Path Trivia Hoop Connect Fantasy Home Bracket Challenge NBA Pick'Em Play Yahoo Fantasy Play Sorare NBA FantasyPros Tools FanDuel DFS Draft Kings DFS NBA Bet Home Authorized Gaming Operators NBA Store Jerseys Men Women Kids Custom Shop Hardwood Classics Hats Footwear Auctions NBA Game Worn NYC Store NBA Photo Store NBATickets.com Official Tickets by Ticketmaster NBA Experiences NBA G League WNBA NBA 2K League Basketball Africa League Playoffs Draft League Pass Games Schedule Watch News Stats Standings Teams Players NBA Play NBA Bet Fantasy Store Tickets Affiliates 2021 NBA Draft Home Draft Board Prospects Teams All Picks: 1-60 Trade Tracker News Video More Tickets 2021 Draft: By The Numbers Consensus Mock Draft Draft Lottery Results Early Entry Candidates Draft Combine Bleacher Report Draft News Draft Process Key Dates Draft History Every Pick: 1947-2020 2021 NBA Draft NBA Draft 2021: Top center prospects Evan Mobley headlines list of big men prospects before Thursday's NBA Draft (8 ET, ABC/ESPN). Aaron Beard | The Associated Press July 27, 2021 8:35 PM Evan Mobley enters the upcoming Draft as one of top prospects at his position. Evan Mobley made a quick impact with his athleticism and defense for Southern California, bringing the Trojans within a game of the Final Four. He’s the headliner among the big men in Thursday’s NBA Draft , a position that includes Texas’ Kai Jones, Kentucky’s Isaiah Jackson, and international prospects Alperen Sengun and Usman Garuba. Here’s a look at some of the top bigs: Evan Mobley Meet The Prospect: Evan Mobley The 7-foot freshman looks likely to go in the top 3 with his two-way potential in a still-developing frame. Strengths: Mobley, 20, swept the Pac-12 honors for player of the year, defensive player of the year and freshman of the year. He has plenty of length with a 7-4 wingspan, helping him rank seventh nationally by blowing nearly 2.9 shots per game. He also showed the mobility to defend smaller players on switches, making him a potential disruptor beyond his ability to swat or alter shots. Mobley also had a strong NCAA Tournament, averaging 13.5 points, 9.3 rebounds, 4.0 assists and 2.0 blocks as the Trojans reached a regional final for the first time in 20 years. “I feel like my agility and length and defensive presence is my top main things that make me different,” Mobley said. Concerns: Mobley is a lean 215 pounds, so he’ll need to add some bulk to handle physical and stronger NBA opponents. He’ll also need to continue expanding his shooting range after making 30% (12 of 40) of his 3-point tries. Kai Jones The 6-10 sophomore is a first-round prospect with length and perimeter skills. Strengths: Jones averaged 8.8 points and 4.8 rebounds in just 23 minutes per game as the top reserve for the Longhorns and the Big 12’s top sixth man. He also made 13 of 34 3-pointers (38.2%). Jones ranked ninth among prospects at the combine with a nearly 7-2 wingspan. Most importantly, he has the length and athleticism to be a versatile defender along with attacking the rim. “Just being able to switch ball screens and playing drop coverages,” Jones said. “I have a pretty good knack for playing defense. I think that’s going to be essential for me getting on the floor as a rookie, and playing a lot of minutes as a rookie.” Concerns: The 20-year-old is still developing his overall game. He reached double figures in scoring in just 15 of 53 career outings and had just one double-figure rebounding total in that time. He’ll also need to add strength to a frame that checked in at 221 pounds at the combine. Isaiah Jackson The 6-10 freshman offers high-end defensive potential as a first-round prospect. Strengths: The 19-year-old is a good athlete with the ability to run the court. He showed potential as a rebounder with seven games with at least 10, including 15 against LSU and 12 against both Kansas and Georgia Tech. And he thrived on the defensive end, ranking 15th nationally with 2.6 blocks per game – including eight against then-No. 7 Kansas for the most by a Wildcats player against an Associated Press top-10 opponent. “I like to really key in on playing defense: blocking shots, that’s where I get my energy from, blocking a shot or getting a rebound or getting a steal,” Jackson said. “That’s where I get my fire from. I mean, it’s fun to me to do those things.” Concerns: Jackson needs offensive development after averaging just 8.4 points with only eight double-digit scoring outputs in 25 games — though he was more assertive late by getting there in six of his last seven games. He’ll also need to add bulk after playing at 206 pounds last year. Others to Watch • Alperen Sengun : The 6-9, 240-pounder from Turkey, who turned 19 on Sunday, is a skilled big man with crafty throwback post moves and the nimble footwork. He was named MVP of the Turkish league last season and is a lottery prospect with major upside if he can expand his shooting range. • Usman Garuba: The 6-8, 229-pound forward from Spain offers strong defensive potential as a first-round prospect, both with length to work around the paint but the athleticism to defend farther out if needed. • Day’ron Sharpe: The North Carolina freshman has a strong 6-11, 265-pound frame with the potential to be an elite rebounder with his high-motor game. The first-round prospect is also a surprisingly good passer. • Charles Bassey: The 6-11, 235-pound junior from Western Kentucky ranked as one of the nation’s best shot blockers (fourth at 3.1 per game) and rebounders (fifth at 11.6). That could make him a frontcourt asset for the right team, potentially late in the first round. • Neemias Queta : The Utah State 7-footer could offer some second-round value with a 7-4 wingspan after ranking third nationally in blocked shots (3.3). Related NBA Draft 2021: Top forward prospects Scottie Barnes and Jonathan Kuminga lead list of forward prospects before Thursday's NBA Draft (8 ET, ABC/ESPN). NBA Draft 2021: Top shooting guard prospects Jalen Green leads list of the top shooting guard prospects before Thursday's NBA Draft (8 ET, ABC/ESPN). NBA Draft 2021: Top point guard prospects Cade Cunningham and Jalen Suggs lead list of the top point guard prospects before Thursday's NBA Draft (8 ET, ABC/ESPN). NBA Draft 2021: Top international prospects Josh Giddey leads list of the top international prospects before Thursday's NBA Draft. (8 ET, ABC/ESPN) Related NBA Draft 2021: Top forward prospects Scottie Barnes and Jonathan Kuminga lead list of forward prospects before Thursday's NBA Draft (8 ET, ABC/ESPN). NBA Draft 2021: Top shooting guard prospects Jalen Green leads list of the top shooting guard prospects before Thursday's NBA Draft (8 ET, ABC/ESPN). NBA Draft 2021: Top point guard prospects Cade Cunningham and Jalen Suggs lead list of the top point guard prospects before Thursday's NBA Draft (8 ET, ABC/ESPN). NBA Draft 2021: Top international prospects Josh Giddey leads list of the top international prospects before Thursday's NBA Draft. (8 ET, ABC/ESPN) Latest Series preview: Pacers try to slow top-seeded Cavs Both Cleveland and Indiana boast deep rosters that deliver in the clutch, which should make for a competitive semifinals clash. Spurs' Castle named '24-25 Rookie of the Year San Antonio is 1st team with back-to-back winners since Timberwolves in 2014-15 (Andrew Wiggins) & 2015-16 (Karl-Anthony Towns). Nightly Pulse: NBA news & highlights from April 29 Stay in the know on today's NBA Playoff action with the latest news, scores and highlights from around the league. Can LeBron, Luka spark rally from 3-1 deficit? The Lakers hope to escape a 3-1 series deficit vs. the Wolves and will need their star duo to lead the way. The Athletic: Van Gundy's impact on LA's defense Veteran coach Jeff Van Gundy has played a major role in helping LA rise up the defensive ranks. ESPN averaging largest NBA playoffs audience ever ESPN platforms are averaging over 4 million viewers per game, up 13% from last year. NBA Organization NBA ID NBA Official NBA Careers NBA Fan Code of Conduct NBA Initiatives NBA Total Health NBA Cares Jr. NBA / Jr. WNBA NBA Foundation Social Justice Coalition Across The League NBA Communications Lockervision NBA Transactions Shop Global Stores NYC Store NBA Auctions NBA Photostore Subscriptions League Pass Customer Support