All the Winners From the 2019 CFDA Awards  | Vogue Skip to main content Search Search Fashion Beauty Culture Living Weddings Runway Shopping Chevron Video Vogue Club PhotoVogue Met Gala Fashion Beauty Culture Living Weddings Runway More Chevron Open Navigation Menu Menu Runway All the Winners From the 2019 CFDA Awards By Emily Farra June 3, 2019 Photo: Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save The fashion flock is back at the Brooklyn Museum tonight for the 2019 CFDA Awards , and Vogue is reporting live from the event. Guests including Bella and Gigi Hadid, Ciara, and Jennifer Lopez have walked the red carpet, mingled with the nominees and honorees , and are sitting down to hear who’s taking home the top prizes. Below we’re sharing real-time updates of the night’s winners; check back all night for more of Vogue ’s coverage. Menswear Designer of the Year Rick Owens Media Award in Honor of Eugenia Sheppard Lynn Yaeger Founder’s Award in Honor of Eleanor Lambert Carine Roitfeld Geoffrey Beene Lifetime Achievement Award Bob Mackie Accessory Designer of the Year Ashley Olsen and Mary-Kate Olsen, The Row Board of Directors’ Tribute Barbie Emerging Designer of the Year Emily Adams Bode, Bode Positive Change Award Eileen Fisher Valentino Garavani and Giancarlo Giammetti International Award Sarah Burton, Alexander McQueen Womenswear Designer of the Year Brandon Maxwell Fashion Icon Award Jennifer Lopez See Every Look From the 2019 CFDA Awards Red Carpet: 1 / 94 Chevron Chevron Photo: Getty Images Jennifer Lopez in custom Ralph Lauren Emily Farra started her career at Style.com, followed by nearly seven years at Vogue and Vogue Runway as a senior writer. At Vogue , she reported on fashion shows, emerging designers, and industry news, and led Vogue.com's coverage of sustainable fashion. ... Read more Topics CFDA Awards 2019 Read More Beauty When To Eat Dried Fruits and Nuts to Maximize Health Benefits By Faye Remedios Nails Clean Girl Nails Are Trending: Here Are 13 Minimalist Manicures to Try Now By Hannah Coates Celebrity Style Gigi Hadid and Bradley Cooper Celebrate Her 30th Birthday in Coordinating Leathers By Anna Cafolla Weddings The Bride Wore a 13-Foot Floral Veil for Her All-Night Wedding at a Provence Chateau By Elise Taylor Magazine “You Make Clothes for Them? They Will Do Anything For You”: Tina Knowles Remembers Beyoncé and Solange’s Beloved Uncle Johnny By Tina Knowles Wellness Colon Cancer Is on the Rise: This Vitamin Deficiency May Be Why By Margaux Anbouba The latest fashion news, beauty coverage, celebrity style, fashion week updates, culture reviews, and videos on Vogue.com. Facebook X Pinterest Instagram Tiktok More from Vogue Newsletter Manage Account Verify Subscription Contact us About Vogue Careers Projects Vogue Archive Forces of Fashion Vogue College of Fashion See More Stories Fashion Beauty Culture Living Runway Shopping Magazine Gift Guides Best of Sale User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Accessibility Help Masthead Visual Stories © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty Select international site United States LargeChevron Adria Arabia Australia Brasil Britain China Czechoslovakia España France Germany Greece Hong Kong India Italia Japan Korea México Nederland Philippines Polska Portugal Scandinavia Singapore Taiwan Thailand Türkiye Ukraine