Review: Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Page 1 - Cubed3 Username: Password: Sign In Lost Pass Register or sign in with... Games Switch Xbox One PlayStation 4 PC iOS Android Wii U 3DS PS Vita Retro Forum Gaming Discussion Off Topic Article Comments Site Announcements Reviews Switch Xbox One PlayStation 4 PC iOS Android Wii U 3DS PS Vita Retro Previews Switch Xbox One PlayStation 4 PC iOS Android Wii U 3DS PS Vita Retro Features All Features Exclusive Interviews Gaming Anniversaries Critical Hit Beyond the Cube Tech Up! Character Profiles INSiGHT Lights, Camera, Action! MusiCube N64 Month Zelda 30th Anniversary Final Fantasy 30th Anniversary Movies Login Register Sign In Register Review: Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Viewing as Guest Last visit: 30.04.2025 Reply New Topic Alert Mods Return to Forum Any keyword Exact Matches All Posters Search Topic Welcome to the Cubed3 forums! Join us today - it takes just 20 seconds to start posting! Sign Up for Free Account Login «s previous 1 2 next » Renan 30.11.2017 #1 Best Buy delivered my copy a day early, but I'm honestly just going to hold off until tomorrow to play it. I started it up, but that dubbing is just atrocious. I don't want it ruining my first experience. I'm content waiting to download the Japanese voice DLC. Edit this post: Best Buy delivered my copy a day early, but I'm honestly just going to hold off until tomorrow to play it. I started it up, but that dubbing is just atrocious. I don't want it ruining my first experience. I'm content waiting to download the Japanese voice DLC. Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: jesusraz 01.12.2017 #2 Ohhhh, the voices are just as bad in the US version? I thought the dodgy voices were only for our UK localisation! ( Edited 01.12.2017 00:32 by Adam Riley ) Edit this post: Ohhhh, the voices are just as bad in the US version? I thought the dodgy voices were only for our UK localisation! :eek: Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Adam Riley [ Director :: Cubed3 ] UNITE714: Weekly Prayers | Bible Verses Link to this post: Azuardo 01.12.2017 #3 It's like Xenoblade 1 - they went back to mostly British for the English dub. Seemed like there was a high demand for it to return. After hearing this tho, Nintendo can't seem to get English VA decent at all following Zelda and now even this. I'm all for using relative unknown VAs, but something's going wrong somewhere given the low quality of BotW and now Xeno 2. I wanna hear more of the Welsh girl. Love that they added one (I must sound like a broken record in my cries for more Welsh VA), but she doesn't give Drippy a run for his money from what I heard so far. Gonna have to wait for more footage after the game is out. In general tho, the VA seems awful based on the trailers. ( Edited 01.12.2017 00:45 by Azuardo ) Edit this post: It's like Xenoblade 1 - they went back to mostly British for the English dub. Seemed like there was a high demand for it to return. After hearing this tho, Nintendo can't seem to get English VA decent at all following Zelda and now even this. I'm all for using relative unknown VAs, but something's going wrong somewhere given the low quality of BotW and now Xeno 2.  I wanna hear more of the Welsh girl. Love that they added one (I must sound like a broken record in my cries for more Welsh VA), but she doesn't give Drippy a run for his money from what I heard so far. Gonna have to wait for more footage after the game is out.  In general tho, the VA seems awful based on the trailers. Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: jesusraz 01.12.2017 #4 I don't mind her voice...but it just doesn't fit in the game's context or suit the character. The voice for Rex, though, is just horrendous in general. Also, something I forgot to add in the review - there are objective markers at the top of the screen that count down the closer you get to the current objective's goal. That's fine, since many games seem to have this sort of hand-holding, so fair enough. However, several objective markers sit on top of each other, meaning it's sometimes very hard to see which one you need to be focusing on. It's only when you move far enough away from one, and close enough to another, that the markers separate and become clearer to read how far away the current mission goal is. If you catch my drift... Edit this post: I don't mind her voice...but it just doesn't fit in the game's context or suit the character. The voice for Rex, though, is just horrendous in general.  Also, something I forgot to add in the review - there are objective markers at the top of the screen that count down the closer you get to the current objective's goal. That's fine, since many games seem to have this sort of hand-holding, so fair enough. However, several objective markers sit on top of each other, meaning it's sometimes very hard to see which one you need to be focusing on. It's only when you move far enough away from one, and close enough to another, that the markers separate and become clearer to read how far away the current mission goal is.  If you catch my drift... Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Adam Riley [ Director :: Cubed3 ] UNITE714: Weekly Prayers | Bible Verses Link to this post: Chantiment 01.12.2017 #5 Huh. Honestly, at this point I almost wish they had just continued with Chronicles X then. This sounds like they overdid a lot of the systems. Edit this post: Huh. Honestly, at this point I almost wish they had just continued with Chronicles X then. This sounds like they overdid a lot of the systems. Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: jesusraz 01.12.2017 #6 I can see how they've tried to streamline things by splitting special moves onto the right side of the screen, mapped to the action buttons, and then put the Blade swapping move on the left side. But that isn't the end of it, as there are bars at the top to watch that fill up and allow for regen if a character falls in battle, a special link that shows between Driver (Rex) and Blade (Pyra or anyone else you end up with as the adventure goes on) that needs to be watched as if it stretches too thin, powered up attacks don't work. Then there is a combo system mixing Blade specials and Driver moves, the idea of juggling between different Blades at the right point to take advantage of their element type, and then the usual matter of suddenly finding enemies previously off-screen randomly deciding to join a fight. Too often some Level 30+ bird flew by and caught me out when trying to grind at lower levels. Thankfully there's a Mario Odyssey warp style function to leap to key locations quickly... Edit this post: I can see how they've tried to streamline things by splitting special moves onto the right side of the screen, mapped to the action buttons, and then put the Blade swapping move on the left side. But that isn't the end of it, as there are bars at the top to watch that fill up and allow for regen if a character falls in battle, a special link that shows between Driver (Rex) and Blade (Pyra or anyone else you end up with as the adventure goes on) that needs to be watched as if it stretches too thin, powered up attacks don't work.  Then there is a combo system mixing Blade specials and Driver moves, the idea of juggling between different Blades at the right point to take advantage of their element type, and then the usual matter of suddenly finding enemies previously off-screen randomly deciding to join a fight. Too often some Level 30+ bird flew by and caught me out when trying to grind at lower levels.  Thankfully there's a Mario Odyssey warp style function to leap to key locations quickly... Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Adam Riley [ Director :: Cubed3 ] UNITE714: Weekly Prayers | Bible Verses Link to this post: Insanoflex 01.12.2017 #7 very refreshing to read a very honest to god review on this game that does not gloss over the real flaws. Edit this post: very refreshing to read a very honest to god review on this game that does not gloss over the real flaws. Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: jesusraz 04.12.2017 #8 Renan said: Best Buy delivered my copy a day early, but I'm honestly just going to hold off until tomorrow to play it. I started it up, but that dubbing is just atrocious. I don't want it ruining my first experience. I'm content waiting to download the Japanese voice DLC. Ren - I'm intrigued what your thoughts are on the game now... Same goes for anyone else that has dived into it. I read a review on Kotaku that attacked it on so many levels that...well, I somewhat agreed with, but I felt more positive about it overall than they did in the end. Edit this post: [quote][b]Renan said:[/b] Best Buy delivered my copy a day early, but I'm honestly just going to hold off until tomorrow to play it. I started it up, but that dubbing is just atrocious. I don't want it ruining my first experience. I'm content waiting to download the Japanese voice DLC. [/quote] Ren - I'm intrigued what your thoughts are on the game now... Same goes for anyone else that has dived into it. I read a review on Kotaku that attacked it on so many levels that...well, I somewhat agreed with, but I felt more positive about it overall than they did in the end. Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Adam Riley [ Director :: Cubed3 ] UNITE714: Weekly Prayers | Bible Verses Link to this post: Insanoflex 04.12.2017 #9 i wont play it till january. ill give some impressions in febuary Edit this post: i wont play it till january. ill give some impressions in febuary Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: jesusraz 07.12.2017 #10 It's not done as well as many were expecting an I wonder if some of the mixed reviews have played a part in this. However, it's still managed to open slightly stronger than the previous two Xenoblades in Japan, which is a decent uplift. Edit this post: It's not done as well as many were expecting an I wonder if some of the mixed reviews have played a part in this. However, it's still managed to open slightly stronger than the previous two Xenoblades in Japan, which is a decent uplift. Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Adam Riley [ Director :: Cubed3 ] UNITE714: Weekly Prayers | Bible Verses Link to this post: Flynnie 08.12.2017 #11 I want to give this a whirl but I've not yet finished a Xenoblade, played the Wii version many years ago, bought the 3DS remake and never played it and have been sitting on X for a little while now. I hope they can give the series a break otherwise I'll fall behind and won't bother to catch up! Edit this post: I want to give this a whirl but I've not yet finished a Xenoblade, played the Wii version many years ago, bought the 3DS remake and never played it and have been sitting on X for a little while now.   I hope they can give the series a break otherwise I'll fall behind and won't bother to catch up! Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: jesusraz 13.12.2017 #12 Is anyone getting the DLC pass? Edit this post: Is anyone getting the DLC pass? Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Adam Riley [ Director :: Cubed3 ] UNITE714: Weekly Prayers | Bible Verses Link to this post: Renan 14.12.2017 #13 Adam Riley said: Renan said: Best Buy delivered my copy a day early, but I'm honestly just going to hold off until tomorrow to play it. I started it up, but that dubbing is just atrocious. I don't want it ruining my first experience. I'm content waiting to download the Japanese voice DLC. Ren - I'm intrigued what your thoughts are on the game now... Same goes for anyone else that has dived into it. I read a review on Kotaku that attacked it on so many levels that...well, I somewhat agreed with, but I felt more positive about it overall than they did in the end. I'm about 26 hours in at the moment, nearing the end of Chapter 3. It's...okay. I think combat is fun for the most part, but the story's been dragging and the writing is absolutely dreadful. There'll be moments where I'll get hyped up or feel a genuine connection with the characters, but it's all underscored by an overwhelming generic anime atmosphere. The characters don't feel like people, they feel like caricatures. I think my biggest issue is how divided the chemistry is. Due to the way the Blade/Driver system works, you always get two characters when you'd normally get one in another RPG. The party feels bloated and nobody's interactions end up feeling meaningful or fleshed out. Also, the name changes for the English localization boggle my mind. I like that I'm playing with the Japanese VO now, but it is distracting to hear "Homura" but read "Pyra." Also, not particularly fond that the Judeo-Christian elements have been toned down. The original script lifts very heavily from Arthurian legend from what I can tell and it seems the translators just changed everything to generic fantasy jargon. I realize I'm still very early in the game, but I'm pretty disappointed. Xenoblade 1 is one of the my favorite games, I'd hate to see the series stay more in-line with X2. Edit this post: [quote][b]Adam Riley said:[/b] [quote][b]Renan said:[/b] Best Buy delivered my copy a day early, but I'm honestly just going to hold off until tomorrow to play it. I started it up, but that dubbing is just atrocious. I don't want it ruining my first experience. I'm content waiting to download the Japanese voice DLC. [/quote] Ren - I'm intrigued what your thoughts are on the game now... Same goes for anyone else that has dived into it. I read a review on Kotaku that attacked it on so many levels that...well, I somewhat agreed with, but I felt more positive about it overall than they did in the end.[/quote] I'm about 26 hours in at the moment, nearing the end of Chapter 3. It's...okay. I think combat is fun for the most part, but the story's been dragging and the writing is absolutely dreadful. There'll be moments where I'll get hyped up or feel a genuine connection with the characters, but it's all underscored by an overwhelming generic anime atmosphere. The characters don't feel like people, they feel like caricatures. I think my biggest issue is how divided the chemistry is. Due to the way the Blade/Driver system works, you always get two characters when you'd normally get one in another RPG. The party feels bloated and nobody's interactions end up feeling meaningful or fleshed out.   Also, the name changes for the English localization boggle my mind. I like that I'm playing with the Japanese VO now, but it is distracting to hear "Homura" but read "Pyra." Also, not particularly fond that the Judeo-Christian elements have been toned down. The original script lifts very heavily from Arthurian legend from what I can tell and it seems the translators just changed everything to generic fantasy jargon.   I realize I'm still very early in the game, but I'm pretty disappointed. Xenoblade 1 is one of the my favorite games, I'd hate to see the series stay more in-line with X2. Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: Azuardo 29.12.2017 #14 Welsh catgirl Nia is by far the best character. Refreshing to have a blunt and to-the-point Welsh woman as a catgirl Defo gonna have to pick this up just for her at some point. But I'm keeping expectations overall in check. Hopefully the price comes down a bit over time, but it's always difficult waiting for Nintendo games to drop, since they rarely do by much. Might be better to wait for a Nintendo Selects version in the future. Edit this post: Welsh catgirl Nia is by far the best character. Refreshing to have a blunt and to-the-point Welsh woman as a catgirl :D Defo gonna have to pick this up just for her at some point. But I'm keeping expectations overall in check. Hopefully the price comes down a bit over time, but it's always difficult waiting for Nintendo games to drop, since they rarely do by much. Might be better to wait for a Nintendo Selects version in the future. Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: Flynnie 01.01.2018 #15 So crazy, so many of my Switch friends are playing this game at the moment. Everytime i pop online everyone is playing this! I think the price won't really come down that much. This is the type of game that once it goes out of print it probably won't come back. Nintendo know how to keep the price of their games high because of this reason, although Pokemon, Zelda and Mario games remain in print but just hold their value! Its the reason why I always end up getting Fire Emblem games on day one! Edit this post: So crazy, so many of my Switch friends are playing this game at the moment. Everytime i pop online everyone is playing this!   I think the price won't really come down that much. This is the type of game that once it goes out of print it probably won't come back. Nintendo know how to keep the price of their games high because of this reason, although Pokemon, Zelda and Mario games remain in print but just hold their value!   Its the reason why I always end up getting Fire Emblem games on day one! Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: Trepe 07.01.2018 #16 I was really looking forward to this game, but I'm not impressed so far. I'm having difficulty defeating even the easiest of creature and I'm having to grind for hours just to acieve anything. Also, the creatures are grouped so close together that I start fighting something that I know I can beat, but something else wanders in range from somewhere and beats the crap out of me. It doesn't help that the game starts out with a story, then once that is established you're set to task doing boring menial tasks for hours. I'm really finding this game hard to get into. Going to try to persevere but don't know if I'll ever get much further without giving up. This makes me sad. Edit this post: I was really looking forward to this game, but I'm not impressed so far. I'm having difficulty defeating even the easiest of creature and I'm having to grind for hours just to acieve anything. Also, the creatures are grouped so close together that I start fighting something that I know I can beat, but something else wanders in range from somewhere and beats the crap out of me. It doesn't help that the game starts out with a story, then once that is established you're set to task doing boring menial tasks for hours. I'm really finding this game hard to get into. Going to try to persevere but don't know if I'll ever get much further without giving up. This makes me sad. Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: jesusraz 07.01.2018 #17 Trepe, that's exactly how I felt. You've just hit the nail right on the head, and reading my review back, I am surprised I ended up giving it 7 rather than a 6. There are enjoyable parts, but the grind is awful. Edit this post: Trepe, that's exactly how I felt. You've just hit the nail right on the head, and reading my review back, I am surprised I ended up giving it 7 rather than a 6. There are enjoyable parts, but the grind is awful. Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Adam Riley [ Director :: Cubed3 ] UNITE714: Weekly Prayers | Bible Verses Link to this post: Flynnie 07.01.2018 #18 Trepe said: I was really looking forward to this game, but I'm not impressed so far. I'm having difficulty defeating even the easiest of creature and I'm having to grind for hours just to acieve anything. Also, the creatures are grouped so close together that I start fighting something that I know I can beat, but something else wanders in range from somewhere and beats the crap out of me. It doesn't help that the game starts out with a story, then once that is established you're set to task doing boring menial tasks for hours. I'm really finding this game hard to get into. Going to try to persevere but don't know if I'll ever get much further without giving up. This makes me sad. Is this specific to this particular entry in the series or did the original and X play out like this for you as well? Edit this post: [quote][b]Trepe said:[/b] I was really looking forward to this game, but I'm not impressed so far. I'm having difficulty defeating even the easiest of creature and I'm having to grind for hours just to acieve anything. Also, the creatures are grouped so close together that I start fighting something that I know I can beat, but something else wanders in range from somewhere and beats the crap out of me. It doesn't help that the game starts out with a story, then once that is established you're set to task doing boring menial tasks for hours. I'm really finding this game hard to get into. Going to try to persevere but don't know if I'll ever get much further without giving up. This makes me sad. [/quote] Is this specific to this particular entry in the series or did the original and X play out like this for you as well? Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: Trepe 08.01.2018 #19 Flynnie said: Trepe said: I was really looking forward to this game, but I'm not impressed so far. I'm having difficulty defeating even the easiest of creature and I'm having to grind for hours just to acieve anything. Also, the creatures are grouped so close together that I start fighting something that I know I can beat, but something else wanders in range from somewhere and beats the crap out of me. It doesn't help that the game starts out with a story, then once that is established you're set to task doing boring menial tasks for hours. I'm really finding this game hard to get into. Going to try to persevere but don't know if I'll ever get much further without giving up. This makes me sad. Is this specific to this particular entry in the series or did the original and X play out like this for you as well? The grinding feels worse in this game, but it's not just that. The tasks you have to do when the game start are mostly menial tasks that feel like little more than filler. In the previous titles the tasks at the start of the game bared some relation to the story. Also, in the previous games you felt like you were in with a fighting chance with enemies around your level. I'm having to fight enemies two or three levels below myself and like I said before, even then theirs no guarantee you'll win because a random creature can wander near and start fighting. In the other games the chance of this happening was there, but it wasn't as high. And the enemies generally weren't grouped so closely together. ( Edited 08.01.2018 13:48 by Azuardo ) Edit this post: [quote] [b]Flynnie said:[/b] [quote][b]Trepe said:[/b] I was really looking forward to this game, but I'm not impressed so far. I'm having difficulty defeating even the easiest of creature and I'm having to grind for hours just to acieve anything. Also, the creatures are grouped so close together that I start fighting something that I know I can beat, but something else wanders in range from somewhere and beats the crap out of me. It doesn't help that the game starts out with a story, then once that is established you're set to task doing boring menial tasks for hours. I'm really finding this game hard to get into. Going to try to persevere but don't know if I'll ever get much further without giving up. This makes me sad. [/quote] Is this specific to this particular entry in the series or did the original and X play out like this for you as well?[/quote]  The grinding feels worse in this game, but it's not just that. The tasks you have to do when the game start are mostly menial tasks that feel like little more than filler. In the previous titles the tasks at the start of the game bared some relation to the story. Also, in the previous games you felt like you were in with a fighting chance with enemies around your level. I'm having to fight enemies two or three levels below myself and like I said before, even then theirs no guarantee you'll win because a random creature can wander near and start fighting. In the other games the chance of this happening was there, but it wasn't as high. And the enemies generally weren't grouped so closely together. Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: Flynnie 08.01.2018 #20 Ah ok, I see! I am not quite sure i'd pick it up any time soon myself. I know I haven't got time for the grind and i've not even really started the previous two games! Still worthwhile knowing though. Thanks! Edit this post: Ah ok, I see! I am not quite sure i'd pick it up any time soon myself. I know I haven't got time for the grind and i've not even really started the previous two games! Still worthwhile knowing though. Thanks! Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: Trepe 28.04.2018 #21 I gave up on Xenoblade Chronicles 2 after playing about 10-12 hours of it and didn't touch it again for weeks after. Recently I decided to give it another go and slogged through another 10 or so hours. Once I got to 20 hours in I finally started enjoying it more and got hooked.  In the end I enjoyed it and think it's a really good RPG, but the initial slog through the beginning of the game would be enough to put anyone off and it's a shame. The story is completely stupid and doesn't always even make sense but I enjoyed it because of the character development and themes of the story as a whole. It also had a nice payoff at the end which made some of the odder aspects of the story make sense. I finished the game after about 110 hours. So, in the end, I'd recommend it for anyone who loves RPGs. Just be prepared for a slog at the start and some annoying English voice work (especially the fact that the same phrases are repeated thousand of times over and will probably drive you crazy) and a very confusing and convoluted battle system which is hard to understand at first (and you may still not  have a grip of it by the time you finish the game) but does ease you into it somewhat, although with very little explanation of what to do. ( Edited 28.04.2018 21:29 by Trepe ) Edit this post: I gave up on Xenoblade Chronicles 2 after playing about 10-12 hours of it and didn't touch it again for weeks after. Recently I decided to give it another go and slogged through another 10 or so hours. Once I got to 20 hours in I finally started enjoying it more and got hooked.  In the end I enjoyed it and think it's a really good RPG, but the initial slog through the beginning of the game would be enough to put anyone off and it's a shame. The story is completely stupid and doesn't always even make sense but I enjoyed it because of the character development and themes of the story as a whole. It also had a nice payoff at the end which made some of the odder aspects of the story make sense. I finished the game after about 110 hours.   So, in the end, I'd recommend it for anyone who loves RPGs. Just be prepared for a slog at the start and some annoying English voice work (especially the fact that the same phrases are repeated thousand of times over and will probably drive you crazy) and a very confusing and convoluted battle system which is hard to understand at first (and you may still not  have a grip of it by the time you finish the game) but does ease you into it somewhat, although with very little explanation of what to do. Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: jesusraz 28.04.2018 #22 - Bad voice acting - Painful start to the game (understatement, since 'start' equates to 10+ hours here!) - Convoluted / confusing battle system Spot on, Trepe! I think I preferred XCX over this in the end... Have the DLC updates made much difference, do you know? Edit this post: - Bad voice acting - Painful start to the game (understatement, since 'start' equates to 10+ hours here!) - Convoluted / confusing battle system  Spot on, Trepe! I think I preferred XCX over this in the end... Have the DLC updates made much difference, do you know? Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Adam Riley [ Director :: Cubed3 ] UNITE714: Weekly Prayers | Bible Verses Link to this post: Trepe 29.04.2018 #23 Adam Riley said: - Bad voice acting - Painful start to the game (understatement, since 'start' equates to 10+ hours here!) - Convoluted / confusing battle system Spot on, Trepe! I think I preferred XCX over this in the end... Have the DLC updates made much difference, do you know? I haven't bought any DLC, £26 is a lot. I preferred XCX too. XC2 isn't a big a game as X I loved the scale of X and the seemless exploration, but XC2's world feel tiny in comparison and they're all separated, so lots of loading screens. I think X's worlds look nicer too. The combat in X was relatively straight forward too yet still pretty satisfying, especially when you upgrade to a mech and can fly anywhere. Xenoblade Chronicles 2 feels like a downgrade in some respects. Although the character models in X weren't that great and XC2 has better character development and more story. ( Edited 29.04.2018 08:58 by Adam Riley ) Edit this post: [quote][b]Adam Riley said:[/b] - Bad voice acting - Painful start to the game (understatement, since 'start' equates to 10+ hours here!) - Convoluted / confusing battle system  Spot on, Trepe! I think I preferred XCX over this in the end... Have the DLC updates made much difference, do you know?[/quote]  I haven't bought any DLC, £26 is a lot. I preferred XCX too. XC2 isn't a big a game as X I loved the scale of X and the seemless exploration, but XC2's world feel tiny in comparison and they're all separated, so lots of loading screens. I think X's worlds look nicer too. The combat in X was relatively straight forward too yet still pretty satisfying, especially when you upgrade to a mech and can fly anywhere. Xenoblade Chronicles 2 feels like a downgrade in some respects. Although the character models in X weren't that great and XC2 has better character development and more story. Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: Insanoflex 29.08.2018 #24 im about 50 hours into this game and its showing no signs of closure. how in the name of sega genesis did they get away with making such a long RPG?? Edit this post: im about 50 hours into this game and its showing no signs of closure.  how in the name of sega genesis did they get away with making such a long RPG?? Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Link to this post: RudyC3 31.08.2018 #25 Insanoflex said: im about 50 hours into this game and its showing no signs of closure. how in the name of sega genesis did they get away with making such a long RPG?? Took me 300 hours or so to complete everything, and that was before they started adding free content through patch updates. Now there's a whole bunch of other blades and quests I haven't done and for which I should go back in, but probably not until the Torna expansion releases next month. I'm busy enough as it is. Edit this post: [quote][b]Insanoflex said:[/b] im about 50 hours into this game and its showing no signs of closure.  how in the name of sega genesis did they get away with making such a long RPG??[/quote] Took me 300 hours or so to complete everything, and that was before they started adding free content through patch updates. Now there's a whole bunch of other blades and quests I haven't done and for which I should go back in, but probably not until the Torna expansion releases next month. I'm busy enough as it is. Save Changes Cancel Full Edit Cubed3 Limited Staff :: Review and Feature Writer Link to this post: «s previous 1 2 next » Reply to this topic To post in the forums please login or sign up to join the Cubed3 community! Sign Up for Free Account Login Subscribe to this topic If you are a registered member and logged in, you can also subscribe to topics by email. Features Review: StarVaders (PC) Review: Resident Evil (PC) Review: Ys VIII: Lacrimosa of Dana (PlayStation 5) Review: Reynatis (Nintendo Switch) Review: Grand Theft Auto (PlayStation) Show More Review: RPG Maker With (Nintendo Switch) Review: 7 Days of Rose (Nintendo Switch) Review: Haunted House (Xbox Series X/S) Review: Ravenswatch (PlayStation 5) News: Method 360 ANC earbuds Review: Pathologic 2 (Xbox Series X/S) Review: Baten Kaitos I & II HD Remaster (Nintendo Switch) Headlines Latest News: Picross S Doraemon & F Characters Edition Announced News: My Father Lied Kickstarter Announcement Nintendo Announces Nintendo Switch 2 Console United Kingdom Petition Launches to Prevent Online Video Games from Being Destroyed koROBO Hits Initial Crowdfunding Target European Union Petition Launches to Prevent Online Video Games from Being Destroyed Show More Celebrate Pokémon Go’s 7th Birthday with Merchoid T-Shirts CRKD Launching Nitro Deck for Nintendo Switch Glasgow Anime and Gaming Con 2023! Picross returns with a new title and a sale! News: Super Mario Bros Movie Direct 9th March 2023 News: Professor Layton and the New World of Steam announced! Forums All Topics Gaming Last Post Wins and nbsp;(locked) 8046 C3's missing members 606 Old David Wise, or New David Wise? 4 Rate the latest film youve watched 815 APRIL 10 MY BIRTHDAY 16 Dissapointing camera 16 Show More Genres- not worth a lot, are they? 15 Will there be a Revo AND a Cube section of the forum? 38 SCIII On Revolution and XBOX2? 27 Nobuo Uematsu to concert in UK 11 RUMOUR: Metroid Prime: Hunters - Fully Online 38 New Nintendogs Add 9 Game Music Tracks 18 Cerulean Dreams (DS game) 16 Nanostray delayed 5 Sega give shadow the hedgehog a chance at his own story!!!!! 63 Dumbass 82 deviantART 23 Free Ipods - can we ban these? 39 Review: Xenoblade Chronicles 2 27 Changes to C3- I like them 78 Warning, gets disgusting 39 [56K WARNING] Funny Pictures of Reggie! 14 Extreme Bouts of Boredum 27 Newb 43 Old David Wise, or New David Wise? 4 Dissapointing camera 16 Will there be a Revo AND a Cube section of the forum? 38 SCIII On Revolution and XBOX2? 27 Nobuo Uematsu to concert in UK 11 RUMOUR: Metroid Prime: Hunters - Fully Online 38 Show More New Nintendogs Add 9 Game Music Tracks 18 Cerulean Dreams (DS game) 16 Nanostray delayed 5 Sega give shadow the hedgehog a chance at his own story!!!!! 63 [56K WARNING] Funny Pictures of Reggie! 14 Media Videos Screens Biomutant (Nintendo Switch) Anker Soundcore (Nintendo Switch) The Punchuin (Nintendo Switch) Show More Search All Videos Silent Hill 2 (PlayStation 5) The Lord of the Rings: Gollum (PlayStation 5) Super Mario 3D World (Nintendo Switch) Evergate (Nintendo Switch) Project CARS 3 (PlayStation 4) Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 1 + 2 (Xbox One) Microsoft Flight Simulator (PC) Radiant Historia: Perfect Chronology (Nintendo 3DS) Crossniq (PC) StarVaders (PC) Haydee (PC) Resident Evil (PC) Show More Search All Screens Ys VIII: Lacrimosa of Dana (PlayStation 5) Reynatis (Nintendo Switch) Grand Theft Auto (PlayStation) RPG Maker With (Nintendo Switch) 7 Days of Rose (Nintendo Switch) Haunted House (Xbox Series X/S) Ravenswatch (PlayStation 5) Gas Station Simulator (Nintendo Switch) Pathologic 2 (Xbox Series X/S) Site Feed All Status jb replied to: Last Post Wins 29.04.2025 jb replied to: Last Post Wins 29.04.2025 jb replied to: Last Post Wins 29.04.2025 Dragon0085 reviewed: StarVaders (PC) 29.04.2025 Show More jb replied to: Last Post Wins 27.04.2025 Sandy Wilson replied to: Last Post Wins 27.04.2025 Insanoflex replied to: Last Post Wins 26.04.2025 jesusraz replied to: Last Post Wins 25.04.2025 Ofisil replied to: Last Post Wins 25.04.2025 Flynnie replied to: Last Post Wins 24.04.2025 jesusraz replied to: Last Post Wins 24.04.2025 Azuardo replied to: Last Post Wins 23.04.2025 Insanoflex replied to: Last Post Wins 23.04.2025 jb replied to: Last Post Wins 23.04.2025 Ofisil reviewed: Resident Evil (PC) 22.04.2025 Nayu reviewed: Ys VIII: Lacrimosa of Dana (PlayStation 5) 20.04.2025 Insanoflex reviewed: Reynatis (Nintendo Switch) 18.04.2025 Ofisil reviewed: Grand Theft Auto (PlayStation) 18.04.2025 Insanoflex reviewed: RPG Maker With (Nintendo Switch) 17.04.2025 Nayu reviewed: 7 Days of Rose (Nintendo Switch) 17.04.2025 dojo : back 17.05.2015 davyK : reviewing Mushihimesama Futari 15.03.2015 swager21 : ream Codes 2600-0218-7298 2100-1219-7177 3200-1562-9686 1400-0420-7948 3400 28.02.2015 Cheesing It Up : . 22.02.2015 Show More Arch_Enemy : alive 12.02.2015 Marzeee : ♪ Anata no konbini, tomato ma-to! ♪ 23.01.2015 Marzeee : Rosalina basically got turned into a female Waluigi in Super Mario Galaxy 2 14.01.2015 Marzeee : Rosalina basically got turned female Waluigi in Super Mario Galaxy 2 14.01.2015 Marzeee : Rosalina is basically got turned female Waluigi in Super Mario Galaxy 2 14.01.2015 hallesofia : If anyone wants to play New Leaf, DM me!!! :) 13.01.2015 The Mega Lettuce : Hello ^_^. I am the Director/Founder/Lead Developer of DTL 3 Fan Project 19.12.2014 LKR000 : Can't play Smash U because of this dreaded error code 160-1710 :( 05.12.2014 LKR000 : Can't play smash cause of this dread error code 160-1710 :( 05.12.2014 Mighty Mega : Need event diancie!! anyone have it for trade? 30.11.2014 Mush : I don't know about you, but I'm feeling 22. (HAPPY BIRTHDAY ME.) 24.11.2014 Sonic_13 : Smash! 20.11.2014 krissyskywalker : Online 13.11.2014 krissyskywalker : Online 08.11.2014 Falkon : Online 30.10.2014 krissyskywalker : Online 26.10.2014 Who's Online? Azuardo There are 1 members online at the moment. About Contact Advertise Archive Feeds Facebook Twitter YouTube Site Map Top © Cubed3 Limited 2003 - 2025 | Privacy | Manage Cookie Settings