The Economics of Tesla’s Batteries Business Skip to content News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Trade Search Search Please fill out this field. Search Search Please fill out this field. News News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Follow Us Table of Contents Expand Table of Contents Tesla’s Endeavors Understanding Current Batteries Tesla’s Car Batteries Competition in Electric Batteries FAQs The Bottom Line Company Profiles Transportation Companies The Economics of Tesla’s Batteries Business By Julie Young Full Bio Julie Young is an experienced financial writer and editor. She specializes in financial analysis in capital planning and investment management. Learn about our editorial policies Updated December 02, 2021 Reviewed by Somer Anderson Reviewed by Somer Anderson Full Bio ​Somer G. Anderson is CPA, doctor of accounting, and an accounting and finance professor who has been working in the accounting and finance industries for more than 20 years. Her expertise covers a wide range of accounting, corporate finance, taxes, lending, and personal finance areas. Learn about our Financial Review Board Fact checked by Suzanne Kvilhaug Fact checked by Suzanne Kvilhaug Full Bio Suzanne is a content marketer, writer, and fact-checker. She holds a Bachelor of Science in Finance degree from Bridgewater State University and helps develop content strategies. Learn about our editorial policies Close Tesla ( TSLA ) is a U.S. automotive and energy company based in Palo Alto, California. The company manufactures electric cars and solar panels as well as batteries and aeronautics. Tesla operates six "gigafactories" around the world to produce its eponymous electric vehicles as well as rechargeable batteries to power them. Supplier relationships and how battery-related revenue is doing can be a key driver for Tesla. Tesla produces most of its batteries through a partnership with Panasonic, but it has since diversified to other suppliers as well as producing some batteries in-house. In 2022, CEO Elon Musk set the goal of producing 1,000 gigawatt-hours of battery capacity in the United States, but it is not clear when he hopes to reach that goal. Key Takeaways Tesla is a leading producer of electric cars and rechargeable batteries. Tesla entered the electric batteries market more prominently in 2015. The 2015 Tesla Energy announcement debuted an electric home battery and an electric grid battery solution. Before that, in 2014, Tesla partnered with Panasonic to work jointly in Tesla’s Gigafactory to help the company produce all of its batteries. Tesla’s Endeavors Elon Musk is the CEO (and face) of Tesla, the electric car company. Musk is also responsible for the spaceflight company, SpaceX, which sends rockets into space to restock the international space station. He is known for the proposed high-speed underground transportation system linking Los Angeles to San Francisco, called the Hyperloop. When people complained that Tesla's all-electric cars were too expensive for the middle class and that their driving range between charges was too short, Musk promised to work with battery manufacturers to cut costs and improve efficiency. When progress with its battery suppliers was too slow, Tesla took steps to get into the battery business more deeply. Then, in 2015, Elon Musk announced the company was going to start making solar batteries. The 2015 announcement helped to shore up more bargaining power with suppliers, while also introducing Tesla’s own lines of electric, solar batteries. Understanding Current Batteries Batteries are solid-state devices that store and release electrical current, powering an array of consumer electronics, cars, home utilities, and other devices. Lithium-ion (LiOn) is the key ingredient in most batteries. LiOn is also the main component of most rechargeable batteries. Rechargeable batteries have become widely used in many applications. Different variations of them can now be found in everything from mobile phones and tablets to laptop computers and electric vehicles. While microchips and integrated circuits have become exponentially more powerful, smaller and cheaper battery technology has lagged. Improvements in LiOn batteries have been small and incremental. In a modern smartphone, the computational effort is packed into a tiny portion of the device while the battery takes up most of the available space. The battery is also a large factor in the total cost of the device. For electric vehicles, the problem is compounded. Electric cars are essentially an array of battery packs on wheels. Under the hood, you will find batteries and a battery-charged motor, which alleviates the need for any gas. Lithium, however, can be an unstable substance. Therefore the batteries must be built carefully so that they avoid damage during a typical car accident. Even small amounts of exposure to air or water can make lithium burst into flames. Ensuring that each battery is properly sealed and secured is an added cost. Fast Fact An SEC lawsuit heightened Tesla's visibility in late 2018. The lawsuit alleged that Tesla's CEO Elon Musk made "false and misleading statements" on Twitter (now X) about the possibility of taking the company private. Tesla's share price fell by approximately 10% following the news of the lawsuit. Tesla’s Car Batteries Beginning solar battery manufacturing in 2015 helped bring Tesla more powerfully into the electric battery business. This also gave it a little more leverage in the production of its own car batteries. As of 2021, Tesla partners with Panasonic for its car battery building. Panasonic also supports the efforts of all battery manufacturing in Tesla’s Gigafactory. The partnership gives Panasonic a significant portion of space in the Gigafactory, which makes transporting Panasonic’s contributions simplified for the overall manufacturing process. Its growing foothold in the batteries business has helped it to increasingly improve the cost structure for its cars while also maintaining a pretty big lead ahead of its competitors. The pair—Tesla and Panasonic—are now looking to use a prototype battery that will lower production costs. Important The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act of 2021 will provide support for the electric vehicle industry—$7.5 billion of the bill’s total $550 billion in funding will be allocated to invest in a network of EV charging stations across the U.S. This could address one of the major disadvantages to EVs—lack of access to charging stations. The Tesla Energy Batteries Announcement Elon Musk’s May 2015 announcement was much anticipated. In May 2015, Musk announced Tesla Energy, expanding the company’s capabilities into a new reporting segment, now called energy generation and storage. The two inaugural products were a home battery and a grid battery. The new batteries build out the concept of electric storage. To support this segment the company has built an enormous battery factory (appropriately named a Gigafactory) in the Nevada desert. Its vision suggests as many as 10 Gigafactories around the world. $3.9B The amount of revenue generated by Tesla's energy generation and storage segment in 2022—which was 4.7% of the company's total revenue. That's a 39% increase from the previous year. Tesla's Powerwall The Powerwall is the home battery. The first-generation Powerwall was launched in 2015. An updated Powerwall 2.0 was announced in October 2016 with twice the storage capacity of the original. In 2021, two Powerwall batteries with supporting hardware cost $17,000. Installation can also cost anywhere from $12,000 to $16,500, according to EnergySage, a platform that researches and compares solar installation prices and companies. To install the Powerwall as part of a solar-plus-storage system requires an energy system like solar. An average of 5 kilowatts (kW) solar energy system costs between $9,000 to $15,000 depending on the location and the equipment. Although it might be costlier than other options in the initial stages, installing a solar-plus-storage system can be a worthwhile investment. The Powerwall can be used as a backup generator. Tesla owners can also use Powerwall for the home as well as to charge their electric vehicles. Note that Tesla bundles its Powerwall with its Solar Roof product (previously sold separately). The Solar Roof, unlike solar panels, replaces a home's entire roof—replacing standard shingles with tempered glass panels. Tesla's Megapack The Powerpack is a grid battery, which is being phased out and replaced with the Megapack. This battery is intended to provide electric energy for much more than just a single home. One of the greatest advantages is the ability to potentially take an entire interconnected ecosystem entirely off the grid. The Megapack is also known for its extraordinary backup capabilities. The complexities of the Megapack limit its use on a large scale. Competition in Electric Batteries Tesla relies heavily on Panasonic for much of its battery manufacturing and car batteries, although it's tried to reduce that reliance of late. Other electric car manufacturers are also making inroads. In-home and grid batteries, Tesla is not the only manufacturer. In home-powered solar batteries, Tesla competes with LG, Orison, Sonnen, SimpliPhi Power, and Sunverge. In electric grid energy, the contenders include Strata Solar, AES, and NextEra. Electric car batteries and solar-powered battery charging are technologies that are evolving. For car buyers, a Tesla car still ranks at the luxury sportscar level when it comes to price, but these prices are falling. For home and grid energy, the goal is to reduce costs through stored energy. Home and grid costs can be significantly reduced when stored energy is used but manufacturing and installation costs still make the implementation cost high which requires longevity for an actual return on the investment. It's worth noting that Tesla is still very much a car company that relies heavily on car sales, leasing and related services—roughly 87% of revenues in 2022 came from the automotive business. The gross profit for the energy generation and storage segment for the same period was $288 million. How Long Does a Tesla Battery Last? Tesla is constantly working to improve battery chemistry and design, so results will vary by year and model. As of 2022, the average Tesla battery lasted between 300 and 400 miles on a single charge and had a life expectancy between 300,000 and 500,000 miles. The warranty covers the batteries for 8 years or 150,000 miles, whichever one comes first. How Much Does a Tesla Battery Cost? Batteries are the most expensive part of an electric car, and replacements are also pricey. Exact replacement costs vary with the model and year, but they can range from $5,000 to $20,000 including the cost of labor. How Much Energy Does a Tesla Battery Hold? The exact energy capacity of a Tesla battery will depend on the make, model, and age of the battery. The capacity of a 2023 Model Y battery has been estimated at between 67 and 81 KWh, depending on the model. The Bottom Line Tesla is one of the world's leading providers of electric cars, and the company also manufactures rechargeable batteries for those vehicles as well. As demand for the vehicles improves, the company hopes to scale up its battery business to become a global provider. Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. Inside EVs. " What Batteries Are Tesla Producing in its Electric Cars ?" CleanTechnica. " Tesla to Build 1,000 GWh of Battery Cells Domestically, Over Double Entire World's Output in 2022 ." U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. " Form 10-K, Tesla Motors, Inc. ." Page 5. Tesla. " Panasonic and Tesla Sign Agreement for the Gigafactory ." Harvard Business Review. " Tesla Is Betting on Solar, Not Just Batteries ." U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. " Elon Musk Settles SEC Fraud Charges; Tesla Charged With and Resolves Securities Law Charge ." Yahoo Finance. " Tesla, Inc. (TSLA) ." Financial Times. " Panasonic Plays Down Fears Over Tesla’s Battery Ambitions ." The White House. “ Updated Fact Sheet: Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act .” Tesla. " Tesla Gigafactory ." U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. " Annual Report by Tesla, Inc ." Page 37-38. EnergySage. " The Tesla Powerwall Home Battery Complete Review ." EnergySage. " How Long Does a Tesla Battery Last ?" Insurify. " Tesla Battery Replacement Cost in 2023 ." Inside EVs. " 2023 Model Y: Same EPA Range, Now Cheaper than Ever ." Take the Next Step to Invest Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Partner Links Related Articles 5 Companies Owned by Carnival Corp. (CCL) Tesla: The True Untold Story Valuing Startup Ventures American Express's Main Competition How BlackRock Makes Money 5 Reasons Why RadioShack Went Out of Business 5 Companies Owned by Comcast Top 3 Companies Owned by Facebook (Meta) 3 Companies Owned by General Electric Costco vs. Sam's Club: What's the Difference? The Evolution of the Coca-Cola Brand Target's Circle Card: What You Need to Know What Are the 3 Stages of the IPO Life Cycle? Why Is There an IPO Lockup Period and How Long Does It Last? Top 10 Largest Global IPOs of All Time Top Pfizer Shareholders About Us Terms of Service Dictionary Editorial Policy Advertise News Privacy Policy Contact Us Careers Your Privacy Choices # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Investopedia is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies