The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (2005 film) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Plot 2 Cast 3 Release 4 Reception 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (2005 film) 4 languages Cymraeg فارسی Français Polski Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article is missing information about the film's production, and theatrical release. Please expand the article to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page . ( May 2018 ) 2005 American film The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari Theatrical release poster Directed by David Lee Fisher Screenplay by David Lee Fisher Story by Hans Janowitz Carl Mayer Produced by Paula Elins Leonard McLeod Starring Judson Pearce Morgan Daamen J. Krall Doug Jones Lauren Birkell Cinematography Christopher Duddy Edited by David Lee Fisher Music by Eban Schletter Production company Highlander Films Distributed by Image Entertainment Release date October 22, 2005 ( 2005-10-22 ) Running time 76 minutes Country United States Language English The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari is a 2005 American horror film directed by David Lee Fisher, who also co-wrote the film's screenplay, and is a remake of the 1920 silent film of the same name . It was released in the U.S. at the ScreamFest Film Festival on October 22, where it won three prizes: the Audience Choice Award, Best Cinematography and Best Special Effects. [ 1 ] Plot [ edit ] The plot is similar to that of the original film with extra dialogue scenes. The film tells the story of the deranged Dr. Caligari and his faithful sleepwalking minion Cesare and their connection to a string of murders in a German mountain village, Holstenwall. The movie features a " frame story " in which the body of the plot is presented as a flashback, as told by Francis. The narrator, Francis, and his friend Alan visit a carnival in the village where they see Dr. Caligari and Cesare, whom the doctor is displaying as an attraction. Caligari brags that Cesare can answer any question he is asked. When Alan asks Cesare how long he has to live, Cesare tells Alan that he will die tomorrow at dawn — a prophecy which turns out to be fulfilled. Francis, along with his girlfriend Jane, investigate Caligari and Cesare, which eventually leads to Jane's kidnapping by Cesare. Caligari orders Cesare to kill Jane, but the hypnotized slave refuses after her beauty captivates him. He carries Jane out of her house, leading Jane's father and brother on a chase.  Cesare is stabbed to death after being pursued by Jane's brother, and Francis discovers that Caligari had created an illusion of Cesare to distract him. Francis discovers that "Caligari" is the head of the local insane asylum, and with the help of his colleagues discovers that he is obsessed with the story of a medieval Dr. Caligari, who used a somnambulist to murder people as a traveling act.  After being confronted with the dead Cesare, Caligari breaks down, reveals his mania and is imprisoned in his own asylum. The " twist ending " reveals that Francis' flashback is his fantasy: The man he claims is Caligari is indeed his doctor in the asylum, who, after this revelation of the source of his patient's delusion, claims to be able to cure him. Cast [ edit ] Judson Pearce Morgan as Francis Geist Daamen J. Krall as Dr. Daamen Caligari Doug Jones as Cesare Lauren Birkell as Jane Stern Neil Hopkins as Alan William Gregory Lee as Joseph Stern Randy Mulkey as Inspector Time Winters as Dr. Gabriel Stern Richard Herd as Commissioner Hans Raab Tim Russ as Town clerk Brian Farber as Burly Man #2/Cloaked man Release [ edit ] The film was released on DVD by Image on October 22, 2005. [ 2 ] Reception [ edit ] On Rotten Tomatoes , the film holds an approval rating of 43% based on 7 reviews , with a weighted average rating of 5/10. [ 3 ] On Metacritic , which assigns a normalized rating to reviews, the film has a weighted average score of 62 out of 100, based on 5 critics, indicating "Generally favorable reviews". [ 4 ] Neil Genzlinger from the New York Times noted that Fisher had "out-disoriented the original", although he felt it wasn't in the way the director intended. Genzlinger concluded his review by calling the film "Scary, disturbing, intriguing, all at once" [ 5 ] TV Guide 's Maitland McDonagh awarded the film 3/5 stars, commending Hopkins, Kraal, and Jones' performances as well as the digital recreation of the original film's artificial backdrops. [ 6 ] R. Emmet Sweeney from The Village Voice gave the film a negative review, writing, "Although technically impressive, the remake is dramatically inert, as the set becomes a motionless backdrop to theatrical line readings instead of a pulsing manifestation of diseased minds. It’s Caligari embalmed. The plot is followed to the letter, and as Cesare, Doug Jones displays a wounded sensitivity that honors Conrad Veidt’s celebrated turn. But there’s nothing here to keep you from renting Robert Wiene’s timeless masterpiece instead." [ 7 ] Ed Gonzalez from Slant Magazine offered similar criticism, stating that the director's determination to recreate the original film resulted in revealing the original's "unsophisticated storytelling and limited feeling". [ 8 ] References [ edit ] ^ "2005 Archive" . SCREAMFEST . Retrieved 2021-06-03 . ^ "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (2006) - David Lee Fisher" . Allmovie.com . AllMovie . Retrieved 29 May 2018 . ^ "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (2006) - Rotten Tomatoes" . Rotten Tomatoes.com . Flixer . Retrieved 29 May 2018 . ^ "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari Reviews - Metacritic" . Metacritic.com . Metacritic . Retrieved 29 May 2018 . ^ Genzlinger, Neil (25 October 2006). "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari - Movies - Review - The New York Times" . The New York Times . Retrieved 29 May 2018 . ^ McDonagh, Maitland. "The Cabinet Of Dr. Caligari - Movie Reviews and Movie Ratings" . TV Guide.com . Maitland McDonagh . Retrieved 29 May 2018 . ^ Sweeney, R. (17 October 2006). "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari" . Village Voice.com . R. Emmet Sweeney . Retrieved 29 May 2018 . ^ Gonzalez, Ed (14 October 2006). "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari" . Slant Magazine.com . Ed Gonzalez . Retrieved 29 May 2018 . External links [ edit ] The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari at IMDb The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari at Metacritic The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari at Rotten Tomatoes ScreamFest - official website The Doug Jones Experience [ usurped ] - Doug Jones as 'Cesare' IGN interview Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Cabinet_of_Dr._Caligari_(2005_film)&oldid=1270317896 " Categories : 2005 films 2005 horror films 2000s English-language films American black-and-white films American independent films American remakes of German films Circus films Films about hypnosis Films set in psychiatric hospitals Fiction with unreliable narrators Horror film remakes American mad scientist films Sound film remakes of silent films 2000s American films English-language horror films Saturn Award–winning films Hidden categories: Use American English from January 2025 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Articles to be expanded from May 2018 Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Template film date with 1 release date Rotten Tomatoes ID same as Wikidata Rotten Tomatoes template using name parameter This page was last edited on 19 January 2025, at 00:02 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (2005 film) 4 languages Add topic