Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/changemyview A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to changemyview r/changemyview r/changemyview A place to post an opinion you accept may be flawed, in an effort to understand other perspectives on the issue. Enter with a mindset for conversation, not debate. Members Online • SimonTVesper CMV: PragerU should not be allowed to call itself a "university." Delta(s) from OP PragerU is an American media company that specializes in producing propaganda for the American conservative ideology . Their YouTube channel has over 2.85 million subscribers and their videos are (collectively) viewed billions of times each year. Their content is far from the political center, even ( arguably ) extreme and far right, and often fails to pass the most basic scrutiny (in terms of factual references and logical conclusions). They should not be allowed to use the term "university" in their name. (EDIT 2: Uh . . . wow. Okay, I knew this would be a controversial topic but I wasn't expecting this kind of response. For the sake of authenticity, I'm not going to change anything already written here. It's clear that my initial argument wasn't as strong as I could have made it. Instead, I want to provide clarification below. Anything after the EDIT notes is new(ish) material.) (Many thanks for the awards and as I stated yesterday, I will try to get around to giving deltas in the comments. I consider any slight change in my perspective as being worth the recognition, including just offering clarification on something.) My argument rests on three key considerations: The word carries a specific connotation, that of a respected institution dedicated to the advancement of knowledge and learning in the world. By using this word in the title of their organization, Prager is creating a positive association between their platform and an officially recognized institution of higher education. (Although the organization specifically states they are not a university, nor have they ever claimed to be, this is partly a lie by virtue of their use of the term. In other words, why use the word if they're not trying to communicate a specific message about their status as a platform for spreading media content, "education" (i.e. rhetoric) and propaganda?) There exists a process by which a higher education center can be given the title of "university." This process is a self-policing one, as the organizations responsible for assigning (and reviewing) accreditation status are independent (i.e. civilian-based) and are only beholden to the government in specific instances. In theory, an organization can establish standards for certifying an institution as a university while failing to meet the government's criteria and their process would be acceptable on the basis that they're consistent and independent from the universities they certify. (Most accreditation organizations actively work to meet the government's standards because running a university is something of a business and the government guarantees cash flow in the form of student loans; yet a certifying body that fails to meet this criteria could still theoretically function in its primary role.) If we consider other organizations with "official" terms in their titles, we find that one cannot simply give themselves the name without having the proper certification or backing. There are no civilian police or firefighting organizations, for instance; likewise, a hospital must meet strict standards before it can call itself a hospital. Allowing the opposite only harms public trust in these institutions and make it harder for the official organizations to provide their service. I am not advocating for restricting an individual's or organization's freedom of expression. This is not an anti-free speech position. Rather, I'm saying that certain institutions are deserving of respect and a position of importance in our society, and that a person or organization should not label themselves as one of these institutions without first meeting criteria established by an independent body composed of members from that professional field. PragerU does not claim to be a university and does not offer degrees, but those facts are buried in their resources; they're not made front and center in their presentation of themselves to the public. They know what they're doing: they're using the title "university" to create an association in the public's mind, however small or tenuous, as a means to bolster their arguments and help spread their propaganda. This harms public trust in actual universities (and in the value of obtaining a university degree); it's deceitful and misleading; and since PragerU admits to not having obtained accreditation, they should not be allowed to use the word as part of their name.* (side note: I believe this standard should apply to all organizations that fail to meet accreditation standards, regardless of the education or services they provide. I also believe we should establish stricter standards for organizations that wish to add "News" to their title, in an effort to reinforce public trust in journalism.) Change my view. EDIT: Many excellent points have been brought up so far and I thank you all for the discussion. I have other obligations for the evening but I shall return to review and award deltas as appropriate.  (I suspect there's more than a few deserving below). *Also, I want to make a clarification: my statement about Prager not making their "not a university" status apparent is based on my first exposure to the organization. I can see now that it's easier than I recall to determine that they're not, in fact, an institution to be taken seriously. However . . . I have personal experience with friends and family who do take them seriously, and I find this very disturbing (for many reasons, yes, but mainly because no one should be quoting them in a serious discussion). EDIT 2: ok, here goes . . . First, "anyone who would think PragerU is a real university is . . ." If we take this in the best possible light, it means that Prager is obviously not a real university in the same way that Brazzers is obviously not a place for higher education. This does not excuse the fact that Prager is holding itself out to be some sort of educational institute. If you search for "PragerU" in Google, the second hit is to the Wikpedia page, which explains that the name is short for "Prager University." When you go to their YouTube page, the design and aesthetics, coupled with the use of the word "university" in their name, suggests that the channel belongs to a legitimate university and is being provided as a free educational service for the general public. If we go to Prager's site, specifically their "about" page, we find this: Prager University is the world's leading conservative nonprofit that is focused on changing minds through the creative use of digital media. Doesn't say they're not a proper university, does it? Yes, I understand, there is a "disclaimer" of sorts that we can find through their webpage . . . but the point is that it isn't necessarily easy to find. I realize that many people in these comments were able to find this information . . . but some people admitted to having trouble with it. Some people admitted to thinking that PragerU is the forward facing campaign for a legitimate university. Personally, yes, I thought they were legit when I first learned of them, though I quickly discovered that they're not by checking out reviews of their content . . . but that's the point . Not enough people in this world are so diligent as to not be taken in by this deception. Second, I see comparisons made to "Marxist universities" and "leftist news organizations" and . . . let's try to understand these concerns from a position of good faith. Marxism is an economic philosophy that (very, very, very generally) teaches us that the product of labor should belong directly to the people who labored. That's it. That's the philosophy. Granted, yes, there's more to Marxism than that. There's at least a dozen philosophical branches, possibly more if we account for all the ways Marxism can intersect with other philosophies, or with political science, sociology, psychology, history, etc. In other words, we can't treat the comparison between Prager and "Marxist universities" as worth exploring unless we first define our terms; and so far, I haven't seen a definition, so I'm left to work with what I know: that "Marxist universities" is a piece of rhetoric designed to scare people into thinking they're going to be forced to . . . do something . . . bad, I guess. It's worth noting that the question, "what about University X? Should they be required to drop the word from their title?" is easily answered with: yes. In order to implement a standard, by which one governing body is able to restrict the use of a given word in a very narrow and specific application, we'd have to have reasonable standards in place. Anyone who doesn't meet those standards could be subject to sanctions or fines, or perhaps another form of punishment. Frankly, the exact actions taken against an offender are immaterial; what matters is that some action is allowed. (I will grant, to those who have delved into the specifics, that it's possible no such action can be seen as practical or reasonable. We can't know that for certainty without taking the time to explore, of course, and what I'm ultimately advocating for is a declaration of intent: that we, as a society, value the use of this term in a specific context and thus, we will put forth the effort to limit its abuse.) Regarding the comparison to news organizations, we should realize that it was included in the original post as an example of how professional organizations can (and probably should) exist for more groups than we currently have. I'm perfectly comfortable with an independent civilian governing body that defines standards for journalistic work, that reviews the work of various news organizations, and that issues sanctions or reprimands against those orgs that claim to be producing news-related content, but in fact fail to meet the minimum professional standards. Yes, I realize it'd be difficult to implement such a program. Yes, I realize there's the possibility for abuse. But these are statements about how we go about achieving a goal. They are not statements about if we should bother with that goal in the first place. Third, there is the point that no such governing body currently exists; that is to say, if we were to try and restrict the use of the word "university," we'd have to create a professional civilian group that is responsible for defining standards and enforcing them. This is true. I did not specify the need to create such a body in my original points above. This is also true. Consider this an amendment: I believe we should have a governing body, possibly the accreditation system that already exists, be responsible for assessing an institution's status as a university and for levying sanctions against those who do not meet the requirements yet insist on calling themselves one. (It was also pointed out that, since such a civilian group already exists and they've chosen not to go down this route, there's probably some good reasons behind that choice. I can accept this, though I'd be curious to understand what those reasons are.) Naturally, this brings up two questions: who should be required to remove the word from their title and how do we prevent other words from being adopted in their place? For instance, should we consider Hamburger University to be inappropriate? What about Brazzers University ? As stated, I'm okay with the idea that McDonald's can't use the term because, although they offer a professional development program, it doesn't translate to the university system; and if they change their program to meet the proper standards, then they can use the title. The latter, however, falls into the legal status of fair use or parody. That is also something that would have to be hammered out and would probably fall on the side of the "free speech" argument. Since there's no real harm involved with a deli on your local campus calling itself University Lunch , there's no foul in allowing them to use the word. And this brings us to the fourth major argument against this change: that Prager is doing nothing wrong. For this, I want to set aside the political divide, as it's really not germane. The issue I take with Prager ~ and with any organization that does the same thing Prager is doing ~ is their claim to possess knowledge and to be educating people, without providing sufficient evidence to back up those claims. And this is not something I'm making up out of thin air. This comes from looking at responses to Prager's videos, like this one about how Prager misleads their audience about the Southern Strategy , this one about how Prager uses specific rhetoric and presentation techniques to make themselves appear legitimate (i.e. believable) when they're not, or this one about how Prager lies about climate change . You can easily find more by searching online for "debunking PragerU" or "PragerU response" (or similar terms). As stated, the issue is not the political positions that Prager takes. It's how they present their ideas and their "information." If there's a left-leaning organization that's doing the exact same thing ~ calling themselves a university for the air of respectability it provides while simultaneously spreading misinformation, disinformation and lies to the general public ~ then yes, obviously they should be required to drop the "university" from their title. The specific harm involved is the promulgation of misleading information. How we interpret information is subject to debate. The conclusions we draw from the facts at hand, is something we should discuss. But the underlying facts themselves should not be subject to obfuscation, misdirection, or outright lies. Unfortunately, being that Prager is located in America and it's not actually a fascist state ~ despite what persons at either extreme might say ~ it's simply not practical or desirable to limit their freedom to misinform, misdirect or lie. Fortunately, nobody is arguing that . Prager is allowed to voice their opinions or conclusions, based on the data they have at hand or the arguments they craft in support of their ideas; and I do not wish to take that away from them. What I am saying is that America should treat universities as deserving of a higher social status than they currently possess, at least insofar as the use of the title is concerned. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 20, 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2020 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics