Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/Games A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to Games r/Games r/Games The goal of /r/Games is to provide a place for informative and interesting gaming content and discussions.  Submissions should be for the purpose of informing or initiating a discussion, not just with the goal of entertaining viewers. Memes, comics, funny screenshots, arts-and-crafts, etc. will be removed. Members Online • timmmy8 The Last of Us Part II: A Look Back at the Major Leaks & Rumours MASSIVE MASSIVE MASSIVE SPOILER WARNING FOR THE LAST OF US PART II, IF YOU HAVE NOT COMPLETED THE GAME, YOU WILL BE SPOILED Here we go, what has undoubtedly been my most requested game to cover in this series, and boooooy is it a biggie. My personal most anticipated game of all time, the sequel to arguably last generation's "game of the generation", comes Naughty Dog's game that is as highly spoken about as much as it was anticipated, The Last of Us Part II. Releasing a whole seven years after the previous game and releasing just before we all embark on a new generation comes a game that has definitely made headlines, a lot of them undesirable. Putting aside these headlines, whether you agree with them or not, there is no denying the hype behind this game, and everyone clawing for information about the game from the moment the first entry ended with that perfect finale way back in 2013. However, this series of posts is about the leaks, and boy was there a big one - unfortunately for Naughty Dog, probably the biggest video game leak ever, and that might ever happen. Fortunately for us, there were other interesting leaks, including slip ups on streams from developers, fake reveals in magazines, and a popular actor leaking that it just might be being worked on. ONCE AGAIN, MASSIVE SPOILER WARNING, YOU WILL HAVE THE GAME SPOILED Now, with that out of the way, lets jump in. May 17, 2013 - Sony Register Domains For Sequels As reported by VG24/7 , a month before The Last of Us releases it seems Sony have registered internet domains for possible sequels, hinting that the series may have a future. Obviously not a real major leak, but it is our first hint that a series may be being considered, rather than a one off. Outcome? Confirmed . May 4, 2014 - Naughty Dog Concept Artist Teases Reveal Marek Okon, talented artist who had worked with Naughty Dog on The Last of Us promotional material, began working on artwork that seems to show fan favourite Ellie . Here is the work-in-progress of the artwork, and as reported by IGN we can see that he also captioned the work with; Let me tease you something... Its coming... ;] Moments after IGN published this article, Okon had this to say; Lol. This is how you know you are teasing your stuff the right way. So before its gonna get blown out of proportions [SP] - its gonna be strictly personal image. Is it about TLOU2? Not really... Maybe... Its classified ;P But seriously its gonna be just a fan art ;] The beautiful finished product is viewable here. So there we have it, Okon himself admitting that it is a piece of personal art and should not be taken as a tease for the second game. Outcome? False. December 21, 2014 - Lead Character Artist's LinkedIN Profile Drops Name Thanks to a discovery from the always reliable NeoGAF highlights how lead character artist from The Last of Us had recently left Naughty Dog - and that the artist in question, Michael Knowland, did indeed have a game on his resume listed as "Unannounced AAA Game", before changing it to; The Last of Us 2 - 1 month prototyping head sculpts While he is not credited with working on the game according to Moby Games , it does seem strange that he would list it without having actually worked on it - going on to his profile now shows that he has since removed the game from his profile. Additionally, it seems that the current lead character artist Frank Tzeng also worked on the game and updated his resume to reflect this around the same time, discovered in the same NeoGAF thread , stating; Helping develop a unannounced AAA game title Outcome? Plausible. I buy into two possible trains of thought - that he did work on The Last of Us Part II briefly, or he did work on Left Behind - the original game's add-on, which launched in 2014 (the year Knowland departed Naughty Dog ). June 25, 2015 - Nolan North Confirms Sequel Being Worked On Everyone's favourite voice actor in gaming Nolan North has seemingly spilled the beans on what Naughty Dog has been up to while answering a question at Metrocon in 2015. He was hosting his own panel when a Q&A seemed to take place and a fan asked him if he was involved in any upcoming Naughty Dog projects to which he responded; For now, last one, I know they're doing Last of Us 2 but my character in Last of Us kinda..kinda *death noise* Of course Nolan would know what Naughty Dog are up to, so this seems like a genuine slip of the tongue. Outcome? Confirmed June 30, 2015 - Troy Baker Denies Working On Sequel Shortly after everyone's favourite voice actor Nolan North has let slip that a sequel is being worked on, it seems that everyone's favourite voice actor Troy Baker has disputed as much. As reported by GameReactor , Baker denies the claim at Indy PopCon 2015 stating; Okay, so I'm... And by the way I know nothing. I don't know if we're gonna do another one or not. If we do, then I trust Neil [Druckmann, creative director] and Bruce [Straley, game director] and everyone at Naughty Dog to tell a story that needs to be told. Outcome? Liar, liar. Baker sums it up right here. September 15, 2015 - Naughty Dog Let Slip Sequel In Development on Live Stream As reported by GamePur , during a live stream for Naughty Dog's Uncharted: The Nathan Drake Collection , held by employees Monacelli, Scherr and Baldwin, it appears one of them let slip a really big clue about there being a sequel game. While talking about animation, one of them is quoted saying the following; and he was the one in charge of face animation for the 3 Uncharted games and the first The Last of Us game… did I just say the first The Last of Us game The team just chalked it up to confusion, but it definitely seems to drop a massive hit that the much desired sequel is being worked on. Outcome? Confirmed . December 3, 2016 - The Last of Us Part II Announced Watch the reveal trailer here! September 28, 2018 - Did PlayStation Leak 2019 Release Window? A thread on reddit seems to have noticed that a video from the PlayStation Music YouTube channel has seemingly listed The Last of Us Part II , followed by "2019". While at the time it was highly speculated, and assumed, that the sequel would be releasing in 2019, there was currently no official word from Naughty Dog or PlayStation that this was the plan. For those hwo want to view it themselves, here is a screenshot courtesy of u/BostonMIT . Outcome? Likely. February 28, 2019 - Peruvian Game Retailer Leaks 2019 Release Window More fuel to add to the 2019-release-bonfire that is only getting larger and larger, with Peruvian retailer LawGamers seemingly releasing promotional material a little bit too early, as reported by The Loot Gaming. The promotional material is viewable right here, and advertises the game with an October 2019 release, supporting the previous two leaks. Outcome? Confirmed. September 24, 2019 - Release Date Announced As February 21, 2020 Watch the reveal trailer here . It does say June 19, 2020 at the end of the trailer but this was not the original upload, it seems they have edited it, here is an article from Variety confirming the February date. October 24, 2019 - Delayed Until May 2020 The Last of Us Part II has been delayed until May 29, 2020 to make sure that the game is up to Naughty Dog standards. April 2, 2020 - Delayed Indefinitely With the global pandemic concerning COVID-19 sweeping the world, Naughty Dog has announced that The Last of Us Part II has been delayed indefinitely due to logistical reasons created by the pandemic. April 3, 2020 - Gameplay Clips Leak Online As reported by PlayStation Lifestyle, it seems that fans have tried to find comfort in the delay by seeing two new gameplay leaks for the game. While the gameplay leaks have obviously been taken down since then, but here is a description from the site Alt Char for the first gameplay leak , It is a short, 30-second video that features Ellie and Dina riding their trusty steeds. Interestingly, Ellie talks about a certain film that she enjoyed in the good old days and to us, it sounds a lot like Spy Kids film. She mentions it has four parts and how Joel saw the last one in theatres The gameplay description for the second leak comes back from PlayStation Lifestyle, and is as follows; The clip starts with an in-game tag that reads “Seattle Day 3,” (similar to the tags found in the original game) then transitions to a scene of Ellie slowly waking up. Once dressed, Ellie begins looking for Dina and Jesse, the latter of whom Ellie speaks with early in the E3 2018 demo. Traversing through what appears to be a backstage area, she soon finds herself in the theater. From there, the character is able to move towards a guitar to practice. Interestingly, it is not just a video that plays while she does this. The player will obviously have plenty of input, using the DualShock 4’s touchpad to strum the guitar, while also cycling between chords via button presses with L1 and R1. It seems a neat touch, a new mechanic that certainly carries weight for those who remember Joel’s promise to Ellie from the original The Last of Us . Outcome? Confirmed. April 4, 2020 - Reddit Comment Shares Spoilery Plot Details It seems that a comment on a reddit post gained some traction after making some pretty bold claims. Someone in the comments of the video said they saw a potentially true leak that says Joel AND Ellie both die. Joel is killed in the first few hours by Abby, the daughter of the surgeon you kill in Part One. This is apparently what happens in that scene in the trailer where Ellie's being held down. Ellie dies at the end of the story, but he wasn't told how. Jesse and Dina live. You play as Abby for half the game. Well, as we know, this is mostly accurate. The reason this one spread like wildfire is that it claims both Ellie and Joel die, when in reality, we all know the truth. But the claim Abby and Joel is very accurate. Outcome? Somewhat Reliable. April 6, 2020 - Did The Whole Plot Get Posted On 4chan? Very big thank you to reddit user u/dediusryan94 who managed to save the big possible leak on 4chan by screenshotting the whole post, and sharing it here on reddit. The whole leak is viewable in an album here, and is quite detailed. For those who cannot view the image, or would rather read the text, here it is. I will also be adding comments about the accuracy of the leak where appropriate. I am the immediate family member of someone working at Naughty Dog The Last of Us 2 As you know TLoU2 will be Ellie centered obviously. The stories main driving point is the romance that briefly kindled between Dina and Ellie. Not entirely accurate, the main point is revenge. Ellie and Joel are distant because of Joel being controlling stemming from the decision in TLoU but are starting to try and mend their relationship. Accurate. There is a love triangle of sorts, not exactly a triangle as its just two people who live Dina, being Jesse and Ellie. Accurate. Jesse (asian guy from the trailers) and Dina were a couple. Dina is bisexual. Accurate. When Jesse and Dina are on the outs of their relationship Dina starts to make advances on Ellie. Accurate. Due to Dina being the girl every guy wants and having a history dating men (men being a central driving force in this story) Ellie is cautious and is unsure of how serious Dina is. Elements of Ellie's caution are seen at the start of the game. However, after several flirtatious gestures Ellie begins to question if Dina really does loves Ellie, and Ellie ultimately begins to fall for her. Accurate. Act 1 concludes with Dina and Ellie sharing an important intimate moment solidifying the relationship through act 1. Not 100% sure on the "acts" but definitely at the start of the game this is accurate. That is until they are interrupted and attacked by a religious sect called the Seraphites (one of 2 groups we encounter, the other being the WLF). Not accurate, while Seraphites are in the game, they are not until later and Ellie encounters them alone. Jackson is also attacked. False. Dina is killed in this attack. False. The Seraphites believe they are angels cleansing the wasteland. The old "the end of the world is cause of the sinners" trope. Accurate. Anyone that is not a Seraphite is considered a "wolf" or "enemy to the flock (the Seraphites)". They also refer to themselves as "lambs". Inaccurate, only the WLF is referred to as "wolf". In the vein of SJW baddies, the Seraphites dont like gays because its a sin. Not 100% sure this is accurate. This is why all their members are *usually* white males with shaven heads of white women. And the few apostates (traitors) that leave the group tend to be minorities. Inaccurate. Ellie vows to get revenge on the group. She does vow revenge, but not on the Seraphites. Jesse joins her (that is Jesse in the trailer grabbing Ellies mouth, not Joel) as he also loved Dina. He is later killed as Ellie watches. Accurate. More on this later. Ellie goes to her old house. False. Then Joel joins her. Until he dies too. He does die, but not like this. In the trailer you can see the Seraphites hanging people. This is because they use the old medieval method called "hanging and quatering". Accurate . They only hang and disembowel former Seraphites. The disembowlment is for traitors or "Apostates". I believe they do this for anyone. On the way to avenge Dina they have to cross through WLF territory. Accurate. The leader of the WLF is Marlenes brother. Inaccurate or at least unconfirmed, the leader is Isaac played by Jeffrey Wright. Joel dies and Ellie questions**Isnaccurate.**st for revenge was worth losing Joel who she recently mended her strained relationship with. False. The Seraphites are all immune. False. The cut on the cheek is a test for immunity. An infected knife. False. Flashback happens. Yes, but for Ellie. The mystery woman in the trailer is Ellies mom. False. Ellies mom was looking for a cure. False. She has a baby with a man that is immune. False. The man is killed for sleeping with a "wolf" or outsider. False. Marlene and Anna (Mystery woman) were friends. False. Anna gives birth to Ellie then had Ellie taken away after being born to get her away from Marlene and the Seraphites. False. Marlene (who is WLF) is then sent to retrieve Ellie and eventually finds her, using her friendship with Anna to win Ellies trust. False Ellie ends up with Seraphite girlfriend who wont turn when they exchange fluids. False. All in all, some accurate, some inaccurate. The most interesting one for me is actually the claim that the hand grabbing Ellie in the trailer is Jesse's hand, and not Joel's. In the trailer it is Joel, and content creators were actually able to play this segment of the game where they were also able to confirm that it was Joel. However, in the final game it is indeed Jesse has Joel had already died by this point of the game. This is the biggest part of the leak that lends credibility, but it also gets so many big things wrong for it to be considered a reliable leak. Outcome? Unreliable. Gets some right, gets the big stuff wrong. April 14, 2020 - Amazon Leaks New Release Date? It seems that Amazon has made a whoopsie and leaked a June 26, 2020 release date. Not much more to it than this, although normally placeholder dates tend to be the last day of the month, so would in this case by June 30th, so there is some credibility to this leak. Outcome? Inaccurate. This was never an announced release date. April 27, 2020 - The Biggest Video Game Leak Of All Time Here we go, probably the reason everyone clicked on this link, and why I have received dozens of messages asking when this post would be coming. It is in my opinion the biggest video game leak of all time, and there is so much to cover here it could be a whole article in itself. The day that will go down in infamy for Neil Druckmann, and the entirety of everyone involved in the game, a leaker has managed to get their hands on over an hour of gameplay and cutscenes, sharing them online with the world. There are massive spoilers in the leak, covering big story elements that shock most fans. The leak themselves? While I cannot share the video here, it is easy to google and find out what the major story beats seem to be for the game. This was the main source, the resetera thread covering it, but has since been edited. For those who want to see it before its changes, here is a screenshot of the archive.org of it, right here. The main points of the leak seem to cover that; Play the first half of the game as Ellie before switching to Abby in the second half (who is now confirmed to be the "mystery woman" from the trailer The game has you fighting Ellie from the perspective of Abby Dina is pregnant with Jesse's baby, with her and Ellie trying to start a family Joel dies at the hands of AbbyThere's a scene early on in the game (Jackson) where Joel gets his skull caved in by Abby with a golf club between, plus a scene where Ellie and Dina explicitly mention Jesse and Joel being dead. Abby vs Ellie fight scene, almost results in Ellie and Dina death before Lev steps in. Additionally, there was a large amount of gameplay leaking, including a short snippet of multiplayer footage which is currently being worked on as it would not be ready for launch. So how did this leak? One popular theory at the time was that the leak was the result of a disgruntled Naughty Dog employee who was upset over a pay dispute, and would make things right and not damage their career by leaking this. However, Sony managed to get in touch with Polygon and state that SIE has identified the primary individuals responsible for the unauthorized release of TLOU2 assets. They are not affiliated with Naughty Dog or SIE. We are unable to comment further because the information is subject to an on-going investigation. We’re looking forward to when The Last of Us Part II will be in your hands and can’t wait for you to enjoy the full experience on June 19. A few days later, journalist Jason Schreier shared on Twitter his version of the story, which seems to support both Naughty Dog's and Sony's claims; OK: After talking to two people with direct knowledge of how TLOU2 leaked as well as some Naughty Dog employees, I have a good idea of what happened. Short version: hackers found a security vulnerability in a patch for an older ND game and used it to get access to ND’s servers. I think the footage that leaked is from devs playing an early build (I haven’t watched it). Most importantly, rumors of this being an act of protest by a contractor whose pay was robbed are not true. (ND actually extended pay and healthcare benefits for contractors due to covid) This idea is thoroughly explored and explained here in this Twitter thread from PixelButts . Outcome? Confirmed. While there were also theories that the end of the game was the scene from the leaks where Abby confronts Ellie and Dina in the theatre, this wasn't the case and the actual ending had not leaked...yet, which was later confirmed by Druckmann. Further, this leak caused many to boycott the game due to the game's story and themes, with many disliking the direction that Naughty Dog was taking the series. April 27, 2020 - Release Date Announced I assume as an attempt to steal the headlines away from the leaks, the release date for The Last of Us Part II was announced for June 19, 2020 in an official blog post. June 12, 2020 - The First Three Hours Leak Online Just a week before the game's release, it seems that early copies have made their way out and the first three hours of the game managed to make their way online, as shared in this reddit thread. The leaks also provide context to a certain character's fate, and show the scene itself in the context of the story. Outcome? Confirmed . June 17, 2020 - The Ending Leaks Just two days before the game is in everyone's hands, it seems that early copies have again let the ending make its way to the internet. The scenes in question are indeed the actual ending, showing the final confrontation in Santa Barbara where Ellie takes on Abby (and lets her live), and the ending at the farm. Outcome? Confirmed. June 19, 2020 - The Last of Us Part II Releases Closing Thoughts Wow, what a ride. Personally, this was my most anticipated game of all time, which is why this one didn't come as quick as some would have liked, I had to finish the game first. In my opinion, it is a great game, and once again my favourite game this generation - but I can understand how others may not feel that way due to the plot, the structure, the length, or even the characters. There is no doubt in my opinion that this is the biggest leak of all time, in regards to games. The fact that such major plot elements and story elements had leaked for the sequel to last generations "game of the generation" is what makes it so shocking, and so fascinating. While other games have had the whole game leak, the fact that this is one the whole world had their eyes on, the nature of the leaks, and the contents of them, this personally takes the cake. For those who did enjoy this post and want to read more of these look backs, feel free to check out my previous posts; Ghost of Tsushima Red Dead Redemption 2 Assassin's Creed Valhalla Grand Theft Auto V Assassin's Creed Unity Destiny Fallout 4 So what are your thoughts? Did the leaks impact your enjoyment of the game, or even impact your decision to buy the game in the first place? Where do you think the game will be headed in the future? What is next for Naughty Dog? Finally, what games do you want to see covered? As always, thank you for reading and I hope you enjoyed reading it as much as I do researching it. Cheers. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of August 11, 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of August 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2020 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics