'Wolfwalkers' Directors Score Animated Feature Oscar Nom Skip to main content Open Mega Menu Got A Tip? deadline-logo-svg Deadline Follow Us: site categories TV Film Awards Awards Hub Digital Issues Box Office Biz International Politics Theater Reviews Obits Video Events Contenders Television: Docs+Unscripted+Variety Television Film: Nominees Film: Documentary Film: International Film: Los Angeles Film: London Sound & Screen Film Television Other For The Love Of Docs Visual Effects + Screen Festivals North America Sundance Toronto Telluride SXSW Tribeca Europe Cannes Zurich Venice Berlin/EFM Middle East Red Sea Asia Tokyo Insider News Alerts Menu deadline-logo-svg Deadline Read Next: ‘The Last Of Us’ Season 2 New Characters: Who’s Who? Got A Tip? Tip Us Dismiss News Banner Breaking News Horror Is All The ROI Rage For Small & Midsize Movies In 2024’s Most Valuable Blockbuster Tournament Read the full story Home Awards News ‘Wolfwalkers’ Directors Complete Oscar Nominations Hat Trick With Final Piece In ‘Irish Folklore Trilogy,’ Bringing Apple TV+ Into Animated Feature Race For The First Time By Matt Grobar Matt Grobar Senior Film Reporter More Stories By Matt ‘Rosario’ Filmmaker Felipe Vargas Signs With Verve Jessica Alba To Star In Spy Thriller ‘The Mark’ From Director Justin Chadwick; Highland Film Group & Kia Jam Producing Actor-Filmmaker Micaela Wittman Signs With Brillstein Entertainment Partners View All March 15, 2021 9:24am Services to share this page. Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Email Show more sharing options Share on LinkedIn Pin it Submit to Reddit Post to Tumblr Share on WhatsApp Print This Page 'Wolfwalkers' directors Tomm Moore and Ross Stewart Courtesy of Apple In Ireland today, Wolfwalkers directors Tomm Moore and Ross Stewart are celebrating an Oscar nom for Best Animated Feature. Placing distributor Apple TV+ in that race for the first time, the nom is a first for Moore’s longtime collaborator, Stewart. Moore, meanwhile, has just achieved a hat trick, having now scored Oscar nominations for each film in his ‘Irish Folklore Trilogy,’ which includes his two prior features, Song of the Sea and The Secret of Kells . For both Moore and Stewart, news of the nomination was a relief. “You don’t want to break the streak. I think everyone gave it 110%, all the crew that we worked with—our ‘wolf pack,’ as we call them,” said Moore. “So, I’m so happy that all their hard work has been recognized.” Related Stories News Oscar Nominations: 'Mank' Tops List With 10 Including Best Picture; Six Other Films With Six; Female Directors Record Set - The Complete List News Writers Guild Of America West Staff Union Wins Voluntarily Recognition, Moves To Negotiate First Contract “It’s a bit surreal,” added Stewart. “We were just praying for good news, and we got it.” Watch on Deadline For both directors, it’s always great to see a small European studio like Wolfwalker ’s Cartoon Saloon be recognized, alongside U.S. mainstays like Pixar. It’s also validating to see Hollywood continuing to embrace their distinctive work in hand-drawn animation . “It’s amazing. We’re a small studio in a small city in the middle of Ireland, and to be recognized by our peers in the main center of the industry is always very humbling,” Moore said. “It’s surreal and amazing, and you kind of forget that it’s crazy. It’s so unusual that this could have happened.” Widely embraced throughout award season, the co-production between Cartoon Saloon and Melusine Productions has received many accolades prior to today’s announcement. Recently, the film established itself as a leader at the Annie Awards, with 10 nominations, matching those earned by Disney/Pixar’s Soul. The first animated film to win AFI Fest’s Audience Award, Wolfwalkers has also earned Best Animated Feature nominations from industry groups like BAFTA, the Producers Guild Awards, the Critics’ Choice Super Awards, and the Golden Globes. Moore attributes some of the film’s resonance to the way in which its themes have aligned with events playing out on the world stage. “I think we’re all reconnecting with nature and are longing for the freedom that the characters in the movie are longing for, as well,” he said. “So, I think there’s some kind of connection in the timing of the pandemic, and all of the craziness of the last couple years, and the needs and wants of our main characters.” Looking ahead, Moore and Stewart can’t say for sure whether or not they’ll reteam as directors on future projects. “You never know,” says Moore. “We wouldn’t say no, we wouldn’t say for sure.” But with all the success the pair have seen together, another collaboration seems like a safe bet. “ We haven’t really talked past Wolfwalkers , but Wolfwalkers worked out really well,” said Stewart. “We didn’t kill each other, and made a beautiful project together.” For now, Stewart says he has committed himself to helping Cartoon Saloon through the pandemic, serving as “connective tissue between the different projects, and the different parts of the crew that are all working from home.” If either Moore or Stewart has another project lined up, they’re not speaking to it yet. Released in theaters by GKIDS, Wolfwalkers is set in 1650, in the medieval Irish town of Kilkenny. Its protagonist, Robyn (Honor Kneafsey), is an apprentice hunter, who journeys with her father from England to help take out a pack of wolves. Long confined by the Puritanical society in which she’s been raised, the girl experiences true freedom for the first time only when she befriends Mebh (Eva Whittaker), a girl from a mysterious tribe, which is said to transform into a pack of wolves by night. Also featuring the voices of Simon McBurney, Sean Bean, Maria Doyle Kennedy and more, the film will return to theaters across North America, beginning Friday, March 19. Wolfwalkers ’ nom today is a historic 12th for GKIDS, also marking Cartoon Saloon’s fourth consecutive recognition by the Academy. At this year’s Oscars , the pic will compete for Best Animated Feature against Soul (Disney/Pixar), Onward (Disney/Pixar), Over the Moon (Netflix), and A Shaun the Sheep Movie: Farmageddon (Netflix/Aardman Animations). Must Read Stories Hide Articles Onyx Preps ‘Desperate Housewives’ Offshoot Via Kerry Washington & Natalie Chaidez Bleecker Street Media Founder & CEO Andrew Karpen Dies Of Cancer At 59 Donald Trump Tussles With Terry Moran During ABC News Interview ‘Thunderbolts*’ Looks To Fire Up The Summer With $175M Global Bow: Preview Read More About: Animation Apple TV Plus Breaking News Nominations Oscars Ross Stewart Tomm Moore Wolfwalkers Comments Subscribe to Deadline Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Sign Up No Comments JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Sidebar Trending on Deadline 1 "Frankly, I Never Heard Of You": A Testy Donald Trump Tussles With Terry Moran During Contentious ABC News Interview Marking POTUS' First 100 Days 2 Disney & Marvel Don't Want To Play Nicepool With Justin Baldoni Over 'Deadpool' In Blake Lively Battle 3 'Thunderbolts*' Looks To Create Lightning And Fire Up Summer Box Office With $175M Global Opening - Preview 4 CBS Pushes New Matthew Gray Gubler Series 'Einstein' To 2026-27 Season 5 Smaller Movies, Big Profit: Horror Is All The ROI Rage In 2024's Most Valuable Blockbuster Tournament 6 Final Autopsy Reports Confirm Cause Of Death For Gene Hackman & His Wife Betsy Arakawa 7 'Dexter: Resurrection' Sets Premiere Date; Drops First Teaser Trailer 8 Louis Theroux On Returning To The West Bank After 15 Years For BBC Doc 'The Settlers' & Being "Perpetrator Focused" -- Guest Column 9 Michael Fishman On 'The Conners' Series Finale Absence: "Thankful For The Gift Of Grief" 10 'The King Of Kings' Surpasses 'Parasite' To Become Top-Grossing Korean Film In The U.S. deadline-logo-svg Deadline Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Latest Awards News Bowen Yang & Matt Rogers Take Las Culturistas Culture Awards To Bravo Celia Keenan-Bolger To Receive 2025 Isabelle Stevenson Tony Award For Advocacy Work 'The Last Of Us' Season 2 New Characters: Who's Who? Al Madrigal & Jessica Marie Garcia To Co-Host NHMC's 2025 Impact Awards Marketplace Newswire Deadline About Us Advertise Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility AdChoices California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Sitemap TV Film Awards Box Office Business International Connect with Us Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks Have a Tip? We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Send Us a Tip Stay in the Know Sign up for our breaking news alerts Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. PMC Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Site Close the menu deadline-logo-svg TV Expand the sub-menu Castings Ratings Late-Night Primetime Pilot Panic Film Expand the sub-menu Festivals Reviews Castings Acquisitions Documentary Awards Expand the sub-menu Awards Hub Emmys Oscars Tonys Box Office Expand the sub-menu International B.O. Specialty B.O. Broadway B.O. Business Expand the sub-menu Politics Legal Executives Agencies International Expand the sub-menu Festivals Film TV International Insider Video Expand the sub-menu Trailers The Actor's Side Behind The Lens The Process More Expand the sub-menu Obituaries Theater Music Podcasts Insider Follow Us Alerts & Newsletters Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertise About Us Give us feedback Leave us a tip Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. ad