Meet Holly: Your doctor’s new receptionist powered by Amazon Alexa | by Patients & Purpose | Patients & Purpose POVs | Medium Open in app Sign up Sign in Write Sign up Sign in Patients & Purpose POVs · We have a lot to say about patients, digital, healthcare marketing, and tech. Meet Holly: Your doctor’s new receptionist powered by Amazon Alexa Patients & Purpose Follow 2 min read · Jul 19, 2018 -- Listen Share Nimblr, the first AI assistant for medical appointments, recently announced a partnership with Amazon Alexa and introduced “Holly,” a voice-command AI assistant. Holly helps patients book, cancel, and reschedule their medical appointments using voice command. Gone are the days of making repeated phone calls and enduring long hold times to make these changes. Nimblr created Holly to make it easier for medical practices to automate their appointment systems and reduce no-shows, which cost the medical industry up to $150 billion a year. Holly makes it faster and more convenient for patients to make last-minute cancellations and reschedule their appointments. Here’s what Holly can do: 1. Speak directly to patients. Holly responds to such questions as, “Holly, can you make me an appointment with Dr. Jones?” This eliminates spending time on hold waiting for a physician’s office to pick up the phone. Recent studies have found that it takes up to 8 minutes on average to be connected to a physician’s office. 2. Suggest appointment times. Holly gathers information from patients and makes such suggestions as, “Does Friday, August 3, at 9:30 a.m. or Monday, August 6, at 2:00 p.m. work better for you?” 3. Schedule and confirm. Once a patient selects an appointment time, Holly schedules it on the physician’s appointment system. Then Holly sends the patient a text confirmation with their scheduled appointment. Holly is compatible with Athenahealth, Allscripts, DrChrono, and CareCloud and will work with Epic later this year. On average, 10–30% of doctor’s appointments become no-shows. And of those, 72% are never rescheduled. Nimblr claims the AI app has helped cut the no-show rate by 51%. What does this mean for pharma? Pharma advertising companies could leverage this smart technology to enhance patient adherence and persistence programs — whether it’s through an app that uses AI and smart speakers to record symptoms or simply to give patients another way to reach their doctor. This new technology represents another avenue to integrating AI into the pharma marketing space. Healthcare Amazon Alexa -- -- Follow Published in Patients & Purpose POVs 66 Followers · Last published Jul 27, 2023 We have a lot to say about patients, digital, healthcare marketing, and tech. Follow Follow Written by Patients & Purpose 72 Followers · 11 Following A full-service agency dedicated to patients and marketing health brands Follow No responses yet Help Status About Careers Press Blog Privacy Rules Terms Text to speech