Event information - NobelPrize.org Skip to content Open the search menu Close the search menu Close Mobile Menu Toggle Mobile Menu Nobel Prizes & laureates All Nobel Prizes All Nobel Prizes 2024 Physics prize Chemistry prize Medicine prize Literature prize Peace prize Prize in economic sciences About About the prize Alfred Nobel Award ceremonies Nomination Organisation Stories Educational Events & museums Open the search menu Close the search menu Header Search Submit a search term Gothenburg, 9 December 2023 The Future of Migration Event information Programme Panellists FAQ & Contact Nobel Week Dialogue Navigate to: Event information Programme Panellists FAQ & Contact Other panellists Jagan Chapagain International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies Steven Chu Nobel Prize in Physics 1997 Cathryn Costello University College Dublin Diva Cruz Percussionist Ron Davis Alvarez Dream Orchestra Christian Dustmann University College London Owen Gaffney Nobel Prize Outreach Vidar Helgesen Nobel Foundation Katrine Kielos-Marçal Dagens Nyheter Mark Manly United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) Niklas Mesaros Ardem Patapoutian Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2021 Amy Pope International Organization for Migration Stephan Schiffels Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology Adam Smith Nobel Prize Outreach Andrea Spehar University of Gothenburg Laura Sprechmann Nobel Prize Outreach Kira Vinke German Council on Foreign Relations Susanne Åkesson Lund University Abdulrazak Gurnah Nobel Prize in Literature 2021.  Abdulrazak Gurnah received the Nobel Prize in Literature for his novels which explore the effects of colonialism and the fate of refugees. Abdulrazak Gurnah received the Nobel Prize in Literature 2021. He is the author of ten novels, including Memory of Departure , Pilgrims Way , Admiring Silence, The Last Gift, Dottie , Gravel Heart and Afterlives , which was shortlisted for the Orwell Prize for Fiction 2021 and longlisted for the Walter Scott Prize. His novel Paradise was shortlisted for the Booker Prize and the Whitbread Award; By the Sea was longlisted for the Booker Prize and shortlisted for the Los Angeles Times Book Award, while Desertion was shortlisted for the Commonwealth Writers’ Prize. He was professor of English at the University of Kent, and was a Man Booker Prize judge in 2016. He lives in Canterbury, UK. More about Abdulrazak Gurnah and the 2021 Nobel Prize in Literature. See Abdulrazak Gurnah at: 9 December 2023 Afternoon session: 13:15 - 15:00 See Programme About the Nobel Prize organisation The Nobel Foundation Tasked with a mission to manage Alfred Nobel's fortune and has ultimate responsibility for fulfilling the intentions of Nobel's will. The prize-awarding institutions For more than a century, these academic institutions have worked independently to select Nobel Prize laureates. Outreach organisations Several outreach organisations and activities have been developed to inspire generations and disseminate knowledge about the Nobel Prize. Press Contact FAQ Privacy policy Terms of use For developers Media player Careers Join us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Nobel Prize Copyright © Nobel Prize Outreach 2025 Scroll to top