WhatsApp: The Best Meta Purchase Ever? Skip to content News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Live Search Search Please fill out this field. Search Search Please fill out this field. News News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Follow Us Table of Contents Expand Table of Contents WhatsApp Acquisition Why WhatsApp? WhatsApp and Mobile Users The Bottom Line Corporate Finance M&A WhatsApp: The Best Meta Purchase Ever? By The Investopedia Team Full Bio Investopedia contributors come from a range of backgrounds, and over 25 years there have been thousands of expert writers and editors who have contributed. Learn about our editorial policies Updated April 08, 2025 Reviewed by Michael J Boyle Reviewed by Michael J Boyle Full Bio Michael Boyle is an experienced financial professional with more than 10 years working with financial planning, derivatives, equities, fixed income, project management, and analytics. Learn about our Financial Review Board Fact checked by Michael Rosenston Fact checked by Michael Rosenston Full Bio Michael Rosenston is a fact-checker and researcher with expertise in business, finance, and insurance. Learn about our editorial policies Close With so much cash thrown around in Silicon Valley , it’s not easy for an acquisition to cause a stir. Facebook's ( META ) (now Meta) acquisition of WhatsApp in 2014 did just that—surpassing Google's $3.2 billion purchase of Nest Labs and Apple’s $3 billion Beats Electronics procurement—to become one of the largest tech buys of all time. WhatsApp, a text messaging app used widely across the globe, stole headlines with its initial $16 billion bid from Facebook. The deal was later finalized at $21.8 billion. In 2013, the app lost $138 million and brought in $10.2 million in revenue. So how did the company win over Facebook? Key Takeaways Facebook purchased WhatsApp in 2014. Facebook's $16 billion initial bid and the $21.8 billion final price were astronomical, even for Silicon Valley. WhatsApp uses internet either mobile or WiFi rather than SMS technology. WhatsApp has over 2.95 billion users as of March 2025. WhatsApp helped Facebook grow in developing markets where it is widely used to communicate. WhatsApp Acquisition WhatsApp is an ad-free mobile application that allows users to send unlimited messages to contacts using WiFi or mobile data. The app is free to download and is an alternative to the cell provider's traditional text messaging service. The app was founded by Jan Koum and Brian Acton, two former Yahoo! executives. When Facebook announced its plans to acquire WhatsApp in February 2014, WhatsApp's founders attached a purchase price of $16 billion: $4 billion in cash and $12 billion remaining in Facebook shares . This price tag is dwarfed by the actual price Facebook paid: $21.8 billion. Facebook agreed to pay $19.6 billion—adding $3.6 billion to the original price as compensation to WhatsApp employees for staying on board at Facebook. However, Facebook share prices soared to $77.56 from $68 when the regulatory approval process concluded in October. By then, the agreed-upon 184 million Facebook shares inflated the final sale price by an additional $2.2 billion, bringing the final cost to $21.8 billion WhatsApp's six-month revenue for the first half of 2014 totaled $15.95 million, and the company incurred a staggering net loss of $233 million. However, the majority of that loss was for share-based compensation. Why WhatsApp? WhatsApp is Zuckerberg's most significant acquisition and one of the most enormous Silicon Valley has ever seen. It is over 20 times larger than its Instagram acquisition, making quite the splash in 2012. That begs the $22 billion question: why did the social media giant break the bank to buy WhatsApp? The answer is user growth. In 2014, over 450 million people used WhatsApp monthly, and the service added more than 1 million users per day. With 70% of WhatsApp users being active daily, the app was expected to quickly reach one billion users. The app launched in 2009 and, as of 2020, had more than 2 billion users. In 2025, the app's users were approaching 3 billion. As of January 2025, Facebook had 3.07 billion monthly active users . With a shared mission of enhancing global connectivity via internet services, the merging of forces will likely accelerate growth for both companies. For Zuckerberg's company, user growth comes first and monetization later. WhatsApp and Mobile Users WhatsApp helped fuel Facebook's growth in developing markets where traditional cell phone call and text service is expensive or lacking, and WhatsApp is widely used. Facebook then gained access to these mobile users. However, the company does believe it will profit from WhatsApp down the line as phone calls become obsolete and mobile messages reign. This is why Zuckerberg spent over one-tenth of his company's (then) market value to buy the text messaging app, nearly doubling Google's ( GOOG ) bid. In doing so, he successfully kept the company out of the hands of other tech rivals. The Bottom Line WhatsApp plays a significant role in global areas crucial to Meta's future growth. By putting monetization efforts on hold, Meta is focusing on the future of international, cross-platform communications. Through the acquisition of WhatsApp, the company is poised to reach billions of people, and Meta is sure to find a way to eventually cash in. Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. The New York Times. " In Facebook’s Deals for WhatsApp and Oculus, Lessons on Stock vs. Cash ." The New York Times. " For Google, a Toehold Into Goods for a Home ." Apple, Inc. " Apple to Acquire Beats Music & Beats Electronics ." Meta. " Facebook To Acquire WhatsApp ." U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. " WhatsApp Inc. Financial Statements, Years Ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 ." Page 4. WhatsApp. " About WhatsApp ." U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. " Facebook, Inc., Form 8-K/A, Date of Report: October 4, 2014 ." Pages 53, 59. Meta. " Facebook To Acquire Instagram ." Britannica. " WhatsApp ." WhatsApp. " Two Billion Users -- Connecting the World Privately ." DemandSage. " WhatsApp Users Statistics 2025: How Many People Use It? " DemandSage. " Facebook Users Statistics (2025) — Worldwide Data ." Forbes. " In One Chart, Here's Why Facebook Is Blowing $19 Billion on WhatsApp ." New York Post. " Google Was in Mix for WhatsApp Buy ." Open a New Bank Account Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Partner Links Related Articles How Company Stocks Move During an Acquisition Pro Rata: What It Means and Formula to Calculate It What Does a Merger or Acquisition Mean for the Target Company's Employees? What Are the Advantages of Forming a Joint Venture? Stock-for-Stock Merger: Definition, How It Works, and Example The 5 Biggest Acquisitions in History How Accretion/Dilution Analysis Affects Mergers and Acquisitions Mergers vs. Acquisitions: What’s the Difference? Top 10 Largest Global IPOs of All Time Acquisition: Meaning, Types, and Examples Management Buy-In (MBI): Definition and Process Accretive vs. Dilutive Mergers: What's the Difference? 4 Ratios to Evaluate Dividend Stocks Why Public Companies Go Private How Does Additional Equity Financing Affect Existing Shareholders? Guide to Selecting the Best Artificial Intelligence Stocks About Us Terms of Service Dictionary Editorial Policy Advertise News Privacy Policy Contact Us Careers Your Privacy Choices # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Investopedia is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies