The Cosmic Wheel Sisterhood | Nintendo Switch download software | Games | Nintendo UK Overview Orders Address book Nintendo Account details {{pageTitle}} , {{gameSystem}} Starting from: {{regularPrice}} {{lowestPrice}} Search Wish List Sign In See purchase options × Close How about... All Nintendo Switch games All Nintendo Switch games on sale All Nintendo 3DS games All Super Mario games All The Legend of Zelda games All Pokémon games × Visit us on Facebook Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem X @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons YouTube NintendoUK Instagram NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope Twitch NintendoUK LinkedIn Visit us on LinkedIn Games Previous Games Overview Nintendo Switch 2 games Nintendo Switch games Recent releases Upcoming games Demos Free-to-start games DLC Smart device games Nintendo 3DS games Wii U games Characters hub Hardware Previous Hardware Nintendo Switch 2 Overview Features GameChat GameShare Nintendo Switch 2 games Nintendo Switch 2 accessories Nintendo Switch 2 bundles Transferring from Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Family Overview Nintendo Switch – OLED Model Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Lite Which Nintendo Switch is right for you? Nintendo Sound Clock: Alarmo Game & Watch: The Legend of Zelda amiibo Nintendo 3DS Family Nintendo History Nintendo Switch Online Previous Nintendo Switch Online Overview What's included? Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack Classic games Exclusive benefits Nintendo Music Nintendo eShop My Nintendo Store Support News Previous News Overview Nintendo Direct Indie World Ask the Developer Creator's Voice Tips and tricks Events Stay in touch ... Misc. Previous Misc. My Nintendo Career Sitemap PEGI 16 Nintendo Switch Online features supported The Cosmic Wheel Sisterhood System: Nintendo Switch Release date: 16/08/2023 Video: The Cosmic Wheel Sisterhood Immerse yourself in an enchanting narrative experience as Fortuna, a fortune-teller Witch condemned to exile on her asteroid home. The Cosmic Wheel Sisterhood is a thought-provoking narrative experience from the creators of The Red Strings Club. Featuring a richly diverse cast of characters, Tarot-like card creation, divination, and a branching story that spans time and space, The Cosmic Wheel Sisterhood explores themes of identity, community, and personal responsibility in a beautifully hand-crafted universe. You play as Fortuna, a Witch living exiled on an asteroid who forms a pact with a forbidden creature in the hopes of regaining her freedom. Reconnect with your Witch friends after a 200 year long exile, meet new Witches, and use the cards you created to pierce through their pasts and futures. As you delve into this universe, you will see yourself immersed in the complex web of interests that surround your coven, leading to a political plot that will define the fate of the Cosmic Witch society. Spellbinding Story Enjoy a complex narrative spanning decades as Fortuna comes to terms with her power and the impact her decisions have on others and the fate of her Coven. Arcane Deck Building Craft unique divination cards from hundreds of possibilities to help you understand and determine the fate of the characters you encounter. Magical Music More than 3 hours of bewitching original music by the celebrated composer fingerspit. Enchanting Visuals Savour the stunning hand-crafted pixel art visuals and a huge cast of deliciously designed witches from all walks of life. This description was provided by the publisher. What you need to know This content is sold by Nintendo of Europe SE. The payment will be made with Nintendo eShop funds usable through the Nintendo Account used to complete the purchase. This content is sold by Nintendo of Europe SE, payable with Nintendo eShop funds usable through your Nintendo Account. The Nintendo Account Agreement applies to the purchase of this content. This content may be purchased by users who have registered a Nintendo Account and accepted the respective legal terms. This content may be purchased by users who have registered a Nintendo Account and accepted the respective legal terms. The details of this offer apply to users who sign in with a Nintendo Account with the country setting corresponding to the country setting of this website. If the country setting of a Nintendo Account is different, the details of this offer may be adjusted (for example, the price will be displayed in the respective local currency). After your payment has been processed, the content will be downloaded to the applicable system linked to your Nintendo Account. This system must be updated to the latest system software and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. Depending on the hardware model you own and your use of it, an additional storage device may be required to download content from Nintendo eShop. Please visit our Support section for more information. In the case of games that use cloud streaming technology, a free launcher application or demo can be downloaded. Please make sure you have enough storage to complete the download. After your payment has been processed, the content will be downloaded to the applicable system linked to your Nintendo Account. This system must be updated to the latest system software and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. Depending on the hardware model you own and your use of it, an additional storage device may be required to download content from Nintendo eShop. Please visit our Support section for more information. In the case of games that use cloud streaming technology, a free launcher application or demo can be downloaded. Please make sure you have enough storage to complete the download. The details of the offer are displayed based on the country settings of your Nintendo Account. The Nintendo Account Agreement applies to the purchase of this content. About pre-ordering The use of an unauthorised device or software that enables technical modification of the Nintendo console or software may render this game unplayable. This product contains technological protection measures. Content not playable before the release date: {{releaseDate}} . For pre-orders, payments will be taken automatically starting from 7 days before the release date. If you pre-order less than 7 days before the release date, payment will be taken immediately upon purchase. Copyright 2023 Deconstructeam. All Rights Reserved. Video: The Cosmic Wheel Sisterhood Immerse yourself in an enchanting narrative experience as Fortuna, a fortune-teller Witch condemned to exile on her asteroid home. Categories Adventure, Other Players Single System (1) Publisher Devolver Digital Features Handheld mode , Tabletop mode , TV mode Nintendo Switch Online features Play online, enjoy a growing library of classic NES & Super NES games, and more with a Nintendo Switch Online membership. Find out more . Save Data Cloud Age rating PEGI 16 Sex, Strong Language Nintendo Switch download software System Nintendo Switch Release date 16/08/2023 Age rating PEGI 16 Compatible controllers Nintendo Switch Pro Controller Languages Japanese, English, Spanish, French, German, Russian, Chinese Download size 1461.00 MB UK & Ireland Change country België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera UK & Ireland South Africa See all regions België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera South Africa UK & Ireland See all regions Parents & Parental Controls Support Company Information Career Website Privacy Policy Cookie settings Legal information Service Termination CSR Modern Slavery Transparency Statement Contact © Nintendo. 2025 × Change country België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera UK & Ireland South Africa × Attention! You are about to leave the Nintendo of Europe site. Nintendo of Europe is not responsible for the content or security of the site you are about to visit. Cancel Continue × Survey Dear visitor, Thank you for visiting the Nintendo website! You have been randomly chosen to take part in a brief survey. By taking a few minutes to share your thoughts and opinions, you will be helping us to improve our website. Naturally, any information provided by you in this survey will be treated in confidence. Your Nintendo of Europe Team Decline invitation Take the survey × Facebook Visit us on Facebook: Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem × X @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons × YouTube NintendoUK × Instagram Join us on Instagram: NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope × Twitch Visit us on Twitch: NintendoUK × LinkedIn Visit us on LinkedIn ×