What Role Does Artificial Intelligence Play in Content Recommendations? Editorial Channels Marketing & CX Leadership Customer Experience AI in Customer Experience Modern Customer Service Contact Centers AI in Call Centers Voice of the Customer Digital Experience Digital Experience Platforms (DXPs) Hyper-Personalization Journey Orchestration Customer Data Platforms Digital Asset Management Modern Ecommerce View All Topics Podcasts CX Decoded Podcast Research Research Reports White Papers View All Events Webinars Conferences View All About Us Editorial Calendar IMPACT Awards CX Decoded Podcast CMSWire Mobile App Press Releases Product Directory Advertise Here Become a Contributor Join us Marketing & CX Leadership CMSWire's Marketing & Customer Experience Leadership channel is the go-to hub for actionable research, editorial and opinion for CMOs, aspiring CMOs and today's customer experience innovators. Our dedicated editorial and research teams focus on bringing you the data and information you need to navigate today's complex customer, organizational and technical landscapes. We've got you covered. Editorial Agentic AI: A New, Global Imperative for Customer Experience Leaders Read now Feature How to Improve the Call Center Customer Experience Read now Editorial The Customer Experience Playbook for Post Merger Success Read now Could Agentic AI Finally Unite CX and Marketing Tech? Balancing Agentic AI Autonomy and Boundedness in Contact Centers Martech Reality Check: Integration, Ownership and Orchestrated Chaos Why Generation Alpha Will Ghost Your Brand Why Best-of-Breed Beats All-in-One in Marketing Technology Composable Control: Q&A on MACH, AI and the Modular CX Stack Explore the Marketing & CX Leadership Channel Webinars Research IMPACT Awards Events Calendar Podcasts Editorial Calendar Advertising Join us Feature The Next Best Action: Where AI Can Help With Content Recommendations 6 minute read By Dom Nicastro June 16, 2021 Digital Marketing Share Share Copy link Email LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Telegram Save SAVED Marketers are seeing great potential in using AI to recommend highly targeted content to users in real time. Marketers see great potential value in using artificial intelligence (AI) to support the use case of recommending highly targeted content to users in real time. That use case scored the highest among 49 use cases presented to marketers in the 2021 State of Marketing AI report by Drift and the Marketing Artificial Intelligence Institute. That use case scored a 3.96, putting it on the cusp of “high value” (4.0), with 5.0 being “transformative.” The AI marketing use cases that trailed in the top five include: Adapt audience targeting based on behavior and lookalike analysis (3.92) Measure return on investment by channel, campaign and overall (3.91) Discover insights into top-performing content and campaigns (3.86) Create data-driven content (3.82) “Most websites you go to today for businesses, a human is writing the rules to say which content to recommend,” Paul Roetzer, CEO and founder of the Marketing Artificial Intelligence Institute , told CMSWire in a CX Decoded Podcast . “What are the related articles? There is some basic tagging system for if they read this, then read that. Most of them are human-powered. They don't have a Netflix or a Spotify type algorithm that's actually learning preferences, knows the last 15 articles someone read, and how far along he got into them. It's not pulling any other kind of behavioral intent data. Most aren't doing that.” The Data Conundrum Therein lies potential, however it’s something marketers and customer experience professionals remain hopeful about: 54% of them told CMSWire researchers in the State of Digital Customer Experience 2021 report they see AI having significant impacts on digital customer experience over the next two to five years. And most of them see “gaining actionable customer insights” (27%) as the area where they see the most potential. Roetzer said it is hard to find really good solutions to do this out-of-the-box. Noz Urbina of Urbina Consulting agreed, calling the technology nascent. The bigger question for marketers beyond what kind of tools are out there is do we have the data to support the use case, according to Roetzer. And do we have a strong foundation of metadata, content tagging and content taxonomies, according to Urbina. “You need enough data, for one,” Roetzer said. “Sometimes the problem is smaller data, not necessarily the cost. It's do you have enough data to make it worthwhile to try and use a machine learning algorithm to do this better than a human would? Do you have enough traffic coming to your site to justify it?” Related Article: CX Decoded Podcast: Practical Use Cases of AI in Marketing Build or Buy? Does it make more sense to custom-build a solution on AWS or Google, or is there an out-of-the-box solution to go plug in for a couple grand a month that will learn our users and start making recommendations? These are some questions marketers should be asking when considering using AI for targeted content recommendations, according to Roetzer. “A lot of people are actually building on GPT-3 , a technology that came out of OpenAI, which was sort of a lab that was developed to rapidly advance AI technology and then share it with the world thus Open AI in the name," Roetzer said. According to OpenAI, nine months since the launch of the first commercial product, the OpenAI API features more than 300 applications. Those 300 or so companies are building language generation abilities on the backbone of GPT-3, according to Roetzer. He cited conversion.ai and copy.ai , the latter which secured $2.9 million in funding in March. “What they (copy.ai) do is they have a bunch of pre-trained models so you just get a subscription, and you can actually go in, feed it some inputs … and it'll actually write ad copy for you, email copy. Very interesting.” OpenAI officials cited the example of Algolia, which partnered with OpenAI to integrate GPT-3 with its advanced search technology in order to create their new “Answers” product that better understands customers’ questions and connects them to the specific part of the content that answers their questions, according to OpenAI officials. “Algolia Answers helps publishers and customer support help desks query in natural language and surface nontrivial answers,” they wrote. “After running tests of GPT-3 on 2.1 million news articles, Algolia saw 91% precision or better and Algolia was able to accurately answer complex natural language questions.” Related Article: 8 Considerations When Selecting an AI Marketing Vendor Responding to Behaviors Urbina said the most popular method for generating targeted content in real-time through AI is through recommendation engines. According to Google developers, content-based filtering uses item features to recommend other items similar to what the user likes, based on their previous actions or explicit feedback. “Rather than only responding to a query, which is a definition of a search engine, recommendations engines are responding to behaviors,” Urbina said. “Your location, your activities, your previous search behaviors, all of these things are ambient data that search engine technology can use to then be turned into a recommendation engine. And artificial intelligence and machine learning, of course, are foundational for that. They will find patterns in the data and then they will make appropriate recommendation.” The most common phrase after recommendation engine that marketers need to know about is "next-best action," according to Urbina. Marketers want to usher people along the journey, and machine learning helps to determine various next actions such as sending an email, an SMS or offering recommended content that pops up. “And it is optimizing this at scale beyond human capacity,” Urbina said. "So the AI has to observe the user activity, and, based on the data of that user correlated against what all the other users say, determine the next best thing that I could suggest to move them along the journey. So that's basically the main area that we need to focus on for content recommendations: finding out how we can correlate the user's behaviors, against trends to establish the next-best action, which can be recommended content.” AI Can't Do It Alone What marketers often struggle with is leaving the AI to do all the heavy lifting, according to Urbina. There exists the need to have a solid structured content plan in place: labeling and applying metadata on existing content and then building content taxonomies. “One of the most successful things we're doing now is building out the taxonomy so that the recommendations engine has something to work with," Urbina said. "A taxonomy of personas. A taxonomy of business scenarios. A taxonomy of challenges. A taxonomy of benefits. A taxonomy of functions. A taxonomy of content types. A taxonomy of channels. If you haven't actually got this taxonomy in place that defines these buckets, what can the AI work with?” With a foundational content structuring program, marketers can define what makes a white paper, what makes a case study, what makes a brochure, what makes a product overview and so on, according to Urbina. “That said, if you don't have any taxonomies, you can unleash the AI over all of the content that exists," Urbina said. "It can read it, use natural language processing to see what the subjects are and what the common words are in your content, and then you can organize that into becoming your actual taxonomy. So before you've got any of this going, you could actually use AI to figure out what your potential taxonomies are and what your categorizations could be. In either case, a human must guide the AI." Why a 'Brute Force' Approach to AI Won’t Work Most marketers just want a data scientist to do all of this, but that’s not always possible. Further, they often don't actually realize that if they participated in the organizing of the content around taxonomies and metadata and tagging, the whole operation will be much more effective. “And that's where I see this technology is absolutely nascent. And its effectiveness through brute force approaches is the thing that's mostly slowing it down," Urbina said. Can this AI tech supporting content-recommendation AI engines pick up brand tone? Roetzer said it's getting there. Learning Opportunities Webinar May 15 Executive Roundtable: How Finance Leaders Can Transform Digital Content Unlock success: join industry experts for actionable insights in digital innovation. Register Webinar May 15 Optimizing Outbound Communications: Strategies and Technologies for Effective Customer Engagement Learn how businesses can improve customer communication, increase contact rates and build trust with branded calling. Register Conference Jun 2 Gartner Marketing Symposium/Xpo Denver 2025 Register Conference Jun 16 NICE Interactions Las Vegas 2025 Register Conference Jun 23 Forrester CX Summit North America Nashville 2025 Register Webinar On demand Executive Roundtable: How High Tech Leaders Can Transform Digital Content Expert insights on managing technical content with ease. Learn more! Watch Now Webinar May 15 Executive Roundtable: How Finance Leaders Can Transform Digital Content Unlock success: join industry experts for actionable insights in digital innovation. Register Webinar May 15 Optimizing Outbound Communications: Strategies and Technologies for Effective Customer Engagement Learn how businesses can improve customer communication, increase contact rates and build trust with branded calling. Register Conference Jun 2 Gartner Marketing Symposium/Xpo Denver 2025 Register View all “It’s made massive leaps forward in the last three years,” Roetzer said. “2013 was sort of this tipping point where the AI caught up with the promise of what it could eventually do, and language is at the core of that. It's why voice assistants have actually gotten good. It's why some conversational agents have gotten good and why language understanding and generation have gone to entirely new levels in the last few years. And so the ability to understand and replicate tone, if it's not there, it's coming. And there are a lot of people putting a lot of money behind that sort of thing." About the Author Dom Nicastro is editor-in-chief of CMSWire and an award-winning journalist with a passion for technology, customer experience and marketing. With more than 20 years of experience, he has written for various publications, like the Gloucester Daily Times and Boston Magazine. He has a proven track record of delivering high-quality, informative, and engaging content to his readers. Dom works tirelessly to stay up-to-date with the latest trends in the industry to provide readers with accurate, trustworthy information to help them make informed decisions. Connect with Dom Nicastro: Main image: Adobe Tags content marketing marketing cxm content recommendations digital experience dxm ai artificial intelligence machine learning Featured Research Guide Cutting Through the Noise: The Truth About Enterprise AI and Language in 2025 A practical guide into multilingual business strategies and AI adoption Read now Research Report How Leading Companies are Leveraging AI and Outsourcing to Scale CX and Drive Innovation The New CX Playbook: Value-Driven Strategies for Sustainable Growth Read now Research Report Websites 2025: Barriers, AI, Personalization and the Future of Digital Marketing Strategies to transform digital engagement and drive revenue through website innovation in an AI-enabled world. Read now Case Study Using Personalized Content to Supercharge Conversion Rates: Case Study 51% increase in conversion rates? Say less. Read now Research Report How AI is Powering Personalized Experiences that Customers Expect Personalization isn't exactly groundbreaking, but thanks to AI, it's now the secret sauce for brands looking to turn customer interactions into meaningful (and profitable) connections. Read now eBook Drowning in Content Chaos? It’s Time to Take Control Disjointed branding. Clunky workflows. Impersonal messaging. Are these the culprits slowing down your week? Read now Guide Security in an AI-Driven Landscape AI is both a powerful tool and a potential risk. Is your organization acting responsibly to safeguard customer data and foster trust? Read now eBook Solving CPG’s Biggest Challenges: 6 Trends Shaping the Customer Journey Tackle digital complexity with composable content and drive impactful growth Read now Guide Top 5 CX Insights That Should Be Driving Your Strategy What can you learn from billions of interactions? Boundless opportunity. Read now White Paper Why Your Contact Center Needs a Copilot Better CX requires a partner in precision. Contact center providers who have no plan for copilots should re-evaluate. Read now eBook Unlocking Customer Insights: The Role of AI and Open-Text Analysis in CX Success Transform Your Customer Experience With AI-Powered Text Analysis Read now Guide The 10-Step Guide to Accurate Market Research Uncover proven strategies to empower your respondents to provide honest and thoughtful feedback Read now View all RESEARCH Most Read Today Editorial Digital Marketing Moving Beyond Generations in Audience Segmentation Editorial Digital Marketing CMOs, Can You Sell Luxury Without a Product? Jaguar’s Doing It Editorial Digital Marketing Why CMOs Must Shift From Product Perfection to Perception Power Most Read Today Editorial Digital Marketing Moving Beyond Generations in Audience Segmentation Editorial Digital Marketing CMOs, Can You Sell Luxury Without a Product? Jaguar’s Doing It Editorial Digital Marketing Why CMOs Must Shift From Product Perfection to Perception Power Most Read Today Editorial Digital Marketing Moving Beyond Generations in Audience Segmentation Editorial Digital Marketing CMOs, Can You Sell Luxury Without a Product? Jaguar’s Doing It Editorial Digital Marketing Why CMOs Must Shift From Product Perfection to Perception Power About CMSWire For over two decades CMSWire, produced by Simpler Media Group , has been the world's leading community of digital customer experience professionals . Today the CMSWire community consists of over 5 million influential customer experience, customer service and digital experience leaders, the majority of whom are based in North America and employed by medium to large organizations. Our sister community, Reworked , gathers the world's leading employee experience and digital workplace professionals. And our newest community, VKTR , is home for AI practitioners and forward thinking leaders focused on the business of enterprise AI . Explore CMSWIRE CX Decoded Podcast CMSWire IMPACT Awards Customer Experience Research Purchase Reports CMSWire Editorial Calendar State of Customer Experience Report Become a CMSWire Contributor The Wire (Press Releases) CMSWire Advertising & Sponsorship Popular Articles CMO Circle: Why B2B Marketing Needs a Rethink AI Agents, Silo Smashing and the Myth of 1:1 Personalization AI in Customer Analysis: Real Use Cases That Improved Targeting and CX Types of Social Media Influencers: Mega, Macro, Micro and Nano Tariff Turmoil: This Is the Moment to Double Down on Customer Experience 6 Worst Marketing Campaigns of All Time Editorial Channels AI in Customer Experience Customer Data Management Customer Experience Practices Contact Centers Digital Experience Leadership Digital Experience Stacks Ecommerce Hyper-Personalization Marketing Automation Voice of the Customer Join the Community Not yet a CMSWire member? We serve over 5 million of the world's top customer experience practitioners. Join us today — unlock member benefits and accelerate your career, all for free. Join us Get the CMSWire Mobile App Published by Simpler Media Group, Inc. Explore our Family of Brands Privacy | Terms | Contact | Sitemap | Advertising About CMSWire For over two decades CMSWire, produced by Simpler Media Group , has been the world's leading community of digital customer experience professionals . Today the CMSWire community consists of over 5 million influential customer experience, customer service and digital experience leaders, the majority of whom are based in North America and employed by medium to large organizations. Our sister community, Reworked , gathers the world's leading employee experience and digital workplace professionals. And our newest community, VKTR , is home for AI practitioners and forward thinking leaders focused on the business of enterprise AI . Join the Community Join us Get the CMSWire Mobile App Privacy | Terms | Contact | Sitemap | Advertising