Mark Zuckerberg | Biography & Facts | Britannica Money History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Health & Medicine Science Technology Browse Biographies Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Infographics Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Household Finance Investing Trading Retirement Companies Biographies Finance & the Economy Table of Contents Introduction & Quick Facts The era of Meta Political leanings Read More Facebook Sean Parker Sheryl Sandberg Table Of Contents Biographies Entrepreneurs Mark Zuckerberg American computer programmer and entrepreneur Print Cite Share Links Also known as: Mark Elliot Zuckerberg Written and fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. Updated: Apr. 29, 2025 Table of Contents Introduction & Quick Facts The era of Meta Political leanings Read More Facebook Sean Parker Sheryl Sandberg Table Of Contents Open full sized image The co-founder and CEO of the social media giant Facebook, in 2019. © Anthony Quintano (CC BY 2.0) in full: Mark Elliot Zuckerberg born: May 14, 1984, White Plains , New York , U.S. (age 40) Founder: Facebook Notable Family Members: son of Edward Zuckerberg son of Karen Kempner married to Priscilla Chan (2012–present) father of Maxima Chan Zuckerberg (b. 2015) father of August Chan Zuckerberg (b. 2017) brother of Randi Zuckerberg brother of Donna Zuckerberg brother of Arielle Zuckerberg News • Meta launches AI app, Zuckerberg chats with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella at developer conference • Apr. 29, 2025, 8:36 PM ET ( AP ) ... (Show more) Top Questions When was Facebook launched? Facebook was launched on February 4, 2004. What was the original name of Facebook? Facebook’s original name was thefacebook.com. Why did Facebook change its parent company’s name to Meta Platforms? Facebook changed its parent company’s name to Meta Platforms to emphasize its focus on the “metaverse,” where users interact in virtual reality environments. Show More Mark Zuckerberg (born May 14, 1984, White Plains , New York , U.S.) is an American computer programmer who was cofounder of the social networking site Facebook . Zuckerberg serves as CEO (2004– ) of both Facebook and its parent company Meta Platforms . What do you think? Does social media spur digital addiction and other ills? Explore the ProCon debate After attending Phillips Exeter Academy , Zuckerberg enrolled at Harvard University in 2002. On February 4, 2004, he launched thefacebook.com (renamed Facebook in 2005), a directory in which fellow Harvard students entered their own information and photos into a template that he had devised. Within two weeks half of the student body had signed up. Zuckerberg’s roommates Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes helped him to add features and make the site available to other campuses across the country. Facebook quickly became popular as registered users could create profiles, upload photos and other media, and keep in touch with friends. It differed from other social networking sites, however, in its emphasis on real names (and email addresses), or “trusted connections.” It also laid particular emphasis on networking, with information disseminated not only to each individual’s network of friends but also to friends of friends—what Zuckerberg called the “social graph.” In the summer of 2004 the trio moved their headquarters to Palo Alto , California, where Zuckerberg talked venture capitalist Peter Thiel into giving them seed money. Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard to concentrate on the fledgling company, of which he became CEO and president. In May 2005 Facebook received its first major infusion of venture capital ($12.7 million). Four months later Facebook opened to registration by high-school students. Meanwhile, foreign colleges and universities also began to sign up, and by September 2006 anyone with an e-mail address could join a regional network based on where he or she lived. Britannica Quiz Computers and Technology Quiz Open full sized image Facebook's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, talking about the Facebook News feature in 2019. Drew Angerer/Getty Images News About that time Zuckerberg turned down a $1 billion buyout offer from Yahoo! , but in 2007 Facebook struck a deal with Microsoft in which the software company paid $240 million for a 1.6 percent stake in Facebook; two years later Digital Sky Technologies purchased a 1.96 percent share for $200 million. In 2008 Zuckerberg’s net worth was estimated at about $1.5 billion. After Facebook’s initial public offering (IPO) of stock in 2012, Zuckerberg’s net worth was estimated at more than $19 billion. The era of Meta In October 2021 Facebook announced that it was changing the name of its parent company to Meta Platforms . The name change reflected an emphasis on the “ metaverse ,” in which users would interact in virtual reality environments. As of October 2022, Meta had incurred $13.7 billion in total losses on metaverse development. The site also saw low user engagement and quality issues with its metaverse applications. In a February 2023 Facebook post, Zuckerberg announced that the company was pivoting away from the metaverse to focus on generative artificial intelligence to build “creative and expressive tools,” with the metaverse being deemed relevant for a smaller, targeted audience, such as video game players. Political leanings In the 2000s and 2010s Zuckerberg spoke publicly about issues such as U.S. immigration policies and social justice , with a large part of his public image centered around his philanthropic efforts. His immigration reform group Fwd.US criticized mass deportation of undocumented immigrants in 2015, and Zuckerberg himself endorsed broadly liberal policies. However, after former Pres. Donald Trump ’s 2016 election win, Facebook was blamed for promoting the political misinformation that had led to his victory. Zuckerberg announced that Facebook would be thoroughly fact-checking its posts in the future, stating in a public post that Facebook planned to “take notes” from reputable fact-checking organizations. After the January 6 attack , during which a mob of Trump supporters violently protested Pres. Joe Biden’s victory by storming the U.S. Capitol, Trump was banned by Zuckerberg from both Facebook and Instagram for his part in inciting the violence. In January 2023 his accounts were reinstated, but with restrictions in place to “deter repeat offenses.” These restrictions were temporary; in July 2024 they were removed and Zuckerberg himself began to show signs that he would be supporting more conservative policies moving forward. In an August 2024 letter he angrily retaliated against the Biden administration’s push to “censor” COVID-19 misinformation on Facebook during the height of the pandemic, stating that he believed the “government pressure was wrong.” After Trump’s second presidential victory in November 2024, Zuckerberg congratulated him. In January 2025 Zuckerberg announced that the fact-checking programs used on Facebook and Instagram in the past decade would be removed in a bid for the company to “get back to its roots around free expression.” In December 2024 Meta made a $1 million donation to Trump’s inaugural fund. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by Tara Ramanathan . About Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions © 2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.