Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Update Version 2.0.0 - LightGames Skip to content Search Search for: LightGames Menu Home Gallery Open Search Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Update Version 2.0.0 With Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna – The Golden Country now available to download a new update follows. Here are the Patch Notes for Version 2.0.0: Issues Fixed Fixed an issue occurring in quests where defeating specific enemies was necessary to complete the quest. Following battle with the enemy, this issue caused certain event scenes not to play or to suffer from extended loading, preventing quest progress. Changes and New Features Functionality has been added to the title screen to make the Expansion Pass story scenario “Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna – The Golden Country” playable. Torna – The Golden Country is an additional story that takes place 500 years prior to the events of Xenoblade Chronicles 2. Play as Jin—Rex’s main adversary and leader of the mystery-shrouded society of Torna—in a bygone era and uncover the truth about the lost Tornan titan and the origins of the Aegis. Delve into new gameplay mechanics like Vanguard Switch, a tactic that allows you to switch between the front and back lines during a battle, and Community, a feature that lets you deepen your connection with the inhabitants of Alrest. Added functionality for receiving the final round of items associated with the Expansion Pass. Elma’s Overdrive ability is now usable during battle when the auto-battle option is initially set to Enabled, but the player switches to manual controls during battle. Elma is now a blade who can join your party during the “Challenge Battle: Nopondemonium” in the Expansion Pass. Story Trailer Above Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Like this: Like Loading... September 17, 2018 Video Game Updates Updates , Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Post navigation September Nintendo Direct Recap Sword Art Online: Fatal Bullet and Hollow Realization coming to Switch Leave a Reply Cancel reply Search for: Featured Zero no Kiseki/Trails from Zero: Side Quest Guide Video Game Release Dates-May, 2020 Video Game News-April 16, 2020 Video Game News-April 15, 2020 Video Game News-April 13, 2020 Follow on Twitter My Tweets Up ↑ Discover more from LightGames Subscribe now to keep reading and get access to the full archive. Type your email… Subscribe Continue reading %d