Contest Rules & Evaluation - National History Day Shop Donate Find A Local Contest Contest Theme Get Started Contest Rules & Evaluation Find Your Local Contest (Affiliate) National Contest Teacher Resources Classroom Tools Courses Institutes Teaching Research Skills Advising NHD Students News & Events About NHD ® Why NHD Works People of NHD Find Your Local Affiliate 50 Years of NHD Sponsors and Supporters Get Involved Donate Volunteer to Judge Alumni Network Contest Rules & Evaluation Contest Rules & Evaluation National History Day ® (NHD), like most contests, has rules to help ensure fairness. NHD’s contest rules enable all students to compete on a level playing field. Every participant has the same opportunity to present their work. Before you begin to research or construct your NHD project, download and read the Contest Rule Book . The current Contest Rule Book took effect on June 22, 2020. Contest Rule Book Contest Rule Book in Spanish Contact your regional or state/affiliate coordinator for more information on topics, sources, and deadlines. Project Evaluation If you enter an NHD contest, judges will use NHD Evaluation Forms to evaluate your entry. You are encouraged to use these forms as a guide in developing your project. Then, after the contest, carefully review the judges’ feedback. If your project is moving on to a higher competition level, consider ways to strengthen your work. Between contest levels, you may continue your research, refine your analysis, and revise your project, including your title. However, you may not change your topic. The evaluation form has two sections: Historical Quality (80%) The evaluation of Historical Quality is the same for all categories. This section focuses on the strengths of your historical argument, research, and relationship to the theme. Clarity of Presentation (20%) Clarity of Presentation is different for each entry category. It evaluates how well your project communicates your argument using the tools of your category. Evaluation Form for Each Project Category: Documentary Exhibit performance Paper Website View category checklists National History Day ® Influencing the future through discovery of the past Contact Job Openings Switch Language English Español 简体中文 العربية Stay Informed Read our newsletter for the latest resources, events, and training. Subscribe Follow us © 2025 National History Day ® 4511 KNOX ROAD, SUITE 205, COLLEGE PARK, MD 20740 | Privacy Policy | Website design by openbox9 We use cookies to analyze how visitors use our website so we can provide the best possible experience. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device. For more information, please view our Privacy Policy. Accept all cookies Accept only necessary cookies modal-check Copy - Support National History Day Demo Description National History Day was recently notified that our grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities were cancelled. This means a loss of more than $336,000 over this year and next. Can you give to help power NHD's important programming for the next two years and beyond? Donate now. Dismiss ad Dismiss ad This will close in 0 seconds