Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/RealTesla A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to RealTesla r/RealTesla r/RealTesla the home of Tesla discussion for those who haven't drank the Elon-Ade Members Online • LRonPaul2012 Looking back on Tesla's 2018 Performance Award Proposal Since we're still having arguments on people who criticize Judge McCormick on her ruling, I decided to look back on the original 2018 proposal that voters actually voted for. https://ir.tesla.com/press-release/tesla-announces-new-long-term-performance-award-elon-musk PALO ALTO, Calif., Jan. 23, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Tesla today announced a new 10-year CEO performance award for Elon Musk with vesting entirely contingent on achieving market cap and operational milestones that would make Tesla one of the most valuable companies in the world. In order to fully vest, Tesla's market cap would have to grow to $650 billion (an increase of almost $600 billion), and important revenue and profitability goals would also have to be achieved . The award is modeled after Elon's 2012 performance award, which helped bring about a more than 17-fold increase in Tesla's market cap in the five years after it was put in place. Note how the proposal gives the specific milestones on the mark cap goals, but not on the actual revenue/profitability goals, even though revenue/profitability should matter a lot more.  The problem is that revenue/profitability are also much harder to fudge, whereas market cap is extremely violatile and fickle.  Which isn't to say that Elon didn't try to fudge profitability, i.e., by claiming that used Teslas increased in value so he wouldn't have to write write them down as depreciating assets. This is a framing technique.  The board wants to show an ambitious market cap goal so the reader infers that the profitability/revenue goal will be equally ambitious, even though it obviously isn't, which is why they fail to mention it. And this would be a reasonable inference if the company was acting in the interest of the shareholders and trying to get them the best possible deal with the best guarantees.  But since McCormick found that the board was compromised and acting on behalf of Musk, that means that board intentionally mislead shareholders for personal gain. Operational Milestones: To meet the operational milestones, Tesla must meet a set of escalating Revenue and Adjusted EBITDA targets (the only adjustment to EBITDA is for stock-based compensation). These milestones are even more directly aligned with shareholder value creation than those used in Elon's 2012 performance award. They are designed to ensure that as Tesla's market cap grows, the company is also executing well on both a top-line and bottom-line basis. Note how the proposal says that these revenue milestones are important, but again, somehow fails to say what these milestones are. Elon will receive no guaranteed compensation of any kind - no salary, no cash bonuses, and no equity that vests simply by the passage of time. Instead, Elon's only compensation will be a 100% at-risk performance award, which ensures that he will be compensated only if Tesla and all of its shareholders do extraordinarily well. Because all Tesla employees are provided equity, this also means that Elon's compensation is tied to the success of everyone at Tesla. Fails to mention that Elon already owned 20% of the company, that increasing the market by $600 billion would increase his own person wealth by $120 billion.  Lots of people argue that Elon deserves compensation for enriching the shareholders, but that ignores the fact that Elon was the biggest shareholder of all by many orders of magnitude and would already reap that enrichment. For vesting to occur when the milestones are met, Elon must remain as Tesla's CEO or serve as both Executive Chairman and Chief Product Officer, in each case with all leadership ultimately reporting to him. This ensures that Elon will continue to lead Tesla's management over the long-term while also providing the flexibility to bring in another CEO who would report to Elon at some point in the future.  Although there is no current intention for this to happen, it provides the flexibility as Tesla continues to grow to potentially allow Elon to focus more of his attention on the kinds of key product and strategic matters that most impact Tesla's long-term growth and profitability. The board wants to mislead shareholders into believing  that Elon is being required to commit time to the company even though no such commits are required. As with the 2012 plan and Tesla's original Master Plan, the new performance award has been designed so that Tesla and Elon remain tightly aligned with shareholder interests as they now execute on Master Plan, Part Deux - continuing to build what is the world's first vertically-integrated sustainable energy company, from generation to storage to consumption. Under Elon's leadership, the next phase of Tesla's development involves a number of exciting plans that will further accelerate the advent of sustainable energy. These include expanding solar energy generation through Solar Roof and other solar products and seamlessly integrating them with battery storage, building out the company's vehicle product line to cover all major forms of terrestrial transport, continuing to advance autonomous technology to create a fully-self driving future, and enabling sharing so that your car can make money for you when you aren't using it. Here, the board tries to justify Elon's compensation package based on a long list of technologies that he promises to deliver.  But they don't actually require that Elon deliver what he promised.  This would be gross negligence and incompentence in the best case scenario.  But due to the conflict of interest, it looks more like an intentional attempt to mislead shareholders, like when a diet company promises you will lose "up to" 100 pounds. Every single technology promised in the 2018 proposal was a total failure.  The only real success during this time frame was the model Y, which was a) already finalized and ready for production under the 2012 package and thus shouldn't require an additional compensation package, b) was not covered under any of the promised items, c) largely inflated in sales due to short-term demand caused by the pandemic, and d) saw demand quickly plauteau and decline in following years. Elon fanbois will insist that Elon deserves compensation for making empty promises on unrealized products, which makes no sense, since they obviously weren't complete in the time frame of the 2018 proposal, and remain incomplete even now.  Even if you have total faith that he will develop these products in the future, then you should simply negotiate a new compensation package for future work.  There is no reason to provide him additional compensation now for work he hasn't completed, especially when he's already been compensated hundreds of billions of dollars for these incomplete product in the form of capital gains. For instance, if Netflix makes a deal with Zack Snyder where they intend to give him 10% of the company if the stock price goes up as a result of his upcoming movies, then you would expect them to actually require that those movies be completed, and that they hit a certain viewer target.  It would make no sense whatsoever for them not to include that in the contract. 6 years later, the board wanted to focus on what they the company promised to give to Elon, and shift focus away from what Elon was promised to give in return.  Yes, technically the latter promises were non-binding, but the only reason they were non-binding is because the board mislead investors due to their conflicts of interests, and those same conflict of interests are why McCormick ruled the proposal invalid. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics