‘So unintended, I’m so sorry’: Djokovic disqualified from US Open - how the tennis world reacted | The Week The Week US Edition US UK SUBSCRIBE & SAVE Less than $3 per week × Search Sign in View Profile Sign out The Explainer Talking Points The Week Recommends Newsletters Cartoons From the Magazine The Week Junior More Politics World News Business Health Science Food & Drink Travel Culture History Personal Finance Puzzles Photos The Blend All Categories Newsletter sign up Newsletter Home Sports Tennis in depth ‘So unintended, I’m so sorry’: Djokovic disqualified from US Open - how the tennis world reacted World No.1 is out of the New York grand slam after hitting line judge with a ball Newsletter sign up Newsletter (Image credit: Al Bello/Getty Images) By Mike Starling, The Week UK published 7 September 2020 Novak Djokovic has apologised for hitting a line judge with a ball at the US Open - an incident that saw the men’s world No.1 tennis player disqualified from the tournament. With no Rafael Nadal or Roger Federer at this year’s event, Djokovic was the overwhelming favourite to win the New York title and take his career grand slam tally to 18 . However, his chances of reining in Nadal (on 19) and Federer (on 20) are over for now following the default. Trailing 5-6 in the first set of the fourth-round match against Spaniard Pablo Carreno Busta, Djokovic “hit a ball in frustration behind him”, The Guardian reports, and it struck a lineswoman in the throat. Subscribe to The Week Escape your echo chamber. Get the facts behind the news, plus analysis from multiple perspectives. SUBSCRIBE & SAVE Sign up for The Week's Free Newsletters From our morning news briefing to a weekly Good News Newsletter, get the best of The Week delivered directly to your inbox. From our morning news briefing to a weekly Good News Newsletter, get the best of The Week delivered directly to your inbox. Sign up The Serb rushed to apologise, but after a ten-minute discussion with officials he was defaulted from the match and tournament. US Open referee Soeren Friemel said he had “no other option” but to disqualify the 33-year-old. The US Tennis Association (USTA) said in a statement : “In accordance with the grand slam rulebook, following his actions of intentionally hitting a ball dangerously or recklessly within the court or hitting a ball with negligent disregard of the consequences, the US Open tournament referee defaulted Novak Djokovic from the 2020 US Open. “Because he was defaulted, Djokovic will lose all ranking points earned at the US Open and will be fined the prize money won at the tournament in addition to any or all fines levied with respect to the offending incident.” Djokovic’s disqualification has split the field wide open and means there must be a first-time winner of the US Open men’s singles title. ‘I’m so sorry’: Novak’s apology Djokovic, a four-time US Open champion, did not attend the post-match press conference but he did post a statement on Instagram apologising for his actions. Djokovic vs. Nadal vs. Federer: ‘GOAT’ debate, career grand slam wins and big titles “This whole situation has left me really sad and empty,” he said. “I checked on the linesperson and the tournament told me that thank God she is feeling ok. “I’m extremely sorry to have caused her such stress. So unintended. So wrong. I’m not disclosing her name to respect her privacy. “As for the disqualification, I need to go back within and work on my disappointment and turn this all into a lesson for my growth and evolution as a player and human being. “I apologise to the US Open tournament and everyone associated for my behaviour. I’m very grateful to my team and family for being my rock support, and my fans for always being there with me. Thank you and I’m so sorry.” How the tennis world reacted Pablo Carreno Busta, Djokovic’s opponent “I didn’t see the moment, I was looking at my coach, celebrating the break and then I saw the line judge on the floor. I was in shock. When they were talking at the net I was focused in case I had to continue playing. This moment was so long. Finally Novak gave me the hand. I think it was not intentional. I don’t think anyone of us do this intentionally. It’s just the moment. It was bad luck. Of course you can’t do this. The rules are the rules. The referee and the supervisor did the right thing but it isn’t easy to make this decision.” Alexander Zverev, world No.7 “It’s very unlucky, very unfortunate. The decision was made by the supervisors and, as I said, they’re just doing their job.” Martina Navratilova, 18-time grand slam winner “Unbelievable what just happened on the court at the US Open - Novak Djokovic defaulted for inadvertently but stupidly hitting a lineswoman in the throat with a ball and the officials had no choice but to default. Wow. Glad the woman is OK - we must do better than that.” Tim Henman, former British No.1 “He’s hit that ball aiming for the back fence ... but you have to be responsible for your actions.” Russell Fuller, BBC tennis correspondent “If Novak Djokovic hadn’t have been defaulted in that situation, can you imagine the outrage? What sort of light would that have shone on tennis neutrality and the decisions that these officials make? It was an open and shut case to me. I don’t see how you could argue that was not a disqualification. It doesn’t matter how hard you hit the ball. I don’t think he has any defence at all.” Pablo Mosquera, Last Word on Tennis “It’s unclear how this situation will affect Djokovic moving forward. Will it be an extra stimulus to ruthlessly destroy his opposition on clay? Will it set him back mentally? No matter what happens next, Djokovic will never forget September 6, 2020.” Explore More US Open Novak Djokovic Sign up for Today's Best Articles in your inbox A free daily email with the biggest news stories of the day – and the best features from TheWeek.com Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Mike Starling, The Week UK Social Links Navigation Mike Starling is the former digital features editor at The Week. He started his career in 2001 in Gloucestershire as a sports reporter and sub-editor and has held various roles as a writer and editor at news, travel and B2B publications. He has spoken at a number of sports business conferences and also worked as a consultant creating sports travel content for tourism boards. International experience includes spells living and working in Dubai, UAE; Brisbane, Australia; and Beirut, Lebanon. Latest Ponant Le Champlain: an immersive Caribbean voyage The Week Recommends On board the luxury French operator's eight-night cruise from St Lucia to the West Indies By Rachel Roberts Cultural copying: Western fast fashion is co-opting South Asian culture Under the radar Reformation's new collection resembles traditional South Asian garments By Devika Rao, The Week US Codeword: April 28, 2025 The Week's daily codeword puzzle By The Week Staff You might also like Battle of the Sexes: 50 years on from Billie Jean King's landmark victory In Pictures Beating Bobby Riggs proved a historic moment for tennis and for women's sport globally By Rebekah Evans, The Week UK Coco Gauff: a tennis prodigy comes of age with US Open win American 19-year-old battled back from a set down to claim first grand slam title By The Week Staff Novak Djokovic is now ‘surely unrivalled’ in tennis history Talking Point Serb’s ‘biggest victory’ saw him make history once again in Australia By The Week Staff Novak Djokovic’s dad and the pro-Putin ‘Night Wolves’ Talking Point Australian Open episode ‘reflects sense of brotherhood’ between Serbia and Russia By Chas Newkey-Burden, The Week UK Carlos, the teenage tennis ‘superstar’, triumphs in New York Speed Read Carlos Alcaraz claimed an ‘extraordinary treble’ at Flushing Meadows By The Week Staff Roger Federer and the ‘GOAT’ debate Talking Point Tennis luminaries line up to declare the Swiss the greatest of all time By Chas Newkey-Burden, The Week UK Tennis: Britain’s men thrive and grow at the US Open feature For the first time in over fifty years, a British quartet made it to the third round of the Open By The Week Staff Emma Raducanu’s fairytale of New York is over feature British tennis star eyes a ‘clean slate’ after US Open title defence ends at first hurdle By Mike Starling, The Week UK View More ▸ TheWeek About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Advertise With Us The Week is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036.