Emilia Pérez - Golden Globes The Show Awards Database 2025 Nominations Winners/Nominees Carol Burnett Award Cecil B. DeMille Award History Golden Globes History About Award Rules and Entry Forms Media Info Publicist Info Voter Application Voter Biographies Membership Board of Directors Golden Globes Leadership Team Contact Us FAQs News Latest News Video Gallery Skip to content 82nd Annual Golden Globes® LIVE COVERAGE . Awards Database 10 Nominations 4 Wins Emilia Pérez “Emilia Pérez” (2024), directed by Jacques Audiard, is a musical drama that follows the transformative journey of Juan “Manitas” Del Monte (Karla Sofía Gascón), a powerful Mexican cartel leader who undergoes gender-affirming surgery to escape her criminal past. The narrative explores themes of identity, redemption, and the complexities of transitioning, set against the vibrant backdrop of Mexican culture. Critics have lauded the film for its avant-garde approach and representation of underrepresented characters. However, it has faced criticism from LGBTQ organizations, such as GLAAD, and Mexican artists, including d.p. Rodrigo Prieto, for its portrayal of trans identity and reliance on stereotypical depictions of Mexican culture. The film has received significant awards buzz, including 10 Golden Globe nominations and leading spots on Oscar shortlists. Role Credit Cast: Selena Gomez , Zoe Saldaña , Karla Gascón Director: Jacques Audiard Score: Camille , Clément Ducol Golden Globe Awards 2025 Winner Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy Emilia Pérez 2025 Winner Best Motion Picture – Non-English Language Emilia Pérez France 2025 Nominee Best Performance by a Female Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy Emilia Pérez Karla Sofìa Gascón 2025 Nominee Best Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role in any Motion Picture Emilia Pérez Selena Gomez 2025 Nominee Best Director - Motion Picture Emilia Pérez Jacques Audiard 2025 Nominee Best Screenplay - Motion Picture Emilia Pérez Jacques Audiard 2025 Nominee Best Original Score - Motion Picture Emilia Pérez Clément Ducol 2025 Winner Best Original Song - Motion Picture Emilia Pérez El Mal 2025 Winner Best Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role in any Motion Picture Emilia Pérez Zoe Saldaña 2025 Nominee Best Original Song - Motion Picture Emilia Pérez Mi Camino Subscribe to Newsletter Email address Submit GG will store your name and email address and use them to send the Weekly Globe newsletter. Withdraw consent by clicking on the link in an issue. Read our Privacy Policy . Something went wrong! Please try again. Thank you for your submission! Tabulation proudly provided by KPMG LLP (US) The Show Awards Database 2025 Nominations Winners/Nominees Carol Burnett Award Cecil B. DeMille Award History Golden Globes History About Award Rules and Entry Forms Media Info Publicist Info Voter Application Voter Biographies Membership Board of Directors Golden Globes Leadership Team Contact Us FAQs News Latest News Video Gallery Golden Globe(s)®, Cecil B. Demille® and Golden Globes® Statuette design mark are the registered trademarks and service marks and the Golden Globe® statuette the copyrighted property, of Golden Globes, LLC. Copyright © Golden Globes, LLC. Hollywood Foreign Press Association® is a registered trademark of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. All rights reserved. Accessibility Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Adchoices Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices Dismiss Disclaimer Your Privacy Rights Golden Globes, LLC (“Golden Globes”) uses first and third-party technologies to enable PMC and third-parties to collect information about you and your interactions with our sites and services (including clicks, cursor movements and screen recordings). Learn more HERE . By continuing to use our sites or services, you agree to our Terms of Use (including the class action waiver and arbitration provisions) and Privacy Policy , which have recently changed. Search Search