Alexa Connected Devices Official Site: Create Voice-First Devices {"settingsUrl":"https://ds6yc8t7pnx74.cloudfront.net/devportal-digital-assets/cf/developer-portal/getDeXSearchData"} Sign In Documentation Stack Overflow Contact Us Alexa Developer Home Alexa Developer Console Alexa Voice Service Alexa Certification Console Alexa Connect Kit Skill Builders Alexa Skills Kit Feature Updates Documentation Grow Your Business Developer Console Tech Talks Device Makers Alexa Built-in Devices Develop Alexa built-in devices with Alexa Voice Service Overview Connected Devices Connect your smart devices to Alexa Overview Development Resources Business Resources What's New Consoles Tech Talks Solution Providers Skill Agencies Alexa Connect Kit Alexa Smart Properties Tech Talks Alexa AI Products Alexa Skills Kit Alexa Routines Kit Radio Skills Kit Alexa Built-In Alexa Smart Home Dash Services Alexa Auto SDK Alexa Smart Properties Alexa Smart Properties Hospitality Senior Living Healthcare Programs Alexa Startups Alexa Fund Pitch Us Tell us about your company Portfolio Alexa Fund Portfolio companies Alexa Next Stage Online program for late-stage startups Alexa Fellowship Program for university students Alexa Prize Alexa Science Alexa Champions Voice Interoperability Initiative Office Hours Branding Alexa Branding Echo Branding Learn Alexa Learning Lab How to Videos GitHub Code Samples Docs Build Skills for Alexa Alexa Skills Kit Smart Home Skills ASK CLI and SMAPI Connect Your Device to Alexa Alexa Connect Kit Smart Home Skills Alexa Smart Properties Hospitality Residential Senior Living Healthcare Alexa Trainings and Workshops Blog Alexa Skills Kit Device Makers Alexa Auto Alexa Science Alexa Insider Alexa Connected Devices Development Resources Business Resources What's New Consoles Alexa Connected Devices Development Resources Business Resources What's New Consoles Previous Next Create an Amazon developer account . Registration is easy and free. Take the first step to growing your business with Amazon Alexa. Build with Amazon's Newest Devices & Services Introducing new products and services that bring ambient intelligence to life. Learn More Device Makers > Connected Devices Alexa Connected Devices You can build smart home and other products that customers can control from millions of Alexa devices with just their voice. Expand your device’s capabilities with Alexa to create delightful experiences for lights, switches, thermostats, cameras, locks, and more. Plus, your Alexa-connected devices continue to become smarter with Alexa’s growing list of smart home capabilities and features that leverage Alexa’s cloud intelligence, making it easier for you to deliver rich, delightful customer experiences for all your devices. On this page: Why Build Connected Devices? | Go Beyond Voice Control | Connect Any Device to Alexa | Get Inspired by What Others are Building | Next Step: Start Building Why Build Alexa Connected Devices? Delight Your Customers Enable customers to control your devices with their voice and expand your product’s features with Alexa’s machine learning and automation capabilities. Grow Your Business Sell connected devices to the millions of Alexa customers, and increase your product’s exposure by certifying your devices with the Works with Alexa badge. Choice of Connectivity Build with a range of software and hardware solutions. You can connect your device to Alexa in the cloud, locally, or directly on your hardware. Go Beyond Voice Control When you integrate with Alexa, you let customers to do more than control your devices with their voices, such as enabling automated experiences, and making device setup and replenishment easier with Frustration-Free Setup and Dash Replenishment for Alexa. Automated Routines Customers can use Routines to set automated experiences based on time-of-day and triggers. Alexa Hunches With Hunches, Alexa can proactively act based on your customers’ usage, like reminding customers to turn off a light before going to bed. Smart Home Groups Your customers can add your devices to Groups to control multiple smart home devices with simple commands, like "Alexa, lights on." Easy Device Setup Enable Frustration-Free Setup to make setting up Alexa smart home products as easy for customers as opening a box and powering on a device. Learn More Automatic Reordering Make shopping disappear by automating the reordering of batteries, coffee, filters, and more using Amazon Dash Replenishment. Learn More Connect Any Device To Alexa With our developer tools you can connect virtually any device to Alexa, from lights and thermostats, to coffee makers and cameras. You can find resources to get started with common Alexa smart home devices types below. Lighting, Switches, & Plugs Learn More Cameras Learn More Thermostats Learn More Kitchen Devices Learn More Door Locks Learn More More Smart Home Devices Learn More Explore More Device Types Get Inspired by What Others Are Building Arlo Voice-Enables its Smart Cameras By integrating with Alexa, Arlo could enable its customers to access any video feed by voice—even when their hands are full. Watch the Video Wyze Labs: Smart Cameras Works with Alexa helped Wyze Labs grow sales even faster by expanding both their online and offline footprint, while delivering a great experience to their customers. Learn More Haiku Home: Smart Ceiling Fans Big Ass Fans (BAF) felt voice was definitely the user interface of the future. BAF customers can control their smart ceiling fan - no wall switch or mobile app required. Learn More Next Step: Start Building View our development options and learn how to start building today. Work with a Solution Provider Work with experienced solution providers, such as Original Design Manufacturers (ODM), System Integrators, and more to help you accelerate developing and launching new Alexa-based products. Find a Solution Provider Build It Yourself Select from a range of development options to connect your devices to Alexa. No matter which option you choose, you can take advantage of our documentation, tools, and developer forums to help you on the way. See Development Resources Sign Up for Voice Mail The Alexa Newsletter for Device Makers Manage Email Preferences Back To Top Alexa Skills Kit Alexa Skills Kit Get Started Get Deeper Grow Your Business What's New ASK Resources Tutorials & Code Samples Documentation Skill-Building Agencies Device Makers Overview Alexa Built-in Devices Overview Business Resources Alexa Connected Devices Overview Development Resources Business Resources What's New Solution Providers Overview Agreements Agreements and Terms Program Materials License Agreement Amazon Developers Services Portal Terms of Use Community Alexa on Slack Blogs Alexa Skills Kit Blog Device Makers Blog Alexa Auto Alexa Science AWS Blog Support Amazon Developer Support Contact Us Stack Overflow Follow Us: English (US) English (ANZ) English (UK) English (India) Japanese (日本語) French (Français) Italian (Italiano) German (Deutsch) Spanish (España) Spanish (México) Portuguese (Brasil) Arabic (العربية) © 2010 - 2025, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved. Terms Docs Stack Overflow Blog Alexa Developer Home Terms Docs Stack Overflow Blog Alexa Developer Home