Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/movies A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to movies r/movies r/movies The goal of /r/Movies is to provide an inclusive place for discussions and news about films with major releases. Submissions should be for the purpose of informing or initiating a discussion, not just to entertain readers. Read our extensive list of rules for more information on other types of posts like fan-art and self-promotion, or message the moderators if you have any questions. Members Online • [deleted] James Cameron Owns Avatar Film IP Discussion With all the talk of Endgame vs. Avatar at the box office, I've seen some people discuss the possibility of Disney taking over Avatar and affecting the production. I did some research on this and found out that James Cameron actually owns the film IP to Avatar. Fox had distribution rights to Avatar but the actual production rights belong to James Cameron's Lightstorm Entertainment. It's similar to when George Lucas made his Star Wars sequels and prequels through Lucasfilm and they were distributed by Fox. Or on a more recent example, how Shymalan self-funds his more recent movies to retain creative control and Blumhouse is the distributor. It makes sense. Why would Fox, a studio that struggled in the 2010s, just allow Cameron to sit on the IP of the highest grossing movie in the world? It's because they don't control the production. Even Disney's Avatar Land at Animal Kingdom was negotiated between Cameron and Lightstorm, not 20th Century Fox. However, this does not mean Fox didn't help out with funding. They actually chipped in for a portion of the budget and alongside with Cameron installed thousands of 3D projectors for movie theaters. With Disney now assuming Fox's role, I assume they will back it pretty well. In fact, Cameron in 2006 pitched Avatar to Disney before Fox exercised their distribution rights after they initially were hesitant about the project. Some may feel that Avatar is not culturally relevant but I imagine by 2021 Disney will do their best to fix that. They already opened a theme park area. They wanted the movies from before the first was even released. I'm personally excited for the sequels. It's rare we get an auteur in full control of production on a massive scale like this. Anyways, we'll have to wait until 2021 to see it. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 18, 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2019 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics