Celebrating the 2020 and 2021 National Teachers of the Year in the Nation’s Capital - Maryland State Education Association FAQ Salaries Pensions NEA Member Benefits Give to PAC Contact Us ID Lookup Who We Are Teachers & Certificated Staff Education Support Professionals Retirees Aspiring Educators Community College Faculty Board of Directors Staff Advocacy School Funding Educator Voice Racial and Social Justice ESP Bill of Rights Testing Anti-Privatization Efforts Career Resources Professional Development Salaries Pensions Tenure Federal Resources Membership Join MSEA Elections & Nominations Get Involved Newsroom Actionline Press Room Up the Street Events Go Join MSEA Get Updates Close this form FAQ Salaries Pensions NEA Member Benefits Give to PAC Contact Us ID Lookup Search Who We Are Teachers & Certificated Staff Education Support Professionals Retirees Aspiring Educators Community College Faculty Board of Directors Staff Advocacy School Funding Educator Voice Racial and Social Justice ESP Bill of Rights Testing Anti-Privatization Efforts Career Resources Professional Development Salaries Pensions Tenure Federal Resources Membership Join MSEA Elections & Nominations Get Involved Newsroom Actionline Press Room Up the Street Events Local Affiliates Join MSEA Get Updates Celebrating the 2020 and 2021 National Teachers of the Year in the Nation’s Capital December 9, 2021 MSEA President Cheryl Bost joined NEA President Becky Pringle and NEA Secretary/Treasurer Noel Candelaria at the White House recently to celebrate the 2020 and 2021 National Teachers of the Year. The 2020 award winner, Kansas pre-school educator Tabatha Rosproy , teaches in an intergenerational program based in a retirement community. She is the first pre-school teacher to be honored as National Teacher of the Year. The 2021 awardee, Juliana Urtubey , is an instruction­al strategist and co-teacher in pre-k through 5th grade in Las Vegas. “The past year and a half has been a unique and challenging learning experience for those of us in public education. It was wonderful to be among so many positive, forward-looking people, including President and Mrs. Biden who honor and respect our profession,” Bost said. Latest News Educator Voice | Pedagogy | Professional Practice Actionline Breakthroughs: Creating Opportunities to Build My Practice through Travel Good Trouble | Professional Practice Actionline The Good Trouble Questionnaire: Casey Day, Frederick County Educator Voice | Professional Practice Actionline 2024-2025 Maryland Teacher of the Year Kat Locke-Jones Find Your Local Affiliate MSEA has members all over the state. Find your affiliate today. Affiliate Directory Join An Event Member Awards & Grants Join Our Team Contact Us NEA MSEA Employees Privacy Policy MSEA Store Join MSEA Get Updates Follow on facebook Follow on tiktok Follow on instagram Follow on youtube Follow on bluesky 140 Main Street Annapolis, MD 21401 © Maryland State Education Association. All Rights Reserved. Share Share on Facebook Share via email