Google Pixel 5a announced, but there's bad news for UK Android fans | Express.co.uk Express. Home of the Daily and Sunday Express. Puzzles Horoscopes Express Rated Shop Paper Newsletters Login Register Your Account Newsletters Bookmarks Sign Out Uk Us 11 °C Find us on Facebook Follow us on WhatsApp Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Find us on Youtube Search HOME News Politics Royal Showbiz & TV Sport Finance Travel Life & Style Comment Life Cars Tech Garden Property Food Diets Health Style Express Wins Home Life & Style Tech Google reveals all-new budget Pixel 5a ...but there's bad news for Android fans in the UK GOOGLE has announced its all-new Pixel 5a. Here's everything you need to know about the new budget Android handset, including the final specs, release date and that all-important price tag. By Dion Dassanayake 18:30, Tue, Aug 17, 2021 | UPDATED: 14:40, Thu, Aug 19, 2021 Share Article Share Article Facebook X LinkedIn Reddit Bluesky Email Copy Link Link copied Bookmark Comments This article contains affiliate links, we may receive a commission on any sales we generate from it. Learn more Google Pixel 5a revealed - Specs, price, release date announced (Image: GOOGLE) The Google Pixel 5a is here. Earlier this month, Google lifted the lid on its Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro flagship handsets , which are set to launch later this year. But before the Pixel 6 lands on shelves worldwide, Google has launched a successor to the Pixel 4a. Enter, the Pixel 5a - the latest budget twist on its top-tier Pixel smartphones. Related articles Forget the Pixel 6, Google could reveal another new Android phone soon The dramatic changes that could be coming to iPhone and Android The Pixel 5a, which is available to pre-order today in the US and Japan, is a 5G-enabled smartphone that offers a number of improvements over its predecessor. Based on the pricier Pixel 5, this latest budget Android phone from Google offers a bigger screen and better battery life compared to both the Pixel 4a and Pixel 4a 5G. Article continues below ADVERTISEMENT Whereas the 4a and 4a 5G were fitted with a 3,140mAh and 3,885mAh battery as well as a 5.8 inch and a 6.2 inch display, the Pixel 5a has a huge 4,680mAh battery as well as a 6.34 inch screen. The massive battery pack, which is the biggest found on any Pixel phone, will offer two days worth of juice when using Extreme Battery Saver mode, Google says. The Pixel 5a is also the first A-series Pixel phone to come with an IP67 water and dust resistance rating, which means the handset will survive an accidental drop into the toilet – or a bath in your pint. That should be reassuring for those with butter-fingers. The Pixel 5a is powered by the 5G enabled Snapdragon 765G chipset, which is the same processor found on the Pixel 5. That means you should expect decent speeds when juggling between multiple apps, editing photos and video. However, don't expect anything like the boosts to on-device AI that Google has predicted with its upcoming Pixel 6. READ MORE Android users beware: Don't be duped by this nasty new text threat Google Play Store: How to update on an Android device READ MORE If you use Incognito Mode on Chrome, Google has some very good news Launched in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, the Pixel 5 was dubbed a phone for the "economic downturn". The 2020 device opted for an appealing price point instead of a huge leap in design and specs. Elsewhere, the Pixel 5a retains the trusty 3.5mm headphone jack and comes with a 12MP dual-pixel and 16MP ultra wide camera sensor. The latter means the Pixel 5a will be able to take ultrawide lens shots, something the Pixel 5 also offered - but the Pixel 4a didn't. The Pixel 5a is available to pre-order today in the US and Japan from the Google Store ahead of a August 26 release date. It's also available in the States via Google Fi and is priced at $449. This is $50 cheaper than the Pixel 4a 5G retailed at. But what about those in the UK? Well, there's some bad news. Speaking to Express.co.uk, a spokesperson for Google said: "Pixel 5a (5G) will be available in the US and Japan, global supply chain challenges limited a larger regional roll out.” SUBSCRIBE Invalid email We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy The Google Pixel 5a has a release date of August 26 for the US and Japan (Image: GOOGLE) The Pixel 5a just comes in the Mostly Black colour scheme, but there are four different coloured cases on offer if owners want to change up the look of their phone. Announcing its new smartphone, the Mountain View firm said: "Introducing Pixel 5a with 5G, the latest A-series Pixel phone from Google with many of the helpful features users have grown to love (and a few new hardware additions) all at a more affordable price. The phone arrives on August 26 and includes IP67 water resistance, a powerful battery, Pixel's impressive dual-camera system and a whole lot more — you can pre-order it now for $449." The Google Pixel 5a has an IP67 water dust resistant rating (Image: GOOGLE) Trending "On August 26, the Pixel 5a with 5G will start shipping from the Google Store, as well as via Google Fi in the U.S. and SoftBank in Japan." The official announcement for the Google Pixel 5a comes after much speculation and leaks, including one earlier today that revealed the new Android phone early. As reported by MSPowerUser , the first advert for the Google Pixel 5a went live early. The promotional shot of the Pixel 5a promo was revealed by Japanese firm SoftBank, with the advert showing off the camera capabilities of the phone. Besides the new Pixel handsets, Google could also have another new product up its sleeve that will launch in 2021. Pixel 5a promo video from a Japanese carrier pic.twitter.com/pYz5Twx5C1 — Saran (@SaranByte) August 17, 2021 Rumours have claimed a new Chromecast could debut this year, which may be the successor to the Chromecast Ultra. However, it remains to be seen what the big selling point of a potential new Ultra streaming device could be. The main thing that distinguished the Chromecast Ultra from the regular Google streaming dongle was 4K HDR support. However, the latest Chromecast with Google TV - which was released last year - already supports 4K content. Related articles Google bans another 9 Android apps - delete them NOW Google bans thousands of Play Store apps, but there's a good reason Five things all Gmail users should know before sending another email Google Share Article Share Article Facebook X LinkedIn Reddit Bluesky Email Copy Link Link copied Bookmark Comments Most read in Tech New Galaxy Watch rival offers a much-needed upgrade that Samsung can’t beat Get the Pixel 9a for less than £100 when you give Google your old phone Argos shoppers rush to grab very cheap iPads as 'lowest price ever' confirmed Google just upgraded millions of Gmail accounts for free - check your inbox now Your Kindle just got a noteworthy free upgrade from Amazon - check the settings now Amazon's best-selling robot vacuum cleaner falls under £100 in 58% price drop Amazon knocks £110 off Henry cordless vacuum in spring deal Ninja knocks £60 off 'easy to use' Creami that makes ‘incredibly smooth ice cream' Samsung offers ultimate Galaxy S25 Ultra upgrade for less than half price - that's not all GiffGaff is giving away £100 to trial its new £10 a month broadband New Kindle rival confirmed that offers a surprise upgrade Amazon won't match Samsung is giving away a free Galaxy Watch with this £25 S24 deal Another smart new Sky TV rival is coming to the UK and it's totally free to watch Everyone with a PayPal account put on red alert and urged to follow 10 new rules Lakeland's Spring Savings Event sees discounts on steamers, cleaners and G-tech devices Eubank Jr v Benn free live stream 'risk' - do not make these costly mistakes tonight Ditch your dish and get ultimate Sky TV upgrade at a surprisingly low price LG confirms game-changing upgrade for these TVs - is your model on the list? Impressive new Android phone comes to UK and Samsung should be worried by its price Is Google's Chromecast back? New Fire TV Stick rival is launching soon Amazon and Argos cut 4K Hisense TV to record low price in 'incredible value' deal Iconic Motorola Razr is back with upgrades Samsung's Galaxy won't yet match Sky offering Samsung Galaxy Tab S10 FE with a free keyboard worth £139 Sky spring sale drops TV, Netflix and fibre broadband pack to 'lowest ever price' O2 issues urgent warning to customers as it plans to switch off 3G mobile service SEARCH CONNECT WITH US Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Snapchat Check our YouTube channel Subscribe to our rss feed TODAY'S PAPER Wednesday, 30th April 2025 See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. News UK World Politics Royal US Weather Science History Weird Nature Sunday Obituaries Latest News Brexit European Union Theresa May Angela Merkel Donald Trump The Queen Kate Middleton Meghan Markle Diesel Cancer Diabetes Dementia YouTube InYourArea mynewsassistant Showbiz & TV TV & Radio Celebrity News Sport Football Tennis F1 Boxing UFC Rugby Cricket Golf NFL Racing NBA Comment Express Comment Columnists Finance City & Business Personal Finance The Crusader Travel Travel News UK Europe America Africa Asia Australia Cruise City breaks Beach Holidays Activity Holidays Express Rated Best VPN Best Sky Deals Best Mattress Best Dating Sites Best UK Broadband Deals Freeview Samsung Sky Android Apple Black Friday Entertainment Films Music Books Theatre Gaming Express Wins Life & Style Diets Style Health Garden Food Property Life Cars Tech Beauty Box Subscription EXPRESS.CO.UK Play Express Wins Apps Puzzles Horoscopes Partner Stories Shop Hopsmore Beer Club Paper Sitemap Site Archive About Us Social Media Journalists How to Complain Report a Tech Issue Advertising Affiliate advertising Cookies Settings Privacy Policy AI Notice Cookie Policy Terms & Conditions Community Standards Developed by Netro42 Syndication and Licensing Clarifications and Corrections IPSO Regulated Copyright ©2025 Express Newspapers. "Daily Express" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved. Daily Express uses notifications to keep you updated Keep me updated No thanks