Season 11 (TV Series) | Walking Dead Wiki | Fandom Walking Dead Wiki Attention ! Please be aware that spoilers are not allowed on the wiki and a violation of this policy may result in a ban. Information (character deaths/fates, screenshots, etc.) from episodes released early on AMC+ may not be added to the wiki until the episode officially airs at 9pm EST on the Sunday it is scheduled for. Thank you. READ MORE Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Walking Dead Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Comic Universe The Walking Dead Characters Rick Grimes Carl Grimes Andrea Grimes Maggie Greene Michonne Hawthorne Eugene Porter Negan Unnamed or Unseen Volumes Compendium 1 Compendium 2 Compendium 3 Compendium 4 Issues Specials Morgan Special Michonne Special Governor Special Tyreese Special The Alien Here's Negan Negan Lives Extras Deluxe Survivors' Guide AP Edition Crew Woodbury Novels Characters Brian Blake Lilly Caul Bob Stookey Gloria Pyne Austin Ballard Jeremiah Garlitz Norma Sutters Thomas Dupree Novels Rise of the Governor Road to Woodbury Fall of the Governor Descent Invasion Search and Destroy Return to Woodbury Chapters Short Stories Alone, Together Just Another Day at the Office Typhoon Characters Chen Wenzhu Elena Anderson Ying Hengyen Ming Haobo Meili Wangfa Secretary Guo Chen Ahui Chapters Telltale Series Characters Lee Everett Clementine Kenny Jane Javier García Violet Louis Michonne Hawthorne Unnamed or Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Michonne Episodes Bonus Scene Short Stories The Night the World Ended How I Protekted Clem Statistics Cast Crew Clementine Books Characters Clementine Ricca Olivia Georgia Amos Shu-Fen Anne Morro Alvin Jr. Books Clementine Lives Book One Book Two Book Three Chapters Saints & Sinners Characters The Tourist Unnamed or Unseen Games Saints & Sinners Aftershocks Retribution Podcasts Skeptic's Guide TV Universe The Walking Dead Characters Rick Grimes Daryl Dixon Carol Peletier Maggie Rhee Michonne Grimes Carl Grimes Glenn Rhee Negan Smith Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Season 5 Season 6 Season 7 Season 8 Season 9 Season 10 Season 11 Episodes Webisodes Torn Apart Cold Storage The Oath Red Machete Video Games Survival Instinct Dead Reckoning Onslaught Pathways Cast Crew Fear Characters Madison Clark Alicia Clark Morgan Jones Victor Strand Luciana Galvez Daniel Salazar Nicholas Clark Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Season 5 Season 6 Season 7 Season 8 Episodes Webisodes Flight 462 Passage The Althea Tapes Dead in the Water Podcasts Radio Waves Cast Crew World Beyond Characters Iris Bennett Hope Bennett Felix Carlucci Jennifer Mallick Elton Ortiz Silas Plaskett Elizabeth Kublek Unnamed or Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Episodes Cast Crew Tales Characters Joe Evie Blair Crawford Gina Dee Chauncey Everett Amy Davon Idalia Unnamed & Unseen Season 1 Episodes Cast Crew Dead City Characters Maggie Rhee Negan Smith Hershel Rhee Ginny Perlie Armstrong The Croat Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Episodes Cast Crew Daryl Dixon Characters Daryl Dixon Carol Peletier Isabelle Carriere Laurent Carriere Sylvie Stéphane Codron Marion Genet Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Episodes Cast Crew Ones Who Live Characters Rick Grimes Michonne Grimes Jadis Stokes Pearl Thorne Jonathan Beale Season 1 Episodes Cast Crew Non-Canon Original Pilot Characters Rick Grimes Carol Grimes Carl Grimes The Newscaster Rick Grimes 2000 Characters Rick Grimes Carl Grimes Andrea Lori Grimes Michonne Hawthorne Brian Blake Negan The Alien Issues Bonus Ending Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Small Bites Characters Carl Grimes Rick Grimes John Houck Steven Ron Anderson Beatrice Abraham Ford Alexander Davidson Issues Where's Carl-O Overkill Characters Aidan Hunt Grant Moore Maya Evans Heather Campbell Reina Torres Sarah Bridger Anderson Banks Caleb Bernard Unnamed or Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Episodes Cancelled Episodes Trailers Aidan's Trailer Maya's Trailer Grant's Trailer Heather's Trailer Destinies Characters Rick Grimes Shane Walsh Lori Grimes Carl Grimes Theodore Douglas Daryl Dixon Merle Dixon Philip Blake Acts Welcome to the Apocalypse Survival of the Fittest Kill the Dead Woodbury Fear the Living Episodes Other Games Social Game Characters Chapters Missions The Escapists Characters Bridge Constructor Characters Mobile Games Road to Survival No Man's Land Our World Survivors Empires All-Stars Browse wiki Letter Hacks Robert Kirkman Tony Moore Charlie Adlard Talking Dead Chris Hardwick Yvette Nicole Brown Media Extra Cast/Crew Dub Cast Stunts Crossovers Books Cutting Room Floor The Quotable Negan Art of AMC's TWDU Cover Gallery Promo Pictures 100 Project Merchandise Music In-Universe(s) Locations Vehicles Weapons Themes Outside References Community Pages Community Portal Policies Portal Spoiler Policy Discussion Policies Discord Policies Discord Portal Moderation Portal Administrators Mistertrouble189 Natalie j Ratthew Holt Zee Everett Wwefan2 Staff Members Comm. Managers Miller Content Mods Guardy107 DalesRV Cccclyde Dormammu149 Geo1234 Thread Mods Masqueradess Kayla Carson Discord Admins Zee Everett Mistertrouble189 Guardy107 Dormammu149 Ratthew Holt Discord Mods Sir Rayveltal Geo1234 NMcBugg59 President Dog Magnus Robert Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Walking Dead Wiki 14,739 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Comic Universe The Walking Dead Characters Rick Grimes Carl Grimes Andrea Grimes Maggie Greene Michonne Hawthorne Eugene Porter Negan Unnamed or Unseen Volumes Compendium 1 Compendium 2 Compendium 3 Compendium 4 Issues Specials Morgan Special Michonne Special Governor Special Tyreese Special The Alien Here's Negan Negan Lives Extras Deluxe Survivors' Guide AP Edition Crew Woodbury Novels Characters Brian Blake Lilly Caul Bob Stookey Gloria Pyne Austin Ballard Jeremiah Garlitz Norma Sutters Thomas Dupree Novels Rise of the Governor Road to Woodbury Fall of the Governor Descent Invasion Search and Destroy Return to Woodbury Chapters Short Stories Alone, Together Just Another Day at the Office Typhoon Characters Chen Wenzhu Elena Anderson Ying Hengyen Ming Haobo Meili Wangfa Secretary Guo Chen Ahui Chapters Telltale Series Characters Lee Everett Clementine Kenny Jane Javier García Violet Louis Michonne Hawthorne Unnamed or Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Michonne Episodes Bonus Scene Short Stories The Night the World Ended How I Protekted Clem Statistics Cast Crew Clementine Books Characters Clementine Ricca Olivia Georgia Amos Shu-Fen Anne Morro Alvin Jr. Books Clementine Lives Book One Book Two Book Three Chapters Saints & Sinners Characters The Tourist Unnamed or Unseen Games Saints & Sinners Aftershocks Retribution Podcasts Skeptic's Guide TV Universe The Walking Dead Characters Rick Grimes Daryl Dixon Carol Peletier Maggie Rhee Michonne Grimes Carl Grimes Glenn Rhee Negan Smith Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Season 5 Season 6 Season 7 Season 8 Season 9 Season 10 Season 11 Episodes Webisodes Torn Apart Cold Storage The Oath Red Machete Video Games Survival Instinct Dead Reckoning Onslaught Pathways Cast Crew Fear Characters Madison Clark Alicia Clark Morgan Jones Victor Strand Luciana Galvez Daniel Salazar Nicholas Clark Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Season 5 Season 6 Season 7 Season 8 Episodes Webisodes Flight 462 Passage The Althea Tapes Dead in the Water Podcasts Radio Waves Cast Crew World Beyond Characters Iris Bennett Hope Bennett Felix Carlucci Jennifer Mallick Elton Ortiz Silas Plaskett Elizabeth Kublek Unnamed or Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Episodes Cast Crew Tales Characters Joe Evie Blair Crawford Gina Dee Chauncey Everett Amy Davon Idalia Unnamed & Unseen Season 1 Episodes Cast Crew Dead City Characters Maggie Rhee Negan Smith Hershel Rhee Ginny Perlie Armstrong The Croat Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Episodes Cast Crew Daryl Dixon Characters Daryl Dixon Carol Peletier Isabelle Carriere Laurent Carriere Sylvie Stéphane Codron Marion Genet Unnamed & Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Episodes Cast Crew Ones Who Live Characters Rick Grimes Michonne Grimes Jadis Stokes Pearl Thorne Jonathan Beale Season 1 Episodes Cast Crew Non-Canon Original Pilot Characters Rick Grimes Carol Grimes Carl Grimes The Newscaster Rick Grimes 2000 Characters Rick Grimes Carl Grimes Andrea Lori Grimes Michonne Hawthorne Brian Blake Negan The Alien Issues Bonus Ending Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Small Bites Characters Carl Grimes Rick Grimes John Houck Steven Ron Anderson Beatrice Abraham Ford Alexander Davidson Issues Where's Carl-O Overkill Characters Aidan Hunt Grant Moore Maya Evans Heather Campbell Reina Torres Sarah Bridger Anderson Banks Caleb Bernard Unnamed or Unseen Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Episodes Cancelled Episodes Trailers Aidan's Trailer Maya's Trailer Grant's Trailer Heather's Trailer Destinies Characters Rick Grimes Shane Walsh Lori Grimes Carl Grimes Theodore Douglas Daryl Dixon Merle Dixon Philip Blake Acts Welcome to the Apocalypse Survival of the Fittest Kill the Dead Woodbury Fear the Living Episodes Other Games Social Game Characters Chapters Missions The Escapists Characters Bridge Constructor Characters Mobile Games Road to Survival No Man's Land Our World Survivors Empires All-Stars Browse wiki Letter Hacks Robert Kirkman Tony Moore Charlie Adlard Talking Dead Chris Hardwick Yvette Nicole Brown Media Extra Cast/Crew Dub Cast Stunts Crossovers Books Cutting Room Floor The Quotable Negan Art of AMC's TWDU Cover Gallery Promo Pictures 100 Project Merchandise Music In-Universe(s) Locations Vehicles Weapons Themes Outside References Community Pages Community Portal Policies Portal Spoiler Policy Discussion Policies Discord Policies Discord Portal Moderation Portal Administrators Mistertrouble189 Natalie j Ratthew Holt Zee Everett Wwefan2 Staff Members Comm. Managers Miller Content Mods Guardy107 DalesRV Cccclyde Dormammu149 Geo1234 Thread Mods Masqueradess Kayla Carson Discord Admins Zee Everett Mistertrouble189 Guardy107 Dormammu149 Ratthew Holt Discord Mods Sir Rayveltal Geo1234 NMcBugg59 President Dog Magnus Robert in: Season 11 (TV Series) , Cast , TV Series , and 11 more Main Cast Also Starring Special Guest Co-Stars Extras Episodes TV Series Episodes Television Universe TV Series Seasons Seasons The Walking Dead English Deutsch Español Français 日本語 Polski Season 11 (TV Series) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (2) Seasons: 1 • 2 • 3 • 4 • 5 • 6 • 7 • 8 • 9 • 10 • 11 Season 11 - Part 1 Cover Gallery Distributor AMC Fox International Channels Showrunner Angela Kang Based On Image Comics ' The Walking Dead Channels AMC (United States) Fox (International) Disney+ (International) Episodes " Acheron: Part I " " Acheron: Part II " " Hunted " " Rendition " " Out of the Ashes " " On the Inside " " Promises Broken " " For Blood " Original Run Aug 22, 2021 to Oct 10, 2021 Preceded By Season 10 Season 11 - Part 2 Cover Gallery Episodes " No Other Way " " New Haunts " " Rogue Element " " The Lucky Ones " " Warlords " " The Rotten Core " " Trust " " Acts of God " Original Run Feb 20, 2022 to Apr 10, 2022 Preceded By Season 10 Season 11 - Part 3 Cover Gallery Episodes " Lockdown " " A New Deal " " Variant " " What's Been Lost " " Outpost 22 " " Faith " " Family " " Rest in Peace " Original Run Oct 2, 2022 to Nov 20, 2022 [ 1 ] Preceded By Season 10 Season 11 is the final season of AMC 's The Walking Dead . It premiered on August 22, 2021, and concluded on November 20, 2022, consisting of 24 episodes. Developed for television by Frank Darabont , the series is based on the eponymous series of comic books by Robert Kirkman , Tony Moore , and Charlie Adlard . The executive producers are Kirkman, David Alpert , Scott Gimple , Angela Kang , Greg Nicotero , Joe Incaprera , Denise Huth , and Gale Anne Hurd , with Kang as showrunner for her third and final season. This season adapts material from issues # 175 - 193 of the Comic Series . It focuses on the group 's encounter with the Commonwealth , a large network of communities that has advanced equipment and over fifty thousand survivors living in their different settlements. Additionally, the season also focuses on the group's confrontation with the Reapers , a mysterious faction of hostile survivors that attacked and took Meridian , the former home of Maggie ( Lauren Cohan ) and her new people, the Wardens . Contents 1 Plot 1.1 "Acheron: Part I" 1.2 "Acheron: Part II" 1.3 "Hunted" 1.4 "Rendition" 1.5 "Out of the Ashes" 1.6 "On the Inside" 1.7 "Promises Broken" 1.8 "For Blood" 1.9 "No Other Way" 1.10 "New Haunts" 1.11 "Rogue Element" 1.12 "The Lucky Ones" 1.13 "Warlords" 1.14 "The Rotten Core" 1.15 "Trust" 1.16 "Acts of God" 1.17 "Lockdown" 1.18 "A New Deal" 1.19 "Variant" 1.20 "What's Been Lost" 1.21 "Outpost 22" 1.22 "Faith" 1.23 "Family" 1.24 "Rest in Peace" 2 Episodes 3 Title Screen 4 Cast 5 Deaths 6 Production 6.1 Casting 7 Release 8 Reception 8.1 Critical Response 9 Trivia 10 References Plot [ ] " Acheron: Part I " [ ] With Alexandria's food supply dwindling, Maggie leads a team (among them Daryl, Gabriel, Alden, and Negan) to scavenge Meridian, a place where she lived prior to returning to Alexandria. Elsewhere, Eugene, Ezekiel, Yumiko and Princess are interrogated by auditors of the Commonwealth. They are able to escape from the outpost, but Yumiko learns that her brother might be in the community so they decide to stay. Maggie's group descends underground into a subway station, but are ambushed by walkers. As the group climbs up a subway car ladder to safety, Daryl and Dog become separated from the others. Maggie is the last one to ascend the ladder, but Negan abandons her as she struggles; she loses her grip and falls, leaving her fate unknown. " Acheron: Part II " [ ] Maggie escapes from the walkers and reunites with the main group inside the subway car, revealing how Negan declined to help her. Gage, who had fled with the group's supplies along with Roy, returns but is followed by a horde of walkers; Maggie refuses to save him, causing Gage to stab himself before being devoured. Daryl and Dog find the wounded Roy, and Daryl makes his way back to the group, helping them escape the horde lured by Gage. The group leaves the subway station only to be attacked by the Reapers who kill Roy. Meanwhile, Yumiko requests expedited processing from the Commonwealth auditors. When interrogated by Mercer, Eugene tells him about Stephanie and lies that he is not part of a larger settlement. Mercer is convinced and allows the group to complete their processing; a woman is brought forth, introducing herself as Stephanie. " Hunted " [ ] The Reapers ambush Maggie's group in the woods, killing Cole and Duncan in the process; the group scatters. The following day, Maggie continues to be hunted by the Reapers, but later joins up with Negan and Alden, the latter of whom insists he is too injured to continue and requests to be left behind. Obeying Alden's wishes, Maggie and Negan continue on to retrieve supplies from a supply depot in Arbor Hills. Meanwhile, at Alexandria, Carol, Rosita, Magna, and Kelly retrieve some of the community's escaped horses. However, Carol is forced to slaughter one of them to provide food for the starving community. " Rendition " [ ] Daryl finds himself being stalked by one of the Reapers and becomes separated from Dog. Soon after, he finds Dog sitting comfortably next to a masked female Reaper who reveals herself to be Daryl's former romantic partner, Leah. Daryl is subsequently imprisoned by the group and tortured for information at Meridian. Leah convinces Daryl to tell the group's leader, Pope, something to appease him; Daryl obliges with minimal information. As a test arranged by Pope, Daryl and Leah are locked inside a shed by Pope's men, who proceed to burn it to the ground; the two manage to escape. Pope ensures Daryl is welcomed into the group, but Daryl appears uncomfortable with the arrangement, having witnessed Pope's unhinged treatment towards a member of his group. " Out of the Ashes " [ ] Carol, Aaron, Jerry, and Lydia go to the ruins of the Hilltop Colony to look for supplies where they discover a small group of Whisperers still alive. Demanding information, Aaron tortures the leader, who insists that they're no longer a threat, but Carol stops Aaron before he does something he might regret. In exchange for his life being spared, the Whisperer informs the group about Connie's whereabouts; they decide to leave the next morning to look for her. Elsewhere, Eugene, Ezekiel, Yumiko, and Princess go through orientation at the Commonwealth; Yumiko reunites with her brother, Tomi. While Eugene tours the community with Stephanie, she offers to help him contact Alexandria on the radio. However, they are caught by soldiers of the community and placed under arrest, but are released on the orders of Lance Hornsby, the deputy governor and director of operations. Meanwhile, Maggie and Negan trudge through the woods and stop in an abandoned neighborhood house to wait for the others; they are eventually joined by Gabriel and Elijah. In Alexandria, Judith clashes with the local teenagers. " On the Inside " [ ] Connie and Virgil have been surviving together and are chased into a mansion populated by a group of people driven insane, who have resorted to feral cannibalism. The pair are able to defeat most of the cannibals and are rescued by a group consisting of Kelly, Magna, Carol, and Rosita, with the sisters being reunited at last. Meanwhile, Daryl is forced to torture Frost for the location of Maggie's hideout. While scoping it out with a team of Reapers led by Leah, Daryl does his best to protect his friends from their search. Maggie's group successfully escapes despite the Reaper Carver's suspicions of Daryl. When they return to Meridian, Leah's group learns that Pope killed Frost after further interrogation. " Promises Broken " [ ] At the Commonwealth, Eugene, Ezekiel, Princess, and Stephanie are sentenced to community service clearing walkers from buildings. Eugene and Stephanie save Sebastian Milton, the son of Governor Pamela Milton, from walkers, but when Sebastian is ungrateful Eugene punches him, getting himself imprisoned. Lance offers Eugene freedom and help for his community if he gives up Alexandria's location. Meanwhile, the Reapers are growing frustrated due to being unable to find Maggie's group. Daryl and Leah find a family in the woods, and Leah refuses to kill them despite Pope's orders to do so. Negan forces Maggie to promise to stop plotting to kill him in exchange for his help against the Reapers, and she reluctantly agrees. Negan fashions a Whisperer mask for Maggie and trains her to command walkers so they can gather a horde to attack Meridian with. During preparation, Negan admits to Maggie he should have killed Rick's entire group during their initial confrontation to convince her of his honesty. " For Blood " [ ] A storm besieges Alexandria with the survivors struggling to keep walkers at bay after the storm brings down some of the walls. Maggie's group brings their horde to Meridian, where Leah grows disgusted with Pope's callous disregard for the lives of the Reapers after one Reaper is killed by the disguised group among the horde. As night falls, the Reapers begin destroying the horde with land mines. Daryl helps Maggie and Gabriel infiltrate Meridian and allow walkers inside and finally confesses to Leah his allegiance to Maggie. Leah is aghast but when Pope prepares to fire a hwacha at walker and Reaper alike, she kills Pope. Despite Daryl inviting her to join his family, Leah refuses, remaining loyal to her family with the Reapers and taking leadership of them. Leah outs Daryl's true allegiance to the other Reapers and attacks the group with the hwacha. " No Other Way " [ ] The herd is destroyed by the Reapers' hwacha, but Maggie's group escapes and enters into a dangerous cat and mouse game with the Reapers, killing several. The group captures Carver whom Daryl offers to trade for Leah and the others leaving peacefully. After Gabriel kills their sniper, Leah takes the deal. However, a vengeful Maggie kills all of the remaining Reapers in cold blood aside from Leah, who Daryl allows to escape. Maggie returns for Alden, only to discover that he has died and reanimated. Recognizing that Maggie will never let go of her hatred for him, Negan departs on his own. The surviving members of Maggie's team return to Alexandria, which managed to survive the events of the storm, with the food. Daryl is finally reunited with Connie, and Eugene arrives with Lance Hornsby and the Commonwealth. Six months later, Maggie is leading a community in the ruins of the Hilltop and has a stand-off with Commonwealth soldiers led by Daryl. " New Haunts " [ ] Thirty days after the Alexandrians entered the Commonwealth, the community celebrates Halloween. Daryl and Rosita train to join the Commonwealth military, and much of the group is still struggling to become a part of the large, well-off society. At a masquerade ball held by Governor Pamela Milton, a disgraced former soldier Tyler Davis takes "Max" hostage out of desperation to speak to Pamela, but flees; Daryl gets him to peacefully surrender, but allows Sebastian to take credit for his capture. Several group members also notice the vast class divide in the Commonwealth. " Rogue Element " [ ] Eugene has entered into a relationship with Stephanie and tells her he loves her; she says she loves him too, shortly after which she mysteriously disappears. Eugene becomes obsessed with finding Stephanie and breaks into a man's house looking for evidence, but fails, and Princess insists that she must have broken up with and abandoned him. Eugene soon finds Stephanie again colluding with Lance for an unknown task, and gets Lance to confess "Stephanie" was a plant named Shira who was used to get Eugene to confess the location of Alexandria due to too many inconsistencies during the group's auditing. Lance tells Eugene the group is better off now despite his heart being broken by Shira. Meanwhile, Connie and Kelly investigate the Commonwealth military and their treatment of Tyler Davis, and Carol helps Lance deal with a neighboring community whose leader is extorting the Commonwealth for money. Eugene is later approached by "Max", who reveals herself to be the woman he was in contact with over the radio. " The Lucky Ones " [ ] The woman introduces herself to Eugene as Max Mercer, who was using her mother's name as a code name. Even though she wanted to meet Eugene, once her brother Mercer caught wind of it, he covered it up when Lance also was alerted to her breach in communication protocol, and forced herself to remain quiet upon seeing Eugene with Shira. Eugene storms away due to being too hurt, but eventually goes to reconcile with Max and the pair expresses lingering interest in each other. Meanwhile, Pamela takes a tour of the Coalition's settlements and is unimpressed to hear Alexandria has fallen more than once. After meeting with Oceanside, Pamela goes to Hilltop where she debates Maggie over their different leadership styles and forms of government. Maggie is suspicious of the Commonwealth and refuses to accept aid from them, to the frustration of several Hilltop residents who decide to go join the Commonwealth. Lance is also frustrated by Maggie's decision but insists to Aaron he will persevere, seeking to build up his power to get out from under Pamela. Meanwhile, Ezekiel is admitted for surgery to remove his tumor, having been moved up the line for treatment by Lance as a favor to Carol. " Warlords " [ ] Aaron and Gabriel are recruited by Aaron's boss Toby Carlson to take point on an outreach mission with a community in an apartment complex to offer them membership with the Commonwealth. The group's leader, Ian, meets with Aaron, Gabriel, Carlson, and Jesse and believes them to be enemies. Though Aaron and Gabriel talk Ian into letting them leave with their lives, Carlson attacks and kills him and many of his people. Carlson has actually been assigned by Lance to wipe out the complex, believing them responsible for an attack on a Commonwealth caravan. Gabriel is reunited with Negan, who has joined the complex community, and the latter covertly sends a message to Hilltop with the fleeing Jesse. Maggie, Lydia, and Elijah go to the complex to fight the Commonwealth troops after reuniting with Aaron. " The Rotten Core " [ ] Sebastian strong-arms Daryl and Rosita to go collect a cache of money from a walker-infested house for him due to his mother cutting off his credit line. The pair retrieve the money and try to help April, a woman who was previously forced by Sebastian to try to perform the task alongside many others who had perished in the attempt; Mercer and Carol come to their aid, but April is killed by walkers. Mercer kills two Commonwealth troopers who were loyal to Sebastian and has Daryl and Rosita deliver the money, fearing retribution if they don't. At the complex, the group joins forces with Negan, Annie, and the complex survivors and learn Negan has married Annie and is expecting a child with her. Hershel, who had stowed away on Maggie's truck, is rescued by Negan and forces him to confess to Glenn's murder, and nearly kills him before being talked down. The group corners and kills Carlson, and it is revealed that Leah was the one who raided the Commonwealth caravan and weapons. " Trust " [ ] Lance questions Gabriel and Aaron, then leads a group of Commonwealth troopers to Hilltop to question Maggie. Lance intensely questions Hershel about Maggie's potential involvement, leading to a tense confrontation as Elijah and Maggie threaten Lance. After leaving Hilltop, Lance comes across Leah, who he recruits for a job. Meanwhile, Mercer and Princess have developed a sexual relationship, as Mercer struggles with the decision to kill his own men. Rosita tells Eugene about what happened with Sebastian and he calls in Connie and Kelly to report on the matter; they realize that April was one of the names on the list that Connie received. Eugene convinces Max to continue to help him on the inside, and they kiss for the first time. Inspired by Carol and his new lease on life, Ezekiel opens a secret clinic for those still far down the list, recruiting Tomi to help him with surgery. " Acts of God " [ ] After realizing it is hopeless to negotiate with Maggie, Lance begins to plan an attack on the Hilltop. Maggie leaves Hershel in the care of Negan and Annie, telling Negan that she is starting to trust him. Leah lures Maggie away from the colony and kidnaps her. Elsewhere, Daryl, Aaron, and Gabriel are betrayed by the Commonwealth soldiers who are ordered by Lance to eliminate them. The trio narrowly escapes death; Aaron is wounded in the process. Leah takes Maggie to her old cabin and threatens her. Maggie frees herself and fights Leah, but the latter overpowers her. Daryl shows up and is forced to kill Leah. Maggie and Daryl escape the cabin as Lance and his soldiers approach. Daryl, Maggie, Aaron, and Gabriel rendezvous with Negan, and prepare for war against the Commonwealth. Max investigates Pamela Milton and assembles some members of Alexandria to post an article in the newspaper about Pamela's lies. Lance and his troopers take control of Alexandria, Hilltop, and Oceanside; Lance flips a coin to decide the fate of Oceanside's residents. " Lockdown " [ ] Hiding from Lance's soldiers in an abandoned town and concerned for those in the group still at the Commonwealth, the group decides to send Negan in as a spy since no one knows him there. Together, Daryl and Negan ambush a group of soldiers with the help of Negan's old Whisperer mask and Negan steals a vehicle. Negan arrives at the Commonwealth where he is privately interrogated by Mercer and reveals his identity to him. Negan then is reunited with Carol. Meanwhile some of the citizens turn rogue and begin hunting Sebastian. Desperate, Pamela strikes an uneasy deal with Carol. Carol and Negan locate Sebastian and safely deliver him to Pamela. At the same time, the others engage in a cat and mouse game with Lance's soldiers, killing several before they end up in a standoff. " A New Deal " [ ] Underground, the standoff escalates when Daryl takes Lance hostage just as Carol, Negan, Pamela, and Mercer arrive. Although the three of them manage to convince Daryl to surrender, he brutally stabs Lance in the hand as revenge for his earlier actions. Sometime later as the Commonwealth prepares to celebrate their anniversary, Carol confronts Daryl about what he did to Lance and confesses that he was trying to be more like Rick. Meanwhile an imprisoned Lance has Shira and Calhoun murder some Commonwealth janitors, and Max has a talk with Sebastian during which he rants on how the Commonwealth citizens are too civilized and weak not realizing she was recording the conversation. The following day, during the celebration, Sebastian prepares to deliver a recorded speech to the people but Max and Eugene play Max's recording instead. During the commotion, the reanimated janitors wander into the crowd, a vengeful Sebastian attempts to murder Max by pushing her on top of one of the walkers but Eugene saves her by throwing the walker on Sebastian who is severely bitten. The walker is put down by Judith but Sebastian dies of his wounds as a horrified crowd looks on. " Variant " [ ] In the aftermath of the riot, Pamela orders Eugene's arrest for the murder of Sebastian, promising to pardon Max if Mercer cooperates. Concerned for his sister, Mercer mercilessly hunts for Eugene, but he is troubled by both Max and Princess' attempts to convince him that he is on the wrong side in the matter. After learning that Max has been arrested, Eugene turns himself in and takes sole responsibility for what happened, claiming that Max had nothing to do with the recording of Sebastian. Sebastian reanimates and a grieving Pamela has Roman executed and orders Lance to feed his corpse to Sebastian as a punishment. At the same time, Aaron, Jerry, Lydia and Elijah make their way towards Oceanside, but are forced to take cover at an old renaissance fair after spotting a herd with Jerry thinking that the fair might make a good location for a new Kingdom. At night, the herd attacks, led by what the group believes to be a surviving Whisperer, as it can climb, open doors and use weapons. However, Aaron discovers that it's actually just a walker. After putting it down, Aaron makes the troubling deduction that there must be other variants of walkers out there that are more dangerous than the usual roamers. Having developed feelings for Elijah, Lydia hesitates due to her love for Henry before taking Aaron's advice and starting a relationship with him. " What's Been Lost " [ ] Carol and Daryl manage to escape Pamela's goons and break Lance out, knowing that he's the only one that can lead them to their missing friends. Finding a zombified Sebastian in Lance's cell, Daryl puts him down. At the same time, Pamela blackmails Yumiko into being the prosecutor in Eugene's show trial, promising to take Yumiko to her friends if she does and threatening Tomi as well to ensure her compliance. Yumiko is torn about what to do, but Eugene, who has accepted his possible fate, encourages Yumiko to have faith in their friends. After learning of Daryl, Carol and Lance's escape, Yumiko reminds the Commonwealth of how invaluable Tomi is before making the stunning public announcement that Pamela is unjustly persecuting Eugene, and Yumiko will be acting as Eugene's defense attorney instead of his prosecutor. After evading a herd and soldiers, Lance reveals that the missing people are being used as slave labor on a project to extend the Commonwealth's reach across the continent and that there's a supply train that they can follow. Fed up with Lance's manipulations and no longer needing his help, Daryl and Carol give Lance the chance to go into exile, but he draws a gun on them, prompting Carol to kill Lance with an arrow. " Outpost 22 " [ ] Maggie, Gabriel and Rosita manage to escape and eventually link up with Daryl and Carol as they track the Commonwealth's train to the mysterious Outpost 22. Daryl is haunted by the capture of Connie who has been separated out from the others as a Designation 2 while Maggie is haunted by losing Hershel, especially after fighting a child walker. At the Commonwealth's labor camp, Negan convinces a reluctant Ezekiel to set aside their differences and form a revolt against the sadistic Warden. At a junction, the others attack the train and rescue Connie. However, a dying trooper only knows that Designation 2's are taken far away and are never seen again while the engineer commits suicide rather than answer any questions. As the prisoners are delivered to Outpost 22, Rosita poses as a dead trooper over the train's radio and tricks a friendly trooper into revealing that Outpost 22 is actually Alexandria. Maggie declares that they will get their home and their people back and that Pamela will never know what hit her. " Faith " [ ] Aaron, Lydia, Elijah, and Jerry encounter Luke and Jules who had managed to escape from the takeover of Oceanside. Hunted by the Commonwealth, the group cover themselves in walker guts to hide amongst a massive herd. However, Commonwealth soldiers begin leading the herd somewhere and it is shown to contain at least one variant walker who picks up Lydia's dropped knife. At the Commonwealth, Eugene stands trial for the murder of Sebastian with Yumiko using the trial to reach out to the working class, stirring unrest. Eugene is found guilty and sentenced to execution, but Mercer and several soldiers break him out, secretly defecting to the side of the revolution. In Alexandria, Ezekiel and Negan plot a rebellion against the sadistic Warden, trying without success to enlist Tyler Davis, now a fellow prisoner, to their cause. Using the sewers, Daryl, Connie, Carol and Maggie manage to sneak in and rescue Hershel, but Rosita's daughter remains missing. After the rebellion is discovered, Negan attempts to martyr himself before Ezekiel leads a number of prisoners in stepping to Negan and Annie's defense. Ezekiel is able to convince most of the soldiers to stand down and they turn on the Warden who is subdued by Daryl. With Alexandria retaken by its residents, the Warden defiantly refuses to tell Rosita where to find her daughter, so she feeds him to a walker in revenge. " Family " [ ] A number of Coalition forces and liberated prisoners use the Commonwealth's train to return to the city in order to overthrow Pamela; in honor of her family's vision of the future, Judith accompanies them. A remorseful Tyler makes amends for his past misdeeds with the others and suggests that the missing children have been taken to the Commonwealth's children's home while Negan and Ezekiel make peace with each other as well. Princess makes contact with Mercer who helps the group sneak in and plans to use the testimony of the liberated prisoners to legally remove Pamela from power. However, Pamela catches onto his deception and has Mercer arrested for treason. Pamela draws the Coalition into a trap, killing Tyler and several others before they manage to escape. While protecting Maggie, Judith is shot by Pamela. In an attempt to quell the rebellion, Pamela has a massive herd led to the city to trigger a lockdown, but the herd contains a number of variant walkers and is able to overrun the Commonwealth's defenses. While traveling with the herd, Aaron, Lydia and Jerry are separated from the others and Lydia is bitten, forcing an amputation. Jerry leaves to help the others as Luke and Jules manage to reunite with the others in the Commonwealth. Pamela orders her soldiers to protect the homes of the elite, abandoning the rest of the Commonwealth to their doom in order to save herself. As their friends struggle to hold back the herd, Daryl rushes Judith to the hospital for help. " Rest in Peace " [ ] Jules is devoured escaping from the horde while Luke is fatally bitten and dies shortly thereafter. Rosita, Gabriel and Eugene successfully rescue Coco, but Rosita is bitten on the left shoulder while escaping. After getting Judith to a safe house, she is treated by Tomi and reveals to Daryl and Carol that Michonne had left in search of a still-alive Rick. Princess and Max break Mercer out who leads his men and the Coalition forces in confronting Pamela as she barricades herself in the Estates. With the people outside about to be devoured, Daryl gives a rousing speech that causes Pamela's men to turn on her and allow everyone inside. Mercer arrests Pamela for her crimes, but she tries to feed herself to a zombified Lance instead. Recognizing that prison is a worse fate for Pamela, Maggie puts Lance down and saves her. United and joined by Aaron, Lydia, Jerry and Elijah, everyone lures the herd into the Estates and blows it up, destroying the herd and saving the Commonwealth. In the aftermath, Rosita peacefully succumbs to her bite while Negan apologizes to Maggie who is unable to forgive him, but decides to try moving past her anger. A year later, Ezekiel is the governor of the Commonwealth while the communities remain united in creating a better future. Now aware that Rick's alive, Daryl sets out on his own to find him. Elsewhere, Michonne continues her search for Rick. On Bloodsworth Island, where Michonne would eventually find his belongings, Rick writes a message for Michonne before being found by a CRM helicopter and forced to surrender. Episodes [ ] Title Writer(s) Director(s) Original Air Date U.S. Viewers 1. " Acheron: Part I " Angela Kang Jim Barnes Kevin Dowling August 22, 2021 2.22 million 2. " Acheron: Part II " Angela Kang Jim Barnes Kevin Dowling August 29, 2021 1.99 million 3. " Hunted " Vivian Tse Frederick E.O. Toye September 5, 2021 1.87 million 4. " Rendition " Nicole Mirante-Matthews Frederick E.O. Toye September 12, 2021 1.88 million 5. " Out of the Ashes " LaToya Morgan Greg Nicotero September 19, 2021 1.91 million 6. " On the Inside " Kevin Deiboldt Greg Nicotero September 26, 2021 1.78 million 7. " Promises Broken " Julia Ruchman Sharat Raju October 3, 2021 1.89 million 8. " For Blood " Erik Mountain Sharat Raju October 10, 2021 1.91 million 9. " No Other Way " Corey Reed Jon Amiel February 20, 2022 1.76 million 10. " New Haunts " Magali Lozano Jon Amiel February 27, 2022 1.60 million 11. " Rogue Element " David Leslie Johnson-McGoldrick Michael Cudlitz March 6, 2022 1.67 million 12. " The Lucky Ones " Vivian Tse Tawnia McKiernan March 13, 2022 1.58 million 13. " Warlords " Jim Barnes Erik Mountain Loren Yaconelli March 20, 2022 1.79 million 14. " The Rotten Core " Jim Barnes Erik Mountain Marcus Stokes March 27, 2022 1.55 million 15. " Trust " Kevin Deiboldt Lily Mariye April 3, 2022 1.67 million 16. " Acts of God " Nicole Mirante-Matthews Catriona McKenzie April 10, 2022 1.61 million 17. " Lockdown " Julia Ruchman Greg Nicotero October 2, 2022 1.19 million 18. " A New Deal " Story : Corey Reed Teleplay : Corey Reed Kevin Deiboldt Jeffrey January October 9, 2022 1.35 million 19. " Variant " Vivian Tse Karen Gaviola October 16, 2022 1.36 million 20. " What's Been Lost " Erik Mountain Aisha Tyler October 23, 2022 1.36 million 21. " Outpost 22 " Jim Barnes Tawnia McKiernan October 30, 2022 1.50 million 22. " Faith " Nicole Mirante-Matthews Magali Lozano Rose Troche November 6, 2022 1.39 million 23. " Family " Kevin Deiboldt Erik Mountain Magali Lozano Sharat Raju November 13, 2022 1.47 million 24. " Rest in Peace " Story : Angela Kang Teleplay : Corey Reed Jim Barnes Greg Nicotero November 20, 2022 2.27 million Title Screen [ ] Main article: Title Screens (TV Series) Cast [ ] Starring Also Starring Co-Stars Uncredited Starring Norman Reedus as Daryl Dixon (21/24) Melissa McBride as Carol Peletier (18/24) Lauren Cohan as Maggie Rhee (20/24) Christian Serratos as Rosita Espinosa (18/24) Josh McDermitt as Eugene Porter (16/24) Seth Gilliam as Gabriel Stokes (19/24) Ross Marquand as Aaron (17/24) Khary Payton as Ezekiel Sutton (16/24) Cooper Andrews as Jerry (11/24) Callan McAuliffe as Alden (5/24) Eleanor Matsuura as Yumiko Okumura (11/24) Lauren Ridloff as Connie (13/24) Cailey Fleming as Judith Grimes (15/24) Nadia Hilker as Magna (11/24) Cassady McClincy as Lydia (14/24) Angel Theory as Kelly (16/24) Paola Lázaro as Juanita Sanchez (12/24) Michael James Shaw as Michael Mercer (15/24) Josh Hamilton as Lance Hornsby (15/24) Laila Robins as Pamela Milton (10/24) Jeffrey Dean Morgan as Negan Smith (19/24) (Starting with " Lockdown ", Eleanor Matsuura , Lauren Ridloff , Cailey Fleming , Nadia Hilker , Cassady McClincy , Angel Theory , Paola Lázaro , Michael James Shaw , Josh Hamilton , and Laila Robins were all promoted to Starring. Prior to this, Angel Theory was previously billed under Guest Starring, and all others were billed under Also Starring.) Also Starring Lynn Collins as Leah Shaw (9/24) Margot Bingham as Maxxine Mercer (13/24) Supporting C. Thomas Howell as Roy (4/24) Jackson Pace as Gage (5/24) Glenn Stanton as Frost (6/24) Okea Eme-Akwari as Elijah (19/24) Laurie Fortier as Agatha (6/24) James Devoti as Cole (5/24) Chelle Ramos as Shira (7/24) Ritchie Coster as Pope (4/24) Alex Meraz as Brandon Carver (4/24) Dikran Tulaine as Mancea (4/24) Jacob Young as Deaver (3/24) Branton Box as Fisher (6/24) Ian Anthony Dale as Tomichi Okumura (7/24) Kevin Carroll as Virgil (2/24) Teo Rapp-Olsson as Sebastian Milton (8/24) Kerry Cahill as Dianne (5/24) Nadine Marissa as Nabila (6/24) Cameron Roberts as Tyler Davis (3/24) Michael Tourek as Roman Calhoun (5/24) Avianna Mynhier as Rachel Ward (3/24) Jason Butler Harner as Toby Carlson (3/24) Medina Senghore as Annie Smith (9/24) Dan Fogler as Luke Abrams (3/24) Alex Sgambati as Jules Butler (3/24) Anabelle Holloway as Gracie (8/24) (Alex Sgambati and Anabelle Holloway were upgraded to Also Starring for " Rest in Peace ". Both were previously Co-Starring.) Guests Brad Fleischer as Keith (1/24) Jesse C. Boyd as Nick (1/24) Burke Brown as Young Father (1/24) Aneesh Sheth as Jan (1/24) Michael Biehn as Ian (1/24) Connor Hammond as Jesse (1/24) Wynn Everett as April Martens (1/24) Gonzalo Menendez as Commonwealth Soldier 7 (3/24) Matt Bushell as Romano (3/24) Michael Weaver as The Warden (3/24) Greg Perrow as Trooper Nelson (1/24) Bryan McClure as Wilson (1/24) Mahdi Cocci as Trooper Roberts (1/24) Elizabeth Becka as Marian George (1/24) Special Appearances Yvette Nicole Brown as Commonwealth Soldier 11 (1/24) Andrew Lincoln as Rick Grimes (6/24) Danai Gurira as Michonne Grimes (5/24) Co-Stars Antony Azor as R.J. Grimes (11/24) Kien Michael Spiller as Hershel Rhee (16/24) Carrie Genzel as Clark (2/24) Marcus Lewis as Duncan (5/24) Matthew Cornwell as Evans (2/24) Mariana Novak as Female Trooper (2/24) Brandon O'Dell as Refugee Man (1/24) Mala Bhattacharya as Refugee Woman (1/24) Joshua Haire as Squirrelly Man (1/24) Marcello Audino as Trooper Vazquez (1/24) Hans Christopher as Nicholls (2/24) Michael Shenefelt as Bossie (3/24) Eric LeBlanc as Marcus Powell (6/24) Robert Hayes as Paul Wells (3/24) Ethan McDowell as Ira Washington (5/24) Dane Davenport as Ancheta (4/24) Zac Zedalis as Boone (4/24) Lex Lauletta as Austin (5/24) Pilot Bunch as Vincent (1/24) Matt Mercurio as Charles (1/24) Rebecca Ray as Elaine (2/24) Ryan Vo as Commonwealth Paper-Pusher (1/24) Franco Barberis as John (1/24) Courtney Dietz as Kayla Brand (2/24) Jason Turner as Marcus Colvin (2/24) Liz McGeever as Young Mother (1/24) Brisco de Poalo as Nine-Year-Old Boy (1/24) Mandi Christine Kerr as Barbara (3/24) Chiara Misawa as Mei (3/24) Michael Hanson as Jake Daniels (3/24) Bruce Blackshear as Walker (1/24) Braian Rivera Jimenez as Green (3/24) Sharon Conley as Sally (1/24) Sean McCracken as Doorman (1/24) William Mark McCullough as Moto (1/24) Maryjean Feton as Old Woman (1/24) Bruno Rose as Comms Monitor (1/24) Darrell Snedeger as Hospital Trooper (1/24) David E. Collier as Logistics Officer (1/24) Carrie Walrond Hood as Nurse (1/24) Nicholas Velez as Theo (2/24) Gustavo Gomez as Marco (3/24) Henry Bazemore Jr. as Sgt. Crowe (2/24) Jenique Hendrix as Hart (1/24) Camry Rose Brault as Shipment Trooper (2/24) Monique Grant as Colonel Vickers (4/24) J.R. Adduci as Alves (1/24) David Alexander as Janitor (1/24) Preston James Hillier as Mr. Martens (3/24) Korbi Dean as Mrs. Martens (3/24) Ja'Corey Jones as Security Guard (1/24) Freddy Boyd as Henderson (1/24) Jonathan Horne as Protester (1/24) Derek Evans as Radio Trooper (1/24) Brian Troxell as Announcer (1/24) Nick McNeil as Captain Commonwealth (1/24) Raw Leiba as Attila (1/24) Michael Proctor as Lothar (1/24) Lorraine Rodriguez-Reyes as Doctor (1/24) Elena Sanchez as CW Cleaning Crew #1 (1/24) Wigasi Brant as CW Cleaning Crew #2 (1/24) Hayes Mercure as Precinct Trooper (1/24) Brittany Guess as Frightened Woman (1/24) Joann Willette as Lena Brand (1/24) Shravan Amin as Press Official (1/24) Justin W. Walker as Man (1/24) Katie Causey as Kathleen (1/24) Vincent Van Hinte as Trooper Jones (1/24) Keller Fornes as Tower Trooper (1/24) Jonathan Bergman as Child Walker (1/24) Barrett Doyle as Trooper 192 (1/24) Morgan Davis as Trooper 263 (1/24) K.D. O'Hair as Trooper 301 (1/24) Kirk Riley as Watch Trooper (5/24) Phil Armijo as Trooper Sanborn (2/24) Dexter Tillis as Lt. Rose (2/24) Onye Eme-Akwari as Trooper Anton (1/24) Marc Prizov as Tunnel Trooper (1/24) Chase Anderson as Trooper Livits (9/24) Uncredited Seven as Dog Marvin Lee as Kyle Noah and Preston Wilbourn as Adam Sutton Micah King as Ezra Autumn Azul as Aliyah Maya & Delaney Timber as Mariam Robert Patrick as Mays (Archive Footage) Terrance James as Zell and Baker Gloria DeWeese as Kim Andrew Douglass as Troy Demetrios J. Stavropoulos as Kasey Maya Victory Payton as Celeste Terri Joe Kennedy as Theresa Jennifer Green Hutcheson as Carrie Tom Luse as William Milton (Painting) Tovah Feldshuh as Deanna Monroe (Photograph) Steve Coulter as Reg Monroe (Photograph) Dalton Baxter as Douglas and Katz Kyle Evans as Garcia John Prozny as Sorensen and Jenson Rachel Hernandez as Johnson Marcus Stevens as Thomas Lucas Hammond as Lewis and McHugh Jason Fernandes as Murphy Yuen Bell as Castle Kenneth Ford as Lim Marcus Tyler Estes as Ross Unknown as Tom (Photograph) Unknown as Jesse (Photograph) Unknown as Michael Turner Unknown as Teresa Unknown as Josephine Unknown as Socorro Espinosa Unknown as Quintana Unknown as Hart Unknown as Alexa Park Unknown as Hodges Unknown as Howell Jimmy McAfee as Alexandria Resident Elizabeth as Alexandria Resident Anthony Porrey as Alexandria Resident Michelle Morano as Alexandria Resident and Commonwealth Resident Marcus Tyler Estes as Alexandria Resident Tonia Wienecke  as Alexandria Resident Alex Barnes as Alexandria Resident Alex Hill as Alexandria Resident Brandon Stoker as Alexandria Resident Charity Bryant as Alexandria Resident Dan Parro as Alexandria Resident Daniele Lyman as Alexandria Resident Deborah Douglas English as Alexandria Resident Gia as Alexandria Resident Ian Kincaid as Alexandria Resident Ileana McCrear as Alexandria Resident Jack Orrell as Alexandria Resident John Gettier as Alexandria Resident Kai Szopa as Alexandria Resident Kevin Cheek as Alexandria Resident Lane Haynes as Alexandria Resident Laura L. Anderson Weber as Alexandria Resident Mario Williams as Alexandria Resident Matt Foster as Alexandria Resident Melanie Dale as Alexandria Resident Michelle Hartwig Rich as Alexandria Resident Seth Manuel as Alexandria Resident Shellane Demarest as Alexandria Resident Sierra Sawaya as Alexandria Resident Sonya May as Alexandria Resident Stephanie McCarren as Alexandria Resident Tia Davis as Alexandria Resident William Herlth as Alexandria Resident Austin Green as Hilltop Refugee Brad Bradley as Hilltop Resident Brandon Pagel as Hilltop Resident Chandler Riggs as Hilltop Resident Chikako Nakajima as Hilltop Resident Dalton Baxter as Hilltop Refugee Dana Lee Rampy as Hilltop Refugee Darren Baylor as Hilltop Resident David Aird as Hilltop Resident Ed Force as Hilltop Refugee Jake Gallaway as Hilltop Resident Jamel Vaughn as Hilltop Resident Jennifer Angel as Hilltop Resident John Prozny as Alexandria Resident and Hilltop Resident Jordan Scott as Hilltop Resident Kim Pugh as Hilltop Resident Kinney M. Lee as Hilltop Resident Lance Kilmer as Hilltop Resident Laura Kelly as Hilltop Resident Lindsay Monihan as Hilltop Resident Marie Dixon as Hilltop Resident Mary DoCoteau as Hilltop Resident Meredith "Duffy" Hale as Hilltop Resident Nelson Padilla as Hilltop Resident Phil Washington as Hilltop Resident Susan Boone as Hilltop Resident Alan James Weber as Oceanside Resident Allena Paget as Oceanside Resident Artricia Rose as Oceanside Resident Dean Chandler Bowden as Oceanside Resident Ember Brown as Oceanside Resident Esther Pittman as Oceanside Resident Jenni Brown as Oceanside Resident Kathryn Spratlin as Oceanside Resident Keely McAllister as Oceanside Resident Mary Kaye as Oceanside Resident Rachel Foster as Oceanside Resident Rachel Hernandez as Oceanside Resident and Commonwealth Resident Robin Cox as Oceanside Resident Sherise Gividen as Oceanside Resident Bethany Kasulas as Whisperer Ash Harrison as Commonwealth Resident Austin Schaber as Commonwealth Resident Brad Ellis as Commonwealth Resident Billy Crank as Commonwealth Resident Cole Herra-Valente as Commonwealth Resident Denise Davis as Commonwealth Resident Donald Young as Commonwealth Resident Freddy Lynn Wilson as Commonwealth Resident Gracie Evans as Commonwealth Resident Jackie Chlebowski as Commonwealth Resident Jan Malle as Commonwealth Resident Jerry Johnson as Commonwealth Resident Joel Roach as Commonwealth Resident Joy Dorsey as Commonwealth Resident Justtyn Hutcheson as Commonwealth Resident Kathryn Andrea as Commonwealth Resident Kevin Davis as Commonwealth Resident Kristy Stoddard as Commonwealth Resident Lexie Couch as Commonwealth Resident Lilly Klein as Commonwealth Resident Marhonda Tant Campbell as Commonwealth Resident Mario Sanchez as Commonwealth Resident Megan Fisher as Commonwealth Resident Nick Bradley as Commonwealth Resident Patrick Owen Hilton as Commonwealth Resident Terri Morales-Davis as Commonwealth Resident Tristan Hankins as Commonwealth Resident Miguel Insignares as Mean Mug Savior (Dream) Greg Nicotero as Walker Gus Morgan as Child Walker Deaths [ ] Gage (Alive and Zombified) Roy Cole Michael Turner Duncan Nicholls Agatha Bossie Savior 15 (Zombified) Troy (Zombified) Rosita's Mother (Confirmed Fate) Frost (Alive and Zombified) Teresa (Alive, Confirmed Fate; Zombified) Paul Wells Tick (Confirmed Fate) Marcus Powell Ancheta Deaver Pope Josephine (Zombified) Fisher Ms. Adams (Confirmed Fate) Austin Mancea Jenson Boone Ira Washington Brandon Carver Alden (Alive and Zombified) William Milton (Confirmed Fate) Jesse Shipment Trooper (Alive, Flashback; Zombified) Billy Johnson (Confirmed Fate) Hart Ian Hodges Jake Daniels April Martens Green Sgt. Crowe Toby Carlson Alves Castle Phillips McHugh Romano Sorensen Marco Leah Shaw Radio Trooper CW Cleaning Crew #1 (Alive and Zombified) CW Cleaning Crew #2 (Alive and Zombified) Sebastian's Brother (Confirmed Fate) Sebastian Milton (Alive and Zombified) Roman Calhoun (Off-Screen) Lance Hornsby (Alive and Zombified) Child Walker (Zombified) Nelson Trooper 301 (Off-Screen) Trooper 263 Trooper 192 Jones Wilson Sanborn (Alive and Zombified) The Warden Brooks Tyler Davis Livits Jules Butler Luke Abrams Adrienne Rosita Espinosa Marissa Berot (Confirmed Fate) Numerous unnamed U.S. Military soldiers (Alive, Confirmed Fate; Many Zombified) Numerous unnamed mass grave victims (Alive, Confirmed Fate; Zombified) 4 unnamed attackers (Confirmed Fate) 4 unnamed female victims (Confirmed Fate) 1 unborn child (Confirmed Fate) 34 unnamed victims of the Reapers (Confirmed Fate) 6 horses 4 unnamed Alexandria residents 8 unnamed feral survivors 1 unnamed woman 5 unnamed Reapers (1 Alive, 1 Alive and Zombified) At least 19 unnamed raiders, murderers, rapists, and cannibals (Confirmed Fate) At least 46 unnamed Commonwealth soldiers (3 Alive and Zombified) At least 13 unnamed Riverbend residents (6 Alive and Zombified) At least 49 unnamed Commonwealth residents (9 Alive and Zombified) At least 3 unnamed Commonwealth prisoners Many unnamed Coalition soldiers (Alive, Confirmed Fate; Zombified) Several unnamed ferals' victims (Confirmed Fate) Production [ ] On October 5, 2019, AMC announced the show was renewed for an eleventh season. [ 2 ] The eleventh season was announced on September 9, 2020, as the final season with Angela Kang serving as showrunner. [ 3 ] In July 2020, AMC announced that Season 11 would not premiere in October 2020 as originally planned due to production delays caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] In March 2020, it was reported that pre-production had been halted and that filming would be delayed three to four weeks also due to the COVID-19 pandemic. [ 6 ] Filming for the final season began in February 2021 and was completed in March 2022. [ 7 ] [ 8 ] [ 9 ] [ 10 ] [ 11 ] [ 12 ] [ 13 ] The series moved from shooting on 16 mm film to digital beginning with the six bonus episodes from Season 10 . This change was prompted due to the COVID-19 pandemic and safety precautions with there being less "touch points" with digital than film. Showrunner Angela Kang stated they would use post-production techniques to maintain the look of the series. [ 14 ] During filming in March 2022, Norman Reedus suffered from a concussion on set, which pushed back filming of the show's final episode. [ 15 ] [ 16 ] In 2014, executive producer David Alpert said that the comics have given them enough ideas for Rick Grimes and company over the next seven years. "I happen to love working from source material, specifically because we have a pretty good idea of what season 10 is gonna be," Alpert said. He continued by saying: "We know where seasons 11 and 12 [will be]... we have benchmarks and milestones for those seasons if we're lucky enough to get there." [ 17 ] In September 2018, AMC CEO Josh Sapan further clarified Alpert's statement, saying the network plan on continuing The Walking Dead as a franchise for another 10 years, including new films and television series based on the original comic book series. [ 18 ] AMC confirmed in September 2020 that the series would conclude with the eleventh season, covering 24 episodes over a two-year broadcast period, at the same time as announcing a spin-off series involving the characters of Daryl and Carol to start airing in 2023. [ 19 ] [ 20 ] In April 2022, the project was retooled to be entirely Daryl-focused, and McBride departed the project. The series is set in and began filming in Europe in mid-2022, which would make it logistically untenable for McBride. [ 21 ] Casting [ ] In October 2019, Lauren Cohan was confirmed to be returning to the series as Maggie , after being absent since early in the ninth season. [ 22 ] [ 23 ] Cohan officially returned to the series near the end of the tenth season. [ 24 ] In July 2020, Margot Bingham was confirmed to reprise her role as Stephanie for this season; she previously appeared in Season 10 in a voice-only role. [ 25 ] In March 2021, it was announced that Michael James Shaw had been cast in the series regular role of Mercer . [ 26 ] In April 2021, Jacob Young was cast as Deaver , a member of the Reapers . [ 27 ] In September 2021, Jeffrey Dean Morgan and Hilarie Burton Morgan 's 11-year old son, Gus Morgan , made a cameo appearance in the fifth episode as a featured walker. [ 28 ] [ 29 ] Release [ ] The trailer was released on July 24, 2021, during a virtual panel at the San Diego Comic-Con. [ 30 ] The final season, titled "The Final Season Trilogy", premiered on August 22, 2021, on AMC and contains 24 episodes that split into three eight-episode airing blocks, with the series concluded on November 20, 2022. [ 31 ] [ 32 ] It also premiered a week early on August 15, 2021, on AMC+ and each episode of the season was made available a week before its broadcast date, excluding the final episode. [ 33 ] [ 34 ] In the UK and Ireland, the season debuted on August 23, 2021, on Disney+ via its Star hub. [ 35 ] The first nine episodes were all released on Disney+ in Denmark via Star on February 21, 2022. [ 36 ] Reception [ ] Critical Response [ ] The eleventh season of The Walking Dead has received generally positive reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes, the season holds a score of 81% with an average rating of 5.7 out of 10, based on 224 reviews. The site's critical consensus reads: "While the sense of finality is diminished by the promise of even more spinoffs, The Walking Dead' s eleventh conclusion is a solid enough conclusion to an epic tale of zombies that never had a clear offramp to begin with." [ 37 ] Paul Dailly of TV Fanatic gave the first two episodes 4.5 out of 5 stars, calling the episodes "dark, filled with stakes and nail-biting moments". [ 38 ] Writing for Forbes , Erik Kain gave the two-part premiere a positive review and considered them "a pretty damn impressive introduction to Season 11" and that they have him "excited for what's to come". [ 39 ] In contrast, Kirsten Acuna of Insider wrote a slightly less positive review, stating that the episodes are "decent" and "satisfying, but it doesn't feel like a big-budget premiere" that she was hoping for. [ 40 ] Trivia [ ] This season is mainly based on " Volume 30: New World Order ", " Volume 31: The Rotten Core " and " Volume 32: Rest In Peace " from the Comic Series . Below are the changes made to the main cast in this season: Cooper Andrews ( Jerry ) and Callan McAuliffe ( Alden ) have been added to the opening credits after being listed under "Also Starring" in previous seasons. Following his character's death in " No Other Way ", Callan McAuliffe has been removed from the opening credits. Eleanor Matsuura ( Yumiko Okumura ), Nadia Hilker ( Magna ), Cailey Fleming ( Judith Grimes ), Cassady McClincy ( Lydia ), and Lauren Ridloff ( Connie ) are still listed under "Also Starring", despite being credited as series regulars in previous seasons. Michael James Shaw ( Michael Mercer ), Josh Hamilton ( Lance Hornsby ), and Laila Robins ( Pamela Milton ) have been cast as series regulars for their first appearance this season. Starting with " Acheron: Part I ", Michael James Shaw is listed under "Also Starring". Starting with " Out of the Ashes ", Josh Hamilton is listed under "Also Starring". Starting with " New Haunts ", Laila Robins is listed under "Also Starring". Angel Theory ( Kelly ), Paola Lázaro ( Juanita Sanchez ), Lynn Collins ( Leah Shaw ), and Margot Bingham ( Maxxine Mercer ) have been upgraded to series regulars after recurring appearances. Starting with " Lockdown ", Angel Theory has been added to the opening credits. This is the first time in the TV Series that a supporting character is promoted to a main character during a season. Despite their status as series regulars, they are listed under "Also Starring". Following her character's death in " Acts of God ", Lynn Collins is no longer listed under "Also Starring". As of "Lockdown", the opening credits have been extended, featuring 10 more cast members' names, new animated sequences and a modified version of Bear McCreary 's original score. [ 41 ] [ 42 ] Eleanor Matsuura (Yumiko Okumura), Lauren Ridloff (Connie), Cailey Fleming (Judith Grimes), Nadia Hilker (Magna), Cassady McClincy (Lydia), Paola Lázaro (Juanita Sanchez), Michael James Shaw (Michael Mercer), Josh Hamilton (Lance Hornsby), and Laila Robins (Pamela Milton) have been added to the opening credits. Michael Cudlitz , who portrayed Abraham Ford , directed the eleventh episode of this season. [ 43 ] [ 44 ] This season is extended with an additional eight episodes, upping the episode count from 16 to 24. [ 45 ] This makes Season 11 the longest season of the TV Series. This is the second time a season of the Original TV Series has been extended, with the first being Season 10 . This is the first season to ever begin to air in the summer instead of the fall in the given year. This is the last season in which Angela Kang is showrunner for The Walking Dead . This is the first and only season to be shot entirely with digital cameras rather than film. When asked about a possible return for Season 11, Lennie James , who portrays Morgan Jones , said the following: "I did have that conversation, yes. But that's about as much as I can say." [ 46 ] However, he ultimately did not make a return in this season. This season has the most use of the walker guts trick in The Walking Dead with it being used in " Rendition ", " On the Inside ", " The Rotten Core ", " Faith ", " Family ", and " Rest in Peace ". The only greater use of the trick is in Season 2 of Fear the Walking Dead when it is often used by Nicholas Clark . The first seven of the final eight episodes featured archival footage and a brief narration by Judith on past events of the show prior to each episode beginning. This season is tied with Season 5 , Season 7 and Season 9 with killing off the most main cast characters, with four regulars killed off: Alden, Leah Shaw, Lance Hornsby and Rosita Espinosa. References [ ] ↑ https://twitter.com/twalkingdworld/status/1562928504890703872 ↑ ‘The Walking Dead’ Renewed for Season 11, Lauren Cohan Set for Return on The Hollywood Reporter ↑ The Walking Dead to End With Season 11 on TVLine.com ↑ ‘Walking Dead’ Season 11 Delayed, Season 10 to Get Extra Episodes in 2021 on Variety.com ↑ Talking Dead Cancels Episode Airing After Sunday’s New Walking Dead Because of Coronavirus on comicbook.com ↑ Coronavirus Fears Shut Down ‘Fear The Walking Dead’; ‘TWD’ Season 11 Pre-Production Pushed on deadline.com ↑ The Final Season of 'The Walking Dead' Has Started Filming on collider.com ↑ Tweet by the offical The Walking Dead account ↑ The Walking Dead Season 11 Wraps Filming on Final Episode in March on screenrant.com ↑ 'The Walking Dead' has officially finished filming its final episode ever on insider.com ↑ Instagram post by Duane Charles Manwiller ↑ Instagram post by Kelsey Odle ↑ Instagram post by Greg Nicotero ↑ 'The Walking Dead' may look and feel a bit different for its final 11th season on insider.com ↑ Norman Reedus: Walking Dead star suffers concussion on show's set - pushing back final filming on Sky News.com ↑ Norman Reedus 'suffered a concussion' on 'The Walking Dead' set as the series was filming its final episode on insider.com ↑ ‘The Walking Dead’ Has a Plan Through Season 12 and 5 More Things We Learned at Sunday’s PGA Panel on Indie Wire.com ↑ Inside AMC Networks’ Plan to Make ‘Walking Dead’ Live Forever on Bloomberg.com ↑ ‘Walking Dead’ To End After Super-Sized 11th Season; Norman Reedus & Melissa McBride Spinoff Set For 2023 on deadline.com ↑ The Walking Dead - Renewed for 10th Season by AMC on SpoilerTV.com ↑ Walking Dead Shocker: Melissa McBride Exits Daryl and Carol-Centric Spinoff on TVLine.com ↑ The Walking Dead Renewed for Season 11 on AMC, Lauren Cohan Officially Returning as Maggie on IGN.com ↑ The Walking Dead renewed for season 11 with Lauren Cohan returning as series regular on EW.com ↑ The Walking Dead Finale Trailer Teases the Return of Lauren Cohan as Maggie on TVLine.com ↑ ‘The Walking Dead’ Adds Margot Bingham To Season 11 Cast; Actress Had Played Mysterious Stephanie On AMC Series on deadline.com ↑ ‘The Walking Dead’: Michael James Shaw To Play Mercer In Upcoming Season 11 on deadline.com ↑ ‘The Power’ Casts Ana Ularu; ‘The Walking Dead’ Adds Jacob Young on deadline.com ↑ The Walking Dead's Jeffrey Dean Morgan reveals his real-life family member joining show in season 11 on digitalspy.com ↑ The Walking Dead reveals cameo from Jeffrey Dean Morgan's son on digitalspy.com ↑ The Walking Dead final season trailer reveals arrival of the Reapers on EW.com ↑ The Walking Dead: The Final Season Trilogy Trailer Released on comicbook.com ↑ ‘Walking Dead’ Reveals Final Season To Debut In August; AMC Series Drops New Teaser on deadline.com ↑ The Walking Dead Season 11 Premiere Releasing One Week Early on AMC+ on comicbook.com ↑ The Walking Dead Season 11 Episodes Will Premiere One Week Early on AMC+ on comicbook.com ↑ How to watch The Walking Dead in the UK on RadioTimes.com ↑ The Walking Dead – Sæson 11 on digitalt.tv (website in Danish) ↑ The Walking Dead: Season 11 on Rotten Tomatoes ↑ The Walking Dead Season 11 Review: Claustrophic, Chilling, & Shocking on tvfanatic.com ↑ ‘The Walking Dead’ Season 11 Review: The First Two Episodes Are Surprisingly Great on Forbes.com ↑ The first 2 episodes of 'The Walking Dead's' final season lack the wow factor we expect on a big premiere. It has me concerned. on insider.com ↑ Kirsten Acuna's review on Insider.com (mild spoilers) ↑ The Walking Dead season 11C review on whattowatch.com ↑ Tweet by Michael Cudlitz ↑ Tweet by Michael Cudlitz ↑ The Walking Dead Officially Ending With Season 11 on comicbook.com ↑ 'Fear TWD' star Lennie James has had a conversation about whether or not he'll return to 'The Walking Dead' on its final season on insider.com v · d · e Episodes of The Walking Dead Season 1 " Days Gone Bye " • " Guts " • " Tell It to the Frogs " • " Vatos " • " Wildfire " • " TS-19 " Season 2 " What Lies Ahead " • " Bloodletting " • " Save the Last One " • " Cherokee Rose " • " Chupacabra " • " Secrets " • " Pretty Much Dead Already " • " Nebraska " • " Triggerfinger " • " 18 Miles Out " • " Judge, Jury, Executioner " • " Better Angels " • " Beside the Dying Fire " Season 3 " Seed " • " Sick " • " Walk With Me " • " Killer Within " • " Say the Word " • " Hounded " • " When the Dead Come Knocking " • " Made to Suffer " • " The Suicide King " • " Home " • " I Ain't a Judas " • " Clear " • " Arrow on the Doorpost " • " Prey " • " This Sorrowful Life " • " Welcome to the Tombs " Season 4 " 30 Days Without An Accident " • " Infected " • " Isolation " • " Indifference " • " Internment " • " Live Bait " • " Dead Weight " • " Too Far Gone " • " After " • " Inmates " • " Claimed " • " Still " • " Alone " • " The Grove " • " Us " • " A " Season 5 " No Sanctuary " • " Strangers " • " Four Walls and a Roof " • " Slabtown " • " Self Help " • " Consumed " • " Crossed " • " Coda " • " What Happened and What's Going On " • " Them " • " The Distance " • " Remember " • " Forget " • " Spend "  • " Try " • " Conquer " Season 6 " First Time Again " • " JSS " • " Thank You " • " Here's Not Here " • " Now " • " Always Accountable " • " Heads Up " • " Start to Finish " • " No Way Out " • " The Next World " • " Knots Untie " • " Not Tomorrow Yet " • " The Same Boat " • " Twice as Far " • " East " • " Last Day on Earth " Season 7 " The Day Will Come When You Won't Be " • " The Well " • " The Cell " • " Service " • " Go Getters " • " Swear " • " Sing Me a Song " • " Hearts Still Beating " • " Rock in the Road " • " New Best Friends " • " Hostiles and Calamities " • " Say Yes " • " Bury Me Here " • " The Other Side " • " Something They Need " • " The First Day of the Rest of Your Life " Season 8 " Mercy " • " The Damned " • " Monsters " • " Some Guy " • " The Big Scary U " • " The King, the Widow, and Rick " • " Time for After " • " How It's Gotta Be " • " Honor " • " The Lost and the Plunderers " • " Dead or Alive Or " • " The Key " • " Do Not Send Us Astray " • " Still Gotta Mean Something " • " Worth " • " Wrath " Season 9 " A New Beginning " • " The Bridge " • " Warning Signs " • " The Obliged " • " What Comes After " • " Who Are You Now? " • " Stradivarius " • " Evolution " • " Adaptation " • " Omega " • " Bounty " • " Guardians " • " Chokepoint " • " Scars " • " The Calm Before " • " The Storm " Season 10 " Lines We Cross " • " We Are the End of the World " • " Ghosts " • " Silence the Whisperers " • " What It Always Is " • " Bonds " • " Open Your Eyes " • " The World Before " • " Squeeze " • " Stalker " • " Morning Star " • " Walk With Us " • " What We Become " • " Look at the Flowers " • " The Tower " • " A Certain Doom " • " Home Sweet Home " • " Find Me " • " One More " • " Splinter " • " Diverged " • " Here's Negan " Season 11 " Acheron: Part I " • " Acheron: Part II " • " Hunted " • " Rendition " • " Out of the Ashes " • " On the Inside " • " Promises Broken " • " For Blood " • " No Other Way " • " New Haunts " • " Rogue Element " • " The Lucky Ones " • " Warlords " • " The Rotten Core " • " Trust " • " Acts of God " • " Lockdown " • " A New Deal " • " Variant " • " What's Been Lost " • " Outpost 22 " • " Faith " • " Family " • " Rest in Peace " Episode Guide: Fear • World Beyond • Tales • Dead City • Daryl Dixon • The Ones Who Live • Webisodes Categories Categories : Season 11 (TV Series) Cast TV Series Main Cast Also Starring Special Guest Co-Stars Extras Episodes TV Series Episodes Television Universe TV Series Seasons Seasons The Walking Dead Languages Deutsch Español Français 日本語 Polski Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Horror Sci-fi The Walking Dead Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Walking Dead Wiki is a FANDOM TV Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab