Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers bought now: still valid on Switch 2? | Famiboards Forums Treehouse The Roost News Site Rules Rules Site Functions Guide Banned Content List Site Support Open new ticket Badges Rankings What's new Latest Threads Featured content New posts New items Latest activity Affiliates Install Base Log in Register What's new Treehouse The Roost Menu Log in Register Install the app Install Voting has begun for the 101 Essential Nintendo Switch Games event! Forums Player's Pulse Treehouse JavaScript is disabled. For a better experience, please enable JavaScript in your browser before proceeding. You are using an out of date browser. It  may not display this or other websites correctly. You should upgrade or use an alternative browser . Discussion Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers bought now: still valid on Switch 2? Thread starter Thread starter Manggei Start date Start date Jul 5, 2024 Will games vouchers validity transfer to Switch 2? Quite likely - they just transfer Votes: 44 67.7% Quite unlikely - they won't be valid for Switch 2 software Votes: 21 32.3% Total voters 65 Manggei Moblin Pronouns He/Him Jul 5, 2024 #1 Greetings! Of course this is hard to fathom now that nothing has been announced yet and we do not know about the possible account and eShop ecosystem changes when Switch 2 arrives. Nevertheless, there's an attractive offer going on at the moment on eShop, you get 4x gold points when buying a voucher - that's 19,80€ for digital content. As we know the vouchers expire after 365 days, so it's likely that the Switch successor will already have launched by July next year. It would be quite cool to buy 2 digital launch games for Switch 2 I'm not going to ever resell (let's say new 3D Mario and enhanced Metroid 4) for 50 instead of likely 70€. What is your assumption? P.S.: Please don't discuss or driveby comment about sensibility or senseless because of not really owning digital content, leaving high resell value of Nintendo 1st party games on the table or the decrease of value because you have to constantly pay for membership additionally. I like physical but sometimes digital is preferred for several reasons. 0 HockeyBird Warpstar Knight Pronouns He/Him Jul 5, 2024 #2 The Switch 2 hasn't even been revealed yet and we don't have confirmation as to when it's coming out. I wouldn't be making purchasing decisions based on the hope that a program for Switch 1 games will apply to Switch 2 games at an unspecified date. Quoted by: Manggei 1 12 I ILikeFeet Killer Bees Jul 5, 2024 #3 I don't see why not. the biggest thing that could prevent them is if there's a separate voucher for Drake games. if those cost $70, then the savings are even bigger and Nintendo would lose out on more money. so maybe a temporary halt of using them for Drake games until they rejigger the pricing? 0 2 BlackthornOrion #theprocess...works? Congratulations! I Kin't believe it! A Complete Adventure Kirby is White? Jul 5, 2024 #4 You can use vouchers for TotK and that's $70, so I'm leaning towards "yes, you will be able to use them for Switch 2 games" I think even if Switch 2 games are for the most part bumped up to $70 across the board, vouchers would still be worth it to them to drive people towards a) keeping their NSO subscriptions and b) buying digital; I also think it'd be unnecessarily clunky and too much of a customer service headache to try and communicate to people "you can use these on Switch 1 games but not Switch 2 games". Like, I wouldn't buy vouchers now assuming with 100% confidence that they'll work on Switch 2 games, but imo I think unless they phase out vouchers altogether they'll probably be usable for next-gen software 0 4 OP OP Manggei Moblin Pronouns He/Him Jul 5, 2024 #5 HockeyBird said: The Switch 2 hasn't even been revealed yet and we don't have confirmation as to when it's coming out. I wouldn't be making purchasing decisions based on the hope that a program for Switch 1 games will apply to Switch 2 games at an unspecified date. Click to expand... I agree, it is not a good idea of making a purchasing decision based on assumptions. Could turn out either way. The reason I'm speculating on that is that it is highly likely that the Switch successor will be the most similar "big" (means non second pillar handheld) console Nintendo has ever launched as a direct successor and that they (Furukawa?) somewhere mentioned that they mean to have it the most smooth (ecosystem? account? software? everything?) transition possible. If they are able to do so or if there will be one or more catches - hopefully not -, we'll see. 0 crepuscule Free Palestine Jul 5, 2024 #6 Given they have a one year time limit and you can only possess a maximum of eight I'm inclined to believe that they will work on Switch 2 games and they'll just increase the price of vouchers going forward if they plan to increase the price of games. 0 2 R rickyson33 Chain Chomp Jul 5, 2024 #7 nobody can give you an actual answer here I see no reason you shouldn't at least be able to buy Switch 1/ crossgen stuff bare minimum though Quoted by: Manggei 1 2 OP OP Manggei Moblin Pronouns He/Him Jul 5, 2024 #8 rickyson33 said: nobody can give you an actual answer here I see no reason you shouldn't at least be able to buy Switch 1/ crossgen stuff bare minimum though Click to expand... You're right, no one can seriously answer this (and those who can, won't do this now). It's just speculation based on very little threadbare info. It is just mere assumption by trying to put things together reasonably. Like you are saying you see no reason why there shouldn't be at least Switch 1 or cross gen stuff. This sounds reasonable, you never know but it sounds reasonable. 0 Wockio Made of Igglybuff Fluff Pronouns He Jul 5, 2024 #9 Definitely not. They will incorporate Switch 2 games into the program but it will be later on. Quoted by: cw_sasuke 1 D Deleted member 1305 Guest Jul 5, 2024 #10 I think they will. Otherwise they would have not brought the vouchers back to the US eShop last year. 0 OctoSplattack Darknut Moderator Ribbon Champion Mark of the Beast Yummy Challenge A Smile That Lasts Forever Pronouns He/Him Jul 5, 2024 #11 I assume that Switch 2 games will join the voucher service, but I'm not going to even guess if that'll happen right out of the gate or even within a year of the console's launch. 0 karmitt Gerudo Founder Staff Service Pronouns He/Him Jul 5, 2024 #12 It’s possible they remain strictly as Switch 1 title vouchers. I wouldn’t personally bank on them working for the next system’s exclusives. That said, so long as you aren’t risking expiry, no harm in just waiting until early next year to find out. I wasn’t paying attention and let a voucher expire recently. Fortunately Nintendo sorted me out and let me use it as I was only a day over, but there was no warning ahead of time. They really should fix that - feels a bit scummy when it could be very easily automated. 0 4 VintoWin Tingle Jul 5, 2024 #13 I personally think they will have a new, separate set of vouchers for Switch 2 games. We can continue to use Switch 1 vouchers for Switch 1 games for a little bit longer before they are discontinued when no new games are being released for Switch a year or two into Switch 2. 0 Tye All-around Nintendo enjoyer Pronouns they/them Jul 5, 2024 #14 There are currently 87 Nintendo Switch games eligible to be redeemed with Game Vouchers. I’m sure you should be able to find something that you’d want among those (assuming you haven’t already bought most of them) within the next year to take advantage of the ×4 Gold Points deal, even without factoring in the possibility of Switch successor games being included within that period. 0 Mekanos Emerald Echidna Adventures in Babysitting Gorilla Gone The End? Pronouns he/they Jul 5, 2024 #15 I sure hope so because I’m likely to have a spare after this year. 0 404LinkNotFound Tektite Jul 5, 2024 #16 I feel if they didnt work on Switch 2 , NOA wouldnt have bothered reviving the voucher program last year 0 Dekuman #TeamJuneLaunch Switch 2 Predictor Mark of the Beast Pronouns He/Him/His Jul 5, 2024 #17 eSHOP will be integrated, it will transfer, but they may excclude certain games for vouchers bought at the current prices. Some people have also speculated they will sunset the current Vouchers and reintroduce them at a higher price for Switch 2, which will likely have many more $70 games. 0 cw_sasuke Boo Jul 6, 2024 #18 Wockio said: Definitely not. They will incorporate Switch 2 games into the program but it will be later on. Click to expand... If they can get a large audience of Switch 2 owners from the start wanting to be on NSO subs and buying their games digital via vouchers - its gonna be a big win for them. Right now there are still many Switch owners that dont use these benefits or dont know about them. If they are introducing complete new big Switch sellers like TotK or MP Jamboree on their Day 1, there really is no reason why they wouldnt continue the program on Switch. Its somewhat of loyalty program like the gold coins and this is already going to be the most expensive Nintendo console launch for most customers. Switch 2 400 New Switch Pro Controller 70-80 Paid NSO Sub Despite the price they are going to charge for certain things they are gonna make sure that people want to upgrade as fast as possible, dropping the voucher program for Switch 2 - when their biggest digital buying fans have been used to it the last couple years would be a step in the wrong direction. The voucher program exists to give customers the MSRP prices Nintendo could actually charge if they didnt need to keep price parity with physical releases to not undercut retailers. 0 T Tentacle-tropes Bounty Hunter Jul 6, 2024 #19 There really is no way to answer this question. Based on Furukawa’s comments on NSO & accounts, the most likely answer is they will be there. If they need to price adjust they’ll price adjust with no need to cut off certain games or subset the current plan. 0 You must log in or register to reply here. Share: Bluesky LinkedIn Reddit Email Share Link Forums Player's Pulse Treehouse Light Mode V2 Contact us Terms of service Privacy policy Help Home Rules RSS Parts of this site powered by add-ons from DragonByte™ ©2011-2025 DragonByte Technologies ( Details ) This site uses cookies to help personalise content, tailor your experience and to keep you logged in if you register. By continuing to use this site, you are consenting to our use of cookies. Accept Learn more… Back Top Bottom