Every iPhone release in chronological order: 2007-2025 | Digital Trends Skip to main content Menu Digital Trends Computing AI Mobile Gaming Entertainment Audio / Video Autos Videos Search Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 How to Download YouTube Videos AI Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Mobile Trending Topics 5G Phone Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls Best Stock Trading Apps How to Use WhatsApp Web Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Gaming Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TVs Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides Fubo TV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Autos Autos See All Autos Trending Auto Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Auto Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse Autos by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse Smart Home Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Graphics Cards Best Mobile Devices Best Smartphone Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Smart Notebooks Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Deals Deals See All Deals Computing Deals Best Laptop Deals Best MacBook Deals Best Gaming PC Deals Best Chromebook Deals Best Gaming Laptop Deals Gaming Deals Best PS5 Deals Best Lego Deals Best Xbox Series S Deals Best Xbox Series X Deals Best Nintendo Switch Deals Mobile Deals Best iPad Deals Best Tablet Deals Best Google Pixel Deals Best Apple Watch Deals Home Theater Deals Best TV Deals Best Sony TV Deals Best 75-inch TV Deals Best Headphone Deals Smart Home Deals Best Dyson Deals Best Amazon Echo Deals Best Cordless Vacuum Deals Retailers Best Walmart Deals Best Alienware Deals Trending Deals Best Camera Deals Best Prime Day Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Smartphone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphones Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News Videos YouTube Giveaways More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Buying Guides Best Kindles Best Bluetooth Trackers Best Portable Power Stations Best Live TV Streaming Services Original Series You Asked OuttaFocus Weekend Watchlist Tech for Change Genius Home See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics Trending: Pixel 10 Everything to Know Perplexity Better Than Siri? Pixel 9a Review macOS Sequoia Features You Should Know Gemini AI Coming to Cars New Fantastic Four Trailer Galaxy S25 New Features Apple Vision Pro Plans Galaxy Z Flip 7 Switch 2 Hands-On Switching from Chrome to Vivaldi Tiny iPad Mini Keyboard Gemini Live Tested iPhone 16 Pro Max Giveaway Switch 2 Games Nintendo Switch 2 Reveal AirPods Pro 3 Every iPhone Release BOYA mini Giveaway Sony “OLED Killer”? Xbox Handheld PlayStation 6 Home Mobile Features Every iPhone release in chronological order: 2007-2025 By Christine Romero-Chan and Nadeem Sarwar Updated February 20, 2025 Save The evolution of iPhone bezels. Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Table of Contents Table of Contents Every iPhone release in order iPhone release date: June 2007 iPhone 3G release date: July 2008 iPhone 3GS release date: June 2009 iPhone 4 release date: June 2010 iPhone 4S release date: October 2011 iPhone 5 release date: September 2012 iPhone 5S and 5C release date: September 2013 iPhone 6 and 6 Plus release date: September 2014 iPhone 6s and 6s Plus release date: September 2015 iPhone SE release date: March 2016 iPhone 7 and 7 Plus release date: September 2016 iPhone 8 and 8 Plus release date: September 2017 iPhone X release date: November 2017 iPhone XS and XS Max release date: September 2018 iPhone XR release date: October 2018 iPhone 11 series release date: September 2019 iPhone SE 2 release date: April 2020 iPhone 12 series release date: October 2020 iPhone 13 series release date: September 2021 iPhone SE 3 release date: March 2022 iPhone 14 series release date: September 2022 iPhone 15 series release date: September 2023 iPhone 16 series release date: September 2024 iPhone 16e release date: February 19, 2025 On January 9, 2007, Steve Jobs took to the stage at Macworld and announced Apple’s next big product: the iPhone . Sales of the iPhone began on June 29, 2007, and even from the moment of its reveal, it completely changed the world. We’ve now had over 17 years of iPhone releases. In just a few more years, it will be two decades of the iPhone, which is a little crazy to think about. That’s more than long enough to be nostalgic, so with that in mind, let’s take a look back at every iPhone release in order, what made them special, and how we got to where we are today with the iPhone 16e . Recommended Videos Every iPhone release in order iPhone model Release date iPhone June 29, 2007 iPhone 3G July 11, 2008 iPhone 3GS June 19, 2009 iPhone 4 June 24, 2010 iPhone 4S October 14, 2011 iPhone 5 September 21, 2012 iPhone 5S & 5C September 20, 2013 iPhone 6 and 6 Plus September 19, 2014 iPhone 6S and 6S Plus September 25, 2015 iPhone SE March 31, 2016 iPhone 7 and 7 Plus September 16, 2016 iPhone 8 and 8 Plus September 22, 2017 iPhone X November 3, 2017 iPhone XS / XS Max September 21, 2018 iPhone XR October 26, 2018 iPhone 11 September 20, 2019 iPhone SE 2 April 24, 2020 iPhone 12 October 23, 2020 iPhone 13 September 24, 2021 iPhone SE 3 March 18, 2022 iPhone 14 September 16, 2022 iPhone 15 September 22, 2023 iPhone 16 September 20, 2024 iPhone 16e February 19, 2025 Related iPhone 17 Air could last you longer, thanks to this feature The iPhone 17 Pro might debut a never-before-seen iPhone color iPhone 17 Pro may get a wild, must-have accessory that beats a case iPhone release date: June 2007 Apple The original iPhone was the one that started it all and changed the mobile industry as we know it. Jobs said that the iPhone was three products: a widescreen iPod with touch controls, a revolutionary mobile phone, and a breakthrough internet communications device. An iPod, a phone, and an internet communicator. All in a single device. Do you get it? At the time, the iPhone only had a 3.5-inch display, a 2-megapixel camera, and maxed-out storage of 16GB with only 128MB of RAM. You couldn’t copy and paste text, there was no MMS support, and you only had web apps, not native third-party apps. Plus, the iPhone was exclusive to AT&T (formerly Cingular) at this time, so if you wanted an iPhone, it was only on that carrier. The original iPhone is lacking by today’s standards, but back then, it was revolutionary. Most other cell phones still had physical keyboards and keypads. Touchscreens were nowhere near as popular back in the day. Some tech CEOs, such as Steve Balmer, mocked Apple for creating the iPhone and didn’t think it would succeed. Well, the joke’s on them, because smartphone history began right here. iPhone 3G release date: July 2008 Apple In July 2008, Apple followed up the original iPhone with the iPhone 3G. Similar to its predecessor, it had a 3.5-inch display, a 2MP camera, 128MB of RAM, and up to 16GB of storage. But as the name suggests, this version of the iPhone added 3G connectivity (the original iPhone only supported Edge speeds) and introduced the App Store, where users could download native apps from third-party developers. Though these were pretty iterative additions by today’s standards, the launch of the App Store was actually huge. This began the whole “there’s an app for that” era and changed how we used our iPhones. iPhone 3GS release date: June 2009 Apple When Apple introduced the App Store in 2008, it changed how people use their iPhones. The old maximum storage of 16GB just wasn’t going to cut it anymore, so Apple increased the specs on the iPhone 3GS, which came out in June 2009. The iPhone 3GS increased the storage to 32GB, and the RAM went up to 256MB. This doubled the storage and RAM of the original iPhone and even the iPhone 3G to make room for all of the cool apps you could now download from the App Store. Not only did the iPhone 3GS get more internal storage and RAM, but it even improved the camera. Apple upgraded the camera to a 3MP autofocus camera, which resulted in better-looking photos than its predecessors. There was also a new built-in digital compass and even the introduction of new accessibility features like VoiceOver. iPhone 4 release date: June 2010 Apple The iPhone 4 was a monumental step for the future of the iPhone. Though it retained the same 3.5-inch display as before, Apple upgraded the screen to a Retina display, which had a whopping 326 pixels per inch (ppi) density. At this high resolution, the human eye is unable to distinguish individual pixels on the screen. It was a drastic upgrade from the previous iterations of the iPhone and set the stage for Apple to add Retina displays to all of its other products eventually. But that wasn’t the only major feature of the iPhone 4. Apple also added a front-facing camera for the first time, making it possible to have video calls on a mobile device. It also made selfies a thing. The rear camera got an improved 5MP lens with LED flash and became a gold standard for mobile photography. This was also the first big hardware design change for the iPhone. While the first three versions were fairly rounded and made with plastic, the iPhone 4 moved to a new glass and stainless steel design with flat edges that we still see today. However, the antenna design with the metal frame seemed to affect the signal when held in the left hand, leading to the first major iPhone scandal, dubbed “antennagate.” Jobs claimed users were “holding it wrong,” but eventually relented and offered free bumper cases for everyone to rectify the issue. The iPhone 4 was also the first iPhone that became available on Verizon with its CDMA network, as it was no longer an AT&T exclusive. iPhone 4S release date: October 2011 Apple While Apple had been releasing new iPhones in the summer season, things changed with the introduction of the iPhone 4S. This was the first iPhone that Apple announced and began selling in the fall, which is a trend that Apple continues to this day. Though the iPhone 4S launched in October 2011, Apple then moved to September launches for later iPhones, with a few exceptions. The iPhone 4S took things a step further for mobile iPhone photographers by adding an 8MP camera that would set the standard for several more years. It also added 1080p video recording, which was a big milestone. And since the higher megapixel count and 1080p videos would mean bigger file sizes, Apple also bumped the maximum storage to 64GB. The iPhone 4S was significant because this was the first iPhone with Apple’s digital assistant, Siri (that’s what the “S” stands for in “4S”). Users could ask Siri to perform various tasks just by using their voice. The iPhone 4S also coincided with Apple’s launch of iCloud, which is Apple’s in-house cloud storage solution. It gave everyone 5GB of storage for free, which ironically, has not changed in over a decade, despite larger file sizes from photos and video, as well as cloud backups. The iPhone 4S also launched on Sprint, further expanding the network choices for buyers. iPhone 5 release date: September 2012 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Like the iPhone 4 before it, the iPhone 5 also introduced some major changes. With the iPhone 5, we got a larger, 4-inch screen, LTE connectivity, and an HD front-facing FaceTime camera. This was also when Apple switched from the old 30-pin charging port to the Lightning connector, which became the standard for iPhones for the next 10 years. The iPhone 5 also introduced a new aluminum design that was incredibly lightweight and comfortable to hold. This design would end up being a favorite for many fans, including myself. However, the space gray version was prone to micro scratches due to the anodized finish on the aluminum. iPhone 5S and 5C release date: September 2013 Digital Trends With the iPhone 5S and 5C, Apple introduced two different iPhone models at once for the first time. The iPhone 5S would be the flagship and main star of the show, while the iPhone 5C was marketed as a more budget-friendly option that made some compromises to features. The iPhone 5S was the first iPhone with Touch ID in the Home button, which added another layer of biometric security before one could access their device. It also improved the 8MP camera and included True Tone flash, along with new camera modes for burst photos and slo-mo. The iPhone 5C was marketed as a more affordable, budget-friendly option, so it did make some compromises. Rather than an aluminum body like its sibling, the body for the iPhone 5C was made entirely of plastic (“beautifully, unapologetically plastic,” as Apple designer Jony Ive put it), and it came in bright and bold colors for the first time ever. Apple also released a case specifically for the iPhone 5C that featured hole cutouts that allowed the iPhone 5C color to peek through the case. The iPhone 5C did not include the Touch ID sensor in the Home button. It only had the passcode method to unlock the phone. iPhone 6 and 6 Plus release date: September 2014 Digital Trends This is when Apple began to introduce two different screen sizes for the iPhone. The iPhone 6 had a 4.7-inch display, while the iPhone 6 Plus had a larger 5.5-inch display. The overall design was thinner, with a unibody aluminum body. However, the thinner body sparked another scandal called “bendgate.” This was because some people discovered that their iPhone 6 chassis would bend if enough pressure was applied, such as when it was kept in a tight back pocket of a pair of pants. The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus were also the first iPhones to add Apple Pay, a new contactless digital payment method that can be authenticated with the Touch ID fingerprint sensor. Storage was also increased to a max of 128GB. iPhone 6s and 6s Plus release date: September 2015 Jessica Lee Star / Digital Trends About a year later, Apple launched the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus. These two phones retained the 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch displays from its predecessor, as well as the overall look and design. But this would be the first time that it launched the Rose Gold color, which was a gorgeous metallic pink. It was a fan favorite for many people, myself included. Apple also introduced 3D Touch with the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus. With 3D Touch, users could apply pressure on the iPhone display to bring up additional options, such as contextual menus on app icons on the home screen. It seems that 3D Touch was more of a hidden feature, however, as not everyone knew about it, and Apple eventually discontinued the feature years later with the iPhone 11. Apple upgraded the cameras to 12MP for the first time, a bump up from the previous 8MP camera. The 12MP lens would be the standard until the iPhone 14 Pro launched in 2023. The iPhone 6s series is also when Live Photos was introduced, which is a combination of a still image and a short video. When a person takes a Live Photo, it captures a couple of seconds before and after the moment the shutter button is pressed. A Live Photo looks like a still image, but when you activate it with a long press, it plays a few seconds of sound and motion. The iPhone 6s and 6s Plus are also the first iPhones that allowed users to activate Siri at any time with the “Hey Siri” command instead of just when it was plugged into power. iPhone SE release date: March 2016 Digital Trends The first iPhone SE was an interesting product, and showed that Apple can make a budget-friendly option that doesn’t feel cheap, unlike the iPhone 5C. With the iPhone SE, it combined most of the features and capabilities of the current iPhone 6s lineup into the body of an iPhone 5. The iPhone SE also defined the idea of the perfect compact iPhone for many people. The 4-inch display made it possible to use one-handed, and you got a 12MP camera, 4K video recording, Live Photos, and “Hey Siri” without needing to be plugged in. It was a great form factor that didn’t compromise on features aside from 3D Touch. iPhone 7 and 7 Plus release date: September 2016 Digital Trends The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus marked a big turning point for the iPhone. The launch of the iPhone 7 line meant the death of the headphone jack, but also saw the first generation of AirPods debut alongside it. But that wasn’t all. The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus introduced a sleeker design than the iPhone 6s, getting rid of those unsightly antenna strips on the rear. The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus also became the first iPhones with an IP67 water-resistance rating for better durability. Apple also introduced the beautiful and shiny Jet Black color option, which would never be seen again after the iPhone 7. However, the star of the lineup was the iPhone 7 Plus, as it was the first iPhone to have a dual camera setup with a main camera and a telephoto lens. And thanks to the dual lens, Apple introduced Portrait mode. To keep up with the camera improvements, maximum storage was also increased to 256GB. Again, the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus were a turning point for mobile photography by adding Portrait mode. This lets people take professional-looking portraits that replicate what you get when using a DSLR camera, but now you could do it with your iPhone. After this, Portrait mode became incredibly popular and standard on every smartphone. iPhone 8 and 8 Plus release date: September 2017 Julian Chokkattu / Digital Trends The iPhone 8 and 8 Plus were interesting devices, as they signaled the end of the Home button era for mainline iPhones. Apple brought a new glass and aluminum design, though the form factor was similar to its predecessor. This new body allowed for wireless charging for the very first time on an iPhone. One of the bigger features that the iPhone 8 added was Portrait Lighting. This lets users change the lighting style for Portrait mode images, making them look even more professional. The iPhone 8 was also the first iPhone to support augmented reality (AR) in apps and games, which brought a whole new experience to mobile. The iPhone 8 and 8 Plus also launched around the same time as the iPhone X, which ushered in a new era for the iPhone. However, the iPhone 8 body has been recycled for future iPhone SE models. iPhone X release date: November 2017 Julian Chokkattu / Digital Trends To signify a decade of iPhone, the iPhone X was a special edition to celebrate the occasion. It also introduced the next era of the iPhone by removing the Home button and Touch ID sensor in favor of a new biometric form of security called Face ID. Rather than use your fingerprint to unlock your phone, all it needs to do is scan your face. Since Apple removed the Home button, that meant the iPhone X was the first iPhone to have a 5.8-inch full-screen design, and it introduced the notch that people either loved or hated for years to come. This is also the first iPhone with an OLED Super Retina display. The iPhone X was definitely a milestone in the history of the iPhone. For a decade, we’d been used to an iPhone with a Home button, but the iPhone X completely changed that and established a new iconic look. And we barely have Touch ID anymore except on a few select devices these days. iPhone XS and XS Max release date: September 2018 Julian Chokkattu / Digital Trends With the iPhone XS and XS Max, Apple finally eliminated the Home button from the flagship devices. Apple also brought back a larger form factor with the Max moniker, and introduced a 6.5-inch display, making the iPhone XS Max the largest iPhone yet at the time. The regular iPhone XS still retained the 5.8-inch display from its predecessor. Other improvements with the iPhone XS and XS Max were faster Face ID, better water resistance with an IP68 rating, and dual SIM support for the first time, as it added support for eSIM alongside the physical nano SIM card slot. The iPhone XS and XS Max also could handle Gigabit LTE for even faster download speeds. And the maximum storage tier went up to 512GB. The iPhone XS and XS Max are significant as they set the new precedent for two sizes of full-screen iPhones going forward. The XS Max is also the first “Max” iPhone. iPhone XR release date: October 2018 Digital Trends The iPhone XR was a one-off that launched with the iPhone XS and XS Max. It was designed to be a cheaper version of the XS and XS Max. Despite the iPhone XR having a larger screen than the iPhone XS at 6.1 inches, it was only a Liquid Retina LCD display rather than OLED like the flagship models. It also only had a single rear camera, as well as a slightly lower IP67 water-resistance rating compared to the IP68 on the XS and XS Max. The iPhone XR also came in six vibrant colors, and the cheaper price point appealed to people who were on a tighter budget. The iPhone XR didn’t do anything groundbreaking, but it was the first iPhone that had the 6.1-inch display size that has become the norm for the iPhone in the past few years. And while it wasn’t a major flagship phone, the budget-friendly price point helped boost it to be one of the most popular smartphones in 2019. iPhone 11 series release date: September 2019 Julian Chokkattu / Digital Trends The iPhone 11 series included the iPhone 11 , iPhone 11 Pro , and iPhone 11 Pro Max . This is the first time that Apple has introduced three iPhone models together at the same time ( the iPhone 8/X and iPhone XS/XR were a month apart), and it set the new standard of  a standard iPhone, a Pro model, and a larger Pro Max. This is also the first time that Apple included an ultrawide lens on all models, as well as the new U1 chip with ultra-wideband technology. Furthermore, the iPhone 11 Pro and Pro Max were the first to have triple camera setups with a main, ultrawide, and telephoto lens. Apple also upgraded the displays to Super Retina XDR OLED displays and improved battery life. The iPhone 11 Pro models set the stage for the next several years of iPhones to come. Though the cameras have continued to get larger over the years, even current iPhones still have that same triple-lens camera layout that debuted with the iPhone 11 Pro. iPhone SE 2 release date: April 2020 Digital Trends Apple surprised everyone in the middle of an iPhone life cycle by bringing back the iPhone SE, four years after the original, in the form of the iPhone SE 2. While it wasn’t as small and compact as the original, it still appealed to those who prefer small phones, and the hardware wasn’t too shabby either. The iPhone SE 2 recycled the old chassis of the iPhone 8 while still using the A13 chip that was inside the iPhone 11 series. With the 4.7-inch screen, the iPhone SE 2 brought back the Home button and Touch ID for those who preferred it. In 2020, the iPhone SE 2 provided an excellent value. It was the most affordable iPhone one could buy, and despite looking like the old iPhone 8, the iPhone SE 2 had more capabilities like Portrait mode with a single lens camera. iPhone 12 series release date: October 2020 Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends The iPhone 12 series was the first time Apple introduced four iPhones at the same time with three different sizes: the iPhone 12 mini , iPhone 12 , iPhone 12 Pro , and iPhone 12 Pro Max. The iPhone 12 mini, in particular, was unique because it was the smallest and most compact iPhone that Apple offered — offering a 5.4-inch display that still had the full-screen design of the rest of the iPhone 12 lineup. Apple equipped the iPhone 12 mini and iPhone 12 with dual rear cameras, but once again offered a triple camera system for the iPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12 Pro Max. Apple also debuted Ceramic Shield, which is a coating on the front glass to make it more shatter-resistant. The Pro models also added lidar for better augmented reality experiences. The entire iPhone 12 lineup was a big deal, however. These were the first iPhones to have 5G support, and introduced Apple’s proprietary MagSafe magnetic wireless charging and accessory ecosystem. With 2G/EDGE networks already put to pasture by most carriers and 3G soon to followit into obscurity, having 5G support was crucial, as it coexists with 4G/LTE and will be around for a long time. MagSafe also opened up a whole new world of creative accessories and is also a major influence on the new Qi2 wireless charging standard . But the iPhone 12 series also removed the in-box charger. Apple began only providing the charging cable, so people would have to either use their previous charger or buy a new one. Other brands mostly followed suit. iPhone 13 series release date: September 2021 Dan Baker / Digital Trends For the most part, the iPhone 13 line was very similar to the iPhone 12 before it. We got four models: the iPhone 13 mini, iPhone 13 , iPhone 13 Pro , and iPhone 13 Pro Max. The biggest differences were the new colors and a smaller notch. But the iPhone 13 lineup did bring some other notable changes, including the A15 Bionic chip that gave a big boost to overall battery life. Cinematic video mode also launched with the iPhone 13 line, giving videos a depth effect that changed focus automatically, depending on what was going on in the scene. The iPhone 13 Pro and iPhone 13 Pro Max were also the first iPhones to get the 120Hz ProMotion display, which set the standard for future Pro models to come. With the higher adaptive refresh rate, scrolling and animations are smoother than ever. Though it’s not as drastic of a change as when Apple introduced the Retina display on the iPhone 4, it is still noticeable when you compare the iPhone 13 and iPhone 13 Pro side by side. The iPhone 13 Pro was also the first iPhone to go up to 1TB in storage capacity. iPhone SE 3 release date: March 2022 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Apple delivered an iPhone SE 3 in 2022, but it was less impressive than when the second generation of the device launched. It still had the iPhone 8’s body with a 4.7-inch display and the Home button with Touch ID. However, this time around, Apple stuffed it with the A15 Bionic chip, which was the same as the iPhone 13 line. It also added 5G connectivity support, which means it should be future-proof for a good while. Battery life was also a bit better than before. Otherwise, not much else changed. And as it turned out, this was the very last iPhone SE, with the line seemingly being retired on the launch of the iPhone 16e. Farewell, iPhone 8 body, we knew you far too well. iPhone 14 series release date: September 2022 Joe Maring / Digital Trends Though the iPhone 14 series continued the tradition of four iPhone models, Apple eliminated the mini from the lineup and replaced it with the new Plus offering, which is the same size as the Pro Max. The reasoning for getting rid of the mini was due to poor sales performance, and Apple believed more people would be interested in a Plus model over a mini. For the most part, the standard iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus brought over features from the iPhone 13, including the A15 Bionic. But the biggest upgrades came in the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max with the Dynamic Island, which replaced the notch that debuted with the iPhone X, and a bump to the cameras to 48MP from 12MP. This was also the first iPhone with an always-on display. The entire iPhone 14 line also got the new Crash Detection and Emergency SOS via Satellite features aimed at saving lives. The iPhone 14 series was also the first iPhone in the U.S. to eliminate physical SIM card trays and switch exclusively to eSIM. While the standard iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus were iterative upgrades, the iPhone 14 Pro and Pro Max would play a major part in influencing the future direction of the iPhone. The Dynamic Island would eventually make its way to all iPhone models, getting rid of the ugly notch, and the 48MP would become the new baseline. iPhone 15 series release date: September 2023 Apple iPhone 15 Plus (left) and Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The iPhone 15 line has brought some of the biggest changes in the history of the iPhone yet. The base model iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus both get a big camera boost to 48MP, like the iPhone 14 Pro did last year, and they dumped the notch for the Dynamic Island. The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max got even bigger upgrades with the new titanium frame instead of stainless steel, the A17 Pro chip, and the new 5x telephoto lens on the Pro Max. Apple also got rid of the classic silent/ring toggle and replaced it with a new Action button, similar to that found on the Apple Watch Ultra, which users can map to different functions as they see fit. But the biggest change, and the one that the entire iPhone 15 lineup will probably be remembered for, is the fact that it replaced the proprietary Lightning charging port with USB-C. Lightning had been around since the iPhone 5 in 2012, so the cable that everyone had been using for the past decade was finally dead. Apple dropping its own proprietary charger, which it made a lot of money from licensing out, for a more universal option is a very big deal. Plus, it opened up a whole new world of USB-C accessories that were previously incompatible. And there’s no doubt that the switch to titanium will have an impact on future iPhones and even the competition. Other brands have already begun to copy the titanium design, such as the OnePlus Open and even the Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra . iPhone 16 series release date: September 2024 iPhone 16 Digital Trends Following up on the iPhone 15, the iPhone 16 line takes it up another notch. The iPhone 16 and iPhone 16 Plus retain the same display sizes at 6.1 and 6.7 inches and 60Hz refresh rate. However, the brightness now goes up to 2,000 nits for peak brightness outdoors. There is also a redesigned camera layout with a vertical pill-shaped module, which is like a hybrid between the one on the iPhone XS and iPhone 12. Apple also replaced the silent/ring toggle with the Action button that debuted on the iPhone 15 Pro. On the inside, Apple gave the base model iPhone 16 a nice performance boost with the A18 chip. And this time, Apple gave the iPhone 16 line some of the best color options we’ve seen in a long time. iPhone 16 Pro Joe Maring / Digital Trends The iPhone 16 Pro and iPhone 16 Pro Max got slightly bigger this time, going with 6.3 and 6.9 inches for the displays. The smaller iPhone 16 Pro also has a better telephoto camera than its predecessor, which means it can do 5x optical zoom, making it on par with the iPhone 16 Pro Max. The ultrawide lens also got a spec jump to 48MP to go along with the 48MP primary camera, but the telephoto remains the same at 12MP. A new feature across the entire iPhone 16 lineup is the Camera Control . This is a physical button that can be pressed to launch the camera app and also act as a shutter button. It even features touch detection, so it can detect sliding gestures on it to adjust camera settings. Third-party developers can also make their app work with the Camera Control. With this new button, the iPhone 16 feels more like an actual camera than ever before — making it a big win for mobile photographers. iPhone 16e release date: February 19, 2025 Apple The first ever “e” derivative of a mainline Apple smartphone, the iPhone 16e is special for a variety of reasons. It brings an end to the era of Lightning ports on the iPhone, and small screens as well. It’s the launch vehicle for Apple’s first in-house modem , the C1, ending a lengthy reliance on Qualcomm ware. This is also the first affordable iPhone to serve support for Apple Intelligence. And finally, the iPhone 16e also wins the dubious honor of the most bland iPhone ever, thanks to a vivid palette selection of white and black. This one’s a weird hybrid baby. On the front, it borrows the iPhone 12’s aesthetics, but the rear profile is cleaner, thanks to a no-hump look for the lone rear camera. Powered by a watered-down version of the A18 silicon, and in the same vein, a diluted feature kit with the 48MP Fusion camera, each apparent upgrade seemingly has a caveat with it. It offers a longer battery life than even the iPhone 16, but at the same time, misses out on MagSafe charging. Yeah, there’s a lot that doesn’t make sense about this phone. It’s like Apple dug into the hardware bin, did some mixing and matching, and delivered a confusingly exciting phone. At $599, it’s one of the fastest phones out there in its price segment, but the included Apple Intelligence may give you a frustratingly error-prone and laggy experience. So much, that  AI-summarized iPhone notifications have become the laughing stock among Digital Trends team members. If you look closely at the specifications sheet, you will find it missing features that were introduced as far back as four years ago. Yet, our own experience with the measly 12MP sensor on the iPhone SE (2022) tells us that the iPhone 16e’s 48MP camera will produce some strong results. Overall, if Apple’s history with smartphones is any indication, the iPhone 16e will serve a polished smartphone experience — especially, if you are a part of the Apple’s ecosystem, and don’t believe in the existence of an alternative ecosystem called Android. Editors’ Recommendations 7 of our favorite iPhone colors since 2007 iPhone 17 Air dummy appears in video revealing its incredibly slender build The iPhone 17 could face a supply shortage that makes it hard to buy The iPhone should copy this Android phone’s shortcut button feature, here’s why iPhone theft victim sues Apple. It sparks a new hope for others, too Topics Apple Apple iPhone Features Christine Romero-Chan Former Digital Trends Contributor facebook instagram linkedin Email Christine Romero-Chan has been writing about technology, specifically Apple, for over a decade. She graduated from California… Mobile I tested the Pixel 9a and iPhone 16e’s cameras, and the two almost tied The Google Pixel 9a’s arch rival, almost regardless of whether you are trying to decide which one to buy, is the Apple iPhone 16e. Just like dogs chase cats, a new Pixel phone will go up against an iPhone in a camera test at some point, and over the past week or so, we’ve worked to answer the question of which phone takes better photos, the Pixel 9a or the iPhone 16e. The camera specs Google Pixel 9a (left) and Apple iPhone 16e Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The two phones have very different camera systems. The Google Pixel 9a has a 48-megapixel main camera with an f/1.7 aperture and optical image stabilization (OIS), plus a 13MP wide-angle camera with an f/2.2 aperture and a 120-degree field of view. On the front is a 13MP selfie camera. Read more Mobile Motorola Razr 60 Ultra could be the phone that makes me leave Apple I haven't used anything except an iPhone as my daily driver since 2015, nor have I regularly used a laptop aside from my MacBook for productivity since then. That's a decade of nearly full immersion into the Apple ecosystem. I wouldn't consider myself a fanboy; I just appreciated the convenience of it all. But after taking a look at the price tag of the flagship iPhone 16 Pro Max and the relatively minor upgrades it presents (even over my iPhone 12), the Motorola Razr 60 Ultra has caught my eye. Its specs aren't confirmed yet, but the leak we saw this morning comes from OnLeaks — a source that is rarely mistaken on this subject. Foldable phones are everywhere now (and Apple is rumored to be working on one, too), but the price tag is the biggest obstacle for most people. The Razr 60 Ultra is expected to start at $1,000 — less than I paid for my current phone — and outclass even the iPhone 16 Pro Max in terms of power. Read more Mobile New iPhone 17 Pro render keeps us guessing on the final design Apple is to expected to announce the iPhone 17 series later this year, likely sometime in September if previous release patterns are anything to go by. By our calculations, that puts us around five months out, though math is not our strong point – we're writers here after all. What we do know however, is that in the upcoming months we are no doubt going to see more conflicting rumors about what we can expect from the iPhone 17 and iPhone 17 Pro models in terms of design. A few months back, it was suggested the iPhone 17 Pro models would feature a new camera bar across their rear, taking on a more Pixel-like approach. Read more More Apple Features 7 of our favorite iPhone colors since 2007 I’m using Perplexity iOS Voice Assistant on my iPhone, and it’s better than Siri The iPhone should copy this Android phone’s shortcut button feature, here’s why Expert reveals the phones AI fans need to push Gemini & ChatGPT to the limit Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Flipboard Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows How-To Guides About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Branded Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Digital Trends Media Group 6420 S. Macadam Ave, Suite 216 Portland, OR 97239 Careers Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Press Room Sitemap Digital Trends Media Group may earn a commission when you buy through links on our sites. ©2025 Digital Trends Media Group , a Designtechnica Company. All rights reserved.