John Waters Jokes 'Bohemian Rhapsody' "Doesn't Really Have a Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage Read Next: Cinematographers Guild Elects John Lindley Its National President Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up Home News General News Spirit Awards: John Waters Jokes ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ “Doesn’t Really Have a Director” While Bryan Singer is credited as the film's sole director, he was fired a few weeks before production ended and replaced by Dexter Fletcher, and those behind the film have barely mentioned Singer's name during awards season. By Hilary Lewis Plus Icon Hilary Lewis Deputy Editor, East Coast, THR.com hilarylewis Follow Sign Up More Stories by Hilary Terrence Howard Turned Down Marvin Gaye Biopic Because He Didn’t Want to Kiss a Man: “I Would Cut My Lips Off” Gotham TV Awards Nominations: ‘Adolescence’ Leads With Four Nods Tribeca Festival Sets ‘Casino,’ ‘Meet The Parents’ Reunions and Talks With Sean Penn, Ellen Pompeo and More View All February 23, 2019 2:33pm Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Leave it to provocative filmmaker John Waters to take a shot at the director drama around Bohemian Rhapsody . At the 2019 Independent Spirit Awards , host Aubrey Plaza said that the awards show was being directed by Waters, cutting to Waters in the control room, where he joked that the ceremony “like Bohemian Rhapsody , doesn’t really have a director.” The remark prompted audible gasps from the audience at the independent film awards ceremony, taking place on the beach in Santa Monica. While Bryan Singer is credited as Bohemian Rhapsody ‘s sole director , the helmer was fired from the movie with just weeks to go in production after a series of absences. Dexter Fletcher took over and completed filming but is just credited as an executive producer, with Singer also being stripped of his producer credit. During promotional appearances for the film and awards season, the team behind the film, including star Rami Malek who had an on-set altercation with Singer before the latter was fired, have mostly avoided mentioning Singer, including during acceptance speeches in which other individuals behind the film, even late Queen frontman Freddie Mercury, were thanked. Those affiliated with the film faced another issue with Singer when additional sexual abuse allegations against the director emerged just a day after the Oscar nominations were announced. Earlier this month, Malek spoke out about his experience with Singer, telling The Hollywood Reporter ‘s Scott Feinberg : “In my situation with Bryan, it was not pleasant, not at all. And that’s about what I can say about it at this point.” “For anyone who is seeking any solace in all of this, Bryan Singer was fired. Bryan Singer was fired, I don’t think that was something anyone saw coming, but I think that had to happen and it did.” Still, Singer was fired for not showing up to work on the film, not due to sexual abuse claims, which have been leveled against Singer a few times in recent years. Malek said he was unaware of those allegations before he signed on to play Mercury. But speaking about the latest claims in the same discussion with Feinberg , he said, “My heart goes out to anyone who has to live through anything like what I’ve heard and what is out there. It’s awful, it’s remarkable that this happens, I can appreciate so much what they’ve been through and how difficult this must be for them. In the light of the #MeToo era that this somehow seems to exist after that, it’s a horrible thing.” While Bohemian Rhapsody isn’t up for any Spirit Awards, with its production budget being too large for the film to be nominated, it is up for five Oscars including best picture and best actor, for which Malek is a favorite to win. Related Stories Related Story Spirit Awards: The Blue-Carpet Arrivals Read More About: Aubrey Plaza Bohemian Rhapsody Bryan Singer Independent Spirit Awards John Waters Spirit Awards 2019 THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe Sign Up More from The Hollywood Reporter music DJ Khaled Launches Joint Ventures With Influence Media Partners Obituaries Mike Peters, Frontman of Welsh Band The Alarm, Dies of Cancer at 66 hollywood The Hollywood Reporter Names Ada Guerin as Creative Director and Tony Maglio as Television Editor kcon Seventeen’s Hoshi and Woozi, IVE and NMIXX Among First Wave of Artists on Lineup for KCON L.A. 2025 noah kahan Chappell Roan Signs Management Deal With Noah Kahan Manager Drew Simmons Penske Media Corporation Mike Van Named First-Ever CEO of Billboard Shopping With THR Way Day Gets Extended: The 25 Best Deals From Kelly Clarkson’s Wayfair Line to Shawn Johnson’s Nashville Home By Erin Lassner Hollywood’s Top 15 Clean Beauty Picks Discounted for Credo’s Annual Sale By Erin Lassner The Best Luxury Gifts for Mother’s Day, From ‘Designer Cookies’ Loved by Emmy-Winning Stars to Amanda Seyfried’s Expensive-Smelling Hand Soaps By Danielle Directo-Meston Dyson’s Newest Smart Hair Tools Are On Sale for $100 — Where to Score the One-Day Beauty Deal By Danielle Directo-Meston , Erin Lassner THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Email Address Subscribe Today Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Most Popular ‘Andor’ Creator Explains That Shocking Assault Scene: “We’re All the Product of Rape” By James Hibberd Nikki Glaser Says Timothée Chalamet Almost Skipped Golden Globes Monologue So He Wouldn’t “Have to Deal” With Being Roasted: “I Get It” By Lexi Carson Lux Pascal Is a Proud Sister: “Pedro’s Taught Me There’s No Reason to Hide Who I Am” By Lily Ford Lar Park Lincoln, Actress in ‘Knots Landing’ and ‘Friday the 13th Part VII,’ Dies at 63 By Mike Barnes Harvey Weinstein’s Life Behind Bars: “He’s Still Running Sh**” (Exclusive) By Phoebe Eaton Must Reads Tina Fey on Her New Netflix Series: “It Saved Me From Just Shrinking Up Like a Little Granny Apple Head” By Mikey O'Connell No. 1 on the Call Sheet: Bella Ramsey Takes Charge of ‘The Last of Us’ By James Hibberd Justin Bieber’s Crisis of Faith? By Shirley Halperin The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up PMC Logo Most Popular Bath & Body Works' Hand Soaps Just Hit Their Lowest Price of the Season — Stock Up for $3 Each Mary J. Blige Sued By Her Former Stylist, Misa Hylton, For $5 Million NFL Rookie Signing Bonuses Jump Record 26% for 2025 Draft 'Flattering' Portrait that Putin Gifted to Trump Last Month Finally Unveiled You may also like The Best Yoga Mats for Any Practice, According to Instructors 1 year ago Riva Residenze Just Unveiled Yacht-Inspired Apartments in Fort Lauderdale. Here’s a Look Inside. 1 day ago Michelle Obama Says Trump Administration’s Immigration Policies “Keep Her Up At Night” 1 hour ago Xavi se convierte en el compositor del año más joven en los Premios ASCAP 2025 4 hours ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues E-edition Access The Hollywood Reporter About Us Media Kit Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage News Expand news menu Latest News Culture & Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Reviews Ratings Live Feed Heat Vision The Fien Print Music Expand music menu Grammys K-Corner Awards Expand awards menu News Awards Chatter Podcast Feinberg Forecast Behind The Screen The Race THR Presents Oscar Season Hub Lifestyle Expand lifestyle menu Person of Interest News Style Shopping Arts Real Estate Rambling Reporter Business Expand business menu THR, Esq Report Features Unions / Labor Film / TV Tax Credits Signings / Representation THR Charts Expand thr-charts menu Streaming Ratings Broadcast Ratings Weekend Box Office Chart More Essentials Expand more-essentials menu International News Video THR Podcasts Featured Voices Follow Us Follow THR on Facebook Follow THR on Instagram Follow THR on X Follow THR on YouTube Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Advertise Careers Contact Us Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. ad