Doug Jones: Hollywood’s leading creature actor reveals what it’s like being the 'bad guy' | Celebrity News | Showbiz & TV | Express.co.uk Express. Home of the Daily and Sunday Express. Puzzles Horoscopes Express Rated Shop Paper Newsletters Login Register Your Account Newsletters Bookmarks Sign Out Uk Us 11 °C Find us on Facebook Follow us on WhatsApp Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Find us on Youtube Search HOME News Politics Royal Showbiz & TV Sport Finance Travel Life & Style Comment TV & Radio Celebrity News Films Gaming Music Books Theatre Home Showbiz & TV Celebrity News Doug Jones: Hollywood’s leading creature actor reveals what it’s like being the 'bad guy' The incredible actor is known as a man of many faces, having starred in countless films since the early Nineties, but rarely with his own image on the poster. By Samantha Leathers , Lifestyle Reporter 07:00, Mon, Oct 31, 2022 Share Article Share Article Facebook X LinkedIn Reddit Bluesky Email Copy Link Link copied Bookmark Comments Trailer for fantasy romance film The Shape of Water Doug Jones, 62, is a specialised non-human actor who has played an array of fantastical and ghoulish characters, from the loyal Abe Sapien in Hellboy to the demonic entity in The Bye Bye Man. The Shape of Water star spoke exclusively to Express.co.uk about his incredibly haunting career and how he balances his unshakeable faith while playing demonic characters. Related articles Lady C rips into Sussex's 'dog and pony show' after appearance Britney Spears, 40, worries fans as she poses naked on public beach As a non-human actor, Jones is often the face behind layers of prosthetics, makeup and costumes of iconic characters that are evidently inhuman. While it may appear this boxed him into a very niche typecast, Jones said it allowed him “to play a much wider array of characters than I ever would have been able to with my own face”. Article continues below ADVERTISEMENT The actor fell into this character niche accidentally, as he landed one of his first professional roles in an Eighties McDonald's commercial as Mac Tonight, the fictional, moon-headed piano player. Known to be a team player, and willing to try almost anything for his craft, Jones began receiving a few referrals for more peculiar characters and soon found himself working with the likes of iconic filmmakers Tim Burton and Guillermo Del Toro. While he catapulted to the top of Hollywood , his own image remained in relative obscurity, which he claimed is a welcomed blessing. He shared: “Another best part is being able to play memorable characters in huge projects without being easily recognized in public or causing a mob scene when I go out to a coffee shop.” READ MORE: Naked Attraction's Anna Richardson dating new boyfriend after splitting from Sue Perkins Doug Jones (Image: BRUCE SMITH/SEARCHLIGHT PICTURES) Jones is the human face behind countless iconic non-human characters (Image: Warner Bros/James Dimmock) READ MORE Hellboy post-credits scene explained: How many and what do they mean? With a background in mime and contortion, Jones quickly became the top choice for abnormal characters, finding particular success in the horror genre . He has played the disturbing entities in hit blockbusters like Ouija, Quarantine, Legion, The Terror of All Hallow’s Eve and many more. While his resume is incredible, playing the bad guy in horror films can sometimes lead to some isolation for the actor, as he described on the set of Quarantine: “The lead actress Jennifer Carpenter could not look at me between takes and avoided contact, apologising all the while, but she admittedly was freaked out by me.” For 2006’s Pan’s Labyrinth, Jones took on two roles as the haunting Pale Man and Faun, starring alongside 11-year-old Ivana Baquero. The Pale Man in particular is a visually terrifying entity, as any Pan’s Labyrinth fans will note, and so to ensure young Baquero felt safe the crew arranged for her to have a unique inside look at the creation of the villain. SUBSCRIBE Invalid email We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy Ivana Baquero, now 28, starred alongside Jones in Pan's Labyrinth when she was just 11 (Image: GETTY) Jones shared: “My aim is never to scare child actors I'm working with. We had her join us in the make-up room so she could start with seeing the real un-intimidating me, then watch as the artists built and glued on my look for the day, both as the Faun and the Pale Man.  That made me not so scary to work with.” When looking at some of his startling characters many may not realise that Jones has strong ties to his Christian faith and has found a unique balance between his beliefs and his work. He candidly revealed: “Basic rule of thumb and hope for me would be if the entire story is moving somewhere positive, as in the forces of good overcoming the forces of evil. In such a story, someone has to play the bad guy, and I'm okay if that has to be me. “As long as that kind of story doesn't negate or mock the God who loves me, I can find the entertainment value in them.” Due to his niche, Jones has had the opportunity to wear some of the most incredible costumes in Hollywood, and his first time arriving on-set in full character garb is always a momentous occasion. DONT MISS: Strictly's Helen Skelton hit with multiple fines as Gorka left in despair over error Prince Harry's move may 'cause irrevocable harm' to Sussex plans claims Jane Moore Prince William 'averse' to Sussexes' move as photo with Kate questioned by Jane Moore Trending READ MORE Hocus Pocus' Billy on 'sureal' return for sequel decades later He shared: “One of the more memorable ones was when I was revealed as Abe Sapien for the first Hellboy movie. I was met with gasps, but also applause, and even tears. My tears included, as I was overcome with how beautiful the artists at Spectral Motion had made me.” Jones’ physical acting skills are unrivaled, but that doesn’t mean the jobs is easy under layers of latex, makeup, clothing and extra appendages. He explained: “The further you get from human, the more difficult it's going to be. Among those difficult ones was when I played a six-legged giant insect, the Mother Bug in a straight-to-VHS feature called Bug Buster.” Another downside to this is that Jones is often on-set hours before his colleagues and stays hours after filming stops: “And in the middle of all that is a grueling filming day trying to keep my energy up and staying true to my character as I deal with extra weight, heat, and sticky discomforts that are unavoidable.” The actor declared this is “the worst part” of being a creature actor. Jones' first time in full costume is often a celebratory occasion for the cast and crew (Image: GETTY) Although he spent most of his career in relative obscurity, the actor is being recognised “now more than ever” as he has appeared onscreen with his own face recently, most notably as the titular character in My Name is Jerry. Jones admitted he felt “a bit more exposed” using his actual face, comparing it to “walking out of the house in nothing but a Speedo. But I soon realise that everyone else is also in a Speedo, and it’s okay.” Despite being one of the most famous creature actors in modern cinema, the Hocus Pocus star is still undeniably humble, noting that he is a victim of imposter syndrome when aspiring actors mention he is a mentor to them. He gushed: “Just when I wonder if anything I've done on film amounts to anything, it is these moments with a young actor that are quite fulfilling. “I am humbled to the point of even feeling a little imposter syndrome, where I fear they may find out I'm not all I'm cracked up to be.  But I imagine that Don Knotts, Danny Kaye, Jerry Lewis, Lon Chaney, Boris Karloff, and Dick van Dyke may have all felt the same way if I ever got the chance to gush on them with how much they changed my life and inspired what I've become.” Related articles Scream REVIEW: Horror sequel beginning to show its age in new reboot Jamie Lee Curtis unrecognisable in throwbacks amid Halloween return Evan Peters ‘couldn’t have done’ Dahmer without key colleague Jeffrey Dahmer series omitted some disturbing details You can still bag deals on Halloween decorations and spooky outfits Halloween Share Article Share Article Facebook X LinkedIn Reddit Bluesky Email Copy Link Link copied Bookmark Comments Most read in Celebrity News Monty Don fans say same thing as Gardeners' World presenter receives 'unexpected visitor' Spice Girls 'finally reunite as group secretly plans world tour without one star' Dallas star and Carrie legend dies aged 100 as daughter Amy Irving pens tearful tribute OPINION Vanessa Feltz slaps down Gregg Wallace in fiery clash over BBC exit Joanna Lumley admits 'my time must be coming soon' after tragic loss Sobbing Kelly Brook rushed to A&E in wheelchair after London Marathon 'ordeal' Movie legend dies aged 59 after battling rare cancer Victoria Beckham's mum savagely mocks Brooklyn's cooking advice amid family feud rumours Brian May's wife shares real reason couple quit London for country move Creepy video of late Pope hugging The Queen and Princess Diana slammed as sick Zoe Ball's Radio 2 colleague makes huge announcement after quitting BBC Geri Horner in battle with neighbours over £30k plan for lavish home Katie Price shows off her tiny frame as she contorts her body to fit into a suitcase Piers Morgan issues 'breaking' announcement in urgent message to Donald Trump BBC star dubbed 'untouchable' slammed for 'inappropriate language' Beyond Paradise star flooded with support as he issues emotional announcement Meghan Markle dealt fresh blow as TV host says her only 'talent' is 'turning on tears' Strictly star Pete Wicks gushes about 'best thing' to come out of BBC show experience Donald Trump dealt humiliating blow as A-lister hits out with brutal statement 80s rock icon dies after rare blood cancer battle forced tour axe SEARCH CONNECT WITH US Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Snapchat Check our YouTube channel Subscribe to our rss feed TODAY'S PAPER Wednesday, 30th April 2025 See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. News UK World Politics Royal US Weather Science History Weird Nature Sunday Obituaries Latest News Brexit European Union Theresa May Angela Merkel Donald Trump The Queen Kate Middleton Meghan Markle Diesel Cancer Diabetes Dementia YouTube InYourArea mynewsassistant Showbiz & TV TV & Radio Celebrity News Sport Football Tennis F1 Boxing UFC Rugby Cricket Golf NFL Racing NBA Comment Express Comment Columnists Finance City & Business Personal Finance The Crusader Travel Travel News UK Europe America Africa Asia Australia Cruise City breaks Beach Holidays Activity Holidays Express Rated Best VPN Best Sky Deals Best Mattress Best Dating Sites Best UK Broadband Deals Freeview Samsung Sky Android Apple Black Friday Entertainment Films Music Books Theatre Gaming Express Wins Life & Style Diets Style Health Garden Food Property Life Cars Tech Beauty Box Subscription EXPRESS.CO.UK Play Express Wins Apps Puzzles Horoscopes Partner Stories Shop Hopsmore Beer Club Paper Sitemap Site Archive About Us Social Media Journalists How to Complain Report a Tech Issue Advertising Affiliate advertising Cookies Settings Privacy Policy AI Notice Cookie Policy Terms & Conditions Community Standards Developed by Netro42 Syndication and Licensing Clarifications and Corrections IPSO Regulated Copyright ©2025 Express Newspapers. "Daily Express" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved. Daily Express uses notifications to keep you updated Keep me updated No thanks