The faces of Wonder Woman: all these actresses brought her to life The Output News geek culture Video Games Home / Home automation Sound and Vision Cellphones Offers Social Media Technology Filmmaking Series Filmmaking Subscriber lists reports Video Games Guides Subscriber lists reports Products Automation Goodies Home Image Cellphones Smart TV Sound Social Media Facebook feed Pinterest TikTok Twitter Inputs Podcast CoopTV Last of Us PS5 The output » Cinema / Series » Subscriber lists The faces of Wonder Woman: all these actresses brought her to life Drita 8 minutes The Wonder Woman character has regained the attention it deserves in recent years. Relegated somewhat to the background within the industry, her last two films and the return of The Justice League place her at the ideal time for us to review her like the one we have already done with other superheroes such as Batman or Spider-Man: The One Who Eyes all the faces that have given life to this Wonder Woman on the screen. Get comfortable and take a look. You may be surprised. Wonder Woman, the great heroine of DC In Marvel things may be a little more distributed (or diffuse), but in DC Comics there is a heroine par excellence and there is no possible discussion. We refer, of course, to Wonder Woman. Created during World War II by William Moulton Marston and drawn by HG Peter, Wonder Woman first appeared in All Star Comics #8 in December 1941 It is about an Amazon princess known in her land as Diana of Themiscira , but outside of her town she uses the name of Diana Prince. Her superpowers are based on superhuman strength and great combat ability, inherited from the gods and from her hard training to become a warrior. Among her characteristic elements that always accompany her we have the presence of a rope (the Lasso of Truth), some bracelets that are indestructible and a tiara that she can also use as a weapon. As a curiosity, Wonder Woman is one of the few heroines that does not have a male counterpart. See offer on Amazon Since this heroine appeared on paper, her participation in comics has been practically uninterrupted, except for a brief period of time during the 80s. She is one of the most drawn characters in the DC universe, who also came to make the leap to the world of small television and to the big screen. Today we are going to look precisely at the actresses who have been in charge of turning her into someone of flesh and blood. Actresses who have played Wonder Woman Many are surprised when they know all the actresses who have come to give life to the DC character and it is that, between the fact that some projects were not successful and that we have spent a long time with the fantastic Gal Galot in mind, you cannot imagine that so many women have donned the uniform of the Amazon. Let's review them. ellie woodwalker The first Wonder Woman, neither more nor less. Taking advantage of the pull that Batman (1966) was having, producer William Dozier decided to make a short film in the hope that Warner Brothers would like it and be encouraged to produce a pilot episode for a series about Wonder Woman. The proposal, which was shot in a humorous tone, was called Wonder Woman: Who's Afraid of Diana Prince? ( Wonder Woman: Who's Afraid of Diana Prince? ) and it didn't catch on at all, although it helped Ellie go down to posterity as the first Wonder Woman in the history of TV and cinema (and that his appearance lasts only 4 minutes). Note that there is a graphic document of the short and it is not wasted: cathy lee crosby The second attempt to have a Wonder Woman on the screen came from the hand of Cathy Lee Crosby, who continued to wear her blonde hair when he recorded the pilot for a TV series based on the superheroine. Between this aesthetic detail and the fact that the approach was quite far from the character of the comics, the proposal, called Wonder Woman To dry, it did not come to fruition either and the story did not go beyond the year of its premiere, 1974. Notice how "different" it was, that his version would later be used by DC Comics itself, as a Wonder Woman alternative of Earth in the limited series "Infinite Crisis" ("Infinite Crisis"). The actress also participated as an opponent of Lynda Carter (which we will talk about below) in the TV series that would finally see the light of day a year after her failed attempt. Lynda carter And we arrive at what for many will always be the quintessential Wonder Woman (at least for those who enjoyed it in previous generations, of course). With Carter the planets finally aligned: there was a solid TV project and she fit the bill perfectly. So much so that today she is the most remembered face of Wonder Woman, with a 60-episode television series that lasted on the air from 1975 to 1979. Four intense years in which she played this DC superheroine, giving her the image that, at that time , I needed the producer for the character. Perhaps the many comics that Lynda herself read about Wonder Woman in her childhood and adolescence served as her recreation, as the actress has recognized on occasion. Megan gale The curse of Wonder Woman returned to claim another "victim" many years after Lynda Carter and already with its sights set on the cinema. Megan Gale was going to be in charge of giving life to Princess Diana on this occasion in Justice League: Deadly . It was commissioned by Warner to George Miller (director of Mad Max ) in which DJ Cotrona was going to play Superman, Armie Hammer as Batman and, as we pointed out, Gale was in charge of playing Wonder Woman. The project was cancelled, but the casting images they did see the light -top capture by Slashfilm - and with that we could see how the suit (and the character) would fit on Megan. Many do not even consider it as part of the superheroine's cinematographic history, but since these official photos exist, we did not want to stop including it here. Adrianne Palicki Before Gal Gadot showed us that she was the actress we had been waiting decades for this role, we had another attempt that again did not come to fruition. Producer David E. Kelley ( Ally mcbeal ) prepared a draft of TV series with the character as the lead and cast Adrianne Palicki for the role. They made a pilot, presented it to NBC (which was going to be in charge of broadcasting the series)... and the approach was so disliked that it was discarded and canceled immediately . Fulminant. Neither Palicki dressed as Wonder Woman was convincing nor did the plot please a board that smelled failure from afar. Some time later, some images of the pilot were leaked, in which we can see the actress in action, like the intro that you have just below. Gal Gadot Salvation made woman. Gal Gadot has not only shown that the character was not dead and just needed a good approach, but has also shown that was she the actress we needed for a long time to interpret it on the big screen. Today and with the permission of the nostalgia that Lynda Carter produces, Gadot is considered the best wonder woman that we have had to date. Their weapons (pun intended)? An attractive image of a strong and powerful woman that moves away from that fragility that other actresses had always emanated in the past. Gadot is first and foremost an Amazon, as mandate the comic and how the fans like it, which has also left behind that sexualized touch of previous versions to make way for a heroine in which, luckily, other virtues prevail. The actress first appeared as Diana Prince in the DC Extended Universe with the film Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016). After that would come his first solo film, Wonder Woman and then the controversial League of Justice , both in 2017. They were followed Wonder Woman 1984 (which was delayed several times due to the pandemic although it finally managed to be released in December 2020) and the famous Synder Cut of The Justice League which, as you know, is a new approach to the original film that the director had to abandon due to an extraordinarily serious personal problem. Although it was Joss Whedon who finished it, It wasn't until 2021 that we finally got the true vision of Zack Snyder. . A film lasting more than four hours, in 4:3 format and with the option of viewing it in black and white mode in which Wonder Woman is also present. But Gal Gadot's story doesn't end here. Warner Bros. has confirmed that there will be a third installment in the cinema, so that the actress will be the protagonist of a trilogy by right within the DC Extended Universe. The company revealed that it is a project that has a lot on the table and that the good reception of the two films released so far have motivated to finally make it a reality. Patty Jenkins, who has directed the first two, will once again be in charge of closing the magical triad, thus maintaining better consistency between all the productions. We are already looking forward to knowing more. See offer on Amazon Follow us on Google News A comment, leave yours Leave a Comment Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked with * Comment * Name * Email address * I accept the privacy terms * Responsible for the data: Actualidad Blog Purpose of the data: Control SPAM, comment management. Legitimation: Your consent Communication of the data: The data will not be communicated to third parties except by legal obligation. Data storage: Database hosted by Occentus Networks (EU) Rights: At any time you can limit, recover and delete your information. sandra rivara said ago 3 years Wonder Woman from 1967 is from a costume ball. Unpresentable and pathetic. Lynda and Gal the only valid ones!!! Reply to sandra rivara ↑ Facebook Twitter Youtube RSS feed feed About us Become editor Editorial team ETHICS COMMITTEE License Legal Notice Contact Close