'The Crown' cast photos vs. real-life inspiration ​ Skip to content Entertainment Weekly Search Please fill out this field. Newsletters Sweepstakes Search Please fill out this field. TV TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge Binge EW's Binge Podcast Episodes The Challenge The Golden Bachelor The Masked Singer RuPaul's Drag Race Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowstone Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge 9-1-1 The Masked Singer Outlander RuPaul's Drag Race Saturday Night Live Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowjackets Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Top Stories 1 Nathan Fielder slams Paramount+ for removing 'Nathan for You' episode 2 'Brady Bunch' star Susan Olsen knew Cindy was stupid 3 Penn Badgley reacts to Joe’s last words in 'You' finale 4 'Mobland' recap: A key character gets killed See The Crown 's royal family next to their real-life inspirations Compare the stars of the Netflix historical drama and the real people they portray, including Princess Diana, Queen Elizabeth, Margaret Thatcher, and more. By Seija Rankin Seija Rankin Seija Rankin is the former books editor at Entertainment Weekly . She left EW in 2022. EW's editorial guidelines and EW Staff Updated on January 26, 2024 12:00PM EST Imelda Staunton; Queen Elizabeth II. Credit: Alex Bailey/Netflix; Chris Jackson – WPA Pool/Getty Images The Crown followed the reign of Queen Elizabeth II from youth to older age, which required replacing the entire cast every two seasons. Of course, it wasn't just the queen who was inhabited by three different actresses: Prince Philip and Princess Margaret also had three portrayers over the course of the series. Some of the most respected British (and a few American) actors took on major roles on the show, many of whom won Emmys for their work. But how accurately did The Crown capture these royals? See side-by-side comparisons of each actor with their real-life counterparts ahead. 01 of 24 Claire Foy and Queen Elizabeth II Claire Foy; young Queen Elizabeth. Alex Bailey/Netflix; PA Images/Getty Images Claire Foy starred as Queen Elizabeth II in seasons 1 and 2 of The Crown . She earned a Golden Globe , an Emmy , and two SAG awards for her portrayal of a young Elizabeth adjusting to her royal new role. She won a second Emmy for appearing as a guest star in season 4 of The Crown , reprising her role as the younger version of the queen. 02 of 24 Matt Smith and Prince Philip Matt Smith; young Prince Philip. Robert Viglasky/Netflix; Hulton Archive/Getty Images Doctor Who ' s Eleventh Doctor Matt Smith portrayed young Prince Philip in seasons 1 and 2, and was nominated for an Emmy for his work in 2018. 03 of 24 Vanessa Kirby and Princess Margaret Vanessa Kirby; young Princess Margaret. Alex Bailey/Netflix; Bettmann Archive/Getty Images Oscar nominee Vanessa Kirby ( Pieces of a Woman ) starred as young Princess Margaret in seasons 1 and 2, earning a BAFTA TV award and an Emmy nomination for her work in 2018. 04 of 24 Victoria Hamilton and Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother Victoria Hamilton; Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother. Netflix; Bettmann Archive/Getty Images Stage and screen actress Victoria Hamilton portrayed the first Queen Elizabeth–turned–Queen Mother in seasons 1 and 2. 05 of 24 John Lithgow and Winston Churchill John Lithgow; Winston Churchill. Alex Bailey/Netflix; Keystone/Getty Images John Lithgow won an Emmy, a Critics Choice award, and a SAG award for his portrayal of Prime Minister Winston Churchill in season 1. He also popped up in guest appearances in seasons 2 and 3. 06 of 24 Olivia Colman and Queen Elizabeth II Olivia Colman; middle-aged Queen Elizabeth. Sophie Mutevelian/Netflix; Fox Photos/Hulton Archive/Getty Images Oscar winner Olivia Colman ( The Favourite ) succeeded Foy as Queen Elizabeth II, portraying the monarch in seasons 3 and 4. Like Foy, Colman received Emmy and Golden Globe awards for her work as the matriarch of the royal family at middle age. 07 of 24 Tobias Menzies and Prince Philip Tobias Menzies; middle-aged Prince Philip. Sophie Mutevelian/Netflix; George Freston/Fox Photos/Getty Images Game of Thrones and Outlander vet Tobias Menzies took over the role of Prince Philip in seasons 3 and 4, and won an Emmy for his performance in 2021. 08 of 24 Helena Bonham Carter and Princess Margaret Helena Bonham Carter; middle-aged Princess Margaret. Sophie Mutevelian/Netflix; Hulton-Deutsch Collection/CORBIS/Corbis via Getty Images Double Oscar nominee Helena Bonham Carter took on the role of the queen's younger sister in season 3 and season 4, and was nominated for multiple Emmys and Golden Globes for her work. 09 of 24 Erin Doherty and Princess Anne Erin Doherty; Princess Anne. Des Willie / Netflix; Anwar Hussein/Getty Images Erin Doherty starred as Princess Anne, Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip's daughter, starting in season 3. She, along with the rest of the main cast those two seasons, won at the 2020 and 2021 SAG awards for Best Drama Ensemble. 10 of 24 Josh O'Connor and Prince Charles Josh O'Connor; Prince Charles. Keystone-France/Gamma-Keystone via Getty Images Josh O'Connor played Charles — the queen's eldest son and heir to the throne — in seasons 3 and 4. He won both an Emmy and a Golden Globe for his portrayal of Prince Charles in his younger years. 11 of 24 Emerald Fennell and Camilla Parker Bowles Emerald Fennell; Camilla Parker Bowles. Colin Hutton / Netflix; Frank Barratt/Keystone/Getty Images Oscar-winning Promising Young Woman writer-director Emerald Fennell portrayed Camilla Parker Bowles (née Camilla Shand) in seasons 3 and 4, earning an Emmy nomination for the latter. 12 of 24 Emma Corrin and Princess Diana Emma Corrin; Princess Diana. Des Willie/Netflix; Tim Graham/Getty Images Pennyworth alum Emma Corrin took on the role of Diana, Princess of Wales in season 4, and earned a Golden Globe and an Emmy nomination for their performance. 13 of 24 Gillian Anderson and Margaret Thatcher Gillian Anderson; Margaret Thatcher. Des Willie/Netflix; Jean GUICHARD/Gamma-Rapho via Getty Images Gillian Anderson played Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in season 4 of the Netflix period drama, winning an Emmy, a Golden Globe, and two SAG awards (for Drama Female Actor, and as part of the ensemble cast). 14 of 24 Imelda Staunton and Queen Elizabeth II Imelda Staunton; older Queen Elizabeth II. Alex Bailey/Netflix; Chris Jackson – WPA Pool/Getty Images Harry Potter alum/Oscar nominee Imelda Staunton played an older Queen Elizabeth II in the fifth and sixth seasons of The Crown. 15 of 24 Lesley Manville and Princess Margaret Lesley Manville; Princess Margaret. Bennett Raglin/Getty Images; Bettmann Archive Oscar nominee Lesley Manville ( Phantom Thread ) portrayed an older Princess Margaret in seasons 5 and 6. 16 of 24 Jonathan Pryce and Prince Philip Jonathan Pryce; older Prince Philip. Kevin Winter/Getty Images; Alastair Grant - WPA Pool/Getty Images Oscar nominee Jonathan Pryce ( The Two Popes ) played Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, in seasons 5 and 6 of The Crown. 17 of 24 Elizabeth Debicki and Princess Diana Elizabeth Debicki; Princess Diana. Netflix; Jayne Fincher/Princess Diana Archive/Getty Images Tenet actress Elizabeth Debicki played Princess Diana in seasons 5 and 6, following Emma Corrin's portrayal of the late royal, winning a Golden Globe and earning nominations from the Emmys and SAG awards for her turn. 18 of 24 Dominic West and Prince Charles Dominic West; Prince Charles. Netflix; Tim Graham Photo Library via Getty Images Dominic West — of The Wire and The Affair — portrayed Prince Charles in seasons 5 and 6, taking over the role from Josh O'Connor. 19 of 24 Jonny Lee Miller and John Major Jonny Lee Miller; John Major. Netflix; Michael Putland/Getty Images Elementary star Jonny Lee Miller portrayed Prime Minister John Major in season 5 of The Crown . 20 of 24 Olivia Williams and Camilla Parker Bowles Olivia Williams; Camilla Parker Bowles. Netflix; UK Pres/Getty Images Rushmore actress Olivia Williams took over for Emerald Fennell in playing Camilla Parker Bowles in seasons 5 and 6 of The Crown. 21 of 24 Khalid Abdalla and Dodi Fayed Khalid Abdalla; Dodi Fayed. Netflix; Aaron Rapoport/CORBIS OUTLINE/Corbis via Getty Images United 93 actor Khalid Abdalla played Dodi Fayed in season 5 of The Crown. 22 of 24 Ed McVey and Prince William Ed McVey; Prince William. Justin Downing/Netflix; Pool Photograph/Corbis/Corbis via Getty Ed McVey made his onscreen acting debut as Prince William in season 6 of The Crown . 23 of 24 Meg Bellamy and Kate Middleton Meg Bellamy; Kate Middleton. Justin Downing/Netflix; Antony Jones/Brendan Bierne/UK Press via Getty Meg Bellamy portrayed Kate Middleton in the sixth season of The Crown , in her TV acting debut. 24 of 24 Luther Ford and Prince Harry Luther Ford; Prince Harry. Justin Downing/Netflix; Tim Graham Photo Library via Getty Luther Ford had only appeared in a short film before taking on the role of Prince Harry in the final season of The Crown . Close Read more: TV Related Articles House of the Dragon boss talks season 3, that George R. R. Martin blog post, and new casting as filming ignites (exclusive) The 11 best Adam Sandler movies, ranked The White Lotus stars explain that shocking season 3 finale ending: 'Made me f---ing sob' The White Lotus season 3 ending explained: Who died, who thrived, and what does it all mean? Grey's Anatomy turns 20! See the many residents of Seattle Grace Hospital, then and now When does The Summer I Turned Pretty season 3 come out? Everything we know about the series' sun-dappled swan song A Minecraft Movie cast and character guide: All about the actors building the video game blockbuster 16 stars you forgot were on Grey's Anatomy before their big break (including future Oscar nominees) Who dies in The White Lotus season 3? Here are our favorite theories ahead of the finale (including a rogue monkey with a gun) Pulse cast and character guide: Meet the residents of Netflix's new ER-set series Pride & Prejudice series finds its Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy with Emma Corrin and Jack Lowden 1923 season 2 finale recap: The Yellowstone prequel saddles up for the last time Every RuPaul's Drag Race winner RuPaul's Drag Race season 17 eliminations: See every queen who went home and who won the crown Drawn together: Here are the 14 best animated romances on TV When does Black Mirror season 7 come out? Everything we know about the new episodes (including which past stories might get sequels) Entertainment Weekly Newsletters Follow Us TV Movies Music What To Watch Binge Celebrity The Awardist Books Theater About Us Terms of Service Subscribe Advertise Careers Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Entertainment Weekly is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies