The Super Mario line is one of the ‘most successful’ new LEGO product launches – Nintendo Wire – Nintendo Wire – Nintendo Wire Home Amiibo News News When is the next Nintendo Direct? Features Guides Reviews About Games Mobile Switch Wii U Contact – Nintendo Wire Home Amiibo News News When is the next Nintendo Direct? Features Guides Reviews About Games Mobile Switch Wii U Contact  Leave a Comment / March 11th, 2021 / Reece Heather The Super Mario line is one of the ‘most successful’ new LEGO product launches News , Merchandise Recent Articles Capcom composer says Ace Attorney wouldn’t have continued in modern industry since the first game sold poorly In a series of posts over on Twitter, former Capcom composer Masakazu Sugimori has suggested that Ace Attorney would not have become a franchise if it were released in the current gaming industry. As he explains, the initial sales numbers were so low that any modern publisher would have completely… Read More April 25th, 2025 Analyst predicts Switch 2 will move 5 million consoles in first week alone In a new report from Bloomberg, it’s been suggested that the Nintendo Switch 2 will move around five million consoles in its first week globally. That would wind up making it the fastest-selling launch for a console ever. For residents of the US and Canada, yesterday was when they finally… Read More April 25th, 2025 Pokémon TCG Pocket is headed to Alola with the upcoming Celestial Guardians expansion As the weather continues to warm up as spring arrives in full, there are plenty of people looking to enjoy their time in the sun. For the Pokémon fans out there, there’s no better way to do so than by enjoying the Alola region’s tropical weather and colorful scenery. If… Read More April 24th, 2025 Content Continues Below The LEGO Super Mario toys have certainly proved popular among young builders and nostalgic adults alike since launching in 2020, offering a wide range of characters and elements from the plumber’s platforming games. In fact, the success of the new range is something The LEGO Group documented in its latest annual report. According to Brick Fanatics , CEO Niels B. Christiansen discussed the successful partnerships LEGO had formed last year, and noted how the collaboration with Nintendo in particular was a roaring success. “In 2020, we saw early benefits of these investments,” he says. “A strong, diverse portfolio attracted builders of all ages. The launch of LEGO Super Mario introduced an entirely new way to play and was one of our most successful new themes.” Elsewhere in the repor t, it was stated that revenue ramped up to £4.95 billion, 13% up from 2019, while operating profit increased by 19% totalling around £1.49 billion. Unsurprisingly, Christiansen confirmed that LEGO was “very pleased with these results.” For more on the LEGO Super Mario sets, you can check out our comprehensive buyer’s guide . Leave a Comment Written by Reece Heather A lifelong Nintendo fan and a longtime editor at Zelda Universe, Reece will forever be grateful that he somehow dodged the Naughty List of Christmas 1998, when Santa delivered the life-changing gift of a Nintendo 64 with Super Mario 64, Banjo-Kazooie, and Mario Kart 64. When he's not playing games, Reece is usually reading Punisher comics, delving helplessly into the weirdest depths of anime and manga, or spending time with his cocker spaniel Gracie -- the goodest girl ever! – Nintendo Wire The views expressed on Nintendo Wire are our own. They are in no way affiliated with Nintendo. View Privacy Policy Manage Cookie Settings Home Amiibo News News When is the next Nintendo Direct? Features Guides Reviews About Games Mobile Switch Wii U Contact