Top 3 Companies Owned by Facebook (Meta) Skip to content News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Trade Search Search Please fill out this field. Search Search Please fill out this field. News News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Follow Us Table of Contents Expand Table of Contents Instagram WhatsApp Scape Technologies FAQs The Bottom Line Company Profiles FAANG and FAAMG Companies Top 3 Companies Owned by Facebook (Meta) By Nathan Reiff Full Bio Nathan Reiff has been writing expert articles and news about financial topics such as investing and trading, cryptocurrency, ETFs, and alternative investments on Investopedia since 2016. Learn about our editorial policies Updated April 21, 2025 Reviewed by Margaret James Justin Sullivan / Getty Images Close Meta Inc. ( META ), the company that owns Facebook, has grown into a global giant with a market capitalization of $1.224 trillion as of April 21, 2025. The company reported fiscal year 2024 net income of $62.3 billion on $164.5 billion in revenue , nearly all of which came from advertising. Acquisitions have been key to growing these businesses and Meta’s revenue in general. Meta's strategy has been to buy potential rivals before they can get too big. In the process, the company sometimes has paid exceptionally high prices for some deals. The majority of the companies Meta has purchased have either been rolled into the company or ceased operations. Below, we look in more detail at some of Meta’s most important acquisitions that still operate as stand-alone entities. The company does not provide a breakdown of how much profit or revenue each acquisition currently contributes to Meta. Key Takeaways Facebook is the world’s most popular social media platform as measured by the number of monthly active users. Meta, the company that owns Facebook, also owns Instagram and WhatsApp, two other extremely popular platforms. The company has made many acquisitions over its history, most of which have been rolled into the company. Instagram Type of Business : Photo- and video-sharing app Acquisition Cost : $1.0 billion Acquisition Date : April 9, 2012 Instagram is a photo- and video-sharing social networking platform that was launched in 2010. Through the Instagram app, users can upload, edit, and tag photos and videos. The company remained independent up until it was acquired by Meta for $1.0 billion in 2012. Meta bought Instagram as the photo-sharing company was garnering significant attention from venture capital firms and other investors. Some estimates indicate that Instagram generates more advertising revenue than its parent company. When it acquired Instagram, Meta opted to build and grow the Instagram app independently from Meta’s main Facebook platform. Instagram remains a separate platform to this day. WhatsApp Type of Business : Mobile messenger service Acquisition Cost : $19.0 billion Acquisition Date : Feb. 19, 2014 WhatsApp is a messenger and calling service available to users throughout the world. The platform was launched in 2009 as a low-cost alternative to standard text messaging services. Throughout much of its history, WhatsApp has allowed users to send messages and make calls directly to other users for no cost, regardless of location. Users can also send photos, videos, and documents over the platform. Meta bought WhatsApp at a time when the smaller company boasted more than 400 million active monthly users, making it a fast-growing potential rival to the Facebook network platform. When Meta purchased WhatsApp, it was an independent company that had recently been valued at $1.5 billion. Although it is unclear exactly how much revenue WhatsApp generates, when it was acquired in 2014, WhatsApp generated a revenue of $1.29 million. Fast Fact As of April 21, 2025, Meta is the seventh-largest company in the world as measured by market cap. Scape Technologies Type of Business : Visual positioning service Acquisition Cost : $40 million (estimated) Acquisition Date : January 2020 Meta purchased 75% of Scape Technologies in January 2020. Scape Technologies developed visual positioning services, which further developed location accuracy beyond the capabilities of GPS. The company offered products and services in 3D vision technology, robotics, 3D scanners, and various software. It was liquidated in 2023, according to the United Kingdom government website. How Many Acquisitions Does Facebook Have? Meta, Facebook's parent company, has made 96 acquisitions over the course of its history. These acquisitions include WhatsApp, Instagram, Ozlo, Presize, and Supernatural. What Was Meta’s Biggest Acquisition? Meta’s biggest acquisition was WhatsApp in 2014, for which it paid $19 billion. WhatsApp is now the third most popular social media platform as measured by the number of monthly active users (it's tied with Instagram). Who Owns the Most Stock in Meta? After founder Mark Zuckerberg (13.60%), the largest single owner of Meta stock is the investment management firm Vanguard . Vanguard owns 7.88% of Meta’s total shares outstanding. Vanguard Index Funds is next in line, at 6.93%. The Bottom Line Meta is one of the largest companies in the world. While it started out as Facebook, the company now owns and operates some of the largest platforms, including Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp, making it a true powerhouse in the technology world. Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. CompaniesMarketCap. “ Largest Companies by Market Cap .” U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. “ Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2024: Meta Platforms Inc. ” Pages 87, 100. Meta Newsroom. “ Facebook to Acquire Instagram .” Crunchbase. “ Instagram .” TechCrunch. “ Right Before Acquisition, Instagram Closed $50M at a $500M Valuation from Sequoia, Thrive, Greylock, and Benchmark .” Meta Newsroom. “ Facebook to Acquire WhatsApp .” Crunchbase. “ WhatsApp .” WhatsApp Blog. “ 400 Million Stories .” TechCrunch. “ WhatsApp Was Valued at ~$1.5B in Final Round Before Sale .” U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. “ Form 10-Q for the Quarterly Period Ended September 30, 2014: Facebook Inc. ” Page 21. TechCrunch. “ Facebook Has Acquired Scape Technologies, the London-based Computer Vision Startup .” Gov.UK. “ Scape Technologies Ltd. ” Tracxn. “ Acquisitions by Facebook .” Statista. “ Most Popular Social Networks Worldwide as of February 2025, Ranked by Number of Monthly Active Users .” TipRanks. “ Meta Platforms (META) Ownership—Who Owns Meta Platforms? ” Take the Next Step to Invest Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Partner Links Related Articles Alphabet’s GOOG vs. GOOGL: What’s the Difference? How Amazon Makes Money The Secret to Microsoft's Success Top 10 Largest Global IPOs of All Time How Reddit Makes Money Why Is There an IPO Lockup Period and How Long Does It Last? 3 Companies Owned by General Electric 5 Companies Owned by Comcast Top Pfizer Shareholders 5 Companies Owned by Carnival Corp. (CCL) What Are the 3 Stages of the IPO Life Cycle? Tesla: The True Untold Story Costco vs. Sam's Club: What's the Difference? American Express's Main Competition Valuing Startup Ventures MoneyGram vs. PayPal vs. Xoom: Who Has the Lowest Fees? About Us Terms of Service Dictionary Editorial Policy Advertise News Privacy Policy Contact Us Careers Your Privacy Choices # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Investopedia is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies