Instant Reaction: U.S. Heads Held High After World Cup 2014; The Change Has Already Come - CBS Detroit Latest U.S. Trump 100 Days World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio Local News Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes America Decides CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed CBS Village Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Davos Interviews A Moment With... Innovators & Disruptors Economy 4.0 Detroit | News Weather Sports Videos Local News Autos Entertainment Health Politics U.S. World Latest Weather Live Radar Science of Weather All Sports CBS Sports HQ Lions Pistons Red Wings Tigers Michigan Michigan State Odds Meet The Team Contact Us Station Info News Tips Contests & Promotions Galleries Advertise Jobs TV Schedule Michigan Matters Michigan Made Submit Your Pics/Video Download The App Watch CBS News Sports Instant Reaction: U.S. Heads Held High After World Cup 2014; The Change Has Already Come July 1, 2014 / 9:27 PM EDT / CBS Detroit By Dan Leach follow Dan @dtmleach As the final whistle sounded after two completely wild extra time sessions in Salvador, Brazil, the United States Men's National teams run at the World Cup came to a devastating and brutal halt. This was a Round of 16 game against Belgium where many could make the case that the U.S. didn't deserve to win and without Superman Keeper Tim Howard, likely would have lost by several goals. Howard broke a modern World Cup record with 16 saves, in comparison, that would be like a hockey goalie making 60. The loss was devastating, but the road ahead looks so much brighter than just two weeks ago. U.S. Soccer is no longer a joke on the International stage and it has been growing further and further away from that over the past almost 2 decades. Does the USMNT have a chance to win a World Cup right now? If you are going to be completely honest, absolutely not. What springs so much hope though is it seems that the team is going forward perpetually now after so many disjointed stages during the past 50 years. The 23 men sent to Brazil were the best the States has ever fielded in a World Cup. They beat a Ghana side that had bedeviled the Americans in the past two World Cups. They outplayed one of the best team in the world in Portugal for 94 grueling minutes and went toe to toe with one of the World Cup favorites most of the way. Then came the Round of 16 match against Belgium. The USMNT in the Knockout round for the second Cup in a row for the first time in its history, major accomplishment for American soccer in its own right. The team wanted more and so did the over 70 million soccer fans in this country who are growing by the minute. Wildly out chanced by the Belgians in the first 90 minutes, once again late heroics seemed to rue the day, but a point blank miss by Chris Wondolowski at the end of regulation and then one of the most beautiful free kick attempts you will ever see leading to a Dempsey golden opportunity that would have tied it late in extra time. Both of those chances would have gone in 8 of 10 times most games, but today they simply couldn't put the USMNT on the right side of history . The run in Brazil enthralled so many Americans and showed so many unfair to "The Beautiful Game," just how special it can be. There were watch parties all over the country for each game , drawing thousands of both rabid soccer fans and those filled with beautiful curiosity as well. 28,000 filled Soldier Field for the game on Tuesday, thousands were in downtown Detroit at Cadillac Square, and countless millions at bars, restaurants, and man/women caves across the nation. We like winners in America and that is why so many have not jumped on the U.S soccer train. They wonder why is it a good thing just to get to a Knockout Round or to lose to Germany and advance and be happy about it. We are trained in this country that it is all about being a champion, all about being at the top of your proverbial game. That is always the goal for any athlete or team, but for the USMNT it is about progress, not perfection right now. It is about continuing to move forward in a game that is dominated by Europeans and South Americans. It is similar to how dominating the U.S men's national team in basketball has largely been since the advent of the sports, but how many nations have started to catch up leading to devastating results for Team USA in before the last Olympics. That is where the USMNT is right now. They are still largely an afterthought by the superpowers of the sport, but those dominant forces are starting to take much more notice. The Germany's, Brazil's, and Argentina's of the World still do not truly fear the U.S, but they have much more respect for us now. As the game continues to grow in America and the USMNT continues to fill itself with better and better athletes, who also play at the top levels around the world, the sea change will continue forward. The World Cup is a truly beautiful event showcasing the biggest sport in the world. The fact of the matter is that it only happens every four years, so it would be lunacy to think that this excitement level will be matched again in America until Russia in 2018. What can happen, and what I believe will happen, is so many young athletes that likely would have not even given soccer a try 20, 30 years ago, will have watched what transpired these past two plus weeks and say, "Hey I want to give that a try mom and dad." That is how you grow a game, that is how you find a way to compete on the world stage. You need to have your best athletes be part of a game that is played in every corner of the Earth if you want to truly compete. There will never be a time that this country's best athletes will all gravitate towards soccer like they do with football, basketball, and baseball. But even if just 10-15 percent of them give soccer a try, that will create so many more opportunities for the USMNT to keep this momentum building. The men that represented our great country in Brazil made us all so proud. Yes, they did not make a miracle run to a Cup Semi or Final. They did not take out one of the best teams in the World along their run. What they did do is give so many millions of American such a special amount of pride. Isn't that what sports is all about! We all want to be champions, but sometimes the ride, the journey, is truly the most special part of it all. Hold your heads high Team USA, you are a great example of why we are so proud to be Americans. More from CBS News NBA acknowledges a foul that wasn't called at end of Pistons-Knicks game Police chase suspect dies, high school athletes injured, amid head-on crash Michigan-based crew chief helps Austin Cindric win Talladega Michigan sports complex aims to get kids out on the basketball court In: Team USA Belgium World Cup Soccer © 2014 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Featured Local Savings More from CBS News NBA acknowledges a foul that wasn't called at end of Pistons-Knicks game Police chase suspect dies, high school athletes injured, amid head-on crash Michigan-based crew chief helps Austin Cindric win Talladega Michigan sports complex aims to get kids out on the basketball court Featured Trump's Speech Marking First 100 Days Poll On Trump's First 100 Days 2025 NBA Playoff Schedule 2025 NHL Playoff Schedule Follow Us On YouTube Facebook instagram TikTok X CBS News Detroit Meet the Team Program Guide Contests & Promotions Advertise With Us Sitemap Regulation Public File for WWJ-TV Public File for WKBD-TV Public Inspection File Help FCC Applications EEO Report Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback ©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue Be the first to know Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting. Not Now Turn On