The Crown Season 5: Everything to Know ​ Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals Royals Royals PEOPLE StyleWatch: Spring 2025 Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals StyleWatch Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe 1 Massive Brawl Erupts Among Carnival Cruise Passengers, Landing 24 People on ‘Do Not Sail’ List 2 Tourist Filming Himself on a Zipline Unknowingly Captures Chilling Footage of Massacre in India That Killed 26 3 Robert De Niro's Daughter Airyn Comes Out as Trans in Revealing Interview About Growing Up 'Out of the Limelight' 4 Bill Belichick's Girlfriend Jordon Hudson Wears Sparkling Ring on That Finger, Sparking Engagement Rumors Entertainment TV Scripted TV Shows Everything to Know About 'The Crown' Season 5 The Crown 's latest installment began filming in July, and Netflix's dramatic interpretation of the British royals' lives, loves and losses will continue to reign on Netflix for through season 6 By Janine Henni Janine Henni Janine Henni is a Royals Staff Writer for PEOPLE Digital, covering modern monarchies and the world's most famous families. Like Queen Elizabeth, she loves horses and a great tiara moment. People Editorial Guidelines and Skyler Caruso Skyler Caruso Skyler Caruso is a Writer and Reporter of PEOPLE Digital Entertainment. She joined PEOPLE in 2021, but has eight years of experience working in digital publishing with a focus on entertainment and pop culture news. People Editorial Guidelines Updated on October 20, 2022 10:32AM EDT Photo: Keith Bernstein/Netflix Hear ye, hear ye! The highly-anticipated fifth season of The Crown started production in July 2021, which means fans of the Netflix drama inspired by the lives of Britain's royal family don't have much longer to wait for the next installment of palace intrigue. Like seasons 1 and 3 before it, The Crown season 5 will debut a completely new cast to play the iconic royals, to reflect the changing decades covered by the series, from Queen Elizabeth II's ascension to the fraught relationship between Princess Diana and Prince Charles , While season 4 chronicled the courtship and marriage years of Diana and Charles, this season will explore the early 1990s — a turbulent period for the Royal Family. Although Netflix has kept details under wraps, the streamer's been giving hints and glimpses of what's to come when the fictionalized British royals return to our screens, with a few glimpses of production being released that were taken at Dunsfold Aerodrome in Surrey, about an hour outside of London. On Sept. 8, 2022, following news of Queen Elizabeth II's death, creator Peter Morgan paid tribute to the longest-reigning British monarch and said production would stop for the moment "out of respect" to the late Queen. Here's everything we know about The Crown season 5 so far. Watch Princess Diana's Full Awkward Anniversary Performance for Charles in a Deleted Scene from The Crown What will The Crown season 5 be about? Netflix Actors portraying the younger William and Harry were last seen together onscreen in episode 9 of season 4 of The Crown, singing in the backseat of their mother's car while driving to Highgrove. The latest chapter of the fictional drama will likely watch them grow up even more (a theory borne out even more by the fact that the series just cast collegiate William and Kate lookalikes for season 6 ). Though much of the project remains under wraps, season 5 is slated to explore the early 1990s. It will be a rocky road for the royals, with the dissolution of Charles and Diana's marriage just one lowlights for the Windsors. The storyline may focus in part on 1992, which the Queen declared to be an " annus horribilis " (Latin for "horrible year"), speculates Variety . It was the year in which three of her four children separated from their spouses and a devastating fire hit Windsor Castle. The drama will likely carry through to 1995, when Diana gave a bombshell interview to the BBC's Panoram a in 1995, according to Deadline . The scandal from that interview continues even today, after it came to light that journalist Martin Bashir may have used deceptive methods to persuade Diane to sit for the interview, and Prince William slamming Bashir after the official BBC inquiry determined that Bashir did. Who's joining The Crown season 5 cast? Alex Bailey/Netflix Elizabeth Debicki will join the cast as Princess Diana and Dominic West will play Prince Charles in The Crown season 5. Netflix shared an official first look at the two on Aug. 17. Debicki takes the tiara from Emma Corrin , who embodied Diana in an Emmy-nominated entrée into the series in season 4. Debicki described the role as an honor: "Princess Diana's spirit, her words and her actions live in the hearts of so many. It is my true privilege and honour to be joining this masterful series, which has had me absolutely hooked from episode one." Can't get enough of PEOPLE 's Royals coverage? Sign up for our free Royals newsletter to get the latest updates on Kate Middleton , Meghan Markle and more! Before dropping the official photos of the then-Prince and Princess of Wales, the show released a season 5 shot of Oscar nominee Imelda Staunton as Queen Elizabeth II. The Harry Potter actress has also been spotted twice on set in Scotland, filming with two men and Claudia Harrison, who takes the reins as Princess Anne. The new season will also see these additions: Jonathan Pryce as Prince Philip , Lesley Manville as Princess Margaret , and Johnny Lee Miller as John Major, whose 1990–97 tenure as Prime Minister sheds light on which years the show will cover. Has Netflix shared official images from The Crown season 5? Keith Bernstein/Netflix On Oct. 14, Netflix released seven first-look images from The Crown season 5 . The shots are taken from separate scenes, teasing the intrigue to come. One image shows Debicki as a downcast Princess Diana, wearing a halter dress similar to the one the Princess of Wales wore at a Vanity Fair fundraising gala in 1995, while another shows Olivia Williams and West looking up at the night sky as they play the future Queen Camilla and King Charles . 'The Crown' Drops Season 5 First Look Photos Featuring the New Cast in Action Is there a trailer for The Crown season 5? On Oct. 20, Netflix released the first official trailer for The Crown season 5 set to a haunting version of the 1997 hit "Bittersweet Symphony" by The Verve. Opening with scenes of the devastating 1992 fire at Windsor Castle, the trailer features a voiceover from Queen Elizabeth summing up a year that also saw the separations of Princess Diana and Prince Charles and Prince Andrew and Sarah Ferguson — a year the Queen later famously called her "annus horribilis" (Latin for "horrible year"). It also includes Princess Diana's pain as she prepares to talk to BBC Panorama about life inside the palace. "I won't go quietly," she says. "I'll battle to the end." Will The Crown season 5 be the last season? Keith Bernstein/Netflix Though season 5 was initially intended to be the show's last, producers changed their minds and, to fans' great relief, promised that the historical drama will continue to rule Netflix queues for a final, sixth season . "As we started to discuss the storylines for Series 5, it soon became clear that in order to do justice to the richness and complexity of the story we should go back to the original plan and do six seasons," creator Peter Morgan said in July 2020. "To be clear, Series 6 will not bring us any closer to present-day — it will simply enable us to cover the same period in greater detail." The plot will reportedly cover the late '90s and early 2000s with a focus on a young Prince William and Prince Harry . Furthermore, it's speculated that the show will portray Kate Middleton in a minor role, depicting the beginning of her romance with William during their time together at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland. In early September, it was announced that newcomer Meg Bellamy will play Kate . Meanwhile, Will be portrayed by multiple actors as the character ages: 16-year-old Rufus Kampa and 21-year-old Ed McVey. 'The Crown' Recreates Princess Diana's School Drop-Off for Prince William as Season 5 Films When does The Crown season 5 premiere? Netflix The fifth season of The Crown will be released on Nov. 9 . Seasons 1 through 4 of The Crown are now streaming on Netflix. Close You Might Like The Best Shows on Netflix to Stream Now Entertainment December 05, 2022 Was Kate Middleton's Next Royal Outing Just Revealed amid Her Children's School Break? Royals April 11, 2025 Prince William Hires Princess Diana's Lawyers in Surprising Break from King Charles Royals April 04, 2025 Related Articles Princess Diana Disguised Herself in Drag to Sneak Into a Gay Bar with Freddie Mercury (Exclusive Excerpt) Ciao, Italia! King Charles and Queen Camilla Receive a Royal Welcome in Rome for State Visit Prince William and Prince Harry's Former Bodyguard Graham 'Crackers' Craker Dies at 77: Reports King Charles Plays an Instrument Made from a Carrot amid Return to Royal Work After Hospitalization The Royal Family's Next Buckingham Palace Balcony Appearance Revealed for a Milestone Anniversary Meghan Markle Reveals Season 2 Guest on Her Netflix Show — and It's Someone Close to Her and Prince Harry Meghan Markle Reveals the Secret 'Code' Names She and Prince Harry Used Early in Their Relationship Queen Elizabeth’s Godson Dies After Suffering Severe Head Injury Meghan Markle Addresses Speculation About Writing a Memoir: 'People Are Often Curious' How Kate Middleton and Prince William Are Channeling Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip: 'A Good Double Act' Meghan Markle Speaks Out on Long-Standing Rumors About Running for Office Queen Camilla's Sister Apparently Won't Curtsy to Her Despite Royal Role: 'I Can’t Really Believe It' Queen Camilla Goes on a Giant Easter Egg Hunt in Her First Outing Since King Charles' Hospitalization Meghan Markle Reveals Why She's the 'Happiest I've Ever Been' in On-Stage 'Confession' in N.Y.C. Meghan Markle Shares Her Most Personal Photos Yet of Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet — and Their Matching Red Hair! Meghan Markle Shares Her Deepest Wish About Princess Diana PEOPLE Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies