Criterion Compiled List of Stanley Kubrick's Top 15 Favorite Films | FirstShowing.net ⌕ HOME TRAILERS 2025 SCHEDULE 2026 SCHEDULE REVIEWS EDITORIALS INTERVIEWS FEATURETTES SHORT FILMS ABOUT ENJOY THE MOVIES Criterion Compiled List of Stanley Kubrick's Top 15 Favorite Films by Alex Billington February 13, 2013 Source: Criterion If you could still interview Stanley Kubrick , what kind of questions would you ask him? Last year, a user on Criterion's website compiled a list of what they believe are Stanley Kubrick's Top 15 favorite films . I recently came across the list and thought it was worth sharing, especially if you're looking for classic films to watch. Fan Joshua Warren explains : "Since Kubrick was such a famously reclusive and rarely interviewed person, it's very interesting to get a glimpse what kind of films that inspired and entertained him." This top list is culled from various interviews over the years, where Kubrick revealed what his favorite films were. I highly suggest visiting Criterion to see the full post, where it breaks down each one of his 15 films and the exact quote/moment it came from. Many of these films are already considered classics but it's still exciting to see them mentioned. We've also learned about a lot of Kubrick's passion already, like his love for Ingmar Bergman and the letter he wrote to him : "Your vision of life has moved me deeply, much more deeply than I have ever been moved by any films. I believe you are the greatest film-maker at work today." While this list is numbered, they remind us: "I have presented these films here in no particular order ." Warren's list: 15. Blood Wedding (Carlos Saura | 1981) 14. The Bank Dick (Edward Cline | 1940) 13. Rosemary's Baby (Roman Polanski | 1968) 12. The Fireman's Ball (Milos Forman | 1967) 11. The Phantom Carriage (Victor Sjöström | 1921) 10. The Silence of the Lambs (Jonathan Demme | 1991) 9. Solaris (Andrei Tarkovsky | 1972) 8. Closely Watched Trains (Jiří Menzel | 1966) 7. If.... (Lindsay Anderson | 1968) 6. The Spirit of the Beehive (Víctor Erice | 1973) 5. La Ronde ties Le Plaisir (Max Ophüls | 1950, 1952) 4. Beauty and the Beast (Jean Cocteau | 1946) 3. Wild Strawberries (Ingmar Bergman | 1957) 2. I vitelloni (Federico Fellini | 1953) 1. Henry V (Laurence Olivier | 1944) Only Kubrick could really have a list of favorites like this, and it's fitting Criterion is where this kind of list ended up. For those wondering about a few others not mentioned in there that need to be, they include this additional selection. "Cited films that aren't in the collection: Eraserhead, Citizen Kane, The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, The Godfather, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Dog Day Afternoon, City Lights, La Notte, Roxie Hart, Hell's Angels, An American Werewolf in London, Metropolis, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Abigail's Party, Roger & Me and oddly enough White Men Can't Jump , Modern Romance and The Jerk ." Even though I know we're a bit late to the game with this list, I'm glad to feature it anyway. I've been in the mood to watch a lot of great films recently, and I've been looking for some good suggestions. This right here is an excellent list to start with, even if I might have trouble finding copies of a few of them. For those still wondering where exactly this came from (since Kubrick passed away in 1999), Warren explains on Criterion that "I've compiled most of the information on this list from interviews with Kubrick's family, friends and colleagues and an interview he did in 1963." For full details, see his list here . Have you seen all of these? Find more posts in: Discuss , Lists 5 Comments 1 Quick correction: Criterion itself didn't create this list- someone on the community did. Alex on Feb 13, 2013 2 Whoa whoops, sorry for the confusion, my mistake. Just made a few edits and updates. Still a worthy list to feature! Alex Billington on Feb 13, 2013 3 Why do you address the comedies as "oddly enough"......another example of why critics suck cock and don't have a sense of humor Obamas_Jedi_Mind_Meld on Feb 13, 2013 4 This list is very interesting alright. Have to see Blood Wedding now! Let me add that I just saw a new documentary about Paths of Glory that really was impressive. It's seeking distribution and doing test screenings at public libraries which is how I saw it. If you google Anatomy of a Film you can get to it's website. Stan Shifter on Feb 13, 2013 5 Great movies! Davide Coppola on Feb 14, 2013 New comments are no longer allowed on this post. prev next FEATURED POSTS VIEW MORE FOLLOW FS HERE OUR RSS Subscribe to our feed or daily newsletter : Add our RSS to your Feedly +click here+ Latest posts now available on Bluesky : ◊— Follow @firstshowing.bsky.social —◊ Get the latest posts sent on Telegram Your Privacy Manager LATEST TO WATCH VIEW MORE ▶ Mesmerizing Teaser for 'Lost in Starlight' Sci-Fi Romance Anime Movie ( Apr 29 ) ▶ Disturbing Horror Thriller 'The Other' Trailer About a Mute Foster Girl ( Apr 29 ) ▶ Nicole Kidman Returns in 'Nine Perfect Strangers' - Season 2 Trailer ( Apr 29 ) ▶ First Trailer for 'Now You See Me: Now You Don't' Magic Heist Sequel ( Apr 29 ) ▶ Netflix's 'Fear Street: Prom Queen' Slasher Horror Sequel Full Trailer ( Apr 29 ) Want emails instead? Subscribe to our daily newsletter updates: © 2006-2025 First Showing® LLC. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | Copyright Policy | Data Policy ➚ | Members ➚