Salmon Run - Inkipedia, the Splatoon wiki Anonymous Not logged in Create account Log in Search Salmon Run From Inkipedia, the Splatoon wiki Namespaces Page Discussion More More Languages Page actions Read View source History Purge cache Salmon Run​ Salmon Run Type Online multiplayer Local multiplayer Players 1-4 Ranked Weapons Controllers Joy-Con, Nintendo Switch Pro Controller Release Date Launch For this mode's iteration in Splatoon 3 , see Salmon Run Next Wave . Salmon Run is a co-op multiplayer mode available in Splatoon 2 for up to four players. It can be played via local multiplayer (local wireless or LAN) at the Shoal , or online at Grizzco Industries during certain time slots. The online version requires the player to be at least Level 4 to be able to play. According to producer Hisashi Nogami , Salmon Run was created to take advantage of the portability of the Nintendo Switch console, and to provide smaller groups of players with an engaging local multiplayer experience, given the relatively large number of players (eight) required for other game modes. [1] In Splatoon 3 , Salmon Run is succeeded by Salmon Run Next Wave . Contents 1 Description 2 Rotations 2.1 Loaned weapons 2.2 Stages 3 Wildcard rotation 3.1 Standard wildcard rotation 3.2 Rare weapon wildcard rotation 3.3 Rare weapons 4 Events 5 Job title 6 Rewards 6.1 Gear 7 Local mode 8 Music 9 Gallery 9.1 Artwork 9.2 In-game 10 Trivia 11 Names in other languages 11.1 Salmon Run rank names 11.2 Translation notes 12 See also 13 References Description Each Salmon Run consists of three waves; to complete waves, players must collect Power Eggs and Golden Eggs by defeating Salmonids and depositing them at the egg basket . Each Boss Salmonid splatted yields three Golden Eggs; if they are not picked up, a Snatcher appears after a few seconds to retrieve them. Each player can carry only one Golden Egg at a time. Each wave has a quota , which varies depending on the number of players present and its ranks . If the quota is not filled before the wave timer ends or if all players are splatted, they fail the run. Completing a run increases the player's pay grade, which also determines the difficulty of runs. If they fail, players are still paid for the Golden Eggs they collected, but their pay grade may be reduced. The highest possible quota for three waves is 21 - 23 - 25 when the difficulty is at its highest. This happens when the squad's average rank is Profreshional 600 or above. A message appears on-screen at the start of such a shift stating " Hazard Level MAX!! ". Inklings and Octolings in this mode are equipped with special gear that allows them to be revived if they are splatted. When splatted, a lifesaver appears at their last position after a few seconds. By inking it, a teammate can revive them and they come back with a short period of invulnerability. If they collected a Golden Egg before being splatted, it is not lost. Additionally, if they did not have a Golden Egg before being splatted, they may pick one up while in a lifesaver. However, eggs cannot be deposited in the egg basket until they are revived. Each player wears an uniform consisting of a green cap , orange overalls, green gloves, and green boots during the entirety of this mode's gameplay, regardless of the gear the player wore prior to entering this mode. Also, no gear abilities apply during this mode's gameplay. Each player is provided a different main weapon for each wave, and two uses of one type of special weapon , which last for three waves. These include the Inkjet , Sting Ray , Splashdown , and Splat-Bomb Launcher . The sub weapon provided will always be the Splat Bomb . There are also various special waves called Known Occurrences , such as Fog and Rush . [2] In Salmon Run, Inklings' and Octolings' ink level and special weapon uses are displayed visually. The lifesaver on their back acts as their ink tank , which depletes clockwise from top. Their special weapon stock appears as two silver packets strapped to their hat, which disappear as special weapons are used. When one of the squad is down, or when there are fewer than four active players, the box surrounding the squid or octopus icons glows orange to alert this. When the time reaches thirty seconds remaining, it starts to appear yellow and if the quota is not yet met, the box surrounding the timer and quota glow orange as a warning. During the last ten seconds, a separate countdown appears in the middle of the screen as an overlay, with the color of the numbers being orange if the quota is not met or green if it is met. Rotations Salmon Run is not always playable online, as the Grizzco Industries building can sometimes be closed. It opens in an irregular pattern but can be expected to be available every other day. Each Salmon Run rotation features one random stage and four random weapons to be assigned to players. The stages menu shows the opening times of the next five Salmon Run rotations, with the stages and weapons shown for the next two. Due to the rotations being laid out in advance, newly-added stages and weapons may not appear for some time. Loaned weapons All main weapons aside from variants can appear in a Salmon Run rotation. Each player is randomly assigned one of four special weapons : the Splashdown , Sting Ray , Inkjet , or Bomb Launcher . Despite there being multiple main weapons and special weapons that players can receive, the only sub weapon a player can use while in Salmon Run is the Splat Bomb . Main weapons and some special weapons loaned to players have different stats than their standard multiplayer counterparts. For these stats, see Salmon Run data . Stages There are five stages available for Salmon Run in Splatoon 2 : Image Name Description Release date Spawning Grounds Spawning Grounds features a wide variety of terrain on each corner of the map. A multilayered slope leading to three small piers is located just behind the basket. To the right is a grated walkway overlooking the lower grounds. To the left, slopes go down to small sandbar. During low tide, the sandbar expands exponentially, revealing three protruding landmasses. Initial Release Marooner's Bay Marooner's Bay features a large ship marooned on a sandbar. Its stern has three ramps down onto the beach where there are three piers on the starboard side. During low tide, a sandbar rises behind the ship, revealing a large ring of land and one smaller protrusion. This stage contains propellers which Inklings and Octolings can use to power lifts that rise from the ground. Initial Release Lost Outpost Lost Outpost features a walled-off building surrounded by various docks. Directly in front of the building lies a mostly netted area. To the right is an uneven slope down to the water. To the left are three varying docks. During low tide, another dock behind the building reveals itself, consisting of various walkways and grated paths. 23 August 2017 Salmonid Smokeyard Salmonid Smokeyard is a small island with two lone structures. Ramps on each structure lead down to the sandbar while propeller platforms connect the two structures. During low tide, a large dock reveals itself to the side of the island. 24 November 2017 Ruins of Ark Polaris Ruins of Ark Polaris is the wreckage of what appears to be a space shuttle. The area possesses a large amount of verticality with ramps circling the entire island. The egg basket is located at the highest point of the map. There are many ride rails scattered throughout the map which Inklings and Octolings can use to quickly travel around the map. 7 November 2018 Wildcard rotation Standard wildcard rotation An all-random wildcard rotation as it appears in the schedule. There are two types of standard wildcard rotation: all-random wildcard rotations (displayed as in the Salmon Run schedule) and partial wildcard rotations (displayed as three standard weapons and one in the schedule). Players assigned the wildcard weapon slot ( ) at the start of a wave receive a random weapon, which is not revealed until loaned; this wildcard weapon slot has a chance to loan players the one rare weapon that is assigned to appear in the specific rotation. In all-random wildcard rotations, work crews are loaned exclusively random weapons. In partial wildcard rotations, three weapons are preset, similar to non-wildcard rotations, while the last weapon is random. Wildcard rotations typically take place twice per month. In all-random wildcard rotations, there are no limits to how many players may be loaned the same weapon in a wave, and it is possible for players to receive the same weapon multiple times in the same shift. This phenomenon extends to rare weapons as well as repeats of the preset weapons in partial wildcard rotations. As of version 4.0.0 , a song called Frantic Aspic by ω-3 plays in place of Deluge Dirge during these rotations. For a history of wildcard rotations, see Salmon Run data . Rare weapon wildcard rotation Every few months, a wildcard rotation has golden question marks instead of the normal green ones. This signifies that the supplied weapons are all rare, but still randomly loaned. Each player is equally likely to receive any of the four rare weapons. The first such rotation took place on 14 July 2018 and was announced in a Tweet citing a message from Mr. Grizz saying he could not get the standard weapons ready on time, so the shift would take place using only his personal belongings. [3] Like other random rotations, Frantic Aspic replaces Deluge Dirge during normal waves. Rare weapons Main article: Rare weapon During wildcard rotations, weapons belonging to Mr. Grizz are accidentally added to the random weapons mix. [4] [5] These rare weapons are very powerful, illegitimately modified [6] versions of normal weapons that cannot be accessed in other modes, including playing Salmon Run at The Shoal . Events Main article: Known Occurrence There are seven different events in Salmon Run, with some having variants. Water Levels (high and low tides) Rush Fog Goldie Seeking Griller Cohock Charge Mothership Job title There are six possible titles in Salmon Run, with Profreshional having four additional ranks depending on the player's point range, introduced in version 2.3.0 . The title's point range goes up by twenty points when a player makes the quota for all three waves, regardless of how much work players did. If players fail, the number of points lost is calculated with the formula 30-10 w , where w is the number of the wave failed. In the event of a disconnected teammate or a player did insignificant work (for example, if the total Golden Eggs is 48 and two players collected 23 and 19 eggs, the other two only collected 3 each), players only get half the punishment. Also, if the player got the best statistics in the crew, regardless of how the others did, instead of having their point range go down, it will show the message "rank retained". As the point range increases, players are awarded titles. Titles are retained across Salmon Run rotations, but the point ranges are reset to the 40-point mark within the player's current title across Apprentice to Profreshional (0 - 99). If the player meets Profreshional 100, they have their rank reset to the previous checkpoint of 100 points up to 400. As of version 4.0.0 , players who are Profreshional 100 or above have the option to reset their rank to Profreshional 40, which is done by entering Grizzco and pressing . The Pay Grade increases by 5% after every twenty-point increase, up to Profreshional 980 - 999. Title / Rank Pay Grade Hazard level range Title / Rank Pay Grade Hazard level range Intern (2 tutorials) 90% N/A Profreshional 300 (300 - 399) 265% - 285% 130.0% - 139.8% Apprentice (0 - 99) 90% - 110% 0.0% - 19.8% Profreshional 400 (400 - 499) 290% - 310% 140.0% - 149.8% Part-Timer (0 - 99) 115% - 135% 20.0% - 39.8% Profreshional 400 (500 - 599) 315% - 335% 150.0% - 159.8% Go-Getter (0 - 99) 140% - 160% 40.0% - 59.8% Profreshional 400 (600 - 699) 340% - 360% 160.0% - 169.8% Overachiever (0 - 99) 165% - 185% 60.0% - 79.8% Profreshional 400 (700 - 799) 365% - 385% 170.0% - 179.8% Profreshional (0 - 99) 190% - 210% 80.0% - 99.8% Profreshional 400 (800 - 899) 390% - 410% 180.0% - 189.8% Profreshional 100 (100 - 199) 215% - 235% 100.0% - 119.8% Profreshional 400 (900 - 999) 415% - 435% 190.0& - 200% Profreshional 200 (200 - 299) 240% - 260% 120.0% - 129.8% Rewards On the result screen that displays the performance of each player, there are four numbers. The top left number is the quantity of Golden Eggs delivered to the basket by the player, the bottom left number is the quantity of Power Eggs collected, the top right number is how many times the player revived another player, and the bottom right number is how many times the player had to be revived. Completion of a round of Salmon Run grants players Grizzco Points, which they can redeem for bonus prizes at the window outside Grizzco . The reward amount is based on the number of Golden Eggs and Power Eggs collected and the player's current pay grade. The points earned after any run is calculated with the formula (G/100)(E+P/200), where G is the pay grade number after any raises or penalties, E is the number of Golden Eggs collected, and P is the number of Power Eggs collected. All counts are rounded to the nearest integer. Every 100 Grizzco Points (200 after reaching 1200 points in a rotation) earns the player one bonus " capsule ", which comes in different colors representing the type of the contents, or a piece of gear . The gear is selected from a list of items available only through Salmon Run and was initially rotated every calendar month. The main ability of this item is randomly determined when the bonus is redeemed. It usually has three blank slots for secondary gear abilities, but there is a random chance that the secondary gear ability slots may come already filled. The pink capsule can contain any Grizzco gear that has been released. If the player receives gear they already have, they can either replace the old gear with the new version or receive cash (if the new gear has no slots filled) or ability chunks (equal to the filled slots) instead. The most unclaimed bonuses a player can have at a time is 99; once the limit has been reached, any new bonuses are lost. Bonus capsules can contain cash, meal or drink Crust Bucket Tickets , ability chunks, or Grizzco gear. As of version 3.2.0 of Splatoon 2 , after exiting Grizzco Industries players will spawn just outside rather than returning to the center of Inkopolis Square , making it faster to claim their bonuses from the window. The question mark capsule seen in local multiplayer. Reward Type Percent chance to obtain 50% 40% 10% Blue capsule Drink ticket 4,000 One drink ticket Three drink tickets Green capsule Ability chunks 4,000 Two ability chunks Four ability chunks Orange capsule Food ticket 4,000 One 1.5× or 2× ticket One 2.5× ticket Pink capsule Gear No ability slots filled One filled ability  slot Three filled ability slots Showcased gear Yellow capsule Cash 4,000 16,000 32,000 Normal, non-superbonus capsules have a 50% chance of providing a poor reward, a 40% chance of providing a good reward, and a 10% chance of providing an excellent reward. At 600 and 1200 points, the player earns a superbonus, which always contains the 10% chance reward. The type of superbonus capsule is fixed for the length of a rotation. After 1200 points, the player only earns gear, alternating between the current gear and previous gear until the rotation ends. The capsules of the rewards until the second superbonus are different for every player. Gear Gear by Grizzco Industries is obtained from Salmon Run bonus rewards. The main ability for each gear reward is randomly selected from all abilities that can also appear as secondary abilities. During the first two years of events, a new piece of gear arrived on the first of every month. Gear Type Brand Availability Ability Star power Release date Squiddor Polo Clothing Grizzco Salmon Run Random Initial Release Headlamp Helmet Headgear Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 August 2017 Anchor Life Vest Clothing Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 September 2017 Juice Parka Clothing Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 October 2017 Dust Blocker 2000 Headgear Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 November 2017 Angry Rain Boots Shoes Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 December 2017 Garden Gear Clothing Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 January 2018 Welding Mask Headgear Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 February 2018 Crustwear XXL Clothing Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 March 2018 Oceanic Hard Hat Headgear Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 April 2018 Non-slip Senseis Shoes Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 May 2018 Cap of Legend Headgear Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 June 2018 Record Shop Look EP Clothing Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 July 2018 Octoleet Goggles Headgear Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 August 2018 Flipper Floppers Shoes Grizzco Salmon Run Random 14 September 2018 Dev Uniform Clothing Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 October 2018 Worker's Head Towel Headgear Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 November 2018 North-Country Parka Clothing Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 December 2018 Wooden Sandals Shoes Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 January 2019 Beekeeper Hat Headgear Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 February 2019 Office Attire Clothing Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 March 2019 Sailor Cap Headgear Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 April 2019 SRL Coat Clothing Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 May 2019 Friendship Bracelet Shoes Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 June 2019 Worker's Cap Headgear Grizzco Salmon Run Random 1 July 2019 Starting from 1 August 2019 , the featured gear is different each shift, cycling through each item in order of its original release. Local mode There is an option to play and host a Salmon Run locally at The Shoal , requiring other players having a separate console and copy of Splatoon 2 to participate. Local play is independent of the online Salmon Run rotation, thereby being available at all times. The host of a local Salmon Run can select which maps are played and set the hazard levels (not to be confused with the Pay Grade), which range from 5 - 200% as of version 4.0.0 . Versions before this one had a range of 5 - 100% at the start of a play session, where the players have to clear a match set at the highest hazard level to be able to gain the option to increase the difficulty by 10%, with 200% being the max limit. A hazard level of 100% is the equivalent to Profreshional 100, having a Pay Grade of 215%, meanwhile, a hazard level of 120% equals to Profreshional 200 with a Pay Grade of 240%. Matches played in the local mode do not affect the rankings and battle records of the online version. The following is a table of the different hazard levels' corresponding job title: Title Hazard level Apprentice 5% - 15% Part-Timer 20% - 35% Go-Getter 40% - 55% Overachiever 60% - 75% Profreshional 80% - 200% When playing locally, Mr. Grizz has a darkened icon and is known as "Raspy Voice" while he comments as usual. At the end of the result screen, there is no dialogue present, unlike the online version of Salmon Run. Players can choose the weapon that they play with during a match, with a selection screen being similar to the Equip screen. There is also an option to choose a random weapon. The weapons that are available to use are not tied to the weapons that are purchased in Ammo Knights , having a separate weapon selection. The following is a list of all available weapons in local Salmon Run. Version Weapons available Amount 1.1.1 Splattershot Jr. Splattershot Jet Squelcher Blaster Splat Roller Octobrush Splat Charger Slosher Heavy Splatling Splat Dualies Ten initial weapons 1.2.0 Splash-o-matic Aerospray MG .52 Gal N-ZAP '85 Splattershot Pro .96 Gal Luna Blaster Clash Blaster Rapid Blaster L-3 Nozzlenose H-3 Nozzlenose Carbon Roller Dynamo Roller Flingza Roller Splatterscope E-liter 4K E-liter 4K Scope Goo Tuber Tri-Slosher Mini Splatling Dapple Dualies 21 additional weapons 2.0.0 Sploosh-o-matic Range Blaster Rapid Blaster Pro Inkbrush Classic Squiffer Bamboozler 14 Mk I Sloshing Machine Dualie Squelchers Splat Brella Tenta Brella Ten additional weapons 3.0.0 Squeezer Glooga Dualies Dark Tetra Dualies Hydra Splatling Undercover Brella Five additional weapons 3.2.0 Ballpoint Splatling Explosher Two additional weapons 4.0.0 Bloblobber Nautilus 47 Two additional weapons Music Fictional band Song name Audio sample Grizzco Industries Happy Little Workers Happy Little Workers Salmon Run Opening Salmon Run Opening ω-3 Surge & Submerge Surge & Submerge Deluge Dirge Deluge Dirge Downbeat version: Deluge Dirge (downbeat) Fishing Frenzy Fishing Frenzy Downbeat version: Fishing Frenzy (downbeat) Frantic Aspic Frantic Aspic Downbeat version: Frantic Aspic (downbeat) Grizzco Industries You Got Them! (Salmon Run) You Got Them! (Salmon Run) They Got You! (Salmon Run) They Got You! (Salmon Run) Ever Further Ever Further Gallery Artwork 2D art of an Inkling girl in Salmon Run gear 2D art of a work crew 2D art of an Inkling boy in Salmon Run gear for The Art of Splatoon 2 2D website art for the Salmon Run mode in Splatoon 2 3D art of an Inkling girl wearing the uniform Polaroid-style render 3D art of a work crew 3D art of the egg basket 3D art of a lifesaver Concept illustration of Salmon Run Concept illustration of an Inkling in Salmon Run attire Early unused icon Promotional artwork In-game A crew of workers in Salmon Run. Workers storing the Salmonids' Golden Eggs . Another Inkling crew. Inklings wearing the Salmon Run uniform. The egg basket . A lifesaver . Mr. Grizz speaking to the workers when playing Salmon Run in The Shoal . Getting the superbonus. The weapon selection menu for Salmon Run in The Shoal. A front and back view of the uniform. An Inkling riding on a Ride rail towards the egg basket . An Inkling shooting a propeller . An Inkling running from a Steel Eel . An Inkling carrying a Golden Egg, riding a ride rail. A team of Inklings fending off some Chum . An overview of Salmonid Smokeyard . Trivia On 21 July 2018 , Splatoon 2 's first anniversary, a Salmon Run shift took place in Spawning Grounds with the Splattershot Jr. , Splat Dualies , Splat Roller , and Splat Charger . This is identical to the first ever Salmon Run rotation that took place on 21 July 2017 . The same stage and weapons were also used in a shift that took place on 24 December 2017 , for Christmas. In Splatoon 3 , the same weapons were used in the first ever Salmon Run Next Wave rotation on 8 September 2022 , which took place at Sockeye Station . This stage and weapon combination were later reused on 24 December 2023 . All rare weapons, except the Grizzco Slosher, have prescription medication containers attached to them. The intro jingle ends with what seems to be a distorted version of the main melody from Splattack! . This is not commonly heard in-game as the intro usually ends before this. Names in other languages The name of the mode is the same in all languages. Salmon Run Language Name Meaning Japanese サーモンラン Sāmon ran Salmon Run Hazard Level MAX!! Language Name Meaning Japanese キケン度MAX!! Kiken-do MAX!! Degree of Danger MAX!! [note 1] Dutch Max. risiconiveau! Maximum risk level! French (NOE) Danger MAXIMUM ! MAXIMUM danger! German Maximale Gefahr! Maximum Danger! Italian Rischio Massimo! Maximum Risk! Russian Сложнее некуда! Slozhnee nekuda! It can't be even harder! Spanish ¡Riesgo máximo! Maximum risk! Salmon Run rank names English Japanese Dutch French German Italian Russian Spanish (NTSC) Spanish (PAL) Intern けんしゅう Kenshū (Trainee) Stagiaire (Intern) Apprenti / Apprentie (Apprentice) Aushilfe (Temporary help) Ragazzo principiante (Beginner boy) / Ragazza principiante (Beginner girl) Стажер Stazher (Trainee) Becario / Becaria (Intern) Apprentice かけだし Kakedashi (Beginner) Uitzendkracht (Temporary worker) Débutant / Débutante (Beginner) Praktikant / Praktikantin (Trainee) Ragazzo apprendista (Apprentice boy) / Ragazza apprendista (Apprentice girl) Сотрудник Sotrudnik / Сотрудница Sotrudnitsa (Employee) Aprendiz (Apprentice) Part-Timer はんにんまえ Han'ninmae (Part-timer) Parttimer (Part-timer) Connaisseur / Connoisseuse (Connoisseur) Lehrling (Apprentice) Ragazzo tirocinante (Trainee boy) / Ragazza tirocinante (Trainee girl) Бригадир Brigadir (Brigadier) Subordinado / Subordinada (Subordinate) Go-Getter いちにんまえ Ichininmae (Full-timer) Vaste kracht (Permanent worker) Semi-pro (Half pro) Mitarbeiter des Monats / Mitarbeiterin des Monats (Employee of the month) Ragazzo carrierista (Careerist boy) / Ragazza carrierista (Careerist girl) Старший бригадир Starshiy brigadir (Senior Brigadier) Supervisor Capataz (Overseer) Overachiever じゅくれん Jukuren (Skilled) Leidinggevende (Supervisor) Pro Führungskraft (Executive) Ragazzo promessa (Promising boy) / Ragazza promessa (Promising girl) Зам. Начальника Zam. Nachal'nika (Deputy Chief) Gerente (Manager) Profreshional たつじん Tatsujin (Expert) Baas (Boss) Prodige (Prodigy) Boss Ragazzo professionista (Professional boy) / Ragazza professionista (Professional girl) Начальник Nachal'nik (Chief) Jefe / Jefa (Boss) Translation notes ↑ キケン is an emphasized spelling of 危険 See also Salmon Run data Salmonid Field Guide Employee Handbook References ↑ Splatoon 2 - Salmon Run Demonstration - Nintendo E3 2017 . 14 June 2017 , retrieved 31 July 2021 . ↑ Nintendo Treehouse Log - Salmon in the Summer . 14 June 2017 , retrieved 15 June 2017 . ↑ @SplatoonJP on Twitter ↑ @SplatoonJP on Twitter ↑ Live from Squid Research Lab ↑ Mr. Grizz's profile on Splatoon Base Modes in Splatoon 2 Online Regular Battle ( Turf War ) • Ranked Battle ( Splat Zones • Tower Control • Rainmaker • Clam Blitz ) • Splatfest Battle • League Battle • Private Battle ( Spectator View ) • Recon • Salmon Run Offline Octo Canyon • Octo Expansion • The Shoal ( Private Battle • Salmon Run ) • Squid Beatz 2 • amiibo • Tutorial Retrieved from " https://splatoonwiki.org/w/index.php?title=Salmon_Run&oldid=665739 " Categories : Salmon Run Modes Navigation Navigation Main page Recent changes Random page Random file Policy Help Splatoon Games Manga Merchandise Explore Abilities Brands Characters Events Gear Modes Music Stages Weapons Community How can I help? Staff Current projects Ink Pump Proposals Discord Strategy Wiki tools Wiki tools Special pages Cargo data Page tools Page tools User page tools More What links here Related changes Printable version Permanent link Page information Page logs Other projects In other languages Français Español Categories Categories Salmon Run Modes This page was last edited on 1 April 2025, at 18:52. Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 unless otherwise noted. Privacy policy About Inkipedia Disclaimers