College Football Awards 2017: Results, Winners, Highlights and Twitter Reaction Bleacher Report CFB Home Scores Teams Recruiting Highlights B/R Sports on Max 05:36 Featured Video NFL Draft Winners/Losers 📊 Oklahoma's Baker Mayfield holds the Davey O'Brien National Quarterback Award, right, and Walter Camp Player of the Year trophy during the College Football Awards show at the College Football Hall of Fame, Thursday, Dec. 7, 2017, in Atlanta. (AP Photo/John Amis) John Amis/Associated Press College Football College Football Awards 2017: Results, Winners, Highlights and Twitter Reaction Scott Polacek Jun 16, 2018 With the conference championships in the rearview mirror and bowl season and the College Football Playoff to come, Thursday was a time to reflect on the individual accomplishments of the best players the FBS has to offer. The College Football Hall of Fame in Atlanta played host to the ESPN broadcast of its annual awards show, as players such as Baker Mayfield (Maxwell Award, Davey O'Brien Award and Walter Camp Award) and Bryce Love (Doak Walker Award) captured the coveted trophies. Here is a look at the full list of winners from Thursday's broadcast, as well as reaction. TOP NEWS Top Future NFL Draft Prospects to Watch in 2025 College Football Season Bleacher Report 2d Colorado CFB Alum Says Retiring Shedeur, Hunter's Numbers Is 'Celebrating Mediocrity' Bleacher Report 1d Former 5-star Recruits with 1st-round Potential in 2026 NFL Draft Bleacher Report 3d Award Winners Maxwell Award for player of the year: Baker Mayfield, Oklahoma Davey O'Brien Award for best quarterback: Baker Mayfield, Oklahoma Walter Camp Award for player of the year: Baker Mayfield, Oklahoma Doak Walker Award for best running back: Bryce Love, Stanford Chuck Bednarik Award best defensive player: Minkah Fitzpatrick, Alabama Bronko Nagurski Trophy for best defensive player: Bradley Chubb, North Carolina State Fred Biletnikoff Award for best wide receiver: James Washington, Oklahoma State Jim Thorpe Award for best defensive back: Minkah Fitzpatrick, Alabama Home Depot Coach of the Year: Scott Frost, Central Florida Lou Groza Award for best kicker: Matt Gay, Utah Disney Spirit Award: Iowa football for the wave toward the children's hospital every game Butkus Award for best linebacker: Roquan Smith, Georgia Outland Trophy for best interior lineman: Ed Oliver, Houston John Mackey Award for best tight end: Mark Andrews, Oklahoma Rimington Trophy for best center: Billy Price, Ohio State William V. Campbell Trophy for top scholar athlete: Micah Kiser, Virginia Ray Guy Award for best punter: Michael Dickson, Texas Wuerffel Trophy for community service: Courtney Love, Kentucky Broyles Award for best assistant coach: Tony Elliott, Clemson Recap and Reaction Mayfield dominated discussion throughout the 2017 season, so it was only fitting the Oklahoma signal-caller received the first award of the broadcast. He won the Davey O'Brien Award over Ohio State's J.T. Barrett and Oklahoma State's Mason Rudolph—two quarterbacks he beat during the regular season—continuing something of a Sooners tradition, considering Sam Bradford and Jason White also won it: ESPN's broadcast wasn't just a list of award winners, as the network had fun during the intro with Barrett after he suffered an injury at Michigan when a cameraman made contact with him on the sideline: The cones helped, but Barrett could have asked for protection from his center, Billy Price, who captured the Rimington Award. It was the second straight year a Buckeye won the honor, as Minnesota Vikings center Pat Elflein took it last year. Head coach Urban Meyer reacted to the news: Barrett wasn't the only Big Ten player involved in the lighter side of the event, as Penn State running back Saquon Barkley couldn't complete the "invisible box" challenge . Former Georgia running back Herschel Walker also failed, although Brian Christopherson of 247Sports had his eye on the upcoming draft: Offensive playmakers didn't have the night to themselves, as Alabama's Minkah Fitzpatrick was honored as the best defensive player in the nation, and Central Florida's Scott Frost—who will take over the Nebraska program—won the Coach of the Year. Broadcaster Chris Fowler called Central Florida the Golden Knights instead of simply the Knights when he discussed Frost's award, which didn't go unnoticed: The evening took an emotional and inspirational turn when ESPN's Tom Rinaldi provided an inside look at the new tradition Iowa started when everyone in the crowd turns toward the nearby children's hospital and waves at the children watching from the windows: The broadcast closed with a run of marquee awards, as well as a montage of the best plays of the season and an homage to announcer Brent Musburger, who retired in January. One notable award went to Oklahoma State's James Washington as the best wide receiver, which gave viewers the opportunity to see Cowboys coach Mike Gundy's hair: Elsewhere, Love beat out Barkley and Wisconsin's Jonathan Taylor in a loaded race for the best running back, and Mayfield received additional recognition as the Walter Camp Player of the Year and Maxwell Award winner. Mayfield's night signified just how important he was to the college football narrative this year. He will now turn his attention toward the Heisman Trophy ceremony Saturday, where OddsShark listed him as a commanding 1-20 favorite. The awards are nice, but he would likely trade them all for a College Football Playoff title. 05:36 NFL Draft Winners/Losers 📊 TOP NEWS Top Future NFL Draft Prospects 👀 Bleacher Report 2d Colorado Alum Rips Jersey Retirement Bleacher Report 1d Arch Among 5‑Stars Poised for 2026 Rd 1 Bleacher Report 3d Arkansas Wants Transfer to Return $200K Bleacher Report 1d NFL Draft Night 1 Grades 🔠 Bleacher Report 18h TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 5h 2025 NFL Mock Draft: Day 2 Predictions from B/R NFL Scouting Dept. Where Shedeur and top talent remaining will land in Rounds 2 and 3 Bleacher Report • 5h NFL Draft 2025 Big Board of Best Remaining Players After Day 1 Bleacher Report • 5h Deion Sanders, Shilo React to Shedeur Sliding in 2025 NFL Draft Party Videos Bleacher Report • 17h NFL Draft 2025 Results and Live Tracking Every Pick for All Selections Bleacher Report • 17h B/R NFL Draft 2025 Big Board Live Updated Tracker During Round-by-Round Results TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 5h 2025 NFL Mock Draft: Day 2 Predictions from B/R NFL Scouting Dept. Where Shedeur and top talent remaining will land in Rounds 2 and 3 Bleacher Report • 5h NFL Draft 2025 Big Board of Best Remaining Players After Day 1 Bleacher Report • 5h Deion Sanders, Shilo React to Shedeur Sliding in 2025 NFL Draft Party Videos Bleacher Report • 17h NFL Draft 2025 Results and Live Tracking Every Pick for All Selections Bleacher Report • 17h B/R NFL Draft 2025 Big Board Live Updated Tracker During Round-by-Round Results Bleacher Report About Advertise Contact Us Get Help Careers Sitemap Community Guidelines Privacy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Terms Of Use AdChoices B/R Sports on MAX B/R Creators Program Copyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.