The Crown Season 4: Cast, Plot, Trailer & Diana's First Appearance | British Vogue Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu Menu Search Search Fashion Beauty Arts & Lifestyle Runway Shopping News Video Vogue Shop Vogue Club Met Gala Open Navigation Menu Menu TV ‘The Crown’ Season 4: Everything You Need To Know By Hayley Maitland 29 October 2020 Facebook X Pinterest Save Story Des Willie/Netflix Save this story Save Save this story Save Ahead of its long-awaited premiere, here’s everything you need to know about season four of The Crown , due out on Netflix on 15 November. Read More “I Feel I’ve Got To Know Her Like You Would A Friend”: How Emma Corrin Brought Diana, Princess Of Wales To Life For ‘The Crown’ By Giles Hattersley Who is in the cast of ‘The Crown’ Season 4? Olivia Colman as the Queen After making her royal debut as the Queen in the third series of The Crown , Olivia Colman will return as Elizabeth II . Claire Foy, who famously played the role in the first two instalments of the Netflix drama, will also make a cameo in a flashback – while Imelda Staunton will take on the role for the final two seasons. Liam Daniel/Netflix Tobias Menzies as the Duke of Edinburgh Tobias Menzies, who took over the role of Prince Philip from Matt Smith for season three, will return as the Duke of Edinburgh for season four – with Jonathan Pryce taking on the part for seasons five and six. Des Willie/Netflix Helena Bonham Carter as Princess Margaret While Vanessa Kirby played Princess Margaret from 1947 to 1964, Helena Bonham Carter appeared as the Queen’s younger sister in season three, and will reprise the part in the forthcoming series. Lesley Manville, meanwhile, will appear as Princess Margaret for the final two seasons. Des Willie/Netflix Gillian Anderson as Margaret Thatcher Among the most notable additions to the cast of The Crown for the forthcoming series: Gillian Anderson in the role of Margaret Thatcher. Famously the same age as the Queen, Britain’s first female Prime Minister had a deeply tumultuous relationship with the monarch. Des Willie/Netflix Josh O’Connor as Prince Charles Josh O’Connor will return as Prince Charles for season four – having first appeared as the future King in season three, which dedicated an episode to his investiture as the Prince of Wales. Dominic West will take on the role for seasons five and six. Read more: Lady Whistledown Formally Confirms ‘Bridgerton’ Season 2 Des Willie/Netflix Erin Doherty as Princess Anne The Princess Royal made her first appearance in season three, with Erin Doherty playing the young, wilful Anne. She returns in season four. Netflix has yet to announce who will take on the part in the final two series. Des Willie/Netflix Emma Corrin as Diana, Princess of Wales Of course, season four of The Crown will also see the introduction of Diana, Princess of Wales – played by relative newcomer Emma Corrin, who outlined her preparation for the life-changing role in British Vogue ’s October 2020 issue . Stepping into Princess Diana’s shoes for seasons five and six? Elizabeth Debicki. Des Willie/Netflix Emerald Fennell as Camilla Parker Bowles Emerald Fennell will return as Prince Charles’s love interest Camilla Parker Bowles, whose marriage at the end of season three devastated Prince Charles – but by no means brought an end to their relationship. Des Willie/Netflix Read more: Everything You Need To Know About ‘The Crown’ Season 5 Is there a trailer for ‘The Crown’ Season 4? Yes, and it’s predictably emotional, not to mention visually stunning – watch it in full below. On 29 October, Netflix dropped another trailer, this one offering a tantalising glimpse of Gillian Anderson ’s portrayal of Margaret Thatcher – and of the Iron Lady’s first audience with Her Majesty the Queen. Watch it below. Netflix also previously released a 33-second glimpse of the fourth series, including a first look at Emma Corrin as Diana, Princess of Wales. Specifically, the young royal appears with her back to the camera – stepping out of her flat on Old Brompton Road, where she lived before her engagement, into the glare of flashbulbs, and wearing her wedding dress. What is the release date for ‘The Crown’ Season 4? Season four of The Crown will be released on Netflix on 15 November. Des Willie/Netflix What time period will be covered in ‘The Crown’ Season 4? While the first and second instalments of The Crown covered 1947 to 1955 and 1956 to 1964, respectively, the third series ran from 1964 to 1977. Season four begins in 1979 and ends in 1990. Des Willie/Netflix Which major events will be the focus of ‘The Crown’ Season 4? All of the biggest political dramas of the Thatcher years will be covered, including the scaling up of IRA attacks; the Falklands War; and Britain’s tense relationship with South Africa, then still under apartheid rule. The friction between Downing Street and Buckingham Palace following Thatcher’s landslide victory in 1979 is also chronicled in minute detail – culminating in her ousting by her own Cabinet in 1990. Within The Firm, Prince Charles’s courtship of Lady Diana Spencer, their 1981 wedding, and the subsequent deterioration of their marriage is also central to the series – as is the future King’s ongoing devotion to Camilla Parker Bowles. Both the royal couple’s 1983 tour of Australia and Diana, Princess of Wales’s solo 1989 tour of New York city will be given screen time. In terms of the minor royals, Princess Margaret’s ongoing battle with her mental health is depicted, as is the decline of Princess Anne’s first marriage to Captain Mark Phillips – with both Princesses feeling overshadowed by Diana at various points in the series. Des Willie/Netflix Which filming locations were used for ‘The Crown’ Season 4? Approximately 90 filming locations were used for season four of The Crown . In addition to Buckingham Palace, seven other royal households feature in this series: Windsor Castle (filmed at Belvoir Castle and Burghley House); Kensington Palace (Harefield Grove, Brocket Hall, and Wellington College); Sandringham (Somerleyton Hall); Highgrove (Somerley House); Clarence House (High Canons); and Gatcombe Park (Wrotham Park). Read more: Golden Globes 2021 Red Carpet Des Willie/Netflix Read more: Everything You Need To Know About ‘The Crown’ Season 6 How many more seasons will there be after ‘The Crown’ Season 4? After some back and forth, series creator Peter Morgan has confirmed that there will be another two seasons of The Crown . Read More 6 Styling Tricks Emma Corrin Learnt From Princess Diana By Giles Hattersley Get The Best Of Vogue In Your Inbox. Sign Up To The Vogue Newsletter Now More from British Vogue: Arts & Lifestyle Film & Tv Queen Elizabeth II Princess Diana Olivia Cooke Emma Corrin Vogue Recommends TV Guide Elizabeth Debicki Is A Dazzling Princess Diana In The Crown Season 5 By Radhika Seth and Kerry McDermott TV Guide Kate Storms The Catwalk In The Final Trailer For The Crown Season 6 By Vogue Fashion Long Live Keira Knightley And Jamie Dornan’s Slouchy Early 2000s Couples Style By Daisy Jones Weddings The Bride Wore A Vintage Baby Blue Dress To Marry At A Moroccan Villa Steeped In Fashion Lore By Kerry McDermott Facebook Instagram X YouTube Tiktok More from Vogue Fashion Beauty Arts & Lifestyle Runway Shopping News Video Vogue Shop PhotoVogue Vogue College of Fashion Condé Nast Britain CN Traveller Glamour GQ House & Garden Johansens Tatler Vanity Fair Wired World of Interiors Privacy Policy & Cookie Statement Code of Conduct Terms & Conditions Contact Editorial Complaints Policy Careers Newsletter Subscribe © 2025 Condé Nast Select international site Britain LargeChevron Adria Arabia Australia Brasil China Czechoslovakia España France Germany Greece Hong Kong India Italia Japan Korea México Nederland Philippines Polska Portugal Scandinavia Singapore Taiwan Thailand Türkiye Ukraine United States