Assassin's Creed Valhalla Final Content Update Brings The Last Chapter, Destiny 2 Collaboration, and More Menu Home News Hardware All Hardware Intel AMD NVIDIA TSMC Gaming All Gaming Sony Microsoft Electronic Arts Epic Games Ubisoft Mobile All Mobile Apple Samsung Android iOS Finance Deals Reviews How To Wccftech News Hardware Gaming Mobile Finance Deals Reviews How To My Wccftech Gaming Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Final Content Update Brings The Last Chapter, Destiny 2 Collaboration, and More Ule Lopez • Dec 1, 2022 at 01:07pm EST Comments Comments Assassin’s Creed Valhalla has seen various content updates in the form of new weapons , new quests , and more cosmetics for players to collect as they explore. Today marks the game’s final main update, containing The Last Chapter , a Story Mode expansion, alongside other new cosmetics. Let’s break it down, but first, a new trailer for the upcoming content is available below. Related Story Assassin’s Creed Valhalla 1.7.0 Update Addresses Various Technical And Gameplay Issues The Last Chapter serves as an epilogue to the game’s main story and ties loose ends involved with Eivor’s adventures. This expansion will see you reuniting with important characters and old friends while finding new adventures in a satisfying conclusion. You’ll have to complete certain parts of the game’s campaign to access this content, though. Secondly, A cosmetic change has been added to Eivor, allowing players to engage in combat with his hood on. General gameplay has also seen two new skills added for Eivor to use; Slide Bow and MasterChef. Also, players will be able to meet Roshan, a character from Assasin’s Creed Mirage, in the upcoming Shared History quest. Finally, a new crossover can be found in Assassin’s Creed Valhalla . On December 6th, three new weapons will be added to the game; the Arc Staff (from Hunters), the Dawnblade (from Warlocks), and a sword inspired by the Exotic Rocket Launcher Gjallarhorn. In addition, players can obtain costumes themed after Lord Shaxx and Saint-14, overseers of The Crucible and Trials of Osiris, respectively. This crossover also extends to Destiny 2 itself , where players can obtain Assassin’s Creed-themed cosmetic items from Eververse (the in-game cosmetics store). This all caps off with a free weekend of Assassin’s Creed Valhalla, available to all players, which runs from December 15th, 2022, until the 19th. We’ll continue to update as more information on Assassin’s Creed Valhalla as it’s released. Assassin’s Creed Valhalla is out now on Xbox One, Xbox Series X | S, PlayStation®4, PlayStation®5, Stadia, Amazon Luna, and PC via the Ubisoft Store, the Epic Games Store, and Steam. Further Reading Ubisoft Giving Stadia Users “Free” PC Games, but Currencies and Most Saves Won’t Transfer Nathan Birch Xbox Christmas Countdown Sale Offers Deals on Elden Ring, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II Nathan Birch Assassin’s Creed Valhalla is Coming to Steam as Ubisoft Returns to Valve’s Platform Nathan Birch Assassin’s Creed Valhalla “The Last Chapter” Arrives in December, New Game+ Not Happening Nathan Birch Please enable JavaScript to view the comments. Trending Stories NVIDIA Is Reportedly Planning To Spin Off Future Operations In China, As US Export Controls Force the Company to Explore Other Options 134 Active Readers TechInsights: If The Average US Import Tariff Rate Remains Sticky At 40 Percent, The Global Semiconductor Market Will Shrink By A Third In 2026 114 Active Readers NVIDIA Is Reportedly Preparing For RTX 50 SUPER Lineup; GeForce RTX 5080 SUPER 24 GB & 5070 SUPER 18 GB Surface Online 57 Active Readers Donkey Kong Bananza Handheld Mode Resolution and Performance Officially Confirmed 55 Active Readers T-Mobile Is Increasingly Moving Toward A Self-Service Model, Fueling Concerns Over A Potential Decline In Customer Service And The Risk Of Significant Staffing Cuts 53 Active Readers Popular Discussions Chinese AI Firms Are Reportedly Dumping NVIDIA’s RTX 4090D GPUs Into The Market To Capitalize On The Rising Prices 1540 Comments NVIDIA, Broadcom, Faraday & Many ASIC Clients Are In Pursuit Of Intel’s 18A Process; Chip Sampling Shows Impressive Results 1198 Comments Gigabyte Addresses Thermal Gel Leakage in RTX 50 Series GPUs, Explains It Was Caused by Applying a “Higher Volume” of Gel 1185 Comments Intel Reportedly Places 2nm Orders For Nova Lake At TSMC; Foundry Division Likely To Be Left Out For Now 1152 Comments NVIDIA Is Reportedly Preparing For RTX 50 SUPER Lineup; GeForce RTX 5080 SUPER 24 GB & 5070 SUPER 18 GB Surface Online 750 Comments Subscribe to get an everyday digest of the latest technology news in your inbox Follow us on Twitter Facebook Youtube Topics Hardware Gaming Mobile Finance Software Security Web Sections Deals Reviews Videos How To's Analysis Exclusives Interviews Company About Advertise with Us Contact Tip Us Careers Terms of Use Privacy & Cookies Policy Ethics Statements Appeal Moderation Some posts on wccftech.com may contain affiliate links. We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC 				Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn 				advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com © 2025 WCCF TECH INC. 700 - 401 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, BC, Canada