Raiders honor Las Vegas educator who was named 2021 National Teacher of the Year Skip to main content Primary nav News Multimedia Photos Team Draft Schedule Allegiant Stadium Raiderettes Community History Promotions Fans Fit Raiders Foundation Español Connect With Us TICKETS SHOP Search Open menu button Action related nav Watch Tickets Shop My Account LIVE NFL GAMES Raiders News Transactions Press Releases Mailbag Press Coverage Longform Raiders en Español History Content Sites Media Guide Founding Partners of Allegiant Stadium Advertising Raiders honor Las Vegas educator who was named 2021 National Teacher of the Year May 13, 2021 at 03:00 PM Raiders Public Relations Copied! HENDERSON, Nev. – The Las Vegas Raiders today honored Juliana Urtubey from Kermit R. Booker Sr. Elementary School, who was recently named the 2021 National Teacher of the Year. Members of the Silver & Black including the Raiderettes visited Booker Elementary School, where they presented Ms. Urtubey with a Silver & Black-themed gift basket on behalf of the team to recognize her incredible achievement. The Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO), the organization that bestowed the honor describes Ms. Urtubey, 2020-2021 Nevada State Teacher of the Year, as "A passionate educator and advocate." First Lady Dr. Jill Biden, during her visit to Las Vegas last week, surprised Ms. Urtubey by personally congratulating a fellow educator, presenting her with flowers and a letter from President Joe Biden. According to the CCCSSO website, Ms. Urtubey sets the bar high: She is the first Latinx Nevada State Teacher of the Year since at least 1992. Ms. Urtubey holds a Bachelor of Arts in Bilingual Elementary Education and a Master's degree in special bilingual education from the University of Arizona. Ms. Urtubey is a National Board-Certified Teacher (Exceptional Needs Specialist, Early Childhood and Young Adults). Currently, she is a hybrid educator at Booker Elementary School in Las Vegas, Nevada where she serves as a co-teacher in pre-kindergarten through fifth-grade special education settings and as an instructional strategist developing school-wide Multi-Tiered System of Supports for academic, social-emotional, and behavioral interventions. Previously, she taught special education in the resource setting at Crestwood Elementary School. She is warmly known as "Ms. Earth" for her work in beautifying the school and advocating for and unifying the school community with gardens and murals. Ms. Urtubey is a National Board for Professional Teaching Standards Teacher Fellow, a Nevada Teach Plus Senior Policy Fellow, an Understood Teacher Fellow and mentor, a Nevada Department of Education Superintendent Teacher Advisory Cabinet member, a National Board Network of Accomplished Minoritized Educators founding Board member, and a learning facilitator with the Nevada National Board Professional Learning Institute. She is a recipient of the 2019 Chicanos por La Causa Esperanza Latina Teaching Award, a recipient of the 2019 Hispanic Education Association of Nevada Teacher of the Year, and a 2018 Roger's Foundation Heart of Education Winner. Photos: Raiders, Raiderettes surprise 2021 National Teacher of the Year View photos of the Raiders and Raiderettes surprising the 2021 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, with a Silver & Black-themed gift basket to recognize her incredible achievement. 1 / 14 Raiderettes Camryn and Monica D. await to surprise and congratulate the National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 2 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, before being surprised by the Raiderettes with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 3 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, before being surprised by the Raiderettes with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 4 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, is surprised and congratulated by Raiderettes Camryn and Monica D. with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 5 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, puts on a Las Vegas Raiders mask after being surprised by the Raiderettes with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 6 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, puts on a Las Vegas Raiders hat and mask after being surprised by the Raiderettes with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 7 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, poses for a photo with Raiderettes Camryn and Monica D. after being surprised and congratulated with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 8 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, talks with Raiderettes Camryn and Monica D. after being surprised and congratulated with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 9 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, waves to her students after being surprised and congratulated by Raiderette Camryn and Monica D. with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 10 / 14 Raiderette Monica D. waves to a student after surprising and congratulating National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 11 / 14 Raiderette Camryn talks with a student after surprising and congratulating National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 12 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, poses for a photo with Raiderettes Camryn and Monica D. fter being surprised and congratulated with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 13 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, is surprised and congratulated by Raiderettes Camryn and Monica D. with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 14 / 14 Kermit R. Booker Sr. Elementary School principal Jose Silva wears a Las Vegas Raiders hat and mask after National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, is surprised by the Raiderettes with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders Advertising This Ad will close in 3 Related Content news Las Vegas Raiders join the celebration to promote Nevada Reading Week The Raiders teamed up with Communities in Schools of Southern Nevada and Robert Taylor Elementary School in support of Nevada Reading Week, a statewide initiative to celebrate literacy and promote the love of reading across all ages. news Raiders' 38 sacks help fuel Credit One Bank donation to the Maxx Crosby Foundation and the YMCA of Southern Nevada As part of the "One For The Community" program, Credit One Bank pledged to donate $2,000 for each sack recorded by the Raiders during the 2024 season. news Las Vegas Raiders reinforce Commitment to Excellence with 2024 Impact Playbook The second edition of the Playbook details a year lookback of impactful community partnerships, innovative sustainability efforts, and a steadfast commitment to fostering diversity, equity, and inclusion both on and off the field. news The Las Vegas Raiders joined Nellis Air Force Base to help spread holiday cheer The Raiders dedicated their support to military personnel and their loved ones at NAFB by providing 500 trees and winter essentials to the community. news Las Vegas Raiders host their 3rd annual Youth Holiday Party at Allegiant Stadium Celebrating the festive season, over 200 students and chaperones from Dean Petersen RISE Academy enjoyed a special day of holiday fun. news Las Vegas Raiders host 2nd annual holiday meal packing event with United Way of Southern Nevada and Smith's Food and Drug Store The organization and foundation donated more than $150,000 towards supplies and food to support food insecure families in Southern Nevada. news Jack Jones provides Thanksgiving meal kits to 200 Las Vegas families The Raiders cornerback partnered with local nonprofit Casa de Luz to give back this holiday season. news Robert Spillane nominated for NFL's Salute to Service Award The annual Salute to Service Award presented by USAA recognizes players, coaches, staff and alumni for their efforts in supporting military and veteran communities. news Enchant Christmas, Las Vegas Raiders host 'Silver & Black, Giving Back' on Dec. 3rd An evening of support celebrating the community, the holidays and our hometown football team. news Pediatric cancer warriors get experience of a lifetime thanks to Intermountain Health and the Las Vegas Raiders The Las Vegas Raiders and Intermountain Health honored three young cancer survivors with an unforgettable experience in front of the crowd at Allegiant Stadium. news 'It's like a family reunion': Over 250 former players gather for Raiders' annual Alumni Reunion Raiders Alumni convened in Las Vegas this past weekend to take in the final preseason game from the Wynn Field Club in Allegiant Stadium. news Raider Nation brings the noise at first open public practice in Allegiant Stadium Fans were treated to an up-close and in-person glimpse of the 2024 squad and showed their excitement for the upcoming season from the moment the team took the field. Latest Content news Column: Raider Nation's excitement for Jeanty is palpable Apr 25, 2025 Paul Gutierrez shares his thoughts on the Raiders selecting Ashton Jeanty with the No. 6 pick. news Takeaways from John Spytek and Pete Carroll's Draft Day 1 press conference Apr 24, 2025 The GM and head coach discussed Round 1 of 2025 NFL Draft, the process that led to selecting Ashton Jeanty and more. video John Spytek and Pete Carroll recap Day 1 of 2025 draft: '[Ashton Jeanty is] the perfect player for us' Apr 24, 2025 General Manager John Spytek and Head Coach Pete Carroll address the media to recap Round 1 of the 2025 NFL Draft. audio John Spytek and Pete Carroll Presser - Day 1 Recap | 2025 NFL Draft | RPP Apr 24, 2025 General Manager John Spytek and Head Coach Pete Carroll address the media following Round 1 of the 2025 NFL Draft. news Draft Day 1 Recap: Big trades in the top 5, Raiders get Jeanty Apr 24, 2025 Day 1 of the 2025 NFL Draft is in the books - and what a day it was. news 'I'm going to show everybody why the position is valuable': Raiders make Ashton Jeanty first running back selected in 2025 Draft Apr 24, 2025 Jeanty envisions himself to be "a foundational piece" for Raiders after leading the nation in rushing yards with Boise State. gallery Photos: Raiders' 2025 draft room Apr 24, 2025 Head inside Las Vegas Raiders Headquarters to get an exclusive look inside of the 2025 NFL Draft room. audio Ashton Jeanty's Conference Call - Round 1 Selection | 2025 NFL Draft | RPP Apr 24, 2025 Running back Ashton Jeanty addresses the media after being selected 6th overall by the Las Vegas Raiders in the 2025 NFL Draft. video Ashton Jeanty: 'Grateful for the opportunity' Apr 24, 2025 Running back Ashton Jeanty addresses the media. video John Spytek on selecting Ashton Jeanty at No. 6 in the 2025 NFL Draft Apr 24, 2025 General Manager John Spytek on selecting Ashton Jeanty in the first round of the 2025 NFL Draft. video Ashton Jeanty es elegido por los Raiders | Reporte Raiders Apr 24, 2025 El productivo corredor de la Universidad de Boise State Ashton Jeanty fue tomado por Las Vegas con el sexto pick del draft 2025 de la NFL, una suma importante y de alto nivel para la ofensiva negro y plata. news Player Profile: Get to know Raiders running back Ashton Jeanty Apr 24, 2025 The Raiders added a dynamic running back with the sixth overall pick. View All Advertising Club Links Club Links About The Raiders Career Opportunities Administration Accessibility Contact Us Privacy Policy Site Map TEAM Roster Depth Chart Coaches Statistics Transactions Standings History Draft TICKETS PSL Holders Premium Seating Seating and Pricing Map My Account STADIUM Allegiant Stadium Events & Tickets Plan Your Visit Allegiant Stadium Suites Host An Event Code of Conduct Tours MULTIMEDIA Raiders Podcast Network Game Radio Broadcast Info Raider Nation Radio 920AM TV Network Spanish Radio Gameday Magazines Media Guide FANS Connect With Us Email Newsletter Modelo Tailgate Zone Wallpapers Activities The Raider Image Store Promotions NFL Clubs NFL Clubs AFC North AFC East AFC South AFC West NFC North NFC East NFC South NFC West More NFL Sites More NFL Sites NFL Football Operations NFL Shop NFL On Location Pro Football Hall of Fame Licensing USA Football NFL Extra Points NFL Ticket Exchange Download apps Download Apps ©2025 by the Las Vegas Raiders. All rights reserved. No portion of this site may be reproduced without the express written permission of the Las Vegas Raiders. Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Accessibility Ad Choices Your Privacy Choices Cookie Settings Preference Center Big left arrow icon Big right arrow icon Close icon Copy Url Three dots icon Down arrow icon Email icon Email icon Exit Fullscreen icon External link icon Facebook logo Football icon Facebook logo Instagram logo Snapchat logo YouTube logo TikTok logo Spotify logo LinkedIn logo Grid icon Key icon Left arrow icon Link icon Location icon Mail icon Menu icon Open icon Phone icon Play icon Radio icon Rewind icon Right arrow icon Search icon Select icon Selected icon TV icon Up arrow icon User icon Audio icon Add to calendar icon NFC icon AFC icon NFL icon Carousel Icon List View Website Instagram Twitter Facebook Snapchat Shop Icon Profile Overlay Avatar Add Airplay Arrow Left Arrow Right Arrow Up Arrow Down Audio Back 5s Back 10s Back 30s Calendar Chart Check Down Left Right Up Chromecast Off Chromecast On Close Closed Captions Bench Off Bench On Broad Off Broad On Vertical Off Vertical On Comment Dock Done Download Draft Fantasy Filter Forward 5s Forward 10s Forward 30s Full Screen Off Full Screen On Gamepass Games Insights Key Leave Live Combine Draft Fantasy Menu Games Menu Network Menu News Menu Playoffs Menu Pro Bowl Menu Shop Menu Standings Menu Stats Menu Super Bowl Menu Teams Menu Tickets Menu More Horizontal More Vertical My Location Network News Pause play Multiple Players Single Player Playlist Playoffs Pro Bowl Purge Refresh Remove Search Settings Share Android Share Copy URL Share Email Share Facebook Share Instagram Share iOS Share Snapchat Share Twitter Skip Next Skip Previous Standings Star Stats Swap Teams Tickets Video Visibility Off Visibility On Volume Hi Volume Low Volume Medium Volume Mute Warning Website Caret down Caret up At News Play Audio Gallery Promo Chevron right The browser you are using is no longer supported on this site. It is highly recommended that you use the latest versions of a supported browser in order to receive an optimal viewing experience. The following browsers are supported: Chrome, Edge (v80 and later), Firefox and Safari. Got it!