World Cup 2010: Spain's David Villa rallies behind Fernando Torres | Fernando Torres | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us Football Live scores Tables Fixtures Results Competitions Clubs Spain's David Villa (right) and Fernando Torres  celebrate in South Africa, although Torres has yet to score at the World Cup. Photograph: Gerry Penny/EPA Spain's David Villa (right) and Fernando Torres  celebrate in South Africa, although Torres has yet to score at the World Cup. Photograph: Gerry Penny/EPA Fernando Torres This article is more than 14 years old World Cup 2010: Spain's David Villa rallies behind Fernando Torres This article is more than 14 years old 'His desire to be with the team has been spectacular' Coach Vicente del Bosque also recognises Villa's contribution Press Association Wed 30 Jun 2010 08.45 EDT Share Spain's goal hero David Villa has rallied behind Fernando Torres after his strike partner turned in another disappointing World Cup performance during the European champions' 1-0 win over Portugal yesterday. Torres has looked well short of his best after returning from knee surgery days before the tournament and Spain's passage into the last eight, where they will face Paraguay, was only secured after he was replaced in the second half by Basque striker Fernando Llorente. Llorente succeeded in sowing chaos among the Portugal defence where Torres had failed and was involved in the move that led to Villa scoring the decisive second-half goal. "We know what state his knee was in a month ago and I don't agree with those who say that Fernando Torres's performances have been below par," Villa said. "The only blame you can pin on him in the opening stages [of the World Cup] is that he hasn't scored," he added. "His desire to be with the team has been spectacular." Coach Vicente del Bosque has kept faith with Torres, deploying him in attack with Villa from the start in Spain's last three matches in South Africa after bringing him on as a substitute against Switzerland in their opening Group H game. The Liverpool striker has yet to repay that faith with a goal and Llorente's impressive contribution on Tuesday could prompt Del Bosque to reconsider his tactics. Del Bosque told a news conference after the Portugal match that he had withdrawn Torres because the striker was tired. "More than a tactical change, it was about bringing on a player who was fresh," he said. "Llorente brought that physical vitality to the team." The coach also had warm praise for Villa, who netted his fourth goal of the tournament and is now just two short of Raúl's national scoring record of 44. "Apart from the goal he scored, you have to recognise the enormous amount of work he did for the team," Del Bosque said. "He is used to playing up front but today he helped out in defence in a way that left me feeling very pleased." Spain play their quarter-final against Paraguay at Johannesburg's Ellis Park Stadium on Saturday and the winners will take on Argentina or Germany for a place in the final. Explore more on these topics Fernando Torres Spain World Cup 2010 David Villa World Cup news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Football Live scores Tables Fixtures Results Competitions Clubs News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)