Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/truezelda A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to truezelda r/truezelda r/truezelda The goal of this community is to provide a place for informative and interesting Zelda related content and discussions without all the extra fluff (images, video, fan art) from /r/Zelda. It's where any kind of self-post that helps generate more in-depth discussion goes. Discuss gameplay, story, tips, post the latest news, and anything else related to Zelda!  THIS IS NOT a subreddit to state that older zelda games were the "TRUE" form of Zelda games. Read more below. Members Online • TSPhoenix Breath of the Wild outsold Tears of the Kingdom over the holidays. News edit: Title is misleading, I used two quarters rather than just the holiday quarter. I think everything else is accurate. If you look at Nintendo's Q1 report ( thread ) Tears had already sold 18.51 million units and moved 15.7m units in the first 8 weeks (pg12) and ~10m in the first three days. Breath of the Wild at this juncture was sitting at 29.81m. Also according to that report: The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, which was released on May 12, has made a major contribution to Q1 sales in the current environment, in which we see widespread adoption of Nintendo Switch hardware and continued play engagement by many consumers. Sell-through of this one title constitutes approximately half of the first-party software sold this fiscal year. Consumers who played the previous entry, The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, have been the primary driver, but as the weeks have passed, we have seen that a growing percentage of purchases are being made by consumers who have not yet played that title. In their latest report : The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild – 31.61 million The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom – 20.28 million From this we can see that over the holidays over the last two quarters: The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild – 1.8 million The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom – 1.77 million While a good chunk of this I think can be attributed to the Switch hardware being down 34% this year and 22% the year before, I think the Zelda numbers are interesting as typically Nintendo do ~2/3s of their business over the holidays so to see TotK, their biggest title for 2023 have such a muted holiday season and be marginally outsold by it's 7-year old predecessor is interesting, I wonder how much of that comes down to the $10 price hike. Overall seems like TotK is a game that people wanted to ASAP or not at all, and wasn't on many Christmas lists. Part of me wonders if this is indicative of the demographic buying TotK skewing towards having more autonomy to buy the game in the launch window (ie. older). What does everyone else make of this? Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 7, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics