The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, Rearranged Album [Audio CD] Soundtrack | eBay Skip to main content Hi ! Hi! Sign in or register Daily Deals Brand Outlet Gift Cards Help & Contact Sell Watchlist Expand Watch List My eBay Expand My eBay Summary Recently Viewed Bids/Offers Watchlist Purchase History Buy Again Selling Saved Feed Saved Searches Saved Sellers My Garage Sizes My Collection Messages PSA Vault Expand Notifications Please sign-in to view notifications. Expand Cart Loading... eBay Home Shop by category Enter your search keyword All Categories Search Advanced Picture 1 of 2 1 Gallery Picture 1 of 2 Have one to sell? Sell now Share Ozwalds Gaming and Hobby Zone (38381) 99.7% positive Seller's other items Seller's other items Contact seller The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, Rearranged Album [Audio CD] Soundtrack US $35.25 Condition: Good Good More information - About this item condition “ Water damage to the back cover art. Little to no surface scratching, case is in good condition! NO ” ... Read more about condition Good An item in used but good condition. May have minor damage to jewel case including scuffs or cracks, or to the item cover including scuffs, scratches, or cracks. The cover art and liner notes are included for a CD. VHS or DVD box is included. Video game instructions are included. No skipping on CD/DVD. No fuzzy/snowy frames on VHS tape. See the seller’s listing for full details and description of any imperfections. Buy It Now The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, Rearranged Album [Audio CD] Soundtrack Sign in to check out Check out as guest Add to cart Add to Watchlist Oops! Looks like we're having trouble connecting to our server. Refresh your browser window to try again. Refresh Browser Hurry before it's gone. 1 person is watching this item. Breathe easy. Returns accepted. Shipping: Free USPS Media Mail TM . See details for shipping Located in: Lexington, South Carolina, United States Delivery: Estimated between Fri, May 2 and Wed, May 7 to 85033 Delivery time is estimated using our proprietary method which is based on the buyer's proximity to the item location, the shipping service selected, the seller's shipping history, and other factors. Delivery times may vary, especially during peak periods. Returns: 60 days returns . Buyer pays for return shipping. If you use an eBay shipping label, it will be deducted from your refund amount . See details - for more information about returns Payments: Diners Club Special financing available. See terms and apply now - for PayPal Credit, opens in a new window or tab Earn up to 5x points when you use your eBay Mastercard®. Learn more about earning points with eBay Mastercard Shop with confidence eBay Money Back Guarantee Get the item you ordered or your money back. Learn more eBay Money Back Guarantee - opens new window or tab Report this item Report this item - opens in new window or tab About this item Seller assumes all responsibility for this listing. eBay item number: 354723878739 Last updated on Nov 24, 2023 07:28:37 PST View all revisions View all revisions Item specifics Condition Good An item in used but good condition. May have minor damage to jewel case including scuffs or cracks, or to the item cover including scuffs, scratches, or cracks. The cover art and liner notes are included for a CD. VHS or DVD box is included. Video game instructions are included. No skipping on CD/DVD. No fuzzy/snowy frames on VHS tape. See the seller’s listing for full details and description of any imperfections. See all condition definitions opens in a new window or tab Seller Notes “Water damage to the back cover art. Little to no surface scratching, case is in good condition! NO ... Read more about the seller notes “Water damage to the back cover art. Little to no surface scratching, case is in good condition! NO DIGITAL CODES.” Read Less about the seller notes Case Condition Used: Good Record Label Tokuma Japan Communications Inlay Condition Used: Good Artist Emiko Shiratori; Moka; Koji Kondo [Composer] Release Title The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, Rearranged Album [Audio CD] Format Audio CD UPC 764699199574 Item description from the seller About this seller Ozwalds Gaming and Hobby Zone 99.7% positive feedback • 86K items sold Joined Nov 2007 Welcome to Ozwalds Gaming & Hobby Zone... We are bringing you all the retro games you could ask for. We also have systems, dvds, blurays, baseball cards, vintage toys, and just about anything else you ... See more Welcome to Ozwalds Gaming & Hobby Zone... We are bringing you all the retro games you could ask for. We also have systems, dvds, blurays, baseball cards, vintage toys, and just about anything else you might remember from your childhood. We re just getting started and will bring weekly auctions also See less Visit store Contact Save seller Detailed seller ratings Average for the last 12 months Accurate description 4.9 Reasonable shipping cost 4.9 Shipping speed 5.0 Communication 5.0 Popular categories from this store See all categories Inventory Used DVD Audio CD New DVD Men's Clothes Hats Women's Clothes Girl's Boutique VHS Seller feedback (42,075) Filter: All ratings All ratings Positive Neutral Negative f***f (1514) - Feedback left by buyer. Past 6 months Verified purchase Excellent Seller, Goes the Extra Mile. Smooth Transaction, Shipped Very Quickly, As Advertised; Good Price; Well Packaged & Delivered Within a Few Days. Item in Described Promised Condition, Thank You Very Much!!!!!!!!!!! A+ Blink [DVD] new stowe quinn (#355987219889) e***t (112) - Feedback left by buyer. Past 6 months Verified purchase Wonderful CD set by an underappreciated country rock singer. The CDs were well packaged by the seller, and appropriately shipped to me. This CD set appeared as described, and was definitely value for money. I would highly recommend buying from this seller! Essential Collection cd Ricky Nelson (#404508650069) 2***5 (27) - Feedback left by buyer. Past 6 months Verified purchase Arrived in new condition, decent quality and great value, looked great for the event I needed it for. Item was as described and sellers communication is A+ cant thank them enough for being an amazing store keep and making it happen!! Highly recommended, smooth transaction, would shop from again,!!! And 1 Basketball Shorts XL Blue Orange Navy 11" Inseam NEW Drawstring Pockets (#354403252746) See all feedback Back to home page Return to top | Listed in category: breadcrumb Books, Movies & Music Music CDs More to explore : John Legend Soundtracks & Musicals Album Music CDs , Soundtracks & Musicals Album CDs TV Soundtrack , Soundtracks and Musicals Album Music CDs , Soundtracks & Musicals CDs John Legend , Album CDs John Legend , Beyoncé Soundtracks & Musicals Album Music CDs , Kitaro Soundtracks & Musicals Album Music CDs , The Residents Soundtracks & Musicals Album Music CDs , Superstar Soundtracks & Musicals Album Music CDs , The Doors Soundtracks & Musicals Album Music CDs Shop Top Sellers and Highly Rated Products in CDs Best Sellers Kanye West Graduation 2007 CD Japan 2trx Daft Punk F6679 Ghost 'SKELETÀ' CD Jewel Case - & Facelift by Alice in Chains (CD, 2015) PSL Pink Floyd at Pompeii Mcmlxxii Japan Edition 2 CD Blu-ray SICP-6692 Around the Fur by Deftones (CD, 1997) Top Rated Earth Wind & Fire Greatest Hits by Earth Wind & Fire (CD, 1998) Pyromania by Def Leppard (CD, 1990) Slipknot by Slipknot (CD, 1999) Sublime by Sublime (CD, 1996) Definitive Hits by Alpert, Herb (CD, 2001) Related Searches Zelda Soundtrack CD Ocarina of Time Soundtrack Zelda Original Soundtrack Zelda Sound Track Zelda Soundtrack Vinyl The Legend Zelda Ocarina of Time Ocarina of Time Sealed Nintendo Soundtrack CD Ocarina of Time Box Ocarina of Time Vinyl Zelda Ocarina of Time Manga Zelda Twilight Princess Soundtrack Ocarina of Time Collectors Edition Elden Ring Soundtrack CD Zelda Ocarina Instrument About this seller Ozwalds Gaming and Hobby Zone 99.7% positive feedback • 86K items sold Joined Nov 2007 Welcome to Ozwalds Gaming & Hobby Zone... We are bringing you all the retro games you could ask for. We also have systems, dvds, blurays, baseball cards, vintage toys, and just about anything else you ... See more Welcome to Ozwalds Gaming & Hobby Zone... We are bringing you all the retro games you could ask for. We also have systems, dvds, blurays, baseball cards, vintage toys, and just about anything else you might remember from your childhood. We re just getting started and will bring weekly auctions also See less Visit store Contact Save seller Detailed seller ratings Average for the last 12 months Accurate description 4.9 Reasonable shipping cost 4.9 Shipping speed 5.0 Communication 5.0 Popular categories from this store See all categories Inventory Used DVD Audio CD New DVD Men's Clothes Hats Women's Clothes Girl's Boutique VHS Seller feedback (42,075) Filter: All ratings All ratings Positive Neutral Negative f***f (1514) - Feedback left by buyer. Past 6 months Verified purchase Excellent Seller, Goes the Extra Mile. Smooth Transaction, Shipped Very Quickly, As Advertised; Good Price; Well Packaged & Delivered Within a Few Days. Item in Described Promised Condition, Thank You Very Much!!!!!!!!!!! A+ Blink [DVD] new stowe quinn (#355987219889) e***t (112) - Feedback left by buyer. Past 6 months Verified purchase Wonderful CD set by an underappreciated country rock singer. The CDs were well packaged by the seller, and appropriately shipped to me. This CD set appeared as described, and was definitely value for money. I would highly recommend buying from this seller! Essential Collection cd Ricky Nelson (#404508650069) 2***5 (27) - Feedback left by buyer. Past 6 months Verified purchase Arrived in new condition, decent quality and great value, looked great for the event I needed it for. Item was as described and sellers communication is A+ cant thank them enough for being an amazing store keep and making it happen!! Highly recommended, smooth transaction, would shop from again,!!! And 1 Basketball Shorts XL Blue Orange Navy 11" Inseam NEW Drawstring Pockets (#354403252746) See all feedback Copyright © 1995-2025 eBay Inc. All Rights Reserved. Accessibility , User Agreement , Privacy , Consumer Health Data , Payments Terms of Use , Cookies , CA Privacy Notice , Your Privacy Choices and AdChoice