Facebook plans to change company name to focus on the metaverse | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI More Expand The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Menu Expand Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health COVID-19 Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters Command Line Installer Notepad Verge Deals Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook is planning to rebrand with a new name Comments Drawer Tech / Meta / Facebook Facebook is planning to rebrand with a new name Mark Zuckerberg really wants to be known for building the metaverse, so he has decided to change the company name. Mark Zuckerberg really wants to be known for building the metaverse, so he has decided to change the company name. by Alex Heath Oct 20, 2021, 2:14 AM UTC Link Facebook Threads Laura Normand / The Verge Alex Heath is a deputy editor and author of the Command Line newsletter. He has been reporting on the tech industry for more than a decade. Facebook is planning to change its company name next week to reflect its focus on building the metaverse, according to a source with direct knowledge of the matter. The coming name change, which CEO Mark Zuckerberg plans to talk about at the company’s annual Connect conference on October 28th, but could unveil sooner, is meant to signal the tech giant’s ambition to be known for more than social media and all its ills. The rebrand would position the blue Facebook app as one of many products under a parent company overseeing groups like Instagram, WhatsApp, Oculus, and more. A spokesperson for Facebook declined to comment for this story. Facebook already has more than 10,000 employees building consumer hardware like AR glasses that Zuckerberg believes will eventually be as ubiquitous as smartphones. In July, he told The Verge that, over the next several years, “we will effectively transition from people seeing us as primarily being a social media company to being a metaverse company.” A rebrand could also serve to further separate the futuristic work Zuckerberg is focused on from the intense scrutiny Facebook is currently under for the way its social platform operates today. A former employee turned whistleblower, Frances Haugen, recently leaked a trove of damning internal documents to The Wall Street Journal and testified about them before Congress . Antitrust regulators in the US and elsewhere are trying to break the company up, and public trust in how Facebook does business is falling. Facebook isn’t the first well-known tech company to change its company name as its ambitions expand. In 2015, Google reorganized entirely under a holding company called Alphabet, partly to signal that it was no longer just a search engine, but a sprawling conglomerate with companies making driverless cars and health tech. And Snapchat rebranded to Snap Inc. in 2016, the same year it started calling itself a “camera company” and debuted its first pair of Spectacles camera glasses. The new Facebook company name is a closely-guarded secret I’m told that the new Facebook company name is a closely-guarded secret within its walls and not known widely, even among its full senior leadership. A possible name could have something to do with Horizon, the name of the still-unreleased VR version of Facebook-meets-Roblox that the company has been developing for the past few years. The name of that app was recently tweaked to Horizon Worlds shortly after Facebook demoed a version for workplace collaboration called Horizon Workrooms . Aside from Zuckerberg’s comments, Facebook has been steadily laying the groundwork for a greater focus on the next generation of technology. This past summer it set up a dedicated metaverse team. More recently, it announced that the head of AR and VR, Andrew Bosworth, will be promoted to chief technology officer. And just a couple of days ago Facebook announced plans to hire 10,000 more employees to work on the metaverse in Europe. The metaverse is “going to be a big focus, and I think that this is just going to be a big part of the next chapter for the way that the internet evolves after the mobile internet,” Zuckerberg told The Verge’ s Casey Newton this summer. “And I think it’s going to be the next big chapter for our company too, really doubling down in this area.” Complicating matters is that, while Facebook has been heavily promoting the idea of the metaverse in recent weeks, it’s still not a concept that’s widely understood. The term was coined originally by sci-fi novelist Neal Stephenson to describe a virtual world people escape to from a dystopian, real world. Now it’s being adopted by one of the world’s largest and most controversial companies — and it’ll have to explain why its own virtual world is worth diving into. Update October 28th, 2:30PM ET: Mark Zuckerberg has revealed Facebook’s new name: Meta . You can read my interview with him about the name change here . See More : Facebook Meta News Tech Most Popular Most Popular Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Duolingo will replace contract workers with AI New Starlink subscription drops hardware price to $0 The DJI Phantom is no more Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck Installer A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Facebook Meta is trying to clean up Facebook spam Facebook considered ad-free subscriptions after the Cambridge Analytica scandal Mark Zuckerberg defends his empire Mark Zuckerberg once suggested wiping all Facebook friends lists to boost usage Meta AI will soon train on EU users’ data Teen restrictions expand on Instagram, Facebook, and Messenger Meta is trying to clean up Facebook spam Emma Roth Apr 24 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Facebook considered ad-free subscriptions after the Cambridge Analytica scandal Richard Lawler and Lauren Feiner Apr 17 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Mark Zuckerberg defends his empire Lauren Feiner Apr 16 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Mark Zuckerberg once suggested wiping all Facebook friends lists to boost usage Wes Davis Apr 15 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Meta AI will soon train on EU users’ data Wes Davis Apr 14 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Teen restrictions expand on Instagram, Facebook, and Messenger Jess Weatherbed Apr 8 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Apr 29 Whatever happened to the Kids Online Safety Act? Apr 29 MAGA’s next wave of influencers saved TikTok Apr 29 Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Apr 29 Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck Apr 29 Starlink’s got company — and orbital overcrowding is a disaster waiting to happen Apr 29 Meta’s ChatGPT competitor shows how your friends use AI The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved