Everything Communicates: Interview with Former Big Ten and NFL Executive Jon Schwartz — Adam Mendler in the Media Meet Adam Speaking Podcast Blog Connect Meet Adam Speaking Podcast Blog Connect August 28, 2023 Everything Communicates: Interview with Former Big Ten and NFL Executive Jon Schwartz My conversation with with former Big Ten and NFL executive Jon Schwartz Adam Mendler I recently went one on one with Jon Schwartz. Jon was vice president, communications, marketing, digital and social for the Big Ten Conference and was previously senior vice president – communications and public affairs at the National Football League. Jon Schwartz is currently a strategic marketing communications consultant and an adjunct professor in the Tisch Institute for Global Sport at New York University. an adjunct professor in the Tisch Institute for Global Sport at New York University Adam: Thanks again for taking the time to share your advice. First things first, though, I am sure readers would love to learn more about you. How did you get here? What experiences, failures, setbacks, or challenges have been most instrumental to your growth? Jon: After interning with NHL’s Pittsburgh Penguins and Washington Capitals, I was so inspired by the experience that I wanted to enter the workforce right away. I had my eyes set on my first paying job in sports as Director of Public Relations for the Anaheim Ducks’ top (American Hockey League) development club in Baltimore, Maryland – and a golden opportunity that I felt, at the time, may never come along again. There was only one problem: I was 15 credits short of graduation. But I had tunnel vision. I dropped out of school to chase a dream – only to be laid off a year and a half later when the club was in financial trouble. I would go on to earn my Journalism degree from the University of Maryland eventually, but losing that very first job while I did not have a degree was absolutely gutting. I felt I had sacrificed my senior year and an on-time graduation for a job that was never destined to last. And now I had to take a big step back. Later in my career, I worked for the first iteration of the XFL – the brainchild of the WWE’s Vince McMahon and Saturday Night Live co-creator and NBC Sports Chairman Dick Ebersol. The league was white hot for a few months, but the ratings tanked, and the league ended up folding. I found out on SportsCenter that I was out of a job. This time, it was two weeks before my wedding. Another step back. After four years at MasterCard Worldwide, during the height of the financial crisis, I was laid off again – just three weeks before my twin sons were boys. A crushing step back. However, each time, I picked myself up, dusted myself off, and kept moving forward. I deeply believe in the power of resilience. In the years since, I led integrated marketing communications for NASCAR, the NFL, and the Big Ten Conference. Today, I am an adjunct professor at NYU’s Tisch Institute for Global Sport and a strategic communications counselor. My career experience has taught me this: Sometimes, you need to take a step back before you can take a step forward. Adam: What are the best lessons you learned from your time in the Big 10? Jon: There have been seismic shifts in college sports over the last several years. From historic media rights agreements to conference realignment to the advent of student-athlete compensation for name, image, and likeness – there has never been a period of such monumental change in the history of college sports. The Big Ten Conference is widely known as the strongest and most prolific academic and athletic collegiate conference. As such, it was mission critical to be on message and keep an open line of communication with all 14 (soon to be 18) member institutions – especially the athletics directors and presidents and chancellors who were responsible for the physical and mental health and wellbeing of more than 10,000 student-athletes. Adam: What advice do you have for anyone interested in working in and excelling in the business side of sports? Jon: Everything communicates. Body language and way you carry yourself, the words you choose, being on time, your tone in person and in email, your attire, your ability to listen. Be prepared to sell yourself, your skills, and your potential at a moment’s notice. Everything is connected. Sports is an insular industry. Never underestimate the power of networking and the importance of being nice. Don’t make enemies. And don’t “collect” connections. Be a resource for people before you ask them to be a resource for you. Everything is important. Never blow off an assignment or a responsibility. Follow up. Finish the job. You never know if you are being tasked or tested. Adam: Who are the best leaders you have been around and what did you learn from them? Jon: Roger Goodell (NFL Commissioner) – I learned about the importance of being a masterful operator. Knowing how the league works and leaning on the strength of his relationships with the players and owners helps Roger be extremely effective at executing a strategy and growing the league to new heights. Troy Vincent (NFL Executive Vice President, Football Operations) – I learned that your core values – combined with determination and persistence – will always propel you in the right direction as a leader. When he penned an op-ed in 2020 supporting active players in the NFL’s LGBTQ+ community, Troy immediately eradicated stigmas and helped prepare the landscape for players like Carl Nassib to come out – a year later. Jon: Steve Phelps (NASCAR President) – I learned that true leadership comes from bravery and a place of listening and kindness. When NASCAR officially banned the confederate flag from flying at racetracks across the country, it was not only a sign the sport had no tolerance for racism of any kind, but it was also an indication of how the sport was ready to accelerate into the future. That is the kind of leadership and transparency the sport needed to set itself apart from some of the painful and harmful parts of its past self. And it all started from the top with Steve and the France family – the “owners” of NASCAR. Adam: What do you believe are the defining qualities of an effective leader? How can leaders and aspiring leaders take their leadership skills to the next level? Jon: I believe the best leaders have great humility and they put their family, community, and teammates first. My personal value system is built on hard work, persistence, service to others, and teamwork. Reach back down and help someone take their next step like someone likely did for you at one point in your life. Not only is it the right thing to do, but it is also a huge part of being a good leader. Adam: What are your three best tips applicable to emerging leaders and to senior leaders? Jon: Be of service. Think about the role you can play in someone’s development and how you can have a lasting impact on someone’s career. Do what you say you will do. Keep your promises. Show that you be relied upon – even for the most menial of tasks – and that you will always follow through. Do the work. No shortcuts. Praise in public. Critique in private. Never pass up a teaching moment. If delivered in a caring and respectful way, constructive criticism can have a massive impact on someone’s career potential. Adam: How can anyone become a more effective communicator? Jon: Be an active listener and have an empathic ear. Collect information and non-verbal queues to help formulate how the person is feeling. This will help you continue the conversation in a way that is most productive versus simply responding in the moment. Believe in the power of the pen (or keyboard) and have a plan. Think-Write-Edit-Rewrite-Edit-Test-Learn-Edit-Act. Use an interactive process to help you formulate and hone your message. Don’t buy back the sale. After you have made your point, stop talking. After your message has landed, nothing can be gained from uttering a single word. Use a proactive pause. Let it sink in. Adam: What is the single best piece of advice you have ever received? Jon: Measure twice, cut once. Adam: Is there anything else you would like to share? Jon: I believe deeply in the power of giving back – as evidenced by my work with underserved communities over the last 20+ years. I am Chairman of the American Special Hockey Association (ASHA), which with serves children and adults with intellectual disabilities. I co-founded New Jersey’s first ASHA team in 2002, when there were about 12 programs like ours in the U.S. and I helped grow ASHA to nearly 130 programs and 7,000 participants nationwide today. I serve as an advocate for the LGBTQ+ community and actively mentor young people of color. I believe there is no better example of the power of mentoring than in sports. I started a podcast about it called “The Sports Mentoring Project with Jon Schwartz.” Adam Mendler Adam Mendler is a nationally recognized authority on leadership and is the creator and host of Thirty Minute Mentors, where he regularly elicits insights from America's top CEOs, founders, athletes, celebrities, and political and military leaders. Adam draws upon his unique background and lessons learned from time spent with America’s top leaders in delivering perspective-shifting insights as a keynote speaker to businesses, universities, and non-profit organizations. A Los Angeles native and lifelong Angels fan, Adam teaches graduate-level courses on leadership at UCLA and is an advisor to numerous companies and leaders. Linkedin Instagram X-twitter Facebook Tiktok 3x3 Leadership Enjoy Adam’s monthly newsletter Email Subscribe share now Email LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Learn how Adam can impact your organization learn more Recent Interviews Thirty Minute Mentors Podcast Transcript: Former Pfizer CEO Jeff Kindler April 29, 2025 Invest in People Who Are on the Rise: Interview with Michael Farb, CEO of Boatsetter April 27, 2025 Strive to Expand the Table: Interview with Former Professional Soccer Player Arianna Criscione April 25, 2025 You Must Set the Example: Interview with Former U.S. Women’s Gymnastics Coach Aimee Boorman April 24, 2025 Bring Adam’s expertise to your next event and give your team the tools, insights, and inspiration to make a meaningful and lasting impact. Quicklinks Home About Speaking Book a Speaking Event Resources Podcast Blog FAQs Email Adam Be the first to unlock leadership insights. Sign up for Adam’s signature 3X3 Leadership newsletter to receive bite-sized, actionable content to elevate your leadership and to stay updated on Adam’s latest events and resources. Email Address Subscribe No spam ever. View our Privacy Policy © 2025 Adam Mendler. All Rights Reserved. Linkedin Instagram X-twitter Facebook Tiktok