Bryan Singer thanks Golden Globes for Bohemian Rhapsody wins ​ Skip to content Entertainment Weekly Search Please fill out this field. Newsletters Sweepstakes Search Please fill out this field. TV TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge Binge EW's Binge Podcast Episodes The Challenge The Golden Bachelor The Masked Singer RuPaul's Drag Race Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowstone Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge 9-1-1 The Masked Singer Outlander RuPaul's Drag Race Saturday Night Live Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowjackets Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Bryan Singer thanks Golden Globes for Bohemian Rhapsody wins after getting ignored in acceptance speeches By Christian Holub Christian Holub Christian Holub is a writer covering comics and other geeky pop culture. He's still mad about 'Firefly' getting canceled. EW's editorial guidelines Published on January 7, 2019 12:12PM EST Bohemian Rhapsody won big at the Golden Globes on Sunday night. The Freddie Mercury biopic took home both Best Actor in a Drama for Rami Malek and the big one itself, Best Motion Picture – Drama . Yet in neither of those two acceptance speeches did anyone mention the director of the film , begging the question: Did Bohemian Rhapsody direct itself? Of course not. Bryan Singer — who was fired from the film before it was completed but is still credited as its director — posted a thank-you note about the big wins to Instagram Monday morning — complete with a set photo showing him directing a scene. “What an honor. Thank you Hollywood Foreign Press,” Singer wrote in his caption alongside the snapshot. The “Director” tag on his chair is clearly visible in the shot, in case anyone missed the point. Though he got the long-gestating Queen film off the ground, Singer was fired from Bohemian Rhapsody more than halfway into production. The Hollywood Reporter , which broke the news, reported at the time that the firing “reflected an escalating clash between Singer and actor Rami Malek,” and that Singer “went missing during production on several occasions.” For his part, the director said at the time in a lengthy statement that “I asked Fox for some time off so I could return to the U.S. to deal with pressing health matters concerning one of my parents. This was a very taxing experience, which ultimately took a serious toll on my own health. Unfortunately, the studio was unwilling to accommodate me and terminated my services.” Dexter Fletcher stepped in to finish up the film, but per Directors Guild of America rules Singer remains the credited director. Singer has also been repeatedly accused of sexual misconduct over the years. Just a few days after being fired from the Queen film, Singer was sued by a man claiming the director raped him when he was 17 years old. Singer had previously been sued by two other men in 2014 for sexual abuse; one of those suits was dropped , the other dismissed . Singer denies all the allegations. Related content: Golden Globes 2019: See the full winners’ list Bohemian Rhapsody wins causes confusion, awkwardness at Golden Globes Revolutionary spirit couldn’t rescue this year’s painfully nice, dull Golden Globe Awards: EW review Read more: The Awardist Golden Globes Related Articles Nikki Glaser returning to host 2026 Golden Globes as first back-to-back host in 11 years Benson Boone channels Freddie Mercury at Coachella 2025 for 'Bohemian Rhapsody' cover with Queen's Brian May 2025 Golden Globes winners announced: See the full list, from Best Actress surprises to Emilia Pérez domination Ke Huy Quan 'teared up' when Demi Moore won her first Golden Globe: 'I know what that was like' How to watch 2025 Golden Globes — and everything else you need to know about the starry awards show Demi Moore shares morning after reaction to Golden Globes win: 'F--- yeah!' The best and worst moments from the 2025 Golden Globes How to watch the 2025 Golden Globes nominations Selena Gomez moved to tears by sweet encounter with Salma Hayek on Golden Globes red carpet Selena Gomez reacts to Golden Globes nominations from her couch: 'I am so grateful' 2025 Golden Globes nominations revealed: See the full list of nominees, from Emilia Pérez domination to Ariana Grande in Wicked The host with the roast: How Nikki Glaser plans to put her own spin on the 2025 Golden Globes Ariana Grande gets Wicked -inspired gift from young Nessarose costar at Golden Globes — here's what was inside Miles Teller takes dig at nominee Kevin Kline for being too 'enigmatic' to show up at Golden Globes Andrew Garfield and Ryan Reynolds reflect on 'insensitive' kiss during Ryan Gosling's 2017 Golden Globes win Nikki Glaser reveals the racy jokes cut from her Golden Globes monologue: 'We can't say that on TV' Entertainment Weekly Newsletters Follow Us TV Movies Music What To Watch Binge Celebrity The Awardist Books Theater About Us Terms of Service Subscribe Advertise Careers Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Entertainment Weekly is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies