Han Kang – Facts – 2024 - NobelPrize.org Skip to content Open the search menu Close the search menu Close Mobile Menu Toggle Mobile Menu Nobel Prizes & laureates All Nobel Prizes All Nobel Prizes 2024 Physics prize Chemistry prize Medicine prize Literature prize Peace prize Prize in economic sciences About About the prize Alfred Nobel Award ceremonies Nomination Organisation Stories Educational Events & museums Open the search menu Close the search menu Header Search Submit a search term Enhanced Page Navigation Han Kang – Facts – 2024 Nobel Prize in Literature 2024 Summary Laureates Han Kang Facts Nobel Lecture Prize presentation Banquet speech Interview Prose Nobel diploma Photo gallery Other resources Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech Share this Facebook X LinkedIn Email this page Han Kang Facts Navigate to: Summary -- Facts -- Nobel Lecture -- Prize presentation -- Banquet speech -- Interview -- Prose -- Nobel diploma -- Photo gallery -- Other resources Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech © Nobel Prize Outreach. Photo: Clément Morin Han Kang Nobel Prize in Literature 2024 Born:		27 November 1970, Gwangju, South Korea Residence at the time of the award: 					Seoul, South Korea Prize motivation: 					“for her intense poetic prose that confronts historical traumas and exposes the fragility of human life” Language: 					Korean Prize share: 				1/1 Work Han Kang began her career in 1993 as a poet, but has since written mainly novels and short stories. In her oeuvre, she confronts historical traumas and invisible sets of rules and, in each of her works, exposes the fragility of human life. She has a unique awareness of the connections between body and soul, the living and the dead, and in her poetic and experimental style has become an innovator in contemporary prose. Among her works are The Vegetarian, Human Acts and We Do Not Part. To cite this section MLA style: Han Kang – Facts – 2024. NobelPrize.org. Nobel Prize Outreach 2025. Wed. 30 Apr 2025. <https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/literature/2024/han/facts/> Back to top Back To Top Takes users back to the top of the page Nobel Prizes and laureates Nobel Prizes 2024 Six prizes were awarded for achievements that have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind. The 12 laureates' work and discoveries range from proteins' structures and machine learning to fighting for a world free of nuclear weapons. See them all presented here. Explore prizes and laureates Look for popular awards and laureates in different fields, and discover the history of the Nobel Prize. Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Decrease the year by one - Choose a year you would like to search in Increase the year by one + Explore About the Nobel Prize organisation The Nobel Foundation Tasked with a mission to manage Alfred Nobel's fortune and has ultimate responsibility for fulfilling the intentions of Nobel's will. The prize-awarding institutions For more than a century, these academic institutions have worked independently to select Nobel Prize laureates. Outreach organisations Several outreach organisations and activities have been developed to inspire generations and disseminate knowledge about the Nobel Prize. Press Contact FAQ Privacy policy Terms of use For developers Media player Careers Join us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Nobel Prize Copyright © Nobel Prize Outreach 2025 Scroll to top