Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/NintendoSwitch A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to NintendoSwitch r/NintendoSwitch r/NintendoSwitch The central hub for all news, updates, rumors, and topics relating to the Nintendo Switch & Nintendo Switch 2. We are a fan-run community, not an official Nintendo forum. Members Online • BigDaddySteven What happens to your unused vouchers after they expire in one year? It states on the voucher description page that they are good for 365 days from the date of purchase, so it seems obvious that they would lose value right? The thing is, this used to happen to gift cards, but a law was passed that they could not lose value anymore and now are as good as cash (at the intended store of course). With these essentially being a gift card that is just called something else, wouldn't this law cover this as well? At the very least retaining the original purchase value, being $50/ voucher? Groupon has this exact same scenario where the discount has an expiration, but the purchase price is retained for use as that value only. Does anybody have info on this? Edit: Here's the definition of what a gift certificate is according to New York: N.Y. Abandoned Property Law §103 "Gift certificate" shall mean a written promise or electronic payment device that: (i) is usable at a single merchant or an affiliated group of merchants that share the same name, mark, or logo, or is usable at multiple, unaffiliated merchants or service providers; and (ii) is issued in a specified amount; and (iii) may or may not be increased in value or reloaded; and (iv) is purchased and/or loaded on a prepaid basis for the future purchase or delivery of any goods or services; and (v) is honored upon presentation Seems like a pretty good description of these vouchers. With that being said, I'm sure I'll end up using mine before a year is up, but it doesn't seem right that we would essentially be paying Nintendo for nothing if we don't use them in a year. I for one intend on waiting to use the other 3 of mine for games that I absolutely want right away, but I'm holding out hope that they continue adding more to the list like it claims they will because there's not 3 currently on the list that I want all that bad. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of August 1, 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of August 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2019 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics