"Effects of the Olympics on Host Cities" by Frank Stephens Home Search Browse Collections My Account About Digital Commons Network™ Skip to main content Home About FAQ My Account Home > Undergraduate Research Journal University of Northern Colorado > Vol. 8 > No. 1 (2019) Ursidae: The Undergraduate Research Journal at the University of Northern Colorado The Long-run Effects of the Olympics on Host Cities Authors Frank Stephens Faculty Sponsor Corman, Rhonda Abstract This research project explores the extent to which cities that host the Olympics end up not benefiting as much as anticipated. Being a host city for the Olympics can be very pricey, as it costs to bid for the Olympics. Along with bidding for the event, there are additional infrastructure costs for the influx of people attracted to the event. Cities can typically spend $50 million to $100 million in fees for consultants, event organizers, and travel related to hosting duties. After this, if they actually win the bid, cities will usually add roads, build or enhance airports, and construct rail lines to accommodate the large influx of people. Along with this, cities must also include housing for the athletes in the Olympic village as well as at least 40,000 available hotel rooms, and specific facilities for the events must be created or updated as well. While hosting the Olympic Games, cities gain temporary jobs due to infrastructure improvements that continue benefiting the cities into the future. Additionally, thousands of sponsors, media, athletes and spectators typically visit a host city for six months before and six months after the Olympics, which brings in additional revenue. Although this seems like it is very beneficial to the city, there are implications that say otherwise. This study will draw on the effect of employment in the short-run and long-run, changes in the property prices, and high infrastructure construction costs that multiple cities have encountered while hosting the Olympic Games. Recommended Citation Stephens, Frank (2019) "The Long-run Effects of the Olympics on Host Cities," Ursidae: The Undergraduate Research Journal at the University of Northern Colorado : Vol. 8: No. 1, Article 23. Available at: https://digscholarship.unco.edu/urj/vol8/iss1/23 UNCO Undergraduate Verification 1 Download DOWNLOADS Since April 03, 2019 Included in Economics Commons Share COinS Journal Home About This Journal Aims & Scope Editorial Board Policies Submission Guidelines Faculty Approval Form Submit Article Most Popular Papers Receive Email Notices or RSS Special Issues: McNair Special Issue McNair Special Issue Research Day 2018 - Undergraduate Research Excellence Award Winners & Finalists Research Day 2017 - Undergraduate Research Excellence Award Winners & Finalists Select an issue: All Issues Vol. 13, No. 											 1 Vol. 12, No. 											 1 Vol. 11, No. 											 1 Vol. 10, No. 											 1 Vol. 9, No. 											 1 Vol. 8, No. 											 2 Vol. 8, No. 											 1 Vol. 7, No. 											 3 Vol. 7, No. 											 2 Vol. 7, No. 											 1 Vol. 6, No. 											 3 Vol. 6, No. 											 2 Vol. 6, No. 											 1 Vol. 5, No. 											 3 Vol. 5, No. 											 2 Vol. 5, No. 											 1 Vol. 4, No. 											 3 Vol. 4, No. 											 2 Vol. 4, No. 											 1 Vol. 3, No. 											 3 Vol. 3, No. 											 2 Vol. 3, No. 											 1 Vol. 2, No. 											 3 Vol. 2, No. 											 2 Vol. 2, No. 											 1 Vol. 1, No. 											 2 Vol. 1, No. 											 1 Search Enter search terms: Select context to search: in this journal in this repository across all repositories Advanced Search Elsevier - Digital Commons Home | About | FAQ | My Account | Accessibility Statement Privacy Copyright