Super Bowl Tampa, Florida LV in 2021 Home > Events > Super Bowl > Hosts > 2021 Super Bowl LV, 2021 - Chiefs v Buccaneers The  2021 Bowl  LV was the 55th  Super Bowl in American football.     The game was played on Feb 7, 2021 at Raymond James Stadium, Tampa, Florida. This was the fifth Super Bowl hosted in the Tampa area, and the third one held at Raymond James Stadium. super bowl stadium The National Football Conference (NFC) champion Tampa Bay Buccaneers played the American Football Conference (AFC) champion and defending Super Bowl champions Kansas City Chiefs. Buccaneers, led by quarterback Tom Brady , won the game 31-9, earning their second Super Bowl title in franchise history. Brady was named the game's MVP after throwing for three touchdowns and completing 21 of 29 passes for 201 yards. The Super Bowl LV halftime show featured The Weeknd as the headlining performer. The game was played during the COVID-19 pandemic and was one of the few major sporting events to take place with limited attendance due to pandemic restrictions. 2021 Super Bowl Trivia Tampa Bay Buccaneers was the first team to play a Super Bowl in its home stadium. Tampa Bay quarterback Tom Brady played in his record 10th Super Bowl. Quarterback Tom Brady was named the Super Bowl MVP, becoming the oldest player to ever win the award at 43 years old. It was the lowest attended Super Bowl due to COVID-19 health restrictions limiting the stadium capacity to just 22,000 fans. Sarah Thomas  (as Down judge) became the first woman to officiate a Super Bowl. Related Pages Previous Super Bowl in 2020 Super Bowl Host Cities Next Super Bowl: 2022 List of Super Bowl Winners Any comments, suggestions, or corrections? Please let us know . Search This Site More Super Bowl Home Winners List Hosts History Trivia Quiz More American Football Home Fitness Fitness Testing Super Bowl NFL Combine Player Profiles Major Events Extra The largest sporting event in the world is the Olympic Games , but there are many other multi-sport games . In terms of single sport events, nothing beats the FIFA World Cup . To see what's coming up, check out the calendar of major sporting events . Latest Pages Illegal Sports World Cup Qualifiers AI-Powered Fitness Testing Continuous Glucose Monitoring in Athletes Upcoming Events Golf Masters FA Cup final UEFA Champions League Final 2025 Major Events Calendar Popular Pages Ballon d'Or Winners FA Cup Winners Super Bowl Winners World Cup Winners Latest Sports Added Squash Fives Carjitsu Døds Diving Totem Tennis (Swingball) → How to Cite PAGES home search sitemap store SOCIAL MEDIA newsletter facebook Instagram X (twitter) SECURITY privacy policy disclaimer copyright ABOUT contact author info advertising ©1997-2025 Topend Sports