AI Assistant - Amazon Q - AWS Skip to main content Click here to return to Amazon Web Services homepage About AWS Contact Us Support English My Account Sign In Create an AWS Account Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. Login Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. View profile Log out Amazon Q Products Solutions Pricing Documentation Learn Partner Network AWS Marketplace Customer Enablement Events Explore More Close عربي Bahasa Indonesia Deutsch English Español Français Italiano Português Tiếng Việt Türkçe Ρусский ไทย 日本語 한국어 中文 (简体) 中文 (繁體) Close My Profile Sign out of AWS Builder ID AWS Management Console Account Settings Billing & Cost Management Security Credentials AWS Personal Health Dashboard Close Support Center Expert Help Knowledge Center AWS Support Overview AWS re:Post Click here to return to Amazon Web Services homepage Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. Login Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. View profile Log out Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. View profile Log out Get Started for Free Contact Us Products Solutions Pricing Introduction to AWS Getting Started Documentation Training and Certification Developer Center Customer Success Partner Network AWS Marketplace Support AWS re:Post Log into Console Download the Mobile App Amazon Q Overview Products Pricing For ISVs Close Amazon Q Business Amazon Q Developer Artificial Intelligence › Generative AI › Amazon Q Amazon Q – Generative AI Assistant The most capable generative AI–powered assistant for accelerating software development and leveraging companies' internal data Learn more Open in the AWS Management Console Overview Amazon Q Products Pricing FAQs Customers Meet Amazon Q Amazon Q is a generative AI assistant that transforms how work gets done in your organization. With specialized capabilities for software developers, business intelligence analysts, contact center employees, supply chain analysts, and anyone building with AWS, Amazon Q helps every employee get insights on their data and accelerate their tasks. Leveraging Amazon Q's advanced agentic capabilities, companies can streamline processes, get to decisions faster, and help employees be more productive. play Amazon Q Products Amazon Q Business Amazon Q Business makes generative AI securely accessible to everyone in your organization. Leveraging your own company's content, data, and systems, Amazon Q Business makes it easier to get you fast, relevant answers to pressing questions, solve problems, generate content, and take actions on your behalf. Amazon Q Business easily and securely connects to commonly used systems and tools so it can synthesize everything and provide tailored assistance empowering your teams to be more data-driven, creative, and productive. Learn more Amazon Q Developer Amazon Q Developer is the most capable generative AI-powered assistant for building, operating, and transforming software, with advanced capabilities for managing data and AI/ML. Amazon Q Developer goes beyond coding to help developers and IT professionals with all of their tasks— from coding, testing, and deploying, to troubleshooting, performing security scanning and fixes, modernizing applications, optimizing AWS resources, and creating data engineering pipelines. Data scientists can get guidance to quickly and easily build analytics, AI/ML, and generative AI applications. Learn more Amazon Q in AWS Services Amazon QuickSight Amazon Connect AWS Supply Chain Generative AI assistance for business intelligence Amazon Q brings advanced generative AI technology to Amazon QuickSight , the AWS unified business intelligence (BI) service built for the cloud. With Amazon Q in QuickSight, your business analysts get a generative BI assistant they can use to build BI dashboards, visualizations, and complex calculations in minutes, all while using natural language. Empower any employee to create customizable data stories and go beyond dashboard-delivered insights with multi-visual Q&A responses and AI-driven executive summaries. Discover key insights, trends, and drivers with agentic AI to make smarter decisions across the business. Learn more Generative AI assistance for customer service Amazon Q adds generative AI capabilities in Amazon Connect , the AWS cloud contact center, to support contact center agents and end-customers. Amazon Q in Connect automatically detects customer issues from the conversation and leverages generative AI to deliver real-time, personalized responses and recommended actions, leveraging customer information and content from your knowledge repositories and external website. Reduce handle times, deliver exceptional customer service, and lower service costs thanks to your AI virtual assistant for customer service. Learn more Generative AI assistance in supply chain management Amazon Q introduces advanced generative AI capabilities in AWS Supply Chain , our cloud-based supply chain management application. It helps you operate your supply chain more efficiently by analyzing the data in your AWS Supply Chain Data Lake, providing important operational and financial insights, and answering urgent supply chain questions. It reduces the time users spend searching for relevant information, simplifies the process of finding answers, and minimizes the time needed to learn, deploy, configure, or troubleshoot AWS Supply Chain. Learn more An industry-leading enterprise AI solution customized for your organization 50% Highest reported code acceptance rates of any coding assistant that suggests multi-line code 450,000 Hours saved from manual technical investigations 50+ Built-in, managed, and secure data connectors 80% Acceleration in coding tasks with Amazon Q’s advanced agents Secure and private by design Data security Amazon Q is built to meet the most stringent enterprise data security requirements. It understands and respects identities, roles, and permissions, ensuring personalized interactions based on user access levels. If a user is not permitted to access certain data without Amazon Q, they cannot access it using Amazon Q either. Administrative controls apply guardrails, allowing you to customize authorization. Your privacy When you sign up for Amazon Q Developer Pro or Amazon Q Business plans, we don't use your data to improve underlying models for others. You are always in control, and your data remains your differentiator. Unify insights across your data sources, repositories, and enterprise systems Amazon Q meets you where your employees and end users already are by easily and securely connecting to over 50 commonly used business tools, such as wikis, intranets, Atlassian, Gmail, Microsoft Exchange, Salesforce, ServiceNow, Slack, and Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3). Hidden component with animation to help prevent animation above from cutting off Automate tasks with Amazon Q Apps Amazon Q Apps empowers every employee to quickly turn their ideas into generative AI–powered apps to streamline tasks, and boost individual and team productivity. Built on top of your enterprise knowledge, users can generate apps in a single step from their conversation with Amazon Q Business or by describing their requirements in their own words. Amazon Q pricing plans Flexible pricing for businesses of all sizes Amazon Q offers various subscription plans based on user subscription and how and where you want to integrate Amazon Q in your business; plans include free, lite and pro options. Prices vary for Amazon Q products and Amazon Q integrations with other services. See the pricing page for more details. Amazon Q FAQs What is Amazon Q? Amazon Q transforms how work gets done in your organization. Developers can use it for all their tasks like coding, testing, upgrading, troubleshooting, and security scanning. Business users can have tailored conversations, solve problems, generate content, take actions, streamline tasks and more. Amazon Q also makes it easier for employees to get answers to questions across business data—such as company policies, product information, business results, code base, employees, and many other topics—by connecting to enterprise data repositories and summarizing the data logically. It is built with security and privacy in mind from the start, making it easier for organizations to use generative AI to increase productivity and speed up innovation. What is Amazon Q used for? Amazon Q can be used as an intelligent virtual assistant across all business functions and by employees of all levels and capabilities. By simply chatting with Amazon Q in natural language, users can get help with their digital tasks. For example, business analysts can use it to create dashboards, developers to generate code, and customer service agents to find the best solutions. Your team can even make generative AI apps to automate business functions and enhance efficiency where it's needed most. What model is Amazon Q built on? Amazon Q is built on Amazon Bedrock, a fully managed service for building generative AI applications that offers a choice of high-performing foundation models (FMs) from Amazon and leading AI companies. Amazon Q uses multiple Foundational Models to complete its tasks and uses logic to route tasks to the Foundational Model that is the best fit for the job. Is Amazon Q secure to use? Yes. Amazon Q is built to meet our enterprise clients' security requirements. Because Amazon Q is built on Amazon Bedrock, users inherit the controls implemented in Amazon Bedrock to enforce safety, security, and the responsible use of AI. As with any AWS service, you decide who can access what data and for what purpose. If a user is not permitted to access certain information outside Amazon Q, they cannot access it from within Amazon Q. Is Amazon Q free to use? There is a monthly fee to access most Amazon Q functionality. Some functionality may be available for free trial for a short time. See our pricing page for details. What's new? desktop version Amazon Q Business launches IAM federation for user identity authentication Amazon Q Business is now HIPAA eligible Amazon Q Developer now features new capabilities to enhance the developer experience Accelerate software development and optimize your business data with Amazon Q Prev Next What's new? mobile version Amazon Q Business launches IAM federation for user identity authentication Amazon Q Business is now HIPAA Amazon Q Developer now features new capabilities to enhance the developer experience Accelerate software development and optimize your business data with Amazon Q Prev Next Get started with Amazon Q Service Learn more about Amazon Q Business Visit the Amazon Q Business page Service Learn more about Amazon Q Developer Visit the Amazon Q Developer page Sign In to the Console Learn About AWS What Is AWS? What Is Cloud Computing? AWS Accessibility What Is DevOps? What Is a Container? What Is a Data Lake? What is Artificial Intelligence (AI)? What is Generative AI? What is Machine Learning (ML)? AWS Cloud Security What's New Blogs Press Releases Resources for AWS Getting Started Training and Certification AWS Trust Center AWS Solutions Library Architecture Center Product and Technical FAQs Analyst Reports AWS Partners Developers on AWS Developer Center SDKs & Tools .NET on AWS Python on AWS Java on AWS PHP on AWS JavaScript on AWS Help Contact Us Get Expert Help File a Support Ticket AWS re:Post Knowledge Center AWS Support Overview Legal AWS Careers Create an AWS Account Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age. Language عربي Bahasa Indonesia Deutsch English Español Français Italiano Português Tiếng Việt Türkçe Ρусский ไทย 日本語 한국어 中文 (简体) 中文 (繁體) Privacy | Accessibility | Site Terms | Cookie Preferences | © 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Ending Support for Internet Explorer Got it AWS support for Internet Explorer ends on 07/31/2022. Supported browsers are Chrome, Firefox, Edge, and Safari. Learn more » Got it