The 90th Annual Academy Awards | Fourth Estate ABOUT US ADVERTISING CONTACT THE NEWSROOM GET INVOLVED OPINION SECTION SUBMISSIONS News Breaking News Campus Administration Mason Life Student Government City County State Culture Faces of Mason More Money Less Problems Hidden Hangouts Ask the Mind Opinion Pats For Patriots Sports men’s baseball basketball cross-country golf soccer swim & dive tennis track & field volleyball wrestling women’s basketball cross-country lacrosse rowing soccer softball swim & dive tennis track volleyball columns The 90th Annual Academy Awards March 6, 2018 / no comments / 2661 views VIEW A RECAP OF THE 2018 ACADEMY AWARDS By Angelique Arintok, Staff Writer On Sunday, Mar. 4, the 90th Annual Academy Awards took center stage at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, California. This year’s star-studded event filled the room with a talented and notably diverse set of actors, producers, directors and contributors to motion pictures. Jimmy Kimmel, comedian and host of late-night talk show “Jimmy Kimmel Live” hosted the awards ceremony for the second time in a row. Graphic by Ally McAlpine Kimmel started the show with a monologue that noticeably leaned on the political rather than comedic side. He emphasized that the 2018 Oscars would entail a night of positivity—encouraging the winners to speak about salient issues such as gun violence, Dreamers, gender equality and sexual harassment prevention. “The world is watching us. We need to set an example,” Jimmy Kimmel said. This 2018 front-runners include titles such as “The Shape of Water,” “Coco,” “Blade Runner 2049,” and “The Darkest Hour.” Guillermo del Toro, recipient of best director for “The Shape of Water,” celebrated his first Oscar win. As a Mexican immigrant, del Toro joins previously Oscar-recognized Mexican directors Alfonso Cuarón and Alejandro González Iñárritu. Stories told from del Toro’s perspective are intended to “erase the lines in the sand,” he proclaimed—raising awareness by including immigrants’ narratives and talents. It was also a historic night with the appearance of Daniela Vega as ceremony presenter. Vega is the first openly transgender woman to have assumed the previously mentioned role as part of the televised broadcast. Moreover, a film in which Vega stars called “A Fantastic Woman,” captivated the Academy. Taking home the award for best foreign film, the efforts of both Vega and Chilean filmmakers were brought to light. In terms of achievements in front of the camera, Sam Rockwell, Allison Janney, Gary Oldman, and Frances McDormand won as recipients of best supporting actor, best supporting actress, best actor, and best actress. Their films “Three Billboards outside Ebbing Missouri,” “I, Tonya,” and “The Shape of Water” all received critical buzz leading up to Sunday’s big night. The individuals operating behind the camera and in post-production were also acknowledged. Best sound editing and mixing both went to “Dunkirk.” In addition, best writing for adapted screenplay was awarded to James Ivory of “Call Me by Your Name,” and best writing for original screenplay was granted to Jordan Peele’s “Get Out.” Song numbers during the ceremony also energized the crowd with a call for solidarity among marginalized individuals by Common and Andra Day’s performance of the Oscar-nominated song, “Stand Up for Something.” Portraying the color of Mexican life and culture, “Remember Me” from the Disney/Pixar animation “Coco” was also performed and recognized, taking home the award for best original song. Entertaining points of the event must be handed off to Kimmel’s bit of the jet ski prize for shortest acceptance speech, as well as his celebrity raid of a packed auditorium at TCL Chinese Theatre with stars such as Lupita Nyong’o, Gal Gadot, Mark Hamill, and Ansel Elgort. The night ended with no envelope mishaps, but is historic in its own sense for political outreach in matters that the award recipients, ceremony presenters and performers cared about. The 90th Annual Academy Awards gave an insightful look into the power of motion pictures and the people who craft them. Culture entertainment Uncategorized Academy Awards entertainment lifestyle movies About Angelique Arintok Hi! My name is Angelique. I am a junior Communication major with a concentration in Media Production & Criticism, and a minor in Political Communication. I enjoy video production, editing, and all things broadcast journalism. Fourth Estate is an outlet I've used to practice my hand at print journalism. My dream is to be a travelling MMJ/TV News Reporter. View all posts by Angelique Arintok → Read Previous Faces of Mason: Women’s History Month Edition Read Next Former Secretary of State speaks at Mason The GMU Hunt causes after hours intrigue April 16, 2025 Things to do in New York City March 8, 2025 Are movie theaters dying out? February 25, 2025 Search Sponsor Twitter Feed Twitter feed is not available at the moment. Recent Popular Comments A sweet spin on tradition: Rice Culture in Vienna April 30, 2025 Off-campus oasis: De Clieu Café draws Mason crowd... April 30, 2025 El Presidente: A Mexican Marvel That Feels Like a ... April 30, 2025 Silence is the greatest threat to the environment April 29, 2025 Veteran students find purpose and support others a... April 28, 2025 Student government removes undersecretary of dinin... February 23, 2015 58 Meow Mason! Coalition reduces feral cat population... August 26, 2014 35 “Less democracy, better government,” s... March 3, 2015 33 OPINION: The price tag of birthright March 2, 2015 22 Native American students express frustration at Re... September 30, 2014 11 Alexander Kenny Great story! Should be distributed on a leaflet a... February 9, 2018 Amanda I'll happily watch the curling competitions and c... February 8, 2018 Scarlett Simpson Really great article! It definitely brings a pers... February 7, 2018 Johnny Walker I never thought about it but I bet biathlon reall... February 5, 2018 Art Taylor Great essay here! ....but, um, we're already Eagl... January 30, 2018 Follow IVE on Social Media Media Madness © Fourth Estate Designed by FairPixels.com