Elon Musk $56b Tesla Pay Package Rejected by US Judge, Again Take a survey Newsletter Advertise News & Analysis Industry News Event News News Roundup Insights Strategy Innovation Case Studies Features Opinion Columns Executive Viewpoint Resources Reports TI Tech Directory Events More Podcasts A Coffee With Year of Elections TechInspired × Newsletter Advertise News & Analysis Industry News Event News News Roundup Insights Strategy Innovation Case Studies Features Opinion Columns Executive Viewpoint Resources Reports TI Tech Directory Events More Podcasts A Coffee With Year of Elections TechInspired Advertise Share Elon Musk’s Tesla pay package rejected by US judge Home News & Analysis Industry News Elon Musk’s Tesla pay package rejected by US judge News & Analysis Elon Musk’s Tesla pay package rejected by US judge December 3, 2024 Tesla CEO Elon Musk has been hit with another legal setback after a Delaware judge upheld her decision to void his $56bn pay package, despite Tesla shareholders voting to reinstate it earlier this year. Judge Kathaleen McCormick of Delaware’s Court of Chancery ruled that Tesla’s board of directors failed to act in the best interests of shareholders when devising Musk’s historic 2018 compensation deal, citing conflicts of interest and material misstatements made to investors. Tesla plans to appeal the decision, reigniting debates over executive pay and governance in one of the world’s most valuable technology companies. Musk’s compensation package, originally approved by Tesla’s shareholders in 2018 , tied his earnings to ambitious performance metrics, including stock market valuation and revenue targets. If achieved, Musk would be awarded 12 tranches of stock options, valued at $56bn when the deal was drafted — more than $101bn today, due to Tesla’s share price skyrocketing after Donald Trump won the US presidential election. Musk hit all the required milestones, driving Tesla’s valuation past $1 trillion in 2021. However, critics argued the package was excessive and lacked sufficient oversight. McCormick ruled earlier this year that Tesla’s board conducted a “deeply flawed” process to approve the deal, alleging personal conflicts of interest — several board members were described as close allies of Musk, including Musk’s former divorce attorney. Tesla’s shareholders overwhelmingly voted to reinstate the package in June, prompting the company to argue that the vote rectified earlier concerns. New York sues Big Tech | Musk moves SpaceX HQ over pay row However, McCormick rejected this argument, stating that shareholder approval could not override fundamental governance failures or legal precedents. “The large and talented group of defence firms got creative with the ratification argument, but their unprecedented theories go against multiple strains of settled law,” McCormick wrote in a 103-page opinion. Tesla’s board have maintained that Elon Musk’s Tesla pay package was essential to retaining the visionary CEO and driving Tesla’s success. The company described McCormick’s ruling as “wrong” and plans to appeal, asserting that shareholder votes, not judicial rulings, should determine executive pay. “This ruling, if not overturned, means that judges and plaintiffs’ lawyers run Delaware companies rather than their rightful owners – the shareholders,” Tesla said in a statement on X (formerly Twitter). McCormick also ordered Tesla to pay $345m in legal fees to the attorneys representing shareholder Richard Tornetta, who originally brought the lawsuit in 2018. Tornetta accused Tesla’s board of failing to act independently of Musk and misleading shareholders about the pay deal. The $345m award falls far short of the $5bn initially requested by Tornetta’s legal team but still represents a significant financial penalty for Tesla. Elon Musk Tesla Share ABOUT THE AUTHOR Ricki Lee Suggested Articles Espionage attacks surge across industries, warns Verizon report by Ann-Marie Corvin Widespread AI use at work despite significant lack of trust, KPMG by Nicole Deslandes Businesses hit by major power outage in Spain and Portugal by James Pearce News & Analysis Crypto Terraform files for US bankruptcy | Tesla teases mass market EV in 2025 News Roundup DoJ orders Google to sell Chrome and Amazon Japan hit with antitrust raid #BeInformed Subscribe to our Editor's weekly newsletter Be Informed. Subscribe to our editor’s newsletter Stay informed, let's connect: About Team Careers Contact Editorial Calendar Advertise Brand Guidelines Events Podcasts iResearch FinnIntel Giving for Good ©2025 powered by IResearch Services . All rights reserved. Trust Center | Terms of Use | Disclaimer Amy Stettler SVP Global Marketing, TechInformed With over 30 years of global marketing experience working with industry leaders like IBM, Intel, Apple, and Microsoft, Amy has a deep knowledge of the enterprise tech and business decision maker mindset. She takes a strategic approach to helping companies define their most compelling marketing stories to address critical obstacles in the buyer – seller journey. × James Pearce Editor, TechInformed As founding editor of TechInformed in 2021, James has defined the in-depth reporting style that explores technology innovation and disruption in action. A global tech journalist for over a decade with publications including Euromoney and IBC, James understands the content that engages tech decision makers and supports them in navigating the fast-moving and complex world of enterprise tech. × Let’s Connect We’d love to talk about how we can help you build your next project Name * Email Address * Company * Message I have read, and accept the terms & conditions × This website protects your privacy by adhering to the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Please tell us which of the following data-processing activities you agree to. We will not use your data for any other purposes. Learn More Allow Cookies Opt Out Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies Powered by GDPR Cookie Compliance Privacy Overview This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again. Enable All Save Settings