US Open 2020: Dominic Thiem has 'dedicated his whole life' to Grand Slam win - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Athletics Cycling More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Olympic Sports Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Winter Sports Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Tennis Scores & Schedule Calendar US Open 2020: Dominic Thiem has 'dedicated his whole life' to Grand Slam win Published 14 September 2020 comments 255 Comments Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Image source, Reuters Image caption, Dominic Thiem has become Austria's second Grand Slam champion, following Thomas Muster's triumph at the 1995 French Open US Open champion Dominic Thiem says his "whole life" has been dedicated to winning his maiden Grand Slam title. Austrian second seed Thiem fought back from two sets down to beat Germany's Alexander Zverev in Sunday's final. Thiem, 27, overcame a nervous start - and being unable to serve out victory in a tense deciding set - to win 2-6 4-6 6-4 6-3 7-6 (8-6) in New York. "I achieved a life goal, a dream of myself, which I had for many, many years," the world number three said. "I dedicated basically my whole life until this point to win one of the four majors. Now I did it. That's also for myself a great accomplishment. "I mean, it's by far not only myself, it's an accomplishment from all my team, from all my family. I guess also today is the day where I gave back a huge amount of what they did for me." Thiem fights back to win tight US Open final Relive Thiem's victory over Zverev Thiem is the first man born in the 1990s to win a Grand Slam singles title. He has been one of the most consistent players on the ATP Tour over the past five years, winning 17 titles and qualifying for every year-end ATP Finals since 2016. Thiem has now reached the final at the Australian, French and US Opens, but that success has so far not translated to Wimbledon, where he has won only five matches in the six years he has competed at SW19. This year's US Open was an unusual tournament, where several top players did not compete because of the coronavirus pandemic, and the event was held behind closed doors in almost empty stadiums. That led to some pundits and players suggesting there would always be an asterisk next to the winners in the history books. However, while six of the women's top 10 did not play, only 2019 champion Rafael Nadal of Spain, injured Swiss great Roger Federer and France's Gael Monfils were missing from the men's top 10. Serbian top seed Novak Djokovic also suffered an unusual early exit after being defaulted for hitting a ball at a line judge in his fourth-round match. Thiem blamed his nervous start on the pressure of going into the match labelled as the favourite. He had previously lost the 2018 and 2019 French Open finals to Nadal, before Djokovic fought back from 2-1 down in sets to beat him in February's Australian Open showpiece. "We both didn't face one of the 'big three', so I guess that was in the back of the head for both of us," said the Austrian. "That's why we were nervous. It was a very good chance for the both of us." He said he thought that now he had one Grand Slam title it would be easier for him to chase more success at the highest level. "Because, of course, I had it in the back of my head that I had a great career so far, way better career than I could ever dreamt of, but until today there was still a big part, a big goal missing," he added. "With this goal achieved, I think and I hope that I'm going to be a little bit more relaxed and play a little bit more freely at the biggest events." Naomi Osaka: Tennis' 'most awkward' champion & the true power of her voice GB's Whiley and Japan's Kimiji win US Open wheelchair doubles title His next opportunity for Grand Slam success will come round quickly, with the rescheduled French Open beginning on 27 September. Meanwhile, Zverev - who was playing in his first major final - believes his time will come, despite the disappointing nature of this defeat. "I was super close to being a Grand Slam champion. I was a few games away, maybe a few points away," said the world number seven, who broke into tears during his runner-up speech. "What upset me the most is not the third set, it's the fifth set. I had a lot of chances in the fifth set and didn't use them. "I'm 23 years old. I don't think it's my last chance. I do believe that I will be a Grand Slam champion at some point." Sorry, we can't display this part of the article any more. Live scores, results and order of play Alerts: Get tennis news sent to your phone Related internet links US Open ATP WTA LTA The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser View comments | 255 Top stories PSG pass masters make Rice and Arsenal's fears come true Published 2 hours ago We have to do something special in Paris - Arteta Published 2 hours ago Rudiger given six-game ban for throwing object at referee Published 3 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC On the frontline with the London Ambulance Service Yinka Bokinni explores the life of Sean 'Diddy' Combs Detectives recount cases which shaped their careers Join the hunt for Scotland's perfect pads Elsewhere in Sport 'Why hit a single when you can hit six?' - the making of a teen IPL star 'One of football's greatest thinkers' - how Guardiola inspired Champions League trio Sciver-Brunt replaces Knight as England captain Will Ferrari turn their season around? The runner who went viral and sparked a campaign for change for women 'Liverpool still need new blood' - where will Slot strengthen? Who are the big winners & losers from the NFL Draft? 'How are we still here?' - Class of 92 graduates still going strong 'PSG worry me more than Real Madrid' Video 'PSG worry me more than Real Madrid' A mole, a Lion and a confession - Premiership Rugby talking points Could Wrexham really reach the Premier League? Meet the heavyweight who teaches in sign language The contenders to derail England's home World Cup Eubank narrowly beats Benn - extended highlights. Video Eubank narrowly beats Benn - extended highlights Soap opera twists and fatherly love - but what next for Eubank and Benn? Man City beat Forest to reach FA Cup final. Video Man City beat Forest to reach FA Cup final Who has made Troy's Premier League team of the week? London Marathon breaks world record for most finishers 'Twenty times' - but now Man Utd must exit 'Ice Age' Resilient England finally get test they needed Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.