Google Pixel Fall Launch Event: Everything We Saw | Digital Trends Skip to main content Menu Digital Trends Computing AI Mobile Gaming Entertainment Audio / Video Autos Videos Search Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 How to Download YouTube Videos AI Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Mobile Trending Topics 5G Phone Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls Best Stock Trading Apps How to Use WhatsApp Web Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Gaming Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TVs Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides Fubo TV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Autos Autos See All Autos Trending Auto Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Auto Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse Autos by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse Smart Home Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Graphics Cards Best Mobile Devices Best Smartphone Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Smart Notebooks Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Deals Deals See All Deals Computing Deals Best Laptop Deals Best MacBook Deals Best Gaming PC Deals Best Chromebook Deals Best Gaming Laptop Deals Gaming Deals Best PS5 Deals Best Lego Deals Best Xbox Series S Deals Best Xbox Series X Deals Best Nintendo Switch Deals Mobile Deals Best iPad Deals Best Tablet Deals Best Google Pixel Deals Best Apple Watch Deals Home Theater Deals Best TV Deals Best Sony TV Deals Best 75-inch TV Deals Best Headphone Deals Smart Home Deals Best Dyson Deals Best Amazon Echo Deals Best Cordless Vacuum Deals Retailers Best Walmart Deals Best Alienware Deals Trending Deals Best Camera Deals Best Prime Day Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Smartphone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphones Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News Videos YouTube Giveaways More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Buying Guides Best Kindles Best Bluetooth Trackers Best Portable Power Stations Best Live TV Streaming Services Original Series You Asked OuttaFocus Weekend Watchlist Tech for Change Genius Home See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics Trending: Gaming Isn’t for Everyone Anymore macOS Sequoia Features You Should Know Why I Love the Kindle Scribe iPhone 16 Pro Max Giveaway Pixel 10 Everything to Know Win a Huge Bluetooth Speaker Perplexity Better Than Siri? Pixel 9a Review Gemini AI Coming to Cars Galaxy S25 New Features Apple Vision Pro Plans Galaxy Z Flip 7 Switch 2 Hands-On Switching from Chrome to Vivaldi Tiny iPad Mini Keyboard Gemini Live Tested Switch 2 Games Nintendo Switch 2 Reveal AirPods Pro 3 Every iPhone Release Xbox Handheld PlayStation 6 Home Mobile News Google’s Pixel Fall Launch event: Everything Google announced By Michael Allison Updated April 25, 2023 Save Table of Contents Table of Contents Where to rewatch the Pixel Fall launch event Google Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro Google Pixel Pass Pixel Stand (2nd gen) Google just hosted an event on October 19 to unveil its new Pixel phones, but the company ended up doing a bit more than that. Yes, Google is launching the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro — something it had not been shy about sharing details on in the months leading up to the event. However, additional reports have claimed that Google could be launching a Pixel Fold, a Pixel Watch, and a new Pixel Pass service as well. Those reports ended up being only partly true. There was no Pixel Fold or Pixel Watch, but Google did manage to show off a new Pixel Pass plan today. Where to rewatch the Pixel Fall launch event The Pixel Fall Launch event happened October 19. Did you miss it? You can rewatch it right on Google’s Pixel event landing page or on YouTube. With the depth of the leaks that occurred before the event, we didn’t expect many surprises —  but Google surprised us anyway. Recommended Videos Google Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro Google The stars of the show are obviously the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro . The Pixel 6 will start at $599 for the 128GB model, while the Pixel 6 Pro starts at $899 for the same 128GB model. This means Google’s new phones will be more affordable than other flagship phones like the iPhone 13 . Related We just got our best look yet at the Google Pixel Watch 4 Google Pixel Watch now gives you scam protection right on your wrist Five reasons I’m excited for the new Google Pixel 9a With large 6.4- and 6.7-inch screens, repectively, advanced camera systems, Tensor chips designed for A.I./machine learning, and funky colors, Google is leaning into the strength of its hardware in a way it didn’t with the Pixel 5 last year. Pre-orders open today, October 19, both directly from Google and from carriers, but you won’t get the phone into your hand until October 28. Google Pixel Pass Google/Paul Warchol Google is also launching the first subscription service for its Pixel phones called Pixel Pass . This is an amalgamation of offerings similar to Apple’s iPhone Upgrade Program and the Apple One service. It is to be a U.S. exclusive service (at least for now) and will combine YouTube Premium, Google’s Play Pass app and game subscription service, Google’s Fi cellular service, and Google One, as well as a Pixel phone financing plan. It’ll make buying Pixels a little bit more affordable. For those who were planning to use Google Fi anyway and aren’t wedded to their specific carriers, this could be a pretty good deal. Pixel Stand (2nd gen) Image used with permission by copyright holder Although not directly mentioned at the event, Google is releasing a successor to the original Pixel Stand from 2018. The latest Pixel Stand costs $79, and it serves as both a stand and a charger. The Qi charger works with all sorts of devices (from Pixel Buds to other phones), and you can use it while making video calls, or if you just want to use your phone hands-free. The Pixel Stand can help your Pixel phone serve as a smart home controller, allowing you to adjust your lights or keep an eye on your Nest cams. Editors’ Recommendations Google Pixel 10: everything you need to know Google rolls out pulse loss detection to Pixel Watch 3 users I hope the Pixel 10 Pro Fold camera is better than rumored, here’s why Google Pixel 10 Pro Fold leak unravels old looks, and that’s okay The Oppo Find N5 should have been the OnePlus Open 2, here’s why Please enable Javascript to view this content Topics Android News Android Google Google Pixel Tech News Wearables Michael Allison Former Digital Trends Contributor twitter Email A UK-based tech journalist for Digital Trends, helping keep track and make sense of the fast-paced world of tech with a… Mobile Comprehensive Google Pixel 9a leak reveals pretty much everything Google’s next mid-range smartphone in the Pixel-A series is reportedly right around the corner. Unsurprisingly, Google has done a poor job of keeping the leaks in check. The latest one gives a full-fledged video review treatment to the upcoming Pixel 9a, diving deep into its hardware, specs, and performance based on real-life testing. The video comes courtesy of tech influencer Sahil Karoul, and shows the phone in a light pink shade. In the video, Karoul mentions two storage variants — 128GB and 256GB — for the Pixel 9a. The packaging is nearly identical to the mainline Pixel 9 series phones, which also means there is no charging brick in the box. Those bezels are an eyesore Read more Mobile Google Pixel 10 leak is a warning shot for Apple to lift its iPhone game Google’s Pixel phones have cultivated a solid reputation for their stunning camera chops. In 2025, Google might take things to the next level with the Pixel 10, edging past mainline iPhones in the process. As per a fresh leak, it seems the company’s next baseline flagship will take the zoom capture prowess to newer heights. The folks over at Android Headlines (in collaboration with @OnLeaks) have shared alleged product renders of the upcoming Pixel 10, which shows a triple-lens camera array at the back. On the Pixel 10, buyers will be greeted by a dedicated telephoto zoom camera. Read more Mobile Here’s your first look at the leaked Google Pixel 10 Pro XL With Apple, Samsung, and OnePlus releasing their initial rounds of new phones for 2025, attention is shifting to Google, which is expected to announce the Pixel 10 series in the coming months. Today, we have the first leaked images of one of these upcoming devices. Images of the Pixel 10 Pro XL have been revealed courtesy of Android Headlines. This phone features a 6.8-inch display and is expected to resemble its predecessor, the Pixel 9 Pro XL. The leaked dimensions indicate that the new model will measure 162.7 x 76.6 x 8.5 mm, reflecting only a 0.1 mm difference in height compared to the existing model. Read more More Mobile News Samsung’s Galaxy S25 Edge could have a surprisingly solid camera Meta’s new AI app lets you share your favorite prompts with friends The iPhone 17 might see a huge RAM upgrade LG phones are losing support soon, here are your options Galaxy Watch 8 Classic could see the return of one of the best Samsung smartwatches Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Flipboard Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows How-To Guides About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Branded Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Digital Trends Media Group 6420 S. Macadam Ave, Suite 216 Portland, OR 97239 Careers Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Press Room Sitemap Digital Trends Media Group may earn a commission when you buy through links on our sites. ©2025 Digital Trends Media Group , a Designtechnica Company. All rights reserved.