LEGO CON - About Us - LEGO.com About Us The LEGO Group The LEGO Group History Management The LEGO® Brand Ownership Policies and Reporting Contact Fan Engagement and Programs Public Policy LEGO® Newsroom Events June 1, 2021 Get ready for LEGO® CON 2021 – the ultimate online experience for LEGO fans everywhere! Download all assets - 883 MB Families can discover all the latest LEGO® news and connect with other fans globally during this inaugural LEGO CON event Billund, DK - June 1st, 2021 : Today the LEGO Group announces its inaugural LEGO® CON and invites fans of all ages to join the fun! This two-hour action-packed LIVE event will let kids and families discover the coolest new things going on in the LEGO world together with a community of others who share their passion for the brick and creativity. During the live show, attendees can be the first to see brand new models and epic challenges, watch live building challenges with special guests, and even become a part of LEGO House history, leaving their personal mark inside the Home of the Brick! The livestream kicks-off with a pre-show of AFOL (Adult Fans of LEGO) inspiration before moving to the jam-packed run of show where attendees can also immerse themselves in live virtual activities and conversations with other fans from around the globe as they experience: VIP behind the scenes access Inspiring builds, and live building that demonstrate the endless possibilities of the brick Our official reveal of new products Exclusive opportunities to engage with LEGO designers and other presenters during the show The inaugural LEGO CON will be hosted and livestreamed directly from LEGO House in Billund, Denmark on June 26th, 2021 at 18-20PM CEST (17-19PM BST // 9AM PST). Many beloved product lines, including LEGO City, LEGO DOTS, LEGO Friends, LEGO Harry Potter™, LEGO Ideas, LEGO Minecraft®, LEGO Ninjago®, LEGO Star Wars™ , LEGO® Super Mario™, LEGO Technic™ and LEGO VIDIYO™ will be represented. Fans can also see inside LEGO House and get a peek at LEGO Masters from around the world. There are sure to be plenty of thrills and jaw-dropping surprises that fans won’t want to miss! Interested in attending? Everyone is invited to join the fun and take part in the first-ever LEGO CON. To tune in live to this free event, visit LEGO.com/legocon . If you can’t make it on the 26th, don’t worry! The whole show is being recorded and can be accessed afterwards also through LEGO.com/legocon . For more information, please contact the LEGO Group Press Office: [email protected] Download all assets - 883 MB Related articles Press Releases May 28, 2021 Ninja Vlogs Go! The LEGO Group Launches First Digital Vlog Series LEGO® Ninjago Characters Jay and Nya to be played by actors using motion capture and real-time rendering. Responsibility May 27, 2021 The LEGO Group and the LEGO Foundation join forces with UNICEF to provide playful parenting to children in need in China The LEGO Group, the LEGO Foundation, and UNICEF announce a partnership to bring learning-through-play to help early years development in children living in disadvantaged regions of China. Products May 20, 2021 Everyone is Awesome LEGO® set celebrates fans’ diversity The LEGO Group announces LEGO® Everyone is Awesome, a set designed to celebrate the diversity of our fans and the world around us.