World Cup 2018: Kylian Mbappé Bends Time and Space, Leads France Past Argentina | The New Yorker Skip to main content Newsletter Search Search The Latest News Books & Culture Fiction & Poetry Humor & Cartoons Magazine Puzzles & Games Video Podcasts Goings On Shop 100th Anniversary Open Navigation Menu Menu Replay World Cup 2018: Kylian Mbappé Bends Time and Space, Leads France Past Argentina By Brian Phillips June 30, 2018 Kylian Mbappé, who scored two goals in France’s World Cup win over Argentina on Saturday, often seems to push play to a point that seems to run slightly ahead of your ability to perceive it. Photograph by Robert Ghement / REX / Shutterstock Save this story Save this story Save this story Save this story Kylian Mbappé is fast. This requires some clarification: most professional soccer players are fast, in the sense that they move more quickly than the average person. Some are fast in a more impressive sense, in that they move more quickly than the average professional soccer player. The World Cup features many players who can cover a given distance swiftly, and a few players who can cover a given distance so swiftly that their speed approaches the upper limit of human athletic potential. This is generally what we mean when we say a player is fast. Mbappé is fast in a different way altogether. The nineteen-year-old French forward, who scored two goals in France’s chaotic 4–3 win over Argentina in their World Cup knockout match on Saturday, does not merely play soccer more quickly than other people play soccer. He often seems to play soccer more quickly than other people can watch soccer; he pushes play to a point that seems to run slightly ahead of your ability to perceive it. Watching another fast player—Theo Walcott, say—you might excitedly think, Look at him run! Watching Mbappé, your brain lurches and you think, This isn’t happening—he shouldn’t have gotten there already. Eleven or so minutes into Saturday’s match, Mbappé came up with a loose ball near the edge of the French area, about eighty yards from the Argentine goal. He tore forward. For a split second it appeared as though he might be going on a good run, the way a conventionally fast player might do. Then you realized he’d skipped through almost the entire Argentine defense in about two long strides, and your brain partially caught up, and you saw that he was already bearing down on the Argentine area, moving in a way that you now recognized less as running quickly than as teleporting slowly, so that by the time Marcos Rojo pulled him down for a penalty the truly surprising thing was that Rojo managed to touch him at all—that they occupied the same plane of existence. Further Reading More coverage of the 2018 World Cup from The New Yorker. The greatest soccer players all seem to have this ability to alter your perception of time. I’m speaking metaphorically and mystically here, of course, but that’s what it feels like to watch them: think of the way, when Lionel Messi touches the ball, the game radically slows down, or the way, when Cristiano Ronaldo touches it, it skips a beat. My favorite thing about watching old videos of Pelé is the way he seems to roll time around with the ball, luring defenders into a slowed-down otherworld and then leaving them there while he rides the next light beam toward the goal. Mbappé, who joined Pelé today as one of only four teen-agers ever to score at the World Cup, is the second-youngest player at the tournament, and still unfinished. Already, though, he has that quality of temporal magic; the ball finds him and the lights in your head do the stretchy hyperspace thing that the stars outside the windows of the Millennium Falcon do. Argentina and France can be exhausting teams to follow, because their wealth of individual talent is so often undermined by baffling infighting and self-defeating factionalism. Saturday’s match seemed doomed to be engulfed by the same weary rumors and narratives. The Argentine players were in rebellion against their manager. Messi—possibly playing in his last World Cup, if you hadn’t heard—still hadn’t won a major tournament with his national team. France had looked drab and disappointing in its three group-stage matches, raising questions about the legacy of 1998 and . . . yawn. What a thrill, then, in a game where most of the grownups seemed to be battling the weights of ancient legacies and unbearable stakes, to see things decided by a kid who ran as if he were out to remind the world what magic is. Brian Phillips is the author of “ Impossible Owls: Essays ,” which will be published on October 2nd. He is a former staff writer for Grantland and a former senior writer for MTV News. He lives in Los Angeles. More: Soccer World Cup France Argentina Lionel Messi Read More Replay World Cup 2018: Iran vs. Portugal and the Excruciating Thrill of Technologically Enabled Meta-Bewilderment I was bored, yet my heart was racing. Welcome to sports in 2018! By Brian Phillips Replay World Cup 2018: The African Teams Depart Early By Clint Smith Video Revising World Cup History with V.A.R. The video-assistant referee is a new addition to World Cup rules. Here we look at some famous calls that might have gone another way, if V.A.R. had been available. Humor Daily Cartoon: Tuesday, April 29th “For too long, we’ve all suffered the bizarre and oppressive policies that I installed last week.” By Hartley Lin Shouts & Murmurs B.D.S.M. for the Middle-Aged Now you’re going to sit in that chair and watch me load the dishwasher my way. And you’re not going to say a single word. By Miriam Jayaratna Page-Turner How “The Great Gatsby” Took Over High School The classroom staple turns a hundred. By Alexander Manshel Crossword The Crossword: Tuesday, April 29, 2025 Fictional planet in a Robin Williams sitcom: three letters. By Patrick Berry Deep State Diaries Turbulence at the Airport T.S.A. workers protect America’s transportation systems. Now their own protections are being stripped away. By E. Tammy Kim Open Questions Why Even Try if You Have A.I.? Now that machines can think for us, we have to choose whether to be the passengers or pilots of our lives. By Joshua Rothman The Lede The Bureaucratic Nightmares of Being Trans Under Trump The executive order banning Americans from self-identifying on their passports—which is part of a larger crackdown on bodily autonomy—has made it harder for trans people to travel, or to get passports at all. By Grace Byron The Art World For Watchers of “The Clock,” Time Is Running Out Christian Marclay’s addictive masterpiece, soon ending its run at moma, offers an escape from our time into time itself. By Adam Gopnik The Front Row The Return of “My Favorite Season,” a Great Modern Melodrama This elegantly passionate tale of long-stifled family conflicts is a thrilling showcase for its star, Catherine Deneuve. By Richard Brody Sections News Books & Culture Fiction & Poetry Humor & Cartoons Magazine Crossword Video Podcasts 100th Anniversary Goings On More Manage Account Shop The New Yorker Buy Covers and Cartoons Condé Nast Store Digital Access Newsletters Jigsaw Puzzle RSS About Careers Contact F.A.Q. Media Kit Press Accessibility Help User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. The New Yorker may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Instagram Tiktok Threads X Facebook LinkedIn YouTube