Tour de France Winner Egan Bernal- The Future Career of Egan Bernal Search Subscribe My Bookmarks Tour de France Shop Bikes and Gear Mountain Bikes Culture Training Skills and Tips Health and Nutrition News Racing Repair Rides Newsletter Follow Other Editions Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content Master the Century Bikes - Gear Health - Nutrition Training Member-Only Stories Subscribe sign in Search Prep for a Century Ride How to Warm Up Ride Strong at 50+ Best Bike Computers Best Commuter Bikes Tour de France Egan Bernal Could Become One of Cycling’s All-Time Greats. But the Tour de France Winner Isn’t There Yet. Egan Bernal Could Become One of Cycling’s All-Time Greats. But the Tour de France Winner Isn’t There Yet. As we’ve seen with other champions, the future is never certain. By Joe Lindsey Published: Aug 01, 2019 1:36 PM EDT Save Article Justin Setterfield // Getty Images When Egan Bernal rolled across the finish line to notch a historic first Tour de France win for Colombia on Sunday, he set hearts alight at home. At only 22 years (and roughly six months) old, he’s also the third-youngest Tour winner in history, and the youngest in more than a century. That set minds racing: If Bernal has achieved such a feat at his precocious age, what does the future hold for him? It’s a tantalizing thought. Bernal is clearly a generational talent. WorldTour teams noticed him in 2017 after a series of top performances in various stage races (he won the Tour de l’Avenir, the so-called Tour de France for young riders, and was top-10 against WorldTour competition at a key Giro d’Italia tuneup race). He signed an unprecedented five-year deal with Sky ( now Ineos ) that fall, an unmistakable sign of the team’s confidence in him, given that even mega-stars like Chris Froome and Peter Sagan typically sign for 3-4 years. ANNE-CHRISTINE POUJOULAT // Getty Images Bernal won the 2019 Tour de France with persistently strong climbing in the Alps. That means cycling’s most impressive young talent is set in a long-term deal with the sport’s richest and most powerful team. Ineos itself has won seven of the last eight Tours de France. It’s easy to see Bernal blowing past the all-time individual record of five wins, or even the now-revoked seven wins set by Lance Armstrong. But before we get too excited, it’s worth noting that Bernal is not the first racer to find himself in this position. Given cycling history, it’s no sure thing that he’ll reach those kinds of heights. Bernal is the 20th rider to win the Tour before turning 25. We can safely disregard the François Fabers and Henri Cornets of the pre-World War II era; cycling then was a far different sport. That leaves eight modern Tour de France champions , and a mixed record, to work with. Egan Bernal's Stage 19 Gear Lightweight Meilenstein Obermayer Schwarz Wheelset For when price doesn't matter and performance is all that counts. Buy Now Courtesy of R&A Cycles Dura-Ace FC-9100 Power Meter Team Ineos trusts Shimano power meters to measure their marginal gains. Buy Now Courtesy of Competitive Cyclist Oakley Sutro For when you want a lens the size of a windshield. Buy Now Trevor Raab Kask Valegro Helmet For maximum ventilation on long mountain stages. Buy Now Courtesy of Competitive Cyclist First, there are riders like Jacques Anquetil, Eddy Merckx, and Bernard Hinault, all of whom went on to win five Tours and become the best stage racers of their respective generations. But there’s also Jan Ullrich, who won the 1997 Tour at age 23 and never had a repeat victory. Or Laurent Fignon, the prodigious French talent who won in 1983 and 1984, then suffered a devastating final-day defeat in 1989 to American Greg LeMond . Why did those racers—and others, like two-time winner Alberto Contador—fail to fulfill predictions that they’d join the five-time champions club? Some of it is just bad luck. Ullrich could have won in 1996, but his team made him work for Bjarne Riis. Then, he ran smack into the rise of Armstrong, finishing second to the now-disgraced American three times. LeMond, just past his 25th birthday when he won his first Tour in 1986, was grievously wounded in a hunting accident the following year. Contador’s team was barred from the race in 2008, and in 2012 Sky began its dominant reign. FILES // Getty Images LeMond won three Tours, but suffered a hunting accident right in the middle of his career. In terms of bad luck, no one beats Gino Bartali , who first won in 1938 at age 24 and then again a decade later. Bartali might have become the winningest stage racer in history, were it not for spending most of his athletic prime as a member of the Italian resistance to fascist dictator Benito Mussolini during WWII. (The Tour was not held between 1940 and 1946.) Other factors played a role, of course. Contador lost his 2010 title to a doping case. Ullrich battled demons like weight gain and depression, issues that Bernal, at least, doesn’t seem to suffer. Fignon had persistent knee troubles. Bernal, by contrast, has proven a stunningly quick healer. Last year, he had a terrible crash at the San Sebastian Classic that left him with severe facial injuries and a brain bleed. He returned to racing just two months later and scored a 12th-place finish at the Tour of Lombardy, one of cycling’s five Monuments. Bryn Lennon // Getty Images Contador initially won the 2010 Tour, but his title was stripped after doping revelations and given instead to Andy Schleck. But the broader point remains: Luck happens, not all of it good. Riders get hurt, teams fold, and dynasties don’t last forever. Already, we’re seeing other teams begin to amass multi-leader rosters of their own to try to rival Ineos. Jumbo–Visma has third-place Tour finisher Steven Kruijswijk and the talented Primož Roglič. Per rumors, it may add former Giro winner Tom Dumoulin for 2020. Trek–Segafredo is looking to sign Vincenzo Nibali , which would earn it a duo of (older) talents along with Richie Porte. Mitchelton–Scott has the Yates twins and Esteban Chaves. Movistar will lose Nairo Quintana , but gain Enric Mas to ride alongside Alejandro Valverde and a re-signed Mikel Landa. Tim de Waele // Getty Images Bernal may be Ineos’s hottest rider right now, but the British team has several superstars competing for marquee wins. That said, Ineos will not go quietly. New owner Jim Ratcliffe is rumored to have increased the team’s famously huge budget, and may be close to signing Giro d’Italia winner Richard Carapaz , only four years older than Bernal. If the deal goes through, that would give Ineos a roster with four active Grand Tour winners once the injured Chris Froome returns to action. The most difficult obstacle it faces may well be finding enough opportunities for everyone. Related Stories Winners and Losers From the 2019 Tour de France 13 Amazing Moments of the 2019 Tour de France Finally, like all Tour champions, Bernal will now face considerable public and press demands. Riders handle this to varying degrees of success. Bernal seems like a fairly well-grounded and mature rider, even at 22. But he’s also the first-ever Tour winner from Colombia, the most cycling-obsessed country in the Western Hemisphere. His considerable celebrity will grow even more, and with it, the pressure. Bernal already has a list of wins that would make for a fantastic full cycling career. He has the potential to add to that, and could become one of the greatest stage racers in the sport’s history. But there are no givens in pro cycling. There is only the journey, and Bernal’s has just begun. Watch Next Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Tour de France 2025 Tour de France and Tour de France Femmes Why Are Women’s TdF Winnings Just 10% of Men’s? What Do the Tour de France Femmes Jerseys Mean? How Long Is the Tour de France Femmes? Advertisement - Continue Reading Below An Unforgettable Second Place: Jonas Vingegaard Did We Even Deserve This Tour de France? Tour de France Team Radio Controversy Indoor Rides Inspired By the TdF Tour de France: Tadej Pogačar Wins ITT on Stage 21 2024 Tour de France Results Tour de France Stage 21 Preview Tour de France: Tadej Pogačar Wins Stage 20 Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Bicycling Membership Perks Newsletter Press Room About Bicycling Subscribe Writer Guidelines Customer Service Community Guidelines Advertise Online Other Hearst Subscriptions A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Magazines Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads