Concordia's 2021 Leadership Award goes to Former U.S. First Lady Laura Bush, the LEGO Group CEO Niels B. Christiansen, and Justice for Migrant Women Founder & President Mónica Ramírez Accessibility Statement Skip Navigation Resources Blog Journalists Client Login Send a Release News Products Contact Search Search When typing in this field, a list of search results will appear and be automatically updated as you type. Searching for your content... No results found. Please change your search terms and try again. News in Focus Browse News Releases All News Releases All Public Company English-only News Releases Overview Multimedia Gallery All Multimedia All Photos All Videos Multimedia Gallery Overview Trending Topics All Trending Topics Business & Money Auto & Transportation All Automotive & Transportation Aerospace, Defense Air Freight Airlines & Aviation Automotive Maritime & Shipbuilding Railroads and Intermodal Transportation Supply Chain/Logistics Transportation, Trucking & Railroad Travel Trucking and Road Transportation Auto & Transportation Overview View All Auto & Transportation Business Technology All Business Technology Blockchain Broadcast Tech Computer & Electronics Computer Hardware Computer Software Data Analytics Electronic Commerce Electronic Components Electronic Design Automation Financial Technology High Tech Security Internet Technology Nanotechnology Networks Peripherals Semiconductors Business Technology Overview View All Business Technology Entertain­ment & Media All Entertain­ment & Media Advertising Art Books Entertainment Film and Motion Picture Magazines Music Publishing & Information Services Radio & Podcast Television Entertain­ment & Media Overview View All Entertain­ment & Media Financial Services & Investing All Financial Services & Investing Accounting News & Issues Acquisitions, Mergers and Takeovers Banking & Financial Services Bankruptcy Bond & Stock Ratings Conference Call Announcements Contracts Cryptocurrency Dividends Earnings Earnings Forecasts & Projections Financing Agreements Insurance Investments Opinions Joint Ventures Mutual Funds Private Placement Real Estate Restructuring & Recapitalization Sales Reports Shareholder Activism Shareholder Meetings Stock Offering Stock Split Venture Capital Financial Services & Investing Overview View All Financial Services & Investing General Business All General Business Awards Commercial Real Estate Corporate Expansion Earnings Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Human Resource & Workforce Management Licensing New Products & Services Obituaries Outsourcing Businesses Overseas Real Estate (non-US) Personnel Announcements Real Estate Transactions Residential Real Estate Small Business Services Socially Responsible Investing Surveys, Polls and Research Trade Show News General Business Overview View All General Business Science & Tech Consumer Technology All Consumer Technology Artificial Intelligence Blockchain Cloud Computing/Internet of Things Computer Electronics Computer Hardware Computer Software Consumer Electronics Cryptocurrency Data Analytics Electronic Commerce Electronic Gaming Financial Technology Mobile Entertainment Multimedia & Internet Peripherals Social Media STEM (Science, Tech, Engineering, Math) Supply Chain/Logistics Wireless Communications Consumer Technology Overview View All Consumer Technology Energy & Natural Resources All Energy Alternative Energies Chemical Electrical Utilities Gas General Manufacturing Mining Mining & Metals Oil & Energy Oil and Gas Discoveries Utilities Water Utilities Energy & Natural Resources Overview View All Energy & Natural Resources Environ­ment All Environ­ment Conservation & Recycling Environmental Issues Environmental Policy Environmental Products & Services Green Technology Natural Disasters Environ­ment Overview View All Environ­ment Heavy Industry & Manufacturing All Heavy Industry & Manufacturing Aerospace & Defense Agriculture Chemical Construction & Building General Manufacturing HVAC (Heating, Ventilation and Air-Conditioning) Machinery Machine Tools, Metalworking and Metallurgy Mining Mining & Metals Paper, Forest Products & Containers Precious Metals Textiles Tobacco Heavy Industry & Manufacturing Overview View All Heavy Industry & Manufacturing Telecomm­unications All Telecomm­unications Carriers and Services Mobile Entertainment Networks Peripherals Telecommunications Equipment Telecommunications Industry VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) Wireless Communications Telecomm­unications Overview View All Telecomm­unications Lifestyle & Health Consumer Products & Retail All Consumer Products & Retail Animals & Pets Beers, Wines and Spirits Beverages Bridal Services Cannabis Cosmetics and Personal Care Fashion Food & Beverages Furniture and Furnishings Home Improvement Household, Consumer & Cosmetics Household Products Jewelry Non-Alcoholic Beverages Office Products Organic Food Product Recalls Restaurants Retail Supermarkets Toys Consumer Products & Retail Overview View All Consumer Products & Retail Entertain­ment & Media All Entertain­ment & Media Advertising Art Books Entertainment Film and Motion Picture Magazines Music Publishing & Information Services Radio & Podcast Television Entertain­ment & Media Overview View All Entertain­ment & Media Health All Health Biometrics Biotechnology Clinical Trials & Medical Discoveries Dentistry FDA Approval Fitness/Wellness Health Care & Hospitals Health Insurance Infection Control International Medical Approval Medical Equipment Medical Pharmaceuticals Mental Health Pharmaceuticals Supplementary Medicine Health Overview View All Health Sports All Sports General Sports Outdoors, Camping & Hiking Sporting Events Sports Equipment & Accessories Sports Overview View All Sports Travel All Travel Amusement Parks and Tourist Attractions Gambling & Casinos Hotels and Resorts Leisure & Tourism Outdoors, Camping & Hiking Passenger Aviation Travel Industry Travel Overview View All Travel Policy & Public Interest Policy & Public Interest All Policy & Public Interest Advocacy Group Opinion Animal Welfare Congressional & Presidential Campaigns Corporate Social Responsibility Domestic Policy Economic News, Trends, Analysis Education Environmental European Government FDA Approval Federal and State Legislation Federal Executive Branch & Agency Foreign Policy & International Affairs Homeland Security Labor & Union Legal Issues Natural Disasters Not For Profit Patent Law Public Safety Trade Policy U.S. State Policy Policy & Public Interest Overview View All Policy & Public Interest People & Culture People & Culture All People & Culture Aboriginal, First Nations & Native American African American Asian American Children Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Hispanic Lesbian, Gay & Bisexual Men's Interest People with Disabilities Religion Senior Citizens Veterans Women People & Culture Overview View All People & Culture In-Language News Arabic español português Česko Danmark Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Norge Polska Portugal Россия Slovensko Suomi Sverige Overview Distribution by PR Newswire AI Tools Investor Relations Guaranteed Paid Placement SocialBoost All Products General Inquiries Editorial Bureaus Partnerships Media Inquiries Worldwide Offices Hamburger menu Send a Release ALL CONTACT INFO Contact Us 888-776-0942 from 8 AM - 10 PM ET Send a Release Client Login Resources Blog Journalists RSS News in Focus Browse All News Multimedia Gallery Trending Topics Business & Money Auto & Transportation Business Technology Entertain­ment & Media Financial Services & Investing General Business Science & Tech Consumer Technology Energy & Natural Resources Environ­ment Heavy Industry & Manufacturing Telecomm­unications Lifestyle & Health Consumer Products & Retail Entertain­ment & Media Health Sports Travel Policy & Public Interest People & Culture People & Culture Send a Release Client Login Resources Blog Journalists RSS Overview Distribution by PR Newswire AI Tools Investor Relations SocialBoost All Products Send a Release Client Login Resources Blog Journalists RSS General Inquiries Editorial Bureaus Partnerships Media Inquiries Worldwide Offices Send a Release Client Login Resources Blog Journalists RSS Concordia's 2021 Leadership Award goes to Former U.S. First Lady Laura Bush, the LEGO Group CEO Niels B. Christiansen, and Justice for Migrant Women Founder & President Mónica Ramírez News provided by Concordia Jul 14, 2021, 08:00 ET Share this article Share to X Share this article Share to X NEW YORK , July 14, 2021 /PRNewswire/ -- The Concordia Leadership Council today announces the three recipients of the 2021 Leadership Award: Laura Bush , Former First Lady of the United States (public sector); Niels B. Christiansen , CEO of the LEGO Group (private sector); and, Mónica Ramírez, Founder & President of Justice for Migrant Women (nonprofit sector). The Concordia Leadership Award recognizes global leaders within the public, private, and nonprofit sectors who inspire others through their ability to turn vision into impact. Voted on by a subcommittee of the Concordia Leadership Council, recipients possess a commitment to catalyzing positive social and economic change while promoting effective public-private collaboration to create a more sustainable future. Past recipients include: Doug McMillon , CEO of Walmart; Christiana Figueres , Founder of Global Optimism; António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations; and, Nobel Peace Laureate Professor Muhammad Yunus . Concordia's Leadership Award Committee is chaired by Anita McBride , Concordia Leadership Council Member and Former Assistant to President George W. Bush & Chief of Staff to First Lady Laura Bush , who commented: "The Leadership Award Committee has undertaken a rigorous nomination and selection process. I am honored to chair this committee and I'm delighted to announce three distinguished individuals as this year's recipients. Each, in their own right, showcases exemplary leadership in their field and is charting the path for lasting and positive change in people's lives." For the public sector, the recipient of the 2021 Leadership Award is Laura Bush , Former First Lady of the United States . For decades, Mrs. Bush has worked to advance and protect the rights and well-being of women and girls around the world, particularly in Afghanistan . As First Lady, she made three trips to the country, and in 2001 she delivered the President's weekly radio address—the first for a First Lady—to direct international attention to the Taliban's oppression of women. At the 2014 Concordia Annual Summit, Mrs. Bush delivered keynote remarks, alongside Former President George W. Bush , and at the 2017 Concordia Annual Summit, she led a panel of first ladies in a discussion about the influence first spouses have to improve the lives of women and children in their countries. Today, Mrs. Bush pursues her work in global health, gender equity, democracy and human rights, and literacy through the George W. Bush Institute. She also serves as an Honorary Co-Chair of the U.S. Afghan Women's Council, a role she has held for nearly two decades. "I first learned of Concordia in 2011 when President George W. Bush delivered the first-ever keynote address at a Concordia Summit. Since then, I have watched Concordia's growth, and I have been thrilled to participate over the years," said Mrs. Bush. "I am honored to receive the 2021 Leadership Award. I am committed to supporting women around the world – in countries like Afghanistan , where their freedoms are fragile; and throughout the continent of Africa , where there is so much promise. Thanks to Concordia for joining me in celebrating women across the globe." For the private sector, Concordia is awarding Niels B. Christiansen , CEO of the LEGO Group. At the forefront of the LEGO Group since 2017, Christiansen has launched the first sustainably-sourced LEGO elements and incorporated digital experiences into the company's core products. Under his leadership, the company has committed to making its packaging fully sustainable by the end of 2025 and to investing up to $400 million over the next three years in its sustainability and social responsibility initiatives, which focus on helping children learn through play. "Sustainability is a top priority for all private sector companies. If we don't take urgent action now to care for our planet and for future generations, it will be too late," commented Christiansen. "I'm grateful to receive the 2021 Leadership Award and to be able to share the work we're doing at the LEGO Group to empower our children, especially through play, to create a sustainable world. I'm humbled to appear alongside two influential leaders, and I look forward to putting our minds together to advance some much-needed conversations." For the nonprofit sector, the recipient of the 2021 Leadership Award is Mónica Ramírez, Founder & President of Justice for Migrant Women. A force for social justice across the U.S., Ramírez fights for the civil and human rights of women, children, workers, Latinos/as, and immigrants, and has a specific focus on representing female farmworkers and other low-paid immigrant women who are victims of workplace discrimination and sexual violence. She is also Co-Founder of The Latinx House, Poderistas, and Alianza Nacional de Campesinas. She authored the 'Dear Sisters' open letter to the women of Hollywood from farmworker women that sparked the TIME'S UP movement, and has received numerous accolades for her effective advocacy and activism. Ramírez headlined Concordia's first all-Latinx panel at the 2019 Annual Summit . "Migrant women in the United States and across the globe are powerful. It is my honor to work alongside them to help elevate their power, to fight for their rights and to ensure that they are centered in conversations and decisions that impact their lives," said Ramírez. "The kind and scale of change that is required to find solutions to some of the world's most pressing problems for migrant women and other community members cannot be achieved without embracing the model that Concordia is founded on, which brings together the public sector, private sector, and nonprofit sector with an understanding that directly impacted community members must be informing and driving the strategy for change. I believe that together we can overturn long-standing oppressive systems and policies that deny women, children, workers, and immigrants their civil and human rights in order to advance progress and justice on a global scale. I'm honored to receive this prestigious recognition and look forward to participating in this year's Annual Summit." Leadership Award recipients are nominated anonymously by Concordia 's Board of Directors, Advisors and Senior Advisors, Leadership Council, and staff. They are voted on and selected by the Leadership Award Committee, chaired by Anita McBride and managed by Concordia's Executive Office. The following members of Concordia's Leadership Council serve on the Concordia Leadership Award Committee: President José Manuel Barroso , Non-Executive Chairman, Goldman Sachs International; Former President, European Commission; Former Prime Minister, Republic of Portugal President Laura Chinchilla , Former President, Republic of Costa Rica President Jorge Fernando Quiroga , Former President, Plurinational State of Bolivia President Vaira Vīķe-Freiberga , Former President, Republic of Latvia Dr. Ian Bremmer , Founder and President, Eurasia Group & GZERO Media; Foreign Affairs Columnist and Editor-at-Large, TIME Magazine Ambassador Paula Dobriansky , Former Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs, United States of America ; Senior Fellow, Harvard University Belfer Center for Science & International Affairs Madame Monica Geingos , First Lady, Republic of Namibia Jeh Johnson , Partner, Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP; Former Secretary, U.S. Department of Homeland Security Ambassador John D. Negroponte , Vice Chairman, McLarty Associates; Former United States Deputy Secretary of State and U.S. Director of National Intelligence Michael Nyenhuis , President and CEO, UNICEF USA Dr. Eduardo Padrón, Ph.D., President Emeritus, Miami Dade College The official award ceremony for the 2021 Leadership Award will take place during the 2021 Annual Summit . For press enquiries, contact Rita Lockheart at [email protected] . About Concordia: Concordia is a registered 501(c)(3) nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that builds meaningful partnerships for positive social impact. As equal parts convener, campaigner, and idea incubator, Concordia is actively fostering cross-sector collaboration to create a more prosperous and sustainable future. Concordia was founded in 2011 by Matthew A. Swift and Nicholas M. Logothetis. SOURCE Concordia Related Links http://concordia.net WANT YOUR COMPANY'S NEWS FEATURED ON PRNEWSWIRE.COM? 440k+ Newsrooms & Influencers 9k+ Digital Media Outlets 270k+ Journalists Opted In GET STARTED × Modal title Contact PR Newswire Call PR Newswire at 888-776-0942 from 8 AM - 9 PM ET Chat with an Expert Contact Us General Inquiries Editorial Bureaus Partnerships Media Inquiries Worldwide Offices Products For Marketers For Public Relations For IR & Compliance For Agency All Products About About PR Newswire About Cision Become a Publishing Partner Become a Channel Partner Careers Accessibility Statement Global Sites APAC APAC - Simplified Chinese APAC - Traditional Chinese Brazil Canada Czech Denmark Finland France Germany India Indonesia Israel Italy Japan Korea Mexico Middle East Middle East - Arabic Netherlands Norway Poland Portugal Russia Slovakia Spain Sweden United Kingdom Vietnam My Services All New Releases Online Member Center ProfNet Data Privacy Do not sell or share my personal information: Submit via [email protected] Call Privacy toll-free: 877-297-8921 Contact PR Newswire Products About My Services All News Releases Online Member Center ProfNet Call PR Newswire at 888-776-0942 Terms of Use Privacy Policy Information Security Policy Site Map RSS Cookie Settings Copyright © 2025 Cision US Inc.