Hologram Headset: An Augmented Reality - In Compliance Magazine Facebook Linkedin RSS Share Twitter News Design Testing Standards and Compliance Fundamentals Industries Aerospace Automotive Communications Energy and Power Information Technology Manufacturing Marine and Offshore Medical Military and Defense Telecom, Wireless and IOT Resources Expert Insights Career Advice Events Calendar Resource Library Supplier Directory Terms & Definitions Magazine About About Us Contact Us Advertise Contribute Subscribe to the Magazine Change Address Cancel Subscription Search Subscribe Get our free email newsletter Subscribe / Renew Search News Design Testing Standards and Compliance Fundamentals Industries Aerospace Automotive Communications Energy and Power Information Technology Manufacturing Marine and Offshore Medical Military and Defense Telecom, Wireless and IOT Resources Expert Insights Career Advice Events Calendar Resource Library Supplier Directory Terms & Definitions Magazine About About Us Contact Us Advertise Contribute Subscribe to the Magazine Change Address Cancel Subscription News Design Testing Standards and Compliance Fundamentals Industries Aerospace Automotive Communications Energy and Power Information Technology Manufacturing Marine and Offshore Medical Military and Defense Telecom, Wireless and IOT Resources Expert Insights Career Advice Events Calendar Resource Library Supplier Directory Terms & Definitions Magazine About About Us Contact Us Advertise Contribute Subscribe to the Magazine Change Address Cancel Subscription Subscribe / Renew Search News Hologram Headset: An Augmented Reality January 23, 2015 | By In Compliance News This week Microsoft demonstrated prototypes for HoloLens, an image projection headset that superimposes holograms onto the real world. The new device is different from other holographic gadgets such as Facebook’s Oculus Rift because it has a clear lens which allows users to view holograms right along with the tangible things in front of them. Alex Kipman, the designer of Kinect, introduced Hololens at a Microsoft event on January 21 st . He says HoloLens uses the world’s most advanced holographic computing platform which allows you to pin holograms to physical locations. HoloLens uses three processor cores: a CPU, a GPU, and “holographic processing unit.” The device will be wireless , with advanced depth sensors and built-in spatial sound. There is no touchscreen or mouse to click. Instead, it is controlled by voice commands and hand and eye gestures. Unlike 3-D movies or existing virtual reality headsets that create the illusion of depth by showing different flat images to each eye, HoloLens uses light field displays. Microsoft remains quiet about the components used to cram so much technology the headset. At In Compliance we are especially curious about what kind of battery will power this complicated wireless device. - Partner Content - A Dash of Maxwell’s: A Maxwell’s Equations Primer Through mathematical precision, Glen Dash offers a comprehensive exploration of Maxwell's Equations, revealing the intricate mechanisms by which electric and magnetic fields interact to explain electromagnetic radiation and fundamentally shape our technological understanding of modern electronics and communications. Read more There are several exciting potential uses for HoloLens: interactive communication, educational demonstrations, and of course, gaming. Scientists at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory have already worked with Microsoft to map out a 3-D Martian landscape. Scientists will soon be exploring Mars using holograms of Mars Rover images which allow them to virtually walk on the surface of the planet. Microsoft says HoloLens will be available along with Windows 10, which is expected to be released later this year. Source: Microsoft | The Register Share Linkedin Twitter Facebook Email Print Copy URL Related Articles Designing for EMC Compliance in Consumer Electronics Researchers Demonstrate  Novel Approach to Fabricating MXene Films that Block Electromagnetic Interference Smart Headphones Alert Pedestrians Of Oncoming Danger Digital Sponsors Become a Sponsor Sign Up Now Discover new products, review technical whitepapers, read the latest compliance news, and check out trending engineering news. Get our email updates What's New Advanced Test Equipment Corporation to Host San Diego Test Equipment Symposium 2025 EMC and Wireless Industry Standards Addressed at May Meeting Series of ANSC C63® Würth Elektronik Expands its Range of Inductors High Intensity Radiated Fields (HIRF), Part 4 TDK Offers MLCCs with the Industry’s Highest Capacitance at 100V for Automotive Applications - From Our Sponsors - Sign up for the In Compliance Email Newsletter Discover new products, review technical whitepapers, read the latest compliance news, and trending engineering news. Sign Up Now X