Titanic (1997 film) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Plot 2 Cast Toggle Cast subsection 2.1 Fictional characters 2.2 Historical characters 2.3 Cameos 3 Pre-production Toggle Pre-production subsection 3.1 Writing and inspiration 3.2 Scale modeling 4 Production 5 Post-production Toggle Post-production subsection 5.1 Effects 5.2 Editing 5.3 Heart of the Ocean 6 Soundtrack 7 Release Toggle Release subsection 7.1 Initial screening 8 Box office Toggle Box office subsection 8.1 Initial theatrical run 8.2 Commercial analysis 9 Critical reception Toggle Critical reception subsection 9.1 Initial 9.2 Retrospective 9.3 Other 10 Accolades 11 Home media 12 Legacy Toggle Legacy subsection 12.1 Re-release 12.1.1 3D conversion 12.2 20th anniversary 12.3 25th anniversary 12.4 Titanic Live 13 Other media 14 See also 15 Notes 16 References 17 Further reading 18 External links Toggle the table of contents Titanic (1997 film) 117 languages Afrikaans አማርኛ العربية Aragonés অসমীয়া Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه Basa Bali বাংলা 閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gú Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца) भोजपुरी Български Bosanski Brezhoneg Català Чӑвашла Cebuano Čeština Cymraeg Dansk الدارجة Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Emiliàn e rumagnòl Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Fiji Hindi Français Gaeilge Galego 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hrvatski Ido Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa ಕನ್ನಡ ქართული कॉशुर / کٲشُر Қазақша Kiswahili Коми Kreyòl ayisyen Кыргызча Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Limburgs Livvinkarjala Magyar Македонски മലയാളം मराठी მარგალური مصرى مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands नेपाली 日本語 Нохчийн Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan Олык марий ଓଡ଼ିଆ Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پښتو Polski Português Qaraqalpaqsha Qırımtatarca Română Runa Simi Русский Shqip සිංහල Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча / tatarça తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Тыва дыл Українська اردو Vèneto Vepsän kel’ Tiếng Việt Winaray 吴语 ייִדיש 粵語 Zazaki 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 1997 American film by James Cameron Titanic Theatrical release poster Directed by James Cameron Written by James Cameron Produced by James Cameron Jon Landau Starring Leonardo DiCaprio Kate Winslet Billy Zane Kathy Bates Frances Fisher Bernard Hill Jonathan Hyde Danny Nucci David Warner Bill Paxton Cinematography Russell Carpenter Edited by Conrad Buff James Cameron Richard A. Harris Music by James Horner Production companies Paramount Pictures [ 1 ] [ 2 ] 20th Century Fox [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Lightstorm Entertainment [ 1 ] Distributed by Paramount Pictures (United States and Canada) 20th Century Fox (International) Release dates November 1, 1997 ( 1997-11-01 ) ( Tokyo ) December 19, 1997 ( 1997-12-19 ) (United States) Running time 195 minutes [ 3 ] Country United States Language English Budget $200 million [ 4 ] [ 5 ] [ 6 ] Box office $2.264 billion [ 7 ] Titanic is a 1997 American epic romantic disaster film directed, written, co-produced and co-edited by James Cameron . Incorporating both historical and fictionalized aspects, it is based on accounts of the sinking of RMS Titanic in 1912. The film stars Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet as members of different social classes who fall in love during the ship's maiden voyage. The film also features an ensemble cast of Billy Zane , Kathy Bates , Frances Fisher , Bernard Hill , Jonathan Hyde , Danny Nucci , David Warner , and Bill Paxton . Cameron's inspiration for the film came from his fascination with shipwrecks . He felt a love story interspersed with human loss would be essential to convey the emotional impact of the disaster. Production began on September 1, 1995, [ 8 ] when Cameron shot footage of the Titanic wreck . The modern scenes on the research vessel were shot on board the Akademik Mstislav Keldysh , which Cameron had used as a base when filming the wreck. Scale models , computer-generated imagery , and a reconstruction of the Titanic built at Baja Studios were used to recreate the sinking. The film was initially in development at 20th Century Fox , but a mounting budget and being behind schedule resulted in Fox asking Paramount Pictures for financial help; Paramount handled distribution in the United States and Canada, while Fox released the film in other territories. Titanic was the most expensive film ever made at the time, with a production budget of $200 million. Filming took place from July 1996 to March 1997. Titanic premiered at the Tokyo International Film Festival on November 1, 1997, and was released in the United States on December 19. It was praised for its visual effects, performances (particularly those of DiCaprio, Winslet, and Gloria Stuart ), production values, direction, score, cinematography, story, and emotional depth. Among other awards , it was nominated for 14 Academy Awards and won a record-tying 11, including Best Picture and Best Director , tying Ben-Hur (1959) for the most Academy Awards won by a film. With an initial worldwide gross of over $1.84 billion, Titanic was the first film to reach the billion-dollar mark. It was the highest-grossing film of all time until Cameron's next film, Avatar (2009), surpassed it in 2010. Income from the initial theatrical release, retail video, and soundtrack sales and US broadcast rights exceeded $3.2 billion. [ 9 ] A number of re-releases have pushed the film's worldwide theatrical total to $2.264 billion, making it the second film to gross more than $2 billion worldwide after Avatar . The Library of Congress selected it for preservation in the United States National Film Registry for being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant" in 2017. Plot In 1996, aboard the research vessel Akademik Mstislav Keldysh , treasure hunter Brock Lovett and his team explore the wreck of RMS Titanic , hoping to find a necklace known as the Heart of the Ocean. Instead, they recover a safe containing a drawing of a young woman wearing the necklace. The sketch is dated April 14, 1912, the day the Titanic struck an iceberg and sank , resulting in about 1,500 deaths. [ Note 1 ] After seeing a television report about the discovery, centenarian Rose Dawson Calvert contacts Lovett, revealing herself as the woman in the drawing. Hoping she can help locate the necklace, Lovett brings Rose and her granddaughter aboard the Keldysh , where Rose recounts her experience as a Titanic passenger. In 1912, 17-year-old Rose DeWitt Bukater boards the Titanic in Southampton with her wealthy fiancé, Cal Hockley, and her mother, Ruth. Ruth stresses that Rose's marriage to Cal will resolve their financial problems, but Rose is unhappy in the loveless engagement. Feeling trapped, Rose contemplates suicide by jumping from the ship's stern, but is stopped by Jack Dawson, a poor nomadic artist. Jack and Rose form a friendship, and Jack confesses his growing feelings for her. Though initially resistant, Rose realizes she has fallen in love with Jack, despite Cal's and Ruth's disapproval. Rose brings Jack to her stateroom and asks him to draw her nude wearing only the necklace. Afterward, they evade Cal's valet, Spicer Lovejoy, and have sex in a car in the cargo hold. On the forward deck, they witness the ship's collision with an iceberg and overhear officers discussing the severity of the situation. When Cal discovers Jack's sketch of Rose and a mocking note she left, he arranges to frame Jack for theft by having Lovejoy plant the necklace on him. Jack is arrested and locked in the master-at-arms ' office, while Cal places the necklace in his coat pocket. As the ship begins sinking, women and children are prioritized for the lifeboats. Rose finds and frees Jack, and they return to the deck, where Cal urges Rose to board a lifeboat, claiming he and Jack will board another. He unwittingly wraps his coat, containing the necklace, around her. However, as her lifeboat is lowered, Rose jumps back onto the sinking ship, unwilling to leave Jack behind. Enraged, Cal grabs a pistol and chases them through the flooding ship, but gives up when they escape. Cal manages to secure a place on a lifeboat by pretending to be a child's father. As the ship's flooded bow sinks, the stern rises into the air, and Jack and Rose cling to the railing. The ship splits in two, and the stern sinks into the freezing water with the remaining passengers. Jack helps Rose onto floating debris and makes her promise to survive and live a full life. Jack dies from hypothermia , but Rose is saved by a returning lifeboat, and later rescued by the RMS Carpathia . Rose remains hidden from Cal and her mother, and gives her name as Rose Dawson on her arrival in New York City. In the present, Rose reveals that Cal committed suicide after losing his fortune in the 1929 stock market crash . She tells the Keldysh crew that Jack saved her in every possible way, and laments that her memories are all that she has left of him. Touched by her account of the Titanic , Lovett abandons his search for the necklace. Alone at night on the stern of the Keldysh , Rose, who has kept the necklace in her possession all along, drops it into the sea above the wreck. Later, as she lies in her bed, photographs on her dresser depict a life of freedom and adventure inspired by Jack. [ 10 ] Aboard the pristine and undamaged Titanic , a young Rose reunites with Jack at the Grand Staircase , applauded by the passengers and crew who died in the sinking. Cast Fictional characters Leonardo DiCaprio (pictured in 2002), who portrayed Jack Dawson, and Kate Winslet (in 2006), who portrayed Rose DeWitt Bukater Leonardo DiCaprio as Jack Dawson. Cameron said he needed the cast to feel they were really on the Titanic , to relive its liveliness, and "to take that energy and give it to Jack, ... an artist who is able to have his heart soar". [ 11 ] Jack is portrayed as an itinerant, poor orphan from Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin , who has travelled the world, including Paris . He wins two third-class tickets for the Titanic in a poker game and travels with his friend Fabrizio. He is attracted to Rose at first sight. Her fiancé's invitation to dine with them the next evening enables Jack to mix with first-class passengers for a night. Cameron's original choice for the role was River Phoenix ; however, he died in 1993. [ 12 ] Though established actors like Matthew McConaughey , Chris O'Donnell , Billy Crudup , and Stephen Dorff were considered, Cameron felt they were too old for the part of a 20-year-old. [ 13 ] [ 14 ] Tom Cruise was interested, but his asking price was too high. [ 14 ] Cameron considered Jared Leto for the role, but Leto refused to audition. [ 15 ] Jeremy Sisto did a series of screen tests with Winslet and three other actresses vying for the role of Rose. [ 16 ] DiCaprio, 21 years old at the time, was brought to Cameron's attention by casting director Mali Finn. [ 13 ] Initially, he did not want the role and refused to read his first romantic scene. Cameron said, "He read it once, then started goofing around, and I could never get him to focus on it again. But for one split second, a shaft of light came down from the heavens and lit up the forest." Cameron strongly believed in DiCaprio's acting ability and told him, "Look, I'm not going to make this guy brooding and neurotic. I'm not going to give him a tic and a limp and all the things you want." Cameron envisioned the character as being like those played by James Stewart or Gregory Peck . [ 13 ] [ 17 ] Although Jack Dawson was a fictional character, in Fairview Cemetery in Halifax, Nova Scotia , where 121 victims are buried, there is a grave labeled "J. Dawson". The producers did not know of the real J. Dawson until after the film was released. [ 18 ] Kate Winslet as Rose DeWitt Bukater. Cameron said Winslet "had the thing that you look for" and that there was "a quality in her face, in her eyes" that he "just knew people would be ready to go the distance with her". [ 11 ] Rose is a 17-year-old girl from Philadelphia , who is forced into an engagement to 30-year-old Cal Hockley so she and her mother, Ruth, can maintain their high-class status after her father's death left the family debt-ridden. Rose boards Titanic with Cal and Ruth as a first-class passenger and meets Jack. Winslet said of her character, "She has got a lot to give, and she's got a very open heart. And she wants to explore and adventure the world, but she [feels] that's not going to happen." [ 11 ] Gwyneth Paltrow , Winona Ryder , Claire Danes (who had worked with DiCaprio in Romeo + Juliet the previous year), Gabrielle Anwar , and Reese Witherspoon were considered for the role. [ 13 ] [ 19 ] [ 20 ] [ 21 ] When they turned it down, Winslet campaigned heavily for the role. She sent Cameron daily notes from England, which led Cameron to invite her to Hollywood for auditions. As with DiCaprio, casting director Mali Finn originally brought her to Cameron's attention. When looking for a Rose, Cameron described the character as "an Audrey Hepburn type". He was initially uncertain about casting Winslet even after her screen test impressed him. [ 13 ] After she screen tested with DiCaprio, Winslet was so thoroughly impressed with him that she whispered to Cameron, "He's great. Even if you don't pick me, pick him." Winslet sent Cameron a single rose with a card signed, "From Your Rose", and lobbied him by phone. "You don't understand!" she pleaded one day when she reached him by mobile phone in his Humvee . "I am Rose! I don't know why you're even seeing anyone else!" Her persistence, as well as her talent, eventually convinced him to cast her in the role. [ 13 ] Billy Zane as Cal Hockley, Rose's arrogant and snobbish 30-year-old fiancé, who is the heir to a Pittsburgh steel fortune. He is resentful of Rose's affection for Jack. Cameron initially considered Michael Biehn , whom he had previously collaborated with on The Terminator , Aliens , and The Abyss , for the role, [ 22 ] before offering it to Matthew McConaughey, [ 14 ] and Rob Lowe said he pursued it. [ 23 ] Frances Fisher as Ruth DeWitt Bukater, Rose's widowed mother, who arranges Rose's engagement to Cal to maintain her family's high-society status. Like many aristocratic passengers portrayed in the film, her disposition is elitist and frivolous. She loves her daughter but believes that social position is more important than having a loving marriage. She strongly dislikes Jack, even though he saved her daughter's life. Gloria Stuart as the modern-day Rose Dawson Calvert. Rose narrates the film in a framing device . Cameron stated, "In order to see the present and the past, I decided to create a fictional survivor who is [close to] 101 years, and she connects us in a way through history." [ 11 ] The 100-year-old Rose gives Lovett information regarding the Heart of the Ocean after he discovers a nude drawing of her in the wreck. She shares the story of her time aboard the ship and speaks about her relationship with Jack for the first time since the sinking. At 87, Stuart had to be made up to look older for the role. [ 14 ] Of casting Stuart, Cameron stated, "My casting director found her. She was sent out on a mission to find retired actresses from the Golden Age of the thirties and forties ." [ 24 ] Cameron said that he did not know who Stuart was. Fay Wray was also considered for the role, but Cameron said, "[Stuart] was just so into it, and so lucid, and had such a great spirit. And I saw the connection between her spirit and [Winslet's] spirit. I saw this joie de vivre in both of them, that I thought the audience would be able to make that cognitive leap that it's the same person." [ 24 ] Bill Paxton as Brock Lovett, a treasure hunter looking for the Heart of the Ocean in the wreck of the Titanic in the present. Time and funding for his expedition are running out. He reflects at the film's conclusion that, despite thinking about Titanic for three years, he has never understood it until he hears Rose's story. Suzy Amis as Elizabeth "Lizzy" Calvert, Rose's granddaughter, who accompanies her when she visits Lovett on the ship and learns of her grandmother's romantic past with Jack Dawson. Danny Nucci as Fabrizio De Rossi, Jack's Italian best friend, who boards Titanic with him after Jack wins two tickets in a poker game. Fabrizio fails to board a lifeboat when the Titanic sinks and is killed when one of the ship's funnels breaks and crashes into the water, crushing him and several other passengers to death. [ 25 ] David Warner as Spicer Lovejoy, an ex- Pinkerton constable and Cal's English valet and bodyguard. He monitors Rose and is suspicious about the circumstances surrounding Jack rescuing her. He dies when the Titanic splits in half, causing him to fall into a massive opening. Warner also appeared in the 1979 TV miniseries S.O.S. Titanic , portraying passenger Lawrence Beesley . Jason Barry as Tommy Ryan, an Irish third-class passenger who befriends Jack and Fabrizio. Tommy is killed when he is accidentally pushed forward and shot by a panicked First Officer Murdoch. [ 25 ] Alexandrea Owens-Sarno as Cora Cartmell, a young third-class girl who dances with Jack at the Irish party. In a deleted scene, Cora and her family drowned after they were trapped at the locked third-class gate. [ 25 ] Camilla Overbye Roos as Helga Dahl, a Norwegian immigrant and third-class passenger who falls in love with Fabrizio. While most of her scenes were cut and the secondary significance of her character was drastically reduced from the original screenplay to the final theatrical cut, Helga is most notably seen clinging onto the rail of the ship's stern with Jack and Rose before slipping into the frigid waters below. [ 26 ] [ 27 ] Amy Gaipa as Trudy Bolt, Rose's personal maid. [ 25 ] Historical characters Although not intended to be an entirely accurate depiction of events, [ 28 ] the film includes portrayals of various historical figures: The real Margaret Brown (right) providing Captain Arthur Henry Rostron with an award for his service in the rescue of Titanic ' s surviving passengers Kathy Bates as Margaret "Molly" Brown . Brown is looked down upon by other first-class women, including Ruth, as "vulgar" and " new money ". She is friendly to Jack and lends him a suit of evening clothes (bought for her son) when he is invited to dinner in the first-class dining saloon. She was dubbed the Unsinkable Molly Brown by historians because, with the support of other women, she commandeered Lifeboat 6 from Quartermaster Robert Hichens . [ 29 ] Some aspects of this altercation are portrayed in Cameron's film. Reba McEntire was offered the role but had to turn it down because it conflicted with her touring schedule. [ 30 ] Victor Garber as Thomas Andrews , the ship's builder. Andrews is portrayed as a kind, decent man who is modest about his grand achievement. After the collision, he tries to convince the others, particularly Ismay, that it is a "mathematical certainty" that the ship will sink. He is depicted during the sinking of the ship as standing next to the clock in the first-class smoking room, lamenting his failure to build a strong and safe ship. Although this has become one of the most famous legends of the sinking of the Titanic , this story, which was published in a 1912 book ( Thomas Andrews: Shipbuilder ) and therefore perpetuated, came from John Stewart, a steward on the ship who in fact left the ship in boat no.15 at approximately 1:40 a.m. [ 31 ] There were testimonies of sightings of Andrews after that moment. [ 31 ] It appears that Andrews stayed in the smoking room for some time to gather his thoughts; then he continued assisting with the evacuation. [ 31 ] Crew of the Olympic , 1911. Left: First Officer William M. Murdoch . Right: Captain Edward J. Smith . Bernard Hill as Captain Edward John Smith . [ 32 ] Smith planned to make the Titanic his final voyage before retiring. He retreats into the wheelhouse on the bridge as the ship sinks, dying when the windows burst from the water pressure whilst he clings to the ship's wheel. There are conflicting accounts as to whether he died in this manner or later froze to death in the water near the capsized collapsible lifeboat B. [ 33 ] Jonathan Hyde as J. Bruce Ismay , White Star Line's ignorant, boorish managing director. With the prospect of an earlier arrival in New York and favorable press attention, Ismay influences Captain Smith to go faster; although this situation appears in popular portrayals of the disaster, it is unsupported by evidence. [ 34 ] [ 35 ] After the collision, he struggles to comprehend that his "unsinkable" ship is doomed. Ismay later boards Collapsible C (one of the last lifeboats to leave the ship) just before it is lowered. He was branded a coward by the press and public for surviving the disaster while many women and children drowned. Eric Braeden as John Jacob Astor IV , a first-class passenger and the richest man on the ship. In the film, Rose introduces Jack to Astor and his 18-year-old wife, Madeleine ( Charlotte Chatton ), in the first-class dining saloon. During the introduction, Astor asks whether Jack is connected to the "Boston Dawsons", a question Jack deflects by saying that he is instead affiliated with the Chippewa Falls Dawsons. Astor is last seen as the glass dome over the Grand Staircase implodes and water surges in. Bernard Fox as Colonel Archibald Gracie IV . The film depicts Gracie making a comment to Cal that "women and machinery don't mix" and congratulating Jack for saving Rose from falling off the ship, unaware that Jack saved Rose from a suicide attempt . He is later seen offering to lead Jack and Rose to the remaining lifeboats during the sinking. Fox portrayed Frederick Fleet in the 1958 film A Night to Remember . Michael Ensign as Benjamin Guggenheim , a mining magnate traveling in first class. He shows off his French mistress, Madame Aubert (Fannie Brett), to his fellow passengers while his wife and three daughters wait for him at home. When Jack joins the first-class passengers for dinner after rescuing Rose, Guggenheim refers to him as a " bohemian ". Guggenheim is seen in the flooding Grand Staircase during the sinking, saying he is prepared to go down as a gentleman. Wallace Hartley, Titanic ' s bandmaster and violinist Jonathan Evans-Jones as Wallace Hartley , the ship's bandmaster and violinist, who plays uplifting music with his colleagues on the boat deck as the ship sinks. As the final plunge begins, he leads the band in a final performance of " Nearer, My God, to Thee ", to the tune of Bethany, [ 36 ] [ 37 ] and dies in the sinking. Mark Lindsay Chapman as Chief Officer Henry Wilde , [ 32 ] the ship's chief officer, who lets Cal board a lifeboat because he has a child in his arms. Before he dies, he tries to get boats to return to the sinking site to rescue passengers by blowing his whistle. After he freezes to death, Rose uses his whistle to attract the attention of Fifth Officer Lowe, leading to her rescue. Ewan Stewart as First Officer William Murdoch , [ 32 ] the officer in charge of the bridge when the Titanic struck an iceberg. During a rush for the lifeboats, Murdoch shoots Tommy Ryan, as well as another passenger, in a momentary panic and then commits suicide by shooting himself in the head. When Murdoch's nephew Scott saw the film, he objected to his uncle's portrayal, seeing it as damaging to Murdoch's heroic reputation. [ 38 ] A few months later, Fox vice president Scott Neeson went to Dalbeattie , Scotland, where Murdoch lived, to deliver a personal apology and also presented a £5000 donation to Dalbeattie High School to boost the school's William Murdoch Memorial Prize. [ 39 ] Cameron apologized on the DVD commentary but stated that there were officers who fired gunshots to enforce the "women and children first" policy . [ 40 ] According to Cameron, his depiction of Murdoch is that of an "honorable man," not of a man "gone bad" or of a "cowardly murderer." He added, "I'm not sure you'd find that same sense of responsibility and total devotion to duty today. This guy had half of his lifeboats launched before his counterpart on the port side had even launched one. That says something about character and heroism." [ 41 ] Jonathan Phillips as Second Officer Charles Lightoller . [ 32 ] Lightoller took charge of the port side evacuation. In the film, Lightoller informs Captain Smith that it will be difficult to see icebergs without breaking water and, after the collision, suggests that the crew begin boarding women and children in the lifeboats. He is seen brandishing a gun and threatening to use it to keep order. He can be seen on top of Collapsible B when the first funnel collapses. Lightoller was the most senior officer to survive the disaster. Film producer Kevin De La Noy as Third Officer Herbert Pitman , [ 32 ] who survived the sinking and manned Lifeboat 5 Simon Crane as Fourth Officer Joseph Boxhall , [ 32 ] the officer in charge of firing flares and manning Lifeboat 2 during the sinking. He is shown on the bridge wings helping the seamen firing the flares. Ioan Gruffudd as Fifth Officer Harold Lowe , [ 32 ] the only officer to lead a lifeboat to retrieve survivors of the sinking from the icy waters. The film depicts Lowe rescuing Rose. Edward Fletcher as Sixth Officer James Moody , [ 32 ] the only junior officer to have died in the sinking. The film depicts Moody admitting Jack and Fabrizio onto the ship only moments before it departs from Southampton. Moody is later shown following Murdoch's orders to put the ship to full speed ahead and informs Murdoch about the iceberg. He is last seen clinging to one of the davits on the starboard side after having unsuccessfully attempted to launch collapsible A. James Lancaster as Father Thomas Byles , a second-class passenger and a Catholic priest from England. He is portrayed praying and consoling passengers during the ship's final moments. Lew Palter and Elsa Raven as Isidor and Ida Straus . Isidor is a former owner of R.H. Macy and Company , a former congressman from New York, and a member of the New York and New Jersey Bridge Commission. During the sinking, the couple were offered seats on a lifeboat together. Isidor refused to go before all women and children have been evacuated, and urged his wife Ida to go ahead. Ida is portrayed refusing to board the lifeboat, saying that she will honor her wedding pledge by staying with Isidor. They are last seen lying on their bed, embracing each other as water fills their stateroom; the real Isidor and Ida Straus were also seen in an embrace but were actually seated on chairs in the A Deck before being swept by waves as the ship made its final plunge. Martin Jarvis as Sir Cosmo Duff-Gordon , a Scottish baronet who is rescued in Lifeboat 1 . Lifeboats 1 and 2 were emergency boats with a capacity of 40. Situated at the forward end of the boat deck, these were kept ready to launch in case of a person falling overboard. On the night of the disaster, Lifeboat 1 was the fourth to be launched, with 12 people aboard, including Duff-Gordon, his wife and her secretary. The baronet was much criticized for his conduct during the incident. It was suggested that he had boarded the emergency boat in violation of the "women and children first" policy, and that the boat had failed to return to rescue those struggling in the water. He offered five pounds to each of the lifeboat's crew, which those critical of his conduct viewed as a bribe. The Duff-Gordons at the time (and his wife's secretary in a letter written at the time and rediscovered in 2007) stated that there had been no women or children waiting to board in the vicinity of the launching of their boat; there is confirmation that lifeboat 1 of the Titanic was almost empty, and that First Officer William Murdoch was apparently glad to offer Duff-Gordon and his wife and her secretary a place (simply to fill it) after they had asked if they could get on. Duff-Gordon denied that his offer of money to the lifeboat crew represented a bribe. The British Board of Trade's inquiry into the disaster accepted Duff-Gordon's denial of bribing the crew, but maintained that, if the emergency boat had rowed towards the people who were in the water, it might very well have been able to rescue some of them. [ 42 ] [ 43 ] Rosalind Ayres as Lady Duff-Gordon , a world-famous fashion designer and Sir Cosmo's wife. She is rescued in Lifeboat 1 with her husband. They never lived down rumors that they had forbidden the lifeboat's crew to return to the wreck site in case they would be swamped. [ 44 ] [ 45 ] [ 46 ] Jarvis and Ayres were husband and wife in real life. Rochelle Rose as Noël Leslie, Countess of Rothes . The Countess is shown to be friendly with Cal and the DeWitt Bukaters. Despite being of a higher status in society than Sir Cosmo and Lady Duff-Gordon, she is kind, and helps row the boat and even looks after the steerage passengers. Scott G. Anderson as Frederick Fleet , the lookout who saw the iceberg. Fleet escapes the sinking ship aboard Lifeboat 6. Paul Brightwell as Quartermaster Robert Hichens , one of the six quartermasters and at the ship's wheel at the time of collision. He is in charge of lifeboat 6 . He refuses to go back and pick up survivors after the sinking and eventually the boat is commandeered by Molly Brown. Martin East as Reginald Lee , the other lookout in the crow's nest . He survives the sinking. Gregory Cooke as Jack Phillips , the senior wireless operator whom Captain Smith ordered to send the distress signal. Craig Kelly as Harold Bride , a junior wireless operator. Liam Tuohy as Chief Baker Charles Joughin . The baker appears in the film helping Rose stand up after she falls, following her and Jack to the ship's stern, and finally hanging onto the ship's railing as it sinks, drinking brandy from a flask. According to the real Joughin's testimony, he rode the ship down and stepped into the water without getting his hair wet. He also admitted to hardly feeling the cold, most likely thanks to alcohol. [ 47 ] In a deleted scene, he's shown throwing deckchairs overboard before taking a drink from his bottle. [ 48 ] [ 49 ] Terry Forrestal as Chief Engineer Joseph G. Bell : Bell and his men worked throughout the sinking to keep the lights and the power on in order for distress signals to get out. The film portrays Bell and all of the engineers as having died in the bowels of the Titanic , however there is evidence to suggest that at least some of the engineers were released to come on deck when the flooding became severe. Greaser Frederick Scott testified to seeing eight engineers between approximately 1:50 and 1:55 a.m. standing up against the electric crane on the starboard Boat Deck; by then, all the lifeboats had gone. [ 50 ] Cameos Several crew members of the Akademik Mstislav Keldysh appear, including Anatoly Sagalevich , the creator and pilot of the Mir self-propelled Deep Submergence Vehicle. [ 51 ] Van Ling portrayed Fang Lang; his backstory inspired Cameron to produce a documentary The Six , based on a group of Chinese survivors who survived the sinking. [ 52 ] Anders Falk, who filmed a documentary about the film's sets for the Titanic Historical Society , makes a cameo appearance in the film as a Swedish immigrant whom Jack Dawson meets when he enters his cabin; Edward Kamuda and Karen Kamuda, then President and Vice President of the Society, who served as film consultants, were cast as extras in the film. [ 53 ] [ 54 ] Pre-production Writing and inspiration Director, writer and producer James Cameron ( pictured in 2000 ) The story could not have been written better had it been fiction ...The juxtaposition of rich and poor, the gender roles played out unto death ( women first ), the stoicism and nobility of a bygone age, the magnificence of the great ship matched in scale only by the folly of the men who drove her hell-bent through the darkness. And above all the lesson: that life is uncertain, the future unknowable ... the unthinkable possible. —James Cameron [ 55 ] [ 56 ] James Cameron has long had a fascination with shipwrecks, and for him Titanic was "the Mount Everest of shipwrecks". [ 57 ] [ 58 ] [ 59 ] He was almost past the point in his life when he felt he could consider an undersea expedition, but said he still had "a mental restlessness" to live the life he had turned away from when he switched from the sciences to the arts in college. When an IMAX film, Titanica , was made from footage shot of the Titanic wreck, Cameron decided to seek Hollywood funding for his own expedition. It was "not because I particularly wanted to make the movie," Cameron said. "I wanted to dive to the shipwreck." [ 57 ] Cameron wrote a scriptment for a Titanic film, [ 60 ] met with 20th Century Fox executives including Peter Chernin , and pitched it as " Romeo and Juliet on the Titanic ". [ 58 ] [ 59 ] Cameron said the executives were unconvinced of the commercial potential, and had instead hoped for action scenes similar to his previous films. [ 13 ] They approved the project as they hoped for a long-term relationship with Cameron. [ 13 ] [ 14 ] [ 24 ] Cameron convinced Fox to promote the film based on the publicity afforded by shooting the Titanic wreck, [ 60 ] and organized several dives over a period of two years. [ 55 ] He also convinced Fox that shooting the real wreck for the film scenes, instead of simulating it with special effects, would provide value: "We can either do [the shots] with elaborate models and motion control shots and CG and all that, which will cost X amount of money – or we can spend X plus 30 per cent and actually go shoot it at the real wreck." [ 58 ] The crew shot at the wreck in the Atlantic Ocean 12 times in 1995. The work was risky, as the water pressure could kill the crew if there were a tiny flaw in the submersible structure. [ 14 ] Additionally, adverse conditions prevented Cameron from getting footage. [ 14 ] During one dive, one of the submersibles collided with Titanic ' s hull, damaging both sub and ship, and leaving fragments of the submersible's propeller shroud scattered around the superstructure. The external bulkhead of the captain's quarters collapsed, exposing the interior, and the area around the entrance to the Grand Staircase was damaged. [ 61 ] Descending to the site emphasized to the crew that the Titanic disaster was not simply a story but a real event with real loss of life. Cameron said: "Working around the wreck for so much time, you get such a strong sense of the profound sadness and injustice of it, and the message of it." He felt a "great mantle of responsibility" to convey the emotional message of the story, as he was aware there might never be another filmmaker to visit the wreck. [ 24 ] Cameron felt the Titanic sinking was "like a great novel that really happened", but that the event had become a mere morality tale ; the film would give audiences the experience of living the history. [ 55 ] The treasure hunter Brock Lovett represented those who never connected with the human element of the tragedy. [ 51 ] He believed that the romance of Jack and Rose would be the most engaging element: when their love is finally destroyed, the audience would mourn the loss. [ 55 ] He said: "All my films are love stories, but in Titanic I finally got the balance right. It's not a disaster film. It's a love story with a fastidious overlay of real history." [ 24 ] After filming the underwater shots, Cameron began writing the screenplay. [ 60 ] He wanted to honor the people who died, and spent six months researching the Titanic ' s crew and passengers. [ 55 ] He created a detailed timeline of the events of the voyage and sinking and had it verified by historical experts. [ 58 ] From the beginning of the shoot, the team had "a very clear picture" of what happened on the ship. Cameron said "That set the bar higher in a way – it elevated the movie in a sense. We wanted this to be a definitive visualization of this moment in history as if you'd gone back in a time machine and shot it." [ 58 ] Cameron was influenced by the 1958 British film about Titanic , A Night to Remember , which he had seen as a youth. He liberally copied some dialogue and scenes, including the lively party of the passengers in steerage, [ 62 ] and the musicians playing on the deck during the sinking. [ 28 ] Cameron framed the romance with the elderly Rose to make the intervening years palpable and poignant. [ 55 ] While Winslet and Stuart believed Rose dies at the end of the film, [ 63 ] [ 64 ] Cameron said "the answer has to be something you supply personally; individually". [ 10 ] Scale modeling The reconstruction of Titanic . The blueprints were supplied by the original ship's builder and Cameron tried to make the ship as detailed and accurate as possible. [ 65 ] [ 66 ] Harland & Wolff , Titanic 's builders, opened their private archives to the crew, sharing blueprints that were previously thought lost. For the ship's interiors, production designer Peter Lamont 's team looked for artifacts from the era. The newness of the ship meant every prop had to be made from scratch. [ 65 ] Fox acquired 40 acres of waterfront south of Playas de Rosarito in Mexico and began building a new studio on May 31, 1996. A horizon tank of 17 million gallons was built for the exterior of the reconstructed ship, providing 270 degrees of ocean view. The ship was built to full scale, but Lamont removed redundant sections on the superstructure and forward well deck for the ship to fit in the tank, with the remaining sections filled with digital models. The lifeboats and funnels were shrunk by ten percent. The boat deck and A-deck were working sets, but the rest of the ship was steel plating. Within was a 50-foot lifting platform for the ship to tilt during the sinking sequences. The 60-foot 1/8th scale model of the stern section was designed by the naval architect Jay Kantola using plans of the Titanic 's sister ship RMS Olympic . [ 66 ] Above the model was a 162-foot-tall (49 m) tower crane on 600 feet (180 m) of rail track , acting as a combined construction, lighting, and camera platform. [ 51 ] The sets representing the interior rooms of the Titanic were reproduced exactly using photographs and plans from the Titanic 's builders. The Grand Staircase, which features prominently in the film, was recreated to a high standard, though it was widened 30% compared to the original and reinforced with steel girders. Craftsmen from Mexico and Britain sculpted the ornate paneling and plasterwork based on Titanic 's original designs. [ 67 ] The carpeting, upholstery, individual pieces of furniture, light fixtures, chairs, cutlery and crockery with the White Star Line crest on each piece were among the objects recreated according to original designs. [ 68 ] Cameron hired two Titanic historians, Don Lynch and Ken Marschall , to authenticate the historical detail. [ 14 ] Production Principal photography began on July 31, 1996 [ 8 ] at Dartmouth, Nova Scotia , with the modern-day expedition scenes aboard the Akademik Mstislav Keldysh . [ 51 ] In September 1996, the production moved to the newly built Fox Baja Studios in Rosarito, Mexico , where a full-scale Titanic had been constructed. [ 51 ] The poop deck was built on a hinge that could rise from zero to 90 degrees in a few seconds, just as the ship's stern rose during the sinking. [ 69 ] For the safety of the stuntmen, many props were made of foam rubber. [ 70 ] By November 15, the boarding scenes were being shot. [ 69 ] Cameron built his Titanic on the starboard side as a study of weather data revealed it was a prevailing north-to-south wind, which blew the funnel smoke aft. This posed a problem for shooting the ship's departure from Southampton , as it was docked on its port side. Implementation of written directions, as well as props and costumes, had to be reversed; for example, if someone walked to their right in the script, they had to walk left during shooting. In post-production, the film was flipped to the correct direction. [ 71 ] A full-time etiquette coach was hired to instruct the cast in the manners of the upper class gentility in 1912. [ 14 ] Despite this, several critics noted anachronisms in the film. [ 72 ] [ 73 ] Cameron's sketch of Rose wearing the Heart of the Ocean. The scene was one of the first shot, as the main set was not ready. [ 24 ] Cameron sketched Jack's portrait of Rose; Winslet posed in a bathing suit. [ 74 ] [ 75 ] Cameron felt the scene had a backdrop of repression and freedom: "You know what it means for her, the freedom she must be feeling. It's kind of exhilarating for that reason," he said. [ 74 ] [ 24 ] The sketching scene was DiCaprio and Winslet's first scene together. "It wasn't by any kind of design, although I couldn't have designed it better. There's a nervousness and an energy and a hesitance in them," Cameron stated. "They had rehearsed together, but they hadn't shot anything together. If I'd had a choice, I probably would have preferred to put it deeper into the body of the shoot." Cameron said he and his crew "were just trying to find things to shoot" because the big set "wasn't ready for months, so we were scrambling around trying to fill in anything we could get to shoot."  Cameron felt the final scene worked well. [ 24 ] The shoot was an arduous experience that "cemented Cameron's formidable reputation as 'the scariest man in Hollywood". He became known as an "uncompromising, hard-charging perfectionist" and a "300-decibel screamer, a modern-day Captain Bligh with a megaphone and walkie-talkie, swooping down into people's faces on a 162ft crane". [ 76 ] Winslet chipped a bone in her elbow during filming and had been worried that she would drown in the 17m-gallon water tank in which the ship would sink. "There were times when I was genuinely frightened of him. Jim has a temper like you wouldn't believe," she said. [ 76 ] "'God damn it!' he would yell at some poor crew member, 'That's exactly what I didn't want!'" [ 76 ] Bill Paxton was familiar with Cameron's work ethic from his earlier experience, and said: "There were a lot of people on the set. Jim is not one of those guys who has the time to win hearts and minds." [ 76 ] The crew felt Cameron had an evil alter ego and so nicknamed him "Mij" (Jim spelled backwards). [ 76 ] In response to the criticism, Cameron said, "Film-making is war. A great battle between business and aesthetics." [ 76 ] More than 800 crew members worked on the film. [ 77 ] On August 9, 1996, during the Akademik Mstislav Keldysh shoot in Canada, an unknown person, suspected to be a crew member, put the dissociative drug PCP into the soup that Cameron and various others ate one night in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia . [ 13 ] [ 78 ] It sent more than 50 people to the hospital. [ 78 ] Paxton and Cameron ate the soup and went to the hospital but Paxton decided to leave, telling Cameron "Jim, I'm not gonna hang out here, this is bedlam. I'm gonna ... wander back down to the set and just drink a case of beer." [ 79 ] "There were people just rolling around, completely out of it. Some of them said they were seeing streaks and psychedelics ," said actor Lewis Abernathy. [ 13 ] Cameron managed to vomit before the drug took a full hold. Abernathy was shocked at the way he looked. "One eye was completely red, like the Terminator eye. A pupil, no iris, beet red. The other eye looked like he'd been sniffing glue since he was four." [ 13 ] [ 76 ] The Nova Scotia Department of Health confirmed that the soup had contained PCP on August 27, and the Halifax Regional Police Service announced a criminal investigation the next day. The investigation was closed in February 1999. [ 80 ] The person behind the poisoning was never caught. [ 63 ] [ 81 ] The filming schedule was intended to last 138 days but grew to 160 (filming officially wrapped on March 23, 1997). [ 8 ] Many cast members came down with colds, flu, or kidney infections after spending hours in cold water, including Winslet. In the end, she decided she would not work with Cameron again unless she earned "a lot of money". [ 81 ] Several others left the production, and three stuntmen broke their bones, but the Screen Actors Guild decided, following an investigation, that nothing was inherently unsafe about the set. [ 81 ] Additionally, DiCaprio said there was no point when he felt he was in danger during filming. [ 82 ] Cameron believed in a passionate work ethic and never apologized for the way he ran his sets, although he acknowledged: I'm demanding, and I'm demanding on my crew. In terms of being kind of militaresque, I think there's an element of that in dealing with thousands of extras and big logistics and keeping people safe. I think you have to have a fairly strict methodology in dealing with a large number of people. [ 81 ] The costs of filming Titanic ballooned and eventually reached $200 million, [ 4 ] [ 5 ] [ 6 ] a bit over $1 million per minute of screen time. [ 83 ] Fox executives panicked and suggested an hour of specific cuts from the three-hour film. They argued the extended length would mean fewer showings, thus less revenue, even though long epics are more likely to help directors win Oscars . Cameron refused, telling Fox, "You want to cut my movie? You're going to have to fire me! You want to fire me? You're going to have to kill me!" [ 13 ] The executives did not want to start over, because it would mean the loss of their entire investment. The executives initially rejected Cameron's offer to forfeit his share of the profits as an empty gesture, as they predicted profits would be unlikely. [ 13 ] Worried about the mounting costs, Fox wanted to find a partner studio to co-finance the film. Fox first approached Universal Pictures as they had picked up the international distribution rights to Cameron's True Lies (1994) when production costs began to mount; however Universal would turn Fox down. Instead, Fox and Paramount Pictures came together in May 1996 following the success both studios had collaborating on the distribution for Mel Gibson 's Braveheart (1995), and ultimately agreed to co-finance the film together and split the distribution rights. [ 84 ] In an effort to recoup their $135 million investment, Fox sold the domestic rights to the film to Paramount in return for Paramount providing Fox an additional $65 million for production, while retaining international rights; Fox however would still be responsible for any further budget overruns going forward, but also retain all profits from any merchandise sold based on the film as part of the deal with Paramount. [ 85 ] [ 86 ] Cameron explained forfeiting his share as complex. "... the short version is that the film cost proportionally much more than T2 and True Lies . Those films went up seven or eight percent from the initial budget. Titanic also had a large budget to begin with, but it went up a lot more," he said. "As the producer and director, I take responsibility for the studio that's writing the checks, so I made it less painful for them. I did that on two different occasions. They didn't force me to do it; they were glad that I did." [ 24 ] Amidst the film's successful box office run, a Fox executive, William Mechanic, commented that "Jim Cameron told us we could have an expensive bad movie or a more expensive potentially great movie. We made our judgment. And we made the best choice." [ 87 ] In July 2024, Cameron stated that it was actually co-producer Jon Landau who "bore the brunt of the studio pressure" when Titanic was being made. [ 88 ] According to Cameron, Landau "gave his all to provide the time and resources for me to make the film I saw in my head." [ 88 ] Post-production Effects Cameron wanted to push the boundary of special effects, and enlisted Digital Domain and Pacific Data Images to continue the developments in digital technology he pioneered on The Abyss and Terminator 2: Judgment Day . Many previous films about Titanic shot water in slow motion , which did not look wholly convincing. [ 89 ] Cameron encouraged his crew to shoot their 45-foot-long (14 m) miniature of the ship as if "we're making a commercial for the White Star Line". [ 90 ] Afterwards, digital water and smoke were added, as were extras captured on a motion capture stage. Visual effects supervisor Rob Legato scanned the faces of many actors, including himself and his children, for the digital extras and stuntmen. There was also a 65-foot-long (20 m) model of the ship's stern that could break in two repeatedly, the only miniature to be used in water. [ 89 ] For scenes set in the ship's engines, footage of the SS Jeremiah O'Brien ' s engines were composited with miniature support frames, and actors shot against a greenscreen . [ 91 ] In order to save money, the first-class lounge was a miniature set incorporated into a greenscreen backdrop behind the actors. [ 92 ] The miniature of the Lounge would later be crushed to simulate the destruction of the room and a scale model of a First-Class corridor flooded with jets of water while the camera pans out. [ 93 ] Unlike previous Titanic films, Cameron's retelling of the disaster showed the ship breaking into two pieces before sinking entirely. The scenes were an account of the moment's most likely outcome. An enclosed 5,000,000-US-gallon (19,000,000 L) tank was used for sinking interiors, in which the entire set could be tilted into the water. In order to sink the Grand Staircase, 90,000 US gallons (340,000 L) of water were dumped into the set as it was lowered into the tank. Unexpectedly, the waterfall ripped the staircase from its steel-reinforced foundations, although no one was hurt. The 744-foot-long (227 m) exterior of Titanic had its first half lowered into the tank, but as the heaviest part of the ship it acted as a shock absorber against the water; to get the set into the water, Cameron had much of the set emptied and even smashed some of the promenade windows himself. After submerging the dining saloon, three days were spent shooting Lovett's ROV traversing the wreck in the present. [ 51 ] The post-sinking scenes in the freezing Atlantic were shot in a 350,000-US-gallon (1,300,000 L) tank, [ 94 ] where the frozen corpses were created by applying on actors a powder that crystallized when exposed to water, and wax was coated on hair and clothes. [ 65 ] The climactic scene, which features the breakup of the ship directly before it sinks as well as its final plunge to the bottom of the Atlantic, involved a tilting full-sized set, 150 extras, and 100 stunt performers. Cameron criticized previous Titanic films for depicting the liner's final plunge as a graceful slide underwater. He "wanted to depict it as the terrifyingly chaotic event that it really was". [ 14 ] When carrying out the sequence, people needed to fall off the increasingly tilting deck, plunging hundreds of feet below and bouncing off railings and propellers on the way down. A few attempts to film this sequence with stunt artists resulted in some minor injuries, and Cameron halted the more dangerous stunts. The risks were eventually minimized "by using computer-generated people for the dangerous falls". [ 14 ] A Linux -based operating system was utilized for the creation of the effects. [ 95 ] Editing Cameron said there were aspects of the Titanic story that seemed important in pre- and post-production but became less important as the film evolved. He omitted the SS Californian , the ship that was close to the Titanic the night she sank but had turned off its radio for the night, did not hear her crew's SOS calls, and did not respond to their distress flares. A scene involving the Californian was cut, according to Cameron, "because it focuses you back onto that world. If Titanic is powerful as a metaphor, as a microcosm, for the end of the world in a sense, then that world must be self-contained." He said its omission was not "a compromise to mainstream filmmaking" but "about emphasis, creating an emotional truth to the film". [ 24 ] During the first assembly cut, Cameron altered the ending. In the original version, Brock and Lizzy see the elderly Rose at the stern of the boat and fear she is going to commit suicide. Rose reveals that she had the Heart of the Ocean diamond all along but never sold it, to live on her own without Cal's money. She allows Brock to hold it but tells Brock that life is priceless and throws the diamond into the ocean. After accepting that treasure is worthless, Brock laughs at his stupidity. In the editing room, Cameron decided that by this point, the audience would no longer be interested in Brock Lovett and cut the scene, so that Rose is alone when she drops the diamond. He also did not want to disrupt the audience's melancholy after the Titanic 's sinking. [ 96 ] Paxton agreed that his scene with Brock's epiphany and laugh was unnecessary, saying "I would have shot heroin to make the scene work better ... Our job was done by then ... If you're smart and you take the ego and the narcissism out of it, you'll listen to the film, and the film will tell you what it needs and what it does not need." [ 97 ] The version used for the first test screening featured a fight between Jack and Lovejoy after Jack and Rose escape into the flooded dining saloon. [ 98 ] The scene was written to give the film more suspense, and had Cal offering to give Lovejoy, his valet, the Heart of the Ocean if he can get it from Jack and Rose. Lovejoy goes after the pair in the sinking first-class dining room. Jack attacks him and smashes his head against a window; this is why Lovejoy has a gash later in the film. Test audiences said it would be unrealistic to risk one's life for wealth, and Cameron cut it for this reason, as well as for timing and pacing reasons. Many other scenes were cut for similar reasons. [ 98 ] Heart of the Ocean This section needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. ( May 2023 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) "Heart of the Ocean" redirects here. For other uses, see Heart of the Ocean (disambiguation) . For the Heart of the Ocean design, London-based jewelers Asprey & Garrard used cubic zirconias set in white gold [ 99 ] to create an Edwardian -style necklace to be used as a prop in the film. The studio designed and produced three variations, very similar but unique and distinguishable in character. Two of them were used in the film while the third went unused until after the film had been released. The three necklaces are commonly known as the original prop, the J. Peterman necklace and the Asprey necklace. The third and final design was not used in the film. After the film's success, Asprey & Garrard were commissioned to create an authentic Heart of the Ocean necklace using the original design. The result was a platinum-set, 171-carat (34.2 g) heart-shaped Ceylon sapphire surrounded by 103 diamonds. [ 99 ] This design featured a much larger inverted pear-shaped Ceylon sapphire with a subtle cleft to resemble a heart. The chain for this necklace also featured a mix of round, pear, and marquise cut white diamonds. The bail also featured a heart cut white diamond with another round cut diamond attached to an inverted pear shape diamond which was then attached to the cage of the main stone. The necklace was donated to Sotheby's auction house in Beverly Hills for an auction benefiting the Diana, Princess of Wales Memorial Fund and Southern California's Aid For AIDS. It was sold to an unidentified Asprey client [ 100 ] for $1.4 million (equivalent to $2.7 million in 2024), under the agreement that Dion would wear it two nights later at the 1998 Academy Awards ceremony. Since then, this necklace has not been made available for public viewing. Soundtrack Main articles: Titanic: Music from the Motion Picture and Back to Titanic Cameron wrote Titanic while listening to the work of the Irish new-age musician Enya . [ 101 ] After Enya declined an invitation to compose for the film, [ 102 ] Cameron instead chose James Horner . The two had parted ways after a tumultuous working experience on Aliens , [ 103 ] but Titanic cemented a successful collaboration that lasted until Horner's death. [ 104 ] For the vocals heard throughout the film, Horner chose the Norwegian singer Sissel Kyrkjebø , commonly known as "Sissel". Horner knew Sissel from her album Innerst i sjelen , and particularly liked how she sang " Eg veit i himmerik ei borg " ("I Know in Heaven There Is a Castle"). He tried around 30 singers before choosing Sissel. [ 105 ] Horner wrote the end theme, " My Heart Will Go On ", in secret with Will Jennings because Cameron did not want any songs in the film. [ 106 ] Céline Dion agreed to record a demo at the persuasion of her husband René Angélil . Horner waited until Cameron was in an appropriate mood before presenting him with the song. After playing it several times, Cameron declared his approval, although worried that he would have been criticized for "going commercial at the end of the movie". [ 106 ] Cameron also wanted to appease anxious studio executives and "saw that a hit song from his movie could only be a positive factor in guaranteeing its completion". [ 14 ] The soundtrack was the best-selling album of 1998 with sales of over 27 million. [ 9 ] Release Initial screening Distribution for Titanic was split between Paramount Pictures and 20th Century Fox; Paramount handling the domestic distribution, and Fox handling the foreign release. [ 84 ] Both studios expected Cameron to complete the film for a release on July 2, 1997. [ 107 ] The film was to be released on this date "to exploit the lucrative summer season ticket sales when blockbuster films usually do better". [ 14 ] In April, Cameron said the film's special effects were too complicated and that releasing the film on that date would not be possible. [ 14 ] The studios considered pushing the film to late July or the first week of August, but Harrison Ford , whose film Air Force One was to be released on July 25, is reported to have informed Paramount, which had produced his lucrative Indiana Jones and Jack Ryan franchises, that he would never work with them again if they released Titanic so close to his own film. [ 108 ] On May 29, 1997, Paramount pushed back the release date to December 19, 1997. [ 77 ] The film's new release date would be shared by Tomorrow Never Dies and Mouse Hunt . [ 109 ] "This fueled speculation that the film itself was a disaster." A preview screening in Minneapolis on July 14 "generated positive reviews" and "[c]hatter on the internet was responsible for more favorable word of mouth about the [film]". This eventually led to more positive media coverage. [ 14 ] Cameron refused to hold the film's world premiere in Los Angeles. [ 86 ] Paramount disagreed with Cameron's decision, but Fox acquiesced and went ahead and held the premiere on November 1, 1997, at the Tokyo International Film Festival , [ 110 ] [ 86 ] where reaction was described as "tepid" by The New York Times . [ 111 ] Positive reviews started to appear back in the United States; the official Hollywood premiere occurred on December 14, 1997, where "the big movie stars who attended the opening were enthusiastically gushing about the film to the world media". [ 14 ] Box office Including revenue from the 2012, 2017 and 2023 reissues, Titanic earned $674.3 million in North America and $1.583 billion in other countries, for a worldwide total of $2.257 billion. [ 7 ] It became the highest-grossing film of all time worldwide in 1998, beating Jurassic Park (1993). [ 112 ] The film remained so for twelve years, until Avatar (2009), also written and directed by Cameron, surpassed it in 2010. [ 113 ] It would hold the record for being Paramount's highest-grossing film domestically until it was dethroned by Top Gun: Maverick (2022) twenty-five years later. [ 114 ] On March 1, 1998, [ 115 ] it became the first film to earn more than $1 billion worldwide [ 116 ] and on the weekend April 13–15, 2012—a century after the original vessel's foundering, Titanic became the second film to cross the $2 billion threshold during its 3D re-release. [ 117 ] Box Office Mojo estimates that Titanic is the fifth-highest-grossing film of all time in North America when adjusting for ticket price inflation. [ 118 ] The site also estimates that the film sold over 128 million tickets in the US in its initial theatrical run. [ 119 ] Titanic was the first foreign-language film to succeed in India, which claims to have the largest movie-going audience in the world. [ 120 ] A Hindustan Times report attributes this to the film's similarities and shared themes with most Bollywood films. [ 121 ] Initial theatrical run Titanic received steady attendance after opening in North America on Friday, December 19, 1997. By the end of that same weekend, theaters were beginning to sell out. The film earned $8,658,814 on its opening day and $28,638,131 over the opening weekend from 2,674 theaters, averaging to about $10,710 per venue, and ranking number one at the box office, ahead of Mouse Hunt , Scream 2 and Tomorrow Never Dies . It would go on to surpass The Godfather Part III ' s record for having the highest Christmas Day gross, generating a total of $9.2 million. For its second weekend, the film made $35.6 million, making it the biggest December weekend gross, surpassing Scream 2 . [ 122 ] By New Year's Day, Titanic had made over $120 million, had increased in popularity and theaters continued to sell out. In just 44 days, it became the fastest film to approach the $300 million mark at the domestic box office, surpassing the former record held by Jurassic Park , which took 67 days to do so. [ 123 ] Titanic would hold this record until 1999 when it was taken by Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace . [ 124 ] Additionally, the film reached the $400 million mark within 66 days, which was the fastest at the time, a record that would be matched by Spider-Man in 2002. [ 125 ] Both films would remain so until they were surpassed in 2004 by Shrek 2 . [ 126 ] Titanic ' s highest grossing single day was Saturday, February 14, 1998, on which it earned $13,048,711, more than eight weeks after its North American debut. [ 127 ] [ 128 ] On March 14, it surpassed Star Wars as the highest-grossing film ever in North America. [ 129 ] It stayed at number one for 15 consecutive weeks in North America, a record for any film. [ 130 ] By April 1998, the film's number one spot would be overtaken by Lost in Space , dropping into second place. [ 131 ] The film stayed in theaters in North America for almost 10 months before finally closing on Thursday, October 1, 1998, with a final domestic gross of $600,788,188, [ 132 ] equivalent to $1176.8 million in 2024 [ 133 ] . Outside North America, the film made double its North American gross, generating $1,242,413,080 [ 134 ] and accumulating a grand total of $1,843,201,268 worldwide from its initial theatrical run. [ 135 ] Commercial analysis Before Titanic ' s release, various film critics predicted the film would be a significant disappointment at the box office , especially since it was the most expensive film ever made at the time. [ 76 ] [ 136 ] [ 137 ] [ 138 ] When it was shown to the press in autumn of 1997, "it was with massive forebodings", since the "people in charge of the screenings believed they were on the verge of losing their jobs – because of this great albatross of a picture on which, finally, two studios had to combine to share the great load of its making". [ 137 ] Cameron also thought he was "headed for disaster" at one point during filming. "We labored the last six months on Titanic in the absolute knowledge that the studio would lose $100 million. It was a certainty," he stated. [ 76 ] As the film neared release, "particular venom was spat at Cameron for what was seen as his hubris and monumental extravagance". A film critic for the Los Angeles Times wrote that "Cameron's overweening pride has come close to capsizing this project" and that the film was "a hackneyed, completely derivative copy of old Hollywood romances". [ 76 ] It's hard to forget the director on the stage of the Shrine Auditorium in LA, exultant, pumping a golden Oscar statuette into the air and shouting: "I'm the king of the world!" As everyone knew, that was the most famous line in Titanic , exclaimed by Leonardo DiCaprio's character as he leaned into the wind on the prow of the doomed vessel. Cameron's incantation of the line was a giant "eff off", in front of a television audience approaching a billion, to all the naysayers, especially those sitting right in front of him. —Christopher Goodwin of The Times on Cameron's response to Titanic 's criticism [ 76 ] When the film became a success, with an unprecedented box-office performance, it was credited for being a love story that captured its viewers' emotions. [ 136 ] The film was playing on 3,200 screens ten weeks after it opened, [ 137 ] and out of its fifteen straight weeks on top of the charts, jumped 43% in total sales in its ninth week of release. It earned over $20 million for each of its first 10 weekends, [ 139 ] and after 14 weeks was still bringing in more than $1 million on weekdays. [ 137 ] 20th Century Fox estimated that seven percent of American teenage girls had seen Titanic twice by its fifth week. [ 140 ] Although young women who saw the film several times and subsequently caused " Leo-Mania " were often credited with having primarily propelled the film to its all-time box office record, [ 141 ] other reports have attributed the film's success to positive word of mouth and repeat viewership due to the love story combined with the ground-breaking special effects. [ 139 ] [ 142 ] The Hollywood Reporter estimated that after a combined production and promotion cost of $487 million, the film turned a net profit of $1.4 billion, with a modern profit of as much as $4 billion after ancillary sources. [ 143 ] Titanic ' s impact on men has also been especially credited. [ 144 ] [ 145 ] [ 146 ] It is considered one of the films that make men cry, [ 144 ] [ 145 ] with MSNBC 's Ian Hodder stating that men admire Jack's sense of adventure and his ambitious behavior to win over Rose, which contributes to their emotional attachment to Jack. [ 144 ] The film's ability to make men cry was briefly parodied in the 2009 film Zombieland , where character Tallahassee ( Woody Harrelson ), when recalling the death of his young son, states: "I haven't cried like that since Titanic ." [ 147 ] Scott Meslow of The Atlantic stated while Titanic initially seems to need no defense, given its success, it is considered a film "for 15-year-old girls" by its main detractors. He argued that dismissing Titanic as fodder for teenage girls fails to consider the film's accomplishment: "that [this] grandiose, 3+ hour historical romantic drama is a film for everyone—including teenage boys." Meslow stated that despite the film being ranked high by males under the age of 18, matching the ratings for teenage boy-targeted films like Iron Man , it is common for boys and men to deny liking Titanic . He acknowledged his own rejection of the film as a child while secretly loving it. "It's this collection of elements—the history, the romance, the action—that made (and continues to make) Titanic an irresistible proposition for audiences of all ages across the globe," he stated. " Titanic has flaws, but for all its legacy, it's better than its middlebrow reputation would have you believe. It's a great movie for 15-year-old girls, but that doesn't mean it's not a great movie for everyone else too." [ 146 ] Quotes in the film aided its popularity. Titanic 's catchphrase "I'm the king of the world!" became one of the film industry's more popular quotations. [ 148 ] [ 149 ] According to Richard Harris, a psychology professor at Kansas State University , who studied why people like to cite films in social situations, using film quotations in everyday conversation is similar to telling a joke and a way to form solidarity with others. "People are doing it to feel good about themselves, to make others laugh, to make themselves laugh", he said. [ 149 ] Cameron explained the film's success as having significantly benefited from the experience of sharing. "When people have an experience that's very powerful in the movie theatre, they want to go share it. They want to grab their friend and bring them, so that they can enjoy it," he said. "They want to be the person to bring them the news that this is something worth having in their life. That's how Titanic worked." [ 150 ] Media Awareness Network stated, "The normal repeat viewing rate for a blockbuster theatrical film is about 5%. The repeat rate for Titanic was over 20%." [ 14 ] The box office receipts "were even more impressive" when factoring in "the film's 3-hour-and-14-minute length meant that it could only be shown three times a day compared to a normal movie's four showings". In response to this, "[m]any theatres started midnight showings and were rewarded with full houses until almost 3:30 am". [ 14 ] Titanic held the record for box office gross for 12 years. [ 151 ] Cameron's follow-up film, Avatar , was considered the first film with a genuine chance at surpassing its worldwide gross, [ 152 ] [ 153 ] and did so in 2010. [ 113 ] Various explanations for why the film was able to successfully challenge Titanic were given. For one, "Two-thirds of Titanic 's haul was earned overseas, and Avatar [tracked] similarly ... Avatar opened in 106 markets globally and was no. 1 in all of them" and the markets "such as Russia, where Titanic saw modest receipts in 1997 and 1998, are white-hot today" with "more screens and moviegoers" than ever before. [ 154 ] Brandon Gray, president of Box Office Mojo , said that while Avatar may beat Titanic 's revenue record, the film is unlikely to surpass Titanic in attendance. "Ticket prices were about $3 cheaper in the late 1990s." [ 152 ] In December 2009, Cameron had stated, "I don't think it's realistic to try to topple Titanic off its perch. Some pretty good movies have come out in the last few years. Titanic just struck some kind of chord." [ 139 ] In a January 2010 interview, he gave a different take on the matter once Avatar 's performance was easier to predict, saying "It's gonna happen. It's just a matter of time,". [ 153 ] Author Alexandra Keller, when analyzing Titanic ' s success, stated that scholars could agree that the film's popularity "appears dependent on contemporary culture, on perceptions of history, on patterns of consumerism and globalization , as well as on those elements experienced filmgoers conventionally expect of juggernaut film events in the 1990s – awesome screen spectacle, expansive action, and, more rarely seen, engaging characters and epic drama." [ 155 ] Critical reception Initial Titanic garnered mostly positive reviews from film critics, and was positively reviewed by audiences and scholars, who commented on the film's cultural, historical, and political impacts. [ 155 ] [ 156 ] [ 157 ] On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes , the film has an approval rating of 88% based on 255 reviews, with an average rating of 8.1/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "A mostly unqualified triumph for James Cameron, who offers a dizzying blend of spectacular visuals and old-fashioned melodrama ." [ 142 ] Metacritic , which assigned a weighted average score of 75 out of 100, based on 35 critics, reports the film has "generally favorable reviews". [ 158 ] Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film a rare "A+" grade, one of fewer than 60 films in the history of the service from 1982 to 2011 to earn the score. [ 159 ] With regard to the film's overall design, Roger Ebert stated: "It is flawlessly crafted, intelligently constructed, strongly acted, and spellbinding ... Movies like this are not merely difficult to make at all, but almost impossible to make well." He credited the "technical difficulties" with being "so daunting that it's a wonder when the filmmakers are also able to bring the drama and history into proportion" and "found [himself] convinced by both the story and the sad saga". [ 160 ] He named it his ninth-best film of 1997. [ 161 ] On the television program Siskel & Ebert , the film received "two thumbs up" and was praised for its accuracy in recreating the ship's sinking; Ebert described the film as "a glorious Hollywood epic" and "well worth the wait," and Gene Siskel found Leonardo DiCaprio "captivating". [ 162 ] James Berardinelli stated: "Meticulous in detail, yet vast in scope and intent, Titanic is the kind of epic motion picture event that has become a rarity. You don't just watch Titanic , you experience it." [ 163 ] It was named his second best film of 1997. [ 164 ] Joseph McBride of Boxoffice Magazine concluded: "To describe Titanic as the greatest disaster movie ever made is to sell it short. James Cameron's recreation of the 1912 sinking of the 'unsinkable' liner is one of the most magnificent pieces of serious popular entertainment ever to emanate from Hollywood." [ 165 ] The romantic and emotionally charged aspects of the film were equally praised. Andrew L. Urban of Urban Cinefile said: "You will walk out of Titanic not talking about budget or running time, but of its enormous emotive power, big as the engines of the ship itself, determined as its giant propellers to gouge into your heart, and as lasting as the love story that propels it." [ 166 ] Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly described the film as "a lush and terrifying spectacle of romantic doom. Writer-director James Cameron has restaged the defining catastrophe of the early 20th century on a human scale of such purified yearning and dread that he touches the deepest levels of popular moviemaking." [ 165 ] Janet Maslin of The New York Times commented that "Cameron's magnificent Titanic is the first spectacle in decades that honestly invites comparison to Gone With the Wind ." [ 165 ] Adrian Turner of Radio Times awarded it four stars out of five, stating "Cameron's script wouldn't have sustained Clark Gable and Vivien Leigh for 80 minutes, but, somehow, he and his magical cast revive that old-style studio gloss for three riveting hours. Titanic is a sumptuous assault on the emotions, with a final hour that fully captures the horror and the freezing, paralysing fear of the moment. And there are single shots, such as an awesome albatross -like swoop past the steaming ship, when you sense Cameron hugging himself with the fun of it all." [ 167 ] Titanic suffered backlash in addition to its success. Some reviewers felt that while the visuals were spectacular, the story and dialogue were weak. [ 157 ] Richard Corliss of Time magazine wrote a mostly negative review, criticizing the lack of interesting emotional elements. [ 168 ] Kenneth Turan 's review in the Los Angeles Times was particularly scathing. Dismissing the emotive elements, he stated, "What really brings on the tears is Cameron's insistence that writing this kind of movie is within his abilities. Not only is it not, it is not even close." [ 169 ] He later argued that the only reason that the film won Oscars was because of its box office total. [ 170 ] Barbara Shulgasser of The San Francisco Examiner gave Titanic one star out of four, citing a friend as saying, "The number of times in this unbelievably badly written script that the two [lead characters] refer to each other by name was an indication of just how dramatically the script lacked anything more interesting for the actors to say." [ 171 ] Retrospective According to Dalin Rowell of /Film , "With complaints about its lengthy runtime, observations that certain characters could have easily fit onto pieces of floating furniture, and jokes about its melodramatic nature, Titanic is no stranger to modern-day criticism." [ 172 ] In 2002, filmmaker Robert Altman called it "the most dreadful piece of work I've ever seen in my entire life". [ 173 ] Similarly, French New Wave director and former Cahiers du Cinéma editor Jacques Rivette referred to it as "garbage" in a 1998 interview with Frédéric Bonnaud and was particularly critical of Winslet's performance, who he said was "unwatchable, the most slovenly girl to appear on the screen in a long, long time." [ 174 ] In 2003, the film topped a poll of "Best Film Endings", [ 175 ] but it also topped a poll by Film 2003 as "the worst movie of all time". [ 176 ] In his 2012 study of the lives of the passengers on the Titanic , historian Richard Davenport-Hines said, "Cameron's film diabolized rich Americans and educated English, anathematizing their emotional restraint, good tailoring, punctilious manners and grammatical training, while it made romantic heroes of the poor Irish and the unlettered." [ 177 ] The British film magazine Empire reduced their rating of the film from the maximum five stars and an enthusiastic review, to four stars with a less positive review in a later edition, to accommodate its readers' tastes, who wanted to disassociate themselves from the hype surrounding the film, and the reported activities of its fans, such as those attending multiple screenings. [ 178 ] In addition to this, positive and negative parodies and other such spoofs of the film abounded and were circulated on the internet, often inspiring passionate responses from fans of various opinions of the film. [ 179 ] Benjamin Willcock of DVDActive.com did not understand the backlash or the passionate hatred for the film. "What really irks me ...," he said, "are those who make nasty stabs at those who do love it." Willcock stated, "I obviously don't have anything against those who dislike Titanic , but those few who make you feel small and pathetic for doing so (and they do exist, trust me) are way beyond my understanding and sympathy." [ 138 ] In 1998, Cameron responded to the backlash, and Kenneth Turan's review in particular, by writing " Titanic is not a film that is sucking people in with flashy hype and spitting them out onto the street feeling let down and ripped off. They are returning again and again to repeat an experience that is taking a 3-hour and 14-minute chunk out of their lives, and dragging others with them, so they can share the emotion." Cameron emphasized that people from all ages (ranging from 8 to 80) and from all backgrounds were "celebrating their own essential humanity" by seeing it. He described the script as earnest and straightforward, and said it intentionally "incorporates universals of human experience and emotion that are timeless – and familiar because they reflect our basic emotional fabric" and that the film was able to succeed in this way by dealing with archetypes . He did not see it as pandering. "Turan mistakes archetype for cliché," he said. "I don't share his view that the best scripts are only the ones that explore the perimeter of human experience, or flashily pirouette their witty and cynical dialogue for our admiration." [ 180 ] In 2000, Almar Haflidason of the BBC wrote that "the critical knives were out long before James Cameron's Titanic was complete. Spiralling costs that led to it becoming the most expensive motion picture of the 20th Century, and a cast without any big stars seemed to doom the film before release. But box office and audience appreciation proved Cameron right and many critics wrong." He added that "the sinking of the great ship is no secret, yet for many exceeded expectations in sheer scale and tragedy" and that "when you consider that [the film] tops a bum-numbing three-hour running time, then you have a truly impressive feat of entertainment achieved by Cameron". [ 181 ] Empire eventually reinstated its original five-star rating of the film, commenting: "It should be no surprise[,] then[,] that it became fashionable to bash James Cameron's Titanic at approximately the same time it became clear that this was the planet's favourite film. Ever." [ 182 ] In 2017, on the 20th anniversary of its release, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant". [ 183 ] The same year, Cameron reviewed the accuracy of the film for the National Geographic program Titanic: 20 Years Later with James Cameron . [ 184 ] [ 185 ] The film's climax has sparked many debates over the years on whether both Jack and Rose should have been able to fit on the floating door and survive, becoming among the most talked about aspects of the film. [ 186 ] While at the time of the film's 20th anniversary Cameron stated that it was "kind of silly, really, that we’re having this discussion 20 years later," [ 187 ] in 2023 he conducted a study for the film's 25th anniversary that aired as part of an updated National Geographic retrospective, which suggested it was possible but unlikely and depended on numerous variables. [ 188 ] [ 189 ] , after a previous test  had been conducted in 2012 by MythBusters . [ 190 ] [ 191 ] It was listed among the 100 best films in an Empire poll and in a later poll of members of the film industry. [ 192 ] [ 193 ] In 2021, Dalin Rowell of /Film ranked it the third-best film of Cameron's career, stating that it is "easily one of his best films, simply because it defied the odds", and considering it "a legitimately remarkable achievement — one that, despite its large budget, has a humble, earnest center. Even with all of the jokes the Internet loves to throw its way, Titanic demonstrates that Cameron is truly capable of everything he can imagine." [ 172 ] In 2024, Looper ranked it number 44 on its list of the "50 Best PG-13 Movies of All Time," writing Cameron's immersive visuals, achieved using groundbreaking special effects, transport viewers back in time to the opulence of the Titanic and the heart-wrenching chaos of its final hours. The sheer grandness of the film, combined with its tragic tale, pushed the boundaries of storytelling and visual effects, paving the way for future blockbusters. [ 194 ] Other In 1998, Chinese President Jiang Zemin praised the film during an address to the National People's Congress in order to demonstrate his endorsement of Western cultural imports. [ 195 ] Accolades Main article: List of accolades received by Titanic At the Golden Globes , Titanic won Best Motion Picture – Drama , Best Director , Best Original Score , and Best Original Song . [ 196 ] Winslet and Stuart were also nominated. [ 197 ] At the 70th Academy Awards , Titanic garnered fourteen Academy Award nominations, tying the record set in 1950 by Joseph L. Mankiewicz 's All About Eve [ 198 ] and won eleven: Best Picture (the second film about the Titanic to win that award, after 1933's Cavalcade ), Best Director , Best Art Direction , Best Cinematography , Best Visual Effects , Best Film Editing , Best Costume Design , Best Sound ( Gary Rydstrom , Tom Johnson , Gary Summers , Mark Ulano ), Best Sound Effects Editing , Best Original Dramatic Score , Best Original Song . [ 199 ] Winslet, Stuart and the make-up artists were nominated, but lost to Helen Hunt in As Good as It Gets , Kim Basinger in L.A. Confidential and Men in Black . [ 200 ] [ 201 ] Titanic was the second film to receive eleven Academy Awards, after Ben-Hur (1959). [ 202 ] The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King matched the record in 2004. [ 203 ] In 2017, La La Land would tie the record for having the most Academy Award nominations. [ 204 ] Titanic won the 1997 Academy Award for Best Original Song , as well as four Grammy Awards for Record of the Year , Song of the Year , Best Song Written Specifically for a Motion Picture or Television , and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance . [ 205 ] [ 206 ] The soundtrack became the best-selling primarily orchestral soundtrack of all time, spending sixteen weeks at number-one in the United States, and was certified diamond for over eleven million copies sold in the United States alone. [ 207 ] It was also the best-selling album of 1998 in the US. [ 208 ] " My Heart Will Go On " won the Grammy Awards for Best Song Written Specifically for a Motion Picture or for Television. Titanic also won various awards outside the United States, including the Awards of the Japanese Academy as the Best Foreign Film of the Year. [ 209 ] It eventually won nearly ninety awards and had an additional forty-seven nominations from various award-giving bodies around the world. The book about the making of the film was at the top of The New York Times ' bestseller list for several weeks, "the first time that such a tie-in book had achieved this status". [ 14 ] Titanic has appeared on the American Film Institute 's award-winning 100 Years ... series six times. AFI's 100 Years ... 100 Rank Source Notes Thrills 25 [ 210 ] A list of the top 100 thrilling films in American cinema, compiled in 2001. Passions 37 [ 211 ] A list of the top 100 love stories in American cinema, compiled in 2002. Songs 14 [ 212 ] A list of the top 100 songs in American cinema, compiled in 2004. Titanic ranked 14th for Céline Dion's "My Heart Will Go On". Movie quotes 100 [ 148 ] A list of the top 100 film quotations in American cinema, compiled in 2005. Titanic ranked 100th for Jack Dawson's yell of " I'm the king of the world! " Movies 83 [ 213 ] A 2007 (10th anniversary) edition of 1997's list of the 100 best films of the past century. Titanic was not eligible when the original list was released. AFI's 10 Top 10 6 [ 214 ] The 2008 poll consisted of the top ten films in ten different genres. Titanic ranked as the sixth-best epic film. Home media Titanic was released worldwide in widescreen and pan and scan formats on VHS on September 1, 1998. [ 215 ] There are two separate cassettes on this release, as the film is divided into two parts. [ 216 ] More than $50 million was spent to market the home video release of the film. [ 217 ] Both VHS formats were also made available in a deluxe boxed gift set with a mounted filmstrip and six lithograph prints from the movie. In the first 3 months, the film sold 25 million copies in North America with a total sales value of $500 million, becoming the best selling live-action video , beating Independence Day . [ 9 ] In that time, it sold 58 million copies worldwide, outselling The Lion King for a total worldwide revenue of $995 million. [ 9 ] By March 2005, the film has sold 8 million DVD and 59 million VHS units. [ 218 ] In the United Kingdom, the film sold 1.1 million copies on its first day of release, making it the country's fastest-selling home video release. It would hold this record until it was surpassed by Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone in May 2002 when that film sold 1.2 million home video units during its first day. [ 219 ] The film would also remain as the fastest-selling DVD in the United Kingdom until Mamma Mia! took it in 2008. [ 220 ] Within the first week of release, Titanic quickly beat The Full Monty , selling a total of 1.8 million home video copies. [ 221 ] NBC acquired the US television broadcast rights for $30 million, which was considered a bargain. [ 9 ] A DVD version was released on August 31, 1999, in a widescreen-only (non- anamorphic ) single-disc edition with no special features other than a theatrical trailer . Cameron stated at the time that he intended to release a special edition with extra features later. This release became the best-selling DVD of 1999 and early 2000, becoming the first DVD ever to sell one million copies. [ 222 ] At the time, less than 5% of all U.S. homes had a DVD player. "When we released the original Titanic DVD, the industry was much smaller, and bonus features were not the standard they are now," said Meagan Burrows, Paramount's president of domestic home entertainment, which made the film's DVD performance even more impressive. [ 222 ] Titanic was re-released to DVD on October 25, 2005, when a three-disc Special Collector's Edition was made available in the United States and Canada. This edition contained a newly restored transfer of the film, a 6.1 DTS-ES Discrete surround sound mix and various special features. In PAL regions, two-disc and four-disc variants were released, marketed as the Special Edition and Deluxe Collector's Edition respectively. They were released in the United Kingdom on November 7, 2005. A limited 5-disc set of the film, under the title Deluxe Limited Edition , was also only released in the United Kingdom with only 10,000 copies manufactured. The fifth disc contains Cameron's documentary Ghosts of the Abyss , which was distributed by Walt Disney Pictures . Unlike the individual release of Ghosts of the Abyss , which contained two discs, only the first disc was included in the set. [ 138 ] In 2007, for the film's tenth anniversary, a 10th Anniversary Edition was released on DVD, which consists of the first two discs from the three-disc 2005 set containing the movie and the special features on those discs. [ 223 ] The film was released by Paramount Home Entertainment on Blu-ray and Blu-ray 3D on September 10, 2012. [ 224 ] The 3D presentation of the film is split over two discs and is also THX -certified. Special features on another disc included many of those featured on the 2005 Special Collector's Edition DVD along with two new documentaries titled "Reflections on Titanic" and "Titanic: The Final Word with James Cameron." [ 225 ] The latter aired on National Geographic on April 9, 2012, and was executively produced by Cameron. [ 226 ] A 4K release of the film was released on December 5, 2023, on both digital and Ultra HD Blu-ray . [ 227 ] [ 228 ] [ 229 ] [ 230 ] After previously being on the Amazon Prime Video streaming service in the U.S. in April 2023, the film became available on Netflix in July 2023 shortly after the Titan submersible implosion . [ 231 ] [ 232 ] The film became available on Paramount+ in October 2023 [ 233 ] [ 234 ] and on Prime Video for a period starting in April 2024 and April 2025. [ 235 ] [ 236 ] [ 237 ] The film was announced as coming to Hulu in February 2025. [ 238 ] It was available on the free ad-supported streaming service Pluto TV in June 2023. [ 239 ] Legacy Re-release 3D conversion A 2012 3D re-release was created by re-mastering the original to 4K resolution and post-converting to stereoscopic 3D format. The Titanic 3D version took 60 weeks and $18 million to produce, including the 4K restoration. [ 240 ] The 3D conversion was performed by Stereo D. [ 241 ] Digital 2D and in 2D IMAX versions were also struck from the new 4K master created in the process. [ 242 ] The only scene entirely redone for the re-release was Rose's view of the night sky at sea on the morning of April 15, 1912. The scene was replaced with an accurate view of the night-sky star pattern, including the Milky Way , adjusted for the location in the North Atlantic Ocean in April 1912. The change was prompted by the astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson , who had criticized the unrealistic star pattern. He agreed to send Cameron a corrected view of the sky, which was the basis of the new scene. [ 243 ] An accurate view of the Milky Way was used to replace Rose's view of the moonless night sky at sea, as in this photo from Paranal Observatory . The view was adjusted to match the North Atlantic at 4:20 am on April 15, 1912. The 3D version of Titanic premiered at the Royal Albert Hall in London on March 27, 2012, with James Cameron and Kate Winslet in attendance, [ 244 ] [ 245 ] and entered general release on April 4, 2012, six days before the centenary of Titanic embarking on her maiden voyage. [ 246 ] [ 247 ] [ 248 ] Rolling Stone film critic Peter Travers rated the reissue 3 + 1 ⁄ 2 stars out of 4, explaining he found it "pretty damn dazzling". He said, "The 3D intensifies Titanic . You are there. Caught up like never before in an intimate epic that earns its place in the movie time capsule." [ 249 ] Writing for Entertainment Weekly , Owen Gleiberman gave the film an A grade. He wrote, "For once, the visuals in a 3-D movie don't look darkened or distracting. They look sensationally crisp and alive." [ 250 ] Richard Corliss of Time , who was very critical in 1997, remained in the same mood: "I had pretty much the same reaction: fitfully awed, mostly water-logged." In regards to the 3D effects, he noted the "careful conversion to 3D lends volume and impact to certain moments ... [but] in separating the foreground and background of each scene, the converters have carved the visual field into discrete, not organic, levels." [ 251 ] Ann Hornaday for The Washington Post found herself asking "whether the film's twin values of humanism and spectacle are enhanced by Cameron's 3-D conversion, and the answer to that is: They aren't." She added that the "3-D conversion creates distance where there should be intimacy, not to mention odd moments in framing and composition." [ 252 ] The film grossed an estimated $4.7 million on the first day of its re-release in North America (including midnight preview showings) and went on to make $17.3 million over the weekend, finishing in third place behind The Hunger Games and American Reunion . [ 253 ] [ 254 ] Outside North America it earned $35.2 million, finishing second, [ 255 ] and it improved on its performance the following weekend by topping the box office with $98.9 million. [ 256 ] China has proven to be its most successful territory, where it earned $11.6 million on its opening day, [ 257 ] going on to earn a record-breaking $67 million in its opening week and taking more money in the process than it did in the entirety of its original theatrical run. [ 256 ] The reissue earned $343.4 million worldwide, with $145 million coming from China and $57.8 million from Canada and the United States. [ 258 ] With a worldwide box office of nearly $350 million, the 3D re-release of Titanic remains the highest grossing re-released film of all time, ahead of The Lion King , Star Wars , and Avatar . [ 259 ] The 3D conversion of the film was also released in the 4DX format in selected international territories, which allows the audience to experience the film's environment using motion, wind, fog, lighting, and scent-based special effects. [ 260 ] [ 261 ] [ 262 ] 20th anniversary For the 20th anniversary of the film, Titanic was re-released in cinemas in Dolby Vision (in both 2D and 3D) for one week beginning December 1, 2017. [ 263 ] 25th anniversary Titanic was re-released in theaters by Paramount domestically and Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures (through the 20th Century Studios and Buena Vista International labels) internationally on February 10, 2023, in a remastered 3D 4K HDR render, with high frame rate , as part of the film's 25th anniversary. For this version, the international prints update 20th Century's logo with the studio's current name, as a result of Disney 's 2019 acquisition of the studio . [ 264 ] Titanic Live Titanic Live was a live performance of Horner's original score by a 130-piece orchestra, choir and Celtic musicians, accompanying a showing of the film. [ 265 ] [ non-primary source needed ] In April 2015, Titanic Live premiered at the Royal Albert Hall , London, where the 2012 3D re-release had premiered. [ 266 ] Other media In 1998, an official tie-in computer game was released, titled James Cameron's Titanic Explorer . [ 267 ] The educational game covered the history of the vessel's construction, maiden voyage and sinking, as well as the discovery and exploration of the wreck. The game included deleted footage from the film and extensive 360-degree video footage of the film's sets. [ 268 ] In 2020, a board game based on the film, titled Titanic: The Game , was released by Spin Master Games. [ 269 ] Scenes from Titanic have been the basis for multiple Internet memes , including one called "It's been 84 years", which features a screenshot or GIF of a close-up of modern-day, elderly Rose and is used to "express impatience with the pace of things". [ 270 ] [ 271 ] [ 272 ] [ 273 ] See also List of Academy Award records List of films by box office admissions Titanic: Music from the Motion Picture List of films about the Titanic Britannic (film) Notes ^ Although the Titanic hit the iceberg on April 14, it did not sink until the early hours of April 15. References ^ a b c "Titanic (1997)" . Film & TV Database . British Film Institute . Archived from the original on January 14, 2009 . Retrieved July 29, 2011 . ^ a b "Titanic" . AFI Catalog of Feature Films . American Film Institute . Archived from the original on September 15, 2020 . Retrieved February 2, 2018 . ^ " TITANIC (12)" . British Board of Film Classification . November 14, 1997. Archived from the original on April 27, 2021 . Retrieved November 8, 2014 . ^ a b Garrett, Diane (April 20, 2007). "Big-budget bang-ups" . Variety . Archived from the original on May 24, 2024 . Retrieved November 16, 2009 . ^ a b Wyatt, Justin; Vlesmas, Katherine (1999). "The Drama of Recoupment: On the Mass Media Negotiation of Titanic". In Kevin S. Sandler; Gaylyn Studlar (eds.). Titanic: Anatomy of a Blockbuster . pp. 29 –45. ^ a b Welkos, Robert W. (February 11, 1998). "The $200-Million Lesson of 'Titanic' " . Los Angeles Times . Archived from the original on October 15, 2012 . Retrieved December 12, 2009 . ^ a b *Pre-2020 releases: "Titanic (1997)" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on October 27, 2019. Worldwide: $2,187,463,944; Original release: $1,843,221,532; 2012 3D Release: $343,550,770; 2017 Re-release: $691,642 2020 Re-release: "Titanic (2020 Re-release)" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on March 5, 2023 . Retrieved February 20, 2023 . 2020 Re-release: $71,352 2023 Re-release: "Titanic (25 Year Anniversary)" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on February 27, 2023 . Retrieved February 20, 2023 . 2023 Re-release: $70,157,472 ^ a b c "Titanic (1997) - IMDb" . IMDb . Archived from the original on February 9, 2023 . Retrieved November 6, 2022 . ^ a b c d e Graser, Marc (January 11, 1999). " 'Titanic' tide tumbles o'seas video records". Variety . p. 7. ^ a b James Cameron (2005). Audio Commentary (DVD). 20th Century Fox. The big ambiguity here is 'is she alive and dreaming' or 'is she dead and on her way to Titanic heaven?' I'll never tell. Of course, I know what we intended....The answer has to be something you supply personally; individually. ^ a b c d "Heart of the Ocean: The Making of Titanic . THE BEST OF". 1997–1998. ^ Ashton, Will (September 15, 2022). "12 Actors Who Could've Been Cast In Titanic" . CinemaBlend . Future plc . Archived from the original on December 13, 2022 . Retrieved December 13, 2022 . James Cameron had originally considered River Phoenix for the role, but the young actor tragically passed away before he could be asked to play the leading man part. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m "Titanic. Man overboard! After a production as lavish and pricey as the doomed ship itself, James Cameron finally unveils his epic film. But will it be unsinkable?" . Entertainment Weekly . November 7, 1997. pp. 1– 7. Archived from the original on March 26, 2010. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s "James Cameron's Titanic" . Media Awareness Network . Archived from the original on June 9, 2011 . Retrieved January 24, 2010 . ^ Setoodeh, Ramin (April 4, 2012). "Leonardo DiCaprio or Kate Winslet: Which 'Titanic' Star Has the Better Career?" . The Daily Beast . The Newsweek Daily Beast Company . Archived from the original on November 7, 2016 . Retrieved April 23, 2012 . ^ Jang, Meena. " 'Clueless' Actor: I Was "Heartbroken" After Losing 'Titanic' Role to Leonardo DiCaprio" . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on June 17, 2019 . Retrieved June 17, 2019 . ^ GQ (November 22, 2022). James Cameron Breaks Down His Most Iconic Films | GQ . Retrieved May 27, 2024 – via YouTube. ^ Gillies, Rob (April 4, 2012). "Titanic: Visiting The Grave Of The Real J. Dawson In Halifax" . Huffington Post . Archived from the original on April 7, 2012 . Retrieved May 12, 2015 . ^ "Star Misses. Nicole Kidman in "The Reader"? Gwyneth Paltrow aboard "Titanic"? How some of the biggest names in Hollywood lost out on some of its biggest roles" . Forbes . February 25, 2009. Archived from the original on November 4, 2015 . Retrieved January 22, 2010 . ^ " 'Titanic' Casting: What Other Stars Were Considered For James Cameron's Masterpiece?" . Huffington Post . June 22, 2012. Archived from the original on March 13, 2016 . Retrieved March 21, 2016 . ^ Warrington, Ruby (November 29, 2009). "Claire Danes: the secretive starlet" . The Times . London. Archived from the original on June 15, 2011 . Retrieved January 22, 2010 . ^ Spelling, Ian (February 13, 1997). " 'Asteroid's' Michael Biehn Hopes for a Big Impact" . Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on September 5, 2023 . Retrieved September 5, 2023 . ^ "Why Rob Lowe Left Brothers & Sisters & The West Wing" . E! Online . Archived from the original on July 14, 2017 . Retrieved July 23, 2017 . ^ a b c d e f g h i j Schultz, Rick. "James Cameron tells the astonishing story of Titanic, his breathtaking labor of love" . industrycentral.net. Archived from the original on February 6, 2010 . Retrieved January 23, 2010 . ^ a b c d Liebenson, Donald (December 18, 2017). "Five Unforgettable Passengers Remember Life Aboard Titanic" . Vanity Fair . Retrieved July 24, 2024 . ^ Nygaard, Kristian Dam (December 9, 2017). "Danske Camilla var med i Titanic: Sådan er hendes forhold til Leonardo DiCaprio i dag" . B.T. (in Danish). Archived from the original on January 3, 2018 . Retrieved March 13, 2019 . ^ Nygaard, Kristian Dam (December 8, 2017). "Danske Camilla var med i 'Titanic': Så mange penge tjente hun" . B.T. (in Danish). Archived from the original on July 20, 2018 . Retrieved March 13, 2019 . ^ a b Waites, Rosie (April 5, 2012). "Five Titanic myths spread by films" . BBC News . Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved September 15, 2019 . ^ Barczewski, Stephanie L. (2004). Titanic: A Night Remembered . Continuum International Publishing Group. p. 30. ISBN 978-1-85285-434-8 . Archived from the original on January 26, 2021 . Retrieved March 31, 2009 . ^ Schaffstall, Katherine (February 22, 2019). "Reba McEntire Reveals She Turned Down a Role in 'Titanic' " . The Hollywood Reporter . Los Angeles. Archived from the original on February 27, 2023 . Retrieved February 26, 2023 . ^ a b c ON A SEA OF GLASS: THE LIFE & LOSS OF THE RMS TITANIC" by Tad Fitch, J. Kent Layton & Bill Wormstedt. Amberley Books, March 2012. pp 321–323 ^ a b c d e f g h Marsh & Kirkland (1998) , p. 66. ^ Ballard, pp. 40–41 ^ Beesley, Lawrence (1912). The Loss of the S.S. Titanic . London, England: Heinemann. p. 56. ^ Howells (1999: 31). ^ Jack, Ian (September 26, 1999). "Further, my god, from thee" . The Independent . London. Archived from the original on December 26, 2017 . Retrieved April 16, 2012 . ^ Marshall, Bevil, J (October 1999). "And the Band Played On" . Southwest Regional Chapter of the American Musicological Society, Rice University . Houston. Archived from the original on August 9, 2017 . Retrieved February 23, 2012 . {{ cite news }} :  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list ( link ) ^ "Nephew angered by tarnishing of Titanic hero" . BBC News . January 24, 1998. Archived from the original on October 4, 2017 . Retrieved February 19, 2007 . ^ "Titanic makers say sorry" . BBC News . April 15, 1998. Archived from the original on March 9, 2018 . Retrieved February 22, 2007 . ^ James Cameron (2005). Audio Commentary (DVD). 20th Century Fox. ^ James Cameron's Titanic, p. 129. ^ British Wreck Commissioner's Enquiry: Report. "Account of the Saving and Rescue of those who Survived: Conduct of Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon and Mr Ismay". Retrieved 8/23/12 at: "British Wreck Commissioner's Inquiry Report" . Archived from the original on January 3, 2014 . Retrieved February 3, 2014 . ^ Reynolds, Nigel (May 2, 2007). "Letter clears 'blackguard of the Titanic' " . The Daily Telegraph . London. Archived from the original on July 16, 2007 . Retrieved May 5, 2007 . ^ Lynch, pp. 183–185 ^ "Sir Cosmo and Lady Duff Gordon at the Titanic Inquiry," The Sketch , May 22, 1912 ^ "Conduct of Sir Cosmo-Duff Gordon and Mr. Ismay" . Titanic Inquiry Project. Archived from the original on April 21, 2016 . Retrieved January 2, 2006 . ^ "British Wreck Commissioner's Inquiry: Day 6" . Titanic Inquiry Project. 1999. Archived from the original on September 21, 2017 . Retrieved August 3, 2010 . ^ Tyler, Adrienne (August 22, 2021). "Titanic Deleted Scenes Honor The Best True Stories Cut From The Movie" . ScreenRant . Archived from the original on March 7, 2022 . Retrieved March 7, 2022 . ^ "Titanic - Deleted Scene - Boat Six Won't Return [HD]" . YouTube . June 9, 2014. Archived from the original on March 7, 2022 . Retrieved March 7, 2022 . ^ "Day 6 - Testimony of Frederick Scott (Greaser, SS Titanic)" . British Wreck Commissioner's Inquiry . May 10, 1912 . Retrieved April 9, 2020 . ^ a b c d e f Ed W. Marsh (1998). James Cameron's Titanic . London: Boxtree. pp. 3– 29. ^ Le, Phuong (November 16, 2021). "The Six review – the Chinese survivors who were written out of the Titanic narrative" . The Guardian . ISSN 0261-3077 . Retrieved May 1, 2024 . ^ Marcus, Jon (April 8, 2012). "A Titanic Obsession" . Boston Globe . Archived from the original on May 12, 2014 . Retrieved May 11, 2014 . ^ Anders Falk (2005). Titanic Ship's Tour (DVD). 20th Century Fox. ^ a b c d e f Marsh and Kirkland, pp. v–xiii ^ "Read an excerpt from James Cameron's -- 'Titanic' " . Fox News . Archived from the original on February 19, 2023 . Retrieved May 7, 2015 . ^ a b "James Cameron: Playboy Interview" . Playboy . December 2009. Archived from the original on July 30, 2010 . Retrieved January 19, 2010 . ^ a b c d e Realf, Maria. "An audience with James Cameron. The filmmaker discusses his movies to date and reveals the motivations" . Eyeforfilm.co.uk. Archived from the original on November 9, 2020 . Retrieved January 21, 2010 . ^ a b Bilmes, Alex (December 14, 2009). "James Cameron is a genial raconteur and self-effacing man, says Alex Bilmes" . GQ . Archived from the original on March 26, 2010 . Retrieved May 9, 2014 . ^ a b c James Cameron (2005). Deep Dive Presentation (DVD). 20th Century Fox. ^ Eaton, John P.; Haas, Charles A. (1999). Titanic : A Journey Through Time . Sparkford, Somerset: Patrick Stephens. p. 205. ISBN 978-1-85260-575-9 . ^ Cramer, Steve (2017). "Neoliberal and Social Democratic Versions of History, Class and Ideology in James Cameron's Titanic and Roy Baker's A Night to Remember " . Sydney Studies in English . 43 . Sydney Studies: 117. S2CID 165242268 . Archived from the original on June 29, 2023 . Retrieved June 29, 2023 . ^ a b Jon Landau , Kate Winslet, Gloria Stuart, Victor Garber (2005). Audio Commentary (DVD). 20th Century Fox . ^ Beverly Fortune (October 11, 1999). "Wheel of Fortune". Lexington Herald-Leader . That was one of the first questions pitched to 89-year-old actress Gloria Stuart at a book signing Wednesday night at Joseph-Beth Booksellers [...] 'Yes, Old Rose died.' ^ a b c Marsh and Kirkland, pp. 36–38 ^ a b ewadmin (August 13, 2014). "TITANIC, the Model" . Epoxyworks . Archived from the original on July 24, 2022 . Retrieved April 21, 2022 . ^ Ed W. Marsh (1997). James Cameron's Titanic . p. 21 . ^ Ed W. Marsh (1997). James Cameron's Titanic . p. 35 . ^ a b Ed W. Marsh (2005). Construction Timelapse (DVD). 20th Century Fox. ^ Marsh and Kirkland, pp. 130–142 ^ Marsh and Kirkland, pp. 52–54 ^ "Quite a bit of the dialogue is peppered by vulgarities and colloquialisms that seem inappropriate to the period and place, but again seem aimed directly to the sensibilities of young American viewers." McCarthy, Todd (November 3, 1997). " "Titanic" review by Todd McCarthy" . Variety . Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved February 21, 2009 . ^ Howe, Desson (March 25, 1999). "Titanic's very slow leak" . The Washington Post . Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved February 21, 2009 . ^ a b "Topless drawing of Kate Winslet in Titanic to sell for £10,000" . The Telegraph . April 1, 2011. Archived from the original on October 28, 2018 . Retrieved October 28, 2018 . ^ Huff, Lauren (February 9, 2023). "James Cameron is really the one sketching naked Rose in 'Titanic' " . EW.com . Archived from the original on February 4, 2024 . Retrieved February 4, 2024 . ^ a b c d e f g h i j k Godwin, Christopher (November 8, 2008). "James Cameron: From Titanic to Avatar" . The Times . London. Archived from the original on September 16, 2011 . Retrieved January 9, 2010 . ^ a b Weinraub, Bernard (May 29, 1997). "As Problems Delay 'Titanic,' Hollywood Sighs in Relief" . The New York Times . Archived from the original on February 12, 2023 . Retrieved April 30, 2023 . ^ a b "PCP-laced chowder derails Titanic filming" . Entertainment Weekly . September 13, 1996. Archived from the original on November 11, 2020 . Retrieved December 3, 2015 . ^ "A case of beer? Bill Paxton reveals his remedy for 'Titanic's' PCP-laced chowder" . Los Angeles Times . June 17, 2015. Archived from the original on March 11, 2024 . Retrieved March 11, 2024 . ^ Jacobs, Matthew (December 19, 2022). "25 Years Later, No One Knows Who Spiked the Titanic Chowder" . Vulture . Archived from the original on December 19, 2022 . Retrieved December 19, 2022 . ^ a b c d Andrew Gumbel (January 11, 2007). "Lights, cameras, blockbuster: The return of James Cameron" . The Independent . London. Archived from the original on January 27, 2012 . Retrieved February 5, 2008 . ^ "Leonardo DiCaprio Interviewed by Joe Leydon for "Titanic" " . YouTube. June 11, 2008. Archived from the original on April 27, 2016 . Retrieved August 3, 2010 . ^ Marshall, Sarah (December 17, 2017). "The Insane True Story Of How "Titanic" Got Made" . BuzzFeed . Archived from the original on December 26, 2017 . Retrieved December 27, 2017 . ^ a b Bart, Peter (December 15, 2022). "Peter Bart: James Cameron's 'Avatar' Movies Represent Titanic Commitment In A Changing World" . Deadline.com . Archived from the original on December 29, 2022 . Retrieved December 28, 2022 . ^ Brew, Simon (April 15, 2020). "Titanic, and how Paramount Pictures got an incredible deal on the world's biggest film" . Film Stories . ^ a b c Feinberg, Scott (March 9, 2023). "An Oral History of the Epic 'Titanic' Oscars at 25" . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on March 17, 2023 . Retrieved March 18, 2023 . ^ Weinraub, Bernard (February 2, 1998). " 'Titanic' is turning out to be a success on the scale of its doomed subject" . The New York Times . ISSN 0362-4331 . Archived from the original on February 6, 2024 . Retrieved February 6, 2024 . ^ a b Thomas, Carly (July 8, 2024). "James Cameron, Leonardo DiCaprio, Kate Winslet and More Remember Jon Landau: "He Gave Everyone a Sense of Purpose and Belonging" " . The Hollywood Reporter . Retrieved July 8, 2024 . ^ a b Marsh and Kirkland, pp. 147–154 ^ Marsh and Kirkland, p. 65 ^ VFX Shot Breakdown (DVD). 20th Century Fox. 2005. ^ VFX How To For First Class Lounge (DVD). 20th Century Fox. 2005. ^ VFX How To Flood A First Class Corridor (DVD). 20th Century Fox. 2005. ^ Marsh and Kirkland, pp. 161–168 ^ Strauss, Daryll (February 1, 1998). "Linux Helps Bring Titanic to Life" . Linux Journal . Archived from the original on March 1, 2021. Linux fulfilled the task very well. It handled every job we threw at it. During our testing phase, we used its ability to emulate Digital UNIX applications to benchmark standard applications and show that its performance would meet our needs. The flexibility of the existing devices and available source code gave Linux a definitive advantage. ^ James Cameron (2005). Alternate Ending Commentary (DVD). 20th Century Fox. ^ Lerner, Will (February 27, 2017). "Bill Paxton on the Alternate Ending of 'Titanic' That Audiences Didn't See in 1997" . Yahoo! Entertainment. Archived from the original on December 25, 2020 . Retrieved September 23, 2018 . ^ a b James Cameron (2005). Deleted scene commentaries (DVD). 20th Century Fox. ^ a b Davidson, Terry (March 11, 1998). "Real 'Titanic' Necklace to Benefit Diana's Trust: Movie's Paste Necklace Recreated with Real Jewels" (Interview). Interviewed by Diane Sawyer. Archived from the original on August 1, 2020 . Retrieved February 24, 2020 . ^ Van Der Voort, Jane (February 11, 2001). "Heart of the Matter". The Toronto Sun . [ page needed ] ^ "Soundtrack to 'Titanic' Rises to No. 1" . Los Angeles Times . Archived from the original on October 21, 2020 . Retrieved June 17, 2019 . ^ "Ireland's Enya on How Life by the Sea Influenced Her Music" . The Wall Street Journal . Archived from the original on October 18, 2020 . Retrieved June 17, 2019 . ^ " 'He was a good friend, and he was very funny': Hollywood director James Cameron on working with Titanic, Avatar and Aliens composer James Horner" . Royal Albert Hall . Archived from the original on October 20, 2020 . Retrieved June 17, 2019 . ^ "James Cameron Remembers Working With James Horner" . Vulture . Archived from the original on October 20, 2020 . Retrieved June 17, 2019 . ^ Hitchner, Earle (March 12, 1998). "In Titanic's Wake: A Voice to Remember . . " . The Wall Street Journal . Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved January 8, 2010 . ^ a b Parisi, p. 195 ^ Weinraub, Bernard (April 21, 1997). "Hollywood Braces for Likely Delay Of 'Titanic' " . The New York Times . Archived from the original on February 16, 2021 . Retrieved February 8, 2014 . ^ Drudge, Matt (May 21, 1997). "Drudge: Harrison Ford Holds Up the Titanic" . wired.com . Archived from the original on July 9, 2023 . Retrieved July 9, 2023 . ^ Hewitt, Chris (December 12, 1997). "A crop of holiday movies" . Knight-Ridder Newspapers . Syracuse Herald-Journal . p. 72. Archived from the original on November 6, 2024 . Retrieved November 6, 2024 – via Newspapers.com . ^ "Big in Japan: Titanic 's premiere" . Entertainment Weekly . November 14, 1997. Archived from the original on April 18, 2012 . Retrieved February 11, 2014 . ^ Strom, Stephanie (November 4, 1997). "Arts Abroad; Harrison Ford's Not in 'Titanic'? Well, No Matter!" . The New York Times . Archived from the original on February 11, 2014 . Retrieved February 11, 2014 . ^ "It's a Titanic hit" . The Tampa Tribune . February 25, 1998. p. 37. Archived from the original on August 22, 2022 . Retrieved August 22, 2022 – via Newspapers.com . ^ a b "Cameron does it again as 'Avatar' surpasses 'Titanic' " . Newsday . February 3, 2010. Archived from the original on October 23, 2020 . Retrieved October 26, 2010 . ^ Rubin, Rebecca (August 27, 2022). " 'Top Gun: Maverick' Passes 'Titanic' as Seventh-Highest Grossing Release in Domestic Box Office History" . Variety . Retrieved October 12, 2022 . ^ Paula Parisi (1998). Titanic and the Making of James Cameron . HarperCollins . ISBN 978-1-55704-364-1 . Archived from the original on January 25, 2021 . Retrieved October 29, 2020 . ^ "Titanic sinks competitors without a trace" . BBC News . February 25, 1998. Archived from the original on January 11, 2021 . Retrieved February 19, 2007 . ^ "Titanic becomes second ever film to take $2 billion" . The Daily Telegraph . London. April 16, 2012. Archived from the original on April 16, 2012 . Retrieved April 16, 2012 . ^ "All Time Box Office Adjusted for Ticket Price Inflation" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on April 7, 2019 . Retrieved June 16, 2018 . ^ "Titanic (1997)" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on June 29, 2019 . Retrieved May 31, 2016 . ^ Burns, John F. (April 28, 1998). "Why 'Titanic' Conquered the World; New Delhi" . New York Times . Archived from the original on May 21, 2018 . Retrieved May 20, 2018 . ^ Sharma, Sanjukta (December 24, 2017). "To Titanic, the most Bollywood Hollywood movie ever made" . Hindustan Times . Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved May 20, 2018 . ^ Wilson, Jeff (December 30, 1997). " 'Scream 2' losing its voice at box office" . Associated Press Writer . The Daily News . p. 8. Archived from the original on June 13, 2022 . Retrieved June 13, 2022 – via Newspapers.com . ^ "Titanic passes $300 million" . North Adams Transcript . February 2, 1998. p. 8. Archived from the original on April 7, 2022 . Retrieved April 7, 2022 – via Newspapers.com . ^ " 'Phantom Menace' pulls another fast one" . Quad-City Times . June 20, 1999. p. 33. Archived from the original on March 28, 2022 . Retrieved March 28, 2022 – via Newspapers.com . ^ " 'Spider-Man' Ties 'Titanic' $400 Million Record" . Box Office Mojo . July 8, 2002. Archived from the original on March 12, 2022 . Retrieved March 12, 2022 . ^ Hernandez, Greg (July 3, 2004). " 'Shrek 2' setting box office marks" . The Los Angeles Daily News . Casper Star-Tribune . p. 41. Archived from the original on March 28, 2022 . Retrieved March 28, 2022 – via Newspapers.com . ^ "Titanic (1997) – Daily Box Office Results" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on November 24, 2020 . Retrieved April 17, 2012 . ^ "Titanic (1997) – Weekend Box Office Results" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on October 18, 2020 . Retrieved April 17, 2012 . ^ " 'Titanic' Refuses to Sink, Passes 'Star Wars' as Top Moneymaker" . Los Angeles Times . March 16, 1998. Archived from the original on January 17, 2023 . Retrieved January 17, 2023 . ^ "BEST RANKING MOVIES by Weekend Rank, 1982–present" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on November 24, 2020 . Retrieved January 19, 2010 . ^ " 'Titanic' had lost its space" . The Philadelphia Inquirer . April 8, 1998. p. 44. Archived from the original on August 19, 2022 . Retrieved August 19, 2022 – via Newspapers.com . ^ "Titanic (1997) – Release Summary" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on July 7, 2019 . Retrieved April 17, 2012 . ^ 1634–1699: McCusker, J. J. (1997). How Much Is That in Real Money? A Historical Price Index for Use as a Deflator of Money Values in the Economy of the United States: Addenda et Corrigenda (PDF) . American Antiquarian Society . 1700–1799: McCusker, J. J. (1992). How Much Is That in Real Money? A Historical Price Index for Use as a Deflator of Money Values in the Economy of the United States (PDF) . American Antiquarian Society . 1800–present: Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. "Consumer Price Index (estimate) 1800–" . Retrieved February 29, 2024 . ^ "Titanic (1997) – Overseas Total" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on October 18, 2020 . Retrieved April 17, 2012 . ^ "The Billion Dollar film club" . The Daily Telegraph . London. August 1, 2012. Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved April 16, 2012 . ^ a b Davis, Jason (March 24, 1998). "Love story that won the heart of the Academy: The love story that stole the world's hearts" . BBC News . Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved September 11, 2007 . ^ a b c d Thomson, David (December 10, 2007). "Titanic achievement at the box office" . The Guardian . London. Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved January 8, 2010 . ^ a b c Willcock, Benjamin. "Benjamin Willcock takes a look at the long-awaited special edition of Titanic" . dvdactive.com. Archived from the original on October 10, 2008 . Retrieved January 19, 2010 . ^ a b c Ditzian, Eric (January 4, 2010). "Will 'Avatar' Top James Cameron's 'Titanic' Box-Office Record?" . MTV. Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved January 8, 2010 . ^ Busch, Anita M. (March 6, 1998). "Was Leonardo Robbed?" . Entertainment Weekly . Archived from the original on November 9, 2014 . Retrieved November 23, 2013 . ^ O'Neill, Anne-Marie (January 26, 1998). "Riding the Wave" . People . Archived from the original on October 18, 2020 . Retrieved January 8, 2010 . ^ a b " Titanic (1997) " . Rotten Tomatoes . Fandango Media . Retrieved March 20, 2024 . ^ Stephen Galloway (January 18, 2020). "What Is the Most Profitable Movie Ever?" . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on November 16, 2020 . Retrieved April 26, 2020 . ^ a b c Hodder, Ian (March 6, 2007). "Sniff, sniff ... 7 movies that make guys cry" . NBC News . Archived from the original on April 19, 2016 . Retrieved January 8, 2010 . ^ a b Rohrer, Finlo (July 16, 2010). "A new type of tear-jerker" . BBC News . Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved August 5, 2010 . Over the years misty eyes have been generated by the death of Bambi's mother, the killing of the kestrel in Kes, the ending of Titanic, or Jenny's death in Love Story. ^ a b Meslow, Scott (April 6, 2012). "Boys Can Love 'Titanic,' Too" . The Atlantic . Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved October 22, 2015 . ^ Loder, Kurt (October 2, 2009). "Woody Harrelson brings the laughs in a high-spirited monster mow-down" . MTV . Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved December 6, 2010 . ^ a b "AFI's 100 Years ... 100 Movie Quotes" (PDF) . American Film Institute. Archived from the original (PDF) on July 16, 2011 . Retrieved January 19, 2010 . ^ a b Pawlowski, A (March 9, 2009). "You talkin' to me? Film quotes stir passion" . CNN . Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved January 21, 2010 . ^ Carroll, Jason (November 23, 2009). "CNN's Jason Carroll interviews director James Cameron about his new film "Avatar." (Video.)" . CNN . Archived from the original on November 28, 2009 . Retrieved December 20, 2009 . ^ Levin, Josh (December 10, 2009). "Here Come the Cats With Human Boobs. Is Avatar destined to flop?" . Slate . Archived from the original on October 3, 2018 . Retrieved December 20, 2009 . ^ a b Britt, Russ (January 4, 2010). "Can Cameron break his own box-office record? 'Avatar' unprecedented in staying power, international sales" . MarketWatch . Archived from the original on October 31, 2020 . Retrieved January 4, 2010 . ^ a b Jacks, Brian (January 16, 2010). "EXCLUSIVE: James Cameron Says 'Avatar' Will Beat 'Titanic' To Become Biggest Of All Time" . MTV . Archived from the original on January 22, 2021 . Retrieved January 17, 2010 . ^ Ball, Sarah (January 6, 2010). "How 'Avatar' Can Beat 'Titanic' " . Newsweek . Archived from the original on January 26, 2021 . Retrieved January 9, 2010 . ^ a b Keller, Alexandra (2014). James Cameron . London, England: Routledge . pp. 73– 76. ISBN 978-1-134-70021-9 . Archived from the original on April 16, 2015 . Retrieved October 25, 2014 . ^ Robert A. Rosenstone (2007). Lights, Camera, History: Portraying the Past in Film . Texas A&M University Press . pp. 115– 117. ISBN 978-1-60344-503-0 . Archived from the original on April 16, 2015 . Retrieved October 25, 2014 . ^ a b David S. Kidder; Noah D. Oppenheim (2008). The Intellectual Devotional Modern Culture: Revive Your Mind, Complete Your Education, and Converse Confidently with the Culturati . Rodale, Inc. p. 361. ISBN 978-1-60529-793-4 . Archived from the original on April 16, 2015 . Retrieved October 25, 2014 . ^ " Titanic (1997) " . Metacritic . Fandom, Inc. Retrieved February 15, 2021 . ^ McClintock, Pamela (August 19, 2011). "Why CinemaScore Matters for Box Office" . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on July 19, 2021 . Retrieved July 19, 2021 . ^ Ebert, Roger (December 19, 1997). "Titanic Movie Review & Film Summary (1997)" . Ebert Digital LLC . Archived from the original on October 6, 2014 . Retrieved December 7, 2006 . ^ "The Best Films of 1997". Siskel & Ebert . Season 12. Episode 18. January 3, 1998. ^ "Titanic (1997) Review" . Siskel & Ebert . Season 12. Episode 14. December 6, 1997. Archived from the original on June 30, 2014 . Retrieved February 11, 2014 . ^ Berardinelli, James. "A Film Review by James Berardinelli" . ReelViews. Archived from the original on November 16, 2018 . Retrieved January 19, 2010 . ^ Berardinelli, James. "James Berardinelli Top 10 of 1997" . ReelViews. Archived from the original on November 16, 2018 . Retrieved January 19, 2010 . ^ a b c "Titanic (1997) Critical Debates" . Chicago Sun-Times . Archived from the original on March 11, 2013 . Retrieved January 19, 2010 . ^ Giles, Jeff (December 16, 2009). "Total Recall: James Cameron Movies. We take a look at the career of the visionary director of Avatar" . Rotten Tomatoes . Archived from the original on December 24, 2009 . Retrieved January 19, 2010 . ^ Turner, Adrian. "Titanic" . Radio Times . Archived from the original on November 20, 2021 . Retrieved November 20, 2021 . ^ Corliss, Richard (December 8, 1997). "Down, Down to a Watery Grave" . Time . Archived from the original on September 29, 2013 . Retrieved July 22, 2008 . ^ Turan, Kenneth (December 19, 1997). " 'Titanic' Sinks Again (Spectacularly)" . Los Angeles Times . Archived from the original on December 19, 2019 . Retrieved September 15, 2019 . ^ Lubin, pp. 8–9 ^ Shulgasser, Barbara (December 19, 1997). "Talk about disasters" . The San Francisco Examiner . Archived from the original on October 19, 2013 . Retrieved February 19, 2007 . ^ a b Rowell, Dalin (September 28, 2021). "Every James Cameron Film Ranked From Worst To Best" . /Film . Archived from the original on October 27, 2021 . Retrieved November 20, 2021 . ^ Friedman, Roger (March 23, 2002). "Altman: Titanic Worst Movie Ever" . Fox News Channel . Archived from the original on December 19, 2019 . Retrieved December 2, 2008 . ^ Bonnaud, Frédéric (October 28, 2004). "The Captive Lover – An Interview with Jacques Rivette" . Senses of Cinema . Archived from the original on August 18, 2022 . Retrieved August 18, 2022 . ^ "Titanic voted 'best' film ending" . BBC News . October 15, 2003. Archived from the original on March 17, 2007 . Retrieved June 15, 2007 . ^ " Titanic sinks in worst film poll" . BBC News . November 5, 2003. Archived from the original on March 2, 2007 . Retrieved June 15, 2007 . ^ Davenport-Hines, Richard (2012). Titanic Lives: Migrants and Millionaires, Conmen and Crew . UK: HarperCollins. ^ Stephenson, John-Paul (October 2005). "Reviewing Symbolic Capital" . M/C Journal . 8 (5). doi : 10.5204/mcj.2423 . ISSN 1441-2616 . Archived from the original on October 7, 2009 . Retrieved September 11, 2009 . ^ "Clash of the Titanic" . Archived from the original on October 17, 2007 . Retrieved October 14, 2007 . ^ "He's Mad as Hell at Turan. James Cameron Gets the Last Word on Our Critic's 'Titanic' " . Los Angeles Times . March 28, 1998. Archived from the original on March 26, 2010 . Retrieved February 22, 2010 . ^ Haflidason, Almar (August 2007). "Titanic (1997)" . BBC. Archived from the original on January 2, 2009 . Retrieved December 26, 2008 . ^ Smith, Adam (January 2000). "Review of Titanic" . Bauer Consumer Media. Archived from the original on December 19, 2019 . Retrieved September 15, 2019 . ^ "2017 National Film Registry Is More Than a 'Field of Dreams' " . The Library of Congress . Archived from the original on December 13, 2017 . Retrieved December 13, 2017 . ^ "Titanic: 20 Years Later With James Cameron" . www.disneyplus.com . Retrieved January 18, 2025 . ^ "9 things we learned from 'Titanic: 20 Years Later With James Cameron' " . EW.com . Retrieved January 18, 2025 . ^ "A Timeline of the 'Could Jack Have Fit on the Titanic Door' Debate" . TIME . July 16, 2019. Archived from the original on March 23, 2024 . Retrieved March 23, 2024 . ^ Keegan, Rebecca (November 26, 2017). "James Cameron on Titanic's Legacy, the Avatar Sequels' Progress, and the Impact of a Fox Studio Sale" . Vanity Fair . Retrieved January 18, 2025 . ^ "Watch James Cameron recreate 'Titanic' floating door scene to see if Jack fit with Rose" . EW.com . Archived from the original on March 23, 2024 . Retrieved March 23, 2024 . ^ National Geographic (March 5, 2023). Titanic: 25 Years Later with James Cameron (Full Episode) | SPECIAL . Retrieved January 18, 2025 – via YouTube. ^ "James Cameron conducted forensic analysis to prove Jack's 'Titanic' death: 'He needed to die' " . EW.com . Retrieved January 18, 2025 . ^ Discovery (October 16, 2012). Titanic Survival Results | MythBusters . Retrieved January 18, 2025 – via YouTube. ^ "The 100 Greatest Movies" . Empire . March 20, 2018. Archived from the original on October 13, 2018 . Retrieved April 25, 2019 . ^ "Vertigo – Hollywood's 100 Favorite Films" . The Hollywood Reporter . June 25, 2014. Archived from the original on April 25, 2019 . Retrieved April 25, 2019 . ^ "50 Best PG-13 Movies Of All Time Ranked" . Looper . October 3, 2024. ^ Tu, Hang (2025). Sentimental Republic: Chinese Intellectuals and the Maoist Past . Harvard University Asia Center . p. 242. ISBN 9780674297579 . ^ " Titanic sweeps Golden Globes" . BBC News . January 19, 1998. Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved February 19, 2007 . ^ "Nominations for the 55th Golden Globe Awards" . BBC. January 17, 1998. Archived from the original on November 9, 2020 . Retrieved February 19, 2007 . ^ "Can Anything Stop the Raising of Titanic on March 23?" . The New York Observer . February 22, 1998. Archived from the original on July 25, 2008 . Retrieved December 1, 2010 . ^ "The 70th Academy Awards (1998) Nominees and Winners" . Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Archived from the original on October 1, 2014 . Retrieved November 19, 2011 . ^ " 'Titanic' ties Oscar record with 11" . Daily Press . March 24, 1998. p. 2. Archived from the original on September 3, 2022 . Retrieved September 3, 2022 – via Newspapers.com . ^ Garner, Chris (March 24, 1998). "A 'Titanic' winner" . Gannett News Service . Iowa City Press-Citizen . p. 17. Archived from the original on May 6, 2023 . Retrieved May 6, 2023 – via Newspapers.com . ^ " 'Titanic' vs. 'Ben-Hur' " . The New York Times . March 27, 1998. Archived from the original on March 8, 2016 . Retrieved March 8, 2016 . ^ Germain, David (March 1, 2004). " 'Rings' ties record with its 11 Oscars" . The Associated Press . Corpus Christi Caller-Times . p. 2. Archived from the original on September 3, 2022 . Retrieved September 3, 2022 – via Newspapers.com . ^ Lang, Brent (January 14, 2017). "Oscars: 'La La Land' Scores Record 14 Nominations" . Variety . Archived from the original on August 29, 2022 . Retrieved August 28, 2022 . ^ "Past Winners Search – 1998 – 41st Annual Grammy Awards" . The Recording Academy. Archived from the original on November 25, 2020 . Retrieved February 10, 2014 . ^ "41st Annual GRAMMY Awards" . The Recording Academy. Archived from the original on November 9, 2020 . Retrieved February 11, 2014 . ^ "Gold & Platinum – July 28, 2009" . Recording Industry Association of America. Archived from the original on June 26, 2007 . Retrieved July 28, 2009 . ^ "The Billboard 200: 1998" . Billboard . Archived from the original on February 8, 2008. ^ "Awards of the Japanese Academy 1998" . MUBI . Archived from the original on April 11, 2021 . Retrieved April 10, 2021 . ^ "AFI's 100 Years ... 100 Thrills" (PDF) . American Film Institute. Archived from the original (PDF) on November 19, 2012 . Retrieved January 19, 2010 . ^ "AFI's 100 Years ... 100 Passions" (PDF) . American Film Institute. Archived from the original (PDF) on July 16, 2011 . Retrieved January 19, 2010 . ^ "AFI's 100 Years ... 100 Songs" (PDF) . American Film Institute. Archived from the original (PDF) on July 16, 2011 . Retrieved January 19, 2010 . ^ "AFI's official PDF of the 1998 and 2007 rankings (registration required)" (PDF) . American Film Institute. Archived from the original (PDF) on July 21, 2011 . Retrieved January 19, 2010 . ^ "AFI's Top Ten Epic" (PDF) . American Film Institute . Archived from the original (PDF) on July 16, 2011 . Retrieved January 19, 2010 . ^ Titanic [VHS] (1997). ISBN 0-7921-5171-2 ^ "Sinking Feeling of Love" . Newsday (Suffolk Edition) . September 4, 1998. p. 151 . Retrieved October 15, 2024 – via Newspapers.com . ^ Sandler, Adam (June 9, 1998). " 'Titanic' sets sale" . Variety . Archived from the original on June 10, 1998 . Retrieved October 5, 2019 . ^ Wolf, Jessica (March 16, 2005). "Titanic' Resurfaces for Special Edition DVD" . Hive4media.com . Archived from the original on March 18, 2005 . Retrieved September 28, 2019 . ^ "Potter breaks another UK record" . BBC. May 13, 2002. Archived from the original on August 23, 2022 . Retrieved August 23, 2022 . ^ "Mamma Mia! - The Movie is fastest selling UK DVD ever" . ^ "Titanic steams past video sales record" . BBC. October 26, 1998. Archived from the original on August 23, 2022 . Retrieved August 23, 2022 . ^ a b Arnold, Thomas K (March 28, 2005). "Special editions go full steam ahead" . USA Today . Archived from the original on January 25, 2021 . Retrieved January 19, 2010 . ^ Rich, Jamie S. (December 26, 2007). "Titanic - 10th Anniversary Edition." Archived November 9, 2020, at the Wayback Machine DVDTalk.com . Retrieved December 3, 2020. ^ "Titanic (1997) – Financial Information" . Archived from the original on December 1, 2020 . Retrieved April 16, 2020 . ^ "Titanic Blu-ray, Blu-ray 3D, and DVD Press Release - DVDizzy.com" . DVDizzy.com . June 1, 2012. Archived from the original on August 23, 2022 . Retrieved August 23, 2022 . ^ "National Geographic Channel's Titanic: The Final Word with James Cameron Makes Ratings Splash Leading to 100th Anniversary of Titanic's Sinking" . PR Newswire . April 9, 2012. Archived from the original on August 23, 2022 . Retrieved August 23, 2022 . ^ Faulkner, Cameron (October 16, 2023). "The prettiest version of Titanic is coming on Dec. 5" . Polygon . Archived from the original on November 5, 2023 . Retrieved November 5, 2023 . ^ Nash, Anthony (October 17, 2023). "Titanic 4K Blu-ray Release Date Set, Limited Edition Box Set Announced" . ComingSoon.net - Movie Trailers, TV & Streaming News, and More . Archived from the original on November 5, 2023 . Retrieved November 5, 2023 . ^ Hunt, Bill (March 4, 2023). "It's official: Paramount sets James Cameron's TITANIC (1997) for 4K Ultra HD & 4K Collector's Edition on 12/5!" . thedigitalbits.com . Archived from the original on November 5, 2023 . Retrieved November 5, 2023 . ^ Archer, John (November 15, 2023). "Disney Reveals Full Details Of 'Aliens', 'The Abyss', 'True Lies' And 'Titanic' 4K Blu-Ray Releases" . Forbes . Archived from the original on November 16, 2023 . Retrieved November 16, 2023 . ^ "New Amazon Prime Video Shows and Movies (April 2023)" . TVGuide.com . Retrieved January 18, 2025 . ^ Hibberd, James (June 26, 2023). " 'Titanic' Returning to Netflix, Some Say Too Soon After Titan Sub Tragedy" . The Hollywood Reporter . Retrieved January 18, 2025 . ^ Richard, Nate (September 28, 2023). "What's New on Paramount+ in October 2023" . Collider . Retrieved January 18, 2025 . ^ Watch Titanic Full Movie Online - Try for Free . Retrieved January 18, 2025 – via www.paramountplus.com. ^ "New Amazon Prime Video and Freevee Shows and Movies in April 2024" . TVGuide.com . Retrieved January 18, 2025 . ^ Larryg (June 1, 2024). "Expiring Titles on Amazon Prime: Expiring Titles June 2024 - July 2024" . Expiring Titles on Amazon Prime . Retrieved January 18, 2025 . ^ "New Amazon Prime Video Shows and Movies in April 2025" . TVGuide.com . Retrieved April 12, 2025 . ^ Khosla, Proma (January 16, 2025). "Everything Coming to Hulu and Disney in February 2025" . IndieWire . Retrieved January 18, 2025 . ^ Spangler, Todd (June 1, 2023). "Pluto TV Adding 200-Plus Free Movies This Summer, Including Indiana Jones and Mission: Impossible Films, 'Titanic,' 'Forrest Gump' and More" . Variety . Retrieved January 18, 2025 . ^ "Coming in 60 weeks: 'Titanic' in 3D version" . The Times of India . October 30, 2011. Archived from the original on May 8, 2014 . Retrieved March 27, 2012 . ^ "Inside the 3-D Conversion of 'Titanic' " . The New York Times . March 30, 2012. Archived from the original on August 6, 2017 . Retrieved February 20, 2017 . ^ Douglas, Edward (October 12, 2011). "A Preview of James Cameron's Titanic 3D Rerelease" . ComingSoon.net ( CraveOnline ). Archived from the original on November 20, 2011 . Retrieved November 18, 2011 . ^ O'Neill, Ian (April 2, 2012). " 'Titanic' Accuracy Tightened by Neil deGrassee Tyson" . Discovery News . Archived from the original on April 30, 2014 . Retrieved December 19, 2019 . ^ "Titanic: Kate Winslet and James Cameron at 3D premiere" . BBC News . March 28, 2012. Archived from the original on April 10, 2014 . Retrieved February 11, 2014 . ^ "Kate Winslet, James Cameron at Titanic 3D premiere" . Yahoo! News . March 27, 2012. Archived from the original on March 2, 2014 . Retrieved February 11, 2014 . ^ "Titanic Official Movie Site" . Paramount Pictures. Archived from the original on February 10, 2012 . Retrieved February 7, 2012 . ^ Semigran, Aly (February 8, 2012). " 'Titanic' in 3-D gets earlier release date" . Entertainment Weekly . Archived from the original on December 19, 2019 . Retrieved December 18, 2019 . ^ "Paramount Pictures, Twentieth Century Fox and Lightstorm Entertainment to Set Sail Again with James Cameron's Oscar-Winning "Titanic" with a Worldwide 3D Re-release on April 6, 2012" (Press release). Paramount Pictures. May 19, 2011. Archived from the original on July 21, 2011 . Retrieved May 19, 2011 . ^ Travers, Peter (April 5, 2012). "Movie Reviews – Titanic 3D" . Rolling Stone . Archived from the original on February 14, 2018 . Retrieved April 6, 2012 . ^ Gleiberman, Owen (April 4, 2012). "Titanic 3D Review" . Entertainment Weekly . Archived from the original on April 14, 2015 . Retrieved April 6, 2012 . ^ Corliss, Richard (April 4, 2012). "Titanic, TIME and Me" . Time . Archived from the original on January 2, 2014 . Retrieved April 6, 2012 . ^ Hornaday, Ann (April 4, 2012). " 'Titanic 3-D' review" . The Washington Post . Archived from the original on March 5, 2016 . Retrieved April 6, 2012 . ^ Young, John (April 5, 2012). " 'Titanic 3D' leaves port with $4.4 million on Wednesday, so was the 3-D conversion worth it?" . Entertainment Weekly . Archived from the original on October 22, 2015 . Retrieved April 8, 2012 . ^ Subers, Ray (April 8, 2012). "Weekend Report: 'Hunger Games' Three-peats, Passes $300 Million Over Easter" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on April 19, 2012 . Retrieved April 17, 2012 . ^ Subers, Ray (April 10, 2012). "Around-the-World Roundup: 'Titanic 3D' Can't Stop 'Wrath' " . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on April 14, 2012 . Retrieved April 17, 2012 . ^ a b "Around-the-World Roundup: 'Titanic 3D' Opens to Record-Setting $67 Million in China" . Box Office Mojo . April 16, 2012. Archived from the original on April 19, 2012 . Retrieved April 15, 2012 . ^ Subers, Ray (April 10, 2012). " 'Titanic 3D' Has Huge Opening Day in China" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on April 14, 2012 . Retrieved April 17, 2012 . ^ "Titanic 3D (2012) – International Box Office results" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on November 9, 2014 . Retrieved May 23, 2012 . ^ "Titanic 2012 3D Release" . Box Office Mojo . Archived from the original on April 11, 2020 . Retrieved April 16, 2020 . ^ Gilchrist, Todd (April 4, 2012). " 'Titanic' Fans Get to Go Down with the Ship in '4DX' – The Hollywood Reporter" . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on August 2, 2020 . Retrieved October 28, 2013 . ^ Keegan, Rebecca (April 4, 2012). " 'Titanic 4DX': Foreign audiences to smell, feel ship's sinking" . Los Angeles Times . Archived from the original on January 19, 2014 . Retrieved October 28, 2013 . ^ "TITANIC to be Re-released in 4DX™" (Press release). PR Newswire. April 3, 2012. Archived from the original on October 29, 2013 . Retrieved October 28, 2013 . ^ Evans, Greg (November 15, 2017). "James Cameron's 'Titanic' Floats Again in 2D & 3D December Rerelease" . Deadline Hollywood . Archived from the original on November 15, 2017 . Retrieved November 18, 2017 . ^ Tartaglione, Nancy (June 22, 2022). " 'Titanic': Remastered Version Set For Theatrical Release In Time For Valentine's Day 2023" . Deadline Hollywood . Archived from the original on June 23, 2022 . Retrieved June 23, 2022 . ^ "Titanic Live – The Event" . Titanic Live . Archived from the original on December 18, 2016 . Retrieved December 22, 2016 . ^ Palmer, Jason (July 12, 2016). "Titanic Live sets sail for the Royal Albert Hall" . Entertainment Focus . Archived from the original on November 16, 2018 . Retrieved December 22, 2016 . ^ Lisa Schwarzbaum (December 11, 1998). "James Cameron's Titanic Explorer" . GeekyHobbies . Archived from the original on May 1, 2023 . Retrieved May 1, 2023 . ^ "James Cameron's Titanic Explorer" . The New York Times . April 8, 1999. Archived from the original on May 1, 2023 . Retrieved May 1, 2023 . ^ Eric Mortensen (May 3, 2021). "Titanic (2020) Board Game" . GeekyHobbies . Archived from the original on August 7, 2021 . Retrieved August 7, 2021 . ^ Holtermann, Callie (December 19, 2022). "The Unsinkable Memes of Titanic " . The New York Times . Retrieved November 6, 2024 . ^ Leopold, Jason (July 26, 2024). "Why It Feels Like "84 Years" When Agencies Respond to FOIA Requests" . Bloomberg News . Retrieved November 6, 2024 . ^ Zwerneman, Brent (December 5, 2023). "25 years since last football title, Aggies look to another new coach for return to prominence" . Houston Chronicle . Retrieved November 6, 2024 . An Internet meme has made the rounds this fall among Texas A&M fans (and others) of the elderly Rose in the movie 'Titanic' recalling to relative youngsters hanging on her every word, 'It's been 84 years …'. ^ Butler, Bethonie (November 21, 2017). "After 20 years, these 8 Titanic moments still won't die. Unlike Jack" . The Washington Post . Retrieved November 6, 2024 . Further reading Ballard, Robert (1987). The Discovery of the Titanic . Canada: Grand Central Publishing. ISBN 978-0-446-67174-3 . Cameron, Stephen (1998). Titanic: Belfast's Own . Ireland: Wolfhound Press. ISBN 978-0-86327-685-9 . Frakes, Randall (1998). Titanic: James Cameron's Illustrated Screenplay . New York: Harper. ISBN 978-0-06-095307-2 . Lubin, David M. (1999). Titanic . BFI Modern Classics. London: BFI Publishing. ISBN 978-0-85170-760-0 . Lynch, Donald (1992). Titanic: An Illustrated History . New York: Madison Press Books. ISBN 978-0-7868-6401-0 . Majoor, Mireille; James Cameron (2003). Titanic: Ghosts of the Abyss . New York: Scholastic. ISBN 978-1-895892-31-4 . Marsh, Ed W.; Kirkland, Douglas (1998). James Cameron's Titanic . London: Boxtree. ISBN 978-0-7522-2404-6 . OCLC 43745407 . Molony, Senan (2005). Titanic: A Primary Source History . Canada: Gareth Stevens. ISBN 978-0-8368-5980-5 . Parisi, Paula (1998). Titanic and the Making of James Cameron . London: Orion. ISBN 978-0-7528-1799-6 . Archived from the original on September 20, 2023 . Retrieved October 29, 2020 . Sandler, Kevin S.; Studlar, Gaylyn, eds. (1999). Titanic: Anatomy of a Blockbuster . Piscataway, NJ: Rutgers University Press. ISBN 978-0-8135-2669-0 . External links Wikimedia Commons has media related to Titanic (1997 film) . Wikiquote has quotations related to Titanic (1997 film) . Official website Titanic at IMDb Titanic at the TCM Movie Database Titanic at The Numbers Screenplay of Titanic at The Internet Movie Script Database Paramount Movies - Titanic YouTube video detailing model construction on YouTube v t e Yearly highest-grossing films in the United States Films listed as number-one by in-year release 1970s–1980s Star Wars ( 1977 ) Grease ( 1978 ) Kramer vs. Kramer ( 1979 ) The Empire Strikes Back ( 1980 ) Raiders of the Lost Ark ( 1981 ) E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial ( 1982 ) Return of the Jedi ( 1983 ) Beverly Hills Cop ( 1984 ) Back to the Future ( 1985 ) Top Gun ( 1986 ) Three Men and a Baby ( 1987 ) Rain Man ( 1988 ) Batman ( 1989 ) 1990s−2000s Home Alone ( 1990 ) Terminator 2: Judgment Day ( 1991 ) Aladdin ( 1992 ) Jurassic Park ( 1993 ) Forrest Gump ( 1994 ) Toy Story ( 1995 ) Independence Day ( 1996 ) Titanic ( 1997 ) Saving Private Ryan ( 1998 ) Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace ( 1999 ) How the Grinch Stole Christmas ( 2000 ) Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone ( 2001 ) Spider-Man ( 2002 ) The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King ( 2003 ) Shrek 2 ( 2004 ) Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith ( 2005 ) Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest ( 2006 ) Spider-Man 3 ( 2007 ) The Dark Knight ( 2008 ) Avatar ( 2009 ) 2010s−2020s Toy Story 3 ( 2010 ) Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 ( 2011 ) The Avengers ( 2012 ) The Hunger Games: Catching Fire ( 2013 ) American Sniper ( 2014 ) Star Wars: The Force Awakens ( 2015 ) Rogue One ( 2016 ) Star Wars: The Last Jedi ( 2017 ) Black Panther ( 2018 ) Avengers: Endgame ( 2019 ) Bad Boys for Life ( 2020 ) Spider-Man: No Way Home ( 2021 ) Top Gun: Maverick ( 2022 ) Barbie ( 2023 ) Inside Out 2 ( 2024 ) List of highest-grossing films in the United States and Canada v t e Titanic First class facilities Second and Third class facilities Grand Staircase Animals aboard Sinking Iceberg that sank the Titanic Changes in safety practices Lifeboats Lifeboat No. 1 British inquiry United States inquiry Wreck of the Titanic Legends and myths Conspiracy theories Officers Edward J. Smith (Captain) Henry Tingle Wilde (Chief Officer) William McMaster Murdoch (First Officer) Charles H. Lightoller (Second Officer) Herbert Pitman (Third Officer) Joseph G. Boxhall (Fourth Officer) Harold G. Lowe (Fifth Officer) James Paul Moody (Sixth Officer) Hugh McElroy (Chief Purser) Joseph Bell (Machine Room Manager) Crew members Frederick Barrett Harold Bride William Denton Cox Sid Daniels Frank Oliver Evans Frederick Fleet Luigi Gatti Robert Hichens Violet Jessop Archie Jewell Charles Joughin Reginald Lee Evelyn Marsden William Mintram Jack Phillips Frank Winnold Prentice Arthur John Priest George Symons Musicians Wallace Hartley John Wesley Woodward Passengers Fatalities Allison family Thomas Andrews John Jacob Astor IV David John Bowen Archibald Butt Thomas Byles Roderick Chisholm Walter Donald Douglas Annie Funk Jacques Futrelle Sidney Leslie Goodwin Benjamin Guggenheim John Harper Henry B. Harris Wallace Hartley Charles Melville Hays Ann Elizabeth Isham Edward Austin Kent Joseph Philippe Lemercier Laroche Francis Davis Millet Harry Markland Molson Clarence Moore Eino Viljami Panula W. T. Stead Ida Straus Isidor Straus John B. Thayer Frank M. Warren Sr. George D. Wick George Dunton Widener Harry Elkins Widener Duane Williams George Henry Wright Survivors Rhoda Abbott Trevor Allison Lillian Asplund Madeleine Astor Ruth Becker Lawrence Beesley Karl Behr Dickinson Bishop Mauritz Håkan Björnström-Steffansson Elsie Bowerman Francis Browne Margaret "Molly" Brown Helen Churchill Candee Charlotte Drake Cardeza Lucile Carter Gladys Cherry Millvina Dean Sir Cosmo Duff-Gordon Lucy, Lady Duff-Gordon Dorothy Gibson Archibald Gracie IV Frank John William Goldsmith Edith Haisman Henry S. Harper Eva Hart Margaret Bechstein Hays Masabumi Hosono J. Bruce Ismay Eleanor Ileen Johnson Louise Kink Louise Laroche Margaret Mannion Michel Marcel Navratil Alfred Nourney Arthur Godfrey Peuchen Jane Quick Winnifred Quick Edith Rosenbaum Noël Leslie, Countess of Rothes Emily Ryerson Agnes Sandström Beatrice Sandström Frederic Kimber Seward Eloise Hughes Smith Douglas Spedden Jack Thayer Marian Thayer Barbara West Ella Holmes White Eleanor Elkins Widener R. Norris Williams Marie Grice Young Monuments and memorials Australia Bandstand (Ballarat) United Kingdom Engine Room Heroes (Liverpool) Engineers (Southampton) Musicians (Southampton) Titanic (Belfast) Orchestra (Liverpool) United States Straus Park (New York City) Titanic (New York City) Titanic (Washington, D.C.) Butt–Millet Memorial Fountain (Washington, D.C.) Popular culture (cultural legacy) Books The Wreck of the Titan: Or, Futility (1898) A Night to Remember (1955) Polar the Titanic Bear (1995) Films Saved from the Titanic (1912) In Nacht und Eis (1912) La hantise (1912) Atlantic (1929) Atlantik (1929) Titanic (1943) Titanic (1953) A Night to Remember (1958) The Unsinkable Molly Brown (1964) Raise the Titanic (1980) Secrets of the Titanic (1986) Titanica (1992) Titanic (1997) The Chambermaid on the Titanic (1997) The Legend of the Titanic (1999) Titanic: The Legend Goes On (2000) The Boy Who Saw the Iceberg (2000) Ghosts of the Abyss (2003) Tentacolino (2004) Titanic II (2010) The Six (2021) Titanic 666 (2022) Unsinkable (2024) Television " A Night to Remember " (1956) S.O.S. Titanic (1979) Titanic: The Complete Story (1994) Titanic (1996 miniseries) No Greater Love (1996) "A Flight to Remember" ( Futurama ) (1999) "The Mutants Are Revolting" ( Futurama ) (2010) Titanic (2012 miniseries) Titanic: Blood and Steel (2012) Saving the Titanic (2012) Titanic: The Aftermath (2012) Theater The Berg (1929) The Unsinkable Molly Brown (1960 musical) Titanic (1974) Titanic (1997 musical) Music " The Titanic (It Was Sad When That Great Ship Went Down) " (folk song) The Sinking of the Titanic (music composition) Titanic (soundtrack album) Back to Titanic (soundtrack album) " My Heart Will Go On " (song) " Nearer, My God, to Thee " (song) Titanique (musical parody) " Dance Band on the Titanic " (song) " Titanic " (song) Titanic Requiem (music composition) " Tempest " (song) Titanic Rising (album) Video games Search for the Titanic (1989) Titanic: Adventure Out of Time (1996) Titanic: Honor and Glory (TBA) Museums and exhibitions SeaCity Museum (Southampton) Titanic Museum (Branson, Missouri) Titanic Museum (Pigeon Forge, Tennessee) Maritime Museum of the Atlantic (Halifax) Titanic Belfast Places Titanic (Canada) Titanic Canyon Titanic Quarter, Belfast Cape Race, Newfoundland Fairview Lawn Cemetery Mount Olivet Cemetery (Halifax, Nova Scotia) Arrol Gantry Titanic, Oklahoma Related Ships RMS Baltic RMS Olympic HMHS Britannic SS Mount Temple RMS Carpathia SS Californian CS Mackay-Bennett SS Birma SS Frankfurt Replica Titanic Titanic II Romandisea Titanic Law RMS Titanic Maritime Memorial Act Agreement Concerning the Shipwrecked Vessel RMS Titanic Others White Star Line David Blair James Cameron Harold Cottam Herbert Haddock Stanley Lord Arthur Rostron Titanic Historical Society Titanic International Society Encyclopedia Titanica Halomonas titanicae Women and children first Robert Ballard La Circassienne au Bain Titan submersible implosion The Big Piece Category v t e James Cameron Filmography Unrealized projects Awards and nominations Films directed Feature Piranha II: The Spawning (1982) The Terminator (1984) Aliens (1986) The Abyss (1989) Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991) True Lies (1994) Titanic (1997) Avatar (2009) Avatar: The Way of Water (2022) Avatar: Fire and Ash (2025) Avatar 4 (2029) Short Xenogenesis (1978) T2-3D: Battle Across Time (1996) Documentaries Expedition: Bismarck (2002) Ghosts of the Abyss (2003) Aliens of the Deep (2005) Films written Rambo: First Blood Part II (1985) Strange Days (1995) Alita: Battle Angel (2019, also produced) Terminator: Dark Fate (2019, also produced) Films produced only Solaris (2002) TV series created Dark Angel (2000–02) Related articles Lightstorm Entertainment Digital Domain Deepsea Challenger Pristimantis jamescameroni The Abyss: Incident at Europa Category Awards for Titanic v t e Academy Award for Best Picture 1927–1950 Wings (1927–1928) The Broadway Melody (1928–1929) All Quiet on the Western Front (1929–1930) Cimarron (1930–1931) Grand Hotel (1931–1932) Cavalcade (1932–1933) It Happened One Night (1934) Mutiny on the Bounty (1935) The Great Ziegfeld (1936) The Life of Emile Zola (1937) You Can't Take It with You (1938) Gone with the Wind (1939) Rebecca (1940) How Green Was My Valley (1941) Mrs. Miniver (1942) Casablanca (1943) Going My Way (1944) The Lost Weekend (1945) The Best Years of Our Lives (1946) Gentleman's Agreement (1947) Hamlet (1948) All the King's Men (1949) All About Eve (1950) 1951–1975 An American in Paris (1951) The Greatest Show on Earth (1952) From Here to Eternity (1953) On the Waterfront (1954) Marty (1955) Around the World in 80 Days (1956) The Bridge on the River Kwai (1957) Gigi (1958) Ben-Hur (1959) The Apartment (1960) West Side Story (1961) Lawrence of Arabia (1962) Tom Jones (1963) My Fair Lady (1964) The Sound of Music (1965) A Man for All Seasons (1966) In the Heat of the Night (1967) Oliver! (1968) Midnight Cowboy (1969) Patton (1970) The French Connection (1971) The Godfather (1972) The Sting (1973) The Godfather Part II (1974) One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975) 1976–2000 Rocky (1976) Annie Hall (1977) The Deer Hunter (1978) Kramer vs. Kramer (1979) Ordinary People (1980) Chariots of Fire (1981) Gandhi (1982) Terms of Endearment (1983) Amadeus (1984) Out of Africa (1985) Platoon (1986) The Last Emperor (1987) Rain Man (1988) Driving Miss Daisy (1989) Dances With Wolves (1990) The Silence of the Lambs (1991) Unforgiven (1992) Schindler's List (1993) Forrest Gump (1994) Braveheart (1995) The English Patient (1996) Titanic (1997) Shakespeare in Love (1998) American Beauty (1999) Gladiator (2000) 2001–2025 A Beautiful Mind (2001) Chicago (2002) The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003) Million Dollar Baby (2004) Crash (2005) The Departed (2006) No Country for Old Men (2007) Slumdog Millionaire (2008) The Hurt Locker (2009) The King's Speech (2010) The Artist (2011) Argo (2012) 12 Years a Slave (2013) Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance) (2014) Spotlight (2015) Moonlight (2016) The Shape of Water (2017) Green Book (2018) Parasite (2019) Nomadland (2020) CODA (2021) Everything Everywhere All at Once (2022) Oppenheimer (2023) Anora (2024) v t e Academy Award for Best Sound Editing Sound Effects 1963–1967 Walter Elliott (1963) Norman Wanstall (1964) Treg Brown (1965) Gordon Daniel (1966) John Poyner (1967) Sound Effects Editing 1982–1999 Charles L. Campbell and Ben Burtt (1982) Jay Boekelheide (1983) Kay Rose (1984) Charles L. Campbell and Robert Rutledge (1985) Don Sharpe (1986) Stephen Hunter Flick and John Pospisil (1987) Charles L. Campbell and Louis Edemann (1988) Ben Burtt and Richard Hymns (1989) Cecelia Hall and George Watters II (1990) Gary Rydstrom and Gloria S. Borders (1991) Tom McCarthy and David E. Stone (1992) Gary Rydstrom and Richard Hymns (1993) Stephen Hunter Flick (1994) Lon Bender and Per Hallberg (1995) Bruce Stambler (1996) Christopher Boyes and Tom Bellfort (1997) Gary Rydstrom and Richard Hymns (1998) Dane A. Davis (1999) Sound Editing 2000–2019 Jon Johnson (2000) George Watters II and Christopher Boyes (2001) Ethan Van der Ryn and Mike Hopkins (2002) Richard King (2003) Randy Thom and Michael Silvers (2004) Mike Hopkins and Ethan Van der Ryn (2005) Bub Asman and Alan Robert Murray (2006) Karen Baker Landers and Per Hallberg (2007) Richard King (2008) Paul N. J. Ottosson (2009) Richard King (2010) Eugene Gearty and Philip Stockton (2011) Per Hallberg and Karen Baker Landers / Paul N. J. Ottosson (2012) Glenn Freemantle (2013) Alan Robert Murray and Bub Asman (2014) Mark Mangini and David White (2015) Sylvain Bellemare (2016) Richard King and Alex Gibson (2017) John Warhurst and Nina Hartstone (2018) Donald Sylvester (2019) v t e Academy Award for Best Visual Effects 1963–1980 Emil Kosa Jr. – Cleopatra (1963) Peter Ellenshaw , Eustace Lycett , and Hamilton Luske – Mary Poppins (1964) John Stears – Thunderball (1965) Art Cruickshank – Fantastic Voyage (1966) L. B. Abbott – Doctor Dolittle (1967) Stanley Kubrick – 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) Robbie Robertson – Marooned (1969) A. D. Flowers and L. B. Abbott – Tora! Tora! Tora! (1970) Alan Maley , Eustace Lycett , and Danny Lee – Bedknobs and Broomsticks (1971) L. B. Abbott and A. D. Flowers – The Poseidon Adventure (1972) Frank Brendel , Glen Robinson , and Albert Whitlock – Earthquake (1974) Albert Whitlock and Glen Robinson – The Hindenburg (1975) Carlo Rambaldi , Glen Robinson , and Frank Van der Veer – King Kong (1976) John Stears , John Dykstra , Richard Edlund , Grant McCune , and Robert Blalack – Star Wars (1977) Les Bowie , Colin Chilvers , Denys Coop , Roy Field , Derek Meddings , and Zoran Perisic – Superman (1978) H. R. Giger , Carlo Rambaldi , Brian Johnson , Nick Allder , and Dennis Ayling – Alien (1979) Brian Johnson , Richard Edlund , Dennis Muren , and Bruce Nicholson – The Empire Strikes Back (1980) 1981–2000 Richard Edlund , Kit West , Bruce Nicholson , and Joe Johnston – Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) Carlo Rambaldi , Dennis Muren , and Kenneth F. Smith – E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1982) Richard Edlund , Dennis Muren , Ken Ralston , and Phil Tippett – Return of the Jedi (1983) Dennis Muren , Michael J. McAlister , Lorne Peterson , and George Gibbs – Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (1984) Ken Ralston , Ralph McQuarrie , Scott Farrar , and David Berry – Cocoon (1985) Robert Skotak , Stan Winston , John Richardson , and Suzanne M. Benson – Aliens (1986) Dennis Muren , Bill George , Harley Jessup , and Kenneth F. Smith - Innerspace (1987) Ken Ralston , Richard Williams , Edward Jones , and George Gibbs – Who Framed Roger Rabbit (1988) John Bruno , Dennis Muren , Hoyt Yeatman , and Dennis Skotak – The Abyss (1989) Eric Brevig , Rob Bottin , Tim McGovern , and Alex Funke – Total Recall (1990) Dennis Muren , Stan Winston , Gene Warren Jr. , and Robert Skotak – Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991) Ken Ralston , Doug Chiang , Douglas Smythe , and Tom Woodruff Jr. – Death Becomes Her (1992) Dennis Muren , Stan Winston , Phil Tippett , and Michael Lantieri – Jurassic Park (1993) Ken Ralston , George Murphy , Stephen Rosenbaum , and Allen Hall – Forrest Gump (1994) Scott E. Anderson , Charles Gibson , Neal Scanlan , and John Cox – Babe (1995) Volker Engel , Douglas Smith , Clay Pinney , and Joe Viskocil – Independence Day (1996) Robert Legato , Mark Lasoff , Thomas L. Fisher , and Michael Kanfer – Titanic (1997) Joel Hynek , Nicholas Brooks , Stuart Robertson , and Kevin Mack – What Dreams May Come (1998) John Gaeta , Janek Sirrs , Steve Courtley , and Jon Thum – The Matrix (1999) John Nelson , Neil Corbould , Tim Burke , and Rob Harvey – Gladiator (2000) 2001–2020 Jim Rygiel , Randall William Cook , Richard Taylor , and Mark Stetson – The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001) Jim Rygiel , Joe Letteri , Randall William Cook , and Alex Funke – The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (2002) Jim Rygiel , Joe Letteri , Randall William Cook , and Alex Funke – The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003) John Dykstra , Scott Stokdyk , Anthony LaMolinara , and John Frazier – Spider-Man 2 (2004) Joe Letteri , Brian Van't Hul , Christian Rivers , and Richard Taylor – King Kong (2005) John Knoll , Hal Hickel , Charles Gibson , and Allen Hall – Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest (2006) Michael L. Fink , Bill Westenhofer , Ben Morris , and Trevor Wood – The Golden Compass (2007) Eric Barba , Steve Preeg , Burt Dalton , and Craig Barron – The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008) Joe Letteri , Stephen Rosenbaum , Richard Baneham , and Andrew R. Jones – Avatar (2009) Paul Franklin , Chris Corbould , Andrew Lockley , and Peter Bebb – Inception (2010) Robert Legato , Joss Williams , Ben Grossmann , and Alex Henning – Hugo (2011) Bill Westenhofer , Guillaume Rocheron , Erik-Jan de Boer , and Donald R. Elliott – Life of Pi (2012) Tim Webber , Chris Lawrence , Dave Shirk , and Neil Corbould – Gravity (2013) Paul Franklin , Andrew Lockley , Ian Hunter , and Scott R. Fisher – Interstellar (2014) Mark Ardington , Sara Bennett , Paul Norris , and Andrew Whitehurst – Ex Machina (2015) Robert Legato , Adam Valdez , Andrew R. Jones , and Dan Lemmon – The Jungle Book (2016) John Nelson , Gerd Nefzer , Paul Lambert , and Richard R. Hoover – Blade Runner 2049 (2017) Paul Lambert , Ian Hunter , Tristan Myles , and J. D. Schwalm – First Man (2018) Guillaume Rocheron , Greg Butler , and Dominic Tuohy – 1917 (2019) Andrew Jackson , David Lee , Andrew Lockley , and Scott R. Fisher – Tenet (2020) 2021–present Paul Lambert , Tristan Myles , Brian Connor , and Gerd Nefzer – Dune (2021) Joe Letteri , Richard Baneham , Eric Saindon , and Daniel Barrett – Avatar: The Way of Water (2022) Takashi Yamazaki , Kiyoko Shibuya , Masaki Takahashi , and Tatsuji Nojima – Godzilla Minus One (2023) Paul Lambert , Stephen James , Rhys Salcombe , and Gerd Nefzer – Dune: Part Two (2024) v t e Blue Ribbon Award for Best Foreign Film Sunset Boulevard (1951) Monsieur Verdoux (1952) Forbidden Games (1953) The Wages of Fear (1954) East of Eden (1955) Gervaise (1956) La Strada (1957) The Old Man and the Sea (1958) 12 Angry Men (1959) On the Beach (1960) Two Women (1961) The Grapes of Wrath (1962) Sundays and Cybele (1963) Lilies of the Field (1964) Mary Poppins (1965) A Man and a Woman (1966) Lenny (1975) Taxi Driver (1976) Rocky (1977) Conversation Piece (1978) The Deer Hunter (1979) Kramer vs. Kramer (1980) The Tin Drum (1981) E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1982) Flashdance (1983) The Right Stuff (1984) Witness (1985) The Color Purple (1986) The Untouchables (1987) Wings of Desire (1988) Die Hard (1989) Field of Dreams (1990) The Silence of the Lambs (1991) JFK (1992) Jurassic Park (1993) Pulp Fiction (1994) The Bridges of Madison County (1995) Seven (1996) Titanic (1997) L.A. Confidential (1998) Life Is Beautiful (1999) Dancer in the Dark (2000) Joint Security Area (2001) Shaolin Soccer (2002) Infernal Affairs (2003) Mystic River (2004) Million Dollar Baby (2005) Flags of Our Fathers (2006) Dreamgirls (2007) The Dark Knight (2008) Gran Torino (2009) District 9 (2010) Black Swan (2011) Les Misérables (2012) Gravity (2013) Jersey Boys (2014) Mad Max: Fury Road (2015) Rogue One (2016) Hidden Figures (2017) Bohemian Rhapsody (2018) Joker (2019) Parasite (2020) No Time to Die (2021) Top Gun: Maverick (2022) The Super Mario Bros. Movie (2023) Oppenheimer (2024) v t e Empire Award for Best Film Braveheart (1996) Se7en (1997) Men in Black (1998) Titanic (1999) The Matrix (2000) Gladiator (2001) The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2002) The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (2003) The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2004) The Bourne Supremacy (2005) King Kong (2006) Casino Royale (2007) The Bourne Ultimatum (2008) The Dark Knight (2009) Avatar (2010) Inception (2011) Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 (2012) Skyfall (2013) Gravity (2014) Interstellar (2015) The Revenant (2016) Rogue One (2017) Star Wars: The Last Jedi (2018) v t e Florida Film Critics Circle Award for Best Film Fargo (1996) Titanic (1997) Shakespeare in Love (1998) Magnolia (1999) Traffic (2000) Amélie (2001) Adaptation (2002) The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003) Sideways (2004) Brokeback Mountain (2005) The Departed (2006) No Country for Old Men (2007) Slumdog Millionaire (2008) Up in the Air (2009) The Social Network (2010) The Descendants (2011) Argo (2012) 12 Years a Slave (2013) Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance) (2014) Mad Max: Fury Road (2015) The Lobster (2016) Dunkirk (2017) The Favourite (2018) Portrait of a Lady on Fire (2019) First Cow (2020) The Power of the Dog (2021) Everything Everywhere All at Once (2022) The Boy and the Heron (2023) The Beast (2024) v t e Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Drama 1943–1975 The Song of Bernadette (1943) Going My Way (1944) The Lost Weekend (1945) The Best Years of Our Lives (1946) Gentleman's Agreement (1947) Johnny Belinda / The Treasure of the Sierra Madre (1948) All the King's Men (1949) Sunset Boulevard (1950) A Place in the Sun (1951) The Greatest Show on Earth (1952) The Robe (1953) On the Waterfront (1954) East of Eden (1955) Around the World in 80 Days (1956) The Bridge on the River Kwai (1957) The Defiant Ones (1958) Ben-Hur (1959) Spartacus (1960) The Guns of Navarone (1961) Lawrence of Arabia (1962) The Cardinal (1963) Becket (1964) Doctor Zhivago (1965) A Man for All Seasons (1966) In the Heat of the Night (1967) The Lion in Winter (1968) Anne of the Thousand Days (1969) Love Story (1970) The French Connection (1971) The Godfather (1972) The Exorcist (1973) Chinatown (1974) One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975) 1976–2000 Rocky (1976) The Turning Point (1977) Midnight Express (1978) Kramer vs. Kramer (1979) Ordinary People (1980) On Golden Pond (1981) E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1982) Terms of Endearment (1983) Amadeus (1984) Out of Africa (1985) Platoon (1986) The Last Emperor (1987) Rain Man (1988) Born on the Fourth of July (1989) Dances With Wolves (1990) Bugsy (1991) Scent of a Woman (1992) Schindler's List (1993) Forrest Gump (1994) Sense and Sensibility (1995) The English Patient (1996) Titanic (1997) Saving Private Ryan (1998) American Beauty (1999) Gladiator (2000) 2001–present A Beautiful Mind (2001) The Hours (2002) The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003) The Aviator (2004) Brokeback Mountain (2005) Babel (2006) Atonement (2007) Slumdog Millionaire (2008) Avatar (2009) The Social Network (2010) The Descendants (2011) Argo (2012) 12 Years a Slave (2013) Boyhood (2014) The Revenant (2015) Moonlight (2016) Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri (2017) Bohemian Rhapsody (2018) 1917 (2019) Nomadland (2020) The Power of the Dog (2021) The Fabelmans (2022) Oppenheimer (2023) The Brutalist (2024) v t e Japan Academy Film Prize for Outstanding Foreign Language Film Rocky (1978) Conversation Piece (1979) The Deer Hunter (1980) Kramer vs. Kramer (1981) The Tin Drum (1982) E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1983) An Officer and a Gentleman (1984) Once Upon a Time in America (1985) Amadeus (1986) Back to the Future (1987) Platoon (1988) The Last Emperor (1989) Die Hard (1990) Field of Dreams (1991) Dances With Wolves (1992) JFK (1993) Jurassic Park (1994) Schindler's List (1995) The Shawshank Redemption (1996) Il Postino: The Postman (1997) Titanic (1998) L.A. Confidential (1999) The Sixth Sense (2000) Dancer in the Dark (2001) Billy Elliot (2002) Monster's Ball (2003) The Pianist (2004) The Last Samurai (2005) Million Dollar Baby (2006) Flags of Our Fathers (2007) Letters from Iwo Jima (2008) The Dark Knight (2009) Gran Torino (2010) Avatar (2011) The King's Speech (2012) The Intouchables (2013) Les Misérables (2014) Frozen (2015) American Sniper (2016) Sully (2017) La La Land (2018) Bohemian Rhapsody (2019) Joker (2020) Parasite (2021) No Time to Die (2022) Top Gun: Maverick (2023) Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part One (2024) Oppenheimer (2025) v t e Kids' Choice Award for Favorite Movie Beverly Hills Cop II (1988) Who Framed Roger Rabbit (1989) Look Who's Talking (1990) Home Alone (1991) The Addams Family (1992) Jurassic Park (1994) The Lion King (1995) Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls (1996) Independence Day (1997) Titanic (1998) The Rugrats Movie (1999) Big Daddy (2000) How the Grinch Stole Christmas (2001) Rush Hour 2 (2002) Austin Powers in Goldmember (2003) Finding Nemo (2004) The Incredibles (2005) Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2006) Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest (2007) Alvin and the Chipmunks (2008) High School Musical 3: Senior Year (2009) Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Squeakquel (2010) The Karate Kid (2011) Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked (2012) The Hunger Games (2013) The Hunger Games: Catching Fire (2014) The Hunger Games: Mockingjay – Part 1 (2015) Star Wars: The Force Awakens (2016) Ghostbusters (2017) Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle (2018) Avengers: Infinity War (2019) Avengers: Endgame (2020) Wonder Woman 1984 (2021) Spider-Man: No Way Home (2022) Sonic the Hedgehog 2 (2023) Barbie (2024) v t e MTV Movie & TV Award for Best Movie Best Movie (1992–2011, 2018–present) Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1992) A Few Good Men (1993) Menace II Society (1994) Pulp Fiction (1995) Seven (1996) Scream (1997) Titanic (1998) There's Something About Mary (1999) The Matrix (2000) Gladiator (2001) The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2002) The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (2003) The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2004) Napoleon Dynamite (2005) Wedding Crashers (2006) Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest (2007) Transformers (2008) Twilight (2009) The Twilight Saga: New Moon (2010) The Twilight Saga: Eclipse (2011) Black Panther (2018) Avengers: Endgame (2019) No Award (2020) To All the Boys: Always and Forever (2021) Spider-Man: No Way Home (2022) Scream VI (2023) Movie of the Year (2012–2017) The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Part 1 (2012) The Avengers (2013) The Hunger Games: Catching Fire (2014) The Fault in Our Stars (2015) Star Wars: The Force Awakens (2016) Beauty and the Beast (2017) v t e Producers Guild of America Award for Best Theatrical Motion Picture Driving Miss Daisy (1989) Dances With Wolves (1990) The Silence of the Lambs (1991) The Crying Game (1992) Schindler's List (1993) Forrest Gump (1994) Apollo 13 (1995) The English Patient (1996) Titanic (1997) Saving Private Ryan (1998) American Beauty (1999) Gladiator (2000) Moulin Rouge! (2001) Chicago (2002) The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003) The Aviator (2004) Brokeback Mountain (2005) Little Miss Sunshine (2006) No Country for Old Men (2007) Slumdog Millionaire (2008) The Hurt Locker (2009) The King's Speech (2010) The Artist (2011) Argo (2012) 12 Years a Slave / Gravity (2013) Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance) (2014) The Big Short (2015) La La Land (2016) The Shape of Water (2017) Green Book (2018) 1917 (2019) Nomadland (2020) CODA (2021) Everything Everywhere All at Once (2022) Oppenheimer (2023) Anora (2024) v t e Satellite Award for Best Film Drama (1996–2009, 2018–present) Fargo (1996) Titanic (1997) The Thin Red Line (1998) The Insider (1999) Traffic (2000) In the Bedroom (2001) Far from Heaven (2002) In America (2003) Hotel Rwanda (2004) Brokeback Mountain (2005) The Departed (2006) No Country for Old Men (2007) Slumdog Millionaire (2008) The Hurt Locker (2009) If Beale Street Could Talk (2018) Ford v Ferrari (2019) Nomadland (2020) Belfast (2021) Top Gun: Maverick (2022) Oppenheimer (2023) The Brutalist (2024) Musical or Comedy (1996–2009, 2018–present) Evita (1996) As Good as It Gets (1997) Shakespeare in Love (1998) Being John Malkovich (1999) Nurse Betty (2000) Moulin Rouge! (2001) My Big Fat Greek Wedding (2002) Lost in Translation (2003) Sideways (2004) Walk the Line (2005) Dreamgirls (2006) Juno (2007) Happy-Go-Lucky (2008) Nine (2009) Scott Pilgrim vs. the World (2010) A Star Is Born (2018) Once Upon a Time in Hollywood (2019) The Forty-Year-Old Version (2020) tick, tick... BOOM! (2021) Everything Everywhere All at Once (2022) The Holdovers (2023) Anora (2024) Motion Picture (2010–2017) The Social Network (2010) The Descendants (2011) Silver Linings Playbook (2012) 12 Years a Slave (2013) Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance) (2014) Spotlight (2015) La La Land / Manchester by the Sea (2016) God's Own Country / Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri (2017) Independent (2018) BlacKkKlansman (2018) Portals : Film United States 1990s Authority control databases International VIAF 2 3 WorldCat National Germany United States France BnF data Czech Republic Spain Norway Croatia Chile Poland Israel Catalonia Other IdRef MusicBrainz work Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Titanic_(1997_film)&oldid=1286857400 " Categories : 1997 films 1997 romantic drama films 1990s adventure films 1990s American films 1990s disaster films 1990s English-language films 20th Century Fox films 3D re-releases 4DX films American 3D films American adventure drama films American disaster films American epic films American historical romance films American nonlinear narrative films American romantic drama films American survival films Best Drama Picture Golden Globe winners Best Picture Academy Award winners English-language adventure films English-language romantic drama films Epic films based on actual events Films about artists Films about interclass romance Films about mother–daughter relationships Films about RMS Titanic Films about social class Films about survivors of seafaring accidents or incidents Films directed by James Cameron Films produced by James Cameron Films produced by Jon Landau Films scored by James Horner Films set in 1912 Films set in 1996 Films set in Newfoundland and Labrador Films set in the Atlantic Ocean Films set on ships Films shot in Mexico Films shot in Nova Scotia Films shot in Vancouver Films that won the Best Costume Design Academy Award Films that won the Best Original Score Academy Award Films that won the Best Original Song Academy Award Films that won the Best Sound Editing Academy Award Films that won the Best Sound Mixing Academy Award Films that won the Best Visual Effects Academy Award Films using motion capture Films whose art director won the Best Art Direction Academy Award Films whose cinematographer won the Best Cinematography Academy Award Films whose director won the Best Directing Academy Award Films whose director won the Best Director Golden Globe Films whose editor won the Best Film Editing Academy Award Films with screenplays by James Cameron Historical epic films IMAX films Lightstorm Entertainment films Love stories Murder–suicide in films Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Award–winning films Paramount Pictures films Romantic drama films based on actual events Romantic epic films Satellite Award–winning films Saturn Award–winning films Sea adventure films Seafaring films based on actual events Titanic (1997 film) United States National Film Registry films World record holders Hidden categories: CS1 Danish-language sources (da) CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from February 2014 Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages Use American English from January 2025 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Good articles Use mdy dates from August 2021 Template film date with 2 release dates Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images Articles needing additional references from May 2023 All articles needing additional references All pages needing factual verification Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from June 2023 Commons category link is on Wikidata Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia This page was last edited on 22 April 2025, at 12:45 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Titanic (1997 film) 117 languages Add topic