Copyrights Club Fantasy Route Teams Grands départs Tour Culture News Sporting Stakes All the rankings Commitments The jerseys "Maillot Jaune" Collection Key figures Safety Partners Videos News Videos Photos Come to the Tour Broadcasters Cycling Tips Tour Culture Sporting stakes History Key figures Safety Commitments 2024 Edition Rankings Stage Winners Videos Partners Official Tour de France shops Collection Maillot Jaune Official App Other events Broadcasters Media Games Tour operators MonTour VIP Official shops Store Official games PRO CYCLING MANAGER 2024 (PC) TOUR DE FRANCE 2024 - VIDEO GAMES (PC, XBOX ONE, PS4 & PS5) Fantasy by Tissot Cycling Legends (iOS, Android) - Official Mobile Game Other events Broadcasters Media Games Tour operators MonTour VIP Official shops Store Official games PRO CYCLING MANAGER 2024 (PC) TOUR DE FRANCE 2024 - VIDEO GAMES (PC, XBOX ONE, PS4 & PS5) Fantasy by Tissot Cycling Legends (iOS, Android) - Official Mobile Game Club Route Teams Grands départs Tour Culture Videos Tour Culture News Sporting Stakes All the rankings Commitments The jerseys "Maillot Jaune" Collection Key figures Safety Partners 05/07 > 27/07/2025 Fantasy Club en fr de es General Conditions of Use of the site Version Updated on June 23, 2021. LEGAL The official website of the Tour de France is published by Amaury Sport Organisation (A.S.O.), a limited company with a capital of €61,200,240 registered with the Nanterre Trade and Companies Register under number 383 160 348, whose registered office is in Boulogne-Billancourt (92200) France, 40-42 Quai du Point du Jour, represented by its General Manager, Mr. Yann le Moënner. Director of the publication: Mr. Yann le Moënner. This Site is hosted by Skale-5, provider of IT Outsources services, located at 33 avenue des Champs Elysées, 75 008 Paris, France. PREAMBLE Some definitions TCU These General Terms and Conditions of Use. The Site: The Official Website of the Tour de France (www.letour.fr), an event organized by ASO The User: The visitor browsing the official website of the Tour de France. Personal data: Information that directly or indirectly identifies a person (surname, first name, e-mail address, etc.). Data Processing: The operations performed on the Data (collection, storage, deletion, etc.). Consent: The authorization of individuals to the Processing of their Data. Acceptance of the Terms & Conditions of Use The purpose of these General Terms and Conditions of Use (hereinafter referred to as "the TCUs") is to define the terms and conditions applicable when using the Site and the " letour.fr/Fr/club " by its Users (hereinafter the "Users"). By using or attempting to use the Site, You agree to be subject to these Terms and Conditions of Use as well as our Privacy Statement and Cookie Policy. If, for any reason, You do not wish to accept them, You must immediately stop using the Site. A.S.O. may modify and update the TCUs at any time, in particular to take into consideration the evolutions of the Site, the services offered and the applicable regulations. Any changes we make will apply immediately upon notification, by any means, including, but not limited to, the publication of a revised Terms and Conditions of Use on the Site. You can find out the date of revision of these TCUs by referring to the "Last updated" mention at the top of these TCUs. Since A.S.O. does not have the capacity to know or verify the age of the Users of the Site, users are presumed to be of legal age or to have the authorization of a legal representative to connect to the Site and / or enter their Data, when required . The French version of these TCUs prevails over any translation and it is deemed authentic. 1. Purpose of the Site A.S.O. makes the Site available to You, to allow You to : Follow the news, history and novelties on the previous, the next, or the current edition of the Tour de France; Follow the accounts of the official pages of the Tour de France on the social networks; Register for the Tour de France Club by logging in, and to allow You to: - Access all information about the Tour de France, - Consult the rankings and the race, - Learn the History of the Tour, - Live Your passion for cycling and for the Tour by immersing Yourself in the world of the Tour de France via unique experiences, - Offer You sporting and extra-sporting content in accordance with Your interests, exclusive content, games, spaces dedicated to practicing cyclists like You, - Propose to You and invite You to go to the tour shop (third-party site) to benefit from promotions and discounts. In short, A.S.O. wants to offer a unique experience to the Tour fans so that they live their passion even more intensely. 2. PRIVACY POLICY We only collect the personal data defined in the Privacy Statement and which allow the User to register to the Tour de France fan club. We therefore ask You to refer to it by clicking here . The Privacy Statement and the Cookie Policy are an integral part of these TCUs. 3. USER CODE OF CONDUCT The access to the Site, hosted in "Software as a Service" (SaaS) mode, requires the User to have Internet access and computer equipment. All costs incurred by the User to access the Site remain at his expense. To access the Site, the User agrees to use only secure hardware and software, in particular using a computer security suite, and free of viruses, any defect, anomaly, bug and any malfunction likely to lead to an interruption, malfunction or decrease in security of the Site. Within the scope of the use of the Site, the User agrees not to perform the following actions, nor to allow anyone to do so, directly, or indirectly: 3.1. Restrict or prevent the use of the Site by any other visitor or member, including but not limited to "hacking" and alteration of any part of the Site; 3.2. Access or attempt to access parts of the Site for which ASO has not granted You permission, circumvent or attempt to circumvent any security or password protection feature on the Site, access the Site in any manner other than through the interface provided and authorized by The Site; 3.3. Modify software intended for the Site in any way or form, or use modified versions of the software, including (without limitation) for the purposes of obtaining unauthorized access to the Site; 3.4. Use the Site or the Documents (as defined in these TCUs) for illicit purposes; 3.5. Assert or insinuate that we endorse User’s statements, without our prior written authorization; 3.6. Impersonating a person or entity, real or fictitious, including an employee or representative of A.S.O.; 3.7. 5.7 Transmit (a) illegal, fraudulent, threatening, abusive, slanderous, defamatory, obscene, pornographic, hateful, vulgar or offensive content or information, or that violates A.S.O. intellectual property rights or other rights or those of a third party; (b) important, non-public information about companies without permission; (c) third-party trade secrets or (d) advertisements, solicitations, letter chains, pyramid schemes, investment opportunities or other unsolicited business communication (unless A.S.O. explicitly authorized it); 3.8. Use the Site to harm children or teen-agers in any way; 3.9 Engage in spamming or phishing activities; 3.10. Transmit software or other content containing a virus, worm, Trojan horse, defect, software bomb or other destructive item; 3.11. Modify, adapt, sublicense, translate, sell, use reverse engineering, decompile or disassemble any part of the Site; 3.12. Delete notices of copyright, trademark or other proprietary rights from the Site; 3.13. "Hunting" or harassing others; 3.14. Create a link to a page or content of the Site without a written authorization; 3.15. Use a robot, a digital agent, a deferred messaging program, a web extraction or analysis application, a site search application or any other manual or automatic device or process to extract, index, explore data, or in any way whatsoever, reproduce or circumvent the navigation structure or presentation of the Site or its content without our prior written consent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, ASO grants operators of public search engines permission to use robots to copy content from the Site, FOR THE SOLE PURPOSE OF AND SOLELY TO THE EXTENT NECESSARY FOR CREATING PUBLICLY AVAILABLE SEARCHABLE INDICES OF THE MATERIALS , but not caches or archives of such content. ASO reserves the right to revoke these exceptions either in general or in specific cases; 3.16. Collect or gather information about visitors or members of the Site without their express consent; 3.17 Take any action that imposes or may impose (in A.S.O. sole discretion) an unreasonable or disproportionate large load of data, information or queries on our infrastructure (or that of our third-party suppliers). Actions noted above constitute a serious breach of these TCU. The User is reminded that, under Article 323-3 of the Penal Code, any reproduction or disclosure of personal data obtained deceitfully by a third-party site or by a search engine for the purpose of enriching its own database, or processing the data on its own behalf, will be considered an offence punishable by a sentence of 5 years' imprisonment and a fine of 150 000 euros. If the Site User does not comply with these TCU or with any other policy, rule or directive that applies to the Site, A.S.O. reserves the right to refuse, block or delete accounts and access to the Site. 4. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND RESTRICTIONS ON USE. The information and materials provided on or through the Site, including all content, data, text, graphics, images, photographs, illustrations, audio and video clips, logos, icons and links (collectively, the "Documents") are the exclusive property of ASO or its licensors or Vendors, and are intended to inform you about the Events and other products and services offered on the Site. The Site, including all of its software, databases, proprietary information, documentation, content, computer code, ideas, know-how and Documents (and all modifications and derivative works thereof, all intellectual property rights and other rights relating thereto or contained therein), including, but not limited to, the selection, compilation, order, functional richness and arrangement of the elements, belongs to ASO which exploits it and remains its exclusive property. You acknowledge that the Site is protected by copyrights, trademarks, and other laws. You admit that the use of the Site or the Documents does not confer any ownership rights on you. The trademarks, logos and service marks displayed on the Site (collectively, the "Marks") are trademarks, registered or not, owned by ASO, its advertisers, licensors, Sellers, third party Organizers, suppliers, or others. Trademarks owned by ASO, whether registered or not, may not be used in connection with products or services that are not proposed by ASO, in any manner that is likely to confuse customers or that denigrates ASO. Any full or partial representation of the Site by any process, without the express permission of A.S.O. is prohibited and would constitute an infringement that could incur civil and criminal liability of its author. A.S.O. thus reserves the right to prosecute any infringement of its intellectual property rights. Only private copying is permitted for personal, private, and non-commercial use. Any reproduction of a content is therefore, as a principle, strictly prohibited without the express consent of its author. However, partial reproduction (right of quotation) may be tolerated on the condition that it is clearly and visibly attached to each of the pages reproducing content, the following statement: "This content is reproduced from the article"[specify the title and address of the source of the reproduced content]" of the A.S.O. site, which may have been updated since the [add the date]." 5. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY Generally, ASO's facility to provide services depends on the Internet or a telecommunications network, which is not necessarily secure in its entirety. The Site is hosted by an external service provider, which has undertaken to secure access, consultation and use of the Data in compliance with the rules of use of the Internet, ASO cannot guarantee uninterrupted access to the Site, nor the retention or receipt of the Site’s Data. ASO reserves the right to interrupt, temporarily suspend or modify without notice access to all or part of the Site, to ensure its maintenance. Under no circumstances can A.S.O. be held responsible for any service disruption, for any reason, for any network or server malfunction or any other event beyond Our reasonable control that would prevent or impair the access to the Site. User states that he accepts the characteristics and limitations of the Internet, and acknowledges that: Its use of the Site is at his sole risk; The Site is accessible to the User on an "as is" and “as available” basis; No advice or information, whether oral or written, obtained by the User of the Site or during the use of the Site are likely to create guarantees not expressly provided for in these TCU; The User is solely responsible for the use he makes of the Information found on the Site; The User is solely responsible for the use he makes about the content of sites which have a hyperlink to the Site; The User is aware of the nature of the Internet, in particular its technical performance and response times for viewing, querying, or transferring the Information. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the User expressly acknowledges and agrees that in no event will ASO be liable for : Any failure of another User of the Site to comply with the code of conduct and more generally the TCU; Any interruption or termination of transmissions to or from the Site due to a problem with User's Internet connection; Bugs, viruses, computer worms, Trojans, defects, software bombs or any other destructive element that may be transmitted to or via the Site by a third party. It is therefore up to the User to take all appropriate measures to protect his own data and/or software from contamination by possible viruses circulating on the Site. Errors, inaccuracies or omissions in the information, or damages or losses, of any kind whatsoever, arising from the use of any information provided in the Site. The User acknowledges that A.S.O. cannot guarantee uninterrupted or continuous access to the service and that under no circumstances can A.S.O. liability be incurred, in particular in the case of: Force majeure; User's Internet network failure; Site User's fault caused by misuse of the services; User's non-compliance with TCU. 6. SANCTIONS In the event of use of the Site that does not comply with these TCUs, the Privacy Statement, or any other policy, rule or directive applying to the Site, A.S.O. reserves the right to act before the competent French civil or criminal courts against the User and / or the person on behalf of whom the User acts. GOVERNING LAW. Both this Site and the terms and conditions of its use are governed by French law, regardless of the place of use. Any possible dispute, after the failure of any attempt to seek an amicable solution, will be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of Paris which alone will be able to hear it, even in the event of multiple defendants or an appeal in warranty. 7. GOVERNING LAW. Both this Site and the terms and conditions of its use are governed by French law, regardless of the place of use. Any possible dispute, after the failure of any attempt to seek an amicable solution, will be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of Paris which alone will be able to hear it, even in the event of multiple defendants or an appeal in warranty. 8. MISCELLANEOUS ASO may assign its rights and obligations under these Terms and Conditions of Use. Accordingly, you give your prior consent to ASO that the obligations under these Terms and Conditions may be transferred or assigned to a third party. The contract will continue automatically and without formalities between You and the entity that would benefit from the transfer or assignment. You are not authorized to assign your rights or obligations under these Terms and Conditions of Use. Any assignment that violates these terms is null and void. The rights and obligations under these General Terms and Conditions of Use which, by their nature, must survive them, will remain in full force and effect after termination or expiry of the General Terms and Conditions of Use. Access to the Site, hosted in "Software as a Service" (SaaS) mode, requires that the User has Internet access and computer equipment. All costs incurred by the User to access the Site remain at his expense. To access the Site, the User agrees to use only secure hardware and software, in particular using a computer security suite, and free of viruses, any defect, anomaly, bug and any malfunction likely to lead to an interruption, malfunction or decrease in security of the Site. In the context of the use of the Site, the User agrees not to perform the following operations, nor to allow anyone to do so, directly or indirectly: 9. CONTACT For any request relating to these General Terms and Conditions of Use, We invite You to send a letter to: DATA PROTECTION OFFICER AMAURYA. S.O.40 – 42 Quai du Point du Jour,92100 Boulogne-BillancourtOr at the e-mail address: dpoaso@aso.fr Follow us Receive exclusive news about the Tour Pro zone Accreditations Contacts Privacy policy Your GDPR rights Terms & Conditions Cookie settings © ASO