Tesla (TSLA): Q2 2020 earnings preview | Electrek Skip to main content Toggle main menu Electrek Logo Go to the Electrek home page Switch site 9to5Mac Logo 9to5Mac 9to5Google Logo 9to5Google 9to5Toys Drone DJ Logo DroneDJ Space Explored About Privacy Toggle social menu Toggle dark mode Search for: Submit Toggle search form Exclusives Autos Electric Vehicle Price Guide – best prices for dealers in the US Tesla Ford GM BMW Jaguar VW Daimler/Mercedes Hyundai Nissan Toyota Alt. Transport Ebikes Electric Motorcycles Bus Hyperloop Autonomy Tesla Autopilot Cruise Automation Uber Waymo Energy Green Energy Climate Tesla Shop Store Toggle dark mode Tesla TSLA - Tesla Stock Price Tesla (TSLA): Q2 2020 earnings preview Fred Lambert | Jul 21 2020 - 5:06 am PT 0 Comments Tesla (TSLA) is set to announce its second-quarter 2020 financial results tomorrow, Wednesday, July 22 after the markets close. As usual, a conference call and Q&A with Tesla’s management is scheduled after the results. Below we’ll take a look at what both the street and retail investors are expecting for the quarterly results. Tesla Q2 2020 deliveries As usual, Tesla’s vehicle deliveries drive most of its earning results, since vehicle sales represent the automaker’s main revenue stream at the moment. Tesla already released its Q2 2020 numbers confirming that it delivered 90,650 cars and produced ‘over 82,000 vehicle’ between April and June. Advertisement - scroll for more content The automaker beat Wall Street expectations, which were low due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Deliveries were down roughly 5% versus the same period last year, but it was surprisingly good considering the broader auto industry took a significantly larger hit. Tesla Q2 2020 revenue Wall Street’s revenue consensus for Tesla during the first quarter is $5.146 billion, and Estimize , the financial estimate crowdsourcing website, predicts a higher revenue of $5.443 billion. This is less than the $5.985 billion Tesla reported in revenue during the previous quarter due to the lower deliveries amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The predictions for Tesla’s revenue over the past two years: Estimize predictions in blue, Wall Street consensus in gray, actual results in green: Tesla Q2 2020 earnings Now for earnings per share, or rather loss per share, the Wall Street consensus is a loss of $0.14 per share for the quarter, while Estimize’s prediction is actually a slight profit of $0.19 per share. It’s rare that the two groups don’t agree on whether Tesla will post a profit or a loss. Earnings per share over the last two years: Estimize predictions in blue, Wall Street consensus in gray, actual results in green: Other expectations for the TSLA shareholder’s letter and analyst call I am surprised that Wall Street is not expecting a profit no matter how small. Like we have reported, Elon has said that Tesla was close to breaking even a few days before the end of the quarter. Breaking even can mean a small loss or a small profit, but since Elon took quite some time off of his schedule over the next few days after the end of the quarter to dunk on the short, I would expect that it means a profit, even if it’s a small one, is secured. But you never know. As for other things that will be of interest to investors, I expect questions about progress on Cybertruck Gigafactory, Gigafactory Berlin, and Gigafactory Shanghai. Investors are also going to want to know about the current order backlog and some other programs like the Tesla Semi since Elon said that it was time to move to volume production. What I am most curious about is Tesla Energy. The company has been making a clear push toward solar in the last few months and I’d like management to go into more detail about it. I assume that some questions will revolve around COVID-19 and its impact on Tesla’s operations. I hope that comments are going to be more reasonable than what happened on the last call. What do you think? Let us know in the comment section below. Add Electrek to your Google News feed. FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More. Stay up to date with the latest content by subscribing to Electrek on Google News .  You’re reading Electrek— experts who break news about Tesla , electric vehicles, and green energy , day after day. Be sure to check out our homepage for all the latest news, and follow Electrek on Twitter , Facebook , and LinkedIn to stay in the loop. Don’t know where to start? Check out our YouTube channel for the latest reviews. Featured from Electrek Electrek Logo Tesla insider buys stock for the first time in years and it’s hilarious Fred Lambert Apr 29 2025 Here are the cheapest EVs we could find for lease at under $300/month right now [Updated] Peter Johnson Apr 29 2025 The first giant 15 MW turbine is up at Germany’s largest offshore wind farm Michelle Lewis Apr 28 2025 Tesla gives update on Tesla Semi factory, says on track for volume production in 2026 Fred Lambert Apr 28 2025 Subscribe to Electrek on YouTube for exclusive videos and subscribe to the podcast . Comments Expand Close comments Guides Tesla Tesla is a transportation and energy company. It… TSLA stock Author Fred Lambert fredericlambert Fred is the Editor in Chief and Main Writer at Electrek. You can send tips on Twitter (DMs open) or via email: fred@9to5mac.com Through Zalkon.com, you can check out Fred’s portfolio and get monthly green stock investment ideas. Fred Lambert's favorite gear Combat Edge Get an edge on MMA with the best stats EnergySage EnergySage helps you get the best price possible on a home solar installation for free and without hassel.