Kelly Toland Inaugural Committee Announces Tabatha Rosproy, 2020 National Teacher of the Year, as Emcee for Inaugural Swearing-in Ceremony  - KFRM Radio 550 AM Skip to content Toll Free: (888) 550-5376 Our Station Staff/Contact Advertise Interviews Reward Program Photo of the Day Our Station Staff/Contact Advertise Interviews Reward Program Photo of the Day Home Markets Programs Ag Perspectives Downing Report On The Front Porch Plain Talk Weather Auctions News KFRM Listening Area News Kansas Journal Entry KFRM National News Home Markets Programs Ag Perspectives Downing Report On The Front Porch Plain Talk Weather Auctions News KFRM Listening Area News Kansas Journal Entry KFRM National News Kelly Toland Inaugural Committee Announces Tabatha Rosproy, 2020 National Teacher of the Year, as Emcee for Inaugural Swearing-in Ceremony Topeka, KS – Today, the Kelly Toland Inaugural Committee announced that Tabatha Rosproy, the 2020 Kansas and National Teacher of the Year, will serve as the master of ceremonies for the inauguration of Governor Laura Kelly as the 48th Governor of Kansas, Lieutenant Governor David Toland as the 52nd Lieutenant Governor of Kansas, and other statewide elected officials during the swearing-in ceremony on January 9, 2023. “Tabatha’s commitment to public education and our students is an inspiration to me and Kansans across the state. I’m thrilled that she will play such an important role in this year’s ceremony,” said Governor Laura Kelly. “I’m proud of the work our administration has done to get our students back on track by fully funding our education system. Kansas is known for our great public schools, and Tabatha represents that.” Rosproy is a 13-year Kansas teaching veteran and was the first early childhood educator to be named the National Teacher of the Year in the program’s 69-year history. She has taught preschool in Salina and Winfield, and served as an early childhood support teacher in Olathe. She recently transitioned into a new role as the Early Childhood Project Coordinator for Kansas Parent Information Resource Center, training educators around the state on best practices in family engagement and early childhood education. “As a Kansan and as a teacher who focuses on early childhood education, I am inspired by the commitments Governor Kelly has made to make Kansas the best place for our children to thrive,” said Tabatha Rosproy. “It is my honor to join Kansans from across the state as we celebrate the next chapter in our state’s history in honor of Governor Kelly and Lieutenant Governor Toland.” The swearing-in ceremony for Governor Kelly, Lieutenant Governor Toland, and other statewide elected officials will take place at the Kansas Capitol at 12:00 PM on January 9, 2023. More information on tickets can be found here . Rosproy will lead the ceremony, Reverend Rachael Pryor will deliver the invocation, and the Poet Laureate of Kansas, Dr. Traci Brimhall, will recite an original poem. Chief Justice Marla Luckert will administer the oaths of office for the newly elected and reelected officials. An Interfaith service will take place at 9:00 AM the morning of January 9 in the Old Supreme Court Room (room 346-S) in the Kansas Statehouse. Reverend Tobias Schlingensiepen will lead the service, and it will feature blessings from different faith community leaders, including Bishop David Wilson with the Great Plains Conference of the United Methodist Church, Sister Therese Bangert of Sisters of Charity of Leavenworth, Rabbi Moti Rieber with Kansas Interfaith Action (KIFA), and others. For more press information, visit the website here . Bethaney Phillips (1) Our Station Markets Programs Weather Auctions Staff/Contact EEO KFRM FCC Public Inspection File NEWS Copyright © Taylor Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service | Disclaimer | Powered by Conceptualized Design We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. Accept