James Cameron has directed 3 of the highest-grossing movies ever with Avatar 2 ​ Skip to content Entertainment Weekly Search Please fill out this field. Newsletters Sweepstakes Search Please fill out this field. TV TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge Binge EW's Binge Podcast Episodes The Challenge The Golden Bachelor The Masked Singer RuPaul's Drag Race Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowstone Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge 9-1-1 The Masked Singer Outlander RuPaul's Drag Race Saturday Night Live Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowjackets Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Top Stories 1 Why Terrence Howard turned down Marvin Gaye biopic 2 'Wuthering Heights' casting director defends Margot Robbie, Jacob Elordi choices 3 'Havoc' ending explained 4 'Harry Potter' cast: Then and now James Cameron has now directed 3 of the 5 highest-grossing movies of all time Avatar: The Way of Water joins Avatar and Titanic in the top five. By Nick Romano Nick Romano Nick is an entertainment journalist based in New York, NY. If you like pugs and the occasional blurry photo of an action figure, follow him on Twitter @NickARomano. EW's editorial guidelines Published on January 27, 2023 10:00AM EST Avatar: The Way of Water has reached a new milestone as it continues its box-office domination. As of Thursday, the film has earned a cumulative $2.054 billion worldwide since premiering in theaters Dec. 16. That means the blockbuster has edged out Avengers: Infinity War (which raked in $2.052 billion) to become the fifth-highest-grossing movie of all time. It also means that its director, James Cameron , has now made three of the five top-grossing films ever. Cameron's first Avatar movie, released in 2009, still holds the No. 1 spot with $2.923 billion. Titanic (1997), the other Cameron movie in the top 5, holds the third spot with $2.195 billion, behind Avengers: Endgame 's $2.799 billion. James Cameron has now directed three of the five highest-grossing movies of all time: 'Avatar,' 'Titanic,' and 'Avatar: The Way of Water.'. 20th Century Studios (2); Everett Collection Fourth place goes to Star Wars: Episode VII — The Force Awakens (2015) with $2.071 billion, but Avatar: The Way of Water is closing in on that record. It's practically guaranteed at this point, with Wednesday screenings alone adding $9 million to its still-growing grand total. In terms of the North American box office, Cameron's sequel, starring Sam Worthington and Zoe Saldaña , ranks as the 13th-highest-grossing movie. In terms of international screenings, it's the fourth-highest grosser. Saldaña, who plays Na'vi warrioress Neytiri in Cameron's Avatar films, also has a box-office record to flaunt: She is the first actress to appear in four films that have crossed the $2 billion mark: Avatar , Avengers: Endgame , Avengers: Infinity War , and Avatar: The Way of Water . "Gratitude for the acknowledgment, and absolute exhilaration that I get to wake up every morning and go do what I love," Saldaña said of the benchmark in a post on Instagram. "Never in a million years did I ever aim to make history by being in these movies. I've always been lucky to have been chosen and asked to join these amazing, groundbreaking projects." In addition to thanking Cameron, she expressed gratitude to Guardians of the Galaxy director James Gunn for casting her as Gamora in the Marvel movies and Avengers helmers Joe and Anthony Russo . She then addressed fans. "Thank YOU to all our fans for making these movies what they are today — history in the making!" Saldaña wrote. Three more Avatar sequels are in the works, and Avatar 3 and part of Avatar 4 have already been filmed. Just imagine a world in which Cameron has claim to all five of the top-grossing movies. Want more movie news? Sign up for Entertainment Weekly's free newsletter to get the latest trailers, celebrity interviews, film reviews, and more. Related content: Why James Cameron wanted to bring Titanic back to theaters for Valentine's Day Avatar producer clarifies Vin Diesel is not in sequels despite what the actor has said Avatar: The Way of Water almost got a Na'vi space battle. Here's why it didn't work out. Read more: Movies Related Articles First Avatar: Fire and Ash footage shows off Na'vi Wind Traders and Ash People at CinemaCon Ashley Johnson, the original Ellie of The Last of Us , makes season 2 voice cameo (exclusive) Tron: Ares trailer sends digitized Jared Leto racing into the real world Star Wars team never told Palpatine actor how the Emperor had kids: 'Does this evil monster ever have sex?' Was Dina the 'Staring Girl' on The Last of Us ? Star Isabela Merced weighs in on fan theory (exclusive) Kaitlyn Dever on playing dual Abbys on The Last of Us and delivering that searing speech (exclusive) Havoc cast and character guide: Meet Tom Hardy's crew of bruisers, gangsters, and crooked cops Samuel L. Jackson, Hayden Christensen surprise Star Wars fans at Revenge of the Sith screening: 'Mace lives!' Lucasfilm teases Andor season 2 and films The Mandalorian and Grogu and Starfighter at Star Wars Celebration Drew Barrymore was 'so nervous' before Charlie's Angels opening weekend: 'If it didn't go well, we'd be in big trouble' Monty Python and the Holy Grail cast 50 years later: Here’s what became of the iconic comedy troupe Harry Potter cast: See the original stars of the Wizarding World, then and now The game has changed: On set for The Last of Us ' Pedro Pascal shocker (exclusive) The Virgin Suicides cast 25 years later: See the stars of Sofia Coppola's girlhood classic, then and now Pedro Pascal opens up about pivotal Last of Us twist: 'I'm in active denial' (exclusive) Scott Foley pestered J.J. Abrams for Star Wars gigs: 'If I was ever insecure about anything' Entertainment Weekly Newsletters Follow Us TV Movies Music What To Watch Binge Celebrity The Awardist Books Theater About Us Terms of Service Subscribe Advertise Careers Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Entertainment Weekly is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies