Assassin's Creed II | Assassin's Creed Wiki | Fandom Assassin's Creed Wiki Welcome to Assassin's Creed Wiki! Log in and join the community. READ MORE Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Assassin's Creed Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Content Database‎ Animals‎ Assassin Intel‎ Collectibles‎ History‎ Documents‎ Events‎ Items‎ Landmarks‎ Locations‎ People‎ Individuals‎ By ethnicity By nationality By occupation By organization By place of residence By title‎ By traits By year Unidentified individuals‎ Locations‎ Cities‎ Colonies‎ Geographical features Landmarks‎ Locations by country Structures‎ Organizations‎ Assassin Brotherhood‎ Cults‎ Families‎ Militaries Ship crews Templar Order Memories‎ By Animus‎ By individual‎ Skills‎ Assassin skills‎ Genetic skills‎ Templar skills‎ Weapons‎ Personal weapons‎ Weapons by century‎ Weapons by type‎ Games Assassin's Creed Ezio Trilogy Assassin's Creed II Brotherhood Revelations Kenway Saga Assassin's Creed III Liberation Black Flag Freedom Cry Rogue Initiate Duology Unity Syndicate Layla Saga Origins Odyssey Valhalla Mirage Upcoming games Shadows Jade Codename Hexe Other games Altaïr's Chronicles Bloodlines Discovery Project Legacy Initiates Pirates Chronicles Identity Rebellion Nexus VR Other Media Comics UbiWorkshop comics The Fall The Chain Brahman Titan Comics Assassin's Creed Templars Last Descendants – Locus Uprising Reflections Origins Dark Horse Comics Valhalla – Song of Glory Valhalla – Forgotten Myths Mirage – A Soar of Eagles French graphic novels The Ankh of Isis Trilogy The Hawk Trilogy Conspiracies Bloodstone Valhalla – The Hidden Codex Manga and manhua Awakening Blade of Shao Jun Dynasty Valhalla – Blood Brothers Shadows – Iga no Monogatari Korean webtoons Forgotten Temple Novels Novelizations The Secret Crusade Renaissance Brotherhood Revelations Forsaken Black Flag Unity The Movie Odyssey Underworld Ubisoft Publishing novels Heresy Origins – Desert Oath Valhalla – Geirmund's Saga Aconyte Books novels Valhalla – Sword of the White Horse The Golden City Mirage – Daughter of No One Engine of History – The Magus Conspiracy Engine of History – The Resurrection Plot Young adult novels Last Descendants Last Descendants – Tomb of the Khan Last Descendants – Fate of the Gods Fragments – The Blade of Aizu Fragments – The Highlands Children Fragments – The Witches of the Moors Other books Prophecy of the Emperor The Silk Road Escape Room Puzzle Book Films and TV series Lineage Ascendance Embers The Movie Live action series Animated series Anime series Audiobooks Gold Board games Brotherhood of Venice Roleplaying Game Community Staff Administrators Cristophorus35 Lady Kyashira Sol Pacificus Soranin Moderators Ahmairah Lacrossedeamon Sadelyrate Xangr8 Zero-ELEC Policies Manual of Style Community Guidelines Moderation Images Images Licensing Sourcing Licensing Guidelines Be Bold Achievements Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Assassin's Creed Wiki 25,266 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Content Database‎ Animals‎ Assassin Intel‎ Collectibles‎ History‎ Documents‎ Events‎ Items‎ Landmarks‎ Locations‎ People‎ Individuals‎ By ethnicity By nationality By occupation By organization By place of residence By title‎ By traits By year Unidentified individuals‎ Locations‎ Cities‎ Colonies‎ Geographical features Landmarks‎ Locations by country Structures‎ Organizations‎ Assassin Brotherhood‎ Cults‎ Families‎ Militaries Ship crews Templar Order Memories‎ By Animus‎ By individual‎ Skills‎ Assassin skills‎ Genetic skills‎ Templar skills‎ Weapons‎ Personal weapons‎ Weapons by century‎ Weapons by type‎ Games Assassin's Creed Ezio Trilogy Assassin's Creed II Brotherhood Revelations Kenway Saga Assassin's Creed III Liberation Black Flag Freedom Cry Rogue Initiate Duology Unity Syndicate Layla Saga Origins Odyssey Valhalla Mirage Upcoming games Shadows Jade Codename Hexe Other games Altaïr's Chronicles Bloodlines Discovery Project Legacy Initiates Pirates Chronicles Identity Rebellion Nexus VR Other Media Comics UbiWorkshop comics The Fall The Chain Brahman Titan Comics Assassin's Creed Templars Last Descendants – Locus Uprising Reflections Origins Dark Horse Comics Valhalla – Song of Glory Valhalla – Forgotten Myths Mirage – A Soar of Eagles French graphic novels The Ankh of Isis Trilogy The Hawk Trilogy Conspiracies Bloodstone Valhalla – The Hidden Codex Manga and manhua Awakening Blade of Shao Jun Dynasty Valhalla – Blood Brothers Shadows – Iga no Monogatari Korean webtoons Forgotten Temple Novels Novelizations The Secret Crusade Renaissance Brotherhood Revelations Forsaken Black Flag Unity The Movie Odyssey Underworld Ubisoft Publishing novels Heresy Origins – Desert Oath Valhalla – Geirmund's Saga Aconyte Books novels Valhalla – Sword of the White Horse The Golden City Mirage – Daughter of No One Engine of History – The Magus Conspiracy Engine of History – The Resurrection Plot Young adult novels Last Descendants Last Descendants – Tomb of the Khan Last Descendants – Fate of the Gods Fragments – The Blade of Aizu Fragments – The Highlands Children Fragments – The Witches of the Moors Other books Prophecy of the Emperor The Silk Road Escape Room Puzzle Book Films and TV series Lineage Ascendance Embers The Movie Live action series Animated series Anime series Audiobooks Gold Board games Brotherhood of Venice Roleplaying Game Community Staff Administrators Cristophorus35 Lady Kyashira Sol Pacificus Soranin Moderators Ahmairah Lacrossedeamon Sadelyrate Xangr8 Zero-ELEC Policies Manual of Style Community Guidelines Moderation Images Images Licensing Sourcing Licensing Guidelines Be Bold Achievements in: Featured articles , Articles in need of sources , Assassin's Creed II , and 2 more Real world video games Assassin's Creed series English العربية Deutsch Español فارسی Français עברית Magyar Italiano 日本語 한국어 Lietuvių Nederlands Polski Português do Brasil Русский Українська 中文 Assassin's Creed II View source History Purge Talk (54) "I did not choose this path. It was chosen for me. At first, I thought vengeance would be easy. For thirty years I've lived in the shadows, visited death upon those who deserved it, and vanished like the wind. I don't know who started this conspiracy, but I know who will end it. My name is Ezio Auditore da Firenze. Like my father before me, I am an Assassin." ―Ezio Auditore da Firenze, Assassin's Creed II Launch Trailer. Assassin's Creed II Developer Ubisoft Montreal, Ubisoft Singapore Publisher Ubisoft Engine Anvil Composer Jesper Kyd Release date PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 November 17, 2009 ( NA ) November 19, 2009 ( AU ) November 20, 2009 ( EU ) Microsoft Windows March 4, 2010 (AU) March 5, 2010 (EU) March 9, 2010 (NA) Mac OS X October 1, 2010 (EU) January 6, 2011 (NA) PlayStation 4, Xbox One November 15, 2016 Nintendo Switch February 17, 2022 Genre Historic Action-Adventure Game modes Single-player ESRB rating M (Mature) Platform(s) PlayStation 3 Xbox 360 Microsoft Windows Mac OS X PlayStation 4 Xbox One Nintendo Switch Website Assassin's Creed II is a video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It was released on 17 November 2009 (US), 19 November 2009 (AU) and 20 November 2009 (worldwide) on PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. The PC version was released on 6 March 2010 (UK) and 9 March 2010 (US). A direct sequel to Assassin's Creed and the second installment in the franchise , the game focuses again on Desmond Miles after he escapes from Abstergo Industries with the help of undercover Assassin Lucy Stillman . In an attempt to thwart Abstergo and the modern-day Templars , Desmond uses a new Animus to relive the genetic memories of his ancestor, Ezio Auditore da Firenze , who lived in Italy during the Renaissance . The player controls Desmond to a degree, but primarily Ezio, who becomes an Assassin after his family is betrayed in a conspiracy orchestrated by the Templars. While controlling Ezio, the player can explore renditions of major Italian regions and cities through a mixture of action, stealth, and economic gameplay. On 16 November 2010, a follow-up in the form of Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood was released, expanding on both Ezio's life and the modern-day storyline. A remastered version of the game was released for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One as part of The Ezio Collection in November 2016, and for the Nintendo Switch in February 2022. Contents 1 Gameplay 2 Synopsis 2.1 Plot 3 Development 4 Release 4.1 Editions 5 Inter-connectivity 6 Sequel 7 Reception 7.1 Awards 8 Gallery 9 Credits 10 References Gameplay Assassin's Creed II is similar to its predecessor in many ways. The game is non-linear, and can be considered a "sandbox" type of game due to the player's ability to freely roam the generated renditions of Italy. The Animus is replaced with the Animus 2.0, which, unlike the first, possesses an in-game database with historical information about encountered landmarks, characters, services, and glyphs . Eagle Vision has been updated to allow for third-person view, which can be used while Ezio is moving. A young version of Leonardo da Vinci is also included in the game and translates Codex pages left behind by Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad , allowing for new weapons and upgrades. Other weapons, such as swords, daggers and maces can also be purchased throughout the game due to the economic system . Navigation has also been altered for the better in that swimming is now possible, alongside using gondolas and riding horses , as well as Leonardo further contributing to gameplay with the inclusion of his flying machine in one of the game's missions. A new economic system allows the player to profit from city renovations and upgrades In Monteriggioni , the Auditore family 's villa acts as Ezio's primary headquarters throughout the game, and a new economic system allows for the property to be upgraded and enhanced, creating income for Ezio at twenty minute intervals. As shops within Monteriggioni are renovated and upgraded, Ezio receives discounts on the particular goods that are sold, and income is also affected by the purchase of paintings, armor and weapon sets, along with the collections of various items. Such items are displayed throughout the villa as they are accumulated, and Ezio's personal room is updated with portraits of his assassinations as the game progresses. The combat system for the game has been updated and allows for further options, including disarming opponents. There are also more methods of hiding, such as diving underwater to break an enemy's line of sight while swimming, along with the blending mechanic being improved to allow Ezio to cloak himself with any group of individuals, rather than specific people . Further along the game, Ezio is capable of learning new methods of assassination, such as ambushing individuals when hiding in haystacks or pulling individuals off buildings to fall to their deaths. Accompanying this, there are several new types of enemies, some more agile or stronger than others. As well as this, Ezio can use smoke bombs and hire groups of thieves , courtesans , or mercenaries to aid him in covering his tracks and avoiding contact with guards . Health in the game is measured via synchronization , and minor wounds will heal automatically over time, while major wounds must be healed by side-street doctors or with medicine purchased from them. One new feature includes a new system known as notoriety , which, depending on his behavior, current location, and current mission, Ezio will become more recognizable by citizens of the city, specifically guards. When the notoriety icon is empty, Ezio is known as "incognito" and may travel through the city as he pleases. As the player behaves in more "socially unacceptable" ways or due to the consequences of a particular mission, Ezio will become more noticeable by the guards and more likely to be pursued by them. Notoriety can be decreased by bribing city heralds , assassinating corrupt city officials , and removing wanted posters . The level of notoriety is set within each city, so that while Ezio may be completely unknown in some cities, he may be infamous in others. Like its predecessor, the game features the same ability to climb buildings and perform Leaps of Faith into haystacks and carts of soft materials, including herb and spice carts. Climbing has been updated to allow Ezio the opportunity to learn to leap while climbing , allowing him to reach higher positions previously unavailable. Ezio scaling a building in Florence as represented in the memory, "Nightcap". A day and night cycle has been added to the game, which the player can notice via the sun rising and setting throughout gameplay. In addition, specific missions and game events occur at certain times in the day or night. Due to complaints of some of the missions in the original game, Assassin's Creed II ' s mission system has been expanded and structured a little differently. There are approximately 200 missions in the entire game with roughly half of them being relevant to the primary storyline. Side quests include the location and search of hidden areas which upon exploration and successful completion will reward Ezio with seals of past Assassins. On the full collection of the six seals, Ezio will be allowed to claim the mighty armor of Altaïr . The game also possesses a system mildly similar to the "glitches" from Assassin's Creed , where pressing a specific button during a cutscene will produce specific changes and actions within the scene. Synopsis Plot The game begins with Desmond Miles giving a brief monologue about the events of the first game and his current predicament. A few hours after the events of Assassin's Creed , in the year 2012, Desmond touches upon how he was held prisoner by the modern-day Knights Templar , Abstergo Industries , and was forced to relive the genetic memories of his ancestor, Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad , in the Animus to aid Abstergo in discovering the location of artifacts known collectively as the " Pieces of Eden ". Due to the " Bleeding Effect ", Desmond has gained " Eagle Vision ", enabling him to see a variety of messages and symbols written in blood on his bedroom wall by its former occupant, known only as " Subject 16 ". While staring at the message, former employee and researcher of Abstergo, Lucy Stillman , arrives, covered in blood, and frees Desmond from the room. He then re-enters the Animus briefly and watches the birth of Ezio Auditore da Firenze , as Lucy makes a copy of the files located within the machine. The two then escape after a brief scuffle with Abstergo security guards and arrive at a warehouse in which Lucy and two other modern day Assassins, Shaun Hastings and Rebecca Crane , have set up their own base of operations, complete with their own version of the Animus. Desmond enters the Animus 2.0 to access Ezio’s memories Desmond is asked by Lucy to enter the Animus and explore the genetic memories of Ezio, in order to continue the search for the remaining Pieces of Eden before Abstergo locates them. Due to the number of modern day Assassins dwindling by the day, Lucy informs Desmond that she intends to train Desmond in the various skills needed to become an Assassin by exploiting the Bleeding Effect and having Desmond absorb Ezio's abilities. In 1476, Ezio is a carefree teenager living in Florence during the Renaissance , whose family is the House of Auditore , one of the most prominent noble families in the city. However, Ezio's life takes a drastic turn when his father is betrayed and framed for treason by a close friend in the midst of a political coup d'état. His father's final instructions lead Ezio to a hidden room in the family home with a chest containing the clothing and weapons of an Assassin. Ezio is ultimately unable to save his father and two brothers from the betrayer and all three are falsely convicted of treason and hanged. After evacuating their home and sharing a brief accommodation with the family's housemaid 's sister , who teaches Ezio some survival techniques, he brings his panicked sister and muted mother to the family's countryside villa, where they are given shelter by Ezio's uncle Mario , who begins training Ezio to become an Assassin. Mario also provides information and leads on the conspirators involved in his family's betrayal, which becomes a trail stretching from Florence to San Gimignano , Forlì and Venice . During his travels, which span over a decade, Ezio befriends several citizens of Italy who aid him in his pursuit for revenge, including a young Leonardo da Vinci , who translates and decodes pages of Altaïr's Codex , enabling Ezio to gain new weapons and assassination skills. Ezio begins slowly locating and assassinating the conspirators involved, and is ultimately able to identify Rodrigo Borgia as the Grand Master of the Italian Templars , whose main goal is to take control of all of Italy. Assassins meet with Ezio to officially induct him into the Order In 1488, Ezio tracks Rodrigo to Venice and discovers that he has obtained a Piece of Eden known as " the Apple ", an artifact similar to the one that Altaïr possessed almost three centuries prior. Rodrigo has been researching the knowledge surrounding the Pieces of Eden extensively and believes himself to be a prophet named in the documentation of the artifacts, which would ultimately lead him and other Templars to a location known as " The Vault ", which is believed to contain powerful information and more Pieces of Eden. Ezio and Rodrigo duel and when Ezio gains the upper hand, guards appear and begin to move the fight into the favor of Rodrigo. The allies that Ezio has made over the years arrive shortly after and they defeat Rodrigo, who flees for fear of his life, leaving the Apple behind. These allies and friends of Ezio finally reveal their common trait – that they are all members of the Assassins, including the great Niccolò Machiavelli . They induct Ezio into the Order, informing him that they believe him to be the actual prophet who will lead the Assassins, not the Templars, to the Vault. Desmond successfully assimilates Ezio's free running abilities Desmond takes short breaks from the Animus, and during one he is tested by Lucy to see if the Bleeding Effect has been working. Desmond is able to demonstrate all of Ezio's skills, indicating that he has absorbed years worth of abilities in only a matter of hours. During this break, however, Desmond suffers a strange hallucination which returns him to the body of Altaïr in Acre . During the memory, Altaïr makes love to Maria Thorpe , an ex-Templar, and Desmond is confused to find that after Altaïr leaves, the memory stays behind with Maria. Throughout the genetic memories of Ezio, Desmond discovers multiple glyphs placed on various landmarks that are only visible to someone using the Animus. The glyphs are found to be the same ones drawn on Desmond's bedroom wall in Abstergo, and analysis reveals that they contain computer code, hidden within the Animus. It is ultimately discovered that Subject 16 hacked the Animus and placed the glyphs within the memories himself, which were carried over to the new Animus when Lucy loaded the information she had recovered at Abstergo. Each glyph contained a great number of historical artworks, photographs, and messages, past and present, implicating a great number of prominent events and figures with the Templars and Pieces of Eden. Each also contained a puzzle of some sort which, when solved, contained clips of a larger video. The clips, however, are short and out of sequence. After locating and solving all twenty glyphs, a video is revealed . Adam and Eve escape from Eden The video begins with the Abstergo logo shown above the title, "Subject 16, Session 12, Classified Date B.C.E." The video follows a man and woman, who call each other by the names of " Adam " and " Eve ", running through a strangely modern and futuristic world, apparently being chased by someone or something. They pass through a complex where workers are busy building more Pieces of Eden and climb to the roof. Eve holds up the Apple and the video suddenly ends with a flash of binary code that translates to " Eden ". Desmond returns to the Animus and the team finds that many of the following memories are corrupted. They are able to begin again but only years after the fight between the Assassins and Rodrigo. The memories start in 1499 and the team discovers that Rodrigo gained influence and power in the Catholic Church, ultimately being elected Pope as Alexander VI. Ezio and his allies have searched long and hard and collected all thirty pages of the Codex, discovering through it that the Vault lies in Rome , specifically underneath the Vatican . They realize that the Papal Staff is another Piece of Eden and Rodrigo is hoping to use it to achieve access to the Vault. Ezio travels to the Vatican and attempts to assassinate Rodrigo, who uses the Staff against Ezio, who retaliates with the Apple. During the ensuing battle, Ezio is stabbed and Rodrigo escapes with both Pieces of Eden. Ezio then chases after him and finds Rodrigo trying to open the Vault in vain. The two fight once more and Rodrigo finally falls. However, Ezio refuses to kill him, insisting he has killed enough in his life and the continued deaths will not reverse the fate of his family. Ezio enters the Vault to find a message for his descendant Ezio proves himself to be the Prophet when in his hands, the Apple and Staff open the Vault. Inside the Vault, he finds not Pieces of Eden but an empty room and a holographic figure named Minerva . She claims that she brought Ezio to her so that almost six hundred years later, Desmond and his allies would hear her words through the Animus. Minerva explains that she and her race were part of an advanced society that lived on Earth before a celestial event wiped out most life on the planet thousands of years ago. Before the disaster that befell them, the members of her species created humans and used them as a race for workforce. However, humanity rebelled against their creators and initiated a long-spanning war . Ultimately, the humans seemingly won, but then the catastrophe occurred, wiping out many humans and the precursor race. Of those remaining, the two species worked to recreate the world, before the advanced race sealed themselves in temples around the world, hoping to prevent the same disaster that had destroyed most of their kind from happening once again. As Minerva finishes, she speaks to Desmond by name and informs him that she has done all she needs to and that the rest remains up to him and his allies. Desmond and Lucy confronted by Vidic The memory ends and Desmond awakens in the present to find that Abstergo has located and begun attacking the Assassins as Shaun and Rebecca pull him out of the Animus. Desmond is given a Hidden Blade by Lucy and the two run downstairs to stop the guards as Shaun and Rebecca pack up their equipment. With the skills he absorbed from Ezio, Desmond is able to dispatch the forces that have been sent against them and he discovers Warren Vidic standing in the back of a truck. He sarcastically tells Desmond to enjoy his temporary victory and the truck drives away. From there, Shaun and Rebecca finish gathering the equipment and Lucy assures Desmond that Vidic will get what he deserves. The group vacates the hideout and attempts to find a new safehouse, where, according to Lucy, they should be safe for some time. As they drive, Lucy prepares to review the tapes of Desmond's latest session, noting how the situation has escalated dramatically and how Minerva's words proved everything she was afraid of. She theorizes that Minerva was discussing the Earth's geomagnetic reversal, which could have detrimental effects on the planet. Rebecca prepares the Animus for Desmond to re-enter as Lucy speculates there may be more to discover in his memories. Development System requirements Minimum Recommended Windows Operating system XP, Vista or Windows 7, Mac OS X CPU Intel Core 2 Duo 1.8 GHz or AMD Athlon X2 64 2.4 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo E6700 2.6 GHz or AMD Athlon 64 X2 6000+ or better Memory 1 GB for XP 2 GB for Vista or Windows 7 Hard drive space 8 GB Graphics hardware 256 MB DirectX 9.0–compliant card with Shader Model 3.0 or higher GeForce 8800 GT or ATI Radeon HD 4700 or better (512 MB) Sound hardware DirectX 9.0–compliant sound card 5.1 sound card Network Non-constant Internet connection: Broadband connection with 128 kbps upstream or faster. On 22 January 2009, it was confirmed by Ubisoft that Assassin's Creed II was in production, but no details were revealed. [ 1 ] A promotional video was released by Ubisoft on 6 April showing a map of Italy, some Hidden Blade designs and Leonardo da Vinci's flying machine on a scroll. [ 2 ] On the official site after the teaser was viewed, a symbol was given to print and show in front of a webcam. [ 3 ] Doing this would unlock a picture displayed on the site. [ 4 ] Later, on 10 April, Game Informer magazine released details on the game, as well as pictures of Ezio. There were about 240 team members, some of which were sent to Italy, traveling through Venice, Florence, Tuscany, and Rome. [ 5 ] ScrewAttack also released a video with some of the pictures from the magazine. In early May, Ubisoft had stated that they were putting full emphasis on the game and that 450 team members were now working on the title. 75% of the original developers for the original game were then working on the second. [ 6 ] During an interview for G4, one of the developers stated that enough time had passed in the break between Assassin's Creed and Assassin's Creed II , in which Desmond could have relived the memories of Altaïr during Assassin's Creed: Bloodlines . Unlike Assassin's Creed , which spanned roughly two months of Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad's life, Assassin's Creed II spanned a period of twenty-three years for Ezio Auditore da Firenze. [ citation needed ] Originally, the PC version of the game had to be played with a constant internet connection, which garnered a lot of criticism. Ubisoft eventually released a patch, which made it so that an internet connection was only needed upon launching the game. In 2012, another patch was released, removing the requirement of being online when starting up the game entirely, which would become the standard for later Assassin's Creed games. However, these patches did not affect the Mac OS X version of the game. [ citation needed ] Release Assassin's Creed II was first released on 17 November 2009 for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 . The Windows and Mac released followed on 3 March and 1 October 2010 respectively. Assassin's Creed II was later included in the Assassin's Creed: Anthology , exclusive to PAL regions and released on 29 November 2012, alongside the compiled Assassin's Creed , Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood , Assassin's Creed: Revelations , and Assassin's Creed III . [ 7 ] Around this time the Ezio Trilogy was also released, which only included Assassin's Creed II , Brotherhood , and Revelations . Released in Japan first in September as the Ezio Saga , [ 8 ] an English release followed in November. [ 9 ] A German-language Windows released had released exclusively some months prior. [ 10 ] The Heritage Collection , a PAL-region exclusive released on 8 November 2013, contained the same as the Anthology apart from the DLC. [ 11 ] It was later included in a next-gen remastered trilogy for 8th generation consoles, Assassin's Creed: The Ezio Collection on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on 15 November 2016, with all previous single-player downloadable content included, [ 12 ] while a Nintendo Switch port was released on 17 February 2022. [ 13 ] Editions White Edition Black Edition The Master Assassin's Edition Deluxe Edition Special Film Edition White Edition A copy of Assassin's Creed II . Ezio Auditore da Firenze figurine. Collectible white packaging. Bonus in-game playable content, Santa Maria dei Frari . This version was only available in parts of Europe, as well as Australia. [ 14 ] Also, this version was sold in South Korea as a limited pre-order edition from 10 December through 15 December only for the PS3 console. [ 15 ] Black Edition A copy of Assassin's Creed II . "Master Assassin" Ezio Auditore da Firenze upgrade figurine with black collector's box. 3 in-game bonus missions, allowing Ezio to explore the following: Palazzo Medici in Florence. Santa Maria dei Frari in Venice. Arsenal Shipyard in Venice. "Conspiracy book": A book from the developers of the game, describing the development and the storyline (with extra commentary on the "conspiracy"). 64 pages, hardcover, "leather style". DVD with all the videos, behind-the-scene interviews and "e-goodies" about Assassin's Creed II, and game soundtrack by Jesper Kyd (BAFTA nominee for "2009 Best Original Score in a Game"). Black packaging with unique holographic signature. This edition of the game would be made available for the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and PC. [ 16 ] It was confirmed for Europe, as well as Australia and certain Asian nations like South Korea. [ 14 ] [ 17 ] However, the 360 version was the only version available. The Master Assassin's Edition Ezio Auditore da Firenze figurine. Artbook: The Art of Assassin's Creed. Premium collectible metal case. 2 in-game bonus missions: Palazzo Medici Santa Maria dei Frari Additional content DVD with the Behind the Scenes of Assassin's Creed and Assassin's Creed II soundtrack. This edition could be bought in North America. [ 18 ] Several days before the release of Assassin's Creed II, EBGames Australia offered an unlock code for Palazzo Medici when the normal edition was pre-ordered. Steam banner for the Deluxe Edition The Deluxe Edition was a digital edition that could be downloaded through the PlayStation Store and Steam (not confirmed on Xbox Live). It cost US$19.99 both on the PlayStation Store and Steam. In addition, standard editions of the game could be upgraded to the Deluxe Edition on Steam for US$4.99. It came with the original game, Sequence 12 and Sequence 13, an additional dye for Ezio's robes, a throwing knife pouch upgrade, and 3 bonus missions set in the Palazzo Medici, Santa Maria dei Frari, and the Arsenal Shipyard. A copy of Assassin's Creed II . 2 in-game bonus missions: Palazzo Medici Santa Maria dei Frari Assassin's Creed: Lineage 3 comic book lithographies (pages) from the Les Deux Royaumes comic series in English. A "Complete Edition" and a "Game of the Year Edition" were also released, which contained the full game and all downloadable content . An "Ultimate Edition" was also released for PlayStation 3 digitally, but only contained Sequence 12 & 13. Inter-connectivity The PlayStation 3 version of Assassin's Creed II has the ability to connect to Assassin's Creed: Bloodlines for the PlayStation Portable, and once connected, upgrades could be earned for both games. When a boss was defeated in Bloodlines , their corresponding weapon would be made available in the Villa in Assassin's Creed II . They are available as Ubisoft Club rewards in the Ezio Trilogy . As well as this, extra florins could be earned in Assassin's Creed II depending on how many Templar coins were found in Bloodlines . Name Unlocked by Description Templar coins Collecting Templar coins throughout Cyprus . Converts Templar coins into florins. Maria Thorpe's Longsword Defeat Maria Thorpe. N/A Fredrick's Hammer Defeat Fredrick N/A Mace of the Bull Defeat Moloch . N/A Dark Oracle's Bone Dagger Defeat Dark Oracle . N/A Twins' Rapier Defeat Shalim and Shahar . N/A Bouchart's Blade Defeat Armand Bouchart . N/A Sequel Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood cover Even before the release of Assassin's Creed II , discussion of the details about a possible Assassin's Creed III were ongoing. Scriptwriter Corey May had stated that the developers wished to keep the settings of the games to those that were normally unvisited in most video games. Some postulated settings included the Middle Ages—specifically the time frame of King Arthur—or feudal Japan. [ 19 ] [ 20 ] Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood was released in November 2010. The game was a sequel to the original Assassin's Creed II , but once again featured the genetic memories of Ezio Auditore da Firenze and contained a new online multiplayer mode, explained as a new Abstergo initiative named the Animi Training Program . Reception Awards Date Award Category Recipient(s) Result 2009 Spike Video Game Awards Best Action-Adventure Game Assassin's Creed II Won [ citation needed ] IGN's Best of 2009 Xbox 360 Best Action Game Won [ citation needed ] Xbox 360 Game of the Year Won [ citation needed ] GameSpot's Best of 2009 [ citation needed ] Best New Character Ezio Auditore da Firenze Won [ citation needed ] Best Xbox 360 Game Assassin's Creed II Won [ citation needed ] Best Action/Adventure Game Nominated [ citation needed ] Best Story Nominated [ citation needed ] Bet Graphics Technical Nominated [ citation needed ] Best Original Music Nominated [ citation needed ] Best Improved Sequel Nominated [ citation needed ] 2010 Interactive Achievement Awards Game of the Year Assassin's Creed II Nominated Adventure Game of the Year Nominated Outstanding Achievement in Animation Nominated Outstanding Achievement in Art Direction Nominated Outstanding Achievement in Game Direction Nominated Outstanding Achievement in Gameplay Engineering Nominated Outstanding Achievement in Original Music Composition Nominated Outstanding Achievement in Original Story Nominated Outstanding Achievement in Sound Design Nominated Outstanding Achievement in Visual Engineering Nominated Gallery Videos Promotional media Concept artwork Cover art Assassin's Creed 2 Teaser Assassin's Creed 2 - Teaser Trailer Assassin's Creed 2 E3 Trailer Assassin's Creed 2 - Launch Trailer Assassins Creed 2 - Ezio Auditore - Story Trailer Assassin's Creed II Vignette 1 Trailer Ubisoft NA Assassination Arsenal Trailer Assassin's Creed II Vignette 2 Trailer Ubisoft NA Factions Trailer Assassin's Creed 2 - TGS trailer Ezio's Destiny Trailer Assassin's Creed 2 - Gameplay Trailer Assassin's Creed II GamesCom 2009 Trailer Ubisoft NA Assassin's Creed 2 - Dev Diary 1 Assassin's Creed 2 Dev Diary 2 Assassin's Creed 2 - Dev Diary 3 Assassin's Creed 2 - Dev Diary 4 Assassin's Creed 2 - Dev Diary 5 Assassin's Creed 2 - Dev Diary 6 Assassin's Creed II The Real History of Florence Ubisoft NA Assassin's Creed II- The Making of a Beloved Game - Dev Commentary (15th Anniversary) Japanese cover Credits By type Cast Crew Cast Roger Craig Smith as Ezio Auditore da Firenze Kristen Bell as Lucy Stillman Nolan North as Desmond Miles Fred Tatasciore as Mario Auditore Carlos Ferro as Leonardo da Vinci Manuel Tadros as Rodrigo Borgia Romano Orzari as Giovanni Auditore da Firenze Ellen David as Maria Auditore da Firenze Claudia Ferri as Paola Angela Galuppo as Claudia Auditore da Firenze Elias Toufexis as Federico Auditore da Firenze Carlo Mestroni as Antonio de Magianis Lita Tresierra as Rosa Michel Perron as Uberto Alberti Roc LaFortune as Carlo Grimaldi Alex Ivanovici as Lorenzo de' Medici and Bartolomeo d'Alviano Arthur Grosser as Jacopo de' Pazzi Arthur Holden as Emilio Barbarigo Danny Wallace as Shaun Hastings Eliza Jane Schneider as Rebecca Crane Cam Clarke as Clay Kaczmarek Harry Standjofski as Silvio Barbarigo Tony Robinow as Marco Barbarigo Vito DeFilippo as La Volpe Yuri Lowenthal as Vieri de' Pazzi Andreas Apergis as Francesco de' Pazzi and Checco Orsi Margaret Easley as Minerva Nadia Verrucci as Teodora Contanto Anne-Marie Baron as Annetta Cristina Rosato as Caterina Sforza Shawn Baichoo as Niccolò Machiavelli and Antonio Maffei Amber Mullin as Cristina Vespucci Phil Proctor as Warren Vidic References ↑ Geddes, Ryan (23 January 2009). New Ghost Recon, Assassin's Creed 2 Coming . IGN . Archived from the original on 16 February 2013. Retrieved on 11 April 2009. ↑ Assassin's Creed 2 - Teaser Video on the Ubisoft YouTube channel ↑ Towell, Justin (8 April 2009). Secrets of the Assassin's Creed 2 teaser trailer revealed . GamesRadar. Archived from the original on 14 April 2021. Retrieved on 20 January 2024. ↑ Garratt, Patrick (8 April 2009). Assassin's Creed 2 easter egg hidden in teaser site . VG247. Archived from the original on 22 September 2021. Retrieved on 20 January 2024. ↑ (2009, May). Assassin's Creed II. Game Informer , 193, p. 36 ↑ Ashcraft, Brian (19 May 2009). Assassin's Creed 2's Team Triples . Kotaku . Archived from the original on 22 May 2009. Retrieved on 20 January 2024. ↑ Phillips, Tom (6 November 2012). Assassin's Creed Anthology includes five games, DLC . Eurogamer . Archived from the original on 4 July 2022. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. ↑ アサシン クリード エツィオサーガ 完全限定版(超豪華特典 同梱)【CEROレーティング「Z」】 on Amazon.co.jp ( backup link ) ↑ Hinkle, David (26 September 2012). Assassin's Creed 'Ezio Trilogy' exclusive to PS3, launches November 14 . Joystiq. Archived from the original on 29 September 2012. Retrieved on 6 May 2024. ↑ Assassin's Creed - Ezio Trilogie - [PC ] on Amazon.de ( backup link ) ↑ Karmali, Luke (4 October 2013). Assassin's Creed Heritage Collection Announced For Europe . IGN . Archived from the original on 8 January 2015. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. ↑ Sarkar, Samit (13 September 2016). Assassin’s Creed The Ezio Collection confirmed for November on PS4, Xbox One . Polygon. Archived from the original on 16 September 2016. Retrieved on 6 May 2024. ↑ Assassin’s Creed: The Ezio Collection Coming To Switch February 17 on Ubisoft 's official website ( backup link ) ↑ 14.0 14.1 Your Assassin's Creed 2 Limited Edition Choice Is Black And White . Kotaku Australia (24 July 2009). Archived from the original on 27 July 2009. Retrieved on 20 January 2024. ↑ 히규 (26 December 2016). 어쌔신 크리드 2 화이트 에디션 한정판 개봉기 (in Korean) . Naver Blog. Archived from the original on 20 January 2024. Retrieved on 20 January 2024. ↑ Assassin's Creed II (Black Edition) - PC . GameSpy. Archived from the original on 29 March 2019. Retrieved on 11 July 2009. ↑ 박준영 (18 November 2009). 어쌔신 크리드2 블랙 에디션, Xbox360 독점 발매 (in Korean) . 게임메카. Archived from the original on 27 May 2010. Retrieved on 19 November 2009. ↑ Polybren (4 August 2009). Assassin's Creed II limited edition detailed — GameSpot News Blog — Gaming News and Videos . Gamespot.com. Archived from the original on 8 November 2009. Retrieved on 20 January 2024. ↑ Bordeaux, Jeff (27 October 2009). Assassin's Creed III to be set in Feudal Japan? . GadgetReview. Archived from the original on 30 December 2009. Retrieved on 17 January 2010. ↑ UbiAssassinsCreed (22 October 2009). History . IGN Blogs. Archived from the original on 25 March 2010. Retrieved on 17 January 2010. Assassin's Creed II Characters Assassins Rebecca Crane • Shaun Hastings • Clay Kaczmarek • Desmond Miles • Lucy Stillman | Antonio de Magianis • Bartolomeo d'Alviano • Ezio Auditore da Firenze • Federico Auditore da Firenze • Giovanni Auditore da Firenze • Maria Auditore da Firenze • Mario Auditore • Niccolò Machiavelli • Paola • Teodora Contanto • La Volpe | Dante Alighieri • Domenico Auditore • Marco Polo • Renato Auditore | Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad | Adam • Eve Templars Warren Vidic | Uberto Alberti • Stefano da Bagnone • Emilio Barbarigo • Marco Barbarigo • Silvio Barbarigo • Bernardo Baroncelli • Rodrigo Borgia • Carlo Grimaldi • Antonio Maffei • Dante Moro • Francesco de' Pazzi • Jacopo de' Pazzi • Vieri de' Pazzi • Francesco Salviati House of Auditore Claudia • Ezio • Federico • Giovanni • Maria • Mario • Petruccio | Domenico • Isabetta • Renato Isu Minerva Others Annetta • Agostino Barbarigo • Lorenzo de' Medici • Carlotta Moro • Rosa • Girolamo Savonarola • Caterina Sforza • Cristina Vespucci • Alvise da Vilandino • Checco Orsi • Ludovico Orsi • Leonardo da Vinci | Maria Thorpe Factions Assassins ( Italian Brotherhood ) • Templars ( Abstergo Industries | Roman Rite ) • Republic of Florence ( House of Medici ) • Republic of Venice • County of Forlì • Courtesans • Mercenaries • Thieves Locations Abstergo laboratory • Hideout | Florence ( Oltrarno • San Giovanni • San Marco • Santa Maria Novella ) • Monteriggioni ( Villa Auditore ) • Tuscany ( San Gimignano ) • Apennine Mountains • Romagna ( Forlì ) • Venice ( Cannaregio • Castello • Dorsoduro • San Marco • San Polo ) • Rome ( Castel Sant'Angelo • Passetto di Borgo • Sistine Chapel • The Vault ) | Acre | Eden Events Renaissance ( Pazzi conspiracy • Venetian conspiracy • Battle of Forlì • Bonfire of the Vanities • Confrontation in the Vatican ) Terms and concepts Achievements • Animus • Art merchants • Blacksmiths • Bleeding Effect • Borgia messengers • Codex • Customization • Doctors • Dual-wielding • Eagle Vision • Economic system • Fast travel stations • Feathers • Flying Machine • Glyphs • Guards • Heralds • Memories • Monteriggioni statuettes • Notoriety • Officials • Outfits • Pieces of Eden ( Apple of Eden • Papal Staff of Eden ) • Secret locations • Swimming • Tailors • First Civilization • The Truth • Uplay • Treasure chests • Viewpoints • Wanted posters Weapons and tools Fists / Metal Cestus • Heavy weapons • Hidden Blade • Hidden Gun • Improvised weapons • Long weapons • Poison blade • Short blades • Smoke bombs • Swords • Blunt weapons • Throwing knives DLC Battle of Forlì • Bonfire of the Vanities Assassin's Creed series Main games Assassin's Creed • Assassin's Creed II ( Battle of Forlì • Bonfire of the Vanities ) • Brotherhood ( Copernicus Conspiracy • The Da Vinci Disappearance ) • Revelations ( The Lost Archive ) • Assassin's Creed III ( Benedict Arnold • The Tyranny of King Washington ) • Liberation • Black Flag ( Freedom Cry • Aveline ) • Rogue • Unity ( Dead Kings ) • Syndicate ( Jack the Ripper • The Last Maharaja • The Dreadful Crimes ) • Origins ( The Hidden Ones • The Curse of the Pharaohs ) • Odyssey ( Legacy of the First Blade • The Fate of Atlantis ) • Valhalla ( Wrath of the Druids • The Siege of Paris • Dawn of Ragnarök ) • Mirage Animus Hub Shadows ( Claws of Awaji ) • Hexe • Invictus Spin-off games Altaïr's Chronicles • Bloodlines • Discovery • Multiplayer • Project Legacy • Multiplayer Rearmed • Recollection • Pirates • Memories • Chronicles ( China | India | Russia ) • Identity • Arno's Chronicles • Rebellion • Freerunners • Jade • Assassin's Creed Netflix mobile game Virtual Reality The VR Experience • Escape the Lost Pyramid • The Temple of Anubis • Beyond Medusa's Gate • Nexus VR Table Top Arena • Monopoly • Vendetta • Top Trumps • Risk • Brotherhood of Venice ( Roma • Tokyo XXI • Creed vs Crows • Apocalypse ) • The Last Quest of Leonardo da Vinci • Universes Beyond • Roleplaying Game Compilations Ezio Trilogy • Anthology • Heritage Collection • The Americas Collection • The Ezio Collection • The Rebel Collection Novels Renaissance • Brotherhood • The Secret Crusade • Revelations • Forsaken • Black Flag • Unity • Underworld • Last Descendants series ( Last Descendants | Tomb of the Khan | Fate of the Gods ) • Heresy • The Official Movie Novelization • Desert Oath • Odyssey • The Ming Storm series ( The Ming Storm • The Desert Threat ) • Geirmund's Saga • Fragments ( The Blade of Aizu | The Highlands Children | The Witches of the Moors ) • The Silk Road • The Imperial Jade Seal ( Chang'an Wang ) • Sword of the White Horse • The Engine of History ( The Magus Conspiracy • The Resurrection Plot ) • Escape Room Puzzle Book • The Golden City • Daughter of No One • Dynasty Audio Renaissance • Brotherhood • The Secret Crusade • Revelations • Forsaken • Black Flag • Underworld • Last Descendants series ( Last Descendants | Tomb of the Khan | Fate of the Gods ) • The Official Film Tie-In • Desert Oath • Odyssey • Gold • Geirmund's Saga • The Ming Storm series ( The Ming Storm • The Desert Threat ) • Turbulence in the Ming Dynasty • Sword of the White Horse • The Engine of History ( The Magus Conspiracy • The Resurrection Plot ) Comics Assassin's Creed • The Fall • The Chain • Awakening • Brahman • Assassins • Templars • Last Descendants – Locus • Conspiracies • Uprising • Reflections • Origins • Bloodstone • Blade of Shao Jun • Dynasty • Song of Glory • Blood Brothers • Valhalla webcomic • Forgotten Myths • The Hidden Codex • Forgotten Temple • Visionaries • A Soar of Eagles • Iga no Monogatari Non-fiction Assassin's Creed guide / artbook / CE artbook • Assassin's Creed II guide / artbook / CE artbook • Brotherhood guide / artbook • Revelations guide / artbook • Encyclopedia • Assassin's Creed III guide / artbook • Black Flag guide / artbook / CE artbook • Rogue guide / artbook • Unity guide / artbook / CE artbook • The Complete Visual History • Syndicate guide / artbook / CE artbook • A Walk Through History • The Official Coloring Book • The Essential Guide • Movie Posters • Into the Animus • Incredibuilds • The Official Collection • Origins guide / artbook / CE artbook • Infographics • The Culinary Codex • Odyssey guide / artbook / CE artbook • Complete Character Guide • 2500 Years of History • Atlas • Discovery Books ( Ancient Egypt | Ancient Greece | Viking Age | In the Heart of Baghdad | The Japan of the Samurai ) • Where's the Assassin? • Valhalla artbook • Mirage artbook / CE artbook • Shadows artbook / CE artbook Film & Television Lineage • Ascendance • Embers • French Revolution • The Syndicate • Assassin's Creed • Live-action TV series • Animated TV series • Anime series Websites Abstergo.com • Animus Next • Council • Crack The Code • Discover Your Legacy • Initiates • Project Legacy • Project Widow • Pirates Demo • Question the Creed • The Twelve Trials • Unlock the Animus • Who's In Your Blood? • Your Blood Is Not Your Own • XIXth Century Search Engine Cancelled media The Invisible Imam • The Eye of Heaven • Lost Legacy • Utopia • Bloodsail • Alliance • Covers Collection Categories Categories : Featured articles Articles in need of sources Assassin's Creed II Real world video games Assassin's Creed series Languages العربية Deutsch Español فارسی Français עברית Magyar Italiano 日本語 한국어 Lietuvių Nederlands Polski Português do Brasil Русский Українська 中文 Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Horror Assassin's Creed Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Assassin's Creed Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab