The Last Of Us Season 2 Was Planned For 2025 Prior To Writers' Strike - GameSpot Oblivion Walkthrough Guide Switch 2 Preorders 2025 Upcoming Games Release Schedule Blue Prince Guides All Switch 2 Games Oblivion Remaster Out Now All Games Videos Articles Reviews Features Galleries Users Blue Prince Guides News Videos Reviews Games Entertainment Staff Picks Best Nintendo Switch Games Best PS5 Games Best Xbox Series X|S Games Best Xbox Game Pass Games Best PC Games Best Steam Deck Games Deals Game Deals Tech Deals Gift Ideas Games PC Gaming PS5 PS4 Xbox Series X Xbox One Switch 2 Switch All Gaming News Guides Gaming Tech Mobile Gaming Cloud Gaming Entertainment Movies TV Wrestling Star Wars Marvel DC Game of Thrones All Entertainment News Forums More Games PC Gaming PS5 PS4 Xbox Series X Xbox One Switch 2 Switch All Gaming News Guides Gaming Tech Mobile Gaming Cloud Gaming Entertainment Movies TV Wrestling Star Wars Marvel DC Game of Thrones All Entertainment News Forums All Games Videos Articles Reviews Features Galleries Users GameSpot may receive revenue from affiliate and advertising partnerships for sharing this content and from purchases through links. The Last Of Us Season 2 Was Planned For 2025 Prior To Writers' Strike Whether or not the schedule will change due to the work stoppage is unknown. By Eddie Makuch on May 30, 2023 at 10:24AM PDT 3 Comments The Last of Us was one of HBO's most popular shows in recent years, and fans are understandably eager to learn when the series might return for its second season. We don't know when that will be, but HBO boss Francesca Orsi has stated that the plan, prior to the start of the Hollywood writers' strike, was for the drama based on Naughty Dog's video game to come back for its sophomore season in 2025. She told Deadline that it's "too early to tell" how the schedule might be impacted due to the work stoppage, though. "We were looking at The Last Of Us for some time in 2025," Orsi said. Also in the interview, Orsi said Season 2 will add new cast members, but she "can't get into" that right now. Season 2 is expected to adapt the events of The Last of Us Part II, and one of the central characters of that game, Abby, is expected to appear in Season 2 of the show. Orsi also confirmed that Season 2 will film in Vancouver, as opposed to Calgary from Season 1. "All I can say is [showrunner Craig Mazin is] taking a big swing from both an entertainment standpoint, related to the clickers, but also just the more nuanced, complex character dynamic between our characters, Joel, Ellie and beyond," Orsi said. The Last of Us is expected to come back for a third season at some point in the future. Orsi said nothing is locked down yet, however, and HBO is taking things one season at a time. "I think Craig and [writer Neil Druckmann] are still figuring out where they're going to come to an end," Orsi said. "There's no guarantee at this point that we'll have a Season 3 but I know that they both have a vision for Season 3. Whether that lends itself to doing more [seasons], I don't know yet." The Hollywood writers' strike is affecting a number of big projects. Marvel's Blade movie is pausing production , while Stranger Things Season 5 is also temporarily shutting down. Some TV series, like House of the Dragon and The Rings of Power, are continuing to film during the strike, albeit with no writers on set. This is the first writers' strike since 2007-2008. Writers have been picketing outside major studio lots in California for companies like Disney, WB Discovery, and Netflix since the strike began on May 2. The writers are seeking higher pay, better residuals, minimum staffing requirements, and for safeguards to be put in place regarding the use of artificial intelligence for scriptwriting. The Last Of Us Season 2 Release Date, Trailer, Cast, And Why Creators Think Fans Will Be Furious See More Got a news tip or want to contact us directly? Email news@gamespot.com Upvote Leave Blank View Comments (3) Join the conversation There are 3 comments about this story Load Comments (3) © 2025 FANDOM, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Terms of Use Help Partnerships Careers More Sites giantbomb.com gamefaqs.com metacritic.com fandom.com fanatical.com Reviews Latest Reviews PC PS4 Xbox One Switch News Latest News PC PS5 Xbox Series X PS4 Xbox One Switch Shows Expert Reacts Firearms Expert Reacts No HUD Spot On The Kurt Locker Talk to Us Forums GameSpot GameSpot Entertainment Use your keyboard! ESC Log in to comment Close