Apple earns historic Academy Award nominations for “Wolfwalkers” and “Greyhound” - Apple Apple Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home Entertainment Accessories Support 0 + Newsroom Open Newsroom navigation Close Newsroom navigation Apple Services Apple Stories Search Newsroom Close opens in new window PRESS RELEASE March 15, 2021 Apple honored with historic first Academy Award nominations for Best Animated Feature for “Wolfwalkers” and Best Sound for “Greyhound” Apple earns historic Academy Award nominations for “Wolfwalkers” and “Greyhound.” Cupertino, California — Apple today was honored with historic first Academy Award nominations for its feature films since the Apple TV+ global launch of Apple Original Films just over a year ago. The widely acclaimed “Wolfwalkers” was nominated for Best Animated Feature and the epic war film “Greyhound,” starring and written by Tom Hanks, for Best Sound. Including today’s nominations, Apple has been honored with a total of 81 awards wins and 329 nominations to date. “Nothing is more exciting than seeing these unique and meaningful films resonating with both critics and audiences globally,” said Zack Van Amburg, Apple’s head of Worldwide Video. “We are incredibly proud of what we’re building at Apple, and to have these films celebrated in this way — and in such a short space of time — we’re humbled and thankful for the artists and filmmakers who have partnered with us.” “We’re grateful for the Academy’s recognition of ‘Wolfwalkers’ and ’Greyhound,’” said Jamie Erlicht, Apple’s head of Worldwide Video. “We want to congratulate the filmmakers and the cast and crew who brought these brilliant stories to the screen, and to everyone who has championed these films around the world. We are excited to continue sharing exceptional storytelling from the most creative visionaries in the year ahead and beyond.” Wolfwalkers The widely acclaimed “Wolfwalkers” received an Academy Award nomination for Best Animated Feature. Apple’s “Wolfwalkers” is the latest from two-time Academy Award-nominated director Tomm Moore and director Ross Stewart, and co-produced by the award-winning animation studios Cartoon Saloon and Melusine Productions. “Wolfwalkers” has won an AFI FEST prize and has been named best animated film across multiple critics groups, including by the Los Angeles Film Critics Association, New York Film Critics Circle, Dublin Critics Circle, Chicago Film Critics Association, San Diego Film Critics Society, Alliance of Women Film Journalists, and more. A BAFTA- and Golden Globe Award-nominated film, “Wolfwalkers” is also up for 10 Annie Awards and was nominated by the Producers Guild of America in the category of Best Animated Feature. This week, “Wolfwalkers” will be returning to cinemas starting with a New York theatrical run at the Angelika Film Center beginning Friday, March 19. Additional theaters in major North American markets will be added throughout March and April. In a time of superstition and magic, a young apprentice hunter, Robyn Goodfellowe, journeys to Ireland with her father to wipe out the last wolf pack. While exploring the forbidden lands outside the city walls, Robyn befriends a free-spirited girl, Mebh, a member of a mysterious tribe rumored to have the ability to transform into wolves by night. As they search for Mebh’s missing mother, Robyn uncovers a secret that draws her further into the enchanted world of the “Wolfwalkers” and risks turning into the very thing her father is tasked to destroy. “Wolfwalkers” is produced by Paul Young, Nora Twomey, Tomm Moore, and Stéphan Roelants. GKIDS serves as the theatrical distribution partner in North America. WildCard serves as the theatrical distributor for the film in the UK. Greyhound The epic war film “Greyhound,” starring and written by Tom Hanks, received an Academy Award nomination for Best Sound. In the epic war film “Greyhound,” Tom Hanks stars as a longtime Navy veteran who, as a first-time captain, is tasked with protecting a convoy of 37 ships carrying thousands of soldiers and much-needed supplies across the treacherous waters of the Atlantic during World War II. For five days with no air cover, the captain and his small force of three escort ships must make their way through an area of the ocean known as “the Black Pit,” battling Nazi U-boats while protecting their invaluable ships and soldiers. “Greyhound” is inspired by events during the Battle of the Atlantic, which took place in the earliest months of America’s alliance with Great Britain and the Allied Forces. Stephen Graham, Rob Morgan, and Elisabeth Shue star alongside Hanks. The film was written by Tom Hanks, directed by Aaron Schneider, and produced by Gary Goetzman. The Oscar nomination for “Greyhound” follows recognition from BAFTA, where the film is nominated for Special Visual Effects and Sound; the Visual Effects Society and Motion Picture Sound Editors, where it is nominated in two awards categories each; and the Cinema Audio Society, which nominated it for Outstanding Achievement in Sound Mixing. The film has also received nominations from the People’s Choice Awards, Critics Choice Super Awards, Critics Choice Awards, and multiple critics groups. Apple TV+ Apple TV+ is home to award-winning Apple Originals from today’s most imaginative storytellers. Apple TV+ offers premium, compelling drama and comedy series, feature films, groundbreaking documentaries, and kids and family entertainment, and is available to watch across all your favorite screens. After its launch on November 1, 2019, Apple TV+ became the first all-original streaming service to launch around the world, and has premiered more original hits and received more award recognitions faster than any other streaming service. Apple Originals have been honored with Golden Globe Awards, Critics Choice Awards, Critics Choice Documentary Awards, Daytime and Primetime Emmy Awards, an NAACP Image Award, a Peabody Award, and more. Apple TV+ is available on the Apple TV app in over 100 countries and regions, on over 1 billion screens, including iPhone, iPad, Apple TV, iPod touch, Mac, select Samsung, LG, Sony, and VIZIO smart TVs, Amazon Fire TV and Roku devices, Chromecast with Google TV, PlayStation and Xbox consoles, and at tv.apple.com , for $4.99 per month with a seven-day free trial. For a limited time, customers who purchase a new iPhone, iPad, Apple TV, Mac, or iPod touch can enjoy one year of Apple TV+ for free. This special offer is good for three months after the first activation of the eligible device. Share article Images of Apple TV+ Oscar-nominated films Download all images Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, and Apple TV. Apple’s five software platforms — iOS, iPadOS, macOS, watchOS, and tvOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay, and iCloud. Apple’s more than 100,000 employees are dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world better than we found it. Press Contacts Apple Media Helpline media.help@apple.com Latest News UPDATE Apple surpasses 60 percent reduction in global greenhouse gas emissions April 16, 2025 APPLE STORIES Meet four emerging filmmakers bending cultural and creative lines with iPhone 16 Pro Max April 15, 2025 UPDATE Get active with Apple Watch April 14, 2025 Apple Newsroom The latest news and updates, direct from Apple. Read more Stay up to date with the latest articles from Apple Newsroom. Dismiss Get Notifications Apple Footer  Apple Newsroom Apple earns historic Academy Award nominations for “Wolfwalkers” and “Greyhound” Shop and Learn Shop and Learn Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home AirTag Accessories Gift Cards Apple Wallet Apple Wallet Wallet Apple Card Apple Pay Apple Cash Account Account Manage Your Apple Account Apple Store Account iCloud.com Entertainment Entertainment Apple One Apple TV+ Apple Music Apple Arcade Apple Fitness+ Apple News+ Apple Podcasts Apple Books App Store Apple Store Apple Store Find a Store Genius Bar Today at Apple Group Reservations Apple Camp Apple Store App Certified Refurbished Apple Trade In Financing Carrier Deals at Apple Order Status Shopping Help For Business For Business Apple and Business Shop for Business For Education For Education Apple and Education Shop for K-12 Shop for College For Healthcare For Healthcare Apple in Healthcare Mac in Healthcare Health on Apple Watch Health Records on iPhone and iPad For Government For Government Shop for Government Shop for Veterans and Military Apple Values Apple Values Accessibility Education Environment Inclusion and Diversity Privacy Racial Equity and Justice Supply Chain About Apple About Apple Newsroom Apple Leadership Career Opportunities Investors Ethics & Compliance Events Contact Apple More ways to shop: Find an Apple Store or other retailer near you. Or call 1-800-MY-APPLE. United States (English) Español Copyright © 				 				2025 				 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Legal Site Map