Abdulrazak Gurnah awarded Nobel literature prize Skip to content 2 Strong 4 Bullies Contests CBS19 Advertising Spot the Signs Deals MM Bracket Challenge News Live First Alert Weather Video Closings Sports Seen On TV Telemundo CLE Podcasts Home Watch Live Seen On TV Contests Deals Submit Photos & Video Sign Up For Our Newsletter News Download News App Crime Building a Better Cleveland Cuyahoga's Most Wanted Scam Squad National Video Download Streaming Apps Live Newscasts Latest News Videos 19 News This Morning 19 News Now 19/43 Video Vault Drone 19 19 Investigates Contact 19 Investigates 19 Solutions Team 19 Troubleshooters Seeking Justice Unidentified The Missing To Catch a Killer InvestigateTV Podcasts Dark Side of the Land Podcast Off the Leash Podcast First Alert Weather Radar Closings Download Weather App First Alert Camera Network 19 First Alert Safety Guide First Alert Science School First Alert Focus Wild Weather Planning Calendar Traffic Gas Prices Sports Cleveland Browns Cleveland Cavaliers Cleveland Guardians Cleveland Monsters Cleveland Rockers Ohio State Stadium Showdown Tailgate 19 Friday Football Frenzy Off the Leash Operation Orange Health Vaccine Health Updates Go Red Breast Cancer Spot the Signs Food Cleveland Cooks Taste Buds Community Pets and Animals Operation Backpack Share Your Holidays CLE Weekend CW 43 Focus Submit Photos & Video Cleveland Now Sponsor Spotlight Programming Schedule CW43 Cleveland Report a Service Outage About Us Contact Us Meet the Team Request an Emcee Internships Careers InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet Gray DC Bureau Latest Newscasts NextGen TV Zeam - News Streams Circle Country PowerNation Digital Marketing Severe Thunderstorm Warning is in effect Dismiss Weather Alerts Alerts Bar Abdulrazak Gurnah awarded Nobel literature prize By DAVID KEYTON and JILL LAWLESS Published : Oct. 7, 2021 at 7:29 AM EDT | Updated : Oct. 7, 2021 at 11:18 AM EDT Email This Link Share on Facebook Share on X (formerly Twitter) Share on Pinterest Share on LinkedIn STOCKHOLM (AP) — U.K.-based Tanzanian writer Abdulrazak Gurnah, whose experience of crossing continents and cultures has fed his novels about the impact of migration on individuals and societies, won the Nobel Prize for Literature on Thursday. The Swedish Academy said the award was in recognition of Gurnah’s “uncompromising and compassionate penetration of the effects of colonialism and the fate of the refugee.” Gurnah, who recently retired as a professor of post-colonial literatures at the University of Kent, got the call from the Swedish Academy in the kitchen of his home in southeast England — and initially thought it was a prank. He said he was “surprised and humbled” by the award. Gurnah said the themes of migration and displacement that he explored “are things that are with us every day” -- even more now than when he came to Britain in the 1960s. “People are dying, people are being hurt around the world. We must deal with these issues in the most kind way,” he said. “It’s still sinking in that the Academy has chosen to highlight these themes which are present throughout my work, it’s important to address and speak about them.” Born in 1948 on the island of Zanzibar, now part of Tanzania, Gurnah moved to Britain as a teenage refugee in 1968, fleeing a repressive regime that persecuted the Arab Muslim community to which he belonged. He has said he “stumbled into” writing after arriving in England as a way of exploring both the loss and liberation of the emigrant experience. Gurnah is the author of 10 novels, including “Memory of Departure,” “Pilgrims Way,” “Paradise” — shortlisted for the Booker Prize in 1994 — “By the Sea,” “Desertion” and “Afterlives.” The settings range from East Africa under German colonialism to modern-day England. Many explore what he has called “one of the stories of our times”: the profound impact of migration both on uprooted people and the places they make their new homes. Gurnah, whose native language is Swahili but who writes in English, is only the sixth Africa-born author to be awarded the Nobel for literature, which has been dominated by European and North American writers since it was founded in 1901. Nigerian writer Wole Soyinka, who won the Nobel Literature prize in 1986, welcomed the latest African Nobel laureate as proof that “the Arts — and literature in particular — are well and thriving, a sturdy flag waved above depressing actualities” in “a continent in permanent travail.” “May the tribe increase!” Soyinka told the AP in an email. Anders Olsson, chairman of the Nobel Committee for literature, called Gurnah “one of the world’s most prominent post-colonial writers.” He said it was significant that Gurnah’s roots are in Zanzibar, a polyglot place that “was cosmopolitan long before globalization.” “His work gives us a vivid and very precise picture of another Africa not so well known for many readers, a coastal area in and around the Indian Ocean marked by slavery and shifting forms of repression under different regimes and colonial powers: Portuguese, Indian, Arab, German and the British,” Olsson said. He said Gurnah’s characters “find themselves in the gulf between cultures ... between the life left behind and the life to come, confronting racism and prejudice, but also compelling themselves to silence the truth or reinventing a biography to avoid conflict with reality.” Luca Prono said on the British Council website that in Gurnah’s work, “identity is a matter of constant change.” The academic said Gurnah’s characters “unsettle the fixed identities of the people they encounter in the environments to where they migrate.” News of the award was greeted with excitement in Zanzibar, where many remembered Gurnah and his family — though few had actually read his books. Gurnah’s books are not required reading in schools there and “are hardly to be found,” said the local education minister, Simai Mohammed Said, whose wife is Gurnah’s niece. But, he added, “a son of Zanzibar has brought so much pride.” “The reaction is fantastic. Many are happy but many don’t know him, though the young people are proud that he’s Zanzibari,” said Farid Himid, who described himself as a local historian whose father had been a teacher of the Quran to the young Gurnah. “I have not had the chance to read any of his books, but my family talked about it.” Gurnah didn’t often visit Zanzibar, he said, but he has suddenly become the talk of young people in the semiautonomous island region. “And many elder people are very, very happy. Also me, as a Zanzibari. It’s a new step to make people read books again, since the internet has taken over.” The prestigious award comes with a gold medal and 10 million Swedish kronor (over $1.14 million). The money comes from a bequest left by the prize’s creator, Swedish inventor Alfred Nobel, who died in 1895. Last year’s prize went to American poet Louise Glück . Glück was a popular choice after several years of controversy. In 2018, the award was postponed after sex abuse allegations rocked the Swedish Academy, the secretive body that chooses the winners. The awarding of the 2019 prize to Austrian writer Peter Handke caused protests because of his strong support for the Serbs during the 1990s Balkan wars. On Monday, the Nobel Committee awarded the prize in physiology or medicine to Americans David Julius and Ardem Patapoutian for their discoveries into how the human body perceives temperature and touch . The Nobel Prize in physics was awarded Tuesday to three scientists whose work found order in seeming disorder , helping to explain and predict complex forces of nature, including expanding our understanding of climate change. Benjamin List and David W.C. MacMillan were named as laureates of the Nobel Prize for chemistry Wednesday for finding an easier and environmentally cleaner way to build molecules that can be used to make compounds, including medicines and pesticides. Still to come are prizes for outstanding work in the fields of peace, on Friday, and economics, on Monday. —- Lawless reported from London and Anna from Nairobi, Kenya. Associated Press writers Danica Kirka in London, Chinedu Asadu in Lagos, Nigeria. and Frank Jordans in Berlin contributed. —- Read more stories about Nobel Prizes past and present by The Associated Press at https://www.apnews.com/NobelPrizes Copyright 2021 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. Most Read Canton woman tells mom she hopes her 11-year-old daughter dies, accused of slamming girl’s head against slide: Report Credit card skimmer found in Akron business Body recovered from Lake Erie Woman hurt, shooter at large after gunfire erupts at Akron apartments 14 fire departments battle massive blaze that destroyed Richfield home Ashtabula County police chief on administrative leave Former Avon football player, freshman at University of Cincinnati ‘unexpectedly’ dies Suspect shoots up Akron neighborhood; 20-year-old hurt Latest News Trump marks first 100 days in office in campaign mode, focused on grudges and grievances Thunderstorms hit Northeast Ohio: Weather alerts, power outages Pacers eliminate Bucks from playoffs, will face Cavs in Eastern semifinals Cuyahoga County Executive requests $350 million for Browns Stadium renovations from State of Ohio How much impact can eating superfoods have on your health? Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Students concerned after an alleged party invite shared on social media says ‘No Jews’ allowed Black female WWII unit, ‘Six Triple Eight,’ receives congressional honor Home News First Alert Weather Sports Traffic Health Food Community Contact Us WOIO 1717 E. 12th Street Cleveland, OH 44114 (216) 771-1943 Public Inspection File FCC Applications publicfile@woio.com - (216) 367-7535 Terms of Service Privacy Policy EEO Report Advertising Digital Marketing Closed Captioning/Audio Description Problems Persons With Disabilities At Gray, our journalists report, write, edit and produce the news content that informs the communities we serve. Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2025