Google CEO Sundar Pichai raked in $226M payday despite layoffs Primary Menu Sections US News Metro Long Island Politics World News Page Six Sports NFL MLB Olympics NBA NHL College Football College Basketball WNBA Post Sports+ Sports Betting Business Personal Finance Opinion Entertainment TV Movies Music Celebrities Awards Theater Shopping Lifestyle Weird But True Sex & Relationships Viral Trends Human Interest Parenting Fashion & Beauty Food & Drink Travel Health Wellness Fitness Health Care Medicine Men’s Health Women’s Health Mental Health Nutrition Real Estate Alexa Media Tech Science Space Environment Wildlife Archaeology Astrology Video Photos Today’s Paper Covers Columnists Horoscopes Crosswords & Games Sports Odds Podcasts Careers Email Newsletters Official Store Home Delivery Tips Search Email New York Post Search Search trending now Skip to main content Hall of Famer unloads on Shedeur Sanders for '$50 million' NFL... Trump embarrasses Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer AGAIN by calling... Mark Zuckerberg, Priscilla Chan to close free school for... Alarmed by CBS disaster, Bill Belichick insiders say girlfriend... Trump fires Kamala Harris' husband Doug Emhoff ‘Roseanne’ star Michael Fishman breaks silence on his absence... Trump spars with ABC anchor over tariff policy, deportations and... Amal Clooney could be barred from US under Trump sanctions over... Breaking News Judge who allegedly helped illegal migrant evade ICE is relieved of 'her official duties' — days after FBI arrest Tech Google CEO Sundar Pichai raked in $226M payday despite layoffs, cuts to worker perks By Thomas Barrabi Published April 24, 2023, 10:15 a.m. ET Explore More Wall Street on edge as more ‘Magnificent 7’ tech stocks report earnings this week DeepMind UK staff to unionize and challenge deals with Israel links, FT reports Fed-up Canadians ditch Big Tech giants for obscure alternatives in latest trade war boycott Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai earned a whopping $226 million in total compensation in 2022 – a windfall that came even as the Google parent prepped sweeping layoffs and slashed lavish perks once enjoyed by employees. Pichai, 50, raked in more than $218 million in the form of stock awards, according to recent company securities filing. The Google boss also earned $2 million in base salary and nearly $6 million in other compensation. The filing said “other compensation” typically stems from the company’s retirement plans and “personal use of company aircraft. Overall, Pichai earned more than 800 times the median employee’s pay. The massive payday for Pichai and other told Alphabet executives stood in stark contrast to a companywide belt-tightening effort as Google refocuses its business on the race for advanced artificial intelligence technology. The Post has reached out to Google for comment. Under his pay plan, Pichai receives major stock awards every three years. The latest payout marked the third time that Pichai has received a $200 million-plus award since he took over as Google’s top executive. Alphabet noted that the stock bonus was responsible for the pay disparity between Pichai and its median employees. The company said the ratio was 21-to-1 in 2021 and 27-to-1 in 2020. 4 Sundar Pichai is CEO of Google. Getty Images for Vox Media In January, Google laid off approximately 12,000 employees , or about 6% of its workforce, in the largest round of pink slips in the tech giant’s history. Alphabet’s shares are down 14% over the last 12 months during an ongoing downturn in the tech sector. As part of the layoffs, Google eliminated positions for at least 31 company-employed massage therapists that worked in its California-based offices. The company is also said to be requiring employees in its unprofitable Cloud division to share desks and alternate which days they come into the office. The layoffs have sparked outrage among Google employees – with one ousted engineering manager grumbling earlier this year that he learned he lost his job through an “automated account deactivation at 3am” and that the company had treated him as “100% disposable.” 4 Google workers have slammed management for their handling of cost-cutting measures. REUTERS Google workers in New York, California, London and other locales have staged protests over upper management’s handling of the layoffs. As The Post reported in March, executives also informed Google employees of plans to close some of the company’s vaunted “micro-kitchens,” which are stocked with free drinks and snacks, and to shut down on-campus cafeterias with lower foot traffic. Google brass also said they would dial back spending on company-provided equipment such as personal laptops as part of “changes to what’s available and how often it’s replaced.” 4 Google “micro-kitchens.” AP 4 Google layoffs sparked multiple protests this year. AP “We want to be upfront that there are also areas where we’ll realize savings that will impact some services Googlers use at work and beyond,” the Google executives said in a March 31 memo. “We set a high bar for industry-leading perks, benefits and office amenities, and will continue that into the future. However, some programs need to evolve for how Google works today,” the memo added. Filed under at work ceos google layoffs the workplace work 4/24/23 Read Next Japanese city becomes country's first to use ChatGPT to he... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 66,567 times. 66,567 Hall of Famer unloads on Shedeur Sanders for '$50 million' NFL draft mistake This story has been shared 25,924 times. 25,924 Mark Zuckerberg, Priscilla Chan to close free school for low-income Bay Area students a decade after it opened This story has been shared 24,113 times. 24,113 Trump embarrasses Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer AGAIN by calling her onstage at 100 days event: 'Well, I hadn't expected to speak' Now on Page Six Ellen Pompeo and husband Chris Ivery pose for rare photo with their kids at Hollywood Walk of Fame ceremony Katy Perry claps back at ‘unhinged’ haters after she’s brutally roasted for ‘cringe’ tour, Blue Origin space flight Sarah Michelle Gellar channels Carrie Bradshaw with impressive new closet: ‘Who needs Mr. Big?!’ See All Now on Decider Alyssa Farah Griffin Says “You Gotta Respect” Bill Belichick’s Girlfriend Jordon Hudson After That “Wonderfully Awkward” Interview: “She’s Got Him Under Control” See All Video Carnival Cruise brawl gets 24 banned | Reporter Replay What to Shop Now Way Day is back and bigger than ever — shop the 80 best deals available now The 20 chicest sofas to snag during Wayfair's Way Day sale — from cloud couches to futons Rugs at Wayfair are up to 81% off during the biggest sale of the year The Post Wanted guide on what to buy during Way Day: Our favorites from the *big* sale 17 amazing Wayfair kitchen deals I'm begging you to score this Way Day before they're gone Sundar Pichai is CEO of Google. Getty Images for Vox Media Google workers have slammed management for their handling of cost-cutting measures. REUTERS Google "micro-kitchens." AP Google layoffs sparked multiple protests this year. AP You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement More Stories Page Six Prince William to strip Meghan Markle of royal title after he becomes king: report NYPost Hall of Famer unloads on Shedeur Sanders for '$50 million' NFL draft mistake Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Email YouTube Sections & Features US News Metro World News Sports Sports Betting Business Opinion Entertainment Fashion & Beauty Shopping Lifestyle Real Estate Media Tech Science Health Travel Astrology Video Photos Alexa Covers Horoscopes Sports Odds Podcasts Crosswords & Games Columnists Classifieds Post Sports+ Subscribe Articles Manage Newsletters & Feeds Email Newsletters RSS Feeds NY Post Official Store Home Delivery Subscribe Manage Subscription Delivery Help Help/Support About New York Post Editorial Standards Customer Service Apps Help Community Guidelines Contact Us Tips Newsroom Letters to the Editor Licensing & Reprints Careers Vulnerability Disclosure Program Apps iPhone App iPad App Android Phone Android Tablet Advertise Media Kit Contact © 2025 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved Terms of Use Subscription Terms Privacy Notice Sitemap Your California Privacy Rights Do Not Sell My Personal Information