When Is The Crown Season 4 Out? Cast, Plot, Details Skip navigation! ADVERTISEMENT A community celebrating Black voices, Black art, and Black folx. Latines learning, remembering, healing, and finding joy in our diverse stories. Beautycon is a global platform that brings together beauty enthusiasts, brands, and industry leaders to explore the latest trends, innovations, and conversations shaping the future of beauty. Featured Channels Fitted Horoscopes Money Diaries Good Game Not Your Token Asian My Period Get The Latest Shopping Work & Money Sex & Wellness Beauty News Entertainment Fashion Politics Lifestyle Get In Touch United States Switch To United Kingdom Germany France Australia Now Reading What We Know About The Crown Season 4 Story from TV Shows ADVERTISEMENT What We Know About The Crown Season 4 & Beyond, So Far Gina Vaynshteyn Last Updated November 18, 2019 , 11:25 PM Photo: Courtesy of Netflix. Even though season 3 of The Crown just dropped on Netflix, doesn’t mean we’re not obsessively googling when we we’ll be able to watch The Crown season 4 . It is our duty (*types in thick, British accent*) to be up to date with any new The Crown details that emerge. Plus, with everything we know about season 4 so far (Gillian Anderson will be playing Margaret Thatcher and we’ll finally be introduced to Princess Diana, played by Emma Corrin), we have a feeling it’s going to be an intense season. When Does Season 4 of The Crown Premiere? Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT Although we don’t have an exact premiere date, we do know that we won’t have to wait as long for season 4 as we did season 3. The reason why it took two years to get season 3 was because all of the characters had to be recast in order to reflect their actual age. Claire Foy’s Queen Elizabeth II has been swapped with Olivia Colman, Matt Smith’s Prince Philip was taken over by Tobias Menzies, and Vanessa Kirby’s tragic Princess Margaret is now being played by Helena Bonham Carter. We also know that The Crown season 4 filming reportedly started August 2019 and will end February 2020, according to Backstage, a career listing site for actors. A tweet from The Crown ’s official Twitter account earlier this year confirms this. The tweet, which announced the actress who’s portraying Princess Diana, stated, “Emma Corrin will play Lady Diana Spencer in The Crown Season Four. Filming will begin later this year.” Emma Corrin will play Lady Diana Spencer in The Crown Season Four. Filming will begin later this year. pic.twitter.com/WNL0f2xZi3 — The Crown (@TheCrownNetflix) April 11, 2019 We’ll most likely be able to stream season 4 of The Crown in late fall 2020, probably before Christmas. Season 1 aired November 4, 2016, season 2 aired December 8, 2017, and season 3 just aired November 17. Since season 5 will most likely be getting the same recasting treatment, expect the same two-year gap between season 4 and season 5 (so, we’ll probably get a fifth season 2022). What Will The Crown Season 4 Plot Be About? The fourth season will reportedly focus on Margaret Thatcher as prime minister . The Iron Lady held that title from 1979 to 1990 — and we all know what also happened during that time period. That’s right! Prince Charles (Josh O’Connor) met Diana Spencer, the two got married in 1981 and later had two sons, William and Harry. We don’t know if season 4 will dive into Diana and Charles’s divorce in 1992, but it wouldn’t be surprising if the season will explore Charles’ affair with Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall (we’re introduced to Camila, played by Emerald Fennell, in season 3). Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT Another major event that’s been confirmed for season 4 is Princess Margaret’s lung surgery in 1985. According to Town & Country , season 4 will show Margaret getting a lung removed due to her habitual smoking. Helena Bonham Carter says, “She smoked 60 cigarettes a day with the knowledge that her father died of lung cancer at 54. She had a lung removed, and she carried on smoking. She was a total addict. There was too much of her life that she was allowed to get lost inside her head, and I think that’s the unfortunate thing.” When Will The Crown End? We’ll be getting at least six seasons , according to Netflix Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos. In a 2017 interview with The Hollywood Reporter , show writer Peter Morgan confirms this number, adding, “I’d obviously have to see how the show is being received, and I’d have to get some help along the way.” The six seasons will be spanning six decades. In a 2016 interview with The Hollywood Reporter , Sarandos shared , “The idea is to do this over six decades, in six seasons presumably, and make the whole show over eight to 10 years.” As for now, we’ll continue binge-watching season 3 of The Crown on Netflix. Our 2020 calendars are definitely marked though. Related Content: Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT When Is The Crown Season 4 Out? Cast, Plot, Details TV Shows • Entertainment written by Gina Vaynshteyn Photo: Courtesy of Netflix. More from TV Unbothered Godfather Of Harlem Is Still That Show—And Rome Flynn Is H... The city of Harlem is synonymous with Black culture, arts, excellence, and identity. A hub for social and political activism, it laid the groundwork for th by Dontaira Terrell TV Shows America Is Still America-ing In The Last Of Us Season 2 In The Last Of Us Season 2, we’re five years into the future from when we were last with Joel (Pedro Pascal) and Ellie (Bella Ramsey), and, for the most by Patricia Karounos Entertainment These 6 Netflix Treats Are Worth Watching In April Last month gifted us a new Chappell Roan country single, a Kieran Culkin Oscar win and of course, St. Patrick’s Day. But for those of us with one eye alw by Alicia Lansom Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT Unbothered We Can’t Allow Racism To Distract From Adolescence’s Cruci... Incels, Andrew Tate, male rage and the menacing Manosphere: These are the images that come to mind when I think of the prominent themes grappled with in Ad by Estelle Uba Unbothered Paradise Is A Hit Because Sterling K. Brown Is The Hero TV... Welcome to “What’s Good,” a column where we break down what’s soothing, distracting, or just plain good in the streaming world with a “rooting fo by Kathleen Newman-B... Unbothered Severance Knows You Can’t Talk About Capitalism Without Ta... Spoilers ahead. Severance is the hit TV series everyone is talking about. The show focuses on four workers who choose to undergo a radical “severance pro by Banseka Kayembe Unbothered Let Meghan Markle Be Boring In Peace The concept of Netflix’s new lifestyle series With Love, Meghan seems simple enough: Here is Meghan Markle — or, as some know her, Meghan, Duchess by Alanna Bennett Unbothered Porsha Williams Returns To RHOA Season 16—New Drama, New... The time has finally come for Bravo fans who have patiently waited for the highly anticipated return of The Real Housewives of Atlanta. After an 18-month h by Giana Levy Entertainment These 7 Netflix Treats Are Worth Watching In March March means we’re one step closer to Spring and one step closer to knowing who will take home the biggest prize the cinematic landscape has to offer: the by Alicia Lansom Unbothered Bridgerton Season 4: Where Will We Find The Mondrichs & L... In The Bridgerton cinematic universe, Will and Alice Mondrich’s journey continues to stand out as one of the romantic drama series’ most grounded a by Dontaira Terrell TV Shows Love Is Blind Season 8 Is the Whitest It’s Ever Been Spoilers for Episodes 1-6 ahead. I’ve seen every season of Love Is Blind and I’ll be the first to say that the Netflix reality series deserves most of by Melanie Curry Unbothered Here’s Every New Black TV Show You Should Be Watching This ... by Kathleen Newman-B... Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT COMPANY About Us Jobs Advertising Feedback R29 Intelligence Licensing and Reuse of Content INFORMATION R29 Company News Terms Privacy Cookie Policy Accessibility Archives RSS Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information EDITIONS United Kingdom Germany France Australia NEWSLETTER SIGN-UP © 2025 REFINERY29 ADVERTISEMENT