Pedro Pascal and Bella Ramsey put a lot of internal work into 'The Last of Us' | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals celebrate a stunning win and the populist challenger loses his seat What is a conclave? What to know about the secretive process to elect the next pope As communist troops streamed into Saigon, a few remaining reporters kept photos and stories flowing Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Layoffs, closures and gaps in oversight expected after hundreds of DOJ grants are canceled Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Authorities believe crash through Illinois after-school building that killed 4 wasn’t targeted Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Trump marks his first 100 days in office with a rally in Michigan, a state rocked by his tariffs Numbers that matter from the first 100 days of Trump's second term Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Shedeur Sanders was not the only prospect to receive a prank call during the NFL draft Is the punishment for cursing in F1 too harsh? Racing boss hints at changes after driver backlash Power restored at Madrid Open as tennis tournament resumes with packed schedule. Swiatek wins. Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Summer Movie Guide 2025: Here’s what’s coming to theaters and streaming from May to August After 'The Idol,' Abel Tesfaye's new movie 'Hurry Up Tomorrow' brought 'joy back into filmmaking' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plunges to lowest in 5 years on tariff worries 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport A bear is spotted in Connecticut playing on family's backyard slide Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Power outages across Spain and Portugal affected millions. How to prepare for a major blackout Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Celebrate Cinco de Mayo with crisp-fried shrimp tacos Religion TOP STORIES Middle East latest: Israeli families appeal for return of loved ones' remains from Gaza Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Clashes between Druze gunmen and pro-government fighters in Syrian capital kill at least 10 Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES España y Portugal se centran en la causa del gran apagón con la electricidad casi restablecida Carney gana las elecciones en Canadá, mientras que el líder conservador pierde su escaño El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa Rusia anuncia alto el fuego de 72 horas en Ucrania para próxima semana para conmemorar derrota nazi Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo con un mitin en Michigan Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals celebrate a stunning win and the populist challenger loses his seat What is a conclave? What to know about the secretive process to elect the next pope As communist troops streamed into Saigon, a few remaining reporters kept photos and stories flowing Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Layoffs, closures and gaps in oversight expected after hundreds of DOJ grants are canceled Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Authorities believe crash through Illinois after-school building that killed 4 wasn’t targeted Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Trump marks his first 100 days in office with a rally in Michigan, a state rocked by his tariffs Numbers that matter from the first 100 days of Trump's second term Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Shedeur Sanders was not the only prospect to receive a prank call during the NFL draft Is the punishment for cursing in F1 too harsh? Racing boss hints at changes after driver backlash Power restored at Madrid Open as tennis tournament resumes with packed schedule. Swiatek wins. Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Summer Movie Guide 2025: Here’s what’s coming to theaters and streaming from May to August After 'The Idol,' Abel Tesfaye's new movie 'Hurry Up Tomorrow' brought 'joy back into filmmaking' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plunges to lowest in 5 years on tariff worries 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport A bear is spotted in Connecticut playing on family's backyard slide Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Power outages across Spain and Portugal affected millions. How to prepare for a major blackout Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Celebrate Cinco de Mayo with crisp-fried shrimp tacos Religion TOP STORIES Middle East latest: Israeli families appeal for return of loved ones' remains from Gaza Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Clashes between Druze gunmen and pro-government fighters in Syrian capital kill at least 10 Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES España y Portugal se centran en la causa del gran apagón con la electricidad casi restablecida Carney gana las elecciones en Canadá, mientras que el líder conservador pierde su escaño El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa Rusia anuncia alto el fuego de 72 horas en Ucrania para próxima semana para conmemorar derrota nazi Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo con un mitin en Michigan Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals celebrate a stunning win and the populist challenger loses his seat What is a conclave? What to know about the secretive process to elect the next pope As communist troops streamed into Saigon, a few remaining reporters kept photos and stories flowing Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Layoffs, closures and gaps in oversight expected after hundreds of DOJ grants are canceled Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Authorities believe crash through Illinois after-school building that killed 4 wasn’t targeted Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Trump marks his first 100 days in office with a rally in Michigan, a state rocked by his tariffs Numbers that matter from the first 100 days of Trump's second term Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Shedeur Sanders was not the only prospect to receive a prank call during the NFL draft Is the punishment for cursing in F1 too harsh? Racing boss hints at changes after driver backlash Power restored at Madrid Open as tennis tournament resumes with packed schedule. Swiatek wins. Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Summer Movie Guide 2025: Here’s what’s coming to theaters and streaming from May to August After 'The Idol,' Abel Tesfaye's new movie 'Hurry Up Tomorrow' brought 'joy back into filmmaking' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plunges to lowest in 5 years on tariff worries 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport A bear is spotted in Connecticut playing on family's backyard slide Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Power outages across Spain and Portugal affected millions. How to prepare for a major blackout Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Celebrate Cinco de Mayo with crisp-fried shrimp tacos Religion TOP STORIES Middle East latest: Israeli families appeal for return of loved ones' remains from Gaza Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Clashes between Druze gunmen and pro-government fighters in Syrian capital kill at least 10 Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES España y Portugal se centran en la causa del gran apagón con la electricidad casi restablecida Carney gana las elecciones en Canadá, mientras que el líder conservador pierde su escaño El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa Rusia anuncia alto el fuego de 72 horas en Ucrania para próxima semana para conmemorar derrota nazi Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo con un mitin en Michigan Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals celebrate a stunning win and the populist challenger loses his seat What is a conclave? What to know about the secretive process to elect the next pope As communist troops streamed into Saigon, a few remaining reporters kept photos and stories flowing Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Layoffs, closures and gaps in oversight expected after hundreds of DOJ grants are canceled Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Authorities believe crash through Illinois after-school building that killed 4 wasn’t targeted Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Trump marks his first 100 days in office with a rally in Michigan, a state rocked by his tariffs Numbers that matter from the first 100 days of Trump's second term Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Shedeur Sanders was not the only prospect to receive a prank call during the NFL draft Is the punishment for cursing in F1 too harsh? Racing boss hints at changes after driver backlash Power restored at Madrid Open as tennis tournament resumes with packed schedule. Swiatek wins. Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Summer Movie Guide 2025: Here’s what’s coming to theaters and streaming from May to August After 'The Idol,' Abel Tesfaye's new movie 'Hurry Up Tomorrow' brought 'joy back into filmmaking' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plunges to lowest in 5 years on tariff worries 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport A bear is spotted in Connecticut playing on family's backyard slide Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Power outages across Spain and Portugal affected millions. How to prepare for a major blackout Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Celebrate Cinco de Mayo with crisp-fried shrimp tacos Religion TOP STORIES Middle East latest: Israeli families appeal for return of loved ones' remains from Gaza Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Clashes between Druze gunmen and pro-government fighters in Syrian capital kill at least 10 Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES España y Portugal se centran en la causa del gran apagón con la electricidad casi restablecida Carney gana las elecciones en Canadá, mientras que el líder conservador pierde su escaño El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa Rusia anuncia alto el fuego de 72 horas en Ucrania para próxima semana para conmemorar derrota nazi Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo con un mitin en Michigan Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Entertainment Pedro Pascal and Bella Ramsey put a lot of internal work into ‘The Last of Us’ Pedro Pascal and Bella Ramsey put a lot of internal work into ‘The Last of Us’ 1 of 6 | “The Last of Us” star Pedro Pascal found his personal circumstances scarily similar to that of his character Joel Miller as he filmed the second season: “I was injured and exhausted and kind of in a low place,” the 50-year-old star says. He sat down alongside co-star Bella Ramsey to talk with AP entertainment journalist Leslie Ambriz about the hit video game-inspired post-apocalyptic series, Ramsey’s delight at being “battered and bruised” from action scenes, the surprising difficulty of taking breaks — and protecting co-stars from online hate. Read More 2 of 6 | Bella Ramsey, left, and Pedro Pascal arrive at the season two premiere of “The Last of Us” on Monday, March 24, 2025, at TCL Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP) Read More 3 of 6 | Bella Ramsey, left, and Pedro Pascal arrive at the season two premiere of “The Last of Us” on Monday, March 24, 2025, at TCL Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP) Read More 4 of 6 | Kaitlyn Dever, left, and Bella Ramsey arrive at the season two premiere of “The Last of Us” on Monday, March 24, 2025, at TCL Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP) Read More 5 of 6 | Kaitlyn Dever arrives at the season two premiere of “The Last of Us” on Monday, March 24, 2025, at TCL Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP) Read More 6 of 6 | Bella Ramsey, left, and Pedro Pascal arrive at the season two premiere of “The Last of Us” on Monday, March 24, 2025, at TCL Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP) Read More By LESLIE AMBRIZ Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit WEST HOLLYWOOD, Calif. (AP) — Five years after the end of the first season’s events, “The Last of Us” picks up in Wyoming, where Joel and Ellie — played by Pedro Pascal and Bella Ramsey — are settled into everyday life alongside an ensemble of returning characters and new faces protecting their fortress from the infected. Ellie is at the center of Season 2, premiering Sunday on HBO , as she sets out on a quest for vengeance (to tell you more would be a spoiler). But Season 2’s new cast members also include some of young Hollywood’s rising stars: Isabela Merced (“Alien: Romulus”), Young Mazino (“Beef”), Danny Ramirez (“Top Gun: Maverick”) and Kaitlyn Dever (“Apple Cider Vinegar”) as the long-awaited Abby, a character introduced in “The Last of Us: Part II” video game who is set on avenging her father’s death. Dever, who played the game with her own father, was originally in talks with series co-creators Neil Druckmann and Craig Mazin to portray Ellie in the first season. But Abby, she now says, was the role she was meant to play. “It sort of just felt like everything fell into place the way it was supposed to,” Dever says. Ramsey and Pascal spoke with The Associated Press about the show’s hiatus, Ramsey’s increased stunt work and lessons Pascal took away from this season. This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity. Related Stories Summer Movie Guide 2025: Here’s what’s coming to theaters and streaming from May to August This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Cannes Film Festival sets lineup with Ari Aster, Wes Anderson and, yes, Spike Lee AP: Bella, you’re stepping into more stunts, more action than we saw this past season. What was that like for you in regard to training and prep and then just mentally getting into that zone with Ellie? RAMSEY: What I was most excited about, about going into Season 2, was getting to train and be strong. It’s nice to have a reason to exercise that isn’t just for your own personal health. I got so battered and bruised. The stunt team did everything they could to protect me, but I still somehow managed to get bruises every time. I think I commit a bit too much. It was a great time. I was absolutely exhausted the whole time but had a lot of fun doing it. Bella Ramsey, left, and Pedro Pascal arrive at the season two premiere of “The Last of Us” on Monday, March 24, 2025, at TCL Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP) AP: Was there ever a moment or a scene where you were like, “Wow, I didn’t think I could physically do that, and I’m pretty proud of myself.” RAMSEY: Those moments happened quite frequently, not necessarily because of the actual stunt, but because you’d pile up months of exhaustion. And then there were days where I would wake up and be like, “I don’t know how I’m gonna do today.” PASCAL: (laughs) You couldn’t get out of bed. RAMSEY: Yeah, there’s times — I’ve never had this experience before — where I thought my body was just going to, like, cave in. It’s this feeling of like an instability in your body. I’m like, “I don’t know what’s going to happen.” So, I think there was so many times during shooting where I would feel proud at the end of the day, especially when it was a stunt day, with all of this exhaustion. In some of the later episodes, there’s quite a lot of physical work, and I just had no idea how I’d do it. And then you just do, like you kind of just do it and then pay the price. PASCAL: Pay the price for the rest of your life. AP: Given that this season is all about evolution and growth, I’m curious for each of you, individually, as creatives. How do you feel from Season 1 to Season 2 that you grew in your craft, and how did that change the way that you approached Ellie and Joel? PASCAL: It’s interesting that you say it’s all about growth, because I think it’s all about growth for some of the characters. I think other characters are quite stuck, and I think that to step into a very — what’s the word — stubborn paralysis, let’s call it, for Joel that is fueled ultimately by the desperate fear of losing Ellie. ... You have to step into complete vulnerability to, I guess, tell that story. And so, that definitely felt like very scary territory for me, more than I had ever experienced in a previous job. I felt that how I felt at the time was very applicable to the playing of the scene. I was sort of injured and exhausted and kind of in a low place and thank God Joel was there to help me work that s--- out. And also, my incredible scene partner Bella and the family of “The Last of Us.” RAMSEY: Yeah, that happens more often than you’d think. That was also the case for me. There was a lot of stuff personally that reflected stuff in the show. And it was, yeah, it’s crazy how that happens. And yeah, I mean, there was this five-year gap in the show between Season 1 (and) Season 2 that was like three years or so in real life. PASCAL: It was big gap for us though, too, we ended in what? June 2022, and we started in the beginning of 2024. It’s like two years. RAMSEY: In that time, I didn’t work very much. So main growth, I think, between Season 1, Season 2 was learning how not to work, because I’d been on production since I was 11 and then worked basically nonstop up until the end of Season 1. And then there was this lull, and I didn’t do very much. So, I had to learn how to, yeah, how to be a young person and not be working, which was a challenge. Bella Ramsey, left, and Pedro Pascal arrive at the season two premiere of “The Last of Us” on Monday, March 24, 2025, at TCL Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP) AP: Given the trajectory of Joel this season and everything that he goes through, what is one lesson or one thing that you think you will take away from this character this season? PASCAL: I feel like Joel in Season 2 is an extreme example of what can happen if you don’t face the truth. And I think that in these teasers and in the trailer, Catherine O’Hara, who’s so incredible in the first episode that you got to see is saying, “Just, just say it. Just say the thing, face it, face your fears.” And I know as I get older, I am shocked into recognizing how hard that is to do, and how dangerous it is not to do it. AP: Bella, in the first season, you faced a lot of unwarranted, misogynistic comments from fans. Kaitlyn (Dever) is kind of going through the same thing this season. I’m curious if you guys got a chance to chat about that, or give her any advice on how to deal with it? RAMSEY: We’ve not chatted about it particularly directly. It’s more just this mutual understanding of it and knowing very much that we have each other’s backs and that I definitely feel she doesn’t need my protection or my advice, but I feel almost protective of all of the new cast coming in and being like, “None of that matters.” PASCAL: Or give it any airtime at all. It’s all just noise and bulls---. RAMSEY: It’s just noisy. And they’re still happening. But I feel it just gets less important. It’s not important to me anymore. LESLIE AMBRIZ Ambriz is a bilingual entertainment journalist based in Los Angeles. She primarily reports on film, television and music for The Associated Press. instagram mailto Most read Trump says Columbus Day will now just be Columbus Day Carney wins Canadian election, while Conservative leader loses his seat in Parliament Massive power outage in Spain and Portugal leaves thousands stranded and millions without light The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook