The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Master Quest - Zelda Wiki Zelda Wiki Want to contribute to this wiki? Sign up for an account , and get started ! Come and join our Discussions ! READ MORE Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Zelda Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Interactive Maps Content Bosses Characters Dungeons Enemies Items Locations Objects Quests Songs Game Translations Getting involved Getting started Guidelines Knight Challenges Rules Sandbox Wanted pages Image requests Image alteration Image retrieval Articles lacking images Community Staff More Similar wikis Mario Wiki Smashpedia Nintendo Wiki Wikitroid Pikmin Wiki Pokémon Wiki Gamepedia Gamepedia support Report a bad ad Help Wiki Contact us Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Zelda Wiki 11,761 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Interactive Maps Content Bosses Characters Dungeons Enemies Items Locations Objects Quests Songs Game Translations Getting involved Getting started Guidelines Knight Challenges Rules Sandbox Wanted pages Image requests Image alteration Image retrieval Articles lacking images Community Staff More Similar wikis Mario Wiki Smashpedia Nintendo Wiki Wikitroid Pikmin Wiki Pokémon Wiki Gamepedia Gamepedia support Report a bad ad Help Wiki Contact us in: Games , 3D Games , Remakes The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Master Quest Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (12) The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Master Quest Developer(s) Nintendo Publisher(s) Nintendo Designer(s) Shigeru Miyamoto Release date(s) United States of America: • February 17, 2003 Japan: • November 28, 2002 South Korea: • 2002 The UK / Ireland: • May 3, 2003 Content ratings ESRB : E ACB : G8+ Genre(s) Action Adventure Gamemode(s) Single player The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Master Quest is a reworked version of the 1998 Nintendo 64 title Ocarina of Time . [ 1 ] Master Quest contains largely the same content as the original release, but with its Dungeons redesigned or altered to become tougher akin to the Second Quest in the original The Legend of Zelda , hence the name. Therefore, Master Quest is intended for experienced Ocarina of Time players looking for a new challenge. Notably, its logo has the "Zelda" (or whole title in-game) wording being changed from red to blue, the Master Sword / Hylain Shield slightly darker, and the Ocarina of Time item placed next to "Master Quest". Title screen Master Quest was first made available for the Nintendo GameCube in 2003 on a special bonus disc that also contained the original Ocarina of Time . This disc was given out in limited quantities with pre-orders of The Wind Waker . Additionally, it was packaged with The Wind Waker in some regions. Because of this, like Collector's Edition , existing copies of this game are rare and expensive in North America but still rather sought after by collectors. It is also available as a mode in Ocarina of Time 3D after first completing the regular game. Contents 1 Changes from Ocarina of Time 1.1 Ocarina of Time 3D Version 1.2 Additional Content 2 History 3 Listings 3.1 Glitches 4 Nomenclature 5 Gallery 6 References Changes from Ocarina of Time [ ] An example of increased difficulty for Master Quest , where an Iron Knuckle and Blade Trap are added at the entrance of Ganon's Castle The most notable feature of Master Quest is that every dungeon in the game has been modified to increase the difficulty of the game. Each one features a different layout, changing the progression through the levels. Enemies are spread differently throughout the dungeons, and tougher enemies are encountered much earlier than in Ocarina of Time . In addition, some Gold Skulltula locations in dungeons have been moved, and certain items that are optional for Link to use in the original version are now mandatory to complete the game. Similar to subsequent re-releases, both games in the disk are emulated versions of the original Ocarina of Time , rather than direct ports to the GameCube, and are therefore displayed at an increased 640×480 resolution compared to the 320×240 of the initial Nintendo 64 release. Ocarina of Time 3D Version [ ] The Master Quest for Ocarina of Time 3D has been completely mirrored Master Quest for Ocarina of Time 3D on the Nintendo 3DS is not available from the start. To unlock it, the main quest has to be completed first. [ 2 ] Upon doing so, the player will have an option to choose between the Main Quest or the Master Quest after starting up the game, allowing a second playthrough of the game with redesigned dungeons. This version of the Master Quest has two significant changes compared to the GameCube original. The entire game has been mirrored, similarly to Twilight Princess for its Wii version, making Link appear right-handed as well as flipping the entire overworld map and the dungeons. [ 3 ] In addition to the game being mirrored, all of the enemies and bosses will cause twice as much damage to Link, which also applies to the Master Quest 's own Boss Challenge version. [ 4 ] Therefore, Master Quest in Ocarina of Time 3D is significantly more challenging than the standard Ocarina of Time and resulting in one of, if not the most difficult adventures of The Legend of Zelda series , among the likes of The Adventure of Link and A Link to the Past . Additional Content [ ] The disc also includes preview trailers for then-upcoming games for the GameCube and Game Boy Advance . The selection of trailers differ by region, with Japan having more trailers from different companies and promoting the " Capcom Five ". The A Link to the Past & Four Swords trailer is also different, having narration and focusing more on the Four Swords in the Japanese trailer. Europe and North America The Wind Waker A Link to the Past & Four Swords Metroid Prime F-Zero GX 1080° Avalanche Wario World Hot Clips (montage of footage from various games) Japan Mario Party 4 Resident Evil Zero Ultimate Muscle: Legends vs. New Generation Mr. Driller: Drill Land F-Zero GX Resident Evil 4 Dead Phoenix Viewtiful Joe P.N.03 Killer7 A Link to the Past & Four Swords Final Fantasy Tactics Advance Australia Metroid Prime Hot Clips (montage of footage from various games) A Link to the Past & Four Swords Korea The Wind Waker Metroid Prime F-Zero GX 1080° Avalanche Wario World History [ ] Master Quest was originally intended for the Nintedno 64DD peripheral In the late 1990s, Nintendo developed an add-on peripheral for the Nintendo 64 called the Nintendo 64DD . The Nintendo 64DD used magnetic disks, with a larger memory capacity than the cartridges used for the Nintendo 64, allowing for additional content and improved models and textures. While Nintendo hoped that the Nintendo 64DD would attract third-party developers, they also began developing several first-party titles, one of which was Ocarina of Time . Struggling to attract interest to the platform, Nintendo moved development of Ocarina of Time to the Nintendo 64, which was ultimately released on a 32MB cartridge. [ 5 ] At the time of this change, the game featured more content than the cartridges could hold, and so, parts of the game that was planned had to be removed. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] Series creator Shigeru Miyamoto announced that an expansion would follow Ocarina of Time , tentatively known as Ura Zelda . The expansion was purported to include rearranged dungeons from the original game. The Nintendo 64DD became a commercial failure in Japan, and so most of Nintendo's planned titles for the 64DD, including Ura Zelda , were never released. Miyamoto insisted that the game would continue to be developed, and in August 2000 indicated that Ura Zelda had been completed for some time. [ 7 ] Despite this, Nintendo could not decide on how to release the game, and considered different methods such as a magazine tie-in. [ 8 ] An Ocarina of Time save file that has been marked as a "Disk" save, as denoted by the icon on the right side of the screen. Remnants of Ura Zelda' s 64DD origins still remain in Ocarina of Time 's code. Several error messages exist in the game's data regarding wrong disks being inserted. A "Disk" tag can also be made to appear in the title screen by modifying the RAM addresses of the game. A save file can also be flagged as a "Disk" save and a "Disk" icon will appear next to the save file on the file select screen. The file will be permanently grayed out and inaccessible, unless the game is tricked into thinking the expansion disk is inserted. Attempting to open the file afterwards will crash the game, presumably due to the game trying to load non-existent files. [ 9 ] Listings [ ] Glitches [ ] Nomenclature [ ] Names in other regions Language Name Meaning Japanese ゼルダの伝説 時のオカリナ 裏 ( Zeruda no Densetsu Toki no Okarina Ura ) ( OoT ) ゼルダの伝説 時のオカリナGC 裏 ( Zeruda no Densetsu Toki no Okarina Jī Shī Ura ) ( OoT ) The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Flip-Side The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time GC Flip-Side This table was generated using translation pages . Gallery [ ] View Gallery References ↑ The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D — Prima Official Game Guide , Prima Games, pg. 2 ↑ "The Master Quest will not be available from the start of the game. You will need to play through and complete the main quest first. Once you’ve done so, the Master Quest will then be unlocked. At that point, once you start up your Nintendo 3DS, you will have an option to play the Main Quest or the Master Quest. Additionally, the Boss Replay Challenge (more about this in the next news post), has its own Master Quest version, allowing you to battle these bosses on the tougher difficulty settings." — [1] , Zelda Dungeon.net; retrieved May 12, 2011. ↑ "For the 3DS remake, the Master Quest has two significant changes. First off, the entire game is now mirrored! That’s right, the entire game has received a complete reflection much like Twilight Princess did for the Nintendo Wii. This means that Link will now be right-handed, the entire overworld map will be flipped, along with all of the dungeons. So Kakariko Village will now be to the West of Hyrule Castle, Lake Hylia will be to the Southeast, and the Desert Colossus at the far northeast corner of the overworld." — [2] , Zelda Dungeon.net; retrieved May 12, 2011. ↑ "In addition to the game being mirrored, the Master Quest is now significantly harder as difficulty adjusters have been put in, causing all enemies to do double the amount of damage each time they hit Link. [...] Additionally, the Boss Replay Challenge (more about this in the next news post), has its own Master Quest version, allowing you to battle these bosses on the tougher difficulty settings." — Ocarina of Time 3D: Uber Master Quest; retrieved May 12, 2011 , Zelda Dungeon.net. ↑ 5.0 5.1 "N64.com's Japanese correspondent today confirmed that a complete and finished cartridge-based version of The Legend of Zelda (a working title) will arrive Nintendo 64 late this year, followed by a 64DD afterward. The long-awaited action-based RPG, which many people believed to be the sole killer-app for 64DD, is likely to have a bigger ROM size than Super Mario 64, and is believed to contain as much as 12 MBs." — Zelda officially goes to cart , IGN, published 1997-03-07, retrieved 2013-01-27. ↑ "There were several ideas that I could not incorporate [in the current game] because of the time shortage and other reasons. In the future, I want some new areas and new dungeons to be available for players who have already finished Ocarina of Time, where they will find new challenges." — Zelda DD: The Other Adventure , IGN, published 1998-11-17, retrieved 2013-01-27. ↑ "Speaking to the press in an open forum held yesterday in Tokyo, Japan, Nintendo's Shigeru Miyamoto casually commented that "Ura-Zelda" has been completed for some time now." — Ura Zelda Complete , IGN, published 2000-08-25, retrieved 2020-08-05. ↑ "Although we did develop Ura for the 64DD, it didn't use many of the special features. So it was very easy to port over to the GameCube without cutting any features. Why we did it, well that was because the 64DD was only released in Japan and it was only sold to subscribers of the RandNet system. For a long time we wanted to make it available for play and find a way to do that. It was expensive to make cartridges, so we had through about different ways. One thing we thought about was tie-ups with magazines. Once GameCube moved to disc media, though, it became much more feasible to make it available. In terms of how we've done it, we didn't want to make it limited edition. So we've tried to make it available to as many people as possible." — Miyamoto and Aonuma on Zelda , IGN, published 2002-12-04, retrieved 2013-01-27. ↑ https://tcrf.net/The_Legend_of_Zelda:_Ocarina_of_Time#Ura_Zelda_Leftovers Games Main Series Spin-off Other The Legend of Zelda · The Adventure of Link · A Link to the Past ( & Four Swords ) · Link's Awakening ( DX ; Nintendo Switch ) · Ocarina of Time ( Master Quest ; 3D ) · Majora's Mask ( 3D ) · Oracle of Ages · Oracle of Seasons · Four Swords ( Anniversary Edition ) · The Wind Waker ( HD ) · Four Swords Adventures · The Minish Cap · Twilight Princess ( HD ) · Phantom Hourglass · Spirit Tracks · Skyward Sword ( HD ) · A Link Between Worlds · Tri Force Heroes · Breath of the Wild · Tears of the Kingdom · Echoes of Wisdom Zelda (Game & Watch) · The Legend of Zelda Game Watch · Link's Crossbow Training · My Nintendo Picross: Twilight Princess · Cadence of Hyrule · Game & Watch: The Legend of Zelda CD-i games The Faces of Evil · The Wand of Gamelon · Zelda's Adventure Hyrule Warriors series Hyrule Warriors ( Legends ; Definitive Edition ) · Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity Satellaview games BS The Legend of Zelda · Ancient Stone Tablets Tingle series Freshly-Picked Tingle's Rosy Rupeeland · Tingle's Balloon Fight DS · Too Much Tingle Pack · Ripened Tingle's Balloon Trip of Love Animal Crossing · SoulCalibur II · WarioWare series · Nintendo Badge Arcade · Captain Rainbow · Nintendo Land · Scribblenauts Unlimited · Mario Kart 8 Super Smash Bros. series Super Smash Bros. · Super Smash Bros. Melee · Super Smash Bros. Brawl · Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS · Super Smash Bros. for Wii U · Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Categories Categories : Games 3D Games Remakes Community content is available under GNU Free Documentation License unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Zelda Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab