Serena Williams Loses Wimbledon Final to Simona Halep ​ Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals Royals Royals PEOPLE StyleWatch: Spring 2025 Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals StyleWatch Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe This week's Puzzler crossword is here! Can you solve it? Play now! Entertainment Sports Tennis Serena Williams Loses Wimbledon Ladies' Singles Final to Simona Halep Going into the match, Serena Williams won Wimbledon seven times, while Simona Halep was in the final for the first time By Lindsay Kimble Lindsay Kimble Lindsay Kimble is the Executive Editor, News at PEOPLE. She have been working at PEOPLE for seven years. Her work has previously appeared in POPSUGAR, Us Weekly and Entertainment Weekly. People Editorial Guidelines Published on July 13, 2019 10:33AM EDT Photo: GLYN KIRK/AFP/Getty Images Simona Halep is the 2019 Wimbledon ladies champion! Halep, 27, defeated Serena Williams , 37, in the ladies’ singles championship match in the U.K. on Saturday, winning 6-2, 6-2. Going into the match, Halep was ranked seventh in the world, while Williams trailed her at 11th. Williams is a seven-time Wimbledon champion, while the final marked her first at Wimbledon for Halep, who only just won her first major tournament last year at the 2018 French Open. Although she didn’t end up winning on Saturday, Williams made history before the final even started. According to ESPN , the star athlete has reached at least one major final in 12 consecutive years, which is the second-longest such streak by a woman in the Open era. Last year, Williams lost the Ladies’ singles championship at Wimbledon to German player Angelique Kerber. Serena Williams. Dave Shopland/BPI/Shutterstock Simona Halep. Javier Garcia/BPI/Shutterstock Serena Williams Fined $10K For Damaging Tennis Court Before Wimbledon: ‘Maybe I’m Super Strong’ Despite the loss, Williams — who got emotional — remained positive, telling the crowd at the time, “It was such an amazing tournament for me. I was really hoping to get this far. It’s obviously disappointing, but I can’t be disappointed. I have so much to look forward to. I’m literally just getting started.” Simona Halep. Javier Garcia/BPI/Shutterstock Simona Halep. Javier Garcia/BPI/Shutterstock James Marsh/BPI/Shutterstock Here’s Why Wimbledon Stars Serena Williams and Roger Federer Are Still Slaying in Their Late 30s Shaun Botterill/Getty Images And Williams asserted that she was happy for her then-opponent, Kerber. “She’s an incredible person, Angelique is, and she’s a really good friend, so I’m really happy for her,” the athlete said. “This is her first title and I know she’s going to really enjoy it and enjoy the moment. So congrats again. It’s amazing.” Saturday’s final comes after Williams fell in the third round of the French Open last month. American player Sofia Kenin beat the tennis legend in a 6-2, 7-5 upset. Over the past year, she’s dealt with numerous injuries and had to withdraw from multiple tournaments, including the Miami Open. “I am glad I came,” Williams said in June in France. “I love the city. I love the tournament. I really wanted to be here. I’m glad I came. But it’s just been a really grueling season for me.” Close You Might Like Serena Williams Says She Thinks About Former Rival Maria Sharapova ‘All the Time’ amid Tennis Doping Scandals Entertainment April 16, 2025 All About Caroline Wozniacki's Husband, Former NBA All-Star David Lee Entertainment August 31, 2023 Carlos Alcaraz's Family: All About the Tennis Champion's Parents and Siblings Entertainment August 24, 2023 Related Articles Tommy Paul Says He’s ‘Going to Get In Trouble’ with Girlfriend Paige Lorenze for Revealing This ’Sore Subject’ (Exclusive) Her Opponent Told the Ref She 'Smelled Really Bad' and Needed Deodorant. Here's How This Tennis Pro Clapped Back All About Caroline Wozniacki's 2 Kids and Baby on the Way Carlos Alcaraz Has $39 Million in Prize Money — but Is Still Sleeping in a Twin Bed, Netflix Doc Reveals Tennis Player Dramatically Collapses Mid-Game and Leaves Court in Wheelchair Iga Świątek Verbally Harassed by 'Aggressive' Fan During Miami Open Practice Serena Williams and Caitlin Clark Snap Selfie at NFL Annual Meeting: 'Future of Women' Serena Williams Says Super Bowl Crip Walk with Kendrick Lamar Was 'Absolutely Not' Shade to Ex Drake Caroline Wozniacki Is Pregnant, Expecting 3rd Baby with Husband David Lee: ‘Officially Switching to Zone Defense’ Serena Williams Set to Executive Produce TV Series Based on Taylor Jenkins Reid's Bestselling Tennis Novel Carrie Soto Is Back Serena Williams Held Off on Meeting Taylor Swift at the Super Bowl as Travis Kelce and the Chiefs Lost Tennis Star Iga Świątek Smashes Ball Boy with Ball at Indian Wells Semifinal — Then Loses Against 17-Year-Old Mirra Andreeva What Time Is the Men's NCAA Championship? How to Watch and Stream the Final March Madness Game Cooper Flagg’s Family: All About the Duke Basketball Star's Parents and Siblings UConn Triumphs Over South Carolina to Claim Their Record 12th Women's NCAA Championship Title U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Officials Fire Coach and Director Following Athletes' Allegations of Sexual Abuse PEOPLE Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies