Alumna Brianna Ross Named 2021-22 Maryland Teacher of the Year - University of Pittsburgh School of Education Skip to main content School of Education Search Menu Close Full Menu - Left/Large Apply Request Info Info Sessions Give Main Navigation Why Pitt Education Overview Our Mission Facts & Rankings Meet Our Dean Core Values Equity, Justice, and Inclusion Community Partnerships Innovation Global Perspective Land Acknowledgement News & Publications Contact Us Programs Explore All Programs Areas of Study Teacher Education and School Leadership Exercise, Health, and Wellness Applied Psychology and Human Development Education Systems and Frameworks Undergraduate Graduate Master’s EdD PhD Online Certificate Become a Teacher Pitt2Pitt Programs Admissions Overview Visit Virtual Tour Info Sessions Admissions Staff Admissions Requirements Undergraduate Admissions Master’s Admissions EdD Admissions PhD Admissions International Student Admissions Background Checks and Clearances Tuition and Fees Financial Support Scholarships and Grants Loan Programs Equity & Justice Scholars Appointment Opportunities Transfer Students International Students Programs for International Students Student Ambassadors Frequently Asked Questions Apply Now Student Experience Overview Life in Pittsburgh Advising Support Student Organizations Council for Exceptional Children Council of Graduate Students in Education (CGSE) International Student Peer Network Ombudsperson Graduation Spring 2025 Commencement Policies and Forms Act 48/45 Credit Reporting Faculty Overview Directory Academic Departments Research Impact Centers & Engagement Overview Centers & Projects Falk Laboratory School Academic Journals Alumni Overview Members and Events Giving Distinguished Alumni Awards Connect Most Visited Tuition and Fees Admissions Requirements Explore All Programs Become a Teacher People Info for Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Connect with Pitt Education Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube WeChat Pitt.edu Close School of Education Search Full menu Why Pitt Education Overview Our Mission Facts & Rankings Meet Our Dean Core Values Equity, Justice, and Inclusion Community Partnerships Innovation Global Perspective Land Acknowledgement News & Publications Contact Us Programs Explore All Programs Areas of Study Teacher Education and School Leadership Exercise, Health, and Wellness Applied Psychology and Human Development Education Systems and Frameworks Undergraduate Graduate Master’s EdD PhD Online Certificate Become a Teacher Pitt2Pitt Programs Admissions Overview Visit Virtual Tour Info Sessions Admissions Staff Admissions Requirements Undergraduate Admissions Master’s Admissions EdD Admissions PhD Admissions International Student Admissions Background Checks and Clearances Tuition and Fees Financial Support Scholarships and Grants Loan Programs Equity & Justice Scholars Appointment Opportunities Transfer Students International Students Programs for International Students Student Ambassadors Frequently Asked Questions Apply Now Student Experience Overview Life in Pittsburgh Advising Support Student Organizations Council for Exceptional Children Council of Graduate Students in Education (CGSE) International Student Peer Network Ombudsperson Graduation Spring 2025 Commencement Policies and Forms Act 48/45 Credit Reporting Faculty Overview Directory Academic Departments Research Impact Centers & Engagement Overview Centers & Projects Falk Laboratory School Academic Journals Alumni Overview Members and Events Giving Distinguished Alumni Awards Connect Alumni Feature May 21, 2021 Alumna Brianna Ross Named 2021-22 Maryland Teacher of the Year When Brianna Ross (BS ’14, MEd ’15) thinks of her personal model for teaching excellence, she looks no further than her own kindergarten teacher: Ms. Caruthers. “I was the only Black girl in my class, and she was one of the only Black teachers I ever had,” recalls Ross, who grew up in the Philadelphia area. “I don’t remember what I learned.  I just remember how I felt in her classroom. I remember feeling loved. And I remember that she set very high expectations for us in kindergarten.” Since earning her teaching degree from the University of Pittsburgh School of Education, Ross has followed a similar teaching philosophy with her students. For the past three years, she has taught history and social studies at the Deer Park Middle Magnet School in Baltimore County Public Schools in Maryland. She is also the school’s social studies department chair, equity liaison, and summer transition program coordinator. In October, Ross received her state’s highest honor for teachers, the Maryland 2021-2022 Teacher of the Year Award . Her Baltimore County school system is the 25th largest in the United States, with more than 110,000 students and approximately 175 schools, centers, and programs. Ross will go on to complete for the National Teacher of the Year Award, which will be announced in April 2022. A Strong Foundation from Pitt Education Ross is a 2014 graduate of the Combined Accelerated Studies in Education (CASE) program at Pitt Education. Through the five-year program, she earned a Bachelor of Science in applied developmental psychology, a Master of Education in special education, and fulfilled the requirements for the Pennsylvania preK-4 general education and preK-8 special education teacher certifications. “How can you beat that experience? A five-year program where you can also earn your master’s. I had an awesome cohort and loved living in Pittsburgh,” says Ross. The teacher preparation faculty at Pitt Education are not surprised that Ross is excelling as an educator. “She was the student whose writing and comments in class discussions made you stop and think deeply about how best to prepare pre-service teachers,” says Anna Arlotta-Guererro , associate professor and director of the CASE program at Pitt Education. “I will always remember when one of her fellow students said to me, ‘Being in a cohort with Bri has made me more prepared to be an effective teacher!’” Michelle Sobolak , associate professor and director of Teacher and Professional Education at Pitt Education, remembers Ross for being a teacher who was focused on providing all students with an equitable, high-quality education. “Brianna Ross exemplifies the type of teacher that all students deserve,” says Sobolak. Amy Srsic , an assistant professor at Pitt Education, remembers Ross as an educator who was fiercely committed to cultivating the intellectual curiosity of her students. “It is just thrilling to learn that Bri’s commitment to developing relationships that support her students in breaking barriers and achieving academic excellence has been noticed and is being openly recognized,” says Srsic. Leading Classrooms During a Challenging Year While it is satisfying on a personal level to receive the teaching award, Ross admits that the past academic year has been incredibly difficult for her and her students due to the pandemic and the national reckoning on racial injustice. Ross has approached this situation by aiming to understand and empathetically respond to the experiences of her students, the vast majority of which are Black or Latinx. “I believe that teaching is the profession to restore humanity,” says Ross. “Teaching history gives us a great place to restore the sense of agency in our kids and to help them advocate for change in their lives.” Ross is earning her doctorate of urban educational leadership at Morgan State University in Baltimore and aspires to work in school administration someday. Ross will continue to instill the values that she learned in kindergarten from her teacher, Miss Caruthers. “I want my kids to know they are loved. Our work should be grounded in love 100% of the time,” says Ross. Learn More The Combined Accelerated Studies in Education (CASE) program is a five-year program in the University of Pittsburgh School of Education that provides students with an undergraduate degree, a master’s degree in special education, and teaching certification. Watch a video from Baltimore County Schools about Brianna Ross receiving the 2020-21 Teacher of the Year Award. Share on: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Categories All News Alumni Feature Events Faculty and Research School News Student Spotlights Explore More Events Calendar PittEd Research Reports PittEd Magazine Media Contacts Related News Alumna Kristin Shymoniak Receives The School Superintendents Association (AASA) and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Women in School Leadership Award August 16, 2019 Alumna Kristin Shymoniak Receives The School Superintendents Association (AASA) and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Women in School Leadership Award Read more – Alumna Kristin Shymoniak Receives The School Superintendents Association (AASA) and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Women in School Leadership Award EdD Spotlight: Leveling up in Higher Ed Leadership August 24, 2020 EdD Spotlight: Leveling up in Higher Ed Leadership Read more – EdD Spotlight: Leveling up in Higher Ed Leadership Alumni Spotlight: Connor Keenan Excels in Sports Performance December 2, 2021 Alumni Spotlight: Connor Keenan Excels in Sports Performance Read more – Alumni Spotlight: Connor Keenan Excels in Sports Performance EdD Alumna Ameeta Schmitt Appointed World Language Curriculum Supervisor October 26, 2022 EdD Alumna Ameeta Schmitt Appointed World Language Curriculum Supervisor Read more – EdD Alumna Ameeta Schmitt Appointed World Language Curriculum Supervisor View all news School of Education We ignite learning Be the spark that inspires change School of Education 5900 Wesley W. Posvar Hall 230 South Bouquet Street Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania 15260 USA Phone: 412-648-2230 Email: soeinfo@pitt.edu Info for Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Get started Apply Request Info Info Sessions Give Virtual Tour Resources A-Z Directory School Intranet Course Catalog Follow us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube WeChat Copyright © 2025. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Manage Consent This website uses cookies to improve visitor experiences. You can configure cookie settings in your web browser. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes GOT IT Deny View preferences Save preferences View preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage consent