Every Photo from The Crown Season 3 Premiere in London Search Fashion Beauty Celebrity Culture Shopping Bazaar Bride Travel & Food Politics ShopBAZAAR Newsletter Subscribe Other Editions Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content Fashion Shopping Beauty Celebrity Culture Shop Bazaar Newsletter Subscribe sign in Celebrity Red Carpet Dresses The Crown Cast Looks like Royalty at the Season 3 Premiere in London The Crown Cast Looks like Royalty at the Season 3 Premiere in London Olivia Colman, Helena Bonham Carter, and other stars get glammed up for the red-carpet event. By Erica Gonzales Published: Nov 13, 2019 3:58 PM EST Save Article Getty Images The Crown 's third season debuts on Netfilx in a matter of days. In honor of the long-awaited streaming event, the cast and crew attended the premiere in London today, dressing up like real-life royals and walking the red carpet. The familiar faces from the first two seasons—like Emmy winner Claire Foy (Queen Elizabeth II), Matt Smith (Prince Philip), and Vanessa Kirby (Princess Margaret)—were missing in action, making way for the series' next generation of stars to take the spotlight. Among those in the group were Oscar winner Olivia Colman, dressed in all black; Colman took the torch from Foy to portray the queen. Outlander and Game of Thrones star Tobias Menzies, who takes over from Smith as the sovereign's husband, the Duke of Edinburgh, looked dapper in a three-piece check suit. And Helena Bonham Carter, who succeeds Kirby as the queen's charming younger sister, was decked in chiffon and feathers. The forthcoming season also introduces a new generation of royals in Prince Charles and Princess Anne, portrayed by rising stars Josh O'Connor and Erin Doherty respectively, the two eldest children of the queen and Prince Philip. The third season of The Crown goes live on Netflix on Sunday, November 17. Scroll through to catch the stars at the premiere and see what they look like in character here . 1 Olivia Colman (Queen Elizabeth II) Getty Images 2 Helena Bonham Carter (Princess Margaret) Getty Images Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 3 Tobias Menzies (Prince Philip) Getty Images 4 Josh O'Connor (Prince Charles) Getty Images Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 5 Erin Doherty (Princess Anne) Getty Images 6 Harry Treadaway (Roddy Llewellyn) Getty Images Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 7 Jason Watkins (Harold Wilson) Getty Images 8 Gillian Anderson (Margaret Thatcher, Season 4) Getty Images Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 9 Benjamin Caron (Director) Getty Images 10 Suzanne Mackie (Producer) Getty Images Watch Next Advertisement - Continue Reading Below All About The Crown: News, Spoilers, and Episode Recaps Ed McVey Portrays a Complex Prince William What to Know About “The Crown” Season 6 Part 2 What Elizabeth Debicki Learned From Diana Who Is Mohamed Al-Fayed, Dodi's Father? Advertisement - Continue Reading Below How Did the Queen React to Diana’s Death? How The Crown Swallowed the Royal Family Meet Your New Kate Middleton Comparing The Crown Actors to Will & Kate The Crown ’s S6 Trailer Is All About Diana Why Prince Philip's Title Wasn't King Elizabeth Debicki on Making Princess Diana Her Own Yes, The Crown's Tampongate Really Happened Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Newsletter Contact Us Media Kit Press Room Community Guidelines Advertise Online About Our Ads Customer Service Subscribe Other Hearst Subscriptions Giveaways A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads