Ohio Teacher of the Year works at Norwood Middle, shares teaching wins Local News Sports Opinion NKY Things To Do Advertise Obituaries eNewspaper Legals NEWS Ohio's 2020 Teacher of the Year works in Greater Cincinnati, shares teaching wins Max Londberg Cincinnati Enquirer Leila Kubesch didn't so much give a voice to her students as teach them they already had one. The seventh- and eighth-grade teacher at Norwood Middle School had tasked her students with putting their dreams down on paper, but a student confided in her that "people like us don't dream." Then another student told her something similar. Kubesch, in her 20th year as a teacher and her fourth at Norwood Middle, has been named the 2020 Ohio Teacher of the Year by the state Department of Education. She credits her response to those two students, and the work that followed by her classes, with bringing about the recognition. SUPPORT EDUCATION JOURNALISM: Subscribe today to get access to all of our coverage She teaches English as a second language, and most of her students' native language is Spanish. After her students told her they couldn't dream, in the 2017-18 school year, Kubesch secured a grant for a performing arts project. They created a display, laminating their dreams and hanging them on burlap sacks, with cutouts of hands forming a border. The display stretched more than 100 feet, and a special exhibit featuring the project opened at the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center in Downtown Cincinnati. A poster by the exhibit explained how burlap was used in North Africa – as clothing, rugs and sacks. The cutout hands "represent action." Students drew Martin Luther King Jr., and some translated his "I Have a Dream" speech into Spanish. "Dreaming is not just for the rich, the willing, and the supported," Kubesch wrote for the exhibit. But even an exhibit at the Freedom Center didn't draw the attention for her students that Kubesch had hoped for. She alerted media outlets to the project. Some didn't respond. Some did but then never showed. She logged the calls she made: 164. She didn't tell her students how hard she was having to work to bring them positive recognition. Still, her students could sense something amiss. So Kubesch again started brainstorming. If the media ignored them, they'd create their own means of production. And with funding from grants, her students launched their own talk show. Each student was tasked with conducting 10 interviews with community members last school year. The interviews are recorded and will soon be published to a website, Kubesch said. Guests have included a Japanese-American as students were learning about U.S. internment camps during World War II, a pediatric surgeon and a transgender person. One talk lasted two hours. Another included local firefighters, who had to cut out early to respond to a call. "What I teach my students is really how to make lemonade out of lemons," Kubesch said. "It's teaching them to dream big and rise above any challenge." State Superintendent of Public Instruction Paolo DeMaria planned to surprise Norwood Middle School staff and students Friday morning . State and local government officials planned to attend. Download The Enquirer app for easy access to our content 'Daddy's little girl': Father defends Brooke Skylar Richardson in tearful testimony Republicans cancel 'Trump Train' ride in suburban Cincinnati amid threatened boycott Milford man indicted on 51 additional charges after August indictment on rape of a 7-year-old Fountain Square book store shuttered, vows to reopen Cincinnati weather: Tuesday tied for hottest day of the year. What's next as we head into fall? Staff Directory Careers Accessibility Support Sitemap Legals Our Ethical Principles USA TODAY Network Style Guide Responsible Disclosure Subscription Terms & Conditions Advertiser Acceptance Policy Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Contact Us Support Local Businesses Advertise Your Business Promote your Event Buy and Sell Help Center Cincinnati Enquirer Store Licensing & Reprints Subscriber Guide Manage Account Give Feedback Promote Your Event Subscribe Today Newsletters Mobile Apps Facebook X eNewspaper Archives Jobs Cars Homes Classifieds Education Sports Betting Shopping 10BEST LocaliQ Digital Marketing Solutions Events © 2025 www.cincinnati.com. All rights reserved.