Amy C. Edmondson - Faculty & Research - Harvard Business School Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Faculty & Research Faculty Research Featured Topics Academic Units … → Harvard Business School → Faculty & Research → Faculty Faculty Positions Amy C. Edmondson Novartis Professor of Leadership and Management Novartis Professor of Leadership and Management Amy C. Edmondson is the Novartis Professor of Leadership and Management at the Harvard Business School, a chair established to support the study of human interactions that lead to the creation of successful enterprises that contribute to the betterment of society. Edmondson has been recognized by the biannual Thinkers50 global ranking of management thinkers since 2011, and most recently was ranked #1 in 2021 and 2023 ; she also received that organization’s Breakthrough Idea Award in 2019, and Talent Award in 2017.  She studies teaming, psychological safety, and organizational learning, and her articles have been published in numerous academic and management outlets, including Administrative Science Quarterly, Academy of Management Journal, Harvard Business Review and California Management Review. Her 2019 book, The Fearless Organization: Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace for Learning, Innovation and Growth (Wiley), has been translated into 15 languages. Edmondson’s latest book, Right Kind of Wrong (Atria) , builds on her prior work on psychological safety and teaming to provide a framework for thinking about, discussing, and practicing the science of failing well. First published in the US and in the UK ( Penguin ) in September, 2023, the book is due to be translated into 24 additional languages, and was selected for the Financial Times and Schroders Best Business Book of the Year award. Read more Amy C. Edmondson is the Novartis Professor of Leadership and Management at the Harvard Business School, a chair established to support the study of human interactions that lead to the creation of successful enterprises that contribute to the betterment of society. Edmondson has been recognized by the biannual Thinkers50 global ranking of management thinkers since 2011, and most recently was ranked #1 in 2021 and 2023; she also received that organization’s Breakthrough Idea Award in 2019, and Talent Award in 2017.  She studies teaming, psychological safety, and organizational learning, and her articles have been published in numerous academic and management outlets, including Administrative Science Quarterly, Academy of Management Journal, Harvard Business Review and California Management Review. Her 2019 book, The Fearless Organization: Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace for Learning, Innovation and Growth (Wiley), has been translated into 15 languages. Her prior books – Teaming: How organizations learn, innovate and compete in the knowledge economy (Jossey-Bass, 2012), Teaming to Innovate (Jossey-Bass, 2013) and Extreme Teaming (Emerald, 2017) – explore teamwork in dynamic organizational environments. In Building the future: Big teaming for audacious innovation (Berrett-Koehler, 2016), she examines the challenges and opportunities of teaming across industries to build smart cities. Edmondson’s latest book, Right Kind of Wrong (Atria) , builds on her prior work on psychological safety and teaming to provide a framework for thinking about, discussing, and practicing the science of failing well. First published in the US and the UK in September, 2023, the book is due to be translated into 24 additional languages, and was selected for the Financial Times and Schroders Best Business Book of the Year award. Before her academic career, she was Director of Research at Pecos River Learning Centers, where she worked on transformational change in large companies. In the early 1980s, she worked as Chief Engineer for architect/inventor Buckminster Fuller, and her book A Fuller Explanation: The Synergetic Geometry of R. Buckminster Fuller (Birkauser Boston, 1987) clarifies Fuller's mathematical contributions for a non-technical audience. Edmondson received her PhD in organizational behavior, AM in psychology, and AB in engineering and design from Harvard University. Less Technology and Operations Management +1 (617) 495-6732 Unit Technology and Operations Management Contact Information (617) 495-6732 Featured Work Publications Research Summary Awards & Honors Right Kind of Wrong A revolutionary guide that will transform your relationship with failure, from the pioneering researcher of psychological safety and award-winning Harvard Business School professor Amy Edmondson. We used to think of failure as the opposite of success. Now, we’re often torn between two “failure cultures”: one that says to avoid failure at all costs, the other that says fail fast, fail often . The trouble is that both approaches lack the crucial distinctions to help us separate good failure from bad. As a result, we miss the opportunity to fail well. After decades of award-winning research, Amy Edmondson is here to upend our understanding of failure and make it work for us. In Right Kind of Wrong , Edmondson provides the framework to think, discuss, and practice failure wisely. Outlining the three archetypes of failure—basic, complex, and intelligent—Amy showcases how to minimize unproductive failure while maximizing what we gain from flubs of all stripes. She illustrates how we and our organizations can embrace our human fallibility, learn exactly when failure is our friend, and prevent most of it when it is not. This is the key to pursuing smart risks and preventing avoidable harm. With vivid, real-life stories from business, pop culture, history, and more, Edmondson gives us specifically tailored practices, skills, and mindsets to help us replace shame and blame with curiosity, vulnerability, and personal growth. You’ll never look at failure the same way again. The Fearless Organization: Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace for Learning, Innovation, and Growth Conquer the most essential adaptation to the knowledge economy The Fearless Organization: Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace for Learning, Innovation, and Growth offers practical guidance for teams and organizations who are serious about success in the modern economy. With so much riding on innovation, creativity, and spark, it is essential to attract and retain quality talent—but what good does this talent do if no one is able to speak their mind? The traditional culture of “fitting in” and “going along” spells doom in the knowledge economy. Success requires a continuous influx of new ideas, new challenges, and critical thought, and the interpersonal climate must not suppress, silence, ridicule or intimidate. Not every idea is good, and yes there are stupid questions, and yes dissent can slow things down, but talking through these things is an essential part of the creative process. People must be allowed to voice half-finished thoughts, ask questions from left field, and brainstorm out loud; it creates a culture in which a minor flub or momentary lapse is no big deal, and where actual mistakes are owned and corrected, and where the next left-field idea could be the next big thing. This book explores this culture of psychological safety, and provides a blueprint for bringing it to life. The road is sometimes bumpy, but succinct and informative scenario-based explanations provide a clear path forward to constant learning and healthy innovation. Explore the link between psychological safety and high performance Create a culture where it’s “safe” to express ideas, ask questions, and admit mistakes Nurture the level of engagement and candor required in today’s knowledge economy Follow a step-by-step framework for establishing psychological safety in your team or organization Shed the “yes-men” approach and step into real performance. Fertilize creativity, clarify goals, achieve accountability, redefine leadership, and much more. Psychological Safety at Work: How to Ensure Learning and Innovation in the Knowledge Economy helps you bring about this most critical transformation. Extreme Teaming Lessons in Complex, Cross-Sector Leadership Today’s global enterprises increasingly involve collaborative work by teams of experts operating across different professions, organizations, and industries. Extreme Teaming provides new insights into the world of complex, cross industry projects and the ways they must be managed. Leading experts Amy Edmondson and Jean-François Harvey analyze contemporary cases that expose the complex demands of cross-boundary collaboration on management, and inform our understanding of teams. Containing powerful insights and practical guidelines that allow managers to bridge professional divides and organizational boundaries in order to work together effectively, this is a new exploration of the challenges involved in today’s global enterprises. The authors demonstrate that the work done in the modern organization is less and less about looking inward and creating strong teams inside the company, and more about teaming across boundaries – that often are in flux. Extreme Teaming is a must-read book for all courses related to leading open innovation; teamwork and collaboration; project management; and cross-boundary work. Building the Future: Big Teaming for Audacious Innovation Machiavelli famously wrote, "There is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things." That's what this book is about—innovation far more audacious than a new way to find a restaurant or a smart phone you can wear on your wrist. Amy C. Edmondson and Susan Salter Reynolds explore large-scale systemic innovation that calls for "big teaming": intense collaboration between professions and industries with completely different mindsets. To explore the kind of leadership required to build the future, Edmondson and Reynolds tell the story of an award-winning "smart city" start-up launched with the ambitious goal of creating a showcase high-tech city from scratch. The collaboration brought together software entrepreneurs, real estate developers, city government officials, architects, builders, and technology corporations. Taking a close look at the work, norms, and values in each of these professional domains, readers gain insight into why teaming across fields is so challenging, and what leaders can do to help. Teaming How Organizations Learn, Innovate, and Compete in the Knowledge Economy New breakthrough thinking in organizational learning, leadership, and change Continuous improvement, understanding complex systems, and promoting innovation are all part of the landscape of learning challenges today's companies face. Amy Edmondson shows that organizations thrive, or fail to thrive, based on how well the small groups within those organizations work. In most organizations, the work that produces value for customers is carried out by teams, and increasingly, by flexible team-like entities. The pace of change and the fluidity of most work structures means that it's not really about creating effective teams anymore, but instead about leading effective teaming. Teaming shows that organizations learn when the flexible, fluid collaborations they encompass are able to learn. The problem is teams, and other dynamic groups, don't learn naturally. Edmondson outlines the factors that prevent them from doing so, such as interpersonal fear, irrational beliefs about failure, groupthink, problematic power dynamics, and information hoarding. With Teaming , leaders can shape these factors by encouraging reflection, creating psychological safety, and overcoming defensive interpersonal dynamics that inhibit the sharing of ideas. Further, they can use practical management strategies to help organizations realize the benefits inherent in both success and failure. Presents a clear explanation of practical management concepts for increasing learning capability for business results Introduces a framework that clarifies how learning processes must be altered for different kinds of work Explains how Collaborative Learning works, and gives tips for how to do it well Includes case-study research on Intermountain healthcare, Prudential, GM, Toyota, IDEO, the IRS, and both Cincinnati and Minneapolis Children's Hospitals, among others Based on years of research, this book shows how leaders can make organizational learning happen by building teams that learn. How to Turn a Group of Strangers into a Team Amy C. Edmondson is the Novartis Professor of Leadership and Management at the Harvard Business School, a chair established to support the study of human interactions that lead to the creation of successful enterprises that contribute to the betterment of society. Edmondson has been recognized by the biannual Thinkers50 global ranking of management thinkers since 2011, and most recently was ranked #1 in 2021 and 2023; she also received that organization’s Breakthrough Idea Award in 2019, and Talent Award in 2017.  She studies teaming, psychological safety, and organizational learning, and her articles have been published in numerous academic and management outlets, including Administrative Science Quarterly, Academy of Management Journal, Harvard Business Review and California Management Review. Her 2019 book, The Fearless Organization: Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace for Learning, Innovation and Growth (Wiley), has been translated into 15 languages. Her prior books – Teaming: How organizations learn, innovate and compete in the knowledge economy (Jossey-Bass, 2012), Teaming to Innovate (Jossey-Bass, 2013) and Extreme Teaming (Emerald, 2017) – explore teamwork in dynamic organizational environments. In Building the future: Big teaming for audacious innovation (Berrett-Koehler, 2016), she examines the challenges and opportunities of teaming across industries to build smart cities. Edmondson’s latest book, Right Kind of Wrong (Atria) , builds on her prior work on psychological safety and teaming to provide a framework for thinking about, discussing, and practicing the science of failing well. First published in the US and the UK in September, 2023, the book is due to be translated into 24 additional languages, and was selected for the Financial Times and Schroders Best Business Book of the Year award. Before her academic career, she was Director of Research at Pecos River Learning Centers, where she worked on transformational change in large companies. In the early 1980s, she worked as Chief Engineer for architect/inventor Buckminster Fuller, and her book A Fuller Explanation: The Synergetic Geometry of R. Buckminster Fuller (Birkauser Boston, 1987) clarifies Fuller's mathematical contributions for a non-technical audience. Edmondson received her PhD in organizational behavior, AM in psychology, and AB in engineering and design from Harvard University. Featured Work Right Kind of Wrong A revolutionary guide that will transform your relationship with failure, from the pioneering researcher of psychological safety and award-winning Harvard Business School professor Amy Edmondson. We used to think of failure as the opposite of success. Now, we’re often torn between two “failure cultures”: one that says to avoid failure at all costs, the other that says fail fast, fail often . The trouble is that both approaches lack the crucial distinctions to help us separate good failure from bad. As a result, we miss the opportunity to fail well. After decades of award-winning research, Amy Edmondson is here to upend our understanding of failure and make it work for us. In Right Kind of Wrong , Edmondson provides the framework to think, discuss, and practice failure wisely. Outlining the three archetypes of failure—basic, complex, and intelligent—Amy showcases how to minimize unproductive failure while maximizing what we gain from flubs of all stripes. She illustrates how we and our organizations can embrace our human fallibility, learn exactly when failure is our friend, and prevent most of it when it is not. This is the key to pursuing smart risks and preventing avoidable harm. With vivid, real-life stories from business, pop culture, history, and more, Edmondson gives us specifically tailored practices, skills, and mindsets to help us replace shame and blame with curiosity, vulnerability, and personal growth. You’ll never look at failure the same way again. The Fearless Organization: Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace for Learning, Innovation, and Growth Conquer the most essential adaptation to the knowledge economy The Fearless Organization: Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace for Learning, Innovation, and Growth offers practical guidance for teams and organizations who are serious about success in the modern economy. With so much riding on innovation, creativity, and spark, it is essential to attract and retain quality talent—but what good does this talent do if no one is able to speak their mind? The traditional culture of “fitting in” and “going along” spells doom in the knowledge economy. Success requires a continuous influx of new ideas, new challenges, and critical thought, and the interpersonal climate must not suppress, silence, ridicule or intimidate. Not every idea is good, and yes there are stupid questions, and yes dissent can slow things down, but talking through these things is an essential part of the creative process. People must be allowed to voice half-finished thoughts, ask questions from left field, and brainstorm out loud; it creates a culture in which a minor flub or momentary lapse is no big deal, and where actual mistakes are owned and corrected, and where the next left-field idea could be the next big thing. This book explores this culture of psychological safety, and provides a blueprint for bringing it to life. The road is sometimes bumpy, but succinct and informative scenario-based explanations provide a clear path forward to constant learning and healthy innovation. Explore the link between psychological safety and high performance Create a culture where it’s “safe” to express ideas, ask questions, and admit mistakes Nurture the level of engagement and candor required in today’s knowledge economy Follow a step-by-step framework for establishing psychological safety in your team or organization Shed the “yes-men” approach and step into real performance. Fertilize creativity, clarify goals, achieve accountability, redefine leadership, and much more. Psychological Safety at Work: How to Ensure Learning and Innovation in the Knowledge Economy helps you bring about this most critical transformation. Extreme Teaming Lessons in Complex, Cross-Sector Leadership Today’s global enterprises increasingly involve collaborative work by teams of experts operating across different professions, organizations, and industries. Extreme Teaming provides new insights into the world of complex, cross industry projects and the ways they must be managed. Leading experts Amy Edmondson and Jean-François Harvey analyze contemporary cases that expose the complex demands of cross-boundary collaboration on management, and inform our understanding of teams. Containing powerful insights and practical guidelines that allow managers to bridge professional divides and organizational boundaries in order to work together effectively, this is a new exploration of the challenges involved in today’s global enterprises. The authors demonstrate that the work done in the modern organization is less and less about looking inward and creating strong teams inside the company, and more about teaming across boundaries – that often are in flux. Extreme Teaming is a must-read book for all courses related to leading open innovation; teamwork and collaboration; project management; and cross-boundary work. Building the Future: Big Teaming for Audacious Innovation Machiavelli famously wrote, "There is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things." That's what this book is about—innovation far more audacious than a new way to find a restaurant or a smart phone you can wear on your wrist. Amy C. Edmondson and Susan Salter Reynolds explore large-scale systemic innovation that calls for "big teaming": intense collaboration between professions and industries with completely different mindsets. To explore the kind of leadership required to build the future, Edmondson and Reynolds tell the story of an award-winning "smart city" start-up launched with the ambitious goal of creating a showcase high-tech city from scratch. The collaboration brought together software entrepreneurs, real estate developers, city government officials, architects, builders, and technology corporations. Taking a close look at the work, norms, and values in each of these professional domains, readers gain insight into why teaming across fields is so challenging, and what leaders can do to help. Teaming How Organizations Learn, Innovate, and Compete in the Knowledge Economy New breakthrough thinking in organizational learning, leadership, and change Continuous improvement, understanding complex systems, and promoting innovation are all part of the landscape of learning challenges today's companies face. Amy Edmondson shows that organizations thrive, or fail to thrive, based on how well the small groups within those organizations work. In most organizations, the work that produces value for customers is carried out by teams, and increasingly, by flexible team-like entities. The pace of change and the fluidity of most work structures means that it's not really about creating effective teams anymore, but instead about leading effective teaming. Teaming shows that organizations learn when the flexible, fluid collaborations they encompass are able to learn. The problem is teams, and other dynamic groups, don't learn naturally. Edmondson outlines the factors that prevent them from doing so, such as interpersonal fear, irrational beliefs about failure, groupthink, problematic power dynamics, and information hoarding. With Teaming , leaders can shape these factors by encouraging reflection, creating psychological safety, and overcoming defensive interpersonal dynamics that inhibit the sharing of ideas. Further, they can use practical management strategies to help organizations realize the benefits inherent in both success and failure. Presents a clear explanation of practical management concepts for increasing learning capability for business results Introduces a framework that clarifies how learning processes must be altered for different kinds of work Explains how Collaborative Learning works, and gives tips for how to do it well Includes case-study research on Intermountain healthcare, Prudential, GM, Toyota, IDEO, the IRS, and both Cincinnati and Minneapolis Children's Hospitals, among others Based on years of research, this book shows how leaders can make organizational learning happen by building teams that learn. How to Turn a Group of Strangers into a Team Books Edmondson, Amy. Right Kind of Wrong: The Science of Failing Well . New York, NY: Atria Books, 2023. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. The Fearless Organization: Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace for Learning, Innovation, and Growth . Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, 2018. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Jean-François Harvey. Extreme Teaming: Lessons in Complex, Cross-Sector Leadership . Emerald Group Publishing, 2017. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Susan Salter Reynolds. Building the Future: Big Teaming for Audacious Innovation . Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2016. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. Teaming to Innovate . San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass, 2013. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. Teaming: How Organizations Learn, Innovate, and Compete in the Knowledge Economy . Jossey-Bass, 2012. View Details Moingeon, B., and A. Edmondson. Organizational Learning and Competitive Advantage . London: SAGE Publications, 1996. View Details Edmondson, A. A Fuller Explanation: The Synergetic Geometry of R. Buckminster Fuller . New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1992. View Details Journal Articles Edmondson, Amy C., and Michaela J. Kerrissey. "What People Get Wrong About Psychological Safety." Harvard Business Review 103, no. 3 (May–June 2025). View Details Sætre, Alf Steinar, Amy C. Edmondson, Oda Dregelid, and Sofie Rud Zimmer. "Psychological Ownership for Overcoming Departmental Barriers to Innovation: A Study of Innovation Handoffs." Journal of Engineering and Technology Management 73 (July–September 2024). View Details Bahadurzada, Hassina, Michaela J. Kerrissey, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Speaking up and Taking Action: Psychological Safety and Joint Problem-solving Orientation in Safety Improvement." Art. 812. Healthcare 12, no. 8 (April 2024). View Details Bahadurzada, Hassina, Amy C. Edmondson, and Michaela J. Kerrissey. "Psychological Safety as an Enduring Resource amid Constraints." Special Issue on Psychological Safety in Healthcare Settings. International Journal of Public Health 69 (2024). View Details Luca, Michael, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Where Data-Driven Decision-Making Can Go Wrong." Harvard Business Review 102, no. 5 (September–October 2024): 80–89. View Details Bransby, Derrick P., Michael J. Kerrissey, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Research: New Hires’ Psychological Safety Erodes Quickly." Harvard Business Review Digital Articles (July 11, 2024). View Details Bransby, Derrick P., Michaela Kerrissey, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Paradise Lost (and Restored?): A Study of Psychological Safety over Time." Academy of Management Discoveries (in press). (Pre-published online March 14, 2024.) View Details Orbegozo, Eva Flavia Martínez, Jorrit de Jong, Hannah Riley Bowles, Amy Edmondson, Anahide Nahhal, and Lisa Cox. "Entry Points: Gaining Momentum in Early-Stage Cross-Boundary Collaborations." Journal of Applied Behavioral Science 58, no. 4 (December 2022): 595–645. View Details Kristensen, Thomas Borup, Henrik Saabye, and Amy Edmondson. "Becoming a Learning Organization While Enhancing Performance: The Case of LEGO." International Journal of Operations & Production Management 42, no. 13 (2022): 438–481. View Details Harvey, Jean-François, Johnathan R. Cromwell, Kevin J. Johnson, and Amy C. Edmondson. "The Dynamics of Team Learning: Harmony and Rhythm in Teamwork Arrangements for Innovation." Administrative Science Quarterly 68, no. 3 (September 2023): 601–647. View Details Mortensen, Mark, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Rethink Your Employee Value Proposition: Offer Your People More Than Just Flexibility." Harvard Business Review 101, no. 1 (January–February 2023): 45–49. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Derrick P. Bransby. "Psychological Safety Comes of Age: Observed Themes in an Established Literature." Annual Review of Organizational Psychology and Organizational Behavior 10 (January 2023): 55–78. View Details Harvey, Jean-François, Henrik Bresman, Amy C. Edmondson, and Gary P. Pisano. "A Strategic View of Team Learning in Organizations." Academy of Management Annals 16, no. 2 (July 2022): 476–507. View Details Carboni, Inga, Robert Cross, and Amy C. Edmondson. "No Team is an Island: How Leaders Shape Networked Ecosystems for Team Success." California Management Review 64, no. 1 (November 2021): 5–28. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Ranjay Gulati. "Agility Hacks." Harvard Business Review 99, no. 6 (November–December 2021). View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Tijs Besieux. "Reflections: Voice and Silence in Workplace Conversations." Journal of Change Management 21, no. 3 (2021): 269–286. View Details Kerrissey, Michaela J., Anna T. Mayo, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Joint Problem-solving Orientation in Fluid Cross-boundary Teams." Academy of Management Discoveries 7, no. 3 (September 2021): 381–405. View Details De Jong, Jorrit, Amy C. Edmondson, Mark Moore, Hannah Riley-Bowles, Jan Rivkin, Eva Flavia Martínez Orbegozo, and Santiago Pulido-Gomez. "Building Cities' Collaborative Muscle." Stanford Social Innovation Review (website) (Spring 2021). View Details Kundu, Palak, Olivia Jung, Luca F. Valle, Amy C. Edmondson, Nzhde Agazaryan, John Hegde, Michael Steinberg, and Ann Raldow. "Missing the Near Miss: Recognizing Valuable Learning Opportunities in Radiation Oncology." Practical Radiation Oncology 11, no. 3 (May 2021): e256–e262. View Details Kundu, Palak, Olivia Jung, Amy C. Edmondson, Nzhde Agazaryan, John Hegde, Michael Steinberg, and Ann Raldow. "Resilience vs. Vulnerability: Psychological Safety and Reporting of Near Misses with Varying Proximity to Harm in Radiation Oncology." Joint Commission Journal on Quality and Patient Safety 47, no. 1 (January 2021): 15–22. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "The Only Thing to Fear Is Unproductive Fear." Dialogue Q1 (2021). View Details Kerrissey, Michaela, Patricia Satterstrom, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Into the Fray: Adaptive Approaches to Studying Novel Teamwork Forms." Special Issue on The Challenges of Working with "Real" Teams. Organizational Psychology Review 10, no. 2 (May 2020): 62–86. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Tomas Chamorro-Premuzic. "Today's Leaders Need Vulnerability, Not Bravado." Harvard Business Review Digital Articles (October 19, 2020). View Details Harvey, Jean-François, Kevin J. Johnson, Kathryn S. Roloff, and Amy C. Edmondson. "From Orientation to Behavior: The Interplay Between Learning Orientation, Open-mindedness, and Psychological Safety in Team Learning." Human Relations 72, no. 11 (November 2019): 1726–1751. View Details Cross, Robert, Amy C. Edmondson, and Wendy Murphy. "A Noble Purpose Alone Won't Transform Your Company: Leadership Behaviors That Nurture Interpersonal Collaboration Are the True Drivers of Change." MIT Sloan Management Review 61, no. 2 (Winter 2020). View Details Kundu, Palak, Olivia Jung, Kathy Rose, Chonlawan Khaothiemsang, Nzhde Agazaryan, Amy C. Edmondson, Michael L. Steinberg, and Ann C. Raldow. "Psychological Safety and Near Miss Events in Radiation Oncology." Journal of Clinical Oncology 37, no. 27 suppl. (September 20, 2019): 231. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Tiziana Casciaro, and Sujin Jang. "Cross-Silo Leadership." Harvard Business Review 97, no. 3 (May–June 2019): 130–139. View Details Koh, Howard, Sara J. Singer, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Health as a Way of Doing Business." JAMA, the Journal of the American Medical Association 321, no. 1 (January 1, 2019): 33–34. View Details Swendiman, Robert A., Amy C. Edmondson, and Najjia N. Mahmoud. "Burnout in Surgery Viewed Through the Lens of Psychological Safety." Annals of Surgery 269, no. 2 (February 2019): 234–235. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Extreme Teaming in an Uncertain World." Life Science Leader (April 2018). View Details Valentine, Melissa A., Tom Fangyun Tan, Bradley R. Staats, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Fluid Teams and Knowledge Retrieval: Scaling Service Operations." Manufacturing & Service Operations Management 21, no. 2 (Spring 2019): 346–360. View Details Lee, Michael Y., and Amy C. Edmondson. "Self-Managing Organizations: Exploring the Limits of Less-Hierarchical Organizing." Research in Organizational Behavior 37 (2017): 35–58. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Jean-François Harvey. "Cross-boundary Teaming for Innovation: Integrating Research on Teams and Knowledge in Organizations." Special Issue on Creating High Performance Teamwork in Organizations. Human Resource Management Review 28, no. 4 (December 2018): 347–360. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Big Teaming for Audacious Innovation." Design Intelligence Quarterly 23 (Third Quarter 2017): 16–18. View Details Zuzul, Tiona, and Amy C. Edmondson. "The Advocacy Trap: When Legitimacy Building Inhibits Organizational Learning." Academy of Management Discoveries 3, no. 3 (September 2017): 302–321. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Wicked Problem Solvers: Lessons from Successful Cross-industry Teams." Harvard Business Review 94, no. 6 (June 2016): 53–59. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Monica Higgins, Sara J. Singer, and Jennie Weiner. "Understanding Psychological Safety in Healthcare and Education Organizations: A Comparative Perspective." Special Issue on the Role of Psychological Safety in Human Development. Research in Human Development 13, no. 1 (2016): 65–83. View Details Casciaro, Tiziana, Sigal G. Barsade, Amy C. Edmondson, Cristina B. Gibson, David Krackhardt, and Giuseppe Labianca. "The Integration of Psychological and Network Perspectives in Organizational Scholarship." Special Issue on the Psychology of Organizational Networks. Organization Science 26, no. 4 (July–August 2015): 1162–1176. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Chris Argyris (1923–2013)." American Psychologist 70, no. 5 (July–August 2015): 473. View Details Valentine, Melissa A., and Amy C. Edmondson. "Team Scaffolds: How Mesolevel Team Structures Enable Role-based Coordination in Temporary Groups." Organization Science 26, no. 2 (March–April 2015): 405–422. View Details Nawaz, Haseeb, Amy C. Edmondson, Tony H. Tzeng, Jamal K. Saleh, Kevin J. Bozic, and Khaled J. Saleh. "Teaming: An Approach to the Growing Complexities in Health Care: AOA Critical Issues." Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery: American Volume 96, no. 21 (November 5, 2014). View Details Valentine, M., and A. C. Edmondson. "Team Scaffolds: How Mesolevel Structures Enable Role-based Coordination in Temporary Groups." Organization Science 26, no. 2 (March–April 2015): 405–422. View Details Schippers, M. C., A. C. Edmondson, and M. A. West. "Team Reflexivity as an Antidote to Team Information Processing Failures." Small Group Research 45, no. 6 (December 2014): 731–769. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Zhike Lei. "Psychological Safety: The History, Renaissance, and Future of an Interpersonal Construct." Annual Review of Organizational Psychology and Organizational Behavior 1 (2014): 23–43. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Hannes Leroy. "Preface." In Leading in Health Care Organizations: Improving Safety, Satisfaction and Financial Performance . Vol. 14, edited by Tony Simons, Hannes Leroy, and Grant T. Savage, xv–xxii. Advances in Health Care Management. Emerald Group Publishing, 2013. View Details Valentine, Melissa A., S. Barsade, Amy C. Edmondson, A. Gal, and R. Rhodes. "Informal Peer Interaction and Practice Type as Predictors of Physician Performance on Maintenance of Certification Examinations." JAMA Surgery 149, no. 6 (June 2014): 597–603. View Details Rashid, Faaiza, Amy C. Edmondson, and Herman B. Leonard. "Leadership Lessons from the Chilean Mine Rescue." Harvard Business Review 91, nos. 7/8 (July–August 2013): 113–119. View Details Valentine, Melissa, Ingrid M. Nembhard, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Measuring Teamwork in Health Care Settings: A Review of Survey Instruments." Medical Care 53, no. 4 (April 2015): e16–e30. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Teamwork on the Fly." Harvard Business Review 90, no. 4 (April 2012). View Details Carmeli, Abraham, Asher Tishler, and Amy C. Edmondson. "CEO Relational Leadership and Strategic Decision Quality in Top Management Teams: The Role of Team Trust and Learning from Failure." Strategic Organization 10, no. 1 (February 2012). View Details Detert, J. R., and Amy C. Edmondson. "Implicit Voice Theories: Taken-for-granted Rules of Self-censorship at Work." Academy of Management Journal 54, no. 3 (June 2011): 461–488. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Strategies for Learning from Failure." Harvard Business Review 89, no. 4 (April 2011). View Details Edmondson, Amy, Tiona Zuzul, and Robert Eccles. " Learning from Sustainable Community Experiments ." Blog: Early Ecocities. Economist: The Ideas Economy (January 10, 2011). View Details Goodman, Paul S., Rangaraj Ramanujam, John S. Carroll, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Organizational Errors: Directions for Future Research." Research in Organizational Behavior 31 (2011): 151–176. View Details Edmondson, A. C., and I. Nembhard. "Product Development and Learning in Project Teams: The Challenges are the Benefits." Journal of Product Innovation Management 26, no. 2 (March 2009): 123–138. View Details Kish Gephart, Jennifer, James R. Detert, Linda K. Trevino, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Silenced by Fear: The Nature, Sources, and Consequences of Fear at Work." Research in Organizational Behavior 29 (2009): 163–193. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "The Competitive Imperative of Learning." HBS Centennial Issue Harvard Business Review 86, nos. 7/8 (July–August 2008): 60–67. View Details Garvin, David A., Amy C. Edmondson, and Francesca Gino. "Is Yours a Learning Organization?" Harvard Business Review 86, no. 3 (March 2008): 109–116. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Sara J. Singer. "Confronting the Tension Between Learning and Performance." Systems Thinker 19, no. 1 (February 2008). View Details Edmondson, Amy C., James R. Dillon, and Kate Roloff. "Three Perspectives on Team Learning: Outcome Improvement, Task Mastery, and Group Process." Academy of Management Annals 1 (2007): 269–314. View Details Edmondson, A. C., and S. E. McManus. "Methodological Fit in Management Field Research." Academy of Management Review 32, no. 4 (October 2007). View Details Tucker, A. L., I. Nembhard, and A. C. Edmondson. " Implementing New Practices: An Empirical Study of Organizational Learning in Hospital Intensive Care Units ." Management Science 53, no. 6 (June 2007): 894–907. View Details Detert, J. R., and A. C. Edmondson. "Why Employees Are Afraid to Speak Up." Harvard Business Review 85, no. 5 (May 2007). View Details Nembhard, Ingrid Marie, and A. Edmondson. " Making It Safe: The Effects of Leader Inclusiveness and Professional Status on Psychological Safety and Improvement Efforts in Health Care Teams ." Special Issue on Healthcare: The problems are organizational not clinical. Journal of Organizational Behavior 27, no. 7 (November 2006): 941–966. (Award for Best Paper in Positive Organizational Scholarship, Ross School of Business, University of Maryland.) View Details Roberto, Michael A., Richard M.J. Bohmer, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Facing Ambiguous Threats." Harvard Business Review 84, no. 11 (November 2006). View Details Edmondson, A. C., and D. M. Smith. "Too Hot to Handle?  How to Manage Relationship Conflict." California Management Review 49, no. 1 (Fall 2006): 6–31. View Details Cha, Sandra, and Amy Edmondson. " How Values Backfire: Leadership, Attribution and Disenchantment in a Values-Driven Organization ." Leadership Quarterly 17, no. 1 (February 2006): 57–78. View Details Cannon, M. D., and A. C. Edmondson. " Failing to Learn and Learning to Fail (Intelligently): How Great Organizations Put Failure to Work to Innovate and Improve ." Long Range Planning 38, no. 3 (June 2005): 299–319. View Details Edmondson, A. C. "Learning from Failure in Health Care: Frequent Opportunities, Pervasive Barriers." Quality & Safety in Health Care 13, no. 6 (December 2004): 3–9. View Details Lee, Fiona, Amy C. Edmondson, Stefan Thomke, and Monica Worline. "The Mixed Effects of Inconsistency on Experimentation in Organizations." Organization Science 15, no. 3 (May–June 2004): 310–326. View Details Tucker, A., and A. Edmondson. "Why Hospitals Don't Learn from Failures: Organizational and Psychological Dynamics That Inhibit System Change." California Management Review 45, no. 2 (Winter 2003). (Winner of Accenture Award For the article published in the California Management Review that has made the most important contribution to improving the practice of management​.) View Details Edmondson, A. "Speaking up in the Operating Room: How Team Leaders Promote Learning in Interdisciplinary Action Teams." Journal of Management Studies 40, no. 6 (September 2003): 1419–1452. View Details Edmondson, A., Michael A. Roberto, and Michael Watkins. " A Dynamic Model of Top Management Team Effectiveness: Managing Unstructured Task Streams ." Leadership Quarterly 14, no. 3 (June 2003): 297–325. View Details Edmondson, Amy, Gary P. Pisano, Richard Bohmer, and Ann Winslow. " Learning How and Learning What: Effects of Tacit and Codified Knowledge on Performance Improvement Following Technology Adoption ." Decision Sciences 34, no. 2 (spring 2003): 197–223. View Details Edmondson, A. "Framing for Learning:  Lessons in Successful Technology Implementation." California Management Review 45, no. 2 (Winter 2003): 34–54. View Details Edmondson, A., and Sandra Cha. "When Values Backfire." Harvard Business Review 80, no. 11 (November 2002). View Details Sole, Deborah, and Amy Edmondson. "Situated Knowledge and Learning in Dispersed Teams." British Journal of Management 13 (September 2002): S17–S34. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "The Local and Variegated Nature of Learning in Organizations: A Group-Level Perspective." Organization Science 13, no. 2 (March–April 2002): 128–146. View Details Carroll, J. S., and A. C. Edmondson. "Leading Organizational Learning in Health Care." Quality & Safety in Health Care 11, no. 1 (March 2002): 51–56. View Details Tucker, Anita L., Amy C. Edmondson, and Steven Spear. "When Problem Solving Prevents Organizational Learning." Journal of Organizational Change Management 15, no. 2 (2002). (Best paper proceedings, Academy of Management Conference, Healthcare Management Division.) View Details Tucker, A. L., and Amy C. Edmondson. "Managing Routine Exceptions:  A Model of Nurse Problem Solving Behavior." Advances in Health Care Management 3 (2002): 87–113. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Richard Bohmer, and Gary P. Pisano. "Disrupted Routines: Team Learning and New Technology Adaptation." Administrative Science Quarterly 46, no. 4 (December 2001): 685–716. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Richard Bohmer, and Gary P. Pisano. "Speeding Up Team Learning." Harvard Business Review 79, no. 9 (October 2001): 125–134. View Details Pisano, Gary P., Richard Bohmer, and Amy C. Edmondson. " Organizational Differences in Rates of Learning: Evidence from the Adoption of Minimally Invasive Cardiac Surgery ." Management Science 47, no. 6 (June 2001): 752. View Details Bohmer, Richard, and A. Edmondson. "Organizational Learning in Health Care." Health Forum Journal (March/April 2001), 32–35. View Details Cannon, M., and A. Edmondson. "Confronting Failure: Antecedents and Consequences of Shared Beliefs About Failure in Organizational Work Groups." Special Issue on Shared Cognition. Journal of Organizational Behavior 22, no. 2 (March 2001). View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Book Review of The Innovation Journey by Van de Ven, Polley, Garud and Venkataraman." Academy of Management Review 25, no. 4 (October 2000). View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Book Review of Theory and Research on Small Groups edited by R. Scott Tindale et al." Administrative Science Quarterly 45, no. 3 (September 2000). View Details Gurwitz, J. H., T. S. Field, J. Avorn, D. McCormick, S. Jain, M. Eckler, M. Benser, A. Edmondson, and D. W. Bates. "Incidence and Preventability of Adverse Drug Events in the Nursing Home Setting." American Journal of Medicine 109, no. 2 (2000): 87–94. View Details Edmondson, A. "Psychological Safety and Learning Behavior in Work Teams." Administrative Science Quarterly 44, no. 4 (December 1999): 350–383. (Outstanding Publication in Organizational Behavior, 2000 by the Academy of Management.) View Details Edmondson, A., and B. Moingeon. "The How and Why of Organizational Learning." Financial Times (February 6, 1998), 14–15. View Details Edmondson, A., and B. Moingeon. "From Organizational Learning to the Learning Organization." Management Learning 29, no. 1 (1998): 5–20. View Details Cullen, D. J., J. Sweitzer, D. W. Bates, E. Burdick, A. Edmondson, and L. L. Leape. "Preventable Adverse Drug Events in Hospitalized Patients: A Comparative Study of Intensive Care and General Care Units." Critical Care Medicine 25, no. 8 (August 1997): 1289–1297. View Details Edmondson, A. "Learning from Mistakes Is Easier Said than Done: Group and Organization Influences on the Detection and Correction of Human Error." Journal of Applied Behavioral Science 32, no. 1 (March 1996): 5–28. View Details Edmondson, A. "Three Faces of Eden: The Persistence of Competing Theories and Multiple Diagnoses in Organizational Intervention Research." Human Relations 49, no. 5 (1996): 571–595. View Details Book Chapters Maben, Jill, Jane Ball, and Amy C. Edmondson. Workplace Conditions . Cambridge Elements, Improving Quality and Safety in Healthcare. Cambridge University Press, 2023. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Tomas Chamorro-Premuzic. "Leadership in Times of Upheaval: The Rise of the Empathic Leader." In Social Scientists Confronting Global Crises , edited by Jean M. Bartunek. Abingdon, UK: Routledge, 2021. View Details Schippers, Michaéla, Amy C. Edmondson, and Michael A. West. "Team Reflexivity." In The Oxford Handbook of Group and Organizational Learning , edited by Linda Argote and John M. Levine. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2020. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Paul Verdin. "The Strategic Imperative of Psychological Safety and Organizational Error Management." In How Could this Happen? Managing Errors in Organizations , edited by Jan U. Hagen. Palgrave Macmillan, 2018. View Details Fried, Bruce J., and Amy C. Edmondson. "Teams and Team Effectiveness in Health Services Organizations." Chap. 5  in Shortell & Kaluzny's Health Care Management: Organization Design and Behavior . 7th ed., edited by Lawton Robert Burns, Elizabeth H. Bradley, and Bryan Jeffrey Weiner, 98–131. Boston, MA: Cengage Learning, 2019. View Details Schippers, Michaela C., Michael A. West, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Team Reflexivity and Innovation." In The Wiley Blackwell Handbook of the Psychology of Team Working and Collaborative Processes , edited by Eduardo Salas, Ramon Rico, and Jonathan Passmore, 459–478. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley-Blackwell, 2017. View Details Zuzul, Tiona, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Teaming Routines in Complex Innovation Projects." In Organizational Routines: How They Are Created, Maintained, and Changed . Vol. 5, edited by Jennifer Howard-Grenville, Claus Rerup, Ann Langly, and Haridimos Tsoukas. Perspectives on Process Organization Studies. Oxford University Press, 2016. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Psychological Safety." In Contemporary Organizational Behavior: From Ideas to Action , by Kimberly D. Elsbach, Anna Kayes, and D. Chris Kayes. Pearson Prentice Hall, 2015. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Martine Haas, John D. Macomber, and Tiona Zuzul. "The Role of Multiplier Firms and Megaprojects in Leading Change for Sustainability." Chap. 11  in Leading Sustainable Change: An Organizational Perspective , edited by Rebecca Henderson, Ranjay Gulati, and Michael Tushman. Oxford University Press, 2015. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Tiona Zuzul. "Quantitative and Qualitative Methods in Organizational Research." In The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Strategic Management . Continuously updated edition, edited by Mie Augier and David J. Teece. Palgrave Macmillan, 2017. Electronic. (Pre-published, October 2013.) View Details Roloff, Kathryn S., Anita W. Woolley, and Amy C. Edmondson. " The Contribution of Teams to Organizational Learning ." In Handbook of Organizational Learning and Knowledge Management . 2nd ed. Edited by M. Easterby-Smith and M. Lyles, 249–272. London: John Wiley & Sons, 2011. View Details Herron, Jock, Amy C. Edmondson, and Robert G. Eccles. "Beyond Platinum: Making the Case for Titanium Buildings." Chap. 4  in Constructing Green: The Social Structures of Sustainability , by Rebecca L. Henn and Andrew J. Hoffman, 77–100. MIT Press, 2013. View Details Cannon, Mark D., and Amy C. Edmondson. "Learning from Failure." In Encyclopedia of the Sciences of Learning , edited by Norbert M. Seel, 1859–1863. New York: Springer, 2012. View Details Rashid, Faaiza, and Amy Edmondson. " Risky Trust: How Multi-entity Teams Develop Trust in High Risk Endeavors ." Chap. 6  in Restoring Trust in Organizations and Leaders: Enduring Challenges and Emerging Answers , edited by Roderick Kramer and Todd Lowell Pittinsky, 129–150. Oxford University Press, 2012. View Details Eccles, Robert G., Annissa Alusi, Amy C. Edmondson, and Tiona Zuzul. "Sustainable Cities: Oxymoron or the Shape of the Future?" Chap. 18  in Infrastructure Sustainability and Design , edited by Spiro Pollalis, Andreas Georgoulias, Stephen Ramos, and Daniel Schodek, 247–265. New York: Routledge, 2012. View Details Nembhard, Ingrid M., and Amy C. Edmondson. "Psychological Safety: A Foundation for Speaking Up, Collaboration, and Experimentation." In The Oxford Handbook of Positive Organizational Scholarship , edited by Kim S. Cameron and Gretchen M. Spreitzer. Oxford University Press, 2011. View Details MacPhail, Lucy H., and Amy C. Edmondson. "The Importance of Work Context in Organizational Learning from Error." In Errors in Organizations , edited by D. Hoffman and M. Frese. Routledge, 2011. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Crossing Boundaries to Investigate Problems in the Field: An Approach to Useful Research." In Useful Research: Advancing Theory and Practice , edited by Susan Albers Mohrman and Edward E. Lawler III. Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2011. View Details Fried, Bruce J., Sharon Topping, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Teams and Team Effectiveness in Health Services Organizations." In Shortell and Kaluzny's Health Care Management: Organization Design and Behavior . 6th ed., edited by Lawton Burnes, Elizabeth Bradley, and Bryan Weiner. Clifton Park, NY: Delmar Cengage Learning, 2011. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Kate Roloff, and Lucy H. MacPhail. "Collaboration Across Knowledge Boundaries within Diverse Teams: Reciprocal Expertise Affirmation as an Enabling Condition." In Exploring Positive Identities and Organizations: Building a Theoretical and Research Foundation , edited by Laura M. Roberts and Jane E. Dutton, 311–332. Psychology Press, 2009. View Details Edmondson, A., and Kate Roloff. "Overcoming Barriers to Collaboration: Psychological Safety and Learning in Diverse Teams." In Team Effectiveness in Complex Organizations: Cross-disciplinary Perspectives and Approaches , edited by E. Sales, G. G. Goodwin, and C. S. Burke.Organizational Frontiers Series. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 2008. View Details Singer, Sara Jean, and A. C. Edmondson. "When Learning and Performance Are at Odds: Confronting the Tension." In Learning and Performance Matter , edited by Prem Kumar and Phil Ramsey. Singapore: World Scientific, 2008. View Details Edmondson, A. C. "Psychological Safety." In International Encyclopedia of Organization Studies , edited by Stewart R. Clegg and James R. Bailey. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 2007. View Details Hackman, J. Richard, and A. C. Edmondson. "Groups as Agents of Change." In Handbook of Organization Development , edited by Thomas G. Cummings. Los Angeles: SAGE Publications, 2007. View Details Edmondson, A., and Josephine Pichanick Mogelof. "Explaining Psychological Safety in Innovation Teams." In Creativity and Innovation in Organizational Teams , edited by L. Thompson and H. Choi, 109–136. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 2005. View Details Edmondson, A., Erika Ferlins, Laura Feldman, and Richard Bohmer. "The Recovery Window: Organizational Learning Following Ambiguous Threats." In Organization at the Limit: Lessons from the Columbia Disaster , edited by M. Farjoun and W. Starbuck, 220–245. Blackwell Publishing, 2005. View Details Fried, Bruce M., Sharon Topping, and A. Edmondson. "Groups and Teams." In Health Care Management: Organization Design and Behavior , edited by S. Shortell and A. Kaluzny. Albany, NY: Delmar Publishers, 1994. View Details Edmondson, A., and J. R. Detert. "The Role of Speaking Up in Work Life Balancing." In Work and Life Integration , edited by E. Kossek and S. Lambert. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 2004. View Details Edmondson, A. "Psychological Safety, Trust and Learning: A Group-level Lens." In Trust and Distrust in Organizations: Dilemmas and Approaches , edited by Roderick Kramer and Karen Cook, 239–272. New York: Russell Sage Foundation, 2004. View Details Bohmer, Richard M.J., Amy C. Edmondson, and Gary P. Pisano. "Consumer-Driven Health Care: Management Matters." Chap. 52  in Consumer-Driven Health Care , edited by Regina E. Herzlinger, 570–588. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2004. View Details Lee, F., A Caza, A. Edmondson, and S. Thomke. "New Knowledge Creation: A Study in Positive Organizing." In Positive Organizational Scholarship , edited by K. S. Cameron, J. E. Dutton, and R. E. Quinn. Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2003. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Anita Williams Woolley. "Understanding Outcomes of Organizational Learning Interventions." Chap. 10  in Blackwell Handbook of Organizational Learning and Knowledge Management , edited by M. Easterby-Smith and M. Lyles, 185–211. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing, 2003. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Managing the Risk of Learning:  Psychological Safety in Work Teams." In International Handbook of Organizational Teamwork , edited by M. West. London: Blackwell Publishing, 2003. View Details Sole, D., and A. Edmondson. "Bridging Knowledge Gaps: Learning in Geographically Dispersed Cross-Functional Development Teams." In The Strategic Management of Intellectual Capital and Organizational Knowledge: A Collection of Readings , edited by C. W. Choo and N. Bontis. New York: Oxford University Press, 2002. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Richard Bohmer, and Gary Pisano. " Learning New Technical and Interpersonal Routines in Operating Room Teams: The Case of Minimally Invasive Cardiac Surgery ." In Research on Managing Groups and Teams: Technology . Vol. 3, edited by B. Mannix, M. Neale, and T. Grifith, 29–51. Stamford: JAI Press, 2000. View Details Edmondson, A. "A Safe Harbor: Social Psychological Factors Effecting Boundary Spanning in Work Teams." In Research on Groups and Teams , edited by B. Mannix, M. Neale, and R. Wageman, 179–200. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press, 1999. View Details Edmondson, A., and B. Moingeon. "Learning, Trust and Organizational Change: Contrasting Models of Intervention Research in Organizational Behavior." In Organizational Learning and the Learning Organization: Developments in Theory and Practice , edited by L. Araujo, J. Burgoyne, and M. Easterby-Smith. London: Sage Publications, 1999. View Details Moingeon, B., and A. Edmondson. " Trust and Organizational Learning ." In Trust, Learning and Economic Expectations , edited by N. Lazaric and E. Lorenz, 247–84. London: Edward Elgar Publishing, 1998. View Details Leonard, Dorothy A., P. A. Brands, Amy Edmondson, and Justine Fenwick. "Virtual Teams: Using Communications Technology to Manage Geographically Dispersed Development Groups." In Sense and Respond: Capturing Value in the Network Era , edited by Stephen P. Bradley and Richard L. Nolan, 285–98. Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 1998. View Details Edmondson, A. "Learning from Mistakes Is Easier Said than Done: Group and Organization Influences on the Detection and Correction of Human Error." In Organizational Psychology , edited by D. Kolb, I. Rubin, and J. McIntyre. Englewood Cliffs: Prentice Hall, 1979. View Details Moingeon, B., B. Ramanantsoa, and A. Edmondson. "Confiance et Recherche-intervention." In Pour une Nouvelle Approche du Management Public: Reflexions Autour du Michel Crozier , edited by M. Finger and B. Ruchat, 131–151. Paris: Éditions Seli Arslan, 1997. View Details Edmondson, A., and B. Moingeon. "When to Learn How and When to Learn Why: Appropriate Organizational Learning Processes as a Source of Competitive Advantage." In Organizational Learning and Competitive Advantage , by B. Moingeon and A. Edmondson. London: Sage Publications, 1996. View Details Edmondson, A., and B. Moingeon. "The Learning Organization: An Integrative Approach." In Business Research Yearbook: Global Business Perspectives . Vol. 2, edited by A. F. Alkhafaji. University Press of America, Inc., 1995. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Notes on Edgar Schein." In The Fifth Discipline Fieldbook: Strategies and Tools for Building a Learning Organization , edited by P. Senge, R. Ross, B. Smith, C. Roberts, and A. Kleiner, 267–268. New York: Doubleday, 1994. View Details Edmondson, A., and S. Janger. "Business in Transformation." In Creative Work , edited by W. Harman and J. Horman. Indianapolis: Knowledge Systems, 1990. View Details Working Papers Bresman, Henrik, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Exploring the Relationship between Team Diversity, Psychological Safety and Team Performance: Evidence from Pharmaceutical Drug Development." Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 22-055, February 2022. View Details Harvey, Jean-François, Henrik Bresman, Amy C. Edmondson, and Gary P. Pisano. "Team Learning and Superior Firm Performance: A Meso-Level Perspective on Dynamic Capabilities." Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 19-059, December 2018. (Revised January 2020.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Jean-François Harvey. "Cross-Boundary Teaming for Innovation: Integrating Research on Teams and Knowledge in Organizations." Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 17-013, August 2016. (Revised February 2017.) View Details Valentine, Melissa A., Tom Fangyun Tan, Bradley R. Staats, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Inequality in Knowledge Repository Use in Scaling Service Operations." Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 13-001, July 2012. (Revised August 2017.) View Details Valentine, Melissa A., and Amy C. Edmondson. "Team Scaffolds: How Meso-Level Structures Support Role-based Coordination in Temporary Groups." Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 12-062, January 2012. (Revised June 2014.) View Details Rashid, Faaiza, and Amy C. Edmondson. " Risky Trust: How Multi-entity Teams Develop Trust in a High Risk Endeavor. " Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 11-089, February 2011. View Details Alusi, Annissa, Robert G. Eccles, Amy C. Edmondson, and Tiona Zuzul. " Sustainable Cities: Oxymoron or the Shape of the Future? " Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 11-062, December 2010. (Revised January 2011, March 2011, April 2011.) View Details Staats, Bradley R., Melissa Valentine, and Amy C. Edmondson. " Performance Tradeoffs in Team Knowledge Sourcing. " Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 11-031, September 2010. (Revised December 2010, May 2011, and October 2011.) View Details Cases and Teaching Materials Edmondson, Amy C., Richard M. Bohmer, and Michael A. Roberto. "Columbia's Final Mission (B)." Harvard Business School Multimedia/Video Supplement 325-703, April 2025. View Details Edmondson, Amy, Mark Mortensen, and Elisabeth Powell. "Reimagining the Employee Experience at the LEGO Group." Harvard Business School Case 625-088, January 2025. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Jerome Barthelemy. "Fire at Notre Dame de Paris." Harvard Business School Case 625-060, November 2024. (Revised January 2025.) View Details Edmondson, Amy, and Cat Huang. "Leading Culture Change at SEB." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 625-023, September 2024. (Revised January 2025.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Catherine Huang. "Leading Culture Change at Microsoft Western Europe." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 624-103, July 2024. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Cat Huang. "Leading Culture Change at Microsoft Western Europe." Harvard Business School Case 624-096, May 2024. (Revised May 2024.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Michael Roberto. "Executive Decision-Making at Zola." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 623-033, November 2022. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Herman B. Leonard, Michael W. Toffel, and Michael Norris. "Building a Mishap-Free U.S. Navy." Harvard Business School Case 622-116, July 2022. (Revised November 2022.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Michael Roberto. "Executive Decision-Making at Zola." Harvard Business School Case 622-074, May 2022. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Claudia Pienica. "Leading The UK Vaccine Task Force." Harvard Business School Case 622-079, February 2022. View Details Eccles, Robert G., Amy C. Edmondson, George Serafeim, and Sarah E. Farrell. "Intel: Exploring Market Opportunities in Water." Harvard Business School Case 412-100, January 2012. (Revised April 2012.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Responsive Working at PepsiCo UK (A), (B), and (C)." Harvard Business School Teaching Plan 622-047, November 2021. (Revised November 2021.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Olivia Jung. "The Turnaround at Ford Motor Company." Harvard Business School Case 621-101, April 2021. (Revised August 2024.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Elena Corsi. "Leading Culture Change at SEB." Harvard Business School Case 621-074, February 2021. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Nancy Boghossian Staples. "Responsive Working at PepsiCo UK (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 625-101, December 2020. (Revised October 2021.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Nancy Boghossian Staples. "Responsive Working at PepsiCo UK (A): Designing a Turnaround." Harvard Business School Case 621-076, December 2020. (Revised March 2025.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Michaela J. Kerrissey. "Enabling Teamwork at the Cleveland Clinic." Harvard Business School Case 621-040, September 2020. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Joshua Raymond. "Cockpit Dynamics in Air France 447 and United 232." Harvard Business School Case 620-127, April 2020. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Jean-François Harvey. "Open Innovation at Fujitsu (C)." Harvard Business School Supplement 620-126, April 2020. View Details Edmondson, Amy, Ranjay Gulati, and Rachna Tahilyani. "Teaming Up to Win the Rail Deal at GE (A)." Harvard Business School Case 420-058, September 2019. View Details Edmondson, Amy, Ranjay Gulati, and Rachna Tahilyani. "Teaming Up to Win the Rail Deal at GE (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 420-059, September 2019. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Ranjay Gulati, Patrick J. Healy, and Kerry Herman. "The Genesis Lab at Novartis." Harvard Business School Case 620-007, November 2019. View Details Fuller, Joseph B., Amy C. Edmondson, Daniela Beyersdorfer, and Tonia Labruyere. "Corporate Transformation at Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany." Harvard Business School Case 319-072, December 2018. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Jean-François Harvey, and Johnathan R. Cromwell. "Leading Open Innovation at BT." Harvard Business School Case 619-013, July 2018. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Community Values and Learning Culture Agreement Supplement." Harvard Business School PowerPoint Supplement 617-706, April 2017. View Details Ramarajan, Lakshmi, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Traversing a Career Path: Pat Fili-Krushel-Video Supplement." Harvard Business School Multimedia/Video Supplement 417-709, February 2017. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., David Ager, and Emily Harburg. "Teaming at Disney Animation." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 617-036, January 2017. View Details Ramarajan, Lakshmi, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Carla Ann Harris at Morgan Stanley." Harvard Business School Multimedia/Video Supplement 417-706, November 2016. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Bertrand Moingeon, Guo Bai, and Jean-François Harvey. "Building Smart Neighborhoods at Bouygues." Harvard Business School Case 617-007, August 2016. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Emer Moloney. "Sustainability at Siemens." Harvard Business School Teaching Plan 516-118, May 2016. (Revised August 2016.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Jean-François Harvey. "Haiti Hope: Innovating the Mango Value Chain." Harvard Business School Case 616-040, January 2016. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Jean-François Harvey. "Open Innovation at Fujitsu (A)." Harvard Business School Case 616-034, January 2016. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Jean-François Harvey. "Open Innovation at Fujitsu (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 616-035, January 2016. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Erin L. Henry, Andreas Georgoulias, and Natalie Bartlett. "Building Strong Partnerships at the Inter-American Development Bank." Harvard Business School Case 616-004, July 2015. (Revised October 2015.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Ashley-Kay Fryer, and Morten T. Hansen. "Transforming Care at UnityPoint Health – Fort Dodge." Harvard Business School Case 615-052, March 2015. View Details Rangan, V. Kasturi, Amy C. Edmondson, Daniela Beyersdorfer, and Emer Moloney. "Sustainability at Siemens." Harvard Business School Case 514-026, August 2013. (Revised January 2016.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Bethany S. Gerstein, and Melissa Valentine. "Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (A)." Harvard Business School Case 614-063, April 2014. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Bethany Gerstein, and Melissa Valentine. "Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 614-083, June 2014. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., David L. Ager, Emily Harburg, and Natalie Bartlett. "Teaming at Disney Animation." Harvard Business School Case 615-023, August 2014. (Revised May 2015.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Annelena Lobb. "Arup: Building the Water Cube." Harvard Business School Teaching Plan 614-082, June 2014. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Barbara Larson. "The Deep: Entrepreneurship in the Public Sector (A) and (B)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 614-071, June 2014. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Barbara Zepp Larson. "The Deep: Entrepreneurship in the Public Sector (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 614-055, February 2014. (Revised October 2014.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Barbara Zepp Larson. "The Deep: Entrepreneurship in the Public Sector (A)." Harvard Business School Case 614-054, February 2014. (Revised October 2014.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Danone – Networking Attitude." Harvard Business School Video Supplement 614-702, November 2013. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Kerry Herman. " The 2010 Chilean Mining Rescue (A) & (B). " Harvard Business School Teaching Plan 613-012, May 2013. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Jeremy Tachau. "'Argo': The CIA's Mission Impossible in Iran." Harvard Business School Case 613-087, April 2013. (Revised August 2016.) View Details Eccles, Robert G., Amy C. Edmondson, and James Weber. "Addleshaw Goddard LLP (Abridged)." Harvard Business School Case 413-064, September 2012. (Revised December 2012.) View Details Eccles, Robert G., Amy C. Edmondson, John Macomber, and Ryan Johnson. " Living PlanIT (TP) . " Harvard Business School Teaching Plan 413-039, August 2012. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Sydney Ribot, and Mary Saunders. "Building Innovation at Terrapin Bright Green." Harvard Business School Case 613-053, March 2013. (Revised May 2013.) View Details Tucker, Anita, and Amy Edmondson. "Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Video Supplement 2012." Harvard Business School Video Supplement 613-710, February 2013. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Sydney Ribot, and Tiona Zuzul. "Designing a Culture of Collaboration at Lake Nona Medical City." Harvard Business School Case 613-022, October 2012. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and David Lane. "Global Knowledge Management at Danone (A) (Abridged)." Harvard Business School Case 613-003, July 2012. (Revised August 2012.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Kerry Herman. "Columbia's Final Mission (Abridged) (B) ." Harvard Business School Supplement 612-096, May 2012. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Kerry Herman. "Columbia's Final Mission (Abridged)  (A)." Harvard Business School Case 612-095, May 2012. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Faaiza Rashid, and Herman B. "Dutch" Leonard. "The 2010 Chilean Mining Rescue (A)." Harvard Business School Case 612-046, November 2011. (Revised October 2014.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Natalie Kindred. "Global Knowledge Management at Danone (TN) (A), (B) and (C)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 610-076, May 2010. (Revised April 2012.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Ruth Dittrich, and Daniela Beyersdorfer. "Global Knowledge Management at Danone (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 611-079, May 2011. (Revised March 2012.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Ruth Dittrich, and Daniela Beyersdorfer. "Global Knowledge Management at Danone (C)." Harvard Business School Supplement 611-080, May 2011. (Revised March 2012.) View Details Eccles, Robert G., Amy C. Edmondson, George Serafeim, and Sarah E. Farrell. "A Note on Water." Harvard Business School Background Note 412-050, August 2011. (Revised February 2012.) View Details Edmondson, Amy, Faaiza Rashid, and Herman B. "Dutch" Leonard. "The 2010 Chilean Mining Rescue (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 612-047, November 2011. (Revised October 2014.) View Details Roberto, Michael, Richard M.J. Bohmer, Amy C. Edmondson, and Erika Ferlins. "Columbia's Final Mission: A Multimedia Case." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 305-033, June 2005. (Revised May 2018.) View Details Eccles, Robert G., Amy C. Edmondson, Marco Iansiti, and Akiko Kanno. "Ricoh Company, Ltd." Harvard Business School Case 610-053, February 2010. (Revised December 2011.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Bertrand Moingeon, Vincent Marie Dessain, and Ane Damgaard Jensen. "Global Knowledge Management at Danone (A)." Harvard Business School Case 608-107, December 2007. (Revised September 2011.) View Details Tucker, Anita L., and Amy C. Edmondson. "Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center." Harvard Business School Case 609-109, June 2009. (Revised April 2011.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Robert G. Eccles, and Mona Sinha. "Mistry Architects (A)." Harvard Business School Case 609-044, February 2009. (Revised April 2011.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Robert G. Eccles, and Mona Sinha. "Mistry Architects (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 609-064, February 2009. (Revised April 2011.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Robert G. Eccles, and Mona Sinha. "Mistry Architects (C)." Harvard Business School Supplement 609-086, February 2009. (Revised April 2011.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Laura Feldman. "Group Process in the Challenger Launch Decision (A), (B), (C), and (D) (TN)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 604-032, September 2003. (Revised April 2011.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Faaiza Rashid. "Integrated Project Delivery at Autodesk, Inc. (A)." Harvard Business School Case 610-016, September 2009. (Revised April 2011.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Faaiza Rashid. "Integrated Project Delivery at Autodesk, Inc. (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 610-017, September 2009. (Revised April 2011.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Faaiza Rashid. "Integrated Project Delivery at Autodesk, Inc. (C)." Harvard Business School Supplement 610-018, September 2009. (Revised April 2011.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Bradley R. Staats, and Melissa Valentine. "Program Management at Wipro Technologies." Harvard Business School Case 611-052, January 2011. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Turnaround at the VHA (TN) (A) & (B)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 608-176, June 2008. (Revised December 2010.) View Details Eccles, Robert G., Amy C. Edmondson, and Yi Kwan Chu. "Talent Recruitment at frog design Shanghai." Harvard Business School Case 411-040, December 2010. (Revised November 2013.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Faaiza Rashid. "Integrated Project Delivery at Autodesk, Inc. Case Series (TN)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 611-030, September 2010. View Details Eccles, Robert G., Amy C. Edmondson, and Abhijit Prabhu. "The Greening of DUMBO." Harvard Business School Case 410-079, March 2010. (Revised June 2010.) View Details Eccles, Robert G., Amy C. Edmondson, and Dilyana Karadzhova. "Arup: Building the Water Cube." Harvard Business School Case 410-054, February 2010. (Revised June 2010.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Tiziana E. Casciaro. "Leading Change at Simmons (TN) Case Series." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 607-144, May 2007. (Revised May 2010.) View Details Bohmer, Richard M.J., Amy C. Edmondson, Michael Roberto, Laura Feldman, and Erika Ferlins. "Columbia's Final Mission." Harvard Business School Case 304-090, April 2004. (Revised May 2010.) View Details Eccles, Robert G., Amy C. Edmondson, Susan Thyne, and Tiona Zuzul. "Living PlanIT." Harvard Business School Case 410-081, February 2010. (Revised November 2013.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Susan Thyne. "Leading Change at Simmons (E)." Harvard Business School Supplement 610-061, February 2010. (Revised March 2010.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Charlie Eitel, CEO, Simmons - 2003." Harvard Business School Video Supplement 610-703, October 2009. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Charlie Eitel, CEO, Simmons - 2008." Harvard Business School Video Supplement 610-705, October 2009. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Tiziana E. Casciaro. "Leading Change at Simmons (C)." Harvard Business School Supplement 408-062, September 2007. (Revised May 2009.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Tiziana E. Casciaro, and Kate Roloff. "Leading Change at Simmons (D)." Harvard Business School Supplement 408-063, September 2007. (Revised May 2009.) View Details Roberto, Michael, Amy C. Edmondson, Richard M.J. Bohmer, Laura Feldman, and Erika Ferlins. "Columbia's Final Mission." Harvard Business School Multimedia/Video Case 305-032, March 2005. (Revised May 2009.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Ann Cullen. "Information Use by Managers in Decision Making: A Team Exercise." Harvard Business School Exercise 609-027, July 2008. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Ann Cullen. "Information Use by Managers in Decision Making: A Team Exercise (TN)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 609-028, August 2008. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Michael Roberto, and Laura Feldman. "Children's Hospital and Clinics (TN)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 303-071, June 2003. (Revised August 2008.) View Details Frei, Frances X., and Amy C. Edmondson. "YUM! Brands, Inc: A Corporate Do-Over (TN)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 606-108, April 2006. (Revised April 2008.) View Details Frei, Frances X., and Amy C. Edmondson. "Verizon: The Introduction of DSL (TN)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 608-056, September 2007. (Revised April 2008.) View Details Frei, Frances X., and Amy C. Edmondson. "Transformation at the IRS (TN)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 608-057, January 2008. (Revised April 2008.) View Details Frei, Frances X., Amy C. Edmondson, and Christine Harris-Van Keuren. "Cleveland Clinic (TN)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 608-124, March 2008. (Revised April 2008.) View Details Edmondson, Amy, and Barbara Larson. "The BCPC Internet Strategy Team: An Exercise." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 608-140, February 2008. (Revised February 2017.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Mitchells/Richards (TN)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 608-090, February 2008. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Brian R. Golden. "Turnaround at the Veterans Health Administration (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 608-062, August 2007. (Revised January 2008.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Brian R. Golden, and Gary J. Young. "Turnaround at the Veterans Health Administration (A)." Harvard Business School Case 608-061, July 2007. (Revised January 2008.) View Details Roberto, Michael A., and Amy C. Edmondson. "Everest Leadership and Team Simulation." Simulation and Teaching Note. Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2008. Electronic. (Product number 2650.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Ingrid M. Nembhard, and Kate Roloff. "Children's Hospital and Clinics (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 608-073, September 2007. (Revised October 2007.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Charlotte Pride: Simmons Bedding Company (DVD)." Harvard Business School Video Supplement 608-701, October 2007. View Details Frei, Frances X., Amy C. Edmondson, Christine van Keuren, and Eliot Sherman. "Cleveland Clinic." Harvard Business School Case 607-143, May 2007. (Revised September 2007.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Michael Roberto, and Anita L. Tucker. "Children's Hospital and Clinics (A)." Harvard Business School Case 302-050, November 2001. (Revised September 2007.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., John A. Davis, Corey B. Hajim, and Kelly Mulderry. "The Mitchell Family and Mitchells/Richards." Harvard Business School Case 605-047, November 2004. (Revised September 2007.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Kathryn S. Roloff. "Phase Zero: Introducing New Services at IDEO (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 606-123, June 2006. (Revised March 2013.) View Details Casciaro, Tiziana E., Amy C. Edmondson, Stacy McManus, and Kate Roloff. "Leading Change at Simmons (A)." Harvard Business School Case 406-046, November 2005. (Revised May 2007.) View Details Casciaro, Tiziana E., Amy C. Edmondson, Stacy McManus, and Kate Roloff. "Leading Change at Simmons (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 406-047, November 2005. (Revised May 2007.) View Details Frei, Frances X., Amy C. Edmondson, and Corey B. Hajim. "Dell Computers (A): Field Service for Corporate Clients." Harvard Business School Case 603-067, October 2002. (Revised April 2007.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Corey B. Hajim. "Safe to Say at Prudential Financial." Harvard Business School Case 603-093, February 2003. (Revised March 2007.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Phase Zero: Introducing New Services at IDEO (TN) (A) and (B)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 607-063, February 2007. (Revised April 2013.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Victoria Winston. "Dansko, Inc." Harvard Business School Case 606-071, April 2006. (Revised October 2006.) View Details Bohmer, Richard M.J., Amy C. Edmondson, and Laura Feldman. "Intermountain Health Care." Harvard Business School Case 603-066, October 2002. (Revised March 2013.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Laura Feldman. "Phase Zero: Introducing New Services at IDEO (A)." Harvard Business School Case 605-069, February 2005. (Revised March 2013.) View Details Frei, Frances X., and Amy C. Edmondson. "Influencing Customer Behavior in Service Operations." Harvard Business School Background Note 606-061, March 2006. View Details Frei, Frances X., Amy C. Edmondson, James Weber, and Eliot Sherman. "Yum! Brands, Inc: A Corporate Do-Over." Harvard Business School Case 606-041, September 2005. (Revised January 2006.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Hanna Rodriguez-Farrar. "Ninth House: e-Learning Software (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 605-063, March 2005. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Stacy McManus. "A Note on Methodological Fit in Management Field Research." Harvard Business School Background Note 604-072, January 2004. (Revised February 2005.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Michael A. Roberto, and Richard M.J. Bohmer. " Organizational Learning in the Face of Ambiguous Threats. " Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing Class Lecture, 2005. Electronic. (Faculty Lecture: HBSP Product Number 9297C.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Safe to Say at Prudential Financial (TN)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 604-021, September 2003. (Revised March 2004.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Kristin Lieb. "Richmond Events." Harvard Business School Case 604-055, November 2003. (Revised February 2004.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "Large-scale Change at the WSSC (TN)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 604-078, January 2004. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Hanna Rodriguez-Farrar. "Electric Maze Exercise, The." Harvard Business School Exercise 604-046, October 2003. (Revised January 2004.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Frances X. Frei, and Corey B. Hajim. "Ninth House: e-Learning Software." Harvard Business School Case 601-047, January 2001. (Revised January 2004.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Laura Feldman. "Group Process in the Challenger Launch Decision (B)." Harvard Business School Supplement 603-070, October 2002. (Revised May 2021.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Laura Feldman. "Group Process in the Challenger Launch Decision (C)." Harvard Business School Supplement 603-072, October 2002. (Revised December 2003.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Laura Feldman. "Group Process in the Challenger Launch Decision (D)." Harvard Business School Supplement 603-073, October 2002. (Revised December 2003.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Corey B. Hajim. "Mitchells/Richards." Harvard Business School Case 604-010, July 2003. (Revised December 2003.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C. " Organizing to Learn Module Note. " Harvard Business School Module Note 604-031, October 2003. (Revised November 2003.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Hanna Rodriguez-Farrar. "Electric Maze Exercise, The (TN)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 604-020, October 2003. (Revised October 2003.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Laura Feldman. "The BCPC Internet Strategy Team: An Exercise." Harvard Business School Exercise 604-035, October 2003. (Revised January 2016.) (Six supplements available for Chris Berkowitz , Dana Jones , Jan Trow , Kim Wilson , Leslie Rhee , and Terry Maneri .) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Michael Roberto. "Children's Hospital and Clinics." Harvard Business School Video Supplement 304-802, August 2003. View Details View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Corey B. Hajim. "Large Scale Change at The WSSC." Harvard Business School Case 603-056, February 2003. (Revised March 2003.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Frances X. Frei, and Corey B. Hajim. "Transformation at the IRS." Harvard Business School Case 603-010, September 2002. (Revised November 2002.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Laura Feldman. "Group Process in the Challenger Launch Decision (A)." Harvard Business School Case 603-068, October 2002. (Revised May 2021.) View Details Bohmer, Richard M.J., Amy C. Edmondson, and Laura Feldman. "Catalyst Medical Solutions (TN)." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 602-032, November 2001. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Richard M.J. Bohmer, and Naomi Atkins. "Catalyst Medical Solutions." Harvard Business School Case 601-014, July 2000. (Revised November 2001.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Naomi Atkins. "GM Powertrain  TN." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 601-036, July 2000. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., and Mikelle Eastley. "GM Powertrain." Harvard Business School Case 698-008, June 1998. (Revised April 2000.) View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Richard M.J. Bohmer, and Emily Heaphy. "Patient Care Delivery Model at the Massachusetts General Hospital, The  TN." Harvard Business School Teaching Note 600-083, April 2000. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Richard M.J. Bohmer, and Emily Heaphy. "Patient Care Delivery Model at the Massachusetts General Hospital, The." Harvard Business School Case 699-154, March 1999. (Revised February 2000.) View Details Presentations Edmondson, Amy C. "How to Lead in a Crisis." In The Way We Work Series. TED Talks, October 2020. View Details Edmondson, Amy C. "The Impact of Covid-19 on Psychological Safety in the Workplace (Interview)." HSTalks Business and Management Collection (April 23, 2020). View Details "The Psychological Safety Imperative." HSTalks: The Business & Management Collection, Henry Stewart Talks Ltd., April 30, 2020. View Details Edmondson, Amy C., Ann Winslow, Richard Bohmer, and Gary P. Pisano. "Different Patterns of Performance improvement for explicit and tacit knowledge: An empirical test." . View Details Dillon, James R., Shikhar Sarin, and Amy C. Edmondson. "Antecedents of Boundary Spanning in Cross-functional NPD Teams." Paper presented at the Product Development and Management Association Annual Global Conference on Product Innovation Management, Orlando, FL, September 2007. View Details Edmondson, A. "Methodological Fit in Management Research." Kurt Lewin Instituut, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, May 1, 2003. View Details Edmondson, A. "How Leaders Promote Learning in Interdisciplinary Action Teams." Vrije Universiteit te Amsterdam, Department of Work, Organization and Psychology, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, May 1, 2003. View Details Edmondson, A. "Methodological Fit in Organizational Field Research: A Framework." Paper presented at the MIT Organization Studies Seminar, December 01, 2002. View Details Other Publications and Materials "The Fearless ICU." Critical Matters (podcast), Sound Physicians, February 24, 2022. View Details "How to Let Go of Perfectionism." Well Balanced (podcast), March 7, 2022. (Season 1, Episode 18.) View Details "Amy Edmondson, Professor Leadership & Management at Harvard." Leadership Bites (podcast), October 4, 2021. View Details "Amy Edmondson." Episode 78. Play to Potential (podcast), September 2, 2021. View Details "Amy Edmondson on How to Create a Psychologically-Safe Workplace and What to Do If You Don't Work in One." Episode 430. Carey Nieuwhof Leadership Podcast, July 27, 2021. View Details "How to Build Psychological Safety in Your Workplace with The Fearless Organization Author, Amy C. Edmondson." Episode 169. The Melting Pot (podcast), November 9, 2021. View Details "The Secret to Building a Higher-Performing Company—Amy Edmondson." Selling with Love (podcast), July 15, 2021. (Formerly Superhumans at Work.) View Details "LeadershipLIVE™—Dr. Amy Edmondson." LeadershipNOW (podcast), July 12, 2021. View Details "Matthew Barzun and Amy Edmondson." Great Podversations (podcast), July 9, 2021. View Details "Amy Edmondson: Are You Missing One of Your Most Important Jobs as a Manager?" Episode 18. The Breakdown with Chris Clearfield (podcast), February 18, 2021. View Details "Harvard Business School: How to Build Fearless Organizations." No. 51. Scaling Culture (podcast), June 16, 2021. View Details "Psychological Safety and Fearless Organisations." Episode 112. Corporate Unplugged (podcast), December 28, 2020. View Details "How to Build Psychological Safety, with Amy Edmondson." Episode 404. Coaching for Leaders (podcast), April 14, 2019. View Details "Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace." HBR IdeaCast (podcast), Harvard Business Review Group, January 22, 2019. View Details "Encore Teams That Succeed with Amy Edmondson." Out of the Comfort Zone (podcast), VoiceAmerica Talk Radio Network, January 1, 2021. View Details Research Summary Overview My research examines psychological safety and cross-boundary teaming within and between organizations. I am particularly interested in how leaders enable the learning and collaboration that are vital to performance in a dynamic environment. In one stream of my research, I study collaboration among diverse experts to solve challenging problems in cities. In this stream, teaming across industry boundaries is increasingly important. Yet, teaming and learning among diverse experts, facing high uncertainty, requires facing both interpersonal and technical risks. A second stream of my research examines how leaders create psychological safety in support of organizational agility as needed to thrive in fast-paced, challenging, uncertain contexts. Awards & Honors Winner of the 2023 Financial Times & Schroders Business Book of the Year Award for Right Kind of Wrong (Atria Books, 2023). Ranked #1 in the 2021 and 2023 Thinkers50 list—a list of the world's most influential management thinkers. Winner of the Joseph E. McGrath Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Study of Groups from INGRoup in 2021. Received the IOC Vision of Excellence in Leadership Award from the Institute of Coaching at McLean Hospital in 2021. Received the Talent Development Champion Award from the Association for Talent Development (ATD) in 2021. Named 2020 Valkhof Chair by the Radboud University Medical Center. Finalist for the 2019 McKinsey Award for the Best Article in Harvard Business Review for "Cross-Silo Leadership" (May–June 2019) with Tiziana Casciaro and Sujin Jang. The Fearless Organization: Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace for Learning, Innovation, and Growth (John Wiley & Sons, 2018) was named one of Soundview Magazine ’s Best Business Books of 2019. Winner of the 2019 Distinguished Scholar Award from the Organization Development and Change Division of the Academy of Management. Named the Most Influential International Thinker in Human Resources by HR Magazine in 2019 Winner of the 2019 Thinkers50 Breakthrough Idea Award for being a “pioneer of psychological safety and author of The Fearless Organization , a ground-breaking blueprint on creating a fear-free culture.” The Fearless Organization: Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace for Learning, Innovation, and Growth (John Wiley & Sons, 2018) was named one of the Best International Non-Fiction Books of 2019 by the Sharjah International Book Fair. The Fearless Organization: Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace for Learning, Innovation, and Growth (John Wiley & Sons, 2018) was listed as #14 on the Porchlight Business Best Seller list in 2019. The Fearless Organization: Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace for Learning, Innovation, and Growth (John Wiley & Sons, 2018) was selected as an 800-CEO-READ Business Book in the Management and Workplace Culture category in 2018. Winner of the 2018 Sumantra Ghoshal Award for Rigour and Relevance in the Study of Management from London Business School. Named one of the 20 Most Influential International Thinkers in Human Resources by HR Magazine in 2018. Included in the 2017 Thinkers50 list—a list of the world's most influential management thinkers. Winner of the 2017 Thinkers50 Talent Award. Named as one of the Most Influential International Thinkers in Human Resources by HR Magazine in 2017. Winner of the 2017 So! WHAT Award for the most outstanding article from five years earlier for “CEO Relational Leadership and Strategic Decision Quality in Top Management Teams: The Role of Team Trust and Learning from Failure” ( Strategic Organization , February 2012) with Abraham Carmeli and Asher Tishler. Winner of the First Annual OBHR Distinguished Scholar Award from Purdue University’s Krannert School of Management in 2017. Named as one of the Most Influential International Thinkers in Human Resources by HR Magazine in 2016. Included on the 2015 Thinkers50 list—a list of the world's most influential management thinkers. Awarded the Doctorem Honoris Causa from Universiteit Maastricht in 2013. Included on the 2013 Thinkers50 list—a list of the world's most influential management thinkers. Named as one of the Most Influential International Thinkers in Human Resources by HR Magazine in 2013. Winner of the 2012 Outstanding Publication in Organizational Behavior Award from the Academy of Management’s Organizational Behavior Division for "Implicit Voice Theories: Taken-for-granted Rules of Self-censorship at Work" ( Academy of Management Journal , 2011) with James Detert. Honorable Mention, 2012 Best Conference Paper Prize from the Strategic Management Society for "Managing Ambiguity: Growing a New Business in a Nascent Industry" with Tiona Zuzul. Winner of the Best Paper with Practical Implications Award from the Organizational Behavior Division of the Academy of Management for her paper with Melissa Valentine, "Team Scaffolds: How Minimal In-Group Structures Support Fast-Paced Teaming" (HBS Working Paper 12–062 and Academy of Management Best Paper Proceedings , 2012). The 16th Annual Massachusetts Innovation & Technology Exchange (MITX) Interactive Award in eLearning in 2011 with Michael Roberto for “Leadership and Team Simulation: Everest V2.” Winner of the Best Article published in 2011, from the Academy of Management Journal , for "Implicit Voice Theories: Taken-for-granted Rules of Self-censorship at Work" with Jim Detert (June 2011). Winner of the 2004 Accenture Award for "Why Hospitals Don't Learn from Failures: Organizational and Psychological Dynamics That Inhibit System Change" (with Anita Tucker, California Management Review , winter 2003). Winner of the 2000 Academy of Management Outstanding Publication in Organizational Behavior for "Psychological Safety and Learning Behavior in Work Teams" ( Administrative Science Quarterly , December 1999). Awarded the 2024 Medal for Distinguished Service by the Teachers College at Columbia University. Elected as a Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2024. Winner of the 2024 Society for Advancing Business Editing and Writing (SABEW) Award in the Management and Leadership category for Right Kind of Wrong: The Science of Failing Well (Atria Books, 2023). Recognized in Time Inc.’s inaugural Charter 30 list of Future of Work thought leaders in 2024. Additional Information Working Knowledge Articles Linked In Profile Twitter Areas of Interest leading change organizational behavior organizational learning psychological safety teams Additional Topics corporate culture group dynamics health care quality leadership service operations top management teams trust values Industries consulting health care nonprofit industry professional services In The News In The News 01 Mar 2022 Fortune Four Warning Signs of a Psychologically Unsafe Culture for Women of Color 20 Dec 2021 Anxious Achiever Podcast Psychological Safety in Theory and In Practice 02 Dec 2021 Harvard Business School HBS Faculty Recognized in 2021 “Thinkers 50” List 01 Dec 2021 Australian Financial Review 18 Books Every Business Leader Should Read 29 Nov 2021 Yahoo! News Eighteen Books on How to Build High-Performing, Inclusive Cultures That Every Business                                                 Leader Should Read → More News for Amy C. Edmondson Amy C. Edmondson In the News 01 Mar 2022 Fortune Four Warning Signs of a Psychologically Unsafe Culture for Women of Color 20 Dec 2021 Anxious Achiever Podcast Psychological Safety in Theory and In Practice 02 Dec 2021 Harvard Business School HBS Faculty Recognized in 2021 “Thinkers 50” List 01 Dec 2021 Australian Financial Review 18 Books Every Business Leader Should Read 29 Nov 2021 Yahoo! News Eighteen Books on How to Build High-Performing, Inclusive Cultures That Every Business                                              Leader Should Read 01 Nov 2021 Fast Company Arrogant Leaders Continue to Rise. Here’s How to Deal with One 27 Aug 2021 Digiday Breaking Old Habits: Hybrid-Working Setups Call For Different Ways of Communicating 04 Aug 2021 LinkedIn How to Cultivate Psychological Safety, and Why it Matters 29 Jul 2021 Bloomberg Quint Virus Surge Upends Plans for Getting Workers Back to Offices 27 Jul 2021 HRM Three Steps to Foster Psychological Safety, According to the Leading Researcher on                                              the Topic 20 Jul 2021 Fast Company How to Spot the Warning Signs of an Insecure Leader (and How to Work With One) 09 Jul 2021 Forbes Three Ways Employers Can Best Support Caregivers Returning To Work 28 Jun 2021 Business of Learning Building Psychological Safety in Learning Programs 14 Jun 2021 Washington Post: The Lily Mansplainers at Work? Here’s How to Deal When You Go Back to the Office. 09 Jun 2021 Harvard Business Review Employees Are Lonelier Than Ever. Here’s How Employers Can Help. 08 Jun 2021 World Economic Forum 17 Books Every Business Leader Should Read to Build an Inclusive Culture 06 Jun 2021 Forbes Psychological Safety Takes Years To Develop And Seconds To Shatter 27 May 2021 WHYY: Radio Times Returning to the Office 23 May 2021 Safety & Health Psychological Safety 20 May 2021 Business Insider Companies That Prioritize Psychological Safety Avoid Worker Burnout, Retain Top Talent,                                              and Perform Better. Here's How to Foster It Remotely. 18 May 2021 Climate As Peninsula Emerges from Pandemic, What’s Next? 17 May 2021 Forbes Leading The Vaccinated Workforce: How To Adapt To The Top-3 ‘New Normal’ Trends 06 May 2021 TechRepublic Cybersecurity: Don't Blame Employees—Make Them Feel like Part of the Solution 04 May 2021 Christian Science Monitor Workplace Diversity: Managers Must Build a Culture of Belonging 30 Apr 2021 New York Times They Want You Back at the Office 29 Apr 2021 Yahoo! News Why Virtual Away Days May Be Here to Stay 28 Apr 2021 Business 2 Community Psychological Safety in a Hybrid World 13 Apr 2021 Reuters Unlocking Diversity's Promise: Psychological Safety, Trust and Inclusion 13 Apr 2021 Seattle Times Returning to the Office Sparks Anxiety and Dread for Some 17 Mar 2021 Health & Safety International Safety Management 2021: a Trend Report 15 Mar 2021 New York Times Why Is It So Hard to Speak Up at Work? 14 Mar 2021 No Stupid Questions Podcast: What do we really learn from failure? 08 Mar 2021 HBS Working Knowledge COVID Killed the Traditional Workplace. What Should Companies Do Now? 05 Nov 2020 Harvard Business Review Don’t Get Blindsided by Your Blind Spots 30 Oct 2020 Fast Company Tough macho leadership is over. Here’s what’s taking its place 26 Oct 2020 TED How to lead in a crisis 19 Oct 2020 Harvard Business Review Today’s Leaders Need Vulnerability, Not Bravado 19 Oct 2020 Harvard Business Review Today’s Leaders Need Vulnerability, Not Bravado 31 Aug 2020 Financial Times Future of work: how managers are harnessing employees’ hidden skills 05 Aug 2020 Bloomberg Rethink How You Do Business in Order to Keep Being Innovative 23 Jul 2020 Insights How to Be a Good Boss in Trying Times 09 Jul 2020 Harvard Business Review 5 Tips for Communicating with Employees During a Crisis 04 Jun 2020 Wired Coronavirus Is Going to Tear Your Office in Two 22 May 2020 Harvard Business Review What Hospitals Overwhelmed by Covid-19 Can Learn From Startups 11 May 2020 Forbes Why Leader’s Communications Don’t Connect And What To Do About It 20 Apr 2020 Harvard Business Review How to Talk to Your Team When the Future Is Uncertain 15 Apr 2020 Dose of Leadership Creating a Fearless Organization With Amy Edmondson 14 Apr 2020 Harvard Business School HBR Announces 61st Annual HBR McKinsey Award Winners 13 Apr 2020 Harvard Business Review What Good Leadership Looks Like During This Pandemic 02 Apr 2020 HR Magazine HR must build psychological safety so employees feel safe speaking up 30 Mar 2020 Work in Progress Amy Edmondson on the power of psychological safety in distributed work 16 Mar 2020 HBS Working Knowledge How the Coronavirus Is Already Rewriting the Future of Business 06 Mar 2020 Harvard Business Review Don’t Hide Bad News in Times of Crisis 04 Mar 2020 Harvard Business School Female Faculty Leading the Way on International Women's Day 27 Feb 2020 Forbes Psychological Safety Will Win You The Best Business Ideas 26 Feb 2020 Business Insider Stephen Miller's alleged management style is nothing like what experts tell you about                                              how to be a good boss 10 Feb 2020 Financial Times The Executive Success Factors That Lead Directly to Jail 29 Jan 2020 Chief Executive Fear Is A Bad Leadership Team Principle 16 Jan 2020 Harvard Business Review When Employees Are Open With Each Other, But Not Management 16 Dec 2019 Forbes 6 Books That Top Tech Execs Recommend Reading Now 03 Dec 2019 Inc. The 13 Best Business Books to Give as Gifts, According to TED Speakers 26 Nov 2019 Harvard Business School Harvard Business School Faculty Recognized in 2019 “Thinkers 50” List 13 Nov 2019 Association of American Medical Colleges Amy Edmondson: Psychological safety is critically important in medicine 05 Nov 2019 strategy+business Best Business Books 2019: Talent & leadership 31 Oct 2019 Fortune Boeing’s CEO Says Its Culture Will Fix Its Problems. Experts Say It May Be to Blame 07 Oct 2019 Economist In praise of dissenters 17 Sep 2019 Cold Call How a New Leader Broke Through a Culture of Accuse, Blame, and Criticize 08 Aug 2019 New York Times Why Aren’t We Talking About LinkedIn? 11 Jul 2019 Harvard Business Review How to Give Your Team the Right Amount of Autonomy 02 Jun 2019 Economist Charity begins at work 28 May 2019 Harvard Business Review Cross-Silo Leadership 09 May 2019 Wall Street Journal The Most Anxious Generation Goes to Work 06 May 2019 HBS Working Knowledge Consumers Blame Business for Global Health Problems. Can Business Become the Solution? 01 May 2019 Harvard Business Review Boeing and the Importance of Encouraging Employees to Speak Up 14 Mar 2019 Forbes Failure to Phoenix: 7 Lessons to Learn from Failure 13 Feb 2019 Financial Times Nurture a workforce that values ideas and contributions 11 Feb 2019 KCRW: Press Play Does 2020 presidential hopeful Sen. Amy Klobuchar have a temper? Does it matter? 08 Feb 2019 Washington Post Does it matter if Amy Klobuchar is a mean boss? 22 Jan 2019 Harvard Business Review Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace 14 Jan 2019 Forbes The Top 10 Creative Leadership Books From 2018 10 Jan 2019 Economist Companies will perform better if employees are not cowed into silence 02 Jan 2019 Harvard Business Review A Simple Way to Get Your Leadership Team Aligned on Strategy 26 Dec 2018 Harvard Business Review If Your Company Is Going Through a Public Scandal, Should You Leave? 21 Dec 2018 Forbes How To Build Work Cultures Of Psychological Safety Rather Than Fear 04 Dec 2018 HR Magazine The importance of psychological safety 27 Nov 2018 Fast Company This misunderstood trait could transform make you a better boss 27 Nov 2018 Innovation Ecosystem Fearless outperformance: creating conditions for the very best teams to excel 15 Nov 2018 Harvard Business Review Dysfunctional Teams 14 Nov 2018 strategy+business How Fearless Organizations Succeed 22 Aug 2018 Wall Street Journal The Promotion That Comes Without the Pay Raise 19 Jun 2018 HBS Working Knowledge Has Sustainability Lost its Relevance? 18 Dec 2017 Harvard Business School Recent Faculty Book Releases 09 Nov 2017 Harvard Business Review Your Strategy Should Be a Hypothesis You Constantly Adjust 01 Sep 2017 McKinsey Quarterly Getting ready for the future of work 01 Sep 2017 McKinsey Quarterly Putting lifelong learning on the CEO agenda 07 Jun 2017 Harvard Business School What's Next for Planet Earth? 04 May 2017 Harvard Business School Helping MBA Students Scale Mount Everest 04 May 2017 TEDxHGSE Building a psychologically safe workplace 04 May 2017 Cold Call Leading a Team to the Top of Mount Everest 30 Nov 2016 Harvard Business Review Improving On-the-Fly Teamwork in Health Care 06 Sep 2016 re:Work Why psychological safety matters and what to do about it 06 Jul 2016 Financial Times Who could fill the Brexit leadership vacuum? 05 Jul 2016 Forbes Mobilizing 'Big Teams' For The World's Biggest Challenges 05 Jul 2016 Harvard Business Review Being a Good Boss in Dark Times 13 Jun 2016 Harvard Business Review Wicked-Problem Solvers 09 May 2016 HBS Working Knowledge ‘Big Teaming,’ Audacious Innovation, and the Uncompleted Dream of a Smart City 25 Apr 2016 Fast Company Meet The New Mavericks: An Inside Look At America's Drone Training Program 14 Apr 2016 Forbes The Secret Weapon For Collaboration 17 Mar 2016 Inc. 4 Simple Phrases That Instantly Earn People's Trust 26 Feb 2016 Quartz After years of intensive analysis, Google discovers the key to good teamwork is being                                              nice 25 Feb 2016 New York Times What Google Learned From Its Quest to Build the Perfect Team 17 Dec 2015 FierceHealthcare Healthcare success requires new type of team-building 16 Dec 2015 Harvard Business Review The Kinds of Teams Health Care Needs 09 Nov 2015 Thinkers50 Thinkers50 Ranking of Management Thinkers Announced 15 Sep 2015 Washington Post Business school professors give national paid leave policy a top grade 26 Jun 2015 Harvard Business Review Get Rid of Unhealthy Competition on Your Team 24 Sep 2014 HBS Working Knowledge The Business of Climate Change 24 Sep 2014 HBS Working Knowledge Take a Trim Tab Approach to Climate Change 15 Sep 2014 Financial Times Lessons in failure from the error management gurus 17 Jun 2014 USA Today Plain English becoming lost art in corporate America 11 Apr 2014 Washington Post Getting GM employees to speak up about safety 20 Mar 2014 HBR Blogs Fixing a Weak Safety Culture at General Motors 26 Feb 2014 Forbes India Embracing Intelligent Failure 23 Jan 2014 Harvard Business School Prof. Amy Edmondson Receives Honorary Doctorate from Maastricht University 14 Jan 2014 HBR Blogs Mary Barra Brings Teaming to General Motors 05 Jan 2014 Financial Times Managers learn to see the error of their ways 17 Dec 2013 HBR Blogs The Three Pillars of a Teaming Culture 05 Dec 2013 HBR Blogs The Mistakes Behind Healthcare.gov Are Probably Lurking in Your Company, Too 27 Nov 2013 Inc. How to Lead While Your Company Is Going Under 26 Nov 2013 HBR Blogs Managing People on a Sinking Ship 17 Dec 2012 HBS Working Knowledge Teaming in the Twenty-First Century 27 Sep 2012 Forbes How To Use Optimism To Defeat Adversity 17 Sep 2012 Blogging About Business How to Manage a Diverse and Dispersed Team 29 Jun 2012 Harvard Business School New Books from Harvard Business School Faculty 06 Jun 2012 Fast Company The Psychology Of Conflict, And 4 Ways To Work It Out 26 Apr 2012 HBR Blogs Teamwork on the Fly 23 Apr 2012 Forbes The Paradox of Personal Branding 11 Apr 2012 Forbes Why Managers Fail Their Teams - And What To Do About It 28 Mar 2012 Forbes Five Ways to Become a Better Team Player 16 Dec 2011 PRWeek Leaders must 'walk the talk,' manage differently, and communicate 14 Dec 2011 How business schools can solve global problems 26 Aug 2011 Boston Globe Failing forward 19 Jul 2011 Forbes HBS's Amy Edmondson On the Death of Teams 05 Jul 2011 Interview with Amy Edmondson 14 Apr 2011 Economist Fail often, fail well 23 Mar 2011 Entrepreneur Don't Melt Down 16 Mar 2011 HBR Blogs Learn From Failure 13 Jan 2011 Economist Early ecocities 13 Jan 2011 Bucky on stage 10 Nov 2010 HBR Blogs Ask Not What Your Company Can Do for You... 22 Jul 2010 HBR Blogs A Bold New Model for Sustainable Cities 28 Jun 2010 HBS Working Knowledge HBS Cases: Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center 24 May 2010 Doctoral Awards for Excellence in Mentoring 18 Jan 2009 New York Times Making the Most of Your Workplace Mistakes 18 Jan 2009 New York Times Making the Most of Your Workplace Mistakes 20 Jul 2008 New York Times Another Meeting? Say It Isn't So HBS Working Knowledge Post-COVID Health Care: More Screens, Less Red Tape? Trying to move Additional Information Working Knowledge Articles Linked In Profile Twitter Areas of Interest leading change organizational behavior organizational learning psychological safety teams More Additional Topics corporate culture group dynamics health care quality leadership service operations top management teams trust values Industries consulting health care nonprofit industry professional services Less In The News 01 Mar 2022 Fortune Four Warning Signs of a Psychologically Unsafe Culture for Women of Color 20 Dec 2021 Anxious Achiever Podcast Psychological Safety in Theory and In Practice 02 Dec 2021 Harvard Business School HBS Faculty Recognized in 2021 “Thinkers 50” List 01 Dec 2021 Australian Financial Review 18 Books Every Business Leader Should Read 29 Nov 2021 Yahoo! News Eighteen Books on How to Build High-Performing, Inclusive Cultures That Every Business                                     Leader Should Read → More News for Amy C. Edmondson Amy C. Edmondson In the News 01 Mar 2022 Fortune Four Warning Signs of a Psychologically Unsafe Culture for Women of Color 20 Dec 2021 Anxious Achiever Podcast Psychological Safety in Theory and In Practice 02 Dec 2021 Harvard Business School HBS Faculty Recognized in 2021 “Thinkers 50” List 01 Dec 2021 Australian Financial Review 18 Books Every Business Leader Should Read 29 Nov 2021 Yahoo! News Eighteen Books on How to Build High-Performing, Inclusive Cultures That Every Business                                  Leader Should Read 01 Nov 2021 Fast Company Arrogant Leaders Continue to Rise. Here’s How to Deal with One 27 Aug 2021 Digiday Breaking Old Habits: Hybrid-Working Setups Call For Different Ways of Communicating 04 Aug 2021 LinkedIn How to Cultivate Psychological Safety, and Why it Matters 29 Jul 2021 Bloomberg Quint Virus Surge Upends Plans for Getting Workers Back to Offices 27 Jul 2021 HRM Three Steps to Foster Psychological Safety, According to the Leading Researcher on                                  the Topic 20 Jul 2021 Fast Company How to Spot the Warning Signs of an Insecure Leader (and How to Work With One) 09 Jul 2021 Forbes Three Ways Employers Can Best Support Caregivers Returning To Work 28 Jun 2021 Business of Learning Building Psychological Safety in Learning Programs 14 Jun 2021 Washington Post: The Lily Mansplainers at Work? Here’s How to Deal When You Go Back to the Office. 09 Jun 2021 Harvard Business Review Employees Are Lonelier Than Ever. Here’s How Employers Can Help. 08 Jun 2021 World Economic Forum 17 Books Every Business Leader Should Read to Build an Inclusive Culture 06 Jun 2021 Forbes Psychological Safety Takes Years To Develop And Seconds To Shatter 27 May 2021 WHYY: Radio Times Returning to the Office 23 May 2021 Safety & Health Psychological Safety 20 May 2021 Business Insider Companies That Prioritize Psychological Safety Avoid Worker Burnout, Retain Top Talent,                                  and Perform Better. Here's How to Foster It Remotely. 18 May 2021 Climate As Peninsula Emerges from Pandemic, What’s Next? 17 May 2021 Forbes Leading The Vaccinated Workforce: How To Adapt To The Top-3 ‘New Normal’ Trends 06 May 2021 TechRepublic Cybersecurity: Don't Blame Employees—Make Them Feel like Part of the Solution 04 May 2021 Christian Science Monitor Workplace Diversity: Managers Must Build a Culture of Belonging 30 Apr 2021 New York Times They Want You Back at the Office 29 Apr 2021 Yahoo! News Why Virtual Away Days May Be Here to Stay 28 Apr 2021 Business 2 Community Psychological Safety in a Hybrid World 13 Apr 2021 Reuters Unlocking Diversity's Promise: Psychological Safety, Trust and Inclusion 13 Apr 2021 Seattle Times Returning to the Office Sparks Anxiety and Dread for Some 17 Mar 2021 Health & Safety International Safety Management 2021: a Trend Report 15 Mar 2021 New York Times Why Is It So Hard to Speak Up at Work? 14 Mar 2021 No Stupid Questions Podcast: What do we really learn from failure? 08 Mar 2021 HBS Working Knowledge COVID Killed the Traditional Workplace. What Should Companies Do Now? 05 Nov 2020 Harvard Business Review Don’t Get Blindsided by Your Blind Spots 30 Oct 2020 Fast Company Tough macho leadership is over. Here’s what’s taking its place 26 Oct 2020 TED How to lead in a crisis 19 Oct 2020 Harvard Business Review Today’s Leaders Need Vulnerability, Not Bravado 19 Oct 2020 Harvard Business Review Today’s Leaders Need Vulnerability, Not Bravado 31 Aug 2020 Financial Times Future of work: how managers are harnessing employees’ hidden skills 05 Aug 2020 Bloomberg Rethink How You Do Business in Order to Keep Being Innovative 23 Jul 2020 Insights How to Be a Good Boss in Trying Times 09 Jul 2020 Harvard Business Review 5 Tips for Communicating with Employees During a Crisis 04 Jun 2020 Wired Coronavirus Is Going to Tear Your Office in Two 22 May 2020 Harvard Business Review What Hospitals Overwhelmed by Covid-19 Can Learn From Startups 11 May 2020 Forbes Why Leader’s Communications Don’t Connect And What To Do About It 20 Apr 2020 Harvard Business Review How to Talk to Your Team When the Future Is Uncertain 15 Apr 2020 Dose of Leadership Creating a Fearless Organization With Amy Edmondson 14 Apr 2020 Harvard Business School HBR Announces 61st Annual HBR McKinsey Award Winners 13 Apr 2020 Harvard Business Review What Good Leadership Looks Like During This Pandemic 02 Apr 2020 HR Magazine HR must build psychological safety so employees feel safe speaking up 30 Mar 2020 Work in Progress Amy Edmondson on the power of psychological safety in distributed work 16 Mar 2020 HBS Working Knowledge How the Coronavirus Is Already Rewriting the Future of Business 06 Mar 2020 Harvard Business Review Don’t Hide Bad News in Times of Crisis 04 Mar 2020 Harvard Business School Female Faculty Leading the Way on International Women's Day 27 Feb 2020 Forbes Psychological Safety Will Win You The Best Business Ideas 26 Feb 2020 Business Insider Stephen Miller's alleged management style is nothing like what experts tell you about                                  how to be a good boss 10 Feb 2020 Financial Times The Executive Success Factors That Lead Directly to Jail 29 Jan 2020 Chief Executive Fear Is A Bad Leadership Team Principle 16 Jan 2020 Harvard Business Review When Employees Are Open With Each Other, But Not Management 16 Dec 2019 Forbes 6 Books That Top Tech Execs Recommend Reading Now 03 Dec 2019 Inc. The 13 Best Business Books to Give as Gifts, According to TED Speakers 26 Nov 2019 Harvard Business School Harvard Business School Faculty Recognized in 2019 “Thinkers 50” List 13 Nov 2019 Association of American Medical Colleges Amy Edmondson: Psychological safety is critically important in medicine 05 Nov 2019 strategy+business Best Business Books 2019: Talent & leadership 31 Oct 2019 Fortune Boeing’s CEO Says Its Culture Will Fix Its Problems. Experts Say It May Be to Blame 07 Oct 2019 Economist In praise of dissenters 17 Sep 2019 Cold Call How a New Leader Broke Through a Culture of Accuse, Blame, and Criticize 08 Aug 2019 New York Times Why Aren’t We Talking About LinkedIn? 11 Jul 2019 Harvard Business Review How to Give Your Team the Right Amount of Autonomy 02 Jun 2019 Economist Charity begins at work 28 May 2019 Harvard Business Review Cross-Silo Leadership 09 May 2019 Wall Street Journal The Most Anxious Generation Goes to Work 06 May 2019 HBS Working Knowledge Consumers Blame Business for Global Health Problems. Can Business Become the Solution? 01 May 2019 Harvard Business Review Boeing and the Importance of Encouraging Employees to Speak Up 14 Mar 2019 Forbes Failure to Phoenix: 7 Lessons to Learn from Failure 13 Feb 2019 Financial Times Nurture a workforce that values ideas and contributions 11 Feb 2019 KCRW: Press Play Does 2020 presidential hopeful Sen. Amy Klobuchar have a temper? Does it matter? 08 Feb 2019 Washington Post Does it matter if Amy Klobuchar is a mean boss? 22 Jan 2019 Harvard Business Review Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace 14 Jan 2019 Forbes The Top 10 Creative Leadership Books From 2018 10 Jan 2019 Economist Companies will perform better if employees are not cowed into silence 02 Jan 2019 Harvard Business Review A Simple Way to Get Your Leadership Team Aligned on Strategy 26 Dec 2018 Harvard Business Review If Your Company Is Going Through a Public Scandal, Should You Leave? 21 Dec 2018 Forbes How To Build Work Cultures Of Psychological Safety Rather Than Fear 04 Dec 2018 HR Magazine The importance of psychological safety 27 Nov 2018 Fast Company This misunderstood trait could transform make you a better boss 27 Nov 2018 Innovation Ecosystem Fearless outperformance: creating conditions for the very best teams to excel 15 Nov 2018 Harvard Business Review Dysfunctional Teams 14 Nov 2018 strategy+business How Fearless Organizations Succeed 22 Aug 2018 Wall Street Journal The Promotion That Comes Without the Pay Raise 19 Jun 2018 HBS Working Knowledge Has Sustainability Lost its Relevance? 18 Dec 2017 Harvard Business School Recent Faculty Book Releases 09 Nov 2017 Harvard Business Review Your Strategy Should Be a Hypothesis You Constantly Adjust 01 Sep 2017 McKinsey Quarterly Getting ready for the future of work 01 Sep 2017 McKinsey Quarterly Putting lifelong learning on the CEO agenda 07 Jun 2017 Harvard Business School What's Next for Planet Earth? 04 May 2017 Harvard Business School Helping MBA Students Scale Mount Everest 04 May 2017 TEDxHGSE Building a psychologically safe workplace 04 May 2017 Cold Call Leading a Team to the Top of Mount Everest 30 Nov 2016 Harvard Business Review Improving On-the-Fly Teamwork in Health Care 06 Sep 2016 re:Work Why psychological safety matters and what to do about it 06 Jul 2016 Financial Times Who could fill the Brexit leadership vacuum? 05 Jul 2016 Forbes Mobilizing 'Big Teams' For The World's Biggest Challenges 05 Jul 2016 Harvard Business Review Being a Good Boss in Dark Times 13 Jun 2016 Harvard Business Review Wicked-Problem Solvers 09 May 2016 HBS Working Knowledge ‘Big Teaming,’ Audacious Innovation, and the Uncompleted Dream of a Smart City 25 Apr 2016 Fast Company Meet The New Mavericks: An Inside Look At America's Drone Training Program 14 Apr 2016 Forbes The Secret Weapon For Collaboration 17 Mar 2016 Inc. 4 Simple Phrases That Instantly Earn People's Trust 26 Feb 2016 Quartz After years of intensive analysis, Google discovers the key to good teamwork is being                                  nice 25 Feb 2016 New York Times What Google Learned From Its Quest to Build the Perfect Team 17 Dec 2015 FierceHealthcare Healthcare success requires new type of team-building 16 Dec 2015 Harvard Business Review The Kinds of Teams Health Care Needs 09 Nov 2015 Thinkers50 Thinkers50 Ranking of Management Thinkers Announced 15 Sep 2015 Washington Post Business school professors give national paid leave policy a top grade 26 Jun 2015 Harvard Business Review Get Rid of Unhealthy Competition on Your Team 24 Sep 2014 HBS Working Knowledge The Business of Climate Change 24 Sep 2014 HBS Working Knowledge Take a Trim Tab Approach to Climate Change 15 Sep 2014 Financial Times Lessons in failure from the error management gurus 17 Jun 2014 USA Today Plain English becoming lost art in corporate America 11 Apr 2014 Washington Post Getting GM employees to speak up about safety 20 Mar 2014 HBR Blogs Fixing a Weak Safety Culture at General Motors 26 Feb 2014 Forbes India Embracing Intelligent Failure 23 Jan 2014 Harvard Business School Prof. Amy Edmondson Receives Honorary Doctorate from Maastricht University 14 Jan 2014 HBR Blogs Mary Barra Brings Teaming to General Motors 05 Jan 2014 Financial Times Managers learn to see the error of their ways 17 Dec 2013 HBR Blogs The Three Pillars of a Teaming Culture 05 Dec 2013 HBR Blogs The Mistakes Behind Healthcare.gov Are Probably Lurking in Your Company, Too 27 Nov 2013 Inc. How to Lead While Your Company Is Going Under 26 Nov 2013 HBR Blogs Managing People on a Sinking Ship 17 Dec 2012 HBS Working Knowledge Teaming in the Twenty-First Century 27 Sep 2012 Forbes How To Use Optimism To Defeat Adversity 17 Sep 2012 Blogging About Business How to Manage a Diverse and Dispersed Team 29 Jun 2012 Harvard Business School New Books from Harvard Business School Faculty 06 Jun 2012 Fast Company The Psychology Of Conflict, And 4 Ways To Work It Out 26 Apr 2012 HBR Blogs Teamwork on the Fly 23 Apr 2012 Forbes The Paradox of Personal Branding 11 Apr 2012 Forbes Why Managers Fail Their Teams - And What To Do About It 28 Mar 2012 Forbes Five Ways to Become a Better Team Player 16 Dec 2011 PRWeek Leaders must 'walk the talk,' manage differently, and communicate 14 Dec 2011 How business schools can solve global problems 26 Aug 2011 Boston Globe Failing forward 19 Jul 2011 Forbes HBS's Amy Edmondson On the Death of Teams 05 Jul 2011 Interview with Amy Edmondson 14 Apr 2011 Economist Fail often, fail well 23 Mar 2011 Entrepreneur Don't Melt Down 16 Mar 2011 HBR Blogs Learn From Failure 13 Jan 2011 Economist Early ecocities 13 Jan 2011 Bucky on stage 10 Nov 2010 HBR Blogs Ask Not What Your Company Can Do for You... 22 Jul 2010 HBR Blogs A Bold New Model for Sustainable Cities 28 Jun 2010 HBS Working Knowledge HBS Cases: Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center 24 May 2010 Doctoral Awards for Excellence in Mentoring 18 Jan 2009 New York Times Making the Most of Your Workplace Mistakes 18 Jan 2009 New York Times Making the Most of Your Workplace Mistakes 20 Jul 2008 New York Times Another Meeting? Say It Isn't So HBS Working Knowledge Post-COVID Health Care: More Screens, Less Red Tape? Trying to move ǁ Harvard Business School Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 → Map & Directions → More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College.