British actor David Warner, star of stage and screen, dies aged 80 | Euronews Go to navigation Go to main content Go to search Go to footer English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Newsletter Newsletters Events Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Loader Latest Trending Spain Portugal Donald Trump electricity Valencia Cower outage Latest stories Europe News Now playing Next Swedish police say three dead in shooting in eastern city of Uppsala Europe News Now playing Next US approves sale of €1.17 billion worth of missiles to Poland Economy Now playing Next Donald Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs Europe News Now playing Next Sánchez vows to uncover reasons behind massive Iberian power outage Europe Categories Europe News Europe Series Programmes Europeans' Stories EuroVerify Europe in Motion EU Decoded Smart Regions The Europe Conversation Featured Radio Schuman This is Radio Schuman, your new go-to podcast to spice up your weekday mornings with relevant news, insights, and behind-the-scenes from Brussels and beyond. Brussels, My Love? From the economy to the climate and the EU's role in world affairs, this talk show sheds light on European affairs and the issues that impact on our daily lives as Europeans. Tune in to understand the ins and outs of European politics. World Categories World Sport Programmes Spotlight Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Focus Global Japan Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Experiences Stays People Programmes Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Programmes Dub.AI Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. Culture Categories Culture news Lifestyle Design Art Food and Drink Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Green Categories Green News Climate Nature Living Eco-Innovation Programmes Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Featured Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions.   Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Depth of Field InClassica Kazakhstan The New Uzbekistan Azerbaijan Diary Discover Algeria Discover Türkiye Discover Sharjah Explore Azerbaijan Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Partner content Italy – Heritage & Horizons Better Connected Powering Progress Experience Brazil My Tokyo Digital Garden City Nation Sparkle Wine of Moldova Kerala Tourism Turkmenistan - Our story Services Weather Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets & Services Find Us Log In My Account Live Close menu sidebar English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Latest Trending Spain Portugal Donald Trump electricity Valencia Cower outage Latest stories Europe News Now playing Next Swedish police say three dead in shooting in eastern city of Uppsala Europe News Now playing Next US approves sale of €1.17 billion worth of missiles to Poland Economy Now playing Next Donald Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs Europe News Now playing Next Sánchez vows to uncover reasons behind massive Iberian power outage Europe Categories Europe News Europe Series Programmes Europeans' Stories EuroVerify Europe in Motion EU Decoded Smart Regions The Europe Conversation Featured Radio Schuman This is Radio Schuman, your new go-to podcast to spice up your weekday mornings with relevant news, insights, and behind-the-scenes from Brussels and beyond. Brussels, My Love? From the economy to the climate and the EU's role in world affairs, this talk show sheds light on European affairs and the issues that impact on our daily lives as Europeans. Tune in to understand the ins and outs of European politics. World Categories World Sport Programmes Spotlight Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Focus Global Japan Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Experiences Stays People Programmes Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Programmes Dub.AI Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. Culture Categories Culture news Lifestyle Design Art Food and Drink Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Green Categories Green News Climate Nature Living Eco-Innovation Programmes Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Featured Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions.   Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Depth of Field InClassica Kazakhstan The New Uzbekistan Azerbaijan Diary Discover Algeria Discover Türkiye Discover Sharjah Explore Azerbaijan Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Partner content Italy – Heritage & Horizons Better Connected Powering Progress Experience Brazil My Tokyo Digital Garden City Nation Sparkle Wine of Moldova Kerala Tourism Turkmenistan - Our story Services Weather Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets & Services Newsletter Newsletters Events Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Loader Find Us ADVERTISEMENT Culture Culture news British actor David Warner, star of stage and screen, dies aged 80 British David Warner is photographed at the Duke of York's Barracks in Chelsea, London, Jan. 19, 1967. - Copyright Smith/Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. Copyright Smith/Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. By Tom Hill with AFP Published on 26/07/2022 - 14:03 GMT+2 Share this article Comments Share this article Facebook Twitter Flipboard Send Reddit Linkedin Messenger Telegram VK Bluesky Threads Whatsapp The legendary British actor David Warner has died aged 80 at a retirement home for old entertainers. ADVERTISEMENT David Warner, a versatile actor whose career spanned six decades with roles on stage, television and film, has died aged 80. The RADA-trained performer played leading roles with the Royal Shakespeare Company with his 1965 Hamlet described as “the epitome of 1960s youth”. The young actor also appeared opposite Helen Mirren and Diana Rigg in the 1968 film of A Midsummer Night’s Dream. The 1970s often saw him cast as the villain with roles in Straw Dogs (1971), The Omen (1976) and Time After Time (1979). Sci-fi fans were familiar with his performances in Terry Gilliam’s Time Bandit’s (1981), computer movie Tron (1982) and Tim Burton’s 2001 remake of Planet of the Apes. Warner played malicious valet Spicer Lovejoy in Titanic (1998). One of his final film roles was as retired naval officer Admiral Boom in “Mary Poppins Returns,” released in 2018. Despite his acclaim as a stage actor, chronic stage fright led Warner to prefer film and TV work for many years. He was nominated for a British Academy Film Award for the title role in Karel Reisz’s Swinging London tragicomedy “Morgan: A Suitable Case for Treatment,” released in 1966. He later won an Emmy for his role as Roman politician Pomponius Falco in the 1981 TV miniseries “Masada.” Warner’s family said he died from a cancer-related illness on Sunday at Denville Hall, a retirement home for entertainers in London. Go to accessibility shortcuts Share this article Comments Read more Culture news Now playing Next Visionary British theatre director Peter Brook dies aged 97 Culture news Now playing Next A 500-year-old medieval shipwreck has been discovered in Barcelona Culture news Now playing Next Rap group Kneecap apologise to families for 'kill your MP' remarks Film actor Cinema ADVERTISEMENT Top stories Now playing Next LUX Audience Award finalists discuss cinema and social change Now playing Next Czech artist brings folk tradition and monumental sculptures to Berlin Now playing Next Rap group Kneecap apologise to families for 'kill your MP' remarks Now playing Next Cannes 2025: Everything you need to know about this year’s jury Now playing Next Child damages Mark Rothko painting estimated at €50m in Dutch museum ADVERTISEMENT Most read 1 Secret note hidden in Dachau-built violin discovered after 80 years 2 Funeral etiquette: Was Trump's blue suit a faux pas at pope's funeral? 3 The best things to do, hear, see or watch in Europe this week 4 Conclave to Pompeii: Don’t miss this week’s biggest cultural moments 5 Vatican doomsday prophecy resurfaces amid Pope Francis’ illness ADVERTISEMENT Loader Search Browse today's tags Spain Portugal Donald Trump electricity Valencia Cower outage tariffs powercut War in Ukraine EPP Manfred Weber EU Policy Themes Europe World Business EU Policy Green Next Health Travel Culture Videos Programmes Services Live Bulletin Weather Latest Follow us Apps Messaging apps Widgets & Services Africanews More About Euronews Commercial Services Terms and Conditions Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Contact Work at Euronews Modify my cookies choices Follow us Newsletters Copyright © euronews 2025