Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/NintendoSwitch2 A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to NintendoSwitch2 r/NintendoSwitch2 r/NintendoSwitch2 The #1 discussion board on the internet for the Nintendo Switch 2 family of systems. Where we discuss, speculate, and share the latest news about the first 10th generation game system, Mario Kart World, Donkey Kong Bananza, and whatever else is coming next for Nintendo's new system. [THIS COMMUNITY IS NOT OFFICIAL OR AFFILIATED WITH NINTENDO] Members Online • Breakfastcrisis A history of Nintendo home and handheld console reveal dates Discussion With all the speculation on reveal dates, I thought it might be helpful to look at how Nintendo have previously scheduled reveals across their console history. By "reveal", I mean a presentation or preview where the console is shown (e.g., the Switch release video). Here's a breakdown of every reveal date: Nintendo Entertainment System (NES): January 1985 Game Boy: April 1989 Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES): November 1990 Nintendo 64: November 1995 Game Boy Color: March 1998 Game Boy Advance: August 2000 Nintendo GameCube: August 2000 Nintendo DS: May 2004 Nintendo Wii: May 2006 Nintendo 3DS: June 2010 Nintendo Wii U: June 2011 Nintendo Switch: October 2016 For whatever reason, they tend to avoid Q1 for reveals. The only examples Q1 reveals are the NES in January 1985 and the Game Boy Color in March 1998. This NES was their first console, so they didn't risk annoying any customers who'd purchased a predecessor at Christmas. This time around, they've pushed for big sales in December, so they have to consider those customers. This leads me to believe they're unlikely to reveal the Switch this month. It's possible they could reveal it in February, but I reckon the most likely month is March with maybe a May/June release date. With the limited software line-up that's currently confirmed and with Switch sales falling, I doubt they'd want to leave a bigger gap between reveal and release. Edit : I accidentally wrote release instead of reveal. My bad. This is about the reveal dates. Also, I have removed revisions from the list because, as Chardan0001 politely pointed out, I haven't included DS Lite, GBA SP etc and they're not relevant to the point I'm making which is about successor consoles. I also added a clarification of what I mean by "reveal". Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics