Pretty Woman: The movie's insane original script en en fr newsletter 2min Pretty Woman : The insane original script for this classic comedy starring Julia Roberts Travel Guide Inspirations Culture Environment Photography Tech and innovation see all Getaways Travel Sport and adventure Accomodation see all Styles Fashion Beauty Architecture Accessories Watchmaking-Jewelry see all Taste Gastronomy Recipes see all On board Legends Air France News see all videos The Magazine newsletter en en fr en en fr Newsletter X Choose an article Home > Inspirations > Culture > Pretty Woman: The insane original script for this classic comedy starring Julia Roberts Pretty Woman : The insane original script for this classic comedy starring Julia Roberts Wednesday 24 May 2023 | Charline Bouzon While it has grown into one of the most popular romantic comedies in the world, Pretty Woman ’s original script had no sign of its famous happy ending. Link copied ! 01 ⸻ 06 Image from Pretty Woman (c) Pretty Woman, Touchstone Pictures Silver Screen Partners IV 02 ⸻ 06 Image from Pretty Woman (c) Pretty Woman, Touchstone Pictures Silver Screen Partners IV 03 ⸻ 06 Image from Pretty Woman (c) Pretty Woman, Touchstone Pictures Silver Screen Partners IV 04 ⸻ 06 Image from Pretty Woman (c) Pretty Woman, Touchstone Pictures Silver Screen Partners IV 05 ⸻ 06 Image from Pretty Woman (c) Pretty Woman, Touchstone Pictures Silver Screen Partners IV 06 ⸻ 06 Image from Pretty Woman (c) Pretty Woman, Touchstone Pictures Silver Screen Partners IV Previous next No happy ending for the original tragic script of Pretty Woman Although Pretty Woman is now one of the most popular romantic comedies in the world, the original screenplay did not have a happy ending. In the version written by J.F. Lawton, the relationship between Vivian (Julia Roberts) and Edward (Richard Gere) was not a romantic story between two people at odds with each other. The screenwriter originally wanted to use his script to call out the race by big American companies and Wall Street to make as much money as humanly possible. The idea was to draw a parallel between Edward’s greed and Vivian’s complicated and disjointed life, which represented American society. Far from creating a romantic comedy, J.F. Lawton had not considered a happy ending between the two protagonists. Originally called $3,000 , the price for Vivian to spend the week with Edward, the film ended with the “couple” separating. The businessman left the young woman on the pavement where they had met a few days earlier, throwing the promised cash out the window in exchange for her company. With the money, Vivian and her friend Kit went on a trip to Disneyland . The film ended tragically: on the way, Vivian, originally written as a drug addict, died of an overdose. This was a very dark scenario. As a result, despite the backing of major institutions such as the Sundance Institute, the script struggled to garner much funding. Deemed too dramatic, the project remained in a rut for several months until Disney bought the rights and Garry Marshall was appointed director. A rewritten, watered-down version, turned into a Disney classic But when the film was taken over by Disney studios, the script was completely rehashed and the ending was scrapped. The producers thought that turning the plot into a romantic comedy and creating a love story with a happy ending between the two protagonists would be much more profitable. So Vivian’s drug addiction was thrown out, making her into a candid and endearing character. Edward, for his part, was stripped of his his pushy, money-grabbing traits and was grafted with a protective, melancholic personality. The relationship between the two protagonists is also nurtured throughout the filming by the undeniable chemistry between Julia Roberts and Richard Gere during the shooting. The quintessential romantic comedy couple gradually took shape, and Disney then rewrote a fairy-tale ending. Pretty Woman was released in 1990 and quickly became a standout hit that made generations dream. The final kiss between Edward and Vivian, perched on the fire escape of the young woman’s Los Angeles flat, to Roy Orbison’s cult soundtrack Pretty Woman , is still one of the most iconic scenes in cinema today. Read also: – The Wonder : The tragic true story behind Netflix’s new thriller – The Crown : The true (controversial) stories in season 5 – Black Panther : The true stories that inspired the Marvel movie Visit Los Angeles Discover the United States Book a flight Share this article Link copied ! Read also 2min Culture A 134-year-old impressionist painting by Claude Monet depicting the landscape near his house in Giverny is about to go on auction 2min Culture Two hours from London along the coast, visit the oldest English castle, built over 1,500 years ago 2min Culture Forget Monet, here are 5 American impressionist painters that redefined the movement across the pond DISCOVER THE MAGAZINE Most read 5min Sport and adventure This 7-day road trip through the white villages of Andalusia invites you to explore another side of Southern Spain 2min Culture A 134-year-old impressionist painting by Claude Monet depicting the landscape near his house in Giverny is about to go on auction 2min Culture Two hours from London along the coast, visit the oldest English castle, built over 1,500 years ago 4min Accomodation This stunning seaside resort in Andalusia is modeled after a typical white village—and it’s got a private beach 2min Culture Forget Monet, here are 5 American impressionist painters that redefined the movement across the pond EnVols, an invitation on a journey A new and inspirational outlook on traveling to foster wanderlust. Suivez-nous newsletter Travel Guide Inspirations Getaways Styles Taste On board Videos The Magazine Home Cookie management policy GENERAL CONDITIONS OF USE Privacy policy Discover the magazine for free Learn more