Animal Crossing: New Horizons – Happy Home Paradise - Animal Crossing Wiki - Nookipedia Anonymous Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Nookipedia Search Animal Crossing: New Horizons – Happy Home Paradise From Nookipedia, the Animal Crossing wiki Namespaces Page Discussion More More Page actions View Edit History Key artwork Image gallery Developer(s) Nintendo EPD Publisher(s) Nintendo Platform(s) Nintendo Switch Release date(s) November 5, 2021 [1] Genre(s) Sandbox Language(s) English (North America), English (Europe), Japanese, Chinese (simplified), Chinese (traditional), Korean, French (Europe), French (North America), Spanish (Europe), Spanish (North America), Italian, Russian, German, Dutch Modes Single-player Media Nintendo eShop digital download File size 598 MB (digital download only) Input methods Joy-Con Nintendo Switch Pro Controller USB keyboard (typing only) Animal Crossing: New Horizons – Happy Home Paradise [nb 1] is a paid downloadable content expansion for Animal Crossing: New Horizons that was released one day after the 2.0 Free Update on November 5, 2021. It is a spiritual successor to Animal Crossing: Happy Home Designer , in which the player can design homes and gardens for villagers and special characters to satisfy the client's specifications. In Happy Home Paradise , the player can travel to an archipelago to work for Paradise Planning , a resort that specializes in the design of custom-built vacation homes within the archipelago's varied environments. Contents 1 Release 2 Gameplay 2.1 Paradise Planning 2.1.1 Designing homes 2.1.1.1 Personalization features 2.1.1.2 Happy Home Network 2.1.2 Paradise Planning office 2.1.2.1 amiibo 2.1.2.2 Shop 2.1.2.3 AB&PD 2.1.3 Facilities 2.1.3.1 School 2.1.3.2 Café 2.1.3.3 Restaurant 2.1.3.4 Hospital 2.1.3.5 Apparel shop 2.2 Client requests 2.3 Main island features 3 Items 3.1 DIY recipes 3.2 Work-only Paradise Planning items 4 Characters 4.1 Special characters 4.1.1 New special characters 4.1.2 Returning special characters 5 Gallery 6 Videos 6.1 Trailers 7 Names in other languages 8 Notes 9 References 10 External links Release [ edit ] Happy Home Paradise was announced alongside the 2.0 Free Update in an Animal Crossing: New Horizons Direct on October 15, 2021. [2] The contents of Happy Home Paradise are contained within the 2.0 update, and Happy Home Paradise items are available through trading to players without the paid DLC, but access to the Paradise Planning archipelago is only unlocked once the DLC is purchased. While the free update was released at 10 AM JST (1 AM UTC ) on November 4, 2021, 24 hours ahead of its scheduled release date, the Happy Home Paradise content was unlocked at 12 AM local time on November 5, 2021. The DLC is available for purchase from the Nintendo eShop for US$24.99 [nb 2] or as a part of the Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack service for US$49.99 [nb 2] per year. Players who own the DLC as part of Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack will lose access to the archipelago if their subscription lapses, but any items obtained from it will remain for usage at their home island. [3] Pre-orders became available on October 29, 2021. A physical card containing a download code for Happy Home Paradise was released in Japan [4] and North America. [ citation needed ] A Nintendo Switch game case containing a download code was released in South Korea. [5] Gameplay [ edit ] Paradise Planning [ edit ] A player about to choose the "I want to go to work" option When the DLC is downloaded, if Resident Services has been upgraded to a building, the player receives a phone call from Tom Nook asking them to visit him and a visitor at the airport . At the airport, Nook introduces the player to Lottie and asks them if they would like to help her design homes. After the player agrees, the option "I want to go to work" becomes available when speaking to Orville . Choosing this option takes the player to a resort archipelago where characters go to find vacation homes. The player works for Paradise Planning , a resort developer, alongside Lottie and new characters Niko and Wardell . After designing 20 houses, the player is asked by Lottie to prepare their island for a special music festival by completing 10 additional vacation homes and building 2 additional facilities, a hospital and an apparel shop. This culminates in the island receiving a visit from DJ KK , who performs a special music festival. The player also receives a package from Nintendo containing a Paradise Planning photo . Designing homes [ edit ] The player designing the interior of Maple's home The player's job at Paradise Planning is to design vacation homes for villagers and special characters. These characters appear on the archipelago's central island, which also hosts Paradise Planning's office. The first villager that the player works for is Eloise . However, in the instance that Eloise is living on the player's island or staying at the island's campsite , the game will pull up the next villager from the following internal list in order until there is a villager that is not on the player's island: Olivia , Julia , Willow , Friga , Blanche , Cleo , Vivian , Purrl , Bree , Blaire , and Tasha . Once the player chooses to design a home for a character, they are given the option to choose which island to build the home on; each island has different features, and some have different seasons. Once the island is chosen, the player places furniture items chosen by the character, and from there the interior and exterior of the home can be decorated freely. As the player designs more homes, more furniture becomes available to use. Homes the player has designed can be remodeled. The player can also suggest existing clients that have a completed home to include roommates. The roommates that the player chooses to add will merge their furniture from their housing order with that of the existing villager's catalog. The player can also rename the villager's theme to their choosing after remodeling. After the player designs a home, Lottie rewards them with Poki , a currency that can be used at the Paradise Planning shop. The amount increases as the player's job status improves. Personalization features [ edit ] The player using Soundscapes to change up the ambient sound of Cesar's room. The following customization features are new to Happy Home Paradise : Partition walls, which share the same texture as the wallpaper set. They are unlocked after completing eight housing requests, and come in the form of a DIY recipe. Counters, in both full-height and half-height. These can be obtained as DIY recipes from Niko. Pillars, which can be used with partition walls to provide a right angle corner. These can be obtained as DIY recipes from Niko. Lighting customization, where the color and brightness settings can be adjusted. This feature is unlocked while customizing the café or restaurant facility. Resizing a room, where the player can set the size of the room as 4x4, 6x6, 8x8, or 10x10. This feature is unlocked while customizing the school facility. Soundscapes , constant ambient sounds played in a room. This feature is unlocked after completing 17 housing requests and sitting next to Wardell afterwards. Six more Soundscapes are unlocked after completing 25 housing requests. Eight more Soundscapes are unlocked after completing 33 housing requests. Polishing , which gives furniture an animated effect of several different choices. Polishing is unlocked after completing four housing requests. Happy Home Network [ edit ] The menu of the Happy Home Network app. A Happy Home Network app can be accessed on the player's NookPhone , where the player can view and visit the homes they have designed. A photo of the house can be taken through the Photo app, and if more than one is taken, then the player can decide to discard either the original image or the retaken one. Houses can be shared over the internet via Nintendo Switch Online, and players can follow other designers. Paradise Planning office [ edit ] The player posing in the Paradise Planning office with Niko, Wardell, and Lottie. Paradise Planning has an office on the central island where Lottie , Wardell , and Niko work. When finished designing the interior of a villager's new vacation home, the player goes to Lottie to get their Poki , the currency used at Paradise Planning instead of Bells . The player is then able to purchase items with their earnings. amiibo [ edit ] After completing seven housing requests, amiibo cards and figures can be scanned at the Paradise Planning office front desk to invite the respective character to have their vacation home designed. While most amiibo can be used right away, certain amiibo (such as Lottie 's) can only be used later. Shop [ edit ] A shop area in the Paradise Planning office sells five exclusive furniture items. The five items that they have change every day, and all are items that can also be found at Nook's Cranny . The player is also able to purchase Souvenir Chocolates, that, when given to a villager on the player's island, can convince the villager receiving to request a vacation home. In addition to that, the player may be able to purchase an item without the required amount of Poki. Wardell will keep track of the balance, and the player must speak to him to pay him back. The balance must be paid before the feature is usable again. After designing 30 vacation homes and purchasing items for several days in a row, Wardell will offer a catalog service where the player can purchase any of the items (including variations) that have been unlocked from decorating vacation homes. Certain items may be viewed in the catalog, but are unavailable for purchase. AB&PD [ edit ] After completing 23 housing requests, Lottie will set up an Automated Bell and Poki Dispenser, to allow the player to deposit Poki and do exchanges between Bells and Poki. There is a limit of 30,000 Bells and 15,000 Poki that can be exchanged at a time. The maximum possible currency to obtain via exchanging is 49,950 Bells from Poki to Bells, and 15,000 Poki from Bells to Poki. Facilities [ edit ] Sherb offering a glass of water to the player. Five facilities –the school , café , restaurant , hospital , and apparel shop –can be designed in the vacant buildings on the main island. Once the facility is set up, the player can staff any villagers present on the main islands to host the facility. Once this is established, various villagers from across the islands will come by to use the facility. School [ edit ] Main article: School The school is the first facility in order the player has to design for Paradise Planning. The facility can be built after making six vacation homes. Once this facility is set up, the player can set a character as a Teacher. Leif and Nat can also set up shop here and teach the player the ability to place flowers and bugs respectively for Paradise Planning. The appointed teacher can additionally give the player either a pink or white Plumeria start once per day. Café [ edit ] Main article: Café The café is the second facility in order the player has to design for Paradise Planning if chosen over the restaurant. This facility can be built after making 12 vacation homes. If the player has reached the title of Superstar Designer, they can build a second floor, the Gallery. Once this facility is set up, the player can set two characters as Staff of the café. If the player speaks to either of them, they are able to purchase food items using Poki. Restaurant [ edit ] Main article: Restaurant The restaurant is the second facility in order the player has to design for Paradise Planning if chosen over the café. This facility can be built after making 12 vacation homes. This facility has two rooms, the Dining Hall and the Kitchen. If the player has completed three roommate requests after the building is finished, they can build a second floor, the Private Room. Once this facility is set up, the player can set one of four villagers to the following roles: Chef, Apprentice, Cashier, and Employee. When talked to, the Chef will give the player a random cooking recipe . Hospital [ edit ] Main article: Hospital The hospital is the third facility in order the player has to design for Paradise Planning. This facility can be built after making 24 vacation homes; if the player is close to reaching 24 vacation homes, Lottie would later say that her tummy "feels bad," in which Niko takes over her job and the player has to do a house for a random client that is currently shown on the player's archipelago. Then, after the player has made 24 vacation homes, Lottie will tell the player that they can design the hospital (in which she gets inspired). This facility has two rooms, the Waiting Area and the Examination Room. If the player donates 120,000 Poki to the Receptionist after the building is finished, they can build a second floor, the Patient Ward. Once this facility is set up, the player can set one villager as the Receptionist and another as the Doctor. If the player asks the Receptionist to give them a checkup, they will redirect them to the Doctor, who will give the player a clothing item based on the answers the player gives. Joan visits the hospital every Monday for a checkup and will give the player turnips when spoken to. Apparel shop [ edit ] Main article: Apparel shop The apparel shop is the final facility in order the player has to design for Paradise Planning. This facility can be built after making 30 vacation homes. Once the facility is set up, the player can set one villager as the Shop Manager and decide to allow any type of clothing, or choose a specific clothing setting of either cute, simple, showy, cool, or loose clothes. The player can buy clothes. Client requests [ edit ] Main article: List of Happy Home Paradise client information Main island features [ edit ] The player offering to remodel Erik's house. Various features unlocked while designing homes for Paradise Planning can be used in the player's own home, including partition walls, counters, pillars, lighting customization, and soundscapes. Furniture can also be polished. The player can invite villagers from their island to Paradise Planning by giving them souvenir chocolates . Additionally, the houses of the villagers on the player's island can be customized after 30 homes are designed with Paradise Planning and DJ KK makes his visit, and the player can also get Nook Miles the next day , though room-size adjustments will be unavailable for the remodeling of a villager's house. The player can also reset a villager's interior through Isabelle after unlocking the ability to redesign other villager's houses. Anything that occurs on the main island can also affect what occurs on the archipelago. If a villager that was invited to the archipelago through being gifted a Souvenir Chocolates moves out, if a villager that arrived on the archipelago prior was invited to stay on the player's main island, (and are in boxes), a villager's birthday or if a villager is sick, their vacation home will be unavailable to visit and they cannot be placed under any role positions in any facility (if one of the villagers that works at the facility have any of the following occurring to them currently, then they will get replaced by another villager living on the archipelago.) The same happens if villagers are currently sleeping (depending on what time based on their personality they sleep), however, they can be placed in the facility and you have to wake them up to visit their vacation home. In addition, after attending the first music festival , the player learns the following reactions: Grooving Hop Groove Right Groove Left Soak It In Side-to-Side Island Stomp Airplane Twisty Dance Shimmy Turnip Patch Arm-Swing Dance Items [ edit ] The following 77 items that were added in the 2.0 Free Update can only be obtained through the Happy Home Paradise DLC. Happy Home Paradise items in Animal Crossing: New Horizons Item Image Type Buy price Sell price Available from Paradise Planning candles Furniture 1,300 Poki 350 Bells Wardell Paradise Planning cushion Furniture 2,200 Poki 600 Bells Wardell Paradise Planning hammock Furniture 2,900 Poki 800 Bells Wardell Paradise Planning mug Furniture 1,800 Poki 500 Bells Wardell Paradise Planning photo Furniture 40 Bells 10 Bells Nintendo Paradise Planning planter Furniture 1,100 Poki 300 Bells Wardell Paradise Planning poster Furniture 810 Poki 225 Bells Wardell Paradise Planning tissues Furniture 1,300 Poki 350 Bells Wardell Paradise Planning wall flag Furniture 2,200 Poki 600 Bells Wardell Paradise Planning sandals Clothing 1,800 Poki 500 Bells Wardell Paradise Planning slippers Clothing 1,600 Poki 450 Bells Wardell Paradise Planning umbrella Clothing 1,800 Poki 500 Bells Wardell Large Paradise Planning rug Interior 1,800 Poki 500 Bells Wardell Paradise Planning flooring Interior 2,700 Poki 750 Bells Wardell Paradise Planning wall Interior 2,700 Poki 750 Bells Wardell Room Sketch flooring Interior 2,700 Poki 750 Bells Wardell Room Sketch wall Interior 2,700 Poki 750 Bells Wardell Small Paradise Planning mat Interior 900 Poki 250 Bells Wardell Blanca's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Blathers's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Booker's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie C.J.'s photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Celeste's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Chip's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Copper's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Cyrus's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Daisy Mae's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Digby's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie DJ KK's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Don's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Flick's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Franklin's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Gracie's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Grams's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Gulliver's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Harriet's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Harvey's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Jack's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Joan's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie K.K.'s photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Kapp'n's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Katie's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Katrina's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Kicks's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Label's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Leif's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Leila's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Leilani's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Lottie's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Luna's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Lyle's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Mabel's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Nat's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Niko's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Niko Orville's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Pascal's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Pavé's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Pelly's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Pete's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Phineas's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Phyllis's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Porter's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Redd's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Reese's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Resetti's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Sable's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Saharah's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Shrunk's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Tortimer's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Wardell's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Wardell Wendell's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Wilbur's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Wisp's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Zipper's photo Photo Not for sale 10 Bells Lottie Paradise Planning case Others 2,200 Poki 625 Bells Wardell Souvenir chocolates Others 800 Poki 222 Bells Paradise Planning office Includes data sourced from the Data Spreadsheet for Animal Crossing New Horizons , compiled and edited by 6480, noizhub, Ricky, chaiinchomp, saberslime, robotic_scarab, mollumisc, sunmarsh , kyrokey, obstinateRixatrix, jackiwi, Zalex, SuperHamster , kait, hyuum, Azarro, Czarcasm, cinnamon_swirlix, astronomyfortwo, Welcius, glowtopia, BriKun, Alyrei, dodocodes.com, StevieCoops, sneeze, Shiny190, TwistedPeach, LavaToaster, capstone, vmario , rocklamp, Alexis, Aeon, and PanchamBro . DIY recipes [ edit ] The following 22 DIY recipes that were added in the 2.0 Free Update can only be obtained through the Happy Home Paradise DLC. Happy Home Paradise DIY recipes in Animal Crossing: New Horizons # Item Image Type Buy price Available from Materials 159 Partition wall Item Not for sale Niko 3× Wood 3× Clay 160 Tall wooden island counter Item Not for sale Niko 3× Wood 3× Hardwood 3× Softwood 161 Low wooden island counter Item Not for sale Niko 2× Wood 2× Hardwood 2× Softwood 162 Wooden pillar Item Not for sale Niko 2× Wood 2× Hardwood 2× Softwood 180 Tall brick island counter Item Not for sale Niko 8× Clay 181 Low brick island counter Item Not for sale Niko 4× Clay 182 Brick pillar Item Not for sale Niko 4× Clay 183 Tall simple island counter Item Not for sale Niko 4× Clay 4× Stone 184 Low simple island counter Item Not for sale Niko 2× Clay 2× Stone 185 Simple pillar Item Not for sale Niko 2× Clay 2× Stone 218 Tall concrete island counter Item Not for sale Niko 6× Stone 2× Iron nugget 219 Low concrete island counter Item Not for sale Niko 3× Stone 1× Iron nugget 220 Concrete pillar Item Not for sale Niko 3× Stone 1× Iron nugget 221 Tall marble island counter Item Not for sale Niko 16× Stone 222 Low marble island counter Item Not for sale Niko 8× Stone 223 Marble pillar Item Not for sale Niko 8× Stone 258 Tall steel island counter Item Not for sale Niko 8× Iron nugget 259 Low steel island counter Item Not for sale Niko 4× Iron nugget 260 Steel pillar Item Not for sale Niko 4× Iron nugget 306 Tall golden island counter Item Not for sale Niko 8× Gold nugget 307 Low golden island counter Item Not for sale Niko 4× Gold nugget 308 Golden pillar Item Not for sale Niko 4× Gold nugget Includes data sourced from the Data Spreadsheet for Animal Crossing New Horizons , compiled and edited by 6480, noizhub, Ricky, chaiinchomp, saberslime, robotic_scarab, mollumisc, sunmarsh , kyrokey, obstinateRixatrix, jackiwi, Zalex, SuperHamster , kait, hyuum, Azarro, Czarcasm, cinnamon_swirlix, astronomyfortwo, Welcius, glowtopia, BriKun, Alyrei, dodocodes.com, StevieCoops, sneeze, Shiny190, TwistedPeach, LavaToaster, capstone, vmario , rocklamp, Alexis, Aeon, and PanchamBro . Work-only Paradise Planning items [ edit ] The following 10 pieces of clothing and 3 mannequins are only available when working for Paradise Planning and cannot be obtained as items. Happy Home Paradise work-only Paradise Planning items in Animal Crossing: New Horizons Item Image Type Buy price Sell price Available from Cozy Paradise Planning coat Clothing Not for sale Cannot be sold Unobtainable Paradise Planning aloha top Clothing Not for sale Cannot be sold Unobtainable Paradise Planning blazer Clothing Not for sale Cannot be sold Unobtainable Paradise Planning dress Clothing Not for sale Cannot be sold Unobtainable Paradise Planning jacket Clothing Not for sale Cannot be sold Unobtainable Paradise Planning maxi Clothing Not for sale Cannot be sold Unobtainable Paradise Planning muumuu Clothing Not for sale Cannot be sold Unobtainable Paradise Planning shirt Clothing Not for sale Cannot be sold Unobtainable Paradise Planning tank top Clothing Not for sale Cannot be sold Unobtainable Paradise Planning tee Clothing Not for sale Cannot be sold Unobtainable Bottoms mannequin Others Not for sale Cannot be sold Unobtainable Head mannequin Others Not for sale Cannot be sold Unobtainable Torso mannequin Others Not for sale Cannot be sold Unobtainable Includes data sourced from the Data Spreadsheet for Animal Crossing New Horizons , compiled and edited by 6480, noizhub, Ricky, chaiinchomp, saberslime, robotic_scarab, mollumisc, sunmarsh , kyrokey, obstinateRixatrix, jackiwi, Zalex, SuperHamster , kait, hyuum, Azarro, Czarcasm, cinnamon_swirlix, astronomyfortwo, Welcius, glowtopia, BriKun, Alyrei, dodocodes.com, StevieCoops, sneeze, Shiny190, TwistedPeach, LavaToaster, capstone, vmario , rocklamp, Alexis, Aeon, and PanchamBro . Characters [ edit ] Special characters [ edit ] Main article: Animal Crossing: New Horizons/Characters Two new special characters are introduced and two return from previous games. New special characters [ edit ] Niko Home designer Wardell Furniture supplier Returning special characters [ edit ] DJ KK DJ Lottie Home designer Gallery [ edit ] For more images, view this subject's gallery . Player Player Player Player DJ KK Lottie Niko Wardell Videos [ edit ] Trailers [ edit ] Presentation (Animal Crossing: New Horizons Direct October 2021) Names in other languages [ edit ] あつまれ どうぶつの森 ハッピーホームパラダイス Atsumare Doubutsu no Mori Happī Hōmu Paradaisu Get Together: Animal Forest Happy Home Paradise 모여봐요 동물의 숲 해피 홈 파라다이스 moyeobwayo dongmul-ui sup haepi hom paradaiseu Gather Together: Animal Forest Happy Home Paradise 集合啦！动物森友会 快乐家乐园 Jíhé la! Dòngwù sēnyǒu huì kuài yuè jiā lèyuán Gather: Animal Forest Happy Home Paradise 集合啦！動物森友會 快樂家樂園 Unknown Notes [ edit ] ↑ Japanese : あつまれ どうぶつの森 ハッピーホームパラダイス Hepburn : Atsumare Doubutsu no Mori Happī Hōmu Paradaisu , Get Together: Animal Forest Happy Home Paradise ↑ 2.0 2.1 Price varies by region. References [ edit ] ↑ Nintendo. "Animal Crossing: New Horizons for Nintendo Switch - Nintendo Game Details" . ↑ Nintendo (October 15, 2021). "Animal Crossing: New Horizons Direct 10.15.2021" . YouTube .  Retrieved October 15, 2021. ↑ Justin (October 15, 2021). "What Happens If You Get Animal Crossing: Happy Home Paradise With Switch Online And Cancel Later" . Animal Crossing World .  Retrieved October 24, 2021. ↑ Nintendo (October 15, 2021). "『あつまれ どうぶつの森』無料アップデート（Ver.2.0）配信と、有料追加コンテンツ『あつまれ どうぶつの森　ハッピーホームパラダイス』の発売が11月5日に決定。" .   Retrieved October 17, 2021. ↑ Nintendo Korea (October 15, 2021). "『모여봐요 동물의 숲』 무료 업데이트(Ver.2.0) 배포와 유료 추가 콘텐츠 『모여봐요 동물의 숲 해피 홈 파라다이스』의 발매가 11월 5일로 결정" .   Retrieved October 17, 2021. External links [ edit ] North American DLC page Japanese DLC page Animal Crossing: New Horizons – Happy Home Paradise Special characters DJ KK Lottie Niko Wardell List of special characters Locations Archipelago Facilities Apparel shop Café Hospital Restaurant School Paradise Planning Gameplay elements Designing Happy Home Network Poki Partition wall Polishing Soundscapes Lists Client information Item lists Furniture Wallpaper Flooring Clothing Bugs Fish Sea creatures Art Gyroids Fossils Other pages NookLink Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack Related media Animal Crossing: New Horizons Category Animal Crossing: New Horizons DLC Distributed items Animal Crossing: New Horizons – Happy Home Paradise New special characters C.J. Daisy Mae Flick Gullivarrr Orville Wilbur List of special characters New villagers Audie Cephalobot Cyd Dom Ione Judy Marlo Megan Petri Quinn Raymond Reneigh Sasha Sherb Shino Tiansheng List of villagers Locations Able Sisters Airport Boat tour Bulletin board Campsite Farway Museum Happy Home Academy Harv's Island Island Jolly Redd's Treasure Trawler Museum Mystery Island Tour Nook's Cranny Player house Resident Services The Roost Villager house Geography, flora, & structures Acre Beach Bridge Flower Incline Pier Plaza Pond River Rock Tree Waterfall Weed Events Nook Shopping seasonal event Birthday Bug-Off Bunny Day Countdown Festivale Fireworks Show Fishing Tourney Halloween International Museum Day Lunar New Year May Day Nature Day New Year's Day Setsubun Shamrock Day Toy Day Turkey Day Valentine's Day Wedding Season New gameplay elements Critterpedia DIY DIY recipes Hemisphere Island Designer Construction Permit Island Life 101 Nook Miles NookPhone Passport Poki Rescue Service Resident Representative Item lists Furniture Housewares Miscellaneous Wall-mounted Ceiling decor Wallpaper Flooring Clothing Tops Bottoms Dress-Up Headwear Shoes Socks Accessories Bags Umbrellas Bugs Fish Sea creatures Art forgeries Gyroids Fossils Other pages Animal Crossing: New Horizons Island Transfer Tool Island backup NookLink Nintendo Switch Prerelease and unused content Animal Crossing: New Horizons Aquarium Tour Related media Atsumare Dōbutsu no Mori: Original Soundtrack Atsumare Dōbutsu no Mori: Original Soundtrack 2 Atsumare Dōbutsu no Mori: Totakeke Music Instrumental Selection NookTails Assemble! Animal Crossing: News from the Carefree Island Animal Crossing: New Horizons - Deserted Island Diary Atsumare Doubutsu no Mori: Minna to Tsukuru Shima Seikatsu Animal Crossing: The Bestest Island Putchigumi Besuto! Atsumare Doubutsu no Mori: Fuwafuwa Shima Update history 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 1.10 1.11 2.0 Category Animal Crossing series Video games Doubutsu no Mori Dòngwù Sēnlín Animal Crossing Doubutsu no Mori+ Animal Island Doubutsu no Mori e+ Doubutsu-tachi to Asobou! Wild World City Folk New Leaf Welcome amiibo New Horizons Happy Home Paradise Spin-off games Happy Home Designer amiibo Festival Pocket Camp ( Pocket Camp Complete ) Applications Icon+Tokei CD-ROM Calculator Clock Plaza Photos with Animal Crossing New Horizons Island Transfer Tool Other media amiibo e-Reader card 🎬 Gekijōban Doubutsu no Mori Manga Soundtracks Related media Mario Kart 8 Sweet Day ( Nintendo Land ) Super Smash Bros. series Melee Brawl for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U Ultimate First generation • Merchandise • External websites • Category Game updates and distributions Distributions Distributed content In Wild World In City Folk In New Leaf In Happy Home Designer In New Horizons Happy Home Network Design Contest Secret code Related topics Dream HH Showcase Message bottle NookLink Unavailable content Connectivity Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection WiiConnect24 Nintendo Network Nintendo Switch Online Nintendo eShop My Nintendo Update history by game New Leaf Welcome amiibo Happy Home Designer Pocket Camp Pocket Camp Complete Animal Crossing: New Horizons update history 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 1.10 1.11 2.0 Happy Home Paradise Category • Project Pocket Camp Retrieved from " https://nookipedia.com/w/index.php?title=Animal_Crossing:_New_Horizons_–_Happy_Home_Paradise&oldid=1189241 " Categories : Animal Crossing: New Horizons – Happy Home Paradise Animal Crossing series Game updates Animal Crossing: New Horizons Hidden categories: Pages using duplicate arguments in template calls Citation needed Navigation Navigation Discord Twitter Instagram Facebook Main page Contents Random page Random item Recent changes API Policy Help New Horizons Updates Happy Home Paradise Villagers Fish Bugs Sea creatures Art forgeries Gyroids Furniture Wallpaper Flooring Clothing DIY/cooking recipes Mystery Islands Boat tours Nook Miles Community Discord Server The Roost Staff noticeboard Proposals Users & staff Online users Contents Games Villagers Special characters Furniture Clothing Locations Events Bugs Fish Sea creatures Fossils Art Tools Music Merchandise Maintenance Tasks Board Wiki maintenance Image requests Images needed Under construction Cleanup Stubs Wiki tools Wiki tools Special pages Page values Page actions Page actions Userpage tools More What links here Related changes Printable version Permanent link Page information Page logs ⧼Advertisement⧽ Categories Categories Animal Crossing: New Horizons – Happy Home Paradise Animal Crossing series Game updates Animal Crossing: New Horizons Hidden categories Pages using duplicate arguments in template calls Citation needed Modified on February 23, 2025, at 10:48. Text content is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license unless otherwise noted. Text content submitted prior to January 1, 2025 is licensed under the CC BY-SA 3.0 Unported license. For uploaded files, please refer to individual file pages for licensing information. When using content from this site, please attribute Nookipedia and link back to this page. Privacy policy About Nookipedia Disclaimers Site Status