Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Early life and education 2 Business career 3 Personal life 4 Awards 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Toggle the table of contents Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen 13 languages العربية Català Dansk Deutsch Español فارسی Français Bahasa Indonesia مصرى Nederlands Polski Русский Simple English Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Danish billionaire and businessman Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen Kristiansen in 2018 Born ( 1947-12-27 ) 27 December 1947 (age 77) Billund , Denmark Alma mater Aarhus University ( BA ) International Institute for Management Development ( MBA ) Title President and CEO of The Lego Group (1979–2004) Spouse Camilla Kristiansen Children Sofie Thomas Agnete Father Godtfred Kirk Christiansen Relatives Ole Kirk Christiansen (grandfather) Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen R.1 ( Danish pronunciation: [ˈkʰelˀ ˈkʰiɐ̯k kʰʁeˈstjænˀsn̩, - kʰʁæˈ-] ; born 27 December 1947) is a Danish businessman who was the president and CEO of The Lego Group from 1979 to 2004. According to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index , Kristiansen is the third richest Dane, with a net worth of US$ 7.92 billion as of March 2025. [ 1 ] He is the grandson of Lego founder Ole Kirk Christiansen . Early life and education [ edit ] Kristiansen was born 27 December 1947 in Billund , Denmark.  His father, Godtfred Kirk Christiansen , worked with his grandfather, Ole Kirk Christiansen , in the family business: Lego .  As a child, he often inspired and tested new model concepts and their building instructions. [ 2 ] He also appeared on many of the company's packages and marketing materials. [ 2 ] Kristiansen graduated with a bachelor's degree from Aarhus University . In 1972, he received an MBA from the International Institute for Management Development in Switzerland. [ 1 ] [ 3 ] Business career [ edit ] In 1979, Kristiansen became president and CEO of The Lego Group . He introduced themes , minifigures , LEGO.com, Lego Mindstorms and licensed properties. [ 2 ] In 2004, he stepped down as president and CEO to focus on his role as owner of the Lego Group and vice-chairman of the board, while maintaining his role as chairman of the board of KIRKBI A/S , Lego Holding A/S and the Lego Foundation. [ 2 ] Lego is privately held and is controlled by the Kristiansen family and their foundations. Personal life [ edit ] Kristiansen and his wife, Camilla, live in Denmark and have three children: Thomas Kirk Kristiansen , Sofie Kirk Kristiansen , and Agnete Kirk Thinggaard , a Danish Olympic dressage rider. [ 4 ] In 1995, Kristiansen bought Strathconon Estate, in the highlands of Scotland, covering 60,000 acres (24,000 ha). He later bought the neighbouring Scardroy and Ledgowan estates. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] Awards [ edit ] He has received many awards in his professional career. Knight 1st Class (Officer) of Denmark's Order of the Dannebrog [ 7 ] 1996: The Freedom Prize from the Max Schmidheiny Foundation [ de ] , Switzerland [ 8 ] 1996: Distinguished Family Business Award from the International Institute for Management Development (IMD), Switzerland [ 9 ] Moran (Peony) insignia of the Order of Civil Merit from the Korean government [ citation needed ] Founder's Award from Dean Kamen [ citation needed ] 2008: he was inducted in the National Toy Hall of Fame . [ 2 ] The Toy Hall of Fame was established in 1984 to recognize those people who have contributed most significantly to the toy industry.  Past inductees include Ole Kirk Christiansen , Kjeld's grandfather and Lego founder, inducted in 1989. [ 10 ] See also [ edit ] List of billionaires References [ edit ] ^ a b "Bloomberg Billionaires Index: Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen" . Bloomberg . 28 April 2024 . Retrieved 28 April 2024 . ^ a b c d e "LEGO Legend Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen to be Inducted into the Toy Hall of Fame" . What's the Buzz . Toy Industry Association . 2008-02-11. Archived from the original on 2008-02-29 . Retrieved 2008-03-01 . ^ "Board" . The LEGO Foundation . Archived from the original on 2020-08-02 . Retrieved 2020-01-08 . ^ Agnete Kirk Thinggaard Archived 2017-10-28 at the Wayback Machine , V.I.P.EDIA – seoghoer.dk ^ "Conservation assurances as prime Highland area becomes part of Lego land. Danish family buys 60,000 acre estate" . The Herald . 13 January 1995. ^ Merritt, Mike (16 October 2017). "Lego family buys Highland estate" . The Times . ^ "SE og HØR - Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen" . SE og HØR . Archived from the original on 31 August 2019 . Retrieved 27 January 2019 . ^ "Freedom Prize Awardees" . Max Schmidheiny Foundation. Archived from the original on 2008-05-13 . Retrieved 2008-03-01 . ^ Moeller, Lise. "Laureates of the last decade" . Institute for Managers and Development. Archived from the original on 2007-10-13 . Retrieved 2008-03-01 . ^ "Toy Industry Hall of Fame" . Toy Industry Association, Inc. Archived from the original on 2008-02-27 . Retrieved 2008-03-01 . External links [ edit ] Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen — BrickWiki article v t e Lego The Lego Group Kirkbi People Kristiansen family Ole Kirk Christiansen Godtfred Kirk Christiansen Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen Thomas Kirk Kristiansen Sofie Kirk Kristiansen Agnete Kirk Thinggaard Notable executives Jørgen Vig Knudstorp Bali Padda Niels Christiansen History Timeline Interlego AG v Tyco Industries Inc Kirkbi AG v Ritvik Holdings Inc Product ranges Current Architecture Art Avatar Batman BrickHeadz Brick Sketches Cars City Creator Icons Modular Buildings Despicable Me Disney Dreamzzz Duplo Dune Education Friends Gabby's Dollhouse Harry Potter Ideas Jurassic World The Lord of the Rings Mario Minecraft Minifigures Monkie Kid Ninjago Overwatch Simpsons Sonic Speed Champions Spider-Man Star Wars Super Heroes Technic Trains Discontinued 4+ Adventurers Agents Alpha Team The Angry Birds Movie Aqua Raiders Aquazone Atlantis Avatar: The Last Airbender Primo / Baby Belville Ben 10: Alien Force Bionicle Castle Dacta DC Super Hero Girls Dino DOTS Elves Exo-Force Fabuland FORMA Fusion Galidor Games Ghostbusters Hero Factory Hidden Side Homemaker Indiana Jones Jack Stone Juniors Legends of Chima The Lego Batman Movie The Lego Movie The Lego Ninjago Movie Life of George The Lone Ranger Mars Mission Mindstorms Mixels Monster Fighters Nexo Knights Ninja Pharaoh's Quest Pirates Pirates of the Caribbean Power Miners The Powerpuff Girls Prince of Persia Racers RoboRiders Rock Raiders Scooby-Doo Space Speed Racer SpongeBob SquarePants Sports Spybotics Stranger Things Studios Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Toy Story Trolls World Tour Ultra Agents Unikitty! Vidiyo Wild West World Racers Znap Other products Games Serious Play Media Films & TV series The Lego Movie franchise Lego Masters Piece by Piece Software Lego Digital Designer Lego Life List of video games Ninjago Lego Club Magazine Lego White Noise Theme parks Legoland Billund California Deutschland Dubai Florida Japan Korea Malaysia New York Sichuan Windsor Legoland Discovery Centre Boston Chicago Dallas Fort Worth Kansas City Toronto Westchester Events BrickCon BrickFair BrickFest Brickfête Brick Fiesta Brickworld FIRST Lego League FIRST Lego League Jr. Robofest In popular culture The Brick Bible " Brick Like Me " A Lego Brickumentary The Lego Story The Toys That Made Us Related companies Bandai BrickLink Epic Games Gameloft Hasbro Mattel Merlin Entertainments Spin Master Tomy TT Games Traveller's Tales WildBrain Studios Other topics BrainPop Brickfilm Clones LDraw Lego fandom Lego House LUGNET Minifigure Hilary Page Tokio Express Violence and Lego Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Kjeld_Kirk_Kristiansen&oldid=1287315184 " Categories : 1947 births Living people Danish businesspeople Danish billionaires Lego people Knights First Class of the Order of the Dannebrog Moran Medals of the Order of Civil Merit (Korea) People from Billund Municipality Kristiansen family International Institute for Management Development alumni Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles with hCards Pages using Template:Post-nominals with customized linking Pages with Danish IPA All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from May 2024 This page was last edited on 25 April 2025, at 12:22 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen 13 languages Add topic