Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/olympics A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to olympics r/olympics r/olympics The Games of the XXXIII Olympiad, the Milano Cortina Winter Games, and everything before and beyond Members Online • Fun_With_Forks PyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympics Memorial Thread The PyeongChang 2018 Olympics were officially opened on Friday, February 9 . During the next 16 days, we were treated to awe-inspiring performances from the world's best athletes, a multitude of triumphs and heartbreaks, and some brilliant underdog stories. As a whole, the Games saw history get made multiple times. Ecuador, Eritrea, Kosovo, Malaysia, Nigeria, and Singapore made their Winter Olympic debuts, and it was the first Winter Games to feature more than 100 medal events. 30 different countries won medals, the highest number for any Winter Olympics ever. With their 39 total medals, Norway broke the record set by the Americans during Vancouver 2010, and alongside Germany, also tied Canada’s gold medal record with 14. The host nation experienced its most successful Winter Olympics yet, winning a record number of 17 medals, more than doubling their haul from Sochi and earning their firsts in bobsleigh, curling, and snowboard. On a more personal note, this was my second time hanging out in the daily megathreads for the entirety of the Games, and like with Rio, they've improved my viewing experience immensely and made these Olympics all the more fun, exciting, and memorable. I’ve had a blast delighting in world-class performances, learning about new events, and cheering on the athletes with you all. These threads have represented the best of the Olympic spirit, bringing people together from around the world to celebrate their love of sport, and were always friendly, welcoming, and encouraging. It's been a pleasure being part of Team No Sleep for these two and a half weeks. Before we get onto the best comments of each day, I also want to highlight and give thanks to specific users for their contributions to the threads: • First off, a HUGE shout-out to u/cptcaffeine and u/bekkahthecactus18 for their amazingly detailed write-ups on figure skating and biathlon, respectively; these were fantastic resources for new fans • u/ABirdofParadise , u/SpoonThief , u/ARandomCdn and u/masterhaldentwo for their Streamables and GIFs of events • The following users who created frequent medal previews for their countries: u/MethoxyEthane for Canada, u/AlmostWrongSometimes for Australia, u/crowd79 for USA, and u/Vitosi4ek for Russia I’d also like to thank everyone who’s helped correct mistakes in the daily Highlights and People to Watch section and kept me updated on scheduling changes; anyone who answered another user's questions about a sport they were unfamiliar with, no matter how silly or repetitive they were; and the mods (especially u/IvyGold ) for all their hard work. Top Comments of the Daily Threads DAY -1 MEGATHREAD "Mixed Doubles Curling is the perfect appetizer for this two week feast. HYPE!" - u/geoffreyh76 "Team USA siblings Becca and Matt Hamilton start what could be a very busy 2 weeks for both at Gangneung Curling Centre" - u/Nickp1991 "Hi everyone!!!! I'm so happy to be back here watching the Olympics with you all! I missed everyone since Rio! Totally loving this Alpine Skiing!" - u/LaternaLux "I’m minus 16 hours from Korea. My brain will be stressed the next two weeks figuring out when stuff is on." - u/AngrySnwMnky "What a collapse by Canada! Morris threw about 6 terrible stones in a row to lose it." - sportsfan14137 DAY 0 MEGATHREAD "“That is the worst program I have ever seen from Nathan Chen” This announcer guy is merciless." - u/jogarz What happens to the weak? They die. Fucking harsh bro." - u/wolfystache "I just had a feeling with NBC hyping Chen so much that he’d have a bad fall." - u/ddottay "My weeaboo heart is so here for Team Japan's song choice." - u/curehappy "Yuri On Ice soundtrack LUL Japan is going full weeb" - u/Baconlightning OPENING CEREMONY MEGATHREAD "I don’t know what’s more unifying from reading this thread. North & South Korea marching together or the realisation that everyone seems to hate whoever the Olympic broadcaster is in their country." - u/Redditaurus-Rex "Bermuda: We wear shorts! Tonga: Hold my oil" - u/PM_Me_SaltyNintendos "I can't believe the French lady said : "3 boys and 2 girls, women's rights in Korea are still quite behind"... Girl, there are 5 rings, they can't get 2.5 boys and 2.5 girls." - u/Mystras "“Madagascar - the name of a great series of kids’ movies” - THE FUCK BASIL" - u/quizoola "German commentator couldnt translate the speech because they didnt expect it to be in korean. Good job guys." - u/zombiejh DAY ONE MEGATHREAD "I'm already embracing the Olympic spirit of "I watch this sport for a couple hours every 4 years but am a complete expert in judging it"." - u/dGhleSBoYXZlIG5vIHdv "On the Australian broadcast we've just had a momentous moment! We've had the first instance of a commentator saying Pyongyang instead of Pyeongchang" - u/CommanderSpastic "Oh my god, this kid was born in 2002 and is at the Olympics" - u/Nixon4Prez "NBC “We could’ve aired this in the morning on one of our channels but nah.”" - u/Nickp1991 "While we're in a bit of a lull, I just want to express how excited I am to be back here with you guys. This was my favorite part of Rio!" - u/swimfellow DAY TWO MEGATHREAD "I would be a shitty slopestyle judge Everything that i think is a gold medal performance is either shit or average" - u/zquest13 "Absolutely loving having a community here to discuss the olympic events with, especially since it's with people from all different countries. Keep being awesome everyone" - u/bodnast "I love the freestyle skiiers and snowboarders because they all seem like friends even outside of country allegiances" - u/changpowpow "Luge makes me nervous, one butt cramp away from death." - u/kiplightbringer "My missus has come home after a couple nights away and has seen me, assimilating into the couch with chip flakes all over me, watching three games of curling at once. The house is also a mess. I am in trouble." - u/yeahnahteambalance DAY THREE MEGATHREAD "Me before watching ice skating: It's kind of boring, and they just spin around. What's the big deal? Me during ice skating: The Machiavellian endurance to surrender yourself to the sins and temptation of the bold only to conquer the stability and strength of the graceful swan is the most beautiful vision I've ever seen" - u/mikesituation45 "The slopestyle final should be really fun. Qualifying was cancelled, so all 27 women got an automatic berth in the final. Edit: That was a gongshow." - u/MethoxyEthane "People watching figure skating: OMG! That was soooo beautiful! People watching slope style: SHEEEEET SON!! SHE DEAD!" - u/pinstripepride46 "Fuck, that program from Scott and Tessa made me proud to be a Canadian but I'm American." - u/chornu "I've just decided that Mark McMorris should be the Canada flag bearer for the closing ceremonies" - u/Nickp1991 DAY FOUR MEGATHREAD "Today is officially "America Falls in Love with Chloe Kim Day"" - u/jrainiersea "Lol the commentator “I have a bronze at home and sometimes if the light hits it right it looks like a gold”" - u/idumbam "dude just called the russians "Soviets" on NBC lol" - u/Jdahms ""Chloe Kim was so ahead of the pack, when Mark Zuckerburg invented Facebook, there was a Candy Crush notification waiting for him from her!" fuckin lol" - u/PoliceAlarm "Are Americans so good in snowboard because they use it to go to work ?" - u/Mystras DAY FIVE MEGATHREAD "Lol at the people bitching about Shaun White letting the flag touch the ground. He just won a gold medal in his final run with a near perfect score, i can promise you no one in that situation would give a fuck about the flag touching the snow." - u/TCanada808 "Update: Japanese spokesman says Yuto injured his hip and is fully conscious - no head or neck injury" - u/bubthefish "Shaun white fucking sent it and we can't get a single fucking replay." - u/BheaWeber "Hirano is taking the gold in 2022. The dude is so fucking good. Realized what needed to be done and he did. Huge respect to him." - u/Lefty2215 "I wish the dudes in figure skating would also wear some booty shorts. Would keep things spicy" - u/fuk_dapolice DAY SIX MEGATHREAD "I just want to say I've really enjoyed discussing the Olympics here, everybody is so friendly to each other and really helpful when people like myself ask dumb questions about different events and competitions. Just a lot of positive vibes all around, except when the topic is NBC's coverage lol." - u/jrainiersea "We need a Winter Pentathlon: alpine downhill, 5km cross-country skiing, 1500m speedskating, 1 luge run and 5km biathlon. Shortest combined time wins gold and is known as the best all-around winter sports athlete in the entire world." - u/crowd79 "Lol at the Canadian women skater "YOU FUCKING DID IT"" - u/thehildabeast "We are truly blessed that Candyman did not make the podium." - u/chivere "Congratulations Germany, I'm happy for them. I love the Canadians' reaction too, that was some great, genuine sportsmanship." - u/joggle1 DAY SEVEN MEGATHREAD "This is the gayest routine I've ever seen and I mean that in the absolute best possible way. It's glorious." - u/youthdecay "mens figure skating makes me wanna buy a glittery shirt and tell my father to just let me fly" - u/AssHat_McGee_ "Jesus Christ, let the guy choke in peace. He's fucking 18 years old, why you gotta interview him right after his performance, NBC..." - u/ss_lmtd "Who even invented Skeleton "Hey dude wanna go 120km/h on top of 3ft long razor blades on a solid sheet of ice?" "Doesnt that sound dangerous?" "Nah dont worry you'll have a helmet"" - u/TCanada808 "I just want to say that most of you folks are pretty funny and helpful and I'm pretty glad that I can enjoy the Olympics with you, since I don't have friends who are interested in watching the games." - u/iyashiK DAY EIGHT MEGATHREAD "Adam Rippon is an emotional support peacock." - u/wolfystache "215 points!! Holy shit! That's your redemption story in one Olympics. Attaboy, Nathan." - u/ChasingPerfect28 "If I wake up at 6am to watch Team Canada's women's curling team lose to the US I will be perturbed." - u/LeafFan13 "Top 10 Anime Comebacks" - u/ultimaweapon51 "Liechtenstein fun fact: they sent 80 troops to a war in 1866, and returned with 81, as an Italian soldier decided to return with them." - u/emmerick DAY NINE MEGATHREAD "Gotta love the American broadcast measuring everything in football fields and statues of liberty. Just waiting for them to tell us how fast a bobsled is in multiples of bald eagle cruising speed." - u/hitlama "I fucking hate equestrian events being included in summer Olympics, but I would be more inclined to care less about it if Winter Olympics were to introduce a dog-sledding race." - u/AlmostWrongSometimes "See that? He fell off one rail early, missed two grabs, gives 76. It doesn't help doing a Double McCheese with extra fries and a large milkshake if you can't land your grabs people. Trust me, I'm an expert since about 20 minutes ago." - u/cstrande7 "Norway is so good at skiing because all of their roads are ski slopes. Just like the Netherlands use the frozen rivers to travel. /s" - u/Sh1g "The Winter Olympics are an event where everyone skis a lot and in the end Norway wins." - u/FoodCourtDruid DAY TEN MEGATHREAD "The most amazing thing with the Shib Sibs is that Alex doesn't drop his sister on purpose as a way of getting back at her for some asshole thing she did when she was 8, like I would with my sister." - u/ContinuumGuy "Virtue & Moir dialed back the moves to be less sexually explicit Papadakis & Cizeron whip a nipple out" - u/Choco316 "My dad just yelled “Your twizzles are shit!” at the tv" - u/changpowpow "How can it be day 10 already!" - u/fragglerock "And now we go from "Damn Canadians and their crazy sexual tension" to "oh God please no sexual tension"" - u/Semper-Fido DAY ELEVEN MEGATHREAD "Me, laying on the couch in my pyjamas, eating gummy bears: "she didn't get a lot of height on her jumps"" - u/miller94 "Don't get your hopes up for Ice Dance because Norway is just going to come out of nowhere and take Gold in that event too." - u/Tigerkem "I don't see how anyone can find their routines gross. They're not sexual at all. They have great familial chemistry." - u/changpowpow "CANADIAN PRAYER CIRCLE! THINK GOOD THOUGHTS! BEAVERTAILS! HOCKEY! HEALTHCARE!" - u/nuclear_muffins " Medley , by Various Artists? That's my favorite!" - u/Vike_Me DAY TWELVE MEGATHREAD "Vonn: (smiling) I’m happy, promised myself I wouldn’t cry, great time here! NBC reporter: your grandfather died, this is your last olympics Vonn: cries" - u/schoolairplane "I really don't get all the Vonn hate. Woman has been through hell with injuries and fought her ass off to get back to form." - u/Mallorum "reminder that Karen Chen once posed with Nathan Chen and used the hashtag #2Chenz" - u/verbutten "I see NBC is back to exploiting athletes to make them talk about their dead relatives." - u/hungry4danish "fucking johnny weir thinks he's so good when he failed to sign a treaty to stop the trade federation blockade of naboo." - u/OtterInAustin DAY THIRTEEN MEGATHREAD "Just got a Wall Street Journal notification: "Are the Winter Olympics too long?" No, the answer is no" - u/YoungKeys "UGH TWO HOURS UNTIL THIS THREAD BECOMES A NORTH AMERICAN THUNDERDOME" - u/True-Tiger "Fun fact about the salt that is coming between us and Canada: the chemical formula for table salt is NaCl. Obviously, NA is also North America. The CL stands for Canada Loses." - u/emmerick "If Canada wins, I will think "Yes". If USA wins, I will think "No"." - u/Sportemulo ""For these women this is the biggest period they'll have for 4 years" Uh. PHRASING" - u/Halexi DAY FOURTEEN MEGATHREAD "That's such bullshit. Someone go and congratulate Alina. She's 15, just won the gold medal, and gets the most partial cheer and has to celebrate by herself." - u/ballz92 "Gold: I'm the best in the world! Silver: I was almost the best in the world... Bronze: I could have been in 4th, I got a medal!" - u/alflup "For all you guys who watch figure skating every 4 years, you should absolutely watch it during the regular season too! That way you can feel this level of emotional devastation all the time! :D" - u/cptcaffeine "A 15 year old, just called an audible to add a triple lutz on the fly. Fuuuuuuck" - u/Choco316 "I feel like Osmond is the happiest of the 3 top finishers lol" - u/squeakyL DAY FIFTEEN MEGATHREAD "All I've watched is the olympics the last two weeks, I don't know what Im going to do with my life once it's over." - u/caityb34 "I've been a member of Team No Sleep for the last two weeks, and today I ended up taking a nap in the lunch room at noon. This is starting to catch up with me." - u/avsfan1933 "Was reading that the South Korean women's curling team doesn't know that they've become worldwide meme's/phenomenons since their coach took away their phones for these Olympics so they could focus. Hope they win gold and can't wait to see their reactions to their newfound fame." - u/YoungKeys "Ester Ledecka, over a second faster than the second best in the first qualification run after already winning gold with skiing. That’s insane." - u/Flatsh "One medal for 140 000 habitants. You are sick, Norway." - u/KolegaCzlowieka DAY SIXTEEN MEGATHREAD "It’s been a honor talking shit to other countries with you guys." - u/TCanada808 "And a hush goes over the internet while trying to figure out how to react to a 15 year old in a tight tiger suit dancing to sexy music" - u/Choco316 "You can't retire yet. You haven't professed your love to each other yet, VIRTUEMOIR." - u/hubwub "Damn it scott, you were supposed to kiss her" - u/miller94 "HAHAHA SCOTT TRYING TO FIGURE OUT THE CHOREOGRAPHY BECAUSE HE GOT DRUNK AND SKIPPED" - u/Choco316 CLOSING CEREMONY MEGATHREAD "Evgenia Medvedeva might have been robbed for gold, but at least her fangirl dreams came true! ." - u/CountyKildare "Just want to say it's been an absolute pleasure watching with everyone, it really enhances the viewing experience. Now to be a little less sleep deprived and return to being a lurker." - geoffryb "Wtf I love K-Pop now" - u/ljb23 "We will never be let down in knowing that Thomas Bach is the IOC President but also gold medal winner for fencing in 1976." - u/hubwub "My parents want to make our yearly family vacation in 2020 the Tokyo olympics and go for the opening ceremony and stay for the entire 2 weeks. I just died" - u/Drmize Highlights from the Games I've tried my best to feature moments from across a range of sports and nations, but I know there’s a lot of incredible stuff I’m missing, so please feel free to tell me your own favourite memories in the comments. Also, if you have GIFs/Streamables of any of these moments, please include them in a comment so I can add them to the post. For those wanting to relive the Games or continue following an event they fell in love with, the Olympic Channel is a great resource, as is the sidebar featuring sport-specific subreddits. FUNNY/LIGHTHEARTED MOMENTS Chloe Kim tweeting about while waiting for her third run Ghanaian skeleton athlete Akwasi Frimpong dancing after runs Three different pairs dancing to Despacito during the short dance (and Kurt Browning mistakenly calling it "Desperado") Freestyle skiier Devin Logan's tiny hand Javi Fernandez's Aerobics Class gala program (I can't find a link to the Olympics version but it's pretty much the same) A squirrel runs onto the parallel giant slalom course and almost gets run over Mr. T's curling tweets Figure skaters pretending to be speed skaters Aussie shitposting during moguls and aerials, and complaining about Basil en masse during the Opening Ceremonies thread South Korean pair Alex Kam and Kyueun Kim's double sunglasses in the exhibition gala Team Canada singing along to Celine Dion on a bus The inevitable rain of Winnie the Pooh plushies after each Yuzuru Hanyu performance The Gangneung Ice Arena Hype Woman, woooo! Drunk Scott Moir yelling at the referees in the woman's hockey gold medal game Craig McMorris's hilarious and infectiously enthusiastic commentary in the snowboarding events French fans playing La Marseillaise on the trumpet whenever their athletes won a medal in cross-country or biathlon Elizabeth Swaney's infamous runs in the ski halfpipe Darya Domracheva's Belorussian flag getting blown away as she crossed the biathlon women's relay finish line in first Brendan Newby screaming "IT'S DINNER TIME" before each of his ski halfpipe runs Pita Taufatofua returning in all his oily glory during both the Opening and Closing Ceremonies All the Bachposting in the Closing Ceremony thread HEARTBREAKING/BITTERSWEET MOMENTS Sven Kramer unable to make the podium in the 10,000m and capture the one medal that still eludes in him in his final Olympics Evgenia Medvedeva giving it her all and tying Alina Zagitova's score in the free skate, but still falling short due to points differences from their short programs Lindsey Jacobellis coming in fourth after leading for most of the race in the snowboard cross Elise Christie's continued bad luck at the Olympics Alex Harvey finishing fourth in his last Olympic race, the gruelling 50km mass start Brutal injuries in the half-pipe and ski cross events Teresa Stadlober losing out on a medal because she accidentally went the wrong way in the women's 30km mass start Noh Seon-yeong getting ostracized by her team pursuit teammates both during and after the race Paulina Fialkova needing to ski four penalty loops in the biathlon mixed relay after only hitting one target, losing track of how many she had left, and getting additional time penalties Felix Loch making a huge error at the end of his fourth run to fall out of medal contention in luge 500m gold medallist Nao Kodaira comforting home favourite silver medallist Lee Sang-hwa after the latter was unable to defend her title from Sochi IMMORTAL MOMENTS Drones forming the Olympic rings in the Opening Ceremonies Team Korea marching together under a unified flag Yuna Kim lighting the Olympic cauldron Chloe Kim posts a 98.25 on her third run and victory lap in the halfpipe Shaun White posting a 98.50 in his last run to secure a gold medal after falling into silver medal position Ester Ledecka becoming the first female Winter Olympian to win gold in two separate sports at a single Games, following her huge upset in the alpine skiing super-G and her decisive victory in the snowboarding parallel grand slalom The entire figure skating program: Team Canada giving its retiring athletes a great send-off with gold in the Team Event; Aliona Savchenko finally winning gold in her fifth Olympics after a huge world record-setting comeback in the free skate following a mistake in the short program; Yuzuru Hanyu defending gold in his first competition back from injury and Nathan Chen's redemption; Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir reclaiming gold and setting a personal best by more than four points in the free dance along the way; and the nail-bitingly close battle between Evgenia Medvedeva and Alina Zagitova featuring multiple world record-setting skates South Korea's "Garlic Girls" (and their adorable breakfast food nicknames) topping the round round standings with just one loss and winning silver in curling, becoming international icons in the process John Shuster's incredible shot to score five and clinch the curling gold medal for the USA Ski jumper Noriaki Kasai becoming the first athlete to participate in eight different Winter Olympics Nigeria making history as Africa's first bobsleigh team German Madrazo crossing the finish line with a Mexican flag, celebrating with the other late-finishers, and being congratulated by gold medallist Dario Cologna The American women's hockey team finally beating Canada in the gold medal match after losses to them in 2010 and 2014 Germany's Cinderella run in men's hockey, defeating Sweden and Canada en route to a silver medal Martin Fourcade's three golds in the biathlon: missing only one shot in the 12.5km pursuit and winning by 12 seconds, the photo finish with Simon Schempp in the 15km mass start, and overcoming a 30-second deficient in the last leg in the mixed relay Two 16 year olds, Zoi Sadowski-Synnott and Nico Porteous, tripling New Zealand's total Winter Olympics medal haul in one day with bronzes in big air and ski halfpie, respectively The Dutch podium sweep in the women's 3000m, the Norwegian podium sweep in the men's 30k skiathlon, and the German podium sweep in Nordic combined's large hill/10km event Mark McMorris winning bronze in slopestyle only 11 months after suffering near-fatal injuries in a snowboarding accident Iivo Niskanen winning gold in the 50km with a sprint finish despite being in pain from cramps Johannes Klaebo winning the sprint and becoming the youngest ever male cross-country skiing Olympic gold medallist The dramatic finish in the team sprint which saw Kikkan Randall and Jessica Diggins becoming the first American cross-country skiers to win gold Marit Bjorgen winning gold in the 30km after leading for almost the entire race, increasing her total medal count to 15 and becoming the most decorated Winter Olympics athlete ever Ireen Wust finishing on top of the podium in the 1500m and becoming the first athlete to win an individual gold medal in four consecutive Winter Olympics Hungary winning its first ever Winter Olympics gold, and first Winter Olympics medal since 1980 in the men's short track speed skating 5000m relay The South Korean relay team falling early in the 3000m semifinals, but coming back to set an Olympic record Choi Min-jeong winning gold in the 1500m after getting disqualified in the 500m Lee Sang-ho winning his parallel giant slalom semifinal by 0.01 seconds to secure South Korea's first medal on snow Real-life Iron Man Yun Sung-bin winning South Korea's first skeleton gold (and first ever medal on the sliding track) Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 26, 2018 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 2018 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2018 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics