Director Bryan Singer Responds to Being Fired From Queen Biopic Skip to main content Skip to site footer Trending: Artists Not in the Rock Hall Bad Company Reacts to Rock Hall '70s Bands That Should Be Bigger New Rock Hall of Fame Inductees Top 10 '80s Rolling Stones Songs Phish's Rock Hall of Fame Snub Home News Reviews Pop Culture Lists Songs Videos Rock History UCR APP UCR Merchandise The UCR Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Search The Site Director Bryan Singer Responds to Being Fired From Queen Biopic Jeff Giles Jeff Giles Published: December 5, 2017 Yuriko Nakao / Hulton Archive, Getty Images SHARE TWEET Striking back against rumors surrounding his allegedly erratic conduct on the set, director Bryan Singer has issued a statement claiming he was terminated from the upcoming Queen biopic Bohemian Rhapsody because the studio refused to let him care for a sick parent. As previously reported , production was unexpectedly halted after Thanksgiving, with Singer's temporary unavailability cited as the reason for the holdup. Several days later, Fox announced he'd been removed from the project; according to rumors reported by film industry trades Variety and The Hollywood Reporter , the set had devolved into "chaos," and Singer's relationship with star Rami Malek had turned openly confrontational. Singer's firing is just the latest in a series of setbacks for the long-gestating project, which churned through creative talent and prospective stars for years before finally landing Malek in the leading role of late Queen singer Freddie Mercury . But according to Singer, rumors of a troubled set are unfounded; as he sees it, he was let go for making what appears to be an eminently reasonable request. Insisting he "wanted nothing more" than to see Bohemian Rhapsody to completion — and "honor the legacy of Freddie Mercury and Queen" by doing so — Singer said Fox refused to let him "temporarily put my health, and the health of my loved ones, first." " Bohemian Rhapsody is a passion project of mine. With fewer than three weeks to shoot remaining, I asked Fox for some time off so I could return to the U.S. to deal with pressing health matters concerning one of my parents," wrote Singer. "This was a very taxing experience, which ultimately took a serious toll on my own health. Unfortunately, the studio was unwilling to accommodate me and terminated my services. This was not my decision and it was beyond my control." Additionally, Singer claimed that while he and Malek did have "creative differences" at points during the shoot, they'd been settled by the time Singer was relieved of his duties as director. Whatever the truth of the matter might be, the end result is the same: a movie that's struggled to find its way to theaters will have to work its way through at least one more round of woes before — or if — filming finally wraps. Everything You Need to Know About the New Queen Movie Next: Top 10 Queen Songs Filed Under : Queen Categories : News More From Ultimate Classic Rock Roy Thomas Baker, Queen and the Cars Producer, Dies at 78 Roy Thomas Baker, Queen and the Cars Producer, Dies at 78 Brian May Joins Benson Boone for ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ at Coachella Brian May Joins Benson Boone for ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ at Coachella Brian May Admits He Was ‘Nervous as Hell’ Pitching Songs to Queen Brian May Admits He Was ‘Nervous as Hell’ Pitching Songs to Queen 1980’s 14 Most Important Rock Tours 1980’s 14 Most Important Rock Tours Top 10 Queen ’70s Songs Top 10 Queen ’70s Songs Ranking Every Queen Live Album Ranking Every Queen Live Album The Biggest-Selling Rock Album of 2024 May Surprise You The Biggest-Selling Rock Album of 2024 May Surprise You Brian May Recalls Early ‘Unnerving’ Moments With Freddie Mercury Brian May Recalls Early ‘Unnerving’ Moments With Freddie Mercury Why Every Single Drum Hit Was Changed on ‘Queen I’ Reissue Why Every Single Drum Hit Was Changed on ‘Queen I’ Reissue Information Advertise with Us Terms Contest Rules Privacy Policy Accessibility Statement Exercise My Data Rights Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Contact Follow Us Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter 2025 Ultimate Classic Rock , Townsquare Media, Inc . All rights reserved.