Sepp Blatter says choosing Qatar to host World Cup was ‘a mistake’ | World Cup 2022 | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us Football Live scores Tables Fixtures Results Competitions Clubs Sepp Blatter announces in December 2010 that Qatar will host the 2022 World Cup. Photograph: Walter Bieri/EPA View image in fullscreen Sepp Blatter announces in December 2010 that Qatar will host the 2022 World Cup. Photograph: Walter Bieri/EPA World Cup 2022 This article is more than 2 years old Sepp Blatter says choosing Qatar to host World Cup was ‘a mistake’ This article is more than 2 years old Former Fifa president claims country ‘too small’ and ‘bad choice’ Blatter blames votes of Platini and Uefa colleagues for outcome Paul MacInnes Tue 8 Nov 2022 08.47 EST Last modified on Wed 9 Nov 2022 00.10 EST Share Handing the World Cup to Qatar was a “mistake” and a “bad choice” according to the former Fifa president Sepp Blatter , who has repeated claims the decision was a result of secret political pressure. Blatter says the tournament was handed to the Gulf state because of the actions of the former Uefa president, Michel Platini, under pressure from France’s then president, Nicolas Sarkozy. “For me it is clear: Qatar is a mistake. The choice was bad,” Blatter told the Swiss newspaper Tages-Anzeiger . “At the time, we actually agreed in the executive committee that Russia should get the 2018 World Cup and the USA that of 2022. It would have been a gesture of peace if the two longstanding political opponents had hosted the World Cup one after the other.” Qatar World Cup ambassador criticised for ‘harmful’ homosexuality comments Read more Asked why Qatar was a bad choice, Blatter made no mention of the human rights concerns that have hung over the tournament, but said: “It’s too small a country. Football and the World Cup are too big for that.” Blatter said that Fifa’s plans were disrupted by Platini, claiming the Frenchman was instrumental in directing four votes from European countries to Qatar , after pressure from Sarkozy. “Thanks to the four votes of Platini and his [Uefa] team, the World Cup went to Qatar rather than the United States. It’s the truth,” Blatter said of the 14-8 voting result against the US in the final two. “Platini told me he had been invited to the Élysée Palace, where French president Sarkozy had just had lunch with the Crown Prince of Qatar,” Blatter said. “Sarkozy said to Platini: ‘See what you and your colleagues from Uefa can do for Qatar when the World Cup is awarded.’ I then asked him: ‘And now?’” According to Blatter, when he queried this, Platini’s response was: “‘Sepp, what would you do if your president asked you for something?’ I then told him that the question didn’t arise for me because we don’t have a president in Switzerland.” View image in fullscreen Michel Platini shakes hands with Nicolas Sarkozy (left) in 2010. Photograph: Philippe Desmazes/AFP/Getty Images Platini was questioned by French officials in 2019 as part of an investigation into the 2022 bidding process. The former France player acknowledges that the meeting with Sarkozy took place but denies his votes were influenced. In 2013 he told the Guardian : “I knew Sarkozy wanted the people from Qatar to buy PSG. I understood that Sarkozy supported the candidature of Qatar. But he never asked me, or to vote for Russia [for 2018]. He knows my personality. I always vote for what is good for football. Not for myself, not for France.” Sarkozy has previously chosen not to comment on the World Cup allegations. Blatter, in his first interview since he and Platini were acquitted of fraud in July – although that verdict is the subject of an appeal – also struck out against his replacement at Fifa, criticising Gianni Infantino for living in Qatar in the buildup to the tournament. skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Football Daily Free daily newsletter Kick off your evenings with the Guardian's take on the world of football Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion Quick Guide Ecuador 'not consulted' over moving World Cup opener Show The Ecuador head coach, Gustavo Alfaro, has criticised the decision to bring the World Cup's opening match between his side and hosts Qatar forward by a day, and claimed they were not consulted about the move. The 2022 World Cup was scheduled to begin with Senegal v Netherlands on 21 November, but organisers decided it would be better for the hosts to kick off the tournament, so the Group A game was moved to Sunday. 'I have one day less of preparation,' Alfaro told a news conference on Tuesday. 'We were overtaken. We were not consulted if there was any problem in bringing forward the match.' The coach also claimed Qatar's players have been able to train together for five months with their national championship suspended. Ecuador's participation in the World Cup has been clouded by controversy after Chile and Peru accused them of fielding an ineligible player in qualifying. On Tuesday, the court of arbitration for sport (Cas) ruled that Byron Castillo is eligible to play for Ecuador. The South American side, who finished third in Conmebol qualifying, will be deducted three points in qualifying for 2026. After Cas accepted Castillo was born in Colombia and that false information about his date and place of birth had been used to get an Ecuadorian passport. Reuters Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback. Infantino moved from Switzerland to Doha last year and Blatter suggested the move could compromise Infantino’s decisions. “What I’m wondering: why is the new Fifa president living in Qatar?” Blatter said. “He can’t be the head of the local World Cup organisation. That’s not his job. There are two organising committees for this – a local one and one from Fifa. “The Fifa president should have the ultimate supervision. An example: there is a proposal to set up a fund for the deceased workers and the bereaved. Qatar says no. What should Fifa say if their president is in the same boat as Qatar?” Infantino has made a declared priority of increasing transparency within Fifa since Blatter’s 40-year era at the organisation ended in several claims of corruption and the arrest of multiple Fifa officials by the FBI. Blatter, asked by Tages-Anzeiger of his opinion of Infantino, said: “He’s a disrespectful person to me.” Fifa has been approached for comment. Explore more on these topics World Cup 2022 Sepp Blatter Michel Platini Fifa Football politics World Cup Qatar news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Qatar reviewing London investments after TfL bans its adverts – report 25 Nov 2022 German football federation to take legal action over Fifa’s OneLove armband ban 22 Nov 2022 LGBTQ+ groups condemn Fifa over OneLove armband sanctions threat 21 Nov 2022 World Cup stadium workers ‘had their money stolen and lives ruined’, says rights group 10 Nov 2022 FTSE 100 firms hand billions in dividend payouts to Qatar investors 10 Nov 2022 England LGBTQ+ fans’ group criticises David Beckham over World Cup role 9 Nov 2022 'Stop the hypocrisy': LGBTQ+ activists protest at Fifa museum before World Cup – video 8 Nov 2022 Qatar World Cup ambassador criticised for ‘harmful’ homosexuality comments 8 Nov 2022 Six out of 10 people in UK oppose Qatar hosting World Cup over anti-gay laws 7 Nov 2022 Most viewed Most viewed Football Live scores Tables Fixtures Results Competitions Clubs News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)