How to Start a Local or Online Multiplayer Game (Splatoon 2) | Nintendo Support Your browser either does not have JavaScript enabled or does not appear to support enough features of JavaScript to be used well on this site. Support Customer Support Search Search Search My Support Dashboard Error Code Notifications Check Repair Status Nintendo eShop Purchase History Nintendo Switch Family Using & Troubleshooting Games & Apps Parental Controls Internet Connection Nintendo Switch Online Other Systems Nintendo Sound Clock: Alarmo Game & Watch Classic Edition Series Wii & Wii mini Wii U Nintendo 3DS Family Nintendo DSi Family Nintendo DS Family Accounts & My Nintendo Nintendo Account & NNID My Nintendo Network Status Digital Purchases Nintendo eShop Check Nintendo Online Store Order Network Status Repair Start Troubleshooting Find Your Repair Check Warranty Status Repair FAQ Top articles How to Transfer Digital Games / Nintendo Accounts Between Nintendo Switch Consoles Friend List on Nintendo Systems and Apps How to Redownload Nintendo Switch eShop Content How to Manage Auto-Renewal Settings for Pokémon HOME Premium Plan Subscription How to Redeem a DLC Download Code (Pokémon Sword Expansion Pass or Pokémon Shield Expansion Pass) Not Receiving V-Bucks After Renewing Crew Subscription (Fortnite) Top articles How to Transfer Digital Games / Nintendo Accounts Between Nintendo Switch Consoles Friend List on Nintendo Systems and Apps How to Redownload Nintendo Switch eShop Content How to Manage Auto-Renewal Settings for Pokémon HOME Premium Plan Subscription How to Redeem a DLC Download Code (Pokémon Sword Expansion Pass or Pokémon Shield Expansion Pass) Not Receiving V-Bucks After Renewing Crew Subscription (Fortnite) Nintendo Switch Family Games & Apps How to Start a Local or Online Multiplayer Game (Splatoon 2) Applies to: Nintendo Switch Family, Nintendo Switch, Nintendo Switch Lite, Nintendo Switch - OLED Model In this article, you'll learn how to set up a multiplayer game in Splatoon 2 . Note The multiplayer modes in Splatoon 2 require that each player have their own Nintendo Switch system and copy of the game. (Split-screen multiplayer is not available.) The Splatoon 2 Online Lounge feature of the Nintendo Switch Online app was discontinued on July 28, 2021. Which game mode do you want to play? League Battle: 2 - 4 Players (Online Multiplayer) Ranked Battle: 8 Players (Online Multiplayer) Regular Battle: 8 Players (Online Multiplayer) Friends match: 2 Players (Online Multiplayer) Private Battle: 2 - 10 Players (Online Multiplayer) Private Battle: 2 - 8 Players (Local Multi-Card Play) Salmon Run: 2 - 4 Players (Local Multi-Card Play) LAN Play: 2 - 10 Players (Online LAN Multiplayer) League Battle: 2 - 4 Players (Online Multiplayer) Players ranked B- or higher can play for keeps with your Squid Squad. From Inkopolis Square, press the X Button to bring up the menu, then select The Lobby in the Map section. Select League Battle . (This is only available to players ranked B- or higher). Select Yeah! Choose the battle mode you want to play. Follow the onscreen instructions to begin the battle. Ranked Battle: 8 Players (Online Multiplayer) Players level 10+ can face off in a ranked battle. From Inkopolis Square, press the X Button to bring up the menu, then select The Lobby in the Map section. Select Ranked Battle . (This is only available to players ranked 10+). Select Yeah! Choose the battle mode you want to play. The system will search for other players. Once 8 players have joined, the battle will begin! Regular Battle: 8 Players (Online Multiplayer) Play Turf War with players from all over the world. From Inkopolis Square, press the X Button to bring up the menu, then select The Lobby in the Map section. Select Ranked Battle . (This is only available to players ranked 10+). Select Yeah! The system will search for other players. Once 8 players have joined, the battle will begin! Friends match: 2 Players (Online Multiplayer) Join friends in an online battle. From Inkopolis Square, press the X Button to bring up the menu, then select The Lobby in the Map section. Select Friends . A list of your Friends will appear. Friends that you can join will say Joinable by their name. Friends not currently online will be greyed out and can’t be selected. If you see the message You can’t join that friend , it means they are not currently participating in a battle that you can join. Select a Joinable friend, then select Yeah! The system will search for other players. Once 8 players have joined, the battle will begin! Private Battle: 2 - 10 Players (Online Multiplayer) Set the mode, stage & teams in an online battle with friends. From Inkopolis Square, press the X Button to bring up the menu, then select The Lobby in the Map section. Select Private Battle . One Player ( Player 1 ) needs to create the Room. Have Player 1 press the Y Button ( Create a Room ). Choose Yeah! to continue without a password, or press the Y Button to set a password on the room. (The password option requires you create and share a 3-digit PIN with anyone who wants to join the room.) Use the options on the left side of the Lobby screen to adjust the stage and mode as desired. Once the Room is created, all other players need to Join the Room. Player 1’s name should now say Joinable in the Private Battle screen. Select the name. If Player 1 has set a PIN to join, enter the 3-digit code when prompted. Select Yeah! to enter Player 1’s Room. When all Players are in the Room, have Player 1 select Ready . Have Player 1 select a team for each character, then select Looks good . Have each player select Ready again to begin the match. Private Battle: 2 - 8 Players (Local Multi-Card Play) Set the mode, stage & teams in a local multiplayer battle with friends. From Inkopolis Square, press the X Button to bring up the menu, then select The Shoal in the Map section. One Player (Player 1) needs to create the Lobby. Have Player 1 select Host a Private Battle . Choose Yeah! to continue without a password, or press the Y Button to set a password on the room. (The password option requires you create and share a 3-digit PIN with anyone who wants to join the lobby.) Use the options on the left side of the Lobby screen to adjust the stage and mode as desired. Once the Lobby is created, all other players need to Join the Lobby. Have all participating Players select Find a room . Player 1’s name should appear on the screen. Select the name. If Player 1 has set a PIN to join, enter the 3-digit code when prompted. Select Yeah! to enter Player 1’s Lobby. When all Players are in the Lobby, have Player 1 select Ready . Have Player 1 select a team for each character, then select Looks good . Have each player select Ready again to begin the match. Salmon Run: 2 - 4 Players (Local Multi-Card Play) Team up for co-op fun and defeat waves of enemy Salmonids. From Inkopolis Square, press the X Button to bring up the menu, then select The Shoal in the Map section. One Player (Player 1) needs to create the Lobby. Have Player 1 select Host a Salmon Run . Choose Yeah! to continue without a password, or press the Y Button to set a password on the room. (The password option requires you create and share a 3-digit PIN with anyone who wants to join the lobby.) Use the options on the left side of the Lobby screen to adjust the stage and mode as desired. Once the Lobby is created, all other players need to Join the Lobby. Have all participating Players select Find a room . Player 1’s name should appear on the screen. Select the name. If Player 1 has set a PIN to join, enter the 3-digit code when prompted. Select Yeah! to enter Player 1’s Lobby. When all Players are in the Lobby, have Player 1 select Crew set! Have each player select Ready to begin the match. LAN Play: 2 - 10 Players (Online LAN Multiplayer) Players can play a local Private Battle or Salmon Run game together via LAN connection. You may also find our information on setting up a LAN mode multiplayer game helpful. Was this helpful? Yes No Top articles How to Transfer Digital Games / Nintendo Accounts Between Nintendo Switch Consoles Friend List on Nintendo Systems and Apps How to Redownload Nintendo Switch eShop Content How to Manage Auto-Renewal Settings for Pokémon HOME Premium Plan Subscription How to Redeem a DLC Download Code (Pokémon Sword Expansion Pass or Pokémon Shield Expansion Pass) Not Receiving V-Bucks After Renewing Crew Subscription (Fortnite) Top articles How to Transfer Digital Games / Nintendo Accounts Between Nintendo Switch Consoles Friend List on Nintendo Systems and Apps How to Redownload Nintendo Switch eShop Content How to Manage Auto-Renewal Settings for Pokémon HOME Premium Plan Subscription How to Redeem a DLC Download Code (Pokémon Sword Expansion Pass or Pokémon Shield Expansion Pass) Not Receiving V-Bucks After Renewing Crew Subscription (Fortnite) About Nintendo Careers Corporate Social Responsibility Shop Games Hardware Merchandise Sales & deals Exclusives Online service Nintendo Retail Locations Orders Order details Shipping info Refunds and returns FAQ Support Nintendo Switch Nintendo Account Other systems Repair Nintendo product recycling Warranty Licensed product information Parents Info for parents Parental controls Privacy Privacy policy Cookies and interest-based ads Community Community guidelines Online safety Documents & policies Health & safety precautions Wireless regulatory info Supply chain transparency © Nintendo. Games are property of their respective owners. Nintendo of America Inc. Headquarters are in Redmond, Washington, USA Contact us Terms of Use English Close Modal Image Title Close Modal Image Title