Defending British Open champ Shane Lowry hopes to get claret jug back Sign in or Subscribe See Offers Sign In: Login Forgot password? | Subscribe now " height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden"> Press Herald Central Maine Sun Journal Times Record Community News Offcanvas Menu Open Sections Offcanvas Menu Close Press Herald 67° Forecast Search for Search Newsletters Press Herald ePapers Newspaper Archives Games & Puzzles News All News Times Record Local & State Cops & Courts Schools & Education Health Nation & World Society Notebook Press Herald news quiz Photo Galleries Daily Headlines newsletter Politics All Politics Election 2024 Business All Business Business Events People on the Move Commercial Real Estate Opinion All Opinion Editorials Letters Op-eds Sports All Sports High School Sports Maine Mariners Varsity Maine Newsletter Maine Celtics Athletes of the week Hearts of Pine Outdoors Portland Sea Dogs Life & Culture All Life & Culture Books Columns Daily Crossword Daily Sudoku More Puzzles & Games Food All Food Restaurant reviews The Maine Dish newsletter Things to Do All Things to Do All PPH Events Guides Out & About Event Calendar Add your event Do This newsletter Obits All Obituaries Place an obituary Death Notices Local obituaries newsletter Homes All Real Estate Design and Maintenance Premier Property Jobs Job Board Work Here Public Notices Press Herald 67° Forecast Search for Search Newsletters Press Herald ePapers Newspaper Archives Games & Puzzles Subscribe - $1.52/week Sign In Offcanvas Menu Open My Account Account Menu Close Press Herald Welcome! Account Subscription: ACTIVE You are not logged into your account. You have a registered email address and password on pressherald.com, but we are unable to locate a paid subscription attached to these credentials.  Please verify your current subsription or subscribe. Your subscription has stopped. Please update your payment information to resume service. Thank you for your support of local journalism! Gift subscriptions are available now. Subscribe Subscriber Resources Subscriber Benefits Home Delivery Help Manage Account Pay my Bill Access ePaper Newsletters  & Alerts Mobile Apps Press Herald Events Photo Store Gifts and Merchandise Sign Out Questions about your account? Our customer service team can be reached at circulation@metln.org during business hours at (207) 791-6000 . Primary Menu ☰ X News All News Times Record Local & State Cops & Courts Schools & Education Health Nation & World Society Notebook Press Herald news quiz Photo Galleries Daily Headlines newsletter Politics All Politics Election 2024 Business All Business Business Events People on the Move Commercial Real Estate Opinion All Opinion Editorials Letters Op-eds Sports All Sports High School Sports Maine Mariners Varsity Maine Newsletter Maine Celtics Athletes of the week Hearts of Pine Outdoors Portland Sea Dogs Life & Culture All Life & Culture Books Columns Daily Crossword Daily Sudoku More Puzzles & Games Food All Food Restaurant reviews The Maine Dish newsletter Things to Do All Things to Do All PPH Events Guides Out & About Event Calendar Add your event Do This newsletter Obits All Obituaries Place an obituary Death Notices Local obituaries newsletter Homes All Real Estate Design and Maintenance Premier Property Jobs Job Board Work Here Public Notices https://www.pressherald.com/2021/07/12/defending-british-open-champ-shane-lowry-hopes-to-get-claret-jug-back Sports Defending British Open champ Shane Lowry hopes to get claret jug back Lowry held the trophy for 722 days, after last year's tournament was canceled because of the pandemic. Posted July 12, 2021 Updated July 12, 2021 Scott Martin 4 min read Font size + Gift article You are able to gift 5 more articles this month. Anyone can access the link you share with no account required. Learn more . Email Copy Link Email address Send! Article link sent! An error has occurred. Please try again. With a Press Herald subscription, you can gift 5 articles each month. It looks like you do not have any active subscriptions. To get one, go to the subscriptions page . Subscribe Today With a Press Herald subscription, you can gift 5 articles each month. Subscribe Today Sign In Loading.... Share Facebook Reddit Linkedin Email Copy Link Print Shane Lowry enjoyed his time with the claret jug after winning the 2019 British Open, but returned the trophy Monday and will try to win it back this weekend. Peter Morrison/Associated Press SANDWICH, England — Shane Lowry kept the silver claret jug for 722 days, the most by any British Open champion in some 75 years. He returned it on Monday to the R&A at Royal St. George’s with mixed emotions. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP WHEN: Thursday-Sunday WHERE: Royal St. George’s Golf Course TELEVISION: Golf, NBC 2019 CHAMPION: Shane Lowry (the 2020 tournament was canceled) Sure, he was sad to part with it. But that meant it was time to play golf’s oldest championship, and that was plenty enticing to Lowry and the rest of the field. “Coming back here and having the big grandstands and having the crowds out there and all that type of stuff, and everything that comes along with the Open Championship, I think that’s going to be pretty cool this week,” Lowry said. “I’m really looking forward to the week ahead,” he said after returning golf’s oldest trophy. “Not that I’m ready to give the claret jug back. I’m happy it’s here and I’m happy I’m here defending, and I’m really looking forward to the week.” The British Open was the only major canceled last year by the COVID-19 pandemic as the others were moved around to different spots on the calendar. Now it’s the last major of the year that has brought reminders the pandemic has not entirely gone away. Zach Johnson, the 2015 champion at St. Andrews, saw his streak of 69 consecutive majors end when he tested positive for the coronavirus before boarding a charter flight from the John Deere Classic in Illinois. Advertisement Johnson is the fifth player to be withdrawn from a major championship since the pandemic, but the first since Sergio Garcia and Joaquin Niemann had positive tests ahead of the 2020 Masters in November. And while the British Open might look normal, especially when 32,000 fans start arriving for the opening round on Thursday, it will be anything but that off the course. Strict protocols from the R&A forbid players (or caddies) from staying with one another. Each player can have a core group of three additional people, which includes a caddie, coach, manager, family member or a trainer. They are not to go to grocery stores or restaurants or otherwise mix with the general public. It’s different, to be sure. Lowry, however, doesn’t see it as a burden. After all, this is a major championship and he’s the defending champion. Even as an Irishman, he’s not one to hit the town at night looking for some diversion. “It’s a bubble, but I don’t think I’ll be doing anything different than I normally do,” Lowry said. “I come to the golf course, I play, and I go home and we have dinner in the house, and that’s it. … Watch a bit of TV and have some food in the evenings. Advertisement “You don’t do anything else the week of big tournaments. You’re kind of resting up as much as you can, and you’re obviously here playing and practicing all day every day when you’re here.” Practice was limited for Lowry on Monday with a gray sky and rain over the southeastern English links course. He walked the front nine until seeing what appeared to be a break in the weather, and then played 12 holes. The rain has left Royal St. George’s slightly softer, which could eliminate some of the wild bounces for which these rolling fairways are famous. It has been described in some quarters as playing golf on the surface of the moon. The last player to win back-to-back at the British Open was another Irishman – Padraig Harrington at Carnoustie in 2007 and Royal Birkdale in 2008. Lowry had missed the cut in four successive Opens when he rolled into Royal Portrush in 2019 and won by six shots. He recalls feeling good about his game that week. Then again, he felt good about his game at Torrey Pines last month for the U.S. Open, didn’t break par and finished 19 shots behind Jon Rahm. The only thing he’s sure about this week is it will be louder than what he’s used to hearing at a major, which is music to his ears. The previous three majors allowed roughly 10,000 fans a day. The allowance for Royal St. George’s is about 75% of normal capacity. Lowry thinks he struggled in 2020 in part because spectators were kept away. The silence was dull. Rory McIlroy and Tiger Woods were among those who said they had a harder time getting motivated without the energy of the gallery. “I don’t want to be here playing in front of nobody, so I think it’s great that there’s 32,000 people, and I was very excited when I heard that there was going to be that many people here,” Lowry said. Copy the Story Link Comments are no longer available on this story Send questions/comments to the editors. « Previous Antetokounmpo making his mark in NBA finals Next » Sports Digest: Ex-NBC analyst McGuire joins Ottawa’s front office Related Stories Latest Articles Browse more in Sports High School Sports College Sports Outdoors Maine Mariners Portland Sea Dogs Maine Celtics Boston Bruins Boston Celtics Boston Red Sox New England Patriots Contact Us About Us Staff Directory Send a Story Tip Letters to the editor FAQs Subscribers Subscribe Subscriber Resources Subscriber Benefits Home Delivery Help Manage Account Pay my Bill Access ePaper Newsletters  & Alerts Mobile Apps Press Herald Events Photo Store Gifts and Merchandise Connect with Us Email Newsletters Facebook Linked In Instagram Advertise Contact Advertising Media Kit Help Wanted Ads Place an Obituary Press Herald Events Open Door Maine Voices Live Newsroom Live Network Work Here Centralmaine.com Sunjournal.com Timesrecord.com Varsity Maine Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Ethics Policy Terms of Service Commenting Terms Public Notices Photo Store Merch Store Archive Search © 2025 | All Rights Reserved | Press Herald