World Cup 2022 prize money: How much winners get & full rewards breakdown | Goal.com US SCORES LATEST News and Features News Transfers Opinion Analysis Power Rankings Player Ratings Winners & Losers GOAL USA SOCIAL YouTube Instagram TikTok X Facebook GOAL USA Video The Rondo Give N Go GOAL Global Social YouTube Instagram TikTok X Facebook Culture and Lifestyle GOAL Champions GOAL Editions Culture Kits Boots Buyers' Guides Gaming Quizzes COMPETITIONS Leagues & Cups MLS NWSL Premier League La Liga Serie A Bundesliga Ligue 1 Liga MX UEFA Champions League Championship USL Championship USL Super League 2025 FIFA Club World Cup 2026 FIFA World Cup 2025 Gold Cup TST Clubs Inter Miami Real Madrid Barcelona Manchester City Manchester United Liverpool Arsenal Chelsea AC Milan Juventus PSG Wrexham International USMNT Canada Mexico Argentina Brazil Colombia Chile England Spain France Italy Germany Women's Football Latest news USWNT NWSL USL Super League UWCL WSL PLAYERS Lionel Messi Christian Pulisic Alex Morgan Cristiano Ronaldo Kylian Mbappe Erling Haaland Tim Weah Weston McKennie Sophia Smith Trinity Rodman Folarin Balogun Giovanni Reyna BETTING INDIVISA MUNDIAL STREAMING Schedule, Channels & more TV Schedule Where to Watch Streaming services Sling TV Fubo TV Apple TV+ Paramount+ DirecTV ESPN+ Hulu+ Peacock TV Best VPN Services Best Streaming Services Best Streaming Devices Best Cable Providers GOALSTUDIO Getty Joel Griffiths World Cup 2022 prize money: How much winners get & full rewards breakdown World Cup Brazil England USA Mexico Learn about what's prize money is up for grabs for all 32 nations competing for the World Cup this winter The 2022 World Cup brought 32 teams from across the continents to Qatar in order to battle it out for the glory of lifting the grandest prize in football. However, it is not just pride that is at stake on these occasions, with lucrative rewards available to those teams which perform best at the tournament. With that in mind, GOAL takes a look at the World Cup 2022 prize money breakdown. Article continues below How much money will the 2022 World Cup winners get? The eventual World Cup 2022 champions receive a hefty $42 million (£35m) in prize earnings. This is an uplift of $4 million compared to the previous tournament in Russia 2018. The figure continues a trend that has seen the winning nation’s pay slips increase sizeably over the last 40 years. To give some context, it was only in 2006 that the World Cup-winning team pocketed more than $10 million, with Italy collecting $20 million as champions. In 2002, Brazil received under half of that amount and all the way back in 1982 the Italians received just $2.2 million for their triumphant efforts. Full World Cup 2022 prize money breakdown Position Prize money (USD) Winner $42m Runner-up $30m Third place $27m Fourth place $25m Quarter-final $17m Last 16 $13m Group stage $9m In merely qualifying for this competition, players will have earned their respective nation's money. Qualification for the 2022 World Cup sees each team paid a $1.5 million (£1.2m) participation fee. However, as teams progress through the knockout tournament, earning potential increases. You can see the breakdown of prize money per round in the table above. Based on the prize money breakdown unveiled by FIFA, reaching the penultimate stages (semi-finals) in Qatar will see teams earn more than the winners of the World Cup in 2006 received. How do the men & women's World Cup prize pots compare? FIFA has announced that $60 million in earnings will be at stake for the 2023 Women's World Cup in Australia and New Zealand. This is more than seven times decreased on what will be offered at Qatar 2022. However, it is double the estimated $30m that was given to nations at the 2019 tournament . This itself was two times the $15m that was reportedly offered by FIFA at the 2015 Women's World Cup in Canada. Advertisement Want to go deeper? Ask Beta Ask