David Warner, actor from ‘Titanic’ and ‘The Omen’, dead at 80 - al.com Skip to Article Set weather Back To Main Menu Close Quick Look - Change your current location » Current - Mostly Sunny Tonight Low - Mostly Sunny Tomorrow High - Mostly Sunny View full weather report Birmingham Huntsville Mobile Montgomery Tuscaloosa Anniston/Gadsden Beaches Alabama Alabama Life & Culture David Warner, actor from ‘Titanic’ and ‘The Omen’, dead at 80 Published: Jul. 25, 2022, 9:18 a.m. British actor David Warner, who portrayed Captain Sawyer in the A&E's second "Horatio Hornblower" miniseries, poses in the Echo Park section of Los Angeles March 29, 2001. Warner passed away at 80 in July 2022. (AP Photo/Chris Pizzello) AP By Ben Flanagan | bflanagan@al.com David Warner, the British actor best known for appearing in films like “Titanic” and “The Omen,” has passed away. He was 80. The BBC reports Warner died Sunday at Denville Hall of “a cancer-related illness.” The report says his family shared the news “with an overwhelmingly heavy heart.” Read the full BBC report. Born in Manchester, Lancashire, England, Warner began acting in the early 1960s, making his stage debut at the Royal Court Theatre in 1962 when he had a small role in William Shakespeare’s “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” He would join the Royal Shakespeare Company in Stratford-upon-Avon in 1963. His film debut came in 1963′s best picture winner “Tom Jones,” opposite Albert Finney. He would appear in films from notable directors like Sidney Lumet for “The Sea Gull” and Sam Peckinpah for “The Ballad of Cable Hogue.” He starred in several horror films, including one of his most notable film roles as photojournalist Keith Jennings in 1976′s “The Omen” with Gregory Peck. Warner appeared in cult classics like Terry Gilliam’s “Time Bandits” in 1981 and the Disney sci-fi adventure “Tron” in 1982. He earned an Emmy for outstanding supporting actor in a miniseries for his work in 1981′s “Masada.” Warner would find work as a character actor in various Hollywood studio fare like “Star Trek V: The Final Frontier,” “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Secret of the Ooze,” “Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country,” “In the Mouth of Madness,” “Money Talks,” “Scream 2″ and more. Most film fans will undoubtedly remember his performance as the villainous Spicer Lovejoy, bodyguard to Billy Zane’s Caledon Hockley, in James Cameron’s 1997 blockbuster “Titanic,” which became the highest grossing film of all time and won several Oscars including best picture. His final film role came in 2018, when he portrayed Admiral Boom in Disney’s “Mary Poppins Returns.” If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Footer Navigation About Us About Alabama Media Group Jobs at Alabama Media Group Advertise with us About AL.com Frequently Asked Questions Accessibility Statement Contact Us Online Store Subscriptions AL.com The Birmingham News The Huntsville Times Press-Register Newsletter Already a Subscriber Manage your Subscription Place a Vacation Hold Make a Payment Delivery Feedback AL.com Sections News Business Sports High School Sports Alabama Life & Culture Opinion Archives Obituaries Jobs Autos Your Regional News Pages Anniston/Gadsden Birmingham Huntsville Mobile Montgomery Tuscaloosa Gulf Coast Beaches On the Go Mobile Apps Tablet Apps Follow Us Pinterest Twitter Facebook Instagram RSS Customer Service Send us an email Submit a news tip Buy newspaper front pages, posters and more More on AL.com Videos Weather News Site Map & search Sponsor Content Post a job Your Privacy Choices Privacy Policy | User Agreement | Ad Choices Disclaimer Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement , (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our Privacy Policy , and Your Privacy Choices and Rights (updated 1/1/2025). © 2025 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here . Ad Choices