Wimbledon 2013 Results: Men's Semifinals Set Up Epic Finals Clash Bleacher Report NFL Draft NFL NBA NHL CFB Shop Play Betting B/R Sports on Max 04:50 Featured Video NBA Comps for Top Bigs 👥 Tennis Wimbledon 2013 Results: Men's Semifinals Set Up Epic Finals Clash Jun 8, 2018 While the journey to the finals at Wimbledon didn't go exactly as planned from the beginning of the tournament, fans will still be treated to the final that most expected to see at this point—top-seeded Novak Djokovic taking on No. 2 seed Andy Murray . The build up to this point didn't feature the familiar faces that fans have come to expect to see in the semis. Names like Roger Federer , Rafael Nadal , Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and David Ferrer were nowhere to be found. But that doesn't mean that fans weren't treated to a wonderful prelude to the potentially epic finals matchup. Both semifinal matchups of Juan del Potro vs. Djokovic and Jerzy Janowicz vs. Murray provided fans with great tennis. TOP NEWS NFL Power Rankings for Every Team After the 2025 NFL Draft Bleacher Report 15h 7 2025 NFL Draft Picks We Wish We Would Have Seen Bleacher Report 15h 2025 NBA Mock Draft with Lottery Simulation Sending Cooper Flagg to Eastern Conference Bleacher Report 15h Here's a look at the keys from each match and how they set up a huge showdown for the championship. Djoker Survives Five-Setter Against del Potro Fans hoping that del Potro's struggles with a knee injury wouldn't put a damper on the semifinals got their wish. Djokovic and the feisty Argentinian put on an instant classic. The two stars engaged in a five-set match that saw the world's No. 1 ultimately advance to the finals, 7-5, 4-6, 7-6 (7-2), 6-7 (6-8), 6-3. According to ESPN Stats & Info, it was the longest semifinal match in Wimbledon history. Djokovic had a golden opportunity to win the match in the fourth set. All he had to do was beat Delpo in the tie break, but it wasn't meant to be. As Tennis Stats tweeted out, del Potro did an excellent job of breaking Djokovic's serve throughout the day. Ultimately, Djokovic prevailed, but not without being tested in ways that he hasn't experienced throughout the tournament. Up to this point, he hadn't even dropped a single set. Murray Halts the Meteoric Rise of Janowicz Jerzy Janowicz emerged as one of the biggest winners in the entire Wimbledon field this year, but Murray taught him that getting to the Wimbledon final is an achievement that may take some patience. After all, Murray appeared in the tournament's semifinal round three-consecutive years before finally breaking through to the final in 2012. Early on, it appeared that Janowicz was ready to make the leap. He utilized his dominant service game and variety of shots to efficiently keep Murray guessing and took the first set in a tie break. However, it was Murray who consistently took the upper hand, even dominating the service game with 20 aces compared to Janowicz's nine. As Howard Bryant of ESPN notes, it was Murray's excellent placement that made his serve nearly unhittable. Murray officially took the match in four sets, 6-7, 6-4, 6-4, 6-3. While Janowicz came up short, it's not likely the last time we see the 22-year-old in a semifinal. Epic Final on the Horizon As great as the two semifinal matches were, the crowd at the All England Club should be treated to an even more intense finals match. Even though del Potro and Djokovic was an instant classic, the atmosphere for a Murray-Djokovic final should be even more wild. As ESPN Stats & Info notes, Murray is seeking to become the first British player to win Wimbledon since 1936. It's not like the stakes aren't high for Djokovic either. He'll be playing for his seventh Slam title and second of the season. With both stars displaying tremendous resolve and ability in getting past a hungry field of challengers, they've set up the kind of highly anticipated match that makes Slam tournaments so intriguing. 04:50 NBA Comps for Top Bigs 👥 TOP NEWS Post-Draft NFL Power Rankings Bleacher Report 15h NFL Draft Picks We Wanted to See 👀 Bleacher Report 15h Latest Projections and Pro Comps ✍️ Bleacher Report 15h Ranking Top 10 Free Agents Post-Draft Bleacher Report 15h Way-Too-Early 2026 Mock Draft Bleacher Report 1d TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 11h Russini Says She Never Got Intel Browns Ranked Shedeur Sanders High on Draft Board Bleacher Report • 1d WWE Raw Results, Winners, Live Grades, Reaction, Highlights from April 28 ⚔️ Jey, Logan Paul on collision course  🍿 Ripley and Perez put on a show 📲 Tap for full results and analysis Bleacher Report • 12h Shedeur Sanders Reportedly Was Top QB on Giants' Board After Cam Ward Ahead of Draft Bleacher Report • 1d 1 Trade Every NBA Playoff Team Wishes It Could Make Right Now Bleacher Report • 8h Michael Porter Jr. Not Suspended for Leaving Bench During Nuggets-Clippers Skirmish Michael Porter Jr. not suspended Game 5 for leaving bench during skirmish TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 11h Russini Says She Never Got Intel Browns Ranked Shedeur Sanders High on Draft Board Bleacher Report • 1d WWE Raw Results, Winners, Live Grades, Reaction, Highlights from April 28 ⚔️ Jey, Logan Paul on collision course  🍿 Ripley and Perez put on a show 📲 Tap for full results and analysis Bleacher Report • 12h Shedeur Sanders Reportedly Was Top QB on Giants' Board After Cam Ward Ahead of Draft Bleacher Report • 1d 1 Trade Every NBA Playoff Team Wishes It Could Make Right Now Bleacher Report • 8h Michael Porter Jr. Not Suspended for Leaving Bench During Nuggets-Clippers Skirmish Michael Porter Jr. not suspended Game 5 for leaving bench during skirmish Bleacher Report About Advertise Contact Us Get Help Careers Sitemap Community Guidelines Privacy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Terms Of Use AdChoices B/R Sports on MAX B/R Creators Program Copyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.