Maurizio Merluzzo - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Biography 2 Dubbing Toggle Dubbing subsection 2.1 Movies 2.2 Video games 2.3 Anime and animation 2.4 Live-action series 3 References 4 External links Toggle the table of contents Maurizio Merluzzo 2 languages Italiano Lombard Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Italian voice actor and YouTuber (born 1986) The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guideline for biographies . Please help to demonstrate the notability of the topic by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond a mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be shown, the article is likely to be merged , redirected , or deleted . Find sources: "Maurizio Merluzzo" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( December 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) You can help expand this article with text translated from the corresponding article in Italian . (May 2023) Click [show] for important translation instructions. View a machine-translated version of the Italian article. Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate , is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing Italian Wikipedia article at [[:it:Maurizio Merluzzo]]; see its history for attribution. You may also add the template {{Translated|it|Maurizio Merluzzo}} to the talk page . For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation . Maurizio Merluzzo Maurizio Merluzzo at Lucca Comics & Games 2016 Born ( 1986-09-03 ) September 3, 1986 (age 38) Prato , Italy Occupations Voice actor YouTuber Years active 2007–present Maurizio Merluzzo (born September 3, 1986) is an Italian voice actor and YouTuber . He contributes to voicing characters in anime , cartoons , movies and other media. [ 1 ] Biography [ edit ] Merluzzo's most relevant works include dubbing the role of Shazam in the movie Shazam! , Sai in the Italian version of the anime Naruto: Shippuden , André Harris in the Nickelodeon sitcom Victorious , Zamasu in Dragon Ball Super and Ragnar in History 's TV show Vikings . The dubbing studios he works at include Merak Film , ADC Group and Raflesia . Merluzzo is also a YouTuber and he's acted in the web series Cotto e Frullato [ 2 ] and Getalive . [ 3 ] He also took a part in the song Bestie di Seitan , [ 4 ] along with the Italian parody heavy metal band Nanowar of Steel and in the song L'Ingranaggio di Cristallo [ 5 ] with the Italian band Dymama . Both songs were used as the soundtrack of the feature film Cotto & Frullato Z – The Crystal Gear , directed by Paolo Cellammare , in which Merluzzo also played the lead role. In 2019, Merluzzo dubbed the American actor Zachary Levi the movie Shazam! , making it the first time he dubbed a title character on the big screen. In 2021, Merluzzo played the role of Capitan Findus in Nanowar of Steel 's video for La Maledizione di Capitan Findus alongside Marco Arata (best known as Mark the Hammer). Dubbing [ edit ] Movies [ edit ] Billy Batson / Shazam in Shazam! Matt Smith in Last night in Soho Austin Butler in Elvis Video games [ edit ] Knuckles the Echidna in the Sonic the Hedgehog series Rehgar Earthfury in World of Warcraft / Heroes of the Storm Mortiferous in World of Warcraft Demon Hunter in Diablo 3 Reggie in Far Cry 4 Ezreal in League of Legends Jacob Frye in Assassin's Creed Syndicate Daniel Cross in Assassin's Creed III Jack Cooper in Titanfall 2 Griff in Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare Jäger in Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege Helis in Horizon Zero Dawn Tennessee Kid Cooper in Sly Cooper: Thieves in Time Anarky in Batman: Arkham Origins Steve Cortez in Mass Effect 3 Harris Brecken in Dying Light Liu Kang in Mortal Kombat X Baptiste in Overwatch Troy Calypso in Borderlands 3 Anime and animation [ edit ] Shun Kurosaki (Shay) in Yu-Gi-Oh! Arc-V Mirio Togata in My Hero Academia Paul in Pokémon Oga Tatsumi in Beelzebub Sai in Naruto: Shippuden Keith Clay/Spectra Phantom in Bakugan Battle Brawlers: New Vestroia William in Code Lyoko William in Puppy in My Pocket: Adventures in Pocketville Akatsuki Kain in Vampire Knight , Vampire Knight Guilty Katsuo Mizuno in The Prince of Tennis Akatsuki Izumo in Aria the Animation Tatsuya Mizuno in Whistle! Curio in Romeo x Juliet Ling Yao in Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood Marcel in Yu-Gi-Oh! GX Abengane in Hunter x Hunter Lambo (adult) in Reborn! Renji Abarai in Bleach: Memories of Nobody , Bleach: The DiamondDust Rebellion Riichi Jinnouchi in Summer Wars Dash in The Twisted Whiskers Show Jason James/Z-Strap in Zevo-3 Kurt Wagner/Nightcrawler in Wolverine and the X-Men Naomi Minamoto in Capeta Hajime Kakei in Special A Klaus Warwick in Code Geass: Akito the Exiled Lord Boros in One Punch Man Coby (adult) in One Piece Hamelin in MÄR Zamasu in Dragon Ball Super Buddy Fury in Inazuma Eleven Go Galaxy Archer in Fate/Stay Night: Heaven's feel-Presage flower Archer in Fate/Stay Night: Unlimited Blade Works Cancer Manigoldo in Saint Seiya: The Lost Canvas Pip Bernadotte in Hellsing Ultimate Knuckles the Echidna in Sonic the Hedgehog 2 , Knuckles , Sonic the Hedgehog 3 Live-action series [ edit ] Andre Harris in Victorious Ram Ramachandran in How to Be Indie DS James Hathaway in Lewis Markus Zastrow in Sturm der Liebe Bryson in My Life as Liz Raul Clavatti in Isa TKM Guido Lassen in Rebelde Way Darryl Smith in Sea Patrol (1st dub) Jimmy Madigan in True Jackson, VP Milky in This Is England Toby in Mega Mindy Colin O'Flaherty in Worst.Prom.Ever. Ragnar Lothbrok in Vikings Jonathan Scott in Property Brothers , Brother vs. Brother Kevin in A series of unfortunate events Barry in Van Helsing (TV series) "Number Two" Diego Hargreeves in The Umbrella Academy Dr. Benjamin Ettenberg in The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel References [ edit ] ^ "Maurizio Merluzzo's dubbing contributions" . Antoniogenna.net . Retrieved October 27, 2011 . ^ "Cotto e Frullato" – via YouTube. ^ "Getalive – La Serie Web sul Gioco di Ruolo dal Vivo" . getalive.it (in Italian). Archived from the original on July 31, 2018 . Retrieved July 31, 2018 . ^ "Bestie di Seitan ft. Maurizio Merluzzo" – via YouTube. ^ "L'Ingranaggio di Cristallo" – via YouTube. External links [ edit ] Maurizio Merluzzo at Anime News Network 's encyclopedia Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Maurizio_Merluzzo&oldid=1283440662 " Categories : Living people People from Prato Male actors from Tuscany Italian male video game actors Italian male voice actors Italian YouTubers 1986 births 21st-century Italian male actors Hidden categories: CS1 Italian-language sources (it) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles with topics of unclear notability from December 2021 All articles with topics of unclear notability Biography articles with topics of unclear notability Use mdy dates from April 2019 Biography articles needing translation from Italian Wikipedia Articles with hCards This page was last edited on 1 April 2025, at 14:55 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Maurizio Merluzzo 2 languages Add topic