Awarding Qatar 2022 World Cup was a mistake — former FIFA president Sepp Blatter - The Athletic NFL NBA MLB NHL NCAAF NCAAM NCAAW Tennis Premier League Golf WNBA Peak Global Sports MLS NWSL Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Football Soccer Formula 1 Olympics Sports Business Opinion Betting Memorabilia and Collectibles College Sports FIFA Club World Cup Culture Motorsports NASCAR Women's Hockey MMA Boxing The Pulse Newsletter Cities NBA Playoff Bracket Connections: Sports Edition Newsletters Awarding Qatar 2022 World Cup was a mistake — former FIFA president Sepp Blatter By Omar Garrick Nov. 8, 2022 Updated Nov. 9, 2022 Sepp Blatter, the former president of FIFA, has admitted the decision to award Qatar with the 2022 World Cup was a “mistake”. Blatter, 86, was FIFA president in 2010 when the 2018 and 2022 World Cup’s were controversially awarded to both Russia and Qatar . In an interview with Swiss newspaper Tages-Anzeiger , Blatter claims he wanted to award the United States the 2022 World Cup. Advertisement He said: “The choice of Qatar was a mistake. “At the time, we actually agreed in the executive committee that Russia should get the 2018 World Cup and the USA should get it in 2022. It would have been a gesture of peace if the two long-standing political opponents had hosted the World Cup one after the other. “It’s too small a country. Football and the World Cup are too big for that.” When questioned on whether he felt responsible for the decision, he added: “For me it is clear. Qatar is a mistake. “The choice was bad. What I’m wondering is why is the new FIFA president living in Qatar? He can’t be the head of the local World Cup organisation. That’s not his job. There are two organising committees for this — a local one and one from FIFA.” Blatter was cleared of fraud over a £1.6million payment to former UEFA president Michel Platini while he was FIFA president. He does, however, remain banned from football . Platini had reportedly been asked to vote for Qatar to host the World Cup by then French president Nicolas Sarkozy. A France Football investigation alleged the president hosted a secret lunch at the Elysee Palace for the crown prince of Qatar, Sheikh Tamin bin Hamad al Thani and Platini. At the lunch, the Qatari delegation supposedly offered to buy Paris Saint-Germain, the team Sarkozy supported, clear its debt, and create a spin off channel from Al Jazeera, which would later become known as beIn Sports. They also proposed to buy televised football rights for French football and use the channel to stream the matches. Blatter confirmed in 2015 to the Financial Times that the FIFA executive committee and Blatter had a “gentleman’s agreement” to award the bid to the US. “Just one week before the election, I got a phone call from Michel Platini and he said: ‘I am no longer in the picture because I have been told by the head of state that we should consider… the situation in France’,” he said. Advertisement Qatar has always rejected any suggestion they won the bid improperly. And Platini responded forcefully saying: “To say that my choice… was part of a deal between the French state and Qatar is pure speculation… and lies,” he said. “I do not rule out legal action against anyone who casts doubt on the honesty of my vote.” The World Cup in Qatar begins on November 20. How do you feel about the World Cup in Qatar? Take our reader survey. GO DEEPER Why the World Cup 2022 in Qatar is controversial (Photo: Getty Images) Omar Garrick is a Junior Editor for The Athletic UK, based in London. He previously worked at BBC Sport and The Manchester Evening News. Omar is a journalism graduate from Cardiff University and the University of Sheffield. Follow Omar on Twitter @ GarrickOmar National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Culture Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two LNH Memorabilia & Collectibles Men's College Basketball Men's World Cup Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News UK Women's Football WNBA Women's College Basketball Women's Euros Women's Hockey Women's World Cup The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Montréal (français) Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Support Sitemap