'Toy Story 4' wins Best Animated Film at Oscars 2020 ​ Skip to content Entertainment Weekly Search Please fill out this field. Newsletters Sweepstakes Search Please fill out this field. TV TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge Binge EW's Binge Podcast Episodes The Challenge The Golden Bachelor The Masked Singer RuPaul's Drag Race Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowstone Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge 9-1-1 The Masked Singer Outlander RuPaul's Drag Race Saturday Night Live Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowjackets Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Toy Story 4 wins Best Animated Film at the Oscars By Nick Romano Nick Romano Nick is an entertainment journalist based in New York, NY. If you like pugs and the occasional blurry photo of an action figure, follow him on Twitter @NickARomano. EW's editorial guidelines Published on February 9, 2020 08:35PM EST Disney’s Pixar is back on top in the Oscars animation race. Toy Story 4 , the long-awaited next chapter in the saga of Woody and Buzz, won Best Animated Feature at the Academy Awards ceremony Sunday night in Los Angeles. “We take great pride in the fact that we get to make family films and that ‘Toy Story 4’ is really a love letter to our families,” producer Jonas Rivera said during the acceptance speech. “This is for our parents, this is for our wives, this is for our kids, we love you.” Kevin Winter/Getty Images Last year, it was Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse that beat Pixar’s Incredibles 2 and Disney’s Ralph Breaks the Internet , which at the time broke Disney’s streak of winning Best Animated film since 2011. Featuring the voices of Tom Hanks , Tim Allen , Annie Potts , and Tony Hale , among many others, the film sees the introduction of a new toy, Forky (Hale), who becomes lost on a road trip, prompting Woody (Hanks), Buzz Lightyear (Allen), and the rest of the team to find and save him. How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World (DreamWorks), Missing Link (LAIKA), Klaus (Netflix), and I Lost My Body (Netflix) were also nominated in the category. See the full list of Oscar winners. Related content: Your everything-but-Disney guide to the 2020 Oscars’ Best Animated Film nominees Toy Story 4 alternate ending reveals a total 180 for Woody and Bo Toy Story 4 becomes Disney’s fifth film to gross $1 billion this year Read more: The Awardist Oscars Related Articles Demi Moore says 'human part' of her 'has disappointment' over Oscars loss: 'Would have been wonderful' Oscars will now require members to see all nominated films before voting to determine Academy Awards winners Academy reveals new Oscars stunt category for 100th ceremony Rob Reiner told Kathy Bates she would never win the Oscar for Misery Who has won the most Oscars? See record-holders in major categories Surprise guest Adam Sandler cracks up Oscars crowd during Conan O'Brien monologue: 'Chalamet!' Wicked stars Cynthia Erivo and Ariana Grande to perform at 2025 Oscars Hacks stars Jean Smart and Hannah Einbinder on their 'darker turn' and taking risks on season 4 The Oscars, Mindy Kaling's sports comedy Running Point , and Survivor top this week's Must List Monsters stars Nicholas Alexander Chavez, Cooper Koch on 'taking off the mask' and the brothers' case Kendrick Lamar leads 2025 American Music Awards nominations: See the full list Every couple nominated for Oscars in the same year (and who took home the gold statuette) Noah Wyle on that tribute to his grandfather on The Pitt , why making the show was a risk Andrew Garfield and Jesse Eisenberg have sweet Social Network reunion at Oscars after-party Halle Berry questions if being first Black Best Actress Oscar winner mattered: 'Did it really change anything?' Eva Mendes shouts out husband Ryan Gosling for helping convince Oscars to add stunt category: 'HUGE success!' Entertainment Weekly Newsletters Follow Us TV Movies Music What To Watch Binge Celebrity The Awardist Books Theater About Us Terms of Service Subscribe Advertise Careers Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Entertainment Weekly is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies