AI-native SDKs for Alexa+ {"settingsUrl":"https://ds6yc8t7pnx74.cloudfront.net/devportal-digital-assets/cf/developer-portal/getDeXSearchData"} Sign In Documentation Stack Overflow Contact Us Alexa Developer Home Alexa Developer Console Alexa Voice Service Alexa Certification Console Alexa Connect Kit Skill Builders Alexa Skills Kit Feature Updates Documentation Grow Your Business Developer Console Tech Talks Device Makers Alexa Built-in Devices Develop Alexa built-in devices with Alexa Voice Service Overview Connected Devices Connect your smart devices to Alexa Overview Development Resources Business Resources What's New Consoles Tech Talks Solution Providers Skill Agencies Alexa Connect Kit Alexa Smart Properties Tech Talks Alexa AI Products Alexa Skills Kit Alexa Routines Kit Radio Skills Kit Alexa Built-In Alexa Smart Home Dash Services Alexa Auto SDK Alexa Smart Properties Alexa Smart Properties Hospitality Senior Living Healthcare Programs Alexa Startups Alexa Fund Pitch Us Tell us about your company Portfolio Alexa Fund Portfolio companies Alexa Next Stage Online program for late-stage startups Alexa Fellowship Program for university students Alexa Prize Alexa Science Alexa Champions Voice Interoperability Initiative Office Hours Branding Alexa Branding Echo Branding Learn Alexa Learning Lab How to Videos GitHub Code Samples Docs Build Skills for Alexa Alexa Skills Kit Smart Home Skills ASK CLI and SMAPI Connect Your Device to Alexa Alexa Connect Kit Smart Home Skills Alexa Smart Properties Hospitality Residential Senior Living Healthcare Alexa Trainings and Workshops Blog Alexa Skills Kit Device Makers Alexa Auto Alexa Science Alexa Insider AI-native SDKs for Alexa+ Helps your customers get things done. Learn more Meet the new Alexa Alexa+, our next-generation assistant powered by generative AI, is more conversational, smarter, and personalized - and gets things done. It is easier to talk to, with more natural, free-flowing conversation and helps with daily to-dos, planning ahead, solving problems, and sharing thoughtful recommendations. Simple paths to build powerful AI experiences Leverage our new architecture, which connects Large Language Models (LLMs), agentic capabilities, services, and devices at scale to enable customers to get things done. Natural access to your service Your services will surface as part of customers’ natural conversations and Alexa can understand more complex requests. Enable complete experiences Customers can use QR codes to connect external accounts to Alexa, ensuring a consistent experience including payments. Create personalized experiences The new Alexa is highly personalized - and gives customers opportunities to personalize further. Grow your business Your services become an integral part of customers' daily interactions, creating multiple touch points for engagement and retention. Easily integrate your services Integrate your services by using your APIs (Alexa AI Action SDK), website (Alexa AI Web Action SDK) or agents (Alexa AI Multi-Agent SDK). Offload technical legwork Focus on customer experience while you plug into our existing infrastructure. Flexible ways to integrate your services with Alexa Sign up ❯ Alexa AI Action SDK Connect your APIs to Alexa and leverage our LLM-powered reasoning, built-in personalization, and task completion capabilities to enable customers to get more done. Alexa AI Web Action SDK Define the tasks customers can complete on your website and Alexa can navigate it to complete customer requests. Alexa AI Multi-Agent SDK Showcase your own agents alongside Alexa. Companies working with Alexa OpenTable + Uber OpenTable and Uber integrate their APIs using Alexa AI Action SDK to facilitate dining reservations and seamless transportation arrangements. Thumbtack Thumbtack uses Alexa AI Web Action SDK to enable customers to book home services end-to-end, from finding professionals to scheduling appointments. Ticketmaster Ticketmaster uses Alexa AI Action SDK to enable customers to scout tickets for their favorite sporting events. iRobot iRobot uses Action Controller to enable customers to get their robotic vacuum to do what they want through natural utterances. GE Cync GE Cync uses Dynamic Controller to enable customers to create dynamic lighting moods by being descriptive in their utterances. "Our integration with Alexa aligns perfectly with OpenTable's goal of meeting diners where they are. By tapping into 600 million+ Alexa-enabled devices, we're expanding our reach to new diners while driving more bookings to our 60,000+ restaurant partners through another trusted channel. This integration not only simplifies the booking process for diners but also strengthens our position as innovators in the restaurant tech industry, continuing our legacy of helping restaurants thrive." Sagar Mehta Chief Technology Officer "Integrating with the new Alexa is a natural evolution of our successful Amazon partnership. Our mission has always been to make food ordering effortless, delightful and accessible, connecting diners with their favorite restaurants. This smarter, more interactive Alexa experience aligns perfectly with that vision, taking convenience to the next level." Nidhin George SVP of Product "Integrating our services into the New Alexa experience will allow us to dramatically expand our reach, empowering us to bring our tech and pro community to millions of additional homeowners. Now, we can proactively help more people identify the right home improvement projects and connect them with qualified professionals to get the work done. By leveraging our partner platform and Alexa’s AI website orchestration, we were able to accelerate our time-to-market all while preserving a best-in-class customer experience." Marco Zappacosta CEO "Vagaro continuously expands consumer touchpoints, and Alexa represents our latest innovation in accessibility. What makes this integration particularly powerful is its automatic implementation – businesses joining Vagaro instantly get access to Alexa customers without any additional effort. This seamless integration increases our businesses’ visibility and exposure, potentially driving revenue growth from day one." Fred Helou Founder & CEO "Our vision has always been simple - to make music creation accessible to everyone. By integrating with Alexa, we're taking a meaningful step toward letting people soundtrack their lives in real-time. Bringing Suno to Alexa isn't just about making our technology more accessible - it's about empowering everyone to turn their daily moments into music, scoring the stories that matter most." Mikey Schulman CEO and Co-Founder "Fodor's Travel's collaboration with Alexa is a natural extension of our commitment to meet travelers wherever they seek inspiration and information. This engagement will not only increase our brand exposure but also ensure our expert content is available in more formats, benefiting our customers tremendously." Stephen Horowitz Publisher & General Manager "We're excited to combine Atom's expertise with Alexa's intelligence to deliver an exceptional movie-going experience. Moviegoers can now more easily access and plan their movie nights, even while juggling multiple tasks. The New Alexa experience also allows us to offer discounts and pass savings along to our customers." Michael Amouyal Senior Director of Marketing & Partnerships "Our mission has always been to connect fans with the live experiences they love, and the newer and smarter Alexa provides an innovative avenue to achieve this goal. This integration strengthens our brand presence and keeps us at the forefront of ticketing technology. It's just the beginning of our journey to leverage cutting-edge technology that streamlines the ticket-purchasing process across multiple modalities." Ben Kruger Chief Marketing Officer Back To Top Alexa Skills Kit Alexa Skills Kit Get Started Get Deeper Grow Your Business What's New ASK Resources Tutorials & Code Samples Documentation Skill-Building Agencies Device Makers Overview Alexa Built-in Devices Overview Business Resources Alexa Connected Devices Overview Development Resources Business Resources What's New Solution Providers Overview Agreements Agreements and Terms Program Materials License Agreement Amazon Developers Services Portal Terms of Use Community Alexa on Slack Blogs Alexa Skills Kit Blog Device Makers Blog Alexa Auto Alexa Science AWS Blog Support Amazon Developer Support Contact Us Stack Overflow Follow Us: English (US) English (ANZ) English (UK) English (India) Japanese (日本語) French (Français) Italian (Italiano) German (Deutsch) Spanish (España) Spanish (México) Portuguese (Brasil) Arabic (العربية) © 2010 - 2025, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved. Terms Docs Stack Overflow Blog Alexa Developer Home Terms Docs Stack Overflow Blog Alexa Developer Home