Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition launches May 29 - Gematsu Open main menu News PlayStation Xbox Nintendo PC Industry More Database Platforms Games Series Genres Companies People Topics PS5 Xbox Series Switch Switch 2 Smartphone Arcade Interviews Screenshots Upcoming Events Open Forum Information About Comment Policy Follow Us Privacy Policy Switch Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition launches May 29 Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Works Set also announced. Sal Romano Mar 26 2020 / 10:11 AM EDT 0 Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition will launch for Switch on May 29, Nintendo announced. On the same day, Nintendo will also release the Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Works Set, which features a 250-page artbook full of landscapes, monsters, and more. Here is an overview of the game, via Nintendo.com : Join the fight between man and machine in the definitive edition of this critically-acclaimed RPG. Discover the origins of Shulk as he and his companions clash against a seemingly-unstoppable mechanical menace. Wield a future-seeing blade, chain together attacks, and carefully position your party members in strategic, real-time combat as you journey across a massive world. During an attack from the mechanical invaders known as the Mechon, Shulk discovers that he can tap into the full power of a mysterious blade known as the Monado. With the mighty Monado in hand, Shulk sets out to defeat the Mechon once and for all. In addition to the Mechon, you’ll run into wildlife that ranges from docile to deadly. Keep an eye on what attracts monsters’ attention to avoid unwanted conflict…or try your hand at bringing down an ultra-powerful Unique Monster. Upgrade your party as you progress through the adventure by selecting equipment, enhancing weapon skills, and using benefit-granting gems. Put your dependable companions to work by filling the party gauge to trigger a Chain Attack and attack enemies in quick succession! Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition will also feature a new epilogue chapter dubbed “Future Connected.” Watch a new trailer and set of story videos below. View a new set of screenshots at the gallery . Visit the newly launched official Japanese website here . Trailer English Japanese Prologue Videos Bionis and Mechonis Mechonis Attacks Beginning of Revenge ❮ ❯ Nintendo Switch RPG Clips Nintendo Direct: 2020.03.26 Release Dates Screenshots Trailers Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Company Profile Nintendo Company Profile Monolith Soft Upcoming Events View all State of Play: April 30, 2025 (Borderlands 4) April 30 @ 5:00 pm - 5:20 pm EDT The Quintessential Quintuplets Console Game Announcement: May 4, 2025 May 4 @ 8:45 pm - May 5 @ 8:50 am EDT Destiny 2: The Edge of Fate Reveal Event May 6 @ 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm EDT Summer Game Fest 2025 Showcase June 6 @ 5:00 pm - 7:00 pm EDT What’s Popular Trails in the Sky 1st Chapter ‘Bracer Supply Box’ premium collector’s set announced WUCHANG: Fallen Feathers launches July 24 RideonJapan announces ‘blackjack RPG’ Brave x Junction for PC Borderlands 4 release date moved up to September 12; State of Play set for April 30 Recent Comments NOEL » Lost Soul Aside delayed to August 29 8 minutes ago Hero? » Lost Soul Aside delayed to August 29 9 minutes ago S_Mania999 » Lost Soul Aside delayed to August 29 14 minutes ago Tjoeb123 » Open Forum #345 14 minutes ago Latest Open Forum » Related Content 7 minutes ago 0 Fourth The Quintessential Quintuplets game for console to be announced on May 4 PC PS5 1 hour ago 0 Lost Soul Aside delayed to August 29 Switch 2 hours ago 0 Switch system update version 20.0.0 now available 7 hours ago 0 Electronic Arts lays off hundreds of staff, cancels early-stage Titanfall universe extraction shooter Comments Nintendo PlayStation Xbox PC Industry About Contact Us Advertising Staff Privacy Policy Friends CVG VGC Switch to Dark Mode Switch to Light Mode © Copyright Gematsu 2008 to 2025. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without acknowledgment of Gematsu is prohibited. Use of this site is governed by all applicable laws. Website by 44 Bytes