Timeline: A look at Tiger's return from crash - NBC Sports Skip navigation Search Query Submit Search MLB NFL NBA NHL NASCAR Premier League College Football Men’s College Basketball Horse Racing Top News Aho’s blast pushes Hurricanes past Devils 5-4 in double OT to advance in Stanley Cup Playoffs Associated Press , Associated Press , Senators keep Battle of Ontario alive with 4-0 win over Maple Leafs, who have a 3-2 series lead Associated Press , Associated Press , Panthers’ Ekblad suspended two games for elbowing Lightning’s Brandon Hagel in head Top Clips ‘Surprised’ Morikawa opted for caddie change Highlights: PGA Professional Championship, Round 3 How Judkins fits in Browns’ crowded backfield Trending Teams Washington Commanders St. Louis Cardinals New York Yankees All Sports All Sports NFL MLB NBA NHL Soccer Motors NASCAR College Football Olympics Golf Fantasy Sports WNBA Men’s College Basketball Women’s College Basketball Paralympics Tennis Horse Racing Cycling On Her Turf Figure Skating Dog Show Rugby Navy All-American Bowl WWE Rotoworld Rotoworld Fantasy Home Betting Home Fantasy Football Football Player News Matthew Berry Fantasy Basketball Basketball Player News Fantasy Baseball Baseball Player News NBC Sports Watch Podcasts Peacock Telemundo Deportes Milan Cortina 2026 Olympics Team USA Olympics GolfNow GolfPass SportsEngine NBC Sports Press Box Search Query Submit Search MLB NFL NBA NHL NASCAR Premier League College Football Men’s College Basketball Horse Racing Top News Aho’s blast pushes Hurricanes past Devils 5-4 in double OT to advance in Stanley Cup Playoffs Associated Press , Associated Press , Senators keep Battle of Ontario alive with 4-0 win over Maple Leafs, who have a 3-2 series lead Associated Press , Associated Press , Panthers’ Ekblad suspended two games for elbowing Lightning’s Brandon Hagel in head Top Clips ‘Surprised’ Morikawa opted for caddie change Highlights: PGA Professional Championship, Round 3 How Judkins fits in Browns’ crowded backfield Trending Teams Washington Commanders St. Louis Cardinals New York Yankees All Sports NFL MLB NBA NHL Soccer Motors NASCAR College Football Olympics Golf Fantasy Sports WNBA Men’s College Basketball Women’s College Basketball Paralympics Tennis Horse Racing Cycling On Her Turf Figure Skating Dog Show Rugby Navy All-American Bowl WWE Rotoworld Fantasy Home Betting Home Fantasy Football Football Player News Matthew Berry Fantasy Basketball Basketball Player News Fantasy Baseball Baseball Player News NBC Sports Watch Podcasts Favorites Favorites Profile Peacock Telemundo Deportes Milan Cortina 2026 Olympics Team USA Olympics GolfNow GolfPass SportsEngine NBC Sports Press Box Profile Login or Create Profile Profile Login or Create Profile Favorites Menu Favorites Sign up to follow your favorites on all your devices. Sign up Timeline: A look back at Tiger Woods’ return to golf after car crash By Max Schreiber , By Max Schreiber Published April 7, 2022 08:07 PM Facebook Twitter Email On Feb. 23, 2021, Tiger Woods was involved in a single-car crash in Los Angeles, California, which nearly cost him is right leg. From his appearance at the November Masters in 2020, to his crash, to his recovery, to his possible return to compete at Augusta National this week, here’s a timeline of events: Nov. 15, 2020: Tiger wraps up most recent PGA Tour start at his long-awaited Masters title defense, which was delayed seven months because of the COVID-19 pandemic. After a final-round 76, Woods finishes T-38. Dec. 20, 2020: The world is captivated by the bond Woods and son Charlie show while playing alongside each other at the PNC Championship en route to finishing seventh. Jan. 19, 2021: Woods announces he has undergone a fifth microdiscectomy procedure on his back to remove a “pressurized disc fragment” that caused him discomfort during the PNC Championship. Woods plans to skip at least the Farmers Insurance Open and Riviera’s Genesis Invitational, of which he is the tournament host. Timeline: A look at Tiger’s injuries in his career From his knee to his back to his Achilles, take a look at the various injuries in Tiger Woods’ career as well as his multiple returns to competition. Golf Channel Staff , Golf Channel Staff , Feb. 21, 2021: Two days ahead of the crash, the 45-year-old makes his final public appearance for nearly 10 months, appearing on the CBS broadcast with Jim Nanz during the Genesis Invitational’s final round, providing an update on his recovery just hours before he presents the winner’s trophy to Los Angeles native Max Homa. Feb. 23, 2021: Woods is involved in a single-vehicle rollover accident outside of Los Angeles, suffering comminuted open fractures to the upper and lower parts of his right leg and significant trauma to his right ankle. Doctors insert a rod, screws and pins to stabilize his leg. March, 16, 2021: The 82-time PGA Tour winner returns home from the hospital, tweeting his gratitude for the support he’s received since the crash and to the hospital’s doctors, nurses and staff. Nov. 21, 2021: Woods nearly breaks the internet by tweeting a three-second video of himself swinging a golf club with the caption “making progress” – reminiscent of his tweet from Oct. 15, 2017 , which was also captioned “making progress” following his fourth back surgery in April of that year. Nov. 30, 2021: Woods makes his first public appearance since the Sunday of the Genesis Invitational by holding a press conference on the Tuesday ahead of his Hero World Challenge in the Bahamas. Woods says he will not return as a full-time Tour player, but doesn’t rule out a Ben Hogan-esque schedule. Dec. 5, 2021: After being seen on the range multiple times throughout the week, Woods hits driver during the final round of the event. Dec. 8, 2021: Woods announces he will return to competitive golf at the PNC Championship to again play alongside son Charlie in the 20-team event. Dec. 18, 2021: Woods and Charlie finish runner-up in the 36-hole scramble at the PNC Championship. Tiger insists that he is not yet ready to compete in a PGA Tour event as his body isn’t up to the challenge of walking 72 holes (he was allowed use of a cart at the PNC). He offers no timetable on his return to Tour. Feb. 16, 2022: As host of the Genesis Invitational, Woods says that he expects to play on Tour in 2022, but, “I wish I could tell you when I’m playing again. I want to know, but I don’t.” Woods says he can walking on a treadmill but undulations are an issue. “What’s frustrating is, it’s not at my timetable,” he says. “I want to be at a certain place, but I’m not. I’ve just got to continue working. I’m getting better, yes, but not at the speed and rate that I would like.” March 29, 2022: Woods’ private jet is tracked from his home in South Florida to Augusta National. It is reported that Woods is alongside Charlie, testing his body to see if he is physically able to compete in the following week’s Masters Tournament, of which he is a five-time champion. April 3, 2022: Woods says, via Twitter, that he is traveling to Augusta and that it will be a “game-time decision on whether I compete.” When he arrives at Augusta National, Woods hits in the practice area for 20 minutes and plays the second nine in the afternoon. April 5, 2022: After drawing a massive crowd during Monday’s practice round, in which he played with Justin Thomas and Fred Couples, Woods met the media Tuesday morning, saying “As of right now, I feel like I am going to play.” Later in the press conference, Woods also said he said he believes that he could win the tournament. April 7, 2022: A comeback 508 days in the making, Woods, in Round 1 of the Masters, plays his first competitive round since the 2020 November Masters and shoots a 1-under 71. Related Stories 01:27 ‘Surprised’ Morikawa opted for caddie change CJ Cup Byron Nelson 2025: Second-round tee times and groupings Golf Channel Staff , Golf Channel Staff , CJ Cup Byron Nelson 2025: First-round tee times and groupings Golf Channel Staff , Golf Channel Staff , 04:24 Johnson: Snedeker will be ‘perfect’ as captain 08:38 Presidents Cup format needs to change ‘eventually’ 11:39 Ogilvy: ‘Humbling’ to be a Presidents Cup captain Stay in the Know Subscribe to our Newsletter and Alerts Subscribe Sports College Basketball Cycling College Football Figure Skating Golf Horse Racing MLB Motor Sports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL Olympics Soccer Tennis WNBA Fantasy Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Stream & Podcast Clips & Highlights Sports Podcasts Stream on Peacock Watch Live NBC Sports on YouTube Apps NBC Sports iOS NBC Sports Android Peacock TV iOS Peacock TV Android Local Coverage NBC Sports Bay Area NBC Sports Boston NBC Sports Philadelphia twitter instagram facebook Ad Choices Advertise Careers Closed Captioning FAQ NBC Sports Store Press Box NEW Terms of Use (Updated June 28, 2023) Privacy Policy CA Notice Cookie Settings A Division of NBCUniversal . DISCLAIMER: This site and the products offered are for entertainment purposes only, and there is no gambling offered on this site. This service is intended for adult audiences. No guarantees are made for any specific outcome. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, please call 1-800-GAMBLER. Ⓒ 2024 NBC Universal Close Ad