These Ubisoft games are finally coming to Steam later this year | Eurogamer.net Skip to main content 2025 Release Schedule Oblivion Remastered Tips Oblivion Thieves Guild Oblivion Best Class Oblivion Vampirism Volleyball Legends codes Supporters only Deals Buy eShop codes Go Support us Sign in / Create account Latest PC PlayStation Xbox Nintendo Digital Foundry News Reviews Videos Features Guides If you click on a link and make a purchase we may receive a small commission. Read our editorial policy . Home News These Ubisoft games are finally coming to Steam later this year Days gone cry. Image credit: Ubisoft News by Vikki Blake Contributor Published on April 22, 2023 12 comments Follow Far Cry 6 Four more Ubisoft games are slated to join Steam later this year. Far Cry 6 , Riders Republic , Rainbow Six Extraction, and Monopoly Madness are set to come to the Steam store on 11th May, 8th June, 15th June, and 22nd June, respectively, marking the first time these titles will be playable on Steam. Since 2019, Ubisoft had skipped bringing its game to Steam in favour of a dual launch on Ubisoft Connect and Epic Games Store - where Epic was, perhaps not coincidentally, wooing publishers and developers with a 12 per cent revenue cut compared to Valve's 30 per cent. Let's Play Rainbow Six Extraction PS5 Multiplayer Gameplay: CUTTING DOWN THE CHIMERA! Let's Play Rainbow Six Extraction PS5 Multiplayer Gameplay: CUTTING DOWN THE CHIMERA! Watch on YouTube As PC Gamer points out, as all of these games were released at different times, there doesn't seem to be any specific window of exclusivity that's expired, and Ubisoft has yet to respond to comment clarifying why these games are now making their way to Steam. That said, it should be good news for fans who'd been holding out in the hope these titles would eventually come to Steam. Ubisoft's position on its preferred storefronts seemingly shifted back in November, after listings for a Steam version of Assassin's Creed Valhalla were discovered , and the move was confirmed by the publisher itself in December, when Valhalla, Anno 1800 , and Roller Champions were all announced to be heading to Valve's platform. "Extraction delivers a surprisingly gratifying, and occasionally unsettling, experience that - despite its limited map and objective offerings, and my worries about communication - held my attention for far longer than I'd expected," I said in my Rainbow Six Extraction review last year. "No, it's not the most innovative shooter, but it is a fine addition to the Rainbow Six line-up." Read this next Unannounced Far Cry spin-off game featuring laser deathmatches rated by PEGI Far Cry 6 heads up December's first wave of Xbox Games Pass titles Far Cry 6's online services will remain online, but don't expect any further updates Vikki Blake : When her friends were falling in love with pop stars, Vikki (she/her) was falling in love with video games. She's a survival horror survivalist with a penchant for​ shooters, rich story-telling, and spooky stuff. Vikki started writing for Eurogamer in 2015​, and her kill/death ratio has become steadily worse since then. View comments (12) In this article Far Cry 6 PS4 , PS5 , Xbox One , Xbox Series X/S , PC Follow Riders Republic PS4 , PS5 , Xbox One , Xbox Series X/S , PC Follow See 1 more Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Extraction Video Game Follow Related topics Action Adventure exclusivity FPS Party PC Port PS4 PS5 Racing Science Fiction See 11 more › Shooter Simulation Sports Steam Strategy Ubisoft Ubisoft Annecy Ubisoft Montreal Ubisoft Toronto Xbox One Xbox Series X/S Eurogamer is better when you sign in Join our community of gamers and get access to personalised reading recommendations and much more! Sign in with Google Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Twitter Sign in with Reddit Sign in with email Latest News EA reportedly lays off over 300 staff, cancels new Titanfall game The Sims 4's latest DLC brings kitchen clutter, workshop tinkering, and fashion for the elderly Borderlands 4 release date moves forward, perhaps because 2K knows exactly when GTA 6 is coming out Chinese dark fantasy Wuchang: Fallen Feathers release date announced DK Rap composer explains why Nintendo didn't credit him in the Super Mario Bros. Movie Yennefer voice artist doesn't yet know if she's back for The Witcher 4 A Minecraft Movie is leaning into the memes with sing-along screenings Latest Guides How to get Daedric Armor in Oblivion Remastered How to get the Skeleton Key in Oblivion Remastered Oblivion Remastered Luck explained Best weapons in Oblivion Remastered and where to find them Abra 100% perfect IV stats, shiny Abra in Pokémon Go How to join the Fighters Guild in Oblivion Remastered All Chapel locations in Oblivion Remastered Top Discussions As Days Gone gets its PS5 remaster, it's only right that it gets a critical reevaluation too 100 Dark mode comes to Eurogamer 92 Bethesda asks The Elder Scrolls fans to suggest Oblivion Remastered improvements, with difficulty scaling among top ideas 55 Baldur's Gate 3 boss says studio didn't do DLC because it was the "boring" option 44 Elden Ring sales pass 30m 43 Far Cry 4 gets surprise PS5 patch adding 60fps support 37 The Last of Us season 2 episode three speaks loudest in its quietest moments 32 © 2025 Eurogamer.net  a brand of IGN Entertainment, Inc. All rights reserved. 18 Mansell Street Level 3, London, E1 8AA, United Kingdom. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission. Eurogamer is a registered trademark of Gamer Network Limited. Theme Auto Light Dark Helpful Links About Us Advertise with us Archive Authors Contact Us Corporate Site Interactive Maps Newsletters RSS Feeds Policies Accessibility Policy AdChoices Code of Conduct Cookie Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Review Policy Terms & Conditions Gamer Network Dicebreaker Digital Foundry GamesIndustry.biz Nintendo Life Pure Xbox Push Square Rock Paper Shotgun Time Extension VG247 Across Europe Eurogamer.de Eurogamer.es Eurogamer.pl Eurogamer.pt