Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/soccer A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to soccer r/soccer r/soccer The football subreddit.   News, results, and discussion about the beautiful game. Members Online • mollymoskins World Cup Best Young Player - A history of the winners and their careers Star post Eredivisie version here PL version here 1958: Pele (Brazil) Pele won this award at only 17 years of age, becoming the youngest player in history to achieve this distinction. He went on to score over 1000 goals for Santos and New York Cosmos, won 3 World Cups, and is debatably the GOAT. Fun fact: Pele was named after the American inventor Thomas Edison (his real name is Edson Arantes do Nascimento). Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 1x World Cup Golden Ball 3x World Cup 10x Campeonato Paulista 6x Brazil Serie A 2x Copa Libertadores 1x NASL 1x Copa Libertadores Top Scorer 11x Campeonato Paulista Top Scorer 1x Copa America Top Scorer 1x Copa America Best Player 1x South American Footballer of the Year 1x Order of the British Empire 7x Ballon D'or (Honorary, read this for more info ) 1x FIFA Order of Merit 1x FIFA Player of the Century (shared with Maradona) 1962: Florian Albert (Hungary) Albert was a one club man for Hungarian club Ferencvaros, and remained actively involved in various roles with them after his retirement. He won the Ballon D'or in 1967. Fun fact: Albert had a stadium named after him, the Stadion Albert Florian. Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 1x World Cup Golden Boot (shared with 5 other players) 4x Hungarian League 1x Hungarian Cup 3x Hungarian League Top Scorer 1x European Cup Top Scorer (now Champions League) 1x Ballon D'or 2x Hungarian Footballer of the Year 1x Hungarian Order of Merit 1966: Franz Beckenbauer (Germany) Widely considered to be the best defender of all time, Beckenbauer made a name for himself as the captain of both Bayern and the German national team before moving to New York Cosmos, Hamburg, and back to New York Cosmos. He currently works as a pundit for Sky Germany and is a columnist for the tabloid Bild. Fun fact: After appearing in an ad for a big mobile phone company, Beckenbauer specifically requested the number 0176 / 666666 for his mobile phone. However, he soon was flooded with phone calls by men who thought it was a phone sex number (in German, "6" translates to "sechs", sounding similar to the word sex). Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 2x World Cup (once as manager) 1x UEFA European Championship 6x Bundesliga (once as manager) 1x Regionalliga Sud (now 2. Bundesliga) 4x DFB Pokal 1x Ligue 1 (as manager) 3x European Cup (now Champions League) 2x UEFA Cup (now Europa League [once as manager]) 4x German Footballer of the Year 2x Ballon D'or 1x FIFA Order of Merit 1x German Order of Merit 1970: Teofilo Cubillas (Peru) The Peruvian legend played for Alianza Lima, Basel, Porto, and Fort Lauerdale before joining a bunch of different American teams to finish his career. He was known for his technique and free kick ability. Fun fact: Cubillas is one of only three players to score five or more goals in two different World Cups, the other two being Miroslav Klose and Thomas Müller. Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 1x Taca de Portugal (Portuguese domestic cup) 2x Peruvian Primera Division 2x Peruvian Primera Division Top Scorer 1x Copa Libertadores Top Scorer 1x Copa Libertadores Best Player 1x Copa America 1x South American Footballer of the Year 1974: Wladyslaw Zmuda (Poland) Zmuda played for various Polish teams (most notably Slask Wroclaw) before joining Hellas Verona. After two injury-plagued seasons, he transferred to New York Cosmos and finally Cremonese, where he finished his career. Fun fact: Zmuda has managed Poland at various youth levels ranging from U16 to U20. 1x World Cup Best Young Player 3x Ekstraklasa 1x Polish Cup 1978: Antonio Cabrini (Italy) Considered to be one of the best left backs of his generation, Cabrini played in Italy for his whole career. He started off at Cremonese before moving to Atalanta, Juventus, and Bologna. He went into management after he retired, having most recently coached the Italy women's team. Fun fact: Cabrini was nicknamed Bell'Antonio ("beautiful Antonio"), because of his popularity as a fascinating and good-looking football player. Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 1x World Cup 6x Serie A 2x Coppa Italia 1x European Cup (now Champions League) 2x UEFA Cup (now Europa League) 1982: Manuel Amoros (France) Amoros also stayed in his country of birth for his whole career, playing right back for Monaco, Marseille and Lyon. He was the French player of the year in 1986. Fun fact: It turns out that Zidane was not the only Frenchman to headbutt somebody else during a match, as Amoros was sent off in the opening match of the 1984 European Championships for headbutting Danish midfielder Jesper Olsen. Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 4x Ligue 1 1x Coupe de France 1x UEFA Champions League 1x UEFA European Championship 1x French Player of the Year 1986: Enzo Scifo (Belgium) Scifo was a highly rated prospect in his youth, having made his first team debut for Anderlecht at the age of 17. He then transferred to Inter, where he flopped and joined Bordeaux, where he flopped again. He revived his career at Auxerre, which prompted him to return to Italy with Torino. He then transferred to Monaco before returning to Belgium to play for Anderlecht and Charleroi. Fun fact: He proved himself a highly promising talent in youth football and was nicknamed "Little Pelé" at his local team, where he scored 432 goals in only four seasons as a junior. Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 4x Belgian Pro League 1x Ligue 1 1x Coppa Italia 1x Belgian Footballer of the Year 1990: Robert Prosinecki (Yugoslavia) After successful spells at Dinamo Zagreb and Red Star Belgrade, Prosinecki moved to Real Madrid for 3 years before transferring to Oviedo, Barcelona, and Sevilla. He returned to Croatia to play for Zagreb and Hrvatski Dragovoljac before going back abroad to join Standard Liege, Portsmouth, and Olimpija. He then returned to Zagreb for a season before retiring at non-league Savski Marof, which is based in a settlement with 35 inhabitants. He then went into management and currently coaches the Bosnia national team. Fun fact: He is the only player to score in the World Cup for two different teams: Yugoslavia and Croatia. Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 4x Yugoslav League 1x Yugoslav Cup 1x Copa del Rey 3x Croatian First League 1x Croatian Football Cup 1x Slovenian Football Cup 1x UEFA Champions League 1x Yugoslav Footballer of the Year 1x Croatian Footballer of the Year 1994: Marc Overmars (Netherlands) The speedy winger played for Go Ahead Eagles and Willem before breaking out at Ajax. He then found success at Arsenal and Barcelona before retiring in 2004 due to knee problems. He came back in 2008 to play for Go Ahead Eagles again, but scored zero goals in his one season there. Fun fact: Overmars grew up on a family farm with his parents and assisted his grandfather with the potato harvest each year. There were no machines or tractors, so when the time came to extract the potatoes, his family tied a rope around Overmars' waist, connected it to a cart and made him run while they pulled the crop out. Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 1x Eredivisie Best Young Player 1x Eredivisie Top Scorer 3x Eredivisie 1x KNVB Cup 1x Premier League 1x FA Cup 1x UEFA Champions League 1998: Michael Owen (England) The English striker found stardom at Liverpool (he won the Ballon D'or there) before moving to Real Madrid. He didn't play as well with them and joined Newcastle for a then club record fee. His time with the Magpies was marred by injury (although he didn't play bad when fit) and ended with their relegation in 2009, so he transferred to Manchester United before retiring at Stoke. Fun fact: Owen has provided us with a couple of gems during his time as a commentator: “That would’ve been a goal had it gone inside the post.” “It’s hit the facial part of his head, there.” “That shot is impossible. I saw Yaya Toure do it once.” Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 2x Premier League Top Scorer 1x Premier League Player of the Season 1x PFA Young Player of the Year 1x Premier League 1x FA Cup 1x UEFA Cup (now Europa League) 1x Ballon D'or 2002: Landon Donovan (USA) Arguably America's best player ever (although Pulisic could change that soon), Donovan started off his career at Bayer but spent most of his time with them on loan at the San Jose Earthquakes. He transferred to LA Galaxy in 2005 and had brief spells at Bayern and Everton during his time there. He retired in 2014, but came back to play for the Galaxy before retiring again and joining Mexican club Leon for this past season. Fun fact: The Major League Soccer MVP Award has been renamed the Landon Donovan MVP Award in his honor. Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 6x MLS Cup 1x US Open Cup (American domestic cup) 1x MLS Top Scorer 1x MLS MVP 4x CONCACAF Gold Cup 3x CONCACAF Gold Cup Top Goalscorer 1x CONCACAF Gold Cup MVP 4x American Footballer of the Year 2006: Lukas Podolski (Germany) Podolski came up through the ranks at Koln, and moved to Bayern for a fee reported to be €10 million. He fell out of favor there due to the arrival of Luca Toni and returned to Koln. He then moved to Arsenal where he gained recognition in the Prem as a good finisher and went on loan to Inter for a season, before moving to Galatasaray and then Vissel Kobe, where he is currently the captain. Fun fact: Podolski owns an ice cream parlour and a kebab shop in Cologne. Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 1x World Cup 1x Bundesliga 1x 2. Bundesliga 1x 2. Bundesliga Top Scorer 1x DFB Pokal 1x FA Cup 1x Turkiye Kupasi (Turkish domestic cup) 2010: Thomas Muller (Germany) To date, Muller has been a one club man for Bayern Munich and is currently their vice captain behind Manuel Neuer. He was the most capped player in Germany's squad for the 2018 World Cup, with 94 appearances and 38 goals. Fun fact: In June 2011, he became an ambassador for YoungWings, a charity that helps children who have suffered bereavement or trauma. Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 1x World Cup 1x World Cup Top Scorer 1x World Cup Most Assists (shared with Ozil, Schweinsteiger, Kaka, Kuyt) 7x Bundesliga 1x Bundesliga Most Assists 4x DFB Pokal 1x UEFA Champions League 1x FIFA Club World Cup 2014: Paul Pogba (France) After leaving Manchester United in 2012, Pogba established himself as one of the best midfielders in the world at Juventus and returned to United for a then world record fee. Fun fact: He has two older twin brothers – Florentin and Mathias – born in Guinea, who are also footballers and play for the Guinean national team. Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 1x World Cup 4x Serie A 1x Serie A Most Assists 2x Coppa Italia 1x UEFA Europa League 1x Golden Boy Award 2018: Kylian Mbappe (France) Mbappe looks poised to take the throne as the world's best player in the coming years, having broken out at Monaco as a 17 year old before moving to PSG last season for a staggering fee of €180 million. Fun fact: His trademark goal celebration – posing with his arms crossed and hands tucked under his armpits – was inspired by his younger brother Ethan who would celebrate in this manner when beating Kylian at FIFA. Notable awards: 1x World Cup Best Young Player 1x World Cup 2x Ligue 1 2x Ligue 1 Best Young Player 1x Coupe de France 1x Golden Boy Award PS: If you enjoyed reading this it would be great if you could waste a minute of your life and check out this shitty World Cup montage that I spent like 2 whole days making Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 26, 2018 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 2018 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2018 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics