Here's When iPhone 11 Is Likely Launching—And When You Can Pre-Order | Tom's Guide Skip to main content Open menu Close menu Tom's Guide Tom's Guide Search Search Tom's Guide Sign in View Profile Sign out RSS Newsletters Newsletter US Edition Australia UK US Canada Best Picks Phones Streaming TVs Computing AI Mattresses Videos More Newsletter News Fitness Reviews How Tos Home Best VPN Deals Coupons Antivirus Entertainment Wellness Security Laptops Smart Home Audio Gaming Forums Trending Switch 2 Pre-Orders iPhone 17 Air Best laptops Best Mattress Best TVs Wordle Today Phones iPhones Here's When iPhone 11 Is Likely Launching—And When You Can Pre-Order News By Don Reisinger published 16 August 2019 Some reservations are starting now When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . (Image credit: Marquess Brownlee) Apple is one step closer to launching the iPhone 11 , if a new leak is any indication. Earlier this week, Apple released its latest iOS 13 beta with a rather interesting tell: a calendar icon with a static date of September 10 . At first blush, that might not mean much. But when Apple released its iOS 12 beta last year, the date listed on the operating system's calendar icon matched the date of its keynote address unveiling the iPhone XR, iPhone XS, and iPhone XS Max. Given that history — and the way the timing lines up with it being a Tuesday, the day Apple usually unveils new iPhones — we can safely assume that the iPhone 11 will be unveiled at a special Apple press event on September 10. You may like iPhone 17 Air leaker just showed Apple's thinnest iPhone ever next to the rest of the lineup iPhone 17e reportedly launching in May 2026 — what we know MORE: Apple Releasing iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max (Report) Again, using Apple's history as our guide, there's a reasonable chance that iPhone 11 pre-orders will begin on that Friday, September 13. Apple usually releases its iPhones a week later on a Friday, so it's perhaps likely we'll see the iPhone 11 hit store shelves on September 20. While neither Apple nor carriers have confirmed that timeline, at least some carriers are starting to get an early jump on pre-orders. According to WinFuture , Germany's Telecom has started taking pre-orders for the iPhone 11 already. The company isn't revealing an exact release date or price, but customers who know they want to get an iPhone 11 can move to the head of the line to buy the devices now. Sign up to get the BEST of Tom's Guide direct to your inbox. Get instant access to breaking news, the hottest reviews, great deals and helpful tips. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. But if recent iPhone releases are any indication, that might not be necessary. Apple won't necessarily sell out of all of its units next month and you should have no problem walking into a store and picking one up on launch day. Either way, look for Apple to send out invites to its press event in the next couple of weeks and for the show to kick off on September 10. In the meantime, check out our iPhone 11 hub page for all of the latest news and leaks. Two Big iPhone 11 Leak Reveal Color-Changing Design and Storage 5 Key Features the iPhone 11 Pro Needs to Win This iPhone 11 Concept Is Insane See more Phones News Don Reisinger Don Reisinger is CEO and founder of D2 Tech Agency. A communications strategist, consultant, and copywriter, Don has also written for many leading technology and business publications including CNET, Fortune Magazine, The New York Times, Forbes, Computerworld, Digital Trends, TechCrunch and Slashgear. He has also written for Tom's Guide for many years, contributing hundreds of articles on everything from phones to games to streaming and smart home. Read more iPhone 17 Air leaker just showed Apple's thinnest iPhone ever next to the rest of the lineup iPhone 17e reportedly launching in May 2026 — what we know iPhone 17 Pro Max renders shows off this long-overdue redesign iPhone SE 4 reportedly launching as soon as next week iPhone 17 leaker just revealed renders of all four models — here's the new designs iPhone 17 Pro Max leak claims it’s ready for production — and seems to confirm its new design Latest in iPhones iOS 18.4.1 update is reportedly bricking some iPhones — what you need to know iPhone 17 Air leaker just showed Apple's thinnest iPhone ever next to the rest of the lineup I have concerns about iPhone 17 Air’s design — and Pixel 9a is why Apple Intelligence page no longer says 'available now' — here's why iPhone 17e rumor has me scratching my head — here's why iOS 19 could move the search bar to the bottom of the phone screen Latest in News NYT Connections today hints and answers — Friday, April 25 (#684) iOS 18.4.1 update is reportedly bricking some iPhones — what you need to know Hackers are using Zoom to spread malware and take over PCs — here’s how to stay safe Razer Blade 16 laptop now for sale following tariff pause Motorola Razr 2025 launch live — three new foldables just announced Nebula just launched a new outdoor 3,500-lumen projector — and it’s totally liquid cooled LATEST ARTICLES 1 Epic Steelcase Spring Sale — 5 amazing deals I recommend for your home office 2 Nebula just launched a new outdoor 3,500-lumen projector — and it’s totally liquid cooled 3 iOS 18.4.1 update is reportedly bricking some iPhones — what you need to know 4 Huge Kohl’s sale live from $9 — here’s my favorite deals on patio furniture, fitness apparel and more 5 Hackers are using Zoom to spread malware and take over PCs — here’s how to stay safe Tom's Guide is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . Terms and conditions Contact Future's experts Privacy policy Cookies policy Accessibility Statement Advertise with us About us Archives Careers © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up