How many Academy Awards and Oscar nominations does ‘Parasite’ have? - AS USA NFL NBA Latest News AS USA Log in Sign in to comment Hello EDITION en Editions Spain Chile Colombia USA Mexico US Latino America Scores Scores Editions Spain Chile Colombia USA Mexico US Latino America Scores NFL NBA MLB NCAA Soccer Other Sports Latest News Entertainment ASTV Photos MeriStation Stories Topics Clippers vs Nuggets live Magic vs Celtics live Spain power out UCL Semi-finals TV F1 Miami Grand Prix TV Canelo vs Scull TV Hailstorm damages Car production halt Medi-Cal Tropical storms Kurt Cobain and The Beatles Bill Murray The Accountant 3 Lebron Purdy's contract George Kittle's contract Canelo sugests fight Giannis vs Haliburton's dad Follow us on Hello Live Winners How to watch Picture Director Actress Actor Supporting Actress Supporting Actor OSCARS 2024 How many Academy Awards and Oscar nominations does ‘Parasite’ have? “Parasite”, the film directed by Bong Joon-ho, was awarded the Best Picture award at the 2020 Oscars ahead of “1917″, “Joker” and seven other films. LUCAS JACKSON As.com Update: Mar 10th, 2024 12:58 EDT 0 Throwback to when Kurt Cobain revealed who his favorite and least favorite Beatles were: “Paul McCartney embarrasses me” Beyoncé’s Cowboy Carter and the Rodeo Chitlin’ Circuit Tour kicks off in LA: These are the dates, cities and venues It’s not Ghostbusters or Groundhog Day: This is the Bill Murray comedy he calls ‘perfect’ Ben Affleck drops hint about possible ‘Accountant 3’ movie: “I’d like to do more of these” Not Nirvana’s ‘Nevermind’ or Pearl Jam’s ‘Ten’: This is the first grunge album according to Keith Richards ‘Parasite’ was a revolution in the 2020 Oscars ceremony , winning several awards including Best Picture. The film, which enchanted audiences and critics alike with its originality, also won in other categories such as Best Director, International Film, and Original Screenplay . Follow the 2024 Oscars ceremony and the red carpet latest updates live online on As.com. Everything you need to know about the 2024 Oscars Oscars 2024: times and how to watch on TV Complete list of nomenees for the 2024 Oscars Oscars 2024 Best Picture Oscars 2024 Best Director Oscars 2024 Actress Oscars 2024 Best Actor Oscars 2024 Best Supporting Actress Oscars 2024 Best Supporting Actor Directed by Bong Joon-ho , the film tells the story of a family of four who are unemployed and infiltrate as domestic workers in a wealthy household, maintaining the charade until it explodes. The characters are parasites for one reason or another, hence the title. At first glance, ‘Parasite’ could be read as a social satire in which a poor family takes advantage of a wealthy clan, but that reading is dangerous. In reality, the poor in my film are people with talent and dignity. It is unemployment that drives them to take advantage of the rich. In addition, the bourgeois family can also be seen as a group of parasites: they are unable to perform the most basic tasks and require their servants to do anything,” the director confessed in one of his interviews. How many Academy Awards and in which categories did ‘Parasite’ win? Related stories OSCARS 2024 Oscar winners predicted for 2024 OSCARS 2024 The first Oscars gala in history ‘ Parasite’ received five nominations and won four Academy Awards at the 2020 ceremony . The categories in which it was awarded are: Best Picture Best Director: Bong Joon-ho Best Original Screenplay: Bong Joon-ho and Han Jin-won Best International Feature Film In addition to these four awards, “Parasite” was also nominated in the Best Production Design category, but did not win in that category. It is the only film in the history of the awards to win both the Best International Feature Film and Best Picture awards . Other awards for ‘Parasite’: Palme d’Or at the Cannes Film Festival for Best Feature Film. Best Foreign Film at the Sydney Film Festival. Best Foreign Film at the Critics’ Choice Movie Awards. Best Director at the Critics’ Choice Movie Awards. FIPRESCI Prize for Best International Screenplay at the Palm Springs International Film Festival. Hollywood Filmmaker Award at the Hollywood Film Awards. Best Foreign Language Film at the National Board of Review. Three years ago today, Bong Joon-ho’s ‘Parasite’ swept the Academy Awards including Best Picture. pic.twitter.com/fNTMRiwgjz — Film Daze (@filmdaze) February 9, 2023 Tagged in : Premios Oscar Premios cine Premios Cine Películas Comments Rules Comments Rules Sign in to comment Already have an account Complete your personal details to comment Complete data Your opinion will be published with first and last names Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript" rel="nofollow"> comments powered by Disqus.</a> We recommend these for you in Entertainment Ben Affleck drops hint about possible ‘Accountant 3’ movie: “I’d like to do more of these” It’s not Ghostbusters or Groundhog Day: This is the Bill Murray comedy he calls ‘perfect’ Not Nirvana’s ‘Nevermind’ or Pearl Jam’s ‘Ten’: This is the first grunge album according to Keith Richards Beyoncé’s Cowboy Carter and the Rodeo Chitlin’ Circuit Tour kicks off in LA: These are the dates, cities and venues Throwback to when Kurt Cobain revealed who his favorite and least favorite Beatles were: “Paul McCartney embarrasses me” Goodbye to one of Netflix’s most beloved series after just three seasons Most viewed More news Goodbye to carry-on luggage as you know it? American Airlines and the changes to baggage policy in 2025 After 15 years, 6 seasons and a trilogy, one of the most beloved series of our time comes to an end We planted this fruit tree all over the country and it turns out to be a snake magnet in summer