Paul Pogba wins Young Player Award at the 2014 FIFA World Cup - Black & White & Read All Over Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes mobile Black & White & Read All Over homepage Horizontal - White Black & White & Read All Over a Juventus community Follow Black & White & Read All Over online: Follow Black & White & Read All Over on Twitter Follow Black & White & Read All Over on Facebook Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search Black & White & Read All Over main menu Podcast Sections Transfer Rumors DraftKings Nation About Masthead Community Guidelines More All 300 communities on Horizontal - White Podcast Sections Serie A Campionato 2024-25 The Old Lady Speaks Podcast Juventus transfer news & rumors Match Previews Match Recaps Team News Team Management Juventus Women Full Archive Transfer Rumors DraftKings Nation About Masthead Community Guidelines ✕ Filed under: 2014 FIFA World Cup Juventus at the World Cup Paul Pogba wins Young Player Award at the 2014 FIFA World Cup By Danny Penza @djp4cal Jul 14, 2014,  3:23am CEST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share this on Reddit Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Paul Pogba wins Young Player Award at the 2014 FIFA World Cup Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Jamie Squire Paul Pogba might need a second trophy room in the next year or two the way he is racking up the hardware these days. A year after being named the Player of the Tournament at the Under-20 World Cup, Pogba was honored yet again, this time at the big fellas' gathering in Brazil. Pogba was named the top young player at the 2014 FIFA World Cup, adding to an already impressive haul for the 21-year-old Juventus midfielder who is in the eye of every European giant in the game today. Too bad, though. He's ours for now. BREAKING - @Hyundai YOUNG PLAYER AWARD: Paul Pogba has won the Hyundai Young Player Award #WorldCup - pic.twitter.com/y01o6OvY0H — FIFAWorldCup (@FIFAWorldCup) July 13, 2014 Pogba started four of France's five matches at the World Cup. His lone goal of the tournament was a big one — a 79th-minute header that won the game and allowed Les Blues to advance to the quarterfinals. He also won Man of the Match honors in the game, which came as a surprise to nobody in particular seeing as he was the goal-scoring hero. You have to think that this is just the start of something big at the international level under Didier Deschamps, who himself knows something about being a damn good midfielder for both Juventus and the France national team. Not bad, kid, not bad. Now go enjoy your rest and come back ready to go. I'm going to guess your role is going to be rather important this season. And, please, enjoy your vacation by not reading anything in the English press. More from Black & White & Read All Over Follow @JuventusNation Follow @SBNationSoccer 2014 FIFA World Cup Final Game Time Thread: Argentina vs. Germany Juventus and France midfielder Paul Pogba nominated for Young Player Award at the World Cup Report: Richmond Boakye is close to joining Atalanta on loan Juventus, Real Madrid agree to a buy-back clause price tag for Álvaro Morata Patrice Evra has told Manchester United he wants to leave, sign with Juventus More From Black & White & Read All Over After Monza: Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo Kenan Yildiz handed two-match ban following red card against Monza Lloyd Kelly to miss Bologna game — and maybe more — with hamstring injury The Old Lady Speaks Podcast, Episode 283: Yildiz sees red in Juve’s win vs. Monza OFFICIALLY OFFICIAL: Juventus Women captain Sara Gama is retiring Ten-man Juventus beat Monza, but at a high cost Juventus News 24/7 Most Read Lloyd Kelly to miss Bologna game — and maybe more — with hamstring injury Another one bites the dust. Ten-man Juventus beat Monza, but at a high cost A moment of madness from Juve’s best player overshadowed a positive reaction to the loss against Parma. Kenan Yildiz handed two-match ban following red card against Monza The young Turk will spend his birthday in Turin while the rest of his teammates face a crucial fixture for a spot in the top four against Bologna. Chorus FanPosts Masthead Community Guidelines Facebook Twitter YouTube Horizontal - White Contact Have a News Tip? Browse Blogs SB Nation Masthead Company Blog Blog Openings Editorial Ethics and Guidelines Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Cookie Settings Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER ( 1-800-426-2537 ). Hope is here. GamblingHelpLineMA.org or call (800) 327-5050 for 24/7 support (MA). Visit www.mdgamblinghelp.org (MD). Call 877-8HOPE-NY or text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call 1-888-789-7777 or visit ccpg.org/chat (CT) or visit FanDuel.com/RG . Share this story Twitter Facebook