James Paul Moody - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Early life 2 Career 3 RMS Titanic Toggle RMS Titanic subsection 3.1 Death 4 Legacy Toggle Legacy subsection 4.1 Portrayals 5 References 6 Bibliography 7 External links Toggle the table of contents James Paul Moody 21 languages Azərbaycanca Català Deutsch Español Esperanto Français Bahasa Indonesia Italiano مصرى Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Polski Português Русский Slovenščina Suomi Svenska ไทย Українська 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Sixth officer of RMS Titanic (1887–1912) This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these messages ) This article includes a list of general references , but it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations . Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. ( August 2012 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) This article possibly contains original research . Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations . Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. ( August 2012 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Sub-Lieutenant James Paul Moody RNR Moody in 1912 Born ( 1887-08-21 ) 21 August 1887 Scarborough, North Yorkshire , England Died 15 April 1912 (1912-04-15) (aged 24) North Atlantic Ocean Occupation Naval officer Known for Sixth officer of the RMS Titanic Sub-Lieutenant James Paul Moody , RNR (21 August 1887 – 15 April 1912) was a British sailor, who served as Titanic 's sixth officer. He died when the ship sank on her maiden voyage. [ 1 ] Early life [ edit ] James Paul Moody was born in Scarborough, England , on 21 August 1887, the youngest of four children, three boys and one girl, born to solicitor John Henry Moody and his wife Evelyn Louisa Lammin. Moody's grandfather, John James Paul Moody, had been Town Clerk of Scarborough. [ 2 ] Moody attended the Rosebery House School, where he received a prestigious education, before joining the Navy training vessel HMS Conway as a cadet in 1902. [ 3 ] His two years in the ship, 1902 to 1903, counted as one year of sea time towards his Board of Trade Second Mate's Certification. Career [ edit ] In 1904 he joined the William Thomas Line's Boadicea as an apprentice, and endured a horrific, storm-troubled voyage to New York, in which one of his fellow apprentices was driven to suicide. [ 4 ] After attaining his Second Mate's Certification, Moody went into steam and sailed in cargo and early oil-tankers, eventually attaining his First Mate's Certificate. After very briefly attending the King Edward VII Nautical School in 1910, a nautical "cram" school preparing officers for their Board of Trade examinations, he successfully obtained his Ordinary Master's Certification, and in August 1911 served the White Star Line aboard the Oceanic as her sixth officer. [ 5 ] In March 1912 he received word that he was to be assigned to RMS Titanic as her Sixth Officer. Moody was somewhat reluctant to accept the assignment as he had hoped to spend a summer on the Atlantic aboard the Oceanic , after having endured a harsh winter, and was also hoping to take leave. His request for leave was denied. [ 6 ] While serving aboard the RMS Titanic , Moody was living with an uncle in Grimsby , England and used the residence as his shore address. He also had a romantic interest that he confided in his brother, might be "the one". RMS Titanic [ edit ] Along with the other junior officers, Moody received a message in March 1912 ordering him to report to White Star's Liverpool offices on 26 March. From there he travelled to board Titanic at the Harland & Wolff yard in Belfast on 27 March and reported to First Officer William McMaster Murdoch . Moody had only received his Master's License the previous April, but he had a broad sense of knowledge and decades of experience to look up to in his senior officers and captain. Murdoch ordered Harold Lowe and Moody to inspect the starboard side lifeboats and to make sure their equipment was complete; he ordered Third Officer Herbert Pitman and Fourth Officer Joseph Boxhall to do likewise with the port side lifeboats. [ 7 ] Titanic then sailed for Southampton to take on passengers. Moody's service as Sixth Officer earned him about $37 a month, although he was allowed his own cabin as compensation for his small salary. On Titanic ' s sailing day, 10 April, Moody assisted, among other things, in aiding Fifth Officer Lowe in lowering two of the starboard lifeboats to satisfy the Board of Trade that Titanic met safety standards. He was also in charge of closing the last gangway, and most likely saved the lives of six crewmen who arrived too late to board by turning them away. Moody was assembled with men for the ship's lifeboat drill and along with Lowe, was selected to take charge of two lifeboats chosen for testing, boats Nos 11 and 13. Lowe took 11 and Moody took 13. [ 8 ] Before the ship began her voyage, Moody was at the head of the last gangway connecting ship with shore, astern on E Deck, located just off the main crew thoroughfare, Scotland Road. Fireman John Podesta and his friend William Nutbean made it up the gangway and past Moody; Moody then ordered the gangplank withdrawn from Titanic's side, and it had gotten about a foot from the side of the ship when R.C. Lawrence, who had been sent aboard to deliver typewriters to the Purser's Office, and stayed to tour the ship, couldn't find his way to a gangway. Amid protestations on his part and vocabulary, Moody instructed the ABs to pull in the gangway. Once the gap had been closed, Lawrence hurried down the gangplank to shore. At the same moment, crewmember Tom Slade, his three brothers and a trimmer named Penney arrived at the gangway but as witnessed by Lawrence Bessley, Moody firmly refused to allow them on board; they argued, gesticulated, apparently attempting to explain their reasons for being late, but he remained obdurate and waved them back with a determined hand and the gangway was dragged back. [ 9 ] Once the ship had put to sea, Moody stood the 4–5 PM watch and both 8–12 watches, which meant that he was on watch on the bridge with First Officer Murdoch and Fourth Officer Boxhall when the Titanic struck an iceberg at 11:40 PM on 14 April. On April 14, when Pitman began his watch, he noticed that several coordinates, denoting the position of wireless ice sightings had been marked on the chart and assumed that they had been made by either Boxhall or Moody. [ 10 ] Lightoller asked Moody to use the telephone to call up the lookouts in the Crow's Nest; he wanted to have them "keep a sharp lookout for ice, particularly small ice and growlers", and to "pass that word on until daylight", as each successive shift took its turn on duty." Moody picked up the phone to the Nest in the wheelhouse and Lightoller overheard him say, "Keep a sharp look out for ice, particularly small ice.", before hanging up. Lightoller noted that Moody's order differed somewhat from the wording that he had specified, as Moody had not mentioned "growlers". Lightoller thought the detail was important enough to have Moody call the lookouts again, and to clarify that they should keep a sharp lookout for "small ice and growlers". Moody carried the order out, ringing the crow's nest a second time and conveying the order correctly this time. [ 11 ] After spotting the iceberg, lookout Frederick Fleet rang the warning bell three times and phoned the bridge. Murdoch and Moody heard the warning bell and the telephone began to ring. Moody picked it up immediately but did not say anything. An anxious Fleet asked, "Is anyone there?" "Yes", Moody confirmed, "What did you see?" Fleet replied, "Iceberg, right ahead!". Moody said politely, "Thank you", and relayed the warning to Murdoch: "Iceberg right ahead!" As Robert Hichens turned the helm, Moody stood beside him, watching to see the order was carried out properly. Moody called out to confirm to Murdoch, "Hard a-starboard. The helm is hard over." As the ship struck, Murdoch ordered, "Hard to port!" and Moody ensured the order was carried out promptly. [ 12 ] [ 13 ] Around midnight, Moody told Quartermaster Alfred Olliver to go get the muster list for the lifeboats, and Moody was sent on his way to start preparing the aft port lifeboats. [ 14 ] Pitman came across Moody and crew uncovering boats on the port side Boat Deck aft quarter. When Pitman asked, Moody told him that he had not seen the iceberg, but that there was ice up forward on the Well Deck. [ 15 ] Pitman decided to investigate for himself. Moody did not have much assistance in overseeing the preparation of the port boats. [ 16 ] As Colonel Archibald Gracie was down on the port side of A Deck, near Boat No. 4, when Smith's orders to lower the boats were transmitted to the crew, he recalled that Moody stood with a number of other crewmen on the deck to bar any men passengers from getting near the boat, saying, "No man beyond this line." As the attempt to load No. 4 fell apart for the time being, and much of the group there dispersed, Moody headed back up the boat deck. [ 17 ] In the ensuing evacuation, Moody helped in the loading of Lifeboats No. 9, 12, 13, 14, and 16. While loading No. 16, Moody ordered stewardess Violet Jessop into the boat. She described Moody as looking "weary and tired". Even so, he gave them a cheery smile, as he called out, "Good luck!", as he guided her and her cabin-mate into the boat; Moody then hailed her and gave her a baby to look after, saying, "Look after this, will you?". Moody then ordered the boat lowered away. [ 18 ] While loading No. 14, Fifth Officer Lowe asked Moody what he was doing. Moody said he was getting the boats away. Lowe remarked that an officer should man the lifeboat. [ 19 ] When Lowe asked Moody who it was to be—him or Moody—Moody insisted that Lowe should get onto the boat and that he would get on another one, saying "You go; I will get in another boat." [ 20 ] Moody went to the starboard side and assisted Reginald Lee , who was Fleet's fellow lookout, in loading lifeboat No. 13, before ordering him to man it. [ 21 ] 12-year-old Second Class passenger Ruth Becker was placed in this boat by Moody after being prevented from entering the heavily overloaded lifeboat number 11 which her mother and two siblings had boarded. Moody noticed Lily May Peel as she headed up to the boat deck and asked, "What are you doing below, Mrs Futrelle? All the women are gone," and led her up the stairs. He ignored her protests of him pulling her and took her to boat No. 9. [ 22 ] He stayed to assist at boat 9. Moody instructed Quartermaster Walter Wynn to go in the boat and to take charge of it. Just as it began lowering away, Murdoch countermanded Moody's order, instructing Boatswain's Mate Albert Haines to take command. Wynn relinquished control to Haines, and entered the boat. [ 23 ] Moody ordered Saloon Steward Littlejohn and crewman to get in to help row the boat. [ 24 ] Death [ edit ] Moody was last seen by the ship's lamp trimmer, Samuel Hemming, on top of the officers' quarters helping to launch Collapsible A, an emergency lifeboat, just before the ship began its final plunge. Hemming helped untangle the falls, and passed the block up to the roof. Moody called back down, "We don't want the block. We will leave the boat on deck." Moody's opinion that the boat should be left to float free was apparently overruled but turned out to be correct as water washed over the deck. [ 25 ] Collapsible Boat A reached the deck and was being attached to the falls when it was washed off Titanic by the wave washing over the boat deck. [ 26 ] Lightoller, who was also on top of the quarters clearing away the collapsible boat on the port side, though he said he didn't remember seeing Moody, said that as those at collapsible A and B were engulfed when the water came up onto the boat deck and washed over the bridge, the same must have happened to Moody. [ 27 ] Moody was 24 at the time of his death. His body was never recovered. Moody, along with some individuals who had perished, was mistakenly at first listed as survived. [ 28 ] Legacy [ edit ] A monument in Dean Road / Manor Road Cemetery, Scarborough, commemorates Moody's sacrifice on the Titanic with the Biblical quote, "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends." (see John 15:13 ) He is also commemorated by a Blue plaque at 17 Granville Road Scarborough, the house where he was born [ 29 ] and a commemorative plaque in St Martin's Church in Scarborough. [ 30 ] He is also commemorated by a brass altar set presented by his aunt, Hannah Mountain, to the church of St Augustine of Hippo, Grimsby . Portrayals [ edit ] Michael Bryant (1958) — A Night to Remember (British film) In the 1996 miniseries Titanic , Moody is merged with that of Fourth Officer Joseph Boxhall , who is inaccurately portrayed as dying in the sinking. Edward Fletcher (1997) ( Titanic ) Jonathan Howard (2012) ( Titanic ) (TV series/4 episodes) References [ edit ] ^ "Titanic's Officers - RMS Titanic - Sixth Officer Moody" . www.titanicofficers.com . Retrieved 23 April 2024 . ^ Smyser, Sue (15 April 1998). "Forgotten Passage". Journal Gazette. ^ "James Paul Moody" . www.scarboroughcivicsociety.org.uk . Retrieved 28 November 2017 . ^ Sheil, Inger (31 August 2005). "All the Horrors Seem to Happen at Night" . Encyclopedia Titanica . Retrieved 8 February 2016 . ^ Jones, Paul Anthony (2012). The British Isles a Trivia gazetteer . Chichester: Summersdale Publishers. p. 227. ISBN 978-0-85765-827-2 . ^ Sheil, Inger (2012). Titanic Valour: The Life of Fifth Officer Harold Lowe . The History Press. ISBN 9780752477701 . ^ Fitch, Layton & Wormstedt 2012 , p. 47-48. ^ Fitch, Layton & Wormstedt 2012 , p. 65. ^ Beesley, Lawrence (1912). The Loss of the S.S. Titanic . London, England: Heinemann. p. 56. ^ Fitch, Layton & Wormstedt 2012 , p. 123. ^ Fitch, Layton & Wormstedt 2012 , p. 133-134. ^ Fitch, Layton & Wormstedt 2012 , p. 141-143. ^ "Titanic owners wanted money to return body of Scarborough hero James Moody" . The Scarborough News . 24 April 2015. Archived from the original on 1 December 2017 . Retrieved 28 November 2017 . ^ Fitch, Layton & Wormstedt 2012 , p. 162. ^ From his position inside the enclosed wheelhouse next to Hitchens at the time of the collision, Moody would have been unable to see the iceberg as it passed by. ^ Fitch, Layton & Wormstedt 2012 , p. 165-167. ^ Fitch, Layton & Wormstedt 2012 , p. 191-192. ^ Jessop, Violet; Maxton-Graham, John (1997). Titanic Survivor . Dobbs Ferry, New York : Sheridan House. ISBN 1-57409-184-0 . ^ "Titanic letter praises heroic man" . BBC News . 3 May 2005 . Retrieved 28 November 2017 . ^ Testimony of Harold G. Lowe ^ Testimony of Reginald R. Lee, cont. ^ Fitch, Layton & Wormstedt 2012 , p. 213. ^ Fitch, Layton & Wormstedt 2012 , p. 215. ^ Fitch, Layton & Wormstedt 2012 , p. 217-219. ^ Fitch, Layton & Wormstedt 2012 , p. 229-230. ^ Testimony of Samuel Hemming at Titanic inquiry.com ^ Testimony of Charles Herbert Lightoller ^ Fitch, Layton & Wormstedt 2012 , p. 259. ^ Stuff, Good. "James Paul Moody blue plaque in Scarborough" . www.blueplaqueplaces.co.uk . Archived from the original on 1 December 2017 . Retrieved 8 February 2016 . ^ Penfold, Phil (6 November 2016). "God's house of wonders on Scarborough's south Cliff" . The Yorkshire Post . Retrieved 28 November 2017 . Bibliography [ edit ] Fitch, Tad; Layton, J. Kent; Wormstedt, Bill (2012). On A Sea of Glass: The Life & Loss of the R.M.S. Titanic . Amberley Books. ISBN 978-1848689275 . External links [ edit ] "James Paul Moody" . Encyclopedia Titanica . James Moody on Titanic-Titanic.com All the Horrors Seem to Happen at Night v t e Titanic First class facilities Second and Third class facilities Grand Staircase Animals aboard Sinking Iceberg that sank the Titanic Changes in safety practices Lifeboats Lifeboat No. 1 British inquiry United States inquiry Wreck of the Titanic Legends and myths Conspiracy theories Officers Edward J. Smith (Captain) Henry Tingle Wilde (Chief Officer) William McMaster Murdoch (First Officer) Charles H. Lightoller (Second Officer) Herbert Pitman (Third Officer) Joseph G. Boxhall (Fourth Officer) Harold G. Lowe (Fifth Officer) James Paul Moody (Sixth Officer) Hugh McElroy (Chief Purser) Joseph Bell (Machine Room Manager) Crew members Frederick Barrett Harold Bride William Denton Cox Sid Daniels Frank Oliver Evans Frederick Fleet Luigi Gatti Robert Hichens Violet Jessop Archie Jewell Charles Joughin Reginald Lee Evelyn Marsden William Mintram Jack Phillips Frank Winnold Prentice Arthur John Priest George Symons Musicians Wallace Hartley John Wesley Woodward Passengers Fatalities Allison family Thomas Andrews John Jacob Astor IV David John Bowen Archibald Butt Thomas Byles Roderick Chisholm Walter Donald Douglas Annie Funk Jacques Futrelle Sidney Leslie Goodwin Benjamin Guggenheim John Harper Henry B. Harris Wallace Hartley Charles Melville Hays Ann Elizabeth Isham Edward Austin Kent Joseph Philippe Lemercier Laroche Francis Davis Millet Harry Markland Molson Clarence Moore Eino Viljami Panula W. T. Stead Ida Straus Isidor Straus John B. Thayer Frank M. Warren Sr. George D. Wick George Dunton Widener Harry Elkins Widener Duane Williams George Henry Wright Survivors Rhoda Abbott Trevor Allison Lillian Asplund Madeleine Astor Ruth Becker Lawrence Beesley Karl Behr Dickinson Bishop Mauritz Håkan Björnström-Steffansson Elsie Bowerman Francis Browne Margaret "Molly" Brown Helen Churchill Candee Charlotte Drake Cardeza Lucile Carter Gladys Cherry Millvina Dean Sir Cosmo Duff-Gordon Lucy, Lady Duff-Gordon Dorothy Gibson Archibald Gracie IV Frank John William Goldsmith Edith Haisman Henry S. Harper Eva Hart Margaret Bechstein Hays Masabumi Hosono J. Bruce Ismay Eleanor Ileen Johnson Louise Kink Louise Laroche Margaret Mannion Michel Marcel Navratil Alfred Nourney Arthur Godfrey Peuchen Jane Quick Winnifred Quick Edith Rosenbaum Noël Leslie, Countess of Rothes Emily Ryerson Agnes Sandström Beatrice Sandström Frederic Kimber Seward Eloise Hughes Smith Douglas Spedden Jack Thayer Marian Thayer Barbara West Ella Holmes White Eleanor Elkins Widener R. Norris Williams Marie Grice Young Monuments and memorials Australia Bandstand (Ballarat) United Kingdom Engine Room Heroes (Liverpool) Engineers (Southampton) Musicians (Southampton) Titanic (Belfast) Orchestra (Liverpool) United States Straus Park (New York City) Titanic (New York City) Titanic (Washington, D.C.) Butt–Millet Memorial Fountain (Washington, D.C.) Popular culture (cultural legacy) Books The Wreck of the Titan: Or, Futility (1898) A Night to Remember (1955) Polar the Titanic Bear (1995) Films Saved from the Titanic (1912) In Nacht und Eis (1912) La hantise (1912) Atlantic (1929) Atlantik (1929) Titanic (1943) Titanic (1953) A Night to Remember (1958) The Unsinkable Molly Brown (1964) Raise the Titanic (1980) Secrets of the Titanic (1986) Titanica (1992) Titanic (1997) The Chambermaid on the Titanic (1997) The Legend of the Titanic (1999) Titanic: The Legend Goes On (2000) The Boy Who Saw the Iceberg (2000) Ghosts of the Abyss (2003) Tentacolino (2004) Titanic II (2010) The Six (2021) Titanic 666 (2022) Unsinkable (2024) Television " A Night to Remember " (1956) S.O.S. Titanic (1979) Titanic: The Complete Story (1994) Titanic (1996 miniseries) No Greater Love (1996) "A Flight to Remember" ( Futurama ) (1999) "The Mutants Are Revolting" ( Futurama ) (2010) Titanic (2012 miniseries) Titanic: Blood and Steel (2012) Saving the Titanic (2012) Titanic: The Aftermath (2012) Theater The Berg (1929) The Unsinkable Molly Brown (1960 musical) Titanic (1974) Titanic (1997 musical) Music " The Titanic (It Was Sad When That Great Ship Went Down) " (folk song) The Sinking of the Titanic (music composition) Titanic (soundtrack album) Back to Titanic (soundtrack album) " My Heart Will Go On " (song) " Nearer, My God, to Thee " (song) Titanique (musical parody) " Dance Band on the Titanic " (song) " Titanic " (song) Titanic Requiem (music composition) " Tempest " (song) Titanic Rising (album) Video games Search for the Titanic (1989) Titanic: Adventure Out of Time (1996) Titanic: Honor and Glory (TBA) Museums and exhibitions SeaCity Museum (Southampton) Titanic Museum (Branson, Missouri) Titanic Museum (Pigeon Forge, Tennessee) Maritime Museum of the Atlantic (Halifax) Titanic Belfast Places Titanic (Canada) Titanic Canyon Titanic Quarter, Belfast Cape Race, Newfoundland Fairview Lawn Cemetery Mount Olivet Cemetery (Halifax, Nova Scotia) Arrol Gantry Titanic, Oklahoma Related Ships RMS Baltic RMS Olympic HMHS Britannic SS Mount Temple RMS Carpathia SS Californian CS Mackay-Bennett SS Birma SS Frankfurt Replica Titanic Titanic II Romandisea Titanic Law RMS Titanic Maritime Memorial Act Agreement Concerning the Shipwrecked Vessel RMS Titanic Others White Star Line David Blair James Cameron Harold Cottam Herbert Haddock Stanley Lord Arthur Rostron Titanic Historical Society Titanic International Society Encyclopedia Titanica Halomonas titanicae Women and children first Robert Ballard La Circassienne au Bain Titan submersible implosion The Big Piece Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=James_Paul_Moody&oldid=1283841111 " Categories : 1887 births 1910s missing person cases Formerly missing British people 1912 deaths British Merchant Navy officers People educated aboard HMS Conway Deaths from hypothermia People from Scarborough, North Yorkshire Deaths on the RMS Titanic 20th-century English people 19th-century English people White Star Line personnel Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles lacking in-text citations from August 2012 All articles lacking in-text citations Articles that may contain original research from August 2012 All articles that may contain original research Articles with multiple maintenance issues Use British English from April 2012 Use dmy dates from February 2021 Articles with hCards This page was last edited on 3 April 2025, at 23:54 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents James Paul Moody 21 languages Add topic