Nutmeg Wins 2019 Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Award | Rocky Hill, CT Patch Skip to main content Rocky Hill, CT Subscribe News Feed Events Local Businesses Classifieds Post Advertise Nearby Wethersfield News Newington News Glastonbury News Berlin News Greater Hartford News Middletown News East Hampton-Portland News West Hartford News Farmington News Meriden News Local News Community Corner Crime & Safety Politics & Government Schools Traffic & Transit Obituaries Personal Finance Neighbor News Best Of Seasonal & Holidays Weather Arts & Entertainment Business & Tech Health & Wellness Home & Garden Sports Travel Kids & Family Pets Restaurants & Bars Events Local Businesses Classifieds Real Estate See all communities Advertise Nearby Communities Wethersfield, CT Newington, CT Glastonbury, CT Berlin, CT Greater Hartford, CT Middletown, CT East Hampton-Portland, CT West Hartford, CT Farmington, CT Meriden, CT State Edition Connecticut National Edition Top National News See All Communities This post was contributed by a community member. The views expressed here are the author's own. Business & Tech Nutmeg Wins 2019 Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Award Credit Union Awarded Third Consecutive Award For Community Excellence Kathy Callahan , Community Contributor Posted Mon, Dec  16, 2019 at 10:26 am ET Nutmeg State Financial Credit Union was presented the Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Community Service Award following its extensive collaboration with Channel 3 Kids Camp, an organization dedicated to providing educational camp programs to children across the state. This is the credit union’s third consecutive year as the winner after their previous work with the March of Dimes charity organization. Each year, the Dora Maxwell award recognizes a Connecticut credit union that demonstrates a high commitment to community and social organizations. Nutmeg’s work with Channel 3 Kids Camp spans a ten-year partnership that has resulted in impactful events like the Hartford Holiday Light Fantasia, Channel 3 Telethon Fundraiser and Golf Tournament at Mohegan Sun. In 2018 alone, the credit union helped raise over $100,000 across all community events to benefit Channel 3 Kids Camp. “We are honored to accept the Dora Maxwell award for a third year,” said Nutmeg President and CEO John Holt. “Working with Channel 3 Kids Camp has become so much more than just a partnership over the years. It’s an important community tradition that we intend to continue into the future.” The credit union will now move on as a finalist in the running for a national-level award, which will be presented at the 2020 Governmental Affairs Conference (GAC) in Washington, DC. To learn more about Nutmeg State Financial Credit Union’s latest offers and promotions, visit www.nutmegstatefcu.org or call 860.513.5000. Find out what's happening in Rocky Hill for free with the latest updates from Patch. Subscribe About Nutmeg Chartered in 1936 and headquartered in Rocky Hill, Nutmeg State Financial Credit Union is open to anyone who lives, works, worships, attends school or volunteers in the Hartford, New Haven, Middlesex or Tolland Counties as well as the cities of Shelton, Stratford and Bridgeport, Connecticut. They offer members a friendly banking environment and take pride in educating consumers about the advantages of joining a credit union. Visit them at www.nutmegstatefcu.org for more information. PHOTO: From left: Bruce Adams, President & CEO of the Credit Union League of Connecticut, presents the Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Community Service Award to Nutmeg State Financial Credit Union; John Holt, President & CEO, Lisa Asadourian, SVP/Chief Engagement Officer, and Cory LaBreck, Community and Employee Development Manager. Photo courtesy of Nutmeg Share The views expressed in this post are the author's own. Want to post on Patch? Register for a user account. More from Rocky Hill Business & Tech | 1d What's Opening In Rocky Hill? A Look At New Businesses Crime & Safety | 2d Body Found In Connecticut River In Rocky Hill: UPDATE Crime & Safety | Apr 14 Road Shut Down, 1 Injured In Rocky Hill Crash: Fire Officials Featured Events May 3, 2025 STEM Adventures at Kiddie Academy of Rocky Hill May 3, 2025 Celebrating 35 years with the Middlesex Hospital Vocal Chords May 9, 2025 Kingswood Oxford Upper School Walk & Talk Discovery Session + Add your event Featured Classifieds + Add your classified Latest News Nearby Granby-East Granby, CT News Tuesday's High School Varsity Scores: Hartford And Tolland Counties Greater Hartford, CT News Major Hartford Employer Slashing More Jobs Simsbury, CT News Learn To Take Care Of The Planet At Huge Simsbury Event Saturday Greater Hartford, CT News Prominent Orthopedic Surgeon Named To Key Role At Hartford Hospital Rocky Hill, CT News 🌱 What's Opening In Rocky Hill? A Look At New Businesses Find out what’s happening in your community on the Patch app Corporate Info About Patch Careers Partnerships Advertise on Patch Support FAQs Contact Patch Community Guidelines Posting Instructions Terms of Use Privacy Policy © 2025 Patch Media. All Rights Reserved.