The antithesis of Cruyff: Netherlands’ 2010 World Cup campaign – Football’s Finest Skip to content Search for: Search Football’s Finest Monthly adaptations of football's finest cultures FEATURES COUNTRIES Argentina France Italy Netherlands Scotland Turkey USA A-Z A B C D CONTACT Dutch Features , Features The antithesis of Cruyff: Netherlands’ 2010 World Cup campaign Date: July 11, 2020 Author: bradjonessport 0 Comments By Tom Leaman On 11 July 2010, the Netherlands achieved a rather unfortunate World Cup milestone. Their defeat to Spain in Johannesburg was their third World Cup final defeat, the most of any nation to have never lifted the trophy. The Netherlands’ class of 2010 has not gone down in Dutch football folklore in the same way as their 1974 and 1978 World Cup finalists, who were renowned for their fluid style of ‘total football’. The 1974 side, captained by Johan Cruyff, fell at the last hurdle against West Germany after beating Argentina and holders Brazil en route to the final. The 1978 side, who were without Cruyff due to a kidnap attempt that he and his family were subject to a year earlier, once again reached the final – despite a 3-2 loss against Scotland in the group stages – only to fall to Argentina. The Oranje teams of the 1970s are rightly revered for their style of football, which is something that can’t be said of the class of 2010. Cruyff himself issued a damning analysis of Bert van Marwijk’s team, telling El Periódico that they “chose an ugly path to aim for the title.” After the Netherlands’ 1-0 loss to Spain in the final at Soccer City, Cruyff said: “They didn’t want the ball.” “And regrettably, sadly, they played very dirty. So much so that they should have been down to nine immediately.” “This ugly, vulgar, hard, hermetic, hardly eye-catching, hardly football style, yes it served the Dutch to unsettle Spain. If with this they got satisfaction, fine, but they ended up losing. They were playing anti-football.” Of course, Cruyff wasn’t wrong in his description of the final. The Dutch sat deep and did their utmost to disrupt Spain’s slick passing game by any means necessary. One moment that really sticks in the memory from that night in Johannesburg, even above Andrés Iniesta’s winning goal, or the image of Spain’s captain and legendary goalkeeper Iker Casillas lifting his country’s first World Cup trophy aloft, is the sight of Nigel de Jong’s sickening studs-up kick into the chest of Xabi Alonso. Photo: ESPN Only one red card was issued that night, to Everton centre-back John Heitinga, but even referee Howard Webb must have realised with the benefit of hindsight that there should have been more. It’s worth remembering that the Spanish team that night wasn’t without blame, picking up five yellow cards of their own and being lucky not to give away a penalty when Carles Puyol held back Arjen Robben to prevent him going one-on-one against Casillas. Before he was denied by Puyol, Robben had one other clear-cut chance to seal the game in normal time after being played through on goal by an inch-perfect pass by Wesley Sneijder. But in yet another cruel twist for Dutch hearts in a World Cup final, he was denied by the outstretched leg of Casillas when he really should have scored. Photo: AP/Press Association Images At the other end, it took 116 minutes for La Roja to finally break Dutch defensive resolve. Deep into extra-time, with the Netherlands’ ten men holding out for penalties, Barcelona’s midfield maestro Iniesta was played through by Cesc Fàbregas to slot the ball past Maarten Stekelenburg and secure the World Cup for Spain. Newspaper headlines the day after the final reflect the prevailing narrative that has defined the Netherlands’ 2010 display. According to The Times, Spain “survived a Dutch assault to rule the world at last”. The Guardian praised Spain for “surviving a brutal final”, while German newspaper Bild simply ran the headline “kick final”. The media reaction in the Netherlands was one of pride after “a blood-curdling evening in Soccer City” (Algemeen Dagblad) – though the papers did fill several column inches lambasting “chump referee” Webb (AD Sportwereld). Despite this, there was an understanding in the Netherlands that Spain were simply the better team, while the Dutch were “a war machine in orange” (Volkskrant), respected more for their willingness to fight to the end rather than for their footballing talents. All of this seemingly points to one conclusion: the Dutch team at the 2010 World Cup cannot be compared to the great teams of 1974 and 1978, in no small part due to the physical, heavily structured style of football they played. It speaks volumes that Johan Cruyff – the man credited with turning the Netherlands into a force to be reckoned with – was the first to criticise their performances. But is this a fair assessment? After all, De Oranje reached the final unbeaten – even Spain lost against Switzerland in their first match of the tournament. They beat Brazil on the way, who were favoured by many to win the tournament, as well as Uruguay’s impressive over-achievers. Before their loss to Spain, the Netherlands were 25 games unbeaten, showing van Marwijk’s effective win at all costs mentality. Photo: The Australian It’s worth pointing out here that Netherlands’ class of 2010 only really contained three genuinely world-class talents: Wesley Sneijder, the focal point of José Mourinho’s Champions League-winning Internazionale side ; Robin van Persie, who scored 16 times in the Premier League for Arsenal in a season littered with injuries, and Robben, who missed the first two games of the World Cup after tearing his hamstring in a friendly against Hungary, and was rushed back to fitness ahead of schedule to be able to play his part. A look at the rest of the Dutch squad perhaps justifies their less-than-beautiful playing style. Heitinga and Joris Mathijsen were van Marwijk’s first-choice centre backs, with neither spending any time at Europe’s elite clubs during their careers. At full-back, van Marwijk selected Gregory van der Wiel, a 22-year-old product of Ajax’s illustrious youth academy, and captain Giovanni van Bronckhorst, for whom the final was his last game before retirement. To protect his back four, van Marwijk played two no-nonsense defensive midfielders: Manchester City’s combative Nigel de Jong and 33-year-old Mark van Bommel of Bayern Munich. Dirk Kuyt provided plenty of running on the left wing, while van Marwijk rotated Rafael van der Vaart, Eljero Elia and Ibrahim Afellay on the right before Robben returned from injury for their final group game. Perhaps unsurprisingly given the lack of stand-out names in the Dutch squad and Robben’s injury, their start to the tournament was shaky. In Soccer City, the Netherlands needed an own goal from Daniel Agger and a late strike from Dirk Kuyt to see off Denmark. Victories by a one-goal margin against Japan and Cameroon followed, before an unconvincing 2-1 win over Slovakia in Durban in the round of 16. In the quarter-final, the Netherlands’ team of underdogs shocked a Brazilian side containing the likes of Kaká, Robinho and Luís Fabiano, who many tipped to add to their five World Cups in South Africa. Ex-Blackburn Rovers defender André Ooijer came into the line-up in place of Mathijsen and was at fault for the opening goal, playing Robinho onside to finish coolly past Stekelenburg in the tenth minute. A deep cross from Sneijder caused a defensive error to draw them level against the run of play before he headed home a 68th-minute winner. In another feisty game, Brazil’s Felipe Melo saw red for a stamp on Robben. Photo: FIFA Despite their uninspiring performances, the Netherlands had made it into the semi-final to face Uruguay and their dangerous strike partnership of Diego Forlán and Edinson Cavani (Luis Suárez was suspended following his best goalkeeper impression against Ghana in their quarter-final). From nowhere, van Bronckhorst opened the scoring with the 52nd and final goal of his professional career, and without doubt his best, beating Fernando Muslera from some 40 yards. Forlán equalised just before half-time in another match where the Dutch seemed short of ideas in the final third, with both sides intent on keeping men behind the ball. Photo: Reuters The Netherlands did eventually break Uruguay down, scoring two goals in three second-half minutes, with Sneijder and Robben once more proving their value as the team’s creative sparks. Despite Maxi Pereira pulling a goal back in added time, the Dutch held on to reach their first World Cup final in 32 years. Ultimately, the Netherlands’ run in South Africa ended painfully (in a figurative sense for the Dutch, but a more literal one for Xabi Alonso). Van Marwijk spent two more years in charge of the national team until he resigned after failing to gain a single point at Euro 2012. A third-placed finish followed under Louis Van Gaal at the 2014 World Cup, after which the Netherlands encountered a significant dip in form, failing to qualify for EURO 2016 and the 2018 World Cup in Russia. On reflection, did the Netherlands’ 2010 World Cup side deserve Cruyff’s criticism as a “dirty”, “anti-football” team? Or was van Marwijk purely making the most of the side he inherited? In reality, it was likely a blend of both. In the final third, van Marwijk was reliant on three stand-out talents, while his defence – the weakest part of his side – needed support from the midfielders against the attacking talents of their opponents. Tactically, you could say that van Marwijk got it spot-on at a time when ‘anti-football’ was showing signs of success – just look at Inter’s Champions League semi-final victory over Guardiola’s ‘tiki-taka’ Barcelona as proof of that. Defensively, the Dutch had sufficient organisation and were well-drilled, helping them see off hard-fought matches by a one-goal margin, using their physicality to rattle opponents when necessary. In the words of van Marwijk, “it’s not always about having the best players, but more about having the best team”. They were, of course, helped by a downturn in the fortunes of their greatest rivals. Italy failed to qualify, France capitulated in the group stages and England fell apart against Germany, who also knocked out Diego Maradona’s Argentina before being edged by Spain. Once Brazil were out of the way, only Uruguay stood in the Netherlands’ way to the final, and even they had needed penalties to see off Ghana. So yes, they were imperfect – and at times plain ugly – but in a tournament marred by vuvuzelas , refereeing mishaps and the unpredictable Jabulani , the Dutch made themselves at home – and became, on paper at least, one of the most successful sides in the nation’s history. By Tom Leaman Featured Image: The Guardian Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Like Loading... Holland Netherlands Spain World Cup Post navigation Previous Previous post: Netherlands’ U17’s: consecutive continental kingpins Next Next post: Should the Eredivisie be a new addition to Europe’s ‘top five’ leagues? Leave a comment Cancel reply Δ Follow us on Twitter My Tweets © 2025 Football’s Finest A WordPress.com Website . Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy Comment Reblog Subscribe Subscribed Football’s Finest Join 29 other subscribers Sign me up Already have a WordPress.com account? Log in now. Football’s Finest Subscribe Subscribed Sign up Log in Copy shortlink Report this content View post in Reader Manage subscriptions Collapse this bar Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website %d Design a site like this with WordPress.com Get started