What Tesla investors want to know from Elon Musk during tomorrow’s earnings report - Sherwood News Activists have smeared the facade of the Tesla store in Berlin-Reinickendorf with blue paint in March (Carsten Koall/Getty Images) What Tesla investors want to know from Elon Musk during tomorrow’s earnings report Investors have a lot of questions about Tesla’s timelines and tariffs. Rani Molla 4/21/25 1:34PM Tesla reports its first-quarter earnings after the bell tomorrow and investors have a lot of questions about the future of the company, which has been among the worst-performing in the S&P 500 this year. The FactSet analyst consensus estimates call for earnings per share of $0.41 and revenue of $21.345 billion, up slightly from the $21.301 Tesla reported in Q1 of last year. Both of those estimates have been trending downward since the start of the year, as delivery numbers released earlier this month came in way worse than expected and as the brand’s popularity sank to new lows . Meanwhile, the stock is down more than 40% this year and more than 7% just today. As Wedbush Securities analyst Dan Ives has written , Tesla is going to have to make a lot of major changes — including CEO Elon Musk stepping down from his position at the Department of Government Efficiency — to turn things around. Based on a survey of the most upvoted questions shareholders posted on the company’s investor relations website , Tesla investors are very concerned with the company’s timelines — something it’s been notoriously bad about — for promised products like affordable models, full self-driving, and the robotaxi. They’re also worried about how tariffs and political brand damage might affect the company’s future. Here are some of the top questions on investors’ minds, listed by the number of upvotes on the Tesla investor relations site, and what we know so far about those topics: Question: Is Tesla still on track for releasing “more affordable models” this year? What we know: Reuters reported over the weekend that Tesla’s lower-cost, stripped-down Model Y, which was supposed to roll out in the first half of this year, is delayed “at least several months.” Question: When will unsupervised full self-driving be available for personal use on personally owned cars? What we know: Musk has been promising unsupervised FSD “next year” for at least the last five years . Musk in January said the technology was “limited simply by regulatory issues, not technical capability.” “I’m very confident we have released unsupervised Full Self-Driving, fully autonomous Teslas in Austin and several other cities in America by the end of this year, as probably everywhere in America next year, at everywhere in North America at least.” For now it seems that full self-driving will be confined to a Tesla-owned fleet of vehicles in Austin, not to personal vehicles. Musk has said this would start in June. Question: How is Tesla positioning itself to flexibly adapt to global economic risks in the form of tariffs? What we know: Because Tesla assembles its US-sold cars in the US, it’s insulated compared to other carmakers that finish their cars outside the US. That said, Tesla is heavily reliant on parts shipped from abroad, so its prices and bottom line could certainly be negatively affected by auto parts tariffs that go into effect next month; Musk and other Tesla execs have said as much. Recently, Tesla suspended shipments of Cybercab and Semi parts from China because the tariffs were so onerous. Question: Is the Robotaxi still on track for this year? What we know: As far as we know, Tesla is still on track to roll out paid Cybercab rides in Austin in June (Google’s Waymo beat Tesla on that count), but we’ll believe it when we see it. Recently, The Information reported that internal analysis from Tesla suggests the self-driving taxis might never be profitable . Question: Did Tesla experience any meaningful changes in order inflow rate in Q1 relating to all the rumors of “brand damage”? What we know: Tesla’s sales in Q1 saw the biggest drop ever and many analysts said brand damage related to Musk’s role in the government as well as the ensuing protests were at least partly to blame. Tesla bull Ives said brand damage from DOGE could create “15%-20% permanent demand destruction.” Indeed, surveys from YouGov found that while most Americans were aware of Tesla, they wouldn’t buy one — people interested in EVs would be much more likely to go for a Toyota or Honda. Regarding DOGE, Musk himself said , “It’s costing me a lot to be in this job.” And Tesla’s Cybertruck seems like it’s been especially difficult to sell. Just take a look at all of them stashed outside Tesla’s Texas production plant . More Tech See all Tech Jon Keegan 1h Meta launches stand-alone AI app If you want to use Meta AI today, you can find it tucked into a zillion weird places across all of Meta’s apps. Like when you’re searching on Facebook, making a post in Instagram, writing a message in WhatsApp, or... talking with your Meta AI glasses. But if you’re tired of looking everywhere for that sweet, sweet Meta AI (powered by Meta’s latest Llama 4 open-source model), now you can use a stand-alone app or access it on the web. The Meta AI app is free to use and includes a “voice demo built with full-duplex speech technology” so you can test out a more conversational voice chat feature. Meta is sort of achieving AI app feature parity with this release; you can generate images, search the web, and get recommendations for things. The app also remembers your history, which will definitely be useful when Meta eventually incorporates ads (how Meta makes 98% of its revenue ). But Meta does have something that OpenAI and other startups lack: a massive social graph of users and their friends. So, Meta is rolling out a “Discover” feed, “a place to share and explore how others are using AI. You can see the best prompts people are sharing, or remix them to make them your own.” Introducing the Meta AI App: A New Way to Access Your AI Assistant | Meta The Meta AI app is free to use and includes a “voice demo built with full-duplex speech technology” so you can test out a more conversational voice chat feature. Meta is sort of achieving AI app feature parity with this release; you can generate images, search the web, and get recommendations for things. The app also remembers your history, which will definitely be useful when Meta eventually incorporates ads (how Meta makes 98% of its revenue ). But Meta does have something that OpenAI and other startups lack: a massive social graph of users and their friends. So, Meta is rolling out a “Discover” feed, “a place to share and explore how others are using AI. You can see the best prompts people are sharing, or remix them to make them your own.” Jon Keegan 2h Altman and Nadella rift may put $14 billion partnership at risk: Report A deepening rift is emerging in one of the biggest partnerships of the AI boom . The $14 billion deal between Microsoft and OpenAI paired a hot startup with a legacy giant, giving each party something that they needed. According to The Wall Street Journal, there are signs that the deal may be coming apart. The relationship between OpenAI cofounder and CEO Sam Altman and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella started off warmly, but has since grown more frigid, the report says. Differences related to several terms of the deal appear to be generating friction, including a trigger that allows for the deal to be renegotiated once OpenAI achieves “AGI” (artificial general intelligence) — a fuzzy concept generally understood to be when an AI system surpasses human intelligence and capabilities. “In closed-door negotiations, Microsoft negotiators have told OpenAI that the present technology is nowhere near that threshold, the people said. Nadella dismissed the idea of declaring such a milestone on a popular podcast in February, calling it ‘nonsensical benchmark hacking.’ Executives at OpenAI were taken aback, according to people familiar with the matter.” Rumors of the deal fraying have been popping up for months, and during this time Microsoft has also been canceling some data center leases and pausing some projects under construction . Altman and Nadella, Who Ignited the Modern AI Boom Together, Are Drifting Apart The relationship between OpenAI cofounder and CEO Sam Altman and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella started off warmly, but has since grown more frigid, the report says. Differences related to several terms of the deal appear to be generating friction, including a trigger that allows for the deal to be renegotiated once OpenAI achieves “AGI” (artificial general intelligence) — a fuzzy concept generally understood to be when an AI system surpasses human intelligence and capabilities. “In closed-door negotiations, Microsoft negotiators have told OpenAI that the present technology is nowhere near that threshold, the people said. Nadella dismissed the idea of declaring such a milestone on a popular podcast in February, calling it ‘nonsensical benchmark hacking.’ Executives at OpenAI were taken aback, according to people familiar with the matter.” Rumors of the deal fraying have been popping up for months, and during this time Microsoft has also been canceling some data center leases and pausing some projects under construction . Rani Molla 4h White House calls Amazon’s reported plan to display tariff costs next to price a “hostile and political act” Amazon , which gets many of its goods imported from China, reportedly plans to start displaying how much President Trump’s tariffs add to an item’s price. The White House is not a fan. “This is a hostile and political act by Amazon,” White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said at a press conference this morning, relaying a message from President Trump. REPORTER: Amazon will soon display a number next to the price of each product that shows how much the Trump tariffs are adding. Isn't that a perfect demonstration that it's the American consumer who is paying for these policies?LEAVITT: This is a hostile and political act by Amazon. [image or embed] — Aaron Rupar ( @atrupar.com ) April 29, 2025 at 9:03 AM Leavitt also said, holding up a printout of a Reuters article from 2021 , “Amazon has partnered with a Chinese propaganda arm. This is another reason Americans should buy American.” Amazon subsequently partly denied the report, telling Washington Post reporter Jeff Stein it never considered doing so on its main site, just its low-cost Amazon Haul site: “The team that runs our ultra low cost Amazon Haul store has considered listing import charges on certain products. This was never a consideration for the main Amazon site and nothing has been implemented on any Amazon properties.” Temu recently made a similar move . Amazon is down 1.1% in morning trading. Rani Molla Charging Less 4h Why the Bezos-backed $20,000 Slate EV is so attractive, in one chart There are very few cars out there under $30,000, and many of those will face tariffs. Rani Molla 5h Amazon is trying to get “low double-digit price cuts” from sellers to offset tariff hits to its margins To combat margin fallout from the Trump administration’s tariffs on China, Amazon is getting tougher on its suppliers, hoping to extract “low double-digit price cuts” from the sellers, the Financial Times reports . Amazon sellers, of course, import a big chunk of the platform’s goods from China and have long been squeezed by the e-commerce giant . The FT noted that Amazon’s playbook was similar during the tariffs from President Trump’s first administration. Earlier in this Trump administration, Amazon had been moving up shipments from China to get ahead of tariffs. More recently, it’s been outright canceling orders from China . Goldman Sachs says tariffs could cut 6% to 12%, or $5 billion to $10 billion, from Amazon’s operating profits this year. Amazon pressures suppliers to cut prices to limit Trump tariff shock The FT noted that Amazon’s playbook was similar during the tariffs from President Trump’s first administration. Earlier in this Trump administration, Amazon had been moving up shipments from China to get ahead of tariffs. More recently, it’s been outright canceling orders from China . Goldman Sachs says tariffs could cut 6% to 12%, or $5 billion to $10 billion, from Amazon’s operating profits this year. Latest Stories Sherwood Media, LLC produces fresh and unique perspectives on topical financial news and is a fully owned subsidiary of Robinhood Markets, Inc., and any views expressed here do not necessarily reflect the views of any other Robinhood affiliate, including Robinhood Markets, Inc., Robinhood Financial LLC, Robinhood Securities, LLC, Robinhood Crypto, LLC, or Robinhood Money, LLC. Privacy Notice Disclosures Terms and Conditions Editorial Standards Masthead Your Privacy Choices Advertising Disclaimers © 2025 Sherwood Media, LLC