Breath of the Wild 2 has a new name, The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI More Expand The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Menu Expand Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health COVID-19 Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters Command Line Installer Notepad Verge Deals Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is the sequel to Breath of the Wild Comments Drawer Entertainment The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is the sequel to Breath of the Wild It’s releasing on May 12th, 2023 It’s releasing on May 12th, 2023 by Jay Peters Sep 13, 2022, 2:57 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Link looking fresh in his long hair and cape. Image: Nintendo Jay Peters is a news editor covering technology, gaming, and more. He joined The Verge in 2019 after nearly two years at Techmeme. Nintendo finally revealed the name and launch date for The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild’s sequel: The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom . In a trailer , Nintendo revealed the new name and the game’s May 12th, 2023 release date for the Nintendo Switch. Nintendo didn’t show a lot of specifics about what we can expect in the new trailer, but we did get to see some more action shots of Link in the game. We got a further look at a new Sheikah Slate power that appears to reverse time — Link climbs on top of a rock that begins to fall upwards. Like in a previous trailer, Link takes a few great leaps into the sky, but in one shot, he lands on a new bird-shaped glider of some kind. And there is a brief moment of Link climbing on his own, so it seems as if we’ll be scaling vast vertical obstacles once again. Here’s the official description of the game from Nintendo’s press release: “In addition to the vast lands of Hyrule, the latest entry in the storied Legend of Zelda series will take you up into the skies and an expanded world that goes beyond that! Look forward to Link’s massive adventure starting again when The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom , the sequel to The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild , drops for Nintendo Switch on May 12, 2023.” And curiously, in the opening paragraph of the release, Nintendo says that “Link’s endless adventure begins again” — perhaps hinting at time travel ? Nintendo first announced that it was working on a full sequel to Breath of the Wild in 2019 , and it’s been an agonizing wait for more details about when we’d actually be able to play the game. The company showed off of what we now know as Tears of the Kingdom in a stunning trailer during E3 2021 and promised a 2022 release date, but in March, it delayed the game to spring 2023 . Now we can all circle our calendars for May 12th to explore Hyrule once again. Related Five years on, Breath of the Wild’s open world is still unmatched The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild’s sequel is delayed to spring 2023 See More : Entertainment Gaming News Nintendo Tech More in this stream See all Nintendo will announce a release date for the delayed Advance Wars reboot “once it has been determined,” the company told Axios. Jay Peters Sep 13, 2022 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Here are the biggest announcements from Nintendo’s latest Direct Ash Parrish and Cameron Faulkner Sep 13, 2022 Comments Comment Icon Bubble I’m convinced Tears of the Kingdom is going to feature time travel in a big way. Jay Peters Sep 13, 2022 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Most Popular Most Popular Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now New Starlink subscription drops hardware price to $0 Duolingo will replace contract workers with AI Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck The DJI Phantom is no more Installer A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Entertainment Netflix is streaming a showcase of Hitchcock’s greatest films this June Apple launches a new celebrity hub that’s all about Apple Natasha Lyonne to direct and star in a new sci-fi film created with generative AI Borderlands 4 release date moved up two weeks Weapons’ new trailer makes PTA meetings look like a nightmare Former Disney employee sentenced to three years for menu hacking Netflix is streaming a showcase of Hitchcock’s greatest films this June Charles Pulliam-Moore Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Apple launches a new celebrity hub that’s all about Apple Umar Shakir Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Natasha Lyonne to direct and star in a new sci-fi film created with generative AI Charles Pulliam-Moore Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Borderlands 4 release date moved up two weeks Ash Parrish Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Weapons’ new trailer makes PTA meetings look like a nightmare Charles Pulliam-Moore Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Former Disney employee sentenced to three years for menu hacking Wes Davis Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Apr 29 Whatever happened to the Kids Online Safety Act? Apr 29 MAGA’s next wave of influencers saved TikTok Apr 29 Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Apr 29 Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck Apr 29 Starlink’s got company — and orbital overcrowding is a disaster waiting to happen Apr 29 Meta’s ChatGPT competitor shows how your friends use AI The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved