Catching Up with Rachel Arens, AFA’s 2020 National Teacher of the Year | Air & Space Forces Magazine Skip to content My AFA Account Search My AFA Search News News Home Air Space Personnel National Security Joint Training Electronic Warfare Technology Budget Daily Report Today’s Report Airframe Subscribe! Magazine Current Issue Back Issues Almanac Get The Magazine History Home Chronology: History of Airpower Valor Namesakes About Us About Us Home Our Staff & Products Join AFA Advertise with Us Contact Us Reuse and Reprint Permission Weapons & Platforms Subscribe Close Image Using a secchi disc, Arens and her students measure water turbidity, or transparency, in a community stream to asses its health.  Courtesy photo Photo Caption & Credits Share Article Catching Up with Rachel Arens, AFA’s 2020 National Teacher of the Year By Chequita Wood Oct. 1, 2020 Share Article Rachael Arens, AFA Teacher of the Year, presented by Rolls-Royce. Courtesy photo Aligning with the Air Force Association’s mission to promote STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) education among today’s youth, Rachael Arens, a teacher at the Omaha Northwest High Magnet School in Omaha, Neb., is the 2020 AFA National Teacher of the Year, presented by Rolls-Royce. “With her leadership and support for her students, Rachael has demonstrated the qualities of a dedicated and successful proponent of STEM. Rolls-Royce is proud to support Rachael and the Air Force Association, as we all work together to develop and support today’s STEM students—the science and technology leaders of tomorrow,” said Rolls-Royce Senior Vice President, Business Development–Fixed Wing, Lt. Gen. Darryl Roberson, USAF (Ret.). Nominated by the Ak-Sar-Ben Chapter , Arens teaches ninth through 12th grade AP Environmental Science, Chemistry, Anatomy/Physiology, Biology, and Advanced Horticulture, and is Omaha Public Schools science curriculum director. Named a 2020 Albert Einstein Distinguished Educator Fellow, she is working with NASA in Washington, D.C., this fall. Arens earned a master’s degree in biology, a graduate teaching certificate, and is a doctoral candidate in STEM education. Among her many leadership roles, she has served on two state science education boards, served as a state adviser to the National Geographic Education Society, and developed standards and district-wide curriculum for science courses. Arens’ interest in STEM—specifically biology­—started when she was growing up on a farm in Peirce, Neb., playing in her backyard creek with frogs and tiger salamanders. After some time had passed, she noticed that all of the frogs and salamanders had disappeared from the creek. The water was labeled as toxic, and she wanted to know what happened, and why. When entering college Arens pursued biology with an emphasis in Toxicology, or poison. Frogs, she learned, are bioindicators—meaning, when they get sick or disappear, something is wrong with the water or habitat. Wanting to teach others to foster “transformational change” regarding science—and not just learn the curriculum as taught—is how she teaches her students. She wants them to figure out how to enact change and transcend boundaries. At Northwest High School in Nebraska during an outdoor classroom session, students build solar panels to power their community garden equipment and their laptops while working outside. Courtesy photo When asked how she felt science has changed since she has been teaching, she replied that today it is much harder to “accept science.” With an inundation of information on social media websites, along with the current political climate, there are many ways to make information “appear” credible, even when it’s not—and vice versa. Her school in Nebraska boasts a diverse population, with the majority being Black. Arens said she sees more girls in her biology classes and, in the engineering classes, there are more boys—”a nice mix.” A one-year, science-engagement partnership with NASA has her working to curate national education programs, implement web-based programs—specifically geared toward online learning during the pandemic—and developing STEM teacher programs. Although teachers are learning new ways to teach and keep students engaged, nothing beats hands-on, face-to-face time with the students, she said. This is where relationships, mentorships, and great sessions debating and discussing issues occur. Arens said she feels teachers need more advocacy, whether in the form of resources, better pay, or help teaching in underrepresented and rural communities. She believes that AFA can help by “building bridges” and attending statewide educator conferences in order to strengthen teacher networks so teachers will know where to look when they need help. AFA, she says, can also use social media accounts to disseminate information and connect with local school districts, which may then reinforce commitments to teachers. Recently, a disturbingly large number of teachers have chosen other careers, she said. Knowing that they have a support system in place can, and will, make a difference. Arens encourages her students to seek out solutions for problems that occur in their own communities. They are involved in service-oriented projects and practice results-driven research, learning ways to advocate for civic and social justice and science initiatives. She takes being a role model and mentor for her students seriously, and is doing her part to bring along the next generation of STEM leaders. AFA salutes Rachael and the many, many STEM teachers across the nation who are motivating young people and making a difference in America’s schools. Personnel Related Content Ramstein Airmen Work Together to Change ‘Lie to Fly’ Culture April 28, 2025 The 86th Operations Group at Ramstein Air Base, Germany, is pioneering a new program that could help improve mental health outcomes for aviators across the Air Force. Air Force MAJCOMs, Given New Guidance, Pull Back on Family Days April 23, 2025 When acting Air Force Secretary Gary A. Ashworth rescinded service-wide “Family Days” last week citing the need to build readiness, he left it up to commanders, directors, and supervisors to decide if they would still permit extra days off. Here’s how Air Force major commands are taking that guidance. DOD’s Transgender Ban Is Caught in Courts, Leaving Some Troops in Limbo April 21, 2025 Hundreds, or possibly thousands, of transgender service members have returned to work after two judges ordered preliminary injunctions blocking Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth’s ban of transgender service members and recruits. But their long-term future remains uncertain. AFSOC Command Chief Relieved, Investigation Ongoing April 16, 2025 The top enlisted Airman in Air Force Special Operations Command, Chief Master Sgt. Anthony Green, was relieved April 14, but few details are available amid an ongoing investigation. Air Force Tells Congress: Better to Demolish Vacant Buildings than Maintain Them April 14, 2025 The Air Force’s top enlisted member told lawmakers last week that the service must demolish hundreds of unneeded buildings, a move that would pay a “10-to-1 return on investment,” particularly for improving quality of life for service members, rather than spending money on their upkeep. Hiring Freeze Has Had ‘Severe’ Impact on Child Care: Air Force Personnel Boss April 10, 2025 A defense civilian hiring freeze is undoing recent progress on child care wait lists, the Air Force’s top general for personnel issues told Congress on April 9. Air Force Rescinds Service-Wide Family Days, Commanders Can Still Schedule April 9, 2025 The acting Secretary of the Air Force rescinded a policy that scheduled extra days off for Airmen, Guardians, and their families across the service around 11 federal holidays throughout 2025. Air Force Changes Rules for Pregnant Aircrew—Again April 3, 2025 The Air Force is changing its policy for pregnant aircrew, generally reverting to rules set in 2019 that barred female aviators from flying during the first trimester—or from flying in aircraft with ejection seats at all—due to potential risks to the pilot and her unborn fetus. Air Force Child Care Staff Shortage Getting Worse at Some Bases March 27, 2025 Two Air Force Child Development Centers began to turn away some families this month, a move that one military child care expert fears could be a sign of things to come for CDCs across the country. Facebook X Instagram LinkedIn Daily Report Contact Us Advertise Subscribe! Air & Space Forces Association Reuse and Reprint Permission Privacy Policy Air & Space Forces Magazine is the official publication of the Air & Space Forces Association, 1201 S. Joyce St., C6 / Second Fl., Arlington, Va., 22202. Copyright 2024 We use cookies and other data collection technologies to provide the best experience for our visitors. Click here to request that your data not be shared with third parties.