U.S. Open 2019: Bianca Andreescu Wins Women's Singles Final ​ Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals Royals Royals PEOPLE StyleWatch: Spring 2025 Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals StyleWatch Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe 1 Massive Brawl Erupts Among Carnival Cruise Passengers, Landing 24 People on ‘Do Not Sail’ List 2 Tourist Filming Himself on a Zipline Unknowingly Captures Chilling Footage of Massacre in India That Killed 26 3 Robert De Niro's Daughter Airyn Comes Out as Trans in Revealing Interview About Growing Up 'Out of the Limelight' 4 Bill Belichick's Girlfriend Jordon Hudson Wears Sparkling Ring on That Finger, Sparking Engagement Rumors Entertainment Sports Tennis Bianca Andreescu, 19, Defeats Serena Williams in U.S. Open Women's Singles Final Serena Williams was seeded 8th for the 2019 U.S. Open, while Bianca Andreescu was ranked 15 By Lindsay Kimble Lindsay Kimble Lindsay Kimble is the Executive Editor, News at PEOPLE. She have been working at PEOPLE for seven years. Her work has previously appeared in POPSUGAR, Us Weekly and Entertainment Weekly. People Editorial Guidelines Published on September 7, 2019 05:59PM EDT Photo: Rob Prange/Shutterstock; Larry Marano/Shutterstock Serena Williams lost to Bianca Andreescu on Saturday in the 2019 U.S. Open women’s singles final . The 19-year-old Canadian tennis star won 6-3, 7-5, as she led the momentum of the entire match in her first-ever U.S. Open final. Just last month, Andreescu defeated Williams at the 2019 Rogers Cup when the veteran player was forced to retire. Andreescu, from Mississauga, Ontario, becomes the first Canadian player ever to win a Grand Slam singles title. In addition, she is the first teenager to win a Grand Slam title in 13 years. (She’s also the first player born in the 2000s to win a Grand Slam title.) Andreescu also maintains her perfect record, 8-0, against Top 10 players — Caroline Wozniacki, Elina Svitolina, Angelique Kerber (twice), Kiki Bertens, Karolina Pliskova and Williams — this year. “It’s just crazy what a year can do,” Andreescu said, according to CBC . “I’ve dreamt of this moment ever since I was a little kid. But I don’t think many people would have actually thought that it would become a reality.” Heading into the 2019 open, Williams was ranked as a No. 8 seed, while Andreescu was ranked at 15. With her U.S. Open win, Andreescu is now ranked No. 5. Andreescu became the first Canadian to win the Rogers Cup women’s singles title in 50 years. The victory became her second WTA Premier title of the season, following her victory at Indian Wells. Ahead of the match, Williams told reporters, “To be in yet another final, it seems honestly crazy,” according to the U.S. Open’s website. “But I don’t really expect too much less,” Williams continued. The tournament ends with the men’s singles final on Sunday, Sept. 8, at 4 p.m. EST. Close You Might Like Caroline Wozniacki Is Pregnant, Expecting 3rd Baby with Husband David Lee: ‘Officially Switching to Zone Defense’ Celebrity April 06, 2025 All About Caroline Wozniacki's Husband, Former NBA All-Star David Lee Entertainment August 31, 2023 Serena Williams and Caitlin Clark Snap Selfie at NFL Annual Meeting: 'Future of Women' Entertainment March 31, 2025 Related Articles UConn Triumphs Over South Carolina to Claim Their Record 12th Women's NCAA Championship Title Tommy Paul Says He’s ‘Going to Get In Trouble’ with Girlfriend Paige Lorenze for Revealing This ’Sore Subject’ (Exclusive) Tennis Stars Andre Agassi and Steffi Graf Have This Rule in Their Marriage — and It's About Pickleball (Exclusive) What Time Is the Men's NCAA Championship? How to Watch and Stream the Final March Madness Game Serena Williams Set to Executive Produce TV Series Based on Taylor Jenkins Reid's Bestselling Tennis Novel Carrie Soto Is Back John Cena Wins Record-Breaking 17th WWE World Championship at WrestleMania 41 in Las Vegas Tennis Player Dramatically Collapses Mid-Game and Leaves Court in Wheelchair Cooper Flagg’s Family: All About the Duke Basketball Star's Parents and Siblings Jordan Chiles Wasn't 'Able to Move’ After ‘Devastating’ Olympics Medal Controversy: ‘I Still Struggle to Talk About It’ Trinity Rodman Makes Her Players' Box Debut at Ben Shelton’s BMW Open Semifinals Match in Munich Brett Gardner Says Late Son Miller, 14, Leaves Behind 'Void' in Loving Obituary: 'His Spirit Will Carry on Forever' Iga Świątek Verbally Harassed by 'Aggressive' Fan During Miami Open Practice Alex Ovechkin Breaks Wayne Gretzky's Once-Unbreakable All-Time NHL Goal Record with His 895th Caitlin Clark Says She Feels ‘a Lot Stronger’ Heading Into Her Second WNBA Season Andre Agassi Reflects on His 3 Favorite Tennis Outfits Ever — Including What He Calls a Pirates of the Caribbean Look Carlos Alcaraz's Family: All About the Tennis Champion's Parents and Siblings PEOPLE Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies