Janet Yang - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Early life and education 2 Career Toggle Career subsection 2.1 Membership and community participation 3 Filmography 4 Awards 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents Janet Yang 5 languages Català فارسی مصرى Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia American film producer Janet Yang Born ( 1956-07-13 ) July 13, 1956 (age 68) New York City , New York , U.S. Alma mater Brown University (BA) Columbia University (MBA) Occupation(s) Producer/Entertainment and Media Consultant Years active 1985–present Children 1 Chinese name Traditional Chinese 楊燕子 Simplified Chinese 杨燕子 Transcriptions Standard Mandarin Hanyu Pinyin Yáng Yàn zǐ Janet Yang (born July 13, 1956) is an American film producer  serving as President of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences since 2021. Yang has been credited on films and television including The Joy Luck Club , The People vs. Larry Flynt , Dark Matter , Indictment: The McMartin Trial , Zero Effect , Shanghai Calling , High Crimes , and the Academy Award-nominated animated feature Over the Moon . [ 1 ] Early life and education [ edit ] Janet Yang was born on July 13, 1956, in Queens, New York. Yang attended Phillips Exeter Academy , [ 2 ] then Brown University , where she focused on Chinese Studies, followed by an MBA from Columbia University . [ 3 ] Career [ edit ] Yang was President of World Entertainment in San Francisco . She revived this small, local distributor of Hong Kong films, expanded it into exhibition, and was able to garner exclusive representation rights in North America for all films produced in the People's Republic of China . These films included filmmakers Zhang Yimou and Chen Kaige , among others. Yang's first producing effort was the documentary film, East to West: America Through the Eyes of a Chinese . Yang was hired by several major studios to re-introduce American cinema to the Chinese marketplace after a long hiatus. From 1985 to 1987, she represented three major studios — Universal , Paramount , and MGM / United Artists — and was able to broker the first sale of American studio movies to China since 1949. In 1985, she was hired to be Steven Spielberg 's eyes and ears in China for the filming of the historic production of Empire of the Sun , responsible for liaising with both national and local levels of the Chinese government for its largest production to date. She then segued into a production position at Universal, supervising Spielberg's Amblin account. From 1989 to 1996, Yang served as President of Ixtlan, the company she formed with Academy Award -winning Writer/Director Oliver Stone , spearheading all aspects of the company's development and production. At Ixtlan, she produced The People vs. Larry Flynt . The film won the 1996 Golden Globe Awards for Best Director and Best Screenplay, and garnered Academy Award nominations for Best Director and Best Actor. Yang also served as executive producer of the groundbreaking film The Joy Luck Club , based on the best-selling novel by Amy Tan and directed by Wayne Wang . Yang executive produced Indictment: The McMartin Trial for which she won both Emmy and Golden Globe Awards for Best Made for Television Movie. Following her seven-year stint at Ixtlan, she formed the Manifest Film Company with Lisa Henson . Manifest Productions include Carl Franklin 's High Crimes , with Morgan Freeman ; The Weight of Water , from Academy-Award-winning director Kathryn Bigelow and starring Sean Penn ; Zero Effect , starring Bill Pullman and Ben Stiller ; and Savior starring Dennis Quaid . Yang also served as the Managing Director in charge of creative content and production at Tang Media Partners. Yang produced the acclaimed film Dark Matter , directed by Chen Shi-Zheng and starring Chinese actor Liu Ye and Meryl Streep . Dark Matter premiered at the 2007 Sundance Film Festival and won the Alfred P. Sloan Prize . In 2009, Yang was sought out by Disney Studios to produce High School Musical for Chinese audiences. Her last narrative feature was Shanghai Calling , a romantic comedy set in contemporary Shanghai. Yang was as an Executive Producer on the film, Documented , [ 1 ] written and directed by the Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist, Jose Antonio Vargas . In 2020, Yang produced Over The Moon for Netflix. On May 3, 2020, Janet Yang served as a guest speaker at Asia Society 's "Stand Against Racism in the Time of COVID" forum, alongside guests such as Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and Representative Ted Lieu . [ 4 ] On July 19, 2022, Yang was feted at the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures with a pillar named in her honor. She is the first Asian American woman to have a pillar at the museum. On August 2, 2022, at a meeting of the Board of Governors, Yang was elected as President of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences , replacing outgoing President David Rubin , who was ineligible to be re-elected. [ 5 ] This made her the first Asian American President of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, and the fourth woman to hold that position. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] Membership and community participation [ edit ] Yang is the President of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ; a member of the Committee of 100, an organization of prominent Chinese-Americans; an advisory board member of Asia Society Southern California; the National Committee on US-China Relations and an advisory board member of CAPE, the Coalition of Asian-Pacific Americans in Entertainment. She has taught producing at the Sundance Institute and the Independent Feature Project . She is involved with a number of arts, community and political organizations. She is a co-founder of Gold House, a collective of influential Asians across entertainment, technology, lifestyle, and business. She has also been recognized with a Presidential Fellowship at Loyola Marymount University . Filmography [ edit ] Year Film Role 1984 East to West: America Through the Eyes of Chinese Producer 1987 Empire of the Sun Production Advisor 1991 Iron Maze Associate Producer 1992 Zebrahead Executive Producer 1992 South Central Producer 1993 The Joy Luck Club Executive Producer 1994 The New Age Co-Producer 1995 Indictment: The McMartin Trial Executive Producer 1995 Killer: A Journal of Murder Producer 1996 The People vs. Larry Flynt Producer 1998 Zero Effect Producer 1998 Savior Producer 2002 The Weight of Water Producer 2002 High Crimes Producer 2004 Kingdom Hospital Producer 2007 Dark Matter Producer 2008 Year of the Fish Executive Producer 2009 Qi Chuan Xu Xu Executive Producer 2010 Chinese High School Musical Producer 2012 Shanghai Calling Producer 2013 One Night Surprise Producer 2014 Documented [ 1 ] Executive Producer 2020 Over The Moon Executive Producer Awards [ edit ] Year Award Work Organization 1993 The Golden Ring Award for Honoring Artistic Excellence The Asian American Arts Foundation 1994 Media Achievement Award MANAA 1994 Outstanding Corporate Executive Asian Business League 1994 Enzian Award for Creative Achievement Florida Film Festival 1995 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Made for Television Movie Indictment: The McMartin Trial The Television Academy 1995 Golden Globe Award for Best Miniseries or Motion Picture Made for Television Indictment: The McMartin Trial The Hollywood Foreign Press Association 1996 30th Anniversary Visionary Award for Outstanding Artistic Achievement for the Asian Pacific American Community EWP ( East West Players ) 2005 Asian American Achievement Award for Distinguished Movie Producer OCA (Organization of Chinese Americans, Inc.) 2013 Golden Angel Award for Best US-China Co-Production Film Shanghai Calling Chinese American Film Festival [ 8 ] 2013 Audrey Women of Influence Award [ 9 ] KoreAm Journal and Audrey Magazine References [ edit ] ^ a b c "About the Filmmaking Team" . Documented . ^ "Janet Yang '74 recalls Exeter's 'inclusive' environment" . Phillips Exeter Academy . Retrieved 2022-08-10 . ^ Hirahara, Naomi. Distinguished Asian American Business Leaders . Greenwood Publishing Group. pp. 219– 221. ^ "Standing Against Racism in the Time of COVID" . Asia Society . 20 May 2020 . Retrieved 2021-01-20 . ^ Hammond, Pete (2022-08-02). "Janet Yang Elected Motion Picture Academy President" . Deadline . Retrieved 2022-08-03 . ^ "Film Producer Janet Yang Elected First Asian American President Of The Academy" . HuffPost . August 3, 2022. ^ Ford, Rebecca (2022-08-03). "The Academy Elects Janet Yang as President" . Vanity Fair . Retrieved 2022-08-16 . ^ "Chinese American Film Festival" . ^ "Audrey" . External links [ edit ] Janet Yang at IMDb Janet Yang Website Non-profit organization positions Preceded by David Rubin President of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences 2022–present Succeeded by incumbent Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Janet_Yang&oldid=1286374799 " Categories : 1956 births Living people Mass media people from Queens, New York Brown University alumni Columbia Business School alumni Film producers from New York (state) American people of Chinese descent Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles containing Chinese-language text Articles with hCards Template:Succession box: 'after' parameter includes the word 'incumbent' S-aft: 'after' parameter includes the word 'incumbent' This page was last edited on 19 April 2025, at 14:16 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Janet Yang 5 languages Add topic