To Make 'The Godfather' His Way, Francis Ford Coppola Waged A Studio Battle : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu Newsletters NPR Shop Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Fresh Air Up First Featured Embedded The NPR Politics Podcast Throughline Trump's Terms More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics To Make 'The Godfather' His Way, Francis Ford Coppola Waged A Studio Battle Coppola was 29 years old when he signed on to direct a film. "I was young and had no power," he says, "so [the studio] figured they could just boss me around." But the young director fought back. NPR Movie Interviews LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link Movie Interviews To Make 'The Godfather' His Way, Francis Ford Coppola Waged A Studio Battle November 16, 2016 2:28 PM ET Heard on Fresh Air To Make 'The Godfather' His Way, Francis Ford Coppola Waged A Studio Battle Listen · 45:51 45:51 Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/502250244/502338899" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript Enlarge this image Amerigo Bonasera (Salvatore Corsitto) kisses the hand of Don Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando) in a scene from Francis Ford Coppola's The Godfather . Mondadori Portfolio via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Mondadori Portfolio via Getty Images Amerigo Bonasera (Salvatore Corsitto) kisses the hand of Don Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando) in a scene from Francis Ford Coppola's The Godfather . Mondadori Portfolio via Getty Images Francis Ford Coppola signed on to direct The Godfather when he was just 29 years old. The film centers on a fictional Sicilian crime family in New York City and Coppola knew nothing about the Mafia, but he did understand Italian-American culture and tradition — and he was determined to avoid stereotypes. Released in 1972, The Godfather went on to become an iconic American film. It won three Academy Awards — including for best picture and best adapted screenplay — and its sequel, The Godfather: Part II, won six. Coppola was nominated for another Academy Award in 1991 for his work on The Godfather: Part III. Sponsor Message The director tells Fresh Air 's Terry Gross that he had no idea at the time how successful the film would be. Instead, as a young director, he was focused on getting the studio to let him do it his way. "It was just the most frightening and depressing experience I think I've ever had," he says. "I had no power and yet I had real opinions in how it should be done." Enlarge this image A page from The Godfather Notebook shows Coppola's notes on Mario Puzo's book. Regan Arts hide caption toggle caption Regan Arts A page from The Godfather Notebook shows Coppola's notes on Mario Puzo's book. Regan Arts As he was preparing to make the film, Coppola put together a notebook with ideas for each scene and pitfalls to avoid. It also included pages from the eponymous Mario Puzo novel the film was based on, with Coppola's notes in the margin. Coppola has now published those materials into a new book called The Godfather Notebook. Interview Highlights On Mario Puzo's critique of the scene in which Clemenza cooks tomato sauce I said in the dialogue, "First you brown some sausage and then you blah blah blah." And the note from Mario on the script said, "Francis. Gangsters don't brown. Gangsters fry." So that's who Mario was, he was always correcting with notes on the page. It's true, gangsters would never say "brown." On the thought he put into The Godfather 's more violent scenes Films are a tremendous collaboration, as you know. It's not a one-man show by any means. Francis Ford Coppola I confess that I was very impressed with ... Bonnie and Clyde. ... And I thought that the effects, the depiction of violence, in Bonnie and Clyde always had an imaginative twist to it — that it's one thing to see someone shoot someone, but if there's a detail, the way the blood turns into mist. ... I thought it was absolutely wonderfully done, and I looked up who had done the special effects and that wonderful man, A.D. Flowers, he worked on T he Godfather and Apocalypse Now . In the film industry, you deal with a lot of people on the crew who are geniuses in the rough, the way they come up with ideas for special effects and what have you, and I've been blessed to have those people help me in making films. Films are a tremendous collaboration, as you know. It's not a one-man show by any means. On fighting with the studio about what time period the film should be set in Movies Robert Duvall: From 'The Godfather' To 'Get Low' Movie Interviews Francis Ford Coppola Reflects On His Film Career I was very loyal to the novel after I had derived what the movie would be, and it was set in the '40s. That was one of my first arguments with the producers, was I felt it should be set in the '40s. They had wanted ... [it set in the '70s] because if you make a movie during the contemporary period that the movie is being made, you don't have to have special cars, you don't have to have special costumes, you don't have to spend all of that money trying to create a period. ... Sponsor Message [It was a] very big fight. ... The studio had this young director [Coppola] who was hired mainly because he was Italian-American and that would possibly be good in terms of saying, "Well, an Italian made the film." And also I had some acclaim as a screenwriter and they knew the script needed to be worked on, so they figured they'd get a free rewrite out of it, which they did. And also I was young and had no power, so they figured they could just boss me around, which they proceeded to begin to do. The Godfather Notebook By Francis Ford Coppola Purchase Book Purchase close overlay Buy Featured Book Title The Godfather Notebook By Francis Ford Coppola Your purchase helps support NPR programming. How? Amazon Independent Bookstores On the studio not wanting him to cast Marlon Brando in the title role The film was only budgeted for $2.5 million. You have to understand, it's not like we could throw money around. My decision to make it in the '40s and have period cars and shoot in New York was already impacting the cost, so that's one of the reasons why I was so unpopular, but [the studio] also hated my casting ideas. They hated Al Pacino for the role of Michael and they hated Marlon Brando for the role of the Godfather. I was told categorically by the president of Paramount, "Francis, as a the president of Paramount Pictures, I tell you here and now, Marlon Brando will never appear in this motion picture and I forbid you to bring it up again." ... When he said, "I forbid you to bring it up again," I feigned that I just fell on the floor, on the carpet, and then I said, "What am I supposed to do if you tell me I can't even discuss it? How can I be a director if the part I think should be cast — you won't even let me talk about it?" They said, "All right, we'll tell you it this way: 1) If he will do the movie for free 2) if he will do a screen test and 3) if he will put up a $1 million bond that he will in no way have any misbehavior that costs the overrun of the picture budget. Then you can do it." So I said, "I accept," ... meaning now I can talk about it. Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor