Blade (XC2) | Xenoblade Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Xenoblade Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio WiseAdventurer NDS123 Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Xenoblade Wiki 24,638 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio WiseAdventurer NDS123 Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki in: Pages with spoilers , XC2 Blades , XC2 Races , and 11 more XC2 Characters XC2 Weapons XC2 Battle Flow XC2 Supporting Characters TTGC Blades TTGC Races TTGC Characters TTGC Weapons TTGC Battle Flow Races by Type Blades English Español 中文 Blade (XC2) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) For other uses, see Blade . The future doesn't belong to you! For those who have not completed games in the Xenoblade Chronicles series , this page contains spoilers regarding the plot. Discretion is advised. Blade Pyra, a Blade Characteristics A Core Crystal Notable members Pyra Mythra Dromarch Brighid Pandoria Jin Malos Haze Minoth Mio Sena Main appearances Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade Chronicles 3 Future Redeemed Other appearances Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Karaoke JOYSOUND for Nintendo Switch (video) Blades (Japanese: ブレイド , Bureido ) are a race in Xenoblade Chronicles 2 and Torna ~ The Golden Country . Contents 1 Overview 2 Elements 3 Blade Roles 4 List of Blades 4.1 Special and Legendary Blades 4.2 Rare Blades 4.2.1 New Game Plus 4.3 Common Blades 4.3.1 Appearance 4.3.2 Competences 5 Releasing Blades 6 Button Challenge 7 Poppiswap 8 Core Crystal state 9 List of Blade enemies 10 Xenoblade Chronicles 3 11 Trivia 12 Gallery 12.1 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 12.1.1 Rare Blades 12.1.2 Common Blades 12.2 Torna ~ The Golden Country 12.3 Xenoblade Chronicles 3 12.4 Future Redeemed 13 Videos 14 References Overview [ ] Blades are weaponized life forms linked to a Driver who creates and summons them by resonating with a Core Crystal . Blades endow their Driver with powers and a weapon . Each Blade plays a different role, owning different stats and an elemental type, such as fire for Pyra , and providing a distinct set of Blade Arts and support abilities depending on its weapon. By searching for and collecting Blades, the player chooses to attach and selects Blade companions and the kind of role desired. [ 1 ] Drivers and Blades relationship They are several classifications of Blades depending on the Drivers and Blades relationship and their type. Blades can be recruited into the party through different means, depending on their rarity: Common, Rare and Legendary. The uniquely named Legendary Blades, such as Pyra and Dromarch , are mainly recruited through the story progression and are linked to a unique Driver. Rare Blades, such as Boreas , are created from Common, Rare, Legendary or specific Core Crystals and can be linked to any Driver in the party. The randomized Common Blades are created from Common, Rare or Legendary Core Crystals through resonance. The Special Blades have story importance, are the signature Blades of their respective Drivers, and have a unique weapon (except for Dromarch and Aegaeon , who use Twin Rings and Chroma Katana respectively). While most of them are Legendary Blades, those of Torna members are Rare Blades. There are artificial Blades, who are not awakened from a Core Crystal like natural Blades but built using an Ether Furnace to give them Blade-like abilities; Examples include Poppi , Lila , and Ino . They are controlled by characters who are not real Drivers, but the resultant duos function very similarly to normal Blade/Driver groups. There are Flesh Eaters , Blades who have been fused with human cells, granting them unique abilities and the ability to avoid returning to their Core Crystals. Some Blades are powerful enough to function as independent enemies even in the absence of their Drivers. While Blades are technically immortal, being able to recover from any injury, they return to their Core Crystal when their Driver dies. Furthermore, if their Core Crystal was to be fragmented, their healing capabilities would be severely reduced. If a Blade's Core Crystal is destroyed, the Blade dies. Pyra, the Blade linked to Rex When a Blade returns to its Core Crystal, the data contained within it, including its memories, is passed to the cores of the Trinity Processor , which processes it then returns it to the core so that it can be resonated again, resulting in continuously evolving Blades. After a Blade has returned to its Core Crystal enough times, which may span centuries, it becomes a Titan which will serve as a home for other living beings while producing new Core Crystals, thus completing the cycle. Elements [ ] Each Blade is associated with an element, and any Blade Arts they use are of that element. In battle, some enemies may exhibit a weakness to a particular element, evidenced by an icon of that element displayed in their target frame. Elements and their opposite counterparts play a key role in Blade Combos and Chain Attacks . Light is the only element that is exclusive to Legendary and Rare Blades, all other elements can also appear on random Common Blades. The eight elements, paired by opposites, are: Fire Fire Ice Ice Earth Earth Light Light Water Water Wind Wind Electric Electric Dark Dark Blade Roles [ ] Different Blade roles enable different fighting styles. The combination of currently equipped Blades' roles determines a Driver's class . Attacker Unleashes powerful Arts . Healer Heals allies while attacking. Tank Takes aggro to defend allies. List of Blades [ ] Special and Legendary Blades [ ] Driver Blade Role Stat Modifier Given Weapon Element Rex Pyra Attacker Strength 10% Aegis Sword Fire Mythra Attacker Ether 10% Aegis Sword Light Roc Attacker Dexterity 15% Dual Scythes Wind Nia Healer Max HP 15% Catalyst Scimitar Water Pneuma Attacker Aegis Sword Light Nia Dromarch Healer Ether 10% Twin Rings Water Tora ※1 Poppi α (artificial) Tank ※2 Max HP ※2 Drill Shield Earth then various ※2 Poppi QT (artificial) Tank ※2 Agility ※2 Mech Arms Fire then various ※2 Poppi QTπ (artificial) Attacker ※2 Strength ※2 Variable Saber Ice then various ※2 Vandham Roc Attacker Dexterity 15% Dual Scythes Wind Mòrag Brighid Tank Agility 15% Whipswords Fire Aegaeon Tank Agility 15% Chroma Katana Water Zeke Pandoria Attacker Strength 10% Big Bang Edge Electric Niall Aegaeon Tank Agility 15% Chroma Katana Water Malos Sever ※3 Tank Strength 15% Sword Tonfa Wind Akhos Obrona ※3 Attacker Agility 20% Brilliant Twinblades Electric Patroka Perdido ※3 Attacker Strength 10% Decimation Cannon Fire Mikhail Cressidus ※3 Tank Max HP 20% Rockrending Gauntlets Earth Dughall Dolmes ※4 Spiked Hammer Fire ※1 Tora is not a Driver but he controls Poppi α, Poppi QT, Poppi QTπ as artificial Blades. ※2 Poppi's element, role, and stat modifier can be changed by upgrading it via Poppiswap . ※3 All of these Blades are identified as Rare Blades. ※4 Dolmes is not obtainable nor usable. Rare Blades [ ] Some can be obtained through the main quests or by doing side quests, but most rare blades are random rewards of Common, Rare or Legendary Core Crystals. Blade Role Stat Modifier Given Weapon Element Acquisition Godfrey Tank Max HP 15% Shield Hammer Ice Random Wulfric Attacker Strength 15% Megalance Earth Beastly Core Crystal Perceval Tank Agility 10% Chroma Katana Dark Random Vale Attacker Ether 15% Megalance Dark Random Agate Attacker Dexterity 10% Greataxe Earth Random Gorg Attacker Max HP 15% Greataxe Water Random Boreas Healer Max HP 15% Bitball Wind Random Dagas Attacker Strength 5% then 10% ※1 Greataxe Fire Random Kasandra Tank Max HP 15% Shield Hammer Dark Lucky Core Crystal Praxis Attacker Dexterity 10% Megalance Water Crystal Clear Theory Tank Agility 15% Chroma Katana Ice Blade-Sharp Memory Perun Attacker Dexterity 10% Megalance Ice Random Kora Healer Ether 10% Knuckle Claws Electric Random Azami Attacker Ether 15% Ether Cannon Dark Random Ursula Healer Agility 10% Knuckle Claws Ice Random Newt Tank Max HP 20% Chroma Katana Fire Random Nim Healer Dexterity 10% Knuckle Claws Earth Random Sheba Attacker Ether 15% Ether Cannon Water Inherited Core Crystal Vess Healer Max HP 10% Bitball Electric Tranquility Adenine Healer Dexterity 15% Knuckle Claws Wind Random Electra Tank Max HP 15% Shield Hammer Electric Random Zenobia Attacker Strength 15% Greataxe Wind Random Finch Tank Agility 15% Shield Hammer Wind Random Floren Healer Ether 10% Bitball Earth Random KOS-MOS Attacker Ether 20% Ether Cannon Light Random Herald Attacker Strength 15% Ether Cannon Electric Sealed Core Crystal Dahlia Healer Dexterity 10% Bitball Ice Random T-elos ※2 Attacker Strength 15% Greataxe Dark Random Poppibuster (artificial) ※3 Tank Agility 15% Shield Hammer Light DLC, Shiny New Power Shulk ※4 Attacker Ether 20% Monado Light DLC, Challenge Battle Mode Fiora ※4 Healer Strength 15% Knives Wind DLC, Challenge Battle Mode Crossette ※5 Healer Ether 20% Bitball Fire DLC, Ebullient Core Crystal Corvin ※6 Tank Agility 20% Uchigatana Light DLC, Divine Core Crystal Elma ※7 Attacker Ether 20% Dual Swords Dark DLC, Challenge Battle Mode ※1 Dagas's Affinity Chart and stats change after his Blade quest. ※2 T-elos can be obtained in version 1.4.0 or later after clearing the game's main story. If a new regular or New Game Plus playthrough is started over a cleared save file, she can be obtained without needing to finish the game again. She is obtained randomly from Core Crystals, but the rate of awakening her is much higher than any other rare Blade. ※3 Poppibuster can be obtained in version 1.4.0 or later after completing the Blade Quest Shiny New Power . ※4 Shulk and Fiora are introduced in Challenge Battle Mode in version 1.5.0 . They are initially restricted to the Land of Challenge but can be taken into Alrest once the Alrest Linkring is obtained after completing the  Challenge Battle Dino Drama . ※5 Crossette can be obtained in version 1.5.1 or later with New Rare Blade Pack 2 from the Expansion Pass. Collecting A Firecracker of a Gal unlocks the ability to get the Ebullient Core Crystal . ※6 Corvin can be obtained in version 1.5.2 or later with New Rare Blade Pack 3 from the Expansion Pass. Collecting A Boy of Two Swords unlocks the ability to get the Divine Core Crystal . ※7 Elma is introduced in Challenge Battle Mode in version 1.5.2. In order to obtain her, the Challenge Battle Otherworldly Fighter must be completed. She is initially restricted to the Land of Challenge but can be taken into Alrest once the Alrest Link Relay is obtained after completing the Challenge Battle Elma: Redux . New Game Plus [ ] After finishing the game in version 1.3.0 or later, New Game Plus will be available. This mode unlocks seven Blades, all of which are members of Torna in the main story. Blade Role Stat Modifier Given Weapon Element Acquisition Akhos Healer Ether 15% Calamity Scythe Electric Random Patroka Attacker Strength 15% Cobra Bardiche Earth Random Mikhail Tank Agility 15% Infinity Fans Dark Talk at Megaflote Base in Land of Morytha after he falls out of battle in Chapter 9 Obrona Attacker Agility 20% Brilliant Twinblades Electric Random Sever Tank Strength 15% Sword Tonfa Wind Random Perdido Attacker Strength 10% Decimation Cannon Fire Random Cressidus Tank Max HP 20% Rockrending Gauntlets Earth Random Common Blades [ ] Rex selecting a Common Blade named Kirim Common Blades are created from Core Crystals. Their name, weapon and element, except Light, are determined randomly. Stats are determined semi-randomly, with the base auto-attack, guard rate, and critical rate determined purely from the Blade's weapon and appearance (see below). Their preferred Pouch Items are also chosen at random, and may consist of one category, two categories, or two categories and a specific item. Common Blades also have certain exclusive abilities that Rare Blades cannot obtain, such as "Orb Master", Luck modifiers, modifiers reaching between 21% and 24%, and certain Field Skills . The Unnamed Core Crystal received from Gramps is a special case: it is guaranteed to produce a common Blade with Knuckle Claws and Wind element. In New Game Plus, when Gramps gives the Unnamed Core Crystal to the player again, the same blade is "awakened" (and it will even mention that it's happy to aid the player again upon awakening). The blade will have the same stats, affinity level, skills and abilities from the previous playthrough. Name Type Ai Female Aizen Male Akana Female Akatsuki Male Akebono Male Amanei Female Amayori Female Anzu Female Arai Male Arufumi Male Asagi Female Asai Female Aska Female Atori Female Auba Female Aui Female Ayame Female Azai Male Azuki Female Baku Animal Bakuya Male Bengara Male Bizen Male Bonten Animal Botania Female Charmaru Animal Chidori Female Chigusa Female Daiko Male Denko Male Ema Female Faera Female Fubuki Female Fudor Male Fugetsu Male Fuwei Male Fuyoshi Female Genno Male Gingar Male Goemon Animal Gogyo Male Gokuto Male Goro Animal Hagan Male Hakusui Male Hakuto Male Hanni Male Haruka Female Haruna Female Harusa Female Hasu Female Hatsuharu Female Hatsuyuki Female Hayabusa Male Hayate Male Hazuki Female Hei Male Hekireki Male Hibari Female Hibiki Female Hideh Male Hiden Male Higana Female Hiken Male Himawari Female Hinagetsu Female Hinagi Female Hinata Female Hiryu Male Hisui Female Hokuto Male Honoka Female Horoh Male Huga Male Hukut Male Hutar Animal Hynk Male Ichiku Female Ichiro Male Ikaku Male Ikaruga Male Ikazuchi Male Ikki Male Inazuma Male Iroha Female Issen Male Isuzu Female Izayoi Male Izumo Male Jin Rai Male Jinryuu Male Kaeda Female Kagemitsu Male Kagero Male Kai Animal Kaibyaku Male Kaiden Male Kanami Female Kanehira Male Kanemitsu Male Kanesada Male Kanna Female Kanon Female Karei Female Karin Female Karkan Male Karyn Female Katsumasa Male Kazan Male Kei Male Kibitsu Male Kijin Male Kiko Female Kinsei Female Kiri Female Kirim Male Kisaragi Female Kogarashi Male Kogoku Female Kohaku Female Kohana Female Kojiro Male Kokoro Female Kokras Male Kokutan Female Kokuyo Female Kongir Male Konjiki Male Konoha Female Kontro Animal Koske Animal Kosor Male Kotar Animal Kotetsu Male Kouki Male Kouru Male Koyuki Female Krogane Male Kukir Male Kuko Female Kur Male Kurenai Female Kuro Animal Kurochi Male Kurumi Female Kusanagi Male Kuzan Male Kyoka Female Lin Female Lindora Female Madoka Female Maegi Female Meikyo Male Mejiro Male Midori Female Mika Female Mikagami Female Mikazuchi Male Mikazuki Female Mikoto Female Minami Female Minazuki Female Minori Female Mior Male Mirei Female Misaki Female Mitsukage Male Miyuki Female Mizuchi Male Mochi Female Momiji Female Moyoi Female Mu Male Muchika Male Mugen Male Mujo Male Murakumo Male Murasame Male Musashi Male Musou Male Mutsuki Female Nadeshiko Female Natori Female Natsuki Female Nazuna Female Ne Ne Female Nenoh Female Neyuki Female Nosuri Female Oboro Male Okina Male Orka Female Orochi Male Oryuu Male Owashi Male Pochi Animal Quina Female Rania Female Ranmaru Male Reika Female Reiki Male Rengenne Female Riku Animal Rikuzen Male Rinnia Female Rogen Male Roho Male Ruri Female Rykiri Male Ryo Male Ryta Animal Ryusei Male Sakon Male Sakuya Female Sangar Male Sango Female Sarasa Female Sasuke Animal Satsuki Female Sazami Female Seigai Male Seimei Male Seiten Male Sekirei Female Setsuka Female Shichisei Male Shiden Male Shigan Male Shigura Female Shikiso Male Shiko Male Shimaru Animal Shimoki Female Shin Mei Male Shinobu Female Shinome Female Shinra Male Shiori Female Shippun Male Shiranui Female Shirayuki Female Shirayuri Female Shiro Animal Shirome Female Shishi Male Shisui Female Shizuku Female Shouryu Male Shun Male Shungen Male Shura Male Shuraya Female Shussu Female Sohaya Male Sohmei Male Sora Female Sordai Male Soten Male Suiren Female Sulgar Male Sumira Female Suro Male Suzu Female Suzukaze Female Suzuna Female Suzuran Female Sysor Male Tadar Male Taiga Male Taisei Male Tamar Animal Tamayori Female Tamon Animal Tenka Male Tenku Male Tibbi Animal Tokka Male Tokoto Animal Tomae Female Torwa Female Toshi Male Totetsu Animal Tsubaki Female Tsugumi Female Tsukumi Female Tsumi Female Tsumugi Female Tsura Female Tsuruba Female Tsurugi Male Tyhei Male Tyzan Male Umi Female Ushio Male Utsuwaka Animal Uzuki Female Uzura Female Wakaba Female Yago Male Yakumo Male Yamato Male Yanagi Male Yasha Male Yata Male Yayoi Female Yoiyami Female Yomogi Female Yoshikiri Male Yuka Female Yuki Male Yukina Female Yukine Female Yumo Male Yuna Female Yura Female Yuri Female Yuso Male Yutsuji Female Yuzen Male Yuzu Female Yuzuki Female Zeku Male Zeno Male Zutsuji Female Appearance [ ] They have a similar global appearance, dark gray skin with blue glowing eyes and lines on the body, and a round core crystal on the chest (or head, if the blade is of the animal kind). Common Blades come in one of four basic models: "male humanoid", "female humanoid", "brute" and "animal". Each basic model has several head variations, differing in the type of horns or ears; humanoid and brute models each have four head variants, while animal models have only two. The possible appearances of an obtained Common Blade Competences [ ] The Specials of a Common Blade depend on their model and weapon type. Each Common Blade has 1-3 Battle Skills chosen at random. Each Common Blade has the Element Mastery skill related to their own element, as well as 0-2 random gathering or Merc Group skills. Releasing Blades [ ] The player can release most of the Blades in their party (although it is not possible to release Special Blades, and several other Blades, like the first random Blade Rex bonds with). Releasing yields certain resources to the player, usually boosters corresponding to the Blade's element. The quantity and type of items received upon release is determined by the Strength of Blade. If player releases a Rare Blade, it is possible to get this Blade again randomly from a Core Crystal, even if said Blade was initially obtained through a unique Core Crystal (e.g. Vess or Wulfric ). If a Rare Blade is released and then obtained again through a Core Crystal, their Affinity Chart will still be as it was before they were released. Blade Affinity Chart Key Tier 1 Unlocked Key Tier 2 Unlocked Key Tier 3 Unlocked Key Tier 4 Unlocked Key Tier 5 Unlocked 100% Complete 1◆ 1◆ and 1❖ 1◆ and 1❖ 2◆ and 1❖ 2◆ and 1❖ 3◆ and 2❖ 1◆ and 1❖ 2◆ and 1❖ 2◆ and 2❖ 3◆ and 2❖ 3◆ and 3❖ 4◆ and 3❖ 2◆ and 1❖ 2◆ and 2❖ 3◆ and 2❖ 3◆ and 3❖ 4◆ and 4❖ 5◆ and 5❖ 2◆ and 2❖ 3◆ and 2❖ 3◆ and 3❖ 4◆ and 4❖ 5◆ and 5❖ Overdrive Protocol 3◆ and 2❖ 3◆ and 3❖ 4◆ and 3❖ 5◆ and 4❖ 6◆ and 6❖ 8◆ and 7❖ ◆ = Number of Boosters received. The Booster corresponds to the Element of the released Blade. ❖ = Number of Boosters received. The Booster received is random. Aside of items, releasing can also be used as a way to free unused or weak Blades, as there is a limit to how many the party can bond with in total. This capacity can be increased through increasing the Merc Level and completing the game. Common Blade Slot Capacity Number Requirements 24 Capacity at start of game. +24 Merc Level 1 achieved. +24 Merc Level 2 achieved. +24 Merc Level 3 achieved. +24 Merc Level 4 achieved. +24 Merc Level 5 achieved. +48 Game completed. Total = 192 Button Challenge [ ] When a Blade draws a special move, the "Button Challenge" (Japanese: ボタンチャレンジ , Botan charenji ) will be displayed on the screen. By pressing the button with good timing, the damage will rise. If it succeeds, a narrator (actor: Kentarō Tone) will compliment the player. Poppiswap [ ] Main article: Poppiswap Poppiswap Poppi is an Artificial Blade and has her own mechanics related to her Poppiswap ability. As such, she has customizable features including adjusting her elemental affinity, role, and skills. Core Crystal state [ ] Blades come either lying in a dormant state inside a Core Crystal or awakened in their personified form. By holding a Core Crystal, it resonates with the person and tries to take shape. If this person has a certain aptitude, the Blade awakens and makes the person a Driver. Those who do not have the aptitude are simply knocked unconscious and are incapable of forming a Blade, with the possibility of death in some cases. Drivers for the most part are bound to one Blade for their entire life, however it is possible for Drivers to awaken more than one Blade at a time. Blades fight alongside their Drivers and lends their weapon for them to use in battle. Blades can be attacked, but any injury they sustain are healed quickly. They are dependent on their Driver to retain their form. If their Driver dies under any circumstance, the Blades instantly revert back into their Core Crystal in a dormant state, shown by the Core taking on a dull black color rather than the normal blue glow. After some time, the Core will glow again and can be reawakened. Upon reawakening the Blade loses all memories of their past lives but retains their personality. Additionally, their Core Crystal, which appears normally on their chest, are another vulnerable point. If they are attacked there and their core crystal shatters, they permanently die and cannot be reawakened. However, a Driver of a Blade that has been killed is not affected. List of Blade enemies [ ] Main article: Blade (enemy) Xenoblade Chronicles 3 [ ] In Xenoblade Chronicles 3 , many Agnians have many Blade-like qualities like Sena . Additionally, Nia reappears as the Queen of Agnus. At some point, the Artificial Blade Ino was created, and appears in the Expansion Pass . Trivia [ ] Rex, Tora, and Mòrag are the only playable Drivers that have more than one special Blade: Rex having Pyra, Mythra, Roc, and Nia in Blade form; Tora having Poppi α, Poppi QT, and Poppi QTπ; Mòrag having Brighid and Aegaeon. In the English localization of Xenoblade Chronicles 2 , nearly all Blades speak with North American accents. By contrast, most of the game's non-Blade cultures (the Indoline and Urayans being noticeable exceptions) speak with accents of English native to the British Isles . This is slightly ironic given that Skye Bennett, the English actress for Pyra and Mythra, speaks in an American accent for both despite being British herself. There are some exceptions to this - Dromarch and Nia are voiced with English and Welsh accents - while Mikhail, who is a human Blade Eater , has a North American accent. In an interview with Tetsuya Takahashi , director of Xenoblade Chronicles 2 , it was stated that Blades were originally going to look like Ultraman , but they were shrunk because it would not be possible to show something forty meters tall on screen. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] Gallery [ ] Xenoblade Chronicles 2 [ ] Pyra, one of the Aegises Mythra, one of the Aegises Pneuma, Pyra and Mythra's true form Nia as a Blade in Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Dromarch Poppi α Poppi QT Poppi QTπ Roc Brighid Aegaeon Pandoria Malos, one of the Aegises Rare Blades [ ] Finch Perceval Floren Dagas Azami Nim Electra Perun Adenine Newt Gorg Kora Vess Boreas Vale Wulfric Herald Godfrey Zenobia Praxis Theory Sheba Agate Kasandra Dahlia Ursula KOS-MOS Poppibuster T-elos Shulk Fiora Crossette Corvin Elma Dolmes Akhos Patroka Mikhail Obrona Sever Perdido Cressidus Common Blades [ ] A Common Blade A Common Blade A Common male Blade A Common Female Blade A Common Buff Blade A Common Beast Blade A Common Fire Blade A Common Ice Blade A Common Lanz Blade A Common Blade A Common Dark Blade A Common Earth Blade Torna ~ The Golden Country [ ] Jin Haze, a Special Blade Mythra's appearance in Torna ~ The Golden Country Minoth, a Special Blade Xenoblade Chronicles 3 [ ] Nia in Xenoblade Chronicles 3 Ino, an Artificial Blade Sena, an Agnian Human with Blade traits Future Redeemed [ ] Glimmer , an Agnian Human who is biologically of half-Blade origin Videos [ ] Xenoblade Chronicles 2 – Blades (Nintendo Switch) Blades in battle Xenoblade Chronicles 2 – Switching Blades (Nintendo Switch) Switching Blades during a battle Xenoblade Chronicles 2 – Blade Arts (Nintendo Switch) Blade Arts mechanic Xenoblade Chronicles 2 – Specials (Nintendo Switch) Specials mechanism Characters in Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Playable Characters Rex · Nia · Tora · Vandham · Mòrag · Zeke Legendary Blades Pyra · Mythra · Pneuma · Dromarch · Poppi α , QT , QTπ · Roc · Brighid · Pandoria · Aegaeon Supporting Characters Addam · Amalthus · Architect · Azurda · Bana · Cole · Corinne · Eulogimenos · Fan la Norne · Lila · Niall · Niranira · Raqura · Tatazo · Turters Torna Jin · Malos · Sever · Akhos · Obrona · Mikhail · Cressidus · Patroka · Perdido Dagas · Newt · Crossette Gorg · Praxis · Sheba Godfrey · Theory · Ursula · Perun · Dahlia Adenine · Boreas · Finch · Zenobia · Fiora Wulfric · Agate · Floren · Nim Electra · Kora · Herald · Vess KOS-MOS · Poppibuster · Corvin · Shulk Azami · Vale · Perceval · Kasandra · T-elos · Elma References [ ] ↑ 2017-06-13, Tetsuya Takahashi about Xenoblade Chronicles 2 . IGN , accessed on 2017-06-13 ↑ 2017-11-30, Tetsuya Takahashi about development, inspiration, setting, etc. of Xenoblade Chronicles 2 . 4gamer , accessed on 2021-04-06 ↑ 2017-12-30, 4gamer's interview relayed in English . Nintendo Everything , accessed on 2021-04-06 Categories Categories : Pages with spoilers XC2 Blades XC2 Races XC2 Characters XC2 Weapons XC2 Battle Flow XC2 Supporting Characters TTGC Blades TTGC Races TTGC Characters TTGC Weapons TTGC Battle Flow Races by Type Blades Languages Español 中文 Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Sci-fi Xenoblade Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Xenoblade Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab