World Cup Roundup: Switzerland stuns favored Spain 1-0 News Sports Entertainment Lifestyle Opinion Advertise Obituaries eNewspaper Legals SPORTS World Cup Roundup: Switzerland stuns favored Spain 1-0 Associated Press SWITZERLAND 1, SPAIN 0 Switzerland pulled off a shocking upset Wednesday in Durban, South Africa, beating European champion Spain on Gelson Fernandes' second-half goal. Fernandes clipped the ball into the net in the 52nd minute, ending Spain's run of 12 consecutive wins and handing the Spanish team its second loss in 50 games. Spain's only other loss during the stretch was to the United States at the Confederations Cup in South Africa last year. Spain outshot the Swiss 24-8 and held the ball 63 percent of the time, but it could find no way through Switzerland's determined defense. It was Switzerland's first win over Spain. Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. At the final whistle, Fernandes fell to his knees and raised both arms to the sky. The entire team then went to the small section of Swiss fans in the Moses Mabhida Stadium and saluted them as they cheered and rang alpine cow bells. URUGUAY 3, SOUTH AFRICA 0 Diego Forlan scored two goals, helping Uruguay to a victory over South Africa in Pretoria, South Africa, pushing the host team closer to being the first to go out in the opening round of a World Cup. Forlan scored on a deflected 25-yard shot in the 24th minute and converted a penalty kick in the 80th to give Uruguay its first World Cup victory since a group game at the 1990 competition. The beautiful blog: Check out a local take from the 2010 World Cup Alvaro Pereira added the third score in injury time. Uruguay has four points from two games in Group A. South Africa has one and needs to beat France on Tuesday to have any chance to stay in the competition. CHILE 1, HONDURAS 0 Jean Beausejour scored the only goal, and Chile beat Honduras in Nelspruit, South Africa, for its first World Cup victory in exactly 48 years. In a free-flowing match, Chile won the opening game of Group H after Beausejour tapped in a cross from Mauricio Isla in the 34th minute. Careers Staff Directory Accessibility Sitemap Legals Public notice certification Our Ethical Principles USA TODAY Network Style Guide Responsible Disclosure Subscription Terms & Conditions Advertiser Acceptance Policy Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Contact Us Support Local Business Advertise Your Business Promote your Event Buy and Sell Licensing & Reprints Legal Notices Help Center Subscriber Guide Manage Account Give Feedback Subscribe Today Newsletters Facebook X Instagram eNewspaper NIE Jobs Cars Homes Classifieds Pay Your Ad Bill Shopping 10BEST LocaliQ Digital Marketing Solutions © 2025 www.jacksonville.com. All rights reserved.