Sepp Kuss ends 10-year-drought on American Tour de France stage wins | Cyclingnews Skip to main content Categories Cyclingnews Road Gravel MTB Track Cyclo-cross Womens Open menu Close menu Cyclingnews The World Centre of Cycling Search Search Cyclingnews Sign in View Profile Sign out Subscribe News Results Live reports Tech Premium Features More Live Report Calendar Teams Races Forums Reviews Travel Autobus Coupons About Cyclingnews - Monthly Subscription Why subscribe? Gain unlimited instant access to the entire Cyclingnews website Breaking news live reporting and analysis from all of the major races In-depth reviews of all the latest tech and bikes Plus access to our subscriber exclusive premium content Cancel anytime From $7.99 /mth View Trending Liège-Bastogne-Liège Liège-Bastogne-Liège Femmes Tour of the Alps Giro d'Italia route News Road Sepp Kuss ends 10-year-drought on American Tour de France stage wins By Alasdair Fotheringham published 11 July 2021 Jumbo-Visma rider solos home first on training roads in Andorra When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . Sepp Kuss of The United States and Team Jumbo-Visma wins stage 15 in Andorra (Image credit: Getty Images) It’s been a long time coming, but Sepp Kuss ( Jumbo-Visma ) finally gave the USA its first Tour de France stage win in a decade as he soloed home in Andorra on Sunday. Kuss’ victory could not have been more different than the USA’s previous success, a bunch sprint victory for Tyler Farrar in the 2011 Tour’s first week in the flatlands of western France. But the 26-year-old was equally delighted about it for sure, flinging his sunglasses away as he celebrated the biggest win of his career in central Andorra and claimed Jumbo-Visma’s second mountain stage win in five days into the bargain. You may like 'Riders need to learn to stand together' - Quinn Simmons claims first WorldTour win at Volta a Catalunya after team voted not to race in high winds 'I want to dedicate this win to Gino Mäder' – Magnus Sheffield takes emotional first WorldTour stage victory at Paris-Nice as compatriot Jorgenson seals GC “I didn’t know that statistic,” Kuss, already a stage winner in the Vuelta a España and in the Critérium du Dauphiné, told reporters when informed he had ended a 10-year drought on American wins. Read more Tour de France: Kuss wins stage 15 in Andorra Jonas Vingegaard: I'm growing into team leader role at Tour de France Kuss to stay with Jumbo-Visma through 2024 “I think over the last years we’ve seen a lot more US riders coming through at the biggest, highest level. It was cool to be in the break with Neilson [Powless-EF Education-Nippo] as well, he’s riding super strong, he’s always in the breakaways. It’s been a really good season this year for Brandon McNulty [UAE Team Emirates] and  Lawson Craddock [EF Education-Nippo] too. “We don’t have the powerhouse resources like some other countries but I think with the riders we have we’re all motivated. And we all have a different skillset so it’s an exciting time for us.” As an Andorra resident, the Colorado native said he knew the final climb of the day, the Beixalis, very well, to the point where he actually doesn’t train on it all that often because he knows it’s so hard. But with that difficulty in mind, he added that, "I also knew if I went there, it would be hard enough to get a gap and try and hold it to the finish.” Get The Leadout Newsletter The latest race content, interviews, features, reviews and expert buying guides, direct to your inbox! Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Previously, Kuss could also count on the invaluable assistance of two teammates, Wout Van Aert, the Ventoux winner, and former Tour de France podium finisher Steven Kruijswijk, in the massive break that led out front. “They both did a lot of work for me and after that, you know you have to finish the job,” Kuss said. Kuss’ success also gives Jumbo-Visma another reason to be cheerful after their first week ended in disaster as Primož Roglič had to abandon due to injuries. Following Van Aert’s triumph on the Ventoux, the Dutch team also have Jonas Vingegaard well placed in the overall classification, third after stage 15. Asked to explain why Jumbo had opted to have three riders in the break and nobody except sprinter Mike Teunissen staying with Vingegaard, Kuss said, “with only five guys [in the race] you have to be a bit more creative. Once all three of us were there, we could save energy and we could discuss among ourselves which one of us was going to drop back and support Jonas. “In the end, we managed a stage win and also team tactics, but not the traditional way maybe.” Having made the most of his prior knowledge of the climb, Kuss' familiarity with the descent stopped him from getting nervous at the fact he was being chased by a star racer of the calibre of Alejandro Valverde (Movistar), he said. The hardest part of his breakaway, he added, came when the road flattened out and he found himself facing a headwind in the last three kilometres. But he still made it. After his own moment of glory, from here to the end of the Tour de France, Kuss’ objectives will centre fully on supporting Vingegaard through to Paris. “I’m lost for words, to be honest,” he said. “I’d been suffering a lot in the first part of the Tour and I didn’t feel I had spice in my legs. But I knew it was finishing where I live and finally I got some good legs again.” As for when he made his stage winning move on the Beixalis, rather than planning it in terms of steepness or a particular corner, Kuss had a very original explanation. He said that he had timed his attack to be sure that he would see his girlfriend and her family on the ascent. She had sent him a message to indicate their exact placing, he explained, and had thought, “OK, for sure I need to do something before then, so I can take the time to see them. It was really special to have them supporting me on a day like this.” And being able to take the win, of course, just made it even better. Ride like Jumbo-Visma with Cervelo R5 $14 View See all prices Cervelo Caledonia $4,500 $2,000 View See all prices Lazer Genesis Road Cycling Helmet $199.99 View See all prices Vittoria Corsa Control TLR tyres $52.99 $47.99 View See all prices Garmin Edge 1030 $599.99 $540 View See all prices We check over 250 million products every day for the best prices Alasdair Fotheringham Social Links Navigation Alasdair Fotheringham has been reporting on cycling since 1991. He has covered every Tour de France since 1992 bar one, as well as numerous other bike races of all shapes and sizes, ranging from the Olympic Games in 2008 to the now sadly defunct Subida a Urkiola hill climb in Spain. As well as working for Cyclingnews , he has also written for The Independent , The Guardian , ProCycling , The Express and Reuters . Read more 'Riders need to learn to stand together' - Quinn Simmons claims first WorldTour win at Volta a Catalunya after team voted not to race in high winds 'I want to dedicate this win to Gino Mäder' – Magnus Sheffield takes emotional first WorldTour stage victory at Paris-Nice as compatriot Jorgenson seals GC Who are the US riders in the WorldTour? 'The Clásica Jaén is a race for everybody' - Sepp Kuss raring to go for 2025 debut in Spanish Classic Paris-Nice: Matteo Jorgenson secures overall as Magnus Sheffield solos to stage 8 win 'A ton of weight was lifted off my chest' - Neilson Powless proves his one-day race prowess with Dwars door Vlaanderen win Latest in USA CRITS: Alexis Magner charges to third consecutive win at Athens Twilight Criterium Giro d'Italia adds time bonus sprints to 19 stages of 2025 race in partnership with Red Bull to 'ignite fierce battles' in GC Who is Miguel Indurain? Tour of the Gila: Lauren Stephens, Kieran Haug seal overall victories Tour of Turkey: Tibor Del Grosso shows his power and talent on rising finish Soudal-QuickStep opt for lowkey approach to Tour of Romandie with Remco Evenepoel Latest in News Giro d'Italia adds time bonus sprints to 19 stages of 2025 race in partnership with Red Bull to 'ignite fierce battles' in GC Soudal-QuickStep opt for lowkey approach to Tour of Romandie with Remco Evenepoel 'My form is only getting better' - Puck Pieterse never out of the top 10 in nine-race Classics campaign after finishing second at Liège-Bastogne-Liège 'I thought it was Tadej Pogačar' – Rooijakkers able to laugh as 'ridiculous' spectator rides on course during Liège-Bastogne-Liège Femmes From last in Mountain Bike World Cup to first in all seven Belgian Waffle Ride starts – Villafañe finds her groove on gravel ‘The last kilometre was just a little too much’ - Lotte Kopecky takes fifth at Liège-Bastogne-Liège after dropping on Roche-aux-Faucons climb Cyclingnews is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . Terms and conditions Contact Future's experts Privacy policy Cookies policy Accessibility statement Careers Advertise with us © Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury, Bath BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up