Tesla profits soar in Q1, fueled by strong sales - CBS News Latest U.S. Trump 100 Days World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio Local News Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes America Decides CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed CBS Village Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Davos Interviews A Moment With... Innovators & Disruptors Economy 4.0 MoneyWatch | Managing Your Money CBS News Price Tracker Watch CBS News MoneyWatch Tesla profits soar, fueled by strong sales April 20, 2022 / 6:04 PM EDT / CBS/AP Tesla reported Wednesday that its first-quarter net earnings were over seven times greater than a year ago, powered by strong sales despite global supply-chain challenges and pandemic-related production cuts in China. The electric vehicle and solar panel company made $3.32 billion from January through March. Revenue for the quarter was $18.76 billion, also beating estimates of $17.85 billion. Tesla shares rose nearly 5% to $1,024 after posting its latest results. "[W]ith the supply-chain issues still a lingering overhang on the auto space — and logistical issues globally, we believe these 'Cinderella-like' delivery numbers in a brutal supply-chain backdrop speaks to an [electric vehicle] demand trajectory that looks quite robust for Tesla heading into the rest of 2022," Wedbush Securities analyst Dan Ives said in a report. Pricier cars Tesla's financial results were boosted by multiple price hikes for its vehicles meant to offset rising costs of lithium, nickel, cobalt and other precious metals used to make batteries. The company's Model X SUV now costs $114,900; the Model S costs $99,990; the Model 3 Performance costs $61,990; and Model Y costs $62,990. It may be harder for Tesla to post similar numbers later this year. It's facing costs from ramping up new factories in Germany and Texas, as well as rising commodity prices. It's also looking at increased competition as startups and legacy automakers roll out more electric models. Why electric vehicles are a hit at the New York International Auto Show 03:07 The company said its weekly production for the quarter was strong, but a spike in COVID-19 cases brought the temporary shutdown of its factory in Shanghai, as well as part of Tesla's supply chain. "Although limited production (at the Shanghai factory) has recently restarted, we continue to monitor the situation closely," the company said in a letter to investors. CEO Elon Musk is expected to attend the company's earnings conference call later Wednesday. He also could be asked about his $43 billion hostile bid to take over Twitter. Record vehicle shipments Tesla delivered a record 310,000 vehicles worldwide in the first quarter, up roughly 68% from the same period in 2021. The increase came even as Tesla battled a global shortage of computer chips and other parts like the rest of the global auto industry. Tesla delivered 185,000 vehicles in the first quarter of last year. Tesla seems to have dealt with parts shortages better than the rest of the industry. Last year the company delivered a record 936,000 vehicles, an 87% increase over 2020 numbers. The company said in February that it expects 50% annual growth in sales, meaning it expects about 1.4 million vehicles to be delivered this year. Earlier this month, the company celebrated the opening of its billion-dollar-plus "Gigafactory" in Texas, with a massive private event attended by 15,000 people and hosted by Musk. The new factory in Travis County also serves as the company's new home following its move from California. More from CBS News When should you consider filing for bankruptcy? Despite Trump's promised cuts, U.S. spent $220B more so far than last year Chapter 7 vs. Chapter 13 bankruptcy: Which is better for credit card debt? 100 days of DOGE: Elon Musk's sweeping Trump administration role Will HELOC interest rates drop again this May? In: Tesla © 2022 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report. More from CBS News When should you consider filing for bankruptcy? Despite Trump's promised cuts, U.S. spent $220B more so far than last year Chapter 7 vs. Chapter 13 bankruptcy: Which is better for credit card debt? 100 days of DOGE: Elon Musk's sweeping Trump administration role Featured Trump's Speech Marking First 100 Days Poll On Trump's First 100 Days 2025 NBA Playoff Schedule 2025 NHL Playoff Schedule Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue Be the first to know Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting. Not Now Turn On