Japan's Hideki Matsuyama answers questions about being a Masters champ PGA Tour LPGA College Amateur Courses Equipment Apparel Newsletters THE MASTERS Hideki Matsuyama describes that winning feeling at 2021 Masters and more in this Q&A Adam Schupak Golfweek Hideki Matsuyama is hungry to add another major to his resume. In April 2021, Matsuyama won the Masters, becoming both the first Japanese player and the first Asian-born player to win the tournament. To date, Matsuyama has 11 wins on the PGA Tour, making him the most successful Japanese member in Tour history, with his latest win coming at The Sentry in January 2025 where he finished with a Tour 72-hole record of 35 under par. Matsuyama, who turned pro in 2013, is a Rolex Testimonee since 2016, and he explained what the association has meant to him and how the brand’s strengths relate to his game. “Excellence and precision are two of the qualities required to succeed in the game of golf, especially at times when golfers are under high pressure – not just mentally, but also due to the varying environmental demands and golf course conditions,” he said. “It becomes more difficult to perform to the best of our abilities when faced with these circumstances, which is why the daily practice outside of tournament weeks and the way we spend our time away from the golf course are so important. This is what allows us to maintain our composure and consistency during the big moments.” Matsuyama has proven he’s more than capable in the big moments and he’s motivated to do again. “I’m still eager and hungry to win, but from a more mature and developed stand point,” he explained. Here are seven questions with the Japanese champion, reminiscing about his 2021 victory at the Masters and more. Q: Did winning the Masters Tournament in 2021 exceed all expectations and dreams you had as a golfer growing up? HM: Yes. It was an incredible feeling making the last putt on 18th green. Now it has become my next dream to win another major title. Q: How do you manage the pressure at such a prestigious event like the Masters? HM: I just love being at the Augusta National Golf Club. Playing golf there is so exciting and fun for me. The pressure is there at certain occasions, but the enjoyment of being at the Augusta National Golf Club and the fun parts of competing in the Masters Tournament definitely outweigh the pressure and stressful situations. Q: The Masters has produced some of the most iconic moments within sports history. What are your three most iconic Masters moments? HM: Tiger Woods’ first Masters win back in 1997; his last in 2019; and mine in 2021 would be my most memorable and iconic moments. Q: Following your 2021 Masters win, and becoming the first player from Japan and the first Asian-born player to win the Masters Tournament, you received the Prime Minister’s Award in Japan. What did that moment mean to you? HM: Growing up in the rural countryside of Japan, I just loved to hit balls every day but never imagined that kind of moment would ever come. It was such a great honor to meet the Prime Minister and receive that award. Q: What is the best piece of advice that you would pass down to aspiring professional golfers? HM: To love what you do and work hard to become better, every single day. Q: You have achieved so much in your career to date. What do you consider to be your personal highlight so far? HM: While moments like winning the Masters Tournament in 2021 are real highlights, I always try to look ahead and keep working hard to reach an even higher level without reflecting too much on the past. Q: When you were defending champion and it's your dinner on that Tuesday, when you went back to the champions dinner, did you know where you were supposed to sit and how did you figure that out? HM:Obviously I don't speak great English, so I tried to sit next to someone who I don't have to talk with -- sit next to Adam (Scott). 9 incredible photos of Rory McIlroy's celebration after winning 2025 Masters All-time money winners in Masters history is headlined by Phil, Tiger, Rory Watch: Nike posts perfect Rory McIlroy ad with green jacket after his Masters win 2025 Masters prize money payouts for every player at Augusta National How many golfers have won the career grand slam? Rory McIlroy joined group after Masters win Rory McIlroy is the Masters first $4 million man after winning green jacket in 2025 Winner's Bag: Rory McIlroy's golf equipment at the 2025 Masters Fans, social media reacts to Rory McIlroy winning the 2025 Masters at Augusta National How each LIV Golf player finished in the 2025 Masters at Augusta National Staff Directory Careers Accessibility Sitemap Our Ethical Principles USA TODAY Network Style Guide Responsible Disclosure Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Contact Us Support Local Business Advertise Your Business Help Center Give Feedback Newsletters Facebook X © 2025 golfweek.usatoday.com. All rights reserved.