With back-to-back profitable quarters, Tesla now owns 80% of US EV sales Agree & Join LinkedIn By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . Skip to main content LinkedIn Articles People Learning Jobs Games Join now Sign in Above: Tesla's Model 3 getting charged (Flickr: mariordo59) With back-to-back profitable quarters, Tesla now owns 80% of US EV sales Report this article Matt Pressman Matt Pressman Owner and Editor / Publisher at Florida Tennis Magazine Published Jan 31, 2019 + Follow Originally published at evannex.com . With back-to-back profitable quarters under its belt, Tesla is kicking off 2019 with an emphasis on financial discipline. Engadget reports, "Tesla's 2018 fourth-quarter results showed the company still made a profit ($139.5 million), but it was smaller than that of the third quarter ($311.5 million). For the quarter, the company posted $7.23 billion in revenue. Last year's revenue was $3.29 billion. Overall for 2018 it reported $21.4 billion in revenue." The culprit behind the numbers? "A lot of this had to do with Model 3 sales which accounted for 80 percent of all EV sales in the US in 2018 according to Musk." In 2018, according to Tesla's Shareholder Letter , "Model 3 then went on to become the best-selling passenger car in the US in terms of revenue in both Q3 and Q4. With nearly 140,000 units sold, Model 3 was also the best-selling premium vehicle (including SUVs) in the US for 2018 – the first time in decades an American carmaker has been able to secure the top spot." So what can we expect from Tesla in 2019? Musk elaborated on the earnings conference call (via CNBC ), "Even if there’s a global recession, we’re expecting deliveries this year to be about 50 percent higher than last year. And it could be a lot more than that, but even with tough economic times to see 50 percent growth is pretty nutty." Musk also teased , "We might be ready to unveil [Tesla's Pickup Truck] this summer... It will be something quite unique, unlike anything.” And for this year, Wired reports, "Tesla is focusing its efforts on a few key areas, Musk said on an earnings call: reining in costs, improving its service operations, getting Model 3 sedans to customers in Europe and China, and preparing for production of the Model Y, the as-yet-unseen midsize SUV that will follow the Model 3... Musk predicted that demand for the Model Y will outpace that for the [Model] 3 by 50 or even 100 percent." ﻿ Above: Model 3 is allowing Tesla to win the top spot for both EV and premium vehicle sales in US (Source: Tesla's Shareholder Letter ) Furthermore, "Tesla is now starting to put together the tooling that will allow for production of the Model Y... The midsize SUV will share more than three quarters of its parts with the Model 3, and Tesla will likely build it at its Gigafactory battery plant outside Reno." Musk said, "Batteries and powertrains will come out and go straight into the vehicle." However, a timeline for Tesla's base price $35,000 Standard Range Model 3 still remains fuzzy — Musk said it was to be expected sometime "middle" of the year. Nevertheless Musk stated, "The demand for Model 3 is insanely high... The inhibitor is affordability.” Yet, as Model 3 expansion efforts and production ramp progresses in 2019 across the globe, Tesla should realize significant economies of scale. Meanwhile the company's critical Shanghai Gigafactory is being built at "lightning" speed according to Musk who gets daily updates on progress from Tesla's China team. Above: Tesla's Q4 earnings call - note: discussion starts at 17 minutes and 14 seconds into the recording (Youtube: Chanon Bros via CleanTechnica ) Finally, CFO Deepak Ahuja is retiring (once again, for the second time) but leaving the company on solid footing. Even with debt payments coming, CNBC reports, "Tesla says it has enough cash to ‘comfortably settle’ its $920 million bond payment" which comes due March 1st. === Originally published at evannex.com . Source: Tesla's Shareholder Letter , Engadget , Wired , CNBC , CleanTechnica Like Comment Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Share To view or add a comment, sign in More articles by Matt Pressman Tesla Cybertruck looks out of this world — like its from the movie set of ‘Blade Runner’ May 19, 2021 Tesla Cybertruck looks out of this world — like its from the movie set of ‘Blade Runner’ Originally published at https://evannex.com on May 19, 2021. 6 Tesla is the most-Googled investment opportunity in the world May 18, 2021 Tesla is the most-Googled investment opportunity in the world Originally published at https://evannex.com on May 18, 2021. 2 1 Comment Infographic: What if Elon Musk created a Tesla theme park? May 17, 2021 Infographic: What if Elon Musk created a Tesla theme park? Originally published at https://evannex.com on May 17, 2021. 1 It’s not just Tesla Superchargers — other EV charging networks are making road trips easy too May 14, 2021 It’s not just Tesla Superchargers — other EV charging networks are making road trips easy too Originally published at https://evannex.com on May 14, 2021. What will Tesla’s Cybertruck user interface look like? May 13, 2021 What will Tesla’s Cybertruck user interface look like? Originally published at https://evannex.com on May 13, 2021. 1 Has Tesla acquired another innovative battery startup? May 12, 2021 Has Tesla acquired another innovative battery startup? Originally published at https://evannex.com on May 12, 2021. 2 Tesla’s startup ethos helps it avoid the worst of the global chip shortage May 11, 2021 Tesla’s startup ethos helps it avoid the worst of the global chip shortage Originally published at https://evannex.com on May 11, 2021. 1 Elon Musk explains the need for a 'carbon tax' May 10, 2021 Elon Musk explains the need for a 'carbon tax' Originally published at https://evannex.com on May 10, 2021. 1 As electric vehicle sales skyrocket, Tesla continues to dominate May 6, 2021 As electric vehicle sales skyrocket, Tesla continues to dominate Originally published at https://evannex.com on May 6, 2021. 1 Tesla forms Materials Applications Team to speed application of new materials May 5, 2021 Tesla forms Materials Applications Team to speed application of new materials Originally published at https://evannex.com on May 5, 2021. 1 Comment Show more See all articles Sign in Stay updated on your professional world Sign in By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . New to LinkedIn? Join now Explore topics Sales Marketing IT Services Business Administration HR Management Engineering Soft Skills See All LinkedIn © 2025 About Accessibility User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Choices Cookie Policy Copyright Policy Brand Policy Guest Controls Community Guidelines العربية (Arabic) বাংলা (Bangla) Čeština (Czech) Dansk (Danish) Deutsch (German) Ελληνικά (Greek) English (English) Español (Spanish) فارسی (Persian) Suomi (Finnish) Français (French) हिंदी (Hindi) Magyar (Hungarian) Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian) Italiano (Italian) עברית (Hebrew) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) मराठी (Marathi) Bahasa Malaysia (Malay) Nederlands (Dutch) Norsk (Norwegian) ਪੰਜਾਬੀ (Punjabi) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese) Română (Romanian) Русский (Russian) Svenska (Swedish) తెలుగు (Telugu) ภาษาไทย (Thai) Tagalog (Tagalog) Türkçe (Turkish) Українська (Ukrainian) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) 简体中文 (Chinese (Simplified)) 正體中文 (Chinese (Traditional)) Language