Tiger Woods: A look at the long road back to the Masters following car crash | FOX 9 Minneapolis-St. Paul Live News Weather Sports Things to Do Contests More Watch Live Expand / Collapse search ☰ Search site News Local News National News World News Investigators Politics Consumer FOX News Sunday Weather FOX 9 Weather App Forecast School Closings Live Weather Cameras Traffic FOX Weather Sports Vikings Gophers Twins Wild Timberwolves Lynx United Aurora Morning Shayne Wells Garden Guy Recipes Money Personal Finance Business Stock Market Small Business Savings Shows FOX Shows The Jason Show FOX 9 Good Day Enough Said Vikings Gameday Live The PJ Fleck Show FOX 9 Sports Now Taste Buds The Jason Show Swag Shop The FOX 9 Store Regional News Milwaukee News - FOX 6 News Chicago News - FOX 32 Chicago Detroit News - FOX 2 Detroit About Us Contact Us Contests Personalities Jobs at FOX 9 What's On FOX Advertise FCC Public File FCC Applications Stay Connected How to stream FOX LOCAL Mobile Newsletter Facebook Instagram Twitter TikTok YouTube Tiger Woods: A look at the long road back to the Masters following car crash By Kelly Hayes Published April 6, 2022 2:28pm CDT Sports FOX TV Digital Team Share Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit article Tiger Woods of the United States plays a shot on the 18th hole during a practice round prior to the Masters at Augusta National Golf Club on April 6, 2022, in Augusta, Georgia. (Photo by Jamie Squire/Getty Images) AUGUSTA, Ga. - Tiger Woods, a little over a year after almost losing a leg in a catastrophic car crash, is planning to play this week in the Masters in an improbable sports comeback. The five-time champion at Augusta National made the announcement on Tuesday. The Masters opening round on Thursday would mark the first time Woods competes against the world's best players since Nov. 15, 2020, which was the final round of that year's pandemic-delayed Masters. He had his fifth back surgery two months later and was still recovering from that on Feb. 23, 2021, when he crashed his SUV over a median on a coastal road in Los Angeles’ Rolling Hills Estates community and down the side of a hill. An aerial view shows the crash scene where a car driven by golf legend Tiger Woods rolled over on Feb. 23, 2021, in Rolling Hills Estates, California. (Photo credit: FOX 11 Los Angeles) Woods' injuries from that crash were so severe that doctors considered right leg amputation, before reassembling the limb by placing a rod in the tibia and using screws and pins to stabilize additional injuries in the ankle and foot. "It’s been a tough, tough year and a lot of stuff that I had to deal with that I don’t wish on anyone," Woods told reporters on Tuesday, "but here we are at Masters week." Here’s a look at some notable events in Woods’ recovery since the crash: Tiger Woods’ car crash: Feb. 23, 2021 The famous golfer suffered serious injuries in the Feb. 23 crash when he struck a raised median around 7 a.m. PT in Rolling Hills Estates, just outside Los Angeles. The Genesis SUV he was driving crossed through two oncoming lanes and uprooted a tree on a downhill stretch that police said is known for wrecks. He was unconscious when a witness first approached the mangled SUV. A sheriff’s deputy said the athlete later appeared to be in shock but was conscious and able to answer basic questions. How did Tiger Woods' crash happen? Stu Mundel from Fox 11 Los Angeles breaks it down Tiger Wood's is in serious condition following a single-car crash in Rancho Palos Verdes, California. Fox 11's Stu Mundel goes through how this crash may have happened, leading to his SUV ending up on a steep hill. RELATED: Messages of love and support for injured golf pro light up social media Feb. 24, 2021 A day after the crash, Los Angeles County Sheriff Alex Villanueva announced his department would not file criminal charges against Woods. Villanueva said the crash "remains an accident," according to FOX 11 Los Angeles. "An accident is not a crime. They do happen, unfortunately,'' the sheriff added. Villaneuva reiterated that there were no indications Woods was impaired in any way, saying "he was lucid, there was no odor of alcohol, no evidence of any medication, narcotics or anything like that that would bring that into question.'' Woods also issued a statement on Twitter thanking everyone for their "overwhelming support and messages." March 16, 2021 Woods released a statement confirming that he had returned to his home in Florida to recover. "Happy to report that I am back home and continuing my recovery. I am so grateful for the outpouring of support and encouragement that I have received over the past few weeks," Woods said . "I will be recovering at home and working on getting stronger every day." March 31, 2021 The Los Angeles County sheriff said detectives had determined what caused Woods to crash his SUV but declined to release details, citing unspecified privacy concerns for the golf star. Villanueva said investigators did not seek a search warrant for Woods’ blood samples, which could be screened for drugs and alcohol. They did, however, obtain a search warrant for the data recorder of the 2021 Genesis GV80 SUV, known as a black box. Villanueva declined to say what data had been recovered from the black box. "A cause has been determined, the investigation has concluded," Villanueva said during a live social media event. April 7, 2021 Villanueva reveals that Woods' SUV was traveling between 84 and 87 mph in a 45 mph zone. The speed he was driving at was "unsafe for the road conditions," Villanueva added. Authorities said that there were "no signs of braking" at the time Woods' crash and investigators believed he may have hit the acceleration by accident when he tried to regain control of his vehicle. The sheriff added that there was no evidence of impairment. "The cause of the collision was the speed and the inability to maintain the roadway," Lomita Sheriff Station Capt. James Powers said, according to FOX 11 Los Angeles . Woods also issued a statement on Twitter thanking the Good samaritans who came to "assist me and called 911," as well as the emergency responders. April 23, 2021 On Instagram, Woods shares a photo of himself on crutches alongside his "rehab partner," his dog. May 27, 2021 Woods gives an interview with Golf Digest , saying his injuries from the crash were "more painful than anything" he had ever experienced. "This has been an entirely different animal," Woods said. "I understand more of the rehab processes because of my past injuries, but this was more painful than anything I have ever experienced." When asked about his hopes of playing golf again, Woods had no comment but added: "My physical therapy has been keeping me busy. I do my routines every day and am focused on my No. 1 goal right now: walking on my own. Taking it one step at a time." Oct. 9, 2021 A photo on social media showed Woods back on the golf course with his son, Charlie. He was pictured wearing a compression sleeve on his right leg, standing without crutches. Nov. 21, 2021 Woods posted a photo on social media of him hitting a golf ball on a driving range with the caption: "Making progress." It has nearly 8 million views since being shared. Nov. 29, 2021 Woods gave an in-depth interview to Golf Digest and opened up about his year and a possible return to golf. He compared the Masters to climbing Mt. Everest. "I don’t have to compete and play against the best players in the world to have a great life. After my back fusion, I had to climb Mt. Everest one more time. I had to do it, and I did. This time around, I don’t think I’ll have the body to climb Mt. Everest, and that’s OK. I can still participate in the game of golf. I can still, if my leg gets OK, I can still click off a tournament here or there. But as far as climbing the mountain again and getting all the way to the top, I don’t think that’s a realistic expectation of me." Dec. 18, 2021 Ten months after his crash, Woods returned to competition with his 12-year-old son in the PNC Championship at the Ritz-Carlton Golf Club in Orlando, Florida. Wearing matching red polos, they finished second . Woods rode in a golf cart during the event, but then walked the final 200 yards on the 72nd hole with his son, according to ESPN. Tiger Woods and Charlie Woods look over a shot on the 15th hole during the final round of the PNC Championship at the Ritz Carlton Golf Club Grande Lakes on Dec. 19, 2021, in Orlando, Florida. (Photo by Sam Greenwood/Getty Images) Expand Feb. 19, 2022 Woods joined the broadcast booth with CBS Sports analysts Jim Nantz and Sir Nick Faldo during The Genesis Invitational and served as tournament host with his TGR Foundation and expressed frustration about tining around a potential return . "You will see me on the PGA TOUR, I just don't know when and trust me I'd love to tell you that I'll be playing next week," Woods said on the broadcast, according to a PGATour.com recap. "But I don't know when, which is frustrating in that sense, because I've been down this road before with my back when I didn't know when I was going to come back." March 9, 2022 Woods was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame and was introduced by his daughter, Sam. "Recently, Dad had to train harder than ever," Sam Woods said, according to ESPN. "About a year ago you were stuck in a hospital bed at one of your ultimate lows and one of the scariest moments of your life and ours. We didn't know if you'd come home with two legs or not. Now, not only are you about to be inducted into the Hall of Fame, but you're standing here on your own two feet." "This is why you deserve this, because you're a fighter. You've defied the odds every time, being the first Black and Asian golfer to win a major, being able to win your fifth Masters after multiple back surgeries and being able to walk just a few months after your crash," she added. April 3, 2022 Just days away from the start of the Masters, Woods announced that he would be traveling to Augusta to "continue my preparation and practice." He added that it would be "a game-time decision on whether I compete." This story was reported from Cincinnati. The Associated Press and FOX 11 Los Angeles contributed. Sports News U.S. Latest News View More Metro Mosquito Control seeing signs for more intense summer season Sartell high schooler hospitalized with TBI after lacrosse practice injury Hmong ‘Secret War’ soldiers to get veteran status in Minnesota Minnesota storm damage: Insurance claim advice from experts Man behind bars for 27 years claims innocence, has first case review before parole board New Alzheimer's survey shows most in state want early detection Taxidermized cougar killed in 2023 unveiled to community Skeletal remains found near St. Cloud ID’d as missing woman from WI: Police Tornadoes confirmed near Faribault, Eau Claire (Wis.) during Monday storms 'Merging conflict' blamed for fatal 7-vehicle crash on I-35W in Mounds View Man shot and killed in south Minneapolis, no arrests made Things to do in Minnesota: 5 things to do this weekend (May 2-4) Timberwolves-Lakers Game 5: How to watch Rep. Angie Craig announces run for US Senate Minnesota weather: A brighter, breezy and cooler day on Tuesday Trending City of Minneapolis urges residents to be prepared for severe storms Homeowner sues neighbor, city over basketball hoop at St. Louis Park home MN storms: Tornadoes reported in southern Minnesota amid storms Photos: Hail falls, trees down as storms pass through MN Timberwolves-Lakers Game 5: How to watch DAILY NEWSLETTER All the news you need to know, every day By clicking Sign Up, I confirm that I have read and agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service . WALK FOR ANIMALS Join FOX 9 at the Walk for Animals Register for the Walk for Animals to raise money for food, medical treatment, and support thousands of rescued animals. News Local News National News World News Investigators Politics Consumer FOX News Sunday Weather FOX 9 Weather App Forecast School Closings Live Weather Cameras Traffic FOX Weather Sports Vikings Gophers Twins Wild Timberwolves Lynx United Aurora Morning Shayne Wells Garden Guy Recipes Money Personal Finance Business Stock Market Small Business Savings Shows FOX Shows The Jason Show FOX 9 Good Day Enough Said Vikings Gameday Live The PJ Fleck Show FOX 9 Sports Now Taste Buds The Jason Show Swag Shop The FOX 9 Store Regional News Milwaukee News - FOX 6 News Chicago News - FOX 32 Chicago Detroit News - FOX 2 Detroit About Us Contact Us Contests Personalities Jobs at FOX 9 What's On FOX Advertise FCC Public File FCC Applications Stay Connected How to stream FOX LOCAL Mobile Newsletter Facebook Instagram Twitter TikTok YouTube facebook twitter email New Privacy Policy Updated Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices FCC Public File EEO Public File Jobs at FOX 9 Contact Us This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX Television Stations