Brad Pitt Wins Oscar For Best Supporting Actor × Got a Tip? Newsletters Open Menu Close News Film TV Awards Video Search Icon Open Search Close Read Next: ‘Brokeback Mountain’ to Be Re-Released in Theaters for 20th Anniversary Newsletters Search Icon Close Open Menu Close Search Icon Open Search Search for: Search Icon Search for: Close Menu News Arrow Icon Breaking News General News Festivals Box Office Business Trailers Analysis Obituaries Features Arrow Icon Interviews Commentary The Craft Best Of Animation General Awards Arrow Icon Thompson on Hollywood Emmy Predictions Emmys Calendar Consider This Awards Spotlight Craft Considerations Deep Dive Industry Criticism Arrow Icon Movies Shows Podcasts Arrow Icon Screen Talk Filmmaker Toolkit About IndieWire Arrow Icon IndieWire Masthead Sign Up for IndieWire's Newsletters and Alerts How to Pitch IndieWire Follow Us Facebook X Instagram Pinterest YouTube Alerts & Newsletters Email address to subscribe to newsletter. Subscribe By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. About Advertise with IndieWire IndieWire Masthead Contact Us PMC Logo IndieWire is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 IndieWire Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Home Awards Industry Brad Pitt Wins Best Supporting Actor Oscar It's Pitt's first Academy Award in an acting category. He previously won as producer of "12 Years a Slave." By Tambay Obenson Plus icon Tambay Obenson More stories by Harry Belafonte, the Activist Who Became an Artist, Dies at 96 Read more Tambay Obenson Launches Fundraiser for African Film and Television Platform Akoroko Read more ’61st Street’ Review: Courtney B. Vance Wages War Against Chicago’s Corrupt Police Department in AMC Drama Read more February 9, 2020 8:14 pm View Gallery 50 Images Share Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Share on LinkedIn Show more sharing options Submit to Reddit Pin it Post to Tumblr Email Print This Page Share on WhatsApp Brad Pitt has won the Best Supporting Actor Academy Award for his performance as stunt double Cliff Booth in Quentin Tarantino’s “ Once Upon a Time in Hollywood .” In a fairly competitive category, Pitt beat out fellow nominees Tom Hanks (Fred Rogers in “A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood”), Anthony Hopkins (Pope Benedict XVI in “The Two Popes”), Al Pacino (Jimmy Hoffa in “The Irishman”), and Joe Pesci (Russell Bufalino in “The Irishman”). This is Pitt’s fourth nomination as an actor, and his first acting Oscar win. Previously, he was nominated for Best Supporting Actor in 1996 for “12 Monkeys,” for Best Actor in 2009 for “The Curious Case of Benjamin Button,” for Best Actor in 2012 for “Moneyball.” Related Stories Brad Pitt to Lead Edward Berger’s A24 Movie ‘The Riders’ The Academy Releases Extensive Rule Changes for the Next Oscars, Including Guidance on AI and Public Disparagement As a producer, he has three Best Picture nominations: “Moneyball” (2012), “12 Years a Slave” (2014), and “The Big Short” (2016). He won for “12 Years a Slave,” which was his first ever Oscar win. Pitt already won both the Golden Globe and the SAG award in the Best Supporting Actor category, and was fully expected to win the Oscar as well. IndieWire awards editor Anne Thompson predicted that Pitt would win the category, with Anthony Hopkins (“The Two Popes”) potentially playing spoiler. Her bottom line : “Nobody can possibly catch up with Pitt’s performance as moccasin-wearing zen stuntman Cliff Booth, nor his awards circuit charm offensive (including witty, self-deprecating speeches — his ghost writer earned their fee — and hand-holding with his ex, Jennifer Aniston). While ‘The Two Popes’ is an unsung actor-fest that many voters love, Oscar voters want this key win for ‘Once Upon a Time in Hollywood’.” “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood” received a total of 10 nominations. It premiered at the Cannes Film Festival on May 21, 2019, and was theatrically released in the U.S. on July 26, 2019. The film has grossed $374 million worldwide and received universal praise from critics for Tarantino’s screenplay and direction, acting, cinematography, costume design, production values, and soundtrack. Set in 1969 Los Angeles, during the final moments of Hollywood’s golden age, “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood” follows Rick Dalton (Leonardo DiCaprio), former star of a 1950s western TV series, and his longtime stunt double and easygoing best friend Cliff Booth (Brad Pitt). Both are struggling to make it in a Hollywood they don’t recognize anymore. But Rick has very famous next-door neighbors: Roman Polanski (Rafał Zawierucha) and Sharon Tate (Margot Robbie) — the filmmaker and budding actress whose futures will forever be altered by members of the Manson Family. As with any Tarantino film, the reception for “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood” wasn’t without controversy. Although its context is a possibly-skewed memory of Cliff Booth’s, and not a “real” event in the narrative, the film’s portrayal of Bruce Lee drew much criticism from fans, contemporaries and Lee’s family. Specifically, a key fight sequence involving Pitt’s character and Lee was the subject of much contention. In the scene, Lee challenges Cliff to a three-round fight on the set of “The Green Hornet” after Cliff insults him. Lee wins the first round by knocking Cliff off his feet. Cliff wins round two by launching Lee into the side of a car. But just as the final round is to begin, a “Green Hornet” stunt coordinator, played by Zoë Bell, arrives on set to puts an end to the contest, effectively calling the match a tie. Although, according to stunt coordinator Robert Alonzo, the sequence was supposed to be much longer, with Cliff definitely beating Lee. But Pitt wasn’t comfortable with the idea of Lee losing the fight, and (along with Alonzo, who considers Lee a personal hero) petitioned Tarantino to alter the script, which he of course did. But of Lee’s general portrayal, daughter, Shannon, said this: “[Bruce Lee] was continuously marginalized and treated like kind of a nuisance of a human being by white Hollywood, which is how he’s treated in the film.” Tarantino responded to the criticism, saying Lee was “kind of an arrogant guy”, and that Lee’s widow, Linda Lee Cadwell, wrote in her 1975 book “Bruce Lee: The Man Only I Knew,” that he could beat Muhammad Ali. But Cadwell was actually quoting a TV critic. In 1972, Lee himself said: “Everybody says I must fight Ali someday … Look at my hand. That’s a little Chinese hand. He’d kill me.” “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood” features a large ensemble cast led by DiCaprio, Pitt, Robbie, Emile Hirsch, Margaret Qualley, Timothy Olyphant, Austin Butler, Dakota Fanning, Bruce Dern, and Al Pacino. It is the last film to feature Luke Perry, who died in March 2019. Produced by Lynette Howell Taylor and Stephanie Allain — their first involvement with the Oscars — the 92nd Academy Awards were held on Sunday, February 9, 2020, at the Dolby Theatre at Hollywood & Highland Center, in Hollywood, and was televised live on ABC. The Oscars are also televised live in more than 225 countries and territories worldwide. Read More: Brad Pitt Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Oscars Daily Headlines Daily Headlines covering Film, TV and more. Subscribe More from IndieWire Gotham TV Awards ‘Adolescence’ and ‘The Pitt’ Lead 2025 Gotham TV Awards Nominations: Get the Full List Awards Predictions 2025 Emmy Predictions: Outstanding Talk Series Awards Predictions 2025 Emmy Predictions: Outstanding Animated Program Awards Predictions 2025 Emmys Predictions: Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Limited Series or a Movie Awards Predictions 2025 Emmy Predictions: Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series Oscars The Academy Releases Extensive Rule Changes for the Next Oscars, Including Guidance on AI and Public Disparagement Daily Headlines Daily Headlines covering Film, TV and more. Email address to subscribe to newsletter. Subscribe By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Must Read Features IndieWire’s 52 Most Anticipated Movies of 2025 we <3 TV IndieWire’s 10 Most Anticipated TV Shows of 2025 Features The 25 Best Movies of 2024 More From IndieWire First Look After Years of Delays, Charlize Theron-Starring Netflix Action Sequel ‘The Old Guard 2’ Gets a Release Date News Bella Ramsey Insisted on a Green Rider to Make ‘The Last of Us’ Season 2 Shoot ‘Sustainability-Conscious’ PMC Logo Most Popular 1. Damon Wayans Is 'Walking Away With Deep Gratitude' After 'Poppa's House' Cancellation: 'This Show Gave Me More Than I Could've Ever Imagined' 2. 'Andor' Creator Explains That Shocking Assault Scene: "We're All the Product of Rape" 3. Bath & Body Works' Hand Soaps Just Hit Their Lowest Price of the Season — Stock Up for $3 Each 4. NFL Rookie Signing Bonuses Jump Record 26% for 2025 Draft You may also like ‘Desperate Houswives’ Reboot From Kerry Washington, Natalie Chaidez in Development at Onyx Collective rollingstone Lucy Dacus Avoids Comments Julien Baker Relationship Julien Baker, But She Sees the Memes ‘Desperate Housewives’ Offshoot ‘Wisteria Lane’ In Works At Onyx From Kerry Washington & Natalie Chaidez Landman Season 2 Adds 1883′s Sam Elliott Kalshi Shrugs Off NJ Gaming Regulator as Judge Defers to Feds IndieWire Arrow Icon About Team How to Pitch Stories and Articles to IndieWire Advertise with IndieWire Contact Us Accessibility Statement Legal Arrow Icon Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights EU Privacy Preferences Your Privacy Choices Ad Choices Follow Us Facebook X Instagram Pinterest YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Email address to subscribe to newsletter. Subscribe By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send us a tip PMC Logo IndieWire is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 IndieWire Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD ad