NBA Draft Combine 2021: Full List of Participants, Schedule, More Revealed Bleacher Report NBA Home Scores Teams Rumors Highlights Draft B/R Sports on Max 01:04 Featured Video Rockets-Dubs Gets Chippy Again PHILADELPHIA, PA - JANUARY 20: A detailed view of the NBA logo prior to the game between the Boston Celtics and Philadelphia 76ers at the Wells Fargo Center on January 20, 2021 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The 76ers defeated the Celtics 117-109. NOTE TO USER: User expressly acknowledges and agrees that, by downloading and or using this photograph, User is consenting to the terms and conditions of the Getty Images License Agreement. (Photo by Mitchell Leff/Getty Images) Mitchell Leff/Getty Images NBA NBA Draft Combine 2021: Full List of Participants, Schedule, More Revealed Timothy Rapp Jun 16, 2021 On Tuesday, the NBA announced the full list of participants for the NBA Draft Combine, which will be held June 21-27 in Chicago. Per the press release, "players will conduct interviews with NBA teams and participate in five-on-five games, shooting and strength and agility drills June 22-25. ESPN2 (June 24) and ESPNU (June 25) will provide coverage of the five-on-five games from 3-7 p.m. ET each day." TOP NEWS Giannis Says Actions of Tyrese Haliburton's Dad 'Unacceptable' After Pacers Beat Bucks Bleacher Report -2271s 2025 NBA Mock Draft with Lottery Simulation Sending Cooper Flagg to Eastern Conference Bleacher Report 18h Spurs' Stephon Castle Wins 2024-25 NBA Rookie of the Year over Risacher, Wells Bleacher Report 2h Notable absences from the list of participants includes potential top overall pick Cade Cunningham, expected top-five pick Jalen Suggs and projected lottery pick Franz Wagner. Chris Duarte, likely a first-rounder, is also skipping the event. International prospects Usman Garuba, Josh Giddey and Alperen Sengun also won't be in attendance. But a number of top prospects will be in Chicago, including USC big man Evan Mobley, G League Ignite prospects Jalen Green and Jonathan Kuminga, Florida State forward Scottie Barnes and Tennessee Guard Keon Johnson. Cunningham and Suggs likely would benefit very little from participating in the combine. In fact, had any of the other five prospects—Cunningham, Suggs, Mobley, Green and Kumina make up the list, not necessarily in that order—chosen to skip the combine, very few people would have been surprised. They are pretty locked in as the top five options in this year's draft. "That top five is potentially as stout as any of the other drafts [since 2000]," a high-ranking NBA executive told ESPN's Mike Schmitz last week. "There are years where the No. 1 pick would never be the No. 1 pick ever again. Some drafts lack that No. 1 pick. This one's legit. I'm a big fan. There's legit star power [in the top 5]." The combine is the chance for prospects further down draft boards to improve their stock and impress teams in interviews and workouts. But for the very top prospects who have already proven their upside and ability, any possibility of making a bad impression isn't a risk worth taking. 01:04 Rockets-Dubs Gets Chippy Again TOP NEWS John Haliburton Apologizes Bleacher Report -2271s Latest Projections and Pro Comps ✍️ Bleacher Report 18h 🚨 Stephon Castle Wins ROY Bleacher Report 2h Pacers Eliminate Bucks in OT Bleacher Report 25m Updated NBA Playoff Bracket Bleacher Report 31m TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 1d 1 Trade Every NBA Playoff Team Wishes It Could Make Right Now Bleacher Report • 14h Cooper Flagg, Dylan Harper, Full List of Early 2025 NBA Draft Declarations Announced Bleacher Report • 9h Lakers' Luka Doncic Gifts $5K to Restore Vandalized Kobe, Gigi Bryant Mural Dončić donates $5K to repair vandalized tribute of Kobe and Gigi (KTLA) Bleacher Report • 12h Michael Porter Jr. Not Suspended for Leaving Bench During Nuggets-Clippers Skirmish Michael Porter Jr. not suspended Game 5 for leaving bench during skirmish Bleacher Report • 3h Jalen Brunson, Knicks Fail to Close out Cade, Pistons in G5 Loss, Disappoint NBA Fans New York loses Game 5 at MSG, still ahead 3-2 in series 📲 TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 1d 1 Trade Every NBA Playoff Team Wishes It Could Make Right Now Bleacher Report • 14h Cooper Flagg, Dylan Harper, Full List of Early 2025 NBA Draft Declarations Announced Bleacher Report • 9h Lakers' Luka Doncic Gifts $5K to Restore Vandalized Kobe, Gigi Bryant Mural Dončić donates $5K to repair vandalized tribute of Kobe and Gigi (KTLA) Bleacher Report • 12h Michael Porter Jr. Not Suspended for Leaving Bench During Nuggets-Clippers Skirmish Michael Porter Jr. not suspended Game 5 for leaving bench during skirmish Bleacher Report • 3h Jalen Brunson, Knicks Fail to Close out Cade, Pistons in G5 Loss, Disappoint NBA Fans New York loses Game 5 at MSG, still ahead 3-2 in series 📲 Bleacher Report About Advertise Contact Us Get Help Careers Sitemap Community Guidelines Privacy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Terms Of Use AdChoices B/R Sports on MAX B/R Creators Program Copyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.