Fernando Torres - Thinking Heads Skip to content Looking for a speaker? Search EXPERTS Close EXPERTS Open EXPERTS Experts Learn more SPEAKERS We connect organizations with the world’s most influential opinion leaders. Learn more Top 100 speakers A unique initiative that brings together Spain’s most influential and sought-after opinion leaders. Learn more 5’ VISION Video micro-conferences by renowned experts on cross-cutting business topics. Learn more Literary Agency and Cultural Services We support leaders and organizations in creating a positive social impact through culture. Learn more CONSULTANCY Close CONSULTANCY Open CONSULTANCY Consultancy Learn more Political Intelligence and Public Affairs We monitor political activities and strengthen relations. Learn more Strategic Communication We provide comprehensive communication services and create avenues of influence with stakeholders. Learn more Data Intelligence We measure intangible assets and analyze trends using data-driven models. Learn more LEADERSHIP We help leaders enhance their leadership skills and cultivate a lasting positive influence. Learn more Positioning and Leadership Program (PLP) Our executive coaching and leadership positioning training program. Learn more ABOUT US Close ABOUT US Open ABOUT US About us Learn more Case Studies Discover how we have empowered our clients to strengthen their leadership and expand their influence. Learn more in the media Thinking Heads in the media. Learn more press room Stay up to date with our latest news. Learn more THINKING’S LATEST Close THINKING’S LATEST Open THINKING’S LATEST THINKING’S LATEST Learn more BLOG A platform for rethinking pivotal issues that will shape the future of society. Learn more thinking ahead We interpret current events using data-driven models, providing comprehensive reports and intelligence insights. Learn more events Explore Thinking Heads’ events calendar and discover those of our partners and collaborators. Learn more TALENT English Spanish CONTACT Fernando Torres Former Spanish footballer, World Champion and two-time European Champion with the Spanish national team English Spanish Book speaker Travels from Spain Madrid What are the Expert’s Topics? Topics Leadership Motivational Speakers Teams Specific topics Motivation peak performance About the Expert Who Is Fernando Torres? Fernando Torres is a former Spanish footballer, internationally renowned for his achievements both at the club level and with the Spanish national team. Known as “El Niño” for debuting at a young age, Torres stood out as a forward for his speed, technique, and goal-scoring ability. Over his illustrious career, he became a World Cup champion in 2010 and a two-time European champion in 2008 and 2012 with Spain. Torres is an iconic football figure, admired for his humility, dedication, and commitment both on and off the pitch. What is his Background? Fernando Torres began his career at Atlético Madrid, debuting for the first team at just 17 years old. He quickly became the club’s leader and captain, catching the attention of international teams. In 2007, he joined Liverpool, where he experienced some of the best individual moments of his career. In 2011, he transferred to Chelsea, where he won the UEFA Champions League in 2012 and the Europa League in 2013. In 2018, he returned to Atlético Madrid, capping off his time there with a Europa League victory. His brightest achievements came with the Spanish national team, winning the 2010 World Cup and two European Championships in 2008 and 2012. Among his many honors, Torres received the prestigious Prince of Asturias Award for Sports in 2010, alongside his national teammates, in recognition of their contribution to Spanish sports. After retiring as a player in 2019, Torres has focused on being a football ambassador and speaker, sharing the valuable lessons he learned throughout his successful career. Speaker’s Conferences What Are His Conferences Like? Fernando Torres’ conferences are inspiring and motivational, focused on essential values such as commitment, effort, sacrifice, and teamwork. Drawing from his experience as an elite athlete, Torres provides a unique perspective on what it takes to lead and perform at the highest level in high-pressure environments. His ability to connect with audiences and convey messages of perseverance and resilience makes his talks a valuable experience for professionals in sports as well as the corporate world. Selection of Conferences Leadership and Teamwork: Keys to Success in Sports and Life In this talk, Fernando Torres explores how football values such as leadership and teamwork apply to life and business. Through his experiences with championship-winning teams, Torres shares how to face challenges and bring out the best in yourself and your team, even in high-pressure situations. The Road to Glory: Stories Behind the Titles Fernando Torres takes the audience on a journey through the key moments of his career, from his club victories to his triumphs with the Spanish national team. Through personal anecdotes and lessons learned, he offers an intimate look at what it takes to reach the top of football and overcome obstacles along the way. Champion On and Off the Pitch: Inspiring Dreams and Overcoming Challenges In this session, Fernando Torres focuses on the importance of perseverance and resilience. He explains how, despite facing many challenges throughout his career, he maintained his motivation and continued to pursue his dreams, inspiring others to do the same. More about the Expert Videos Lecciones de una vida en el deporte - Fernando Torres, conferenciante de Thinking Heads Book Fernando Torres for your Event Do You Want To Book Fernando Torres? If you are looking for an inspiring talk on leadership, teamwork, and personal growth, you can book Fernando Torres through Thinking Heads. As one of the most iconic figures in world football, Fernando offers unique insights into achieving success and overcoming challenges in both sports and life. Contact Thinking Heads today for more information and secure his participation at your next event. BOOK SPEAKER You might also be interested in View profile Aaron Paxton Arnold Lifestyle Entrepreneur Book Speaker View profile Adam Cheyer Co-founder of Siri, Inc. and Venture Partner at Project Voice Venture Partners. Book Speaker View profile Adam Grant Organizational psychologist, The Wharton School of Business. Best-selling Author. Host: WorkLife, a TED original podcast. Book Speaker View profile Adriana Cisneros CEO of Cisneros. Book Speaker View profile Adriana Machado Founder of Briyah Institute & Former CEO of GE Brazil Book Speaker View profile Afterburner Inc. Former Elite Military Professionals Turned Business Consultants and Speakers. Book Speaker View profile Ágatha Ruiz de la Prada Fashion designer. Businesswoman Book Speaker View profile Alan Tenenbaum W Survivor. Writer, Motivational Speaker Book Speaker View profile Albert Bosch Sport Specialist in expeditions and extreme cruises. Entrepreneur Book Speaker View profile Albert Rivera Spanish politician and lawyer, President of the Ciudadanos Party (2006-2019) Book Speaker View profile Alberto Contador Two-time winner of the Tour de France and Giro d’Italia, and three-time winner of La Vuelta a España. Book Speaker View profile Alejandro González Iñarritu Two Oscar Winning Film Director Book Speaker View profile Alex Banayan Author of the #1 international bestseller “The Third Gate” Book Speaker View profile Álex Corretja Tennis player. Captain of the Spanish Davis Cup team (2012-2013). Winner of the Davis Cup (2000) Book Speaker View profile Alex Dakov Conscious entrepreneur, promoter of sustainable projects, lecturer and motivator towards an ethical life model. Book Speaker View profile Alex Ferguson One of the most successful managers in the history of football Book Speaker View profile Alex Mackenzie Torres Global Head of Market Expansion & Internationalisation Strategy at Amazon Book Speaker View profile Alex Rodríguez Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of A-Rod Corp. Former Major League Baseball player and one of the most successful athletes of all time. Book Speaker View profile Alfonso Luna Marketing Director of Google Latin America (2006-2010). Expert in 2.0 companies Book Speaker View profile Álvaro González-Alorda Leading authority on innovation management Book Speaker View profile Amy Webb Futurist, Author. Founder & CEO, Future Today Institute. Ted Global Speaker. Book Speaker View profile Ana María Llopis Chairwoman at DIA Book Speaker View profile Anahita Moghaddam Founder of Neural Beings and executive coach Book Speaker View profile Ander Mirambell First Spanish Olympic Skeleton sportsman. Expert in the use of creativity to overcome challenges Book Speaker View profile Andoni Zubizarreta Former Spanish Footballer. Book Speaker View profile Andrea Bonime-Blanc Founder & CEO – Governance, Ethics & Cyber Strategist Book Speaker View profile Andrea Cardona First Central American and Caribbean woman to reach out the Everest summit Book Speaker View profile Andrés Moreno Founder, Chairman and CEO of Open English and Next University Book Speaker View profile Ann Hiatt Leadership Strategist & Consultant. Former Right Hand to CEO Jeff Bezos of Amazon & Eric Schmidt of Google. Book Speaker View profile Anna Tarrés Coach of the Spanish Olympic selection team of synchronized swimming Book Speaker View profile Anthony Blake Illusionist, mind control expert Book Speaker View profile Antonio Moar Consultant and trainer specializing in managerial transformation. Book Speaker View profile Antonio Núñez López Storyteller. Expert in Communication and Branding Book Speaker View profile Araceli Segarra Roca 1996 Everest Climber and rescuer, Alpinist, TV and radio host Book Speaker View profile Armando Regil Velasco Founder, President & CEO of i2Co: School of Transformative Leadership Book Speaker View profile Arsène Wenger Arsenal FC’s longest serving manager Book Speaker View profile Arturo Elías Ayub Director of América Móvil, Fundación Telmex and UNO TV. Investor judge in ‘Shark Tank Mexico’. Book Speaker View profile Asit Biswas Distinguished Visiting Professor, Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, Singapore; co-Founder, Third World Centre for Water Management Book Speaker View profile Barbara Oakley Expert on Education and Learning. Professor of Engineering at Oakland University. Book Speaker View profile Beatriz Magro Nogales Cofounder of Komvida Organic  Kombucha Endeavor Entrepreneur Book Speaker View profile Becky Simpson Founder of Chipper Things Book Speaker View profile Ben Milne Founder and CEO of Dwolla Book Speaker View profile Benjamin Zander Conductor of the Boston Philharmonic Orchestra, expert in leadership & creativity Book Speaker View profile Bettina Gallego Tolkmitt “Coach and investor. Expert in motivation, stress management and leadership” Book Speaker View profile Bianca Miller-Cole Founder and Director of The Be Group. Award-winning Entrepreneur & Personal Brand Expert. Book Speaker View profile Bill McDermott CEO at SAP Book Speaker View profile Bo Jackson American former professional baseball and American football player. He is the only professional athlete in history to be named an All-Star in both baseball and football. Book Speaker View profile Bob Pritchard Marketing expert. International Business Consultant Book Speaker View profile Bob Woodward Pulitzer award. Journalist of The Washington Post Book Speaker View profile Borja Castelar Official LinkedIn Learning Instructor, Former Director LinkedIn Talent Solutions Soft Skills Trainer Book Speaker View profile Bozoma Saint John Chief Marketing Officer, Endeavor. Former Chief Brand Officer at Uber Book Speaker View profile Bruce Turkel CEO of TURKEL. Expert in Branding and Marketing Book Speaker View profile Buzz Aldrin Legendary NASA Astronaut. Second man on the Moon Book Speaker View profile Carl Lewis Athletics legend Book Speaker View profile Carlitos Paez Survivor of the plain crash in the Andes. Expert in improvement. Book Speaker View profile Carlo Ancelotti Football manager. Three times winner of the European Cup. Book Speaker View profile Carlos Andreu Pintado Motivational coach expert in personal development. Book Speaker View profile Carlos Castillo Expert in leadership and high organizational performance Book Speaker View profile Carlos Pelegrín Expert in Digital Transformation and Change Management, Former Chief People Officer of Iberia. Book Speaker View profile Carlos Piera CEO of Delivering Happiness Book Speaker View profile Carlos Rebate Director of Transformation and Business Processes at Securitas Seguridad España. Book Speaker View profile Carlos Valderrama “El Pibe” Top exponent of the “golden generation” of Colombian football Book Speaker View profile Carme Artigas Expert in Big Data, Artificial Intelligence and Technological Innovation. Spain Secretary of State for Digitalization and Artificial Intelligence (2020-2023). Book Speaker View profile Catherine Coleman NASA Astronaut Book Speaker View profile Catherine DeVrye Best-selling Author and Leading Australian Motivational Speaker Book Speaker View profile Cathy O’Dowd First woman ever to summit Mount Everest from both North and South sides Book Speaker View profile Chip Conley Strategic Advisor for Hospitality and Leadership at Airbnb Book Speaker View profile Chris Gardner Entrepreneur. Inspiration for the film “The pursuit of happiness” Book Speaker View profile Chris Hadfield Astronaut. First Canadian Commander of the International Space Station Book Speaker View profile Christian Tamburr CEO and Facilitator for Sonic Leadership Book Speaker View profile Cibele Salviatto Sustainability & Cultural Change expert. Book Speaker View profile Claire Diaz-Ortiz Author, Speaker, Technology Innovator and early Leader of Social Innovation at Twitter (2009-2014) Book Speaker View profile Conor Neill President of Vistage in Spain, keynote speaker and director of Leadership Communication courses at IESE. Book Speaker View profile Coro Saldaña Senior Retail and Fashion Advisor at Accenture Book Speaker View profile Cristina Mitre Journalist, promoter of the Mujeres que Corren (Women Who Run) movement on Web 2.0 Book Speaker View profile Cyriel Kortleven Expert in change management, mindset and creativity. Author of “The Change Mindset”. Book Speaker View profile Daniel Goleman Psychologist. Expert in Management. Creator of the concept of Emotional Intelligence. Author of the best seller ‘Emotional Intelligence’. Book Speaker View profile Darren Coleman Brand Experiences and Brand Strategy Specialist Book Speaker View profile Darril Wilburn Expert in the Lean Method. Responsible for implementing the Toyota Way Book Speaker View profile David Albritton Former President of General Motors Defense. Executive Leadership Coach Book Speaker View profile David Meca 28 times World Champion as open water swimmer.  Coach expert in motivation. Book Speaker View profile David Muñoz Cutting-edge chef, owner of DiverXo, with three Michelin stars Book Speaker View profile David Siegel Former CEO of Meetup, Author of Decide & Conquer, Host of Keep Connected podcast. Book Speaker View profile Debbie Wosskow Serial Entrepreneur. Co-Founder of AllBright Book Speaker View profile Denis Cauvier Global Expert in Talent Management, Leadership and HR Book Speaker View profile Devon Harris Original member of the first Jamaican bobsleigh team. Three-time Olympian Book Speaker View profile Diego Guerrero Chef, owner of DStage, awarded one Michelin star Book Speaker View profile Diego Pablo Simeone Trainer and elite athlete. Expert in leadership and motivation. Book Speaker View profile Dimas Gimeno Business leader in the retail sector President of El Corte Inglés (2014-2018) Book Speaker View profile Don Peppers A marketing futurist and accomplished trend spotter. Book Speaker View profile Doug Lipp International consultant, eight-time author, and former head of training at the legendary Disney University Book Speaker View profile Doug Manuel International Speaker on Indigenous Culture and Leadership. Book Speaker View profile Dr. Michelle Rozen Expert on leadership & personal and professional growth Book Speaker View profile Duncan Wardle Vice President Innovation and Creativity Walt Disney Company (2011-2017). Book Speaker View profile Earvin Magic Johnson Legendary basketball player Book Speaker View profile Ed Morata Expert advisor on Impact Investing, Conscious Capitalism, Private Equity, Finance and Banking Book Speaker View profile Eduardo Madina Political and economic analyst. ETA terrorist attack survivor Book Speaker View profile Edurne Pasaban First woman to climb the 14 eight-thousanders. Life Coach. Book Speaker View profile Elaine King Financial Planning Expert. International Speaker. Best selling Author and Social Catalyst. Book Speaker View profile Elena García Armada Founder of Marsi Bionics. Expert in biotechnology and scientific communicator. Creator of the world’s first pediatric exoskeleton. Book Speaker contact How can we help you? Contact us Your data will be processed by THINKING HEADS GROUP, S.L. To manage the reason why you contact us through this form, our registered office is located in Madrid, C/ Velázquez, 24 – 7th floor, C.P.:28001 and our is NIF B-83220475. Adding your email address, means you have read and accepted the policy of How THINKING HEADS GROUP, S.L. treads your data and you consent the processing of your data. X-twitter Instagram Facebook Linkedin Youtube Join our newsletter! Adding your email address, means you have read and accepted the policy of How THINKING HEADS GROUP, S.L. treads your data and you consent the processing of your data. © Thinking Heads, 2024 EXPERTS Speakers Top 100 5’ VISION Literary Agency and Cultural Services CONSULTANCY Pollitical Intelligence and Public Affairs Strategic Communication Data Intelligence Leadership Positioning and Leadership Program (PLP) EXPERTS Hire speakers Top 100 5’ VISION Cultural services CONSULTANCY Political Intelligence and Public Affairs Strategic Communication Data Intelligence Positioning of leaders Leadership and positioning program THINKING HEADS Blog Thinking Ahead Success Cases Events About Us Talent Contact THINKING HEADS Blog Thinking Ahead Case Studies Events About Us Talent Contact MADRID +(34) 91 310 77 40 MIAMI +1 (305) 424 13 20 Seoul +82 (10) 8942 6800 Legal notice | How we treat your data | Cookies policy © Thinking Heads, 2025 Legal notice How we treat your data Cookie policy © Thinking Heads, 2024 MADRID +(34) 91 310 77 40 +(34) 91 310 77 40 MIAMI +1 (305) 424 13 20 SEOUL +(34) 91 310 77 40 EXPERTOS Speakers TOP 100 conferenciantes 5’ VISION Agencia literaria y servicios culturales CONSULTORÍA Consultoría Inteligencia Política y Asuntos Públicos Comunicación Estratégica Data Intelligence Liderazgo Programa de liderazgo y posicionamiento SOBRE NOSOTROS Sobre nosotros Casos de éxito En los medios Sala de prensa ACTUALIDAD Actualidad Blog Thinking Ahead Eventos Talento Contacto CONTACTO English Spanish EXPERTS Speakers Top 100 Speakers 5’ VISION Literary Agency and Cultural Services CONSULTANCY Consultancy Political Intelligence and Public Affairs Strategic Communication Data Intelligence Leadership Positioning and Leadership Program (PLP) ABOUT US About us Case Studies In the Media Press Room THINKING’S LATEST Thinking’s Latest Blog Thinking Ahead Events Talent Contacto CONTACT English Spanish