Tesla Earnings: What Happened with TSLA Skip to content News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Trade Search Search Please fill out this field. Search Search Please fill out this field. News News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Follow Us Company News Earnings Reports and News Tesla Q1 2022 Earnings Report Recap Tesla beat on earnings and on revenue By Matthew Johnston Updated April 21, 2022 06:38 AM EDT Close Key Takeaways Tesla produced 305,407 vehicles in Q1, a dramatic increase from the year-ago quarter. Higher vehicle production is an indication of increasing demand for Tesla's main source of revenue as well as the company's ability to scale production. Tesla recently opened new manufacturing plants in the U.S. and Germany. Tesla Earnings Results Metric Beat/Miss/Match Reported Value Analysts' Prediction Adjusted EPS Beat $3.22 $2.31 Revenue Beat $18.8B $17.9B Vehicle Production Miss 305,407 311,600 Source: Predictions based on analysts' consensus from Visible Alpha Tesla (TSLA) Financial Results: Analysis Tesla, Inc. ( TSLA ) reported Q1 FY 2022 earnings results that surpassed analysts' expectations. Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) beat estimates, rising 246.2% compared to the year-ago quarter. Revenue also came in above analyst forecasts, rising 80.5% year over year (YOY) . Revenue growth was driven by vehicle deliveries, increased average selling prices, and growth in other areas of the company's business. Tesla produced 305,407 vehicles in the quarter, which it reported earlier in the month and which came in below analysts' forecasts. The company's shares rose more than 4% in extended trading. Over the past year, Tesla's shares have provided a total return of 35.8%, below the S&P 500's total return of 7.9%. TSLA Vehicle Production The number of vehicles produced by Tesla rose 69.4% YOY. Tesla's primary business is making electric vehicles, and it needs to continue expanding production in order to grow revenue and profits. The company recently opened new manufacturing plants in the U.S. and Germany. Tesla said that it recently began deliveries of the Model Y from its new factory in Austin, Texas. Production at its new Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg began last month. However, the company has faced numerous challenges due to global supply chain disruptions. Those challenges, which include the global semiconductor shortage, continue to persist. Tesla was even forced to shutter its Shanghai factory in late March due to an outbreak of COVID-19 in the region. The company began preparing to reopen the plant earlier this week. However, the reopening will be under modified conditions where workers will have to live onsite to comply with China's "closed loop management" process for limiting the spread of the coronavirus. Tesla said that it has made adjustments to its product pricing due to inflationary pressures on its cost structure. However, it has been able to reduce its cost of goods sold (COGS) per vehicle despite the inflationary pressures. That helped to drive its profitability during the quarter. TSLA Earnings Call Recap During an earnings call after results were announced, Chief Financial Officer ( CFO ) Zachary Kirkhorn and Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) Elon Musk said the company remains confident that it can increase volume at least 50% compared to 2021 numbers. However, the executives said that Tesla has lost about a month of “build volume” in Shanghai in the wake of shutdowns imposed by China's central government due to the increase in COVID-19 cases. “Production is resuming at limited levels, and we’re working to get back to full production as quickly as possible,” Kirkhorn said. Tesla's next earnings report (for Q2 FY 2022) is expected to be released on July 25, 2022. Do you have a news tip for Investopedia reporters? Please email us at tips@investopedia.com Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. Tesla Inc. " Q1 2022 Update ," Page 4. Tesla Inc. " Q1 2022 Update ," Page 5. Visible Alpha. " Financial Data ." Tesla Inc. " Tesla Vehicle Production & Deliveries and Date for Financial Results & Webcast for First Quarter 2022 ." TradingView. " Price Chart: TSLA and S&P 500 ." Tesla Inc. " Q1 2022 Update ," Page 6. The Wall Street Journal. " Elon Musk Delivers First Teslas Made in Texas, Shows Off Cybertruck ." The Wall Street Journal. " Elon Musk Opens Tesla’s First European Factory ." Tesla Inc. " Q1 2022 Update ," Page 7. Tesla Inc. " Q1 2022 Update ," Page 3. Reuters. " Shanghai Factories Sputter Towards Reopening as City Aims to Ease Lockdown ." CNBC. " Tesla reports $18.76 billion in revenue and record margins in Q1 ." Yahoo! Finance. " Earnings Calendar: TSLA ." Take the Next Step to Invest Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Partner Links Related Articles Tesla and Alphabet Report This Week. They'll Set the Tone for Big Tech Earnings Tesla Stock Rises With Earnings On Deck After the Closing Bell Tuesday Tesla's Q1 Earnings Miss Estimates What Analysts Think of Tesla Stock Ahead of Earnings Companies Are Beating Q1 Earnings Estimates So Far. Some Big Results Are Up Next What Analysts Think of Apple Stock Ahead of Earnings What Analysts Think of Microsoft Stock Ahead of Earnings Meta Isn't the Only Social Stock Reporting This Week. What To Expect From Reddit and Snap What Analysts Think of Meta Stock Ahead of Earnings What Analysts Think of Intel Stock Ahead of Earnings What Analysts Think of Google Parent Alphabet's Stock Ahead of Earnings Q1 Earnings Growth Perks Up With a Busy Week Ahead Sherwin-Williams Stock Rises as Firm Benefits From Higher Prices, Lower Costs Honeywell Stock Rises as Firm Posts Strong Results, Plans to Counter Tariffs Halliburton Stock Drops as Profit Hit by 'Recent Pressures on the Energy Macro' Southwest Airlines Stock Falls as It Pulls Outlook, Cuts Capacity About Us Terms of Service Dictionary Editorial Policy Advertise News Privacy Policy Contact Us Careers Your Privacy Choices # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Investopedia is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies