Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty arrives on September 26th! | Page 15 | Forums - CD PROJEKT RED Forums Games Thronebreaker: The Witcher Tales GWENT®: The Witcher Card Game The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings The Witcher The Witcher Adventure Game Cyberpunk 2077 Jobs Store Support Log in Register Menu Hot Topics NEWS GENERAL SUGGESTIONS STORY MAIN JOBS SIDE JOBS GIGS GAMEPLAY MODS TECHNICAL PC XBOX PLAYSTATION COMMUNITY FAN ART (THE WITCHER UNIVERSE) FAN ART (CYBERPUNK UNIVERSE) OTHER GAMES BRAZILIAN COMMUNITY ITALIAN COMMUNITY JAPANESE COMMUNITY RED Tracker The Witcher Series Cyberpunk GWENT Menu Register Install the app Install JavaScript is disabled. For a better experience, please enable JavaScript in your browser before proceeding. You are using an out of date browser. It  may not display this or other websites correctly. You should upgrade or use an alternative browser . Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty arrives on September 26th! Everywhere Threads This forum This thread + Prev 1 … Go to page Go 13 14 15 16 Next First Prev 15 of 16 Go to page Go Next Last BabaBooey88 Forum veteran #281 Sep 20, 2023 Already done. Last time I took leave from work for a video game was Halo 2. Show me a good time, CDPR. Reactions: pliskards pliskards Senior user #282 Sep 20, 2023 BabaBooey88 said: Already done. Last time I took leave from work for a video game was Halo 2. Show me a good time, CDPR. Click to expand... i have really high expectations for Phantom Liberty at this point. Three years of development - which is almost as much as the base game. A huge marketing campaign. Amazing trailers and lists of great things being added. High profile actors. A seemingly amazing story. All sorts of new music and stuff. I'll be pretty shocked if CDPR doesn't deliver. razorlitex Fresh user #283 Sep 20, 2023 I'll not be shocked if CDPR does not deliver, at least if they do not deliver immediately. Myself like many others this time round will not part with money until the reviews come back solid. Let's be honest - pre-ordering incentivises mediocrity and failure, and as it's all digital these days - it's not as if the "copies" will run out any time soon. BabaBooey88 Forum veteran #284 Sep 20, 2023 This is just what I was hoping to hear with regards to stamina. A lot of RPGs just have stamina tacked on as some kind of nagging regulator forcing you to slow down for no reason, in 2.0 it reflects your actions. Sound great. Reactions: AikoHayashi B Bahamanau Fresh user #285 Sep 25, 2023 Any news on the Expansion reimbursement for owners of the Cyberpunk Xbox one X limited Edison Console? Have heard nothing in about a year. Release date for Phantom Liberty is in about 13 hours in Australia Attachments IMG_2839.jpeg 104.2 KB · Views: 70 Vattier CD PROJEKT RED #286 Sep 25, 2023 Xbox will be following up with next steps for gamers who purchased the Xbox Cyberpunk LE console soon. Reactions: vrld47 , hertores and Demonator4556 Demonator4556 Fresh user #287 Sep 26, 2023 any idea how much we will be getting back? hertores Mentor #288 Sep 26, 2023 Vattier said: Xbox will be following up with next steps for gamers who purchased the Xbox Cyberpunk LE console soon. Click to expand... I hope that pre-order bonus Quadra "Vigilate" will also be available for XOX Cyberpunk LE console owners Reactions: vrld47 vrld47 Fresh user #289 Nov 5, 2023 I am very disappointed with how all this has been handled. I have yet to hear from anybody. Reactions: BigWezz69 and Demonator4556 Demonator4556 Fresh user #290 Nov 17, 2023 vrld47 said: I am very disappointed with how all this has been handled. I have yet to hear from anybody. Click to expand... Same here Reactions: vrld47 vrld47 Fresh user #291 Feb 10, 2024 As it seems, the DLC was automatically added to your Cyberpunk LE redemption on 9/25. You can look it up, when you go into your Microsoft/Xbox orders on the PC and scroll back to the day of original redemption. Absolutely terrible communication both from Microsoft and CDPR. As someone who purchased the Xbox back then and pre-ordered Phantom Liberty a week before release (because I understood that we would get the value of DLC as reimbursement as Microsoft Store credit) I paid for the DLC twice. Xbox is not letting me refund the 30 bucks I paid for the DLC and that's that. Shameful, disappointing, travesty for consumers. Paying money for a console for which the game got the support dropped, releasing a broken game on release and now essentially double dipping - this is too much for me. Cyberpunk is amazing now, the DLC is also terrific. Why then this non-existant communication? Enjoy your weekend guys. LeKill3rFou Mentor #292 Feb 10, 2024 vrld47 said: As someone who purchased the Xbox back then and pre-ordered Phantom Liberty a week before release (because I understood that we would get the value of DLC as reimbursement as Microsoft Store credit) I paid for the DLC twice. Click to expand... No idea why you "pre-ordered" Phantom Liberty if you're on Xbox One, knowing CDPR announced the "refunds" in form of Microsoft Store credits would only concern those who bought the Xbox One X bundle when it was available at release... But there is something wrong in Microsoft side for sure if you were allowed to pre-order/buy Phantom Liberty on Xbox One... You shouldn't be able to in theory. vrld47 Fresh user #293 Feb 10, 2024 LeKill3rFou said: No idea why you "pre-ordered" Phantom Liberty if you're on Xbox One, knowing CDPR announced the "refunds" in form of Microsoft Store credits would only concern those who bought the Xbox One X bundle when it was available at release... But there is something wrong in Microsoft side for sure if you were allowed to pre-order/buy Phantom Liberty on Xbox One... You shouldn't be able to in theory. Click to expand... I don't understand what you meant by the first sentence. I am using a Series X at the moment - planned to play it on the Xbox and did. I bought the One X LE back then and was (am) entitled to the DLC. As there was nothing communicated at all, I pre-ordered a week before release. LeKill3rFou Mentor #294 Feb 10, 2024 vrld47 said: I don't understand what you meant by the first sentence. I am using a Series X at the moment - planned to play it on the Xbox and did. I bought the One X LE back then and was (am) entitled to the DLC. As there was nothing communicated at all, I pre-ordered a week before release. Click to expand... Ok, so you didn't receive any Microsoft credits for the bundle as you should have? In theory, you should have received Microsoft credits to "compensate" the additional cost of the "bundle" compared to the base game (but well, not a refund of the expansion itself) > Night City Wire — in a nutshell Vattier said: The expansion is being developed for PC, Stadia, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X|S*. Coming in 2023. *Important: owners of the Xbox One X - Cyberpunk 2077 Limited Edition Bundle will receive a reimbursement for the expansion in the form of Microsoft Store credits. Please stay tuned for more details about this procedure. Click to expand... If you didn't, you should try to directly contact the support (I don't think there is a dedicated category, but this one should be fine). > "Contact Us" button How do I update my game to the next-gen? — Cyberpunk 2077 | Technical Support — CD PROJEKT RED Welcome to CD PROJEKT RED Technical Support! Here you will find help regarding our games and services, as well as answers to frequently asked questions. support.cdprojektred.com Edit : Oh, my bad... So to summarize, you pre-orderered the expansion in september, thinking you will get Microsoft credits for the Cyberpunk LE anyway (as announced)... But in fact, it wasn't credits, Cyberpunk LE owners "simply" got the expansion for free. Expansion you pre-ordered and paid for well... for nothing So yeah, I have a good idea why you pre-ordered the expansion... I was on Xbox One X when the game was released and switched to Series X since. If I would have bought the bundle instead of the "base game" I would have also pre-ordered the expansion just to be sure playing it at release and well.. would have been in the same situation as you Last edited: Feb 10, 2024 Reactions: vrld47 vrld47 Fresh user #295 Feb 11, 2024 LeKill3rFou said: So to summarize, you pre-orderered the expansion in september, thinking you will get Microsoft credits for the Cyberpunk LE anyway (as announced)... Click to expand... Yep, you got it! Anyway, thanks for the kind conversation. Reactions: LeKill3rFou Netrunner2go Senior user #296 Feb 11, 2024 LeKill3rFou said: But in fact, it wasn't credits, Cyberpunk LE owners "simply" got the expansion for free. Expansion you pre-ordered and paid for well... for nothing Click to expand... I’m not familiar with MS… but how is it even possible to pay/buy smt you already have? For an outsider it looks like poor scam from MS… even more if you can’t refund one of your duplicate versions o.o edit: or did he pre-order before he got the free version?… even than it’s bad customer service… Reactions: vrld47 LeKill3rFou Mentor #297 Feb 11, 2024 Netrunner2go said: I’m not familiar with MS… but how is it even possible to pay/buy smt you already have? For an outsider it looks like poor scam from MS… even more if you can’t refund one of your duplicate versions o.o Click to expand... No you can't in theory, but as far as I understood, he pre-ordered the expansion before CDPR "unlock" it for free for those who bought the bundle on Xbox One X But surprising that MS refuse to refund the pre-order nor CDPR offer a little something Reactions: vrld47 and Netrunner2go Netrunner2go Senior user #298 Feb 11, 2024 LeKill3rFou said: No you can't in theory, but as far as I understood, he pre-ordered the expansion before CDPR "unlock" it for free for those who bought the bundle on Xbox One X Click to expand... Bad luck than but most likely their right to deny a refund in the end - even tho it reflect a poor customer service : / the question is who to blame… MS for denying the refund or CDPR for changing their announcement (credits vs free unlock)… Reactions: vrld47 and LeKill3rFou LeKill3rFou Mentor #299 Feb 11, 2024 Netrunner2go said: Bad luck than but most likely their right to deny a refund in the end - even tho it reflect a poor customer service : / the question is who to blame… MS for denying the refund or CDPR for changing their announcement (credits vs free unlock)… Click to expand... I guess both... But I don't get why MS refuse a refund. I mean, if you bought the bundle at time, you already bought the expansion. Even if it's in form of store credits, you paid the same product twice, no sense... Reactions: vrld47 and Netrunner2go SigilFey Moderator #300 Feb 11, 2024 Netrunner2go said: I’m not familiar with MS… but how is it even possible to pay/buy smt you already have? Click to expand... LeKill3rFou said: ...you paid the same product twice, no sense... Click to expand... It's because they're not the same product on the marketplace.  In order to differentiate between the main game, the expansion, and the main game+expansion (Legendary Edition), the marketplace needs 3 different product codes.  (It can't magically tell one from the other.  I think most systems nowadays recognize if you've purchased an equivalent product, at least.) This is the same for all marketplaces, not just Microsoft. In practice, though, it can be very confusing for users. If I'm understanding things correctly, because the last-gen versions can't support the expansion, that portion of the game+expansion version should be refunded in MS credit. The purchase of the standalone expansion would be seen as a different purchase. Still...due to the nature of the expansion not even being supported on last-gen, I don't see why it should not have offered both the credit for purchasing the LE and a regular refund for purchasing the DLC separately. Something got wires crossed, here. I'm also confused about what was purchased when. @vrld47 , can you explain when you bought which version of the game and which console in chronological order? Reactions: vrld47 Prev 1 … Go to page Go 13 14 15 16 Next First Prev 15 of 16 Go to page Go Next Last Similar threads 1st Anniversary of Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty 20 3K Nov 10, 2024 Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty — out now! 70 17K Nov 1, 2023 Cyberpunk 2077: Ultimate Edition coming Launch Day to Nintendo Switch 2! 32 9K Yesterday at 8:50 AM CYBERPUNK 2077: ULTIMATE EDITION ARRIVES ON DECEMBER 5TH! 78 22K Jan 30, 2024 Just Announced — Cyberpunk 2077: Ultimate Edition Coming to Mac! 71 38K Monday at 10:57 AM Share: Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest Tumblr WhatsApp Email Share Link English English Polski (Polish) Deutsch (German) Русский (Russian) Français (French) Português brasileiro (Brazilian Portuguese) Italiano (Italian) 日本語 (Japanese) Español (Spanish) STAY CONNECTED Contact administration User agreement Privacy Cookie policy Press Center © 2018 CD PROJEKT S.A. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED CD PROJEKT®, Cyberpunk®, Cyberpunk 2077® are registered trademarks of CD PROJEKT S.A. © 2018 CD PROJEKT S.A. All rights reserved. All other copyrights and trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Forum software by XenForo ® © 2010-2020 XenForo Ltd. Top Bottom