Switzerland qualify for 2010 World Cup - SWI swissinfo.ch Jump to home page Jump to navigation Jump to content Skip to search The Swiss voice in the world since 1935 Login Search Close Menu Close Search Search Home About us Democracy International Geneva Foreign Affairs Swiss Politics Science Multinational Companies Culture Life & Aging Swiss Abroad Switzerland: How To Swiss Films / Podcasts / Videos Debates Special reports Opinions Newsletters Search en English de Deutsch fr Français it Italiano es Español pt Português ja 日本語 ar العربية zh 中文 ru Русский Life & Aging Switzerland qualify for 2010 World Cup Keystone The Swiss national football team has qualified for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa after drawing 0-0 with Israel in Basel. This content was published on October 14, 2009 - 21:49 5 minutes Thomas Stephens I write articles on the Swiss Abroad and “Quirky Switzerland” as well as daily/weekly briefings. I also translate, edit and sub-edit articles for the English department and do voiceover work for videos. Born in London, I have a degree in German/Linguistics and was a journalist at The Independent before moving to Bern in 2005. I speak all three official Swiss languages and enjoy travelling the country and practising them, above all in pubs, restaurants and gelaterias. More from this author English Department Switzerland thus finished at the top of their group on 21 points, ahead of Greece on 20, and will play in their fourth consecutive major tournament. The maths on Wednesday night was easy and the sell-out crowd in St Jakob’s Park stadium knew it: Switzerland were going into the match with a three point advantage over nearest rivals Greece, who kicked off against Luxembourg in Athens at the same time. Assuming the Greeks would win – in the end they did 2-1 – the Swiss knew a draw would be enough to guarantee them a place among 31 other teams in South Africa in June and July. But Switzerland, currently 15th in Fifa’s world rankings, were lacking three main players – goalkeeper Diego Benaglio, striker and captain Alex Frei and midfielder Benjamin Huggel all picked up a bug in Luxembourg at the weekend – and Ottmar Hitzfeld’s men started the match nervily. The former Bayern Munich trainer gave Benaglio every chance to recover and maintain a 100 per cent appearance record in the ten-match qualifying campaign, but it wasn’t to be. Marco Wölfli wore the gloves for Switzerland and his first action was almost pulling the ball out of his net, when Baram Kayal’s shot crept just wide of the far post in the 11th minute. Israel, 22nd in the Fifa rankings, were playing to win, knowing that if – admittedly a big if – the Greeks lost to Luxembourg, three points in Basel would be enough for a back-door qualification via play-offs. Switzerland’s best chance of the unconvincing first half came a few minutes later, when Barnetta’s mid-range freekick missed the upright by centimetres. Top draw The first half ended 0-0 – enough for South Africa. But Swiss players and fans were aware they were just one Israeli goal away from the play-offs. The Swiss began the second half with more purpose and were rewarded for the increased pressure when Israel lost a man in the 58th minute for a second yellow card. Down to ten men, Israel struggled to impose themselves on the match and the Swiss had their tails up. In the 63rd minute Derdiyok missed the chance of the match for Switzerland. Unmarked on the penalty spot, he completely scuffed his header from a cross. Unless Switzerland can improve their finishing, they can give up any hopes of a deep run at the World Cup. The hosts remained the less bad team until the final whistle – although the odd Israeli break kept the tension high – but it was mission accomplished: they were on their way to South Africa. This achievement was by no means a given after an appalling start to the campaign, which involved a draw in Israel and a pitiful defeat by Luxembourg. Switzerland’s final balance is six wins, three draws and one loss. Pitch invasion? Off the pitch, Basel police had stepped up search controls on the expected 400 Israeli fans, hoping to avoid a repeat of when Israel played in Basel in 2005 and placard-waving political activists ran onto the pitch, resulting in Fifa giving the Swiss Football Association a SFr50,000 ($49,200) fine. The concerns were that Switzerland was “on parole” in Fifa’s eyes and a similar performance could end in disqualification from South Africa. As it turned out, the fans stayed off the pitch – it’s just a shame they couldn’t celebrate an admirable overall achievement with a more convincing result on the night. Thomas Stephens, swissinfo.ch Key facts Switzerland: Wölfli – Lichtsteiner, Grichting, Senderos, Spycher (capt) – Padalino, Inler, Fernandes, Barnetta – Nkufo, Derdiyok (Frei 71). Trainer: Ottmar Hitzfeld Israel: Aouate – Saban, Ben-Haïm, Strul, Ziv – Kayal, Cohen, Yadin, Benayoun (capt) – Colautti (Shechter 69), Barda (Vermuth 85). Trainer: Dror Kashtan In brief Switzerland’s results: 06/09/08 drew with Israel 2-2 (away) 10/09/08 lost to Luxembourg 2-1 (home) 11/10/08 beat Latvia 2-1 (home) 15/10/08 beat Greece 2-1 (away) 28/03/09 beat Moldova 2-0 (away) 01/04/09 beat Moldova 2-0 (home) 05/09/09 beat Greece 2-0 (home) 09/09/09 drew with Latvia 2-2 (away) 10/10/09 beat Luxembourg 3-0 (away) 14/10/09 drew with Greece 0-0 (home) Who qualifies? 32 teams will play in the 2010 World Cup, sorted by geographical proportional representation: 13 from Europe, six from Africa, 4.5 from Asia, 4.5 from South America, 3.5 from North, Central America and Caribbean and 0.5 from Oceania. (The half teams have to face each other in play-offs.) The 13 places allotted to Europe have been fought over by 53 teams – divided into nine groups – for more than a year. The nine group winners qualify automatically and the remaining four places will go to the winners of play-offs – featuring the eight best runners-up – played over two legs on November 14 and 18. The draw for these matches will be held on October 19. Swiss World Cup history 1934 (Italy/quarterfinal/trainer Heinrich Müller) 1938 (France/ quarterfinal /Karl Rappan) 1950 (Brazil/first round/Franco Andreoli) 1954 (Switzerland/ quarterfinal /Rappan) 1962 (Chile/ first round /Rappan) 1966 (England/ first round /Alfredo Foni) 1994 (United States/last 16/Roy Hodgson) 2006 (Germany/last 16/Köbi Kuhn) 2010 (South Africa/ ? /Ottmar Hitzfeld) Popular Stories More Life & Aging Zurich: how the world capital of housing shortages is tackling the problem Read more: Zurich: how the world capital of housing shortages is tackling the problem More Alpine Environment The Swiss Alps ski village that is luring nervous Americans Read more: The Swiss Alps ski village that is luring nervous Americans More Swiss Abroad The Böögg, Switzerland’s exploding psychic snowman Read more: The Böögg, Switzerland’s exploding psychic snowman More Swiss Abroad Switzerland Today Read more: Switzerland Today More Banking & Fintech Swiss franc surge sparks bets on negative interest rates Read more: Swiss franc surge sparks bets on negative interest rates Most Discussed Next Previous More Debate Hosted by: Pauline Turuban Did you immigrate to Switzerland? What are your experiences? What were the circumstances of your immigration to Switzerland? And what motivated your decision to stay or leave? Join the discussion Apr 1, 2025 7 Likes 26 Comments View the discussion More Debate Hosted by: Marc Leutenegger What are your experiences with housing shortages and rising property prices? Switzerland is steering towards a housing crisis. Are there solutions? Join the discussion Apr 25, 2025 1 Comments View the discussion More Debate Hosted by: Aylin Elçi How are mental illnesses treated in your country? In Switzerland more people are being referred to electrical therapies or psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy. Are there similar approaches where you live? Join the discussion Apr 23, 2025 1 Comments View the discussion More Debates In compliance with the JTI standards More: SWI swissinfo.ch certified by the Journalism Trust Initiative You can find an overview of ongoing debates with our journalists here . Please join us! If you want to start a conversation about a topic raised in this article or want to report factual errors, email us at english@swissinfo.ch . Read more Next Previous More Swiss close in on World Cup with football win This content was published on Oct 10, 2009 The victory helps the Swiss lay the ghost of a humiliating 1-2 defeat to the even smaller nation last year and further bolsters their position as point-leaders in their World Cup qualifying group. The Swiss had hoped to earn a slot for the 2010 tournament as early as a few hours after the win before… Read more: Swiss close in on World Cup with football win More Switzerland held to 2-2 draw with Latvia This content was published on Sep 9, 2009 The draw in the Latvian capital, Riga, means the Swiss retain their lead in the six-team group. The tie keeps Switzerland top of Group 2 with 17 points from eight games, Greece and Latvia each trail with 14 and Israel have 12. Only one team goes through automatically. In the same group Israel pounded Luxembourg… Read more: Switzerland held to 2-2 draw with Latvia More Swiss ease World Cup worries This content was published on Apr 1, 2009 Wednesday’s efficient if uninspiring performance in Geneva means Switzerland and Greece both have 13 points after six of ten games. However, the Greeks, who beat Israel 2-1 on Wednesday, lead Group 2 on superior goal difference. After a poor start to their World Cup campaign – which included a jaw-dropping loss to Luxembourg – Switzerland… Read more: Swiss ease World Cup worries More Highs and lows This content was published on Oct 14, 2009 Victories, defeats and scandals – a look back at the history of the Swiss national football team. Read more: Highs and lows Follow us Stay informed daily about news in Switzerland with our Briefing in the SWI plus app for the Swiss abroad. Imprint Data Privacy Statement Terms of Use Rights to content and liability Jobs Play SWI About us Annual Report 2024 Newsletters Podcasts Contact SWI swissinfo.ch - a branch of Swiss Broadcasting Corporation SRG SSR RTS SRF RSI RTR SWI swissinfo.ch - a branch of Swiss Broadcasting Corporation SRG SSR