Serena Williams loses U.S. Open to Bianca Andreescu, a 19-year-old Canadian IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content NBC News Logo Trump admin Politics U.S. News Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut World Business Editors' picks Shopping Tipline Sports Health Science Culture & Trends Share & Save — My News Manage Profile Email Preferences Sign Out Search Search Profile My News Sign Out Sign In Create your free profile Sections U.S. News Decision 2024 Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech & Media Weather Video Features Photos NBC Select NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News MSNBC Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now More From NBC CNBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Print Whatsapp Reddit Pocket Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Trump admin Politics U.S. News World Business Editors' picks Shopping Tipline Sports Health Science Culture & Trends Sports Serena Williams loses U.S. Open to Bianca Andreescu, a 19-year-old Canadian If Williams had won, she would have tied for the most Grand Slam singles titles ever. Bianca Andreescu of Canada reacts during her Women's Singles final match against against Serena Williams of the United States during the US Open on Sept. 7, 2019 in the Queens, N.Y. Elsa / Getty Images / Updated By Minyvonne Burke Serena Williams lost to Canadian tennis player Bianca Andreescu in the U.S. Open final, missing her chance to tie for the most Grand Slam singles title wins ever. The 19-year-old Andreescu beat the 37-year-old Williams 6-3, 7-5. It is the first Grand Slam title for a Canadian player and the first singles title win ever for a woman making her debut at the U.S. Open, according to the U.S. Open. O Canada 🇨🇦 Bianca Andreescu becomes the first Canadian to win a Grand Slam singles title. #USOpen | #WomenWorthWatching pic.twitter.com/naCBhTSaAL — US Open Tennis (@usopen) September 7, 2019 Among those who watched the match at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in Queens, New York, was Williams' close friend, the former Meghan Markle, the Duchess of Sussex, sister Venus Williams, filmmaker Spike Lee and Vogue editor-in-chief Anna Wintour. It was the fourth straight loss for Williams since returning from childbirth in 2017. She played some of her best tennis in the first set after being broken in the opening game, reported NBC Sports . She unraveled in the second before battling back from 1-5 down. The Arthur Ashe Stadium crowd, more than 20,000, became so loud that Andreescu covered her ears. Williams first made her U.S. Open debut in 1998 when she was 16, making it to the third round, according to the U.S. Open . She won her first Grand Slam title a year later when she beat Martina Hingis. Williams lost last year's finals to Naomi Osaka and was embroiled in controversy when she got into several confrontations with chair umpire Carlos Ramos. During the game, Ramos issued three penalties against the athlete for allegedly receiving coaching, smashing her tennis racket and for verbal abuse when she called Ramos a "thief" and accused him of stealing a point from her. In an essay for Harper's Bazaar in July , Williams — who gave birth to her daughter, Alexis Olympia Ohanian Jr, a year before the 2018 U.S. Open finals — said she felt "defeated and disrespected" by Ramos and thought it took a "triumphant moment" away from Osaka. Minyvonne Burke Minyvonne Burke is a senior breaking news reporter for NBC News. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service (Updated JULY 7, 2023) NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Advertise Select Shopping © 2025 NBCUniversal Media, LLC NBC News Logo MSNBC Logo Today Logo