Marvel's Spider-Man Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Marvel's Spider-Man Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Interactive Maps Marvel's Spider-Man 2 Characters Missions Suits Trophies Games Marvel's Spider-Man The City That Never Sleeps Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales Marvel's Spider-Man 2 Contents Overview Gameplay Missions Suits Trophies Characters Peter Parker Miles Morales Mary Jane Watson Yuri Watanabe Otto Octavius Martin Li Norman Osborn Felicia Hardy Organizations Inner Demons Oscorp Roxxon Sable International Sinister Six Underground Locations New York City F.E.A.S.T. Octavius Industries The Raft Landmarks Gadgets Web Shooter Impact Web Spider-Drone Electric Web Web Bomb Trip Mine Concussive Blast Suspension Matrix Lore Devil's Breath Community Administrators Forum Discord server Bulletin board Policies and guidelines Policies and guidelines Verifiability policy Notability policy Manual of Style Moderation policy Image policy Wiki editor tools Recent Changes All logs All pages Create article Upload file Upload multiple files Maintenance Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Marvel's Spider-Man Wiki 443 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Interactive Maps Marvel's Spider-Man 2 Characters Missions Suits Trophies Games Marvel's Spider-Man The City That Never Sleeps Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales Marvel's Spider-Man 2 Contents Overview Gameplay Missions Suits Trophies Characters Peter Parker Miles Morales Mary Jane Watson Yuri Watanabe Otto Octavius Martin Li Norman Osborn Felicia Hardy Organizations Inner Demons Oscorp Roxxon Sable International Sinister Six Underground Locations New York City F.E.A.S.T. Octavius Industries The Raft Landmarks Gadgets Web Shooter Impact Web Spider-Drone Electric Web Web Bomb Trip Mine Concussive Blast Suspension Matrix Lore Devil's Breath Community Administrators Forum Discord server Bulletin board Policies and guidelines Policies and guidelines Verifiability policy Notability policy Manual of Style Moderation policy Image policy Wiki editor tools Recent Changes All logs All pages Create article Upload file Upload multiple files Maintenance Home View source History Purge Talk (0) This wiki currently has 443 articles and 1,566 pictures . Warning: the wiki contains unmarked spoilers . About Marvel's Spider-Man Wiki is a comprehensive database focusing on the Marvel's Spider-Man video game series developed by Insomniac Games , and released on PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 and PC. The wiki is a collaborative community that anyone can edit , dedicated to collecting all information related to the franchise, such as the storyline, gameplay, characters, locations, and more! See here for more details Contents Games Characters Organizations Locations Enemies Suits Gadgets Missions Highlighted article Peter Parker , who adopts the secret identity Spider-Man , is the main playable character and protagonist of Marvel's Spider-Man . He is a twenty-four-year-old former research assistant from New York City who fights crime under his alias, using his spider-like superhuman abilities and web gadgets of his own design. Peter gained his powers after being bitten by a radioactive spider at the age of fifteen. Employing a secret identity, he settled on using his newfound abilities to protect the citizens of New York as the masked vigilante Spider-Man. Eight years into his superhero career, Peter has become an experienced and masterful crime fighter, but struggles to balance his superhero and personal lives. Spider-Man is aided in his crime-fighting by intrepid Daily Bugle reporter Mary Jane Watson , his ex-girlfriend, and NYPD Captain Yuri Watanabe . In his civilian life, Peter is supported by his Aunt May , and is employed by his friend and mentor, the respected scientist Dr. Otto Octavius . More about Peter Parker Did you know... ...that Marvel's Spider-Man exists in its own universe (and is not connected to the Marvel Cinematic Universe )? ...that suits have to be crafted in-game and are also shown in cutscenes? ...that the Velocity Suit is one of the pre-made suit designs shown when Spider-Man is making his new suit in the movie Spider-Man: Far From Home ? News Marvel's Spider-Man 2 is out now on PlayStation 5! Twitter feed Twitter How to help Not sure where to start? If you are new to wikis, check out the tutorial . Know how to edit? Consult our Manual of Style and policies and guidelines to better see article standards. Helping out If you want to help but you're not sure where to start, try improving the various stub articles by expanding them. Uploading game screenshots is another way to help out. Check for pages in need of images . Don't forget to add categories and a description! Check the list of wanted pages for frequently linked-to articles that don't exist yet. Clean up articles that are in need of attention. Fix maintenance reports . Affiliates The Marvel's Spider-Man Wiki is affiliated with the following wikis: Categories Category : Marvel's Spider-Man Wiki Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Marvel's Spider-Man Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab