Nintendo unveils new Switch 2 launch date, price and more | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES World Food Program and other UN aid agencies slash jobs amid US funding cuts, officials say Canada's Liberals celebrate a stunning win and the populist challenger loses his seat What is a conclave? What to know about the secretive process to elect the next pope Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Layoffs, closures and gaps in oversight expected after hundreds of DOJ grants are canceled Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Police say driver likely did not target after-school camp in crash that killed 3 kids and 1 teen Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES World Food Program and other UN aid agencies slash jobs amid US funding cuts, officials say Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Trump marks his first 100 days in office with a rally in Michigan, a state rocked by his tariffs Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Shedeur Sanders was not the only prospect to receive a prank call during the NFL draft George Kittle agrees to an extension with the 49ers that makes him the highest-paid tight end ever Is the punishment for cursing in F1 too harsh? Racing boss hints at changes after driver backlash Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Summer Movie Guide 2025: Here’s what’s coming to theaters and streaming from May to August After 'The Idol,' Abel Tesfaye's new movie 'Hurry Up Tomorrow' brought 'joy back into filmmaking' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plunges to lowest in 5 years on tariff worries 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport A bear is spotted in Connecticut playing on family's backyard slide Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Power outages across Spain and Portugal affected millions. How to prepare for a major blackout Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Celebrate Cinco de Mayo with crisp-fried shrimp tacos Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: South Africa speaks at UN court hearing on Israel's blockade of Gaza Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES España y Portugal se centran en la causa del gran apagón con la electricidad casi restablecida Carney gana las elecciones en Canadá, mientras que el líder conservador pierde su escaño El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa Rusia anuncia alto el fuego de 72 horas en Ucrania para próxima semana para conmemorar derrota nazi Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo con un mitin en Michigan Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES World Food Program and other UN aid agencies slash jobs amid US funding cuts, officials say Canada's Liberals celebrate a stunning win and the populist challenger loses his seat What is a conclave? What to know about the secretive process to elect the next pope Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Layoffs, closures and gaps in oversight expected after hundreds of DOJ grants are canceled Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Police say driver likely did not target after-school camp in crash that killed 3 kids and 1 teen Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES World Food Program and other UN aid agencies slash jobs amid US funding cuts, officials say Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Trump marks his first 100 days in office with a rally in Michigan, a state rocked by his tariffs Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Shedeur Sanders was not the only prospect to receive a prank call during the NFL draft George Kittle agrees to an extension with the 49ers that makes him the highest-paid tight end ever Is the punishment for cursing in F1 too harsh? Racing boss hints at changes after driver backlash Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Summer Movie Guide 2025: Here’s what’s coming to theaters and streaming from May to August After 'The Idol,' Abel Tesfaye's new movie 'Hurry Up Tomorrow' brought 'joy back into filmmaking' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plunges to lowest in 5 years on tariff worries 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport A bear is spotted in Connecticut playing on family's backyard slide Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Power outages across Spain and Portugal affected millions. How to prepare for a major blackout Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Celebrate Cinco de Mayo with crisp-fried shrimp tacos Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: South Africa speaks at UN court hearing on Israel's blockade of Gaza Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES España y Portugal se centran en la causa del gran apagón con la electricidad casi restablecida Carney gana las elecciones en Canadá, mientras que el líder conservador pierde su escaño El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa Rusia anuncia alto el fuego de 72 horas en Ucrania para próxima semana para conmemorar derrota nazi Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo con un mitin en Michigan Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES World Food Program and other UN aid agencies slash jobs amid US funding cuts, officials say Canada's Liberals celebrate a stunning win and the populist challenger loses his seat What is a conclave? What to know about the secretive process to elect the next pope Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Layoffs, closures and gaps in oversight expected after hundreds of DOJ grants are canceled Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Police say driver likely did not target after-school camp in crash that killed 3 kids and 1 teen Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES World Food Program and other UN aid agencies slash jobs amid US funding cuts, officials say Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Trump marks his first 100 days in office with a rally in Michigan, a state rocked by his tariffs Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Shedeur Sanders was not the only prospect to receive a prank call during the NFL draft George Kittle agrees to an extension with the 49ers that makes him the highest-paid tight end ever Is the punishment for cursing in F1 too harsh? Racing boss hints at changes after driver backlash Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Summer Movie Guide 2025: Here’s what’s coming to theaters and streaming from May to August After 'The Idol,' Abel Tesfaye's new movie 'Hurry Up Tomorrow' brought 'joy back into filmmaking' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plunges to lowest in 5 years on tariff worries 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport A bear is spotted in Connecticut playing on family's backyard slide Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Power outages across Spain and Portugal affected millions. How to prepare for a major blackout Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Celebrate Cinco de Mayo with crisp-fried shrimp tacos Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: South Africa speaks at UN court hearing on Israel's blockade of Gaza Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES España y Portugal se centran en la causa del gran apagón con la electricidad casi restablecida Carney gana las elecciones en Canadá, mientras que el líder conservador pierde su escaño El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa Rusia anuncia alto el fuego de 72 horas en Ucrania para próxima semana para conmemorar derrota nazi Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo con un mitin en Michigan Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES World Food Program and other UN aid agencies slash jobs amid US funding cuts, officials say Canada's Liberals celebrate a stunning win and the populist challenger loses his seat What is a conclave? What to know about the secretive process to elect the next pope Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Layoffs, closures and gaps in oversight expected after hundreds of DOJ grants are canceled Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Police say driver likely did not target after-school camp in crash that killed 3 kids and 1 teen Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES World Food Program and other UN aid agencies slash jobs amid US funding cuts, officials say Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Trump marks his first 100 days in office with a rally in Michigan, a state rocked by his tariffs Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Shedeur Sanders was not the only prospect to receive a prank call during the NFL draft George Kittle agrees to an extension with the 49ers that makes him the highest-paid tight end ever Is the punishment for cursing in F1 too harsh? Racing boss hints at changes after driver backlash Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Summer Movie Guide 2025: Here’s what’s coming to theaters and streaming from May to August After 'The Idol,' Abel Tesfaye's new movie 'Hurry Up Tomorrow' brought 'joy back into filmmaking' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plunges to lowest in 5 years on tariff worries 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport A bear is spotted in Connecticut playing on family's backyard slide Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Power outages across Spain and Portugal affected millions. How to prepare for a major blackout Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Celebrate Cinco de Mayo with crisp-fried shrimp tacos Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: South Africa speaks at UN court hearing on Israel's blockade of Gaza Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES España y Portugal se centran en la causa del gran apagón con la electricidad casi restablecida Carney gana las elecciones en Canadá, mientras que el líder conservador pierde su escaño El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa Rusia anuncia alto el fuego de 72 horas en Ucrania para próxima semana para conmemorar derrota nazi Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo con un mitin en Michigan Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Technology Nintendo Switch 2 launches in June with new Mario Kart World game Nintendo Switch 2 launches in June with new Mario Kart World game 1 of 2 | Nintendo’s Switch 2 is bigger and better than its predecessor of eight years. The video game developer is pushing to bring its brand into “a new era” where social experiences are at the forefront. It will hit the market June 5 at a price of $449.99. Read More 2 of 2 | A man walks by a Nintendo Switch display at an electronics retail chain store in Tokyo, on Oct. 13, 2021. (AP Photo/Koji Sasahara, File) Read More By RYAN KRYSKA Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit NEW YORK (AP) — Nintendo has announced a June 5 launch date and $449.99 price tag for its latest gaming console, the Switch 2, which will introduce interactive chat and screenshare functions to connect gamers. In its 60-minute Nintendo Direct presentation on Wednesday, the company revealed a more vibrant display on the Switch 2, a larger screen and several games that will launch with the console. Central to its updated system is a new “C” button on its Joy-Con controller, which will launch a “GameChat” feature that requires a subscription to Nintendo’s Switch online service. It allows players to “communicate with friends and family while playing a game,” and lets them share their game screen with others. A built-in microphone will also allow chatting with other gamers. “When you think about some of the biggest titles on (the Nintendo Switch), it’s like Mario Kart, Super Mario Jamboree, even though that’s quite a new title, has cracked the top 10 of most played games on the console. So, it does make a lot of sense that the sort of headline feature is geared primarily towards that sort of use,” said Hannah Cowton-Barnes, a London-based video game industry expert for Tech Advisor. Perhaps the most contemporary function yet for the Switch 2 is the ability to use the Joy-Con controllers like a computer mouse. The developer displayed multiple ways to use the new function, such as angling a club in a golf game. The new portable console features a 7.9 inch LCD screen that displays in 1080p. Nintendo also revealed in the live stream that, when docked, the system will be able to support 4K resolution for compatible games. The presentation started with an extended look at Mario Kart World — the console’s launch bundle game — which adds a bit of flair to the series with a knockout game mode and the ability to grind on rails skateboard-style while racing. The developer also unveiled a new James Bond game, dubbed Project 007, again revisiting the classic Nintendo 64 console hit revered by many first-person shooter fans. Nintendo also announced two more Switch 2 exclusives featuring its marquee characters. Donkey Kong Bananza, a 3D adventure with the big ape punching his way through a huge underground world, arrives July 17. Kirby Air Riders, a racing game from the director of the Super Smash Bros. series, is due later in the year. Third-party exclusives likely to create some buzz include Koei-Tecmo’s Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment, a hack-and-slash prequel to The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, coming this winter. From Software’s The Duskbloods, a baroque multiplayer title from the creators of Elden Ring, is scheduled for 2026. Miss the GameCube? Nintendo said Switch Online subscribers will be able to access a limited selection of GameCube titles such as The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker and F-Zero GX. The new console will be backwards compatible — able to play physical and digital Switch games — but users will need to purchase a microSD express memory card for the Switch 2. The presentation revealed that normal microSD cards will not be compatible with the system. However, data from the original Switch can be transferred to the new console. The Switch 2’s launch price is significantly higher than the original Switch’s $299 price tag. A separate bundle that includes the new Mario Kart game will also be available for $499.99. The Trump administration’s tariffs have hit the video game console industry at a fragile moment, said Joost van Dreunen, author of “One Up: Creativity, Competition, and the Global Business of Video Games.” “At the beginning of a new hardware cycle, all of a sudden we’re looking at this price hike,” said van Dreunen, a games industry researcher. “I had originally predicted that the Switch 2 would be $400. Now it’s announced that it’s $450. That $50 difference is a Trump tax.” The tariffs, he said, impact games hardware because console devices are manufactured and shipped from China and that region at large. The early stages of a hardware life cycle are already very low margin, or usually a loss for hardware manufacturers, van Dreunen said. Those manufacturers typically eat the margin in order to get the devices out to stores. “But with an increased tariff, that means that margin is probably even worse than it historically is. But their hands are kind of tied. They can’t not progress. They can’t not launch a new hardware generation. So for the consumer base, people are just going to pay more.” Nintendo plans to host “Switch 2 Experience” events in several countries, where gamers can get a hands-on experience with the new system. Those events are planned for cities such as Los Angeles, New York, London and Paris beginning this month. ___ Associated Press reporters Sarah Parvini in Los Angeles and Lou Kesten in Washington contributed to this report. Most read Trump says Columbus Day will now just be Columbus Day Carney wins Canadian election, while Conservative leader loses his seat in Parliament Massive power outage in Spain and Portugal leaves thousands stranded and millions without light The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook