Cedar Point Wins National Award for Social Responsibility - The BayNet Join Now Join Now Join Now Enjoy Ad-Free Reading with The BayNet Memberships Tired of ads interrupting your news reading? Sign up with our limited time introductory price of $4.99 and enjoy ad-free articles, a daily newsletter and the daily newscast. Stay informed without distractions. Join today by clicking below! Learn More Close Members Sign In Search for: Search Home News Open dropdown menu News St. Mary’s Calvert Charles Prince George Anne Arundel Maryland Crime & Courts First Responders Traffic Cams My Town Open dropdown menu Community Open dropdown menu Community Opinions Economy & Business Nightlife Open dropdown menu Arts & Theatre Podcasts Community Home & Garden Health & Wellness Events Government & Politics Open dropdown menu Government & Politics Defense & Military Elections Sports Open dropdown menu Sports Local Sports Outdoors Obituaries About Us Open dropdown menu About The BayNet Contact Us Submit a Tip Submit an Article Submit a Commercial Article My Account / Login Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube Home News News St. Mary’s Calvert Charles Prince George Anne Arundel Maryland Crime & Courts First Responders Traffic Cams My Town Community Community Opinions Economy & Business Nightlife Arts & Theatre Podcasts Community Home & Garden Health & Wellness Events Government & Politics Government & Politics Defense & Military Elections Sports Sports Local Sports Outdoors Obituaries About Us About The BayNet Contact Us Submit a Tip Submit an Article Submit a Commercial Article My Account / Login Traffic Cams Lottery Events Calendar Weather Close Home News News St. Mary’s Calvert Charles Prince George Anne Arundel Maryland Crime & Courts First Responders Traffic Cams My Town Community Community Opinions Economy & Business Nightlife Arts & Theatre Podcasts Community Home & Garden Health & Wellness Events Government & Politics Government & Politics Defense & Military Elections Sports Sports Local Sports Outdoors Obituaries About Us About The BayNet Contact Us Submit a Tip Submit an Article Submit a Commercial Article My Account / Login Traffic Cams Lottery Events Calendar Weather Skip to content Menu Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube The BayNet Online News & Entertainment Members Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Members Menu Sign In Home News Open dropdown menu News St. Mary’s Calvert Charles Prince George Anne Arundel Maryland Crime & Courts First Responders Traffic Cams My Town Open dropdown menu Community Open dropdown menu Community Opinions Economy & Business Nightlife Open dropdown menu Arts & Theatre Podcasts Community Home & Garden Health & Wellness Events Government & Politics Open dropdown menu Government & Politics Defense & Military Elections Sports Open dropdown menu Sports Local Sports Outdoors Obituaries About Us Open dropdown menu About The BayNet Contact Us Submit a Tip Submit an Article Submit a Commercial Article My Account / Login Home » Cedar Point Wins National Award for Social Responsibility Posted in My Town Cedar Point Wins National Award for Social Responsibility by Cedar Point Federal Credit Union June 5, 2019 Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Learn More Learn More On June 3, 2019, Cedar Point was honored to be presented with the prestigious Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Community Service Award from the Credit Union National Association (CUNA) and the MDDC Credit Union Association. Winning first place in the state of Maryland, the local credit union will now move into consideration at the national level. “All credit unions focus on their communities,” says CEO Charles Roach. “And all credit unions face the challenge of how to do that best and how to really own it. At Cedar Point, we believe in building meaningful partnerships in our communities.” Whether that is through making a financial commitment or making a commitment to simply being present, Cedar Point has made a monumental effort to get out and support the community in the past two years. Since 2017, Cedar Point has helped rebuild homes with Christmas in April, helped with Earth Day revitalization, gathered and delivered supplies to hurricane victims, delivered nearly 1000 winter coats to local missions and spent time with members of the special needs community through their partnership with SMCR. “And those are just the things we’ve done together as a team,” says Marketing Manager Kristin Kauffman. “In just the first five months of 2019, our employees have dedicated over 586 hours of their personal time to community projects. I think that CUNA really sees our efforts as representing the values of the credit union movement.” The Dora Maxwell award was given to recognize the volunteer service that the credit union’s employees have worked so hard to make happen. “This award would not have been possible without our tireless employees,” says Roach. “Their creativity and dedication inspires our management team and we have the deepest respect for each of them.” Related Tagged: breaking news , classifieds , events , jobs , new , real estate , southern maryland news , what is happening LATEST NEWS Man Arrested Following Armed Gun Store Robbery; Five Firearms Recovered Officers, Aviation Crew Rescue Missing 8-Year-Old From Frigid Waters In Upper Marlboro [VIDEO] Battle Of The Bands: Chopticon And Great Mills Launch Mattress Fundraiser May 4 New Hearing Scheduled For Proposed Dunkin’ Donuts Drive-Thru In Waldorf Solomons Maritime Festival Set For May 3: Free Admission, Cruises, And Activities For All Ages Trending Stories Multi-Vehicle Crash In Leonardtown Sends One To Hospital St. Mary’s County Schools Plan Major Redistricting Effort Amid Budget Shortfalls Calvert County Sheriff’s Office Weekly Crime Blotter Timeline For St. Mary's School Boundary Changes and Closures Under Discussion Charges Dismissed Against Mechanicsville Man Following Amazon Delivery Incident About TheBayNet.com Serving as the “#1 News Source for all of Southern Maryland,” TheBayNet.com is the place to go for all of your local news and entertainment! All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Learn More » Quick Links News My Town Crime & Courts First Responders Economy & Business Weather Traffic Cams Lottery Events Calendar Weather Local News St. Mary’s County News Charles County News Calvert County News Anne Arundel County News Prince George’s County News More About Us Contact Us Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Disclaimer Archives Business Directory © 2025 Southern Maryland News & Entertainment Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube Sign in Close Sign in with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email. Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Read our legal disclaimers here . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.