Facebook acquires Instagram for $1 billion - Apr. 9, 2012 Companies Markets Tech Billy companies News Economy Your Money, Your America Davos markets premarkets dow 30 After-Hours market movers fear & greed world markets investing markets now before the bell romans' numeral Quest's Profitable Moment tech Pacific Work Transformed Living in the Future Innovate Our Driverless Future Tech Business Culture Future Startups personal finance Money Essentials New Rules for Retirement Money Moves Calculators Finance Center Billy Jean Success Boss Files Fresh Money Entrepreneurs My American Success Story More... SURGE Newsletters Alerts: Sign up/Manage Interactives Contact Us Closed Captioning Follow us: Search News Symbol Matches Symbol Starts With Company Matches U.S. International Switzerland comments Facebook acquires Instagram for $1 billion By Laurie Segall @CNNMoneyTech April 9, 2012: 3:19 PM ET NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- Facebook has agreed to buy photo sharing network Instagram for $1 billion in a combination of cash and stock, the company announced Monday. It's Facebook's biggest acquisition ever, in both price and reach. With around 30 million active users, Instagram has the largest audience of any startup Facebook has purchased, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a blog post. Print Comment "We don't plan on doing many more of these, if any at all," Zuckerberg wrote . "But providing the best photo sharing experience is one reason why so many people love Facebook and we knew it would be worth bringing these two companies together." Founded in 2010 by Mike Krieger and Kevin Systrom, Instagram has just a handful of employees supporting its wildly popular photo app, which lets users add distinctive filters and visual flair to photos they've snapped on their smartphones. The long-awaited Android version, released last week, racked up more than 1 million downloads in just 12 hours. The launch also met a backlash from iPhone users, who enjoyed having an exclusive hold on the stylish service. Just one month ago, Instagram's creators claimed they had no interest in selling. "We're pretty focused on remaining an independent company right now," Instagram cofounder Systrom told CNNMoney at South by Southwest, where the company delivered a talk on its wild growth. 0:00 / 1:22 Instagram wanted to stay independent Even some of Instagram's investors were startled by the takeover. Late last week, Instagram closed a $50 million financing round that valued the company at $500 million, according to a source involved in the deal. Those investors essentially doubled their money, instantly. Facebook likes to scoop up hot startups, kill their products, and redeploy their staff on other projects. That's definitely not the plan for Instagram, all the players insist. "It's important to be clear that Instagram is not going away," Instagram's founders wrote on their company blog. "We'll continue to add new features to the product and find new ways to create a better mobile photos experience." Zuckerberg pressed the point. "We're committed to building and growing Instagram independently," the CEO said. "Millions of people around the world love the Instagram app and the brand associated with it, and our goal is to help spread this app and brand to even more people." Facebook, which is in the process of going public , ended 2011 with a cash stash just shy of $4 billion. It's paying steep price for a startup that has lots of buzz but no business model. Here's a fun comparison: Yahoo ( YHOO , Fortune 500 ) paid just $35 million seven years ago for Flickr, which remains one of the Web's most popular photo networks. Instagram is a free app and doesn't charge for any of its services. The company's founders insisted that would come in time, once they'd built a sizeable user base. Instagram was their second stab at a product. Before "pivoting" to create the wildly popular photo sharing app , the crew was working on a check-in service called Burbn. "I remember what I'll call 'pivot day.' We sat down and said 'what are we going to work on next? How are we going to evolve this product into something millions of people will want to use?'" Systrom said last year. "What is the one thing that makes this product unique and interesting?" The answer they hit on was "photo sharing," and the result was Instagram. First Published: April 9, 2012: 1:34 PM ET Related Articles Did Facebook panic? The startup that died so Instagram could live iPhone snobbery greets Instagram's Android app Facebook's stunning growth - and billionaires Most Popular What we want Apple to unveil at WWDC Millennials squeezed out of buying a home 7 traits the rich have in common Big Data knows you're sick, tired and depressed Your car is a giant computer - and it can be hacked Tech Blogs APPLE 2.0 Did Apple save Dr. Dre and Jimmy Iovine just in time? TECH TUMBLR ENTERPRISE How to make good TV for the web, according to Amazon Tech Jobs Graphic Designer jobs Project Management jobs Engineering jobs Technical Writer jobs Software jobs Product Management jobs See all jobs Hot List Washington celebrates first pot-legal 4/20 The high cost of autism Live texting your surgery 15 of the chunkiest cars on the road Live in a glass-walled home Contact Us Closed Captioning Manage Cookies+ Site Map > Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: Â© 2018 				Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2018. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Â© S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2018 				and/or its affiliates. © 2021 				Cable News Network. A WarnerMedia Company. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you. Privacy Policy. Do Not Sell