Masters 2021 Final Round: Hideki Matsuyama becomes first Japanese man to win golf major; Scores, Videos, Highlights Sport dropDown Watch TV News Sport Lifestyle Travel Entertainment Product Reviews openNew Stan openNew Domain openNew Drive openNew 2GB Search user Login Nine’s Wide World of Sports Show Menu Advertisement leftChevron rightChevron dropDown Sports All sports Cricket AFL NRL Rugby Football Golf tick Motorsport Netball Tennis Golf Masters Tournament Golf PGA Championship Golf U.S. Open Golf Masters Tournament Golf PGA Championship Golf U.S. Open Golf The Open Championship Golf Fortinet Australian PGA Championship Golf ISPS Handa Australian Open Golf Masters Tournament Golf PGA Championship Golf U.S. Open Golf The Open Championship Golf Fortinet Australian PGA Championship Golf ISPS Handa Australian Open Golf Masters Tournament Golf PGA Championship Golf U.S. Open Golf The Open Championship Golf Masters Tournament Golf PGA Championship Golf U.S. Open Golf The Open Championship Golf Abu Dhabi Championship Sport Golf This was published 4 years ago Masters 2021: Hideki Matsuyama becomes first Japanese man to win golf major WWOS staff Updated April 11, 2021 - 11.19pm . First published April 12, 2021 - 12.04am shares Share Masters 2021 LIVE We hope you enjoyed the final day of  Wide World of Sports' coverage of The Masters Tournament where Japan's Hideki Matsuyama has claimed the green jacket. Click HERE for the final leaderboard: Masters Tournament 2021 Latest posts 11.19pm Apr 11, 2021 Caddie's classy Masters act steals hearts Matt Bungard shares Share post Hideki Matsuyama has been given his green jacket, and both he and his caddie have won the hearts of the sporting public today. His caddie, Shota Hayafuji, bowed to the course as Matsuyama claimed victory. "I'm really happy," Matsuyama said inside Butler Cabin. "My nerves really didn't start on the second nine, it was right from the start - until the very last putt." "I was thinking about them all the way around today," he said of his friends who were in attendance at the 18th. Matsuyama said he hoped that his success would 'open the floodgates' for major winners from Japan. "Hopefully I'll be a pioneer in this and many other Japanese will follow." 11.04pm Apr 11, 2021 Matsuyama wins by one stroke Matt Bungard shares Share post He's done it! Hideki Matsuyama becomes the first Japanese man to win a golf major - he made par on 17 and just needed to avoid a double bogey to claim the green jacket. It's a lovely chip out of the bunker to land within a few feet of the hole on his third shot, but then nerves creep in as he misses a relatively easy putt. It doesn't matter though, he taps in for bogey and that's good enough. Young Will Zalatoris was waiting just in case a play-off was needed, but he will have to be content with second at -9, one shot behind Matsuyama. Marc Leishman finished fifth at -6, and Cameron Smith tenth at -3. 10.44pm Apr 11, 2021 Horror triple bogey all-but decides tournament Matt Bungard shares Share post Xander Schauffele's charge to the green jacket is all but over after a disastrous triple bogey. The American had pulled off four consecutive birdies to peg Hideki Matsuyama's lead back to just two strokes as the pair approached the par three 16th. His tee shot rolled into the water, and then following his drop, the third sailed into the seats behind the green. After an approach shot, he two-putted to end on a six. Matsuyama himself bogeyed the hole to drop to -11, but remained two strokes ahead of new second-placed Will Zalatoris. Schauffele is now tied for third with Jordan Spieth at -7, and you'd have to think his push for the title has ended. Advertisement 10.19pm Apr 11, 2021 Water hazard provides possible twist ending Matt Bungard shares Share post Just when we thought Matsuyama was cruising to the finish line, he finds the water on 15! He recovers as best he can and ends up bogeying the hole, dropping back to -12. Xander Schauffele keeps the pressure on his playing partner, with a lovely bunker shot on the par five setting up an easy birdie putt. The American moves to -10, and suddenly with three shots to go, it's only a two-stroke margin. 09.34pm Apr 11, 2021 History beckons for Japanese star Matt Bungard shares Share post Hideki Matsuyama is closing in on the win, and what would be the first-ever major victory by a Japanese man. That's especially remarkable when you consider the sport's popularity in Japan, with an estimated seven to ten million golfers around the nation. Two female Japanese golfers have won titles; Hisako Higuchi won the PGA in 1977, and Hinako Shibuno won the British Open in 2019. Matsuyama is sitting at -12 and is five shots clear of Will Zalatoris , Xander Schauffele, and Jordan Spieth, all on -7. Spieth has four holes to play, Zalatoris five, the other two six. 08.52pm Apr 11, 2021 Smith sinks massive birdie putt Matt Bungard shares Share post Last year's runner up Cameron Smith has played one of the putts of the tournament, nailing a massive birdie on 13. The Queenslander made a 53 footer look easy, for what was his third birdie of the round. He's -4 for the tournament and looks good value for another top ten finish, but is miles behind leader Hideki Matsuyama at -13. Matsuyama, who is looking to become the first Japanese m is five shots clear off Will Zalatoris in second and seven ahead of Green's countryman, Marc Leishman. 08.20pm Apr 11, 2021 Matsuyama remains comfortably clear AP shares Share post Hideki Matsuyama remains comfortably ahead at the Masters without much pressure from those chasing him — least of all, Xander Schauffele. Schauffele was within three shots of the lead he dropped three shots in four holes.His pitch failed to get up the slope to the third green and rolled back to the fairway, leading to bogey. Then, he came up short into the bunker on the par-3 fourth and dropped another shot. The fifth hole, toughest at Augusta National this week, was his undoing. Schauffele was on the edge of the bushes off the tee, couldn't quite get back to the fairway and then hit a flyer over the green into a bunker. It took him two to get out of the sand and he had to scramble for double bogey. Schauffele has now dropped to fifth, tied with Australian Marc Leishman at fiveunder, six shots off the lead. Matsuyama, meanwhile, holed an 18-foot par putt at No. 5 and was even for the day. He is two shots clear of Will Zalatoris, the only man who is close to him right now. The only player making a move was Jon Rahm, and he started too far back. Rahm, 11 shots back to start the final round, was 5 under playing the 15th." 07.26pm Apr 11, 2021 'Happy Gilmore' throws support behind challenger Matt Bungard shares Share post History's most famous fictional golfer has thrown some weight behind one of today's jacket chasers. Actor and former Happy Gilmore star Adam Sandler tweeted out his support for young American Will Zalatoris, who is currently second on the leaderboard. Sandler wished the 24-year-old luck, and posted a picture comparing Zalatoris to the caddy that his character Happy Gilmore used in his first golf tournament, in the movie on the same name. For his part, Zalatoris has embraced the comparison, getting a quote from that character engraved on one of his clubs. Zalatoris finished tied for sixth in the US Open last year, and is making the most of his first time at Augusta - he's three shots off the pace early on in the final round. 06.44pm Apr 11, 2021 Nightmare start for Leishman Matt Bungard shares Share post It's the worst possible start for Australia's Masters hopeful Marc Leishman, who bogeys the first and drops one more shot off the pace. Leishman's tee shot was fine before his approach bounced beyond the green - leaving him a difficult putt for par after recovering with his third shot. He drops to -6, five strokes behind leader Hideki Matsuyama, who is attempting to become the first ever Japanese man to win a major. However, Matsuyama is also showing some early nerves - his tee shot on one shanking into the trees. 04.46am Apr 11, 2021 Marc Leishman on the hunt for Aussie Masters glory AP shares Share post Marc Leishman remains firmly in the mix at the Masters Tournament, finishing the penultimate day to be seven-under through 54 holes. But the Aussie could have surged even further after a near eagle miss on 15 and two more near misses on the par-3 16 and par-four 17. Fellow Aussie Matt Jones, who won the Honda Classic last month, carded four birdies and three bogeys early, but stumbled home with back to back bogeys. Cameron Smith struggled on the front nine, but birdies at 15 and 16 saw him finish one-over for the round to finish -1 and is tied-14. Adam Scott's tournament got worse. He bogeyed hole four, five and double-bogeyed the seventh, before pulling one back on eight. Then a triple on 15 rubbed salt into the wounds. Jordan Spieth was within two shots of the lead despite a double bogey on the seventh hole, but he couldn't keep pace and shot 72 to fall six shots behind. Marc Leishman. (Getty) Getty Latest leftChevron 1 / 1 rightChevron Oldest Golf The Masters US Masters Marc Leishman Most viewed in Golf Aussie legend on USA collision course after surprise 'honour Golfer strips off to play shot from alligator-infested pond Latest Blues gamble pays off after wildcard called in to defend star 14 mins ago Bart's grandson at centre of shock Sydney racing shake-up 52 mins ago France beckons for Wallabies' million dollar man 58 mins ago rightArrow Read more in Sport facebook instagram x About Contact Meet the Team Watch TV expandMore Live TV TV Shows Categories Connect your TV How to watch TV Guide News expandMore Latest National World Politics Tech Weather Finance Today Show A Current Affair 60 Minutes Sport expandMore Live Scores Olympics NRL Cricket Tennis AFL Rugby Football Athletics Golf Combat Lifestyle expandMore Latest Royals Style Celebrity Kitchen Travel Coach You Parenting Money Horoscopes Entertainment expandMore Latest TV Shows MAFS The Block Love Island Lego Masters Tipping Point The Summit Getaway Travel Guides Product Reviews expandMore Technology Beauty Style + Fashion Living Kitchen Health + Fitness Parenting Gift Ideas Radio expandMore 2GB 3AW 4BC 6PR Stan expandMore TV Shows Movies Sport Stan Originals Domain expandMore Advice & Guides Property Search Home Loans Home Price Guide Drive expandMore Car Reviews Car News New Car Showroom Cars for Sale Pedestrian TV expandMore Entertainment News Online Television Home Log In Newsletters Work with us Advertise with us Support Terms of use Privacy © 2025 Nine Entertainment Co.