Robert Downey Jr. on if Christopher Nolan directed 'Avengers' ​ Skip to content Entertainment Weekly Search Please fill out this field. Newsletters Sweepstakes Search Please fill out this field. TV TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge Binge EW's Binge Podcast Episodes The Challenge The Golden Bachelor The Masked Singer RuPaul's Drag Race Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowstone Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge 9-1-1 The Masked Singer Outlander RuPaul's Drag Race Saturday Night Live Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowjackets Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Top Stories 1 Why Terrence Howard turned down Marvin Gaye biopic 2 'Wuthering Heights' casting director defends Margot Robbie, Jacob Elordi choices 3 'Havoc' ending explained 4 'Harry Potter' cast: Then and now Robert Downey Jr. jokes that if Christopher Nolan had directed The Avengers , 'we'd still be shooting it' Nolan also quipped that his iteration of the superhero movie would feature "a lot" — maybe even too much — of Downey's Tony Stark. By Emlyn Travis Emlyn Travis Emlyn Travis is a news writer at Entertainment Weekly with over five years of experience covering the latest in entertainment. A proud Kingston University alum, Emlyn has written about music, fandom, film, television, and awards for multiple outlets including MTV News, Teen Vogue , Bustle, BuzzFeed, Paper Magazine , Dazed, and NME. She joined EW in August 2022. EW's editorial guidelines Published on July 21, 2023 05:28PM EDT Robert Downey Jr. thinks it would have taken Marvel's mightiest heroes a lot longer to assemble if the famously meticulous Christopher Nolan were the one calling the shots on the first Avengers movie. In a joint interview for Wired , the erstwhile Iron Man and his Oppenheimer director were asked what 2012's The Avengers might've looked like had it been helmed by Nolan instead of Joss Whedon . "Whoa, that is the multiverse conundrum," Nolan remarked. "Having worked with you on Oppenheimer , it'd probably be a lot — too much Tony Stark. You'd be running away with the movie a little bit." "Like I didn't?" Downey interjected. Nolan laughed and then continued: "Even more. And not using CG — would you be prepared to get on one of those jetpacks, the ones they make for real?" Cutting to the chase, Downey quipped, "If Christopher Nolan had directed The Avengers , we'd still be shooting it." The superhero blockbuster marked the first time moviegoers got to see Downey's Iron Man, Chris Evans ' Captain America, Chris Hemsworth 's Thor, Scarlett Johansson 's Black Widow, Mark Ruffalo 's Hulk, and Jeremy Renner 's Hawkeye unite on screen. Since defeating Tom Hiddleston 's trickster god Loki and his Chitauri foot soldiers, the titular heroes have linked up for three more world-saving adventures: 2015's Avengers: Age of Ultron , 2018's Avengers: Infinity War, and 2019's Avengers: Endgame . Nolan, of course, is no stranger to massive comic book movies, having co-written and directed DC's Dark Knight trilogy, starring Christian Bale as the caped crusader. Robert Downey Jr. in 'Avengers: Infinity War'; Christopher Nolan. Everett Collection; Pascal Le Segretain/Getty Images Earlier in the Wired interview, Nolan explained why he abstains from using CGI in his films — which no doubt would've factored into a movie like Avengers , with its larger-than-life heroes and alien baddies. "I find CGI, however versatile it is, it always tends to feel a little safe to me," the director said. "I think if you want something to have a bit of bite, you want the imagery to have a bit of threat, even if it's a miniature, even if it's something very fake, but something real on camera, I think it gives you a better result." Want more movie news? Sign up for Entertainment Weekly 's free newsletter to get the latest trailers, celebrity interviews, film reviews, and more. Related content: Who plays who in Christopher Nolan's star-studded historical drama Oppenheimer How fear of nuclear war (and Sting) inspired Oppenheimer Is Barbieheimer actually the perfect double feature? EW's verdict on the summer's biggest meme Read more: Movies Related Articles Alan Cumming says he's thrilled his 4.5-hour X-Men transformation is now only 90 minutes Fantastic Four trailer reveals first look at Silver Surfer: 'Your planet has been marked for death' Harry Potter cast: See the original stars of the Wizarding World, then and now Jon Bernthal takes 'a little' credit for Tom Holland nailing his Spider-Man audition, reveals advice he gave him Scott Foley pestered J.J. Abrams for Star Wars gigs: 'If I was ever insecure about anything' Sinners star Delroy Lindo on the lessons he learned from Da 5 Bloods Oscar snub, Blade , Anansi Boys , and more Thunderbolts* finally unmasks its villain in new promo: 'Stronger than all of the Avengers' Harry Potter 's Jason Isaacs thinks he'll be 'long forgotten' once new Lucius Malfoy actor takes over in TV series Welcome to the (retro)future: Inside the Fantastic Four's 'first steps' into the MCU Viola Davis pitches herself to join Marvel as 'Iron Mania' after being called 'Captain America' in new film Marvel's X-factor: The long road to getting X-Men into the MCU The Fantastic Four: First Steps cast: All about the stars leading the franchise’s foray into the MCU (and who John Malkovich might be playing) Julia Garner talks joining Fantastic Four: First Steps : 'Wait, isn't the Silver Surfer a man?' Kelly Marie Tran reflects on coming out in spite of Star Wars harassment: 'Joy is an act of resistance' Avengers: Doomsday cast is official, including X-Men reunion with Ian McKellen, Patrick Stewart, more Carrie Coon didn't return for Avengers: Endgame because Marvel wouldn't pay her more, husband Tracy Letts says Entertainment Weekly Newsletters Follow Us TV Movies Music What To Watch Binge Celebrity The Awardist Books Theater About Us Terms of Service Subscribe Advertise Careers Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Entertainment Weekly is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies