Animal Crossing: New Horizons on the Switch is delayed until March 2020 | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI More Expand The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Menu Expand Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health COVID-19 Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters Command Line Installer Notepad Verge Deals Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Animal Crossing: New Horizons on the Switch is delayed until March 2020 Comments Drawer Entertainment Animal Crossing: New Horizons on the Switch is delayed until March 2020 by Andrew Webster Jun 11, 2019, 4:35 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement. Andrew Webster is an entertainment editor covering streaming, virtual worlds, and every single Pokémon video game. Andrew joined The Verge in 2012, writing over 4,000 stories. Nintendo had some bad news at its E3 2019 presentation: Animal Crossing ’s debut on the Switch has been pushed back until next year. This morning, the company revealed that the new game, called Animal Crossing: New Horizons , will now launch on March 20th, 2020, as opposed to its original 2019 date. “We must ask you to wait a little later than we thought,” the company said in a statement. On the plus side, we did get our first proper look at the new life sim game, which shifts the setting to a deserted island. The goal, as ever, is to build a home and life for your character, and it looks as though animal neighbors will move in as you clean up the island. Crafting, which is a big component of the mobile game Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp , also looks like a significant feature, with players able to make their own tools and other items. For Animal Crossing fans, it’s an announcement with mixed feelings. On one hand, New Horizons looks great, but you’re going to have to wait just a bit longer to experience it. Correction: Animal Crossing: New Horizons will be released on March 20th, 2020, not March 2nd. Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy . See More : E3 Entertainment Gaming Nintendo More in this stream See all All the games coming to Google Stadia at launch and through 2020 Verge Staff Nov 11, 2019 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Google’s Stadia cloud gaming service is coming November 19th: Everything you need to know Nick Statt and Sean Hollister Nov 8, 2019 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Watch the full 26-minute Star Wars: Jedi Fallen Order E3 demo Nick Statt Jun 25, 2019 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Most Popular Most Popular Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now New Starlink subscription drops hardware price to $0 Duolingo will replace contract workers with AI Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck The DJI Phantom is no more Installer A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Entertainment Netflix is streaming a showcase of Hitchcock’s greatest films this June Apple launches a new celebrity hub that’s all about Apple Natasha Lyonne to direct and star in a new sci-fi film created with generative AI Borderlands 4 release date moved up two weeks Weapons’ new trailer makes PTA meetings look like a nightmare Former Disney employee sentenced to three years for menu hacking Netflix is streaming a showcase of Hitchcock’s greatest films this June Charles Pulliam-Moore Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Apple launches a new celebrity hub that’s all about Apple Umar Shakir Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Natasha Lyonne to direct and star in a new sci-fi film created with generative AI Charles Pulliam-Moore Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Borderlands 4 release date moved up two weeks Ash Parrish Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Weapons’ new trailer makes PTA meetings look like a nightmare Charles Pulliam-Moore Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Former Disney employee sentenced to three years for menu hacking Wes Davis Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Apr 29 Whatever happened to the Kids Online Safety Act? Apr 29 MAGA’s next wave of influencers saved TikTok Apr 29 Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Apr 29 Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck Apr 29 Starlink’s got company — and orbital overcrowding is a disaster waiting to happen Apr 29 Meta’s ChatGPT competitor shows how your friends use AI The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved