Legend of Zelda: BOTW 2 release date and title revealed | Polygon Skip to main content The homepage Guides Games Entertainment The homepage Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search What to Play What to Watch Guides Expand All Guides Assassin’s Creed Shadows Avowed Blue Prince Destiny 2 Diablo 4 Elden Ring FFXIV Fortnite Marvel Rivals Monster Hunter Wilds Pokémon Go Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Games Expand All Gaming Tabletop Nintendo PC PlayStation Xbox Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Anime Horror Sci-fi Fantasy Deals Expand All Deals Buyer’s Guides Sales Guides Gift Guides Puzzles Expand Puzzmo Home External Link SpellTower Typeshift Flipart Really Bad Chess Crossword Newsletters Video Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Breath of the Wild 2 finally gets an official name and a release date News Breath of the Wild 2 finally gets an official name and a release date The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom comes to Switch in May 2023 by Nicole Clark and Michael McWhertor Sep 13, 2022, 2:49 PM UTC Facebook Link The sequel to The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild finally has an official release date and title. Nintendo unveiled The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom on Tuesday, during a Nintendo Direct presentation. The name of the BOTW sequel had previously remained under wraps , as it “might give away too much,” Nintendo said. The game is coming to Nintendo Switch on May 12, 2023. Nintendo also shared a new trailer for Tears of the Kingdom , showing Link soaring through the skies of Hyrule in new ways. A trailer released in June, during E3 2021, had shown Link flying through the skies of Hyrule , among other new powers and weapons . Related Everything announced at Tuesday’s Nintendo Direct A Breath of the Wild follow-up was first announced at E3 2019 , and remains highly anticipated. Initially released in 2017 on Nintendo Switch and Wii U, The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild was wildly successful, and has sold more than 25.8 million copies to date. The game masterfully brought together so many classic elements of the broader Zelda canon, like special abilities and puzzle-solving, but placed them all in an open world. Rather than overwhelming players with its massive map, the action-adventure game managed to be both welcoming to newcomers and satisfying for Zelda devotees. Link’s climbing and gliding abilities made Hyrule a dream to explore — gliding around is particularly breathtaking — and the game’s many environmental regions, shrines, and collectibles made player efforts well worth it . Expansive lore, delightful character and enemy designs, and robust cooking mechanics round it all out. So what will be in this sequel? Nintendo has already given Link long, luscious hair . So I guess I only have one more specific request: no more breaking weapons, please . See More : Fantasy Gaming News Nintendo The Legend of Zelda The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch logo Nintendo Wii U Nintendo Wii U logo Explore The Game Why it matters The Legend of Zelda franchise has long set the stage for what is considered an excellent video game. Breath of the Wild continues that legacy with mind-bending physics, beautiful imagery, and a playful, adventurous tone. — Zoë Hannah , Games Editor BUY AT: Amazon More in this stream See all Final Fantasy’s Crisis Core remake launches in December By Owen S. Good Story of Seasons: A Wonderful Life being remade for Nintendo Switch By Nicole Carpenter Fist of the North Star gets a... boxing exercise game? By Owen S. Good Most Popular Thunderbolts* takes the MCU back to what it’s always done best 8BitDo no longer shipping to US from China due to Trump tariffs The best new RPG books of 2025 so far Jackson’s residents were right to vote against Ellie ‘It was real cat wrangling’: Alex Horne and Greg Davies on Taskmaster’s ‘chaotic’ series 19 Switchboard The best way to stay up to date on all things Nintendo Switch 2. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in News Helldivers 2 players finally stopped the planet-cracking Singularity Altered TCG’s wild new print-on-demand service is available now How to watch the Borderlands 4 State of Play Far Cry 4 gets 60 fps update on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X a decade after launch Netflix’s new sci-fi romance K-animation looks like it’s going to break my heart (positive) Barbarian director’s next horror movie looks just as surprising and even nastier Gaming Apr 29 Helldivers 2 players finally stopped the planet-cracking Singularity By Cass Marshall Comments Comment Icon Bubble Gaming Apr 29 Altered TCG’s wild new print-on-demand service is available now By Charlie Hall Comments Comment Icon Bubble Gaming Apr 29 How to watch the Borderlands 4 State of Play By Nicole Carpenter Comments Comment Icon Bubble News Apr 29 Far Cry 4 gets 60 fps update on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X a decade after launch By Ian Walker Comments Comment Icon Bubble Animation Apr 29 Netflix’s new sci-fi romance K-animation looks like it’s going to break my heart (positive) By Petrana Radulovic Comments Comment Icon Bubble Trailers Apr 29 Barbarian director’s next horror movie looks just as surprising and even nastier By Austen Goslin Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad The Latest ⚡️ An hour ago Saw Gerrera is Star Wars at its very best Apr 29 Flappy Bird returns on Android, now without the weird crypto stuff Apr 29 How to get a free First Order Stormtrooper outfit in Fortnite Apr 29 Mamoru Hosoda’s newest film gets a first teaser and December release date Apr 29 An indie game dev revives a long-lost genre: the heavy-metal-band video game Apr 29 Show off your great manga taste with Uniqlo’s Ai Yazawa collection Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok About Us Masthead Editorial Ethics and Guidelines Community Guidelines How to Write for Polygon Contact Send Us a Tip Privacy Notice Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Settings Licensing Accessibility Platform Status Careers © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved