Ashleigh Barty battles past Karolina Pliskova to clinch first Wimbledon title | Wimbledon | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf 2:44 Wimbledon: Barty beats Pliskova to claim women's singles title – video highlights Wimbledon This article is more than 3 years old Ashleigh Barty battles past Karolina Pliskova to clinch first Wimbledon title This article is more than 3 years old Barty wins 6-3, 6-7, 6-3 to seal second grand slam title Australian was ‘touch and go’ before the tournament Tumaini Carayol at Wimbledon Sat 10 Jul 2021 11.05 EDT Last modified on Sun 11 Jul 2021 10.21 EDT Share There was nothing in the world that was going to stop Ashleigh Barty from taking the Wimbledon title she had arrived on these shores to claim. Not the weight of the moment that tested her to her mental limits, nor the force of history amidst a run inspired by her mentor and idol, Evonne Goolagong Cawley, whose influence even spread to the scallop-patterned dress she wore, and not even the formidable, resilient opponent across the net. Wimbledon 2021 women’s final: Ashleigh Barty beats Karolina Pliskova in three sets – live! Read more The 25-year-old Barty won her second grand slam title by riding her nerves in a desperately tense contest between two world number ones, recovering after failing to serve out the match in the second set to beat Karolina Pliskova 6-3, 6-7 (4), 6-3 and become the first Australian woman, also a proud Indigenous woman, to win Wimbledon since Goolagong Cawley in 1980. Fifty years on from Goolagong Cawley’s maiden Wimbledon title, here she stands as the most fitting successor imaginable. If it wasn’t already clear from the titles she has steadily compiled – now 12 – and her unrelenting consistency since early 2019, in the process Barty has established herself as the ascendent player across all surfaces in her sport. Barty has also become the 20th woman in history to earn more than $20,000,000 prize money. In 1971, Goolagong Cawley won just £1,800. 1:20 ‘Like a little sister’: Goolagong Cawley congratulates Barty on Wimbledon win - video In addition to the anniversary, it also coincided with Barty’s own newfound outward confidence. “It took me a long time to verbalise the fact that I wanted to dare to dream it and say I wanted to win this incredible tournament,” said Barty. “Being able to live out my dream right now with everyone here has made it better than I ever could have imagined.” With unrelenting will and intent from the very beginning, Barty exploded into the match, winning the first 14 points and striking seven winners. As Barty quickly established a 4-0 lead then took the first set 6-3, she was on track for a dominant win particularly after a series of Pliskova errors at 1-1 in set two and gave Barty an early break. Quick Guide Saturday's other Wimbledon finals Show Over the past few years Gordon Reid and Alfie Hewett have become so used to winning grand slam titles that they have almost got to the point where they are expected to triumph. But the joy of winning Wimbledon never gets old and the Scottish-English combination could barely keep the smiles off their faces after a 7-5, 6-2 win over Tom Egberink of the Netherlands and Joachim Gérard of Belgium. It was their fourth Wimbledon title together in the past five years and their seventh straight slam crown, continuing a run that began with the US Open of 2018, which itself came after they had been beaten in the final here. For Hewett, it is grand slam doubles title No 12 while for Reid it is No 16 and a win that might cause a reshuffle in his trophy arrangements at home. “My brother texted me just after the match and said we might have to get another shelf,” the Scot said. “I might have to put some of the runners-up trophies in a box. But it’s always special to win another Wimbledon title. I think we did an amazing job to win that first set, saving two set points.” There was guaranteed to be a British winner in the women’s doubles with Jordanne Whiley and Lucy Shuker on opposite sides of the net but it was Whiley who picked up the title as she and Yui Kamiji of Japan beat Shuker and Kgothatso Montjane 6-0, 7-6, coming from 5-3 down in the second set to win. A long day on Centre Court ended at 10.20pm with victory for the Croatian top seeds, Nikola Mektic and Mate Pavic, in the men's doubles final.  Mektic and Pavic defeated Spain's Marcel Granollers and Horacio Zeballos of Argentina 6-4, 7-6 (5), 2-6, 7-5 to win their eighth title of a remarkably dominant season. Dylan Alcott, the Australian who has dominated the quads category in recent years, picked up his second Wimbledon singles title and 14th singles major – including 10 of the last 12 – with a 6-2, 6-2 win over Sam Schroder of the Netherlands. Simon Cambers Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback. But the 29-year-old Pliskova never stopped toiling and she quickly broke back. Deep in the second set, Barty broke again after some magnificent defence. She stood up to serve for her first Wimbledon title at 6-5, only to find that she did not yet have the nerve. She struck a double fault and two forehand errors, handing over the game. The first true glimpse of weakness emboldened Pliskova, who played a supreme tiebreak, chasing down drop shots and roaring herself into a third set. How do you recover after failing to serve out a Wimbledon final? So many would have crumbled, but Barty shrugged it off. “I think being able to reset at the start of the third was really important, just for me to continue to turn up each and every point,” she said. View image in fullscreen Barty won Wimbledon for the first time. Photograph: Mike Hewitt/AP “That’s all I was really focusing on, just trying to do the best I could on every given point regardless of what the scoreline was.” Barty recovered immediately, establishing a decisive break lead early in set three. Forty-five minutes after the first attempt, she served for the match again and faced break point again after a wild forehand error. She responded with an exquisite defensive backhand slice off a devastating Pliskova return, eliciting a backhand error from the Czech. Then she fired an ace at deuce, marching with her momentum to take the match shortly afterwards. Barty is so often a picture of calm and composure, even after her first grand slam victory at the French Open in 2019, which made her response to the triumph even more touching. She sank to her knees and cried, then climbed up into the stands, over the broadcast booth and wept into the arms of her loved ones. Ashleigh Barty follows path of Evonne Goolagong Cawley (and Pat Cash) Read more Throughout her time at the top of the sport, Barty has triumphed through a supreme mastery of her vast skill set, bringing rare stability to the No 1 ranking. But even as she dominated top opponents at regular WTA events, her first grand slam victory was a triumph over her nerves against inferior players and she was yet to produce a true spectacular, signature moment on the biggest stages. Here it is. Twenty-five days before Wimbledon began, Barty was forced to retire from the second round of the French Open with a hip injury. Barty revealed on Saturday that her team did not tell her the full severity of the information they received from the specialists and that it should have taken two months to recover from, which she called a miracle. Quick Guide How do I sign up for sport breaking news alerts? Show Download the Guardian app from the iOS App Store on iPhone or the Google Play store on Android by searching for 'The Guardian'. If you already have the Guardian app, make sure you’re on the most recent version. In the Guardian app, tap the Menu button at the bottom right, then go to Settings (the gear icon), then Notifications. Turn on sport notifications. Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback. “I think them not telling me that just proved how much we were against the odds,” she said. “I think now to be playing pain-free through this event was incredible. It’s funny, sometimes the stars align, you can think positively, you can plan, and sometimes the stars do align, you can chase after your dreams.” Once she recovered, Barty was charged with establishing a rhythm in her first grass court event in two years. Once she did, in-form former number ones Angelique Kerber and Pliskova awaited in the final rounds. She used all of these challenges as a platform to produce at times the best big match tennis of her life and at others the most mentally resilient. Barty now has the title she has craved for so long. There are more to come. This is the archive of The Observer up until 21/04/2025. The Observer is now owned and operated by Tortoise Media. Explore more on these topics Wimbledon The Observer Tennis Ash Barty Australia sport match reports Share Reuse this content Comments (…) Sign in or create your Guardian account to join the discussion Most viewed Most viewed Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)