How To Watch 'The Walking Dead' Shows In Order on Netflix in 2025 New on Netflix Coming Soon Leaving Soon News & Previews K-Dramas Anime Games What to Watch Top 10s Library About Us Home What To Watch on Netflix How To Watch ‘The Walking Dead’ Shows In Order on Netflix in 2025 There are now five The Walking Dead series on Netflix in the United States - here's how to watch them in the best orders. By Ashley Hurst · @AshWHurst January 13th, 2025 - 11:11 am Copy to clipboard Comments Picture: AMC Thanks to a new deal in the United States, a whole lot of AMC shows landed on Netflix last Summer, including a large chunk of The Walking Dead Universe. With hundreds of episodes across the main show and numerous spinoff projects, getting invested in AMC’s zombie apocalypse drama can be daunting. Here’s our definitive watching guide for The Walking Dead , when they’re coming to Netflix as of 2025. Note: This article only applies to Netflix in the United States, as most of the other series don’t stream in international regions. Based on the graphic novels by Robert Kirkman, The Walking Dead was the biggest cable show in the world for several years running. Its fanbase is legion. Even today, after the conclusion of the mothership show, AMC continues to invest heavily in the franchise’s future. With shows set in France and post-apocalyptic Manhattan, now is a fantastic time to be a Walking Dead fan. And now that AMC has set a deal with Netflix to license shows, the series is more accessible to our readers than ever. So, where do you begin if you want to start with The Walking Dead ? Well, if you’re a complete newcomer to the franchise, we recommend watching the series in release order. Chronological order is a fantastic way for returning viewers to experience the franchise. However, if you’re starting out, watching chronologically will leave you confused more often than not — you’d be starting with spinoff Fear the Walking Dead , for instance. So, let’s keep things (relatively) simplistic. Read Next What’s Coming to Netflix This Week: The Walking Dead, Den of Thieves, The Residence Which The Walking Dead shows are on Netflix? Picture: AMC With The Walking Dead , AMC has created one of the industry’s largest, most sprawling ‘cinematic universes’. That’s even rivaling the Arrowverse , much of which is also on Netflix. There are seven shows in the universe in total: The Walking Dead, Fear the Walking Dead, The Walking Dead: World Beyond, Tales of the Walking Dead, The Walking Dead: Dead City, The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon, and The Walking Dead: The Ones Who Live . To put that into numbers, that’s 25 seasons and over 330 individual episodes. However, not every series is coming to Netflix in the US. All eleven seasons of the main show are already streaming on Netflix in the US . Those 11 seasons will remain on Netflix through 2027 . Over the Summer of 2024, Netflix added the entire Fear the Walking Dead collection and Daryl Dixon season 1. Now, a few months later, Netflix added The Walking Dead: The Ones Who Live . Although also scheduled for January 2025, The Walking Dead: Dead City did not make its way onto the service. This deal omits spinoffs World Beyond and Tales of the Walking Dead . But to be completely honest, those two shows are the least necessary to watch. How to watch The Walking Dead in Release Date Order By watching the series in release order, you’ll occasionally be jumping up and down the timeline, but trust me; this way is better than not understanding cameos and character motivations if you were to experience the series chronologically. For example, Fear The Walking Dead takes place before season 2 of The Walking Dead , right at the outbreak of the apocalypse. But then, after season 3, Fear takes a 6-month time jump, putting it level with season 8 of The Walking Dead , and that’s where the crossovers begin. Given the number of time jumps and crossovers, release order allows you the best possible understanding of the story. Here’s the release order, from its humble beginnings in 2010 to the most recent, The Ones Who Live : The Walking Dead S1 The Walking Dead S2 The Walking Dead S3 The Walking Dead S4 The Walking Dead S5 Fear the Walking Dead S1 The Walking Dead S6 Fear the Walking Dead S2 The Walking Dead S7 Fear the Walking Dead S3 The Walking Dead S8 Fear the Walking Dead S4 The Walking Dead S9 Fear the Walking Dead S5 The Walking Dead S10 The Walking Dead: World Beyond S1 Fear the Walking Dead S6 The Walking Dead S11 The Walking Dead: World Beyond S2 Fear the Walking Dead S7 Tales of The Walking Dead (Not on Netflix) Fear the Walking Dead S8 The Walking Dead: Dead City (Not on Netflix) The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon The Walking Dead: The Ones Who Live Alternative Watch Order For The Walking Dead on Netflix Picture: AMC If you do want to watch the series in the most efficient chronological order of story, we’ve split up the shows into different segments to take into account all of the connections and crossovers. Core The Walking Dead Timeline The original series starts here, focusing on Rick Grimes and the survivors navigating the apocalypse. The Walking Dead Season 1 The Walking Dead Season 2 The Walking Dead Season 3 The Walking Dead Season 4 The Walking Dead Season 5 Fear The Walking Dead Introduction A prequel and parallel story exploring the early days of the apocalypse, set on the West Coast. Fear the Walking Dead Season 1 Fear the Walking Dead Season 2 Continue with Main Series and Fear the Walking Dead Crossovers As the timelines begin to converge, we switch between the original series and its spin-off. The Walking Dead Season 6 Fear the Walking Dead Season 3 Morgan’s Journey and Expanded Universe Morgan’s crossover links the two series as Fear becomes more integrated with the main story. The Walking Dead Season 7 Fear the Walking Dead Season 4 (connects to Morgan’s journey) The Walking Dead and Fear the Walking Dead Parallel Developments The two shows run alongside each other with interconnected themes and evolving storylines The Walking Dead Season 8 Fear the Walking Dead Season 5 Later Seasons and Spinoffs (Major Shifts and New Threats) The main series heads toward its conclusion while Fear continues to explore evolving story arcs. The Walking Dead Season 9 Fear the Walking Dead Season 6 The Walking Dead Season 10 Introduce World Beyond and Wrap Core Series The story expands into other regions and introduces new characters and communities. The Walking Dead: World Beyond Season 1 Fear the Walking Dead Season 7 The Walking Dead Season 11 The Walking Dead: World Beyond Season 2 Anthology and Recent Spinoffs Exploring unique tales and perspectives across the Walking Dead universe Tales of The Walking Dead (Not on Netflix) Fear the Walking Dead Season 8 The Walking Dead: Dead City (Not on Netflix) The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon S1 The Walking Dead: The Ones Who Live (Rick and Michonne’s story continuation) This deal comes at a good time for The Walking Dead fans. AMC continues to grow and develop the franchise. Daryl Dixon’s season 2 , “The Book of Carol,” will premiere later this year. Dead City’s season 2 is expected to air sometime in 2025 , though no release date has been set. Which other AMC shows are coming to Netflix? The deal won’t just see The Walking Dead shows find a new home at Netflix. Several other coveted AMC shows are landing on the streamer too. These include: Anne Rice’s Interview with the Vampire Anne Rice’s Mayfair Witches Monsieur Spade A Discovery of Witches Dark Winds Gangs of London Into the Badlands Kevin Can F*** Himself Preacher That Dirty Black Bag The Terror This isn’t the first time Netflix has licensed AMC shows. Most notably, both Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul had immense success on Netflix—so much so that Netflix even made a sequel film, El Camino . Will The Walking Dead share this success? Only time will tell. Written by Ashley Hurst An expert in all things geek with a particular emphasis on DC, Marvel, Star Wars, and Game of Thrones. On Netflix, Ashley is an expert on The Sandman, Dead Boy Detectives and Avatar. Bylines at Winter is Coming and CBR and notably runs a fan page social account for Netflix's The Sandman. Ashley is also the editor of ComicsBulletin.com More on The Walking Dead What’s Coming to Netflix This Week: The Walking Dead, Den of Thieves, The Residence Every AMC Show on Netflix & What’s Coming Next Netflix Getting Multiple AMC Shows Including ‘Interview With The Vampire’, ‘Preacher’, ‘Fear The Walking Dead’ What’s Coming to Netflix This Week: January 13 to 19, 2025 ‘Dorohedoro’ Season 2 on Netflix: 2025 Release & What We Know So Far Latest from What’s on Netflix Netflix News ‘Ransom Canyon’ Season 2: Will Netflix Renew or Cancel? Here’s What The Stats Say in Week 2… Netflix Games ‘Single’s Inferno: Choices’ Launches on Netflix Games on Android and iOS Netflix News ‘My Life with the Walter Boys’ Season 2 Eying Late Summer Return on Netflix; Season 3 In Early Development Netflix News Jill Winternitz Talks Filming ‘Havoc’ Action Scenes, Emotional Depth, and Working with Tom Hardy Netflix News Avatar: The Last Airbender Season 2 Netflix Release Date Estimate & Everything We Know So Far Netflix News ‘Olympo’: Netflix Release Date & Everything You Need to Know About The Spanish Teen Romance Series Netflix News Robert Rodriguez on What Happened to the Conan the Barbarian Netflix Series & We Can Be Heroes Success Netflix News ‘One Piece’ Season 2 Casts King Seki and Ham Burger K-Dramas / Netflix News New Netflix K-Drama ‘Perfect Job’ Cast Confirmed & Production Underway Netflix News ‘A Week Away’ Getting A Series Follow-up (But It Won’t Be At Netflix) K-Dramas / Netflix News ‘Lost in Starlight’ Netflix’s First Animated Korean Movie Sets May 2025 Release Coming Soon to Netflix What’s Coming to Netflix This Week: April 28th to May 4th, 2025 Coming Soon to Netflix What’s Coming to Netflix in May 2025 K-Dramas / Netflix News ‘Kiss Me for No Reason’ SBS K-Drama Sets September 2025 Netflix Release Netflix News Netflix TUDUM 2025 Movie and Series Lineup Revealed 19 new Netflix releases this week › 4,100+ Netflix Category Codes › 2025 Netflix Release Schedule › Netflix News In Your Inbox Join over 175,000+ subscribers! Invalid email address By subscribing, you are agreeing to our Terms and Conditions and our Privacy Policy . Thanks for subscribing! Recommended from What's on Netflix Every Netflix Original Movie and Series That’s Been Removed From The Streamer (And Why) All 20+ Canceled Netflix Series in 2024 ‘Bridgerton’ Season 4: First Look, Bridgerton Event & What We Know So Far The Biggest Netflix Originals We’ll be Saying Goodbye to in 2025 About & Contact Details Our Team Editorial / Corrections Policy Privacy/Cookie Policy Covering Netflix News Independently Since 2013. Recent / Popular Movie & Series Tags: The Two Popes She the People Madea's Destination Wedding My Happy Marriage The Six Triple Eight High Tides Con Mum Tires The Residence Black Doves 3 Body Problem Avatar Black Mirror Bridgerton Cobra Kai One Piece Outer Banks Stranger Things Sweet Magnolias The Lincoln Lawyer The Sandman Virgin River Wednesday Follow Us: Twitter / X What's on Netflix Netflix Daily Updates Google News Feedly RSS Feed What’s on Netflix is not owned by or affiliated with Netflix or any of its partners in any capacity. The authors of this site also have no affiliation with Netflix. All promotional material including but not limited to trailers, images and videos are all copyright to their respective owners. Netflix is a registered trademark of Netflix, Inc. What's on Netflix is a trading name of the UK company Posterity Information Technology LTD (GB07645255) © 2013-2025 What's on Netflix - All Rights Reserved. Search What's on Netflix Search