Oscars 2020 Predictions: Win your pool with these picks - al.com Skip to Article Set weather Back To Main Menu Close Quick Look - Change your current location » Current - Mostly Sunny Tonight Low - Mostly Sunny Tomorrow High - Mostly Sunny View full weather report Birmingham Huntsville Mobile Montgomery Tuscaloosa Anniston/Gadsden Beaches Alabama Alabama Life & Culture Oscars 2020 Predictions: Win your pool with these picks Published: Feb. 07, 2020, 6:00 a.m. This combination photo shows scenes from six Oscar nominated films, from left, "Little Women," "Once Upon a Time... in Hollywood," "Ford v. Ferrari," "Parasite," "Joker," and "1917." The Oscars will be held on Sunday, Feb. 9. (Sony/Sony/20th Century Fox/Neon/Warner Bros/Universal Pictures via AP) AP By Ben Flanagan | bflanagan@al.com The 92nd Annual Academy Awards will air live on ABC Sunday night at 7 p.m. central, and several races are more wide open than you might think. It looks like best picture is down to “1917” or “Parasite,” but could Quentin Tarantino’s "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood swoop in for the upset? The acting races seem all but locked up, but we could still see a major surprise? We’ll help you fill out your ballot and maybe win at your Oscar party with these predictions. If not, just tell us how wrong we were on Monday. Matthew A. Cherry's film "Hair Love" is nominated for Best Animated Short at the 92nd Annual Academy Awards. (Sony) ANIMATED SHORT Will win: Hair Love. Matthew A. Cherry’s heartwarming father-daughter story will break you down, and we assume it melted voters’ hearts, too. "Nefta Football Club" is nominated for best live action short at the 92nd Academy Awards. (Yves Piat) LIVE ACTION SHORT Will win: Nefta Football Club. Yves Piat’s 17-minute short about Tunisian brothers who stumble upon an item that could change their lives has one of the best payoffs in any 2019 film. "Learning to Skateboard in a Warzone (If You're a Girl)" is nominated for best documentary short at the 92nd Annual Academy Awards. (Carol Dysinger) DOCUMENTARY SHORT Will win: Learning to Skateboard in a Warzone (If You’re a Girl). Carol Dysinger’s about girls learning to read, write and skateboard in war-torn Afghanistan is a beautiful story about courage. "1917" is much more than a masterful technical achievement. (Universal) SOUND EDITING Will win: 1917. Hard to believe Sam Mendes’ war film won’t walk away with a handful of technical prizes. Might win: Ford v Ferrari SOUND MIXING Will win: 1917. These often go hand-in-hand, but James Mangold’s racing flick could just as well with one or both. Might win: Ford v Ferrari Charlize Theron (above) in the film "Bombshell." (Lionsgate) MAKEUP & HAIRSTYLING Will win: Bombshell. The prosthetic work to help Charlize Theron and John Lithgow transform into their respective characters of Megyn Kelly and Roger Ailes is outstanding. Might win: Joker. Sure, it’s clown makeup, but Phoenix’s look was unforgettable in 2019. Greta Gerwig's "Little Women" is one of the most delightful films of 2019. (Sony) COSTUME DESIGN Will win: Little Women. Costume dramas are usually favored in the category, and Jacqueline Durran is a multi-time nominee and past winner for similarly exquisite work. Might win: Once Upon a Time in Hollywood. Cliff Booth’s denim getup should have been enough to win this in a runaway, but more modern attire rarely goes rewarded. "1917" is nominated for 10 Academy Awards. (Universal) PRODUCTION DESIGN Will win: 1917. The trenches, bunkers, No Man’s Land and other realistic World War I put us in the harsh reality. Might win: Once Upon a Time in Hollywood. Tarantino and his collaborators revived 1969 Los Angeles to perfect effect. Will voters feel the nostalgia? "Avengers: Endgame" was a global phenomenon in 2019. (Disney) VISUAL EFFECTS Will win: Avengers: Endgame. It had all the effects, that’s for sure. Might win: 1917. Most of its effects were seamless, including its edits, which makes them that much more impressive. This image released by Warner Bros. Pictures shows Joaquin Phoenix in a scene from "Joker." On Monday, Jan. 13, the film was nominated for an Oscar for best picture. (Niko Tavernise/Warner Bros. Pictures via AP) AP AP ORIGINAL SCORE Will win: Joker. Hildur Guðnadóttir’s haunting music is something people really remember from the DC Comics adaptation. Might win: 1917. Thomas Newman has never won, and this might be the year the Academy recognizes his outstanding work. Taron Egerton as Elton John in "Rocketman." David Appleby/Paramount Pictures ORIGINAL SONG Will win: I’m Gonna Love Me Again," from Rocketman. Elton John seems poised to win another Oscar, having previously won for “The Lion King” in 1994. Might win: “Stand Up,” from Harriet. Best actress nominee Cytnhia Erivo is also a nominee in this category. "Ford v Ferrari" is that rare crowd-pleaser that everyone seems to like. (20th Century Fox) FILM EDITING Will win: Ford v Ferrari. Everyone loves this movie, thanks in large part to the crackling pace of the racing sequences Might win: The Irishman. Martin Scorsese’s longtime editor Thelma Schoonmaker could always use another trophy. Yes, it’s long, but she pieces it (and its shifting timelines) together beautifully. Roger Deakins' cinematography in "1917" is poised to win an Oscar. (Universal) CINEMATOGRAPHY Will win: 1917. Roger Deakins will win his second Oscar in three years for his groundbreaking work on this war film, which was designed to appear as one continuous take. Might win: N/A. This one’s in the bag. "Parasite" is nominated for best international feature at the 92nd Annual Academy Awards. (Neon) INTERNATIONAL FEATURE Will win: Parasite. If it wins nothing else, Bong Joon-ho’s thriller will not walk away empty-handed on Sunday. Might win: N/A. If anything, “Pain and Glory” stands the best chance, but there’s no beating “Parasite” here. "American Factory" is nominated for best documentary feature at the 92nd Annual Academy Awards. (Netflix) DOCUMENTARY FEATURE Will win: American Factory. The Netflix doc earned rave reviews in 2019, and it’s more likely the voters have actually seen it. Might win: Honeyland. Do voters think it’s the bee’s knees? Tim Allen (Buzz Lightyear), Tom Hanks (Sheriff Woody) and Annie Potts (Little Bo-Peep) voice the heroes of "Toy Story 4." Pixar ANIMATED FEATURE Will win: Toy Story 4. Pixar usually cleans up in this category, as the previous “Toy Story” proved 10 years ago. Might win: Klaus. This Netflix movie snuck up on people last year. Taika Waititi is Adolf Hitler, the imaginary friend of 10-year-old Jojo Betzler, right, played by Roman Griffin Davis in "Jojo Rabbit." Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp. ADAPTED SCREENPLAY Will win: Jojo Rabbit. Taika Waititi’s script earned recognition from the WGA, which can forecast the winner year. The film has gained a lot of steam these last two weeks. Might win: Little Women. Greta Gerwig’s ambitious adaptation didn’t earn her a directing Oscar, which could influence voters to reward her here. Quentin Tarantino's "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood" is a love letter to the industry only he could write. (Sony) ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY Will win: Once Upon a Time in Hollywood. He’s lost momentum as of late, but we think Quentin Tarantino will earn some individual recognition for his work, especially since he won’t win director. Might win: Parasite. This script has surged as a frontrunner, winning the WGA honors, but Tarantino was not eligible to win that award. Laura Dern stars in "Marriage Story." (Netflix) SUPPORTING ACTRESS Will win: Laura Dern. She’s won just about every other award for the performance so far, and she’ll do it again. The work merits it, but she also happens to be beloved by the industry and is on the Academy Board of Governors. Might win: Scarlett Johansson. If anyone can spoil, it’s ScarJo, but don’t expect it. This image released by Sony Pictures shows Brad Pitt in Quentin Tarantino's "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood." (Andrew Cooper/Sony-Columbia Pictures via AP) AP SUPPORTING ACTOR Will win: Brad Pitt. A career achievement? Sure, but everyone agreed Pitt stole the show as the silent-but-deadly stuntman in Tarantino’s fantasy. Might win: N/A. Give the Oscar to anyone else but Pitt? To quote Al Pacino’s Jimmy Hoffa, “They wouldn’t dare.” This image released by Roadside Attractions shows Rene´e Zellweger as Judy Garland in a scene from "Judy." On Monday, Jan. 13, Zellweger was nominated for an Oscar for best actress for her role in the film. (David Hindley/Roadside Attractions via AP) AP David Hindley | Roadside Attractions via AP ACTRESS Will win: Renee Zellweger. Already a winner for “Cold Mountain” in 2003, the “Jerry Maguire” and “Bridget Jones’ Diary” actress will add one more Oscar to her collection. Might win: Scarlett Johannson. Given Zellweger’s dominance with the other awards, it’s hard to believe anyone else stands a chance. But Johannson’s double-nomination means the Academy likes her a lot. For better or worse, "Joker" is the movie of 2019. (Warner Bros.) ACTOR Will win: Joaquin Phoenix. Previously a harsh critic of awards season, Phoenix has turned a new leaf and appeared at nearly every event to help secure his first Oscar for his universally praised performance, which will become the second Oscar-winning portrayal of the Joker. Might win: Antonio Banderas. If anyone could charm the Academy into shifting their votes from Phoenix, it’s Banderas. But it ain’t happening. Sam Mendes (center) directs on the set of "1917." (Universal) DIRECTOR Will win: Sam Mendes. Tough category, but Mendes has won where it counts along the way, particularly with the Directors Guild, a strong indicator of what should happen on Sunday. It will be his second win since his directing debut 20 years ago with “American Beauty" That said... Might win: Bong Joon-ho. How deep is the love for “Parasite.” We suspect it could shock the world, but in which category? All signs point to Mendes scoring director, but stranger things have happened, and Bong is just as deserving. "Parasite" caught the world by storm starting at the Cannes Film Festival. (CJ Entertainment) PICTURE Will win: Parasite. This is not the smart bet, but it isn’t the dumbest either. “Parasite” stands a real shot at winning this thing, especially thanks to its Screen Actors Guild ensemble win a few weeks ago. It’s clear the industry has embraced this film, but it failed to land any acting nominations, which often doesn’t bode well for potential best picture winners. And it would make history as the first-ever foreign language film to win the award. OK, let’s make history. Might win: 1917. This is probably winning, y’all. Our favorite films from 2019 A look back at a wonderful year in film ahead of Sunday's Oscar ceremony. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Footer Navigation About Us About Alabama Media Group Jobs at Alabama Media Group Advertise with us About AL.com Frequently Asked Questions Accessibility Statement Contact Us Online Store Subscriptions AL.com The Birmingham News The Huntsville Times Press-Register Newsletter Already a Subscriber Manage your Subscription Place a Vacation Hold Make a Payment Delivery Feedback AL.com Sections News Business Sports High School Sports Alabama Life & Culture Opinion Archives Obituaries Jobs Autos Your Regional News Pages Anniston/Gadsden Birmingham Huntsville Mobile Montgomery Tuscaloosa Gulf Coast Beaches On the Go Mobile Apps Tablet Apps Follow Us Pinterest Twitter Facebook Instagram RSS Customer Service Send us an email Submit a news tip Buy newspaper front pages, posters and more More on AL.com Videos Weather News Site Map & search Sponsor Content Post a job Your Privacy Choices Privacy Policy | User Agreement | Ad Choices Disclaimer Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement , (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our Privacy Policy , and Your Privacy Choices and Rights (updated 1/1/2025). © 2025 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here . Ad Choices