Dick Clark Productions, Eldridge Acquire Golden Globes, HFPA Assets Dick Clark Productions, Eldridge Acquire Golden Globes, HFPA Assets Plus Icon Film Plus Icon TV Plus Icon What To Watch Plus Icon Music Plus Icon Docs Plus Icon Digital & Gaming Plus Icon Global Plus Icon Awards Circuit Plus Icon Video Plus Icon What To Hear VIP Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Got a Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Variety Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Variety Plus Icon Read Next: Marketing Chiefs Say Film and TV Biz Will Hang Tough Amid Recession Fears: ‘We Are the Affordable Pastime’ Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Home Biz News Jun 12, 2023 10:13am PT Dick Clark Productions, Todd Boehly’s Eldridge Acquire Golden Globe Awards as Hollywood Foreign Press Association Shutters By Cynthia Littleton Plus Icon Cynthia Littleton Business Editor @Variety_Cynthia Latest ‘The Notebook’ Author Nicholas Sparks Outlines His Rules for Writing Novels: ‘What Are the Ages of the Characters Who Will Fall in Love?’ 23 hours ago Offscript Worldwide Absorbs Revolt, 440 Artists, Rebel House and Six Zeros to Form Integrated Media and Commerce Platform 1 day ago Wheelhouse Entertainment’s Courtney White on How Streaming Has Changed Unscripted TV 2 days ago See All Michael Buckner for Variety Big changes are afoot for the Golden Globe Awards now that Dick Clark Productions and Todd Boehly’s Eldridge have acquired the assets of the awards from the nonprofit Hollywood Foreign Press Association , which will shutter as the Globes franchise moves into a new era. The new owners will use the assets and the cash on hand from the HFPA to establish the Golden Globe Foundation, which will continue on the HFPA’s tradition of charitable giving. The awards show itself and related assets will now be part of the for-profit operations of Dick Clark Productions, which has long been allied with the HFPA for the awards show. The move out of the HFPA’s nonprofit status will allow the  Globes to pursue many more commercial opportunities than were possible under the HFPA regime. Related Stories VIP+ Nintendo Switch 2 Won’t Be Superior Successor — But It Still Matters Frank Zappa’s Unaired Concert Special to Be Released After More Than 50 Years HFPA’s current president, Helen Hoehne, said the deal had been approved by the association’s roughly 95 full-time members. Financial details of the deal were not disclosed. Proceeds from the HFPA sale to Dick Clark Productions and Eldridge, will go to the Globes Foundation to enhance its coffers for charitable giving. Popular on Variety “We are excited to close on this much anticipated member-approved transaction and transition from a member-led organization to a commercial enterprise,” said Hoehne. Boehly, who acquired Dick Clark Productions more than a decade ago, called the transaction “a significant milestone” in the 80-year history of the Globes. “My partners at DCP and I are grateful to Helen and team for their commitment to the successful implementation of a robust approach to governance, the expansion of the diverse and international voting body, implementing a professional, safe and accountable environment, and trusting new ownership with a new direction for the Globes,” said Boehly, who is chairman of Eldridge. “As stewards of the Golden Globe Awards, our mission is to continue creating the most dynamic awards ceremony on live television viewed across the world,” said Jay Penske, who is CEO, chairman and founder of Penske Media, and CEO of Dick Clark Productions. “We have a great team in place to grow this iconic brand and captivate new and existing audiences to celebrate the very best in television and motion pictures.” Variety parent company Penske Media is the owner of Dick Clark Productions. The HFPA was formed in 1943 as an outgrowth of several predecessor press clubs for expat journalists working in and covering Hollywood. Correspondents for Britain’s Daily Mail led the charge. The group split into two camps — the Hollywood Foreign Correspondents Association and the Foreign Press Association of Hollywood. The two were reunited under the HFPA banner in 1955. The HFPA became a big-league player in Hollywood in the 1990s, when it began collecting tens of millions of dollars in licensing fees annually for the Golden Globe Awards, especially after it began a long-running partnership with NBC. After that the HFPA stepped up its charitable giving to Hollywood and media industry-related causes. Per the HPFA, the organization has distributed more than $45 million to 70 charities over the past 26 years. But the higher profile also brought more scrutiny of HFPA practices around the awards. Controversy about the group’s opaque activities and questionable behavior by some members over the years had bubbled up for years but the association went into full-fledged crisis mode in 2021 when the Los Angeles Times reported that the organization had no Black members, and it offered other unflattering details about the association’s handling of the awards, including some instances of the HFPA paying fees to members for participating in the Globes judging. The Times expose led to a backlash against the Globes from Hollywood’s creative community. Influential personal publicists for top talent created a coalition of sorts to pressure the HFPA to institute reforms. NBC backed out of carrying the 2022 telecast, citing the storm surrounding the HFPA. Over the past two years, the HFPA implemented a number of recommended steps such as the hiring of a dedicated diversity officer, and it significantly expanded the voting body for the Globes, if not the membership of the HFPA itself. Earlier this year, the HFPA disclosed that the voting body assembled for the 2024 competition will be a total of 310 journalists from outside the U.S. That group, which includes the 95 current members of HFPA, will stay in place for the coming awards cycle. In January, the Globes returned to NBC under a one-year license deal. At present, Dick Clark Productions is shopping the awards to network and streamer buyers to find a new TV home for the event that has become an important precursor to the Academy Awards. This also comes amid a challenging environment for awards shows in general amid the industry’s transition to streaming and on-demand platforms. In recent years, the Academy of Country Music Awards have relocated to Amazon Prime Video while Netflix has signed on to carry the SAG Awards starting next year. Bringing viewers to the screen in numbers for live telecasts such as awards shows is still an uphill climb for streamers accustomed to serving up content on an on-demand basis. The decision to “wind down” the HFPA, as it was described in the news release announcing the transaction, indicates that the existing leadership and new regime at Dick Clark saw a better path forward for the Globes by initiating the nonprofit/for-profit split. Read More About: Dick Clark Productions, Golden Globe Awards, Hollywood Foreign Press Association Jump to Comments More from Variety Disney to Preview ‘Zootopia 2,’ ‘Elio,’ ‘Toy Story 5’ and More at This Year’s Annecy Festival Celtics Sale Shows Media’s New Pot of Gold: Sports Teams as Mega-Brands Disney Store to Launch May the 4th ‘Star Wars’ Collection, Starting With Limited-Edition Weekly Drops Next  Month (EXCLUSIVE) FCC Chairman Opens Probe Into Disney and ABC DEI Practices: ‘Iconic’ Company ‘Recently Went All In on DEI’ Sports Rights: Streamers vs. TV Networks – A Special Report Warner Bros. Discovery, Netflix, Disney and More Media Stocks Rally as Trump Sets 90-Day Pause on Tariffs for Some Countries JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Most Popular Netflix CEO Ted Sarandos Says Movie Theater Model Is ‘Outdated’: ‘Most of the Country’ Cannot ‘Walk to a Multiplex… Megyn Kelly Delivers 11-Minute Rant About George Clooney After He Blasts Her for Not Being a Journalist: ‘Are Hollywood Roles Getting a Little Hard… Sydney Sweeney to Star in ‘Split Fiction’ Film Adaptation From Director Jon M. Chu, ‘Deadpool and Wolverine’ Writers… Meghan Markle Didn’t Film Netflix Show at Her Own House Because '80 People in the Kitchen Isn’t the Childhood Memory’ She Wants for Her… Bill Maher Fires Back at Larry David for ‘My Dinner With Adolf’ Essay Spoofing His Trump Meeting: ‘It’s Kind of Insulting to Six Million Dead Jews… Pete Davidson on Going Tattoo-Free and His Concern for Young Men and Social Media: ‘They Don’t Even Have a F—ing Shot’ Damon Wayans Is ‘Walking Away With Deep Gratitude’ After ‘Poppa’s House’ Cancellation: ‘This Show Gave Me More Than I Could’ve Ever Imagined… ‘The Masked Singer’ Reveals Identity of Nessy: Here Is the Celebrity Under the Costume Carrie Preston and Michael Emerson on the Violent End of His 'Elsbeth' Arc, and Why It Was Hard to Film After 26 Years of Marriage: 'I Never Like… Noah Schnapp Reflects on Coming Out Before ‘Stranger Things’ Season 5 Filming: ‘I’m Finally Living Truthfully’ Must Read TV COVER | Noah Wyle Was Nearing a ‘Nervous Breakdown.’ Then Came ‘The Pitt’ By Andrew Wallenstein 2 weeks Awards Oscars Add Best Stunt Design Category Starting in 2027 Film ‘Sinners’ Review: Ryan Coogler’s Deep South From-Dusk-Till-Dawn Vampire Film Is a Lavishly Serious Popcorn Movie Film CinemaCon Takeaways: Fights Over Theatrical Window, Fizzling Star Power and Amazon MGM’s Big Promise Film Cannes Film Festival Lineup: Wes Anderson, Richard Linklater, Ari Aster, Julia Ducournau, Kelly Reichardt in Competition Sign Up for Variety Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Variety Confidential A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast More From Our Brands Rolling Stone Luigi Mangione Pleads Not Guilty to Federal Murder Charges Robb Report Rocker Gene Simmons Is Rolling Out of His $14 Million Ultra-Modern Villa in Beverly Hills Sportico Sportico Transactions: Moves and Mergers Roundup for April 25 WWD Jacquemus Celebrates L.A. Opening with Bananas, Bouquets and Bubbly, Joined by Lori Harvey, Laura Harrier, Cole Sprouse and More TVLine Survivor’s [Spoiler] Says Joe Was ‘Brittle’ and Had ‘Zero Self-Awareness’ Variety About Us Newsletter Variety Events Luminate - Film & TV Advertise Media Kit Careers Customer Service Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Variety Magazine Subscribe Variety Digital Login Group Subscriptions Variety Archives Back Issues Help VIP+ Subscribe Login Learn More FAQ Connect Instagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Variety The Business of Entertainment Subscribe Today Have a News Tip? Let us know Variety Close the menu Expand the sub menu Film News Reviews Podcasts Box Office Events Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu TV News Reviews Podcasts Ratings Pilot Scorecard Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu What To Watch Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Music News Album Reviews Concert Reviews Hitmakers Music For Screens Grammys Expand the sub menu Docs Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Tech Features Global VIP+ Tech Expand the sub menu Global News Asia Markets & Festivals Features Expand the sub menu Awards Circuit News Film Predictions TV Predictions Video Artisans Columns Awards Circuit Podcast Expand the sub menu Video Popular Cover Shoots - Behind the Scenes Actors on Actors Power of Women Events Artisans Expand the sub menu What to Hear Lists & Features Expand the sub menu VIP+ Daily Commentary Special Reports Video Expand the sub menu More Coverage Obituaries - submit obituaries to obits@variety.com Photos Podcasts Scene Voices Theater Expand the sub menu More Variety Live Media Summits Vscore Luminate - Film & TV Variety Archives Variety500 Industry Executives Have a News Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Alerts and Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Follow Us Got a Tip? Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Advertise About Contact Us Variety is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Variety Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Icon Link Plus Icon ad