Microsoft's HoloLens is no joke: My reality augmented with Skype, Minecraft - CNET X Your Guide To a Better Future Trending AI Tech VPN Streaming Services Mobile Home Entertainment Computing Services & Software Gaming All Tech Money Banking Credit Cards Mortgages Home Equity Taxes All Money Home Energy Electric Vehicles Home Security Smart Home Kitchen & Household Yard & Outdoors All Home Wellness Sleep Nutrition Fitness Personal Care All Wellness Home Internet Broadband By Location Internet Routers All Home Internet Deals Tech Home Wellness Gift Guides All Deals Gift Guide Cover Stories More Video Price Finder Editors' Choice CNET Perspectives All More Back Today's Highlights 01 Tariff Pricing Tracker: We're Watching 11 Products You Might Need to Buy 02 At Just $169, Apple's AirPods Pro 2 Just Matched Their Lowest Price of the Year 03 This Modest Gadget Is the New Superhero of the Energy-Efficient Home 04 iPhone 16E vs. Pixel 9A: I Tested the Cameras and Was Surprised 05 Unlock Green Tea’s Hidden Benefits for Focus and Calm 06 Preparing for a Recession? 6 Financial Tips That Make Sense 07 Hybrid Meat Is All the Rage. Here's Why It's Worth Trying 08 Nintendo Switch 2 Preorder Guide 09 Tariffs Explained: What It All Means for You AI ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now Wellness 9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep 10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More 7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood Back Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it. Explore all Best VPN Deals Best Gifts Under $300 Apple Deals iPad MacBook AirPods iPhone TV & Audio Deals TV Roku Sonos Streaming Gaming Deals Xbox PS5 Nintendo Switch Gaming PCs Back Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank. Explore all Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals Best Amazon Deals Smart Home Deals Smart Home Home Security Robot Vacuum Smart Thermostat Equipment Deals Portable ACs Generators Electric Lawnmowers Air Purifiers Kitchen Deals Coffee Makers Keurig Air Fryers Back Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings. Explore all Best Mattress Deals Fitness Gifts Fitness Deals & Gifts Fitbit Garmin Meal Delivery Kit Glasses and Contacts Back Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion. Explore all 100 Days of Holiday DIY Father's Day Gifts Under $100 Under $50 Hottest Toys Online Flower Delivery Services Gaming Tweens Available on Amazon People Who Already Have It All Gift Baskets Back Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives. Explore all My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds How Good Are EVs in the Cold? I Drove in the Arctic to Find Out Meet the AI Fraud Fighters: A Deepfake Granny, Digital Bots and a YouTube Star Inside the Rise of 7,000 Starlink Satellites – and Their Inevitable Downfall Big TVs Are the Next Frontier, but It's a Complicated Picture Sleep Isn't Cheap. Still, You Don't Have to Break the Bank Back AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas. Explore all Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? ChatGPT Glossary: 42 AI Terms That Everyone Should Know AI News Samsung's Galaxy AI Update Google Gemini on the iPhone Hidden AI Features Available on Your iPhone Right Now Microsoft Is Testing an AI Chatbot for Xbox AI Products ChatGPT Google Gemini Microsoft Copilot Dall-E AI Guides Prompt Engineering What is an LLM? AI vs. AGI: What You Need to Know How to Get Started with ChatGPT Back Gift Guide Our gifting experts are obsessively searching for holiday gifts that are unique, thoughtful and suitable for any budget. Explore all Best Tech Gifts 30 of the Best Tech Gifts Under $100 for 2025 Best Gifts for Gamers in 2025 Best Travel Tech Gifts: Must-Haves for the Journey and the Destination Gifts For Kids Best Toys for Kids in 2025 34 Best Gifts for Teens in 2025 60+ Best Star Wars Gifts for 2025 Gifts for Everyone The 20 Best Gift Baskets of 2025: Find the Perfect Edible Gift Best Gifts Available on Amazon: From $10 to $250 32 Unique Gifts for People Who Have Everything Back VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy. Explore all Best VPN Best iPhone VPN Best Mac VPN Best VPNs Free Amazon Fire Stick Android Mobile Windows Streaming VPN Reviews ExpressVPN Surfshark NordVPN NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN Back Streaming Services News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming. Explore all Best Live Streaming Services Best Streaming Services Best Streaming Device Best Streaming Services Music Free TV Youtube TV vs. Hulu Live Anime 4K Netflix Alternatives Streaming Services for Kids Streaming Service Reviews YouTube TV Hulu Plus Live TV Netflix Max Back Mobile We deliver the best buying advice, news and how-to content on the coolest tech available. Explore all Best Phones Best Over Ear Headphones Best Phone Plans Best Phones iPhone Android Cheap Samsung Best Headphones Noise Cancelling Headphones Headphones Wireless Earbuds Budget Earbuds Best Phone Plans Family Prepaid Cheap Unlimited Data Back Home Entertainment We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies. Explore all Best TV Best Record Player Best Soundbar For Your Home Theater Home Theater Systems Projectors 4K Projectors AV Receiver Best of TVs 55-inch 65-inch 75-inch 85-Inch Budget Smart Best for Streaming Streaming Device Fire TV Stick Roku Back Computing What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it. Explore all Best Laptop Best Gaming PC Best Monitors Best Laptops Macbook Budget Chromebook HP Gaming 2-in-1 Windows Best Tablets Best Overall E-ink Tablet iPad Apple iPad 9th Gen Review Back Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day. Explore all Best Antivirus Best Password Manager Best Web Hosting Best Apps Language Learning Weather iPad Drawing Food Delivery Best Web Hosting Wordpress Cheap Minecraft Server VPS Software Reviews Hostinger Ionos GoDaddy A2 Software Downloads Download.com Back Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming. Explore all Best Quest 3 Games Best VR Headset Best Graphics Card Virtual Reality Best Meta Quest 2 Accessories Best Quest 2 Head Strap Meta Quest 2 Review The Best PSVR Games Console Gaming Best Nintendo Switch Multiplayer Games Best M2 SSD for PS5 Best PSVR 2 Games Steam Deck OLED Review Gaming Accessories Best Nintendo Switch Controller Best Meta Quest 2 Accessories Best Quest 2 Head Strap Best Gaming Chair Back Banking From high-yield savings accounts to no-fee checking accounts, CNET helps you get the most out of your bank accounts. Explore all Best Budgeting Apps Best 5% Savings Accounts CD & Saving Rates CD Rates Saving Accounts 5% Savings Accounts High-Yield Savings Accounts Budgeting Apps Budgeting Apps Rocket Money Pocketsmith YNAB Cleo Back Credit Cards From building your credit score to choosing the best credit card, CNET's experts are there every step of the way. Explore all Best Debit Cards for Kids and Teens Best Prepaid Debit Cards Reviews Prime Visa Chase Sapphire Preferred Chase Sapphire Reserve Chase Freedom Unlimited American Express Gold Blue Cash Everyday from Amex Reward Guides Chase Ultimate Rewards Guide Amex Points Guide How to Maximize Cash Back Back Mortgages From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about mortgages. Explore all Current Mortgage Rates Current Refinance Rates Mortgage Rates Compare Mortgage Rates 30-Year Rates FHA Mortgage Lenders Mortgage Rate Predictions Refinance Rates Compare Refinance Rates 15-Year 30-Year Refinancing Guide Back Home Equity From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about home equity. Explore all Best Home Equity Rates Best HELOC Rates Home Equity Lender Reviews Best Home Equity Loan Lenders LoanDepot Rocket Mortgage Figure Home Equity Bank Reviews Chase Bank of America U.S. Bank Citizens Home Equity Credit Union Reviews Golden 1 Credit Union Bethpage Federal Credit Union Credit Union of Texas Alliant Credit Union Back Mortgages & Home Equity From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about mortgages. Explore all Current Mortgage Rates Current Refinance Rates Mortgage Rates Compare Mortgage Rates 30-Year Rates FHA Mortgage Lenders Mortgage Rate Predictions Refinance Rates Compare Refinance Rates 15-Year 30-Year Refinancing Guide Home Equity Home Equity Loan Rates HELOC Rates Home Equity Lenders HELOC Lenders Back Taxes Everything you need to navigate tax season and get your biggest refund. Explore all Best Tax Software How to File Your Taxes for Free Best Tax Software Online Tax Software Free Tax Filing Self-Employed Taxes Tax Software Reviews TurboTax H&R Block Cash App Taxes TaxSlayer FreeTaxUSA TaxAct Jackson Hewitt IRA Direct File Back Identity Theft Keep your identity and personal data safe with expert-vetted ID theft protection services. ID Theft Services ID Theft Protection Aura LifeLock IdentityForce Zander Identity Guard IDShield Identity IQ Experian Identity Back Broadband Our experts can help you get online fast with helpful advice and tested, frequently-updated reviews of routers and internet service providers. Explore all Best Internet Speed Tests How to Keep Your Internet During a Power Outage Best Internet Providers Best Overall High-Speed Satellite Fiber Best Internet Deals Internet Deals Overall Cheap Internet Providers Internet and TV Bundles Internet Deals For Seniors Internet Provider Reviews Starlink Verizon 5G Spectrum AT&T Air T-Mobile 5G Xfinity Back By Location These are our top internet picks based on where you are in the United States. Explore all Best Internet Providers in Your Area Low Cost Internet Guide for All 50 States East Region New York City, NY Charlotte, NC New Jersey Atlanta, GA Central Region Chicago, IL Dallas, TX St Louis, MO Houston, TX West Region Los Angeles, CA Seattle, WA San Francisco, CA Denver, CO Back Internet Routers CNET experts unpack everything you need to know about internet routers. Explore all How to Reset Your Router The 3 Questions to Ask Before Changing Your Router Our Top Picks for Routers Best Overall Mesh Wi-Fi Router Systems Gaming Routers Wi-Fi Extenders Mesh Wi-Fi Router Reviews Eero 6 Plus Nest Wifi Pro TP-Link Deco XE75 Netgear Orbi AX6000 Router Comparisons Nest Wifi vs Google Wifi Eero 6 Plus vs Eero Pro 6E Nest Wifi Pro vs Eero Pro 6E Nest Wifi vs Nest Wifi Pro Back Energy We help you balance cost savings and comfort at home 24/7. Explore all Best Portable Power Stations Best Solar Generators Best Alkaline Batteries Best in Solar Power Batteries Panels Inverters Portable Solar Panels Solar Equipment Reviews SolarEdge Battery Tesla Solar Roof Tesla Powerwall 3 Tesla Solar Panels Home Energy Systems Tank Water Heaters vs. Tankless Water Heaters Heat Pump vs. Furnace Heat Pump vs. Air Conditioner Battery vs. Generator Back Electric Vehicles Expert guidance on the future of transportation Explore all 2025 Audi Q6, SQ6 E-Tron: Audi's Newest EV Is Its Most Compelling The 2024 EV Tax Credit: Save Big on These Vehicles Best EVs Electric Cars Most Affordable Electric SUVs Plug-In Hybrids EV Charging Best EV Charger Home EV Charging Explained Free and Easy EV Charging Options News and Guides The 2024 EV Tax Credit Guide The Nicest Charging Station I've Visited States Banning Gas Powered Cars Are Electric Vehicles Good for Our Planet? Back Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure. Explore all Best Home Security Camera Best Video Doorbell Cameras Best Outdoor Home Security Cameras Best Security Systems Homes DIY Cheap Apartments Best Security Cameras Without a Subscription Indoor Security Cameras Wireless Solar-Powered Best Security Products Ring Video Doorbells Nanny Cams Smoke Detector Smart Locks Back Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you. Explore all Smart Thermostats Smart Plugs Best in Smart Home Outdoor Smart Plugs Smart Hubs & Displays Smart Devices Smart Lights Smart Speakers Back Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly. Explore all Best Cordless Vacuums Best Robot Vacuum Best Air Purifiers Best in Vacuums & Appliances Vacuum Cleaners Robot Vacuums Dishwashers Dehumidifiers Tower Fans Refrigerators Best in Office Needs Office Chairs Standing Desks Surge Protectors Best in Cooking Needs Air Fryers Toaster Ovens Bread Machines Microwaves Back Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp. Explore all Best Grills Best Fire Pits Best Patio Heaters Best Grills Portable Grills Gas Grills Pellet Grills Charcoal Grills Kamado Grills Grilling Tools & Accessories Best Equipment for Home Leaf Blowers Electric Lawn Mowers Pressure Washers Coolers Cordless Drill Back Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night. Explore all Best Mattress Best Firm Mattress Best Queen Size Mattress Mattress Reviews Purple Helix Layla Nectar Beautyrest Saatva DreamCloud Best Mattresses Memory Foam King-Size Hybrid Organic Soft Firm Adjustable Side Sleepers Hotel Best Sleep Products Earplugs for Sleeping Cooling Comforters Sleep Headphones Heated Blankets Back Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy. Explore all Best Meal Delivery Services Best Vitamins and Supplements Best Vitamins & Supplements Multivitamins Vitamins for Healthy Hair, Skin and Nails Vitamins for Energy Creatine Supplements Best Meal Kits Meat Keto Cheapest Healthy Vegan Meal Kit Reviews HelloFresh Hungryroot Grocery Fresh N Lean EveryPlate Back Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need. Explore all Best Treadmills Best Ellipticals Best Exercise Bikes Best Fitness Equipment Peloton Alternatives Rowing Machines Home Exercise Equipment Smart Home Gyms Best Fitness Accessories Massage Guns Smart Scale Chest Strap Heart-Rate Monitors Compression Socks Best Virtual Fitness Weightlifting Shoes YouTube Channels for Free Workouts Workout Apps for Women Fitness Apps Tonal Smart Home Gym Review Back Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean. Explore all Best Places to Buy Glasses Online Best Places to Buy Contact Lenses Online Best Electric Toothbrushes Best in Eyewear Places to Buy Replacement Prescription Lenses Online Reading Glasses Blue-Light-Blocking Glasses Prescription Sunglasses Best in Dental Care Invisible Braces Options Teeth-Whitening Strips Teeth Whitening Kits Best In Skincare Facial Sunscreens Vitamin C Serums Mineral Sunscreens Reef-Safe Sunscreens Brands You Should Try Back Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world. Explore all Back Price Finder CNET Shopping helps you get the best prices on your favorite products. Get promo codes and discounts with a single click. Explore all Back Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend. Explore all 2024 Winners Money & Health Tools AI, Smart Home & Future Tech Subscription Services EVs, Energy Tech & Solar Services Phones, Earbuds, Laptops, TVs & More Back CNET Perspectives CNET Perspectives is a select group of creators, experts and thought leaders sharing first-person perspectives about our changing world. Explore all Science Microsoft's HoloLens is no joke: My reality augmented with Skype, Minecraft At its Windows 10 event, Microsoft shows off a convincing prototype that floats 3D images before your eyes and can change the look of real-world objects. So where does it go from here? Nick Statt Former Staff Reporter / News Nick Statt was a staff reporter for CNET News covering Microsoft, gaming, and technology you sometimes wear. He previously wrote for ReadWrite, was a news associate at the social-news app Flipboard, and his work has appeared in Popular Science and Newsweek. When not complaining about Bay Area bagel quality, he can be found spending a questionable amount of time contemplating his relationship with video games. See full bio Nick Statt Jan. 21, 2015  5:03 p.m. PT 5 min read With the HoloLens, Microsoft promises it can deliver a true next-gen computing experience while other tech giants struggle to do the same. Microsoft REDMOND, Wash. -- In the bowels of Building 92, hidden underneath the company's public visitor center in a secret series of labs, Microsoft let a few people try out what may be the most ambitious Windows device ever made: a holographic headset that aims to rival the most advanced virtual reality devices out there. Microsoft's HoloLens is expected to run Windows 10 and apps -- holographic ones that will float in front of your line of vision and apps that can be run on phones, tablets, PCs and the Xbox One game console. With the holographic programs, Microsoft is trying to transform how we think about computing, productivity and communication. Just as VR rivals Oculus (owned by Facebook) and Google are trying to reimagine virtual experiences with their head-worn devices, Microsoft wants us to imagine a world without screens, where information merely floats in front of you. Watch this: 5 things you need to know about Microsoft HoloLens 01:39 "We're not talking about putting you into virtual worlds," HoloLens leader Alex Kipman said Wednesday during an event at Microsoft's headquarters here. "We're dreaming beyond virtual worlds, beyond screens, beyond pixels." Kipman started working at Microsoft seven years ago, when he pitched the idea for the Kinect motion camera, a video game device that tracked a player's body movements. The Kinect went on to become one of the fastest-selling devices in history. For the last five years, Kipman has been focused on taking the innovations inside the Kinect -- cheap and powerful motion-sensing cameras, voice control -- and packing them into a pair of transparent goggles. Microsoft appears far along in realizing this augmented reality vision. With HoloLens today, the company has designed a convincing prototype that floats 3D images in front of you and that can change the look of real-world objects all around. But it's unclear how Microsoft expects to deliver on CEO Satya Nadella's commitment that such a device will be for both consumers and businesses. Also unsaid: How much it will cost. Microsoft said it expects to release a finished HoloLens within the same time frame as Windows 10, which should arrive sometime this year. The Oculus Rift's various developer kits, on the other hand, have cost upward of $300 in the past, with its consumer model expected to come in between $200 and $400. Samsung's Gear VR headset runs around $350. Microsoft's glasses are different from Oculus Rift goggles, which promise to transport you to a different world and open up numerous possibilities for film, TV, sports and other entertainment. HoloLens uses a technology called augmented reality, which overlays images onto real life and lets you interact with them. In theory, this is easy, but the biggest struggles competitors have had so far have been to design a headset that can stand alone, untethered from a computer or power source, and travel into various environments. Overcoming those challenges is necessary before mainstream consumers will buy into such a bold vision for next-generation computing. From Mars to Minecraft As we're led down the stairs into the basement, we're told that we can't try the more polished, all-in-one prototype Microsoft just showed onstage. Instead, we'll be using an earlier, uglier prototype. The company doesn't allow smartphones or cameras into the room. The device's holographic processing unit, the special processor Microsoft designed to basically help the HoloLens interpret movement and sound, is cased in a separate, chunky box intended to be worn around your neck. The glasses aren't the sleek, space gray model Microsoft unveiled this morning, but a mass of metal. A long chord tethers me to a pair of PCs that are helping feed the goggles their images. Microsoft's more polished HoloLens prototype contains an entirely enclosed computer with its own specialized processor, the holographic processor unit, or HPU. Microsoft Wearing the device is not quite as comfortable as wearing the latest Oculus Rift prototype or Samsung's Gear VR headset. And the image I begin to see onscreen when I strap the lenses over my eyes isn't that much sharper than those offered up by the competing devices. Rather, the biggest departure -- and where Microsoft is truly differentiating its HoloLens -- is how the image I see allows me to interact with my environment instead of escape from it. The first demo, created in partnership with NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, takes me to the surface of a near-photorealistic Mars. Using real photography from the Curiosity rover, Microsoft was able to re-create a Martian landscape and overlay a 3D-map around a small, conference-room-size environment. I can walk around, bend down and look at rocks. I can even see NASA's Curiosity rover, which is larger than a standard motor vehicle. With HoloLens, I'm not just able to see what it's like to walk around on Mars, but I'm also able to interact with the contents on the surface. Using a finger gesture called Air Tap, the HoloLens lets me mark certain spots on the surface for investigation and even lets me talk with another floating figure and collaborate on examining the surface. NASA hopes to get the HoloLens up and running as a day-to-day tool at JPL by the summer, allowing researchers for the first time to visualize and map out exactly where Curiosity will drill, traverse and photograph the surface of the planet. Microsoft worked with NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory to design a real-time Mars environment for researchers to better control the Curiosity rover's movements and study the planet's surface. Microsoft Like the Oculus Rift, Microsoft is also pushing the HoloLens as an entirely new way to experience video games. After purchasing Minecraft creator Mojang in September for $2.5 billion, Microsoft now owns the popular pixel building game and decided to create its own holographic demo based on the game's artistic style. The demo turns an entire room into a lively game world, punching holes into tables and through the walls to reveal interactive environments that can be changed with the tap of a finger. Perhaps the most stunning demo, however, was the most practical: Skype's videoconferencing software. Microsoft had us repair a light switch by video chatting with someone using a Microsoft Surface Pro 3 tablet. Their face bobbed in front of my line of vision while I received instructions. To help us maneuver around the various tools, the Microsoft employee was able to draw on our line of sight in real time, using arrows and rudimentary diagrams to describe the best way to position electronics and how to piece everything together. Check out what the Microsoft HoloLens can do (pictures) +17 More See all photos The demo was unique in that it showcased a feasible and realistic use of augmented reality that wasn't bombastic or meant to marvel. I was able to do something I can say I haven't done in quite a long time with help from a total stranger  who was seeing through my eyes and drawing on my reality to direct me through a task. After checking the voltage on the wires, wrapping coils around the respective screws and capping the loose wires, I picked up a remote control and tapped a button. The light came to life. I had only to look up so the person on the other end of my eyes could see the end result of our successful collaboration. Your guide to a better future Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Coupons Videos Software Downloads About CNET Press Room Newsletters Licensing Sitemap Careers Accessibility Cookie Settings Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information instagram youtube tiktok facebook x flipboard US France Germany Japan Korea © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company.   All rights reserved.