Tour de France 2019 results today: Egan Bernal becomes first Colombian to win Tour de France - CBS News Latest U.S. Pope Francis Coverage World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio Local News Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes America Decides CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Eye on America Face the Nation Here Comes the Sun Sunday Morning The Takeout The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed CBS Village Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Davos Interviews A Moment With... Innovators & Disruptors Economy 4.0 U.S. Pope Francis Coverage World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports Watch CBS News World Egan Bernal is first Colombian to win Tour de France July 28, 2019 / 4:35 PM EDT / AP Colombia's Egan Bernal (C) wears the overall leader's yellow jersey as he celebrates his victory at the Tour de France in Paris on Sun., July 28, 2019. Getty Egan Bernal has become the first Colombian to win the Tour de France as the three-week race ended with the 21st and final stage on the Champs-Elysees. At 22, Bernal is the youngest Tour winner in the post-World War II era. "I cannot believe it. It's just incredible. I am sorry. I have no words," Bernal said through a translator. "I still can't understand what is happening to me." The slightly built Colombian with a killer instinct on the road proved to be the strongest of the 176 strong men who roared off from the start in Brussels, Belgium, on July 6 on their three-week, 2,092-mile odyssey that delivered the most absorbing, drama-packed Tour in decades and a new cycling superstar in the making: Bernal. Bernal succeeded Ineos teammate Geraint Thomas as the British outfit posted a seventh Tour victory with a fourth different rider in eight years. Thomas, a 33-year-old from Wales, had to settle for second place this year. Dutch rider Steven Kruijswijk completed the podium Sunday. Keeping with Tour tradition on its final day, the stage started at a pedestrian pace and in a joyful atmosphere. Bernal chatted with French rival Julian Alaphilippe and raised a glass of champagne as he rode. Speaking in French before the start, Bernal thanked "France for organizing the most beautiful race in the world, and the most beautiful victory of my life." Colombia's Egan Bernal (C) celebrates his overall leader's yellow jersey on the podium of the 21st and last stage of the 106th edition of the Tour de France cycling race between Rambouillet and Paris Champs-Elysees, in Paris on Sun. July 28, 2019. Getty More from CBS News 3 airmen killed in WWII accounted for 82 years after bomber crash Man shot by police at Toronto airport 2025 NFL Draft: Day 1 recap of first-round picks 5 former Canadian junior hockey players plead not guilty in sex assault case Explorers at WWII shipwreck find aircraft from legendary battle © 2019 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. More from CBS News 3 airmen killed in WWII accounted for 82 years after bomber crash Man shot by police at Toronto airport 2025 NFL Draft: Day 1 recap of first-round picks 5 former Canadian junior hockey players plead not guilty in sex assault case Featured Who Will Be the Next Pope? What Happens Next After Pope Francis' Death 2025 NFL Draft Live Blog NBA Playoffs Live Blog Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue Be the first to know Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting. Not Now Turn On