Elon Musk’s 5 Best Investments Skip to content News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Live Search Search Please fill out this field. Search Search Please fill out this field. News News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Follow Us Table of Contents Expand Table of Contents 1. PayPal 2. SpaceX 3. DeepMind Technologies 4. Tesla Motors 5. The Boring Company FAQs The Bottom Line Stocks Top Stocks Elon Musk’s 5 Best Investments By Sean Ross Full Bio Sean Ross is a strategic adviser at 1031x.com, Investopedia contributor, and the founder and manager of Free Lances Ltd. Learn about our editorial policies Updated January 09, 2025 Reviewed by Gordon Scott Reviewed by Gordon Scott Full Bio Gordon Scott has been an active investor and technical analyst or 20+ years. He is a Chartered Market Technician (CMT). Learn about our Financial Review Board Fact checked by Ryan Eichler Fact checked by Ryan Eichler Full Bio Ryan Eichler holds a B.S.B.A with a concentration in Finance from Boston University. He has held positions in, and has deep experience with, expense auditing, personal finance, real estate, as well as fact checking & editing. Learn about our editorial policies SONNY TUMBELAKA / Contributor / Getty Images Close Elon Musk is famous for his business prowess, communication style, and his role as a tech visionary. He's often been hailed as a genius. Musk is the owner of privately held X (formerly Twitter) and the CEO and co-founder of Tesla ( TSLA ), the electric vehicle company. He's also the CEO and lead designer of the aerospace company SpaceX. Elon Musk has generated his wealth primarily through companies that he founded but part of his fortune also comes from passive investments . These make it into the top five. Key Takeaways Musk’s best investments include PayPal, SpaceX, DeepMind Technologies, Tesla, and The Boring Company. Elon Musk is an engineer, industrial designer, and technology entrepreneur known for disrupting multiple industries. Musk holds the distinction of being the world's richest person as of January 2025. Musk's net worth was reportedly $424.1 billion as of Jan. 6, 2025. Investopedia / Bailey Mariner 1. PayPal Musk co-founded X.com, an online financial services and email payment company, in 1999. X.com merged with Confinity a year later and renamed PayPal ( PYPL ) in 2001. PayPal was purchased by eBay ( EBAY ) for $1.5 billion on Oct. 3, 2002. Musk owned 7,109,989 shares of PayPal at the time of the sale and this made him the largest shareholder with a stake of 11.7%. Musk no longer holds a stake in PayPal. He exited his position after the sale of the company and used his proceeds to fund investments including SpaceX, Tesla, and SolarCity. 2. SpaceX Musk founded Space Exploration Technologies Corp., commonly known as SpaceX, in 2002. The company's founding mission is to revolutionize space technology by developing spacecraft that carries humans to Mars and other places in the solar system. NASA awarded SpaceX a lucrative contract in 2006. SpaceX launched Falcon 1, the first private liquid-propellant rocket to reach orbit, in 2008. SpaceX’s Dragon spacecraft reached the International Space Station (ISS) in 2010. NASA granted SpaceX a second contract to help shuttle crew members between the ISS and Earth in 2012. SpaceX has also been heavily involved in NASA's Artemis program which seeks to place humans on the moon again and eventually Mars. The first contract for SpaceX for the Artemis program was inked in 2021 for $2.9 billion. The goal is to transport astronauts aboard its Starship vehicles from lunar orbit to the surface of the moon. Another contract was awarded in 2022 for $1.15 billion. 3. DeepMind Technologies The artificial intelligence (AI) company DeepMind Technologies was launched in late 2010 with Musk as one of its key angel investors. Google ( GOOGL ) announced that it had acquired the company for an undisclosed amount in January 2014. Important Elon Musk’s reported net worth was $424.1 billion as of Jan. 6, 2025. Musk is famously worried about AI overtaking humans and is reported to have invested in DeepMind to stay abreast of how rapidly the technology behind AI is developing rather than to make money. DeepMind has focused much of its research on deep reinforcement learning which is an AI technique that combines deep learning which is primarily for recognizing patterns with reinforcement learning. DeepMind developed this type of learning based on reward signals such as a score in a game and gave the technique its name in a 2013 white paper. Google combined two of its AI divisions in 2023: DeepMind and the Brain team from Google Research. The new group was tagged Google DeepMind. Google has used AI to improve some of its core products such as Search, YouTube, and Gmail and it continues to make developments in the AI space. 4. Tesla Motors Musk was not a founding member of Tesla but he led an early round of financing in 2004. He went from being a board member of Tesla to its CEO in 2008 even while still serving as the CEO of SpaceX. Tesla launched its initial public offering (IPO) on Nasdaq on June 28, 2010 with shares of common stock initially available to the public at $17 per share. Its share price has peaked at about $400 since then. Tesla’s mission is to accelerate sustainable transportation by introducing mass-market electric cars to the public. Tesla announced the creation of fully electric tractor-trailer trucks in November 2017. They were preordered by companies including United Parcel Service (UPS) and PepsiCo. The company’s electric vehicles include the Model S, Model Y, Model X, the Model 3, and the high-end Roadster supercar. Fast Fact Musk owned approximately 12% of Tesla as of January 2025. 5. The Boring Company Musk founded the infrastructure and tunnel construction company known as The Boring Company in 2017. The company was founded on the premise that traffic is awful but traveling above ground isn’t necessary. Traffic woes can be "solved" by using the miles and miles of earth beneath roadways. The company’s goal is to reduce the cost of tunneling while also making production more efficient. The Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority approved a $48.6 million proposal from The Boring Company in March 2019 to build an underground tunnel called the LVCC Loop. It travels beneath the Las Vegas Convention Center and features three stations and a pedestrian tunnel. The Boring Company officially opened the LVCC Loop in April 2021. The company has additional projects in Hawthorne, California and Las Vegas. Should You Invest Like Elon Musk? Musk is one of the world’s richest people and the founder of more than one company that has disrupted its respective industry. People around the world are interested in him and how he’s accumulated such a fortune. You can choose to invest in one or more of Musk's companies but your investment and business decisions are personal choices that you should customize. What Companies Does Elon Musk Own? Musk is primarily known for his leadership of the electric vehicle company Tesla although he also leads SpaceX, the neurotechnology company Neuralink, Twitter, and The Boring Company. How Much Money Did Elon Musk Make From PayPal? Musk earned upward of $175 million when PayPal was sold to eBay in 2002, based on the total estimated purchase price of $1.5 billion. He was the largest shareholder at the time of the sale holding 7,109,989 shares of PayPal, an 11.7% stake. The Bottom Line Elon Musk has founded, led, and invested in many businesses, most of which have become very successful companies, making him one of the richest people in the world and often the richest. Known for his eccentric personality, Musk continues to shape different areas of the world from electric cars to social media to space exploration. Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. PayPal. " History & Facts ." U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. " eBay to Acquire PayPal. " U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Filing. " PayPal Inc., 2001 Form 10-K ." NASA. “ SpaceX CRS-5 Mission Cargo Resupply Services ,” Pages 22–23. SpaceX. " Mission. " NASA. " NASA Awards SpaceX Second Contract Option for Artemis Moon Landing ." NASA. " As Artemis Moves Forward, NASA Picks SpaceX to Land Next Americans on Moon. " DeepMind. “ Build AI Responsibly to Benefit Humanity .” Forbes. " Elon Musk ." DeepMind. “ Playing Atari With Deep Reinforcement Learning .” Google. " Google DeepMind: Bringing Together Two World-Class AI Teams ." Tesla. “ Corporate Governance: Elon Musk .” Tesla. “ Tesla Announces Pricing of Initial Public Offering .” Yahoo! Finance. “ Tesla, Inc. (TSLA) .” Tesla. “ Semi .” Tesla. “ Tesla Gallery .” Boring Company. " Boring Company ." Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. " LVCVA Board of Directors Votes to Move Forward With Elon Musk's The Boring Company ." Boring Company. “ Projects .” Tesla. " Elon Musk ." Take the Next Step to Invest Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Partner Links Take the Next Step to Invest Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Related Articles Top 10 Largest Global IPOs of All Time Best Gold Stocks to Watch in April 2025 Best Penny Stocks to Watch in April 2025, Using Technical Analysis Best Energy Stocks to Watch in April 2025 Best Health Care Stocks to Watch in April 2025 Best Undervalued Stocks to Watch in April 2025 Top 25 Stocks in the S&P 500 by Index Weight for April 2025 Discrete Probability Distribution: Overview and Examples Warren Buffett’s 2025 Portfolio: What Stocks He’s Betting Big On Right Now Pro Rata: What It Means and Formula to Calculate It Uniform Distribution: Definition, How It Works, and Examples WhatsApp: The Best Meta Purchase Ever? Walt Disney: How Entertainment Became an Empire How the PayPal Mafia Looks Set to Dominate the New Trump Administration 4 Ratios to Evaluate Dividend Stocks The One Trait Warren Buffett's Mentor Says Almost Always Leads Investors to Financial Disaster About Us Terms of Service Dictionary Editorial Policy Advertise News Privacy Policy Contact Us Careers Your Privacy Choices # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Investopedia is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies