GPT-4o explained: Everything you need to know WhatIs Search the TechTarget Network Browse Definitions 		: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z # Login Register TechTarget Network Tech Accelerator News 2024 IT Salary Survey Results RSS WhatIs Browse Definitions Artificial intelligence Data analytics and AI View All Algorithms Data and data management Database management Business software View All ERP HR management Marketing and CX Microsoft Software applications Cloud computing View All Internet applications Internet of Things Web services Computer science View All Electronics Internet technologies IT standards and organizations Microprocessors Robotics Data analytics and AI View All Algorithms Artificial intelligence Data and data management Database management Data centers View All Data backup and disaster recovery Data center management Linux Operating systems Storage Admin Storage and Data Mgmt Virtualization IT management View All Certifications IT career paths IT Operations Personal computing Project management Technical support Networking View All High-speed networks Network Admin Network hardware Networking and communications Wireless and mobile Security View All Authentication and access control Compliance, risk and governance Network security Security Admin Threat management Software development View All Agile software development AppDev DevOps Programming Please select a category Business software Cloud computing Computer science Data analytics and AI Data centers IT management Networking Security Software development Browse Features Resources Business strategies Career resources Emerging tech Tech explainers Follow: Home Artificial intelligence Tech Accelerator What is GenAI? Generative AI explained Prev Next What is semantic search? What is data poisoning (AI poisoning) and how does it work? Download this guide 1 X Free Download What is GenAI? Generative AI explained Generative artificial intelligence, or GenAI, uses sophisticated algorithms to organize large, complex data sets into meaningful clusters of information to create new content, including text, images and audio, in response to a query or prompt. While the technology is still in relatively early -- and volatile -- days, progress thus far has already resulted in generative AI fundamentally changing enterprise technology and transforming how businesses operate. This guide takes a deeper look at how GenAI works and its implications, with hyperlinks throughout to guide you to articles, tips and definitions providing even more detailed explanations. Feature GPT-4o explained: Everything you need to know OpenAI's GPT-4o is a multimodal large language model that supports real-time conversations, Q&A, text generation and more. The vendor also offers GPT-4o mini. Share this item with your network: By Sean Michael Kerner Published: 22 Jan 2025 The foundation of OpenAI's success and popularity is the company's GPT family of large language models ( LLMs ), including GPT-3 and GPT-4, alongside the company's ChatGPT conversational AI service. OpenAI announced GPT-4 Omni (GPT-4o) as the company's new flagship multimodal language model on May 13, 2024, during the company's Spring Updates event. As part of the event, OpenAI released multiple videos demonstrating the intuitive voice response and output capabilities of the model. In July 2024, OpenAI launched GPT-4o mini, its most advanced small model. What is GPT-4o? GPT-4o is the flagship model of the OpenAI LLM technology portfolio. The o stands for "omni" and isn't just some kind of marketing hyperbole, but rather a reference to the model's multiple modalities for text, vision and audio. The GPT-4o model marks the next evolution of the GPT-4 LLM that OpenAI first released in March 2023. This isn't the first update for GPT-4 either, as the model got a boost in November 2023 with the debut of GPT-4 Turbo . The GPT acronym stands for Generative Pre-trained Transformer . A transformer model is a foundational element of generative AI, providing a neural network architecture that can understand and generate new outputs. This article is part of What is GenAI? Generative AI explained Which also includes: 8 top generative AI tool categories for 2025 Will AI replace jobs? 17 job types that might be affected 25 of the best large language models in 2025 GPT-4o goes beyond GPT-4 Turbo in terms of both capabilities and performance. As was the case with its GPT-4 predecessors, GPT-4o can be used for text generation use cases, such as summarization and knowledge-based Q&A. The model is also capable of reasoning, solving complex math problems and coding. The GPT-4o model introduces a new rapid audio input response that -- according to OpenAI -- is like that of a human, with an average response time of 320 milliseconds. The model can also respond with an AI-generated voice that sounds human. Rather than having multiple separate models that understand audio, images -- which OpenAI refers to as vision -- and text, GPT-4o combines those modalities into a single model. As such, GPT-4o can understand any combination of text, image and audio input and respond with outputs in any of those forms. The promise of GPT-4o and its high-speed audio multimodal responsiveness is that it enables the model to engage in more natural and intuitive interactions with users. OpenAI has had a series of incremental updates for GPT-4o since it was first released in May 2024. In August 2024, support was added for structured outputs that let the model generate code responses that work within a specified JSON schema. The most recent GPT-4o update came on November 20, 2024, providing a maximum token output of 16,384, up from 4,096 when the model was first released in May 2024. What is GPT-4o mini? As is the case for the full version, OpenAI's GPT-4o mini has a 128K context window with a maximum token output of 16,384 tokens. Training data for GPT-4o mini also goes through October 2023. What differentiates GPT-4o mini from the full model is its size, which lets it run faster and at lower cost. OpenAI does not currently publicly reveal the parameter count size of its models. According to OpenAI, GPT-4o mini is smarter and 60% cheaper than GPT-3.5 Turbo, which had previously been the vendor's smaller and faster model variant. In terms of textual intelligence, GPT-4o mini outperformed GPT-3.5 Turbo on the Measuring Massive Multitask Language Understanding (MMLU) benchmark with a score of 82% vs. 69.8%. For developers, GPT-4o mini is an attractive option for use cases that don't require the full model, which is more expensive to operate. The mini model is well suited for use cases where there is a high volume of API calls, such as customer support applications, receipt processing and email responses. GPT-4o mini is available in text and vision models for developers with an OpenAI account through the Assistants API, Chat Completions API and Batch API. As of July 2024, GPT-4o mini replaced GPT-3.5 Turbo as the base model option in ChatGPT. It is also an option for ChatGPT Plus, Pro, Enterprise and Team users. What can GPT-4o do? At the time of its release, GPT-4o was the most capable of all the OpenAI models in terms of both functionality and performance. The many things GPT-4o can do include the following: Real-time interactions. The GPT-4o model can engage in real-time verbal conversations without any real noticeable delays. Knowledge-based Q&A. As was the case with all prior GPT-4 models, GPT-4o has been trained with a knowledge base and can respond to questions. Text summarization and generation. As was the case with all prior GPT-4 models, GPT-4o can execute common text LLM tasks, including text summarization and generation. Multimodal reasoning and generation. GPT-4o integrates text, voice and vision into a single model, allowing it to process and respond to a combination of data types. The model can understand audio, images and text at the same speed. It can also generate responses via audio, images and text. Language and audio processing. GPT-4o has advanced capabilities in handling more than 50 different languages. Sentiment analysis. The model understands user sentiment across different modalities of text, audio and video. Voice nuance. GPT-4o can generate speech with emotional nuances. This makes it effective for applications requiring sensitive and nuanced communication. Audio content analysis. The model can generate and understand spoken language, which can be applied in voice-activated systems, audio content analysis and interactive storytelling. Real-time translation. The multimodal capabilities of GPT-4o support real-time translation from one language to another. Image understanding and vision. The model can analyze images and videos, allowing users to upload visual content that GPT-4o will understand, explain and provide analysis for. Data analysis. The vision and reasoning capabilities let users analyze data contained in data charts. GPT-4o can also create data charts based on analysis or a prompt. Software development. GPT-4o can generate new code for an application, as well as analyze and debug existing code. File uploads. Beyond the knowledge cutoff, GPT-4o supports file uploads, letting users analyze specific data for analysis. Memory and contextual awareness. GPT-4o can remember previous interactions and maintain context over longer conversations. Large context window. With a context window supporting up to 128,000 tokens, GPT-4o can maintain coherence over longer conversations or documents, making it suitable for detailed analysis. Reduced hallucination and improved safety. The model is designed to minimize the generation of incorrect or misleading information . Enhanced safety protocols make sure outputs are appropriate and safe for users. The capabilities provided by GPT-4o support many industry use cases, including the following: Customer support. Organizations can use GPT-4o to build chatbots for real-time interactions. Legal. GPT-4o can help law firms summarize cases, as well as perform legal research and contract reviews. Medical. Health organizations can use GPT-4o for patient record analysis and diagnostic assistance. Education and training. GPT-4o can help educational institutions create interactive tutorials and explain content. How to use GPT-4o There are several ways users and organizations can use GPT-4o. ChatGPT Free. The GPT-4o model is available to free users of OpenAI's ChatGPT chatbot. ChatGPT Free users have restricted message access and will not get access to some advanced features, including vision, file uploads and data analysis. ChatGPT Plus. Users of OpenAI's paid service for ChatGPT get full access to GPT-4o, without the feature restrictions that are in place for free users. As of December 2024, ChatGPT Plus costs $20 a month. ChatGPT Pro. ChatGPT Pro -- the most advanced version of ChatGPT that includes the o1 models -- also provides access to GPT-4o. As of December 2024, ChatGPT Pro costs $200 a month. ChatGPT Team. The group-oriented version of ChatGPT also provides access to GPT-4o. As of December 2024, ChatGPT Team costs $25 per user, per month. API access. Developers can access GPT-4o through OpenAI ' s API. This allows for integration into applications to make full use of GPT-4o ' s capabilities for tasks. API pricing as of Dec. 2024 for GPT-4o is $2.50 per 1M input tokens and $10.00 per 1M output tokens. Pricing for GPT-4o mini is $0.150 per 1M input tokens and $0.600 per 1M output tokens. Desktop applications. OpenAI has integrated GPT-4o into desktop applications, including a new app for Apple's macOS that was also launched on May 13. Custom GPTs. Organizations can create custom GPT versions of GPT-4o tailored to specific business needs or departments. Custom models can be offered to users via OpenAI's GPT Store. Microsoft OpenAI Service. Users can explore GPT-4o's capabilities in a preview mode within the Microsoft Azure OpenAI Studio that's designed to handle multimodal inputs, including text and vision. Variability is based on region. The global price for GPT-4o is $2.50 per 1M input tokens and $10.00 per 1M output tokens, while pricing for GPT-4o mini is $0.150 per 1M input tokens and $0.600 per 1M output tokens. Limitations of GPT-4o While GPT-4o provides many capabilities, the model has the following limitations: Context window. GPT-4o's context window limit of 128K is sufficient for many tasks, but not all of them. Google claims its Gemini Pro 1.5 model has a 2 million token context window. Knowledge cutoff. The training data for GPT-4o is limited to data from October 2023 or earlier. Hallucination risk. As with any generative AI model, GPT-4o isn't perfect and does have a risk of generating AI hallucinations. Bias. While OpenAI has tried to limit bias , there is still the potential for the model to provide responses that might not be representative of diverse perspectives. Reasoning. GPT-4o is limited in its ability to reason, especially in comparison to OpenAI's o1 model family, which has been designed specifically to solve that challenge. Security. The is a potential risk that GPT-4o can be influenced by adversarial inputs that aim to trick the model into an unexpected output. GPT-4 vs. GPT-4 Turbo vs. GPT-4o Here's a quick look at the differences between GPT-4, GPT-4 Turbo and GPT-4o: Feature/Model GPT-4 GPT-4 Turbo GPT-4o Release Date March 14, 2023 November 2023 May 13, 2024 Context Window 8,192 tokens 128,000 tokens 128,000 tokens Knowledge Cutoff September 2021 December 2023 October 2023 Input Modalities Text, limited image handling Text, images (enhanced) Text, images, audio (full multimodal capabilities) Vision Capabilities Basic Enhanced, includes image generation via Dall-E 3 Advanced vision and audio capabilities Multimodal Capabilities Limited Enhanced image and text processing Full integration of text, image and audio Editor's note: This article was updated in January 2025 to reflect updated product and pricing information and to improve the reader experience. Sean Michael Kerner is an IT consultant, technology enthusiast and tinkerer. He has pulled Token Ring, configured NetWare and been known to compile his own Linux kernel. He consults with industry and media organizations on technology issues. Next Steps GPT-4o vs. GPT-4: How do they compare? Generative AI vs. machine learning: How are they different? Pros and cons of AI-generated content Gemini 1.5 Pro explained: Everything you need to know Foundation models explained Related Resources From Shield to Spear: How AI is Reshaping Cyber Defense and Offense –Talk AI and ML: The Dynamic Duo for Strengthening Zero Trust Architecture –Talk AI-Ready Data: Management, Reporting and Competitive Advantage –Talk CPE | Incorporating Al into you GRC Program for Business Agility –Talk Dig Deeper on Artificial intelligence GPT-4.1 explained: Everything you need to know By: Sean Kerner OpenAI's GPT-4.1 targets coding for developers By: Esther Shittu ChatGPT vs. GPT: How are they different? By: George Lawton AI model race heats up with OpenAI, Google, DeepSeek releases By: Esther Shittu Sponsored News Sustainable AI in Action: 3 Real-World Examples –Equinix Drive Efficiency and Innovation with Flexible IT –Dell Technologies 5 Key Factors Influencing Multicloud-by-Design Consumption Models –Dell Technologies Related Content GPT-4o vs. GPT-4: How do they compare? – Search Enterprise AI Claude vs. ChatGPT: What's the difference? – Search Enterprise AI GPT-4.5 explained: Everything you need to know – WhatIs Latest TechTarget resources Networking Security CIO HR Software Customer Experience Search Networking What is network traffic? Network traffic is the amount of data that moves across a network during any given time. What is network availability? Network availability is how long a network system is in uptime over a specific time interval. What is NFV MANO (network functions virtualization management and orchestration)? NFV MANO (network functions virtualization management and orchestration), or just MANO, is an architectural framework used to ... Search Security What is risk exposure in business? Risk exposure is the quantified potential loss from currently underway or planned business activities. What is ransomware? Definition and complete guide Ransomware is malware that locks and encrypts a victim's data, files, devices or systems, rendering them inaccessible and ... What is crypto ransomware? How cryptocurrency aids attackers Crypto ransomware is a form of ransomware that uses cryptography to encrypt computer files so that the victim cannot access them.... Search CIO What is a quantum engineer? Quantum engineering is a technological field that focuses on the principles of quantum physics. What is business transformation? Business transformation refers to fundamental changes in an organization’s operations, strategy or structure to improve ... What is quantum machine learning? How it works Quantum machine learning (QML), also called quantum-enhanced machine learning, blends the computing power of quantum systems with... Search HR Software What is talent management? Definition, basics and strategy Talent management is a strategic approach organizations use to attract, develop, retain, and optimize employees. What is employee experience? Employee experience is a worker's perception of the organization they work for during their tenure. What are performance appraisals? A how-to guide for managers A performance appraisal is the structured practice of regularly reviewing an employee's job performance. Search Customer Experience What are customer service and support? Customer service is the support organizations offer to customers before, during and after purchasing a product or service. What is quality of experience (QoE or QoX)? Quality of experience (QoE or QoX) is a measure of the overall level of a customer's satisfaction and experience with a product ... What is voice of the customer? A guide to VOC Strategy Voice of the customer (VOC) is the component of customer experience (CX) that focuses on customer needs, wants, expectations and ... Browse by Topic Browse Resources About Us Meet The Editors Editorial Ethics Policy Contact Us Advertisers Business Partners Events Media Kit Corporate Site Reprints All Rights Reserved, Copyright 1999 - 2025 , TechTarget Privacy Policy Cookie Preferences Cookie Preferences Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Close