Pixar's 'Soul' Wins Oscar For Best Animated Feature : Live Updates: Oscars 2021 : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu Newsletters NPR Shop Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Fresh Air Up First Featured Embedded The NPR Politics Podcast Throughline Trump's Terms More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Pixar's 'Soul' Wins Oscar For Best Animated Feature : Live Updates: Oscars 2021 Last fall, with most theaters closed due to COVID-19, Disney announced it would release Soul exclusively on its streaming service Disney+. Soul is the first Pixar film to feature a Black protagonist. Live Updates: Oscars 2021 Academy Awards nominees, winners and highlights Live Updates: Oscars 2021 Pixar's 'Soul' Wins Best Animated Feature — The Film Never Played In U.S. Theaters April 25, 2021 9:27 PM ET Bob Mondello Enlarge this image The Disney/Pixar film Soul centers on Joe (voiced by Jamie Foxx), a middle school band teacher who longs to be a jazz musician. Disney hide caption toggle caption Disney The Disney/Pixar film Soul centers on Joe (voiced by Jamie Foxx), a middle school band teacher who longs to be a jazz musician. Disney Pixar's Soul has won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature, becoming the only film ever to win that award without playing in U.S. movie theaters. Last October, with the COVID-19 pandemic having closed most of the nation's cinemas, Disney announced that it was opting to release Soul — which centers on a jazz musician who's trying to reunite his accidentally separated soul and body – as a Christmas release exclusively on its streaming service Disney+. This marked the first time a full-length Pixar feature had been released for home viewing without first playing in movie theaters. Sponsor Message Overseas, in such markets as China, Russia, and South Korea where COVID-19 had largely been brought under control by year's end, and where Disney+ is not an option, the film opened in theaters at reduced capacity. So far, it has grossed about $135 million overseas. Movies In 'Soul,' Jon Batiste's Music Helps Bring Pixar's First Black Lead To Life Movie Interviews 'Soul' Creators On Passion, Purpose And Realizing You're 'Enough' Before its win at the Oscars, Soul had already made history on other fronts. It is the first Pixar feature to have a Black protagonist (voiced by Jamie Foxx), the first with a predominantly Black cast and the first with a Black co-director (Kemp Powers). In the run-up to the Oscars, Soul swept up Best Animated Feature awards from dozens of critics' groups and film societies, including the Golden Globes, BAFTA, the AFI, the Art Directors Guild, Black Film Critics Circle, the National Board of Review, and the ANNIEs. Pop Culture Happy Hour 'Soul' Is A Jazzy, Joyful Celebration Of Life 'Soul' Is A Jazzy, Joyful Celebration Of Life Listen · 16:20 16:20 Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/949799584/949800030" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript NPR Review Pop Culture Happy Hour LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link Soul comes from filmmaker Pete Docter, whose films Inside Out , and Up, also won Academy Awards for Best Animated Feature, and co-director/writer Powers, the playwright and screenwriter of One Night in Miami . Besides Foxx, it features the vocal talents of Tina Fey, Phylicia Rashad, Questlove, Angela Bassett and Daveed Diggs, and features original jazz music by Jon Batiste, and a score composed by Oscar winners Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross. Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor