All the Elon Musk controversies we've seen this year  | Euronews Go to navigation Go to main content Go to search Go to footer English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Newsletter Newsletters Events Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Loader Latest Trending tariffs Donald Trump European Union EU Policy Music United Kingdom Latest stories Now playing Next Europe News Macron announces potential recognition of Palestinian state Now playing Next USA Trump authorises 90-day tariffs pause on most countries except China Now playing Next Greece Flights and ferries halted in Greece as unions call general strike Now playing Next Europe News Ukraine reassures Brussels by drawing red lines on US minerals deal Europe Categories Europe News Europe Series German election 2025 Programmes Brussels, My Love? Europeans' Stories EuroVerify Europe in Motion EU Decoded Smart Regions The Europe Conversation Featured Radio Schuman This is Radio Schuman, your new go-to podcast to spice up your weekday mornings with relevant news, insights, and behind-the-scenes from Brussels and beyond. Brussels, My Love? From the economy to the climate and the EU's role in world affairs, this talk show sheds light on European affairs and the issues that impact on our daily lives as Europeans. Tune in to understand the ins and outs of European politics. World Categories World Sport Programmes Spotlight No Comment Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Focus Global Japan My Wildest Prediction Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Big Question The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Experiences Stays People Programmes Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Programmes Dub.AI Euronews Tech Talks Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. Culture Categories Culture news Lifestyle Design Art Food and Drink Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Green Categories Green News Climate Nature Living Eco-Innovation Programmes Climate Now Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Water Matters Featured Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions.   Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Depth of Field Kazakhstan The New Uzbekistan Azerbaijan Diary Discover Algeria Discover Türkiye Discover Sharjah Explore Azerbaijan Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Partner content Italy – Heritage & Horizons Better Connected Powering Progress Experience Brazil My Tokyo Digital Garden City Nation Sparkle Wine of Moldova Kerala Tourism Turkmenistan - Our story Services Weather Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets & Services Find Us Log In My Account Live Close menu sidebar English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Latest Trending tariffs Donald Trump European Union EU Policy Music United Kingdom Latest stories Now playing Next Europe News Macron announces potential recognition of Palestinian state Now playing Next USA Trump authorises 90-day tariffs pause on most countries except China Now playing Next Greece Flights and ferries halted in Greece as unions call general strike Now playing Next Europe News Ukraine reassures Brussels by drawing red lines on US minerals deal Europe Categories Europe News Europe Series German election 2025 Programmes Brussels, My Love? Europeans' Stories EuroVerify Europe in Motion EU Decoded Smart Regions The Europe Conversation Featured Radio Schuman This is Radio Schuman, your new go-to podcast to spice up your weekday mornings with relevant news, insights, and behind-the-scenes from Brussels and beyond. Brussels, My Love? From the economy to the climate and the EU's role in world affairs, this talk show sheds light on European affairs and the issues that impact on our daily lives as Europeans. Tune in to understand the ins and outs of European politics. World Categories World Sport Programmes Spotlight No Comment Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Focus Global Japan My Wildest Prediction Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Big Question The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Experiences Stays People Programmes Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Programmes Dub.AI Euronews Tech Talks Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. Culture Categories Culture news Lifestyle Design Art Food and Drink Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Green Categories Green News Climate Nature Living Eco-Innovation Programmes Climate Now Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Water Matters Featured Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions.   Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Depth of Field Kazakhstan The New Uzbekistan Azerbaijan Diary Discover Algeria Discover Türkiye Discover Sharjah Explore Azerbaijan Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Partner content Italy – Heritage & Horizons Better Connected Powering Progress Experience Brazil My Tokyo Digital Garden City Nation Sparkle Wine of Moldova Kerala Tourism Turkmenistan - Our story Services Weather Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets & Services Newsletter Newsletters Events Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Loader Find Us ADVERTISEMENT Business Business All the Elon Musk controversies we've seen this year X (formerly Twitter) CEO Elon Musk laughs during an in-conversation event with Britain's Prime Minister Rishi Sunak in London on November 2, 2023, following the UK Artificial - Copyright AFP Copyright AFP By Indrabati Lahiri Published on 30/12/2023 - 6:00 GMT+1 Share this article Comments Share this article Facebook Twitter Flipboard Send Reddit Linkedin Messenger Telegram VK Bluesky Threads Whatsapp From disinformation to rows with Ukraine, Euronews Business looks at all the controversies that billionaire Elon Musk has been caught up in this year. ADVERTISEMENT Elon Musk has found himself in more than his fair share of controversies, ever since the takeover of social media platform Twitter, now dubbed X. The acquisition was completed in the tail end of 2022. Since then, Musk has been heavily criticised for reinstating accounts which have long been considered problematic by users, such as former US President Donald Trump's, in the name of free speech. Trump had previously been banned by Twitter due to his incitement of the 6 January US Capitol attack and the risk of further such attacks. Rapper and record producer Kanye West's account was also reinstated on X in July 2023, even after a slew of antisemitic jokes and overt praise for Hitler. This has already led to several of his sponsors letting him go. Most recently, the rapper also went on an antisemitic rant at a hotel in Las Vegas on 15 December. This is despite his legal advisors warning him that continuing to do so may further jeopardise his visitation rights with his children with ex-wife Kim Kardashian. Back in December 2022, following the takeover, Musk launched a poll on X, asking whether he should step down as the CEO of Twitter, promising that he would honour whatever the vote results said. However, when the vote veered 57.5% in favour of him stepping down, Musk tried to play off the whole thing as a joke, by saying that he had indeed, stepped down, and appointed his dog as CEO. At the time, Musk had vowed: "I will resign as CEO as soon as I find someone foolish enough to take the job." However, it took several more months and a number of pointed reminders for him to finally appoint Linda Yaccarino as CEO, with Musk then becoming the company's chief technology officer. Related Elon Musk's Tesla recalls 2 million cars to fix system that monitors drivers using Autopilot To speak freely or not to speak freely? Also in December 2022, Musk started banning several prominent journalists such as The New York Times technology reporter Ryan Mac and CNN reporter Donie O'Sullivan. Musk justified this by saying that these reporters violated Twitter's rules on sharing publicly identifiable information. The move was heavily criticised as being ironic and going against the very free speech that Musk claimed to promote and defend earlier. The ban also put Musk at risk of a number of EU sanctions, due to his violation of the bloc's Digital Services Act (DSA), outlining fundamental rights and media freedom. If sanctions come into motion, X could very well have to see a fine of up to 6% of global yearly earnings. Amongst other requirements, the DSA also mandates that online platforms of a certain size take appropriate steps to maintain user rights and protection, reduce misinformation, as well as share transparency reports. Musk stops Ukraine's surprise attack on Russian ships In September 2023, Elon Musk was severely criticised by Ukraine for preventing its military from gaining access to his Starlink satellite network, which had visibility of the Crimean coast. This in turn put an end to Ukraine's plans of a secret attack on Russia's Black Sea Fleet. Musk defended his decision by emphasising that he refused to let SpaceX be "explicitly complicit in a major act of war and conflict escalation". However, Ukraine still maintained that this stance meant that Musk was indirectly supporting Russian President Vladimir Putin and contributing to the loss of civilian lives. SpaceX's CEO Elon Musk cheers as he speaks at the annual political festival Atreju, organised by the Giorgia Meloni's Brothers of Italy party, Saturday, Dec. 16, 2023. Alessandra Tarantino/AP It was later revealed that Musk was warned by the Russian ambassador to the US that if Ukraine happened to attack that particular port, it could very well result in nuclear war, potentially swaying Musk's decision. However, this ultimately turned out to be a bluff, as Ukraine later carried out a series of naval attacks, including on Russia's Black Sea Fleet. Following the row, Musk has been seemingly reluctantly involved in the Russia-Ukraine conflict. He even came up with his own peace proposal, which essentially suggested that Ukraine let go of Crimea completely and accept that it is part of Russia's territory. ADVERTISEMENT This sparked intense backlash from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, as well as the Ukrainian ambassador to Germany, Oleksii Makeiev. Recently, Musk has started dropping hints that it may be too expensive to continue Starlink in Ukraine, and that SpaceX may have to divest portions of the satellite network. Since then, plans have been put into motion to allow the US military to lease out parts of Starlink. Related Elon Musk eyes $1 billion investment for his new AI start-up xAI EU launches disinformation investigations against X However, Musk's war controversies did not end there. After the start of the Israel-Hamas war, Musk once again faced the heat for failing to do enough to prevent disinformation and the spread of extremist accounts on X. Not only that, but he himself backed up a few accounts which were known for spreading fake, artificial intelligence (AI)-generated images of the conflict. This led to the EU finally revealing that it suspects X of breaking its disinformation and illegal content rules, leading to the launch of a probe into the social media platform. Although X has banned hundreds of Hamas-linked accounts from the platform since then, it could potentially be a case of too little, too late, as the investigation is already underway. ADVERTISEMENT Conspiracy theories seem to be another sticky point with the billionaire. At the end of November this year, Musk voiced his belief in a conspiracy theory implicating prominent Democrats involved in a paedophile ring, run from a pizza joint in Washington. Dubbed Pizzagate, Musk shared memes with modified dialogues about the debunked theory, contributing to the misinformation on X. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, right, talks to Elon Musk, holding one of his sons, during their meeting in New York, Sunday, Sept. 17, 2023. Turkish Presidency/AP Most recently, Musk's alleged anti-semitism reared its head again, with the entrepreneur supporting a post about "The Great Replacement". This theory suggests that Jewish and other non-white immigrants are instigating hate against white communities, which may eventually lead to a white genocide. Perhaps one of his most contradictory stances this year has been about AI. Musk has openly warned the world against the dangers of AI, claiming that we may have machines smarter than humans sooner than we realise. ADVERTISEMENT However, this has not stopped him from continuing to pursue bigger and better AI achievements himself, even announcing the launch of a rival chatbot application, Grok, to rival the immensely popular ChatGPT. He has also criticised the latter for being politically correct, while openly declaring Grok to be more rebellious, with a constant curiosity about the universe. Go to accessibility shortcuts Share this article Comments You might also like Tech News Now playing Next Elon Musk urges people in developed countries to have more children World News Now playing Next NeverEnding Story: Elon Musk attending Giorgia Meloni's fantasy party Markets Now playing Next UK government not ruling out nationalising key British steel plant Elon Musk SpaceX Twitter Israel Hamas war ADVERTISEMENT Top stories Now playing Next US stocks surge after Donald Trump announces 90-day pause on tariffs Now playing Next Trump authorises 90-day tariffs pause on most countries except China Now playing Next Why Trump’s tariffs are a serious threat to the German car industry Now playing Next Porsche reports significant plunge in European and Chinese deliveries Now playing Next Europeans buy 42 pieces of apparel yearly: How much of it is wasted? ADVERTISEMENT Most read China imposes 84% tariff on US goods as Trump trade war escalates Why are US Treasuries losing safe-haven status in major sell-off? New tariffs from the US are about to hit the pharmaceutical sector European markets move lower as Trump's sweeping tariffs take effect China vows to fight tariffs to end and says trade with US is balanced ADVERTISEMENT Loader Search Browse today's tags tariffs Donald Trump European Union EU Policy Music United Kingdom nightclub European Commission Germany Italy Artificial intelligence Climate crisis Themes Europe World Business EU Policy Green Next Health Travel Culture Videos Programmes Services Live Bulletin Weather Latest Follow us Apps Messaging apps Widgets & Services Africanews More About Euronews Commercial Services Terms and Conditions Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Contact Work at Euronews Modify my cookies choices Follow us Newsletters Copyright © euronews 2025