Chris Blackwell-Frost - CEO at Q-bital Healthcare Solutions (EU) | The Org Platform Features Pricing Log in Sign up Q-bital Healthcare Solutions (EU) Chris Blackwell-Frost Edit position Chris Blackwell-Frost CEO at Q-bital Healthcare Solutions (EU) Contact Chris Blackwell-Frost serves as the Chief Executive Officer for Vanguard Healthcare Solutions, Q-bital Healthcare Solutions (APAC), and Q-bital Healthcare Solutions (EU), overseeing the provision of mobile and modular clinical environments across the UK, Australia, New Zealand, and Europe. With over 20 years of experience in the healthcare sector, Chris has previously held executive positions at Nuffield Health, AAH Pharmaceuticals, and Lloydspharmacy, demonstrating a strong track record in strategic leadership, business development, and customer service in both public and private healthcare. Chris holds a Bachelor of Pharmacy degree from the University of Nottingham. Location Melton Mowbray, United Kingdom Links Previous companies Org chart Chris Blackwell-Frost CEO Lucy W. Head Of People (group) Ambroise Salaun Business Development Manager Herma Schutte Director Of Operations Europe Teams This person is not in any teams Offices This person is not in any offices Q-bital Healthcare Solutions (EU) Q-bital Healthcare Solutions offers a range of services to healthcare providers, including disaster relief, additional capacity, emergency response, refurbishment replacement capacity, turnkey packages, project management and community healthcare services, whether as part of planned activity or as a relief effort following a crisis.  The company’s mobile and modular facilities can meet the need for operating theatres – including laminar flow theatres – endoscopy suites, day surgery units, outpatient clinics, endoscope decontamination units, ITU facilities and ward space. Q-bital facilities help to ensure the highest level of patient care is delivered when and where it is needed.  Q-bital facilities have delivered a seamless integration of clinical expertise and technological advances in challenging environments across the globe, including Europe, the Caribbean and Australia. The company focus is to be there not just at times of humanitarian crisis, when access to safe and high-quality healthcare is invaluable, but to provide ongoing support while local capacity is restored or developed.   It is vital that the company works in partnership with leading organisations – governments, charities and other aid bodies – to develop the right solutions at the right time. As each situation is unique and variables can change rapidly, early inclusion of Q-bital representatives can help to ensure an appropriate and responsive solution is developed. Industries Health Care , Humanitarian Headquarters Nieuwegein, Netherlands Employees 51-200 Links Related people Joel Gascoigne Buffer Greg Cox Quint Group Steve Danke Enclos Romaric Gouedard-Comte Smash Timothy M. Sweeney Liberty Mutual Company About Contact Trust Resources Iterate Companies Business Pricing Verification License Enrich LinkedIn Extension CRM Enrichment Developer Portal Social © 2025 Orgio, Inc. Terms Privacy Do not sell my info