HoloLens 2 Discontinued: What’s Next for Microsoft AR Glasses? TechTarget and Informa Tech’s Digital Business Combine. TechTarget and Informa TechTarget and Informa Tech’s Digital Business Combine. Together, we power an unparalleled network of 220+ online properties covering 10,000+ granular topics, serving an audience of 50+ million professionals with original, objective content from trusted sources. We help you gain critical insights and make more informed decisions across your business priorities. Documents Online Events Advertise About Newsletter Sign-Up Newsletter Sign-Up Cloud Related Topics Cloud Services Hybrid Cloud Private Cloud Public Cloud Recent in Cloud SEE ALL Cloud Kubernetes logo on a smartphone screen Containerization Kubernetes 1.33 'Octarine' Delivers Major Upgrades for Cloud-Native and AI Workloads Kubernetes 1.33 'Octarine' Delivers Major Upgrades for Cloud-Native and AI Workloads by Sean Michael Kerner Apr 24, 2025 4 Min Read cloud abstract Cloud Native Cloud vs. Cloud-Native Applications: What's the Difference? Cloud vs. Cloud-Native Applications: What's the Difference? by Christopher Tozzi Apr 18, 2025 4 Min Read OS Related Topics Microsoft Windows Windows Server PowerShell Linux OS SQL Server MacOS Android OS ChromeOS Ubuntu Red Hat OS Recent in OS See All OS SQL inscription above laptop and code background SQL Server 2022 & Beyond Introduction to SQL Commands, Part 3: Retrieving and Sorting Data Introduction to SQL Commands, Part 3: Retrieving and Sorting Data by Brien Posey Apr 23, 2025 5 Min Read finger pressing a SQL key on a keyboard SQL Server 2022 & Beyond Introduction to SQL Commands, Part 2: Adding, Updating Data Introduction to SQL Commands, Part 2: Adding, Updating Data by Brien Posey Apr 21, 2025 4 Min Read IT Mgmt Related Topics IT Operations DevOps Ops and More IT Sustainability IT Automation Recent in IT Mgmt See All IT Mgmt hand removing wooden dolls from the pack Career Management Leading Through Tech Workforce Changes Leading Through Tech Workforce Changes by Forrester Blog Network Apr 24, 2025 3 Min Read employee holding her head in frustration Career Tips How to Tell When You're Working Your IT Team Too Hard How to Tell When You're Working Your IT Team Too Hard by John Edwards , InformationWeek Apr 23, 2025 1 Min Read Career Related Topics Career Tips Certifications Training Recent in Career See All Career Mgmt hand removing wooden dolls from the pack Career Management Leading Through Tech Workforce Changes Leading Through Tech Workforce Changes by Forrester Blog Network Apr 24, 2025 3 Min Read employee holding her head in frustration Career Tips How to Tell When You're Working Your IT Team Too Hard How to Tell When You're Working Your IT Team Too Hard by John Edwards , InformationWeek Apr 23, 2025 1 Min Read Storage Related Topics Cloud Storage High Speed Storage Data Backup Disaster Recovery Recent in Storage See All Data Storage Sundar Pichai speaking at Google Cloud Next 2025 Google Cloud Google Cloud Next 2025 Unveils Powerful AI, Infrastructure, Security Innovations Google Cloud Next 2025 Unveils Powerful AI, Infrastructure, Security Innovations by Sean Michael Kerner Apr 11, 2025 5 Min Read IBM logo IT Infrastructure IBM Launches New Mainframe in Bet That Some Data Stays Local IBM Launches New Mainframe in Bet That Some Data Stays Local by Bloomberg News Apr 8, 2025 2 Min Read Security Related Topics Vulnerabilities & Threats Attacks & Breaches Regulatory Compliance Data Privacy Cloud Security Endpoint Security Identity Mgmt & Access Control Recent in Security See All IT Security red bad bot among green good bots Vulnerabilities & Threats With AI's Help, Bad Bots Are Taking Over the Web With AI's Help, Bad Bots Are Taking Over the Web by Kristina Beek , Dark Reading Apr 22, 2025 1 Min Read Leather patch on linen cloth Cloud Security Patch Now: NVIDIA Flaws Expose AI Models, Critical Infrastructure Patch Now: NVIDIA Flaws Expose AI Models, Critical Infrastructure by Elizabeth Montalbano , Dark Reading Apr 18, 2025 1 Min Read Dev Related Topics Cloud Native Programming Languages No-Code/Low-Code Software Development Techniques Recent in Dev See All Software Dev machine learning operations concept DevOps MLOps vs. DevOps: Key Differences — and Why They Work Better Together MLOps vs. DevOps: Key Differences — and Why They Work Better Together by Christopher Tozzi Apr 22, 2025 4 Min Read cloud abstract Cloud Native Cloud vs. Cloud-Native Applications: What's the Difference? Cloud vs. Cloud-Native Applications: What's the Difference? by Christopher Tozzi Apr 18, 2025 4 Min Read DX Related Topics AI & Machine Learning Edge Computing IoT Recent in DX See All Digital Transformation red bad bot among green good bots Vulnerabilities & Threats With AI's Help, Bad Bots Are Taking Over the Web With AI's Help, Bad Bots Are Taking Over the Web by Kristina Beek , Dark Reading Apr 22, 2025 1 Min Read machine learning operations concept DevOps MLOps vs. DevOps: Key Differences — and Why They Work Better Together MLOps vs. DevOps: Key Differences — and Why They Work Better Together by Christopher Tozzi Apr 22, 2025 4 Min Read Infrastructure Related Topics High Performance Computing Containerization Server Virtualization Recent in Infrastructure See All Infrastructure Kubernetes logo on a smartphone screen Containerization Kubernetes 1.33 'Octarine' Delivers Major Upgrades for Cloud-Native and AI Workloads Kubernetes 1.33 'Octarine' Delivers Major Upgrades for Cloud-Native and AI Workloads by Sean Michael Kerner Apr 24, 2025 4 Min Read IBM logo IT Infrastructure IBM Launches New Mainframe in Bet That Some Data Stays Local IBM Launches New Mainframe in Bet That Some Data Stays Local by Bloomberg News Apr 8, 2025 2 Min Read More Related Topics Newsletters How To…? Industry Perspectives Business Resources Reports/Research Online Events Live Events Videos White Papers Advertise With Us About Us Resource Library Digital Transformation Windows 10 What Comes After HoloLens 2? Exploring Microsoft’s AR/VR Future What Comes After HoloLens 2? Exploring Microsoft’s AR/VR Future What Comes After HoloLens 2? Exploring Microsoft’s AR/VR Future Microsoft revealed no plans for an immediate HoloLens 2 successor, raising questions about the company’s commitment to its VR/AR technologies. Brien Posey November 15, 2024 3 Min Read Alamy In October, Microsoft stated it would discontinue its HoloLens 2 headsets, with no immediate replacement planned. The company has hinted vaguely at what might come next, leaving the future of HoloLens uncertain. In some ways, there have been signs pointing to HoloLens’ demise for quite a while. My experiences have made me wonder if Microsoft may soon phase out the device. For the past two years, I have been developing a HoloLens-based experiment that I will eventually take to space. The photograph below, taken just a couple of weeks ago, shows me suited up and wearing a HoloLens as I prepare to perform a test aboard a Virgin Galactic simulator. Figure 1. I am wearing a HoloLens with my spacesuit. I needed HoloLens 2 devices to develop this experiment, and so last year, I placed an order with Microsoft for one. Although I submitted the order in mid-October, the estimated delivery date was December 30 th —a two-and-a-half-month wait. I decided this timeline would work since I had other hardware to use until then. However, a couple of weeks later, I received an email stating that Microsoft would delay the delivery to February. Needless to say, I canceled the order and ordered a headset from a Microsoft partner instead. Unfortunately, this proved challenging, as well. Most partners I contacted had sold out of HoloLens devices. I eventually found a retailer with just six headsets left in stock. The unexpected difficulty in purchasing a headset raised questions about Microsoft’s commitment to the HoloLens, leaving me to wonder if Microsoft might discontinue the device altogether. Related: PowerShell and AI: Create a Microsoft Word Copilot Microsoft’s VR/AR Future The discontinuation of HoloLens 2 casts doubts on the future of Microsoft’s VR and AR initiatives. Along with last year’s shutdown of the Windows Mixed Reality portal, these moves suggest Microsoft may be scaling back its investments. However, Microsoft is still exploring ways to use its AR/VR technology. As reported by The Verge , the company continues to develop the Integrated Visual Augmentation System headsets for military applications. Additionally, Microsoft may be working to adapt HoloLens technology to the automotive world; in 2022, Microsoft announced a partnership with Volkswagen and Audi to integrate AR/VR experiences into vehicles. Audi has since showcased concept cars equipped with AR technology, though it is unclear whether this technology will reach production. Audi has also released a short video demonstrating its SkySphere AR technology . But what about the future for businesses and consumers that want to use HoloLens technology? Despite the discontinuation of the HoloLens 2, existing devices will remain functional and officially supported until the end of 2027. After that, while the devices will operate, sourcing replacement parts—especially batteries—may become increasingly challenging. Related: Microsoft Is Struggling to Retain Women, Minority Employees The Discontinuation Through a Different Lens According to The Verge, Microsoft has hinted at a “meaningful update” for the HoloLens in the future. Although there are no specific details yet, I suspect that Microsoft may take the same approach to updating the Surface Studio. The release pattern of the Surface Studio closely mirrors that of the HoloLens. Microsoft launched the first-generation Surface Studio device, followed by the Surface Studio 2. For a time, it seemed that Microsoft largely abandoned the Surface Studio line. Eventually, the company released the Surface Studio 2+—an updated version of the Surface Studio 2 with current hardware, though not an entirely new model. I wouldn’t be at all surprised if Microsoft follows this pattern with a HoloLens 2+ device. This model could run Windows 11 (as HoloLens 2 currently uses Windows 10) and feature a faster CPU, more memory, and increased storage. However, I don’t expect a redesign; Microsoft would likely treat this as a refresh rather than a new HoloLens generation, meaning principal components like the form factor, optics, or sensors would likely remain unchanged. Related: Could Microsoft's AI Strategy Tank Its Reputation? We must wait to see what Microsoft ultimately decides regarding its HoloLens technology. As for my “HoloLens in space” project, I may need to explore other options, such as transitioning to a competing platform like the Apple Vision Pro. About the Author Brien Posey Brien Posey is a bestselling technology author, a speaker, and a 20X Microsoft MVP. In addition to his ongoing work in IT, Posey has spent the last several years training as a commercial astronaut candidate in preparation to fly on a mission to study polar mesospheric clouds from space. https://brienposey.com/ See more from Brien Posey Sign up for the ITPro Today newsletter Stay on top of the IT universe with commentary, news analysis, how-to's, and tips delivered to your inbox daily. Newsletter Sign-Up You May Also Like Editor's Choice jobs key on keyboard Career Management IT Jobs Outlook 2025: Evolving Skills, AI, Workplace Flexibility Will Shape IT Workforce IT Jobs Outlook 2025: Evolving Skills, AI, Workplace Flexibility Will Shape IT Workforce Nov 20, 2024 an it pro is disappointed as a poster for sustainability is switched with one for financial results and garbage piles up next to a recycling bin Green IT How Do I Advocate for Green IT Without Being Dismissed as a Lorax? How Do I Advocate for Green IT Without Being Dismissed as a Lorax? Nov 27, 2024 person using a laptop with the Ubuntu logo on its scree IT Operations 3 Simple Ways to Install and Run a Virtual Machine on Ubuntu 3 Simple Ways to Install and Run a Virtual Machine on Ubuntu Nov 22, 2024 Exclusive ITPro Resources ITPro Today’s 2024 State of DevOps Report Dec 16, 2024 | 2 Min Read BCDR Basics: A Quick Reference Guide for Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery Oct 10, 2024 | 1 Min Read ITPro Today’s 2024 IT Priorities Report Sep 25, 2024 | 1 Min Read Tech Careers: Quick Reference Guide to IT Job Titles Sep 13, 2024 | 1 Min Read See all ITPro Resources Sign up for the ITPro Today newsletter Stay on top of the IT universe with commentary, news analysis, how-to's, and tips delivered to your inbox daily. Newsletter Sign-Up Recent What Is cartoon shows a person next to a checklist and several icons that represent disaster scenarios Disaster Recovery BCDR Basics: A Quick Reference Guide for Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery BCDR Basics: A Quick Reference Guide for IT Pros technology interface with a person's hand drawing gears and cogs PowerShell Introduction To PowerShell Environment Variables Introduction To PowerShell Environment Variables Generative AI: You're Already Behind May 15, 2025 May 15, 2025 Generative AI is already empowering creators and terrifying anyone who ever watched a Matrix movie. While the role of generative AI in business has just begun to scratch an itch, it’s crucial that IT thought leaders decide exactly how and what they’re going to do to stay ahead of the competition, before it’s too late. In this event we’ll discuss the uses of quantum computing, generative AI in development opportunities, hear from a panel of experts on their views for potential use cases, models, and machine learning infrastructures, you will learn how to stay ahead of the competition and much more! Register Now Discover More Data Center Knowledge InformationWeek Network Computing No Jitter AFCOM Working With Us About Us Reprints Advertise Contact Us Join Us Newsletter Sign-Up Follow Us Copyright © 2025. This website is owned and operated by Informa TechTarget, part of a global network that informs, influences and connects the world’s technology buyers and sellers. All copyright resides with them. Informa PLC’s registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. TechTarget, Inc.’s registered office is 275 Grove St. Newton, MA 02466. Home | CCPA: Do not sell my personal info | Cookies | Privacy | Terms