FIFA chief Gianni Infantino defends Qatar ahead of the World Cup : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu Newsletters NPR Shop Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Fresh Air Up First Featured Embedded The NPR Politics Podcast Throughline Trump's Terms More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics FIFA chief Gianni Infantino defends Qatar ahead of the World Cup In an extraordinary opening news conference before the World Cup, FIFA President Gianni Infantino defended the host country's decision to ban beer at stadiums and Qatar's human rights record. Special Series FIFA World Cup 2022 FIFA chief blasts critics ahead of World Cup in Qatar and accuses them of hypocrisy November 19, 2022 7:48 AM ET Russell Lewis Enlarge this image FIFA President Gianni Infantino on Saturday derided Western critics of Qatar's human rights record and blasted their 'hypocrisy' during an opening news conference in Doha, Qatar, before the World Cup, which kicks off on Sunday. Christopher Lee/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Christopher Lee/Getty Images FIFA President Gianni Infantino on Saturday derided Western critics of Qatar's human rights record and blasted their 'hypocrisy' during an opening news conference in Doha, Qatar, before the World Cup, which kicks off on Sunday. Christopher Lee/Getty Images DOHA, Qatar — FIFA president Gianni Infantino used his opening press conference before the start of the monthlong World Cup to deliver a blistering tirade at the West for continued criticism of host country Qatar and its human rights record . For an hour, Infantino lectured the international press assembled at the Qatar National Convention Centre and then took questions for 45 minutes. In lengthy, and at times angry remarks, Infantino blasted the criticism of Qatar and FIFA. "I am European. For what we have been doing for 3,000 years around the world, we should be apologizing for the next 3,000 years before giving moral lessons," he said. Sponsor Message Middle East Why Qatar is a controversial host for the World Cup He furthered the defense by saying, "Today I feel Qatari. Today I feel Arab. Today I feel African. Today I feel gay. Today I feel disabled. Today I feel a migrant worker." Infantino said he has difficulties understanding the criticism and called it hypocrisy. "We have to invest in helping these people, in education and to give them a better future and more hope. We should all educate ourselves, many things are not perfect, but reform and change takes time." Since FIFA chose Qatar to stage this tournament in 2010, soccer's governing body and the host country have endured withering criticism. It's the first time a Middle Eastern country has hosted a World Cup. A report released this month from the London-based rights group Equidem said the migrant laborers who built the World Cup stadiums worked long hours and under harsh conditions. The report said they were subjected to discrimination, wage theft and other abuses. Enlarge this image FIFA President Gianni Infantino was defiant and combative at the opening press conference ahead of the World Cup in Qatar on November 19, 2022 in Doha, Qatar. Fabrice Coffrini/AFP via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Fabrice Coffrini/AFP via Getty Images FIFA President Gianni Infantino was defiant and combative at the opening press conference ahead of the World Cup in Qatar on November 19, 2022 in Doha, Qatar. Fabrice Coffrini/AFP via Getty Images Infantino's news conference comes a day after FIFA and Qatar announced that the sale of beer would be banned at the eight stadiums. FIFA said the decision would ensure "the stadiums and surrounding areas provide an enjoyable, respectful and pleasant experience for all fans." Sports FIFA bans beer sales at Qatar's World Cup stadiums in a last-minute reversal The sale of alcohol is strictly controlled in Qatar, which follows a conservative form of Islam known as Wahhabism. Public consumption of alcohol is only allowed in certain hotels and restaurants. Infantino said he has been assured by the government in Qatar that LGBTQ fans are welcome in the country. Same-sex relations are illegal and punishable by jail time. The 64-game tournament kicks off Sunday with host Qatar taking on Ecuador. More than a million fans will travel to the country. Infantino said it would be the best World Cup ever. Qatar FIFA 2022 World Cup Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor