Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/assassinscreed A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to assassinscreed r/assassinscreed r/assassinscreed For news, discussion and more about Ubisoft's Assassin's Creed franchise. Members Online • SerHolmes Just finished watching the Assassin's Creed movie Being in Australia, the movie doesn't release til January 1st but I decided to buy a ticket to an early screening. Overall, I enjoyed the movie, sure there are some parts that I disliked and have a problem with, but I came out of the cinema feeling quite amazed. I tried to avoid myself from this subreddit until I watched it but if any of you would like a full review, i'd be glad to give one. Edit: Added Non-spoiler and spoiler review. I'd like to mention that reviews and critics shouldn't affect your thoughts of a movie or a game, form your own opinions. This reminds me of a quote Ezio said, "We don't need anyone to tell us what to do, not Savanarola, not the Medici. We are free to follow our own path, there are those who will take that freedom from us, too many of you gladly give it, but it is our ability to choose whatever you think is true, that makes us human. There is no book or teachers to give you the answers, to show you the path. Choose your own way, do not follow me or anyone else." Edit 2: Grammar Edit 3: I just found out the movie is actually canon to the games and now I have more problems than I used to. However, as a movie by itself, I still like it, it's just a little bit.. complicated.. - 02/01/17 Non-Spoiler Review Visually, the movie looks great, CGI isn't used a lot but there was one scene that looked weird for me. Same goes to the visual effects. The story isn't really a complicated one, if anything, it's quite simple to follow if you disregard some fillers in between. A lot of people dislike that 65% of the film is Modern day and said it's boring, but for me the Modern day is as interesting as the Past. The action sequences in the movie was amazing, in the Animus and out the Animus, but I feel it was over-edited. The characters in the movie were okay, I didn't really get attached to them as I did with Edward in AC4, but if you have played the games, you would be able to recognize some characters and easter eggs. I never doubted the acting of Michael Fassbender and sure enough, he delivered, Marion Cotillard could've done better though. This movie tried to stay true to the games and for the most part, it did. I'd give the movie a 7/10 or 8/10. Spoiler Review Right, now we can talk about the scenes and stuff. (I realize after finish typing that I pretty much just blabbered out the entire movie and my thoughts on the scenes and stuff, I apologize for that) Right of the bat, the movie had this straight text crawl explaining the the basic ground of the war between the Assassins and Templars, it was a simple idea and explains what people need to know about the movie/games right there. It didn't explain too much but it could've scrolled a little faster because having to wait for it to end took a while. Then came the initiation scene for Aguilar back in the 15th century, throughout this scene I had chills, I was excited when I first saw it, the removing of the ring finger, the hidden blades, the maxim of the Creed in Spanish. Then it was ruined for me as some modern pop/rock song was played. The use of an eagle to transition to different locations and time sometimes was good, it wasn't a simple fade to a new location with text underneath it. Then we get to see Cal riding a bicycle and then entering his house to see his mother dead and his father with the hidden blade, the kid that played young Cal wasn't a good actor to say the least. I was wondering why his father let Cal go and the Templar necklace he had when he was caught by Abstergo/Templars. IIRC only one of these two were explained. Michael Fassbender now appears as Callum Lynch as an adult 30 years later, he is to be executed, a priest walks in and talks and opens the bible and stuff. It wasn't very exciting, sure, I can let that slip. He was then put on the chair thing for his lethal injection, and Fassbender's acting somehow affected me, when I saw him trembling, I started to tremble a little bit myself.(Probably worried about the movie or something) But before his supposed death, he saw Sophia and then we saw flashes and it looked like an LSD trip, they could've added more things in that trip though, I thought it was supposed to be the "your life flashes before you die" but we mostly get to see him when he was young and with his family, so... what about what happens in between young Cal 30 years ago and adult Cal now? It wasn't a big deal though. Now, one of my issues come in the next scene but this one i can forgive, it was the pronunciation of Rikkin, they say it like "Rye-kin", I almost went "No please don't say it like that" but I understand different places and different people have different pronunciations of names. Then Cal tried to escape and once again, Fassbender really just surprises me with his acting. Then later when he was at one of the big windows, he stood at the edge and we get to see some of the inmates there. Cal was 'drugged' then pulled into the Animus, which I think makes more sense than in the games, with Aguilar's hidden blades and the first regression scene is played. Honestly, I think they captured the time period and location quite well, then we get Aguilar and the Assassins watching as some Templar dudes capture the Prince. This dude then told his underlings to kill the villagers and burn the village. Then we get to see the Assassins blending in the crowd and I was amazed by it, then the Assassins attacked at the same time and Aguilar air assassinated a Templar Chief I think, and Cal, at the same time did the same motions. Then we get some fighting and horse racing which I thought all of it was a little over-editted. But the music just feels right during those sequences, it felt like something I would hear in the games in that sequence. Then Maria managed to do this parkour thing where she jumped off the cart with one hand on the cart to a rock and smacked this dude with her leg as she jumped back to the cart. Somehow, Aguilar had a rope thing with him, I'm not sure if this was attached to the hidden blade or not but it has to be too advanced for that time. We only got the rope launcher in Syndicate and that game took place around 1868. Aguilar managed to save the child but only to be caught because he was in a helpless situation and the regression sequence stopped there, I was a little uneasy that they stopped it right there but I understand why they did it. The regression sequence ended and we get to see the Bleeding Effect take place. I have to admit, the Bleeding Effect in the movie was great, I think it's even better than in AC2 minus the time Desmond somehow went back to Altair siring a child with Maria(not the same Maria in the movies). I thought it was really well done. Cal then mentioned that he felt different and that was because of his regression sequence. Then Sophia took him to the office and showed him his ancestry and why he was chosen, etc etc. He was then escorted to the dining hall and that was when the Assassins/inmates were discussing about Cal and whether he will betray the Creed or not, which I thought was okay for a plot. Moussa/Baptiste from AC Liberation, had a talk with Cal and put an apple on the table, then one of the Assassins who is agitated just straight away tells Cal that he's going to lead the Templars straight to the Apple, and Cal was like "No, I'm going to eat it." I found that quite funny and made a small giggle but I don't think anyone in the cinema did the same. Then we get a scene with Alan Rikkin and Sophia talking about Cal and the Apple, then Alan headed off to meet with the Elders and he told Charlotte Rampling's character about how close they are to getting the Apple which I think kinda confirms that the games are not canon to the movie. Then later, we see Callum "fighting" with Aguilar via the Bleeding Effect, it was really cool seeing how the Bleeding Effect takes place, some of the guards had to go in and he beat the shit out of 3 of them and he was taken off to the Animus once more, this time with force and he was singing Crazy by Patsine Cline which I think was played at the scene where Cal's mum was killed. The second regression scene was the auto-da-fé where Aguilar, Maria and their mentor was to be burned. Aguilar managed to find a way to escape but he was too late to save his mentor and he did cool stunts and fought back and stuff, he then saved Maria and they fought back until they had to run away and that's where most of the parkour are shown. We see them running on rooftops, climbing, jumping, and doing all these parkour stuff which was exciting but they could've toned down the shaky cam, like seriously. Then we get a scene where they were at the unfinished Seville and we get to see the Giralda, the cam then did the 360 degrees thing like in the games when synchronizing a viewpoint and it was stunning, right after that we see Aguilar doing the Leap of Faith and Cal desynced with Aguilar and he was shaking and had saliva everything pouring out of his mouth, it was interesting for me because it showed how the human body can't always accept all these things when unexperienced, unlike Desmond who only has the Bleeding Effect, that's pretty much all he got, it could be the new Animus causing this for sure, but still, it's nice to see that. Cal was left paralyzed for awhile and had to sit on a wheelchair for a bit, then he had a conversation with Sophia in the Animus room and then Alan went into Cal's room and had a talk with him, introducing himself and saying that he needs his help getting the Apple. Alan escorted him to a room with elderly people who have been in the Animus, he brought up the hidden blade Cal's father used to kill his mother and told him that he is in that very room. Cal then had the choice, to kill his father or to let him go, he confronted his father and had a knife up his throat after small talk, Cal wanted to kill him, but he didn't, instead IIRC, Cal wanted to find the Apple and let Abstergo deal with his father instead, so he walked away and willingly entered the Animus. Third regression sequence shows the King trading the Apple for his son, the Templars got hold of the Apple for awhile, until Aguilar and Maria intervened, this part I really like, they used smoke bombs, went in and like shadows in the dark, they killed all the Templars but the priest which I think his name was Tomas or something, and another buff Templar dude who caught Aguilar at the end of the first regression sequence. Aguilar had his blade up Tomas' neck while the other guy had a knife to Maria's. Aguilar had to choose, whether he will give the Apple and save Maria or let Maria die and keep the Apple. Maria, I think, tried to convince Aguilar to keep the Apple by mentioning that they will sacrifice their lives for the Creed. However, Aguilar let go of Tomas and there was a second where Maria was smiling and everyone expected the Templar dude to let go of her but no, he still stabbed her. Aguilar and Cal felt that rage after that, they were both in sync and everything, this I think, was the first reason why Cal decided to help the Creed. Then we get to see Aguilar in combat with him and then it'll skip back to Cal doing the same thing as Aguilar which happened in the past 2 regression sequences, they fought and fought and Aguilar almost died, but IIRC, he used Maria's hidden blade thing to stab the dude and Aguilar stood up, and killed the dude. Tomas then ran to the main door and opened it for the Templars to enter but Aguilar managed to escape through a tunnel of some sorts, Aguilar then took some of them down and did cool parkour stunts until he reached a bridge and found himself surrounded. Now, at this point I would've really liked to see Aguilar use the Apple like Ezio did in Brotherhood, but instead he leaped of the bridge and then CGI Aguilar did this 360 spin and it looked weird, but it was a cool scene nonetheless. At this point the regression sequence ended because when Cal did the Leap of Faith, he broke the Animus but Cal was still in the memories of Aguilar, he was in the cabin of a ship, passing the Apple to a man who was revealed to be Christopher Columbus. I thought that he showed up at the right time, in fact, I didn't think he would've showed up at all. Then it ended there with memories, but then we get to the part where Cal is confronted with Aguilar and other Assassins. At first I was confused as to who they were because they mentioned it wasn't a memory, and I swear I saw someone that looks almost like Arno, so I thought, but Arno was in the 18th century, then his parent showed up and I realized that these Assassins are his ancestors, knowing that Cal is worthy to be an Assassin and he was, in a way, initiated as an Assassin. Alan Rikkin and Sophia had to evacuate and they went up to the helipad. At the same time, the inmates began their escape plan and Moussa did the "pick one hand, anyone" and dropped the smoke bombs and all the inmates and guards started fighting.  Moussa, the Asian girl and the agitated dude found Callum speaking with his mother and when it ended Callum trusted in the cause of the Creed and is an Assassin. They picked up some weapons and I think that the Asian girl is a descendant of Shao Jun, I could be wrong but I'll have to look it up and come up with a theory or something, but moving on.  They fought the guards as they entered and the action was also not bad, they fought back and then Cal heard the helicopter leaving and climbed the Animus which reminded me of the parkour in the games because of the style he did it, and he smashed the glass and tried to chase after the chopper but he had to stop because you know, choppers. The Rikkins went to the Seville, because that was where Christopher Columbus' remains were moved to, and found the Apple of Eden. Sophia Rampling's character then told Sophia Rikkin that she knew who found the Apple and that her time will come. They then headed to the Grand Templar Hall in London where Alan will introduce the Apple and usher in a new age of Order. While they were there however, Cal, Moussa and the Asian girl was there as well, blending in and passing around the hidden blade parts, yes, parts. They didn't all bring in a hidden blade, they brought in one hidden blade but is split into parts so that it won't be easily detected. Cal, of course, was the one to confront Sophia and told her that she knows what needs to be done. Callum then walked into the place where the speech is being held and there comes another one of my problems with it. The Apple of Eden, when activated, did some weird mechanical shifting and it glowed green. I was expecting it to be like the games where it just glows orange-goldish. Anyways, Callum blended in and came behind Alan and slit his throat, that itself is a huge thing but Sophia Rampling's character was calm and knew this was going to happen. Sophia Rikkin then said it was her fault that his happened and she had to get out and take a limo somewhere and the last scene was the 3 Assassins climbing and standing on a building near the River Thames. Callum had the Apple in his hand and was just about to do a Leap of Faith when the screen cut to black and the movie ended. Overall, the 65% Modern Day and 35% Past didn't bother me as much as everyone else, the pacing was a bit slow, sure, but the flow of the movie was good. This movie was a serious movie and I liked that, it didn't have to be light-hearted and funny, it went well. The tone of the movie was like the games, it does stray away from the source material a little bit but some for the better and some for the worse(like the damn Apple glowing green). But I guess it's all a matter of perspective, to me, when I think of Assassin's Creed, I think of the war between the two factions, the hidden blade, the stealthing, the blending in, the smoke bombs, and combat when stealth is out of the window, parkour, and it delivered it better than  I expected. It was mostly true to the games for me, and one of my arguments for the 65/35 split is that, sometimes I feel like Assassin's Creed is about going to the past to move forward in the future, it isn't solely based on the past, sure they are what we play in the games and the most exciting parts and take up like 90% of the games, but in the earlier games with Desmond, it was sometimes a 50/50 split and that's what I meant, to progress in the present, you have to look back into the past. Don't get me wrong, I really enjoyed the games and the movie, but this is my perspective of the games. I think i'll give the movie a 8/10, it wasn't a perfect movie and it has it's own flaws but I enjoyed it and liked it. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 28, 2016 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 2016 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2016 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics