Bruce Gowers, director of 'Bohemian Rhapsody' video, dies at 82 Skip to main content Subscribe Read Next Music Film TV Politics Culture Tech Newsletter Subscribe Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Film News Features Lists TV News Features Lists Politics News Features Lists Culture News Features Lists Travel News Features Lists Tech News Features Lists Style Follow Us Privacy Policy About Rolling Stone UK © 2021 Stream Publishing. Powered by Pugpig Home Music Music News 18 January 2023 5:17 PM Bruce Gowers, director of ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ video, dies at 82 The Scotsman worked with Michael Jackson, Prince and The Rolling Stones By Joe Goggins Facebook Twitter Email Reddit WhatsApp Bruce Gowers (Picture: YouTube) Bruce Gowers, the revered music video director who helmed the clip for Queen ’s ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’, has died at the age of 82. Read next Louis Vuitton Pre-Fall 2025: Pharrell’s high-speed escape from Paris to Miami Blur vs Oasis chart battle to be subject of new play ‘The Battle’ In a statement on his Facebook page, his family announced that Gowers passed away after an acute respiratory infection, in Santa Monica, California. Born in West Kilbride, Scotland, he began his career at the BBC , working initially as a cable puller, a cameraman, and production manager and “[learning] the business from the ground up,” according to the statement. In 1975, he directed ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’, a benchmark in the history of the music video; it has been viewed more than 1.5 billion times on YouTube, becoming only the second 20th century music video to pass the billion mark in 2019, after Guns N’ Roses ‘ ‘November Rain’. It launched a career in the business that saw him work with everybody from The Rolling Stones (on ‘Hot Stuff’, ‘Hey Negrita’ and ‘Fool To Cry’) to Prince (‘Controversy’, ‘Sexuality’), Michael Jackson (‘Rock with You’, ‘She’s Out of My Life’) and Whitney Houston (‘Why Does It Hurt So Bad’). His final credit as music video director was on the star-studded clip for Peter Kay’s Comic Relief revival of Tony Christie’s ‘(Is This the Way to) Amarillo’ in 2005. Gowers also worked extensively in television, winning an Emmy in 2009 for his work on American Idol . Also on his mantelpiece was a Grammy in the Best Music Video, Long Form category, for 1984’s Huey Lewis and the News: Heart of Rock and Roll and a Director’s Guild of America award for 2004’s Genius: A Night with Ray Charles . He is survived by his wife, two children and four grandchildren. Queen drummer Roger Taylor said that the clip for ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’, which was made for just £3500, was “the first video to be used as a really successful promotional tool”. Despite this, Gowers claimed to have been paid only $590 for his work on it, and did not see further remuneration. “The only thing that upsets me is that they have been using my video for 40 years, and they have never paid me a dime or said thank you,” he told the Daily Mail in 2018. A planned lawsuit for lost royalties apparently never came to pass. He remained proud of the video, however. “It changed the way music was perceived; everyone was doing videos and bands were seeing their sales and chart positions rise if their videos were good.” In This Article: Bruce Gowers Trending Radiohead’s Thom Yorke and the creative team behind ‘Hamlet: Hail to the Thief’ tell us how they brought the show to life Han: The All-Rounder Ghost: How the phantom of rock conquered the charts Self Esteem ‘A Complicated Woman’ review: Power, joy and pop positivity Stray Kids: Staying Power Rolling Stone Music Film TV Politics Culture Tech Newsletter Legal Privacy Policy About Rolling Stone UK Adjust Your Privacy Preferences Privacy Manager Connect With Us Facebook YouTube Twitter Instagram Subscription Get the magazine Sign up to the newsletter © 2025 Stream Publishing. Rolling Stone UK is published by Stream Publishing Ltd, under license from Rolling Stone, LLC, a subsidiary of Penske Media Corporation.