Collin Morikawa outduels Jordan Spieth to win 2021 British Open x Skip to main content Golf Logo Join Now / Log In Collin Morikawa outduels Jordan Spieth to win 2021 Open Championship, second major title SHARE Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share by Email Golf Logo News Latest News Features Shows PGA Tour Schedule Series Tour Confidential Monday Finish Hot Mic Rogers Report Shows The Scoop Subpar Seen & Heard Instruction Game Improvement Driving Approach Shots Bunker Shots Short Game Putting Rules Fitness Series Top 100 Teachers Rules Guy The Etiquetteist Shows Warming Up Play Smart Short Game Chef Pros Teaching Joes Gear Clubs Drivers Irons Hybrids Fairway Woods Wedges Putters Other Gear Balls Shoes Apparel Golf Accessories Series ClubTest Winner’s Bag Shows Fully Equipped Travel & Lifestyle Travel Course Finder Courses Resorts Lifestyle Accessories Celebrities Food Style Betting Advice Shows Super Secrets Destination Golf Shop Shop Clubs Shafts Training Aids Balls Bags Technology Apparel Accessories Our Picks Shop All Collections The GOLF Collection The Birdie Juice Collection The Fully Equipped Collection Shop All Newsletters Sign Up for GOLF’s Newsletters Hot Mic Monday Finish Play Smart Our Picks Top Stories Sign Up for All News Latest News Features Shows PGA Tour Schedule Instruction All Instruction Driving Approach Shots Bunker Shots Short Game Putting Rules Fitness Gear All Gear Drivers Irons Hybrids Fairway Woods Wedges Putters Balls Shoes Apparel Golf Accessories Travel & Lifestyle All Travel All Lifestyle Course Finder Courses Resorts Accessories Celebrities Food Style Betting Advice Series Tour Confidential Monday Finish Hot Mic Rogers Report Rules Guy The Etiquetteist ClubTest Winner’s Bag Shows The Scoop Subpar Seen & Heard Warming Up Play Smart Short Game Chef Pros Teaching Joes Fully Equipped Super Secrets Destination Golf Shop Clubs Shafts Training Aids Balls Bags Technology Apparel Accessories The GOLF Collection The Birdie Juice Collection The Fully Equipped Collection Newsletters Hot Mic Monday Finish Play Smart Top Stories Our Picks Sign Up for All Join Now / Log In Search Timberlake x Nike shoe collab early access Shop Now News Collin Morikawa outduels Jordan Spieth to win 2021 Open Championship, second major title By: Josh Berhow Follow on Twitter Follow on Instagram July 18, 2021 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share by Email Collin Morikawa won the 2021 Open Championship to claim the second major title of his career. Getty Images Collin Morikawa won the first major championship after golf’s brief break from the pandemic last year, and now he’s won the sport’s oldest championship following its one-year hiatus from the same pandemic. And there are no signs of the 24-year-old star letting up anytime soon. Morikawa used his elite ball-striking and rode a streaky putter on Sunday at the 149th Open Championship, closing with a four-under 66 to win the second major of his young career. He finished 15 under overall, besting Jordan Spieth (13 under), who chased him down the stretch and also signed for a 66. Jon Rahm and Louis Oosthuizen tied for third at 11 under. One of golf’s brightest talents already has five PGA Tour victories, two of them majors and another a World Golf Championship. He’s projected to move from 4th to 3rd in the World Ranking, and he’s the first player ever to win two different majors in his first attempts. Now, he also has proof that his game travels. “At 24 years old, it’s so hard to look back at the two short years that I have been a pro and see what I’ve done because I want more,” Morikawa said. “I enjoy these moments and I love it, and I want to teach myself to embrace it a little more, maybe spend a few extra days and sit back and drink out of this. But I just want more. When you’re in these moments and you truly love what you do — which I love playing golf and competing against these guys — these are the best moments ever.” For Oosthuizen, it was yet another heartbreaking finish. The 54-hole leader has won one major but finished as the runner-up in six others , including this year’s PGA Championship and U.S. Open. Oosthuizen shot 71 and finished four back. Spieth has been in strong form since winning the Valero Texas Open in April and was looking for his first major title since his 2017 Open triumph at Royal Birkdale, some 300 miles northwest of Royal St. George’s. Oosthuizen and Morikawa made up the final pairing on Sunday, with Oosthuizen leading at 12 under and Morikawa at 11 under. Spieth (nine under) and Corey Conners (eight under) made up the penultimate pairing. One major stalwart set the tone early on Sunday. Brooks Koepka teed off 2 1/2 hours before the final pairing and moved to eight under by the time they teed off. He shot a five-under 65 to take the clubhouse lead at eight under, but with an Open Championship that has lacked its trademark gusty winds, it was unlikely to stand. News Check out the host courses for the next 3 Open Championships By: James Colgan The first leaderboard shakeup among the top three contenders came on the 4th hole. After parring the first 3 holes, they all missed the par-4 4th green right and were left with tricky chips. Only Morikawa got up and down — it would become a theme of the day — canning a putt from about 10 feet, as Oosthuzien and Spieth made bogeys. Spieth made another bogey on the par-3 6th when he couldn’t get up and down from a pot bunker, but he bounced back with an eagle on the 7th. The par-5 7th, in fact, turned out to be a massive swing hole and set the table for the rest of the action. Playing as the easiest hole on the course, Spieth and Conners both made eagles from the penultimate pairing to get to nine under and within two of the lead. Playing behind them, Morikawa had an easy chip and tap-in putt for birdie to get to 12 under, but Oosthuizen found trouble from the bunker. He thinned his third shot from the bunker over the green and into another pot bunker. From there, with a tricky stance up against the back wall, he left himself 50 feet for par. He two-putted and made bogey — one of just five bogeys made on the hole all day. Morikawa exited the 7th with a two-shot lead over Oosthuizen, and then he stepped on the gas. He stuck an approach from 195 yards out on 8 to seven feet and made birdie, and he followed it by draining a big-breaking 15-footer on 9 for his third straight birdie and a three-shot lead. Through 11, Morikawa stood at 14 under with Oosthuizen and Spieth both at 11 under, but it soon became a two-horse race. Spieth made back-to-back birdies on 13 and 14 to get within one, while Oosthuizen bogeyed 13 and fell four off the pace. Spieth’s birdie on 14 got him to six under in his last eight holes and jolted the gallery, but Morikawa didn’t flinch. His approach into 14 didn’t stay on the top tier where the pin was located, but Morikawa rolled it back up the slope and sank it for birdie from about 20 feet anyway, pushing the lead back to two for good. “The nerves are definitely up there. But you channel these nerves into excitement and energy, and that puts you away from like a fear factor into this is something I want,” Morikawa said. “So that’s how I look at it, especially as those last nine holes were coming in. Jordan was making birdies; I think Rahm was pushing; Louis had a birdie on 11, an amazing birdie. You can’t worry about the score. I had to worry about every shot. Can I execute every shot to the best of my ability? Some we did, some we didn’t, and then you move on. We can’t control what’s going to happen, what has happened. So I really looked at that as just focus on every shot, how do I see what is the best shot possible, and try and do my best from there.” Morikawa never made a mistake. He didn’t make a bogey in his final 31 holes, and despite ranking 172nd in Strokes Gained: Putting for the season, no one putted better at The Open. Morikawa didn’t have a three-putt all week and made clutch ones all day on Sunday. He had a nifty up and down for par on 15 in which he holed a putt from about 15 feet, and he two-putted the last three holes for par. Spieth, after making back-to-back birdies on 13 and 14, missed birdie putts on 15 (from 20 feet), 16 (from 50 feet), 17 (from 10 feet) and 18 (30 feet). “I just wasn’t extremely sharp with the putter this week,” Spieth said. “I was sharper than I was at Augusta, and it’s been a little bit kind of here and there this year. My bad weeks have been okay and my good weeks are really good, but I needed to put in a little bit of work trying to almost get a solid couple hundred to 500 putts in between yesterday’s finish to today’s round to think that I could go out and confidently go stroke enough to win.” After Morikawa tapped in for par on the 72nd hole, he raised his arms and celebrated with the crowd. When he won the PGA at TPC Harding Park last year, no fans were allowed. This time, golf’s best young player had welcome company. Latest In News 2 hours ago How amateurs can save ‘5, 10 strokes a round,' according to Justin Thomas 4 hours ago Major caddie change sends shockwaves through PGA Tour 6 hours ago 'Difficult decision': Pinehurst No. 4 to close for unexpected restoration 8 hours ago Nelly Korda cites 1 regret from up-and-down Chevron week Josh Berhow Golf.com Editor As GOLF.com’s managing editor, Berhow handles the day-to-day and long-term planning of one of the sport’s most-read news and service websites. He spends most of his days writing , editing, planning and wondering if he’ll ever break 80. Before joining GOLF.com in 2015, he worked at newspapers in Minnesota and Iowa. A graduate of Minnesota State University in Mankato, Minn., he resides in the Twin Cities with his wife and two kids. You can reach him at joshua_berhow@golf.com. Author Twitter Account Author Instagram Account Related Articles Gear His Open win made this hybrid famous. But its manufacturer couldn't capitalize By: Ryan Barath News Ivor Robson, beloved Open Championship announcer, dead at 83 By: James Colgan News How did Brian Harman distract himself during Open Championship week? A sci-fi novel By: Jack Hirsh News Open Championship stock report: Ryder Cup (up!), TV ratings (down!) from Royal Liverpool By: James Colgan Travel Lessons from Hoylake: A hidden golfing gem, a contentious par-3, the next Brian Harman and more By: GOLF Editors News 10 Open Championship scenes you couldn't have seen on TV By: Dylan Dethier News Brian Harman hate, Rory, Beatles: 50 Open Championship observations By: Nick Piastowski Travel He designed the Open's controversial 17th hole. Here's how he thought it played By: Josh Sens News Brandel Chamblee says Rory McIlroy is past his physical prime By: Jessica Marksbury Sign up for GOLF's Newsletters Get the latest news, the hottest instruction tips, new product releases, golf media insider reports and more delivered directly to your inbox. Choose your favorites now. Sign Up Categories News Instruction Gear Lifestyle Travel Services Masthead GOLF Media Kit GOLF Magazine Customer Service TERMS OF SERVICE PRIVACY POLICY Opt-out of Ads/Sharing Your Privacy Choices Social facebook x instagram youtube Membership More than $140 Value for JUST $39.99 INCLUDES 12 SRIXON Z-STAR XV GOLF BALLS, 1 YR OF GOLF MAGAZINE, $20 FAIRWAY JOCKEY CREDIT - AND MUCH MORE! LEARN MORE © 2025 EB Golf Media LLC. An 8AM Golf Affiliated Brand. All Rights Reserved. All of our market picks are independently selected and curated by the editorial team. If you buy a linked product, GOLF.COM may earn a fee. Pricing may vary. Go to mobile version