Philanthropy Archives - Golden Globes The Show Awards Database 2025 Nominations Winners/Nominees Carol Burnett Award Cecil B. DeMille Award History Golden Globes History About Award Rules and Entry Forms Media Info Publicist Info Voter Application Voter Biographies Membership Board of Directors Golden Globes Leadership Team Contact Us FAQs News Latest News Video Gallery Skip to content 82nd Annual Golden Globes® LIVE COVERAGE . Philanthropy Search articles HFPA The Hollywood Reporter and the Golden Globes Partner to Raise Our Voices “Diversity can mean more than one thing. Diversity can be an injury, diversity can be the color of your skin, diversity can mean standing up for yourself,” actress and activist Sharon Stone said at The Hollywood Reporter’s second annual “Raising Our Voices: Setting Hollywood’s Inclusion Agenda” luncheon gala which was held in partnership with the Golden Globes, East West Bank and the Wallis Annenberg GenSpace, the event’s venue. Golden Globe Awards 2022: An Astounding Legacy of Philanthropy On January 9, 2022, the best of film and television from 2021 was recognized and honored. The Power of the Dog and West Side Story each won three Golden Globes, while on the TV side, Succession, Hacks. HFPA HFPA to Partner with World Bank to Support Edutainment Initiatives for International Development The Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA) announced an agreement to co-sponsor a series of Global Forums with the Narrating Behavior Change Program of the World Bank to promote the growth of edutainment programming around the world; the use of entertainment media with educational objectives. “This partnership seeks to connect Hollywood with the global development community by developing new creative programming with the goal of helping to promote important sustainability goals, which improve the lives of millions of people struggling with healthcare, environmental and other challenges,” said Helen Hoehne, president of the HFPA. HFPA Professionals Offer Industry Advice During HFPA Grantee Cal State Fullerton’s “Comm Week” Over the last 27 years the Hollywood Foreign Press Association has donated $50 million to a wide variety of entertainment-related nonprofit organizations, film restorations, and academic programs. More than 2,220 students have received scholarships to help them pursue their dreams. Industry Restored by HFPA: “Ben Hur: A Tale of the Christ” (1925) In Photoplay magazine of July-December 1924, an article by A. Chester Keel appeared entitled “The Fiasco of Ben Hur. Interviews Podcast Golden Globes Around the World: FilmAid & Refugee Filmmaker Noel Bol Over the past 18 years, the Hollywood Foreign Press Association has donated over $1. 375 million to the non-profit organization, FilmAid. HFPA “Thanks to HFPA’s support of CAPE New Writers Fellowship, our alumni have been staffed on over 50 shows” – Michelle Sugihara From the upcoming comedy Easter Sunday to various TV series including Pachinko, Fargo, Grey’s Anatomy, and Billions, these productions share something in common – some of their creatives are alumni of the New Writers Fellowship of CAPE (Coalition of Asian Pacifics in Entertainment) of which the HFPA is one of the major supporters. “Together we have launched so many careers and I hope you all are as proud as I am,” said Michelle Sugihara, CAPE’s executive director. HFPA HFPA Residency: Return to Hollywood They hail from 12 countries in four continents united in their love for film making and an abiding passion for storytelling. The fellows of the 2022 HFPA Global Residency are the largest group yet in the program instituted by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association four years ago in partnership with the Toronto and Venice film festivals and with Film Independent, which manages the Residency curriculum. HFPA Committee To Protect Journalists – An Informative and Shocking Panel Discussion On the 23rd day of Russia’s war on Ukraine, our wonderful grantee, the Committee to Protect Journalists, held a panel titled “Human Rights Violations and the Dangers Facing Journalists in Ukraine”. Experts from both the CPJ and Human Rights Watch were on hand to explain the current situation and to field questions from other reporters about the war, ongoing human rights violations, disinformation and the dangers facing journalists on the frontlines of history. HFPA HFPA Supports Committee to Protect Journalists in Ukraine The HFPA has been a proud supporter of the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) since 2017 and has granted them almost $2 million for their efforts to defend press freedom worldwide and to protect journalists and their right to report the news freely and without fear. The HFPA Board of Directors today announced an additional $75,000 to help their efforts in Ukraine. 1 2 3 4 5 Subscribe to Newsletter Email address Submit GG will store your name and email address and use them to send the Weekly Globe newsletter. Withdraw consent by clicking on the link in an issue. Read our Privacy Policy . Something went wrong! Please try again. Thank you for your submission! Tabulation proudly provided by KPMG LLP (US) The Show Awards Database 2025 Nominations Winners/Nominees Carol Burnett Award Cecil B. DeMille Award History Golden Globes History About Award Rules and Entry Forms Media Info Publicist Info Voter Application Voter Biographies Membership Board of Directors Golden Globes Leadership Team Contact Us FAQs News Latest News Video Gallery Golden Globe(s)®, Cecil B. Demille® and Golden Globes® Statuette design mark are the registered trademarks and service marks and the Golden Globe® statuette the copyrighted property, of Golden Globes, LLC. Copyright © Golden Globes, LLC. Hollywood Foreign Press Association® is a registered trademark of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. All rights reserved. Accessibility Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Adchoices Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices Dismiss Disclaimer Your Privacy Rights Golden Globes, LLC (“Golden Globes”) uses first and third-party technologies to enable PMC and third-parties to collect information about you and your interactions with our sites and services (including clicks, cursor movements and screen recordings). Learn more HERE . By continuing to use our sites or services, you agree to our Terms of Use (including the class action waiver and arbitration provisions) and Privacy Policy , which have recently changed. Search Search