9 take-aways from the quietly political 90th Academy Awards show 9 take-aways from the quietly political 90th Academy Awards show advertisement × Log Out Account Profile Newsletters Today's E-edition Sign Up for Newsletters Subscribe Log In Today’s Stories News Sports Opinion Obituaries Business Entertainment Lifestyle Classifieds Calendar Twitter Facebook Instagram Home Today's stories E-Edition Newsletters Photo Galleries Communities High Schools Weather DH Events & Contests News News Cook County DuPage County Kane County Lake County McHenry County Crime Chicago State & Region Nation & World Obituaries Local Politics Nation & World Politics Sports Sports High School Bears Blackhawks Bulls Cubs White Sox Fire Sky Wolves Boys basketball Girls basketball Prep Football Suburban Business Suburban Business Finance Health Technology Real Estate Property Transfers Entertainment Entertainment Celebrities Movies Dining Literature Music Television Theater Events Calendar Oakley's Family Guide Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health & Fitness Home & Garden Parenting Travel Celebrations Oakley's Family Guide Opinion Opinion Letters to the Editor Editorials Cartoons Classifieds Classifieds Place an Ad Autos Real Estate Jobs Property Transfers Merchandise for Sale Business Service Directory Announcements Legal Notices Obituaries Obituaries Search Obituaties Place an Obituary Shopping Today's Ads Local Businesses Newspaper Services Manage Delivery Account Subscribe Customer Service Lifestyle 9 take-aways from the quietly political 90th Academy Awards show Posted March 04, 2018 10:00 pm Dann Gire Frances McDormand asked all the nominated women in the room to stand as she accepted the Best Actress Academy Award for "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" Sunday. Associated Press The late Chicago film critic Roger Ebert's words about movies generating empathy and fostering understanding became part of an Oscar night montage celebrating the power of film to bring different people together, and Sunday's telecast did that quite well. Here are nine take-aways from the 90th Academy Awards: 1. Frances McDormand's Best Actress acceptance In an evening rife with dulling speeches sounding like orally transcribed movie credits, a hyperventilating McDormand supplied the show's most memorable moment by asking all female nominees to stand up. "If I fall over," she said, "pick me up because I've got some things to say!" Mostly two words: "inclusion rider." Tiffany Haddish, left, and Maya Rudolph won over the Oscar crowd with banter about their sore feet and race. Associated Press 2. Best presenter The unpretentiously adorable comedian and actress Tiffany Haddish violated Hollywood's long-standing unwritten rule about not wearing the same outfit twice. She wore her $4,000 white Alexander McQueen dress on at least two earlier occasions. "This dress cost way more than my mortgage," she quipped. And she took the stage in slippers. 3. Those sets! Six-time Oscars show designer Derek McLane turned the Dolby Theater stage into something that looked like a James Bond villain's headquarters hidden inside a giant, kaleidoscopic geode, an elaborate set constructed from 45 million crystals. 4. Those hot dog guns As show host Jimmy Kimmel led a group of celebrities into a nearby movie theater to thank its unsuspecting patrons for supporting the movies, he armed stars with 6-foot sub sandwiches, goodies and hot dog guns. "Don't shoot the hot dog guns at the vegetarians!" he cautioned. 5. The "Get Out" Best Original Screenplay win "Get Out" ranks as my No. 1 movie of 2017, so it was justice for Jordan Peele's daring cinematic snapshot of racism in the 21st century (disguised as a darkly comic "meet the parents" horror tale) to win the statuette. Peele, the first African American to win in that category, admitted he'd stopped writing the screenplay at least 20 times, thinking it would never be produced. Transgender actress Daniela Vega introduces Best Song nominee "Mystery of Love" from "Call Me by Your Name" at Sunday's Oscars. Associated Press 6. Proof of tolerance and acceptance Starting with the winners of the Best Animated Feature for "Coco," a woman thanked her wife, followed by a man thanking his husband, followed soon after by a transgender actress ("A Fantastic Woman" star Daniela Vega) introducing the Best Song nominee "Mystery of Love" from a gay coming-of-age drama, "Call Me by Your Name." Not long ago, these events would have raised eyebrows. Now, no big deal. Guillermo del Toro inspects the envelope as Warren Beatty, right, presents him with the award for Best Picture for "The Shape of Water" Sunday at the Oscars. Associated Press 7. No hiccups or surprises From a producer's point of view, this might be a good thing. But those hiccups and surprises make awards shows much more fun, even memorable. The 89th Oscars would never have received the attention or interest it did had Faye Dunaway and Warren Beatty not announced the wrong Best Picture winner. 8. The great redemption Bonnie and Clyde got the Best Picture winner right this time - though Guillermo del Toro did check the card. And, yes, "The Shape of Water" won. 9. The Susan Lucci of cinematographers Finally, after 14 Oscar nominations, cinematographer Roger Deakins won an Academy Award for his work on "Blade Runner 2049." 0 Article Comments Article Categories Entertainment Lifestyle Movies Article Comments Guidelines: Keep it civil and on topic; no profanity, vulgarity, slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked.  								If a comment violates these standards or our terms of service , click the "flag" link in the lower-right corner of the comment box. To find our more, read our FAQ . Recommended for You Trending News Back To Top About Us Daily Herald Events Daily Herald Media Group News Privacy Policy Terms of Service Staff Advertising/Marketing Jobs at Paddock Publications Contact Us Connect With Us Quick Links E-Edition Contests Calendar Share Article or Event Newsletters Advertising About our Ads Advertise Place a Classified Ad Contacts Business Directory Services RSS Email Newsletters Copyright © 2025 Paddock Publications, Inc., P.O. Box 280, Arlington Heights, IL 60006 Paddock Publications, Inc. is an Employee-Owned Company