Gianni Infantino re-elected as FIFA president after running unopposed - The Athletic International Football Teams Podcasts Gianni Infantino re-elected as FIFA president after running unopposed By Omar Garrick March 16, 2023 Gianni Infantino has been re-elected as the president of FIFA until 2027 after standing unopposed. The Swiss-Italian was re-elected in front of 211 member associations at the 73rd FIFA congress in Kigali, Rwanda on Thursday. He said: “Being President of FIFA is an incredible honour, an incredible privilege. It is also a great, great responsibility. I’m truly humbled and touched by your support. Advertisement “I promise you I will continue serving FIFA, serving football all over the world, serving all 211 member associations of FIFA.” Following his re-election, Infantino added: “To all those who love me, I know there are so many, and those who hate me, I know there are a few, I love you all.” He said “leadership is about learning, and I certainly have, and leadership is about acting – I am here to act.” Infantino, 52, became head of world football’s governing body when he succeeded Sepp Blatter in 2016. He was then re-elected until 2023 in 2019. Before becoming FIFA president, Infantino had a position on the FIFA reform committee in his previous role as the head of the administration at the European governing body UEFA. Infantino received the backing of the UEFA Executive Committee to stand as the FIFA president at the 2016 FIFA Extraordinary Congress. News of Infantino standing unopposed was confirmed by FIFA in November last year. FIFA presidential terms normally run in four-year cycles and Infantino could remain president until 2031 if he continues to be re-elected. Blatter was FIFA president for 17 years until he was banned amid a corruption scandal in 2015. GO DEEPER Why Gianni Infantino visited The Den, mingled with Delia and left early (Photo: Tom Dulat – FIFA/FIFA via Getty Images) Omar Garrick is a Junior Editor for The Athletic UK, based in London. He previously worked at BBC Sport and The Manchester Evening News. Omar is a journalism graduate from Cardiff University and the University of Sheffield. Follow Omar on Twitter @ GarrickOmar National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Culture Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two LNH Memorabilia & Collectibles Men's College Basketball Men's World Cup Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News UK Women's Football WNBA Women's College Basketball Women's Euros Women's Hockey Women's World Cup The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Montréal (français) Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Support Sitemap