'Diablo 3' coming to Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 in September IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content NBC News Logo Trump admin Politics U.S. News Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut World Business Editors' picks Shopping Tipline Sports Health Science Culture & Trends Share & Save — My News Manage Profile Email Preferences Sign Out Search Search Profile My News Sign Out Sign In Create your free profile Sections U.S. News Decision 2024 Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech & Media Weather Video Features Photos NBC Select NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News MSNBC Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now More From NBC CNBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Print Whatsapp Reddit Pocket Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Trump admin Politics U.S. News World Business Editors' picks Shopping Tipline Sports Health Science Culture & Trends Tech News 'Diablo 3' coming to Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 in September Activision Blizzard is bringing "Diablo III" both to the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles this September, the company announced today. Blizzard By Yannick LeJacq Activision Blizzard is bringing Blizzard The acclaimed, controversial and insanely addictive hack-and-slash action role-playing game "Diablo 3" is coming to the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 consoles Sept. 3, Blizzard announced Thursday. Previously, the company had only confirmed plans to port its PC gaming classic — first released in May 2012 — to Sony's current and upcoming next-generation consoles. The PlayStation 4 version of the game doesn't have a yet a release date of its own yet, and Blizzard wouldn't comment on any plans to also bring the demon-slaying action to Microsoft's next-generation console. "We’re excited for console players to get their hands on 'Diablo III,' but we don’t have any further platform announcements to share at this time," a representative from Blizzard told NBC News when asked about any additional console ports to, say, the Xbox One or the Wii U. Details about the console versions of "Diablo III" have been relatively scarce, with gamers expressing excitement and trepidation in equal parts at the idea of bringing one of those most important PC games of recent history to an entirely new gaming platform. As one of the games that pioneered pointing at things with a mouse and clicking to kill them, how would the core "Diablo III" experience transfer to a gamepad? According to a preview article in the June 2013 issue of Edge magazine, pretty well — but "Diablo III" on a console isn't necessarily the "Diablo" that fans of the demon-slaying franchise know and love. "With its isometric camera, crumbling ramparts, and hulking demonic bestiary, 'Diablo III' on the PS3 feels more like a homage to the 'God of War' series than the much-requested port of a multimillion-selling PC game that it is," Edge said in its preview. Reticence aside, turning "Diablo III" into a pure and simple action game wouldn't be the worse thing in the world—even for "Diablo" fans. The console versions already boast a local multiplayer option that will let friends play the game together on the same console and online simultaneously. And that pesky always-online feature that put so many gamers up in arms ? Like the auction-house, Blizzard has removed it from the console versions. Yannick LeJacq is a contributing writer for NBC News who has also covered technology and games for Kill Screen, The Wall Street Journal and The Atlantic. You can follow him on Twitter at @YannickLeJacq and reach him by email at: ylejacq@gmail.com. Yannick LeJacq About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service (Updated JULY 7, 2023) NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Advertise Select Shopping © 2025 NBCUniversal Media, LLC NBC News Logo MSNBC Logo Today Logo