Favorite Major DELAYED Zelda game?  - General Zelda - Zelda Universe Forums Front Page Bluesky Discord Instagram Facebook Forum Games Discord Patreon TikTok Tumblr Twitch Youtube Forum How To's Members Recent Activities Search Members Team Trophies Users Online Rules Forum Rules Zelda Section General Chit Chat Internet: Serious Business Creativity Corner Forum Games Zelda Wiki Zelda Maps Login or register Search This Thread Everywhere This Thread This Forum Articles Pages Forum More Options Zelda Universe Forums Zelda General Zelda Favorite Major DELAYED Zelda game? KingOfHeart Jul 27th 2015 KingOfHeart King Of Hyrule Trophies 1 Posts 4,742 Jul 27th 2015 #1 Zelda U is not the first Zelda game to be delayed. In fact, a lot of the console Zelda games got delayed. Here's the list of Zelda games that were delayed. (maybe there's more, not 100% sure yet) Ocarina Of Time Nintendo Power 1997: Ocarina of Time Delays – Zelda Dungeon Twilight Princess Zelda Delayed to Next Year - IGN Skyward Sword http://www.gamespot.com/forums…d-delayed-again-27534452/ That's the list. Windwaker apparently had a delay of 1 month, but I would not consider that a major delay. -------------------------------- Even though Majora's Mask is my #1 game (only had a year to be completed to), I'd have to go with Ocarina of Time for this list. A whole New World Discovered In The Legend Of Zelda! Minus World Discovered in the Legend Of Zelda Cid Third strongest FSA apologist Trophies 1 Posts 4,609 Location Wales Pronouns He, Him Jul 27th 2015 #2 For me, an interesting way to look at this question is which game I think benefit most from the extra time they had. If these games had been forced to release earlier, which would have suffered most? Honestly, from both perspectives of which is just my favourite out of the three and which I think benefit most, I have to go with Ocarina every time. Ocarina was the biggest overhaul in design and pioneered many of the elements that are still standard in Zelda today. In fact, most Zelda titles don't really deviate at all from the visual and physical standards that Ocarina set. If Ocarina had been forced an earlier release, I think the Zelda series would be far behind what it is today. Interestingly, you mention Wind Waker didn't get any major delays. Unfortunately, I think it needed them. Wind Waker suffers from so much cut content. Also, because Wind Waker is so much more simplistic visually, they needed to devote far less time proportionately to develop new playable areas that another year of development could have resulted in a game with more towns, more dungeons and more places to explore in general. The Great Sea feels quite empty when you truly think about it. Please feel free to have a listen to my VGM-style music in the Creative Corner! 1 KingOfHeart King Of Hyrule Trophies 1 Posts 4,742 Jul 28th 2015 #3 You got a point for WindWaker. First of all, there was no real hype for the game, so there was no reason to rush the game. All these islands, were so tiny! They should of been bigger. So dumb that the chart just showed tiny dots until you zoomed up on it. So much empty space! Also, this game really should of had fishing for fish. It's an ocean after all! A whole New World Discovered In The Legend Of Zelda! Minus World Discovered in the Legend Of Zelda Share Facebook Twitter Reddit LinkedIn Pinterest Privacy Policy Legal Notice Powered by WoltLab Suite™ This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse this site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. More Details Close Your browser has JavaScript disabled. If you would like to use all features of this site, it is mandatory to enable JavaScript.