Disney And Pixar's 'Soul' Wins Best Animated Feature Film At 2021 Oscars | GRAMMY.com 2025 GRAMMY Highlights About RECORDING ACADEMY NEWS PRESS ROOM Press Kits Press Releases Executives Trustees In Memoriam Media Mailing List Contact DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Black Music Collective Black Music Collective Podcast Women In The Mix Inclusion Rider Study ADVOCACY Advocacy News ISSUE & POLICY Music Modernization Act Hits Act American Fairness Act Act Artificial Intelligence MEMBERSHIP Governance Producers & Engineers Wing Songwriters & Composers Wing GRAMMY U Membership Login Join Membership Awards GRAMMY AWARD SHOWS 67th GRAMMY Nominations: Full List 2025 GRAMMYs: See The Full Nominees List Watch: 2025 GRAMMY Nominations In Full 2025 GRAMMY Nominations Announcement Schedule 67th Annual GRAMMY Awards (2024) GRAMMY Shop MUSIC GENRES SPECIAL MERIT AWARDS Lifetime Achievement Award Trustees Award Technical GRAMMY Award Music Educator Award GRAMMY Hall Of Fame GRAMMY Legend Award HARRY BELAFONTE BEST SONG FOR SOCIAL CHANGE AWARD GRAMMY AWARDS PROCESS Voting Process Rules and Guidelines GRAMMY Categories Awards Process Updates Voting & Solicitation Guidelines GRAMMY AWARDS FAQ & HELP GRAMMY Participation Certificates GRAMMY Nominee Stickers ARTIST/RECORD LABEL/MEDIA REGISTRATION (OEP) News Videos Genres ALL MUSIC GENRES Pop Rock R&B Country Rap Latin Global Music Gospel & Contemporary Christian Music New Age Jazz Alternative Dance/Electronic Shop GRAMMY GO Login Subscribe to Newsletters Be the first to find out about GRAMMY nominees, winners, important news, and events. Privacy Policy GRAMMYs Advocacy Musicares EMAIL Subscribe Join us on Social Recording Academy / GRAMMYs Latin GRAMMYs GRAMMY Museum Musicares Advocacy Join us on Social RECORDING ACADEMY GRAMMYS MEMBERSHIP ADVOCACY MUSICARES LATIN GRAMMYS GRAMMY MUSEUM (L-R) Pete Docter and Dana Murray accept the Animated Feature Film award at the 2021 Oscars Photo: Todd Wawrychuk/A.M.P.A.S. via Getty Images Facebook Twitter E-mail news Disney And Pixar's 'Soul' Wins Best Animated Feature Film At 2021 Oscars Facebook Twitter Email Disney and Pixar's love letter to jazz, 'Soul,' which features music by Trent Reznor, Atticus Ross and Jon Batiste, won Best Animated Feature Film at the 2021 Oscars Morgan Enos | GRAMMYs / Apr 26, 2021 - 05:48 am Disney and Pixar's Soul , which follows a jazz musician in the ether as he attempts to return to Earth for the gig of a lifetime, won Best Animated Feature Film at the 2021 Oscars. The film was directed by Pete Docter and Kemp Powers and featured music by Trent Reznor , Atticus Ross and Jon Batiste , with consultation by Herbie Hancock , Terri Lyne Carrington and other jazz luminaries. <style>.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }</style><div class='embed-container'><iframe src='https://www.youtube.com/embed/O_fPssiEKRU' frameborder='0' allowfullscreen></iframe></div> Keep watching this space at GRAMMY.com for more news on winners and performers at the 2021 Oscars. Virtuosos, Voyagers & Visionaries: 5 Artists Pushing Jazz Into The Future Read More The 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala takes place Friday, May 16, at the Beverly Hilton in Los Angeles Graphic courtesy of the GRAMMY Museum Facebook Twitter E-mail news 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala Performers Announced: Brian Blade, Cindy Blackman, Daniel Lanois, Eddie Floyd, Emmylou Harris, Jody Stephens, Jon Batiste, Ledisi, Leslie Odom Jr. & Orianthi Facebook Twitter Email The 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala will honor this year's inducted recordings with a night of unforgettable performances and tributes on Friday, May 16, at the Beverly Hilton in Los Angeles. Additional performers and tribute details will be announced soon. Nina Frazier | GRAMMYs / Apr 23, 2025 - 02:05 pm The performer lineup has been revealed for the Recording Academy 's and GRAMMY Museum 's 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala , taking place Friday, May 16 , at the Beverly Hilton in Los Angeles. Each performance will pay tribute to one of this year's GRAMMY Hall Of Fame inductees . More Gala performers and tribute details will be announced soon. See the initial performers lineup for the 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala below: Emmylou Harris , 13-time GRAMMY winner whose 1995 album, Wrecking Ball , is being inducted into the GRAMMY Hall Of Fame this year; she will be joined by GRAMMY-winning producer Daniel Lanois and acclaimed jazz drummer Brian Blade for a rare collaboration Cindy Blackman , a celebrated percussionist and wife of Carlos Santana , the latter of whom has a recording being inducted into the GRAMMY Hall Of Fame this year Eddie Floyd , soul legend whose 1966 Stax single "Knock On Wood" is a 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame inductee Jody Stephens , iconic drummer for Big Star, whose 1972 debut album #1 Record will be inducted into the GRAMMY Hall Of Fame this year Ledisi , vocal powerhouse and GRAMMY winner Leslie Odom, Jr. , GRAMMY-winning singer and actor Orianthi , guitar virtuoso Jon Batiste , GRAMMY-winning composer and bandleader who was previously announced as the inaugural recipient of the newly created Ray Charles "Architect of Sound" Award, which will be awarded at the 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala Esteemed CBS News journalist Anthony Mason will return as the Gala's host. GRAMMY- and Latin-GRAMMY-Award-winning composer, producer and conductor Cheche Alara will serve as musical director. View this post on Instagram A post shared by GRAMMY Museum (@grammymuseum) The Gala will also include the presentation of the inaugural Ray Charles "Architect of Sound" Award, created in partnership with the Ray Charles Foundation. The new annual honor, to be presented to Jon Batiste, recognizes an artist whose creative legacy reflects the visionary innovation of Ray Charles . The Gala will additionally recognize Republic Records as this year's label honoree. Read more: Jon Batiste To Receive Inaugural Ray Charles "Architect of Sound" Award At The 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala The Gala will honor the 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame inducted recordings , which include landmark recordings such as JAY-Z 's Reasonable Doubt , Cat Stevens ' Tea for the Tillerman , Santana 's Supernatural , and classics from Big Star, Clara Ward , Eddie Floyd, Emmylou Harris, Fela Kuti & Afrika 70, Geeshie Wiley, Gloria Estefan & Miami Sound Machine, J.D. Crowe & The New South , Linda Martell , and Luther Vandross . Read more: 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Inducted Recordings Announced: Jay-Z, Santana, Gloria Estefan, Cat Stevens, Emmylou Harris, Luther Vandross & More The GRAMMY Hall Of Fame was established by the Recording Academy's National Trustees in 1973. The inducted recordings are selected annually by a special member committee of eminent and knowledgeable professionals from all branches of the recording arts with final ratification by the Recording Academy's National Board of Trustees . With 13 new titles, the GRAMMY Hall Of Fame currently totals 1,165 inducted recordings. Eligible recipients will receive an official certificate from the Recording Academy. See the full list of recordings inducted into the GRAMMY Hall Of Fame throughout the decades. Learn more about and purchase tickets for the 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala. The 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala is produced by former GRAMMY Awards Executive Producer Ken Ehrlich, alongside Ron Basile, Lindsay Saunders Carl and Lynne Sheridan. Explore The 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Inductees Watch Santana Win Album Of The Year For 'Supernatural' At The 2000 GRAMMYs Songbook: How Jay-Z Created The 'Blueprint' For Rap's Greatest Of All Time How The Film 'Luther: Never Too Much' Elevates The Legacy Of R&B Icon Luther Vandross A Brief History Of Black Country Music: 11 Important Tracks From DeFord Bailey, Kane Brown & More How Gloria Estefan Crossed Latin Music Boundaries On Her Second Spanish-Language Album, 'Abriendo Puertas' Watch Santana & Rob Thomas Self-Assuredly Win Record Of The Year For "Smooth" In 2000 | GRAMMY Rewind Black Sounds Beautiful: From Grams To GRAMMYs, How Jay-Z Became The Blueprint For Success In Hip-Hop GRAMMY Museum To Celebrate Luther Vandross' Legacy With 'Artistry And Elegance' Exhibit Which Songs Put Santana In The Record Book? | For The Record Watch Gloria Estefan Win Her First GRAMMY In 1994 For 'Mi Tierra' | GRAMMY Rewind Read More Graphic courtesy of the GRAMMY Museum. Facebook Twitter E-mail news Jon Batiste To Receive Inaugural Ray Charles "Architect of Sound" Award At The 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala Facebook Twitter Email The GRAMMY Museum and Ray Charles Foundation will honor Jon Batiste with the first-ever Ray Charles "Architect of Sound" Award at the 2025 GRAMMY Hall of Fame Gala, where he will also perform. Nina Frazier | GRAMMYs / Apr 3, 2025 - 02:03 pm The GRAMMY Museum has announced the creation of the Ray Charles "Architect of Sound" Award, an annual honor that will be presented at the Recording Academy and GRAMMY Museum’s GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala . The inaugural recipient, multi-GRAMMY Award-winning artist Jon Batiste , will receive the award on May 16 at The Beverly Hilton in Los Angeles, where Batiste will also perform. Inspired by the genre-spanning genius of Ray Charles — whose legacy as a performer, pianist, songwriter, producer, and entrepreneur forever transformed the musical landscape — the "Architect of Sound" Award honors an artist whose innovation, influence, and creative vision have left a lasting impact on music and culture. Batiste, known for his genre-defying work as a pianist, composer, bandleader, and singer/songwriter, exemplifies the award’s purpose of recognizing transformative artistry. A 17-time GRAMMY winner with 10 recordings inducted into the GRAMMY Hall of Fame and a Recording Academy Lifetime Achievement Award honoree, Ray Charles was one of the most influential artists of all time. "Ray Charles is a beacon for me, a blueprint," said Batiste. "He is a singular example of musical genius, artistic freedom and craft of the highest level that will continue to inspire humanity for generations. I am honored to receive this award." Batiste is a seven-time GRAMMY and Academy Award-winning singer, songwriter, and composer. His latest release, Beethoven Blues (Batiste Piano Series, Vol. 1) , is the first in a solo piano series that reimagines classical works through a fresh, contemporary lens. The album follows World Music Radio (2023), which earned five GRAMMY nominations, including Album of the Year. Batiste also earned an Oscar nomination and a GRAMMY win for his song "It Never Went Away," featured in the Netflix documentary AMERICAN SYMPHONY . His innovative score was also featured in Jason Reitman’s 2024 film SATURDAY NIGHT . Michael Sticka, President/CEO of the GRAMMY Museum, added, "Ray Charles was a trailblazing artist whose influence knows no bounds, and Jon Batiste is a true reflection of that legacy. Beyond his immense talent, Jon has been a dedicated partner in advancing the GRAMMY Museum’s mission to make music education more accessible. Honoring him with the inaugural Ray Charles ‘Architect of Sound’ Award is not just fitting—it’s a celebration of two artists who have shaped the sound of generations." “Ray Charles was always pushing music forward — blending genres, breaking barriers, and inspiring generations,” said Valerie Ervin, President of The Ray Charles Foundation . “He would be deeply honored to have his name attached to an award that celebrates artists who share his fearless creativity and dedication to their craft. Jon Batiste embodies that spirit, and The Ray Charles Foundation is proud to join the GRAMMY Museum in recognizing his extraordinary contributions to music.” Batiste will deliver two special performances during the Gala, which will also include musical tributes and one-of-a-kind moments from a lineup of artists to be announced. The event will also honor this year’s label honoree, Republic Records. CBS News journalist Anthony Mason will return as host. The show will be produced by former GRAMMY Awards Executive Producer Ken Ehrlich , alongside Ron Basile, Lindsay Saunders Carl, and Lynne Sheridan , with musical direction by GRAMMY and Latin GRAMMY-winning composer, producer, and conductor Cheche Alara . The 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala will celebrate this year’s inducted recordings, which include iconic albums and singles such as JAY-Z ’s Reasonable Doubt , Cat Stevens ’ Tea For The Tillerman , Carlos Santana ’s Supernatural , and classics by Big Star, Clara Ward , Eddie Floyd, Emmylou Harris , Fela Kuti & Afrika 70, Geeshie Wiley, Gloria Estefan & Miami Sound Machine, J.D. Crowe & The New South , Linda Martell , and Luther Vandross . Established in 1973 by the Recording Academy’s National Trustees, the GRAMMY Hall Of Fame honors recordings that have qualitative or historical significance and are at least 25 years old. Inducted recordings are selected annually by a special member committee of professionals across the recording arts, with final approval by the National Board of Trustees. With the 13 new additions this year, the Hall Of Fame now includes 1,165 recordings. Eligible recipients will receive an official certificate from the Recording Academy. Tickets for the 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala are on sale now.  For details and sponsorship opportunities, visit grammymuseum.org . Explore The 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Inductees Watch Santana Win Album Of The Year For 'Supernatural' At The 2000 GRAMMYs Songbook: How Jay-Z Created The 'Blueprint' For Rap's Greatest Of All Time How The Film 'Luther: Never Too Much' Elevates The Legacy Of R&B Icon Luther Vandross A Brief History Of Black Country Music: 11 Important Tracks From DeFord Bailey, Kane Brown & More How Gloria Estefan Crossed Latin Music Boundaries On Her Second Spanish-Language Album, 'Abriendo Puertas' Watch Santana & Rob Thomas Self-Assuredly Win Record Of The Year For "Smooth" In 2000 | GRAMMY Rewind Black Sounds Beautiful: From Grams To GRAMMYs, How Jay-Z Became The Blueprint For Success In Hip-Hop GRAMMY Museum To Celebrate Luther Vandross' Legacy With 'Artistry And Elegance' Exhibit Which Songs Put Santana In The Record Book? | For The Record Watch Gloria Estefan Win Her First GRAMMY In 1994 For 'Mi Tierra' | GRAMMY Rewind Read More John Williams (center) at Los Angeles Philharmonic's Walt Disney Concert Hall Opening Night Gala in 2014. Photo: Mathew Imaging/WireImage Facebook Twitter E-mail list 15 Soundtracks That Have Been Nominated For Album Of The Year: 'Star Wars,' 'The Sound Of Music' & More Facebook Twitter Email On the heels of the 2025 Oscars, take a look at the films that have featured music so iconic they earned nods for the GRAMMYs' highest honor — and which three managed to win. Jon O'Brien | GRAMMYs / Mar 2, 2025 - 04:45 pm As Music's Biggest Night, the GRAMMYs honor the year's most masterful musical contributions — and oftentimes, that includes those from the movies. Of course, the GRAMMYs annually award four Categories dedicated to Hollywood: Best Compilation Soundtrack For Visual Media, Best Score Soundtrack For Visual Media (Includes Film And Television), Best Song Written For Visual Media, and Best Music Film. But every now and then, a movie soundtrack is so special that it earns the biggest recognition of the night: Album Of The Year. Only 15 have ever been nominated for the coveted accolade over the course of the GRAMMYs' 67 years, and only three have ever been called as the winner. In fact, it took 21 ceremonies for a soundtrack to emerge victorious. And proving just how rare the nomination is, only one film has earned an AOTY nod this century. There's no guaranteed formula, either. While the all-singing, all-dancing musical has inevitably spawned its fair share of nominees, the Category has also recognized everything from romantic comedies and rural satires to space operas and superhero favorites. Here's a closer look at this exclusive cinematic club. 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' (1962) Composed by Henry Mancini , Breakfast at Tiffany's was one of two film soundtracks to receive an AOTY nod in 1962. Although it lost to Judy Garland 's seminal recording at Carnegie Hall, the classic rom-com didn't go home empty-handed. It won Best Sound Track Album Or Recording Of Score From Motion Picture Or Television and the short-lived Best Performance By An Orchestra – For Other Than Dancing. "Moon River," meanwhile, picked up Best Arrangement and both Song and Record Of The Year. Remarkably, a Paramount Pictures exec had wanted to cut the swoonsome jazz ballad from the film before leading lady Audrey Hepburn reportedly remarked , "Over my dead body." 'West Side Story' (1962) From the patriotic showstopper "America" and balcony love song "Tonight" to the self-empowering anthem "I Feel Pretty" and wistful ballad "Somewhere," the West Side Story soundtrack spawned some of the most enduring songs of the early '60s. But even the dream team of Leonard Bernstein and Stephen Sondheim couldn't wrestle the AOTY GRAMMY away from Judy Garland. Still, the Broadway maestros — and the producers who helped bring their showtunes from the stage to the silver screen — were able to console themselves with victories in Best Sound Track Album or Recording of Original Cast From a Motion Picture or Television, an Oscar , and a 54-week stint atop the Billboard 200. 'The Pink Panther' (1965) The Pink Panther 's musical legacy extended beyond Plas Johnson's brilliantly playful tenor sax. As well as the main theme (which earned a Best Pop Instrumental Performance GRAMMY nomination and became a Top 10 Billboard Adult Contemporary chart hit ), its original soundtrack also spawned the standard "It Had Better Be Tonight," bagged an Oscar nod , and in 2001 entered the GRAMMY Hall of Fame. Henry Mancini's blend of lounge, noirish jazz and Latin even graced the Album Of The Year category in 1965, but lost out to the eponymous collaboration between Stan Getz and João Gilberto . 'The Sound of Music' (1966) A year after Mary Poppins won the Best Recording For Children GRAMMY, Julie Andrews again found herself at the center of the music industry's flagship event. Unfortunately, the national treasure (who voiced most of The Sound of Music OST as free-spirited nun Maria) didn't get to make an acceptance speech; Frank Sinatra 's September of My Years was crowned AOTY. Even so, the soundtrack — which adapted showtunes including yodel-heavy "The Lonely Goatherd," musical lesson "Do-Re-Mi," and holiday favorite "My Favorite Things" from the same-named Rodgers and Hammerstein Broadway hit — was still nothing short of a phenomenon, spending a colossal 238 weeks on the Billboard 200. 'Doctor Zhivago' (1967) Sinatra also denied another film soundtrack, Doctor Zhivago , the coveted AOTY award a year later with re-recorded hits collection A Man And His Music . Maurice Jarre 's score to the Russian Civil War epic also lost out in the one-off Best Instrumental Performance (Other Than Jazz) Category, but did reign supreme in Best Original Score Written For A Motion Picture Or Television Show. Best known for its leitmotif "Lara's Theme," Jarre's homage to the classical romanticism of Rimsky-Korsakov and Tchaikovsky was reportedly only finished eight days before its December 1965 premiere. In stark contrast to its last-minute inception, the soundtrack took over a year to reach the top of the Billboard 200. 'Star Wars' (1978) The force was undoubtedly strong with John Williams ' iconic contribution to the original, and many would say best, entry in the Star Wars franchise. His contemporary classical soundtrack won both Best Score Soundtrack for Visual Media and Best Pop Instrumental Composition, while its lightsaber-friendly "Main Title," a Top 10 hit in both original symphonic form and Meco's space disco cover, was crowned Best Instrumental Composition. Williams had to settle for just a nomination in the Album Of The Year Category, though, as another record steeped in even more high drama, Fleetwood Mac 's Rumors , was handed the major prize instead. 'Saturday Night Fever' (1979) It took a trio of famously hirsute, falsetto-voiced brothers for a soundtrack to finally win AOTY. The Bee Gees wrote all seven of Saturday Night Fever 's originals, and apart from Yvonne Elliman 's "If I Can't Have You," performed them, too. Encapsulating the joys of New York nightlife during the height of disco — and in particular, the escapism it afforded John Travolta 's Tony Manero — the soundtrack also helped spawn three more wins at the 1979 GRAMMYs. The album itself won Best Pop Vocal Performance By A Duo Or Group; its signature Bee Gees smash "Stayin' Alive" was awarded Best Arrangement of Voices; and the masterful production team ofthe Bee Gees, Albhy Galuten , and Karl Richardson shared Producer Of The Year. Remarkably, the 40-million seller didn't get a single look in at the Oscars. 'Grease' (1979) While Travolta only danced to the AOTY winner of 1979, he frequently performed on a fellow nominee. Despite blatantly looking (and being) far too old to play high schoolers, he and Olivia Newton-John stole the show as the loved-up leads in Grease — particularly with catchy originals like "Summer Nights," "You're the One That I Want," and the Oscar-nominated "Hopelessly Devoted to You." Even with Frankie Avalon , Frankie Valli , rock and roll revivalists Sha-Na-Na , and eldest Gibb brother Barry all playing part in the film's monumental success, Grease was ultimately denied GRAMMY glory. But as the film's tagline went, "It don't matter if you win or lose, it's what you do with your dancin' shoes." 'Flashdance' (1984) Only Michael Jackson 's Thriller received more 1984 GRAMMY nominations than the soundtrack to Flashdance , a dancing welder drama that harnessed MTV's power like no film before. Flashdance earned nine nominations in total, including a nod for Song Of The Year ( Michael Sembello 's "Maniac") and two for Record Of The Year ("Maniac" and Irene Cara 's "Flashdance... What A Feeling"). Cara's Oscar-winning six-week chart-topper helped her secure the win for Best Pop Vocal Performance, Female; Giorgio Moroder picked up a golden gramophone thanks to "Love Theme," which claimed Best Instrumental Composition. And while Album Of The Year inevitably went to the blockbuster Thriller , the Flashdance composers — including Cara, Moroder, Sembello, and Kim Carnes — still tasted victory thanks to Best Album Of Original Score Written For A Motion Picture Or A Television Special. 'Purple Rain' (1985) Prince had become so dominant by 1985 that he'd have beaten Ronald Reagan to the U.S. Presidency (according to Billboard , anyway). It was undeniably Purple Rain , the soundtrack to his same-named film debut that spent 24 weeks atop the Billboard 200, that inspired such talk. Its ambitious blend of pop, psychedelia and power ballads also spawned No. 1 singles "When Doves Cry" and "Let's Go Crazy" and won the Original Song Score Oscar alongside GRAMMYs for Best Rock Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocal and Best Score Soundtrack For Visual Media. When it came to AOTY, though, Prince's magnum opus was defeated by Lionel Richie 's Can't Slow Down . 'Beauty and the Beast' (1993) Four years before Falling Into You was crowned AOTY, Celine Dion first enjoyed success as a contributor to the Disney Renaissance. Alongside Peabo Bryson , the diva lent her unmistakable vocals to Beauty and the Beast 's title track, which earned Best Song Written For Visual Media and Best Pop Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocals (the alternative version also picked up Best Instrumental Composition Written For A Motion Picture Or For Television) at the 1993 GRAMMYs. Meanwhile, the parent album received Best Album For Children and became the first ever soundtrack from an animated movie to earn a nod for AOTY. Sadly, Eric Clapton 's Unplugged spoiled the fairytale ending. 'The Bodyguard' (1994) Whitney Houston had twice received AOTY nominations for her previous self-titled LPs before 1994, but finally won the coveted golden gramophone that year thanks to an unlikely combination of Dolly Parton , Kevin Costner and Michelle Visage. Parton had written "I Always Love You," the country number Houston transformed into a blockbuster pop ballad that won both Record Of The Year and Best Pop Vocal Performance, Female at the 1994 GRAMMYs. Costner had personally vouched for an untested Houston during the casting of the 1992 thriller. Visage contributed to the film's soundtrack as a member of The S.O.U.L. S.Y.S.T.E.M. Joe Cocker, Kenny G , Sass Jordan, Aaron Neville, Alvin Silvestri, Lisa Stansfield , and Curtis Stigers also featured on the album. But it was undoubtedly Houston's six numbers, including other GRAMMY nominees "Run to You" and "I'm Every Woman," that propeled The Bodyguard into the record books. 'Waiting to Exhale' (1997) Another Houston-led soundtrack looked like conquering the 1997 GRAMMYs when Waiting to Exhale picked up 11 nominations. Yet it only walked away with Best R&B Song for "Exhale (Shoop, Shoop)," which, alongside Toni Braxton 's "Let It Flow," also topped the Billboard Hot 100. Still, the Babyface -produced album serves as a fine time capsule of '90s R&B, with GRAMMY-nominated hits from Brandy ("Sittin' Up in My Room") and Mary J. Blige ("Not Gon' Cry") joining cuts from TLC , Faith Evans and SWV . The inspired inclusion of Aretha Franklin , Patti LaBelle and Chaka Khan , however, saw the romantic dramedy — in which Houston played unlucky-in-love TV producer Vannah — honoring the genre's pioneers, too. 'O Brother, Where Art Thou?' (2002) Boasting names contemporary ( Alison Krauss ) and classic (Harry McClintock), O Brother Where Art Thou? essentially served as a beginner's guide to bluegrass. Produced by T Bone Burnett , its traditionals and new recordings certainly imbued the Coen brothers' satire with a musical authenticity. Indeed, even if the Soggy Bottom Boys were only lip-syncing to the professionals, GRAMMY-winning songs such as Ralph Stanley 's "O' Death" (Best Male Country Vocal Performance) and "I Am A Man of Constant Sorrow" (Best Country Collaboration with Vocals) fit perfectly with the 1930s American South setting. The Billboard 200 chart-topperalso defeated India.Arie , Bob Dylan , OutKast , and U2 to become only the third soundtrack to scoop AOTY to date. 'Black Panther' (2019) Kendrick Lamar was supposed to only make a few contributions to MCU game-changer Black Panther , but was left so compelled by early footage he insisted on delivering a full-length album. The Super Bowl half-timer subsequently assembled his own Avengers-esque team including Jay Rock , Future and James Blake on the Best Rap Performance GRAMMY-winning "King's Dead" and SZA on the Record and Song Of The Year-nominated "All the Stars." The Billboard 200 chart-topper also won an award itself, Best Score Soundtrack For Visual Media, but was denied AOTY by Kacey Musgraves ' Golden Hour . Despite the Category's permanent extension from five to eight-10 entries, however, no other soundtrack has been recognized since. Notable Song & Record Of The Year Winners As several films have proven, you don't need an Album Of The Year contender to score a major nomination. Many soundtrack hits have been nominated for Song and Record Of The Year — and several have won. Alongside the previously mentioned cuts from Breakfast at Tiffany's and The Bodyguard , ROTY winners have emerged from A Summer Place ( Percy Faith 's "Theme from a Summer Place"), Days of Wine and Roses ( Hency Mancini 's title track), Beaches ( Bette Midler 's "Wind Beneath My Wings"), and Titanic ( Celine Dion 's "My Heart Will Go On"). Song Of The Year, meanwhile, has a long list of triumphant movie tie-ins kickstarted in 1961 by Ernest Gold 's "Theme of Exodus." The '70s was a particularly prolific period thanks to the title tracks from The Shadow of Your Smile , You Light Up My Life , and The Way We Were , with the latter's Barbra Streisand also responsible for A Star Is Born 's winner "Evergreen." Animated favorites An American Tail ("Somewhere Out There") and Aladdin ("A Whole New World") alongside Philadelphia ( Bruce Springsteen 's "Streets of Philadelphia") helped continue the trend in the '80s and '90s. The only 21st century example, however, is Billie Eilish 's Barbie ballad "What Was I Made For?" — that is, for now. Latest News & Exclusive Videos Barbra Streisand Wins At The 1978 GRAMMYs Lana Del Rey's Country Roots: 5 Key Covers & Collaborations With 'Withered,' d4vd Says Goodbye To Himself & Writes A New Beginning Amble Perform "Swan Song" By The Sea Tracing Coco Jones' Journey To 'Why Not More?': How She Became A GRAMMY-Winning R&B Star Read More Steve Cropper Photo: Stacie Huckeba Facebook Twitter E-mail interview Jammed Together With Steve Cropper: The Guitar Legend On 'Friendlytown,' Making His Own Rules & Playing Himself Facebook Twitter Email Steve Cropper reflects on his decades-long career, his 2025 GRAMMY nomination for Best Contemporary Blues Album and the enduring influence of Stax Records. Jessica Lipsky | GRAMMYs / Jan 30, 2025 - 03:30 pm The 2025 GRAMMYs , officially known as the 67th GRAMMY Awards , will air live on CBS and Paramount+ on Sunday, Feb. 2 . Watch highlights from the 2025 GRAMMYs on live.GRAMMY.com . The 2025 GRAMMYs telecast will be reimagined to raise funds to support wildfire relief efforts and aid music professionals impacted by the wildfires in Los Angeles . Donate to the Recording Academy's and MusiCares' Los Angeles Fire Relief Effort To Support Music Professionals . Editor’s Note: This interview was conducted before the onset of the wildfires in Los Angeles . Steve Cropper is still "selling energy" — putting forth what a younger generation might call blues rock "vibes" with his pals as if it were still 1970. This ethos dates back to his time at the legendary Memphis label Stax Records, where Cropper served as a songwriter, producer, engineer and A&R. Crucially, Cropper was the guitarist in Stax's house band, Booker T. & The MGs — they of "Green Onions" fame — and backed artists including Otis Redding , Wilson Pickett , Sam & Dave , and Carla Thomas . Among his many bonafides , Cropper co-wrote Redding's "( Sittin ’ On) The Dock Of The Bay." In his post-Stax years, the two-time GRAMMY winner and nine-time nominee produced and played on sessions with Jeff Beck , Jose Feliciano , John Prine , John Cougar , and Tower Of Power. He later joined Levon Helm’ s RCO All-Stars group and was among the original members in Dan Aykroyd and John Belushi's Blues Brothers band. Cropper resumed his solo career in the '80s, releasing several albums, while continuing to collaborate with leading lights like Paul Simon , Ringo Starr , Elton John and Steppenwolf. Steve Cropper has stayed true to himself for over seven decades, thanks in no small part to advice from Stax founder Jim Stewart. "He said, 'Just play yourself and if they don't like it, they'll tell you,'" Cropper tells GRAMMY.com. " So I've been playing myself all my life and it's worked out. That's pretty cool." At the 2025 GRAMMYs , Cropper is nominated in the Best Contemporary Blues Album Category for the aptly named Friendlytown , recorded with a mix of long-time collaborators and a few newer faces, together billed as Steve Cropper & the Midnight Hour. Friendlytown 's 13 tracks are familiar, digestible and straight-ahead rockin ' — the kind of tunes you'd be thrilled to hear in a local dive. Featuring ZZ Top 's Billy Gibbons , Queen guitarist Brian May , singer Roger C Reale , and guitarist Tim Montana, Cropper co-wrote and co-produced all of Friendlytown with bassist Jon Tiven . "Steve's guitar playing on the song 'Hurry Up Sundown' is probably some of his best solo work and rhythm work," Tiven says. "It's amazing that at this point in his career, he could still be creating some of the greatest music of his life. I think that's a wonderful testament to the strength of his talent." Meet Me At The Friendlytown Trader Joe's There was very little methodical music-making behind Friendlytown , which partially grew out of sessions Cropper put together for his 2021 album Fire It Up . "This record was just about a bunch of guys getting together and having some fun. It's just like, Let's have a blast and try to make the party come to the record, rather than the record come to the party ," Tiven notes. Cropper and Tiven had been working on songs for years with the hopes of finding friendly musicians to give them life. While some found homes, the duo sat on instrumentals for years — until Tiven ran into Billy Gibbons at Trader Joe's. When Tiven told the sharp-dressed man he was making a record with Steve Cropper, "He just lit up like a firecracker and said he'd like to bring us a song. I said, 'Well, it's only going on the record unless you play on it.' And he said, 'Well, that could be arranged.'" Gibbons ended up on 11 tracks; Friendlytown marks the first time he and Cropper worked together in many years. The ZZ Top vocalist's influence is audible on the album, particularly the title track and Eliminator- esque "Lay It On Down." In Session At Stax While casual may be the name of Cropper's game these days, "it definitely wasn't 35, 40 years ago," he says. Back then (and largely before, as Cropper left the label in 1970), making music was "was very serious, and I don't even think the guys had a good time." With a laugh, Cropper recalls his best friend, the Stax bassist/MG Duck Dunn , pining for a world in which "Jim Stewart would've only smiled every now and then." While Cropper calls Stewart "the greatest guy I've ever met," the label head was known to be critical. "He knew if you fought for something, like a song, that it was a good song. And if you didn't fight for it, it wasn't worth nothing ," Cropper says, chuckling. "He was right. I think about that all the time, but I don't use it. A songwriter could tell me how good a song they wrote is, but if I don't like it, I don't like it. I'm sorry!. I'm sure I've thrown away some good ones before." Read more: 1968: A Year Of Change For The World, Memphis & Stax Records A young Cropper put up a couple of fights, and for good reason. He recalls stumping for Wilson Pickett's "Ninety-nine and a half" : [Jim Stewart said] "You boys was out there woodsheddin ’. That song ain't going to make it." Cropper pressed it, and Stewart relented. The track made the cut for Pickett's 1966 album The Exciting Wilson Pickett. Another big Stax hit stayed on the shelf for nine months while Cropper and co. battled it out with Stax brass. "Finally Al Bell went to Jim and said, 'You got to put this record out. It's called ‘Knock on Wood.' And Jim says, 'Okay, but you got to use your own money,'" Cropper says. "He hated that record until it was a hit." Reflecting on the hardest song he's ever played, Cropper quickly points to Sam and Dave's "Soul Man." But the 1967 smash isn't difficult for the reasons you might think: the guitarist had to balance a Zippo lighter on his leg during sessions and performances, which he used to mimic the song's opening horn line. "I always had to dance [when recording] with Sam and Dave, because they could hit a groove. A lot of guitar players don't know that I played with a Zippo lighter and I'd slide it," he recalls. Cropper reportedly hated the sound and feel of new guitar strings — something, he says, is no longer the case in old age — and in a lip-smacking good tidbit of studio lore, explained how he managed his unique sound. "I carry a thing of ChapStick all the time and I would go up and down the strings; [that would] take about three months out of the string so it would sound like the rest of them." Sittin ' On A Legacy After decades in the business, it seems as if Cropper – though ever a professional – doesn't take himself or the creative process too seriously. He jokingly shares a reccolation from a studio session during his Stax years: Once the session was finished, Cropper told the group "Damn, this sounds like a hit." "And Al Jackson said, 'Steve, they're all hits until they're released.' He's probably right." One of Stax's reliable hitmakers was a close friend of Cropper's: Otis Redding. The two shared a deep musical bond and some shared history. Both musicians grew up on farms ("By the time I was 14, I was ready to leave the home. By the time I was 16, I was gone in my mind," Cropper notes) yet the guitarist describes Redding as "most streetwise person that I ever met. I think he just had it. It came natural to him." Redding played guitar with one finger and you "never argued with Otis" — especially because he was never available for sessions for more than a day or two. Most Otis Redding albums, as a result, were compilations from different sessions. "I remember we cut 'I Can't Turn You Loose' in 10 minutes," Cropper says. "[When we recorded] Otis Blue , we had everybody come back at 1 [a.m.] -- after they did their gig and they went home and had their shower – so we could cut it." Cropper knew that  " ( Sittin ' On) The Dock Of The Bay" — arguably Redding's biggest hit, and Cropper's first GRAMMY win —  was a hit. "You know why I knew it was a hit? Because we had Otis the longest I'd had him; for two weeks." The gentle lull of " Sittin '" was a radical departure from Redding's Southern soul bombast, and perhaps a sign of what was to come if the singer hadn't died tragically in a plane crash. "That one song, we searched for a long time. We call it crossover music; so it could go either way:, R&B, pop, whatever. That was the first one we ever had," Cropper says. There's Always A Catch Steve Cropper is still going strong at 83 years old. He reports that he enjoyed HBO's recent Stax Records docuseries, and has an unfinished instrumentals album in the can. He hasn't time for regrets, only dreams, but the name of the one person Cropper wishes he had worked with fires off like lightning: Tina Tuner . Cropper saw the late legend three times. "I really did admire Tina. She was the closest person to Otis, I think, in the business. It's the yeller, screamer, but everybody loves their music. She was so good, it didn't matter how it was she's yelling and screaming," he says. Tina Turner's loudest albums still have melody and something "people will walk away humming" — the very thing Cropper loved about  Stax records. "We were selling groove and all, rather than the music," Cropper says of his work with the MGs. "We don't care about the music. We just cared about melody and what's in the simplicity of the song." 2025 GRAMMYs: Performances, Acceptance Speeches & Highlights 2025 GRAMMYs: See The Full Winners & Nominees List Watch Performances & Highlights From The 2025 GRAMMYs On Live.GRAMMY.com 2025 GRAMMYs: Beyoncé Wins First Album Of The Year Award For 'COWBOY CARTER' Kendrick Lamar Sweeps The 2025 GRAMMYs With Song Of The Year Win 2025 GRAMMYs: Chappell Roan Wins Best New Artist, Calls On Labels To Do Better Sabrina Carpenter Celebrates Her 2025 GRAMMYs Wins With A Performance of "Espresso" & "Please Please Please" 2025 GRAMMYs: The Weeknd Makes Triumphant Return To GRAMMY Stage 2025 GRAMMYs: Lady Gaga & Bruno Mars Perform "California Dreamin'" 2025 GRAMMYs: Chappell Roan Sings "Pink Pony Club" In Colorful, Clowning Debut Performance Charli XCX Brings 'Brat' To The 2025 GRAMMYs With A Performance Of "Von Dutch" & "Guess" 2025 GRAMMYs: Kendrick Lamar Dedicates Record Of The Year Win To Los Angeles 2025 GRAMMYs: Shakira Performs A Belly Dance-Filled Medley Of "Ojos Asi" & "Bzrp Sessions" 2025 GRAMMYs: Best New Artist Nominees Doechii, Benson Boone & More Showcase Their Remarkable Talent Watch The 2025 GRAMMYs Premiere Ceremony In Full: Kacey Musgraves, Muni Long, Mustard, Anderson .Paak, Wayne Brady & More Beyoncé Becomes First Black Woman To Win GRAMMY For Best Country Album With 'COWBOY CARTER' Watch Coldplay's Chris Martin With Grace Bowers Perform "All My Love" In A Moving In Memoriam Tribute | 2025 GRAMMYs Performance 2025 GRAMMYs In Memoriam: Recording Academy Remembers The Music People We've Lost 2025 GRAMMYs: Alicia Keys Delivers A Powerful Call To Action After Receiving Dr. Dre Global Impact Award 2025 GRAMMYs: Quincy Jones Honored With Star-Studded Tribute Featuring Stevie Wonder, Janelle Monáe & Others Watch Doechii Win Best Rap Album For Alligator Bites Never Heal | 2025 GRAMMYs Acceptance Speech Watch Shakira Win Best Latin Pop Album For 'Las Mujeres Ya No Lloran' | 2025 GRAMMYs Acceptance Speech Watch SZA Talk About Super Bowl LIX Halftime Show, "Saturn" Winning Best R&B Song & Silent Retreat Lessons | 2025 GRAMMYs Backstage Interview Watch The GRAMMYs Pay Tribute To First Responders & Hear The From The LAFD Fire Chief  | 2025 GRAMMYs Acceptance Speech Read More Read List 1 Disney And Pixar's 'Soul' Wins Best Animated Feature Film At 2021 Oscars 2 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala Performers Announced: Brian Blade, Cindy Blackman, Daniel Lanois, Eddie Floyd, Emmylou Harris, Jody Stephens, Jon Batiste, Ledisi, Leslie Odom Jr. & Orianthi 3 Jon Batiste To Receive Inaugural Ray Charles "Architect of Sound" Award At The 2025 GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Gala 4 15 Soundtracks That Have Been Nominated For Album Of The Year: 'Star Wars,' 'The Sound Of Music' & More 5 Jammed Together With Steve Cropper: The Guitar Legend On 'Friendlytown,' Making His Own Rules & Playing Himself TOP RECORDING ACADEMY About Governance Press Room Jobs News Awards Process DEI MEMBERSHIP Chapters Producers & Engineers Wing Songwriters & Composers Wing GRAMMY U Join Log In GRAMMYS Awards News Videos Genres Shop GRAMMY GO ADVOCACY About News Learn Act MUSICARES About Get Help Give News Programs & Events LATIN GRAMMYS Awards News Videos Cultural Foundation Members Press GRAMMY MUSEUM COLLECTION:live Museum Tickets Exhibits Education Support Programs Donate @ 2025 - Recording Academy. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Copyright Notice Contact Us Some of the content on this site expresses viewpoints and opinions that are not those of the Recording Academy and its Affiliates. Responsibility for the accuracy of information provided in stories not written by or specifically prepared for the Academy and its Affiliates lies with the story's original source or writer. Content on this site does not reflect an endorsement or recommendation of any artist or music by the Recording Academy and its Affiliates.