British Open history: winners, courses, records and statistics - AS USA NFL NBA Latest News AS USA Log in Sign in to comment Hello EDITION en Editions Spain Chile Colombia USA Mexico US Latino America Scores Scores Editions Spain Chile Colombia USA Mexico US Latino America Scores NFL NBA MLB NCAA Soccer Other Sports Latest News Entertainment ASTV Photos MeriStation Stories Topics Clippers vs Nuggets live Magic vs Celtics live Spain power out UCL Semi-finals TV F1 Miami Grand Prix TV Canelo vs Scull TV Hailstorm damages Car production halt Medi-Cal Tropical storms Kurt Cobain and The Beatles Bill Murray The Accountant 3 Lebron Purdy's contract George Kittle's contract Canelo sugests fight Giannis vs Haliburton's dad Follow us on Hello Other sports Athletics UFC MMA Boxing Racing Tennis Golf NHL NCAA Olympic Games GOLF British Open history: winners, courses, records and statistics The fourth Major of the PGA season is on, but the British Open is in many ways the first and most important golf tournament in the world. GLYN KIRK | AFP Jorge Candamo Update: Jul 18th, 2024 11:51 EDT 0 The Open Championship, also known as the Open or the British Open in America, is back in Scotland’s Royal Troon for its 152nd edition . As the fourth and final major of the season, next to the Masters, the US Open and the PGA Championship, we analyze what has made this tournament special for over a hundred and fifty years. The Oldest major The first British Open was held in 1860 for the first time, playing three rounds of 12 holes in just one day to crown Willie Park Sr. as the first ever champion in Prestwick, Scotland, where the tournament would be played for the first 12 editions. In the coming years the Open would expand its playing field and allow amateurs to take part in it, with the exception of 1871, when the tournament was canceled . Tom Morris Jr. had won the Open for the past three years, so he was allowed to retain the championship belt. That meant there was no trophy to be awarded next year and the tournament did not reappear until 1872, when the trophy now known as the Claret Jug was introduced. Since then it has only stopped due to both World Wars and COVID in 2020. The British Open has lived through quite some different eras, as it was won six times by amateurs before 1930. Then came a period of England domination until the tournament got recognition in the States, as Arnold Palmer took part in it in 1960 to try and win the US Open, the Masters and the Open all in the same year. Palmer finished runner-up, but he came back and won it a couple of times, initiating a US era next to Nicklaus and some other players. The British Open officially became part of the PGA tour back in 1994 . What a start. Adam Scott holes out for a birdie on the 1st. https://t.co/ngME6k3h28 pic.twitter.com/3eAdstHIKS — The Open (@TheOpen) July 18, 2024 Royal Liverpool frustrated players last year This 151st edition of the Open Championship was held at Royal Liverpool, a links golf course near the home of the Beatles. Rory McIlroy won there in 2014 and Tiger Woods won in 2006. Brian Harman took home the Claret Jug in 2023 and is trying to defend it in Troon. Prizes, records and statistics From an initial £10 purse to distribute among the top finishers in the tournament, the Open has grown to a $16.5 million prize pool, the most ever for the major, of which the winner gets $3 million. Winning it allows the champion to enter the Open until age 60, and also grants access to the next five editions of each major. Related stories GOLF Golf’s highest-paid players in 2024 GOLF $17m prize purse up for grabs at the Open The golfer with the most ever wins at the Open Championship is Harry Vardon, who totalled 6 championships at the end of the XIX century. Father and son, Tom Morris Sr. and Tom Morris Jr. both won four British Opens each during the first decades of the tournament’s existence. Some of golf’s greatest players have also had a lot of success at the Open, with the top two majors winners, Jack Nicklaus and Tiger Woods, both conquering the tournament three teams. The best aggregate score and to par both come from the same player in the same year, as Henryk Stenson’s historic performance won him the 2016 Open Championship. He finished with a score of 263 and a -20 that players will try to come near to this week in hopes of succeeding Cameron Smith as the next British Open champion. Tagged in : Golf British Open Championship Golf Tiger Woods Comments Rules Comments Rules Sign in to comment Already have an account Complete your personal details to comment Complete data Your opinion will be published with first and last names Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript" rel="nofollow"> comments powered by Disqus.</a> We recommend these for you in Other sports Canelo calls for fight against former world champion in what would be the most legendary fight in history Why is Canelo training in Lake Tahoe? The boxer’s strategic plan for the fight against William Scull Canelo Álvarez vs William Scull: How to watch the Undisputed Super Middleweight World Championship Fatal Fury Times Square boxing night with Ryan Garcia, Devin Haney, and Teofimo Lopez: TV, times, and how to watch in the US The perfect farewell for Dustin Poirier Ilia Topuria gets his way: Makhachev fight set for June 28 in Las Vegas Most viewed More news Here’s how many times a 3-1 comeback has happened in NBA Playoffs history Ilia Topuria set to take on Makhachev in Las Vegas Shedeur Sanders now playing for team Deion said he “wouldn’t allow” his son to play for