When is the Masters 2021 tournament? Will Tiger Woods be there? News Sports Things To Do Lifestyle Opinion Advertise Obituaries eNewspaper Legals PGA When is the 2021 Masters Tournament? And will Tiger Woods be there? John Gogick Augusta Chronicle Spring and golf return to Augusta. Five months after the November Masters offered sights unseen at the Augusta National Golf Course – autumn leaves and a champion finishing 20-under par – the 85th installment of the Masters is upon us. A quick primer to catch you up and get you ready: Dustin Johnson is in, the defending champion. Tiger Woods is out, recovering from his car crash. Ian Woosnam is back in. Lee Elder will hit a ceremonial tee shot. (Limited) Fans are back on site. No Par 3 Contest. Mandatory masks. Johnson, who has only had the green jacket off the course for four months, summed it up Golfweek: Civil rights group calls for PGA Tour, Masters to pull event from Augusta National in protest of Georgia's new voting law Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Also : 'Taste of the Masters' food package available for 2021. Here's how to order "Yeah, I think it will be back to feeling like a normal Masters. Obviously last year, there was nothing normal about last year, for the whole year, really," Johnson said. "Yeah, I think this year in April, the Masters will feel like it's back, and it will feel the same. I'm definitely looking forward to that." When is The Masters 2021? The 2021 Masters Tournament runs April 8-11 at Augusta National Golf Club. Practice rounds begin Monday, April 5, and continue through Wednesday, April 7. The first round should start around 8 a.m. Thursday, April 8. Who won The Masters in 2020? Dustin Johnson won at 20-under par. That score set a new 72-hole tournament record previously held by Tiger Woods and Jordan Spieth. Johnson took advantage of the conditions for his five-stroke win, playing the par 5s in 11 under (two eagles, eight birdies, one bogey), par 4s in 5 under and par 3s in 4 under. "The greens were soft, so you could be a lot more aggressive with longer clubs because they would stop and then hold the green," Johnson said in March. "One of the guys I was playing with hit a 3-wood to like the back left pin on 15, you know, and it landed right next to the hole and stopped to like a couple feet." Cameron Smith and Sungjae tied for second at 15 under, five shots behind. Smith set a course record of his own, becoming the only player to ever shoot all four rounds in the 60s at the Masters. Will Tiger Woods be at The Masters in 2021? Tiger Woods returned home March 16, three weeks after his Feb. 23 car crash in Los Angeles, to continue his recovery. "I will be recovering at home and working on getting stronger every day." Woods tweeted out. This will be the fourth Masters that Woods has missed, sitting out the event in 2014, 2016 and 2017 due to injury. In 2014, Woods did not attend the Champions Dinner on the Tuesday night of Masters Week. He has not announced whether he will be attending this year. Is Lee Elder being honored? Lee Elder, the first African-American to play in the Masters, will be an honorary starter with Jack Nicklaus and Gary Player to open the tournament Thursday morning. “The opportunity to earn an invitation to the Masters and stand at that first tee was my dream and to have it come true in 1975 remains one of the greatest highlights of my career and life,” Elder said this past November. “So to be invited back to the first tee one more time to join Jack and Gary for next year’s Masters means the world to me.” Can I still get a ticket to The Masters? Tickets are sold out for the 2021 Masters. The galleries will be smaller than in years past, Augusta National announced in January, letting series badge holders and those with practice round tickets know their status earlier this year. The 2022 Masters ticket application window begins June 1. What are the COVID-19 restrictions at The Masters? Safety protocols are in place for the patrons and workers who will be inside the gates at Augusta National. These include mandatory face coverings, social distancing, hand sanitizing and cashless payments for all concessions and merchandise. How can I watch The Masters on TV? ESPN will broadcast the first two rounds Thursday and Friday from 3 to 7:30 p.m. CBS will handle its traditional weekend broadcasts, on the air Saturday from 3 to 7 p.m. and Sunday's final round from 2 to 7 p.m. Careers Staff Directory Accessibility Sitemap Legals Our Ethical Principles USA TODAY Network Style Guide Responsible Disclosure Subscription Terms & Conditions Advertiser Acceptance Policy Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Contact Us Support Local Business Advertise Your Business Buy and Sell Licensing & Reprints Help Center Subscriber Guide Manage Account Give Feedback Place a Legal Notice Subscribe Today Newsletters Facebook X Instagram eNewspaper NIE Archives Jobs Cars Homes Classifieds Shopping 10BEST LocaliQ Digital Marketing Solutions © 2025 www.augustachronicle.com. All rights reserved.