‘The Omen,’ ‘Titanic,’ ‘Tron’ actor David Warner dead at 80 - syracuse.com Skip to Article Set weather Back To Main Menu Close Quick Look - Change your current location » Current - Mostly Sunny Tonight Low - Mostly Sunny Tomorrow High - Mostly Sunny View full weather report Celebrity News ‘The Omen,’ ‘Titanic,’ ‘Tron’ actor David Warner dead at 80 Updated: Jul. 25, 2022, 12:10 p.m. | Published: Jul. 25, 2022, 11:53 a.m. David Warner attends the premiere of "Titanic" on December 12, 1997 at Mann Chinese Theater in Hollywood, California. (Photo by Ron Galella, Ltd./Ron Galella Collection via Getty Images) By The Associated Press LONDON (AP) — David Warner, a versatile British actor whose roles ranged from Shakespearean tragedies to sci-fi cult classics, has died. He was 80. Warner’s family said he died from a cancer-related illness on Sunday at Denville Hall, a retirement home for entertainers in London. Often cast as a villain, Warner had roles in the 1971 psychological thriller “Straw Dogs,” the 1976 horror classic “The Omen,” the 1979 time-travel adventure “Time After Time” — he was Jack the Ripper — and the 1997 blockbuster “Titanic,” where he played the malicious valet Spicer Lovejoy. Trained at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London, Warner became a young star of the Royal Shakespeare Company, playing roles including King Henry VI and King Richard II. His 1965 performance in the title role of “Hamlet” for the company, directed by Peter Hall, was considered one of the finest of his generation. Gregor Doran, the RSC’s artistic director emeritus, said Warner’s Hamlet, played as a tortured student, “seemed the epitome of 1960′s youth, and caught the radical spirit of a turbulent age.” Warner also starred in Hall’s 1968 film of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” opposite Helen Mirren and Diana Rigg. Despite his acclaim as as a stage actor, chronic stage fright led Warner to prefer film and TV work for many years. He was nominated for a British Academy Film Award for the title role in Karel Reisz’s Swinging London tragicomedy “Morgan: A Suitable Case for Treatment,” released in 1966. He later won an Emmy for his role as Roman politician Pomponius Falco in the 1981 TV miniseries “Masada.” He had a prolific career on film and TV in both Britain and the United States, and became beloved of sci-fi fans for roles in Terry Gilliam’s “Time Bandits,” computer movie “Tron,” Tim Burton’s remake of “Planet of the Apes,” and the “Star Trek” franchise, where he made several appearances in different roles. Warner returned to theater in 2001 after almost three decades to play Andrew Undershaft in a Broadway revival of George Bernard Shaw’s “Major Barbara.” In 2005 he starred in Shakespeare’s “King Lear” at the Chichester Festival Theatre, and in 2007 returned to the RSC to play Shakespeare’s comic buffoon Falstaff. One of his final film roles was as retired naval officer Admiral Boom in “Mary Poppins Returns,” released in 2018. Warner’s family said he would be remembered “as a kind-hearted, generous and compassionate man, partner and father whose legacy of extraordinary work has touched the lives of so many over the years.” “We are heartbroken,” the family said. They said Warner is survived by his partner Lisa Bowerman, his son Luke, daughter-in-law Sarah, “his good friend Jane Spencer Prior, his first wife Harriet Evans and his many gold dust friends.” If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Footer Navigation About Us About Us Photo and Page Reprints Advertise with us Jobs at Advance Media New York Contact Us Newspaper Archives Frequently Asked Questions Accessibility Statement Submit letter, commentary Subscriptions syracuse.com syracuse.com Orange Sports Insider The Post-Standard Email Newsletters Already a Subscriber Manage your Subscription Place a Vacation Hold Make a Payment Delivery Feedback syracuse.com Sections News Weather Business Sports High School Sports Betting Entertainment Living Opinion Obituaries Jobs Autos Real Estate Rentals Classifieds Mobile Tablet Apps iPhone, Android apps More on syracuse.com Videos Sitemap Sponsor Content Archives Sell your car Post a job Post a classified ad Sell/rent your home Follow Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube RSS Your Privacy Choices Privacy Policy | User Agreement | Ad Choices Disclaimer Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement , (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our Privacy Policy , and Your Privacy Choices and Rights (updated 1/1/2025). © 2025 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here . Ad Choices