The teenage Scot who plays the young Wonder Woman Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Watch Live Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters The teenage Scot who plays the young Wonder Woman 13 January 2021 Share Save Share Save Lilly Aspell reveals how a chance encounter landed her the role of young Wonder Woman Scottish-born teenager Lilly Aspell not only plays the young Wonder Woman but also performs most of her own stunts in the new film - firing arrows from horseback and leaping into the ocean from a high board. While Gal Gadot stars as the grown-up heroine, Lilly, who is still only 13, plays the young Diana Prince for the second time in the new film Wonder Woman 1984, which has just been released for home streaming. Gadot is on record as saying she was impressed with young Lilly, calling her "the real deal". Lilly, who was born in Kilmarnock, where much of her family lives, is an accomplished horse-rider and showjumper. Warner Bros Thirteen-year-old Lilly plays the young Diana Prince in Wonder Woman 1984 Her parents were professional jockeys and her uncle won the Grand National twice. The young star was more into horses than acting when she was spotted in London at the age of eight and asked to audition for a movie. At the time, Lilly was not told what the film was, it just had the codename "Nightingale". "I had never acted in my life," she told BBC Scotland's The Nine . "I was always so confident. They really liked that I could ride and was really active so I think that helped." Lilly says she tries to get back to Kilmarnock as often as she can Lilly appeared as the young Diana in the first Wonder Woman in 2017 and is now also in the sequel. The film's director Patty Jenkins wanted to use "minimal CGI" so Lilly prepared for the role with sword training, paddleboard flips and show-jumping. She says she enjoyed every minute of the filming, including doing the stunts. "I wasn't really scared," she says. "But I was like 'Oh my god this is really quite big'." Warner Bros Robin Wright as Antiope and Lilly as young Diana Lilly says that because she played the same character as Gal Gadot, they didn't hang out on set as they often shot their scenes on different days. But she did spend time with the Hollywood star on days off, such as when they took a boat around Tenerife, where they were filming. "We were really close," Lilly says. "She is born for the role. She's amazing at it." Away from the film set, Lilly says she tries to get back to Kilmarnock when ever she can to visit her grandfather and her mother Donna's side of the family. "We wanted to go for Christmas but unfortunately Covid stopped that," she says. "I do get up there as much as I can because I love spending time with my family," she says. "My papa likes to go 'she is Wonder woman'. He's so proud." Warner Bros Lilly says that when she's at home, in the south-east of England, she gets up early every morning with her ponies so her visits to Ayrshire are a chance to "chill and relax". "People when they go to Hawaii, I go to Kilmarnock," she jokes. Lilly says she wants to continue acting and has already got films lined up as well as equestrian competitions with her ponies. If she could choose one film role, it would be would be a remake of National Velvet, the story of a 12-year-old, horse-crazy girl who wins a spirited gelding in a raffle and decides to train him for the Grand National. "It's always been a dream of mine," she says. Wonder Woman 1984 is available to stream on premium home video on demand in the UK from 13 January. A full interview with Lilly Aspell will be on BBC Scotland's The Nine on Wednesday evening . Film Kilmarnock Related Kneecap: Rap group are no strangers to controversy, but is this time different? 12 hrs ago Culture Hundreds attend expanded film festival 17 hrs ago Wolverhampton Studios used in Hollywood blockbusters to come down 19 hrs ago Berkshire More 10 hrs ago Burke generations aim for Hampden glory - watch on BBC Cole and Chris Burke carry Kilmarnock hopes in the Scottish Youth Cup final against Dundee, which is live on BBC Scotland. 10 hrs ago Scottish Football 15 hrs ago Stagecoach drivers suspend strike ahead of pay talks Drivers across the south and west of Scotland were due to begin a series of walk outs this week in a dispute over pay. 15 hrs ago Scotland 2 days ago Stagecoach cancels driver holidays in union dispute Unite has threatened legal action after the firm cancelled driver's annual leave on strike dates. 2 days ago South Scotland 6 days ago What do stats say about Premiership after the split? Will any teams confound the statistics suggesting there will be no positional changes after the Scottish Premiership split? 6 days ago Scottish Prem 7 days ago Stagecoach bus drivers set to strike in pay dispute Drivers across southern and western Scotland will take industrial action on a series of dates in May. 7 days ago South Scotland British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.