Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna ~ The Golden Country | Xenoblade Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Xenoblade Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio NDS123 WiseAdventurer Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Xenoblade Wiki 24,637 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio NDS123 WiseAdventurer Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki in: Pages with spoilers , Torna ~ The Golden Country , Xenoblade Chronicles 2 , and 3 more XC2 Downloadable Content Xenoblade Chronicles series Games English Deutsch Español Türkçe Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna ~ The Golden Country Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) The future doesn't belong to you! For those who have not completed games in the Xenoblade Chronicles series , this page contains spoilers regarding the plot. Discretion is advised. Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna ~ The Golden Country Developer Monolith Soft Publisher Nintendo Genre Role Playing Game modes Single-player Platform(s) Nintendo Switch Release date Expansion Pass: September 14, 2018 September 14, 2018 September 14, 2018 September 14, 2018 September 14, 2018 (Hong Kong) Standalone: September 21, 2018 September 21, 2018 September 21, 2018 September 21, 2018 September 21, 2018 (Hong Kong) Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna ~ The Golden Country (Japanese: ゼノブレイド２　黄金の国イーラ , Zenobureido Tsū Ōgon no kuni Īra ) is an expansion to Xenoblade Chronicles 2 and standalone game published by Nintendo and developed by Monolith Soft for the Nintendo Switch. It was first announced during the Nintendo presentation at E3 2018. It was first released as part of the Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Expansion Pass on September 14, 2018, with a standalone release on September 21, 2018. The standalone release is also bundled with download codes for the Expansion Pass. Contents 1 Categories 2 Gameplay 3 Story 4 Characters 5 Downloadable content 5.1 Updates 5.1.1 Version 1.0.1 5.1.2 Version 1.0.2 5.1.3 Version 1.1.0 6 Gallery 6.1 Artwork 6.1.1 Character Art 6.1.2 Other Artwork 6.2 Screenshots 7 Videos 8 External links Categories [ ] Characters Quests Enemies NPCs Places Items Accessories Collectibles Gameplay [ ] Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna ~ The Golden Country features gameplay mechanics very similar to the main game. However, unlike the main game, in which only the Drivers can be directly controlled, players can control both Drivers and their resonated Blades . In battle, both Blades and Drivers can switch between support and attack positions, with new Battle Arts known as Switch Arts that are immediately performed on a switch to an attack position. Drivers and Blades share the same stats, including Level , EXP , HP , etc. Story [ ] Main article: Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna ~ The Golden Country (plot) Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna ~ The Golden Country is a direct prequel to Xenoblade Chronicles 2 , taking place during the Aegis War approximately 500 years prior. It focuses mainly on Lora and her Blade Jin , as well as their allies in their battles against Malos . Characters [ ] Lora Jin Haze Addam Mythra Minoth Hugo Brighid Aegaeon Downloadable content [ ] Updates [ ] For the full patch notes, see [ How to update Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna ~ The Golden Country ]. Several free updates have been released for the game on Switch. These are downloaded automatically when the game is launched if the console has a working internet connection. Each update can expand the game content or fix bugs and glitches. Version 1.0.1 [ ] The version 1.0.1 update was released on October 18th, 2018. It included the following changes: Fixed an issue with the Affinity Chart , in which completing it did not cause Trust to become S rank, and the completion reward item was subsequently not earned. After downloading the update, checking the Affinity Chart again will cause Trust to increase to S rank and give the player the completion reward item. Fixed an issue with the third requirement to Meet characters from the Community List for receiving Jin's Affinity Reward, Mineralogy. This issue prevented characters that had been met in event scenes or cut scenes to not be counted as met unless the player talked to them outside of those scenes. This applied to the characters Popolo , Onyx , Kaleena , and Leo . After downloading the update, if you have already viewed the necessary event or cut scenes, these characters will automatically be counted as met. Added a help message to the quest A Rare Sense of Justice that will appear when conditions to advance the quest have not been met. Fixed an issue when performing a Chain Attack temporarily preventing character selection after a round of attacks had been completed. Fixed an issue causing a character switch to take too long when selecting Brighid for a Chain Attack after she had used her Confining Flames ability. Version 1.0.2 [ ] The version 1.0.2 update was released on December 2nd, 2018. It included the following changes: A Nopon called the Nameless Wanderpon has been added to the Feltley Village Camp . Speak to him to receive the Massive Melee Mythra , an Aux Core that slightly alters the look of Mythra's outfit. The Aux Core will be automatically sold if you speak to the Nameless Wanderpon with a full inventory. If sold in this way, the Aux Core can be acquired by speaking to the Nameless Wanderpon again. Members of the same team will now exchange voiced comments with each other when a battle concludes. Version 1.1.0 [ ] The version 1.1.0 update was released on September 2nd, 2020. It included the following changes: Korean text is now supported. The text can be changed to Korean by setting the Nintendo Switch language setting to Korean. (Korean voices are not supported). Gallery [ ] Artwork [ ] Character Art [ ] Lora Jin Haze Mikhail Addam Mythra Minoth Milton Hugo Brighid Aegaeon Amalthus King of Torna Zettar Other Artwork [ ] Box art Box art (without logo) Malos overlooking Torna Torna Titan Screenshots [ ] Videos [ ] Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Torna ~ The Golden Country - Story Trailer - Nintendo Switch Torna ~ The Golden Country Story Trailer at Gamescom 2018 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Torna - The Golden Country from the RedCube @ gamescom 2018 Torna ~ The Golden Country during the Nintendo RedCube livestream at Gamescom 2018 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Torna ~ The Golden Country - Nintendo Treehouse Live E3 2018 Torna ~ The Golden Country during Day 3 of the Nintendo Treehouse Live at E3 2018 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Torna ~ The Golden Country - Announcement Trailer - Nintendo E3 2018 Torna ~ The Golden Country Announcement at E3 2018 External links [ ] Official Torna ~ The Golden Country page on Nintendo Japan website Official Torna ~ The Golden Country page on Nintendo America website Interview of Tetsuya Takahashi revealing more on the incoming Torna ~ The Golden Country Official Torna ~ The Golden Country page on Nintendo Hong Kong website Categories Categories : Pages with spoilers Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade Chronicles 2 XC2 Downloadable Content Xenoblade Chronicles series Games Languages Deutsch Español Türkçe Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Sci-fi Xenoblade Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Xenoblade Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab