The Walking Dead season 11 release schedule: when is episode 24 on AMC? | GamesRadar+ Skip to main content Games Radar Newsarama Total Film Edge Retro Gamer SFX Open menu Close menu Total Film The smarter take on movies Search Search GamesRadar+ Sign in View Profile Sign out Subscribe US Edition UK US Canada Australia News Reviews Subscribe Podcast Newsletter More PS5 Xbox Series X Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch 2 PC Platforms Tabletop Gaming Comics Toys & Collectibles SFX Newsarama Retro Gamer Newsletters About us Features No offers found Trending Best Netflix Movies Best movies on Disney Plus Movie Release Dates Best Netflix Shows Entertainment TV Action Shows The Walking Dead TV show The Walking Dead season 11 release schedule: when is episode 24 on AMC? News By Bradley Russell Contributions from Jack Shepherd published 14 November 2022 With just three episodes left, here's when (and where) to watch The Walking Dead's endgame When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . (Image credit: AMC) Are you ready? The Walking Dead season 11 only has one more episode remaining, and that, unfortunately, means there's only one episode of the entire Walking Dead series left to go. That's right, we're approaching not only the season finale – but the series finale. Get ready to say goodbye to The Walking Dead forever. Well, not quite as there are a multitude of spin-offs incoming, but you get the point – The Walking Dead season 11, episode 24 is a big deal, and you're going to want to know when you can catch the final installment in the undead saga. Unfortunately, this one's not coming to AMC Plus early, as with every other episode this season, so subscribers will have to wait for the finale. That's a two-week gap between episodes for some people! Below, our guide to the upcoming episode of The Walking Dead fills you in on where and when you can watch it. The Walking Dead season 11, episode 24 release date The Walking Dead season 11, episode 24 airs at 6:00 PM Pacific/9:00 PM Eastern on Sunday, November 20 on AMC. You may like How to watch The Walking Dead franchise in order (release and chronological) The Walking Dead: Dead City promises "higher stakes" season 2, as AMC reveals opening two minutes and release date AMC Plus subscribers do not have the ability to watch this episode a week early, a perk that had previously been available. The finale will be available at the same time on Disney Plus in the UK , though due to time differences that makes the release date around 2:00 AM GMT on Monday, November 21. Where can you watch The Walking Dead season 11? Australia – Binge Canada – AMC Ireland – Disney Plus UK – Disney Plus USA – AMC . You can also watch AMC through FuboTV and Sling Today's best Disney+ deals Disney+ Annual Premium $139.99 /year View at Disney+ The Walking Dead season 11 release schedule and episode count (Image credit: AMC) The Walking Dead season 11 consists of 24 episodes, split into three parts. The first eight episodes aired from August 2021 to October 2021. The second part aired from February 2022 to April 2022. The third part began on October 2 and airs weekly, with the final episode dropping on November 20, 2022. The Walking Dead season 11, episodes 1 – 23 – out now! The Walking Dead season 11 episode 24 – November 20 Want to complete your Walking Dead journey? Then check out our guide to how to watch The Walking Dead in order . Or need to fill out your watchlist? Here are some of the best shows on Disney Plus and best movies on Disney Plus . Sign up for the Total Film Newsletter Bringing all the latest movie news, features, and reviews to your inbox Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. See more TV Shows News TOPICS Disney Plus CATEGORIES Disney Plus Streaming Services Bradley Russell Social Links Navigation I'm the Senior Entertainment Writer here at GamesRadar+, focusing on news, features, and interviews with some of the biggest names in film and TV. On-site, you'll find me marveling at Marvel and providing analysis and room temperature takes on the newest films, Star Wars and, of course, anime. Outside of GR, I love getting lost in a good 100-hour JRPG, Warzone, and kicking back on the (virtual) field with Football Manager. My work has also been featured in OPM, FourFourTwo, and Game Revolution. With contributions from Jack Shepherd Freelance Journalist Read more How to watch The Walking Dead franchise in order (release and chronological) The Walking Dead: Dead City promises "higher stakes" season 2, as AMC reveals opening two minutes and release date The Last of Us season 2 release schedule: When does episode 3 premiere on Max? The Walking Dead boss looks to squash hopes of The Ones Who Live season 2 – though that doesn't mean we won't ever see Rick and Michonne again The Walking Dead boss is confident that the zombie franchise could run for another 15 years: "As long as we have terrific characters, it can go on and on" Re:Zero season 3 release schedule – when is episode 16 on Crunchyroll? Latest in Action Shows James Gunn has debunked another DC casting rumor: "Haha no" Daredevil: Born Again sent me straight to this new fan-made demo and now I can't believe we haven't had an official game in 22 years Daredevil: Born Again director addresses whether Foggy Nelson's death was faked: "Dying very often does mean that you're actually dead" Daredevil: Born Again director says season 2 is a "resistance tale" against Mayor Fisk: "We're going to unfold all of that very, very quickly" Before ever joining the MCU, Tom Holland and Jon Bernthal helped each other rehearse for their Spider-Man and Punisher auditions Amazon cancels the two Prime spin-offs of the Russo brothers' $300 million action series Citadel Latest in News "The demonic lovechild of Balatro and Buckshot Roulette" is a roguelite horror game where you out-gamble the devil and it got over 100k Steam wishlists in a week Despite positive reviews, indie dev declares their early access roguelike "fails in fundamental ways," makes it free forever, and moves the heck on After several popular mods, REPO devs are thinking of a Lethal Company-inspired mimic monster of their own but "it needs to be really interesting" Metaphor: ReFantazio's superbosses weren't intentionally easier than Persona or Shin Megami Tensei's, but the JRPG's lead says new classes made them feel that way WWII John Wick-style revenge movie Sisu has a sequel scheduled for this year Director of Tom Hardys Warrior still has plans for spin-off series: “There’s nothing like it on television” GAME REVIEWS MOVIE REVIEWS TV REVIEWS 1 Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 review: "An old-school feeling JRPG as dynamic as Persona but with parry-filled battles as hard-won as Sekiro" 2 Lost Records: Bloom and Rage – Tape 2 review: "Don't Nod's new coming-of-age series ends with teen defiance and queer rage" 3 Arydia: The Paths We Dare Tread review -  "Manages to give everyone something D&D can't match" 4 Blue Prince review: "This  exploration roguelike is like nothing else I've played, and became a puzzle obsession I just couldn't shake" 5 Promise Mascot Agency review: "Yakuza management mechanics are messy, but I'm won over by its truly immaculate bizarre vibes" 1 A Minecraft Movie Review: "Jack Black's irrepressible star turn helps elevate this video game adaptation" 2 The Electric State review: "Although this may be their most visually stunning movie yet, it looks like the Russos are yet to find their footing outside of the MCU" 3 Fight or Flight review: "Slick and silly action sequences garner well-earned John Wick and Bullet train comparisons" 4 Mickey 17 Review: "Bong Joon Ho's best English movie to date and arguably Robert Pattinson's best movie ever" 5 Captain America: Brave New World review: "Anthony Mackie's Cap earns his Stars and Stripes in this uneven, un-MCU thriller" 1 Doctor Who season 2, episode 3 spoiler review: 'The Well' is a "ruthlessly gripping" installment that challenges Belinda 2 Andor season 2 review: "Every bit as stellar as its predecessor – at times, it even surpasses it" 3 Doctor Who season 2, episode 2 spoiler-free review: 'Lux' is a "bold, bonkers" second episode with an amazing villain 4 Doctor Who season 2, episode 1 spoiler-free review: "'The Robot Revolution' is an impressive first episode for new companion Belinda Chandra" 5 The Last of Us season 2 review: "Brilliant and visceral but fails to capture the magic of season 1" GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and conditions Privacy policy Cookies policy Advertise with us Review guidelines Write for us Accessibility Statement Careers © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up