Microsoft's HoloLens 2 isn't meant for you, but it could change your tech in the future - CNET X Your Guide To a Better Future Trending AI Tech VPN Streaming Services Mobile Home Entertainment Computing Services & Software Gaming All Tech Money Banking Credit Cards Mortgages Home Equity Taxes All Money Home Energy Electric Vehicles Home Security Smart Home Kitchen & Household Yard & Outdoors All Home Wellness Sleep Nutrition Fitness Personal Care All Wellness Home Internet Broadband By Location Internet Routers All Home Internet Deals Tech Home Wellness Gift Guides All Deals Gift Guide Cover Stories More Video Price Finder Editors' Choice CNET Perspectives All More Back Today's Highlights 01 Tariff Pricing Tracker: We're Watching 11 Products You Might Need to Buy 02 At Just $169, Apple's AirPods Pro 2 Just Matched Their Lowest Price of the Year 03 This Modest Gadget Is the New Superhero of the Energy-Efficient Home 04 iPhone 16E vs. Pixel 9A: I Tested the Cameras and Was Surprised 05 Unlock Green Tea’s Hidden Benefits for Focus and Calm 06 Preparing for a Recession? 6 Financial Tips That Make Sense 07 Hybrid Meat Is All the Rage. Here's Why It's Worth Trying 08 Nintendo Switch 2 Preorder Guide 09 Tariffs Explained: What It All Means for You AI ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now Wellness 9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep 10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More 7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood Back Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it. Explore all Best VPN Deals Best Gifts Under $300 Apple Deals iPad MacBook AirPods iPhone TV & Audio Deals TV Roku Sonos Streaming Gaming Deals Xbox PS5 Nintendo Switch Gaming PCs Back Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank. Explore all Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals Best Amazon Deals Smart Home Deals Smart Home Home Security Robot Vacuum Smart Thermostat Equipment Deals Portable ACs Generators Electric Lawnmowers Air Purifiers Kitchen Deals Coffee Makers Keurig Air Fryers Back Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings. Explore all Best Mattress Deals Fitness Gifts Fitness Deals & Gifts Fitbit Garmin Meal Delivery Kit Glasses and Contacts Back Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion. Explore all 100 Days of Holiday DIY Father's Day Gifts Under $100 Under $50 Hottest Toys Online Flower Delivery Services Gaming Tweens Available on Amazon People Who Already Have It All Gift Baskets Back Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives. Explore all My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds How Good Are EVs in the Cold? I Drove in the Arctic to Find Out Meet the AI Fraud Fighters: A Deepfake Granny, Digital Bots and a YouTube Star Inside the Rise of 7,000 Starlink Satellites – and Their Inevitable Downfall Big TVs Are the Next Frontier, but It's a Complicated Picture Sleep Isn't Cheap. Still, You Don't Have to Break the Bank Back AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas. Explore all Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? ChatGPT Glossary: 42 AI Terms That Everyone Should Know AI News Samsung's Galaxy AI Update Google Gemini on the iPhone Hidden AI Features Available on Your iPhone Right Now Microsoft Is Testing an AI Chatbot for Xbox AI Products ChatGPT Google Gemini Microsoft Copilot Dall-E AI Guides Prompt Engineering What is an LLM? AI vs. AGI: What You Need to Know How to Get Started with ChatGPT Back Gift Guide Our gifting experts are obsessively searching for holiday gifts that are unique, thoughtful and suitable for any budget. Explore all Best Tech Gifts 30 of the Best Tech Gifts Under $100 for 2025 Best Gifts for Gamers in 2025 Best Travel Tech Gifts: Must-Haves for the Journey and the Destination Gifts For Kids Best Toys for Kids in 2025 34 Best Gifts for Teens in 2025 60+ Best Star Wars Gifts for 2025 Gifts for Everyone The 20 Best Gift Baskets of 2025: Find the Perfect Edible Gift Best Gifts Available on Amazon: From $10 to $250 32 Unique Gifts for People Who Have Everything Back VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy. Explore all Best VPN Best iPhone VPN Best Mac VPN Best VPNs Free Amazon Fire Stick Android Mobile Windows Streaming VPN Reviews ExpressVPN Surfshark NordVPN NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN Back Streaming Services News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming. Explore all Best Live Streaming Services Best Streaming Services Best Streaming Device Best Streaming Services Music Free TV Youtube TV vs. Hulu Live Anime 4K Netflix Alternatives Streaming Services for Kids Streaming Service Reviews YouTube TV Hulu Plus Live TV Netflix Max Back Mobile We deliver the best buying advice, news and how-to content on the coolest tech available. Explore all Best Phones Best Over Ear Headphones Best Phone Plans Best Phones iPhone Android Cheap Samsung Best Headphones Noise Cancelling Headphones Headphones Wireless Earbuds Budget Earbuds Best Phone Plans Family Prepaid Cheap Unlimited Data Back Home Entertainment We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies. Explore all Best TV Best Record Player Best Soundbar For Your Home Theater Home Theater Systems Projectors 4K Projectors AV Receiver Best of TVs 55-inch 65-inch 75-inch 85-Inch Budget Smart Best for Streaming Streaming Device Fire TV Stick Roku Back Computing What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it. Explore all Best Laptop Best Gaming PC Best Monitors Best Laptops Macbook Budget Chromebook HP Gaming 2-in-1 Windows Best Tablets Best Overall E-ink Tablet iPad Apple iPad 9th Gen Review Back Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day. Explore all Best Antivirus Best Password Manager Best Web Hosting Best Apps Language Learning Weather iPad Drawing Food Delivery Best Web Hosting Wordpress Cheap Minecraft Server VPS Software Reviews Hostinger Ionos GoDaddy A2 Software Downloads Download.com Back Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming. Explore all Best Quest 3 Games Best VR Headset Best Graphics Card Virtual Reality Best Meta Quest 2 Accessories Best Quest 2 Head Strap Meta Quest 2 Review The Best PSVR Games Console Gaming Best Nintendo Switch Multiplayer Games Best M2 SSD for PS5 Best PSVR 2 Games Steam Deck OLED Review Gaming Accessories Best Nintendo Switch Controller Best Meta Quest 2 Accessories Best Quest 2 Head Strap Best Gaming Chair Back Banking From high-yield savings accounts to no-fee checking accounts, CNET helps you get the most out of your bank accounts. Explore all Best Budgeting Apps Best 5% Savings Accounts CD & Saving Rates CD Rates Saving Accounts 5% Savings Accounts High-Yield Savings Accounts Budgeting Apps Budgeting Apps Rocket Money Pocketsmith YNAB Cleo Back Credit Cards From building your credit score to choosing the best credit card, CNET's experts are there every step of the way. Explore all Best Debit Cards for Kids and Teens Best Prepaid Debit Cards Reviews Prime Visa Chase Sapphire Preferred Chase Sapphire Reserve Chase Freedom Unlimited American Express Gold Blue Cash Everyday from Amex Reward Guides Chase Ultimate Rewards Guide Amex Points Guide How to Maximize Cash Back Back Mortgages From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about mortgages. Explore all Current Mortgage Rates Current Refinance Rates Mortgage Rates Compare Mortgage Rates 30-Year Rates FHA Mortgage Lenders Mortgage Rate Predictions Refinance Rates Compare Refinance Rates 15-Year 30-Year Refinancing Guide Back Home Equity From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about home equity. Explore all Best Home Equity Rates Best HELOC Rates Home Equity Lender Reviews Best Home Equity Loan Lenders LoanDepot Rocket Mortgage Figure Home Equity Bank Reviews Chase Bank of America U.S. Bank Citizens Home Equity Credit Union Reviews Golden 1 Credit Union Bethpage Federal Credit Union Credit Union of Texas Alliant Credit Union Back Mortgages & Home Equity From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about mortgages. Explore all Current Mortgage Rates Current Refinance Rates Mortgage Rates Compare Mortgage Rates 30-Year Rates FHA Mortgage Lenders Mortgage Rate Predictions Refinance Rates Compare Refinance Rates 15-Year 30-Year Refinancing Guide Home Equity Home Equity Loan Rates HELOC Rates Home Equity Lenders HELOC Lenders Back Taxes Everything you need to navigate tax season and get your biggest refund. Explore all Best Tax Software How to File Your Taxes for Free Best Tax Software Online Tax Software Free Tax Filing Self-Employed Taxes Tax Software Reviews TurboTax H&R Block Cash App Taxes TaxSlayer FreeTaxUSA TaxAct Jackson Hewitt IRA Direct File Back Identity Theft Keep your identity and personal data safe with expert-vetted ID theft protection services. ID Theft Services ID Theft Protection Aura LifeLock IdentityForce Zander Identity Guard IDShield Identity IQ Experian Identity Back Broadband Our experts can help you get online fast with helpful advice and tested, frequently-updated reviews of routers and internet service providers. Explore all Best Internet Speed Tests How to Keep Your Internet During a Power Outage Best Internet Providers Best Overall High-Speed Satellite Fiber Best Internet Deals Internet Deals Overall Cheap Internet Providers Internet and TV Bundles Internet Deals For Seniors Internet Provider Reviews Starlink Verizon 5G Spectrum AT&T Air T-Mobile 5G Xfinity Back By Location These are our top internet picks based on where you are in the United States. Explore all Best Internet Providers in Your Area Low Cost Internet Guide for All 50 States East Region New York City, NY Charlotte, NC New Jersey Atlanta, GA Central Region Chicago, IL Dallas, TX St Louis, MO Houston, TX West Region Los Angeles, CA Seattle, WA San Francisco, CA Denver, CO Back Internet Routers CNET experts unpack everything you need to know about internet routers. Explore all How to Reset Your Router The 3 Questions to Ask Before Changing Your Router Our Top Picks for Routers Best Overall Mesh Wi-Fi Router Systems Gaming Routers Wi-Fi Extenders Mesh Wi-Fi Router Reviews Eero 6 Plus Nest Wifi Pro TP-Link Deco XE75 Netgear Orbi AX6000 Router Comparisons Nest Wifi vs Google Wifi Eero 6 Plus vs Eero Pro 6E Nest Wifi Pro vs Eero Pro 6E Nest Wifi vs Nest Wifi Pro Back Energy We help you balance cost savings and comfort at home 24/7. Explore all Best Portable Power Stations Best Solar Generators Best Alkaline Batteries Best in Solar Power Batteries Panels Inverters Portable Solar Panels Solar Equipment Reviews SolarEdge Battery Tesla Solar Roof Tesla Powerwall 3 Tesla Solar Panels Home Energy Systems Tank Water Heaters vs. Tankless Water Heaters Heat Pump vs. Furnace Heat Pump vs. Air Conditioner Battery vs. Generator Back Electric Vehicles Expert guidance on the future of transportation Explore all 2025 Audi Q6, SQ6 E-Tron: Audi's Newest EV Is Its Most Compelling The 2024 EV Tax Credit: Save Big on These Vehicles Best EVs Electric Cars Most Affordable Electric SUVs Plug-In Hybrids EV Charging Best EV Charger Home EV Charging Explained Free and Easy EV Charging Options News and Guides The 2024 EV Tax Credit Guide The Nicest Charging Station I've Visited States Banning Gas Powered Cars Are Electric Vehicles Good for Our Planet? Back Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure. Explore all Best Home Security Camera Best Video Doorbell Cameras Best Outdoor Home Security Cameras Best Security Systems Homes DIY Cheap Apartments Best Security Cameras Without a Subscription Indoor Security Cameras Wireless Solar-Powered Best Security Products Ring Video Doorbells Nanny Cams Smoke Detector Smart Locks Back Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you. Explore all Smart Thermostats Smart Plugs Best in Smart Home Outdoor Smart Plugs Smart Hubs & Displays Smart Devices Smart Lights Smart Speakers Back Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly. Explore all Best Cordless Vacuums Best Robot Vacuum Best Air Purifiers Best in Vacuums & Appliances Vacuum Cleaners Robot Vacuums Dishwashers Dehumidifiers Tower Fans Refrigerators Best in Office Needs Office Chairs Standing Desks Surge Protectors Best in Cooking Needs Air Fryers Toaster Ovens Bread Machines Microwaves Back Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp. Explore all Best Grills Best Fire Pits Best Patio Heaters Best Grills Portable Grills Gas Grills Pellet Grills Charcoal Grills Kamado Grills Grilling Tools & Accessories Best Equipment for Home Leaf Blowers Electric Lawn Mowers Pressure Washers Coolers Cordless Drill Back Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night. Explore all Best Mattress Best Firm Mattress Best Queen Size Mattress Mattress Reviews Purple Helix Layla Nectar Beautyrest Saatva DreamCloud Best Mattresses Memory Foam King-Size Hybrid Organic Soft Firm Adjustable Side Sleepers Hotel Best Sleep Products Earplugs for Sleeping Cooling Comforters Sleep Headphones Heated Blankets Back Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy. Explore all Best Meal Delivery Services Best Vitamins and Supplements Best Vitamins & Supplements Multivitamins Vitamins for Healthy Hair, Skin and Nails Vitamins for Energy Creatine Supplements Best Meal Kits Meat Keto Cheapest Healthy Vegan Meal Kit Reviews HelloFresh Hungryroot Grocery Fresh N Lean EveryPlate Back Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need. Explore all Best Treadmills Best Ellipticals Best Exercise Bikes Best Fitness Equipment Peloton Alternatives Rowing Machines Home Exercise Equipment Smart Home Gyms Best Fitness Accessories Massage Guns Smart Scale Chest Strap Heart-Rate Monitors Compression Socks Best Virtual Fitness Weightlifting Shoes YouTube Channels for Free Workouts Workout Apps for Women Fitness Apps Tonal Smart Home Gym Review Back Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean. Explore all Best Places to Buy Glasses Online Best Places to Buy Contact Lenses Online Best Electric Toothbrushes Best in Eyewear Places to Buy Replacement Prescription Lenses Online Reading Glasses Blue-Light-Blocking Glasses Prescription Sunglasses Best in Dental Care Invisible Braces Options Teeth-Whitening Strips Teeth Whitening Kits Best In Skincare Facial Sunscreens Vitamin C Serums Mineral Sunscreens Reef-Safe Sunscreens Brands You Should Try Back Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world. Explore all Back Price Finder CNET Shopping helps you get the best prices on your favorite products. Get promo codes and discounts with a single click. Explore all Back Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend. Explore all 2024 Winners Money & Health Tools AI, Smart Home & Future Tech Subscription Services EVs, Energy Tech & Solar Services Phones, Earbuds, Laptops, TVs & More Back CNET Perspectives CNET Perspectives is a select group of creators, experts and thought leaders sharing first-person perspectives about our changing world. Explore all Tech Mobile Microsoft's HoloLens 2 isn't meant for you, but it could change your tech in the future The software giant doesn't plan to sell its $3,500 augmented reality headset to you and me. Yet. Ian Sherr Contributor and Former Editor at Large / News Ian Sherr (he/him/his) grew up in the San Francisco Bay Area, so he's always had a connection to the tech world. As an editor at large at CNET, he wrote about Apple, Microsoft, VR, video games and internet troubles. Aside from writing, he tinkers with tech at home, is a longtime fencer -- the kind with swords -- and began woodworking during the pandemic. See full bio Ian Sherr Feb. 28, 2019  4:00 a.m. PT 14 min read James Martin/CNET Ask me to fix a broken car or motorbike, and you'd be out of luck. But that's exactly what Microsoft wanted me to do. And the tool it gave me was its new mixed reality HoloLens 2 headset. After I slipped it on, a set of digital instructions popped up over an actual broken ATV, set up in a mock repair shop at Microsoft's headquarters. There were buckets of bolts to my right side and tools to my left. Then a set of neon-blue cartoonish arrows appeared, pointing at which gears I needed to move and where to move them to start the repair. Next, I was told to get parts from bins around the room. The blue arrow directed me to the bin with the bolt I needed, then the washer to go with it, and then to a table with the right wrench. Watch this: Microsoft HoloLens 2: A first dive into the future of AR 04:54 Which size bolt? What type of wrench? I didn't need to worry about that, because the HoloLens 2 guided me every step of the way. After about eight minutes, I went from cluelessly looking at a broken ATV to marveling at my first repair job. As Keanu Reeves says in the sci-fi epic The Matrix after getting fighting skills downloaded directly to his brain, "I know kung fu." This is the promise of Microsoft's HoloLens : a computer that can help you do pretty much anything you'd use your hands for. It does this by sensing where it is in a building and then laying computer images on top of the real world you're actually seeing. And unlike Microsoft's original HoloLens, announced four years ago , this new headset is more comfortable and easier to use. That makes working with HoloLens that much more immersive when you're looking at the holograms it's creating. And those can be anything from a massive movie screen to a model of a new building. Or a set of instructions showing you how to bake a batch of cookies or repair an aircraft engine. And with a pair of cameras, the headset can also be a phone-a-friend, allowing anyone to see through the eyes of whoever's wearing the headset. Think about that. Your friends can also use an app to circle things they see, which show up as holographic notations when you're wearing the headset. "The goal is these things will transform humans," HoloLens leader Alex Kipman said in an interview at Microsoft's Redmond, Washington, headquarters. "They'll empower people and organizations to do things they plainly were not able to do before." Microsoft's HoloLens 2 pulls us further into an augmented reality +15 More See all photos Microsoft isn't crazy for thinking big about the potential of these headsets. The tech industry's brightest minds are already investing billions of dollars to develop mixed reality (or, as some call it, augmented reality). They're all betting it'll change the way we use computers in the next few years. The market for AR gear is expected to explode, from under $6 billion last year to almost $200 billion by 2025, according to data compiled by Statista. "We don't have to just imagine it, this future is here," Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said at an event announcing the device Sunday at Mobile World Congress (MWC) in Barcelona . "Together, these advances are shaping the next phase of innovation." A high-profile startup called Magic Leap started shipping a $2,295 headset last August after working on it for seven years and raising $2.3 billion in investment from backers including AT&T, Google and Warner Bros. Facebook, which sells a $399 fully immersive virtual reality headset called the Oculus Rift , is working on a HoloLens competitor as well. Even Apple is secretly building one, which sources told CNET may arrive in 2020 . Microsoft is opening preorders for the HoloLens 2 on Feb. 24 for $3,500. The company plans to ship the device later this year. HoloLens (the name is inspired by holograms) sounded straight out of sci-fi when it was first demoed. "We're not talking about putting you into virtual worlds," Kipman said when he introduced the device in 2015. "We're dreaming beyond virtual worlds, beyond screens, beyond pixels." Enlarge Image The original HoloLens, seen from the back, was front-heavy, squeezed some people's heads and wasn't always comfortable with glasses. James Martin/CNET But HoloLens had its problems . The original headset was hard to put on. It felt heavy at nearly 1.3 pounds, which is a little heavier than an iPad Air. The HoloLens squeezed some people's heads, too. It didn't always fit over your glasses. At $5,000, it was expensive. And the software used to run it often needed extra setup and adjustment. The worst part was that the holograms appeared in an area in front of you that was only about the size of a deck of cards. (In AR parlance, that area's called the field of view.) Practically, that meant you usually saw only a small portion of a hologram. "The previous headset's field of view was its biggest drawback," said Scott Stein, CNET's senior editor for reviews, who's tried on more headsets than I knew existed. "Virtual objects have to be lined up just right, and the drop-off breaks the illusion and adds some fatigue trying to find things again." So Microsoft set out to fix those problems. Kipman invited Stein, CNET Español Managing Editor Gabriel Sama and me to the company's headquarters to see what it's accomplished with HoloLens 2. And to share the promise of HoloLens 3 and beyond. Bottom line, according to Kipman: "We have a lot of work left ahead of us." Enlarge Image HoloLens 2, seen from the side, is more comfortable, in part thanks to its battery being moved to the rear. James Martin/CNET Next act Imagine walking through a store and instead of hunting for that bottle of mustard, arrows like the ones that helped me repair the ATV direct you through the maze of aisles, straight to the condiments on your grocery list. Or they could display directions as you walk down the street. Instead of arrows, a HoloLens 2 could show you what new furniture would look like in your living room. Or help you read a speech without a teleprompter. Alex Kipman, head of Microsoft's HoloLens project, doesn't think his headset is ready for you. James Martin/CNET For Kipman, this technology is a holy grail of computers. For the past three decades, we've been trapped looking at a screen while interacting with a keyboard, mouse or controller. Even smartphones are just tinier screens. These types of computers are good enough for some things, like editing audio and video, coding an app or writing a story. But for nearly anything else, Microsoft thinks mixed reality is a better alternative. That's because researchers are finding that HoloLens may change the way we communicate, too. In one experiment at Stanford University's Virtual Human Interaction Lab , a person was put in an empty room but through the HoloLens was able to talk to a photorealistic AR character. The avatar maintained eye contact, interacted naturally and gestured as if it were a real person. "It was jaw-dropping," said Jeremy Bailenson , a professor of communication who runs the lab. Different world Mixed reality systems like HoloLens and Magic Leap aren't the only tech being lined up to revolutionize the way we use computers. There's also virtual reality, in which headsets hold a screen so close to your eyes that you're tricked into thinking you're in the computer-generated world. After decades of VR development, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg helped legitimize the technology when he spent more than $3 billion for then-startup Oculus . Though the market is still nascent , people are using VR for immersive training (like showing a soldier what it's like in a war zone), watching movies and playing video games . You can buy an Oculus Rift for $349, an HTC Vive for $499 or a Sony PlayStation VR for $299. They're pretty much the same, though each offers screens of differing quality or slightly different controllers. Enlarge Image The Magic Leap goggles look like they came from a steampunk future. James Martin/CNET MR headsets, meanwhile, are radically different from company to company. The Magic Leap One system is made up of three devices, including a headset called Lightwear , which uses tech similar to that of HoloLens to overlay computer-generated images on the real world. But unlike HoloLens, Lightwear is powered by a hockey puck-size computer called the Lightpack, which has enough computing power to generate realistic-looking 3D images . The computer connects to the headset by a cord and has a slit in its middle, so it straddles your pocket and air can circulate around it and cool it down. You interact with the Magic Leap through a third gadget: a handheld remote called Control. We know Apple is secretly developing a headset, but we don't know much about its design, other than that it's powered by Apple-designed chips, wirelessly talks to a computer and uses supersharp displays . The only thing MR companies seem to agree on is that they aren't selling to normal people -- at least not yet. Magic Leap's device was released to developers , with a consumer version promised for sometime in the not-too-distant future. Microsoft says it's focusing on business uses, even though it initially pitched HoloLens as a way to get work done and play games like its world-building phenom Minecraft . Now the company is saying HoloLens is an easy way to transport employees anywhere in the world. Or a way for a worker to do something complex without having to learn the process beforehand. Kipman describes it as giving people superpowers. "This is a concept that's been in our dreams," he says. Finding a better fit HoloLens 2 may not be ready for you and me, but it's a markedly better device than its predecessor. The first HoloLens was bulky. All the computing power was concentrated in front, along with the amalgam of cameras, motion sensors and microphones that help it understand where you are, what you're doing with your hands and what you're saying. It squeezed onto your head and, if you wore glasses like Stein or me, it was uncomfortable to wear for more than a few minutes. To solve this problem, Microsoft turned to its Human Factors Engineering Lab . The group, housed in a nondescript building constructed on the Microsoft campus in 2015, and with $44 million in funding, was created to help the tech giant understand how to build devices to fit most people. Carl Ledbetter , senior director of design for Microsoft's Device Design Team, started my tour of the lab by having me pick up an oversize Xbox video game controller sitting on a table by the entrance. It was heavier than the Xbox controllers I'd used, and I found it harder to reach all the buttons. "You," he said, "are five years old." The oversize controller is a tool to help engineers understand all the people who use its devices, including kids. Microsoft took a similar approach with HoloLens 2, trying to outfit it for as many people as possible. To improve on the original design, the team decided to evenly distribute HoloLens 2's weight around your head by moving the battery and some other guts to the back in a pack about the size of a tin of Altoids. That helped make it comfortable -- it was like slipping on a baseball cap. Inside Microsoft's HoloLens development lab +10 More See all photos Not all our heads are the same, though. So Microsoft spent a year scanning more than 600 people's heads, using a machine with 36 interlinked cameras surrounding a seat to capture each form. Ultimately, these scans helped Microsoft understand different body types for men and women, short to tall, big to small. Some people have higher cheeks, lower noses or bigger bumps at the back of their head. Microsoft wanted the HoloLens 2 to fit 95 percent of them. (Sorry, Hodor.) "It's not just a matter of scaling head sizes," Ledbetter said. "Everyone's head is different." The HoloLens 2 also has sensors that scan your eyes . This helps it quickly identify who you are, so you can share a headset with multiple people but have it set up your way each time you put it on. The device also watches where you look, so an app can help you read by moving text along with you or merely respond to what you're looking at. And if you need to take the HoloLens off quickly to chat with someone in the real world, you flip it up, like putting a pair of glasses on your forehead. "Once the first mockup was built, it was like, 'Wow, we've got to do that,'" Ledbetter said. "It was a delighter." Watch this: The creator of HoloLens 2 discusses its future 08:35 A new view The most dramatic change with HoloLens 2, though, is the field of view, or how much hologram you see. In the first HoloLens, if you moved your head too much in any direction, the holograms would disappear. For HoloLens 2, Microsoft more than doubled the area where you can see them. It did this by creating a new hologram technology. Watch this: What it's like to play Super Mario AR 02:50 In HoloLens 1, holograms were created by reflecting images from a tiny screen in the headset into specially made lenses for red, blue and green light waves. Those light waves were then beamed into the back of your eyes, where your brain would create the final image. In HoloLens 2, the tiny screen has been replaced by a mirror known as a MEMS that moves fast enough to create the illusion of a screen in space. The MEMS creates 120 of these screens each second, filtered to your eye through new, sleeker lenses in the headset. The result is smooth movements, brighter animations and quick response if you move your head. Most importantly, there's much more area for the holograms to show up. Before Microsoft started using MEMS technology, some executives believed it would be many years before the company could improve the HoloLens field of view. "It was a significant engineering problem," said Zulfi Alam , a general manager who worked on the displays and screens of the HoloLens. Kipman called the new approach a "miracle." The result is that when I was fixing the ATV, I didn't notice the holograms weren't in all the areas I could see. There was just enough that I stopped thinking about it. Unusual inspiration One reason Microsoft says HoloLens 2 isn't good enough yet for everyday people is that there's still not enough for us to do with it. Some people believe the killer app , or must-have feature, of HoloLens and Magic Leap will be when they replace all the screens in our homes. We'd just slap on a headset and see them as holograms. Kipman isn't convinced. It's like thinking of a car as a "horseless buggy," he says. Instead, HoloLens is for those times a monitor and keyboard don't work . That might be when you're checking schematics of an oil pipeline in the field, or an X-ray of a patient overlaid on the body. "If you can take a worker that makes $150,000 and make him 40 percent more efficient, that's $60,000 a year," said Jim Heppelmann , CEO of business software maker PTC, whose software works with the HoloLens to help workers in the field use schematics to repair broken machines, among other things. "I'll buy $5,000 devices all day long." To encourage those business connections even further, Microsoft made several advancements to the software powering HoloLens. Among them, the company created software that uses the sensors on the headset to map buildings they're in so that someone using an iPhone instead of a HoloLens can see the holograms in the room. HoloLens also works using technology from Microsoft's Windows PC software, making it easier to code apps for and connect to the web. Despite the excitement, this could still all go bust. Remember Google Glass ? Google Glass made waves when it was introduced in 2012, but it was largely abandoned due to privacy concerns. Sarah Tew/CNET When Glass was announced in 2012, people predicted that the smart eyewear would do things similar to what's expected for HoloLens. Google mostly gave up on the project in 2015 after significant criticism over its usefulness, and privacy concerns raised by its attached camera. Intel also had a smart-glasses initiative, which launched in 2013, but the company shut down the project last year after struggling to find partner companies . And Osterhout Design Group, whose smart glasses were the talk of CES in 2017, shut down, and its patents were sold last month . These setbacks don't worry Paul Bettner . He's one of the people behind the hit mobile game Words With Friends, who later made an early high-profile VR game called Lucky's Tale . Eventually, Bettner and other techies say, devices like the HoloLens will shrink down to the size of normal glasses, at which point they'll become a part of everyday life. But to get there, companies need to make incremental progress, just like they did with smartphones. "You couldn't have gone from nothing to the iPhone," he said. "You needed to make flip phones first, then Palm Treos and then everything else to get there." HoloLens isn't Kipman's first attempt at changing the way we interact with computers. That was Project Natal, an accessory designed for Microsoft's Xbox 360 video game console that could track your body as you moved in front of it. It did this by blanketing a room with thousands of infrared dots , and then using a camera to map where they land. The Kinect for the Xbox 360 video game console helped inspire Apple's FaceID, Windows Hello and HoloLens. CNET The Kinect, as it was later named, was so popular it sold 8 million units in its first 60 days, earning it a spot in the Guinness Book of World Records as the fastest-selling consumer gadget up to that point (Apple's iPad nabbed the title in 2011). "The inspiration really was could we actually incorporate a human into the gameplay," Kipman said at the time . "Allowing you to just get in and play really inspires us." Microsoft ultimately sold 35 million Kinects, but the device fizzled out as developers struggled to find fun ways to use it in their games. Still, the tech helped inspire Face ID and animoji on Apple's iPhones, face-unlock for Windows PCs and, of course, HoloLens. Today, Microsoft's enthusiasm for MR is contagious. Investment in software companies working on AR and MR for consumers is expected to hit $270.8 million this year, nearly double the investment in companies making similar VR software, according to Nielsen's SuperData Research . Meanwhile, in the business world, companies like Chevron have bought hundreds of HoloLens headsets as they begin to use them widely among their employees. Read: Microsoft's HoloLens 2: Why it's really all about the cloud (from ZDNet's Mary Jo Foley) For now Microsoft is keeping HoloLens 2 just out of reach. James Martin/CNET The future As Microsoft gears up to start selling HoloLens 2, Kipman is looking ahead a couple of years to when he'll show off HoloLens 3. He demurred when asked about details, other than to promise it'll be even more comfortable, easier to use and have more capabilities than what's available now. Whatever the details are, Kipman said they're what got the US Army interested enough to invest $480 million in more than 100,000 headsets to "increase lethality by enhancing the ability to detect, decide and engage before the enemy," according to a government filing . (The contract, however, has stirred employee dissent , which Nadella has dismissed . By Tuesday, more than 250 employees had signed an open letter denouncing the deal.) HoloLens won't be the only device vying for space on your head. There's still Magic Leap, and Apple's unannounced headset. By 2022, "tens of millions" of these things will have been sold, said Tim Merel , managing director of market watcher Digi-Capital . For now, though, Kipman plans to keep HoloLens just out of reach for you and me. "I have no interest in overhyping these products," he said. "There is a point where it will have enough immersion, enough comfort and enough out-of-box value where I will be happy to announce a consumer product." Until then, you'll just have wait. Unless you need to repair an ATV. CNET's Scott Stein and Gabriel Sama contributed to this article. First published Feb. 24, 9:20 a.m. PT. Updates, 10:45 a.m.: Includes more details about military contract, and additional technical details; Feb. 25 at 6:45 a.m.: Adds more details about HoloLens hardware and corrects the spelling of PTC chief's name; 3:09 p.m.: Includes response from Nadella about pushback against HoloLens military contract; Feb. 26 at 8:33 a.m.: Adds that more employees have signed on to the open letter protesting Microsoft's military contract. Your guide to a better future Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Coupons Videos Software Downloads About CNET Press Room Newsletters Licensing Sitemap Careers Accessibility Cookie Settings Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information instagram youtube tiktok facebook x flipboard US France Germany Japan Korea © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company.   All rights reserved.