Google Pixel 6 event: rumors, news, and announcements | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI More Expand The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Menu Expand Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health COVID-19 Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters Command Line Installer Notepad Verge Deals Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Google Pixel 6 event: rumors, news, and announcements Comments Drawer Tech Updated Oct 28, 2021, 4:02 PM UTC Google Pixel 6 event: rumors, news, and announcements by Verge Staff Link Facebook Threads RSS Google may have already announced the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro , but it looks like the company may still have a few more surprises in store for us — or at least a few more details. Despite announcing the new phones earlier this year, the tech giant will hold a virtual Pixel event on October 19th at 1PM ET / 10AM PT. During the “Pixel Fall Launch” event, we anticipate we’ll learn more about the new phones and their respective specs. The company may also announce a new subscription bundle called “ Pixel Pass ,” which would add an extended warranty and premium subscriptions to Google services like YouTube to the new Pixel phones. We expect Google will explore the Pixel 6’s new Tensor SoC chipset in more detail, too, much of which still remains a mystery. Reports indicate that Google’s first in-house chip consists of a combination of new cores and weaker old ones — an unusual design choice we may finally understand. Other event highlights are less certain. Could we get a glimpse of Google’s first folding Pixel phone, the Pixel Fold? Possibly. After a mid-2020 leak suggested the company may release it in late 2021, a more recent report indicates Samsung will start producing folding OLED panels this month for the new device. Earlier this month, Google also said Android 12 will roll out to Pixel devices in the “next few weeks,” so there’s a possibility the company will provide details as to when we can expect the design-focused update to roll out to Pixel devices. Regardless of what’s announced, however, we’ll be watching the virtual event live, so check this page for the latest announcements as they’re revealed. Oct 28, 2021 Antonio G. Di Benedetto How to buy the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro You can now buy Google’s newest Pixels, pending availability. Photo by Becca Farsace / The Verge Google’s new Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro have been announced , reviewed , and are now up for order. These Pixels promise new designs, new cameras, a uniquely designed Google Tensor CPU, and more. This year’s Pixel phones come in two sizes: the standard Pixel 6 and the larger, triple-camera equipped Pixel 6 Pro . The base Pixel 6, with 128GB of storage, starts at $599, while the Pixel 6 Pro runs $899 and up if you prefer to go above the base 128GB. Read Article > Oct 27, 2021 Richard Lawler The Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro will arrive with a day-one update Photo by Becca Farsace / The Verge Assuming you managed to order a Pixel 6 or Pixel 6 Pro , then you should know that once the phone is in your possession, you’ll need a little extra time to get everything set up and working. That’s because, as a post on the Google support forums points out (via 9to5Google ), there is a software update to install. The post indicates you’ll need it to get all of the features, although it’s unclear what would be missing if you simply started using the phone without it other than the November security update. According to Google, the build number is the same for both phones, and it should display SD1A.210817.036 or SD1A.210817.036.A8 for Verizon customers. If your phone arrives early, then the update might not available at first. Read Article > Oct 21, 2021 Sheena Vasani Where is Google’s foldable phone? Everything we know so far Leaks indicate the Pixel Fold may resemble the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip. Image: Dan Seifert / The Verge During the “Pixel Fall Launch” event , Google formally launched the new Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro as well as its Pixel Pass . Beyond that, however, the tech giant didn’t divulge much more about other new products — like Google’s first folding phone. Google previously confirmed in 2019 it’s working on prototyping foldable device technology, has applied for patents on foldable screens, and we’ve since reported on a number of leaks suggesting the Pixel Fold might arrive as soon as this year. For example, Korean industry site TheElec suggested Samsung was going to produce folding OLED panels for the device this very month — and that’s just one of many recent leaks. Here’s a catch-up on everything else we think we know about the Pixel Fold. Read Article > Oct 19, 2021 Sean Hollister Google’s Pixel 6 doesn’t come with five years of Android updates — only three For the first time ever, Google’s new phones are powered by a Google-designed chip , giving the company an Apple-like level of control over the inner workings of the new Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro. But if you were hoping that meant they’d also get an Apple-like level of new OS updates, the company is throwing a bit of cold water on that. Google’s support page shows it’s only promising to offer Android updates through October 2024 (via Android Police ), a total of three years after release. “Users will still get at least 3 years of OS updates, after which we’re committing to ensure that Pixels will stay up-to-date and secure,” Google tells The Verge . “The frequency and categories of updates will depend on the capabilities and needs of the hardware.” Read Article > Oct 19, 2021 Richard Lawler The Google Store is open again, and Pixel 6 delivery dates are all over the place Photo by Becca Farsace / The Verge Pre-orders for Google’s new line of phones started at the same time as their launch event, but for most of us, trying to buy a Pixel 6 or Pixel 6 Pro has meant seeing nothing but error screens. Some unsteadiness is to be expected given the sudden demand, but at 1PM ET, the doors opened, and Google’s store seemed to fall flat. As of 5:40PM ET, Google says the store is operational again, and many of us have been able to put orders through. According to a spokesperson, “The Google Store was temporarily down but is now back up. We apologize for the inconvenience.” Read Article > Oct 19, 2021 Emma Roth Snapchat says the Pixel 6 is ‘the fastest phone to make a Snap’ Photo by Snapchat At today’s Pixel event, Google dove into the details about the Pixel 6 series devices and outlined a brand new feature that will make sending Snaps even faster. The new feature, called Quick Tap to Snap, adds a camera-only version of Snapchat directly to the lock screen of the Pixel. To access it, all you have to do is tap the back of your phone twice, and the Snapchat camera will open. From there, you can snap a picture all without unlocking your device — you’ll only have to authenticate your identity when you go to send the Snap. Read Article > Oct 19, 2021 Cameron Faulkner Here’s how the Pixel 6 compares to the Pixel 6 Pro Photo by Becca Farsace / The Verge There’s a lot that we already knew about the Google Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro ahead of their debut at Google’s October 2021 event. Some of the key specs, including the Tensor processor and the camera details, were made publicly available by Google itself. But of course, we know a lot more now than we did before. Check out my colleague Dan Seifert’s big hands-on with both phones right here . It dives into the design, features, and he talks about how this is a big moment both for Google to prove that its Tensor processor is as good as it claims to be and that it knows how to make flagship phones that people want. Read Article > Oct 19, 2021 Richard Lawler The Pixel 6 and 6 Pro can make calling customer service less nightmarish Photo by Becca Farsace / The Verge The Pixel 6 is Google’s first phone with a custom-designed SoC, and the appeal of the Tensor chip isn’t in raw power, it’s what the combination of hardware and software can do. Speech and image processing that happens on device are great for Google Assistant or improving photographs, but a feature many owners will appreciate at launch is an improved Phone app that’s built to manage annoying calls to customer service lines . According to Google, the app can tell you the current hold time for a business’s 1-800 number before you even dial, as well as the projected wait times for later in the day or week. These projections are “inferred from call length data that is not linked to user identifier.” Google didn’t get more specific, but it sounds similar to Google Maps monitoring traffic flow. Read Article > Oct 19, 2021 Jay Peters Google’s new Pixel Stand supports up to 23W wireless charging Google’s new Pixel Stand wireless charger. Image: Google Google revealed a new second-generation Pixel Stand wireless charger on Tuesday. The new charger offers charging speeds of up to 23W with “compatible Pixel phones” and up to 15W with other Qi-certified devices. To keep the stand cool while it’s charging at those higher speeds, the new Pixel Stand has a “nearly silent built-in fan,” which could be similar to the fans inside recent OnePlus chargers . We haven’t used the stand ourselves, though, so we’ll have to wait and see if the fan is as quiet as Google claims it will be. Like Google’s first Pixel Stand , the second-generation version is designed to let your phone sit in portrait mode. That could make it easier to keep up with texts and notifications as they come in. Read Article > Oct 19, 2021 Chaim Gartenberg The Pixel 6’s Tensor processor promises to put Google’s machine learning smarts in your pocket Google’s Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro are officially here , and with them, the debut of Google’s new Tensor chip. Google has finally revealed more information on what the new SoC can actually do, for the fastest Pixel phones ever. The initial reveal of the Pixel 6 and the Tensor chip was largely centered on its AI-focused TPU (Tensor processing unit) and how the custom hardware would help Google differentiate itself from competitors. Read Article > Oct 19, 2021 Cameron Faulkner Android 12 is now available for Pixel phones Google The final version of Android 12 has been available to developers and eager fans for a few weeks on AOSP, but today, it officially launched for people who want to easily pick up the update over the air. It’s available to install right now on Pixel 3 and up, including the Pixel 3A, Pixel 4, Pixel 4A, Pixel 4A 5G, the Pixel 5, and the Pixel 5A. It’ll launch on the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro , as well. Android 12 will be coming later this year to Samsung Galaxy, OnePlus, Oppo, Realme, Tecno, Vivo, and Xiaomi devices. The most noticeable feature in Android 12 is the new Material You design, which lets you go a little deeper to tweak the look of the homescreen to your liking. It’s more expressive than previous versions of Android, with tools to let you coordinate colors that can extend across app icons, pull-down menus, widgets, and more. Speaking of widgets, many of those have been updated to match the new look, and Google shared today that by the end of October, it plans to have over a dozen new or refreshed widgets available for its first-party apps. Read Article > Oct 19, 2021 Antonio G. Di Benedetto Google’s Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro finally bring new camera hardware in addition to software The rear bar of the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro house new cameras. Image: Google Today at its Pixel Fall Launch event, after many pre-announcements and leaks, Google finally announced all the details of the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro. Some of the biggest changes to these new flagship phones from Google are updated camera modules. Pixel phones were long the champions of smartphone photography, but Google has been resting on its laurels for a while, using the same 12.2-megapixel Sony IMX363 sensor from Pixel 3 through Pixels 5 and 5A. Now, the main cameras of the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro house a 50-megapixel sensor that is larger than its predecessors and bins the images down to a 12.5-megapixel output. Google claims it can capture 150 percent more light than the Pixel 5 now with its 1/1.31” size image sensor and f/1.85 aperture. Following the iPhone playbook, both Pixels feature ultrawide lenses with 12-megapixel sensors, while the 6 Pro adds a third telephoto lens with 4x optical zoom coupled to 48 megapixels of resolution. On the front, the Pixel 6’s selfie cam is 8 megapixels with an 84-degree field of view, while the 6 Pro is 11.1 megapixels and 94 degrees for easier group selfies. Read Article > Oct 19, 2021 Jon Porter Pixel Pass bundles Google’s phone and services into one monthly subscription The Pixel 6 and the Pixel 6 Pro. Photo by Becca Farsace / The Verge Google Pixel Pass is a new subscription bundle designed to let US customers pay for a Pixel phone in monthly installments while also getting access to Google’s premium subscription services like 200GB of Google One cloud storage, YouTube Premium, YouTube Music Premium, and Google Play Pass. Prices start at $45 a month for Pixel 6 or $55 for a Pixel 6 Pro, and Google says they’re available unlocked and should work with all major carriers. Pixel Pass subscribers are eligible for an upgrade after two years, Google says, and the subscription also includes an extra year of warranty coverage over the standard one-year manufacturer warranty (aka Preferred Care ). Read Article > Oct 19, 2021 Dan Seifert , Dieter Bohn and 1 more Google’s Pixel 6 and 6 Pro launch event live blog Image: Google After leaks and pre-annoucements , ads and yet more leaks , the time has come for Google to officially launch the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro. We already know many details: the custom Tensor processor that powers it, the colors and many of the specs, and even some of the software features have all been officially announced. And rumors have filled in more details . But there will be more to hear from Google. This is easily the most important Pixel the company has launched in years, it’s a launch where the company says it is taking on flagships from Apple and Samsung at the high end. Google hasn’t really talked big game about its phones before, so even if we’ve seen a lot of rumors, how Google goes about making this launch happen will be interesting. Read Article > Oct 19, 2021 Antonio G. Di Benedetto How to watch Google’s Pixel 6 Fall Launch event With the number of leaks and pre-announcements for the Google Pixel 6, it may seem like the phones should already be here by now. Thanks to Google , we already know the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro exist, what they will look like, and that they will use a Google-designed CPU. We also have an idea what the camera specs will be , what the new wireless charging stand probably looks like , and even what’s inside, courtesy of a teardown video that has since been removed. The only thing left is for Google to fill out the remaining details we don’t know and launch the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro. Google has one of the worst track records for keeping things secret, so perhaps hoping for a surprise or two might be a stretch, but the long-rumored, folding Pixel could still materialize alongside other surprises . The only way to know for sure is to tune in to the company’s Pixel Fall Launch event . Read Article > Oct 19, 2021 Richard Lawler Someone unboxed the Pixel 6 early and didn’t bother to turn it on Pixel 6 color choices Image: Google Google’s upcoming phones have made early appearances in leaks over , and over , and over , and over , and over again, so it’s really no surprise that someone seems to have obtained a retail-boxed Pixel 6 unit ahead of the fall launch event tomorrow . In a video posted initially to TikTok, then deleted but still available on Twitter for a few hours, @CristianDimboiu took a literal approach to unboxing by removing the “Sorta Seafoam” green device from its carrier without going any further. We didn’t see the screen turn on or see the screen at all. Read Article > Oct 18, 2021 Ian Carlos Campbell and Verge Staff The Pixel 6: what to expect from Google’s thoroughly pre-announced phone Image: Google We’ve seen the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro . Google’s decision to announce and thoroughly tease its new high-end flagship was revealing and confusing but, given all the leaks that followed, ultimately not that consequential. The Pixel 6 and 6 Pro feature an all-new, in some cases, quite colorful design, with an in-display fingerprint sensor, Google’s new Tensor SoC, and the Titan M2 security chip. The standard Pixel 6 has a 90Hz 6.4-inch screen, while the Pro gets a 120Hz 6.7-inch, but the big difference might end up being the cameras. Both devices have new wide and ultrawide cameras, but the Pro comes with an additional 4x optical zoom periscope lens. You can see what they look like in the hands of real people in this Twitter thread of leaked images from Evan Blass: Read Article > Oct 18, 2021 Jon Porter The Pixel 6 might start at a relatively affordable $599 The Google Pixel 6 and 6 Pro lineup. Image: Google The Pixel 6’s price could start at $599 with 128GB of storage, while the 128GB Pixel 6 Pro could start at $898, according to early US pricing at Target stores spotted by M. Brandon Lee and Evan Lei . Lei posted a photo of pricing already displayed on Target’s shelves, while Lee has images of the retailer’s inventory system showing the same prices. A “street date” for both phones (aka their release dates) is listed as October 28th. Lee has previously reported that the European starting prices of the Pixel 6 and the Pixel 6 Pro will be €649 and €899 respectively, while WinFuture ’s Roland Quandt has discovered Amazon UK listings that show the 128GB Pixel 6 Pro priced at £849, with a shipping date of November 1st. The Pixel 6 Pro with 256GB of storage could cost £100 more at £949. Read Article > Oct 11, 2021 Jon Porter ‘Pixel Pass’ is Google’s rumored response to Apple One Image: Google Google seems poised to announce a new subscription bundle called “Pixel Pass,” which would combine a new Pixel device with an extended warranty and premium subscriptions for several Google services. The unconfirmed bundle has been detailed in a leaked image published by Brandon Lee . It’s unclear how much Pixel Pass would cost, but the documents suggest it will be sold via Google Fi and the Google Store alongside the purchase of a Pixel device. As Lee notes, Pixel Pass appears to combine elements of Apple’s iPhone Upgrade program (which offers an iPhone via monthly subscription payments alongside an extended warranty) and its Apple One subscription services bundle. Pixel Pass could be pitched as a way to simplify access to all these services as well as offering the peace of mind of an extended warranty. Pixel Pass might also offer a discount compared to paying for the services individually, though there’s currently no indication of how much Pixel Pass might cost. Read Article > Oct 9, 2021 Kim Lyons Google Pixel 6 leak teases Magic Eraser feature, plus five years of Android security updates The Google Pixel 6 (top) and Pixel 6 Pro (bottom) Google New leaks from a marketing site appear to confirm that the camera for the Pixel 6 will have a new Magic Eraser feature, and the devices will apparently get five years of Android security updates (h/t 9to5 Google) According to reliable leaker Evan Blass, the Carphone Warehouse website was showing images of Google marketing materials for the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro (the images have since been taken down, but you can view the earlier versions of the Carphone Warehouse pages on the Wayback Machine here and here ). Screenshots show the description for the previously leaked Magic Eraser, which will apparently be linked to Google Photos: Read Article > Oct 8, 2021 Jay Peters Watch the Pixel 6 Pro get put together and taken apart in leaked videos While Google has already shared a lot about its upcoming Pixel 6 Pro flagship, including its bold exterior design , two new videos posted to YouTube reveal what Google will probably never show us: what it looks like on the inside, how to put it together, and how to take it apart. The two videos, which appear to be used for training purposes of some kind, show how to assemble and disassemble the Pixel 6 Pro. It seems unlikely that these were intended to be released publicly, as they are extremely focused on showing specific steps for how to put together and take apart the phone, don’t include any voiceover, and have a mishmash of low-quality graphics, text, and music. That being said, the videos are still worth checking out, as they are a fascinating step-by-step look at how a smartphone actually gets put together. Read Article > Oct 7, 2021 Jon Porter Pixel 6’s rumored 23W wireless charging stand and more details leak early A Pixel 6 handset on its rumored wireless charging stand. Image: EVLeaks Leaked images of Google’s upcoming Pixel 6 have given us our best look yet at new features coming to the search giant’s next flagship smartphone. The images, which were leaked by Evan Blass , reveal shots of a second generation Pixel Stand wireless charger, user interface details, and camera specs, and include a mention of face unlock biometric security. They’ve arrived a little under two weeks before the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro are due to be officially announced on October 19th . There’s not much in these pictures that hasn’t already leaked, but what they offer is a better look at the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro’s rumored features. The beefy new Pixel Stand, for example, is believed to support 23W fast charging according to an August leak, which is more than double what was offered by Google’s first-generation 10w wireless charger introduced with the Pixel 3 . Read Article > Oct 5, 2021 Sean Hollister and Richard Lawler Google just announced its Pixel 6 event on October 19th Image: Google Google traditionally holds an October hardware event to reveal its new Pixel phones. This year, it already announced them — here’s the Pixel 5A and the Pixel 6 . But the company clearly hasn’t said everything it wants to say publicly quite yet, because it just announced a virtual event for October 19th at 1PM ET / 10AM PT . Google: Read Article > Sep 21, 2021 Cameron Faulkner The Google Pixel 6 Pro may have been leaked in a brief hands-on video Image: Google Google got ahead of any possible news leaks about the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro by announcing the phones back in August, including that they would run on the company’s long-in-development Tensor chip. But it’s possible that some leakers have recently got hold of an actual unit. A video posted to Twitter by @thisistechtoday may be showing off a pre-production version of the Pixel 6 Pro, complete with its triple rear camera array. Of course, Google hasn’t been coy about sharing what the device will look like — even installing dummy units in its NYC store for people to ogle . To that end, the device that’s spun around in this short clip looks like what we’ve seen so far — the strange Google logo placeholder notwithstanding. The phone in this video appears to have a hole-punch selfie camera, and all of its buttons are located along its right edge. Read Article > Sep 20, 2021 Jon Porter Google reportedly has a second foldable in the works Samsung’s recent foldable, the Z Flip 3, is more hamburger than hotdog. Photo by Dan Seifert / The Verge Google appears to be internally testing a second foldable Pixel smartphone, according to 9to5Google ’s sources . The device is said to be under development with the codename “Jumbojack,” that’s referenced in a future version of Android 12 which 9to5Google identifies as “Android 12.1.” This is the latest foldable codename we’ve heard about at Google, following reports of another device called “Passport.” Not much is known about what form Jumbojack could take, but 9to5Google has a couple of key details. It seems to have two screens, with one that deactivates when the device is folded. That suggests we’re looking at a similar design to Samsung’s foldables, which combine a small external screen with a larger internal folding display. There’s no word on screen sizes or internal specs, however. Read Article > More Stories Most Popular Most Popular Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now New Starlink subscription drops hardware price to $0 Duolingo will replace contract workers with AI Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck The DJI Phantom is no more Installer A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved