BCPS social studies teacher selected as Maryland’s 2021-22 Teacher of the Year 1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays Watch Now Watch Now 1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays Menu Search site Watch Now Watch Now Close × Live Watch Alerts Search site Go Local News Around Town Local Eats Bridging the Gap Shop Small with Stevie Pets on Set Voice for Veterans News Local News In Focus Key Bridge Collapse National News News Photo Gallery Don't Waste Your Money Scripps News Group Election 2024 Maryland Elections America Votes Weather 7 Day Forecast Live Weather Cams School Closings Weather Alerts Weather Blogs Interactive Radar Traffic WMAR In-Depth Matter for Mallory Key Bridge Collapse Maryland Cold Cases Investigations Midday Maryland GBMC RX Local Sports Baltimore Orioles Ravens Football Turkey Bowl High School Sports Entertainment TV Listings Bounce TV Court TV WMAR -2 Videos WMAR-2 On YouTube WMAR Originals Grace & Glory Marketplace Contests Steering Change Chick-fil-A Everyday Heroes Power of Age Home Pros About WMAR Advertise with WMAR Meet the WMAR-2 News Team Contact Us Station Jobs Sign In Newsletters Sign Out Manage Emails Apps Careers Search Weather Your Voice, Your Stories Maryland  Cold Cases In Focus Matter for Mallory Key Bridge Collapse Voice for Veterans WMAR on YouTube Contests WMAR on Facebook Quick links... Weather Your Voice, Your Stories Maryland  Cold Cases In Focus Matter for Mallory Key Bridge Collapse Voice for Veterans Contests 1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays News Local News Actions Facebook Tweet Email BCPS social studies teacher selected as Maryland’s 2021-22 Teacher of the Year Prev Next Baltimore County Public Schools By: Kelly Broderick Posted TOWSON, Md. — Congratulations are in order for Brianna Ross, a history teacher at Deer Park Middle Magnet School! Ross has been named the 2021-2022 Maryland state Teacher of the Year! Ross was one of eight finalists selected by the Maryland State Department of Education. “Team BCPS joins the entire state in congratulating Brianna Ross on being named Maryland’s Teacher of the Year,” said BCPS Superintendent Dr. Darryl L. Williams. “She represents not only the best of Baltimore County’s teachers but the best of Maryland’s educators, and we are all so proud of her. She epitomizes what it means to be a talented teacher, a dedicated professional, a lifelong learner, and a caring and compassionate counselor and friend to students everywhere.” “Thank you, thank you, thank you to the state of Maryland and to the selection committee for this incredible honor and recognition,” Ross said in her recorded acceptance remarks. “I am so excited to represent excellence in teaching, particularly on behalf of the phenomenal educators in Baltimore County. I am so grateful that God has shown me my passion and purpose and He has just directed all of my steps. A huge thank you to my parents who are perfect and who love me unconditionally, who pray for me constantly. There are not enough words to tell you how much I love you.” Ross continued, “To my incredible mentors Dr. Kandice Taylor and Dr. Nashae Bennett, thank you for taking a chance on me and seeing vision in me that I had not yet seen. To the other educators who I have grown with, Evan Campbell, Natasha Outlaw, Ben Wolf, Shavit Poland, I would not be who I am without watching all of you do your incredible work. To all of my family at Deer Park, I love you guys so much, and, in particular, a huge thank you to my students. You have taught me what it means to love beyond condition, to teach with purpose, and to lead fearlessly. I would not be the woman that I am and the educator that I am without all of you, so thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. And I am ready to get to work.” Ross is in her sixth year of teaching and serves as Deer Park’s social studies department chair, equity liaison, and summer transition program coordinator among many other roles. Copyright 2021 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Sign up for the Headlines Newsletter and receive up to date information. now signed up to receive the Headlines Newsletter. Click here to manage all Newsletters News Stay connected to community, wherever you are Traffic News Business Local Sports Entertainment Life Marketplace Don't Waste Your Money Support Sitemap Do Not Sell My Info Privacy Policy Privacy Center Journalism Ethics Guidelines Terms of Use EEO Careers FCC Public Files FCC Application Public File Contact Accessibility Statement Scripps Media Trust Center Closed Captioning Contact wmar2news/ wmar2news WMAR2News wmar2news Scripps Local Media © 2025 Scripps Media, Inc Give Light and the People Will Find Their Own Way </html