The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 - Biobibliography - NobelPrize.org Skip to content Open the search menu Close the search menu Close Mobile Menu Toggle Mobile Menu Nobel Prizes & laureates All Nobel Prizes All Nobel Prizes 2024 Physics prize Chemistry prize Medicine prize Literature prize Peace prize Prize in economic sciences About About the prize Alfred Nobel Award ceremonies Nomination Organisation Stories Educational Events & museums Open the search menu Close the search menu Header Search Submit a search term Enhanced Page Navigation The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 - Biobibliography The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 - Prize announcement The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 - Press release The Nobel Prize Award Ceremony 2019 The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 - Presentation Speech Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 Summary Laureates Olga Tokarczuk Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech Share this Facebook X LinkedIn Email this page Biobibliography Navigate to: Summary - Olga Tokarczuk Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech English English [pdf] Swedish Swedish [pdf] Biobibliography Olga Tokarczuk was born 1962 in Sulechów in Poland, and lives in Wrocław. Her parents were teachers and her father also functioned as school librarian. In the library she read pretty much everything she could get hold of and it was here that she developed her literary appetite. After studies in psychology at the University of Warsaw she made her debut as a fiction writer 1993 with Podróz ludzi Księgi (“The Journey of the Book-People”), set in 17 th -century France and Spain where characters are in search of a mysterious book in the Pyrenees. The book was well received and was awarded the Polish Publisher’s Prize for the best debut of 1993-94. Still, her real breakthrough came with her third novel Prawiek i inne czasy 1996 ( Primeval and Other Times , 2010). This subtly constructed family saga in several succeeding generations is set in a mythical place with strong symbolical impact, simultaneously full of realistic and vivid details. It starts in 1914 and deals with the Polish history of the 20th century, and Tokarczuk has claimed that the narrative was a personal attempt to come to terms with the national image of the past. The novel is an excellent example of the new Polish literature after 1989, resisting moral judgement and unwilling to represent the conscience of the nation. Instead it shows a remarkable gift of imagination with a high degree of artistic sophistication. But the device of a linear fable with an omniscient narrator, and a strong metaphysical undercurrent, are abandoned in the impressive Dom dzienny, dom nocny from 1998 ( House of Day, House of Night , 2002). In this rich blend of beautiful and striking images one finds the intention to depict a whole region with many and conflicting cultures, individual fates and perspectives. Olga Tokarczuk is inspired by maps and a perspective from above, which tends to make her microcosmos a mirror of macrocosmos. As stated in her third novel “Primeval is a village in the midst of universe”. Likewise, myth and reality are intimately connected in House of Day, House of Night , where mushrooms and wine made of wild roses are treated with the same attention as the legend of the martyr St. Kummernis. Migration and expulsion have marked the Silesian landscape that sets the scene. The place appears to be the protagonist, weaving together the multitude of narrated fragments into a rich, epic fresco. The early inclination to archetypes and Jungian models of interpretation is gradually dissolving in the short stories Gra na wielu bębenkach from 2001 and more forcefully in the novel Bieguni from 2007 ( Flights , 2017). In the latter she is concerned not so much with the landscape of the border as with the phenomenon of border-crossing. The title is taken from the name of an old Russian, gnostic sect whose members believed that constant movement prevents the triumph of the evil demiurg. Even here Tokarczuk is driven by the attempt to contain a multitude of often contradictory perspectives into one whole. In this pursuit she includes old maps and drawings of wanderings that convey an impression of a vast encyclopedia, mirroring a world in constant flight. Her montage of diverse fragments of narrative and essayistic prose is full of memorable reflections and episodes, where the recurring tropes are physical movement, mortality and the meaning of home. Tokarczuk never views reality as stable or everlasting. She constructs her novels in a tension between cultural opposites: nature versus culture, reason versus madness, male versus female, home versus alienation. And this is possible only if both poles are anchored in the narrative. In the technically more conventional but still very original crime novel Prowadź swój pług przez kości umarłych from 2009 ( Drive Your Plow Over the Bones of the Dead , 2018) metaphysical speculation comes back in parodic form, when the protagonist, also the narrator, is presented as a fanatical animal lover and fervent astrologist. Considered mad by the people in her surroundings, she wages war with the male, local inhabitants, a depressingly narrow-minded hunting community. In this feat of ambivalent wit we never know which madness is worst and where the sympathies are invested. Still, the magnum opus of Tokarczuk so far is the impressive historical novel Księgi Jakubowe 2014 (“The Books of Jacob”). Once more the writer changes mode and genre, and has devoted several years of historical research in archives and libraries to make the work possible. The protagonist is the charismatic 18 th -century sect leader Jacob Frank, by his adherents proclaimed the new Messiah. He was a cabbalist and restless seeker beyond spiritual borders, determined to unite Jewish, Christian and Moslem creeds and therefore always on the wrong side of Orthodoxy. It is fascinating how Tokarczuk lets us enter the minds of several persons in this 1000-page-long chronicle to give us a portrait of the main character, while he himself is described only from the outside. He was clearly a man of many faces: mystic, rebel, manipulator and trickster. While the preeminent modern scholar of Jewish mysticism, Gershom Scholem, in his mighty work on the main lines in Jewish mysticism, avoids Frank’s disturbing persona Tokarczuk on the contrary pays great interest to precisely that: his boundlessness and psychopathic trait of character. Tokarczuk has in this work shown the supreme capacity of the novel to represent a case almost beyond human understanding. But the work not only portrays the mysterious life of Jacob Frank, it gives us a remarkably rich panorama of an almost neglected chapter in European history. Bibliography – a selection Podróż ludzi Księgi . – Warszawa : Przedświt, 1993 E.E. – Warszawa : Państwowy Instytut Wydawniczy, 1995 Prawiek i inne czasy . – Warszawa : Wydawn. W.A.B., 1996 Szafa . – Lublin : Wydawnictwo Uniwersytetu Marii Curie Skłodowskiej, 1997 Dom dzienny, dom nocny . – Wałbrzych : Ruta, 1998 Lalka i perła . – Kraków : Wydawnictwo Literackie, 2001 Gra na wielu bębenkach : 19 opowiadań . – Wałbrzych : Ruta, 2001 Ostatnie historie . – Kraków : Wydawnictwo Literackie, 2004 Anna In w grobowcach świata . – Kraków : Społeczny Instytut Wydawniczy Znak, 2006 Bieguni . – Kraków : Wydawnictwo Literackie, 2007 Prowadź swój pług przez kości umarłych / ilustracje Jaromir Švejdik. – Kraków : Wydawnictwo Literackie, 2009 Moment niedźwiedzia . – Warszawa : Wydawnictwo Krytyki Politycznej, 2012 Księgi Jakubowe albo Wielka podróż przez siedem granic, pięć języków i trzy duże religie, nie licząc tych małych : opowiadana przez zmarłych, a przez autorkę dopełniona metodą koniektury, z wielu rozmaitych ksiąg zaczerpnięta, a także wspomożona imaginacją, która to jest największym naturalnym darem człowieka : mądrym dla memoryału, kompatriotom dla refleksji, laikom dla nauki, melancholikom zaś dla rozrywki . – Kraków : Wydawnictwo Literackie, 2014 Zgubiona dusza / ilustracje Joanna Concejo. – Wrocław : Wydawnictwo Format, 2017 Opowiadania bizarne . – Kraków : Wydawnictwo Literackie, 2018 Profesor Andrews w Warszawie ; Wyspa . – Kraków : Wydawnictwo Literackie, 2018 In English “The Hotel Capital” / translated by Teresa Halikowska-Smith. Reprint from Granta #72. – London : Rea S. Hederman, 2000 House of Day, House of Night / translated by Antonia Lloyd-Jones. – London : Granta, 2002. – Translation of: Dom dzienny, dom nocny “From E. E.” in The Third Shore : Women’s Fiction from East Central Europe / ed. by Agata Schwartz and Luise Von Flotow ; translated by John Woodsworth. – Evanston, Ill. : Northwestern University Press, 2006 “Żurek Soup” in Elsewhere : Stories from Small Town Europe / ed. by Maria Crossan ; translated by Antonia Lloyd-Jones. – Manchester : Comma, 2007 Primeval and Other Times / translated by Antonia Lloyd-Jones. – Prague : Twisted Spoon Press, 2010. – Translation of: Prawiek i inne czasy “Dark postcoitum” essay by Olga Tokarczuk in Dark Rooms / Konrad Pustola. Polish and English. [Artists’ books]. – Warszawa : Nowy Teatr, 2010 Flights / translated by Jennifer Croft. – London : Fitzcarraldo, 2017. – Translation of: Bieguni Drive Your Plow Over the Bones of the Dead / translated by Antonia Lloyd-Jones. – London : Fitzcarraldo, 2018. – Translation of: Prowadź swój pług przez kości umarłych In French Dieu, le temps, les hommes et les anges / traduit du polonais par Christophe Glogowski. – Paris : Robert Laffont, 1998. – Traduction de: Prawiek i inne czasy Maison de jour, maison de nuit / traduit du polonais par Christophe Glogowski. – Paris : Robert Laffont, 2001. – Traduction de: Dom dzienny, dom nocny Récits ultimes / traduit du polonais par Grażyna Erhard. – Lausanne : Noir sur Blanc, 2007. – Traduction de: Ostatnie historie Les pérégrines / traduit du polonais par Grażyna Erhard. – Lausanne : Noir sur Blanc, 2010. – Traduction de: Bieguni Sur les ossements des morts / traduit du polonais par Margot Carlier. – Lausanne : Noir sur Blanc, 2012. – Traduction de: Prowadź swój pług przez kości umarłych Les enfants verts ou le récit de singuliers événements survenus en Volhynie, consignés par William Davisson, médecin de Sa Majesté le roi Jean II Casimir / traduit du polonais par Margot Carlier. – Lille : Éditions La Contre Allée, 2016. – Traduction de: Zielone dzieci, czyli Opis dziwnych zdarzeń na Wołyniu spisane przez medyka Jego Królewskiej Mości Jana Kazimierza, Williama Davissona [ Odra ( Wrocław ) . 2016, nr. 9] Une âme égarée / illustrations Joanna Conceja ; traduit du polonais par Margot Carlier. – Wrocław : Éditions Format, DL 2018. – Traduction de: Zgubiona dusza Les livres de Jakób : ou le grand voyage à travers sept frontières, cinq langues, trois grandes religions et d’autres moindres … / traduit du polonais par Maryla Laurent. – Paris : Noir sur Blanc, 2018 – Traduction de: Księgi Jakubowe In German ”Erna Eltzner” in Ich trage das Land : das Frauen-Buch Ränder / hrsg. von Barbara Neuwirth ; aus dem Polnischen von Friedrich Griese. – Klagenfurt : Wieser, 1996 Ur und andere Zeiten : Roman / aus dem Polnischen von Esther Kinsky. – Berlin : Berlin-Verlag, 2000. – Originaltitel: Prawiek i inne czasy Der Schrank : Erzählungen / aus dem Polnischen von Esther Kinsky. – Stuttgart ; München : Deutsche Verlags-Anstalt, 2000. – Originaltitel: Szafa Taghaus, Nachthaus : Roman / aus dem Polnischen von Esther Kinsky. – Stuttgart ; München : Deutsche Verlags-Anstalt, 2001. – Originaltitel: Dom dzienny, dom nocny Letzte Geschichten : Roman / aus dem Polnischen von Esther Kinsky. – München : Deutsche Verlags-Anstalt, 2006. – Originaltitel: Ostatnie historie Spiel auf vielen Trommeln : Erzählungen / mit einem Nachw. von Katharina Döbler ; aus dem Polnischen von Esther Kinsky. – Berlin : Matthes und Seitz, 2006. – Originaltitel: Gra na wielu bębenkach AnnaIn in den Katakomben : der Mythos der Mondgöttin Inanna / aus dem Polnischen von Esther Kinsky. – Berlin : Berlin Verlag, 2007. – Originaltitel: Anna In w grobowcach świata Unrast / aus dem Polnischen von Esther Kinsky. – Frankfurt am Main : Schöffling, 2009. – Originaltitel: Bieguni Der Gesang der Fledermäuse : Roman / aus dem Polnischen von Doreen Daume. – Frankfurt am Main : Schöffling, 2011. – Originaltitel: Prowadź swój pług przez kości umarłych Die Jakobsbücher / aus dem Polnischen von Lisa Palmes und Lothar Quinkenstein. – Zürich : Kampa, 2019. – Originaltitel: Księgi Jakubowe In Swedish Spel på många små trummor : noveller / urval och översättning av Jan Henrik Swahn. – Tollarp : Ariel, 2002. – Noveller ur: Gra na wielu bębenkach Daghus, natthus / översättning av Jan Henrik Swahn. – Tollarp : Ariel, 2005. – Originaltitel: Dom dzienny, dom nocny ”Professor Andrews i Warszawa” i Polen berättar : Navelsträngen i jorden : sexton noveller / red. Irena Grönberg och Stefan Ingvarsson ; översättning av Anders Bodegård. – Stockholm : Tranan, 2005. – Originaltitel: Profesor Andrews w Warszawie Gammeltida och andra tider / översättning av Lennart Ilke. – Tollarp : Ariel, 2006. – Originaltitel: Prawiek i inne czasy Löparna / översättning av Jan Henrik Swahn. – Tollarp : Ariel, 2009. – Originaltitel: Bieguni Styr din plog över de dödas ben : roman / översättning av Jan Henrik Swahn. – Tollarp : Ariel, 2010. – Originaltitel: Prowadź swój pług przez kości umarłych Björnens ögonblick : essäer / översättning av Jan Henrik Swahn. – Tollarp : Ariel, 2014. – Originaltitel: Moment niedźwiedzia Jakobsböckerna eller Den väldiga färden över sju gränser, fem språk och tre stora religioner, de små ej att förglömma : berättad av de döda medelst en av författarinnan utarbetad metod för konjekturer, berikad av ett överdådigt urval böcker, därtill understödd av fantasien, vilken utgör naturens största gåva till mäniskan : för kloka till stöd för minnet, för patrioter till besinning, lekmän till studium, melankoliker till förströelse / översättning av Jan Henrik Swahn. – Tollarp : Ariel, 2015. – Originaltitel: Księgi Jakubowe Spel på många små trummor / översättning av Jan Henrik Swahn. – Tollarp : Ariel, 2018. – Originaltitel: Gra na wielu bębenkach Film and TV Podróże Olgi T. = Travels of Olga T. / scenariusz i reżyseria Ewa Pytka. Gdańsk : Video Studio Gdańsk na zlecenie Programu 2 TVP S.A., 199 Skarb / scenariusz i reżyseria Piotr Mularuk ; pierwowzór Olga Tokarczuk. Telewizja Polska, 2000 Żurek / scenariusz i reżyseria Ryszard Brylski. Na motywach opowiadania “Żurek” Olgi Tokarczuk. Warszawa : Best Film ; Telewizja Polska, 2003. Other titles: White Soup, Zhoorek Pokot / reżyseria Agnieszka Holland, Katarzyna Adamik ; scenariusz Olga Tokarczuk, Agnieszka Holland. Na podstawie Olgi Tokarczuk powieści / Based on: Prowadź swój pług przez kości umarłych. Tor Film Studio, 2017. Other titles: Spoor, Villebråd, Die Spur Further Reading “I believe in the novel : Olga Tokarczuk, interviewed by Robert Kusek and Wojciech Szymański” in Conversations with biographical novelists : truthful fictions across the globe / edited by Michael Lackey. – London : Bloomsbury Academic, 2019 Die Dezentralisierungstendenzen in der polnischen Prosa nach 1989 / vorgelegt von Evelyn Meer. Diss. – Regensburg, Univ., 2006 Eigler, Friederike Ursula, Heimat, space, narrative : toward a transnational approach to flight and expulsion . – Woodbridge : Camden House, 2014 Janachowska-Budych, Marta, Gedächtnismedium Literatur : zur Wirkung der Literatur in der Erinnerungskultur am Beispiel der Werke von Elfriede Jelinek und Olga Tokarczuk = Literatura jako medium pamięci : o oddziaływaniu literatury na kulturę wspominana na przykładzie twórczości Elfriede Jelinek i Olgi Tokarczuk = Literature as memory : literature’s influence on the culture of memory based on the works of Elfriede Jelinek and Olga Tokarczuk . – Poznań : Wydawnictwo Naukowe UAM, 2014 Landschaften und Luftinseln : polnische Erzählungen der Gegenwart / hrsg. von Aleksandra Markiewicz mit zwanzig Autorenporträts. – München : Deutscher Taschenbuch Verlag, 2000 Lütvogt, Dörte, Raum und Zeit in Olga Tokarczuks Roman Prawiek i inne czasy (Ur- und andere Zeiten) . Diss. (2003) – Frankfurt am Main : Peter Lang, 2004 Opowieści wigilijne / Jerzy Pilch, Olga Tokarczuk, Andrzej Stasiuk. Contents: Pastorałka Don Juana / Jerzy Pilch — Profesor Andrews w Warszawie / Olga Tokarczuk — Opowieść wigilijna / Andrzej Stasiuk. – Wałbrzych : Ruta ; Wołowiec : Wydawnictwo Czame, 2000 Światy Olgi Tokarczuk : studia i szkice / pod redakcją Magdaleny Rabizo-Birek, Magdaleny Pocałuń-Dydycz i Adama Bieniasa. – Rzeszów : Wydawnictwo Uniwersytetu Rzeszowskiego : Biblioteka “Frazy”, 2013 Świerkosz, Monika, W przestrzeniach tradycji : proza Izabeli Filipiak i Olgi Tokarczuk w sporach o literaturę, kanon i feminizm . – Warszawa : Instytut Badań Literackich PAN. – Wydawnictwo : Stowarzyszenie Pro Cultura Litteraria, 2014 1989 : dix nouvelles pour traverser les murs / Didier Daeninckx, Heinrich Böll, Olga Tokarczuk…[et. al.] ; illustrations de Henning Wagenbreth ; sous la direction de Michael Reynolds. – Paris : le Sorbier, 2009 To cite this section MLA style: Biobibliography. NobelPrize.org. Nobel Prize Outreach 2025. Wed. 30 Apr 2025. <https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/literature/2018/bio-bibliography/> Back to top Back To Top Takes users back to the top of the page Nobel Prizes and laureates Nobel Prizes 2024 Six prizes were awarded for achievements that have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind. The 12 laureates' work and discoveries range from proteins' structures and machine learning to fighting for a world free of nuclear weapons. See them all presented here. Explore prizes and laureates Look for popular awards and laureates in different fields, and discover the history of the Nobel Prize. Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Decrease the year by one - Choose a year you would like to search in Increase the year by one + Explore About the Nobel Prize organisation The Nobel Foundation Tasked with a mission to manage Alfred Nobel's fortune and has ultimate responsibility for fulfilling the intentions of Nobel's will. The prize-awarding institutions For more than a century, these academic institutions have worked independently to select Nobel Prize laureates. Outreach organisations Several outreach organisations and activities have been developed to inspire generations and disseminate knowledge about the Nobel Prize. Press Contact FAQ Privacy policy Terms of use For developers Media player Careers Join us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Nobel Prize Copyright © Nobel Prize Outreach 2025 Scroll to top