What Makes a Trillion-Dollar Company? How To Find The Next Amazon, Google, Apple, or Microsoft? | by Busulwa John Ivan | Startup Stash Open in app Sign up Sign in Write Sign up Sign in Startup Stash · Follow publication We share entrepreneurial stories, insights, and ideas in order to help your startup grow Follow publication What Makes a Trillion-Dollar Company? How To Find The Next Amazon, Google, Apple, or Microsoft? Busulwa John Ivan Follow 8 min read · Jan 22, 2024 -- Listen Share An illustration of people walking outside wall street. Image generated using Bing image creator. One key thing about venture capital is that it’s about finding the next big thing, a company or invention that will create the most value thereby getting the highest valuation and maximizing returns for investors whether private or public. At the time of this article, Amazon, Apple, Nvidia, Microsoft, and Google are some of the most valuable companies, each above a trillion dollars. But this isn’t something to easily spot, more so when a company is just a startup. It has taken decades for those companies to reach that valuation. The important question is how then can we identify the next trillion dollar company? While it's not as easy as it sounds, I have noticed a pattern among companies that are likely to grow probably to a trillion dollars. It's what I will be sharing in this article. Though there's a combination of many other factors that contribute to the success of such companies, in this article I will be focusing entirely on the product. Lesson 1: Great companies build the foundation for the next generation of technology One key feature you'll note about all these companies is they avoided direct competition with the incumbents at the time by entirely playing a different script from what the market at the time played. And this has been key in all great companies. For Microsoft to dislodge IBM, it didn't have to manufacture computers but an operating system that run those computers. And when Google later on dislodged Microsoft it didn't have to have an operating system for computers but simply run an operating system for phones which was at the time a computer for the next generation a gateway. Lesson 2: Great companies, focus on niche markets but those with potential have a wide Total Addressable Market in a decade. A startup usually stands no chance at all going into direct competition with the incumbent unless it has a lot of cash to burn in a bottomless pit. By playing a different field game to the incumbents, a startup is able to buy time, make mistakes and refine it's product while the incumbents are still locked in the “Innovator's dilemma. ”You might be asking, how then is one able to identify these niche markets before the incumbents do? Well the best way to do so is to focus on a small but rapidly growing market. So small not to attract the attention of big players, but rapidly growing to be a considerably big sector in 10 years. Going back to our example; Microsoft when they launched Windows, computers were majorly used by businesses but the PCs market though small was rapidly growing and could widely increase the Total Addressable Market. Google too, on the acquisition of android operating system at the time when the first smartphone was even produced, Amazon started ecommerce at the time when players like Walmart enjoyed great revenues from physical stores and the idea of ecommerce wasn't viable at all Now that you have great technology, niche market, what next? The next step usually is that great companies now start to build defensibility. As the market continues to emerge and grow, it will attract the attention of all major players, most of whom will have deeper pockets. The only way to survive is by building defensibility around your product. This can be in different forms but the basis of it is ensuring customers are locked into your ecosystem through ensuring seamless integration of products or high switching costs. Most times when you are in a niche, you have to build a number of other products to make the experience more useful to customers and in so doing, you lock them into the system, nowadays commonly referred to as “Retention” Lesson 3: Great companies build complementary products to their core products which increase its utility and protect its market position long-term To increase the utility of Windows, Microsoft developed applications like Word for word processing, Excel for spreadsheets, PowerPoint for presentations among others. In so doing, they not only increased the utility of Windows but also their applications became the world started hence made a lot of money from licensing software. Similarly for Apple, launching the iPhone wasn’t enough, but it had to come with 15 original apps all developed by Apple such as Safari, Photos, Stocks among others. Lastly for Google, being a search engine alone couldn't guarantee its market position, it went on to launch several products like Chrome, Android, Youtube among others that have built a moat around it's core business. Apple founder & former CEO at the launch of the original iphone 29th June 2007. Image Credit 9to5Mac.com However, unlike other Google and Microsoft whose core products until recently were software products. Apple from the onset had capabilities to build both software and hardware. This actually made Apple become more defensible, enabling it to enjoy higher gross margins than the other two companies. This capability has enabled Apple to have full control of its ecosystem enabling it to develop products that utilize the full capabilities of both the software and hardware. Ever wondered why a 15MP camera on iPhone 15 Pro Max takes better photos than an android phone with 30 MP+ front camera? Well that’s the reason. It's until recently that Microsoft and Google have woken up to this and are launching Surface Product lines and Pixel devices respectively in a bid to try and replicate the success Apple is enjoying. What are my trillion dollar companies of the future? If you have reached this far, there's a chance you must be wondering what the next trillion dollar company is likely to be. In my view, I believe these 3 companies are poised to become the next trillion dollar companies. Coinbase Besides the frenzy around crypto majorly because of the rising bitcoin prices. I believe Coinbase has positioned itself as a market leader in crypto assets management and transactions. Having started in 2012 as a platform for buying and selling bitcoins through bank transfers, the company now boosts a range of product lines under its individuals, businesses and developers segments. As of 2022. the company 98 million users worldwide and 9 million Monthly Active Users. Crypto is just in its early stages, many are yet to adopt it but there are increasing rates of adoption. Though growing, it’s still unattractive to many traditional banking institutions primarily because of the "Innovator's Dilemma” and also the highly regulated banking sector. But as all this happens, Coinbase is building an infrastructure that will power the next wave of finance as we know it. And by the time crypto becomes mainstream, it will most likely be playing catch up. Keep in mind that that 1.4 billion adults still remain unbanked, according to this report by the world bank Lastly in a sector defined by scams and fraud -at least from a common man's view, Coinbase continues to establish itself as a credible trading platform while its competitors like the defunct FTX and Binance whose former CEO has pleaded guilty to money-laundering violations. In addition , is lobbying the public and politicians to regulate crypto. I won't go deep into how important this is, but the legendary investor explained it in this presentation at the All-In Summit here , where he discussed Regulatory Capture and how it plays to advantage incumbent players appearing at the All-In Summit. To sum it up, if banks don’t wake up now, in a decade they will be playing by the rules designed by their main competitor, Coinbase. Coinbase's market cap is $36.8 B at the time of writing this article 2. Humane With the recent launch of the flagship AI-pin. I'm excited about how the startup is taking bold moves to redefine how we know the smartphone. History bears me witness that again and again, portability coupled efficiency are key things that have defined invention in hardware devices. Take a look at the original iphone, it was portable, and you could accomplish a lot more with it compared to what an ordinary phone could do at the time. To-date during product launches, you’ll hear companies over state the size and efficiency of their devices as the northstar of innovator The AI-pin is in its early days but it's an amazing product. What will excite me more is seeing how the great team at Humane builds an ecosystem of products and services that not only retains users but also enhances the capabilities beyond what a normal smartphone can offer. I also believe a key to success of companies like Humane and Rabbit is how they react to when big tech companies build wearables i.e Galaxy watch, Pixel watch or Apple watch with same kind of capabilities as the Humane AI pin Humane has a private valuation estimated between $400-600M at the time of this article according to various sources. 3. Tesla This is a no-brainer, everyone sees Tesla on that part to a trillion dollar valuation. Besides its engineering poweress, Tesla is doing akin to what Apple did in its early stages as I noted earlier -having control over both software and hardware. Unlike a smartphone, it isn’t too easy to change a car. Therefore, Tesla by nature enjoys more customer retention among car manufacturers. Remember the network effects we talked about? Tesla also enjoys those through its fast charging stations which is the largest in the world. In fact, GM and Ford EVs are soon gaining access to Tesla’s charging stations The software aspect in Tesla enables drivers to enjoy the latest features hence reducing the depreciation value of Tesla cars. Tesla is highly valued yet the EV market is just still in its nascent stage. According to Virta Global , there will be a total of 26 million EVs in 2022. Though many manufacturers are now alive to the rapidly growing demand for EVs. Tesla is clearly enjoying economies of scale as competitors are playing catch up. I strongly believe Tesla is a potential candidate for the 2 Trillion dollar club within the next 10 years or less. Lastly, Tesla advanced autonomous and self-driving technology not only puts it ahead of its competitors but also is an entry point for Tesla to enjoy the ride-hailing market that is currently enjoyed by Uber and Lyft -if it so wishes. This is because, with self-driving, driver costs are eliminated which significantly lowers prices. This will make ride-hailing an expensive venture for incumbents if they don’t adopt self-driving technology and deploy it at scale. At the time of this article, Tesla is valued at $744B. Building a trillion-dollar company takes time, innovation, great teams and consistency over the years. In fact, the average age of Trillion dollar companies (Microsoft, Amazon, Google, Apple, Nvidia) is approximately 34 years and the youngest to ever cross the One Trillion mark was Facebook around 2021 at 17 years. For additional tools and resource ➡️ Visit StartupStash Zendesk is giving $75,000 in credits and perks for startups! ➡️ Apply Now! Startup Stock Market Venture Capital Growth Investing -- -- Follow Published in Startup Stash 6.2K Followers · Last published 1 day ago We share entrepreneurial stories, insights, and ideas in order to help your startup grow Follow Follow Written by Busulwa John Ivan 23 Followers · 13 Following LLB(Hons) Makerere University. At the intersection of Law, Tech, Design and Venture Capital Follow No responses yet Help Status About Careers Press Blog Privacy Rules Terms Text to speech