Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/NintendoSwitch A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to NintendoSwitch r/NintendoSwitch r/NintendoSwitch The central hub for all news, updates, rumors, and topics relating to the Nintendo Switch & Nintendo Switch 2. We are a fan-run community, not an official Nintendo forum. Members Online • Asad_Farooqui Thoughts on Animal Crossing New Horizons, 3 years later? Discussion On March 20, 2020, one of the most anticipated AAA titles of the generation finally released… oh and Animal Crossing came out that same day too I think. Bad jokes aside, New Horizons was a real lightning-in-a-bottle moment for the Nintendo Switch. In a time when everyone was miserable and stuck in their homes all day, New Horizons came out at just the perfect moment to help people cope with not being able to go outside and socialize for the foreseeable future. And me personally… I just watched it unfold from the sidelines. I’m not an Animal Crossing guy, mainly due to the shenanigans with the real time clock. It’s just not the kind of life sim for me given my IRL schedule. I mainly stuck to Xenoblade Definitive Edition and Fire Emblem Three Houses for my pandemic coping sessions. But I have heard Animal Crossing fans complain about several key things in this game. Namely the durability on your tools, bland villager dialogue, cumbersome menuing, and limited online options. This game was also a victim of the “free updates” model that Nintendo loves doing with their multiplayer games. Wherein they put out a new entry for full price that’s considered half-baked compared to previous installments, and hope players keep playing long enough to download the free content updates whenever Nintendo decides to finally put them out. Remember Froggy Chairs? Nintendo eventually did. Thankfully the free updates, infrequent as they were, did apparently add enough substantial content back into the game to satisfy longtime fans. All of this culminated in the Happy Home Paradise DLC in October 2021, which is also available for NSO Expansion Pack subscribers as well. I’m sure this was a magical game for a whole lot of people, and no one should take those memories away from you. But now that the world has returned to some semblance of normalcy, I thought it’d be a good time to look back at this game a bit more critically. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 20, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics