Angelique Kerber beats Serena Williams to win Wimbledon - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Athletics Cycling More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Olympic Sports Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Winter Sports Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Tennis Scores & Schedule Calendar Angelique Kerber beats Serena Williams to win Wimbledon Published 14 July 2018 comments 858 Comments Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Media caption, Wimbledon 2018: Kerber beats Williams to win first Wimbledon title By Sonia Oxley BBC Sport at Wimbledon Wimbledon 2018 on the BBC Venue: All England Club, Wimbledon Dates: 2-15 July Coverage: Watch live on BBC TV, BBC iPlayer, BBC Red Button, Connected TVs and the BBC Sport website and app; Live Radio 5 live and 5 live sports extra commentary; Text commentary online. Angelique Kerber beat seven-time champion Serena Williams to win her first Wimbledon title and spoil the American's dream comeback as a mum. The German 11th seed, 30, beat the 23-time Grand Slam champion 6-3 6-3 to add this title to her 2016 Australian Open and US Open crowns. Williams had been the favourite despite it being only her fourth tournament since giving birth in September. Kerber dropped to the grass when a netted service return gave her victory. "It is a dream come true," said Kerber, who is the first German woman to win the title since Steffi Graf in 1996. "I know I had to play my best tennis against a champion like Serena. Serena is a great person and a great champion and she is a great inspiration for all of us." Williams said she had been happy to simply get to the final so soon into her comeback, adding: "It is obviously a disappointment but I can't be disappointed. I'm literally getting started. "To the other mums out there I was playing for you today and I tried. But Angelique played really well. I look forward to continuing to be out there and do what I do best." I'm still contender at Slams - Williams Relive Kerber's victory over Williams Djokovic beats Nadal to reach final Live scores, schedule and results Kerber's gameplan pays off Image source, AFP Image caption, The start to the women's final was delayed by the conclusion of the men's semi-final between Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal Kerber, known for her defensive style, came to the match with a more attacking plan in mind - keep the point going and exploit Williams' lack of mobility around the court. And it paid off handsomely with the 36-year-old's dashes to the net ending in errors half of the 24 times she came forward. The German former world number one showed her intent in the first game, breaking the Williams serve that forms the backbone of her game. Williams broke back to level at 2-2 before Kerber re-established the advantage in the seventh game when the American hit long, and she took the set when Williams sent a backhand into the net. Kerber stuck with her tactics in the second set, breaking in the sixth, and the sight of Williams falling to the ground in frustration when she missed a straightforward lob for 30-0 when Kerber was serving for the match summed up her day. The German struck a forehand winner to bring up championship point and sealed the victory on the next point when Williams could only return a serve into the net. Overcome by the magnitude of what she had achieved against a player who beat her in the 2016 Wimbledon final, Kerber collapsed on to the ground and covered her eyes, while Williams came over to her side of the net to share a warm embrace. Williams' dreams dashed Image source, AFP Image caption, Williams had been seeking to become just the fourth mother to win a Grand Slam title in the Open era Williams, like Kerber, had dropped just one set on her way to the final but she had also faced only one player ranked in the top 50 here before Saturday's showpiece. Despite her world ranking of 181 and special seeding of 25, she has been favourite for the title, with pundits and players pointing to the potent combination of her intimidating aura - created by titles, fitness and mental strength - and the fact that her power game is perfectly suited to the fast surface of grass. However, Kerber did not let her play that game with Williams managing just four aces and hitting 24 unforced errors as the German bided her time and capitalised on the fact her opponent was not quite back to her best 10 months after giving birth to her daughter. Williams, in fact, hit more than twice as many winners as the German (23-11) but was let down by some rash forehands and below-par net play in front of a packed Centre Court, where her friend the Duchess of Sussex was watching from the Royal Box. It means her bid for a record-equalling 24th Grand Slam title must wait until next month's US Open at least. This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Media caption, Wimbledon 2018: Watch an emotional Serena Williams react to final defeat Analysis Billie Jean King, six-time Wimbledon champion on BBC TV: "After that very first game, you could see Kerber thinking 'woah, this is great, good start'. You could see it in her body language, she really settled in. "Kerber was so consistent. Keeps getting one, two, three, four balls back, and when Serena's not had that match play... "Serena could never get any rhythm, if you can keep her out there long enough, keep the rallies long, and see how fit she is... she looked a bit like she was sucking it up, out of breath a few times. Kerber always gets that one more ball back." Martina Navratilova, nine-time Wimbledon singles champion on BBC TV: "More balls came back, Kerber returned Serena's serve well. Serena didn't get the payoff from her ground strokes, tried to hit harder and made more errors. "She came to the net more often which she doesn't do a lot. "Kerber has a shot at being world number one. She will get so much confidence from this win, so you have to look at her as one of the favourites. The year is so young." Alerts: Get tennis news sent to your phone More on this story I'm still contender at Slams - Williams Published 14 July 2018 How to follow Wimbledon 2018 on BBC TV, radio & online Published 11 July 2018 Related internet links Wimbledon The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser View comments | 858 Top stories Live . ' 4219 viewing 4.2k viewing Live . World Snooker Championship 2025: Wakelin frame from beating Allen; Williams and Vafaei level 11020 viewing 11k viewing URC: Glasgow Warriors v Bulls & Zebre v Edinburgh - live text Elsewhere on the BBC On the frontline with the London Ambulance Service Go behind the scenes of the Time Lord's adventures Your first look at the final series of Man Like Mobeen Gary Lineker reflects on 25 years of Match of the Day Elsewhere in Sport FA Cup or Champions League qualification - which means more? 'My father thinks I'm a disgrace' - Eubank reveals pain 'A very unique character' - Vardy will 'never be forgotten' by Foxes 'Mum's record in mind' - McColgan ready for marathon debut Keeping up with the Woollastons - snooker's family affair How to follow FA Cup semi-finals on the BBC 'They're still in it' - how Arsenal can beat Lyon to reach final 'Once a fool to become an expert' - Yee set for marathon debut Adam Wharton on sibling rivalry, Pep's praise and England. Video Adam Wharton on sibling rivalry, Pep's praise and England An inner drive mistaken for laziness: The makings of Van Dijk London Marathon 2025 - everything you need to know Returning O'Sullivan feared Crucible 'meltdown' Five matches that made Ben Youngs Will Verstappen modify his driving after penalty? The 2030 Solheim Cup needs a host - is it England's time? 'It must be amazing to get a standing ovation from the Man Utd fans' Video 'It must be amazing to get a standing ovation from the Man Utd fans' Eubank v Benn - all you need to know I felt BBC wanted me to leave Match of the Day, says Lineker England's 'selection headaches' for Grand Slam decider Snooker World Championship guide: Draw, seeds & coverage Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.