The Last of Us Season 2, Episode 3 — Release Time, Date, Plot, How to Watch | Us Weekly Celebrity News Entertainment Star Style Lifestyle Shopping Royals Games Shorts Reality TV Open menu button Celebrity News Trending Exclusives Love Lives Breakups Scandals Hot Pics Stars Are Just Like Us View All Entertainment TV Movies Music Sports Reality TV Country Music View All Star Style Fashion Beauty Hair View All Lifestyle Parenting Pets Food Real Estate Wellness View All Shopping Deals Fashion Beauty Wellness Home Gift Guides View All Games Crosswords Word Search Jigsaw Quizzes View All Royals Prince William Kate Middleton Prince Harry Meghan Markle King Charles View All Photos Videos Shorts Reality TV Us Weekly en ESPAÑOL Newsletters Digital Edition Subscribe Subscription Services Cancel Subscription Got a Tip for Us? Facebook Instagram Twitter TikTok YouTube Subscribe Search Language English Español Entertainment ‘The Last of Us’ Season 2, Episode 3 — Release Time, Date, Plot, Cast and How to Watch By Blair Marnell April 27, 2025 TOP STORIES Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Bella Ramsey in The Last of Us season 2. HBO Us Weekly Shorts Fans who played The Last of Us Part II video game knew this moment was coming. But it arrived much faster than expected in The Last of Us season 2, episode 2. Joel ( Pedro Pascal ) did some terrible things to protect Ellie ( Bella Ramsey ) in season 1, and he paid the price when Abby ( Kaitlyn Dever ) caught up with them five years later. Now, the stage is set for an epic revenge story that begins to take shape in the aftermath of multiple tragedies in Jackson. To help you stay up to date with HBO and Max’s hit series, Watch With Us is sharing everything you need to know about The Last of Us season 2, episode 3. Related: Fans React to That Shocking 'Last of Us' Season 2 Death The Last of Us fans are collectively mourning after a major death in the latest episode. Warning: Spoilers ahead for The Last of Us season 2, episode 2, which aired Sunday, April 20, on HBO. During Sunday’s episode of the hit horror drama, lead character Joel Miller, played by Pedro Pascal, was shockingly killed off […] Isabela Merced in The Last of Us season 2. HBO When Will ‘The Last of Us’ Season 2, Episode 3 Air? The Last of Us season 2, episode 2 will stream and air on Sunday, April 27 at 6pm PST/9pm EST . New episodes of The Last of Us season 2 will continue to air weekly through Sunday, May 25. Where Is ‘The Last of Us’ Season 2 Streaming? The Last of Us season 2, episodes 1 and 2 are streaming on Max . The entire first season is also available to watch. Will There Be a ‘The Last of Us’ Season 3? The series has already been renewed for season 3 . Can You Watch ‘The Last of Us’ Season 2 for Free? Yes. Max may not offer free trials of its own, but it does have a deal in place with DoorDash that can be very enticing. DoorDash offers free access to Max with ads for anyone who signs up for its annual DashPass membership . But if you want Max’s ad-free tier, DoorDash charges an additional fee. What Happened in ‘The Last of Us’ Season 2, Episode 2? In a way, it was Abby’s lucky day. She survived inadvertently awakening a horde of infected and stumbled upon Joel and Dina (Isabela Merced) while they were on patrol. Then Abby successfully lured them to the mansion where she and her friends were waiting. While the horde descended upon Jackson and broke through the walls protecting the town, Abby revealed that she is the daughter of the doctor that Joel killed to save Ellie. She then proceeded to brutally beat him before Ellie showed up. While Ellie was helpless to prevent Abby from fatally stabbing Joel, she vowed to avenge her surrogate father’s death. What’s Going to Happen in ‘The Last of Us’ Season 2, Episode 3? In the immediate aftermath, Ellie and the people who loved Joel will have a chance to grieve and bury his body. But there won’t be a respite for very long, because Ellie isn’t willing to wait to get payback. First, she’ll have to find Abby and her crew, and that proves to be more difficult than she initially thought. Related: 12 Must-See Shows on HBO and Max Right Now (April 2025) What are the best shows on HBO and Max right now? That’s a hard question to answer since there are so many candidates that could be considered “the best.” Hacks season 4 just debuted, and it’s already promising to be its best yet. Then there’s The Pitt, a new show from the key creators behind […] Is There a Trailer for ‘The Last of Us’ Season 2, Episode 3? Yes, and it fills in some of the gaps of how Ellie will search for Abby. Although Dina was knocked out during Joel’s murder, she knows critical intel about Abby and her friends and, more importantly, where they can be found. Thank You! You have successfully subscribed. Subscribe to newsletters Please enter a valid email. Subscribe By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive emails from Us Weekly Deal of the Day Score The Canvas Sneakers Reviewers Say Are ‘Super Cute and Comfy’ Now for 30% off! View Deal Check our latest news in Google News Follow Us Check our latest news in Apple News Follow Us How Many Episodes Are There in ‘The Last of Us’ Season 2? There are seven episodes in The Last of Us season 2. Who’s Joining the Cast of  ‘The Last of Us’ Season 2? In addition to Kaitlyn Dever as Abby, Isabela Merced as Dina and Jeffery Wright as Isaac Dixon, Young Mazino is joining the cast as Dina’s ex, Jesse. Catherine O’Hara is playing Gail, who serves as Joel’s therapist in Jackson. While Gail’s husband, Eugene, was only briefly seen in the game, Joe Pantoliano will play that character on the show. Gabriel Luna is reprising his season 1 role as Joel’s younger brother, Tommy. Related: 'The Last of Us' Season 2, Episode 2 — Release Time, Date, Plot, Cast and How to Watch If the season 2 premiere of The Last of Us felt relatively subdued, that’s because it was the calm before the storm. Joel (Pedro Pascal) and Ellie (Bella Ramsey) have had five years to live in peace, but their good times are about to end. The Last of Us season 2 is adapting The Last […] Just For You 1 Year Later, Golden Bachelor's Theresa Breaks Silence on Gerry Moving On Travis Kelce Reportedly Unfollows Ryan Reynolds on Instagram Stephanie Arcila Breaks Her Silence About Controversial 'Fire Country' Exit Dave Portnoy and More React to Bill Belichick's 'Awkward' CBS Interview Gene Hackman’s Final Autopsy Reveals ‘Prolonged Level of Fasting’: Report In this article The Last of Us Youtube News News Podcasts Play Crosswords Now Thank You! You have successfully subscribed. Subscribe to newsletters Please enter a valid email. Subscribe By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive emails from Us Weekly More Stories Youtube News News Podcasts Play Crosswords Now Thank You! You have successfully subscribed. Subscribe to newsletters Please enter a valid email. Subscribe By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive emails from Us Weekly Close Button for "Got a Tip" Form Thanks for the tip! Got a tip for US? We're All Ears for Celebrity Buzz! Please enter a name. Please enter a valid email. Please enter a phone number. Please enter a message. Send the Tip! Us Weekly has affiliate partnerships so we may receive compensation for some links to products and services. Us Weekly About Us Us Weekly Masthead Got a Tip for Us? Newsletter Signup Media Kit Sitemap Connect with Us Weekly Facebook Instagram X Twitter TikTok Apple News Google News Connect with Us Weekly Facebook Instagram X Twitter WhatsApp Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Preferences Your Privacy Choices Cookie Policy Ad Choices Accessibility Statement US Weekly Magazine Digital Access Subscribe Give A Gift Special Issues Subscriber Services Cancel Subscription Advertise Sign up for breaking celebrity and entertainment news! Thank You! You have successfully subscribed. Subscribe to newsletters Please enter a valid email. Subscribe By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive emails from Us Weekly Us Weekly is part of Part of the a360media Entertainment Group. © a360media 2025 Powered by WordPress VIP Cancel OK ✕ Your account Account Purchase Favorite News Subscriptions Subs Address Digital Library Sign Out Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Sign In Need an account? Sign up now! Email Password Forgot password? Sign In By clicking Sign In, you agree to our Terms and Conditions and that you have read our Privacy Policy . Sign In Up with your social account Continue with Google Continue with Amazon Continue with Apple We won't post to any of your accounts Sign Up Create a free account to access exclusive content, play games, solve puzzles, test your pop-culture knowledge and receive special offers. Already have an account? Login Name Email Password Confirm Password Your password must include: Min 8 characters Min 1 lowercase character Min 1 uppercase character Min 1 number Sign Up I agree to the terms of the Terms and Conditions , the Privacy Policy and receive emails from US Weekly Sign In Up with your social account Continue with Google Continue with Amazon Continue with Apple We won't post to any of your accounts Forgot your password? Enter your email to receive activation code. Reset Password * Please note that this form cannot be used to reset your Google or Facebook password. Visit Google or Facebook to do that. Reset your password An email has been sent to with a recovery code. Please enter it below: Proceed Resend code Enter new password Enter new password Confirm Password Your password must include: Min 8 characters Min 1 lowercase character Min 1 uppercase character Min 1 number Submit Or get back to the Sign In