'Cyberpunk 2077' is delayed again, this time to December 10th Engadget Login News AI Apps Computing Entertainment Mobile Science Social media Space Streaming Transportation Reviews Smartphones Laptops and PCs Gaming Headphones Wearables Audio gear Photography Tablets Home Buying guides Best VPNs Best laptops Best headphones Best smart home Best gaming Best health and fitness Best accessories Best lifestyle tech Nintendo Switch 2 Nintendo Switch 2 pre-orders Nintendo Switch 2 Direct announcements Gaming Nintendo PC gaming PlayStation Xbox Playdate Big tech Amazon Apple Google Meta Microsoft Samsung Elon Musk Deals Apple deals Deals under $50 Entertainment TV and movies Music Streaming YouTube Science Space Robotics Cybersecurity VPN More Guides Best streaming services Best wireless earbuds Best laptops Best power banks Best robot vacuums Best Mint alternatives Sections News Reviews Buying guides Nintendo Switch 2 Gaming Big tech Deals Entertainment Science Cybersecurity More Guides Login Advertisement Amazon denies planning tariff pricing... How to watch Meta LlamaCon 2025 Switch 2 pre-orders live, backordered AirPods 4 drop back to record low of... Read full article 'Cyberpunk 2077' is delayed again, this time to December 10th CD Projekt Red says it needs another three weeks to work on the game. igor bonifacic Senior reporter Tue, Oct 27, 2020, 10:39 AM · 1 min read 0 CD Projekt Red CD Projekt Red has delayed Cyberpunk 2077 once again. The studio has moved the game’s release date by 21 days, from November 19th to December 10th. The delay affects all versions of the title. “Most likely, there are many emotions and questions in your heads, so, first and foremost, please accept our humble apologies,” the studio said on Twitter . CD Projekt says the delay is due to the challenge of launching the title on what amounts to nine different platforms while everyone on the team works from home. “Since Cyberpunk 2077 evolved towards almost being a next-gen title somewhere along the way, we need to make sure everything works well and every version runs smoothly,” the studio said. We have important news to share with you pic.twitter.com/qZUaD6IwmM — Cyberpunk 2077 (@CyberpunkGame) October 27, 2020 When Cyberpunk 2077 finally comes out, you’ll be able to play the game on both current- and next-generation consoles , as well as PC and Stadia . All told, this is the third time CD Projekt has delayed its latest open-world RPG. The title was initially slated to come out on April 16th, 2020 . In January, CD Projekt Red pushed the game back to September 17th . In June, it then delayed the title to November 19th , and now we have this delay. While the new date might be frustrating for those who want to play it, the news is worse for the studio’s employees. According to a recent Bloomberg report , CD Projekt Red recently mandated the Cyberpunk 2077 team work mandatory six-day weeks to push the title out. Latest Stories Engadget LlamaCon 2025 live: Updates from Meta's first generative AI developer conference keynote Meta's LlamaCon developer conference will stream live on Facebook and feature a chat between Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella. Engadget EA reportedly cancels another Titanfall game, lays off several hundred employees The publisher is reportedly cutting between 300 and 400 positions at Respawn. Engadget Russian regulators are trying to seize assets related to World of Tanks The Russian government is coming after the developers of World of Tanks because of their support of Ukraine. Engadget OpenAI rolls back update that made ChatGPT an ass-kissing weirdo OpenAI is rolling back a recent update to GPT-4o following complaints from users that it made the chat bot act strangely. Engadget Firefox finally adds tab groups The feature arrives four years after Chrome, Safari and Edge’s versions. Engadget Meta has a plan to bring AI to WhatsApp chats without breaking privacy Meta  shared that it’s working on something called “Private Processing,” which will allow users to take advantage of generative AI capabilities within WhatsApp without eroding its privacy features. Engadget Nintendo Switch 2 pre-orders: Latest updates as console remains sold out at GameStop, Walmart, Target, Best Buy and others The new console will officially be available on June 5. Engadget New Star Wars series will premiere in Fortnite of all places The new Star Wars series Tales of the Underworld will premiere on Fortnite on May 2. This is two days before the show will appear on Disney+. Engadget Speedrunner reaches Breath of the Wild credits on Switch 2, a console which isn't even out yet Japanese content creator Ikaboze made quick work of Ganon at a preview event in Tokyo. Engadget Meta is making it easier to use Llama models for app development Meta has begun previewing a tool developers can use to fine-tune and evaluate their Llama-powered applications. Engadget Meta’s ChatGPT competitor includes conversational voice chat and a social feed It can learn from data you share from Facebook and Instagram. Engadget How to use your iPhone as a webcam with your Mac A comprehensive, step-by-step guide on using your iPhone as the webcam for your Mac or MacBook. Engadget Researchers secretly experimented on Reddit users with AI-generated comments Researchers ran an unsanctioned experiment using AI in Reddit's r/changemyview that its mioderators are calling "psychological manipulation." Engadget The best tech gifts for new moms A digital photo frame is not your only option. Engadget Borderlands 4 release date moves up to September 12 A State of Play showcase focused on Borderlands 4 will stream on April 30. Engadget Amazon denies report that it plans to show tariff impacts on its prices The White House called the debunked plan 'a hostile and political act by Amazon.' Engadget Samsung's 512GB Pro Plus microSD card hits an all-time low of $30 Samsung’s well-regarded Pro Plus microSD card is on sale via Amazon. The 512GB version is just $30, which is a record low price. Engadget Yelp will use AI to help restaurants answer calls and make phone reservations The system will also filter spam, respond to queries and put individuals on a waitlist. Engadget WhatsApp is reportedly bringing voice and video calls to browsers Users would be able to make calls on their computers without downloading an app. Engadget Amazon deploys the first Project Kuiper internet satellites Amazon has finally launched its first batch of Project Kuiper internet satellites. More Stories About Engadget Masthead About our Ads Advertise Licensing FAQ RSS Feed Sections Reviews Gear Gaming Entertainment Tomorrow Buying Guides Video Podcasts Deals Contribute Comment Guidelines Support Buying Guides Best laptop The best iPad Best Bluetooth speaker Best E Ink tablets Best wireless earbuds Best power banks Best gaming handhelds Subscribe to our newsletter: The Morning After - A twice-weekly dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter Subscribe By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget's Terms and Privacy Policy . Follow Us © 2025 Yahoo. All rights reserved. About Us Reprints and Permissions Terms and Privacy Policy Privacy Dashboard Trademarks Advertise About Our Ads