Review: “Pretty Woman” is a Retro Crowd Pleaser – indulge Skip to content indulge MAGAZINE Main navigation Menu Home Entertainment Travel & Lifestyle Food & Drink Calendar indulgemagazine2016 June 21, 2022 Entertainment Review: “Pretty Woman” is a Retro Crowd Pleaser Adam Pascal and Olivia Valli in "Pretty Woman: The Musical." Photo: Matthew Murphy for MurphyMade The classic smash hit starring Julia Roberts and Richard Gere about a jaded capitalist who falls in love with a hooker was turned into a musical with a book by the film’s original director, Garry Marshall (who died in 2016) and screenwriter, J.F. Lawton, and songs by 80’s pop star, Bryan Adams and Jim Vallance. Fans of the movie will delight in the faithful adaptation that uses the movie as a blueprint upon which a robust dose of singing and dancing have been injected to deliver a nostalgic guilty pleasure. The witty dialogue? It’s there. The red dress? There. The jewelry clap-shut of the jewelry box? There. And then some… Jessica Crouch and Olivia Valli. Photo: Matthew Murphy for MurphyMade. “An indisputable retro crowd-pleaser with not a dull moment, and the ebullient reaction of the audiences, willing to toss their exacting yardstick for a little bit of good fun, is proof of that.” Pretty Woman: The Musical is certainly no Hamilton, or any of the number of now-classic musicals that continue to elevate the genre to near-mythical status; but it’s an indisputable retro crowd-pleaser with not a dull moment, and the ebullient reaction of the audiences, willing to toss their exacting yardstick for a little bit of good fun, is proof of that. Mitchell’s choreography is effervescent and often comically inspired; the songs by Adams and Vallance have an appropriately catchy ’80s feel with such winners as “On A Night Like Tonight” and “Something About Her.” Costumes by Gregg Barnes, and lighting by Kenneth Posner and Philip S. Rosenberg infused with the era’s highly-saturated color palette. Kyle Taylor Parker. Photo: Matthew Murphy for MurphyMade. Olivia Valli (granddaughter of the legendary Four Seasons singer, Frankie Valli) as Vivian, and Adam Pascal as Edward Lewis more than competently fill the shoes of Roberts and Gere. But it’s Jessica Crouch as Vivian’s bestie, Kit De Luca with her formidable vocal chops, and Kyle Taylor Parker and the company that often steal the show. — G. Dhalla Pretty Woman: The Musical plays at the Dolby Theater through July 3rd. Tickets HERE. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Tumblr Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest More Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Like Loading... Related Posted in Entertainment and tagged 80's , broadway , broadway in hollywood , bryan adams , dolby theater , garry marshall , gregg barnes , Hollywood , j.f. lawton , jessica crouch , jim vallance , julia roberts , kenneth posner , kyle taylor parker , philip s. rosenberg , playbill , pretty woman , pretty woman the musical , richard gere , romantic comedy , theater , theater review . Bookmark the permalink . i There are no comments Add yours Leave a comment Cancel reply Δ Search for: Recent Posts Review: “Furlough’s Paradise” -a Quiet Triumph of Intimacy, Memory, and Liberation April 26, 2025 Writer’s Block: Split Tongues, Singular Voice – Samina Ali on Memory, Language, and Survival April 15, 2025 Precious Cargo: Best of Books April 10, 2025 Hotel del Coronado: A Gilded Revival on the California Coast March 13, 2025 Review: LA Opera’s “Così Fan Tutte” Shimmers in Jazz Age Decadence March 12, 2025 Proudly powered by WordPress Footer navigation About Contact Advertise Secondary navigation Twitter Facebook Google+ GitHub Website Powered by WordPress.com . Search Post navigation TRAVEL INTEL: U.S. Lifts COVID Testing Requirements, Ritz Carlton Cruises, and More… Review: “Dear Evan Hansen” Search for: Begin typing your search above and press return to search. Press Esc to cancel. Comment Reblog Subscribe Subscribed indulge Join 84 other subscribers Sign me up Already have a WordPress.com account? Log in now. indulge Subscribe Subscribed Sign up Log in Copy shortlink Report this content View post in Reader Manage subscriptions Collapse this bar Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website %d