Colonial preschool teacher named Delaware's 2020 Teacher of the Year News Sports Life First State Favorites Advertise Obituaries eNewspaper Legals NEWS Colonial preschool teacher named state Teacher of the Year Natalia Alamdari The News Journal Rebecca Louise Vitelli, a preschool teacher in Colonial School District, was named this year's state Teacher of the Year on Tuesday night. Vitelli is a preschool special education teacher at the district's Colwyck Center, where she works with students with autism and different health and cognitive needs. She strives to be inclusive in her teaching and believes that every student has the drive and ability to learn. A graduate of the University of Delaware, she has been teaching for four years and has her Master's of Education. Vitelli was selected out of a group of 20 teachers, one from each district as well as a charter school representative. The candidates were nominated by districts and charter schools during the last school year because of their teaching ability and dedication to students. LAST YEAR'S WINNER: Meet Delaware's 2019 Teacher of the Year To be considered, each teacher submitted an application diving into their teaching philosophy, and was also observed by a former Teacher of the Year and state department staff member. The nominees also submitted recorded presentations. The winner will receive a $5,000 grant for classroom use as well as a $3,000 personal grant. All nominees receive a $2,000 grant from the state. Here are all of this year's nominees: Staff Directory Corrections Careers Accessibility Support Sitemap Legals Our Ethical Principles USA TODAY Network Style Guide Responsible Disclosure Subscription Terms & Conditions Advertiser Acceptance Policy Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Contact Us Support Local Businesses Advertise Your Business Promote your Event Buy and Sell Licensing & Reprints Help Center Subscriber Guide Manage Account Give Feedback Subscribe Today Newsletters Mobile Apps Facebook X eNewspaper Archives Jobs Cars Homes Wilmington Classifieds Dover Classifieds Education 10BEST Shopping LocaliQ Digital Marketing Solutions © 2025 www.delawareonline.com. All rights reserved.