Tim Cook: Apple CEO's Strengths, Reputation, and FAQs Skip to content News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Live Search Search Please fill out this field. Search Search Please fill out this field. News News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Follow Us Table of Contents Expand Table of Contents Tim Cook's Strengths How He's Described FAQs The Bottom Line Business Leaders CEOs Tim Cook: Apple CEO's Strengths, Reputation, and FAQs By The Investopedia Team Full Bio Investopedia contributors come from a range of backgrounds, and over 25 years there have been thousands of expert writers and editors who have contributed. Learn about our editorial policies Updated June 19, 2024 Reviewed by Khadija Khartit Reviewed by Khadija Khartit Full Bio Khadija Khartit is a strategy, investment, and funding expert, and an educator of fintech and strategic finance in top universities. She has been an investor, entrepreneur, and advisor for more than 25 years. She is a FINRA Series 7, 63, and 66 license holder. Learn about our Financial Review Board Fact checked by Kirsten Rohrs Schmitt Close Tim Cook took over the role of chief executive officer (CEO) at Apple ( AAPL ) in August 2011. He has a managerial style that could be broadly defined as democratic. Rather than stand in complete contrast to the company's former CEO Steve Jobs , Cook appears to have adopted some of the legendary entrepreneur's existing practices and developed a uniquely blended leadership mantra. Keep reading to learn more about the executive and his legacy. Key Takeaways Tim Cook is the CEO of Apple, assuming the role from Steve Jobs in 2011. His managerial style is considered democratic, which is a sharp contrast to Jobs's autocratic style. Cook fosters cooperation among Apple's talent and encourages consensus-building among high-level employees. Despite the lack of a market-changing product like the iPod or iPhone, Cook continues to run Apple as a successful company. Tim Cook's Strengths Many people were concerned that Tim Cook lacked the bold visionary style of Jobs. But since taking over the reins, Cook demonstrated strengths of his own. He's often described as charismatic and thoughtful by Apple employees. His tenure is characterized by a greater focus on existing products, as well as the fostering of business and employee relationships. Instead of simply continuing the legacy of Jobs's autocratic leadership style, Cook played to his strengths and emphasized increased cooperation among the company's arsenal of talent. This is extremely indicative of his democratic style of management, which encourages consensus building—particularly among high-level employees before mutually consented decision-making. Fast Fact Apple became the first company to reach a $1 trillion market capitalization and the first company to hit a $3 trillion market cap under Tim Cook's leadership. The role of the hands-on participation of the CEO in developing Apple products significantly reduced since Cook took over in 2011. The iWatch is an example of this shift in structure as Cook chose to be less involved in the details of product engineering. Instead, he delegated those duties to members of his executive cabinet. His notably subtle managerial style of leadership enhanced industry and employee goodwill. When compared to Jobs's brusque and often dictatorial manner, Cook's style has also resulted in slower decision-making and a clear loss of innovative drive. Cook, who is commonly characterized as mild-mannered, is capable of inspiring the best work in his team members. Harvard Business Review classified these types of leaders as “multipliers,” leaders who can actually make employees smarter, more innovative, and more competent via their leadership style. How Employees Describe Tim Cook as a Manager Employees have described how Cook uses constant questioning to keep employees sharp. Greg Joswiak, Apple's senior vice president of worldwide marketing, tells Cook biographer Leander Kahney, “He’s just very calm, steady, but will slice you up with questions. You better know your stuff." Kahney writes that this technique is effective at keeping employees motivated and inspiring innovation. This technique helps Cook get the best out of his employees by ensuring that they adequately understand the problems the company is facing and that they’re keeping their knowledge up-to-date. Cook’s gentle interrogations empower other leaders within the organization to find and implement their own solutions because they never know when Cook will drop by with a round of questioning—and they know that if they don’t have an answer to a question, future interrogations will be longer. Important Tim Cook had experience running Apple during Steve Jobs's absences due to sickness before he took over as CEO in 2011. Shift From Innovation First In a blatant shift from Jobs's innovation-first approach, Cook asserts that one "can only do a few things great." However, Tim Cook can make tough decisions. Ultimately, his focus on the existing strengths of the organization, the importance given to accord between senior executives, and the lack of micromanagement indicates a democratic managerial style. Who Is the Richest Person at Apple? Tim Cook is the richest person at Apple. In 2021, Cook received almost $100 million in compensation at Apple. This was a large bump compared to the $14.8 million he had earned the prior year. The executive's compensation dropped by 40% between 2022 and 2023, earning him $49 million. What Is Apple's Management Style? Apple's management style is very different under CEO Tim Cook than it was under founder Steve Jobs. While Jobs managed through an autocratic style, overseeing every aspect of the company, Cook allows high-ranking employees to manage their divisions themselves. He focuses on a democratic style focused on cooperation. Additionally, Jobs was focused on innovation, whereas Cook believes a company can only do a few things great, so he focuses on what Apple had as opposed to continuously innovating. Is Tim Cook a Good Manager? Tim Cook is considered to be a good manager. He has continued Apple's successes after Steve Jobs, even without the release of new, innovative products. The company has continued to be one of the most successful companies in history and under Tim Cook's watch, the company has hit historical landmarks, such as becoming the first company to reach a $1 trillion market cap. Why Did Steve Jobs Pick Tim Cook as His Replacement? Steve Jobs knew Tim Cook for a very long time, they had worked together and been friends for over a decade before Jobs passed away. Jobs trusted Cook's personality and managerial style to lead Apple after his death. The Bottom Line Steve Jobs made Apple what it is today. He was an autocratic leader involved in every aspect of the firm, pushing innovation as the core tenet of the company. In contrast, Tim Cook has a democratic style focused on cooperation and encouragement. Despite the lack of any real innovative products under his tenure, he has managed to run Apple as a successful company. Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. Reuters. " Insight—At Apple, Tim Cook Leads a Quiet Cultural Revolution ." CNBC. " Tim Cook Has Had a Stellar Run at Apple—Even Without Another Mega-Smash Like the iPhone ." CNBC. " Apple Becomes First U.S. Company to Reach $3 trillion Market Cap ." The New York Times. " Tim Cook, Making Apple His Own ." Harvard Business Review. " Managing Yourself: Bringing Out the Best in Your People ." Business Insider. " Here's the Management Tactic Apple CEO Tim Cook Uses to Keep Employees on Their Toes ." Bloomberg Businessweek. " Tim Cook's Freshman: The Apple CEO Speaks ." (Login required.) Barron's. " Apple's Tim Cook Made $100 Million. He's a Far Cry From Being the Wealthiest CEO ." Statista. " Annual compensation of Apple CEO Tim Cook in the United States from 2020 to 2023 ." Open a New Bank Account Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Partner Links Related Articles Top Women CEOs Meet the Highest Paid CEOs: Who’s Earning the Most? Who Is Jordan Belfort, the Wolf of Wall Street? Warren Buffett’s 2025 Portfolio: What Stocks He’s Betting Big On Right Now 10 Successful Young Entrepreneurs Valuing Startup Ventures The One Trait Warren Buffett's Mentor Says Almost Always Leads Investors to Financial Disaster Steve Jobs and the Apple Story The 10 Richest People in the World Who Is Jamie Dimon? Who Is Jack Welch? How Does a Change in CEO Impact Stock Price? Entrepreneurs and Entrepreneurship: Definitions and Examples Who Is Larry Ellison? Servant Leadership: Characteristics, Pros and Cons, Example Would You Pass Warren Buffett's Hamburger Quiz? About Us Terms of Service Dictionary Editorial Policy Advertise News Privacy Policy Contact Us Careers Your Privacy Choices # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Investopedia is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies