Pretty Woman: The Musical at the Dolby Theatre | Broadway in Hollywood — Keshia Sih About Contact Blog Back All Entertainment Fashion Lifestyle Travel About Contact Blog All Entertainment Fashion Lifestyle Travel Pretty Woman: The Musical | Broadway in Hollywood OUTFIT DETAILS Top: Amazon | Skirt: Amazon | Jacket: Gap | Boots: Amazon | Hat: Forever 21 | Earrings: Forever 21 | Bag: Chanel JavaScript is currently disabled in this browser. Reactivate it to view this content. I love trying to coordinate my outfits based on the events that I attend, and Pretty Woman: The Musical was no different. It has been a while since I’ve seen the movie, but nonetheless, I was excited to see this show. As I was doing some research on what to wear ahead of time, I was pleasantly surprised to learn that Adam Pascal (the OG Roger from Rent ) was performing as Edward Lewis! I wanted to wear a Vivian Ward outfit that was iconic, and I already had some pieces in my closet to put together a look inspired by the dress she wears when she first meets Edward Lewis. I had Kevin wear something similar to Edward’s first outfit as well, and bless him for wearing a full on suit in the thick of the heat wave we’ve been experiencing in LA recently. I think our outfits turned out pretty good if I do say so, myself! Before we get into my thoughts on the show, I want to start off with a PSA that if you’re going to talk or text during the show, please go outside to do it or don’t come to the show at all! I cannot believe how rude so many audience members were being this evening. During Act 1, someone was texting during the show, and a group of people kept giggling at just about everything (even during the parts that were supposed to be serious). After saying something to one of the ushers, we moved seats during intermission, and during Act 2, the new people in front of us also kept talking throughout the show that I had to shush them. It’s extremely disrespectful to the performers and the audience members who paid to see the show (not to mention, super distracting). Please, have some respect for the theatre! Now that that’s out of the way, let’s get into what you’re all here for - my thoughts on the show! Let’s also state the obvious that the story has not aged well. Looking past that, I wouldn’t say Pretty Woman: The Musical made its way to my list of favorite musicals, but it doesn’t matter because I had a great time! It was cheesy and cute in all the best ways, and some of the music felt like an homage to 90s rock music which I was here for. The casting was phenomenal - Olivia Valli , who plays Vivian Ward, reminded me so much of Julia Roberts and makes singing look easy - her voice is perfection! Adam Pascal was a dream to meet and see live, and I’m still thinking about his solos because the grit in his rocker voice just put me in my feels. He is a true Broadway legend in my book! Jessica Crouch , who plays Kit De Luca, brought the house down with her vocals! Thank you for blessing us with your performance. And shout out to the rest of the cast because I haven’t had this much fun at a musical in a long time - thanks for bringing the party to Hollywood! After the show, we waited by the stage door and got to meet Adam Pascal, Jonathan Ritter (who understudied for Happy Man - he was such a delight to watch too!), and Olivia Valli. Everyone was so gracious and kind with their time, and I have to say, it was nice getting to hang out by the stage door again just like old times. It’s been so long, I forgot to bring my Sharpie! We even bumped into our friends Felicia and Oscar who were coincidentally also at the show that night. We had a great time and loved being able to catch up for a bit afterwards. Pretty Woman: The Musical is playing at the Dolby Theatre now through 7/3. Make sure to grab your tickets at broadwayinhollywood.com ! xo, Keshia entertainment Keshia Sih-Tseng June 25, 2022 broadway in hollywood , dolby theatre , pretty woman , pretty woman the musical , julia roberts , richard gere , adam pascal , olivia valli , jonathan ritter , stage door , 90s , nostalgia , musical , musical review , musical theatre , theatre , live theatre , broadway , vivian ward , edward lewis , entertainment , things to do , things to do in la , things to do in los angeles , things to do in hollywood Comment Facebook 0 Twitter LinkedIn 0 Reddit Tumblr Pinterest 0 0 Likes Previous The Perfect Staycation at Marina Del Rey Hotel travel Keshia Sih-Tseng June 26, 2022 hotel, hotel review, marina del rey, los angeles, staycation, marina del rey hotel, hosted, pacifica hotels, salt restaurant Next Baz Luhrmann's Elvis | Spoiler-Free Movie Review entertainment Keshia Sih-Tseng June 22, 2022 elvis, elvis presley, austin butler, baz luhrmann, movie review, spoiler free, los angeles, screenx, cgv cinemas, koreatown, things to do, things to do in la, things to do in los angeles About Contact Search Terms & Conditions © 2024 KESHIA SIH ✿ ALL RIGHTS RESERVED