Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/marvelstudios A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to marvelstudios r/marvelstudios r/marvelstudios This subreddit is dedicated to discussing Marvel Studios' films and series and anything else related to the MCU. Members Online • [deleted] Development History: The Uncredited Writers of The Avengers Behind the Scenes Zak Penn; Joss Whedon; Kevin Feige; Zack Whedon; Drew Goddard; Kai Cole; Jed Whedon; and Maurissa Tancharoen. Every person named here was a large part of crafting the story and screenplay of The Avengers . And yet, only one seems to ever get credit, Joss. The truth is, all of these people deserve to be appreciated in regards to Avengers ' development, and in some respects, some may even be key reasons that Age of Ultron 's story and script are considered weaker. Let's start from the top. Zak Penn Now, Zak Penn IS credited in the film, with a "Story By" credit. He just rarely gets brought up online in terms of praise. Penn has been attached to an Avengers film ever since 2003, after his work on X2: X-Men United. He was a part of Feige's inner circle during the initial development of the MCU, and wrote the first draft of the script for The Incredible Hulk . In 2007, he began working on the script for The Avengers , and continued to work on it until around 2010. It was under Penn that the story was mostly based around the original Avengers story, featuring Loki as the main villain (Though Red Skull and even Thanos were considered). Early drafts had Thor and Loki introduced in this film, with Thor set to have a film after. That changed when still under Penn's tenure . By 2009 though, Marvel began looking for a director who could also rework the script. Now let's address something real quick. Zak Penn is not a good screenwriter. Penn has never been the primary contributor to any successful screenplay in his life. He's usually been more of an ideas guy, great with structure and concepts and bad with character and dialogue. Sometimes he'll rewrite some stuff okay, but screenplays that mostly belong to him are usually not very good. It's his contributions that brought X-Men: The Last Stand down for example. While The Incredible Hulk is not what I want to talk about here, it is something I'll address. Both Marvel and Leterrier, when he was hired as director, were disappointed with Penn's script. In fact, they basically said there was no script, at least not one worth filming. When Norton was approached as actor (Ironically in place of Leterrier's original choice, Mark Ruffalo), Norton concurred with Leterrier about the lack of a good script and the darker direction they both wanted to go, and refused to join the film without a better script. With only two months left until filming started, Marvel couldn't hire a new writer alone . With Norton being an acclaimed writer too, they hired him to both star in AND rewrite the film, changing the tone and removing connection to Ang Lee's Hulk . Structure, locations, and even two scenes taken from Penn's 90s Hulk scripts (Hulk falling from the helicopter, and Bruce and Betty's almost sex scene), were set in stone. But character and dialogue were redeveloped by Norton, including on-set rewrites . Ironically, while Norton's rewriting of Penn's material got to stay, much of the material Norton and Leterrier came up with originally was cut, including the film's opening and much of the character development and pathos of the film. As a result of much of Norton's ideas being removed from the film in the much publicized turmoil between Norton and Leterrier's interests and Marvel's own, and the tribalism of Hollywood cliques (Including a bias amongst writers against actors who also write), the WGA gave Penn sole screenplay credit. In the end the film was criticized heavily for the lack of, well, everything Norton wanted more of: Character development and pathos. One of the harshest of such critics? Joss Whedon. Enter Joss Whedon Whedon was in talks to direct The Avengers in early 2010. Like Norton on The Incredible Hulk , he was also in talks to do an extensive rewrite of Penn's script, which Whedon deemed, well, awful. He found it, surprise surprise, lacking in character and having cheesy moments that weren't earned . Whedon went home, and wrote a five-page treatment for the film subtitled Some Assembly Required . It was the basis of a brand new script, not a rewrite, not even bound to the same structural restrictions that Norton had been on The Incredible Hulk . Eventually he developed a script from that. Going by Joss' words over the years, you'd swear that was the end of it. Penn's draft was entirely scrapped, the WGA only gave him any credit at all because Whedon has "bad luck" with them, and all credit belongs to Joss, right? Well... Penn/Feige Dilemma Whedon did not develop the story from scratch as he sometimes likes to portray. Whedon was handed guidelines by Marvel that he acknowledged were essentially the basic act structure and villain : Act 1: Getting the Avengers all into the story Act 2: Conflict between the heroes Act 3: Invasion of New York Villain: Loki Whedon has tried to pass these off as loose guidelines , but considering how much the WGA places emphasis on story and structure over the actual details, whoever came up with that does deserve credit. The question is, are all of these elements outlining Penn's original script, or is the only thing from Penn the usage of Loki. If its the latter, then Whedon's trouble with the WGA is warranted, the simple choice of villain doesn't necessitate story credit. At least it shouldn't. And Feige/Marvel should've been the ones offered credit for this, which they probably wouldn't have taken. But if this structure is Penn's, that causes Whedon's attempts to have total "Written By" credit with nothing for Penn come off as highly egotistical. After all, Edward Norton, the supposedly pretentious and arrogant one, never tried to remove Penn from the film. He simply wanted to share screenplay credit, story would've always gone to Penn. Whedon tried to get Penn's name taken off entirely, and if the film is still structurally Penn, that would reflect on Whedon. That's not even bringing up the ways the final film uses the storyline of the original 60s Avengers origin almost note-for-note in some ways (Loki seeking vengeance upon Thor and Earth, the Avengers being assembled to stop him, Hulk being used as a pawn by Loki, etc etc.). But the comic book is counted in the "Based On" credit, so that's fine. Surely this is the end of the controversy, with Penn's credit being either deserved or not, but Whedon is still the only real person behind the final film's finer details and script, right? Wrong, ironically, by his own admission in 2012 before his later statements seemed to take credit entirely to himself. Other Story Contributors By Whedon's own admission on his blog in 2012, during the initial success of The Avengers , he credited several other people, many of whom he never mentioned again in later statements. In terms of developing the story, Joss noted his brother Zack Whedon, his Cabin in the Woods compadre and creator of Marvel Television's Daredevil Drew Goddard, and his ex-wife Kai Cole . It's important to note that none of these people worked on Age of Ultron . Zack and Drew were both heavily busy during that time, and Ultron came primarily from Joss' own mind, even lacking the same guidelines that The Avengers did. And as for Kai Cole? Well shortly after The Avengers they separated due to Joss being just... the absolute worst husband . Now, that's not to say any of these people deserve credit over Joss or on the same level. Zack and Kai's work in film often compliments other people's work, and not much else. Goddard is probably the most likely figure in this trio who might be an actual key reason for differences between Avengers and Ultron . Goddard has a more sincere, sensibility to him than Whedon who is more concerned with making serious points out of self-awareness and self-parody in some cases. The fact that it just so happens that Avengers is more sincere than Ultron is not one that can be ruled out as being perhaps indicative of Drew's tenure on the film. However, I would argue that it's more likely that a lot of that sincerity and character development, which had been sorely lacking in Ultron , was actually the result of the people who, uncredited, rewrote Joss' script before and during filming and improved/fixed several elements of it. Agents of FILM In the same blog post, Joss specifically noted punch-ups to the film's script done by Jed Whedon and Maurissa Tancharoen . As many of you know, these are the brilliant minds behind Agents of SHIELD , who took the show to its heights well after Joss took a rather uninvolved role with the show Post-S1. Jed Whedon in particular wrote and directed the Season 4 episode "Self Control", one of the crowning masterworks of Marvel Television's tenure on MCU (Or MCU-adjacent if you'd prefer that terminology) shows. Joss noted Jed and Maurissa even heavily contributed to the Carrier Battle, one of Avengers' most iconic and tense sequences, balancing comedy and intensity near perfectly . The fact that we have Jed and Maurissa to thank for that speaks volumes. The fact that Agents of SHIELD improved massively after Joss mostly left, and that Age of Ultron was a step down from The Avengers after Jed and Maurissa had no involvement with Ultron , is perhaps the clearest indication to me of the simple conclusion: Joss Whedon is not solely deserving of credit for the witty, engaging, excellent script of the first Avengers film. Does That Mean Joss Whedon is a HACK who STOLE Credit? NO . Of course it doesn't. Joss Whedon is a disgusting human being, but NOT for any reasons discussed here aside from his treatment of Kai Cole . Even his potentially egotistical attempt to take credit from Penn isn't necessarily indicative of personal failings as much as it is indicative of perhaps a simple overblown passion. Contrary to what implication I might've been building to, I do not seek to strip Joss of credit. He still deserves the primary credit for the film. He was the one who crafted many of the character moments we love to this day. He developed the solid flow and pace of the story. And he did set the tone. The Avengers , even with the Jed and Maurissa punch-ups, still feels more like Serenity than it does Post-Joss Agents of SHIELD . It is still, at its core, a Joss Whedon screenplay. Just one with the rough spots filled in and improved by others. It's also worth noting that, while I think Joss' ideas were part of what let Ultron down, Marvel (Both Entertainment AND Studios in some ways) was also a big part of its lesser quality. While Whedon certainly had the primary final say over Ultron 's script in ways he didn't with this film, he did not have the same say over the production itself, and lord knows how much Marvel film's can change during and after principal photography. The goal of this post is not to claim Avengers was good and Ultron wasn't as good because of some anti-Joss conspiracy. It's merely to state there are people, notably Jed and Maurissa and possibly Drew Goddard, who should also be thanked and kept in mind when discussing what made The Avengers so special, and that their absence was probably ONE of the reasons Ultron didn't shape up to its predecessor. So next time you talk about Avengers ' great script and about Joss' writing, shout out his extended family too. Next time you mention its solid structure, give Zak Penn a little credit. And the next time you watch that Carrier Sequence, remember to think of the people who helped bring it up to the level it is now. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 9, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics