OpenAI Company - Artificial Intelligence AI - Research Guides at SUNY College of Environmental Science & Forestry Skip to Main Content Moon Library Research Guides Artificial Intelligence AI OpenAI Company Search this Guide Search Artificial Intelligence AI: OpenAI Company This guide created by Jane Verostek, Associate Librarian at SUNY ESF reviews current AI Artificial Intelligent trends - specifically ChatGPT and how the use of AI software affects  research and information literacy. AI Defined Chatbots - ChatGPT OpenAI Company Evaluating AI Tools Current AI Generators and Options Online Discussions by Faculty - Academia regarding ChatGPT and AI Citing AI Who is Open AI? OpenAI OpenAI is an American artificial intelligence (AI) research laboratory consisting of the non-profit OpenAI Incorporated ( OpenAI Inc. ) and its for-profit subsidiary corporation OpenAI Limited Partnership ( OpenAI LP ). OpenAI conducts AI research with the declared intention of promoting and developing a friendly AI . OpenAI systems run on the fifth most powerful supercomputer in the world. [5] [6] [7] The organization was founded in San Francisco in 2015 by Sam Altman , Reid Hoffman , Jessica Livingston , Elon Musk , Ilya Sutskever , Peter Thiel and others, [8] [1] [9] who collectively pledged US$1 billion. Musk resigned from the board in 2018 but remained a donor. Microsoft provided OpenAI LP with a $1 billion investment in 2019 and a second multi-year investment in January 2023, reported to be $10 billion. [10] ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenAI ) OpenAI Official site - https://openai.com OpenAI's YouTube page https://www.youtube.com/@OpenAI/videos OpenAI ChatGPT FAQ ChatGPT General FAQ h ttps://help.openai.com/en/articles/6783457-chatgpt-general-faq Commonly asked questions about ChatGPT, How much does it cost to use ChatGPT? The research preview of ChatGPT is free to use. How does ChatGPT work? ChatGPT is fine-tuned from GPT-3.5, a language model trained to produce text. ChatGPT was optimized for dialogue by using Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) – a method that uses human demonstrations and preference comparisons to guide the model toward desired behavior. Why does the AI seem so real and lifelike? These models were trained on vast amounts of data from the internet written by humans, including conversations, so the responses it provides may sound human-like. It is important to keep in mind that this is a direct result of the system's design (i.e. maximizing the similarity between outputs and the dataset the models were trained on) and that such outputs may be inaccurate, untruthful, and otherwise misleading at times. Can I trust that the AI is telling me the truth? ChatGPT is not connected to the internet, and it can occasionally produce incorrect answers. It has limited knowledge of world and events after 2021 and may also occasionally produce harmful instructions or biased content. We'd recommend checking whether responses from the model are accurate or not. If you find an answer is incorrect, please provide that feedback by using the "Thumbs Down" button. Who can view my conversations? As part of our commitment to safe and responsible AI, we review conversations to improve our systems and to ensure the content complies with our policies and safety requirements. Will you use my conversations for training? Yes. Your conversations may be reviewed by our AI trainers to improve our systems. Can you delete my data? Yes, please follow the data deletion process . Can you delete specific prompts? No, we are not able to delete specific prompts from your history. Please don't share any sensitive information in your conversations. Can I see my history of threads? How can I save a conversation I’ve had? Yes, you can now view and continue your past conversations. Where do you save my personal and conversation data? For more information on how we handle data, please see our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use . How can I implement this? Is there any implementation guide for this? Developers can now integrate ChatGPT into their applications and products through our API. Users can expect continuous model improvements and the option to choose dedicated capacity for deeper control over the models. To learn more, please check out the documentation here . Do I need a new account if I already have a Labs or Playground account? If you have an existing account at labs.openai.com or beta.openai.com , then you can login directly at chat.openai.com using the same login information. If you don't have an account, you'll need to sign-up for a new account at chat.openai.com . Why did ChatGPT give me an answer that’s not related to my question? ChatGPT will occasionally make up facts or “hallucinate” outputs. If you find an answer is unrelated, please provide that feedback by using the "Thumbs Down" button Can I use output from ChatGPT for commercial uses? Subject to the Content Policy and Terms , you own the output you create with ChatGPT, including the right to reprint, sell, and merchandise – regardless of whether output was generated through a free or paid plan. OpenAI CEO Sam Altman | AI for the Next Era Sep 21, 2022 Greylock general partner Reid Hoffman interviews OpenAI CEO Sam Altman. The AI research and deployment company's primary mission is to develop and promote AI technology that benefits humanity. Founded in 2015, the company has most recently been noted for its generative transformer model GPT - 3, which uses deep learning to produce human-like text, and its image-creation platform DALL-E. This interview took place during Greylock’s Intelligent Future event, a day-long summit featuring experts and entrepreneurs from some of today’s leading artificial intelligence organizations. OpenAI CEO, CTO on risks and how AI will reshape society Mar 17, 2023 OpenAI CEO Sam Altman tells ABC News’ Rebecca Jarvis that AI will reshape society and acknowledges the risks: “I think people should be happy that we are a little bit scared of this.” Sam Altman (Open AI): The Future of AI Research from DALL·E to GPT-3 Jul 19, 2021 Sam Altman, Co-Founder, and CEO of Open AI joins Scale AI CEO Alexandr Wang in a fireside chat during Transform 2021 Conference. The two discuss Open AI’s latest research from DALLE to GPT-3 and discuss AI research broadly. << Previous: Chatbots - ChatGPT Next: Evaluating AI Tools >> Last Updated: Mar 25, 2024 10:19 PM URL: https://libguides.esf.edu/AI Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem.