2010 FIFA World Cup: Why Fernando Torres Is Playing Like an Englishman Bleacher Report World Football Home Scores Teams Transfer Rumors Premier League Champions League La Liga Serie A MLS B/R Sports on Max 01:30 Featured Video UCL Semifinals are Here 🤩 World Football 2010 FIFA World Cup: Why Fernando Torres Is Playing Like an Englishman Neal Collins Jun 7, 2018 So  that’s why Fernando Torres is playing like an Englishman in South Africa. His  not-so-secret agent thinks he’s James bloody Bond. The rumoured £70m move from Liverpool to Chelsea appears to be under discussion DURING the World  Cup. The  soon-to-be ex-darling of Anfield has produced a series of performances here  which nearly defy belief. As Spain prepare to take on Germany in Durban on  Wednesday for a place in the World Cup final, he must reflect on five games  without the merest sniff of a goal. Torres  and his new haircut have lasted a total of 268 minutes so far as frustrated boss  Vincente Del Bosche offers him the cushion time and again, preferring to rely on  Barcelona-bound David Villa. The  comparisons with Wayne Rooney are fascinating. Roon, so off form for England that it was embarrassing, managed six shots on goal in four games. Torres has achieved  that many in five. Rooney hit six on target, Torres just two. Villa? He’s had 23  shots, 14 on target, and scored five goals including the quarter-final winner  against Paraguay, after Torres had resumed his usual role on the bench. The  general diagnosis of Samsonitis can now be dismissed. Cutting those flowing  blond locks has nothing to do with his sudden loss of virility as Spain battled  their way through to the last four at this World  Cup. Instead,  we learn that his agent, Jose Antonio Martin, has been negotiating a move away  from Liverpool, while his client should be focused on helping his nation to an  historic global triumph. After their shock opening loss against Switzerland, the  European Champions have fought back manfully, with talismanic Torres relegated  to the role of onlooker. Today,  Martin finally admitted: “We are working on Fernando’s future. It is very likely  he will stay in the Premier League, but I cannot say that it will be with  Liverpool. You cannot guarantee that he will stay at Anfield.” If you look  carefully between the lines of this statement, you may just make out the words:  “Please, Mr. Abramovich, I’ve been begging since May. Spend your rubles on my  client and give me ten percent.” It’s  no surprise, of course. Liverpool suffered their worst season since the Beatles  had long hair last season. They finished seventh in the Premier League, crashed  out of the Champions League in the group stages and were generally laughable  rather than lethal. With  those two charming Americans, Hicks and Gillette, squabbling over a price for the  historic footballing jewel they picked up on the cheap, European conqueror Rafa  Benitez has departed, pulling out what's left of his hair. Roy  Hodgson, though he is hardly the new Bill Shankly, has been asked to pick up the  pieces, presumably on a tight budget given their reported debt of £472.5  million. That’s what he did best at Fulham. Hodgson’s previous attempts at  bigger clubs (Inter Milan and Blackburn) have hardly  sparkled. Given  the need for profit rather than pride, Yossi Benayoun has already left for  Chelsea, Torres will join him if owner Roman Abramovich can afford it. Javier  Mascherano and Albert Riera are in the shop window too. And then there are all  those desperately denied rumours about Stevie Gerrard needing to flee the city.  Tough times. Of  course, Liverpool fans will be outraged. At the crux of their winter of woe,  Torres hobbled off for a second bout of ankle surgery, ensuring he was fit and  fresh for the World Cup campaign. As  the spotlight turns full glare on the 26-year-old Atletico Madrid product, he  says: “Hopefully, Mr. Del Bosque is happy. And the team too. It is a difficult  tournament for me. “I  didn't arrive in the best moment in terms of fitness, especially after two  operations but I'm happy with the things I am doing. Everyone has to try to give  a bit to the team to get the best." Despite  his appalling form for Spain, the locals are insisting on a move to Barcelona.  But special agent Martin is licensed to kill that rumour. He said: “I can rule that out. Barca  have signed Villa and now they want to invest the money they have in other  players.” With  his agent doubtless on the phone most nights, Torres says in public: “The World  Cup is too important to think about what happens after that. I was happy Roy  Hodgson got the job at Liverpool. He did really well at Fulham. I have a  contract. After the World Cup, I'll have time to talk with  him.” The  Germans must be loving every minute of this particular transfer  saga. Neal  Collins is in South Africa to mourn England’s departure and promote his first  novel. A GAME APART. See www.nealcollins.co.uk  . He will be speaking at the World  Journalism Education Congress in Grahamstown tomorrow morning at  11. TOP NEWS Ranking the 10 Best NFL Free Agents Available After 2025 Draft Bleacher Report 17h WWE NXT Results, Winners, Live Grades, Reaction, Highlights from April 29 Bleacher Report 19m 2025 NBA Mock Draft with Lottery Simulation Sending Cooper Flagg to Eastern Conference Bleacher Report 17h 01:30 UCL Semifinals are Here 🤩 TOP NEWS Ranking Top 10 Free Agents Post-Draft Bleacher Report 17h WWE NXT Results and Grades ✍️ Bleacher Report 19m Latest Projections and Pro Comps ✍️ Bleacher Report 17h Vikings Give All-Pro LB $23M Bleacher Report 4h NFL Draft Picks We Wanted to See 👀 Bleacher Report 17h TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 12h Spurs' Stephon Castle Wins 2024-25 NBA Rookie of the Year over Risacher, Wells Spurs rookie takes home the award after averaging 14.7 PPG Bleacher Report • 1d 2026 NFL Mock Draft: B/R's Way-Too-Early Predictions Eagles land CB Avieon Terrell Bleacher Report • 17h MLB's Biggest Winners and Losers 30 Games Into 2025 Season Dodgers woes open the door for rest of NL West Bleacher Report • 2h Giannis Says Actions of Tyrese Haliburton's Dad 'Unacceptable' After Pacers Beat Bucks Tyrese's father posts message after altercation with Giannis 📲 Bleacher Report • 3h Pacers Stun Fans with OT Comeback as Haliburton Game-Winner Eliminates Giannis, Bucks Bleacher Report About Advertise Contact Us Get Help Careers Sitemap Community Guidelines Privacy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Terms Of Use AdChoices B/R Sports on MAX B/R Creators Program Copyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.