Iniesta: Winning goal in 2010 World Cup final helped save me from depression | Goal.com US SCORES LATEST News and Features News Transfers Opinion Analysis Power Rankings Player Ratings Winners & Losers GOAL USA SOCIAL YouTube Instagram TikTok X Facebook GOAL USA Video The Rondo Give N Go GOAL Global Social YouTube Instagram TikTok X Facebook Culture and Lifestyle GOAL Champions GOAL Editions Culture Kits Boots Buyers' Guides Gaming Quizzes COMPETITIONS Leagues & Cups MLS NWSL Premier League La Liga Serie A Bundesliga Ligue 1 Liga MX UEFA Champions League Championship USL Championship USL Super League 2025 FIFA Club World Cup 2026 FIFA World Cup 2025 Gold Cup TST Clubs Inter Miami Real Madrid Barcelona Manchester City Manchester United Liverpool Arsenal Chelsea AC Milan Juventus PSG Wrexham International USMNT Canada Mexico Argentina Brazil Colombia Chile England Spain France Italy Germany Women's Football Latest news USWNT NWSL USL Super League UWCL WSL PLAYERS Lionel Messi Christian Pulisic Alex Morgan Cristiano Ronaldo Kylian Mbappe Erling Haaland Tim Weah Weston McKennie Sophia Smith Trinity Rodman Folarin Balogun Giovanni Reyna BETTING INDIVISA MUNDIAL STREAMING Schedule, Channels & more TV Schedule Where to Watch Streaming services Sling TV Fubo TV Apple TV+ Paramount+ DirecTV ESPN+ Hulu+ Peacock TV Best VPN Services Best Streaming Services Best Streaming Devices Best Cable Providers GOALSTUDIO Sam France Iniesta: Winning goal in 2010 World Cup final helped save me from depression Spain Barcelona LaLiga World Cup Vissel Kobe J. League The Barcelona and Spain icon says he endured the hardest phase of his life following the death of close friend Dani Jarque in 2009 Andres Iniesta says scoring the winning goal in the 2010 World Cup final helped him recover from depression and move on from the hardest time in his life. Iniesta had suffered terribly following the death of his close friend Dani Jarque in 2009. The former Espanyol midfielder died at the age of just 26 following a heart attack. When the Barcelona icon, now playing in Japan with Vissel Kobe, scored the decisive goal in South Africa, he revealed an undershirt reading “Dani Jarque: siempre con nosotros”, meaning ‘always with us’. Article continues below "Unfortunately, I had to experience several misfortunes in a row, even though I was really successful at the time,” Iniesta told Bild am Sonntag . “But then my friend Dani Jarque died in August 2009, which really put me in such a fragile situation that I needed professional help. "It was certainly the hardest phase of my life. It was very good for me to have the support of Anna, my then girlfriend and current wife, and of course that of my parents.” Iniesta said his goal against the Netherlands was “the beginning of the improvement.” "Fortunately, this phase is a thing of the past,” he added. “A phase that made me stronger and better.” Iniesta has been incredibly honest about his struggles with depression in the past, as well as the early difficulties he faced in adapting to life at Barcelona. As one of the most successful players in Barca’s history – and arguably Spain’s greatest ever – his story is a reminder that mental health issues can affect anybody. "You feel that it's not you, that you don't enjoy things, that the people around you are just people," he once explained to Antena 3 TV . "You have no feelings or passion. You end up feeling empty inside and there is a moment that you realise that you cannot take it anymore. "I had the ability to see that I needed to see someone to get out of that situation. The important thing is that in that period I never lost the spark." As well as the World Cup and two European Championships with Spain, Iniesta won nine La Liga titles and four Champions Leagues at Barca. He has also lifted the Emperor’s Cup and Japanese Super Cup since his emotional exit from Camp Nou in 2018. Advertisement