Project Example Archives - National History Day Shop Donate Find A Local Contest Contest Theme Get Started Contest Rules & Evaluation Find Your Local Contest (Affiliate) National Contest Teacher Resources Classroom Tools Courses Institutes Teaching Research Skills Advising NHD Students News & Events About NHD ® Why NHD Works People of NHD Find Your Local Affiliate 50 Years of NHD Sponsors and Supporters Get Involved Donate Volunteer to Judge Alumni Network Project Example Project Example Get inspired by NHD projects submitted in previous years’ contests. Disclaimer: These projects are presented for illustrative purposes only and serve as an example. It may not adhere to the NHD Contest Rule Book’s latest rules, guidelines, or best practices. Consult the Contest Rule Book for accurate and up-to-date information for each contest category. 20 posts found. Documentary Project Example 4: Wade in the Water: How African Americans Got Back Into the Pool Documentary Project Example 3: “¡Sί Se Puede!” How the United Farm Workers Grape Boycott Broke Barriers for Social Movements Performance Project Example 4: The Northern Dream Performance Project Example 3: “Deeds, Not Words”: How Emmeline Pankhurst Expanded the Frontier of Women’s Rights Exhibit Project Example 4: Window to the Universe: How the Hubble Space Telescope Revolutionized the Study of Astronomy Exhibit Project Example 3: Norman Borlaug and the Green Revolution: a New Frontier in Agriculture Paper Project Example 4: The Founding Fathers of Military Medicine: How Hammond, Letterman, and the U.S. Sanitary Commission Crossed a Medical Frontier through Policy and Organizational Reforms Paper Project Example 3: A “Social Frontier”: Boy Scouts, Progressive Education, and the Turner Thesis Website Project Example 4: Nidoto Nai Yoni, “Let It Not Happen Again”: Navigating Belonging in the Frontier of Japanese American Identity Website Project Example 3: A Geopolitical Frontier: The Aleutian Islands, Home of the Unangax^ People Website Project Example 2: PARC v. Pennsylvania: Pioneering the Right to Education for Children with Cognitive Impairments Website Project Example 1: Communication Through Cartoons Page 1 of 2 1 2 Support the teaching and learning of history Your support of National History Day is an investment in the future donate today Judges needed Judges make the NHD contest possible. See how you can provide students a high-quality educational experience Register as a contest Judge National History Day ® Influencing the future through discovery of the past Contact Job Openings Switch Language English Español 简体中文 العربية Stay Informed Read our newsletter for the latest resources, events, and training. Subscribe Follow us © 2025 National History Day ® 4511 KNOX ROAD, SUITE 205, COLLEGE PARK, MD 20740 | Privacy Policy | Website design by openbox9 We use cookies to analyze how visitors use our website so we can provide the best possible experience. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device. For more information, please view our Privacy Policy. Accept all cookies Accept only necessary cookies modal-check Copy - Support National History Day Demo Description National History Day was recently notified that our grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities were cancelled. This means a loss of more than $336,000 over this year and next. Can you give to help power NHD's important programming for the next two years and beyond? Donate now. Dismiss ad Dismiss ad This will close in 0 seconds