Sabra (person) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History 2 In culture 3 In politics Toggle In politics subsection 3.1 Statehood Generation leaders 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents Sabra (person) 18 languages العربية Беларуская Čeština Cymraeg Deutsch Español Esperanto Français Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Norsk bokmål Polski Português Русский Simple English Suomi Svenska Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia A Jew born in the Land of Israel A prickly pear cactus , which is known in Hebrew as "tzabar" or "sabra" ( צַבָּר ‎ ) In Modern Hebrew , the terms tzabar ( SING ; צַבָּר ) and tzabarim ( PLUR ; צַבָּרִים ) refer to any Jew born in Israel . Derived from the Hebrew name for the prickly pear cactus , which is commonly spelled sabra in English , the words had come into widespread use by the 1930s, when they were used to designate a Jewish person whose place of birth was located within the Land of Israel —corresponding with Ottoman Syria until 1918 ( cf. Old Yishuv ) and with the British Mandate of Palestine until 1948 ( cf. New Yishuv )—though it may have appeared earlier. Sabra is understood to be a term that is used to allude to the collective nature of Israeli Jews : it is a tenacious and thorny desert plant with a thick skin that conceals a sweet and soft interior. This description is the basis for the design of Srulik , a cartoon character that represents the average sabra and thus serves as Israel's national personification . [ 1 ] In 2010, over 70% of Israel's Jewish population was composed of sabras , [ 2 ] with this figure increasing to 75% in 2015 [ 3 ] [ 4 ] and to 80% in 2024. [ 5 ] History [ edit ] A cactus flowerpot with the flag of Israel The term came into widespread use within the Yishuv , or Jewish population of Palestine, in the 1930s. It is thought to have been used as far back as the early 20th century, when it was used to refer to the first generation of native-born Hebrew speaking Jews produced by the Zionist movement, the children of the immigrants of the First Aliyah that began in 1881 in Romania . This generation of natives referred to themselves as " etrogim ." The term "Tzabar" may have been used by immigrants of the Second Aliyah and the Third Aliyah , originally as an insulting term. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] [ 9 ] The changing of the meaning of the term, to emphasize the softer interior rather than the roughness, was done by the journalist Uri Kesari, who himself was a sabra. Kesari published an essay, "We Are the Leaves of the Sabra!", on 18 April 1931 in the newspaper Do'ar HaYom in which he argued against the discrimination which was cast against the native-born by the new immigrants. [ 10 ] [ 11 ] [ 12 ] [ 9 ] The 1931 census of Palestine found that of a recorded Jewish population of 174,610, 73,195 people (42%) were born in Palestine. [ 13 ] According to Israeli sociologist Oz Almog, who studied the sociological development of the term, the first indications of a new culture appeared around the time of World War I , when the children of First Aliyah immigrants were already displaying traditional sabra characteristics. Avshalom Feinberg has been referred to as "the first sabra." In the 1920s this new Hebrew culture was visibly emerging. The term was in widespread use in the 1930s and 1940s, and it increasingly became a term of prestige as the sabra turned into a cultural hero within Israeli culture. [ 9 ] At this time, there was now a large number of native-born Jews in the kibbutzim and moshavim and in urban areas, and as a result, sabra culture blossomed. Almog wrote that "as the Sabra archetype and stereotype took shape, the students at the Hebrew gymnasiums, the young people of the kibbutzim and moshavim, and the members of the youth movements and Palmach began developing a consciousness about their cultural uniqueness. They also produced and honed native status symbols and a peculiarly native Israeli style in language, dress, and collective leisure culture". He claimed that the idea that a new Hebrew nation had arisen was widespread among Tel Aviv youth in the early 1940s. [ 9 ] In November 1948, with the 1948 Arab-Israeli War in its closing stages, Arthur Koestler published an article titled "Israel: the native generation", in which he profiled sabras as compared to Jewish immigrants from Europe and Arab and Muslim nations, who he described as a "lost generation", writing that "In their ensemble these form the lost generation of Israel, a transitory and amorphous mass which as yet lacks the character of a nation. Only in the native youth, born and reared in the country, does the first intimation of the future profile of Israel as a nation begin to outline itself." [ 14 ] Koestler claimed that "In his mental make-up the average young sabra is fearless to the point of recklessness, bold, extroverted, and little inclined towards, if not openly contemptuous of, intellectual pursuits" and that "The sabra's outlook on the world is rather provincial and hyper-chauvinistic. This could hardly be otherwise in a small and exposed pioneer community which had to defend its physical existence and build its State against almost impossible odds. One cannot create a nation without nationalism." [ 15 ] That same month, Israel carried out its first census following independence. The census found that out of a Jewish population of 716,700, approximately 35% were native-born. [ 16 ] [ 17 ] An important influence on the Sabra personality was considered the participation in national youth movements, such as the Hanoar Haoved Vehalomed , Hashomer Hatzair and Hatsofim , followed by the universal participation in military service for both sexes. [ 18 ] The large immigration to Israel of Jews from Muslim countries during the 1950s, the penetration of Western culture and primarily American culture, as well as the social and political changes which were created following the Six-Day War and Yom Kippur War , resulted in a decline of the use of the term after the 1970s. Those who were born in the country after independence in 1948 became known as the "Dor haMedina" ( Hebrew : דור המדינה ), or "Statehood Generation", and have been largely described by cultural commentators as being motivated less by the strident nationalism and/or socialism of the pre-independence generations and more by a general cultural pragmatism and sensitivity to the mass-cultural output of Western powers. [ 19 ] With the establishment of the State of Israel in May 1948, large-scale Jewish immigration ensued from Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa, greatly increasing the Jewish population. As a result, the amount of native-born Jews as a percentage of the population went down from 35% in 1948 to 25% in 1951. As the immigration wave tapered off, the percentage of the native-born Jewish population gradually increased as more children were born, many to immigrants who arrived after independence. The percentage of the Jewish population that was native-born reached 33% in 1956, 38% in 1961, and 40% in 1965. [ 20 ] In culture [ edit ] Srulik in the Israeli museum of cartoons and comics in Holon , Israel The Sabra received an artistic and symbolic representation in the form of the illustrated character " Srulik ", who wears shorts , sandals and a Tembel hat , created by cartoonist Dosh . Another such character is the Israeli children's television character Kishkashta , a talking anthropomorphic cactus; the plant is another symbol of the Sabra. [ 21 ] The English form of the word, Sabra, served Israeli manufacturers who wanted to brand their products as recognisably Israeli products, which are sold in the foreign markets. As a result, " Sabra liqueur " and "Sabra sport", the sports model of the " Sussita ", were created. The world's largest hummus manufacturer as of 2009 is a U.S. company called the Sabra Dipping Company . [ 22 ] In popular culture, an episode of the American Saturday Night Live series contained a sketch entitled "Sabra Price Is Right" featuring Tom Hanks as the guest host. The sketch was written by Robert Smigel and is a parody of Israel-born Jews making bargains with people who believe this show is The Price Is Right . In the sketch, Hanks's character "Uri Shurinson" and the other Sabra are swindling the contestants, conning them into purchasing shoddy products. Products include a Summit clock-radio, a "Pinnacle satellite dish" that's a v-aerial, a cordless phone that's a defective rotary phone, a microwave that's a toaster oven, a CD-player that's a child's bank, and a defective buzzer from the game show itself, for which they guess the price rather than winning them. The sketch concludes with an Arab portrayed by Dana Carvey who bargains in the same manner as the Sabra and in the middle of their argument, they all "disco" as the sketch concludes. [ 23 ] In the 1980s , Marvel Comics created an Israeli superheroine named Sabra / Ruth Bat-Seraph . [ 24 ] The character has fought the Hulk , been an ally of the X-Men , and appeared as a reimagined version in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film Captain America: Brave New World (2025) portrayed by Shira Haas . [ 25 ] In politics [ edit ] This section needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Sabra" person – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( October 2024 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) The first sabra to exercise the powers of the office of the prime minister of Israel was Yigal Allon , who served as acting prime minister from February to March 1969. He was born in Kfar Tavor . [ 26 ] The first sabra to serve as prime minister rather than acting prime minister was Yitzhak Rabin , who first held the office 1974–77, and then again 1992–1995. [ 27 ] Since Rabin first took office, there have been four other sabra prime ministers: the current prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu is the first sabra prime minister to have been born in the modern state after Israel's declaration of independence in 1948. He first took office in 1996, before leaving office in 1999 and returning in 2009. [ 28 ] Ehud Barak , Ariel Sharon , and Ehud Olmert were all born in what is now the territory of the State of Israel during the Mandate period. The first sabra who became President of Israel was Yitzhak Navon , who was born in Jerusalem . The first sabra born after Israel's declaration of independence, who exercised the powers of the office of the president of Israel, was Dalia Itzik . The first sabra born after Israel's declaration of independence, who became President of Israel rather than acting president, is the incumbent Isaac Herzog . He is the first son of a former Israeli president to become president. Statehood Generation leaders [ edit ] In addition to Netanyahu being the first of the Statehood Generation to serve as prime minister, Avraham Burg , speaker of the Knesset from 1999–2003, was the first Speaker to have been born in the modern state since 1948. The first of the Statehood Generation to serve as acting president, was Dalia Itzik and to serve as the actual president is Isaac Herzog. Naftali Bennett and Yair Lapid , former prime ministers, were also born in the modern state. See also [ edit ] Sabra (character) Culture of Israel Israeli Jews Kibbutz Moshav Muscular Judaism Negation of the Diaspora Srulik References [ edit ] ^ "Hard on the outside, soft on the inside, and extinct?" . Israel Hayom . November 12, 2013. ^ "Israel at 62: Population of 7,587,000 - Israel News, Ynetnews" . Ynet.co.il. 2010-04-18. ^ "8,345,000 people living in Israel" . Ynetnews . 22 April 2015. ^ Israel's Independence Day 2019 (PDF) (Report). Israel Central Bureau of Statistics. 6 May 2019 . Retrieved 7 May 2019 . ^ Israel's Independence Day 2024 (PDF) (Report). Israel Central Bureau of Statistics . Retrieved 9 May 2024 . ^ Tzabar Balashon - Hebrew Language Detective ^ Rosenthal, Ruvik: Dictionary of Slang (Hebrew) ^ "JewishPost.com - The Myth of the Israeli Sabra" . ^ a b c d Almog, Oz . 2000. The Sabra the creation of the new Jew. The S. Mark Taper Foundation imprint in Jewish studies. Berkeley: University of California Press ^ Tzabar Balashon - Hebrew Language Detective ^ Rosenthal, Ruvik: Dictionary of Slang (Hebrew) ^ "JewishPost.com - The Myth of the Israeli Sabra" . ^ "British Census of Palestine 1931" . www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org . Retrieved Oct 18, 2020 . ^ "Israel: The native generation | 1940-1949 | Guardian Century" . www.theguardian.com . Retrieved Oct 18, 2020 . ^ "Israel: The native generation | 1940-1949 | Guardian Century" . www.theguardian.com . Retrieved Oct 18, 2020 . ^ "Latest Population Statistics for Israel" . www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org . Retrieved Oct 18, 2020 . ^ "Jewish & Non-Jewish Population of Israel/Palestine (1517-Present)" . www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org . Retrieved Oct 18, 2020 . ^ Israel: the Sword and the Harp: The Mystique of Violence and the Mystique of Redemption; Controversial Themes in Israeli Society , Ferdynand Zweig, Fairleigh Dickinson Univ Press, 1970, page 6 ^ Anshel Pfeffer (25 February 2011). "Jerusalem & Babylon / Returning to the source of it all" . Haaretz . ^ Kleinberger, Aharon F: Society, Schools and Progress in Israel: The Commonwealth and International Library: Education and Educational Research , p. 48 ^ Persico, Tomer (2019-02-23). "How the new Israeli Judaism was born" . Haaretz . Retrieved 2024-04-06 . ^ Aviv Levy (25 November 2009). זינוק במכירות חומוס שטראוס בארה"ב: כבשה 40% מהשוק . Globes (in Hebrew) . Retrieved 25 November 2009 . ^ "Sabra Price is Right - Video" . Metacafe.com . Retrieved 2012-09-05 . ^ "Upcoming Marvel film already facing backlash over Israeli character" . euronews . 2024-07-15 . Retrieved 2024-10-19 . ^ Whitbrook, James (February 11, 2025). "The Complicated History of Sabra, Marvel's Israeli Superheroine" . Gizmodo . Retrieved March 1, 2025 . ^ "Allon Will Be First Sabra in Israel's History to Be Premier" . Jewish Telegraphic Agency. February 27, 1969. ^ "November 4, 1995: The Day the Sabra Died" . Haaretz. November 4, 2015. ^ "Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu: Commando turned PM" . BBC . March 18, 2015. External links [ edit ] Video of Kishkashta on YouTube Hebrew site with video of Kishkashta v t e Israeli Jews by geographic origin in the Jewish diaspora Ashkenazi Jews Argentine Jews Australian Jews Romanian Jews Russian Jews South African Jews Uruguayan Jews Venezuelan Jews Mizrahi Jews Yemenite Jews Moroccan Jews Kurdish Jews Iranian Jews Bukharan Jews Mountain Jews Georgian Jews Iraqi Jews Sephardi Jews Bulgarian Jews Moroccan Jews Peruvian Jews (Iquitos) Turkish Jews Other Jewish groups Ethiopian Jews French Jews Indian Jews Pakistani Jews Peruvian Jews (B'nai Moshe) Non-Jewish groups (with Jewish minorities) Dutch Israelis Related topics Aliyah Sabra Israelis abroad "Reverse Aliyah" Historical Jewish population comparisons Authority control databases International FAST National United States France BnF data Israel Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sabra_(person)&oldid=1282187486 " Categories : Hebrew slang Culture of Israel Israeli Jews by national origin Society of Israel Jewish ethnic groups 1930s neologisms Words and phrases in Modern Hebrew Hidden categories: CS1 uses Hebrew-language script (he) CS1 Hebrew-language sources (he) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles containing Hebrew-language text Articles needing additional references from October 2024 All articles needing additional references This page was last edited on 24 March 2025, at 21:58 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Sabra (person) 18 languages Add topic