Facebook whistleblower: Four key takeaways from Frances Haugen's US Senate hearing | Euronews Go to navigation Go to main content Go to search Go to footer English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Newsletter Newsletters Events Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Loader Latest Trending Spain Portugal Donald Trump electricity Valencia Cower outage Latest stories Europe News Now playing Next Swedish police say three dead in shooting in eastern city of Uppsala Europe News Now playing Next US approves sale of €1.17 billion worth of missiles to Poland Economy Now playing Next Donald Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs Europe News Now playing Next Sánchez vows to uncover reasons behind massive Iberian power outage Europe Categories Europe News Europe Series Programmes Europeans' Stories EuroVerify Europe in Motion EU Decoded Smart Regions The Europe Conversation Featured Radio Schuman This is Radio Schuman, your new go-to podcast to spice up your weekday mornings with relevant news, insights, and behind-the-scenes from Brussels and beyond. Brussels, My Love? From the economy to the climate and the EU's role in world affairs, this talk show sheds light on European affairs and the issues that impact on our daily lives as Europeans. Tune in to understand the ins and outs of European politics. World Categories World Sport Programmes Spotlight Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Focus Global Japan Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Experiences Stays People Programmes Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Programmes Dub.AI Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. Culture Categories Culture news Lifestyle Design Art Food and Drink Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Green Categories Green News Climate Nature Living Eco-Innovation Programmes Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Featured Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions.   Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Depth of Field InClassica Kazakhstan The New Uzbekistan Azerbaijan Diary Discover Algeria Discover Türkiye Discover Sharjah Explore Azerbaijan Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Partner content Italy – Heritage & Horizons Better Connected Powering Progress Experience Brazil My Tokyo Digital Garden City Nation Sparkle Wine of Moldova Kerala Tourism Turkmenistan - Our story Services Weather Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets & Services Find Us Log In My Account Live Close menu sidebar English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Latest Trending Spain Portugal Donald Trump electricity Valencia Cower outage Latest stories Europe News Now playing Next Swedish police say three dead in shooting in eastern city of Uppsala Europe News Now playing Next US approves sale of €1.17 billion worth of missiles to Poland Economy Now playing Next Donald Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs Europe News Now playing Next Sánchez vows to uncover reasons behind massive Iberian power outage Europe Categories Europe News Europe Series Programmes Europeans' Stories EuroVerify Europe in Motion EU Decoded Smart Regions The Europe Conversation Featured Radio Schuman This is Radio Schuman, your new go-to podcast to spice up your weekday mornings with relevant news, insights, and behind-the-scenes from Brussels and beyond. Brussels, My Love? From the economy to the climate and the EU's role in world affairs, this talk show sheds light on European affairs and the issues that impact on our daily lives as Europeans. Tune in to understand the ins and outs of European politics. World Categories World Sport Programmes Spotlight Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Focus Global Japan Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Experiences Stays People Programmes Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Programmes Dub.AI Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. Culture Categories Culture news Lifestyle Design Art Food and Drink Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Green Categories Green News Climate Nature Living Eco-Innovation Programmes Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Featured Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions.   Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Depth of Field InClassica Kazakhstan The New Uzbekistan Azerbaijan Diary Discover Algeria Discover Türkiye Discover Sharjah Explore Azerbaijan Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Partner content Italy – Heritage & Horizons Better Connected Powering Progress Experience Brazil My Tokyo Digital Garden City Nation Sparkle Wine of Moldova Kerala Tourism Turkmenistan - Our story Services Weather Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets & Services Newsletter Newsletters Events Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Loader Find Us ADVERTISEMENT Next Tech News Facebook whistleblower: Four key takeaways from Frances Haugen's US Senate hearing Frances Haugen testified before a US Senate committee on Tuesday - Copyright AP Photo Copyright AP Photo By Tom Bateman with AP Published on 06/10/2021 - 12:30 GMT+2 Share this article Comments Share this article Facebook Twitter Flipboard Send Reddit Linkedin Messenger Telegram VK Bluesky Threads Whatsapp Copy/paste the article video embed link below: Copied Frances Haugen spent hours giving evidence to a US Senate subcommittee on Tuesday, prompting pushback from Facebook and a memo from Mark Zuckerberg. ADVERTISEMENT In an hours-long hearing on Tuesday, Facebook whistleblower Frances Haugen told US lawmakers that regulating, rather than breaking up, Facebook could force it to address safety issues highlighted in leaked internal documents. The former Facebook product manager revealed her identity in a TV interview on Sunday after leaking a series of damaging research reports to the Wall Street Journal last month. Later on Tuesday, Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg broke his silence on the unfolding crisis in a memo posted to his Facebook page, claiming that Haugen's accusations "don't make sense" and that the company cared "deeply" about safety issues. Here are four key takeaways from her testimony in the latest high-profile Senate hearing on big tech. Facebook knows its algorithms are hurting people "Facebook’s products harm children, stoke division and weaken our democracy," Haugen told the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Consumer Protection. A fundamental issue is that Facebook's advertising-based business model needs to keep people on its platforms for as long as possible, and the company exploits negative emotions to achieve that, Haugen said. The reports Haugen leaked included revelations about the impact of Instagram on teenage girls' mental health AP Photo "They know that algorithmic-based rankings, or engagement-based rankings, keeps you on their sites longer. You have longer sessions, you show up more often, and that makes them more money," she told the committee. In his Tuesday memo, Zuckerberg refuted the claim that Facebook's algorithm took advantage of negative emotions like anger, saying "The argument that we deliberately push content that makes people angry for profit is deeply illogical". Related Kim Kardashian, Justin Bieber and Kylie Jenner's Instagram 'made people feel bad', Facebook found Facebook profits off hate and that's why it won't change, says whistleblower Frances Haugen "We make money from ads, and advertisers consistently tell us they don’t want their ads next to harmful or angry content," he said. "The company’s leadership knows how to make Facebook and Instagram safer but won’t make the necessary changes because they have put their astronomical profits before people," Haugen added. Facebook has structural issues Haugen also claimed that Facebook has a chronic tendency to under-staff its teams, impacting its ability to effectively monitor and respond to harmful content on its platforms. “Facebook is stuck in a cycle where it struggles to hire. That causes it to under-staff projects, which causes scandals, which then makes it harder to hire,” Haugen said. "I worked on the counter-espionage team, and at any given time, our team could only handle a third of the cases we knew about," she told senators. Zuckerberg was called to give evidence to a US House of Representatives committee in 2019 AP Photo Facebook's data-driven corporate environment was also identified as contributing to the company's problems. “Mark has built an organisation that is very metrics-driven. It is intended to be flat. There is no unilateral responsibility,” Haugen said. “The metrics make the decision". ADVERTISEMENT Related Frances Haugen whistleblower leaks show Facebook cannot regulate itself, MEPs say Haugen told the committee that Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, who controls over half of voting shares in the company, was ultimately responsible for the way it ran. "In the end, the buck stops with Mark," she said. Haugen doesn't want to break up Facebook During her testimony, Haugen rejected the idea of breaking up the company - an idea mooted by critics and some lawmakers. Instead, she argued, the company should be compelled to make changes like switching to a chronological newsfeed and prompting users to read an article before they post it. ADVERTISEMENT Related Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp down: How a social giant disappeared from the Internet "Facebook’s internal research says that each one of those small actions dramatically reduces misinformation, hate speech, and violence-inciting content on the platform," she said. Asked whether such changes would render Facebook unprofitable, Haugen pointed to the company's current high profitability - it made a $29 billion (€25 billion) profit in 2020. Zuckerberg has long said he is in favour of some regulation of social media companies Kenzo TRIBOUILLARD / AFP "The changes I’m talking about today wouldn’t make Facebook an unprofitable company,” Haugen told the committee. "It just wouldn’t be a ludicrously profitable company. People would consume less content on Facebook, but Facebook would still be profitable". ADVERTISEMENT In his Tuesday memo, Zuckerberg reiterated that he was in favour of some regulation of social media. Related Facebook pays €850k to fact-check climate disinformation as it makes millions from fossil fuel ads "Similar to balancing other social issues, I don't believe private companies should make all of the decisions on their own," he wrote. "We're committed to doing the best work we can, but at some level the right body to assess tradeoffs between social equities is our democratically elected Congress," Zuckerberg said. The testimony touched a nerve Facebook representatives attempted to push back on Haugen's testimony in real time, with company spokesman Andy Stone tweeting that she was not involved in child safety or Instagram during her time at the company. ADVERTISEMENT As she herself just said under oath, "I don't work on it." — Andy Stone (@andymstone) October 5, 2021 "Just pointing out the fact that Frances Haugen did not work on child safety or Instagram or research these issues and has no direct knowledge of the topic from her work at Facebook," he said. A statement from the company released after the Senate hearing had ended doubled down on Stone's remark by casting Haugen as inexperienced and ignorant of the subject matter. Related Facebook trialled a new content policy during the German elections. Critics say it didn't work "Today, a Senate Commerce subcommittee held a hearing with a former product manager at Facebook who worked for the company for less than two years, had no direct reports, never attended a decision-point meeting with C-level executives - and testified more than six times to not working on the subject matter in question," a statement from Facebook head of policy communications Lana Pietsch said. This prompted Samidh Chakrabarti, former leader of the Civic Integrity political misinformation team that Haugen was part of during her time at Facebook, to respond to the company on Twitter. ADVERTISEMENT There are countless other integrity professionals with experience on the issues raised today-- past & present, within FB & across industry-- who similarly agree with the substantive points shared at the hearing and believe it merits public conversation. — Samidh (@samidh) October 5, 2021 "I was there for over six years, had numerous direct reports, and led many decision meetings with C-level execs, and I find the perspectives shared on the need for algorithmic regulation, research transparency, and independent oversight to be entirely valid for debate," he said. "So Facebook, let's dispense with the ad hominem distraction and instead focus on real discussion of the issues at hand and the proposals being brought forth. The public deserves better". Go to accessibility shortcuts Share this article Comments Read more Tech News Now playing Next German carmaker Opel puts brakes on production amid microchip shortage Tech News Now playing Next How engineers got power back on after Spain and Portugal's blackout Tech News Now playing Next What lessons can be learned from Spain and Portugal's power outage? misinformation Facebook Mark Zuckerberg US Senate United States Social Media ADVERTISEMENT Top stories Now playing Next How engineers got power back on after Spain and Portugal's blackout Now playing Next What lessons can be learned from Spain and Portugal's power outage? Now playing Next ESA launches Biomass, a satellite set to unlock the secrets of forests Now playing Next Most Europeans do not trust firms rolling out tech like AI - new poll Now playing Next Amazon launches first batch of internet satellites to rival SpaceX ADVERTISEMENT Most read 1 What could have caused the major power outage in Spain and Portugal? 2 EU needs 'reality check' on flawed microchip strategy: report 3 6 of the best budget-friendly EVs on Europe's roads for under €25k 4 Germany’s Merz appoints MediaMarkt chief as new digital minister 5 EU Commission ready to step in if AI standards delayed ADVERTISEMENT Loader Search Browse today's tags Spain Portugal Donald Trump electricity Valencia Cower outage tariffs powercut War in Ukraine EPP Manfred Weber EU Policy Themes Europe World Business EU Policy Green Next Health Travel Culture Videos Programmes Services Live Bulletin Weather Latest Follow us Apps Messaging apps Widgets & Services Africanews More About Euronews Commercial Services Terms and Conditions Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Contact Work at Euronews Modify my cookies choices Follow us Newsletters Copyright © euronews 2025