AI Comparison: Siri vs. Cortana vs. Google Assistant vs. Alexa BND Hamburger Icon Menu Close Start Arrow Our Recommendations Best Small Business Loans for 2025 Businessloans.com Review Biz2Credit Review SBG Funding Review Rapid Finance Review Our Guides 30 Great Business Ideas for Motivated Entrepreneurs Startup Costs: How Much Cash Will You Need? How to Get a Bank Loan for Your Small Business Articles of Incorporation: What New Business Owners Should Know How to Choose the Best Legal Structure for Your Business Small Business Resources Business Ideas Business Plans Startup Basics Startup Funding Franchising Success Stories Entrepreneurs Grow Arrow Our Recommendations The Best Credit Card Processors of 2025 Clover Credit Card Processing Review Merchant One Review Stax Review Our Guides How to Conduct a Market Analysis for Your Business Local Marketing Strategies for Success Tips for Hiring a Marketing Company Benefits of CRM Systems 10 Employee Recruitment Strategies for Success Small Business Resources Sales & Marketing Finances Your Team Technology Social Media Security Lead Arrow Our Recommendations Best Business Phone Systems of 2025 The Best PEOs of 2025 RingCentral Review Nextiva Review Ooma Review Our Guides Guide to Developing a Training Program for New Employees How Does 401(k) Matching Work for Employers? Why You Need to Create a Fantastic Workplace Culture 16 Cool Job Perks That Keep Employees Happy 7 Project Management Styles Small Business Resources Leadership Women in Business Managing Strategy Personal Growth Find Arrow Our Recommendations Best Accounting Software and Invoice Generators of 2025 Best Payroll Services for 2025 Best POS Systems for 2025 Best CRM Software of 2025 Best Call Centers and Answering Services for Businesses for 2025 Our Guides Salesforce vs. HubSpot: Which CRM Is Right for Your Business? Rippling vs Gusto: An In-Depth Comparison RingCentral vs. Ooma Comparison Choosing a Business Phone System: A Buyer’s Guide Equipment Leasing: A Guide for Business Owners Small Business Resources HR Solutions Financial Solutions Marketing Solutions Security Solutions Retail Solutions SMB Solutions BND Logo Search Icon Search Input Search Icon Home Icon Arrow Grow Your Business Arrow Technology Advertising Disclosure Close Advertising Disclosure Business News Daily provides resources, advice and product reviews to drive business growth. Our mission is to equip business owners with the knowledge and confidence to make informed decisions. As part of that, we recommend products and services for their success. We collaborate with business-to-business vendors, connecting them with potential buyers. In some cases, we earn commissions when sales are made through our referrals. These financial relationships support our content but do not dictate our recommendations. Our editorial team independently evaluates products based on thousands of hours of research. We are committed to providing trustworthy advice for businesses. Learn more about our full process and see who our partners are here . AI Face-Off: Siri vs. Cortana vs. Google Assistant vs. Alexa See how the top AI assistants compare so you can find the right one for you. Written by: Mona Bushnell, Senior Writer Updated Nov 20, 2023 Verified Check With Border Editor Reviewed: Verified Check With Border Editor Reviewed Close This guide was reviewed by a Business News Daily editor to ensure it provides comprehensive and accurate information to aid your buying decision. Sandra Mardenfeld, Senior Editor Business News Daily earns compensation from some listed companies. Editorial Guidelines . Table Of Contents Icon Table of Contents Open row The use of artificial intelligence (AI) has become increasingly prevalent in everyday life, and AI assistants are one popular application of this technology. As the number of devices that support these tools continues to rise, consumers are becoming more curious about them. To save you time and effort, we conducted an extensive hands-on test to compare the top AI assistants on the market. We tested four widely used AI assistants with a series of common business-related commands and questions optimized for context and voice recognition. Keep reading to see how products from Amazon (Alexa), Apple (Siri), Google (Google Assistant) and Microsoft (Cortana) measure up and which might be right for your needs. Accessibility and trends Accessibility refers to the number of devices that host the virtual assistant. Here’s how the various AI assistants compare in this category, listed from the most accessible to the least accessible. Google Assistant Google Assistant is available on all Android and iOS devices, as well as on Chromebooks. Google has its own line of Google Home speakers, including the Google Home Mini ($49) and Google Nest Audio ($99.99), all of which are built for use with Google Assistant. Google also makes it easy to search via third-party Google AI-enabled speakers, like the Harman JBL Link Music ($119.95), Bang & Olufsen BeoSound 2 ($3,199) and Solis SO-2000 ($149.99). The fact that so many major players in the speaker and headphones space are releasing Google AI-enabled hardware at varying prices speaks volumes as to who is coming out ahead in the AI-assistant space. [Check out the best Android apps for efficient workday planning .] Alexa Amazon’s smart assistant, Alexa, is accessible through the Amazon Echo line of speakers, Fire tablets and Fire TV. Of all the AI assistants we studied, Alexa may have the biggest advantage for business use, since it’s available on the widest variety of device designs. Although Google’s AI assistant can be found on plenty of speakers, they all look similar. Amazon, in contrast, sells dozens of Alexa-enabled designs, including speakers of all sizes and modern-looking speakers with glossy touchscreens. There are also some third-party smart speakers and other devices that support Alexa, including the Sonos One wireless speaker ($2,199.99) and the Altec Lansing VersA Smart Portable speakers ($86.10). There is an Alexa app as well, but it’s intended primarily as a supplement to another Alexa device and not as a stand-alone AI assistant. Siri You can access Siri on nearly any Apple device, including MacBooks, iPhones, iPads and Apple Watches . Apple also sells its own speakers, called the HomePod ($299) and the HomePod mini ($99). Using Siri with a third-party device is possible, but it requires a HomePod mini to connect to your non-Apple device. According to Apple, this is to protect customer privacy so third-party devices can’t access your voice-based commands. [ Do free AI tools pose a security risk to your small business? ] Cortana Microsoft’s AI assistant, Cortana, was launched in 2014 and was previously included on Windows machines. However, this AI assistant is no longer supported on Android and iOS devices. Microsoft also announced that Cortana would be retired from Windows in late 2023. Cortana won’t be going away entirely, though, as it will remain a standard integration in Microsoft Office products, such as Outlook and Microsoft Teams. Of course, this means Cortana is much less accessible than the other options on this list. Key Takeaway Key takeaway Google, Amazon and Apple are leading the AI-assistant sector, but Microsoft has decided to cut back on the availability of Cortana. Ease of setup The ease of setup refers to how long it takes to get the assistant up and running, as well as how simple that process is. All of the AI assistants we evaluated have options to customize the personal-assistant experience, including app integration, unique settings and adaptive responses. To maintain an even testing ground, we did not consider additional setup steps that fall under the category of customization; we considered only how long it takes a new user to turn on the device and start asking questions. Google Assistant, Siri and Alexa all required virtually no setup time (you just sign in to a network and start) and were completely intuitive. None of these took more than about 45 seconds for initial access, and that included turning on the device or, in Alexa’s case, plugging it in. Cortana was a different story. The user experience of attempting to log in to the Cortana app on a supported device took quite a bit of troubleshooting. Cortana’s integration will be automatic in Microsoft Office products going forward, so it remains to be seen if these issues will persist. Voice recognition For voice recognition, all we wanted to know was how often the virtual assistant could recognize the words we said. We didn’t consider context or the value of the responses given, just basic recognition. We also tested voice recognition at various distances from the devices, with varying levels of background noise. Google and Siri understood us well when the room was quiet and we were close to the devices. There were a couple of funny misunderstandings, like when we asked Siri, “What’s the date four weeks from now?” and it gave the date for one week later because it thought we said, “What’s the date for a week from now?” All in all, though, the voice recognition was impressive under ideal conditions. However, when we used Google and Siri to do anything sound-related, like read a news article or play music, the assistants couldn’t hear us when we spoke at a normal volume. When we shouted, Google eventually responded, but Siri did not. We also had to manually turn off the sound on the iPhone to get Siri to stop playing the news, which defeats the hands-free purpose. Alexa’s voice recognition was spotty. Like Google and Siri, it could not understand us at all when there was even soft music playing, and we had to manually shut down the speaker to get it to stop playing music. Unlike the other two assistants, Alexa had issues understanding basic questions, except our voice commands, even when the room was silent. One of the test questions included repeatedly asking for help getting plane tickets, and each time, Alexa thought the request was for movie tickets and directed us to Fandango. When we  asked for future dates (“What’s the date for a week from now?”), it simply replied, “Sorry, I don’t know that,” while other assistants had no trouble understanding identically phrased questions. In our testing, Cortana performed the worst by far in basic voice recognition. Microsoft’s assistant had issues understanding us even with zero noise interference. Below are just a few examples of basic inquiries Cortana could not understand, even when stated slowly and clearly with no background noise. “Cancel this task.” “I want to set a reminder.” “Does Amazon sell printer paper?” “I need help finding a restaurant.” “Do I have any reminders coming up?” The other three assistants could understand all of these inquiries. And Cortana understood at least some of the other inquiries we made (like those about the weather), so it wasn’t a microphone issue. Did You Know? Did you know In addition to asking simple questions and setting task reminders, you may be able to use your AI assistant to control compatible smart-home devices. Success of queries and ability to understand context The value of an AI assistant lies in its ability to understand natural language and context and deliver a useful response. To test this skill, we devised questions with context-reliant follow-ups. Here are a few questions we asked each assistant: “How much is $5 in euros? What about in yen?” “Where is there an Applebee’s near me? Can you make a reservation?” “How long will it take me to get to LaGuardia Airport in the car? How about by subway?” We also asked each assistant a list of common questions about scheduling, setting reminders, shopping online, booking business travel accommodations and getting directions. Below, we’ll discuss how the products fared, from worst to best. Cortana Unfortunately, Cortana effectively removed itself from the running here because it couldn’t even hear or understand us on a basic level. When Cortana did understand us, it did not respond helpfully or intuitively. For example, when asked for directions to the nearest airport, it searched for nearly a full minute and then returned with a list of results from Bing, which mostly linked to general airline ticket websites such as Expedia. When asked to convert from U.S. dollars to yen, which all of the other assistants did with ease, Cortana did not reply aloud but rather brought up a page from Bing with a list of general responses about currency exchange from Answers.com. Whenever we asked follow-up questions, especially those dependent on context, Cortana either didn’t respond at all, said it didn’t know or directed us to allow permissions from a third-party app. Alexa Alexa worked well when answering basic questions, especially those that pertained to purchasing items on Amazon and setting reminders. However, when we got to more complicated questions that required context or close attention to detail, Alexa faltered. We  made multiple attempts to get Alexa to help purchase airline tickets, but the assistant consistently referred us to Fandango to buy movie tickets. It rarely answered follow-up questions, and when it did, it was often with a polite but unhelpful “Sorry, I don’t know that.” In general, Alexa could do part of each task asked of it. For example, it could say where the closest Applebee’s was, but it couldn’t make a reservation. It could tell us how much $5 was in euros, but when we followed up with “What about yen?” it didn’t know. When asked how long it would take to get to LaGuardia Airport, it said, “As I don’t know your speed, I can’t tell you how long that will take.” Alexa seems to rely on very specific terminology for commands. For example, when asked to read the news, it did. But we couldn’t get it to stop, even after trying multiple direct commands, like “stop” and “turn volume off.” The only phrase that eventually worked (which we had to look up online) was “stop flash briefing,” which isn’t exactly intuitive. It was easy to set up reminders with Alexa, but when each reminder time came, Alexa would just blare an alarm with no indication of what the alarm was for, and we had to turn off the alarm manually. Alexa is an OK tool for ordering on Amazon, and it may be good for smart-house integration. However, it’s not the best AI for natural language use; anyone who adopts Alexa as an AI assistant should peruse user guides before setting it up and understand its limitations. [Learn about Alexa for Business .] Google Assistant vs. Siri It’s worthwhile to compare Google Assistant’s and Siri’s abilities to understand context and intuitive speech, because these two options are neck and neck in ease of use and intelligence. When asked for directions to One World Trade Center, both Google Assistant and Siri responded with clear driving instructions. When we added a follow-up question about public transportation directions, Google Assistant responded verbally with directions to and from the subway, as well as gave an automatic link to step-by-step instructions in Google Maps. Unfortunately, Siri simply responded with alternate driving directions. No matter how we asked, Siri would not give public transit directions. However, Siri bested Google Assistant in tasks such as finding specific restaurants and making reservations. In fact, Siri was the only assistant that could not only find a nearby restaurant (which Google Assistant did, too) but also place a reservation. When we asked Google Assistant to find a specific restaurant, it did. But when asked to book a reservation, it inexplicably took us to DisneyWorld.com. We tried several times to book a reservation through Google Assistant, with no success. The ability to make hands-free restaurant reservations with Siri could be useful. However, Apple’s assistant falls short if your requests are not specific. For example, when we simply said, “I need help finding a restaurant,” Siri responded with a list of Google results that were literally instructions on how to find a restaurant, while Google Assistant read between the lines and showed us restaurants nearby. Google Assistant was also better than Siri for travel information, but it still wasn’t perfect on follow-through. When we asked Siri for flights from New York to Paris, it just Googled the  question and showed us the responses. When Google Assistant was asked for flights from New York to Paris, it asked for dates and started pulling up available reservations. But when we tried to book the flights, it simply said, “No problem!” and then did nothing. One cool thing Google Assistant offered, without prompting, was to email us if prices changed on the flights we were interested in. When we asked the assistants to read the news, Google Assistant immediately started playing a recent NPR podcast, while Siri Googled several news sources. We noticed throughout many different tasks that Siri rarely responded aloud, while Google Assistant nearly always did. While this is likely a matter of playing with a few settings, it’s an interesting difference to note. Tip Tip AI assistants are designed to understand natural language, so try to make your questions sound conversational and not too formal. AI assistants have a lot to offer, but they have a long way to go No AI assistant we tested was perfect. This is still young technology, and it has a long way to go. There were a handful of questions that none of the virtual assistants could answer. For example, when asked for directions to the closest airport, even the two best assistants on our list, Google Assistant and Siri, failed hilariously. Google Assistant directed us to a travel agency, while Siri sent us to a seaplane base. Still, judging purely on out-of-the-box functionality, Siri and Google Assistant are our top choices. We recommend making your final decision based on your hardware preferences. None of the assistants are good enough to go out of your way to adopt hardware you’re not comfortable with. Choose between Siri and Google Assistant based on convenience and the hardware you already have. Natalie Hamingson contributed to this article. Did you find this content helpful? Yes No Verified Check Thank you for your feedback! Share Article: Share this on Facebook Share this on X Share this on LinkedIn Written by: Mona Bushnell, Senior Writer Mona Bushnell advises aspiring entrepreneurs and small business owners on what it takes to operate a business on a day-to-day basis. Bushnell has firsthand experience as an IT technician, software administrator and scheduling manager, which are all critical roles in an increasingly digital business world. Based on her nearly 20 years in the trenches, she produces learning materials on a range of business topics.  At Business News Daily, Bushnell covers a variety of business trends, such as flexible work policies, the rise of AI chatbots, net neutrality, digital payments and more.  Bushnell, who has collaborated with a variety of independently owned boutique businesses to increase their visibility and profit, also tests emerging technology (both software and hardware) and has teamed up with CEOs on communications needs. Her guidance can be found in leading business publications like Forbes and Investopedia. Email LinkedIn Related Reviews The Best Phone Systems for Small Businesses The Best Business Accounting Software Services of 2025 Best Payroll Services for 2025 More Related reviews Related Articles How to Create Alexa for Business Skills Without Coding Experience Laptop Buying Guide for Small Business iOS vs. Android: Which Is Better for Business? Best Free Visual Voicemail Apps Twitter for Business: Everything You Need to Know Best Handwriting Recognition Apps More Related articles Recommended Next Technology Terms Every Entrepreneur Should Know What Is IVR? A Buying Guide for Business Owners 20 Gifts Your Employees Will Love More Related articles Back to top info@businessnewsdaily.com 200 5th Avenue, 2nd Floor Waltham, MA 02451 Visit us on Facebook Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on X Resources E93EC9CC-097E-442F-B5D1-5C402EEAEC72@1x How to Start a Business How to Market Your Business How to Hire For Your Business Self Employed Tax Calculator Salary to Hourly Calculator Our Company E93EC9CC-097E-442F-B5D1-5C402EEAEC72@1x About Us Careers Advertise With Us Editorial Guidelines Legal E93EC9CC-097E-442F-B5D1-5C402EEAEC72@1x Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Info Terms of Use Copyright Policy Advertising Disclosure Our Brands E93EC9CC-097E-442F-B5D1-5C402EEAEC72@1x Business.com BuyerZone © 2025 business.com All Rights Reserved.