'Grey's Anatomy' Season 17 Premiere Brings in Surprise (Spoilers) 'Grey's Anatomy' Season 17 Premiere Brings in Surprise (Spoilers) Plus Icon Film Plus Icon TV Plus Icon What To Watch Plus Icon Music Plus Icon Docs Plus Icon Digital & Gaming Plus Icon Global Plus Icon Awards Circuit Plus Icon Video Plus Icon What To Hear VIP Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Got a Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Variety Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Variety Plus Icon Read Next: Writers Guild of America West Staff Wins Union Recognition With 81% Support Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Home TV News Nov 12, 2020 8:55pm PT ‘Grey’s Anatomy’ Season 17 Premiere Reveals a Surprise Appearance By Variety Staff Plus Icon Variety Staff Follow Us on Twitter @Variety Latest RaeLynn Returns to Valory Music / Big Machine 2 days ago Variety Seeks Submissions for 2025 Producers to Watch List 2 weeks ago Variety Promotes William Earl to Executive Digital Director 1 month ago See All SPOILER ALERT: Do not read until you have watched the season 17 premiere of “Grey’s Anatomy.” “Grey’s Anatomy” didn’t hold back in its two-hour season premiere Thursday, which was dedicated to frontline healthcare workers. Patrick Dempsey returned as Dr. Derek “McDreamy” Shepherd in a dream sequence, five years after his death shocked fans. The topical and moving storyline looked at Meredith and Bailey and the other hospital workers battling the coronavirus with a PPE shortage and increasing COVID deaths. “The most important task we had this season was to honor the reality of this global pandemic and the impact it’s having — particularly on healthcare workers,” said showrunner/EP Krista Vernoff in a statement. “Along with that we had to come up with creative ways to allow our show to still be fun and romantic and provide some escapism. Enter Patrick Dempsey. The beach motif — which will continue beyond the premiere — provided a way for us to live outside the pandemic even for a little while here and there. And Derek’s return provided pure joy for us, for Meredith, and for the fans. “Season 17 has been a Herculean effort by our cast, our crew, our writers, and our partners at Disney and ABC — and we are proud of it. But our effort is nothing compared to the work of our Frontline healthcare workers to whom this season is dedicated. We hope our show inspires you to wear your masks to protect them and each other. As Derek Shepherd would say, ‘It’s a beautiful day to save lives.'” Popular on Variety Dempsey will return in next week’s episode — watch the promo for the episode “My Happy Ending Above.” Read More About: Ellen Pompeo, Grey's Anatomy Jump to Comments More from Variety ‘Boop!’ Review: This Cartoon of a Broadway Musical Is Stuck in Two Dimensions What Warner Bros. Can Learn From Netflix About Video Game Strategy Nathan Fielder’s Cringefest ‘The Rehearsal’ Is More Bonkers Than Ever, but Season 2 Loses Some Edge: TV Review Beyoncé Thrillingly Mashes Up ‘Cowboy Carter’ and ‘Renaissance’ in Nearly Three-Hour L.A. Tour Opener: Concert Review The Ghibli-Style AI Wake-Up Call ‘Sacramento’ Review:  Michael Cera in a Smart and Fluky Road Comedy About the Agony of Adulting JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Most Popular ‘The Smashing Machine’ Trailer: Dwayne Johnson Is Unrecognizable as UFC Legend Mark Kerr in Benny Safdie’s Biopic From A24 ‘Thunderbolts*’ Review: That Mysterious Asterisk Masks the Real Reason to Watch These Six Marvel Rejects Beyoncé Set List: Every Song Played on ‘Cowboy Carter’ Tour Opener in Los Angeles Nathan Fielder Depicts Paramount+ as Nazis After Streamer Removed ‘Nathan for You’ Episode Due to ‘Sensitivities’ Around… John Lithgow Says He ‘Absolutely’ Didn’t Expect Any J.K. Rowling Backlash After Joining HBO’s ‘Harry Potter’ Series: ‘Why Is This a Factor… Pedro Almodóvar Slams Trump in Fiery Speech at Lincoln Center Honors: ‘You Will Go Down in History as a Catastrophe’ Ryan Coogler's 'Sinners' Is the First Oscar Movie of 2025 Bill Belichick CBS Interview Interrupted by Girlfriend Jordan Hudson After Relationship Question: ‘We’re Not Talking About This’ Terrence Howard Turned Down Marvin Gaye Biopic Because He Didn’t Want to Kiss a Man: ‘I Would Cut My Lips Off’ ‘Back to the Future’ Screenwriter Bob Gale Says There Will ‘Never’ Be Another Sequel, ‘Prequel’ or ‘Spinoff’: ‘It’s Just Fine the Way It Is… Must Read Legit ACTORS ON ACTORS BROADWAY | George Clooney and Patti LuPone Get Honest By Andrew Wallenstein 1 week TV Reeling From Bill Owens' Shock Exit, '60 Minutes' Staffers Warn Shari Redstone to Back Off Shopping Pete Davidson on Going Tattoo-Free and His Concern for Young Men and Social Media: ‘They Don’t Even Have a F—ing Shot’ Film Ryan Coogler Dissects ‘Sinners’: How the Blockbuster Filmmaker Reinvented the Vampire Movie on a Near-Impossible Timeline TV Bill Hader to Co-Write, Potentially Star in Jonestown Series in Development at HBO (EXCLUSIVE) Sign Up for Variety Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Variety Confidential A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast More From Our Brands Rolling Stone Trump Insists Clearly Edited Pic of Abrego Garcia’s Tats Is Real in Testy Interview Robb Report 181 Fremont’s Grand Penthouse Redefines Urban Luxury Sportico Baffert Returns to Churchill Downs and NBC’s Derby Coverage WWD Keira Knightley Is Ready to Pass the ‘Pride & Prejudice’ Baton to Emma Corrin TVLine Andor Creator Tony Gilroy Shrugs Off That Star Wars ‘First’ in Episode 6, Stands by ‘Tough’ Cinta Decision Variety About Us Newsletter Variety Events Luminate - Film & TV Advertise Media Kit Careers Customer Service Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Variety Magazine Subscribe Variety Digital Login Group Subscriptions Variety Archives Back Issues Help VIP+ Subscribe Login Learn More FAQ Connect Instagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Variety The Business of Entertainment Subscribe Today Have a News Tip? Let us know Variety Close the menu Expand the sub menu Film News Reviews Podcasts Box Office Events Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu TV News Reviews Podcasts Ratings Pilot Scorecard Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu What To Watch Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Music News Album Reviews Concert Reviews Hitmakers Music For Screens Grammys Expand the sub menu Docs Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Tech Features Global VIP+ Tech Expand the sub menu Global News Asia Markets & Festivals Features Expand the sub menu Awards Circuit News Film Predictions TV Predictions Video Artisans Columns Awards Circuit Podcast Expand the sub menu Video Popular Cover Shoots - Behind the Scenes Actors on Actors Power of Women Events Artisans Expand the sub menu What to Hear Lists & Features Expand the sub menu VIP+ Daily Commentary Special Reports Video Expand the sub menu More Coverage Obituaries - submit obituaries to obits@variety.com Photos Podcasts Scene Voices Theater Expand the sub menu More Variety Live Media Summits Vscore Luminate - Film & TV Variety Archives Variety500 Industry Executives Have a News Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Alerts and Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Follow Us Got a Tip? Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Advertise About Contact Us Variety is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Variety Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Icon Link Plus Icon ad