Pretty Woman musical is coming to London in 2020, Bryan Adams says Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Watch Live Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Pretty Woman musical is coming to London in 2020, Bryan Adams says 1 March 2019 Share Save Share Save Matthew Murphy Pretty Woman, starring Samantha Barks and Andy Karl, opened on Broadway last August A musical based on hit film Pretty Woman is to open in London next year. Singer Bryan Adams, who has co-written the music and lyrics for the stage version, confirmed the news and said he was "excited" about the plans. The musical is based on the 1990 romantic comedy starring Julia Roberts and Richard Gere. The show received mixed reviews when it opened on Broadway in August. Speaking about bringing it to London, Adams said: "It's all set in motion now." Getty Images Bryan Adams is currently on a UK tour He told the Press Association: "I know it's going to Germany this year, it opens in September this year, and then it's going to London next year. I'm excited about it." Describing his process of writing the songs for the show, he told the Press Association: "I really have got to be honest, I didn't watch the movie once the whole time that we were working on it." Getty Images Julia Roberts and Richard Gere in Pretty Woman He said he didn't "want to be influenced by the film". He explained: "I just wanted to be influenced by the story and how the director today was going to reinterpret it for the stage. "You have to remember the film is literally mostly close-ups of Richard Gere and Julia Roberts so it's not really set as a wide angle. "So how do you transcend those very personal shots into song, that was the challenge." Adams is on tour in the UK until 6 March. Follow us on Facebook , on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts , or on Instagram at bbcnewsents . If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk. Pretty Woman's pretty mixed reviews British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.