AC Valhalla Title Update 1.7.0 – Release Notes If you're seeing this message, that means JavaScript has been disabled on your browser , please enable JS to make this app work. Back Arrow Left Black arrow pointing left Discover the AC Shadows Expansion Games Assassin's Creed Shadows Assassin's Creed Mirage Assassin's Creed Nexus VR Assassin's Creed Jade Assassin's Creed Valhalla All AC Games News Photo Mode Arrow Right Black arrow pointing right Assassin's Creed Shadows Assassin's Creed Mirage Assassin's Creed Valhalla Assassin's Creed Odyssey Assassin's Creed Origins More Than Games Discovery Tour Arrow Right Black arrow pointing right Features Curriculum Guide Help Bug Reporter Discover the AC Shadows Expansion Buy AC Shadows Arrow Right Black arrow pointing right PC - Ubisoft Store PS5 Xbox Series Discover the AC Shadows Expansion Buy AC Shadows Arrow Right Black arrow pointing right PC - Ubisoft Store PS5 Xbox Series Close Watch the Launch Trailer of AC Shadows, available now. Watch Trailer Arrow Left Black arrow pointing left 115 / 356 Arrow Right Black arrow pointing right Back Arrow Left Black arrow pointing left February 20 , 2023 2 Min Read AC Valhalla Title Update 1.7.0 – Release Notes Title update 1.7.0 will be deployed on all supported platforms tomorrow, Tuesday February 21 st , 2023, 12 pm UTC/GMT, 1 pm CET, 7 am EDT, 4 am PDT, and 11 pm AEST. Patch Sizes: Xbox Series X|S: 15.1 GB Xbox One: 9.9 GB PlayStation®5: 0.5 GB PlayStation®4: 1.6 GB PC: 6.3 GB Check out below for the most notable Title Update 1.7.0 changes. BUG FIXES & IMPROVEMENTS River Raids Addressed: The Captain at Katzenelnbogen isn't counted when the kill is confirmed. Assassin's Creed Valhalla World Addressed: Resolved most of the rare instances where Light-Fingered skill prevented the pickup of key items. Eivor's hair can clip through the hood after completing an Animus Anomaly. Armory & Inventory Addressed: Previously purchased items are missing from player inventory. The Raven Clan Crew outfit cannot be enhanced or upgraded to a higher quality. The total number of Opals in the inventory doesn't update when picking up an Opal in the world. Miscellaneous Addressed: Resolved the error that occurs when trying to claim the Weekly Free Item. Gear packs still appear in the store when the content of the pack is already owned. Items incorrectly appear as owned in some situations. Korean language cannot be applied via Steam Language tab. It is possible to lose Helix Credits when purchasing the Twilight Set if 5/5 pieces of gear are already owned. Issues with pricing of Helix Store items when redeeming pieces of a full set. On Xbox, when buying Helix Credits through the store, they are not correctly added to the player inventory. In-game pop-ups no longer appear for Shared History and The Last Chapter when launching into the game. Share: Facebook Logo Twitter Logo Visit Other Assassin's Creed Channels: