Wonder Woman | DC Extended Universe Wiki | Fandom DC Extended Universe Wiki We've split By community choice, all content related to the DCU has been split to its own wiki. More info READ MORE Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In DC Extended Universe Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Universe Planets Earth Krypton Thanagar Daxam Apokolips Warworld Cities Metropolis Gotham City Central City Midway City Philadelphia Smallville more... Locations Batcave Wayne Manor Themyscira Kingdom of Atlantis Corto Maltese Kahndaq more... Organizations Daily Planet Wayne Enterprises LexCorp S.T.A.R. Labs Janus Corporation more... Species Humans Metahumans Kryptonians Amazons Atlanteans Thanagarians more... Timeline Media Films (2013–20) Man of Steel Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice Suicide Squad Wonder Woman Justice League Aquaman Shazam! Birds of Prey (And the Fantabulous Emancipation of One Harley Quinn) Wonder Woman 1984 Films (2021–23) Zack Snyder's Justice League The Suicide Squad Black Adam Shazam! Fury of the Gods The Flash Blue Beetle Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom Television series Peacemaker The Flash: Escape the Midnight Circus Specials The Dawn of the Justice League Comics Man of Steel Prequel Warner Bros. Pictures Presents Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice General Mills Presents Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice Upstairs/Downstairs Suicide Blonde Mercedes-Benz Presents: Justice League Superhero Hooky WW84: Museum Mayhem Black Adam - The Justice Society Files Books Man of Steel: The Early Years: Junior Novel Man of Steel: The Official Movie Novelization Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice – Cross Fire Suicide Squad: The Official Movie Novelization Wonder Woman: The Junior Novel Wonder Woman: The Official Movie Novelization Aquaman: The Junior Novel Aquaman: Undertow Shazam!: The Junior Novel Wonder Woman 1984: The Junior Novel Expanded media Crisis on Infinite Earths Community Playground Policies Article Creation Policy Canon Policy Conjecture Policy Manual of Style Layout Guide Formatting Guide Image Policy Naming Policy Wiki Community Rules Wiki Staff Policy Affiliates Report a problem Gonzalo .H Kiwichris MakeShift Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Skip to content DC Extended Universe Wiki 6,943 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Universe Planets Earth Krypton Thanagar Daxam Apokolips Warworld Cities Metropolis Gotham City Central City Midway City Philadelphia Smallville more... Locations Batcave Wayne Manor Themyscira Kingdom of Atlantis Corto Maltese Kahndaq more... Organizations Daily Planet Wayne Enterprises LexCorp S.T.A.R. Labs Janus Corporation more... Species Humans Metahumans Kryptonians Amazons Atlanteans Thanagarians more... Timeline Media Films (2013–20) Man of Steel Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice Suicide Squad Wonder Woman Justice League Aquaman Shazam! Birds of Prey (And the Fantabulous Emancipation of One Harley Quinn) Wonder Woman 1984 Films (2021–23) Zack Snyder's Justice League The Suicide Squad Black Adam Shazam! Fury of the Gods The Flash Blue Beetle Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom Television series Peacemaker The Flash: Escape the Midnight Circus Specials The Dawn of the Justice League Comics Man of Steel Prequel Warner Bros. Pictures Presents Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice General Mills Presents Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice Upstairs/Downstairs Suicide Blonde Mercedes-Benz Presents: Justice League Superhero Hooky WW84: Museum Mayhem Black Adam - The Justice Society Files Books Man of Steel: The Early Years: Junior Novel Man of Steel: The Official Movie Novelization Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice – Cross Fire Suicide Squad: The Official Movie Novelization Wonder Woman: The Junior Novel Wonder Woman: The Official Movie Novelization Aquaman: The Junior Novel Aquaman: Undertow Shazam!: The Junior Novel Wonder Woman 1984: The Junior Novel Expanded media Crisis on Infinite Earths Community Playground Policies Article Creation Policy Canon Policy Conjecture Policy Manual of Style Layout Guide Formatting Guide Image Policy Naming Policy Wiki Community Rules Wiki Staff Policy Affiliates Report a problem Gonzalo .H Kiwichris MakeShift in: Articles needing expansion , Unsourced quotes , Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice Characters , and 18 more Wonder Woman (film) Characters Justice League (film) Characters Wonder Woman 1984 Characters Zack Snyder's Justice League Characters Shazam! Fury of the Gods Characters The Flash Characters Peacemaker (TV series) Characters Amazons Heroes Vigilantes Wonder Men Members Justice League Members Martial Artists Multilingual Characters Gods Hybrids Royalty Magic Users English Deutsch Español Français Português do Brasil Wonder Woman View source History Purge Talk (0) For other uses, see Wonder Woman (disambiguation) . For alternate versions of Wonder Woman, see Wonder Woman's Character Hub . Wonder Woman Wonder Woman Diana Prince Real Name Diana of Themyscira Alias(es) Diana Prince Wonder Woman God Killer Diana of Themyscira Goddess Princess Diana Warrior Princess Sword Lady Woman of Wonder [ 1 ] Species Amazonian - Old God hybrid Nationality Themysciran Gender Female Birthdate 3000 BC [ 2 ] Title(s) Princess of Themyscira God Killer Affiliation(s) Wonder Men (formerly) Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History (formerly) Louvre Museum Justice League Status Alive Appearances Film(s) Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice Wonder Woman Justice League Aquaman (mentioned) Shazam! (figure and drawing) Wonder Woman 1984 Zack Snyder's Justice League Black Adam (comic and poster) Shazam! Fury of the Gods The Flash Short Film(s) Etta's Mission (mentioned) The Mother Box Origins TV Series Peacemaker (1 episode) Comic(s) Picture Proof (poster) Lights Out (mentioned) Guiding Lights Pit Stop Winner Drives Wonder Woman 1984 1 Serving Up Justice #2 (mentioned) Serving Up Justice #3 Serving Up Justice #4 Black Adam - The Justice Society Files: Cyclone (drawing) The Flash: The Fastest Man Alive #2 (symbol) Shazam! Thundercrack (graffiti) Shazam! Fury of the Gods Special: Shazamily Matters (newspaper, mentioned) Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom Special Book(s) Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice: Tech Manual Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice: The Art of the Film Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice: Mega Sticker Book Batman v Superman Annual 2017 Wonder Woman: I Am an Amazon Warrior Wonder Woman: Meet the Heroes Wonder Woman: The Art and Making of the Film Wonder Woman: The Junior Novel Wonder Woman: The Official Movie Novelization Wonder Woman: Mega Sticker Justice League: The Art of the Film Justice League: The Official Guide Justice League: Sticker Activity Book Justice League: Sticker Album Justice League: Mega Sticker Justice League: The Official Collector's Edition Shazam! Freddy's Guide to Super Hero-ing (drawing) Wonder Woman 1984: Destined for Greatness Wonder Woman 1984: The Junior Novel Wonder Woman 1984: Meet Wonder Woman Wonder Woman 1984: Truth, Love & Wonder Wonder Woman 1984: Colouring Adventures Wonder Woman 1984: Ultimate Colouring Book Wonder Woman 1984: Super Sticker Book Game(s) Wonder Woman: Rise of the Warrior Justice League VR: The Complete Experience Wonder Woman 1984: Microsoft MakeCode Arcade Wonder Woman: The Themyscira Experience Actors/Actresses Portrayed by Gal Gadot Emily Carey (teenager) Lilly Aspell (child and teenager) Kimberley von Ilberg ( Peacemaker ) "I used to want to save the world . To end war and bring peace to mankind. But then I glimpsed the darkness that lives within their light and learned that inside every one of them, there will always be both. A choice each must make for themselves. Something no hero will ever defeat. And now I know that only love can truly save the world. So, I stay, I fight, and I give, for the world I know can be. This is my mission now. Forever." ―Diana Prince [src] Diana of Themyscira , also known as Diana Prince , is an Amazon warrior princess and one of the world's first superheroes, known as Wonder Woman . She is the daughter of Queen Hippolyta and Zeus , the king of the Old Gods , as well as a member and co-founder of the Justice League . Born on Themyscira , Diana was raised in a land of paradise, hearing tales of the Amazons’ great task of defeating the corrupt God of War, Ares , ushering in a new era of peace to the world. Upon coming of age, Diana began pursuing the life of a warrior, despite her mother's objections. Determined to serve, she ultimately enticed her aunt Antiope to train her in secret. This, however, was soon discovered by her mother. Begrudgingly, the queen accepted Diana as a warrior, and ordered Antiope to train her better than any other Amazon. Following a training session, Diana happened to come across Captain Steve Trevor during his daring escape from the Imperial German Army in the ongoing Great War . A battle soon followed, as the Germans tracked Trevor to Themyscira, where they invaded in pursuit of Doctor Poison 's notes. The loss of Antiope and subsequent realization of mankind's downfall during the absence of the Amazons convinced Diana to join the war effort, recognizing Ares as the instigator of the conflict. In the following days, Diana soon uncovered Ares, who exposed her to be the God Killer , having been originally conceived to be the ultimate weapon against her brother. Following this revelation, a fierce battle ensued, where Diana fulfilled her purpose in freeing mankind from Ares' influence. The loss of Steve in World War I and the loss of her other friends Etta Candy and the Wonder Men sometime after 1918 had left Diana broken-hearted & isolated but she vowed to protect humanity whenever she was needed due to her very compassionate nature over the years in the shadows as a mysterious female savior which people are curious about on who she is. She also gained more knowledge on the world and she changed residence over the years to keep herself guarded while landing jobs at museums like the Smithsonian Museum in Washington, D.C. In 1984 , she came into conflict with entrepreneur Maxwell Lord and former friend Barbara Minerva all while reuniting with Steve Trevor to prevent a possible nuclear war between the United States and the Soviet Union after Max used the Dreamstone for his own means which caused global chaos and instability in the process, reluctantly defeating and depowering Minerva. She successfully did so after she convinced Max and the people of the world to renounce their wishes to undo the chaos that was created, including her own in the briefly resurrected Steve. In modern times, Diana operates as the curator of the Louvre Museum as by the alias Diana Prince . Two years following the Black Zero Event , Diana came into conflict with billionaire supergenius Lex Luthor , who discovered a photograph of Diana and the Wonder Men during his search for metahumans . During her pursuit of Luthor, Diana crossed paths with Bruce Wayne , who discovered her secret after their confrontation during his search for the White Portuguese . Later, along with the photograph on Luthor's files Bruce sent her, Diana discovered the evidence of metahumans in the world. With her mission fulfilled, Diana prepared to depart back to London , but the emergence of the monstrous Doomsday led Diana to ally herself with Superman and Batman to take down the monster in a fierce battle that ended with the tragic death of Superman. Afterwards, in the wake of Clark's funeral, Diana and Bruce decided to create a team to battle any future threats to the world. As the world mourned for the Man of Steel, Diana combatted the rise of radicals who saw Superman's death as an omen and capitalized on the world's vulnerability. Shortly after the team assembled, Wonder Woman assisted in helping a newly resurrected Superman regain his memories. With the team now fully assembled, Wonder Woman contributed to the successful offensive against Steppenwolf , forcing the alien invasion into retreat and personally slaying the fearsome New God by decapitating him. Afterwards, she began to plan for the Justice League's future alongside Bruce Wayne. In early 2021 , she along with the Justice League would be gathered by Amanda Waller to get involved on the " Project Butterfly " operation and the 11th Street Kids , however, the League arrived in the immediate aftermath of the battle, with a frustrated Peacemaker reprimanding her and the rest of the team for their incompetence. Eventually, Diana was forced to stop an army of retrobots finding herself with the heroine known as Wonderous Serena in the process, as well with Serena Williams and an alternate version of herself , with whom she would join forces to detain the responsible of the invasion, Doctor Cyber . Knowing Billy Batson 's sacrifice to save the world, Diana went to his tomb on Mount Olympus to restore the Staff of the Gods 's power and revive him. Diana later aided Aquaman and Flash in stopping a terrorist attack by a group of ex-marines at the Wayne Foundation Science and Technology Conference. She would also later aid Batman and Flash in stopping Al Falcone and his crew after they robbed a hospital. Contents 1 Biography 1.1 Childhood 1.2 Training 1.3 World War I 1.3.1 Themysciran Beach Battle 1.3.2 Experiencing London 1.3.3 British War Council 1.3.4 Gathering Allies 1.3.5 Belgium 1.3.6 The Wonder Men 1.3.7 Infiltrating Ludendorff's Gala 1.3.8 Infiltration of Ludendorff's Base 1.3.9 Meeting Ares 1.3.10 Aftermath of the War 1.4 A Century of Horrors 1.4.1 Living in Man's World 1.4.2 Life in 1984 1.4.3 Chase towards Cairo 1.4.4 Showdown at the White House 1.4.5 Confrontation at the Atmospheric Scatter Satellite 1.4.6 Chance Encounter 1.5 Subsequent Endeavors 1.5.1 Struggling to Move Forward 1.5.2 Meeting Bruce Wayne 1.5.3 Bruce Wayne Discovers Her Existence 1.6 The Death of Superman 1.6.1 Battle with Doomsday 1.6.2 Dawn of Justice 1.6.3 Rescue at the Old Bailey Courthouse 1.7 Coming Together 1.7.1 Assembling the League 1.7.2 Recruiting Cyborg 1.7.3 Skirmish under Gotham Harbor 1.7.4 Superman's Resurrection 1.7.5 Battle of Pozharnov 1.8 A New World 1.8.1 The League of Justice 1.8.2 Conflict with Doctor Cyber 1.8.3 Project Butterfly 1.8.4 Attack of the Retrobots 1.8.5 Resurrecting Billy Batson 1.8.6 Attack at the Wayne Foundation Science and Technology Conference 1.8.7 Chase of Al Falcone 2 Personality 3 Powers and Abilities 3.1 Powers 3.2 Abilities 4 Equipment 4.1 Weapons 4.2 Other equipment 4.3 Vehicles 5 Relationships 5.1 Family 5.2 Allies 5.3 Enemies 6 Appearances 7 Trivia 8 Behind the Scenes 9 References 10 External Links Biography Childhood Young Diana admiring the God Killer sword. Diana was born circa 3000 BC [ 2 ] on the newly created island of Themyscira , to Zeus , the King of the Old Gods , and Hippolyta , the Queen of the Amazons , mere months after the end of War of the Gods . Zeus intended for the child to one day grow strong enough to defeat Ares , the God of War. Fearful for her daughter's safety, Hippolyta lied to Diana about her true parentage, instead telling Diana that she'd sculpted her from clay and prayed to Zeus to bring her to life. Diana would believe this story for most of her life. [ 3 ] As the only child on the island, Diana grew bored by her lessons. She began to take an active interest in the Amazons' combat training, despite her mother's stern refusal of it. She often ran off from her tutors to watch the Amazons train. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] Her aunt Antiope , General of the Amazons, was aware of the true nature of Diana's background. Knowing that one day she would have to face Ares, and caring so deeply for her well-being, she began to train the young princess in secret. [ 3 ] Training "You cannot be the winner because you are not ready to win. And there is no shame in that." ―Antiope to Diana [src] Diana training with Antiope . Seven years after her training had begun, their deceit was discovered by Hippolyta. Angry at Antiope for defying her decision, Hippolyta sent Diana back to her room so that she could speak to her sister alone. Antiope reasoned with the Queen, reminding her that Ares was alive and would come for Diana someday. Hippolyta accepted this with some difficulty and ordered Antiope to train Diana harder than any Amazon before her, until she was better than even Antiope herself, the Amazons' fiercest warrior. Thus, with the blessing of her mother, Diana formally began extensive training in all forms of Amazon combat. Over the years, she became a formidable warrior. [ 3 ] Diana during the early stages of the competition. Eventually, Diana competed in multi-stage athletic competition against fully grown Amazonian competitors. After falling from her horse due to looking back at her opponents and taking a shortcut, she was disqualified, which she was forced to account for when an unnamed contestant snatched her stave unexpectedly. As Hippolyta observed, Antiope lectured the little girl on the importance of truth and assured her there was no shame in losing to larger and more experienced competitors. [ 5 ] Diana accidentally striking Antiope in front of several sparrers. Much later, during a training session observed by Hippolyta, Diana sparred against her fellow warriors, demonstrating her weapons expertise and defeating each of them swiftly. Her final opponent was Antiope herself. The two fought with all their might. Diana managed to disarm Antiope and looked toward her mother for approval. Antiope seized the opportunity to push Diana to the ground and pick up her sword, admonishing her for letting her guard down. As Antiope slashed at her and forced her backwards, Diana instinctively brought her arms together to block the attack. She clashed her arm gauntlets together, resulting in her unleashing a powerful shockwave that sent Antiope flying back and left all spectating Amazons there, including Diana herself, in complete shock. [ 3 ] World War I Themysciran Beach Battle Diana rescues and meets Steve Trevor for the first time. "You're a man." "Yeah... Do I not look like one?" ―Diana and Steve Trevor [src] A shocked Diana apologized to Antiope and abruptly left the training session. She wandered off to a cliff on the Themysciran seashore and examined her gauntlets in awe. As she stood there, she noticed an airplane burst through the forcefield surrounding Themyscira and crash in the nearby waters. Seeing even from a great distance away that someone was trapped inside the sinking aircraft, she leaped down the ocean and rescued the pilot, none other than a human soldier named Steve Trevor . She pulled him out of the water and onto the Themysciran shore. As he came to, she noted in disbelief that he was a man, as she had never seen one before. Though somewhat confused, Steve affirmed that he was, rhetorically asking whether or not he looked like one. She asked him who he was, but before he could answer, the two noticed several boats coming through the island's forcefield. Steve noted that he was one of the good guys and the people on the boats—Germans—were bad guys. Having noticed the invading ships, the Amazons quickly gathered on the cliffs above the beach. Hippolyta ordered Trevor to move away from Diana, but forgot about him as the German soldiers began to come closer to shore. She took command of her army, ordering the archers to fire on the boats. Diana and Trevor took cover behind boulders on the beach. As the soldiers landed on the shore and began to open fire, several archers leaped from the cliffs. Diana watched, horrified, as a bullet fired from one of the German soldiers hit an archer, killing her almost instantly. Amazon cavalry stormed the beach, engaging the soldiers and quickly overwhelming them. Though Trevor told her to stay back as he fought one of the German soldiers, Diana picked up a sword from a fallen Amazon and easily dispatched a soldier. Diana joining the battle. As the battle came to an end, a soldier aimed his gun at Diana while her back was turned. Unable to warn Diana in time, Antiope leaped in front of her, taking the bullet and saving her life. As she lay dying, Antiope urged Diana to use the God Killer and defeat Ares . Diana before stealing the Amazon battle armor . Hippolyta, in angry grief over her sister's death, attempted to kill Trevor for bringing the Germans to Themyscira. Diana stopped her in time, telling her that he had fought by her side. As the Amazons debated whether to kill him or not, Artemis argued that they needed to question him as to who the Germans were and why they'd come. Diana and the Amazons questioning Steve Trevor . Trevor was taken to be interrogated using the Lasso of Hestia . Though he tried to resist the lasso's power at first, unwilling to reveal military secrets, he nonetheless was powerless to withstand it and admitted that he was a spy. He told them that he'd been on a mission to observe General Ludendorff and Doctor Poison , that he'd stolen the latter's research notebook, and that his escape had brought himself and the Germans to Themyscira. He described the Great War , informing them that millions of people had died. Hearing this, Diana deduced that only Ares could be behind a war of that magnitude. She tried to persuade Hippolyta to send the Amazons back with him to face the god, but her mother refused, much to Diana's confusion. Diana grabbing the God Killer sword. Later, as a healer tended to Diana's battle wounds, she noted with confusion that Diana's wounds had healed completely. Diana then visited Trevor in his cell, asking him about the outside world. Due to his words, Diana decided to sneak him off the island and confront Ares herself. She snuck into the island's tower and stole the God Killer , along with an Amazon shield , the Lasso of Hestia , and a special set of battle armor. She broke Trevor out of his cell and took him to the island's dock, where she was intercepted by her mother. To her surprise, Hippolyta allowed Diana to leave, gifting her Antiope's tiara. She then warned Diana to be careful, mournfully telling her that the world of men did not deserve her. She and Trevor cast the boat off into the ocean, and Diana watched as her home vanished as they passed through the island's forcefield. As they sailed, Diana told Trevor about Ares and the Amazons' mission to kill him. They then lay down for the night and discussed the concept of marriage, which Diana found odd. [ 3 ] Experiencing London Diana and Steve Trevor arriving in London . "To the war!" ―Diana upon arriving in London [src] The next day, Diana awoke to find that they had hitched a ride on a larger ship and arrived in London . She was less than pleased at the sight of the city, stating that it was hideous. As they walked through the streets of London, Diana insisted that Trevor take her to the war. She was dismayed to hear that he intended to deliver Doctor Poison's notebook to his superiors in the British War Council . Trevor promised that if he went with her to deliver the notebook, he would take her to the war. Though annoyed by the detour, Diana agreed. Trevor then realized that she was only wearing her battle armor and took her to a store to buy her some clothes. As they walked to the store, Diana was delighted to see a baby and ran toward it, with Trevor having to pull her away. At the store, the two met up with Etta Candy , Trevor's secretary. Candy was overjoyed to see Trevor alive and well. She introduced herself to Diana and offered her hand to shake, but Diana, unaware of what the gesture meant, simply asked what a secretary was. Upon hearing Candy's answer, Diana noted that the job sounded similar to slavery. Diana and Etta Candy shopping for an outfit. Candy helped Diana try on a great many outfits until she finally settled on one. Dissatisfied, thinking that she still looked too "distracting," Trevor gave her a pair of spectacles to wear. After they had paid and left the store, Diana reluctantly allowed Candy to take her sword and shield back to Trevor's office while the two took Doctor Poison's notebook to the British War Council. Diana saving Steve from a bullet. As they walked, Trevor noticed that they were being followed. He tried to lose them by taking a turn down a back alley, but instead walked straight into a German spy's gun. The man ordered Trevor to give the notebook back; he refused, instead headbutting the man. He told Diana to stay back at the man took aim and shot at them. Diana reached out her arm, blocking the bullet off her gauntlet and saving Trevor's life. Diana then fought the German spies single-handedly; her spectacles were crushed in the fight. As one of the spies tried to make his escape, Candy blocked his exit, brandishing the God Killer . Diana used her lasso to trap the man and ask him where Ares was. Rather than reveal any information, the spy committed suicide by swallowing a cyanide pill. [ 3 ] British War Council Diana and Trevor arrived at the British War Council 's meeting place. Trevor told her to stay behind while he retrieved one of his superiors from the war room. Curious, she followed him into the room, where dozens of men argued with each other while Sir Patrick Morgan struggled to be heard. The room fell silent as the men noticed Diana, as women were not allowed in the room; Trevor quickly escorted her out. After the meeting, Trevor's superior berated him for taking a woman into the war room. Morgan then introduced himself to Diana. She began to introduce herself as "Diana, Princess of Themyscira," but Trevor cut her off to maintain her secret identity, calling her "Diana Prince." Trevor then informed Morgan that he had managed to steal Doctor Poison's notebook. Diana meets Steve Trevor 's superiors. The British War Council quickly gathered to discuss the notebook. Their codebreakers were unable to decipher the two different languages that it was written in, but Diana quickly identified them as Ottoman and Sumerian. She read the book out loud, informing the council that Doctor Poison had created a new form of mustard gas based on hydrogen instead of sulfur, which gas masks would be useless against. Trevor pitched a mission to destroy the facility where the gas was being created, but his superiors decided against it, stating that it was too late in the war to do something as drastic as that. When Trevor argued that more soldiers would die, his superiors simply stated that that was what soldiers did. With the battle of Themyscira and the death of her aunt so fresh in her mind, Diana was infuriated by the man's comments and berated him, calling him a coward and telling the rest of the council that they should be ashamed. Trevor escorted her out as she ranted, apologizing to the council on her behalf. Outside the room, Diana confronted Trevor for not standing up to the council. Trevor then told her that they were going anyway, without the council's approval. Diana, distrustful of him for lying, did not believe him; he resorted to using the Lasso of Hestia on himself, revealing in the process that he believed it was a terrible idea and that they were going to die. [ 3 ] Gathering Allies Steve then took Diana to a local tavern to gather reinforcements in the form of his friends, a spy named Sameer and a sniper named Charlie . She was dismayed to see them, as she did not consider them capable fighters or even good men. Sameer was enamored by Diana upon seeing her, something she did not appreciate. Diana meeting Sameer and Charlie . Diana, Trevor, Sameer, and Charlie sat at a table together as Trevor proposed his plan to them. Sameer and Charlie were willing to join them, if they were paid for the job. Trevor, however, had no money. The two refused the job. Sameer told Diana that all the payment he needed was a photograph of her; Diana countered that he wouldn't need one, as she was going with them. He and Charlie were baffled by her response. Diana stops the gunman. As they talked, a drunken man who Charlie had gotten into a fight with earlier walked up to him, pointing a gun at his head. Before he could pull the trigger, Diana grabbed the gun from his hand and shoved him away, hurling across the room. Candy then joined the group, with Morgan in tow. The group was initially nervous to see him, as their plan was going against the direct orders of the British War Council , but Morgan assured them that he was there to help. He told them that their actions were admirable and gave Trevor a large sum of money as payment for Sameer and Charlie's help. [ 3 ] Belgium The next day, the group left for the train that would take them to the war front in Belgium. Diana tried ice cream for the first time at the train station, which she greatly enjoyed. In Belgium, Trevor informed Diana that they were to meet with another friend of his, a smuggler known as Chief . She observed with distaste the company they were keeping, noting that they were liars, murderers, and smugglers. As they left the train station, Diana began to notice a steady stream of wounded soldiers coming from battle. She was horrified by their injuries. The group took a ride on a small ship that Trevor had arranged for. They walked through the rest of the day, eventually arriving to Chief's camp at night. Chief introduced himself to Diana as Napi. That night, as the others slept around Chief's fire, Diana mistook the cannon fire as for strange thunder. Charlie was awoken by a nightmare. Diana tried to comfort him, but he pushed her away in and left the camp. Chief then told Diana that Charlie was haunted by the people he had killed as a marksman. [ 3 ] The Wonder Men Diana on No Man's Land . The following day, they go to No Man's Land where Diana sees that the people living in the villages were suffering as well. After this, she decides to go into No Man's Land, changing into her armor and blocking the bullets with her bracelets and her shield with the assist of the Wonder Men , led by Steve Trevor. Wonder Men is honoured with a photograph. She fights off against a group of German soldiers in a warehouse meeting the rest of Steve Trevor's team fighting off more Germans that were invading the village. The citizens of that town see Diana as a hero. In honor of Wonder Woman and Steve Trevor's team's bravery, a photograph was taken of her with Steve Trevor's team. She then sees Steve on the phone with Sir Patrick Morgan , and suddenly decides that General Ludendorff is really Ares. Later on, Steve and Diana are seen dancing where they finally accept they have feelings for each other and they kiss, after which they proceed to spend the night together. [ 3 ] Infiltrating Ludendorff's Gala Diana during Ludendorff's gala. The next day, they decided to infiltrate Ludendorff's gala to learn more about the weapon he and Doctor Poison are creating and how to stop it. To enter the gala, Diana stole a dress from a guest where she dances with. She is prepared to kill Ludendorff, but her attempt is intervened by Steve. She hears Ludendorff release some of the gas where it kills citizens from that town. Feeling devastated, Diana was distressed by this event blames Steve for interfering with her assassination attempt on Ludendorff thinking the people could have been saved with him already being dead and realizes that Ares has corrupted everyone. [ 3 ] Infiltration of Ludendorff's Base Diana confronts Ludendorff . "I am Diana of Themyscira, daughter of Hippolyta, Queen of the Amazons. And your wrath upon this world is over. In the name of all that is good in this world, I hereby complete the mission of the Amazons, by ridding this world of you forever!" ―Wonder Woman to Erich Ludendorff [src] Diana impaling Ludendorff . Receiving a signal from Chief , she infiltrates Ludendorff's base. She and General Ludendorff fight each other where Diana ferociously and savagely killed him. Thinking that killing Ludendorff would solve the problem, she gets confused when she sees the German soldiers loading the weapons onto the planes thinking that humankind is corrupted and it doesn't deserve her help. [ 3 ] Meeting Ares Diana fights against Ares . "I WILL DESTROY YOU!" "Goodbye, brother." ― Ares and Wonder Woman [src] Diana sees Sir Patrick Morgan in the base, who reveals himself to be the true Ares , and tells her of his plan for a world without humanity by having them destroy each other. Ares proposes that Diana help him accomplish his vision of paradise, but Diana promptly refuses, not wanting to kill billions of innocents. Ares then reluctantly engages her in an epic battle while Steve and his comrades attempt to dismantle the plane harboring the mustard gas. During the fight, Steve approaches Diana who can't hear him speak due to an explosion temporarily rupturing her eardrums. Steve, after much talking, departs and leaves Diana with his watch before boarding the plane which is taking off with the mustard gas. Ares eventually restrains Diana, imploring her to surrender and realize the futility of their fight. Diana notices the plane in the sky as she's pinned to the ground and watches in horror as it explodes with Steve sacrificing himself to save billions of lives. Diana unleashing her true power. Enraged, Diana breaks free and begins attacking the remaining German troops at the compound. Ares attempts to manipulate the distraught warrior by presenting her with Doctor Poison , saying she should kill her as she fittingly represents the worst of humanity and the evil it can possess as he predicted to Zeus and the other Old Gods. Diana absorbs Ares ' lightning. Diana lifts a tank ready to crush Doctor Poison with it, but hesitates when she thinks about the love and compassion that Steve brought to her life when she realizes that he professed his love for her before leaving to sacrifice himself. Dropping the tank, Diana spares Doctor Poison, telling Ares that he is wrong about humanity. She tells him that while humans are everything Ares says and can be capable of the worst crimes, she's learned that they are equally capable of so much more: unbridled love and compassion. Ares engages Diana in a final fight, but is defeated after she fully embraces her powers as the God Killer and blasts Ares with powerful divine lightning. The soldiers, free from Ares' corruption, stop their fighting, thereby finally ending the war. [ 3 ] Aftermath of the War Diana seeing Steve 's picture. Returning to London where the people are celebrating the end of the war, Diana notices a memorial with pictures of deceased soldiers who fought in the war with Steve being among them. Diana lovingly strokes Steve's picture before closing her eyes to take in the world being at peace once again. [ 3 ] A Century of Horrors Living in Man's World Despite helping win the war, defeating Ares and still loving humanity, Diana is still left sobered, emotionally broken, psychologically scarred, and devastated over not having been able to save the Belgian village from Dr. Poison , as well as over her beloved Steve Trevor 's self-sacrificing death however she was inspired by his selfless act & love that shows her that humanity is worth believing & protecting despite their flaws so she vows to continues that however as a mysterious female savior since not interested in the fame. Wonder Woman later fought in World War II . [ 6 ] Although her exploits in helping humanity remained largely unrecorded, the resulting legend of 'Wonder Woman' persisted. At some point, a comic was made by the company All Star Comix that based it upon her known likeness. [ 7 ] Diana and Etta in front of the New York City skyline. After the death of all the other members of the Wonder Men , Diana and Etta Candy left London to live in the United States of America . [ 6 ] Circa the 1950s, she and Etta traveled to New York City , where they took a photo together in front of the city skyline from out on the water. [ 5 ] Etta died sometime before 1984 . [ 6 ] Life in 1984 This section requires expansion Diana and Barbara investigate the dreamstone . By 1984, Diana had become a senior anthropologist at the Smithsonian Institute in Washington, D.C., specializing in the culture of ancient Mediterranean civilizations. [ 5 ] In the mix, she interfered at the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History when a group of gunmen broke in to steal the famous Noble Diamond , thwarting them. [ 8 ] She would later prevent a mall robbery in Virginia on her way to work. Shortly afterward, she met and befriended a new co-worker, Barbara Ann Minerva who had just slipped on her way in, dropping and scattering all her papers, Diana assisted her in picking up the mess. She was an insecure woman who idolized and envied Diana for her beauty and confidence. In the mix, aspiring businessman Max Lord visited the Smithsonian in search of a mysterious Dreamstone which seemingly granted wishes upon contact with any user. Both Diana and Barbara unknowingly used the stone to fulfill their own desires. Diana wished for Steve Trevor to return into her life, causing his soul to take over another man's body. When she attended a quarterly fundraising gala, Trevor found her. [ 5 ] Chase towards Cairo This section requires expansion Together, Diana, Steve, and Barbara tried to investigate the Dreamstone's power further and discover that it was created by Dolos - the god of treachery and mischief. The stone granted a user their wish but exacted a toll, much like in "The Monkey's Paw", and the only way to reverse the exchange was by renouncing the wish or destroying the stone itself. Steve realized that his existence came at the cost of Diana's powers, while Barbara's cost was her warmth and goodness. Both Diana and Barbara were unwilling to renounce their wishes and give up what they were given, and attempted to find alternative solutions. During celebrations of Independence Day in Washington, D.C. , Diana and Steve hijacked a tactical jet in the National Air and Space Museum and used it to fly to Egypt. She went on to chase Maxwell Lord, only to lose him in Cairo . Showdown at the White House White House showdown . Meanwhile, aspiring businessman Max Lord came to personify the stone through his own wish, and subsequently became a powerful and influential figure, while leaving chaos and destruction in his wake. Upon learning from the U.S. President of a satellite broadcast system that could transmit signals globally, he chose to use it to grant wishes to the entire world. This would make him nearly invincible as he stole the things people cherished most. Diana was betrayed by Barbara when she revealed she had used her wish to become Diana's equal and joined forces with Maxwell to keep him safe from Diana herself. Diana confronted Maxwell in the White House where she was defeated by Barbara, and unable to use her power to heal or stop the terrible things Maxwell wanted to accomplish. More determined than ever, Steve convinced Diana to let go of him and renounce her wish. The process was emotionally painful for Diana who vowed to Steve that she would never love again, though he hoped that wasn't true. As she walked away she renounced her wish and regained her strength in the process, allowing her to take to the skies once more. [ 5 ] Confrontation at the Atmospheric Scatter Satellite Returning home, she proceeded to don the armor of the legendary Amazon warrior Asteria and travel to the broadcast station. There, she fought against Barbara, who had made a second wish to become an apex predator, transforming her into Cheetah , a self-describing hybrid. The fight between the pair was brutal and caused the destruction of the armor's wings. Diana attempted to convince Cheetah to renounce her wish but she refused, not caring about the consequences of her actions due to her morality and humanity have been stripped away. Diana ultimately defeated Cheetah by restraining her underwater, but took pity on her, knowing that she simply wanted to be strong, not malevolent. Arriving to confront Maxwell, Diana used her Lasso of Truth to communicate with the world through him, convincing everyone to renounce their wishes, with remarkable success. With the wishes renounced, the world was restored to its former imperfection. Maxwell reunited with his son and the conflict ended for Diana. [ 5 ] Chance Encounter Having saved the world from destruction, Diana had finally accepted the truth that Steve is gone, having refused to pay the price anymore by not bringing him back, and was now continuing protecting the world whenever it was needed. Although she had returned to her isolated existence, she was happily observing the people to know what they are capable these days. In this current climate, Diana had a chance encounter at a fair, where she met the man whose body Steve had previously inhabited. [ 5 ] She was shortly thereafter scheduled to give a second tour to Jazz , Teo , and Teo's friend after their tour the previous week. [ 8 ] Subsequent Endeavors Struggling to Move Forward At some point before the 21st century, Diana replaces her destroyed sword with the Sword of Athena , slays more sinister "beings from other worlds," & when not using the sword ,she continues performing heroic acts but remains incognito. Eventually she moves to France , and becomes a professional antiquities dealer, with the Louvre Museum employing her as the Curator for the Department of Antiquities. [ 9 ] At an orphanage in Gotham, 'Wonder Woman' had a fan in at least one girl who believed that she was a superior hero to both Batman and Superman . [ 10 ] Diana in Paris . After examining the photo of Wonder Woman and the Wonder Men taken in 1918 Belgium, Lex Luthor uses facial recognition software to deduce that the great superheroic Amazon warrior is in fact still alive, under the alias of "Diana Prince," working at the Louvre Museum , and he obtains footage of Diana in Paris, France , which has her exiting a taxi and entering a shop, in civilian clothing. [ 11 ] Meeting Bruce Wayne Diana listening to Luthor 's speech. "The other night, you took something that didn't belong to you. Stealing is not polite." "Is it stealing if you steal from another thief?" ― Bruce Wayne and Diana Prince [src] Diana eventually became aware that Lex Luthor had in his possession the photograph of her and the Wonder Men , the only picture of her together with her deceased beloved even if she accepted the truth that he is gone. Diana departs, with Bruce Wayne 's device. Hence, in an effort to finally reclaim it and Steve's memory, Diana flew from France to the United States , and managed to get invited to a charity function hosted by Lex Luthor at his villa, an event which is also attended by Gotham City billionaire Bruce Wayne and illustrious Daily Planet reporter Clark Kent . During his greeting speech, Lex made a reference to how Zeus cruelly punished the Titan Prometheus for enlightening humankind, much to the visible dismay of Diana. Shortly thereafter, she covertly stole a hacking device of Bruce Wayne 's, who is likewise investigating Lex Luthor. She exited the party with Bruce pursuing her, but manages to make it to her car and drive off just in time for Bruce to see her depart. Diana is confronted by Bruce Wayne . Later, Diana is seen in the Gotham City Museum of Antiquities (with ancient Greco-Roman exhibits), conversing with an elderly couple, when the curator comes up, and offers to show her something of interest. She politely excuses herself and follows him to the exhibit of the fake replica of Alexander the Great's sword, which the ancient conqueror of the Middle East had used to cut the Gordian knot. While Diana stood admiring the replica, Bruce Wayne appeared. He proceeds to angrily confront her by grabbing Diana's arm and asking her about the information device that she had stolen. Bruce claims to see right through her "babe in the woods" act, saying that while Diana doesn't know him, he's met "a few women like [her]." Diana, however, calmly smiles and retorts that Bruce has never met any women like her. She then proceeds to tell Bruce that she was unable to obtain anything from Bruce's device, due to Lex Luthor 's data having military-grade encryption. Diana explains her intention to re-obtain her photograph from Luthor, stating that she only borrowed Bruce's device, and has already returned it to him shortly beforehand (placing it into the glove compartment of his car), before calmly excusing herself and leaving. [ 11 ] Bruce Wayne Discovers Her Existence Diana, observing the metahuman files with curiosity. "Found your photograph. But it doesn't belong to you... It IS you. Who are you? Where have you been?" ― Bruce 's email to Diana [src] Still puzzled as to Diana's identity, Bruce discovers more about her amongst the data he stole from Lex Luthor . He sees a photograph of her alongside the Wonder Men , taken in Belgium in 1918 during the closing days of World War I & asking the mysterious female savior of where she’s been. He then makes contact with her via her laptop, sharing extra information that Luthor had on both her and other metahumans , such as the Flash , Aquaman , and Cyborg . Diana is visibly intrigued and shocked at this revelation, as Flash's lightning reminds her of that of Ares , Aquaman reminds her of depictions of Poseidon , while the Mother Box that created Cyborg reminds her of the one she briefly saw back on Themyscira . Diana needs to take some time to think this revelation over, does not answer Bruce's e-mail, and instead proceeds with her plans to depart Metropolis on a flight back to France , through Turkey . [ 11 ] The Death of Superman Battle with Doomsday Wonder Woman, Batman , and Superman , united against Doomsday "That thing is from another world. My world ." "I've killed things from other worlds before." Is she with you?" "I thought she was with you." ― Superman , Wonder Woman, and Batman [src] When news broke of Doomsday 's attack on Metropolis , Diana was boarding an airplane bound for Turkey. Seeing what was happening, Diana reflects on what Steve said to her before that the world needs her so she is forced unto the big stage, left the flight before takeoff and dons her Wonder Woman armor and weapons before heading for Gotham City to help Batman and Superman in their battle against this incredibly powerful monstrous opponent. Wonder Woman attacks Doomsday . As Wonder Woman joins the Battle against Doomsday , she arrives just in time to save Batman from Doomsday 's lethal thermal blast, deflecting the beams with her indestructible bracelets . She then jointly attacks Doomsday with Superman while Batman tries to expose the creature to kryptonite , allowing its destruction. She relentlessly battles the monster, and despite Doomsday being stronger, Wonder Woman held her own, parrying a tremendous punch with the Sword of Athena , and then slicing off Doomsday's right arm with it. Eventually, Batman baits the monster into coming closer to her, allowing Wonder Woman to hurl the noose of her unbreakable Lasso of Hestia around his torso. Superman then promptly flew back, wielding the Kryptonite Spear , and managed to impale the monster's chest. The mortally wounded Doomsday bellowed in agony, releasing immense amounts of electricity from his body, which made Wonder Woman momentary lose her footing, loosening the lasso's hold and allowing the monster to mortally impale Superman. While a visibly shell-shocked and saddened Batman promptly retrieves Superman's lifeless body (enveloping him in his own cape), Wonder Woman takes the body from Batman, gently placing it on the ground before them. Lois proceeds to cradle and weep over her fallen beloved, as Wonder Woman and Batman stand next to her in respectful lamenting silence, with Wonder Woman empathically giving Lois a comforting glance, as she had been in the same position as Lois was with Steve before. Wonder Woman was astounded by Superman's selflessness, equaling that of Steve Trevor's own and was equally saddened at his death, due to now not having the chance to get to know Superman but inspired by him to come out of the shadows despite doing the good thing especially as a mysterious female savior while also understanding on what it means to be symbol despite not being one because she’s afraid of losing or hurting them since those important to her  . [ 11 ] Dawn of Justice Diana and Bruce Wayne attend Clark Kent's funeral . "The others like me, why do you say they will have to fight?" ―Diana [src] Diana attends Clark 's funeral in Smallville along with Bruce, with the latter paying for it as an anonymous donor. The two share a conversation about honoring Superman by bringing together the three other metahumans , in case a worse threat to the world should ever arise. Diana inquires why Bruce is proposing it. He replies that it is simply due to a feeling he has that things will imminently get worse (in reality, he was following the instructions given to him by the time-traveler .) Considering Bruce 's offer, Diana meanwhile returns to her job as Curator for the Department of Antiquities [ 9 ] at the Louvre Museum . Bruce sends Diana a package, which contains the original, physical photograph of herself with the Wonder Men . She sends a thankful e-mail for bringing Steve back to her even if she accepted that he’s gone awhile ago. Diana then dons her Wonder Woman armor after hearing a disturbance in the distance of Paris by sailing off the roof of the museum at sunset in Paris to confront it. [ 3 ] Rescue at the Old Bailey Courthouse "I don't believe it." "Believe it." ―The terrorist leader and Wonder Woman [src] Wonder Woman interrogates a terrorist. In London , a small group of reactionary terrorists took over the Old Bailey Courthouse , taking several hostages including a school field trip. Diana stormed the building and used the Lasso of Hestia to compel one of the terrorists to tell her their plans. He revealed that their leader had a bomb powerful enough to destroy several city blocks while the world media will watch. Diana took out the terrorists and neutralizes the bomb. The terrorist leader then tried to kill the hostages with a gun, but Diana protected the hostages by deflecting bullets with her bracelets, killing the leader. [ 2 ] Coming Together Assembling the League Diana working at the Louvre Museum . "What did you do this weekend, Diana?" "Nothing very interesting." ―Louvre Museum employee and Diana [src] At the Louvre Museum , Diana watched a news report showing a signal fire burning at the Shrine of the Amazons and knew that it had been sent by her mother to warn of the impending invasion . Diana traveled to the shrine and discovered a painting of Darkseid 's invasion of earth . Traveling to Gotham , she broke into Bruce's base of operations to find him tinkering with a new prototype troop carrier, the Flying Fox . It reminded her of someone she thinks of who would have loved to have flown it. Bruce tells her that he believes an invasion is imminent; she corrects him. It has already arrived. Diana and Bruce discuss about Darkseid's first invasion. Diana fills Bruce in on Darkseid and the Mother Boxes and the story of his first invasion of the Earth. Knowing that they need to pull a team together, Bruce plans to go after Barry Allen . [ 2 ] Recruiting Cyborg This section requires expansion Diana meets Victor . "The world needs you, Victor. And maybe you need us, too." ―Diana to Victor Stone [src] Using Bruce's equipment, Diana tries to track down Victor. Victor is aware of Bruce's interest in him; due to his connection to information and security systems, Victor hacks in the computers to send Diana a message. Diana and Victor meet face to face, and tries to convince him to join them. Victor refuses and flies off. [ 2 ] Skirmish under Gotham Harbor "This one will be mine." "I belong to no one!" ― Steppenwolf and Wonder Woman [src] Wonder Woman and the heroes observing Steppenwolf . While Bruce came back to Gotham and brought Barry Allen with the airplane, Diana awaited for their arrival. Bruce asked if she found Cyborg , to which her answer is that she and Stone spoke and told them to give him time. Diana then introduced herself to Allen, as he mistakenly said the names wrong for his introduction. Just then, Allen pointed out the Bat Signal shining in the sky, meaning the Justice League should get going. The Justice League receives intel from Commissioner James Gordon that the Parademons are traveling underground. Meanwhile, they go to find Steppenwolf interrogating the S.T.A.R. Labs employees about the final Mother Box. Wonder Woman fighting Steppenwolf . Wonder Woman helps out by attacking the Parademons and taking Steppenwolf to a different part of the factory. When Steppenwolf commanded his Parademon soldiers to let him handle Wonder Woman alone, she spoke with the New God General, trying to tell him that he would overestimate himself, but Steppenwolf prepared to fight her with his own axe while saying it still has the blood of her Amazon sisters. Diana is knocked out by a Parademon . Batman then jumped down into the Knightcrawler and saved Wonder Woman after a Parademon managed to briefly knock her out. The Knightcrawler got attacked by Steppenwolf, and Flash helped Wonder Woman get her sword so she can help Batman. Diana catching her sword with the help of Flash . Flash and Wonder Woman get attacked by Steppenwolf and the Parademons before Batman helps her by killing one of the Parademons. Cyborg then falls into the Knightcrawler and hacks it in his control, which he uses it against Steppenwolf. But the Knightcrawler fails when Steppenwolf caught the missile and threw it against the wall, which then causes the harbor to flood which allows Steppenwolf to escape. Before Diana could get hit with the flooding water, Aquaman comes and saves the team by using his trident to hold back the water while the League escaped. [ 2 ] Superman's Resurrection "He's back." ―Wonder Woman after Superman's resurrection [src] The team returns to the Batcave, and discusses a new plan. Victor explains that the mother boxes are "change machines", and they can bring things back to life. Bruce states they should use the Mother Box to bring Superman back to life believing that they need Superman to restore hope in humanity. Diana and Arthur are hesitant about the idea, but Bruce forms a secret contingency plan. The team put Clark's body in the waters of the Kryptonian ship, using Allen's Speed Force energy to activate the Box, causing the resurrection of Superman. Wonder Woman witnesses the return of Superman He flies out of the Kryptonian ship and lands in Heroes Park where Aquaman, Cyborg, Flash and Wonder Woman meet him. They notice that something is wrong with him, to which Clark uses his x-ray vision to scan the League before Cyborg's armor's defense system launches a missile at him as it registers him as a threat. Superman attacks Cyborg with his heat vision as the rest of the Justice League try to subdue him, but he swiftly overpowers them. Wonder Woman fights Superman As Diana, Victor and Arthur all try to simultaneously flank Superman (albeit unsuccessfully), Barry attempts to help using his speed, but Superman is able to see him and keeps up with the speedster. Despite Barry's best efforts, Superman is able to land a glancing blow, knocking him out before Batman arrives and gets Superman to stop. Wonder Woman tries to fight Superman again, yet she's knocked down. Before Superman could kill Batman, Lois Lane comes to stop him. Superman then flies away with Lois. Battle of Pozharnov "All right." "Kal-El" ― Aquaman and Wonder Woman witnessing Superman's arrival. [src] The Justice League getting ready to battle Steppenwolf . The Justice League uses Flying Fox to Pozharnov to stop Steppenwolf from being the Mother Boxes together, the team plan how there going to stop Steppenwolf, Batman tells the team that he going to take out the tower while the reason of the League will separate the Mother Boxes. Batman destroys the tower, but the controls on the Flying Fox also didn't reporting, which caused it to crash, but Bruce got in the Batmobile and used a siren to get the attention of the Parademons, this allows the rest to get to the Mother Boxes without any problems. Wonder Woman fighting Parademons . Diana confronts Steppenwolf with Cyborg and Aquaman, ignoring the New God's taunts of how she wasn't at Themyscira to protect her sisters when Steppenwolf attacked it. As Flash charges up, Cyborg gest to the Mother Boxes, while Batman takes care of the Parademons. While Cyborg tries to separate the Mother Boxes, Diana and Arthur battle Steppenwolf. Steppenwolf finds out that Cyborg is trying to separate the Mother Boxes, which he grabs him before Wonder Woman saves him. Wonder Woman, Aquaman and Cyborg preparing to fight Steppenwolf . Diana and Arthur try to keep Steppenwolf away from Cyborg by using the Lasso of Hestia to pull him down. Steppenwolf tries to taunt Diana about how the Amazons fell before Steppenwolf's might, including her mother, but Diana saw through his deception. He attacked them both before he knocks Arthur into a wall breaking the ceiling before Diana saves him. Before Steppenwolf could kill Cyborg, Superman comes and saves him, by easily overpowering the New God and breaking his axe. But even with Superman, the Boom Tube to Apokolips opens with Darkseid at the helm and his army standing by. Flash is severely injured from the Parademons and the Unity synchronizes, to the horror of all. But Flash uses his powers to reverse time and brings the charge to Cyborg, allowing him to link into the Unity and break it apart from the inside. Victor calls Superman for help with the Mother Boxes, allowing them to separate and destroy them. Steppenwolf is not down yet and tries to attack, but is stabbed by Arthur in the back and lifted before Superman punches him. Diana then jumps and slices Steppenwolf's head, the New God's body flying through the Boom Tube to Darkseid where he crushes his head. Diana is then seen with the rest of the Justice League facing Darkseid before the Boom Tube closes. [ 2 ] The Justice League standing victorious on a rooftop. A New World The League of Justice After the defeat of Steppenwolf, the League observed the beauty of the small town in Russia and later on, Diana helped Bruce Wayne move forward with plans to expand the League with more at the empty Wayne Manor as their base. Diana also captured art thieves at a museum who are lassoed and she was greeted by kids. [ 2 ] At a later point in time, at least one newspaper reported on Wonder Woman denying the rumor that she and Aquaman were supposedly dating. [ 12 ] Peacemaker once claimed to have been at a party that Wonder Woman was also attending and that she was attracted to him, despite also admitting to have never met her. [ 13 ] Conflict with Doctor Cyber At some point during her heroic career, Wonder Woman entered in conflict with the supervillain known as Doctor Cyber , causing her enemy decided to travel to another reality to make her plans without the intervention of Diana. [ 14 ] Project Butterfly Wonder Woman arrives with the Justice League too late to assist the 11th Street Kids. "You're late, you fucking dickheads!" ― Peacemaker to the Justice League [src] In January 2021 , Leota Adebayo informed her boss and mother Amanda Waller about the current crisis point with the Butterfly alien invasion. She suggested to Waller to call in the Justice League. Leota was promptly reminded that they had no time to wait for backup. Diana, along with Clark Kent , Arthur Curry and Barry Allen managed to make it to the site of Coverdale ranch just as Peacemaker and the rest of the 11th Street Kids were heading out of the site. Peacemaker hurled several insults at the League as they left. [ 15 ] Attack of the Retrobots "Arresting innocent people is not justice. We need to find who did this and why." "I couldn't agree more." ―Wonder Woman and Wonderous Serena [src] Wonder Woman and Wonderous Serena on action. Eventually, Diana would be forced to intervene in a stadium which was being invaded by retrobots . Upon arriving, Wonder Woman would save a civilian who was about to be attacked using her lasso of truth, while she would see that a heroine helped her. In that, Wonder Woman and Wonderous Serena would introduce themselves to meet while continuing to defend the place, Wonderous would explain to Diana that the retrobots came from her universe. Wonder Woman and Wonderous Serena trying to dodge retrobots . Serena explained that retrobots arrest anyone who they considered could commit a crime despite not doing so, so that Diana would see it as unfair. Meanwhile, Wonderous Serena would warn some civilians to leave the stadium due to the danger posed by the retrobots. Seeing more retrobots arriving from a portal, Diana proposed to help Serena return to her universe to stop the invasion. Both would try to run to the portal, however a retrobot would shoot them, so Wonderous Serena would return the shot. Wonderous Serena and Diana infiltrating on S.T.A.R. Labs . Seeing that going to the portal would be very dangerous due to the number of retrobots that guarded the place, Wonderous Serena was would happen to infiltrate in a S.T.A.R. Laboratory upon seeing a debris from a retrobot containing the logo. The heroines would then infiltrate the labs in search of some similar portal technology in the universe that would allow them to travel, entering cautiously so that the retrobots guarding they would not see them. Diana helping Wonderous Serena . Inside the labs, they would find a room with the name of retribution, so they went inside, Wonderous went through some blueprints that appeared to be similar to the original prototype, so Diana would help her, where she told her that the threat may be affecting both universes. Finally, they would find a sign for S.T.A.R. Labs of their land, seeing the frequency, would realize that they needed a blast of energy. Wonder Woman detains a retrobot . Wonder Woman would hear a retrobot approach to the room, so she was in charge of destroying it with her Lasso of Truth , the retrobot would collide with a door although she was able to launch a shot, that shot would be returned by Wonderous Serena with her racket, but crashing erroneously above the ground, causing a close explosion to the heroines. [ 16 ] Wonder Woman and Wonderous Serena introduce themselves to their counterparts. The explosion caused both to travel to the universe of Wonderous Serena, who woke up on the ground with a little pain when hitting the head. Diana saw a retrobot approaching what was warned by Wonderous, however both were saved by Serena Williams and an alternative version of herself . Between confusion, all explained to be alternate versions of themselves but quickly acted when more retrobots approached. Wonder Woman and her companions arrive at the retrobots' main office. While running for survive, Diana asked her new companions to help them enter the offices by facilitating access. In that moment, Wonder Woman by seeing the retrobots protected a door deduced that the responsible hid there, so they all entered by destroying the door and causing an explosion. Upon the team on action entered prepared to attack, Wonder Woman was surprised by recognizing Doctor Cyber with confusion and asking for her. Wonder Woman detains Doctor Cyber with her Lasso of Truth . Doctor Cyber welcomed Wonder Woman and Wonderous Serena with irony, amazing that they have found her along with their new companions. The Doctor Cybeer then proceeded to attack the team using her super speed while she explained her plans, causing tennis players to distract Dr. Cyber by multiple angles. Wonderous Serena gave a scream to Diana to use her Lasso of Truth at the time, causing her to stop by falling on the ground. Wonder Woman interrogates Doctor Cyber . As a result, Doctor Cyber was tied by the Lasso on her arms, forcing her to tell the truth. When Diana asked about the location of the prisoners, Cyber revealed that they were in the cells in the basement. Diana Prince from the other dimension was surprised to see the power of the lasso saying it was amazing, so Diana told her that she was amazing too. Wonderous Serena then continued to give Doctor Cyber recall orders. Wonder Woman and her companions save the Cyber 's prisoners. Wonder Woman and the team headed to the location to open the door and rescue the prisoners by removing their handcuffs. Having freed them, Diana went to Williams to tell her that they should take the families back to their realities, however Williams decided to take Mikayla Johnson 's parents with Kym first to reunite them with her again, while Wonder Woman took the others. [ 14 ] Resurrecting Billy Batson Wonder Woman presents herself in front of Batson's family. "It was an amazing thing you did, the sacrifice you made. You brought this world back to life. Maybe this time gods and humans learn to live in peace. Use the powers of Zeus wisely." ―Wonder Woman to Billy Batson [src] Receiving a letter from Billy Batson and learning about his noble sacrifice to save Philadelphia , Diana decided to travel to Mount Olympus to restore the power of the Staff of the Gods so she could resurrect him. There, watching the family's funeral, Diana heard the wizard Shazam mention that there were no gods to restore the magic of the staff, so she presented herself as one. Wonder Woman restores the power of the Staff of the Gods . Surprising the entire Batson family and walking to the staff, Wonder Woman took the item raising it with her hands and summoning lightning into the sky that thundered over Batson's grave, causing all the surrounding fauna in the Mount Olympus to be restored as well, along with the powers of Anthea as Diana watched and handed the staff to the wizard. Wonder Woman talks to Billy Batson . Suddenly, Diana watched as Batson came out of his grave and hugged his family, but when Batson saw Wonder Woman, he went excited to meet her, happy that she read her letter. Wonder Woman however noted that Batson had a spider in his mouth, and proceeded to comment that his bravery to save Philadelphia was incredible. Wonder Woman leaves Mount Olympus . Thanking him for restoring life on the Mount and asking him to use the power of Zeus wisely, Wonder Woman then started to leave, to which Batson tried to flirt with her saying that he was turning 18, asking her to have a date, but a flattered Wonder Woman asked him to dedicate to saving the world. [ 17 ] Attack at the Wayne Foundation Science and Technology Conference When a group of ex-marines attacked the Wayne Foundation Science and Technology Conference, Wonder Woman, together with Aquaman and Flash, were quick to respond to the threat. Upon arriving, Aquaman directed her to clear the bystanders, but Wonder Woman pointed out that she was every bit the warrior he was. They soon learned that the group they were fighting had been kicked out of the marines for stealing classified information, and had used that same information to create a Meta Bomb out of Apokoliptian residual energies that could reprogram DNA, a bomb that had seemingly been brought to the conference. Wonder Woman asserted the fact that there would always be people unwilling to believe in the better nature of superhumans, regardless of their good deeds, even as she used the Lasso of Truth to wrangle three of the ex-marines. One of the ex-marines then managed to damage the Meta Bomb, right before Wonder Woman managed to attack and subdue her. Wonder Woman then pointed out that the weapon was breached and unstable, its effects becoming more apparent. As Flash and Aquaman began giving out suggestions, Wonder Woman pointed out that Aquaman's plan to bring the Meta Bomb to the Hudson River was dangerous. Aquaman however, was resolute in his plan, flying off with the bomb as Wonder Woman watched from the ground. After Aquaman returned from disposing the bomb, Wonder Woman informed Aquaman and Flash that she would be bringing the captured ex-marines to Fort Hamilton, where she supposedly still had a few friends. Aquaman then thanked her, mentioning how busy he was especially in light of his wedding plans. Flash was surprised by the comment, grasping Wonder Woman's shoulder in shock, while Wonder Woman stated that it was "About time". [ 18 ] Chase of Al Falcone Wonder Woman arrives to help Batman . "Well... I have to run. Always a pleasure." ―Wonder Woman to Batman and Flash [src] After Batman chased Al Falcone and his crew to a bridge where Batman managed to take down most of Falcone's crew, but was now dangling from the edge of the bridge, holding onto Falcone. Wonder Woman arrived in time to pull Batman and Falcone back onto the bridge using the Lasso of Truth. Flash then arrived, having saved multiple babies at a hospital, and attempted to free Batman from the Lasso of Truth as he started to talk about his feelings. Wonder Woman laughed at their revelations before flying off. [ 19 ] Personality "They do not deserve your protection!" "It's not about deserve. It's about what you believe. And I believe in love." ― Ares and Diana [src] Diana is a very kind, loving, compassionate, and strong-willed person, who, while initially somewhat naïve, has become all the wiser through her time in Man's World. An outspoken egalitarian, she fights for what she believes in and generally for the betterment of mankind through love and mutual understanding, as taught to her by her mother and fellow Amazons. [ 20 ] Growing up, Diana also proved herself headstrong and determined to do what she wanted, such as training in hand-to-hand combat under her aunt Antiope 's tutelage despite her mother initially forbidding it. In this way she is quite stubborn; if she believes something is the right thing to do, then she will do it - as evidenced by her attempt to leave Themyscira without her mother's permission and insistence in attending Ludendorff's gala despite Steve telling her not to. Alongside her kindness and compassion, however, Diana was also a very naïve idealist when she first arrived in "Man's World," blindly believing that all men were corrupted by Ares and that the World War I Central Powers would simply abandon their sinister ways if she killed him. This blind naivety also translated to explicit indignation whenever she was treated with disrespect due to her status as a woman, such as when she was ignored by members of the War Office. Alongside this, Diana also voiced her opinions rather bluntly upon her arrival, such as when she perceived Etta Candy 's job as Steve Trevor 's secretary to be akin to slavery (which earns Diana Etta's admiration). Despite her outspokenness and behavior in Man's World, however, Diana remained very caring and compassionate, as demonstrated by her initially rocky relationship with Charlie and willingness to step into No Man's Land to save the village of Veld while encouraging him with compassion to sing for them By the end of the war, Diana began to lose faith in both humanity and herself after Ares opened her eyes to humanity's potential for evil. While she still believed in the power of love and compassion to change humanity for the better despite their flaws because of Steve’s declaration of love to her that showed her that, Diana was left sobered and emotionally broken over certain events from the war, such as the use of Doctor Poison 's gas to massacre the entire village of Veld, and Steve Trevor 's self-sacrificing death however she was inspired by his love & selfless act that shows her that humanity is indeed worth protecting despite their imperfections so she vows to do because she is unable to fully stop caring for and protecting humanity by keeping innocent people safe as a mysterious female savior while also continued to fight and kill other malicious beings from other worlds and did everything in her power to prevent Max Lord 's apocalyptic agenda. In spite of her sophisticated line of work, Diana was clearly an introvert at heart with few friends. This did not mean she was closed off from human connection, however, as she and Barbara Maxwell bonded rather quickly. When she saw what the power of the wishing relic was almost ready to do to the entire world, she made the ultimate sacrifice by heavyheartedly revoking her wish to be reunited with Trevor — ironically, the Amazonian who had still had belief in humanity despite their imperfections was the very first to revoke her wish, having done so purely out of selflessness. Upon witnessing the destruction of the seemingly unstoppable Doomsday , Diana joined to battle him alongside Batman and Superman . After witnessing Superman's sacrifice to stop the monster, and after Bruce's appeal to her underlying belief in the inherent good of humanity even though she understands the complexities of human nature because humanity is both good and bad by sending her the original photograph of her and the Wonder Men & sends Bruce a thankful email of him bringing him back Steve Trevor even if she accepted the truth that Steve is gone thirty yrs ago since she can’t have it all even though he’s a memory to Diana so she’s inspired to come out of the shadows demonstrating despite how much humanity had failed or she understands that humanity is flawed but worth protecting despite being a mysterious female savior over the yrs, she still held underlying belief in her own core values and the positive effect true heroes can have on the world. While living in " Man's World " for a century following World War I tempered some of Diana's more blindly held beliefs, she still held true to her core values of kindness and compassion, and further grew into an exceptionally considerate, diplomatic, and empathetic woman. fully understanding the complexities of human nature. This can be seen when she silently emphasizes with Lois Lane after the death of Superman had been killed (recalling her own pain with Steve Trevor ) smiling knowingly when Aquaman accidentally sat on the Lasso of Hestia and confessed his fears about their upcoming mission and how attractive he found her. With all of her experiences, Diana is also the most diplomatic member of the Justice League , as evidenced by her treatment of the Flash with compassion and patience, despite his tendency to somewhat annoy her and the other Justice Leaguers with his humorous attitude, and the kindness and support she showed to Cyborg while he continued to grapple with his powers. [ 21 ] Indeed, through her compassion and unbreakable spirit, Diana has given renewed hope to many of her teammates throughout the years. For example, she motivated and inspired the Wonder Men into looking past purely monetary interests, with Chief resolving to no longer be neutral in the war, Sameer finally admitting his passion for acting, and even the depressed Charlie struggling with PTSD finally beginning to sing again for the first time in years. Likewise, during the Justice League 's battle against Steppenwolf 's forces, Wonder Woman was able to inspire confidence in the inexperienced Flash and Cyborg , assuring them that they wouldn't need to fight the Apokoliptian invasion alone. Furthermore, she was the most understanding of Superman 's confusion upon his resurrection and remained ambivalent about fighting the newly-resurrected Superman and even implored him not to force her to, showing him compassion and persistence while attempting to get him to remember who he is (even calling him by his birth name). In addition to her general willingness for empathy, however, Diana is also extremely friendly and can step back enjoy the smaller moments in life, as seen in her utter delight in experiencing ice cream and agreement with Superman (who, up until this point she had not spoken to much) about him not missing out on the positive results of their victory over Steppenwolf. Even alongside all of her kindness, compassion, and empathy, Diana is still also a warrior at heart, and when someone she cares about is hurt, becomes far more relentless and ruthless. When seemingly beaten by Ares (who was only growing more powerful from her violence, rage, and hatred), and after having to watch her beloved Steve Trevor die, she flew into an agonizing rage, and she assaulted and brutalized several armed German soldiers with immense speed and ferocity. She even came close to murdering Doctor Poison as vengeance for Steve's death; but after recalling Steve's great love for an undying belief in her and her beliefs, restrained herself and refocused her energies on Ares, harnessing her love for Trevor to overcome her violent emotions and swiftly overpower an angered Ares. Additionally, she resolved to fight even harder after Steppenwolf revealed that he had killed several other Amazons. Outside of battle, however, Diana can also react indigently and negatively towards people who disrespect her, her relatives, or those she cares about. Two such notable instances were when she shot an angry look at Lex Luthor (after he insulted her father Zeus's memory), and when she furiously shoved Batman back (after he had insulted her beloved Steve Trevor's memory). Diana also remains ruthless when facing enemies in battle as Wonder Woman, and she even shows signs of enjoying a good battle when they put up a good fight. This was seen when she briefly smiled and laughed when she was beaten to the ground by Doomsday, and smirked as she stopped the first bullet fired at a group of hostages in London. Still, Diana ultimately had a very strong regard for life and compassion for her enemies, choosing not to drown Cheetah or wish Max Lord out of existence, knowing that ending the conflict without committing murder would be far more difficult. Additionally, she only killed Ares and made more than one attempt on the life of Steppenwolf because it was clear to her that both of them were sentient beings of pure malevolence with no genuine love for anybody. Perhaps due to her Amazon background, Diana greatly respects other noble selfless warriors, as evidenced when she attended Superman 's funeral in Smallville and spoke of how he had been much more than a soldier (adding to what Batman said about Metropolis burying an empty casket). As a result of her great posthumous respect, she was, therefore, more than willing to aid Batman in honoring the heroic death of Superman, by helping round up the metahumans from Lex Luthor's files to form a team of superheroes (later known as the Justice League) to protect the world from the imminent mysterious alien invader Steppenwolf and his Parademon minions after Superman's death left the world vulnerable. In addition, Diana appears to hold members of her close family in high esteem. In addition to the respect she has for her mother, Hippolyta , and aunt Antiope , she indicated that she held her father Zeus in the same very high esteem, when she was visibly angered when Lex Luthor referred to him distastefully while discussing the story of the Titan Prometheus. Powers and Abilities Powers "You have the blood of the Old Gods in you." ― Steppenwolf [src] Amazon-Olympian Hybrid Physiology : As the hybrid offspring of an Amazon and an Old God , Wonder Woman possesses incredible superhuman physical abilities, such as inhuman strength, durability, speed, agility, stamina, reflexes and healing, as well as extended longevity, the ability to generate divine energy through her bracelets, manipulate electricity in a limited way, and cast spells. Wonder Woman's power is great enough to kill a full Old God like Ares and contend with much stronger beings like Doomsday . As such, Wonder Woman is one of the most powerful beings in the universe and the second strongest on Earth, second only to Superman. "You are stronger than you believe." ― Antiope [src] Superhuman Strength : Wonder Woman lifting a tank. As a demigoddess, Wonder Woman possesses incredible superhuman strength, making her the second strongest member of the Justice League and one of the strongest beings on Earth. She can effortlessly bend metal bars, slam through solid walls and reinforced glass, and pry open steel doors. Even before accessing her full divine powers, Wonder Woman was strong enough to dominate several Amazons during her training, knocking down one with a whip and another with a shield, as well as kicking Antiope 's sword out of her hand. Wonder Woman's strength extends to her ability to leap great distances. In a bar fight, she was able to throw a man across a room with an effortless shove of her hand. She effortlessly lifted an adult man with one arm and held him in the air, threw an armored Ehrhardt E-V/4 tank in the air with ease, effortlessly knock down many German soldiers with her shield and lasso , and deflect a missile with her shield. Diana's immense strength allowed her to fight Ares , the powerful God of War, despite the considerable divine power of her older brother, managing to grab him from the waist and throw him against the roof of a warehouse. However, she was still easily dominated by the much stronger Ares. After obtaining and releasing her true divine power, Wonder Woman was able to fight Ares to an even greater degree, managing to knock him down and hit him in the face twice, as well as defeat a small German battalion using only her strength, and raise a very large and heavy German tank without much effort, which weighed 29 tons. [ 22 ] In 1984, during the rescue at the mall, Diana was able to break two revolver with her hands, lift a grown man with one hand, and lift the three robbers and then drop them on top of a police car. She was able to move a truck out of the way to protect herself from bullets, make another truck fly through the air by putting her back on the ground to generate a pothole, and with a kick move a tank out of the way, as well as avoid for a time that two trucks would crush her, putting her feet like a lever. She was also able to stay in combat for quite some time with Barbara , despite the fact that at that point she had almost completely lost her powers, almost like holding down several grown men that Barabara was throwing into the air with the help of her lasso. After regaining her powers, Diana was able to outmaneuver Cheetah in combat, even though the "apex predator" had initially taken the lead, as well as holding Cheetah down long enough to keep her from electrocution, and knock her unconscious. Diana also faced the powerful Kryptonian deformity known as Doomsday , with her blows being powerful enough for the monster to wobble, stopping a massive blow of the monster with her sword. She was even able to knock him down with one strike of her shield on one of Doomsday's legs, as well as cut a car thrown toward her by Doomsday in half. Wonder Woman was also able to fight several times against the powerful Steppenwolf , managing to take him from the waist, knock him down through a wall, and shove him against a concrete wall. She was able to stab her sword into one of the feet of the New God, cut him at the waist, and, with the help of Aquaman , knock him down before he reached Cyborg . Wonder Woman was also able to break Steppenwolf's Electro Axe with her sword after Superman froze it with his freezing breath. In addition, during the Resurrection of Superman , Wonder Woman was the only one in the Justice League who was actually able to harm and defend against Superman during his confusion, though only briefly and to a minor extent, slightly pushing him back with a blow from her shield, forcing him to exert himself slightly to resist and break free of her lasso and managing to briefly keep herself from being pulled to Superman, and even generating a powerful shockwave and blowing Superman back slightly with a single headbutt, which visibly impressed the latter and making him put more effort to ultimately overpower her. The only beings that surpass the strength of Wonder Woman are Ares , Zeus , Doomsday , Steppenwolf , Darkseid and Superman . Wonder Woman is able to use her incredible strength to jump immense vertical and horizontal distances, with her leaping across an entire field effortlessly, while fighting Doomsday . Superhuman Durability : Wonder Woman's skin, bones, and muscles are much denser and harder than those of humans and Amazons , which makes her incredibly durable. Although she is not bulletproof and is susceptible to piercing attacks, she can survive blunt force trauma, falls from high altitudes, explosions and powerful energy blasts, and withstand blows from superhuman opponents such as Ares , Doomsday , Steppenwolf and Superman . While training with the other Amazons , Wonder Woman was not affected by the attacks of the latter, not even by the attacks of strong Amazons like Antiope and Artemis , as well as by resisting the blows of the improved Erich Ludendorff without any damage. Wonder Woman's durability allowed her to withstand Ares's blows, despite the considerably greater strength of the God of War, as well as a direct hit from a sword built by Ares, an explosion of lightning that blew it away and left her somewhat dazed, and even a tremendous explosion that left her dazed and almost deaf for a few minutes and still was able to get up to fight again against her half brother. In 1984, despite losing most of her powers, Diana was still able to survive being struck and thrown through concrete walls and pillars by Barbara , as well as falling into the street from a great height with two children in arms. After regaining her powers, Diana was able to withstand severe electrocution much more than Cheetah, who was knocked unconscious, as well as resist being thrown against a wall by the great winds generated by Max Lord 's wishes. Diana also withstand the huge blows of the Doomsday , with a blow sending her flying several meters and leaving her completely unharmed. She was also able to withstand the lightning, thermal vision and waves of electrical discharges of Doomsday, wrapped by the thick thermal beam without suffering any damage. In the same way, Wonder Woman came out completely unscathed and without a scratch from her fierce battles with Steppenwolf and Superman , even though Steppenwolf hit her constantly with his axe and Superman hit her with enough force to leave her dazed. While Wonder Woman may be affected by the considerable force of the powerful impacts, they only make her stumble and hit her briefly, leaving her unharmed, with Wonder Woman smiling even after receiving powerful blow from Doomsday that sent her flying, and quickly rose up to face the monster again with a renewed ferocity. Her body is able to smoothly withstand air pressure when entering hypersonic speed while flying, a pressure that would easily disintegrate a normal human's body. Superhuman Speed : Wonder Woman can run and move at superhuman speeds. She was able to make it from the Metropolis International Airport to the Wayne Station in minutes after seeing Doomsday on television. She was fast enough to get up from her seat, disarm a man of his gun, and toss him across a room in seconds; to leave Lex Luthor 's fundraiser before Bruce managed to reach her; to save Batman from Doomsday 's thermal attack; and to instantly use the Sword of Athena to slice apart in mid-air a car that Doomsday hurled at her. Indeed, Wonder Woman appeared as a blur when charging back at Doomsday after being knocked back by him. In 1984, despite the gradual loss of her powers, Diana was still able to run alongside several high-speed trucks and tanks, as well as react fast enough to save several civilians who Cheetah was throwing to the air. Although outmatched by Superman and the Flash, Wonder Woman was still fast enough to be capable of providing some resistance to their respective immense superhuman speeds, as she was able to move herself enough to outstretch her hand while Flash was super speeding towards her instead of being totally frozen to him and managed to quickly cover the distance between her and Superman to surprise and land a hit on him and later on dealt a powerful headbutt while her Bracelets were restrained by the Kryptonian. Superhuman Reflexes : Wonder Woman's speed also extends to her reflexes, even if she is not moving at super speed. She was able to perceive bullets as if it were moving in slow motion. She repeatedly used this skill to deflect bullets with her Bracelets of Submission and block the blows of her opponents with ease. One hundred years later, Wonder Woman's reflexes improve further, to the point that she was able to block all of the full auto assault rifle shots of a British terrorist with her bracelets, leaving the people standing behind her unscathed. When she dropped her sword mid-battle with Parademons , Wonder Woman was able to perceive Flash super speeding towards her fallen weapon, and hence outstretched her hand while he returned the sword to her grasp. Her reflexes were not powerful enough to contend with those of Flash or resurrected Superman , however, as Superman managed to grasp Wonder Woman's Bracelets of Submission before she could clash them. Superhuman Agility : Wonder Woman naturally possesses superhuman agility, dexterity, balance and body coordination, allowing her to jump up immense distances and come down in elaborate somersaults, to swiftly and easily take down many World War I soldiers, while dodging and weaving around their attacks, and to even dodge quite a few attacks from the equally fast Ares , Cheetah and Doomsday . Diana is also able to mix her great agility with the use of her lasso , allowing her to glide with great skill and then jump over obstacles with the help of her lasso. This was demonstrated during her rescue at the mall in 1984. Superhuman Stamina : Wonder Woman's advanced musculature is considerably more efficient than that of a human and most of the other Amazons . As a result, her muscles virtually do not produce fatigue toxins during physical activity compared to humans and most other members of her race . Her virtually inexhaustible endurance allows her to exercise her maximum capacity for an indefinite period of time without tiring at all, as she never needs to slow down or catch her breath during her fierce battles with Ares , Cheetah , Doomsday , Steppenwolf and the resurrected Superman , despite being pressured considerably by all of them. Regenerative Healing Factor : Due to her hybrid physiology, Wonder Woman can heal from wounds at considerable superhuman rates. This compensates for her vulnerability to sharp objects and bullets. During the Germans' attack on Themyscira during World War I , Diana suffered a wound to her shoulder that, even with much of her power being suppressed had healed completely a few hours later. In 1984, having regained her powers after giving up her wish, Diana was able to recover from the injuries and trauma, which Cheetah had inflicted on her during their confrontation, in a matter of seconds. Poison Immunity : Wonder Woman was able to walk right through a cloud of Doctor Poison 's extra lethal hydrogen-based mustard gas without suffocating, and with little to no discomfort. Superhuman Senses : Wonder Woman's senses are superhumanly enhanced, much like those of Superman . She was able to clearly see Steve Trevor from miles away when his plane crash-landed near Themyscira . Flight : Wonder Woman possesses the ability to defy gravity and fly. While battling Ares , she leapt into the air and gravitated down once, and then hovered for a few seconds just as she ended her battle with the war god. After regaining her powers by giving up her wish of the Dreamstone , Diana first learned how to fly by riding air currents (advice she remembered from Steve Trevor). Unfamiliar with this new skill, she used her lasso once to propel herself faster, but gradually became more comfortable with flight therefore no longer needing the lasso to propel her. She flew at hyper-sonic speed to help people in need on the ground in 1984 . "Wonder Woman... what do you think, man? You think she'd ever go for a younger guy?" "She's 5,000 years old, Barry. Every guy's a younger guy." ― Flash and Cyborg [src] Immortality : Like all Amazons , Diana has lived for millennia without visibly aging, with her being roughly 5,000 years old (having been born right after the War of the Gods ), and having been present in " Man's World " since World War I . She is thus the oldest member of the Justice League by far (though still roughly a millennia younger than Enchantress , and even more so than Ares and Steppenwolf ), making her an ageless immortal, much like Superman . "You have greater powers than you know." ― Antiope [src] Diana uses her divine power. Divine Magic : As the daughter of Zeus , Wonder Woman has incredible control over the supernatural divine energy of the Old Gods , due to this, she is capable of manipulating magic and can cast spells based on what she remembers of the ways of the Old Gods and she teach herself. Invisibility : Mimicking her father 's shroud spell over Themyscira , Diana was able to teach herself to generate an arcane veil that could be placed around objects, making them imperceptible even to the gods. She uses this ability to hide a F-11 Aardvark , enabling them to make their escape. Divine Shield Construction : Diana was also capable of using the energy to shield herself, as the debris Ares sent flying at her disintegrated against the invisible field as she built up her attack. Divine Wave Emission : When Diana clashes her bracelets together, she releases a large spherical omnidirectional blast of orange (or sometimes white-hot) energy, with it being powerful enough to accidentally injure Antiope , send the mighty gods Ares and Steppenwolf flying back, and even push back the gigantic monster Doomsday . She could also generate shock waves from her body without clashing her bracelets, notably to destroy the restrains Ares put her in and knock down a small German battalion with a very powerful omni-directional shock wave. She could also freeze the momentum of targets in front of her, causing Ares to be forcibly suspending in the air when he tried flying into her before she blasted him away. In 1984 , She generate a omni-directional divine energy shock wave in order to fend off the soldiers who were trying to stop her from reaching Max Lord . By striking one of her bracelets with her shield, she generated an energy wave that knocked down a bridge, with Cyborg and Steppenwolf in it. Weather Manipulation: Diana can use her divine powers to manipulate the weather. She is able to create a thunderstorm and even swing on the bolts of lightning. Electrokinesis : Wonder Woman, as the demigoddess daughter of Zeus , has some degree of power over divine lightning. When Ares shot bolts of lightning at her, she caught, absorbed, and then redirected the tremendous bolts back at the God of War, killing him. She can also interact with lightning without being electrocuted, such as when she swung from lightning bolts and withstood electrocution while battling the Cheetah . In order to restore the power of the Staff of the Gods , Wonder Woman was able to summon a lightning bolt to strike it. Lasso of Hestia Capabilities : In addition to her superhuman attributes, the Lasso of Hestia gives her extra abilities. Truth Inducement : With the Lasso of Hestia , Diana can force others to tell the truth. With it, Diana managed to force a member of a terrorist group to reveal the truth. However, this ability proved partially ineffective against an Old God , as Ares was able to ignore the lasso's effect, although he later admitted that he was telling the truth. Retrocognition : With the Lasso of Hestia , Diana can project visions of the past into the target's mind. With this, Diana was able to show Steve Trevor visions about Asteria and her sacrifice so that the Amazons could move to Themyscira. Diana also showed Maxwell Lord visions of his past, both his childhood traumas and his achievements, in an attempt to convince him to renounce his desire and show that he doesn't need powers to have a good life. Telepathy : With the Lasso of Hestia , Diana can mentally communicate with the target. Diana used the lasso to communicate with the entire world and convince them to renounce their wishes, as well as showing Maxwell Lord that his son was begging him to return to him. Abilities "You will train her harder than any Amazon before her. Five times harder, ten times harder. Until she is better than even you." ― Hippolyta to Antiope [src] Wonder Woman fighting German soldiers . Master Combatant : Wonder Woman, having been trained in combat tactics by Menalippe and Antiope , is a tremendously skilled, fierce, and formidable hand-to-hand combatant (being at least on par with Batman ), [ 20 ] . She is a master of a vast array of unique Amazon martial arts, as well as an expert in most types of melee weapons (though she most frequently uses her bracelets, lasso, sword, and even shield). She has centuries of combat experience, with her claiming to have fought and defeated several beings from "other worlds" (which includes even the fearsome God of War Ares himself). Her fighting style includes Taekwondo, Capoeira, Muay Thai and Greek wrestling combined with her skills with swords, archery and throwing [ 23 ] . Wonder Woman swiftly became the greatest warrior of Themyscira , her tremendous combat skills eventually becoming enough to rival even those of her mentor Antiope and ultimately surpassing her upon acquiring full potential, due to the latter (upon Hippolyta 's insistence) training her much harder than any Amazon ever before her. Hence, Wonder Woman defeated many World War I soldiers (she defeated and killed even the enhanced General Ludendorff relatively quickly), and numerous Parademons single-handedly, seamlessly incorporating hand-to-hand combat, sword-fighting with the God Killer (and later with the Sword of Athena ), and the Lasso of Hestia in her own personalized, formidable style. Indeed, Wonder Woman's tremendous skill and exceptionally versatile style make her capable of effectively holding her own against either more experienced or more powerful opponents, even the mighty God of War Ares (albeit only with considerable effort and initial failure, given his superior combat experience, and her need to use a non-violent mindset), even with her sword having been destroyed by the more powerful Old God, the New God Steppenwolf , an enraged resurrected Superman , (being the only one in the Justice League who was actually able to land any meaningful hits on the Kryptonian and making him fight with more effort, though she was ultimately swiftly defeated by the amnesiac Superman and only saved by Lois Lane 's timely intervention), and the gigantic Doomsday , with her managing to temporarily knock the latter fearsome monster down (by smashing his feet from under him with her shield), and even temporarily restrain him with her Lasso of Hestia , as well as cut off his right arm with the Sword of Athena . Indeed, had Doomsday not had his incredibly adaptable healing factor, it is safe to assume that Wonder Woman's tremendous combat skills would have allowed her to ultimately defeat him. Moreover, even when Wonder Woman's sword was destroyed by Ares, she still held her own against the more powerful Old God . Master Armed Combatant: Wonderwoman is extremely skilled in the use of many weapons, such as her sword, her shield,  and her lasso. Sword Mastery : Wonder Woman is an extremely skilled swordswoman, with centuries of experience wielding her magical God Killer sword (and later the Sword of Athena ) in many battles, including those of World War I . Thus, she managed to slash at enemy soldiers with her sword even while racing past on horseback, to instantly slice apart in mid-air a car hurled at her by Doomsday with the Sword of Athena , to later do the same to massive piece of debris hurled at her by resurrected Superman , and to sever one of Doomsday's arms during her battle with the monster, delivering wounds that would have otherwise been lethal, had it not been for the monster's incredible healing factor and adaptive evolution. Lasso Mastery : Wonder Woman is extremely skilled at wielding her unbreakable Lasso of Hestia both offensively and defensively, notably using it to stop an escaping German spy, to take down numerous German soldiers in World War I battles, to retrain a British terrorist leader, to restrain and defeat General Ludendorff , to hold her own against Ares after getting her sword destroyed, to restrain a resurrected Superman (albeit unsuccessfully), and to even restrain Doomsday himself. Diana is precise enough with her lasso to catch a bullet and redirect it, as seen in 1984. Shield Mastery: Wonder Woman is extremely skilled at using a her shield in combat. Shi is also skilled at throwing it with enormous presicion. Master Markswoman : Wonder Woman, despite hardly ever using a bow and arrows in combat, is nonetheless highly skilled at utilizing them, having received elite archery training from her aunt Antiope . She is also proficient at throwing her tiara and her shield with great presicion. Master Acrobat: As an Amazon, Diana is an extremely skilled acrobat, thanks to her superhuman agility. She can incorporate acrobatic moves into her fighting style with ease. Her incredible agility allows her to perform acrobatic feats that are impossible for a human. "You know, I paid millions of dollars for this building 's security." "You got your money's worth. Took me almost a minute to disable it." ― Bruce Wayne and Diana Prince [src] Stealth Mastery : Wonder Woman is exceptionally stealthy, as she was able to quickly sneak away from Chief and Charlie to General Ludendorff 's gala, and later to steal the hacking device that Bruce Wayne had plugged into the LexCorp Industries servers and leave it in his car, without getting caught on either occasion. Later, Wonder Woman noticed Cyborg spying on her and Batman from a distance. Shortly thereafter, along with Batman and Cyborg, she was able to swiftly slip away when Commissioner Gordon turned away for a moment, and even Flash was left incredulous at how he didn't notice his teammates leave, despite having superhuman reflexes and standing right beside them. Wonder Woman even managed to enter the highly-secure Batcave itself on her own, impressing Batman. "Diana Prince, cultural anthropology and archaeology." ―Diana Prince to Barbara Ann Minerva [src] Genius-Level Intellect : Wonder Woman is extremely intelligent, wise, well-read, perceptive, and sophisticated, primarily due to her immortal lifespan, natural fluency in all human languages (even dead ones, like Latin, Ancient Greek, Sumerian, and Ottoman Turkish), her having read many books even while still on Themyscira , and her century of living in " Man's World " after World War I , all of which makes Wonder Woman the wisest and most emotionally intelligent member of the Justice League , despite her having initially been naïve, headstrong, and idealistic at the time of leaving Themyscira with Steve Trevor . As such, Wonder Woman has no issues blending in with the high-class society of "Man's World." She held her own while verbally sparring with Batman (with the extremely experienced vigilante having trouble discerning her identity), was the first to realize that Doomsday 's adaptive healing factor was energy-based, and was the only one on supergenius Lex Luthor 's metahuman list to figure out that Lex was keeping tabs on her and had obtained a compromising photo of her with Steve Trevor (possibly due to her having been once been fooled by another deceitful supervillain, Ares ). She also displays a keen understanding of technology and biomechatronics, shown when Wonder Woman uses the Batcomputer , remarks on Cyborg 's Mother Box enhancements, [ 24 ] and when she deduced that resurrecting Superman with a Mother Box might produce a monster like Doomsday . Wonder Woman's intellectual genius extends itself to her combat, perceptiveness, stealth, arcane lore, and antiquities dealing skills. Expert Antiquities Dealer : Diana, speaking to a Gotham curator . Wonder Woman, while in her guise as the human Diana Prince, is an extremely experienced genius antiquities dealer, with Diana's immortal life and natural fluency in all human languages allowing her to accumulate an immense amount of knowledge on the subject, though (being an Amazon with Old God heritage) she seems to specialize most in ancient Greco-Roman antiques. Hence, Diana works as Curator for the Department of Antiquities [ 9 ] at the extremely prestigious Louvre Museum in France , and she is held in very high esteem by the curator of the Gotham City Museum of Antiquities . She was swiftly able to tell that the museum's exhibit of Alexander the Great's sword was a fake, knowing exactly where the actual sword was and impressing Batman himself. Arcane Lore Expert : Wonder Woman possesses vast amount of knowledge and skill in wielding mystical artifacts and arcane lore, notably her Sword of Athena and Lasso of Hestia . Her encyclopedic knowledge was demonstrated when Wonder Woman reacted in dismay to Lex Luthor 's speech (knowing how he had twisted the Old Gods ' history concerning Zeus and Prometheus), when she instantly identified a Parademon in Commissioner Gordon 's sketch, and when she explained the history behind Steppenwolf and the 3 Mother Boxes to the remainder of the Justice League . "You just seem like the kind of person who's, like, always out. Like, people are asking you to go out all the time. Barbara Ann Minerva " ― Wonder Woman 1984 Expert Social Intuit : Diana has a high degree of social confidence (having had a century of experience living in " Man's World " after World War I ), allowing her to intuitively determine how to interact with others, gain their respect and get her point across with calmness, eloquence, and charisma. Hence, Diana swiftly befriended the Wonder Men , she diplomatically greeted Bruce Wayne , matter-of-factly showing him that she can intellectually keep up with him (calmly responding to Bruce's anger at having been stolen from by her), she tactfully accepted a wine glass from the Gotham City Museum of Antiquities curator (despite seemingly disliking alcoholic beverages), she tactfully avoided correcting the curator on his claim that the fake replica of Alexander the Great's sword was the actual relic, and only when Lex Luthor insulted her father Zeus ' memory did Diana have a look of visible dismay on her face (but even then she avoided making a scene), and only when Batman insulted her beloved Steve Trevor 's memory did she finally lose her temper and shove Batman back. As a result, Diana remains extremely well-respected at the Louvre Museum , by fellow antique museum curators, by the Justice League , and even the extremely experienced Batman is almost instantly intrigued by her. Master Equestrian : Wonder Woman is an accomplished horseback rider, shown during her involvement in World War I battles. Omnilingualism : Like all Amazons , Wonder Woman has the inerent ability to fluently speak, read, and understand all human languages (including dead ones, which allows her to surpass even a polyglot like Sameer ), as well as to instinctively identify a language's name when seeing its written form (doing so when seeing Dr. Poison 's notes on hydrogen-based mustard gas). Wonder Woman has so far been known to speak or read English (albeit with a mild Middle Eastern accent), French, German, Dutch, Spanish, Italian, Russian, Mandarin, Chinese, Sumerian, Ancient Greek, Ottoman Turkish, Blackfoot, Latin, and Arabic, thus making her the most polyglottic member of the Justice League . Indomitable Will : Wonder Woman has tremendous determination and strength of will. She refuses to ever give up, even when placed against seemingly insurmountable odds. Hence, despite the Germans invading Themyscira having far superior firepower, despite the extreme danger of German firepower in-between World War I trenches, despite having to fight the stronger and seemingly unstoppable Doomsday , despite having to battle the mighty Ares right after witnessing Steve Trevor 's death, Wonder Woman promptly rose up, overcame her negative emotions, and kept on fighting, persisting until she eventually managed to gain the upper hand. Indeed, her indomitable spirit gave a renewed hope to the Wonder Men and inspired them past the point of purely monetary interests, with Chief resolving to no longer be neutral in the war and believing her story of the Old Gods , Sameer finally admitting his passion for acting, and even the depressed Charlie struggling with PTSD finally beginning to sing again for the first time in years. When humanity's inherent potential for evil was revealed to her by Ares , Wonder Woman, while initially taken aback, ultimately rejected the prospect of alliance with Ares against them, even if that were to mean missing out on "paradise" on Earth , and instead courageously confronted him as the god killer. When seemingly beaten by Ares (who was only growing more powerful from her violence, rage, and hatred) and overcome by the weight of his words and the devastation of Steve's death, Wonder Woman recalled his great love for and undying belief in her, and was thereby able to muster enough willpower and love to overcome her violent emotions and defeat Ares. While mostly stepping away from superheroism for 100 years (emotionally crippled at her inability to save the Belgian villagers and Steve, and by seeing the ensuing "century of horrors"), Wonder Woman didn't entirely lose hope, and it was fully reignited again when she witnessed the self-sacrificing death of another selfless superhero, Superman (who combined the phenomenal godly might of Ares with the self-sacrificing morality of Steve Trevor ), giving her enough faith to help Batman found the Justice League . During the League's battle against Steppenwolf 's forces, Wonder Woman was able to inspire confidence into the inexperienced Flash and Cyborg , assuring them that they wouldn't need to fight the Apokoliptan invasion alone. Equipment Weapons Lasso of Hestia : Wonder Woman's completely indestructible weapon, with the ability to force anyone it captures to obey the lasso's wielder and tell the truth. She successfully wielded it against Steve Trevor (in order to get the experienced spy to tell her the truth), General Ludendorff (in order to prevent his escape and kill him), Ares (in order to keep up with the violent God of War in battle), Doomsday (in order to temporarily restrain him, while Batman weakened him, and Superman delivered the finishing blow), and the resurrected Superman (in order to restrain him until the post-mortem amnesia wore off). Wonder Woman's Bracelets of Submission . Bracelets of Submission : Like all Amazons, Wonder Woman wears two nigh-indestructible gauntlets as part of her armor. They are incredibly durable, capable of deflecting even Ares ' massive bolts of lightning and Doomsday 's tremendously powerful and destructive thermal attack. Due to her powers as a demigoddess, she also has the ability to create a massive wave of energy outwards when she clashes them together. God Killer : Wonder Woman's extremely sharp and durable sword forged in Themyscira that she wielded in battle during World War I , which Hippolyta claimed to be capable of killing Ares. However, the God Killer was ultimately destroyed by Ares . Amazon Shield : During World War I, Wonder Woman used an Amazon shield that she used to protect herself from bullets and other attacks when she entered no man's land. However, Wonder Woman lost the shield during the battles and several years later replaced it with a new one. Sword of Athena : Wonder Woman's second sword, replacing the God Killer . The Sword of Athena is equally as powerful, and is one of the few weapons that can actually injure the otherwise invulnerable Doomsday . Eagle Shield : Wonder Woman's shield, which she uses to protect herself from other weapons and energy blasts (in tandem with her bracelets). Much like her bracelets, it is nigh-indestructible, capable of deflecting even Doomsday 's thermal attacks. It can also be used as an offensive weapon, with Wonder Woman smashing it hard into the legs of Doomsday, thus momentarily managing to knock him down. She was also able to withstand the massive blows of the Steppenwolf's axe. Staff of the Gods : To be added Other equipment Diana wearing her battle armor . Armor : Wonder Woman wears a red armor body plate that bears a gold eagle-shaped breastplate, and a matching golden W-shaped belt plate. Below this is a blue skirt and knee-high dark red armored combat boots. The armor helps her compensate for any possible vulnerability to bullets and sharp objects . General Antiope's tiara : Wonder Woman would wear it in loving memory of her beloved aunt and mentor Antiope , with Diana striving to be worthy of it, as the tiara signifies that it's wearer is the greatest Amazon warrior of them all. Glasses : Wonder Woman's pair of glasses, which Steve insisted she wear attempting to conceal her identity and pose as a human (much like Superman ) during World War I . They were quickly broken during a fight with General Ludendorff 's spies. Asteria's Armor : Diana wore the armor for the first time in preparation for her final battle with Cheetah in 1984. Vehicles Invisible Jet : The Invisible Jet was a F-111 Aardvark kept in a storage hangar in the Roth Smithsonian Archives in Washington, D.C. until Diana and Steve decided they needed to steal it to prevent a global catastrophe. E-Class Cabriolet : Diana's personal car, used for her travels. Flying Fox : Wonder Woman, along with the Justice League , traveled to Pozharnov , Russia with the Flying Fox . Relationships Family Old Gods Zeus † - father Poseidon † - uncle Hades † - uncle Hestia † - aunt Demeter † - aunt Athena † - half-sister Artemis † - half-sister Ares † - half-brother, archenemy and victim Hephaestus † - half-brother Apollo † - half-brother Hermes † - half-brother Dionysus † - half-brother Hippolyta - mother Antiope † - aunt, mentor, and savior Menalippe - aunt and mentor Hercules - brother Achilles - brother Allies Mnemosyne - tutor Niobe Artemis Venelia † Aella Trigona † Eliana Orana † Egeria Phillipus Penthesilea † Euboea † Acantha Timandra Epione † Wonder Men Steve Trevor † - boyfriend Etta Candy † - friend Sameer † - friend Charlie † - friend Chief † Phillip Darnell Marie Jazz Teo Teo's friend Kelly - rescuee Courtney - rescuee Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History - former employers Carol Thomas Jake Roger Graham Carl Frank Patel/Babajide Max Lord - former enemy " Handsome Man " Louvre Museum - employers Justice League - teammates and friends Bruce Wayne/Batman - close friend, leader, and rescue Kal-El/Clark Kent/Superman - ally turned temporary enemy Arthur Curry/Aquaman Barry Allen/Flash Victor Stone/Cyborg Alfred Pennyworth - friend Gotham City Police Department James Gordon Lois Lane - savior S.T.A.R. Labs Silas Stone † A.R.G.U.S. Amanda Waller - situational ally 11th Street Kids Christopher Smith/Peacemaker Emilia Harcourt Vigilante Leota Adebayo John Economos Wonderous Serena Diana Prince - alternate self Serena Williams Shazam Family Billy Batson - fan Freddy Freeman Mary Bromfield Pedro Peña Eugene Choi Darla Dudley Victor Vasquez Rosa Vasquez Anthea Shazam Enemies World War I Central Powers Imperial German Army Wilhelm II † Erich Ludendorff † - victim Isabel Maru/Doctor Poison Douglas Haig Fausta Grables Noble Diamond raiders - detained enemies Southfields Mall robbers - detained enemies Buzz Cut Flat Top Richie Scowler Barbara Minerva/Cheetah - former friend turned archenemy Dechalafrea Ero Christopher Weiss/Slipknot † - detained enemy Lex Luthor - discreet observer Doomsday † - indirect victim Black Clad Alpha † - victim Beta Darkseid's Elite Darkseid Steppenwolf † - victim DeSaad Granny Goodness Parademons Retrobots Doctor Cyber - detained enemy Al Falcone - detained enemy Appearances List of appearances In chronological order: Wonder Woman Wonder Woman: The Official Movie Novelization Wonder Woman: The Junior Novel Wonder Woman: I Am an Amazon Warrior Wonder Woman: Meet the Heroes Wonder Woman: Rise of the Warrior Etta's Mission (mentioned) Wonder Woman 1984 1 Wonder Woman 1984 Wonder Woman 1984: The Junior Novel Wonder Woman 1984: Microsoft MakeCode Arcade Wonder Woman 1984: Destined for Greatness Wonder Woman 1984: Meet Wonder Woman Wonder Woman 1984: Truth, Love & Wonder General Mills Presents Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice - Picture Proof (poster) General Mills Presents Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice - Lights Out (mentioned) Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice Zack Snyder's Justice League Mercedes-Benz Presents: Justice League - Guiding Lights Mercedes-Benz Presents: Justice League - Pit Stop Mercedes-Benz Presents: Justice League - Winner Drives Justice League VR: The Complete Experience Aquaman (mentioned) Shazam! (figure) Shazam! Freddy's Guide to Super Hero-ing Serving Up Justice Serving Up Justice 2 (mentioned) Serving Up Justice 3 Serving Up Justice 4 Peacemaker Murn After Reading (mentioned) " It's Cow or Never " Black Adam (comic and poster) Shazam! Fury of the Gods The Flash Trivia Initially, being over 5,000 years old, she is the oldest member of the Justice League . She is currently the only female member of the Justice League. In the film, during the scene where Diana tries ice cream for the first time in the train station (and enjoys it) possibly alludes to Wonder Woman doing the same (albeit in the street) in Justice League Vol. 2 #3 in the New 52. [ 25 ] [ 26 ] Diana is right-handed. Zack Snyder's Justice League is the only film she’s referred to in as “Wonder Woman” by The Flash ; In " Guiding Lights " she refers to herself as "Wonder Woman," and her logo used in Lex Luthor's data is two "W"s. The Aquaman film briefly shows a newspaper clipping that refers to her as Wonder Woman when Diana is asked for comment about the rumors of her dating Aquaman. Likewise, Bruce Wayne is only called "Batman" three times in the run of the DCEU. She is playable as " Dawn of Justice Wonder Woman " in the first Injustice Mobile game , based on her appearance in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice . In her Themyscira armor she is playable as " Amazon Wonder Woman ," and in normal armor, she is playable as " Mythic Wonder Woman " in Injustice 2 Mobile , both based on her appearances in Wonder Woman . Wonder Woman in Crimean War. According to multiple sources, the initial plan for the Wonder Woman movie was set in the 1850s during the Crimean War . [ 27 ] Wonder Woman’s sword of Athena has an inscribed poem that reads “Life is killing all the time and so the goddess kills herself in the sacrifice of her own animal.” Diana doesn’t drink. Behind the Scenes On December 4, 2013, Gal Gadot was announced to play Wonder Woman in a 3-film contract for Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice , Wonder Woman and Justice League . Gadot was uncredited for her appearances in Shazam! Fury of the Gods and The Flash . Gadot practiced Kung Fu, Kickboxing, Fencing, Jujitsu, and Capoeira as part of her extensive physical preparation for the role. This version is the first live-action movie debut of the character. In two social event scenes in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice , it's implied the Wonder Woman character does not consume alcohol. Non-alcoholic consumption is a characteristic usually associated with Batman who, in this cinematic version, does consume alcohol. She is seen consuming a small amount of alcohol in Wonder Woman , however, when offered some by Steve Trevor. Before Gadot was casted, Eva Green , Alexandra Daddario , Elodie Yung , Olga Kurylenko and Jaimie Alexander were all in early talks for the role of Wonder Woman. Wonder Woman in the DC Extended Universe is the fourth live-action incarnation of the character, following versions portrayed by Cathy Lee Crosby , Lynda Carter , and Adrianne Palicki . Alicia Vela-Bailey , Georgina Rawlings , Joanna Bennett , Christiaan Schodel and Caitlin Dechelle were stunt doubles for Gal Gadot . Chelsea Mather was a stunt double for Emily Carey . Kimberley von Ilberg portrayed Wonder Woman for the character's cameo in Peacemaker . Rosario Dawson portrays a non-canon version of the DCEU Wonder Woman in the 2021 animated film Space Jam: A New Legacy . In the film, she is seen on Themyscira instructing Lola Bunny to finish the Amazon Games to earn herself a place amongst the Amazonians. References The DC Extended Universe Wiki has a collection of images and media related to Wonder Woman . ↑ According to Wonder Woman 1984: The Junior Novel , people referred to her as the "Woman of Wonder" until "Wonder Woman" stuck. ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.7 Zack Snyder's Justice League ↑ 3.00 3.01 3.02 3.03 3.04 3.05 3.06 3.07 3.08 3.09 3.10 3.11 3.12 3.13 3.14 3.15 Wonder Woman ↑ '' Wonder Woman: The Official Movie Novelization ↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5 5.6 Wonder Woman 1984 ↑ 6.0 6.1 6.2 '' Wonder Woman 1984: The Junior Novel ↑ Picture Proof ↑ 8.0 8.1 Wonder Woman 1984 #1 ↑ 9.0 9.1 9.2 Analysis of WONDER WOMAN - Scene 1 Louvre - Justice League Universe Podcast ↑ Lights Out ↑ 11.0 11.1 11.2 11.3 Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice ↑ Aquaman ↑ Peacemaker: 1.06: Murn After Reading ↑ 14.0 14.1 Serving Up Justice #4 ↑ Peacemaker: 1.08: It's Cow or Never ↑ Serving Up Justice #3 ↑ Shazam! Fury of the Gods ↑ Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom Special ↑ The Flash ↑ 20.0 20.1 Wonder Woman: Exclusive First look by the CW ↑ The Flash Plays "Annoying" Comic Relief in 'Justice League' ↑ How Strong is the DCEU Wonder Woman? ↑ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X333iyQg0s0 ↑ JUSTICE LEAGUE Trailer #2 (2017) Zack Snyder, Ben Affleck, Gal Gadot DCEU Superhero Movie ↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #3 ↑ Wonder Woman tries ice cream for the first time ↑ New/Old Wonder Woman image of WW in Crimean War Released with additional details External Links Wonder Woman on DC Database Wonder Woman on Wikipedia Diana Prince on Wikipedia Justice League Members Batman (leader) | Wonder Woman | Cyborg | Flash | Superman | Aquaman Associates Alfred Pennyworth Categories Categories : Articles needing expansion Unsourced quotes Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice Characters Wonder Woman (film) Characters Justice League (film) Characters Wonder Woman 1984 Characters Zack Snyder's Justice League Characters Shazam! Fury of the Gods Characters The Flash Characters Peacemaker (TV series) Characters Amazons Heroes Vigilantes Wonder Men Members Justice League Members Martial Artists Multilingual Characters Gods Hybrids Royalty Magic Users Languages Deutsch Español Français Português do Brasil Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Sci-fi DC Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. DC Extended Universe Wiki is a FANDOM Movies Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab