How to Update Xenoblade Chronicles 2 | Nintendo Support Your browser either does not have JavaScript enabled or does not appear to support enough features of JavaScript to be used well on this site. Support Customer Support Search Search Search My Support Dashboard Error Code Notifications Check Repair Status Nintendo eShop Purchase History Nintendo Switch Family Using & Troubleshooting Games & Apps Parental Controls Internet Connection Nintendo Switch Online Other Systems Nintendo Sound Clock: Alarmo Game & Watch Classic Edition Series Wii & Wii mini Wii U Nintendo 3DS Family Nintendo DSi Family Nintendo DS Family Accounts & My Nintendo Nintendo Account & NNID My Nintendo Network Status Digital Purchases Nintendo eShop Check Nintendo Online Store Order Network Status Repair Start Troubleshooting Find Your Repair Check Warranty Status Repair FAQ Top articles How to Transfer Digital Games / Nintendo Accounts Between Nintendo Switch Consoles Friend List on Nintendo Systems and Apps How to Redownload Nintendo Switch eShop Content How to Manage Auto-Renewal Settings for Pokémon HOME Premium Plan Subscription How to Redeem a DLC Download Code (Pokémon Sword Expansion Pass or Pokémon Shield Expansion Pass) Not Receiving V-Bucks After Renewing Crew Subscription (Fortnite) Top articles How to Transfer Digital Games / Nintendo Accounts Between Nintendo Switch Consoles Friend List on Nintendo Systems and Apps How to Redownload Nintendo Switch eShop Content How to Manage Auto-Renewal Settings for Pokémon HOME Premium Plan Subscription How to Redeem a DLC Download Code (Pokémon Sword Expansion Pass or Pokémon Shield Expansion Pass) Not Receiving V-Bucks After Renewing Crew Subscription (Fortnite) Nintendo Switch Family Games & Apps How to Update Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Applies to: Nintendo Switch Family, Nintendo Switch, Nintendo Switch Lite, Nintendo Switch - OLED Model In this article, you'll learn how to update Xenoblade Chronicles 2 . Note This update must be applied in order to use the game’s Internet features. Save data will still be available for use after downloading the update. If the system is connected to the Internet, the update will download and install automatically. On September 2, 2020, a new software update for Xenoblade Chronicles 2 became available for download. Please take a moment to download and install this update while your Nintendo Switch console is connected to the Internet. Complete these steps Connect the Nintendo Switch console to the Internet . Return to the HOME Menu and launch the game. The update will be downloaded and installed automatically . Once the update is installed, the newest version number will be displayed on the title screen. Update history Click the version number below for information about the update. Each update also includes all previous updates. Older updates. Ver. 2.1.0 (Released September 2, 2020) Ver. 2.0.2 (Released December 2, 2018) Ver. 2.0.1 (Released October 18, 2018) Ver. 2.0.0 (Released September 13, 2018) Ver. 1.5.2 (Released August 24, 2018) Ver. 1.5.1 (Released July 27, 2018) Ver. 1.5.0 (Released June 14, 2018) Ver. 1.4.1 (Released May 24, 2018) Ver. 2.1.0 (Released September 2, 2020) Changes and New Features Korean text is now supported. The text can be changed to Korean by setting the Nintendo Switch language setting to Korean. (Korean voices are not supported). Ver. 2.0.2 (Released December 2, 2018) Changes and New Features A Nopon named Brobro has been added to the Argentum Trade Guild, near the Salvage Deck. Speak to him to receive the Massive Melee Mythra an Aux Core that slightly alters the look of Mythra’s outfit. The story must have reached Chapter 4 before the core can be received. (The core will be available in Chapter 1 during subsequent playthroughs of the game.) The Aux Core will be automatically sold if you speak to Brobro with a full inventory. If sold in this way, the Aux Core can be acquired by speaking to Brobro again. Changes and New Features for the Expansion Pass and Torna – The Golden Country A Nopon called the Nameless Wanderpon has been added to the Feltley Village Camp. Speak to him to receive the Massive Melee Mythra , an Aux Core that slightly alters the look of Mythra’s outfit. The Aux Core will be automatically sold if you speak to the Nameless Wanderpon with a full inventory. If sold in this way, the Aux Core can be acquired by speaking to the Nameless Wanderpon again. Members of the same team will now exchange voiced comments with each other when a battle concludes. Ver. 2.0.1 (Released October 18, 2018) Issues Fixed Fixed an issue with the rare blade Dagas, causing the driver he is bonded with to change mistakenly. Downloading the update will not reset to the original bonded driver. We apologize for the inconvenience, but please use features such as Overdrive to change bonded drivers. Fixed an issue causing Rex’s outfit to not appear correctly during the ending scenes of the game. Issues Fixed in the Expansion Pass and Torna – The Golden Country Fixed an issue with the Affinity Chart, in which completing it did not cause Trust to become S rank, and the completion reward item was subsequently not earned. After downloading the update, checking the Affinity Chart again will cause Trust to increase to S rank and give the player the completion reward item. Fixed an issue with the third requirement to Meet characters from the Community List for receiving Jin’s Affinity Reward, Mineralogy . This issue prevented characters that had been met in event scenes or cut scenes to not be counted as met unless the player talked to them outside those scenes. This applied to the characters Popolo, Onyx, Kaleena, and Leo. After downloading the update, if you have already viewed the necessary event or cut scenes, these characters will automatically be counted as met . Added a help message to the quest A Rare Sense of Justice that will appear when conditions to advance the quest have not been met. Fixed an issue when performing a Chain Attack that temporarily prevented character selection after a round of attacks had been completed. Fixed an issue causing a character switch to take too long when selecting Brighid for a Chain Attack after she had used her Confining Flames ability. Ver. 2.0.0 (Released September 13, 2018) Issues Fixed Fixed an issue occurring in quests where defeating specific enemies was necessary to complete the quest. Following battle with the enemy, this issue caused certain event scenes not to play or to suffer from extended loading, preventing quest progress. Changes and New Features Functionality has been added to the title screen to make the Expansion Pass story scenario Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna – The Golden Country playable. Torna – The Golden Country is an additional story that takes place 500 years prior to the events of Xenoblade Chronicles 2 . Play as Jin—Rex’s main adversary and leader of the mystery-shrouded society of Torna—in a bygone era and uncover the truth about the lost Tornan titan and the origins of the Aegis. Delve into new gameplay mechanics like Vanguard Switch, a tactic that allows you to switch between the front and back lines during a battle, and Community, a feature that lets you deepen your connection with the inhabitants of Alrest. Added functionality for receiving the final round of items associated with the Expansion Pass. Elma’s Overdrive ability is now usable during battle when the auto-battle option is initially set to Enabled, but the player switches to manual controls during battle. Elma is now a blade who can join your party during the Challenge Battle: Nopondemonium in the Expansion Pass. Ver. 1.5.2 (Released August 24, 2018) Changes and New Features Added functionality to receive Corvin, the third and final round of rare blades from the Expansion Pass. A core crystal is available that will guarantee bonding with Corvin. Corvin possess the following characteristics: Weapon type - Uchigatana, Element - Light, and Role - Defense. Drivers bonded with Corvin become able to use an art with the reaction Smash . Added functionality to the Expansion Pass to receive new challenges for the Challenge Battle: Nopondemonium called Otherworldly Fighter and Poisoned Paradise . Otherworldly Fighter features a battle against Elma, from the game Xenoblade Chronicles X. Clearing this challenge will allow Elma to join your party as a blade. Pressing the R and Minus buttons at the same time when all three bars of Elma’s party gauge are full will consume all three bars and engage her Overdrive ability. While Overdrive is active, a counter is applied to all attack arts and specials that hit. As the counter goes up, the effect of the following three bonuses increases: damage boost, an Arts recharge boost from auto-attacks, and a decrease in enemy resistance to reactions and combos. Add this challenge by selecting the following options from the main menu: Expansion Pass, Gift from Zuo 3, Nopon Summons, Pt. 2. The challenge is available from Chapter 6 onward. Flawless Noponstone has been added as an item available from treasure chests in the Challenge Battle: Nopondemonium of the Expansion Pass. To make this item available, select the following options from the main menu: Expansion Pass, Gift from Zuo 3, Nopon Invitation, Pt. 2. Flawless Noponstones can be earned during any of the challenges. Added items that can be acquired in exchange for Flawless Noponstones to the Challenge Battle: Nopondemonium section of the Expansion Pass. Some of these items will slightly alter character outfits. Included in these items are swimsuits that will aid in completing the challenge Poisoned Paradise . Certain items for Nia and Zeke will become available from Chapter 8 onward. (These items will be available from the start when playing New Game Plus.) Mòrag’s swimsuit may cause her hairstyle to change in certain event scenes. A Pouch Item Emporium and Noponstone exchanger have also been added to the Challenge Battle: Nopondemonium section of the Expansion Pass. Noponstones can be exchanged for Flawless Noponstones using the Noponstone exchanger. The track Uncontrollable from Xenoblade Chronicles X has been added to the options available when choosing which music will play during battles with unique monsters via the Special BGM selection. To listen to the Special BGM tracks, the blade Elma, available via the Expansion Pass, must already be added to the party. When Elma and either Shulk or Fiora are in the party, the BGM for the blade engaged with the player character will be given priority. When Elma and Shulk or Fiora are of the same priority, the BGM that plays will be selected at random. Ver. 1.5.1 (Released July 27, 2018) Issues Fixed Fixed an issue with the Expansion Pass Challenge Battle, Humanoid Alliance preventing play from proceeding from one wave to the next. Changes and New Features The Skill RAM Shackle Blade Resist I - V have been added as parts you can create via Poppiswap. The ability to acquire the Rare Blade, Crossette is now available via the Expansion Pass. A core crystal is available that will guarantee bonding with Crossette. Crossette possesses the following characteristics: Weapon type: Ball Element: Fire Role: Recovery Crossette The fourth and final round of DLC quests is now available via the Expansion Pass. The difficulty levels Bringer of Chaos and Custom have been added to the game options as a means of supporting your adventures in the Expansion Pass content. With the difficulty level set to Custom a maximum of 10 parameters related to battle such as enemy attack power and max HP and Party Gauge Gains can be adjusted as you see fit. Selecting the default settings when using Custom difficulty will be equivalent to playing at the Normal difficulty level. These additional difficulty levels are not available when selecting difficulty for a New Game. After beginning the game, they will be available in the game options under New Difficulty Levels . The difficulty levels Bringer of Chaos and Custom have been added to the Challenge Battle: Nopondemonium in the Expansion Pass. The ability to change the battle music when fighting unique monsters to the track You Will Know Our Names from the original Xenoblade Chronicles has been added to the game options in the selection Special BGM . To listen to this alternate music, you must first have one of the characters Shulk or Fiora in your party. (Shulk and Fiora are available via the Expansion Pass) This functionality is added automatically by updating the Expansion Pass and is set to Enabled by default. Nopon crystals can now be exchanged for additional items in the Challenge Battle: Nopondemonium, available via the Expansion Pass. In addition to items that will slightly alter a character’s outfit, there are now also items that will improve Tora’s Idea level. Select Gift from Zuo 2 then Nopon Invitation after choosing Expansion Pass on the Main Menu to make these additional items available. Check marks have been added next to any items you already possess when viewing the item list while exchanging Nopon crystals for items in Challenge Battle: Nopondemonium. The difficulty of the Expansion Pass Challenge Battle, Attack of the Aspar has been adjusted. Yackle Aspars, who appear when playing on Easy will get a smaller amount of HP when leveling up. Ver. 1.5.0 (Released June 14, 2018) Issues Fixed The fix associated with acquiring Perun’s Key Affinity Gift intended to fix the counter for small good deeds applied in Ver. 1.3.0 did not completely solve the issue, so an additional fix has been made. Changes and New Features New Unique Monster Subjugation Reports have been added. Defeating a unique monster will record the time it was defeated. Subjugation reports for defeated unique monsters can be found by examining their graves, or by selecting them from a list provided by the battle auditor in Garfont village. An icon will now indicate when a monster has become enraged during battle. Added the Nopon Summons option to the Expansion Pass menu, which allows access to a new Challenge Battle. Challenge Battles allow players to cross paths with Shulk and Fiora from Xenoblade Chronicles. They feature a high level of difficulty but offer rewards such as new accessories, Aux Cores, and Noponstones. Noponstones may be exchanged for items that slightly alter the appearance of the party characters or for Poppi’s rare parts. (These changes in appearance may not be reflected in all cut scenes.) Completing these difficult challenges will grant the player key items allowing Shulk and Fiora to join their adventures in Alrest. Make sure your drivers and blades are ready before taking them on. Added functionality for Extra Game Options newly added to the Expansion Pass. Once received, the following features will be added to the game settings portion of the options menu: Auto-Battle Enabling this feature will cause the character under player control to use arts and blade switch automatically after engaging in battle. Automate Special Button Challenges Enabling this feature will allow button challenges for Special moves to be skipped by causing them to succeed automatically with a Good rating. Enemy Aggression Disabling this will prevent enemies from initiating combat. (Does not apply to unique monsters, bosses, quest enemies, or salvage enemies) Ver. 1.4.1 (Released May 24, 2018) Issues Fixed Fixed an issue causing the game to lock up when certain Specials (Lv4) were used. Fixed an issue causing Affinity Rewards that had already been received to be received again when reforging bonds with rare blades. Fixed an issue causing blades not to use their standby motions when blade switching in the field. Changes and New Features Added functionality to receive the third round of quests distributed via the Expansion Pass. Was this helpful? Yes No Top articles How to Transfer Digital Games / Nintendo Accounts Between Nintendo Switch Consoles Friend List on Nintendo Systems and Apps How to Redownload Nintendo Switch eShop Content How to Manage Auto-Renewal Settings for Pokémon HOME Premium Plan Subscription How to Redeem a DLC Download Code (Pokémon Sword Expansion Pass or Pokémon Shield Expansion Pass) Not Receiving V-Bucks After Renewing Crew Subscription (Fortnite) Top articles How to Transfer Digital Games / Nintendo Accounts Between Nintendo Switch Consoles Friend List on Nintendo Systems and Apps How to Redownload Nintendo Switch eShop Content How to Manage Auto-Renewal Settings for Pokémon HOME Premium Plan Subscription How to Redeem a DLC Download Code (Pokémon Sword Expansion Pass or Pokémon Shield Expansion Pass) Not Receiving V-Bucks After Renewing Crew Subscription (Fortnite) About Nintendo Careers Corporate Social Responsibility Shop Games Hardware Merchandise Sales & deals Exclusives Online service Nintendo Retail Locations Orders Order details Shipping info Refunds and returns FAQ Support Nintendo Switch Nintendo Account Other systems Repair Nintendo product recycling Warranty Licensed product information Parents Info for parents Parental controls Privacy Privacy policy Cookies and interest-based ads Community Community guidelines Online safety Documents & policies Health & safety precautions Wireless regulatory info Supply chain transparency © Nintendo. Games are property of their respective owners. Nintendo of America Inc. Headquarters are in Redmond, Washington, USA Contact us Terms of Use English Close Modal Image Title Close Modal Image Title