‘The Walking Dead’ Season 11, Episode 17 Review: The Commonwealth Blues Subscribe To Newsletters Trump Tracker Billionaires Billionaires View All Billionaires World's Billionaires Forbes 400 America's Richest Self-Made Women China's Richest India's Richest Indonesia's Richest Korea's Richest Thailand's Richest Japan's Richest Australia's Richest Taiwan's Richest Singapore's Richest Philippines' Richest Hong Kong's Richest Malaysia's Richest Money & Politics 2024 Election Innovation Innovation View All Innovation AI Big Data Cloud Cloud 100 Consumer Tech Creator Economy Cybersecurity Digital Transformation Enterprise Commerce Enterprise Security and Protection Enterprise Tech Enterprise Growth Strategy Future Of Work Gaming Healthcare Innovation Rules Retail Industry SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Science Social Media Sustainability & Climate Transportation Venture Capital Technology VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program TikTok BrandVoice | Paid Program Leadership Leadership View All Leadership C-Suite CEO Network CFO Network CHRO Network CIO Network CMO Network Leadership Strategies Careers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Education Forbes EQ | Paid Program ForbesBLK ForbesWomen Under 30 Working Remote Over 50 Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Money Money View All Money Banking & Insurance ETFs & Mutual Funds Fintech Hedge Funds & Private Equity Investing Investor Hub Markets Personal Finance Retirement Taxes Top Advisor | SHOOK Wealth Management Forbes Digital Assets Forbes Digital Assets Home Web3 Community News Crypto Prices NFT Prices Research Learn Crypto Basics BTC DeFi Web3 Education NFTs Crypto Investments Events Crypto Portfolios Business Business View All Business Aerospace & Defense Energy Food & Drink Hollywood & Entertainment Law Manufacturing Media Policy Retail SportsMoney Entertainment Digest Small Business Small Business View All Small Business Entrepreneurs Franchises Small Business Strategy Lifestyle Lifestyle View All Lifestyle Arts Boats & Planes Cars & Bikes Dining ForbesLife Forbes Travel Guide Spirits Style & Beauty Travel Vices Watches Real Estate Real Estate View All Real Estate Commercial Real Estate Forbes Global Properties Residential Real Estate Forbes Vetted Forbes Vetted View All Forbes Vetted Mattress & Sleep Bed Frames Mattresses Mattress Toppers Pillows Sheets & Bedding Sleep Products Home Bathroom Cleaning & Laundry Decor Furniture Heating & Cooling Hobbies Home Office Kitchen & Dining Outdoor Pets Storage & Organization Tools Wine & Bar Fashion Accessories Clothing Eyewear Footwear Jewelry Handbags & Purses Lingerie & Sleepwear Outdoor & Fitness Apparel Outerwear Watches Kids & Baby Gear Baby Gear Kids Clothes & Accessories Nursery Pregnancy & Postpartum Toys & Books Gear Apparel & Accessories Bikes Camping & Hiking Climbing Fishing & Hunting Fitness Golf Running Tennis & Racket Sports Tools & Tech Training & Recovery Water Sports Wellness Winter Sports Beauty & Grooming Haircare Makeup Nailcare Shaving Skincare Personal Products Wellness & Self Care Tech & Electronics Audio Cameras Computers, Tablets & Accessories Gaming Home Office Online Tools Smart Home Devices Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories Streaming TVs Travel Cruises Hotels & Lodging Luggage Travel Products Gifts Father's Day Holiday Mother's Day Valentine's Day Wedding Deals Black Friday Cyber Monday Amazon Prime Day Beauty & Grooming Big Sales Fashion Gear Home Tech & Electronics Travel Deals Mattress & Sleep Forbes 101 Advisor Advisor Best Credit Cards Of 2025 Compare Credit Cards Balance Transfer Credit Cards Cash Back Credit Cards Travel Credit Cards Business Credit Cards Mortgages & Loans Best Mortgage Lenders Today's Mortgage Rates Today's Refinance Rates Best Personal Loans Loans For Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Student Loan Lenders Best Student Loan Refinance Lenders Business Loans Banking Best Online Banks CD Rates High-Yield Savings Accounts Money Market Account Life Insurance Cheap Life Insurance No Exam Life Insurance Travel Insurance Covid-19 Travel Insurance Cheap Travel Insurance Companies Best Car Insurance Compare Car Insurance Quotes Cost Of Car Insurance Cheap Car Insurance Pet Insurance How Much Is Pet Insurance? Cheap Pet Insurance Business Services Best LLC Services Best Registered Agent Services How To Set Up An LLC How To Start A Business Cost To Start An LLC Best Payroll Services Best HR Software Best HRIS Systems Best PEO Services Best Applicant Tracking Systems Best Website Builders Best Web Hosting Services Best Domain Registrar Best Ecommerce Platform Best Landing Page Builder Best VoIP Service What Is VoIP? Best Answering Services Best Call Center Software Best Cloud Phone System Best Project Management Software Free Project Management Software Best Task Management Software Free Task Management Software Best Gantt Chart Software Best VPN Best Free VPN Best Cheap VPN Best Antivirus Software Best Password Managers Home Services Best Moving Companies Best Long Distance Moving Companies Best Car Shipping Companies Best Interstate Moving Companies How Much Do Movers Cost? Best Home Warranty Companies Cheapest Home Warranty Companies Are Home Warranties Worth It? Home Warranty Cost Best Home Appliance Insurance Best Solar Companies Best Solar Panels Cost Of Solar Panels Solar Tax Credit By State Are Solar Panels Worth It? Best Pest Control Companies Best Termite Control Companies Best Mosquito Control Companies Pest Control Cost How Much Do Exterminators Cost? Best Home Security Companies Best Home Security Systems Home Security System Cost Cheapest Home Security Systems Best Wireless Home Security Systems Best Internet Providers Cheapest Internet Plans Fastest High Speed Internet Providers Best Internet Only Plans Best Fiber Internet Providers Forbes Advisor UK Health Health Healthy Aging Best Medical Alert Systems Medicare Medicare Advantage Plans Medicare Supplement Plans Medicare Advantage By State Health Insurance Hearing Aids Best Hearing Aids Senior Living Mind Best Online Therapy Best CBD Gummies Best CBD Oil Best Protein Powders Lists Video Newsletters Newsletters Crypto Confidential Editorial Newsletters Forbes Games Forbes Games View All Forbes Games Frase by Forbes Pinpoint by LinkedIn Queens by LinkedIn Crossclimb by LinkedIn Forbes Magazine Forbes Magazine Forbes Asia Free Issue of Forbes Latest Latest Coronavirus Coverage Daily Cover Stories Dark Capital Editors' Picks Breaking News Featured Featured 2025 Best-In-State Wealth Advisors List 2025 America's Top Women Wealth Advisors AI’s Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It DNA of Success Embracing And Bracing For AI Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program Your Four-Part Blueprint To Unlock AI Value In 2025 | Paid Program Diners Club International Celebrates 75 Years | Paid Program Leadership Lessons: Small Business Playbook Potential Has No Age Summit | Paid Program Celebrating The Power Of Partnership: Why Teamwork Is Key In the Fight Against Cancer | Paid Program Protecting What Matters Most: How Gerber Life Insurance Offers Affordable Coverage For Your Whole Family | Paid Program Presented by EY - Beyond The Blueprint: How These Four CEOs Built Billion-Dollar Businesses | Paid Program 2/3 By 2030: Philip Morris International Marks A Milestone  And Aims For A Smoke-Free Future | Paid Program 2025 America's Top Wealth Advisors Forbes Insights: Your Guide To Marketing In The Era Of AI | Paid Program The Undergrad's New Journey To Real-World Ready | Paid Program Forbes Insights: Your Five-Step Strategy To Unleash AI’s Value In Marketing | Paid Program Forbes Video Series: AI 50 AI 50 List By The Numbers: Meet The Forbes 30 Under 30 Europe Class Of 2025 United To End Blood Cancer: Meet The Leaders Turning Passion Into Progress | Paid Program Advertise with Forbes Report a Security Issue Editorial Values and Standards Site Feedback Contact Us Careers at Forbes Tips Corrections Privacy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms AdChoices Reprints & Permissions © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. Subscribe To Newsletters ‘The Walking Dead’ Season 11, Episode 17 Review: The Commonwealth Blues By Erik Kain Follow Author Share Save Comment Innovation Gaming ‘The Walking Dead’ Season 11, Episode 17 Review: The Commonwealth Blues By Erik Kain , Senior Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. I write about TV shows, movies, video games, entertainment & culture. Follow Author Oct 02, 2022, 05:59pm EDT Share Save Comment This article is more than 2 years old. The Walking Dead © 2022 AMC Film Holdings LLC. All Rights Reserved. The Walking Dead is back for its final eight episode stretch and I have to admit: I’m not loving the direction this show is headed as we rush to the finish line. The Commonwealth storyline has been, since its inception, a total mess. The community itself has an identity crisis. Is this an authoritarian regime quick to crack down on dissenters or a semi-liberalized society with many of the same basic freedoms as the United States? There are factions at work here, with Pamela the Commonwealth’s leader and Lance Hornsby a rogue agent, making ruthless plays behind her back. But why? Without a clear understanding of the politics and governmental structure of the Commonwealth itself, I find myself confused about Hornsby’s motives and actions. Meanwhile, the Commonwealth—despite appearing authoritarian and employing Imperial Stormtroopers to keep people in-line—allows a newspaper to circulate and happily employs Connie, an investigative journalist, when she shows up with the other survivors. If I were the dictator of a community like this, the only place an investigative journalist would work is out clearing zombies. You don’t put gasoline and matches this close to the kindling and act surprised when a fire starts. When a mysterious expose with no byline appears, the Commonwealth’s citizens take to the streets in protest. Pamela tries to reassure them that the alleged crimes levied at her son, Sebastian, are all just lies, but for a long time she allows the protests to continue. She also asks Yumiko if her journalist friend would have any idea who wrote the article. I find all of this perplexing and bizarre. Again, putting myself in the shoes of a post-apocalyptic dictator, the moment an article like this was published I would have every single employee at the newspaper arrested and taken in for questioning. I would round up every new citizen and every citizen with ties to the employees of the newspaper. I would quash protests on the street immediately using my fascistic security forces. MORE FROM FORBES ADVISOR Best Travel Insurance Companies By Amy Danise , Editor Best Covid-19 Travel Insurance Plans By Amy Danise , Editor Lauren Cohan as Maggie Rhee © 2022 AMC Film Holdings LLC. All Rights Reserved. That’s how authoritarian societies behave. We’ve seen it countless times in the real world. You don’t see Putin calmly asking protesting Russians to just listen and be patient. Even in the US, if protests get unruly we’ve seen police use force (sometimes deadly force) to disperse crowds. Meanwhile, I have to roll my eyes at the protestors themselves. Would a citizenry in a locked down, authoritarian survival colony rush to the streets to protest? I sincerely doubt it. These are people who by all rights should be pretty safely under the thumb of the powers that be, fully cognizant of the fact that the outside world is deadly and the only thing keeping everyone inside safe is the rule of law. I’m not saying that nobody would protest, but the likelihood of this article sending the entire community out to the streets is very low—especially if we, once again, look at our own world and how few people actually go out and protest government transgressions and the various atrocities we encounter. We are free to do so and it’s unlikely that anyone protesting in modern day USA will face harsh consequences. But in the Commonwealth, it seems far more likely that a rapid, brutal crackdown would occur, making potential protestors far more afraid of the consequences which could easily include exile to the outside world and the hordes of undead that await beyond the safety of the city walls. None of that is portrayed here. The Commonwealth is feckless and soft. Pamela’s response is to finally disperse crowds well after curfew. The only one acting like a proper authoritarian leader is Hornsby, and he’s doing it under wraps. Our heroes decide to try to use Pamela to stop him, but the actual power structure in place is too poorly established to understand what that might look like. Who is more powerful? Mercer and Pamela seem like the obvious pick, but maybe Hornsby has more tricks up his sleeve. Michael James Shaw as Mercer, Christian Serratos as Rosita Espinosa © 2022 AMC Film Holdings LLC. All Rights Reserved. The best part of the episode was the action. Daryl and Maggie and some of the other survivors take out pretty much all of Hornsby’s troops by the end of the episode and have him at knifepoint, grinning like a lunatic, when the credits roll. I’m not sure where things go from here, but I wish they would have resolved this storyline sooner so that we weren’t forced to slog through more Commonwealth nonsense for the final episodes. The problem with The Walking Dead is that it never built to anything bigger. The structure of the show has been the same for years. Our group of heroes encounters another group, conflict ensues, our heroes overcome the other group and move on. Then, they encounter another group, conflict ensues, our heroes overcome the other group and move on. The Governor, the Termites, the police community, the Wolves, the Saviors, the Whisperers, the Commonwealth. There’s no momentum here, just the same basic plot recycled over and over and over again. When all is said and done, our heroes walk away bruised and bloodied but in far better shape than the other guys. Alexandria, Hilltop, both left in smoking ruins. The prison, Woodbury, etc. all the same story. It will almost certainly happen again in this Commonwealth storyline. But we will be no closer to understanding how the zombie outbreak began or how it might end. But hey, at least we didn’t have even a single scene of Eugene blubbering or reading love poems and I think we can all agree that’s a pretty big win. Scattered Thoughts I really like Rosita and I wish we got more of her. She and Mercer would make a good couple. Let’s ship Mersita. What is up with that Stormtrooper getting ripped in half? The force required to rip a living human being (rather than a rotting zombie) in half would be enormous. Surely you’d let go before that happened??? Carol can find anything or anyone anywhere at any time. Need wine? She’ll find a wine cellar. Need to find the brat Sebastian who’s hiding out? She knows where he is! This cast is too big. Way, way too many characters all over the place. By this point in the story they should have killed off way, way more survivors so we could focus on the core cast for the final stretch. I like Jerry, but during that whole scene where he’s trying to hide the kids I found myself just not caring at all. That should be a scene you really care about. Kids are in danger! I think I’m feeling pretty checked out here, folks. I hope things pick up considerably. What did you think? Let me know on Twitter or Facebook . You can watch my video review of this episode below: Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn . Check out my website or some of my other work . Editorial Standards Forbes Accolades LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Digital Terms of Sale Terms of Service Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Reprints & Permissions Forbes Press Room Advertise