We may see a Pixel 4a 5G or Pixel 5 announcement alongside the Pixel 4a today NEW GIVEAWAY Win a brand-new onn Google TV 4K Pro Enter to win Skip to main content Skip to primary sidebar Deals Features Guides Chromebooks Videos Podcast More + Reviews Unboxing Upcoming Devices Chromebook Plus Chrome ChromeOS Chrome OS Flex Search Sign Up Log In Chrome Unboxed - The Latest Chrome OS News A Space for All Things Chrome, Google, and More! Deals Features Guides Chromebooks Videos Podcast More + Reviews Unboxing Upcoming Devices Chromebook Plus Chrome ChromeOS Chrome OS Flex Search Sign Up Log In We may see a Pixel 4a 5G or Pixel 5 announcement alongside the Pixel 4a today [UPDATE: confirmed] August 3, 2020 By Robby Payne View Comments UPDATED 8.3.2020 @ 11:30am – Google went live at 11:00am EST to deliver a full blog post about the new Pixel 4a that will start shipping on August 20th.  If I’m honest, a two-week availability window feels a tad bit unacceptable at this point with the phone already being delayed by months, but it is what it is.  Google not only confirmed the previous leaks we discuss in this article concerning the Pixel 4a, they also confirmed the two other phones we are all expecting at this point as well in the Pixel 4a 5G and the Pixel 5. Both of these devices will be coming this fall according to Google’s post and we’ll hear more about them both in the coming months.  Given that the Pixel 4a won’t be shipping out until late in August, there won’t be much of a break between the release of this phone and the full-blown announcements of the others. Take this with a giant grain of salt : or maybe a whole salt block. Leaks have shown up just this weekend that point to the outlying possibility of not just one phone being announced in the Pixel 4a today, but perhaps a second or third device as well.  There are no dates on this leak and there is nothing confirming that Google will even acknowledge these other two phones, but there’s a chance that they could. X remove ads From what little we can tell in the image, this is a photo of the Pixel 4a 5G and Pixel 5, presumably.  Looking at the build materials, the phone on the left looks to have the same side finish as the Pixel 4 and 4XL, yet is smaller.  The one on the right looks similar to the Pixel 4a, but is larger.  As little sense as that makes, it lines up with what 9to5 Google has pieced together about Google’s latest phone plans at this point in 2020. It basically comes down to a more-premium build in a smaller frame for the Pixel 5 and a larger, more-plastic build for the Pixel 4a 5G.  Both of these phones look to launch with the Snapdragon 765G we just saw launch in the OnePlus Nord. via @ishanagarwal24 Looking at the press render, these phones look basically ready to roll out and their inclusion in whatever it is Google is ready to announce today could be the reasoning behind the massive delays we’ve seen with the Pixel 4a unveiling.  Remember, the Pixel 4a would have been official back in mid-May if not for the pandemic and the Google I/O cancellation that followed. We even have photos of retail packaging from April that show Google was ready to deliver the Pixel 3a successor on time and has clearly pushed back the release on purpose. Featured Videos X remove ads What is that purpose? Well, we’ve all been wondering about that and perhaps this leak could clarify what Google is considering at this point in 2020 with its phones.  We’ve all heard plenty about the fact that Google doesn’t look primed to release a proper flagship phone this year and that their efforts would circle around mid-range chips like the Snapdragon 765G for the Pixel 5.  With lower prices clearly being the driving force, here, there’s a chance that Google is ready to completely up-end their status-quo October release here in 2020 and simply shock everyone with a full unveiling of all the Pixels for this year today. Be that as it may, there’s also a chance that this leaked press render is simply something that is already prepped and ready for whatever Google chooses to do for a hardware event this fall. That assumption would have to also assume that Google is, in fact, having an event at all.  With things being as they are with the pandemic, it’s hard to know exactly what may happen.  I’d still bet on an October virtual event this time around, but Google may be seeing the interruption as a chance to do some things a bit different.  In the realm of phones, it hasn’t been very successful aside from the Pixel 3a, so perhaps these new mid-range phones are exactly what the public want from them. We’ll know soon enough today. Shop Best Chromebooks of 2020 So Far on Chrome Shop X remove ads Join Chrome Unboxed Plus Introducing Chrome Unboxed Plus – our revamped membership community. Join today at just $2 / month to get access to our private Discord, exclusive giveaways, AMAs, an ad-free website, ad-free podcast experience and more. Plus Monthly $2/mo. after 7-day free trial Pay monthly to support our independent coverage and get access to exclusive benefits. X remove ads Start free trial Plus Annual $20/yr. after 7-day free trial Pay yearly to support our independent coverage and get access to exclusive benefits. Start free trial Our newsletters are also a great way to get connected. Subscribe here! Click here to learn more and for membership FAQ X remove ads Filed Under: News , Pixel , Upcoming Devices About Robby Payne As the founder of Chrome Unboxed, Robby has been reviewing Chromebooks for over a decade.  His passion for ChromeOS and the devices it runs on drives his relentless pursuit to find the best Chromebooks, best services, and best tips for those looking to adopt ChromeOS and those who've already made the switch. Primary Sidebar Search the site ... X remove ads Deals The best Chromebook deals today By Robby Payne April 28, 2025 Get Google’s battery-powered Nest Cam for just $130 By Joseph Humphrey April 27, 2025 Lenovo Legion Tab Gen 3 Deal: $60 Off this powerful 8.8″ gaming tablet By Joseph Humphrey April 24, 2025 The battery-powered Nest Doorbell is$50 off right now: don’t miss it! By Joseph Humphrey April 23, 2025 The Google TV Streamer gets its first substantial discount By Robby Payne April 17, 2025 More Deals X remove ads Reviews Best Chromebooks of 2024 [VIDEO] By Robby Payne November 28, 2024 Samsung Galaxy Chromebook Plus Review: Samsung is back! [VIDEO] By Robby Payne October 28, 2024 Lenovo Chromebook Duet 11″ Review [VIDEO] By Robby Payne October 19, 2024 ASUS ExpertBook CX54 Chromebook Plus Review: $699 of premium [VIDEO] By Robby Payne September 19, 2024 After a weekend using the Pixel 9 Pro Fold, I have one massive gripe By Robby Payne September 11, 2024 More Reviews X remove ads Guides This Chromebook trackpad shortcut is definitely not new, but is blowing my mind By Robby Payne March 11, 2024 How to reduce broadcast delay on YouTube TV to stop live spoilers By Robby Payne December 8, 2023 How to use a Windows keyboard with a Chromebook By Joseph Humphrey December 8, 2023 How reset and revert your Chromebook to the previous version of Chrome OS By Robby Payne November 29, 2023 My Chromebook Plus features disappeared: here’s how I fixed it By Robby Payne November 24, 2023 More Guides TWITTER · FACEBOOK · INSTAGRAM · YOUTUBE · EMAIL · ABOUT Copyright © 2025 · Chrome Unboxed · Chrome is a registered trademark of Google Inc. We are participants in various affiliate advertising programs designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to affiliated sites. PRIVACY POLICY