Look: Bryan Singer responds to 'Bohemian Rhapsody' Golden Globes win: 'What an honor' - UPI.com Top News U.S. News World News Featured Odd News Entertainment Movies Music TV Science Health Sports NFL MLB NBA Soccer Voices Photos News US News World News Entertainment Sports Archive Almanac Trending Disney employee On This Day Sanctuary cities Famous birthdays Vancouver attack Margarita snake 'Thunderbolts* Eye-popping Colon cancers Movies Jan. 7, 2019 / 8:31 AM Bryan Singer responds to 'Bohemian Rhapsody' win: 'What an honor' By Wade Sheridan Filmmaker Bryan Singer responded to "Bohemian Rhapsody" winning at the Golden Globes on social media. File Photo by Rune Hellestad/ UPI | License Photo Jan. 7 (UPI) -- Bryan Singer , the credited director of Bohemian Rhapsody who was fired from the film, responded to the Queen biopic winning big at the Golden Globe Awards on Instagram. "What an honor. Thank you #HollywoodForeignPress," Singer said on Sunday alongside a photo of himself sitting in a directors chair and working with star Rami Malek on a scene. Bohemian Rhapsody , which is about Queen and late lead singer Freddie Mercury , won the Golden Globe for Best Drama Film. Malek, who starred as Mercury, took home the award for Best Actor in a Drama Film. Singer was not mentioned onstage or thanked by Malek or producer Graham King during their acceptance speeches. Singer was fired by 20th Century Fox from the film, with the studio stating that the filmmaker failed to show up for work multiple times. Singer disputed the claims and said he had asked for time off in order to care for one of his parents. Dexter Fletcher replaced Singer on set with weeks left in the production, allowing Singer to still be credited as director. View this post on Instagram What an honor. Thank you #HollywoodForeignPress A post shared by Bryan Singer (@bryanjaysinger) on Jan 6, 2019 at 10:41pm PST Read More 'Bohemian Rhapsody,' 'Green Book' win big at the Golden Globes Fox fires Bryan Singer as director of Freddie Mercury biopic Bryan Singer disputes Fox's reason for his 'Bohemian Rhapsody' firing Topics Bryan Singer Graham King Rami Malek Freddie Mercury Latest Headlines Movies // 6 hours ago Patricia Heaton says late Linda Lavin inspired her 'Unbreakable Boy' mom performance NEW YORK, April 29 (UPI) -- Patricia Heaton told UPI she looked to her own experience as a mother and her fond memories of working with the late Linda Lavin to craft her matriarch character in the new family drama "The Unbreakable Boy." Movies // 6 hours ago A new generation of magicians rise in 'Now You See Me: Now You Don't' trailer April 29 (UPI) -- Lionsgate Movies released a trailer for "Now You See Me: Now You Don't," the third entry in the series about a team of thieving magicians. Movies // 8 hours ago High school takes a dark turn in 'Fear Street: Prom Queen' trailer April 29 (UPI) -- Netflix released a trailer for "Fear Street: Prom Queen," a 1980s-set slasher in the same universe as the "Fear Street" trilogy released in 2021. Movies // 9 hours ago 'Smashing Machine' trailer: Dwayne Johnson plays UFC legend Mark Kerr April 29 (UPI) -- A24 is previewing "The Smashing Machine," directed by Benny Safdie and starring Dwayne Johnson as MMA fighter and two-time UFC Heavyweight Tournament Champion Mark Kerr. Movies // 9 hours ago Julia Garner plays teacher whose class vanishes in 'Weapons' trailer April 29 (UPI) -- Warner Bros. released a trailer for "Weapons," a new horror film from "Barbarian" writer-director Zach Cregger and starring Julia Garner and Josh Brolin. Movies // 10 hours ago Movie review: 'Thunderbolts*' ineffectively retreads 'Avengers' movies LOS ANGELES, April 29 (UPI) -- "Thunderbolts*," starring Florence Pugh and in theaters Friday, repeats familiar beats from superior "Avengers" movies, but past results prove no guarantee of future performance. Movies // 11 hours ago Anna Kendrick on 'Another Simple Favor': 'It's really twisted' April 29 (UPI) -- Anna Kendrick discussed the "Simple Favor" sequel and "superfan" Questlove when she stopped by "The Tonight Show starring Jimmy Fallon" on Monday. Movies // 17 hours ago 'Last Breath' director respects audience intelligence in dive rescue film LOS ANGELES, April 29 (UPI) -- Alex Parkinson spoke with UPI about giving the audience credit for following the deep sea diving protocols in his film "Last Breath," on DVD and Blu-ray Tuesday, which tells the true story of Chris Lemons' rescue. Movies // 2 days ago 'Sinners' tops North American box office with $45M April 27 (UPI) -- "Sinners" is the No. 1 movie in North America for a second weekend, earning an additional $45 million in receipts this Friday through Sunday, BoxOfficeMojo.com announced. Movies // 4 days ago Ben Affleck proud of enduring popularity of 'The Accountant' NEW YORK, April 25 (UPI) -- Ben Affleck says he is surprised his thriller "The Accountant" seems to have only grown in popularity since its release in 2016. Sequel "The Accountant 2" opens in theaters Friday. Trending Stories Movie review: 'Thunderbolts*' ineffectively retreads 'Avengers' movies A new generation of magicians rise in 'Now You See Me: Now You Don't' trailer Famous birthdays for April 29: Andre Agassi, Master P Famous birthdays for April 26: Melania Trump, Joan Chen Patricia Heaton says late Linda Lavin inspired her 'Unbreakable Boy' mom performance Follow Us Back to top About UPI Contact Corrections Advertisements Copyright © 2025 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy