Mary Corleone - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 The Godfather Part II 2 The Godfather Part III Toggle The Godfather Part III subsection 2.1 Casting 3 Sequel novels 4 Family 5 References Toggle the table of contents Mary Corleone 7 languages Español فارسی Français Italiano Polski Suomi Türkçe Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Fictional character from The Godfather series Fictional character Mary Corleone Sofia Coppola portraying Mary Corleone First appearance The Godfather Part II Last appearance The Godfather Part III Created by Mario Puzo Portrayed by Sofia Coppola In-universe information Gender Female Family Corleone family Relatives Michael Corleone (father) Kay Adams-Corleone (mother) Vito Corleone (paternal grandfather; deceased) Anthony Corleone (brother) Sonny Corleone (paternal uncle; deceased) Fredo Corleone (paternal uncle; deceased) Vincent Mancini-Corleone (paternal cousin and lover) Connie Corleone (paternal aunt) Carmela Corleone (paternal grandmother; deceased) Carlo Rizzi (uncle; deceased) Mary Corleone is a fictional character in The Godfather Part III , portrayed by Sofia Coppola . [ 1 ] She is the daughter of Michael Corleone and Kay Adams and sister of Anthony Vito Corleone . The Godfather Part II [ edit ] Mary first appears in The Godfather Part II as the younger child of Michael and Kay. She is a young child (aged about 4 or 5) in the late 1950s. Like her brother Anthony, Mary does not have a significant role or story arc in the film. The Godfather Part III [ edit ] Mary is sheltered from the violent world of the Corleone crime family. She falls in love with her cousin, Vincent Mancini , Sonny Corleone 's illegitimate son. While the family is traveling in Sicily , Michael tells Mary he disapproves of the romance, believing that Vincent's growing involvement in the "family business" puts her life in danger.  He fears that Mary could suffer the same fate as his first wife, Apollonia, who was killed by a car bomb intended for him 30 years earlier. Toward the end of the film, Michael names Vincent as his successor, on condition that he break off his relationship with Mary. After her brother's debut concert, the assassin Mosca tries to kill Michael. One bullet grazes Michael's shoulder, but the other accidentally hits Mary in the chest, fatally wounding her. Michael is devastated by Mary's death, and screams in torment while cradling her dead body. Casting [ edit ] Sofia Coppola, the daughter of director Francis Ford Coppola , was cast in the role of Mary Corleone after several choices dropped out: Winona Ryder discontinued her involvement with the film due to nervous exhaustion , [ 2 ] [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] Julia Roberts due to scheduling conflicts, [ 2 ] and Madonna was deemed too old for the part by some. [ 6 ] Rebecca Schaeffer had earlier pursued the role but had been murdered by a deranged fan. [ 7 ] [ 8 ] It has been suggested that the situation further damaged Francis Ford Coppola's career and ruined Sofia's before it had even begun. [ 9 ] Coppola has said that she never really wanted to act, and only appeared in the film as a favor to her father. [ 10 ] After filming, Sofia Coppola confirmed that she did not want to enter acting. [ 10 ] It has also been suggested that Sofia's role in the film may have contributed to its box office performance, which started strongly and then went into decline. [ 9 ] Coppola has said that her father based a lot of her character on her while writing the script, before she was even cast into the role. [ 9 ] Sofia had herself worried that she had only been given the role because she was the director's daughter, and the role placed a strain on her during the time of shooting that her mother observed in a series of diaries she wrote for Vogue during the filming. [ 9 ] After she was critically panned for her performance in The Godfather Part III , for which she won Worst Supporting Actress and Worst New Star at the 1990 Golden Raspberry Awards , Coppola ended her acting career, although she appeared in the independent film Inside Monkey Zetterland (1992), as well as in the backgrounds of films by her friends and family: for example, she appeared as Saché , one of Queen Padmé Amidala 's five handmaidens in George Lucas ' Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999). [ 4 ] Coppola has since been quoted as saying that she was not hurt by the criticism from her role in The Godfather Part III , because she never especially wanted an acting career. [ 11 ] Sequel novels [ edit ] Mary appears as a minor character in Mark Winegardner 's sequel novels The Godfather Returns and The Godfather's Revenge , although in the original novel , Michael's second child is a boy. Family [ edit ] Michael Corleone —Father; played by Al Pacino Kay Adams —Mother; played by Diane Keaton Anthony Vito Corleone —Brother; played by Anthony Gounaris in Godfather I , played by James Gounaris in Godfather II , played by Franc D'Ambrosio in Godfather III Vito Corleone —Grandfather; played by Marlon Brando and Robert De Niro Carmela Corleone —Grandmother; played by Morgana King and Francesca De Sapio Santino 'Sonny' Corleone —Uncle; played by James Caan Fredo Corleone —Uncle; played by John Cazale Constanzia "Connie" Corleone-Rizzi —Aunt; played by Talia Shire Vincent Mancini-Corleone —First cousin; son of Sonny Corleone played by Andy García Frank Corleone—Cousin; son of Sonny Corleone Kathryn & Francesca Corleone—Cousins; Sonny's twin daughters Santino Corleone, Jr.—Cousin; son of Sonny Corleone References [ edit ] ^ "The Godfather, Part III (1990)" . Movies & TV Dept. The New York Times . 2014. Archived from the original on 16 July 2014 . Retrieved 24 June 2014 . ^ a b "Death in the family" . The Guardian . 15 April 2000 . Retrieved 22 August 2013 . ^ "The Teenage Heartbreak of Sofia Coppola's Mary Corleone" . TIFF . Retrieved 27 February 2020 . ^ a b Gilbey, Ryan (4 July 2013). "Sofia Coppola on The Bling Ring: 'What these kids did really took ingenuity' " . The Guardian . London, England . Retrieved 5 July 2013 . ^ "Sofia Coppola Biography" . Tribute . Tribute Entertainment Media Group. 2013 . Retrieved 5 July 2013 . ^ Nick Browne, ed. (2000). Francis Ford Coppola's The Godfather Trilogy . Cambridge University Press . p. 48. ISBN 9780521559508 . ^ Ojumu, Akin (16 February 2003). "Brad Silbering: The family that grieves together..." The Observer . Retrieved 22 August 2013 . ^ "Death on Main Street" . The Age . 8 March 2003. ^ a b c d Gerosa, Melina (25 January 1991). "Storm over Sofia Coppola" . Entertainment Weekly . New York City: Time, Inc. Retrieved 16 April 2018 . ^ a b "Revisited: Sofia Coppola" . Interview . 26 October 2017 . Retrieved 15 April 2018 . ^ "Out of the Godfather's shadow" . The Independent . London, England: Independent Print Ltd. 30 April 2000 . Retrieved 27 August 2012 . v t e Mario Puzo 's The Godfather Book series Novels The Godfather (1969) The Sicilian (1984) The Godfather Returns (2004) The Godfather's Revenge (2006) The Family Corleone (2012) Authors Mario Puzo Mark Winegardner Edward Falco Film series Films The Godfather (1972) The Godfather Part II (1974) The Godfather Part III (1990) Music The Godfather " Speak Softly, Love " The Godfather Part II The Godfather Part III " Promise Me You'll Remember " Characters Corleone family Vito Corleone Michael Corleone Tom Hagen Sonny Corleone Fredo Corleone Carmela Corleone Kay Adams Connie Corleone Anthony Corleone Mary Corleone Vincent Corleone Allies Luca Brasi Peter Clemenza Al Neri Frank Pentangeli Salvatore Tessio Enemies Don Altobello Emilio Barzini Don Fanucci Moe Greene Carlo Rizzi Hyman Roth Joey Zasa Others Cardinal Lamberto Albert Volpe Video games The Godfather (1991) The Godfather (2006) The Godfather II (2009) Non-fiction The Godfather Papers and Other Confessions (1972) Take the Cannoli (2000) The Godfather Effect (2012) Related The Godfather Saga (1977) The Sicilian (1987) The Offer (2022) Parodies Il figlioccio del padrino (1973) The Funny Face of the Godfather (1973) The Freshman (1990) The Godson (1998) Mafia! (1998) Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mary_Corleone&oldid=1274850802 " Categories : The Godfather characters Fictional murdered people Fictional characters from New York City Film characters introduced in 1974 Characters in American novels of the 21st century Fictional characters involved in incest Female characters in literature Female characters in film Cultural depictions of the Mafia Fictional Sicilian people Fictional Catholics Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use dmy dates from April 2020 Short description is different from Wikidata This page was last edited on 9 February 2025, at 16:23 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Mary Corleone 7 languages Add topic