US Open '19: Teen Bianca Andreescu Upsets Serena Williams To Win Women's Title - CBS New York Latest U.S. Trump 100 Days World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio Local News Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes America Decides CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed CBS Village Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Davos Interviews A Moment With... Innovators & Disruptors Economy 4.0 New York | News Weather Congestion Pricing Sports Video New York Shows Your Home Team All News NY News Bronx News Brooklyn News Harlem News Long Island News Northern Suburbs Queens News NJ News CT News Investigations Politics Education Transportation Crime Housing Arts & Entertainment Climate & Environment Health & Wellness Aging & Caregiving First Alert Weather Radars & Maps CBS2 Weather Map CBS2 Weather Watchers First Alert Weather 101 Share Photos & Videos All Sports Giants Yankees Knicks Rangers Islanders Jets Mets Nets Devils CBS Sports HQ Odds Latest News CBS New York Investigates Book Club with Mary Calvi Class Act with Chris Wragge #BetterTogether Breaking The Stigma Furry Friend Finder Sandy The 5:33 | Legacy of the LIRR Massacre On The Dot with David Schechter: Wildfires & Climate Change Climate Change: Protecting our Planet Station Info WCBS-TV WLNY-TV Contact Us Advertise Contests & Promotions Galleries Links & Numbers Download Our App Watch CBS News Sports US Open '19: Teen Bianca Andreescu Upsets Serena Williams To Win Women's Title September 7, 2019 / 11:45 PM EDT / CBS New York NEW YORK (AP) — Bianca Andreescu displayed the same brand of big-serving, big-hitting, in-your-face tennis that Serena Williams usually does. And now the 19-year-old from Canada is a Grand Slam champion, earning her first such title while preventing Williams from collecting a record-tying 24th. Andreescu took charge early in the U.S. Open final, going up by a set and two breaks, then held off a late charge by Williams to win 6-3, 7-5 for the championship Saturday night. Bianca Andreescu of Canada celebrates winning the Women's Singles final match against against Serena Williams of the United States on day thirteen of the 2019 US Open at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center on September 07, 2019. (Photo by Mike Stobe/Getty Images) "Being able to play on this stage against Serena, a true legend in this sport, is amazing," said Andreescu, who was appearing in her first major final, while Williams was in her 33rd. "Oh, man, it wasn't easy at all." This is the second year in a row that Williams has lost in the final at Flushing Meadows. This one had none of the controversy of 2018, when she got into an extended argument with the chair umpire while being beaten by Naomi Osaka. Williams has now been the runner-up at four of the seven majors she has entered since returning to the tour after having a baby two years ago. The 37-year-old American remains stuck on 23 Grand Slam singles title, one shy of Margaret Court's mark for the most in history. Serena Williams of the United States reacts during her Women's Singles final match against Bianca Andreescu of Canada on day thirteen of the 2019 US Open at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center on September 07, 2019. (Photo by Emilee Chinn/Getty Images) Andreescu, the first player from Canada to win a major singles title, went up 5-1 in the second set and served for the victory there, even holding a match point at 40-30. But Williams erased that with a forehand return winner off a 105 mph serve. That launched a four-game run for Williams, who broke Andreescu again to make it 5-all. "I was just fighting at that point," said Williams, a six-time U.S. Open champion. "Just trying to stay out there a little bit longer." The Arthur Ashe Stadium crowd was overwhelmingly supporting Williams, not surprisingly, and spectators got so loud as she tried to put together a successful comeback that Andreescu covered her ears with her hands after one point. "I just tried to block everything out," Andreescu said afterward. "I'm just glad with how I managed, really." Suddenly, this was a contest. Or so it seemed. But as well as Andreescu handled everything — herself, her far-more-experienced and successful opponent, and even the moment — Williams was far from her best, especially while serving. She got broken for the sixth time in the final game. This was the largest age gap in a Grand Slam final, and it came almost exactly 20 years to the day since Williams won the U.S. Open for her first major title in 1999, a year before Andreescu was born. Andreescu is the first woman to win the trophy at Flushing Meadows in her main-draw tournament debut in the Open era, which started in 1968 when professionals were allowed into Grand Slam tournaments. She only has participated in four majors in her brief career. Just think: A year ago, Andreescu was losing in the opening round of qualifying. Bianca Andreescu of Canada returns a shot during her Women's Singles final match against against Serena Williams of the United States on day thirteen of the 2019 US Open at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center on September 07, 2019. (Photo by Clive Brunskill/Getty Images) On Saturday, there she was, putting her hands on her head, dropping her racket and then pumping her fists when it ended. After a hug from a smiling Williams at the net, Andreescu kissed the blue court and rolled onto her back, soaking in the applause. About two hours earlier, the 15th-seeded Andreescu was standing in the hallway leading from the locker room to the court, doing a prematch interview in which she sounded like someone whose mind was as confident as her play would soon be, saying, "I'm just going to take it like it's any other match." She began the day with a 33-4 record in 2019, including 7-0 against top-10 opponents, and without a loss in a completed match since March 1. Andreescu missed a chunk of time in that span with a shoulder injury, which clearly is no longer hindering her. Andreescu took it to Williams, figuratively and literally. Andreescu produced the kind of power Williams is more accustomed to dishing out than dealing with from the other side of the net. One shot went right at Williams, who leaped to avoid the ball at the baseline. And Andreescu was fearless, always pushing, always aggressive, punctuating plenty of winners with cries of "Come on!" — the way Williams does — or "Let's go!" Even her coin-toss choice showed just how bold she is: Andreescu opted to receive, a decision that at first glance might have seemed unusual, given that she was facing the woman generally regarded as the possessor of the greatest serve in the game, now or ever. On this day, though, it worked out. Williams double-faulted eight times in all, including three times on break point, part of her 33 unforced errors, nearly twice as many as Andreescu's 17. There were other ways in which Williams was not at her best, seemingly unsure of herself, including one odd-looking check-swing on a backhand in the second set that then let Andreescu put a shot away to go up 4-1. When she was 16, Andreescu wrote herself a fake U.S. Open winner's check, part of her efforts to visualize success. Kept updating the amount of prize money as it rose in real life. On Saturday night, she really did get that champion's check, to the tune of $3.85 million. (© Copyright 2019 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.) More from CBS News Mets hit 3 homers off E-Rod, play dazzling defense in win over Diamondbacks NY Yankees blast six home runs in 15-3 win over Baltimore Orioles Bronx students giddy after winning fight to keep their school open Mets blow 6-run lead, fall to Nationals on throwing error in the 9th In: U.S. Open New York © 2019 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Featured Local Savings More from CBS News Mets hit 3 homers off E-Rod, play dazzling defense in win over Diamondbacks NY Yankees blast six home runs in 15-3 win over Baltimore Orioles Bronx students giddy after winning fight to keep their school open Mets blow 6-run lead, fall to Nationals on throwing error in the 9th Featured Trump's Speech Marking First 100 Days Poll On Trump's First 100 Days 2025 NBA Playoff Schedule 2025 NHL Playoff Schedule Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram TikTok X CBS News New York Meet the Team WLNY-TV 55 Program Guide Contests & Promotions Advertise With Us Sitemap Regulation Public File for WCBS-TV Public File for WLNY-TV Public Inspection File Help FCC Applications WCBS-TV EEO Report WLNY-TV EEO Report Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback ©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue Be the first to know Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting. Not Now Turn On