Digital Urban Educator - May 2021 / Las Vegas Educator Named Teacher of the Year Skip to Main Content District Home Sign In Search Our Site Council of the Great City Schools THE NATION'S VOICE FOR URBAN EDUCATION Topics " Equity School Boards COVID-19 Special Education ARP/ESSER Michael Casserly Urban Executive Leadership Institute Conferences " Past Conference Sessions Miscellaneous 2020 Fall Conference Social Media Kit Upcoming Conferences Fall Conference Legislative/Policy Conference Past Meetings Member Services " Member District States Accordian Member Districts Awards & Scholarships Managing for Results- KPI Strategic Support Team Reports Webinars Member Benefits Summary Jobs " Jobs Board About CGCS " Executive Committee and Board of Directors Materials Gates NSI Reopening Materialss PD Framework Frameworks Feedback CGCS Communities Who We Are Member Districts Awards and Scholarships Our Staff Partners Blue Ribbon Corporate Advisory Group Annual Report Academics " Providing Solutions for Black Male Achievement Common Core State Standards Project College and Career Readiness Computer Science ELL Resources and Tools English Language Arts and Literacy English Language Learners History/Social Science Mathematics Publications Science Special Education Common Core Online Resources Newsroom " Digital Urban Educator - March 2024 Digital Urban Educator - January/February 2024 Digital Urban Educator - September 2023 Digital Urban Educator - June/July 2023 Digital Urban Educator - October 2023 The Lines Building Safer Schools Investing in Academic Recovery and Progress in America’s Great City Schools Leadership Transition Guide Pandemic-Era Changes in Urban School Leadership: Superintendent Characteristics, Turnover, and Salar CGCS Strategic Support Team – Puerto Rico – Special Education Digital Urban Educator - April 2025 Public Education Matters Statements from Council Districts on the Killing of George Floyd Urban Educators Speak About Racism 2024 Outstanding Urban School Graduates Year in Review Digital Urban Educator - May 2023 Urban Educator - April 2023 Urban Educator - March 2023 Urban Educator - January/February 2023 Urban Educator - November/December 2022 Urban Educator - October 2022 Urban Educator - September 2022 Urban Educator - June/July 2022 Urban Educator - May 2022 Urban Educator - April 2022 Urban Educator -March 2022 Urban Educator - January/February 2022 Urban Educator - September 2021 Urban Educator - October 2021 Digital Urban Educator - June/July 2021 Digital Urban Educator - May 2021 Digital Urban Educator - April 2021 Digital Urban Educator - March 2021 Digital Urban Educator - Jan/Feb 2021 Urban Educator - November/December 2021 Digital Urban Educator - November/December 2020 Digital Urban Educator - October 2020 Digital Urban Educator - September 2020 Digital Urban Educator - June/July 2020 Digital Urban Educator-May 2020 Digital Urban Educator- April 2020 Digital Urban Educator- March 2020 Digital Urban Educator - Jan/Feb 2020 Digital Urban Educator- Nov/Dec 2019 Digital Urban Educator- October 2019 Digital Urban Educator- September 2019 Press Releases Urban Educator CGCS in the News Annual Reports ARP/ESSER Funding in Council School Districts Featured Reports Videos Digital Urban Educator - March 2025 Digital Urban Educator - January/February 2025 Digital urban Educator - November/December 2024 Digital Urban Educator - October 2024 Digital Urban Educator - September 2024 Digital Urban Educator - June/July 2024 Digital Urban Educator - May 2024 Digital Urban Educator - April 2024 More Research " Featured Projects Increasing the Achievement of Young Men and Boys of Color Information Tableau Research Publications Data Sources Presentations NAEP Dashboard Equity Enrollment Dashboard Legislative " Special Education Updates Budget & Appropriations Regulations and Comments Agencies & Courts Publications " Readiness Checklist Latest Publications Achievement Bilingual Education College & Career Readiness Covid19 Curriculum & Instruction Demographics Leadership, Governance and Management Managing for Results- KPI Parent Roadmaps to Common Core Standards Research School Finance Strategic Support Teams Urban Educator Search for Publications Bb Training " Training HK TH Training Sample Map App Video App Translate Council of the Great City Schools Las Vegas Educator Named Teacher of the Year Digital Urban Educator - May 2021 Page Navigation Urban School Districts Share Expanded Summer School Programs Las Vegas Educator Named Teacher of the Year Superintendents in L.A. and Chicago Step Down Tulsa Public Schools Launches Curriculum to Commemorate 1921 Race Massacre Philadelphia Expands Mentoring Program Between School Safety Officers and Black Students Three Urban Schools Ranked Among the Nation's Top 10 Philadelphia Student Wins $25,000 Scholarship from National Honor Society Legislative Column Urban Schools Win Green Ribbon Awards Three Big-City School Districts Win Energy Awards Spanish Embassy Honors Florida School Las Vegas Educator Named Teacher of the Year Juliana Urtubey was born in Bogota, Colombia, and moved to the United States with her family when she was five. As a first-generation Hispanic and a bilingual special-education teacher in Las Vegas, Urtubey takes immense pride in being a role model for her students. She has a deep commitment to ensuring that students of color as well as those with disabilities have increased access to opportunities. Her commitment to providing an equitable education for all students is one of the reasons Urtubey was recently named the 2021 National Teacher of the Year by the Council of Chief State School Officers. She was chosen for the honor from among 57 state teachers of the year. According to the CCSO, Urtubey is the first Nevada teacher to win the award and the first Latinx recipient since 2005. Urtubey was announced as Teacher of the Year May 6 on television’s CBS This Morning and was surprised with a visit and flowers from First Lady Jill Biden, a college professor, who called Juliana “the epitome of a great teacher, a great educator.” An educator for 11 years, Urtubey is a co-teacher in pre-kindergarten through fifth-grade special-education settings at Kermit R. Booker Sr. Innovative Elementary School in the Clark County School District. She is also an instructional strategist, developing supports to meet students’ differing academic, social-emotional and behavioral needs. Previously, she taught special education at Crestwood Elementary School, where her desire to build a culture where all felt welcomed and valued led her to create a garden program. Urtubey was able to secure more than $800,000 in grants to transform 13,000 square-feet of unused grass areas into four gardens, two outdoor classrooms, 15 commissioned murals and two Garden Summer Camps. She became known as “Ms. Earth,” and students in the garden program were called Garden Gnomies. They met every Friday for an hour before school to help maintain the garden. In addition, each month the garden program hosted a Farmer’s Market at the school to share its fresh and healthy produce with the local community. As leader of the Garden Team, Urtubey witnessed how the program increased students’ pride and stewardship for the school, and also provided an opportunity for students to learn with a hands-on approach. As a special-education teacher, she has assumed a leadership role to improve outcomes for students with disabilities. Urtubey designed a co-taught resource classroom to provide students with additional academic support, as well as social and emotional (SEL) support. Once implemented, the endeavor helped many students achieve 1-1/2 to 2-1/2 years of growth within one year. It also enabled several students with intensive behavioral needs who had been assigned to self-contained classrooms to be re-assigned to inclusive classrooms. The 2020-2021 Nevada State Teacher of the Year said she strongly believes schools should be designed for equity by welcoming the strengths and assets of all students, families, and community members. Her beliefs are rooted in her experiences as an immigrant student from Colombia. Her father was born in the United States, so she and her sisters had the privilege of dual citizenship. But when the family arrived in Chicago, her parents struggled to find a school that they felt was safe and would respect their language and cultural differences. Her parents eventually enrolled them in a bilingual magnet school, and that experience has propelled the educator to become the kind of teacher that always focuses on families and the strengths of their cultural identities. Although she never had teachers of color in the public schools she attended, Urtubey knows the importance of teachers of color like herself, who embrace diverse communities and believe they have the power to change and transform lives. A National Board-Certified Teacher, Urtubey is a member of the Nevada Department of Education Superintendent’s Teacher Advisory Cabinet, where she advocates for students with special needs, emerging bilinguals, and families that face access barriers. She also is a founding board member for the National Board Network of Accomplished Minoritized Educators and was the 2019 Hispanic Education Association’s Nevada Teacher of the Year. Established in 1952, the National Teacher of the Year Program identifies exceptional teachers across the nation, celebrates their effective work in and out of the classroom, amplifies their voices, and empowers them to participate in policy discussions at the state and national levels. As the nation’s 2021 Teacher of Year, Urtubey will spend the year traveling the country as a spokesperson and advocate for the teaching profession and for students. During her interview on CBS This Morning, she said her focus would be “advocating for students to have a joyous and just education, where they experience joy in every part of their school.” Headshot photo: Melissa Esparza Inside photo: Clark County School District Media Contact: Contact Name Contact@email.com (000) 000-0000 Contact Name Contact@email.com (000) 000-0000 Contact Name Contact@email.com (000) 000-0000 Media Contact: Contact Name Contact@email.com (000) 000-0000 Contact Name Contact@email.com (000) 000-0000 Contact Name Contact@email.com (000) 000-0000 Council of the Great City Schools 1331 Pennsylvania Ave, N.W., Ste 1100N, Washington D.C.,  20004 PHONE: 202-393-2427 FAX: 202-393-2400 COVID-19 Press Releases Annual Report Parent Roadmaps Site Map Search Questions or Feedback? | Web Community Manager Privacy Policy (Updated) | Copyright © 2025 Finalsite - all rights reserved. CLOSE CLOSE