A Dream of Splendor - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Synopsis 2 Broadcast time 3 Caste System 4 Cast Toggle Cast subsection 4.1 Main cast 4.2 Other cast 5 Song Toggle Song subsection 5.1 Original Soundtrack 5.2 Hong Kong TVB version's Soundtrack 6 Awards 7 International broadcast 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents A Dream of Splendor 7 languages 한국어 Bahasa Indonesia Jawa ꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟ 日本語 Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 2022 Chinese web series A Dream of Splendor Promotional poster Chinese name Traditional Chinese 夢華錄 Simplified Chinese 梦华录 Transcriptions Standard Mandarin Hanyu Pinyin Mèng huá lù Genre Historical fiction Romance Based on Zhao Pan'er Fengyue Jiu Feng Chen 《赵盼儿风月救风尘 by Guan Hanqing Written by Zhang Wei Directed by Yang Yang Presented by Sun Zhonghuai Wang Yuren Starring Liu Yifei Chen Xiao Liu Yan Lin Yun Xu Haiqiao Dai Xu Zhang Xiaoqian Country of origin China Original language Mandarin No. of episodes 40 (30 in TVB version) Production Executive producer Zheng Wei Producer Wu Zhuoqian Production locations Hengdian Xiangshan Xiangyang Wuxi Running time 45 minutes (60 minutes in TVB version) Production company Golden Pond Media Original release Network Tencent Video (China) WeTV (others) TVB (Hong Kong) Beijing Satellite Television Release June 2 ( 2022-06-02 ) – July 24, 2022 ( 2022-07-24 ) A Dream of Splendor ( simplified Chinese : 梦华录 ; traditional Chinese : 夢華錄 ; pinyin : Mèng huá lù ) is a 2022 Chinese historical drama television series directed by Yang Yang and starring Liu Yifei , Chen Xiao , Liu Yan and * Lin Yun . [ 1 ] [ 2 ] [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] Set in the Northern Song dynasty , the series is based on the (Yuan Opera-style) drama Zhao Pan'er Fengyue Jiu Feng Chen 《赵盼儿风月救风尘》 by the Yuan dynasty playwright Guan Hanqing . It is airing on Tencent Video and WeTV from June 2, 2022, to July 24, 2022. [ 6 ] Hong Kong's TVB was the first television station to broadcast this drama on TVB Jade from September 5, 2022, to October 14, 2022, previously on its streaming service MyTV SUPER from June 9 to July 2, 2022. [ 7 ] It later went on national broadcast and aired simultaneously on Beijing Satellite Television from 22 November 2022. [ 8 ] Synopsis [ edit ] Zhao Pan-Er is the owner of a famous tea shop in Qian-Tang. She supported her fiancé, Ou-Yang Xu, for three years before he went to Eastern Capital to take the imperial exam, promising to marry her once he passed. She meets Gu Qian-Fan, an upright commander from the Imperial City, and they become entangled in a big case in Jiang-Nan where he is framed and becomes a wanted man. During that time, she finds out from Ou-Yang Xu's servant, Uncle De, that though her fiancé won third place in the imperial examination, he agreed to marry the daughter of an official, and can only take Zhao Pan-Er as a concubine instead of as his legal wife. Unwilling to accept her fate, she decides to go to the Eastern Capital and find out the truth, and seek justice. Before going, Zhao Pan-Er, helps an injured Gu Qian-Fan escape the authorities by getting him onto a ship. She also finds out that her friend, Song Yin-Zhang, was tricked into marriage by a gambler who only wanted her money, and is being abused by him. Along the way, she finds Sun San-Niang, a chef who was driven to suicide by her callous, cheating husband and ungrateful son, clinging to a large piece of driftwood. Sun San-Niang is rescued by Gu Qian-Fan. Sun San-Niang becomes ill from overwhelming grief and is nursed back to health by Zhao Pan-Er and Gu Qian-Fan. Zhao Pan-Er comes up with a plan to rescue Song Yin-Zhang and get justice for her. After successfully saving Song Yin-Zhang, the three sworn sisters decide to go to the Eastern Capital together to find the truth about Ou-Yang Xu. When Zhao Pan-Er arrives in the Eastern Capital, she finds out what Uncle De said is true. She confronts Ou-Yang Xu, and he confirms his plans to marry Gao Hui. He again asks her to be his concubine, but she refuses and asks him to return the things she gave him, including a damning painting sought after by several court officials. He is unable to comply, and, convinced by Uncle De that she would be detrimental to his career, frames her for a violation, and has her driven out of the Capital in shame with her friends. When Zhao Pan-Er encounters Gu Qian-Fan at the capital gates, he convinces her to stay in the Eastern Capital after he hears what Ou-Yang Xu did, and has the trumped-up violation revoked. In order to remain in the Eastern Capital, Zhao Pan-Er, Song Yin-Zhang and Sun San-Niang pool their funds and start a small teahouse in an undesirable area. But after several of Pan-Er's innovative ideas challenge the status quo, the teahouse becomes a success. They then decide to start up a restaurant in the Eastern Capital. In the beginning, they encounter issues with the restaurant guild, but are eventually able to create a successful restaurant catering to all kinds of customers. The three sworn sisters experience a lot of hardship and obstacles, but are finally able to find success and happiness. Their restaurant becomes a place where entertainers can work and make a decent living. With the help of the emperor, Zhao Pan-Er is able to have the pariah status and restrictions removed. 9 [ 9 ] [ 10 ] [ 11 ] [ 12 ] Broadcast time [ edit ] Channel Location Broadcast Date Broadcast Time Remarks Tencent Video Mainland China June 2, 2022 – June 26, 2022 20:00 VIP members will update 8 episodes for the first time Update 4 consecutively in the first week Daily Update 2 episodes every Thursday to Saturday Update 2 episodes for the first time for non-VIP members Update 1 episode every Thursday to Monday WeTV Overseas June 2, 2022 – July 3, 2022 20:00 myTV SUPER Hong Kong June 9, 2022 – July 2, 2022 20:00 Netflix Overseas July 1, 2022 – July 24, 2022 Astro GO Malaysia June 8, 2022 – July 22, 2022 20:00 Update 1 episode every Monday to Friday Jade Hong Kong September 5, 2022 – October 14, 2022 20:30 Dubbed in Cantonese Reduced to 30 episodes. Jade TVB Anywhere service area (only in Singapore) Beijing Satellite TV Mainland China November 22, 2022- 19:30 Quality Theater [ 13 ] Caste System [ edit ] An unusual aspect of this series is that it explicitly addresses and explores the caste system of the Northern Song dynasty. Caste systems existed in China, though they are not as famous or rigid as the ones in India and Edo period Japan. Broadly speaking, the general citizenry were classed as either "Dastardly" or "Virtuous" based on their profession and ancestry, with a complex system of sub-castes within these two broad classifications. "Dastardly" citizens were restricted in various ways, had fewer civil rights, and were ineligible for imperial examinations and public office. It was not explicitly illegal for women from a "dastardly" background to become the main wife of an official, but it was severely frowned upon and considered to be a mark of poor character. "Dastardly" professions in this series include merchants, businessmen, and "entertainers", a category which includes the sub-castes of instrument players, singers, dancers, and prostitutes. Scholars have always been highly regarded throughout Chinese history, so of course, they are considered "Virtuous". Zhao Pan'er's father was a general who violated military orders in order to save citizens from slaughter. As part of his punishment, his family were demoted to "sinners" and Zhao Pan'er was trained as a government-regulated "entertainer". She was later "ransomed/redeemed" by her father's comrades and regained her freedom, but her time as a "sinner" would forever be regarded as a blemish to her reputation if it was ever found out. After being "ransomed/redeemed", Zhao Pan'er opened a tea shop and became a business owner. Zhao Pan'er's background as a business owner and former sinner was the primary motivation behind Ouyang Xu concealing his relationship with her and later on, reneging on marrying her as his main wife, the inciting incident which sets the story in motion. The Empress was also a former entertainer, and her attempts to protect her identity, and her schemes against those who criticize her for being unworthy of her position, all play key roles in the story. Song Yinzhang, a talented Pipa player, also struggles with her identity as an "entertainer" of the "dastardly" caste. Cast [ edit ] Main cast [ edit ] Actor Role Introduction Cantonese Dubbing (TVB) Liu Yifei Zhao Pan'Er Astute, sharp & independent businesswoman. She is introduced, in the beginning, as the proprietress of a tea shop by the Qiantang River . Both beautiful and brilliant, anyone who sees her can't help but call her stunning. Born as the daughter of an official, because of her father's unfortunate crimes, her family was forced to relinquish their status as an official, and she was sold off to a brothel to be a lowly entertainer/performer at a very young age. Throughout her time as a performer, she only displayed her talent, but did not sell herself. Afterwards, her father's former ministry subordinates begged, on her behalf, for forgiveness, they managed to change her status to a commoner, but she felt her time as a performer would always her greatest shame and embarrassment. After Cong-Liang, she made a living running a tea shop by the Qian-Tang River and, in the Eastern Capital, she met up with her fiancé Ou-Yang Xu, but Ou-Yang Xu was favored by the Gao family and engaged to Gao Hui after Ji-Ji. He regretted breaking his marriage contract to Zhao Pan'Er, but explained, because of her status, his career would suffer. He needed to marry a noble lady to advance his career. Even though, he loved her, he couldn't marry her as promised, so he proposed to accept her as a concubine instead, which was rejected by her. When she first met Gu Qian-Fan, they had some misunderstandings due to unfortunate circumstances. Later on, when Gu Qian-Fan was framed for a crime he didn't commit & had to escape Qian-Tang, Pan-Er helped the injured Qian-Fan escape. Qian-Fan, in turn, helped her out of difficult situations many times. Eventually, she and Gu Qian-Fan, fell in love and he proposed to her. Unfortunately, there were still a lot of misunderstandings in their relationship & Pan-Er thought, at one time, Qian-Fan abandoned her like Ou-Yang Xu after getting a promotion to Commissioner of Capital Security Office. Not realizing, Gu Qian-Fan really didn't know how to face her after he discovered what had happened to her father. Zhang Songxin Chen Xiao (Childhood: Ziyi ) Gu Qian-Fan (Childhood: Wei Hui'e ) Commander of the Intelligence Office Agency of the Capital Security Office, also known as the "Living King of Hell (Yama)". He was born as a noble son of Prime Minister Xiao Qin-Yan, who later abandoned Qian-Fan's mother and him for an official career, so he changed his surname to his mother's surname, Gu. He is both civil and military official, upright and righteous, and takes upholding justice as his sworn duty. He shows no mercy to the prisoners sent to the Imperial City Division. He is cold-blooded and ruthless during interrogations, and because he has no mercy when seeking the truth, he is called, the "Living Yama". He met Zhao Pan'Er while on his way to his assigned mission. Even though she was a woman, he would show no sympathy for, but the two got to know each other better in crisis after crisis. He, reluctantly, let go of his perseverance and strength because of Zhao Pan'Er's beautiful face, independence, intelligence, strength, and character. He gradually, developed deep roots of love for her. He was promoted to the post of deputy commissioner of the Capital Security Office after solving the case in Qian-Tang. He was, later, promoted to be a 5th ranked official title of Commissioner of Capital Security Office of the imperial city after the hat demon case . He hoped with this promotion, he could give his mother a posthumous title & be buried with honors. Liu Yan Sun San-Niang Zhao Pan-Er's neighbor in Qian-Tang. Born as a butcher, she has great strength, excellent cooking skills, especially good with Jiang-Nan dishes and desserts. She has known Zhao Pan'Er for a long time and talks about everything. She is a virtuous woman and worked hard to give her husband and son everything. She discovers her husband is having an affair with a widow, her cousin, and her only son did not even recognize her as his mother. In despair, she jumps into the river and tries to commit suicide. She is saved by Gu Qian-Fan and Zhao Pan-Er. She opens a tea shop in the Eastern Capital with Zhao Pan-Er and Song Yin-Zhang. At first, Du Chang-Feng, a good friend of Ou-Yang Xu & a presented scholar, could not understand why Zhao Pan-Er didn't accept Ou-Yang Xu's proposal and  tried to persuade her to be Ou-Yang Xu's concubine. Later, when Du Chang-Feng was bullied by his students as usual, because of his poor eyesight, Sun San-Niang stood up for him. Du Chang-Feng and Sun San-Niang soon became friends. San-Niang helped cure Chang-Feng poor eyesight with pig liver. To repay San-Niang for her kindness, he went out of his way to help her and her friends. They gradually got together and fell in love. Finally, he asked the emperor to allow them to be married which was granted. Liu Huiyun Lin Yun Song Yin-Zhang Highly accomplished pipa musician. Her pipa skill is considered the best in the Jiang-Nan region. The pipa she plays is called Gu-Yue. Although she is an official Jiao-Fang music performer, she does not sell herself as a performer. She, together with Zhao Pan'er and Sun San-Niang, swore themselves as sisters. In the early years, she is shown to be naive and confident personality, which always makes Zhao Pan-Er and Sun San-Niang worry. Sparing no effort to get out of 贱书, she doesn't use good judgment to get out of the county. Regardless of Zhao Pan-Er's advice, she elopes with Zhou She, who is a gambler and indecent man with cruel intentions. She is imprisoned and beaten by Zhou She, and her savings are all stolen. Later, she had a crush on Gu Qian-Fan, but after learning Gu Qian-Fan's sweetheart is Zhao Pan-Er, she becomes buried in the darkness, heartbroken and angry. She agrees to let Shen Ru-Zhuo's pursue her, but once again entrusts herself to someone immoral. After exposing Shen Ru-Zhuo's true face of charming beautiful young ladies for his boss, Minister Lin, to have an affair with, she completely sees through the false love between them. She realizes, overnight, she needs to grows up, not be impetuous & take charge of her life & the responsibilities that come with it. Ling Xi Other cast [ edit ] Actor Role Introduction Cantonese Dubbing (TVB) Xu Haiqiao Ou-Yang Xu Zhao Pan-Er's former betrothed. In the past, he failed the imperial exam repeatedly. He met and received the kindness of Zhao Pan-Er who paid for his education and provided room and board. They fell in love and made a marriage contract. Finally, he passed the imperial examination, three years later, and was awarded third place Presented scholar. Later, for the sake of his official career, he accepted the love of Gao Hui, the daughter of the powerful minister Gao Hu, and broke the marriage contract with Zhao Pan-Er, instead offering her to be his concubine. He also thought he was keeping her safe from Gao Hui jealousy because women who showed interest in him were having unfortunate accidents, not realizing it was her nanny causing them.  After that, when Zhao Pan-Er wanted compensation for him breaking the marriage contract, he and his housekeeper connived with the local officer to slander Zhao Pan-Er and her friends and had expelled them from the Eastern Capital. Later, he found out Zhao Pan-Er came back into the Eastern Capital with the help of Gu Qian-Fan. In order to avoid being retaliated against by Zhao Pan-Er in the Eastern Capital, he flattered the emperor with his knowledge of Taoism when he was presented at the palace and was awarded the post of Deputy Envoy of Zuo Lang Zi-Ji Palace, with the mission to find the famous Taoist priest, Bao-Yi, and escaped to Xi-Jing.  However, he was despised by Minister Gao Hu because of this, so the marriage contract with Gao Hui was broken. He went to Xi-Jing to take office, suffering hardships getting there, and having difficulty finding Bao-Yi. When he arrived in Xi-Jing, he was despised by the people there, thinking he was being punished due to the post he was assigned. Minister Gao sent his men to Xi-Jing to have him sign a document to officially break the marriage contract with his daughter. He secretly vowing to return triumphantly in the near future and take revenge against Zhao Pan-Er and Gao Hui. He, finally, returned to the Eastern Capital with revenge in his heart and colluded with Qi Mu to bring down the Empress which failed. He killed Uncle De for disobeying him and tried to kill Zhao Pan-Er, but failed. He, then, colluded with the Empress which also failed, due to the Empress' change of heart. He was finally captured by the emperor and handed over to the Capital Security Office with full authority to prosecute & punish him. Dai Xu Chi Pan Head of 12 merchant guilds. A well-known playboy in the Eastern Capital, born into a family of merchants, known as Chi Ya Nei. He is rich & gullible and, at times, was cheated on by merchants, when he thought he bought things of value. He and Zhang Hao-Hao were a good friend and he supported her. He was, often, at odds with Zhao Pan-Er and had a long-standing quarrel with Gu Qian-Fan. He  breaks up with Zhang Hao-Hao, because she tells him off about the gift of a bird he was trying to give her.  Later, he was helped by Zhao Pan-Er, by chance, when a local officer was bullying him about the bad condition of the wharf following a terrible storm, and because of his status. A different kind of relationship between them arose, but because Zhao Pan-Er had already given her own heart to Gu Qian-Fan. He later turns his attentions to Song Yin-Zhang. Zhong Jianlin Zhang Xiaoqian Du Chang-Feng Close friend of Ou-Yang Xu & academy scholar/teacher. He wa born into a wealthy family in the capital, with outdated and pedantic thinking. Both of his parents died when he was young. Suffering from night blindness and severe myopia, resulting in blurred vision. To see close objects, he needs to relied on 叆叇 (similar to today's myopia glasses). In the beginning, he tried to persuade Zhao Pan-Er to commit herself, because of her status, to Ou-Yang Xu as a concubine, but Sun San-Niang threw him into the river water in public in a rage. Without knowing, the tea house, he was enjoying because of the unique tea and Song Yin-Zhang's pipa playing, was opened by Zhao Pan-Er and Sun San-Niang, he was thrown out by San-Niang, but, later, he became a regular customer. He and Sun San-Niang were enemies, in the beginning. One day, when San-Niang was hit by a pebble meant for him by his students, she defended him and scolded the students for being disrespectful to their teacher who is a Presented scholar and the students should be grateful they could study with him and not to make fun of him because he's blind. She also made sure the academy administration acknowledged him as well. Chang-Feng was so touched when San-Niang defended him, because no one ever did, he instantly wanted to be friends with her. He helped her and her friends as best he could. Even offering his family heirlooms to help them when they were in need of money. Eventually, he fell in love with her and wanted to marry her even though she was divorced and had a son. After Ou-Yang Xu made a big mistake, he tried to persuade him to surrender, but to no avail.  Finally, he was rewarded by the emperor to be able to marry Sun San-Niang. Huang Qichang Guan Yunpeng Chen Lian Gu Qian-Fan's right-hand man. At first he worked in Ship Department , and later transferred to the Capital Security Office. He is shrewd and observant, and he is sophisticated in dealing with things. When Gu Qian-Fan was in distress at the beginning, he was threatened and had no choice but to compromise. Later, he learned that Gu Qian-Fan was working in the Imperial City Division and decided to follow him. Under the guidance of Gu Qian-Fan, he took care of Zhao Pan-Er, Sun San-Niang, and Song Yin-Zhang. He became their friends and defender. The three of them also treated Chen Lian as a younger brother. In the beginning, he and Ge Zhao-Di were enemies, but became friends after she was taken in by Zhao Pan-Er, gradually, he fell in love with her. Hu Jiahao Li Muchen Ge Zhao-Di Head waitress of Zhao Pan-Er's teahouse, and later restaurant. Instigated by Gao Hui's Nanny, she went to the teahouse with her accomplice to frame Zhao Pan-Er and her friends for food poisoning but their ploys and actions ended up being exposed. Afterward, she changed her ways, turned enemies into friends with Zhao Pan-Er and her friends, and waited in the teahouse & later, part owner of their restaurant. She and Chen Lian were enemies at the beginning but, later, she fell in love with him. Ye Xiaoxin Kana Zhang Hao-Hao Eastern Capital's No. 1 Entertainer and best singer. Her eyebrows are picturesque, and she smiles sweetly. Performing, but not selling herself. She is conceited of her talent and beauty, unwilling to be inferior to others, thinking even if one is a lowly citizen, one should live in one's own world. In the beginning, he made good friends with Zhao Pan-Er, Song Yin-Zhang, and others. Later, Yin-Zhang unwillingly became famous for her pipa playing, and she was secretly jealous of her, but later reconciled, and warned Yin-Zhang of Shen Ru-Zhuo's true colors. Chi Pan was originally a good friend who lived and supported her, but later the two broke up. Zhan Jianer Sun Zujun Shen Ru-Zhuo Born in a famous family in the capital, the son of Shen Ming, who was reviewed by the Yi-Li Bureau, on the surface is an official son who is obsessed with music, singing, dancing, romantic, and playing with the world. He seemed to love Song Yin-Zhang very much, but in fact, he wants to use her beauty to win the support of officials  for himself, so as to maintain the dignity of the Shen family in the Eastern Capital. He attempted to pawn Song Yin-Zhang off to a court official, but Song Yin-Zhang saw through it and retaliated against him. Huang Jiquan Wang Luoyong Xiao Qin-Yan Gu Qian-Fan's biological father, Suzhou's Zhizhou , Pingjiang Army military governor, post-official prime minister. Has the most prominent and powerful position of his life, he used deep scheming and unscrupulous means to achieve his goals, is the head of the famous treacherous ministers in the court. When he was from a poor family, he was in love with Gu Shu-Niang, Qian-Fan's mother, they married and she gave birth to Gu Qian-Fan. He grew up with both civil and military skills. Later, in pursuit of a career in the government, he abandoned his wife and son, which he, eventually, regretted. In contrast to his other 3 sons who are far behind him in achievements, he greatly admired Gu Qian-Fan's successes. He intends to have Gu Qian-Fan take charge of the Xiao family and inherit the mantle. Zhao Shiliang Baojianfeng Emperor Believes in Taoism and Taoist magic. He meets with Ou-Yang Xu and the other Jin-Shi's and asks them about their daily hobby time. Ou-Yang Xu loved to study Huang Lao's art. He awards him the post of Deputy Envoy of Zuo Lang Zi-Ji Palace and was ordered to go to Xi-Jing to ask a fairy master, Bao-Yi, to come out of the mountain. He has a strong relationship with his queen. He is aware of her past, loves her and will do anything to protect her. Zhai Yaohui Liu Kejun Liu Wan Empress, from humble beginnings. Is devoted and loves the emperor, but is aware she needs to set up connections to keep herself safe, because the emperor will not always be around to protect her. Zeng Xiuqing Jia Ze Gao Hui Gao Hu's only daughter. A pure and kind-hearted lady who is loved by thousands of people, she fell in love with Ou-Yang Xu and firmly refused her father's request to break up her marriage after he was appointed to Xi-Jing. Zhao Pan-Er told her, she had a marriage contract with Ou-Yang Xu which he broke and two people sent by her family, came to her teahouse to frame her for a murder, so she would be thrown in prison, then executed. Pan-Er advised her to send someone to investigate Ou-Yang Xu's past and the incident at the teahouse before accepting the truth. She found out her nanny had been sending people to harm anyone who showed any interest in Ou-Yang Xu, she relented and became friends with Zhao Pan-Er. Huang Xinyu Li Shengjia Xiao Wei Gu Qian-Fan's half-brother. Zhang Fangzheng Lu Yong Ke Zheng Former prime minister. Was demoted and posted to another province. During Xiao Jin-Yan's birthday banquet, he bestowed the inscription on the pipa played by Song Yin-Zhang with the word "strength of character" after admiring Song Yin-Zhang's superb performance during the banquet. Yao Anlian Qi Mu The official worships Yu-Shi Zhong-Cheng. Because of his rivalry with Xiao Qin-Yan and jealousy of his trust by the court officials, he deliberately tried to frame and assassinate him. He even used Gu Qian-Fan as his own pawn, into instigating him against Xiao Qin-Yan, so they will turn against each other. He regarded himself as Qing-Liu. After Gu Qian-Fan formally drew a line with him, he gradually revealed his true colors. After the final defeat, he was sentenced to exile. Li Jinlun Du Yuming Lei Jing Imperial City Envoy. Afraid Gu Qian-Fan's abilities would threaten his status, he often tried to have killed Gu Qian-Fan. Xiao Qin-Yan came forward to mediate and because of his power, he had no choice but to give in. Lin Guoxiong Gao Changyuan Yu Zhong-Quan Lei Jing's confidant. Jealous of Gu Qian-Fan's abilities and at odds with him. He tries to restrain Gu Qian-Fan and frame Zhao Pan-Er but failed. He was, later, found to be in collusion with foreigners in Xi-Xia, and had embezzled Lei Jing's family property. Chen Yaonan Chen Zhen Zheng Qian-Tang Magistrate of Qian-Tang County. He secretly defied the sea ban for private gains, colluded with Lei Jing to discredit and kill Gu Qian-Fan. He was later given the choice of death or a family member would die for each hour he takes after the deadline passes by Xiao Qin-Yan. Thunder Yin Zhusheng Gao Hu Imperial Inspector, Gao Hui's father, originally Ou-Yang Xu's future father-in-law. A proud official, good at judging the current situation. He likes to collect famous paintings. After Ou-Yang Xu's Imperial exam results are published, he caught his prospective son-in-law at the top of the list, thinking since he came from a poor family, he could be easily controlled. Later, when he learned that Ou-Yang Xu was appointed as a palace official to Xi-Jing, he angrily tore up the marriage contract. She once coveted Zhao Pan-Er's beauty and intelligence, and wanted to take her as a concubine and tried to molest her. Pan Wenbo Zhu Hui Uncle De Ou-Yang Xu's housekeeper. He likes to worship high and step down, often violating Ou-Yang Xu's requests and making his own decisions. He hates Zhao Pan-Er, because of her status, thinks she is a gold digger and not good enough for his young master . In the end, he was killed by Ou-Yang Xu, because he didn't want his young master to sell the family's asset. Ye Zhensheng Hu Yuxuan He Si The follower of Chi Ya Nei, he is good friends with Zhao Pan-Er and Sun San-Niang. Liu Yixi Zhang Xiang Zhou She Qian-Tang businessman. See profits and forgets righteousness, good at flattery and loves to gambling. At first, he tricked Song Yin-Zhang into marrying him. After getting married, he showed his true face and gambling nature. In order to force Song Yin-Zhang to give him her savings, he was imprisoned her in his house. He chained her to a tree like a dog, beat and kicked her, until she gave him all her money. Zhao Pan-Er found out about what happened to Song Yin-Zhang and devised a plan to get back at Zhou She. On discovering he was tricked, he tried to have Song Yin-Zhang and Zhao Pan-Er arrested, instead with the help of Gu Qian-Fan, he was flogged, detained in a prison and later sentenced to exile. Deng Zhijian Liu Yajin Yuan Tun-Tian A frequent visitor with a half-hidden face. Li Jinlun Guo Jinjie Fu Xin-Gui Sun San-Niang's husband. He divorced his wife and married her cousin-in-law. No dialogue Han Yuanqi Fu Zi-Fang Son of Sun San-Niang, is ignorant. In the beginning, because he was dissatisfied with Sun San-Niang's teaching, he followed Fu Xin-Gui and his step-mother. Later, because he was dissatisfied with Fu Xin-Gui and his step-mother, he traveled thousands of miles to Beijing to follow Sun San-Niang and Du Chang-Feng. Luo Kongrou Yu Menghan Silver Vase Song Yin-Zhang's personal maid. Cheng Yaoyu Liu Wei Mr. Zhuo-Shi A frequent visitor with half-hidden face. Ye Zhensheng Chen Xuming Xu Zhizhou Xiuzhou Zhizhou. Lu Guoquan Zhang Liqiu Jiang family Gao Hui's nanny. Rebina Li Xingmei Su Niang Pipa musician. She was hired to play the pipa at a teahouse in Cha-Tang Lane in competition with Song Yin-Zhang. She was called by Zhao Pan-Er to listen to Song Yin-Zhang playing the pipa. She was very impressed by Yin-Zhang's skills and wanted to became an apprentice to Song Yin-Zhang. He Luyi Song [ edit ] Original Soundtrack [ edit ] No. Title Lyrics Music Lead singer Length 1. " Don't Regret the Time " (不惜时光) Jiang Ke, Dai Yuedong, Yan Liyan Feng Bo Jane Zhang 4:24 2. " A Dream of Splendor " (梦华) Dai Yuedong, Yan Liyan Dai Yuedong Liu Yuning 3:37 3. " What Year is This Eve " (今夕是何年) Dai Yuedong, Cen Siyuan Dai Yuedong Sunnee 3:22 4. " The Red Apricot Branches in the Spring " (红杏枝头春意闹) Zhang Wei Lu Liang, Dai Yuedong Yin Lin 3:43 5. " Read " (念念) Dai Yuedong, Yan Liyan Dai Yuedong Kiki Wei 3:35 Hong Kong TVB version's Soundtrack [ edit ] Lead singer Song Composer Written lyrics Arrangement Supervisor Hana Kuk I am like before (theme song) Lau Yi-shing Hayes Yeung Lau Yi-shing Lau Yi-shing Sherman Poon When the Tomorrow Starts (end song) Tam Yu-sun Hayes Yeung Freddie Lo Lau Yi-shing Awards [ edit ] 2022 The 13th Macao International Television Festival|The 13th Macao International Television Festival Best Actress in "Golden Lotus": Liu Yifei . [ 14 ] International broadcast [ edit ] Country Channel Date Time slot Notes Hong Kong Jade September 5, 2022 - October 14, 2022 Monday to Friday 20:30-21:30 Dubbed in Cantonese. Reduced to 30 episodes with 60 minutes per episode. References [ edit ] ^ "电视剧拍摄制作备案公示表" . Dsj.nrta.gov.cn . ^ "原创 梦华录曝杀青特辑，神仙姐姐刘亦菲被按入水缸太虐心，林允尽显妩媚" . Sohu . 2021-07-05 . Retrieved 2022-02-06 . ^ 网易 (2021-08-09). "《梦华录》七月杀青 演员郭金杰渣男形象备受期待" . NetEase . Retrieved 2022-02-06 . ^ 罗攀 (2021-07-05). "《梦华录》杀青 陈晓上演"飞天打斗" " . China News Service . Retrieved 2022-02-06 . ^ "刘亦菲《梦华录》曝路透 皮肤白皙侧颜精致真天仙_华语_电影网_1905.com" . 1905电影网 . Retrieved 2022-02-06 . ^ "《梦华录》定档0602！刘亦菲陈晓演绎汴京绝美爱情，你期待吗？" . Sohu . 2022-06-02. Archived from the original on 2022-06-04 . Retrieved 2022-06-04 . ^ "《梦华录》将在TVB翡翠台播出 由40集精简至30集" . 163.cn . 2022-07-16 . Retrieved 2022-07-16 . ^ "刘亦菲、陈晓主演电视剧《梦华录》今晚北京卫视开播" . Sohu . 2022-11-22 . Retrieved 2022-11-24 . ^ "组图：刘亦菲新剧《梦华录》路透曝光 皮肤白皙侧颜精致真天仙_高清图集_新浪网" . sina . 2021-02-19 . Retrieved 2021-08-31 . ^ cnBeta (2021-07-05). "刘亦菲林允柳岩《梦华录》杀青合照： 根据元代关汉卿作品改编" . Sina . Retrieved 2022-02-06 . ^ 张燕玲. "《梦华录》杀青全阵容剧照曝光 刘亦菲、陈晓主演-中新网" . China News Service . Retrieved 2022-02-06 . ^ "古装爱情《梦华录》正式官宣 刘亦菲和陈晓联手_华语_电影网_1905.com" . 1905电影网 . Retrieved 2022-02-06 . ^ "刘亦菲、陈晓主演电视剧《梦华录》今晚北京卫视开播" [Liu Yifei and Chen Xiao starred in the TV series "Menghualu" to be broadcast on Beijing Satellite TV tonight]. 新京报 . 2022-11-22 . Retrieved 25 December 2022 . ^ "刘亦菲获金莲花最佳女主角 晒奖杯发文感谢" [Liu Yifei won the Best Actress of the Golden Lotus and posted a thank you post]. 新浪娱乐 . 2022-12-21 . Retrieved 25 December 2022 . External links [ edit ] A Dream of Splendor at Douban (in Chinese) A Dream of Splendor at IMDb A Dream of Splendor on Weibo (in Chinese) v t e Beijing Television Dramas 2016 Young Marshal New Treasure Raider Tian Lun Hunter Two Families The Golden Water Bridge The 38th Parallel The Chaser My Love Hit the War A Love for Separation Chinese Style Relationship The Good Fellas The Red Guards The Princess Weiyoung My Kungfu Father-in-law Border Town Prodigal Hidden Tiger 2017 The Last Visa The Glory of Tang Dynasty The Battle at Dawn Razor Surgeons Fighting Time Midnight Food Store The First Half of My Life Deepwater Forces My Father is Wonderful Ordinary Years The Love of Courtyard ER Doctors A Splendid Life in Beijing The Kite Nirvana in Fire 2 Noble Aspirations 2 The Glory of Tang Dynasty 2 Legend of Dragon Pearl Detective Dee The VI Group of Fatal Case Nirvana in Fire 2 2018 Nirvana in Fire 2 Winner Wonderful Life Long Time No See Love's Lies The Way We Were Lost in 1949 Mask Partners The Dream and the Glory Mother's Life The Story of Zheng Yang Gate II The Family Like a Flowing River 2019 Behind The Scenes The World is not Fraudulent Memories of Peking Youth Fight In Law We Believe Hope All Is Well With Us The Thunder Detective Ke Chen See You Again 2020 New World I Will Find You a Better Home If Time Flows Back Hunting Burning Don't Think Twice, Love's All Right Winter Begonia Miss S The Legend of Xiao Chuo Healer of Children The Message 2021 Minning Town Vacation of Love The Awakeing Age New Generation Faith Makes Great Love is True Crime Crackdown Medal of the Republic Belief Novoland: Pearl Eclipse Ebola Fighters Win The Future 2022 Beyond To Our Dreamland of Ice Modern Marriage Not Easy to Forgive The Imperial Age Grand Canal My Superhero Nice To Meet You Again The Story of Xing Fu Ordinary Greatness A Lifelong Journey The Examination For Everyone The Neuron Doctors A Dream of Splendor Bright Future 2023 In Spite of the Strong Wind The Knockout Enemy New Vanity Fair Luoyang Because of Love Undercover Police Flower Prosecution Elites The Youth Memories Under The Microscope Imperfect Victim Days with Ambition and Pride The Eve Spy Game Mr. & Mrs. Chen The Justice There Will Be Ample Time Lightseeker 2024 Scout Hero A Soldier's Story Love Like the Galaxy The Gate of Xuanwu In the Name of the Brother v t e Tencent Video streaming television series 2016 Candle in the Tomb My Amazing Boyfriend My Catman 2017 The Eternal Love The Fox's Summer A Love So Beautiful Rule the World A Seven-Faced Man The Weasel Grave 2018 Ever Night The Legend of Dugu Moonshine and Valentine Produce 101 Ruyi's Royal Love in the Palace Secret of the Three Kingdoms Siege in Fog 2019 The Brightest Star in the Sky Le Coup de Foudre Heavenly Sword and Dragon Slaying Sabre Joy of Life The King's Avatar Legend of the Phoenix Listening Snow Tower Please Give Me a Pair of Wings Princess Silver Produce Camp 2019 Put Your Head on My Shoulder Queen Dugu The Untamed My Girlfriend is an Alien 2020 All Saints Street Eternal Love of Dream The Romance of Tiger and Rose The Song of Glory Nothing But Thirty Dance of the Phoenix Midsummer Is Full of Hearts The Promise of Chang'an Imperfect Love Immortality The Legend of Xiao Chuo 2021 My Little Happiness The Bond Love Scenery Novoland: Pearl Eclipse 2022 Reset Mirror: A Tale of Twin Cities Who Rules the World A Dream of Splendor 2023 Three-Body The Love You Give Me The Longest Promise The Long Season Blossoms Shanghai 2024 Amidst a Snowstorm of Love The Legend of Shen Li The Tale of Rose Fateful Love Love Game in Eastern Fantasy Guardians of the Dafeng No Return Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=A_Dream_of_Splendor&oldid=1254513018 " Categories : Beijing Television original programming 2022 Chinese television series debuts 2022 web series debuts 2022 web series endings Chinese historical television series Chinese romance television series Chinese web series Mandarin-language television shows Television series based on plays Television series by Tencent Penguin Pictures Tencent original programming Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles containing Chinese-language text Articles containing simplified Chinese-language text Articles containing traditional Chinese-language text Articles with Chinese-language sources (zh) This page was last edited on 31 October 2024, at 10:37 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents A Dream of Splendor 7 languages Add topic