Wimbledon 2021: Ashleigh Barty has a greatness on court - Mats Wilander praises new Wimbledon champion - TNT Sports Videos Results For You Football Rugby MotoGP All Sports Tennis Wimbledon Calendar - Results Men's Singles Women's Singles Men's Doubles Women's Doubles Mixed Doubles Previous winners Sign In Home Videos Results For You Popular Sports Football Football Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Premier League UEFA Champions League FA Cup All Competitions Rugby Rugby Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Gallagher Premiership Premiership Women’s Rugby Six Nations All Competitions MotoGP MotoGP Home Clips and Highlights Calendar Standings Cycling Cycling Home Clips and Highlights Results Race calendar All Competitions Snooker Snooker Home Clips and Highlights Results World Ranking World Championship UK Championship Masters UFC UFC Home Clips and Highlights Calendar and Events Rankings Boxing Boxing Home Clips and Highlights Boxing on TNT Sports Box Office All Sports Show All Alpine Skiing Alpine Skiing Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings World Championship Athletics Athletics Home Fixtures - Results Diamond League World Championships World Athletics Indoor Championships Tokyo 2020 Marathon All Competitions Baseball Basketball Basketball Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results NBA All Leagues Biathlon Biathlon Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings IBU World Championships Boxing Boxing Home Clips and Highlights Boxing on TNT Sports Box Office BSB BSB Home Calendar Standings Climbing Cricket Cricket Home Clips and Highlights Cricket on TNT Sports Cross-Country Skiing Cross-Country Skiing Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings World Championship Cycling Cycling Home Clips and Highlights Results Race calendar All Competitions Cyclo-Cross Cyclo-Cross Home Fixtures - Results Esports F1 F1 Home Race calendar Standings Football Football Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Premier League UEFA Champions League FA Cup All Competitions Formula E Formula E Home Calendar Rankings Fanboost Golf Golf Home Calendar - Results PGA Tour DP World Tour Ryder Cup All Competitions MotoGP MotoGP Home Clips and Highlights Calendar Standings Motorsports Motorsports Home Calendar - Results Speedway GP F1 MotoGP Superbikes All Sports Mountain Bike Mountain Bike Home Results Rankings Teams NBA NBA Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Standings Olympics Olympics Home Video Rugby Rugby Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Gallagher Premiership Premiership Women’s Rugby Six Nations All Competitions Sailing Sailing Home Calendar - Results Ski Jumping Ski Jumping Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Standings Women's standings Snooker Snooker Home Clips and Highlights Results World Ranking World Championship UK Championship Masters Speedway GP Speedway GP Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Standings Superbikes Superbikes Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Table Tennis Tennis Home Clips and Highlights Calendar - Results Australian Open Roland-Garros Wimbledon US Open All Competitions Track Cycling Triathlon Triathlon Home Fixtures - Results PTO Tour UCI Track CL UCI Track CL Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings UFC UFC Home Clips and Highlights Calendar and Events Rankings WEC WEC Home Fixtures - Results Calendar WEC Table Winter Sports Winter Sports Home Fixtures - Results All Sports WRC WRC Home Calendar Standings Welcome to TNT Sports TNT Sports is the new home of Eurosport bringing together all the same great content in one place Tennis Wimbledon Wimbledon 2021: Ashleigh Barty has a greatness on court - Mats Wilander praises new Wimbledon champion By Alexander Netherton Updated 10/07/2021 at 19:59 GMT+1 Australian world number one Ashleigh Barty took a year away from competitive tennis as a result of the coronavirus pandemic but has succeeded in 2021 by claiming her second Grand Slam event, this year's Wimbledon. Eurosport pundit Mats Wilander praised her for her analytical approach on the court and her presence off it. Ash Barty has a greatness on court - Wilander praises new Wimbledon champion Image credit: Getty Images Ashleigh Barty secured her 2021 Wimbledon victory over Karolina Pliskova after being brought level at one set all, but Mats Wilander believes a year away may have been key to her win. Barty cruised to a 6-3 first set lead, but lost the second on a tie break 6-7 which was a surprise given the quality of the opening 14 points, which she won each of. She was ultimately able to win the third set 6-3 to secure her second Grand Slam after her 2019 French Open. Having spent a year away as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, Barty has retained her number one world ranking, and Eurosport analyst Wilander praised her analytical approach on the court and her presence off it, particularly how she communicates with the media. Australian Open 'Serving below half-pace' - Kyrgios and Kokkinakis retire injured from doubles 00:01:20 | 16/01/2025 at 11:29 Ash Barty beats Karolina Pliskova to claim first Wimbledon crown Barty delights in 'incredible' Wimbledon victory 'I never cry' - Pliskova holds back tears after defeat to Barty “She wins this match because she loves the game, she loves to problem solve, and she just refused to lose in the end,” he began. “She’s such a class act, she’s been the same every time she’s been interviewed on the media balcony, she’s a class act. She always has something to say. Her greatness on a tennis court is that she stays in the present and solves problems. Barty also has a semi-final appearance in last year’s Australian Open, but her burgeoning career was curtailed by the heavy restrictions put in place by the Australian government on international travel in response to the threat from Covid-19. There were exemptions given by the tennis authorities to ensure that players were not excessively punished if they were unable or unwilling to take part in the coronavirus-blighted schedule throughout 2020. Wilander suggested that after her recent success and the pressure that comes with it, she may have got some benefit from time away from the tour, which even at the best of times is a tough schedule for athletes. Many tennis players, and other top sports stars, have spoken out against the restrictions they have faced in various countries, and have also suggested that the pressure of the pandemic has made their jobs harder over the course of the past 18 months. “We know that she took that time off, and she's fond of being at home,” he said. She’s very close to her family. Maybe that’s what she needed - to recharge her batteries. She stayed number one through the whole thing, so then she comes back and there’s some pressure on her. The pundit also claimed that Barty’s win might serve to invigorate the sport back in her home country. Australian tennis now trails many of the other traditionally successful countries who have contributed Grand Slam winners to both the men’s and women’s game. “It means everything to Ash Barty and everything to Australian tennis,” he started when considering the impact of Barty’s second Grand Slam success, and her first since her return to competitive action.. Maybe it will kick start it “I think Barty is such an inspiration, obviously for Australian tennis and the Indigenous community. “I think being world number one and being away from home, she dealt with it and became the champion despite all these outside circumstances.” - - - Watch the men's and women's finals live on Eurosport 2. All coverage is also available to stream via eurosport.co.uk and the Eurosport app. Australian Open 'Read the game a bit more!' - Kyrgios takes issue with umpire over code violation 00:00:42 | 16/01/2025 at 11:03 Australian Open Robson 'not too surprised' by Kyrgios retirement bombshell 00:00:44 | 14/01/2025 at 08:27 Australian Open Henman hopeful Kyrgios will 'keep going' after retirement hint 00:02:11 | 13/01/2025 at 14:30 Share this article Related Topics Tennis Wimbledon Advertisement Advertisement How was your experience today? Change version: International English (TNT) Help centre Football Premier League Table Premier League Fixtures Champions League News Champions League Fixtures Football Fixtures More Pub finder Rugby News UFC News Boxing News MotoGP News TNT Sports Schedule & TV Guide TNT Sports Box Office About Us About TNT Sports Legal Information Terms of Use Privacy Policy Legal Information Modern Slavery Statement ©2025 TNT Sports Broadcasting Limited.  TNT SPORTS is used under license. All rights reserved.