Tour de France: Thousands in Colombia celebrate Bernal win Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Watch Live Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Tour de France: Thousands in Colombia celebrate Bernal win 28 July 2019 Share Save Share Save Reuters Tears of emotion as a young boy watches the big screen in Bernal's hometown of Zipaquira Thousands of people have gathered across Colombia to celebrate Egan Bernal's victory in the Tour de France. Bernal, 22, is the first Colombian to win the race and the youngest to be crowned in 110 years. In his hometown of Zipaquira, hundreds came to the "Plaza of Hope" to watch the final stage of the Tour in Paris, beamed across a giant screen. A graffiti mural of the champion was unveiled in the town over a week ago. Sunday's stage in Paris was largely ceremonial and the young Colombian finished to top the podium. AFP Colombian cycling coach Fabio Rodriguez, who trained Egan Bernal, celebrates as he watches the Tour de France in Zipaquira Mr Bernal's journey from a humble upbringing has become a symbol in Colombia, a country that has produced many famed cyclists. French cyclists hit again by curse of Tour de France This year alone, three of them - Rigoberto Uran, Nairo Quintana, and Bernal - finished within the top 10. Images on social media show crowds celebrating in Colombia on Saturday as Bernal crossed the finish line on the penultimate stage in the Alps with his Ineos team mate, Geraint Thomas, who will come second overall. Allow Twitter content? This article contains content provided by Twitter . We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy and privacy policy before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’ . Accept and continue Bernal's victory has resonated especially with Colombians from modest backgrounds, many of whom are from the same deprived, largely indigenous areas of Colombia's Andes mountains. AFP Twelve Colombian cyclists have won stages of the Tour in previous years, with several others taking the coveted "King of the Mountains" polka dot jersey Reuters Egan Bernal successfully defended his lead position at the final stage of the race on Sunday Reuters "This victory is not for one rider but for an entire country," Bernal said after his victory was all but secured on Saturday French cyclists hit again by curse of Tour de France Bernal set to win Tour de France Joint leadership 'worked to perfection' British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.