Russo Brothers to Direct ‘Avengers: Infinity War’ Parts 1 and 2 × Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage Read Next: Writers Guild West Staff Union Voluntarily Recognized Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up Heat Vision Home Movies Movie News Russo Brothers to Direct ‘Avengers: Infinity War’ Parts 1 and 2 The 'Captain America: The Winter Soldier' duo will film the two-parter in one long shoot. By Austin Siegemund-Broka , Borys Kit March 23, 2015 1:40pm Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Joe and Anthony Russo - H 2015 AP Images/Invision Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Logo text Joe and Anthony Russo , who directed Captain America: The Winter Soldier and will return for Captain America: Civil War , are cementing themselves as Marvel’s main movie executors. The brothers will direct both parts of the studio’s Avengers: Infinity War , taking over the billion-dollar franchise from Joss Whedon , who directed the first two Avengers films. (The second one, Avengers: Age of Ultron , opens May 1.) They’ll film Infinity War in one long shoot beginning sometime in 2016, sources tell The Hollywood Reporter . No writers are attached, but the brothers will likely reunite with Winter Soldier ’s Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely . They collaborated on Civil War , which the Russos will begin shooting next month. Read more Marvel’s ‘Secret Wars’: What Newcomers Need to Know The new deal raises the question of the status of the Russos’ deal with Sony. The duo signed a three-year first-look deal with the Culver City-based studio in March. Working on an Avengers movie is an all-consuming endeavor, so how active they will be within that deal remains to be seen. Civil War, for which the brothers are in preproduction and which is considered to be a mini Avengers movie due to the large cast of heroes, has a May 6, 2016, release date. Infinity War — Part 1 and Infinity War — Part 2 are slated to be released May 4, 2018, and May 3, 2019, respectively. The Infinity get is a massive feather in the duo’s cap and marks the latest in an incredible career trajectory. The Russos began in television comedy, directing episodes of Arrested Development in the early to mid-2000s, and continued to work in the field in 2012 with Happy Endings and Up All Night. It was their work on some of the geeky episodes of Community , however, that led to Winter Soldier — a movie that grossed $717.7 million worldwide. Badass Digest first reported that the deal was closing. The Russos are repped by WME and Jackoway Tyerman. Related Stories Related Story Bam! Bang! Pow! True Tales From Marvel's 75-Year History Related Stories Related Story Jonathan Groff TV Producer - P 2014 Related Stories Related Story With Marvel Deal, Sony Opts to Lease Rather Than Sell Spider-Man Related Stories Related Story Anna Fricke Headshot - P 2014 Related Stories Related Story How Superman, Wonder Woman and Batman Have Changed Their Looks Through the Years Related Stories Related Story CNN 'The Survivor Diaries' Sneak Peek Read More About: Avengers: Infinity War THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe Sign Up More from The Hollywood Reporter The Weeknd Jenna Ortega Has Plans to Direct a Script She’s Worked on for 10 Years Rob Reiner Why Kathy Bates Was “Crushed” ‘Misery’ Director Cut Gruesome Detail From Stephen King’s Novel Heat Vision Box Office: ‘Thunderbolts*’ to Kick Off Summer Season in Pivotal Moment for Marvel Studios Heat Vision ‘Thunderbolts*’: Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Geraldine Viswanathan Pitch a Hugh Jackman Run-In and Talk “Silly” ‘Seinfeld’ Curse Now You See Me Jesse Eisenberg Recruits New Magicians in ‘Now You See Me: Now You Don’t’ Trailer Terrence Howard Terrence Howard Turned Down Marvin Gaye Biopic Because He Didn’t Want to Kiss a Man: “I Would Cut My Lips Off” Logo text WEEKLY NEWSLETTER Get the scoops first! Breaking news and interviews on comics, sci-fi, horror and more Email Address Subscribe Today Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Essential Reads Box Office: 'Thunderbolts*' to Kick Off Summer Season in Pivotal Moment for Marvel Studios By Pamela McClintock 'Thunderbolts*': Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Geraldine Viswanathan Pitch a Hugh Jackman Run-In and Talk "Silly" 'Seinfeld' Curse By Brian Davids 'Andor' Creator Explains Why There Isn't More K-2SO in Season 2 By James Hibberd Mamoru Hosoda’s Anime Princess Film ‘Scarlet’ Lands December 2025 Release By Pamela McClintock The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up PMC Logo Most Popular Bath & Body Works' Hand Soaps Just Hit Their Lowest Price of the Season — Stock Up for $3 Each Mary J. Blige Sued By Her Former Stylist, Misa Hylton, For $5 Million NFL Rookie Signing Bonuses Jump Record 26% for 2025 Draft 'Flattering' Portrait that Putin Gifted to Trump Last Month Finally Unveiled You may also like The Best Yoga Mats for Any Practice, According to Instructors 1 year ago 181 Fremont’s Grand Penthouse Redefines Urban Luxury 1 hour ago Michelle Obama Says Trump Administration’s Immigration Policies “Keep Her Up At Night” 58 mins ago Xavi se convierte en el compositor del año más joven en los Premios ASCAP 2025 2 hours ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues E-edition Access The Hollywood Reporter About Us Media Kit Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage News Expand news menu Latest News Culture & Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Reviews Ratings Live Feed Heat Vision The Fien Print Music Expand music menu Grammys K-Corner Awards Expand awards menu News Awards Chatter Podcast Feinberg Forecast Behind The Screen The Race THR Presents Oscar Season Hub Lifestyle Expand lifestyle menu Person of Interest News Style Shopping Arts Real Estate Rambling Reporter Business Expand business menu THR, Esq Report Features Unions / Labor Film / TV Tax Credits Signings / Representation THR Charts Expand thr-charts menu Streaming Ratings Broadcast Ratings Weekend Box Office Chart More Essentials Expand more-essentials menu International News Video THR Podcasts Featured Voices Follow Us Follow THR on Facebook Follow THR on Instagram Follow THR on X Follow THR on YouTube Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Advertise Careers Contact Us Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. ad