Eric Schmidt Skip to main content New America Search Programs Programs — Better Life Lab Center on Education & Labor Digital Impact and Governance Initiative Early & Elementary Education Future Frontlines Future of Land and Housing Future Security Future Tense Higher Education New America Chicago New America Fellows New Practice Lab Open Technology Institute Planetary Politics Political Reform PreK-12 Education Public Interest Technology Teaching, Learning & Tech Us@250 Initiative Publications The Thread Events About Support New America — We are dedicated to renewing the promise of America by continuing the quest to realize our nation's highest ideals, honestly confronting the challenges caused by rapid technological and social change, and seizing the opportunities those changes create. About — Our Story Our People Our Funding Press Room Jobs & Fellowships Donate Eric Schmidt Board Member Emeritus, New America (1999-2016); Executive Chairman, Alphabet, Inc. Dr. Eric Schmidt is the technical advisor to the board of Alphabet where he was formerly the executive chairman. As executive chairman, he was responsible for the external matters of all of the holding company's businesses, including Google Inc., advising their CEOs and leadership on business and policy issues. Prior to the establishment of Alphabet, Eric was the chairman of Google Inc. for four years. From 2001-2011, Eric served as Google’s chief executive officer, overseeing the company’s technical and business strategy alongside founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page. Under his leadership, Google dramatically scaled its infrastructure and diversified its product offerings while maintaining a strong culture of innovation, growing from a Silicon Valley startup to a global leader in technology. Prior to joining Google, Eric was the chairman and CEO of Novell and chief technology officer at Sun Microsystems, Inc. Previously, he served on the research staff at Xerox Palo Alto Research Center (PARC), Bell Laboratories and Zilog. He holds a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from Princeton University as well as a master’s degree and Ph.D. in computer science from the University of California, Berkeley. Eric was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 2006 and inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Sciences as a fellow in 2007. Since 2008, he has been a trustee of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey. Since 2012, Eric has been on the board of the Broad Institute and the Mayo Clinic. Eric was a member of the President’s Council of Advisors on Science 2009-2017. In 2013, Eric and Jared Cohen co-authored The New York Times bestselling book, The New Digital Age: Transforming Nations, Businesses, and Our Lives. In September 2014, Eric published his second New York Times bestseller, How Google Works, which he and Jonathan Rosenberg co-authored with Alan Eagle. Eric became the Chairman of the Department of Defense’s Innovation Board in 2016 and was awarded the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service in January of 2017 by Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter. New America Our Story Publications Programs Events Our People Jobs & Fellowships Press Contact Us New America 740 15th Street NW, Suite 900 Washington, DC 20005 Programs Events Publications Subscribe Creative Commons Mission People Funding Policies & Procedures Contact Jobs & Fellowships Press Donate