Zabivaka - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Design 2 Competition 3 Gallery 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents Zabivaka 30 languages العربية Asturianu Azərbaycanca বাংলা Català Deutsch Ελληνικά Español فارسی Français 한국어 Հայերեն Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Latviešu Lietuvių Македонски മലയാളം မြန်မာဘာသာ Polski Português Русский Српски / srpski தமிழ் ไทย Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Mascot for the 2018 FIFA World Cup Fictional character Zabivaka Official artwork First appearance 2018 FIFA World Cup Created by Ekaterina Bocharova Portrayed by Rafe Young In-universe information Species Eurasian wolf Nationality Russian Zabivaka ( Russian : Забива́ка ) [ 1 ] was the official mascot of the 2018 FIFA World Cup , which was held in Russia . The name is a blend of the Russian words забивать ("to strike") and собака ("dog"). Designed by student designer Ekaterina Bocharova, aged 22, the mascot was selected by internet voting in Russia, beating out a tiger and a cat. [ 2 ] In pre-World Cup events, the mascot was played by English YouTuber and actor Rafe Young. [ 3 ] Design [ edit ] The mascot was unveiled on 21 October 2016. It represents an anthropomorphic Eurasian wolf ( Canis lupus lupus ) with brown and white fur, wearing a T-shirt emblazoned with the words "RUSSIA 2018" and orange goggles — according to the designer, these are not ski goggles, but sports goggles like those used in cycling: "Zabivaka is so fast on the field that he needs eye protection". [ 4 ] The combination of white, blue and red T-shirt and shorts are the national colours of the Russian team . Competition [ edit ] The competition results were announced on 22 October 2016, in the Evening Urgant on the Channel One Russia . The Wolf, named Zabivaka, scored 53% of the votes, ahead of the Tiger (27%) and the Cat (20%). More than one million people participated in the voting, which took place during September 2016 at FIFA.com, as well as before an during the live show of the Evening Urgant , where the results of the competition were announced. [ 2 ] The name was suggested at the show by the chairman of the World Cup 2018 Organising Committee Vitali Mutko . FIFA paid Bocharova $500. [ 5 ] Gallery [ edit ] Zabivaka maskot during 2018 FIFA World Cup match between Panama and Tunisia . Zabivaka statue in Saint Petersburg during 2018 FIFA World Cup in June 2018. Zabivaka pictures on a russian set of postage stamps. See also [ edit ] FIFA World Cup mascots 2014 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games mascots Zoich Misha Vučko 2018 World Cup FIFA World Cup References [ edit ] ^ "In brief". Stamp and Coin Mart . Warners Group Publications. February 2018. p. 11. ^ a b "Wolf chosen as 2018 FIFA World Cup Official Mascot and named Zabivaka" (Press release). FIFA . 21 October 2016. Archived from the original on October 22, 2016 . Retrieved 21 October 2016 . ^ Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine : When I Was The 2018 World Cup Mascot! . YouTube . ^ Sinelschikova, Yekaterina (2016-10-28). "Russians deride choice of confusing 2018 World Cup mascot Zabivaka" . Russia Beyond . Retrieved 2025-03-02 . ^ [1] "Создатель талисмана ЧМ-2018, волка Забиваки, получила за свою работу 500 долларов " External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Zabivaka . FIFA's official webpage on Zabivaka Preceded by Fuleco FIFA World Cup mascot Zabivaka FIFA 2018 Succeeded by La’eeb v t e 2018 FIFA World Cup Stages Group stage Group A Group B Group C Group D Group E Group F Group G Group H Knockout stage Final General information Qualification Bids Broadcasting rights Controversies Discipline Officials Opening ceremony Seeding Squads Official symbols Adidas Telstar 18 (ball) " Live It Up " (song) Zabivaka (mascot) This article about a sports, promotional, or other mascot is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Zabivaka&oldid=1285961444 " Categories : 2018 FIFA World Cup Fictional wolves Anthropomorphic wolves Russian mascots FIFA World Cup mascots Mascots introduced in 2016 Mascot stubs Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles containing Russian-language text Commons category link from Wikidata All stub articles This page was last edited on 16 April 2025, at 21:31 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Zabivaka 30 languages Add topic