'Bohemian Rhapsody' Director Dexter Fletcher on Replacing Bryan Singer Got a Tip? Newsletters Open Menu Close News Film TV Awards Video Search Icon Open Search Close Read Next: Southampton Playhouse Announces Annual Gary Cooper Festival Newsletters Search Icon Close Open Menu Close Search Icon Open Search Search for: Search Icon Search for: Close Menu News Arrow Icon Breaking News General News Festivals Box Office Business Trailers Analysis Obituaries Features Arrow Icon Interviews Commentary The Craft Best Of Animation General Awards Arrow Icon Thompson on Hollywood Emmy Predictions Emmys Calendar Consider This Awards Spotlight Craft Considerations Deep Dive Industry Criticism Arrow Icon Movies Shows Podcasts Arrow Icon Screen Talk Filmmaker Toolkit About IndieWire Arrow Icon IndieWire Masthead Sign Up for IndieWire's Newsletters and Alerts How to Pitch IndieWire Follow Us Facebook X Instagram Pinterest YouTube Alerts & Newsletters Email address to subscribe to newsletter. Subscribe By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. About Advertise with IndieWire IndieWire Masthead Contact Us PMC Logo IndieWire is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 IndieWire Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Home Features General ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ Director Dexter Fletcher on the Pressure of Replacing Bryan Singer — Exclusive He doesn't know if he or Singer will receive directing credit for the film, and says "it doesn't matter." By Jenna Marotta Plus icon Jenna Marotta More stories by Jenna The 25 Best Movie Scenes of the Decade Read more Reporting From ‘the Rosa Parks Section’ on the Red Carpet: Black Entertainment Journalists Have Had Enough Read more ‘The Oath’ Trailer: Ike Barinholtz and Tiffany Haddish Have a Bloody Thanksgiving With Their Less-Liberal Loved Ones — Watch Read more May 10, 2018 5:26 pm Rami Malek as Freddie Mercury in "Bohemian Rhapsody" 20th Century Fox Share Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Share on LinkedIn Show more sharing options Submit to Reddit Pin it Post to Tumblr Email Print This Page Share on WhatsApp Dexter Fletcher , the director who stepped in after Bryan Singer went MIA from the set of 20th Century Fox’s forthcoming “ Bohemian Rhapsody ,” spoke exclusively to IndieWire about entering the production chaos that befell the Freddie Mercury biopic in late 2017. “It was an extraordinary set of circumstances,” said Fletcher in a phone interview from London. Reportedly butting heads with star Rami Malek , Singer never returned to the London set following the Thanksgiving holiday. The studio announced Fletcher as his successor December 6, the day between Singer’s firing and being hit with a sexual assault lawsuit . “Bohemian Rhapsody” development began in 2010, and Fletcher was once slated to direct the film for Sony. The producers admired “Sunshine on Leith,” his 2013 adaptation of a stage musical built around songs by The Proclaimers. In March 2014, Deadline reported Fletcher’s exit from the project, citing creative differences with producer Graham King — including whether the film should be R-rated. Related Stories ‘The Amateur’ Review: Rami Malek Kills People with Math in a Jason Bourne Movie for STEM Kids Rami Malek Decided to Produce After Paul Thomas Anderson Cut His Monologue in ‘The Master’ “We got quite far down the line with my version of ‘Bohemian Rhapsody,’ which unfortunately, never came to fruition,” said Fletcher, who also is an actor; he next appears in the Margot Robbie film “Terminal” (May 11). Ben Wishaw (best known as the current Q in the James Bond franchise) was slated to star in Fletcher’s take on “Bohemian Rhapsody.” Dexter Fletcher David Fisher/REX/Shutterstock He continued, “When there was a gap to be filled just at the end of last year, the producers got in touch, because they knew I knew the material and I’d been involved.” The previous year, Fox also handled the North American release of Fletcher’s third feature, “Eddie the Eagle.” “They sort of said, ‘Look, this is a film that needs to be finished,’ and they trusted me with that responsibility,” said Fletcher, who estimates he joined the Fox project when principal photography was two-thirds complete. “I came into the last few weeks of principal photography and editing and the bits and pieces like that. So I was lucky to have a really good input to something, but it’s really about watching what had been already created and being part of that . It wasn’t like changing and reinventing the wheel.” Fletcher’s main job on the biggest production he has overseen thus far was “to not ignore […] what had been already been achieved,” he said. “I was looking at two complete [acts] in a good film, and [I had to] not let it down.” Malek and Gwilym Lee in “Bohemian Rhapsody” Alex Bailey/Courtesy of 20th Century Fox During Fox’s CinemaCon presentation last month in Las Vegas, King and Malek introduced the film’s electrifying first trailer. Neither Singer nor Fletcher were in attendance, and the word “director” was neither uttered nor included in the studio’s “Bohemian Rhapsody” notes emailed to press immediately afterward. Still, Fox appears confident in the project, moving up its release date by seven weeks. As to whether he will receive the director credit from the Directors Guild of America, Fletcher said, “I don’t know, and at the end of the day, I don’t know that that’s really important. I think the film stands on its own merit, and that’s what really should be important, I think. I didn’t get into it for that reason […] I was just proud to be able to be a part of it and help complete what I think is a great film. That’s what I got involved for.” In studio contracts, the DGA has a strict clause stipulating that each film may have only one director (or directing entity, in the case of established duos), put in place to protect those axed from projects after a long investment. Whatever the outcome, from Fletcher’s perspective “Bohemian Rhapsody” is “a sum of its parts,” and he predicted “ everyone will be very pleased with how it turns out, because it is a great film and Rami, he’s a revelation in it […] a tour de force, really.” “Bohemian Rhapsody” will be released November 2. Sign Up: Stay on top of the latest breaking film and TV news! Sign up for our Email Newsletters here. Read More: Bohemian Rhapsody Bryan Singer Dexter Fletcher Rami Malek Daily Headlines Daily Headlines covering Film, TV and more. Subscribe More from IndieWire In Review ‘Sinners,’ ‘Starfighter,’ and the Night That Drove a Stake Through Hollywood’s Love Affair with Mediocrity Interview Joe Apollonio Enters the Scene with His Idiosyncratic Brand of Comedy and Amalia Ulman’s ‘Magic Farm’ Cold Weather Gear If You Want to Shoot a Documentary in Antarctica, Learn These Tricks from ‘Secrets of the Penguins’ Filmmaker Toolkit David Cronenberg on What ‘The Shrouds’ Would Have Been Like as a Netflix Series Interview Tony Gilroy Unpacks That First ‘Andor’ Season 2 ‘Crescendo’ and ‘Lighting the Fuse’ for What’s to Come Cruising Altitude How ‘The Rehearsal’ Season 2 Raises the Volume to New Heights Daily Headlines Daily Headlines covering Film, TV and more. Email address to subscribe to newsletter. Subscribe By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Must Read Features IndieWire’s 52 Most Anticipated Movies of 2025 we <3 TV IndieWire’s 10 Most Anticipated TV Shows of 2025 Features The 25 Best Movies of 2024 More From IndieWire First Look After Years of Delays, Charlize Theron-Starring Netflix Action Sequel ‘The Old Guard 2’ Gets a Release Date Filmmaker Interview Why Is There Irish Music in the Very Bluesy ‘Sinners’? Ryan Coogler Explains PMC Logo Most Popular 1. Damon Wayans Is 'Walking Away With Deep Gratitude' After 'Poppa's House' Cancellation: 'This Show Gave Me More Than I Could've Ever Imagined' 2. One of Taylor Swift’s Inner Circle Gave Heartbreaking Insight As To Why She’s Laying Low 3. 'Andor' Creator Explains That Shocking Assault Scene: "We're All the Product of Rape" 4. Top 50 Highest-Paid Athletes of All Time You may also like ‘House of Cards’ Showrunner Beau Willimon Says He is ‘Proud’ of New ‘Andor’ Season and Working on ‘Severance’ rollingstone Lorde, Young Thug, Haim, and All the Songs You Need to Know This Week Sean “Diddy” Combs Fails To Have Cassie Ventura 2016 Hotel Beating Footage Excluded From Sex Trafficking Trial; Rejected Plea Deal Revealed Survivor’s [Spoiler] Says Joe Was ‘Brittle’ and Had ‘Zero Self-Awareness’ NBA Policies Curb Star Absences Amid Spike in Overall Injuries IndieWire Arrow Icon About Team How to Pitch Stories and Articles to IndieWire Advertise with IndieWire Contact Us Accessibility Statement Legal Arrow Icon Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights EU Privacy Preferences Your Privacy Choices Ad Choices Follow Us Facebook X Instagram Pinterest YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Email address to subscribe to newsletter. Subscribe By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send us a tip PMC Logo IndieWire is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 IndieWire Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD ad