ASSASSIN’S CREED® VALHALLA: AN UPDATE ON POST-LAUNCH If you're seeing this message, that means JavaScript has been disabled on your browser , please enable JS to make this app work. Back Arrow Left Black arrow pointing left Discover the AC Shadows Expansion Games Assassin's Creed Shadows Assassin's Creed Mirage Assassin's Creed Nexus VR Assassin's Creed Jade Assassin's Creed Valhalla All AC Games News Photo Mode Arrow Right Black arrow pointing right Assassin's Creed Shadows Assassin's Creed Mirage Assassin's Creed Valhalla Assassin's Creed Odyssey Assassin's Creed Origins More Than Games Discovery Tour Arrow Right Black arrow pointing right Features Curriculum Guide Help Bug Reporter Discover the AC Shadows Expansion Buy AC Shadows Arrow Right Black arrow pointing right PC - Ubisoft Store PS5 Xbox Series Discover the AC Shadows Expansion Buy AC Shadows Arrow Right Black arrow pointing right PC - Ubisoft Store PS5 Xbox Series Close Watch the Launch Trailer of AC Shadows, available now. Watch Trailer Arrow Left Black arrow pointing left 133 / 348 Arrow Right Black arrow pointing right Back Arrow Left Black arrow pointing left 18 November 2022 6 Min Read ASSASSIN’S CREED® VALHALLA: AN UPDATE ON POST-LAUNCH In November, 2020, we launched Assassin’s Creed® Valhalla and set out to deliver a true Viking experience of Eivor and the Raven Clan in ninth-century England. You have been one of more than 20 million players to join us on this adventure. Eivor’s journey took us far and wide over these last two years. In Year One of our post-launch, we were determined to expand Valhalla's story and give more playable content to the community. With Wrath of the Druids, you explored the beautiful and haunted lands of Ireland. You then put your skills to the test with Mastery Challenge, pillaged from the high waters in River Raids, and adventured into Tombs of the Fallen, solving the mysteries and puzzles that lurked deep. We celebrated the changing of the seasons in Ravensthorpe with the Yule, Ostara, Sigrblot, and Oskoreia Festivals. You took to the roads of France in the Siege of Paris, defying King Charles himself and partaking in one of the most iconic Viking battles. You discovered the history of the Vikings and Norse mythology with Discovery Tour: Viking Age, and in December, you crossed paths with Kassandra in Assassin’s Creed Crossover Stories. In Year Two we set out to bring the biggest and most ambitious content to the world of Valhalla. In Dawn of Ragnarök, we discovered the realm of Svartalfheim and then Niflheim with the release of Forgotten Saga. As your journey with Odin expanded, we continued to support Eivor’s world in England with new settlement additions and the conclusion to Mastery Challenge and Tombs of the Fallen. We strove to let you write your own Viking saga, explore the worlds of Valhalla, and blaze your own path as Eivor in Assassin’s Creed Valhalla. Throughout Eivor’s journey, you've shown us your best game moments, fan art, cosplay, videos, and more, and we've loved seeing every piece of your content and passion for Valhalla. And thanks to your feedback, we added multiple quality-of-life improvements to the game to ensure the quality of your Viking saga. THE LAST CHAPTER On December 6, we will be releasing our final content update for Assassin’s Creed Valhalla, wrapping up two amazing years of post-launch support. Title Update 1.6.2 will include some exciting new content for the game, including The Last Chapter, a touching and intimate conclusion to Eivor’s saga. This epilogue will tie up some of the storylines developed throughout the game and offer closure to your time among the Raven Clan. To access The Last Chapter when it releases on December 6, you’ll need to complete the following key parts of the game: Complete the main storyline by pledging to all territories of England Complete the mythical story arcs of Asgard and Jotunheim Upgrade your settlement to level 5 and construct the Jomsviking barracks Kill all targets of the Order of the Ancients and unveil its leader PRODUCTION UPDATES SEASONAL FESTIVALS As Valhalla’s post-launch is coming to an end, we have some updates to share on production. We will no longer be running the time-limited festival events in Ravensthorpe. For those who did not have the chance to participate in the Yule, Ostara, Sigrblot, or Oskoreia Festivals, all rewards from past festivals will be available at all merchants located throughout England upon completing the quest The First Night of Samhain (Glowecestrescire arc). This will give you the opportunity to acquire rewards you might have missed out on in exchange for silver. We will also be adding brand-new rewards in this update as a thank you for your continued support! More info to come in our next patch notes. AN UPDATE ON NEW GAME+ We also want to provide an update on a highly requested feature: New Game+. Community feedback is what continually pushes us to improve our experiences. Since the release of Assassin’s Creed Valhalla, the team has been working hard on expanding the core experience of the game with your feedback in mind. Releasing such a diverse range of content over the last two years has been a thrilling experience and we are proud to have shared this journey with you. Assassin’s Creed Valhalla has been built as a unique Assassin’s Creed experience, one that is very different from its predecessors in its structure, offering new ways of engaging with the world and its characters. When investigating the implementation of New Game+, we realized that the depth of the game gave us limited options to make replayability unique and rewarding. We understand this news will come as a disappointment; however, we hope that the new content released in the past months, including never-before-seen experiences like Forgotten Saga, has provided an exciting and challenging experience for those seeking more replayable content. While we will not be adding New Game+ to Assassin’s Creed Valhalla, we do have more content on the way before we wrap up. WHAT’S TO COME We are happy to announce that our final update will add another highly requested feature by the community: the option to keep your hood up at any time. This new option will be added to the in-game options menu, giving you the chance to always keep your hood equipped, even when taking off Eivor’s cloak. This is purely cosmetic and will not impact gameplay or detection but will allow you to further customize your experience. Here’s a sneak peek of the new feature: We can’t wait for you to show us your best Assassin moves in combat! We also have a few more surprises in store with this title update...but we’ll save those for our final farewell. On behalf of the entire team, we would like to thank you for your love and support over the past two years. It is not without emotion that we bid farewell to the saga of the Wolf-Kissed. Stay tuned for more news – we cannot wait for you to experience the conclusion of Eivor’s story this December! SKAL! Share: Facebook Logo Twitter Logo Visit Other Assassin's Creed Channels: