The LEGO Group Leadership Playground: Energizing Everybody Every Day (A) - The Case Centre All products Books Book chapters Cases Instructor materials Management articles Multimedia / Simulations Software items Videos Exact match More search options Login / register No items All products Books Book chapters Cases Instructor materials Management articles Multimedia / Simulations Software items Videos Exact match More search options Browse & buy Products Collection overview Cases Simulations and multimedia Role-plays Instructor materials Management articles Book chapters Choosing Online search and preview What's new? Bestsellers Featured cases Ratings and reviews Product usage stats Buying Delivery formats CoursePack Creator Educational Case Teaching Licence Undergraduate Case Teaching Licence Pricing & shipping Ordering & copyright My library Case teaching Discover What is the case method? A brief guide to case teaching Outstanding Case Teacher Competition #WorldCaseTeachingDay Recognition and rewards Preparing to teach Choosing a case Teaching notes Featured cases Using cases with undergraduates Online case teaching Guidance and support Training Case teaching scholarships Articles and books Videos Discussion group Writing cases Discover A brief guide to case writing Recognition and rewards The Case Centre Impact Index Case Focus Journal Case writing competitions Submitting a case Why submit to us? How to submit Submission requirements Online case submission My product portfolio Guidance and support Training Case writing scholarships Articles and books Videos Discussion group Learning with cases Discover the case method What is learning with cases? Learning online with cases Hear from students and professors Case competitions Preparing for job interviews Accessing cases What's available to students? Go to MyCoursePacks Register for a CoursePack Search for cases Guidance and support Learning with Cases: An Interactive Study Guide Articles and books Videos Student sessions Training & resources Case training What do we offer? Current workshops Current webinars Case idea consultation Conference PDWs Meet our tutors Resources Knowledge centre Discover the case method Feature articles Connect newsletter Recognition and rewards Discussion group Guidance Support and guidance Articles and books Videos Cases and accreditation Learning with Cases: An Interactive Study Guide About us Organisation and people History and governance Mission and activities Board of Trustees Regional Advisory Councils Meet the team Make a donation Contact us Membership The benefits Membership for emerging economies Become a member organisation Current members Members' Case Forum News room News Information for the press Connect newsletter Brand guidelines Product details By continuing to use our site you consent to the use of cookies as described in our privacy policy unless you have disabled them. You can change your cookie settings at any time but parts of our site will not function correctly without them. The LEGO Group Leadership Playground: Energizing Everybody Every Day (A) Case - Reference no.  IMD-7-2205 Subject category: Strategy and General Management Authors: John Weeks (International Institute for Management Development (IMD)) ; Lisa Duke (International Institute for Management Development (IMD)) Published by: International Institute for Management Development (IMD) Originally published in: 2021 Version: 08.02.2021 Length: 19 pages Data source: Field research Topics: Leadership ; Culture ; Change ; Culture change ; Human resources ; Talent management You must be logged in to access preview copies. Share a link: https://casecent.re/p/174839 Write a review | No reviews for this item View usage Login to add to your basket View our pricing guide or login to see prices. About Settings Related Abstract This is part of a case series. In 2018, the LEGO Group defined a new way of leading to enable the company to move more quickly, to make the right decisions, to deliver its mission and the commercial momentum that sustained it, and to shape the LEGO(R) culture in a positive way. This new way of leading would need to be modeled at the top of the organization. That was certain. But CEO, Niels Christiansen, and Chief People Officer, Loren Shuster, believed that the task of defining the new way of leading should not be done by the Executive Leadership Team or by HR. It should be developed bottom up. The LEGO Group was no longer the patriarchy it had once been under its founder, but Shuster saw that patriarchal assumptions about leadership lingered in its culture. If the LEGO Group was going to move towards a balanced system where leadership responsibility was more distributed and less hierarchical, it would be ironic to impose this top down. A better way to start would be to invite people from different levels and different functions of the organization to answer the question: What kind of leadership do we need in the LEGO Group and how can we embed the new way of leading into the fabric of the organization so that it can be self-generative? Case A describes the process that the LEGO Group used to create what they called The Leadership Playground and bring it to life in the company. Time period The events covered by this case took place in 2018-2020. Geographical setting Region: World/global Featured company LEGO Group (The) Employees: 10000+ Turnover: USD 5.77 billion Industry: Toys and games The LEGO Group Leadership Playground: Energizing Everybody Every Day Teaching note - Reference no.  IMD-7-2205-T Subject category: Strategy and General Management Authors: John Weeks (International Institute for Management Development (IMD)) Published by: International Institute for Management Development (IMD) Originally published in: 2021 Version: 19.01.2021 Length: 18 pages Data source: Field research View full details The LEGO Group Leadership Playground: Energizing Everybody Every Day (B) Case - Reference no.  IMD-7-2206 Subject category: Strategy and General Management Authors: John Weeks (International Institute for Management Development (IMD)) ; Lisa Duke (International Institute for Management Development (IMD)) Published by: International Institute for Management Development (IMD) Originally published in: 2021 Version: 08.02.2021 Length: 14 pages Data source: Field research Topics: Leadership ; Change ; Culture change ; Human resources ; Talent management View full details About Abstract This is part of a case series. In 2018, the LEGO Group defined a new way of leading to enable the company to move more quickly, to make the right decisions, to deliver its mission and the commercial momentum that sustained it, and to shape the LEGO(R) culture in a positive way. This new way of leading would need to be modeled at the top of the organization. That was certain. But CEO, Niels Christiansen, and Chief People Officer, Loren Shuster, believed that the task of defining the new way of leading should not be done by the Executive Leadership Team or by HR. It should be developed bottom up. The LEGO Group was no longer the patriarchy it had once been under its founder, but Shuster saw that patriarchal assumptions about leadership lingered in its culture. If the LEGO Group was going to move towards a balanced system where leadership responsibility was more distributed and less hierarchical, it would be ironic to impose this top down. A better way to start would be to invite people from different levels and different functions of the organization to answer the question: What kind of leadership do we need in the LEGO Group and how can we embed the new way of leading into the fabric of the organization so that it can be self-generative? Case A describes the process that the LEGO Group used to create what they called The Leadership Playground and bring it to life in the company. Settings Time period The events covered by this case took place in 2018-2020. Geographical setting Region: World/global Featured company LEGO Group (The) Employees: 10000+ Turnover: USD 5.77 billion Industry: Toys and games Related The LEGO Group Leadership Playground: Energizing Everybody Every Day Teaching note - Reference no.  IMD-7-2205-T Subject category: Strategy and General Management Authors: John Weeks (International Institute for Management Development (IMD)) Published by: International Institute for Management Development (IMD) Originally published in: 2021 Version: 19.01.2021 Length: 18 pages Data source: Field research View full details The LEGO Group Leadership Playground: Energizing Everybody Every Day (B) Case - Reference no.  IMD-7-2206 Subject category: Strategy and General Management Authors: John Weeks (International Institute for Management Development (IMD)) ; Lisa Duke (International Institute for Management Development (IMD)) Published by: International Institute for Management Development (IMD) Originally published in: 2021 Version: 08.02.2021 Length: 14 pages Data source: Field research Topics: Leadership ; Change ; Culture change ; Human resources ; Talent management View full details The Case Centre is the independent home of the case method. The Case Centre Cranfield University, Wharley End, Bedfordshire. MK43 0JR, UK t +44 (0)1234 750903 or +1 781 236 4510 e info@thecasecentre.org © Copyright The Case Centre, 2025 Contact Site search Privacy & Cookies Site compatibility Modern slavery policy The Case Centre is a not-for-profit company limited by guarantee, registered in England No 1129396 and entered in the Register of Charities No 267516. VAT No GB 870 9608 93. Support our charitable activities - click here to donate .