Wimbledon tennis 2021 - Ashleigh Barty pays tribute to absent champion Simona Halep as she opens Centre Court - TNT Sports Videos Results For You Football Rugby MotoGP All Sports Tennis Wimbledon Calendar - Results Men's Singles Women's Singles Men's Doubles Women's Doubles Mixed Doubles Previous winners Sign In Home Videos Results For You Popular Sports Football Football Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Premier League UEFA Champions League FA Cup All Competitions Rugby Rugby Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Gallagher Premiership Premiership Women’s Rugby Six Nations All Competitions MotoGP MotoGP Home Clips and Highlights Calendar Standings Cycling Cycling Home Clips and Highlights Results Race calendar All Competitions Snooker Snooker Home Clips and Highlights Results World Ranking World Championship UK Championship Masters UFC UFC Home Clips and Highlights Calendar and Events Rankings Boxing Boxing Home Clips and Highlights Boxing on TNT Sports Box Office All Sports Show All Alpine Skiing Alpine Skiing Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings World Championship Athletics Athletics Home Fixtures - Results Diamond League World Championships World Athletics Indoor Championships Tokyo 2020 Marathon All Competitions Baseball Basketball Basketball Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results NBA All Leagues Biathlon Biathlon Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings IBU World Championships Boxing Boxing Home Clips and Highlights Boxing on TNT Sports Box Office BSB BSB Home Calendar Standings Climbing Cricket Cricket Home Clips and Highlights Cricket on TNT Sports Cross-Country Skiing Cross-Country Skiing Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings World Championship Cycling Cycling Home Clips and Highlights Results Race calendar All Competitions Cyclo-Cross Cyclo-Cross Home Fixtures - Results Esports F1 F1 Home Race calendar Standings Football Football Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Premier League UEFA Champions League FA Cup All Competitions Formula E Formula E Home Calendar Rankings Fanboost Golf Golf Home Calendar - Results PGA Tour DP World Tour Ryder Cup All Competitions MotoGP MotoGP Home Clips and Highlights Calendar Standings Motorsports Motorsports Home Calendar - Results Speedway GP F1 MotoGP Superbikes All Sports Mountain Bike Mountain Bike Home Results Rankings Teams NBA NBA Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Standings Olympics Olympics Home Video Rugby Rugby Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Gallagher Premiership Premiership Women’s Rugby Six Nations All Competitions Sailing Sailing Home Calendar - Results Ski Jumping Ski Jumping Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Standings Women's standings Snooker Snooker Home Clips and Highlights Results World Ranking World Championship UK Championship Masters Speedway GP Speedway GP Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Standings Superbikes Superbikes Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Table Tennis Tennis Home Clips and Highlights Calendar - Results Australian Open Roland-Garros Wimbledon US Open All Competitions Track Cycling Triathlon Triathlon Home Fixtures - Results PTO Tour UCI Track CL UCI Track CL Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings UFC UFC Home Clips and Highlights Calendar and Events Rankings WEC WEC Home Fixtures - Results Calendar WEC Table Winter Sports Winter Sports Home Fixtures - Results All Sports WRC WRC Home Calendar Standings Welcome to TNT Sports TNT Sports is the new home of Eurosport bringing together all the same great content in one place Tennis Wimbledon Wimbledon tennis 2021 - Ashleigh Barty pays tribute to absent champion Simona Halep as she opens Centre Court By Ibrahim Mustapha Updated 29/06/2021 at 17:06 GMT+1 Ashleigh Barty has expressed her pride at being able to open Centre Court on day 2 of Wimbledon. Watch daily evening highlights of all the best action from Wimbledon on Eurosport 1, plus the men's and women's finals live on Eurosport 2. All coverage is also available to stream via eurosport.co.uk and the Eurosport app. Barty was victorious on centre court Image credit: Getty Images Ashleigh Barty has expressed her pride at being able to open Centre Court on day 2 of Wimbledon in her match against Carla Suarez Navarro. The No 1 seed came through in three sets against the Spaniard, winning 6-1 6-7 (1-7) 6-1. Normally, the opening match on the main court would feature the defending champion, but with 2019 champion Simona Halep ruled out with injury and no tournament taking place in 2020, Barty received the call. Wimbledon Two Wimbledon matches investigated for match-fixing 14/07/2021 at 15:03 Speaking after her win, a humbled Barty was full of gratitude for the opportunity and paid tribute to the absent Halep. Barty survives second set fightback against Suarez Navarro to reach second round Wimbledon 2021 day 2 order of play - Barty, Serena and Federer in action “With all my heart I wish Simo was here to do it herself,” she told the BBC . “She’s a champion. She’s earned the right to open this court “To be given the honour when I haven’t fully deserved it, I wanted to come out here and pay respect to that. “It’s an honour and a privilege and I was extremely humbled when Jamie [Baker – Tournament director] asked me to come out here and play on this beautiful court. “I couldn’t be more proud to be out here.” During her first round win, Barty wore a customised outfit paying tribute to fellow indigenous Australian Evonne Goolagong Cawley, marking 50 years since the latter win the grass court tournament wearing an iconic scallop dress. “For me to be able to wear an outfit inspired by her iconic dress is a privilege,” she added. “I called her to ask if she would be ok with it. To pay tribute in a very small way is incredible and I hope I can do her proud.” -- Watch daily evening highlights on Eurosport 1, plus the men's and women's finals live on Eurosport 2. All coverage is also available to stream via Eurosport.co.uk and the Eurosport app. Wimbledon 'He's like in the movies' - How many more Slams will Djokovic win? 12/07/2021 at 13:03 Wimbledon Djokovic sees no reason to let up after clinching Wimbledon title 11/07/2021 at 18:59 Share this article Related Topics Tennis Wimbledon Advertisement Advertisement How was your experience today? Change version: International English (TNT) Help centre Football Premier League Table Premier League Fixtures Champions League News Champions League Fixtures Football Fixtures More Pub finder Rugby News UFC News Boxing News MotoGP News TNT Sports Schedule & TV Guide TNT Sports Box Office About Us About TNT Sports Legal Information Terms of Use Privacy Policy Legal Information Modern Slavery Statement ©2025 TNT Sports Broadcasting Limited.  TNT SPORTS is used under license. All rights reserved.