Annie Ernaux – Facts – 2022 - NobelPrize.org Skip to content Open the search menu Close the search menu Close Mobile Menu Toggle Mobile Menu Nobel Prizes & laureates All Nobel Prizes All Nobel Prizes 2024 Physics prize Chemistry prize Medicine prize Literature prize Peace prize Prize in economic sciences About About the prize Alfred Nobel Award ceremonies Nomination Organisation Stories Educational Events & museums Open the search menu Close the search menu Header Search Submit a search term Enhanced Page Navigation Annie Ernaux – Facts – 2022 Nobel Prize in Literature 2022 Summary Laureates Annie Ernaux Facts Biographical Nobel Lecture Prize presentation Banquet speech Interview Prose Nobel diploma Photo gallery Other resources Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech Share this Facebook X LinkedIn Email this page Annie Ernaux Facts Navigate to: Summary -- Facts -- Biographical -- Nobel Lecture -- Prize presentation -- Banquet speech -- Interview -- Prose -- Nobel diploma -- Photo gallery -- Other resources Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech © Nobel Prize Outreach. Foto: Stefan Bladh. Annie Ernaux Nobel Prize in Literature 2022 Born:		1 September 1940, Lillebonne, France Residence at the time of the award: 					France Prize motivation: 					“for the courage and clinical acuity with which she uncovers the roots, estrangements and  collective restraints of personal memory” Language: 					French Prize share: 				1/1 Work In her writing, Annie Ernaux consistently and from different angles, examines a life marked by strong disparities regarding gender, language and class. Her path to authorship was long and arduous. Among her novels are ‘A Man's Place’, ‘A Woman's Story’ and ‘Years’. Ernaux's work is uncompromising and written in plain language, scraped clean. And when she with great courage and clinical acuity reveals the agony of the experience of class, describing shame, humiliation, jealousy or inability to see who you are, she has achieved something admirable and enduring. To cite this section MLA style: Annie Ernaux – Facts – 2022. NobelPrize.org. Nobel Prize Outreach 2025. Wed. 30 Apr 2025. <https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/literature/2022/ernaux/facts/> Back to top Back To Top Takes users back to the top of the page Book tips Nobel Prize in Literature 2022 What to read? Curious about 2022 literature laureate Annie Ernaux but can’t decide which of her books to start with? Here three members of the Swedish Academy give their recommendations. © Nobel Prize Outreach. Photo: Monica Mileur Nobel Prizes and laureates Nobel Prizes 2024 Six prizes were awarded for achievements that have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind. The 12 laureates' work and discoveries range from proteins' structures and machine learning to fighting for a world free of nuclear weapons. See them all presented here. Explore prizes and laureates Look for popular awards and laureates in different fields, and discover the history of the Nobel Prize. Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Decrease the year by one - Choose a year you would like to search in Increase the year by one + Explore About the Nobel Prize organisation The Nobel Foundation Tasked with a mission to manage Alfred Nobel's fortune and has ultimate responsibility for fulfilling the intentions of Nobel's will. The prize-awarding institutions For more than a century, these academic institutions have worked independently to select Nobel Prize laureates. Outreach organisations Several outreach organisations and activities have been developed to inspire generations and disseminate knowledge about the Nobel Prize. Press Contact FAQ Privacy policy Terms of use For developers Media player Careers Join us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Nobel Prize Copyright © Nobel Prize Outreach 2025 Scroll to top