'Pretty Woman': How Female Empowerment Was Key to Musical Adaptation 'Pretty Woman': How Female Empowerment Was Key to Musical Adaptation Plus Icon Film Plus Icon TV Plus Icon What To Watch Plus Icon Music Plus Icon Docs Plus Icon Digital & Gaming Plus Icon Global Plus Icon Awards Circuit Plus Icon Video Plus Icon What To Hear VIP Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Got a Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Variety Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Variety Plus Icon Read Next: ‘Real Women Have Curves’ Review: Broadway Musical Celebrates a Vibrant Community of Women With Joy and Heart Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Home Theater News Jun 27, 2022 10:13am PT ‘Pretty Woman’: From Screen to Stage, How Female Empowerment Was Key to Musical Adaptation By Jazz Tangcay Plus Icon Jazz Tangcay Artisans Editor @jazzt Latest ‘The Pitt,’ ‘The Studio’ and ‘Adolescence’ Lead Gotham TV Awards Nominations 38 mins ago Sony Future Filmmakers Awards Names Shortlisted Finalists (EXCLUSIVE) 5 hours ago ‘Picture of Dorian Gray’: How the Costume Designer Transformed Sarah Snook into 26 Different Characters 19 hours ago See All Garry Marshall ’s romantic comedy “Pretty Woman” starring Richard Gere and Julia Roberts continues to wow audiences through both the 1990 film and subsequent musical adaptation. But how does one translate a beloved musical from screen to stage? Marshall had always wanted to create a Broadway musical. Speaking with Variety , daughter Kathleen Marshall says, “He felt ‘Pretty Woman’ was the one to make. Barbara [Marshall’s widow] would always encourage him to think about it.” It wasn’t until 2013 when Marshall and the film’s screenwriter J.F. Lawton reconnected to write the musical. Related Stories VIP+ What an AI War on Copyright Law Could Mean for Content Creators Kathleen Marshall says, “They started writing every Wednesday afternoon for several years, and Barbara was thrilled. Garry was happy to be writing the musical with Lawton because they both had spent time with these characters and had a clear vision of how they wanted to write the musical.” Popular on Variety Garry Marshall and producer Paula Wagner , who worked on “Mission: Impossible” and “Mission: Impossible 2,” had one concern in bringing the beloved film to stage: How was it going to work?” Wagner says, “It’s about your audience experience, and how through their eyes they experience this.” Wagner and the team had to go back to the ‘90s. Wagner says, “It’s a great love story because it plays to a fantasy that all of us collectively share, which is we wanted our fantasies to work out. We want an ending where we all go off into the sunset.” She adds the modern-day Cinderella story about a prostitute (Roberts) and a wealthy businessman (Gere) who fall for each other and bridge the gap in their very different worlds is a story about hope, aspiration and redemption. Says Wagner, “Tragedy is everywhere you turn, so to be able to walk into a theater and go on the imagination ride through what you hope and what you dream is comfort food.” Wagner says the story of empowerment is still very relevant in today’s world, and that was the key to adapting it. If the story remained timeless, it could also transcend different mediums. With Lawton and Garry Marshall working on the stage script and getting into a seamless flow, the next step was looking at how to use dialogue and turn that into music. Singer Bryan Adams had heard rumblings about the musical happening and expressed an interest in composing the music. He and musical collaborator Jim Vallance successfully auditioned. The stage show was not going to use any of the songs, such as Roxette’s “Must’ve Been Love” or Go West’s “King of Wishful Thinking.” Instead, Adams and Vallance would write all new music. “We wanted to use music to see her vulnerability. We wanted to take the basic pulse of the story and convert it, so you sing your inner thoughts. If anyone could do that, it was Bryan and Jim,” says Wagner. “Finding your authentic voice and finding the love of your life” was key to the adaptation, says Wagner. She stresses it needed to show how strong and empowered Roberts’ Vivian Ward is. “The musical had to show that she was willing to walk away from everything because she couldn’t be bought. She had her direction and she was going to stick with it. A butterfly emerged and the butterfly was very strong and empowered.” That was shown not only through the music of Adams and Vallance in the song, “I Can’t Go Back,” but also through costume design. Toward the end, Gregg Barnes’ costumes underscore empowerment when Vivian demands the dream. Wagner says, “The iconic outfits needed to be there, such as the thigh-high leather boots, or the red dress. But you get something deeper and more illuminating on stage, and more contemporary. The show ends with her wearing a high-style classy white pantsuit.” “Pretty Woman the Musical” is playing at the Dolby through July 3 and will transfer to the Segerstrom Center for the Arts from July 5-15. Read More About: Garry Marshall, Paula Wagner Jump to Comments More from Variety ‘South Park’ Season 27 Sets July Premiere and Takes Aim at Diddy, Ketamine and a War Against Canada How Indie Film and Los Angeles Can Help Each Other The Ghibli-Style AI Wake-Up Call JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Most Popular Beyoncé Set List: Every Song Played on ‘Cowboy Carter’ Tour Opener in Los Angeles ‘The Smashing Machine’ Trailer: Dwayne Johnson Is Unrecognizable as UFC Legend Mark Kerr in Benny Safdie’s Biopic From A24 Nathan Fielder Depicts Paramount+ as Nazis After Streamer Removed ‘Nathan for You’ Episode Due to ‘Sensitivities’ Around… Pedro Almodóvar Slams Trump in Fiery Speech at Lincoln Center Honors: ‘You Will Go Down in History as a Catastrophe’ John Lithgow Says He ‘Absolutely’ Didn’t Expect Any J.K. Rowling Backlash After Joining HBO’s ‘Harry Potter’ Series: ‘Why Is This a Factor… Bill Belichick CBS Interview Interrupted by Girlfriend Jordan Hudson After Relationship Question: ‘We’re Not Talking About This’ Terrence Howard Turned Down Marvin Gaye Biopic Because He Didn’t Want to Kiss a Man: ‘I Would Cut My Lips Off’ Ryan Coogler's 'Sinners' Is the First Oscar Movie of 2025 Rock Hall of Fame Inductees Unveiled: Cyndi Lauper, Outkast, White Stripes, Chubby Checker, Warren Zevon and More to Join Class of 2025 ‘Back to the Future’ Screenwriter Bob Gale Says There Will ‘Never’ Be Another Sequel, ‘Prequel’ or ‘Spinoff’: ‘It’s Just Fine the Way It Is… Must Read Legit ACTORS ON ACTORS BROADWAY | George Clooney and Patti LuPone Get Honest By Andrew Wallenstein 1 week TV Reeling From Bill Owens' Shock Exit, '60 Minutes' Staffers Warn Shari Redstone to Back Off Shopping Pete Davidson on Going Tattoo-Free and His Concern for Young Men and Social Media: ‘They Don’t Even Have a F—ing Shot’ Film Ryan Coogler Dissects ‘Sinners’: How the Blockbuster Filmmaker Reinvented the Vampire Movie on a Near-Impossible Timeline TV Bill Hader to Co-Write, Potentially Star in Jonestown Series in Development at HBO (EXCLUSIVE) Sign Up for Variety Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Variety Confidential A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast More From Our Brands Rolling Stone White House Loses It Over Report That Amazon Will Put Tariff Cost Next to Prices Robb Report How This N.Y.C. Pizza Joint Became a Clubhouse for a New Breed of Watch Collector Sportico Pac-12 Inks Media Deal With the CW, CBS, ESPN for 2025 Football Season WWD A Look Back at Prince William and Kate Middleton’s Royal Wedding TVLine NCIS: Origins’ Mariel Molino Shares What Was Most Heartbreaking About Finale, Why She’s ‘Proud’ of Final Shot Variety About Us Newsletter Variety Events Luminate - Film & TV Advertise Media Kit Careers Customer Service Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Variety Magazine Subscribe Variety Digital Login Group Subscriptions Variety Archives Back Issues Help VIP+ Subscribe Login Learn More FAQ Connect Instagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Variety The Business of Entertainment Subscribe Today Have a News Tip? Let us know Variety Close the menu Expand the sub menu Film News Reviews Podcasts Box Office Events Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu TV News Reviews Podcasts Ratings Pilot Scorecard Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu What To Watch Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Music News Album Reviews Concert Reviews Hitmakers Music For Screens Grammys Expand the sub menu Docs Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Tech Features Global VIP+ Tech Expand the sub menu Global News Asia Markets & Festivals Features Expand the sub menu Awards Circuit News Film Predictions TV Predictions Video Artisans Columns Awards Circuit Podcast Expand the sub menu Video Popular Cover Shoots - Behind the Scenes Actors on Actors Power of Women Events Artisans Expand the sub menu What to Hear Lists & Features Expand the sub menu VIP+ Daily Commentary Special Reports Video Expand the sub menu More Coverage Obituaries - submit obituaries to obits@variety.com Photos Podcasts Scene Voices Theater Expand the sub menu More Variety Live Media Summits Vscore Luminate - Film & TV Variety Archives Variety500 Industry Executives Have a News Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Alerts and Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Follow Us Got a Tip? Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Advertise About Contact Us Variety is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Variety Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Icon Link Plus Icon ad