Tour de France Results - Who Won Tour de France 2019 Search Subscribe My Bookmarks Tour de France Shop Bikes and Gear Mountain Bikes Culture Training Skills and Tips Health and Nutrition News Racing Repair Rides Newsletter Follow Other Editions Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content Master the Century Bikes - Gear Health - Nutrition Training Member-Only Stories Subscribe sign in Search Prep for a Century Ride How to Warm Up Ride Strong at 50+ Best Bike Computers Best Commuter Bikes Tour de France Who Won the 2019 Tour de France Who Won the 2019 Tour de France A stage-by-stage guide to the winners of the 2019 Tour. By Whit Yost Updated: Jul 28, 2019 5:04 PM EDT Save Article JEFF PACHOUD // Getty Images We’ve made our bold predictions and took a guess at the top riders to watch , but the truth is that the 2019 Tour de France is anyone’s for the taking. Here, we’ll keep you updated on who’s winning the race at any given moment. 1 Stage 21 – Egan Bernal Pool // Getty Images Egan Bernal won the 2019 Tour de France , finishing safely with the peloton at the end of the largely ceremonial Stage 21. Caleb Ewan took the final stage win in a bunch sprint on the Champs-Élysées, his third such victory of this year’s Tour. The first-ever Latin American champion, Bernal went to the final podium with his teammate (and 2018 Tour winner ) Geraint Thomas, as well as third-place finisher Steven Kruijswijk of Jumbo–Visma. Peter Sagan won his seventh green jersey, a new Tour record, while Romain Bardet took the polka dot jersey as winner of the King of the Mountains classification. Bernal, the youngest competitor to finish the Tour this year, also won the white jersey as Best Young Rider. Team Ineos (formerly Team Sky) has now won seven of the last eight Tours de France with four different riders: Bradley Wiggins, Chris Froome, Thomas, and now Bernal. The Colombian’s victory is all the more remarkable given that he wasn’t even meant to lead the team. Initially, he was tasked with supporting Thomas and Froome, who had hoped to win a record-tying fifth Tour this year. But then Froome crashed at the Critérium du Dauphiné in early June and broke his femur, giving Bernal a chance to co-captain the squad with Thomas. He made the most of the opportunity. Bernal rode attentively but cautiously, waiting until he finally had permission to attack when the race hit the Alps late in the third week. And even though landslides cut the final two Alpine stages short, Bernal had already done just enough to win the yellow jersey . What about next year? Ineos will certainly have an interesting leadership problem to solve with Bernal, Thomas, and Froome all under contract in 2020. That said, rumor has it that Thomas will leave the British team for another squad (possibly CCC) and Froome has a long recovery ahead of him. No matter who leads, Ineos will face a stiff challenge from Jumbo–Visma, which placed two riders in the Tour’s top five in 2018 and Kruijswijk on the podium this year. If the team’s rumored signing of 2017 Giro d’Italia winner Tom Dumoulin goes through, it will definitely have the firepower necessary to topple Ineos. For now, though, we’ll wait until October and the announcement of next year’s course. At that point, we’ll have a better idea as to which riders might win the 107th edition of the Tour de France. 2 Stage 20 – Egan Bernal MARCO BERTORELLO // Getty Images Egan Bernal will become Colombia’s first-ever Tour de France winner after a watchful ride on Stage 20 that saw no real threats to his yellow jersey. With severe weather causing landslides that shortened the stage to 59.5K, Bernal’s Ineos team controlled the action without much trouble and delivered him safely to the finish in fourth place on the day. He lost no time. The same can’t be said for Julian Alaphilippe, who valiantly defended yellow for 10 days straight until Stage 19. The French fan favorite lost 3:17 to stage winner Vincenzo Nibali and dropped three spots, to fifth overall. Who’s really winning ? Ineos, which will have Bernal and returning champion Geraint Thomas in the first and second spots on the final podium. While the team’s overall strength seemed a little shaky in the first two weeks of the Tour, it rounded into familiar form for the final few stages and thoroughly controlled the race. It has now won seven of the last eight Tours de France, via four different riders, and appears to have a once-in-a-generation talent in Bernal (just 22 years old and under contract until 2023). With teams like Jumbo–Visma looking to challenge Ineos in the coming years, it will take a major effort to overcome cycling’s most dominant outfit, given a budget that’s roughly double the average on the WorldTour. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 3 Stage 19 – Egan Bernal Justin Setterfield // Getty Images After 10 days of valiantly defending the yellow jersey, Julian Alaphilippe finally cracked on the slopes of the Col de l’Iseran. Shortly after, Egan Bernal attacked and swept through the remains of the breakaway to cross the summit alone, a minute ahead of a select chase group and just over two minutes clear of Alaphilippe. Bernal takes the yellow jersey with the move, while Alaphilippe drops to second at 48 seconds back. It was a bad day for France; not only did Alaphilippe finally succumb to the pressure, but Thibaut Pinot stunningly dropped out altogether, suffering from what his team called a muscular lesion that inhibited his pedaling. Who’s really winning? Ineos and climate change, apparently. In one of the most unpredictable stages in recent history, an intense hailstorm struck the final climb to Tignes, causing flooding and landslides that blocked the roads. Organizers were forced to call the race entirely, with times taken at the Iseran summit. It’s a controversial decision, but the main benefactors are Bernal and Geraint Thomas. Bernal was solo over the summit in the lead, and Thomas had a gap on Alaphilippe, even though the Frenchman caught the GC group on the descent. What would have happened without the sudden deluge? It’s impossible to say. Perhaps Thomas and Alaphilippe would have regained contact with Bernal on the long downhill off the Iseran, and Bernal’s efforts would have cost him for the final climb to Tignes. Maybe Alaphilippe could have dug deep enough on the shorter Tignes climb and preserve yellow. We’ll never know, but with riders in first and third, and Pinot out altogether, Ineos is in prime position to win a seventh Tour. 4 Stage 18 – Julian Alaphilippe JEFF PACHOUD // Getty Images Julian Alaphilippe held tough on Stage 18, surviving the first of three days in the Alps to remain overall leader of the 2019 Tour. The Frenchman was dropped by the remaining GC contenders near the top of the Col du Galibier, the day’s final climb. But he caught them on the descent to the finish in Valloire, defending his lead over all but one: Egan Bernal. Alaphilippe now leads the Tour by 1:30 over Bernal and 1:35 over defending champion Geraint Thomas, Bernal’s co-captain on Ineos. Nairo Quintana salvaged his Tour by winning the stage , while Romain Bardet made a comeback of sorts and finished second, taking the polka dot jersey from Tim Wellens. Who’s really winning? Despite defending yellow for another day, Alaphilippe looks cooked. Had it not been for the long descent at the finale, he would have lost time to every rider immediately behind him on the General Classification. Stages 19 and 20 are short and end with summit finishes, so teams will be more aggressive in their attempts to drop the leader. But as to who will ultimately win the Tour, it’s still, amazingly, too soon to say. Bernal flew away from the group of contenders on the Galibier. If he can bring that same form into the next two stages, the Colombian might be tough to beat. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 5 Stage 17 – Julian Alaphilippe Tim de Waele // Getty Images Despite finishing with the peloton more than 20 minutes behind the stage winner, Julian Alaphilippe remained overall leader of the 2019 Tour after Stage 17. Heading into three hard days in the high Alps, the Frenchman leads by 1:35 over Geraint Thomas and 1:47 over Steven Kruijswijk. Matteo Trentin won the stage with a monstrous solo attack on Wednesday, while Kasper Asgreen finished second and Greg Van Avermaet took third. Who’s really winning? We’ll have our final answer soon, as the next three days will determine the winner of what has become one of the most unpredictable Tours in recent memory. Sadly, Alaphilippe’s time in yellow looks set to come to an end. That his team sent Asgreen on the attack seems to indicate that the squad has little confidence in its chances to defend his lead in the Alps. Team Ineos, Jumbo–Visma, and Thibaut Pinot’s Groupama–FDJ all look ready to pounce, hoping one of their riders will end Alaphilippe’s reign. 6 Stage 16 – Julian Alaphilippe Jean Catuffe // Getty Images Julian Alaphilippe remained overall leader of the 2019 Tour after finishing safely with the peloton on Stage 16. After a nervous day filled with crashes, the Frenchman leads the Tour by 1:35 over Geraint Thomas and 1:47 over Steven Kruijswijk. Caleb Ewan won the stage , powering ahead of Elia Viviani and Dylan Groenewegen to take his second victory of this year’s Tour. Who’s really winning ? Stage 17 won’t be easy, but with a breakaway filled with out-of-contention riders expected to go all the way to the finish in Gap, Alaphilippe has a good chance of keeping his yellow jersey for at least another day. But three hard stages in the Alps come next, and given the cracks he begin to show in his form at the end of Stage 15, Alaphilippe’s days in the lead might be numbered. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 7 Stage 15 – Julian Alaphilippe Justin Setterfield // Getty Images Julian Alaphilippe still wears the yellow jersey as leader of the 2019 Tour, but the Frenchman lost time to his rivals after getting dropped near the top of Stage 15’s summit finish on the Prat d’Albis. Alaphilippe now leads by 1:35 over Geraint Thomas and 1:47 over Steven Kruijswijk. Simon Yates won the stage to earn his second career win at the Tour. Thibaut Pinot finished second, and Mikel Landa took third. Who’s really winning? For the first time this year, Alaphilippe looks vulnerable. The race is wide open, with five riders clustered within 39 seconds between second and sixth place on the General Classification. Of them, Pinot looks like the biggest threat. The Frenchman won Stage 14 atop the Col du Tourmalet and was first to attack the yellow jersey group on Stage 15. With the Alps still to come and Team Ineos struggling to live up to its reputation, Pinot is seeming more and more like the best rider in this year’s Tour. 8 Stage 14 – Julian Alaphilippe ANNE-CHRISTINE POUJOULAT // Getty Images For the second day in a row, Julian Alaphilippe extended his lead in the 2019 Tour after finishing second atop the Col du Tourmalet at the end of Stage 14. Thibaut Pinot won the stage, but the real story was Alaphilippe, who hung tough with the Tour’s top favorites, many of whom were ultimately dropped on the final steep slopes of the Pyrenean climb. Alaphilippe now leads by 2:02 over Geraint Thomas and 2:14 over Steven Kruijswijk. Who’s really winning? With each passing day, Alaphilippe looks more and more like a serious threat to win the Tour de France. Despite never finishing in the top 10 in any three-week Grand Tour, the Frenchman continues to ride with confidence—and a bit of panache. His biggest threat heading into Stage 14 was Thomas. But the defending champion was one of many riders dropped near the top of the Tourmalet, losing 36 seconds to Alaphilippe by the summit. To make matters worse, his teammate Egan Bernal stayed with the leaders, gaining time on Thomas and perhaps proving himself as Ineos’s best chance to win the Tour, given the race’s mountainous final week. 9 Stage 13 – Julian Alaphilippe Justin Setterfield // Getty Images Julian Alaphilippe extended his lead in the 2019 Tour after winning Stage 13’s individual time trial in Pau. Inspired by the yellow jersey he’s now worn for nine days so far, the Frenchman beat defending champion Geraint Thomas by 14 seconds to win the 27K stage. Alaphilippe now leads the General Classification by 1:26 over Thomas and 2:12 over Steven Kruijswijk, with two tough days in the Pyrenees coming this weekend. Who’s really winning? Alaphilippe surprised everyone with his stage win on Friday, but he’s still not the favorite to win the Tour. That distinction belongs to Thomas, who put time into all of his rivals today, firmly establishing himself as the man to beat. Perhaps more importantly, Thomas’s teammate, Egan Bernal, dropped to fifth overall, leaving Thomas as the undisputed leader of Ineos and Bernal as the Tour’s best domestique . With more mountains coming this weekend, Alaphilippe will have his hands full defending his lead against the British super-team’s 1-2 punch. 10 Stage 12 – Julian Alaphilippe Justin Setterfield // Getty Images Julian Alaphilippe remained overall leader of the 2019 Tour after finishing safely with the group of main contenders on Stage 12, the first of three days in the Pyrenees. Heading into the race’s only individual time trial, the Frenchman leads Ineos co-captains Geraint Thomas and Egan Bernal by 1:12 and 1:16 on the General Classification. Simon Yates won the stage in Bagnères-de-Bigorre, beating his breakaway companions to take his first career Tour de France win. Who’s really winning? Stage 12 brought no changes to the top of the General Classification, with all the remaining contenders happy to enjoy a safe ride to the finish. They know the next three days will have much more of an impact. With an inspired ride on Friday’s 27K time trial, Alaphilippe could keep the yellow jersey for another day. But Thomas, the best time trialist among the GC favorites, is well poised to steal it away. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 11 Stage 11 – Julian Alaphilippe JEFF PACHOUD // Getty Images Julian Alaphilippe once again defended his overall lead at the 2019 Tour after finishing safely with the peloton on Stage 11. The Frenchman continues to lead Ineos co-captains Geraint Thomas and Egan Bernal by 1:12 and 1:16, respectively, on the General Classification. Caleb Ewan won the stage, out-sprinting Dylan Groenewegen and Elia Viviani to take the first Tour de France win of his career. Who’s really winning? Stage 12 is the first of three days in the Pyrenees, but it’s by far the easiest, meaning Alaphilippe has a good chance of keeping his yellow jersey for yet another day. However, Friday’s 27K individual time trial is a different story, and Alaphilippe will have his hands full holding off Thomas, the defending champion and one of the Tour’s better time trialists. 12 Stage 10 – Julian Alaphilippe Chris Graythen // Getty Images Julian Alaphilippe heads into the first rest day as leader of the 2019 Tour. The Frenchman finished safely in the leading peloton on Stage 10 after a day in which crosswinds blew the race apart. Wout van Aert took the stage win in Albi, out-sprinting Elia Viviani and Caleb Ewan to earn Jumbo–Visma its fourth stage so far this year. Who’s really winning? Crosswinds broke the race into pieces at the end of Stage 10, with several overall contenders losing time on a day that many had thought would be fairly straightforward. When the dust settled, Thibaut Pinot, Richie Porte, Jakob Fuglsang, and Rigoberto Urán had all lost 1:40. Mikel Landa lost 2:09. The big winners were Ineos’s Geraint Thomas and Egan Bernal, both of whom finished with the first group and now sit in second and third place overall, making them well positioned to take the yellow jersey when the race enters the Pyrenees. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 13 Stage 9 – Julian Alaphilippe Justin Setterfield // Getty Images Julian Alaphilippe remained the overall leader of the 2019 Tour after finishing safely with the peloton on Stage 9 in Brioude. Daryl Impey out-sprinted Tiesj Benoot to win the stage, but despite finishing almost 16.5 minutes ahead of Alaphilippe, the South African couldn’t overtake him on the General Classification. Who’s really winning? With one more stage before the first rest day, it looks like the Tour’s main contenders will stay where they are in the overall rankings. Alaphilippe can look forward to another two or three days in yellow, but once the race hits the Pyrenees on Thursday, it should mean the end of the Frenchman’s time at the top. 14 Stage 8 – Julian Alaphilippe Tim de Waele // Getty Images Julian Alaphilippe again leads the 2019 Tour after a third-place finish on Stage 8 in Saint-Étienne. The Frenchman attacked over the top of the day’s final climb, escaping with Thibaut Pinot in pursuit of the eventual stage winner, Thomas de Gendt. Pinot and Alaphilippe finished the day in second and third, 20 seconds ahead of the group containing Giulio Ciccone (who entered the day wearing yellow). Alaphilippe now leads Ciccone by 23 seconds and Pinot by 53. Who’s really winning? The day’s big winner was Pinot, who gained 28 seconds on the other GC contenders. But Vincenzo Nibali was the day’s biggest loser. The Italian was dropped on the final climb, losing more than four minutes by the end of the stage. After finishing second in May’s Giro d’Italia , Nibali came to the Tour saying he would wait for the mountains to decide whether to chase stages or a high GC finish. Today, he got his answer. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 15 Stage 7 – Giulio Ciccone DAVID STOCKMAN // Getty Images Giulio Ciccone finished safely in the peloton at the end of Stage 7, retaining his yellow jersey as leader of the 2019 Tour. The Italian still has six seconds over Julian Alaphilippe and 32 seconds over Dylan Teuns on the General Classification. Dylan Groenewegen won the stage, out-sprinting Caleb Ewan and Peter Sagan in Chalon-sur-Saône. Who’s really winning? Ciccone is not a serious threat to win the overall, but he does have a chance to keep his lead for a few more days. That said, he’s in for a fight as Alaphilippe is well suited to the punchy parcours of stages 8 and 9. With time bonuses available at the end of both, look for the Frenchman to do everything he can to take back the yellow jersey he lost on Stage 6. 16 Stage 6 – Giulio Ciccone Tim de Waele // Getty Images Giulio Ciccone is the new leader of the 2019 Tour. The Trek–Segafredo rider placed second on Stage 6, a vicious summit finish atop La Planche des Belles Filles. Julian Alaphilippe, who entered the day wearing yellow, finished sixth on the day, but not close enough to Ciccone to keep his overall lead. The Frenchman now sits second overall, six seconds behind the Italian. Dylan Teuns, who won the stage with a surge on the steep ramp to the finish line, is third overall, 32 seconds behind Ciccone. Who’s really winning? As expected, the final climb up La Planche put the Tour’s GC contenders to the test. Perhaps the biggest surprise was Geraint Thomas, the defending champion. Thomas came into the Tour with a big question mark next to his name after a poor first half of the season. But he was first to respond to a surge by Alaphilippe inside the final 500 meters and finished fourth on the day, sending a message to his doubters—and to his Ineos co-captain Egan Bernal—that’s he ready and able to defend his title. The day’s biggest loser was Romain Bardet. The Frenchman was unable to hang with the rest of the GC favorites, losing more than a minute to Thomas, Thibaut Pinot, and a host of other contenders. Now more than two minutes behind Thomas and Bernal on the General Classification, his podium chances are seriously in doubt. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 17 Stage 5 – Julian Alaphilippe Tim de Waele // Getty Images To absolutely no one’s surprise, Julian Alaphilippe had little trouble defending his yellow jersey for a third straight day on the hills of Stage 5. Wout van Aert narrowly missed the stage win, but the six-second time bonus he earned at the end wasn’t enough to do more than draw him to within 14 seconds of the race lead—and he’ll likely lose time on Stage 6. Van Aert’s Jumbo–Visma teammate, Stephen Kruiswijk, is the best-placed overall contender, now in third at 25 seconds behind Alaphilippe. Who’s really winning? All eyes are on Stage 6, and the summit finish on La Planche des Belles Filles , to sort out the favorites and the also-rans for ultimate victory in Paris. But Peter Sagan’s win today , his 12th career stage win at the Tour, helped cement his early lead in the Points Classification. Tim Wellens, meanwhile, looks to be making a concerted run at the climber’s competition, but Stage 6 will be crucial if he hopes to keep the polka dot jersey. 18 Stage 4 – Julian Alaphilippe Chris Graythen // Getty Images Julian Alaphilippe still leads after finishing safely in the peloton at the end of Stage 4. The Frenchman’s Deceuninck–Quick Step teammate, Elia Viviani , won the stage, defeating Alexander Kristoff and Caleb Ewan in Nancy. Alaphilippe remains 20 seconds ahead of Jumbo–Visma’s Wout van Aert and 25 seconds over van Aert’s teammate, Steven Kruijswijk, on the General Classification. Stage 5 brings more climbing that should suit Alaphilippe well, giving him a chance to perhaps extend his lead. Who’s really winning? As far as the overall winner’s yellow jersey, it’s still too soon to say. But when it comes to the green jersey , awarded to the leader of the Points Classification, Peter Sagan is on track to win a record-breaking seventh. While he hasn’t yet won a stage, the three-time world champion has finished in the top five on each of the three road stages so far, giving him a 23-point lead over Viviani in the competition. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 19 Stage 3 – Julian Alaphilippe ANNE-CHRISTINE POUJOULAT // Getty Images Julian Alaphilippe is the new leader of the 2019 Tour. The Frenchman won Stage 3 in Épernay on Monday, taking the yellow jersey from Mike Teunissen, who was dropped on the final climb of the day. Alaphilippe now leads the General Classification by 20 seconds over  Wout van Aert and 25 seconds over van Aert’s Jumbo–Visma teammate, Steven Kruijswijk. Alaphilippe should hold yellow through the next two stages, but will likely lose it on Thursday, when riders tackle the race’s first major summit finish. Who’s really winning? Every second counts in the Tour de France, which is why several overall contenders might regret the five seconds they lost due to a split in the peloton on the steep ramps to the finish in Épernay. As a result, Groupama–FDJ’s Thibaut Pinot and Ineos’s Egan Bernal both gained a handful of time on their rivals, which could benefit them later on. 20 Stage 2 – Mike Teunissen Chris Graythen // Getty Images Jumbo–Visma won the 28K team time trial in Brussels, successfully defending Mike Teunissen’s overall lead. The Dutch outfit upset Ineos, beating the British super-team by 20 seconds to take the stage and extending Teunissen’s lead in the process. The 26-year-old Dutchman now leads the Tour by 10 seconds over teammates Wout van Aert and Steven Kruiswijk. Deceuninck–Quick Step finished third on the stage, 21 seconds behind Jumbo and less than a second behind Ineos. Who’s r eally winning? We expected Ineos to dominate Stage 2 but it didn’t deliver, losing to Jumbo–Visma and failing to distance itself from several of the Tour’s other top teams. Groupama–FDJ, EF Education First, and Bahrain Merida all finished within 16 seconds of Ineos, a good sign for their respective GC captains Thibaut Pinot, Rigoberto Uran, and Vincenzo Nibali. And let’s not overlook Jumbo–Visma’s real GC captain, Steven Kruijswik, who finished fifth in last’s year Tour and now sits in third overall. Watch Next Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Tour de France 2025 Tour de France and Tour de France Femmes Why Are Women’s TdF Winnings Just 10% of Men’s? What Do the Tour de France Femmes Jerseys Mean? How Long Is the Tour de France Femmes? Advertisement - Continue Reading Below An Unforgettable Second Place: Jonas Vingegaard Did We Even Deserve This Tour de France? Tour de France Team Radio Controversy Indoor Rides Inspired By the TdF Tour de France: Tadej Pogačar Wins ITT on Stage 21 2024 Tour de France Results Tour de France Stage 21 Preview Tour de France: Tadej Pogačar Wins Stage 20 Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Bicycling Membership Perks Newsletter Press Room About Bicycling Subscribe Writer Guidelines Customer Service Community Guidelines Advertise Online Other Hearst Subscriptions A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Magazines Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads