Where Does Google CEO See Next Trillion Value Coming From? - Alphabet (NASDAQ:GOOG), Alphabet (NASDAQ:GOOGL) - Benzinga Latest Earnings Equities Stock Analysis Stock Movers Deals Gainers And Losers IPOs Technology Artificial Intelligence Web Stories Benzinga Inspire Where Does Google CEO See Next Trillion Value Coming From? by Anusuya Lahiri Benzinga Staff Writer November 17, 2021 11:24 PM 1 min read Share on WhatsApp Take Stock Of The Week Ahead Get all the latest Share Market trends and news to set you up for the week ahead. Alphabet Inc GOOG GOOGL Google CEO sees its next trillion-dollar market value coming from its core internet search service, Bloomberg reports . Consumers will ask computers more questions with voice and "multimodal experiences," Sundar Pichai predicted. Pichai ticked off Google's key growth businesses, cloud, the YouTube video service, and its app store and said AI investments were "underlying" each of them. Pichai expects more of Google's products to be developed and tested in Asia first before spreading across the globe. Interestingly, Google has kept most of its services out of China and will keep it that way. Pichai acknowledged that Google is "neck to neck" with Chinese companies in AI and quantum computing. However, he argued that the U.S. and China have room to collaborate in climate change and AI safety. Google's views sharply contrast with peers like Microsoft Corp MSFT and Facebook parent Meta Platforms Inc FB , betting massive on metaverse. It also steered away from crypto. Earlier this month, Alphabet briefly crossed $2 trillion in market value from the pandemic triggered sales and profit growth. Price Action: GOOG shares traded higher by 0.03% at $2,980.72 in the market session on the last check Wednesday. © 2025 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Comments Close menu Loading... News Tech Media Briefs Terms & Conditions Do Not Sell My Personal Data/Privacy Policy Disclaimer © 2025 Benzinga | All Rights Reserved