Actors who've played the Queen Claire Foy Helen Mirren film TV | Tatler Skip to main content Subscribe Newsletters Open Navigation Menu Menu Subscribe Bystander Style Beauty Royals Features Address Book Travel Schools Close Navigation Menu Close Bystander Style Beauty Royals Features Address Book Travel Schools Video Living Jewellery Schools Weddings Politics Property Tatler Shops Facebook Instagram Pinterest X YouTube Royals 7 actresses who’ve played Queen Elizabeth II From The Crown to A Royal Night Out , these are the stars who’ve brought the late monarch to life on TV and in film By Hope Coke 9 November 2022 1/7 Imelda Staunton Following in the footsteps of Claire Foy and Olivia Colman in The Crown is Imelda Staunton, who takes up the mantle for Seasons 5 and 6. The celebrated actress stars opposite Jonathan Pryce as Prince Philip, and will portray the late monarch from the early 1990s onwards. Staunton, who is married to Downton Abbey’s Jim Carter, is a respected stage actress and has appeared in films including Harry Potter and Shakespeare In Love. The actress will capture the Queen's emotions at some of the most difficult moments in her life, including the death of Princess Diana and the fire at Windsor Castle. Fox Photos / Getty Images / Sophie Mutevelian / Netflix 2/7 Olivia Colman Having taken over from Foy to play Elizabeth II as she enters middle age, through Seasons 3 and 4 of The Crown , Olivia Colman added another English monarch to her bow, having previously won acclaim for playing Queen Anne in The Favourite . While the critical reception was more mixed than towards her predecessor, notable moments include Colman’s nuanced portrayal of the Queen’s complicated relationship with Margaret Thatcher, and the royal’s attempts to balance her role as a mother with that of monarch. Monty Fresco / Getty Images / Robert Viglasky / Netflix 3/7 Claire Foy Claire Foy shot from relative obscurity to global superstardom when she was cast as a young Queen Elizabeth in the first two series of The Crown . From that perfectly clipped royal accent to her touching – yet subtle – portrayal of a woman who rarely lets emotion overshadow her sense of duty, Foy was widely lauded for her stand-out performance. So much so, in fact, that she scooped up a Golden Globe, Emmy and SAG award for the role. Pathe / Kobal / Shutterstock 4/7 Helen Mirren National treasure Helen Mirren was cast as Elizabeth II to star in The Queen , the 2006 film by director Stephen Frears – notably written by Peter Morgan, later of The Crown fame. The action centres on Elizabeth in the wake of the death of the late Diana, Princess of Wales, as she grapples with conflicting opinions about what constitutes an appropriate public response to the tragedy. Mirren won an Academy Award, BAFTA and Golden Globe for her performance, even garnering approval from the late monarch herself, who invited the actress to dine at Buckingham Palace. Mirren sadly had to decline, however, as she was filming in South Dakota at the time. Shawshots / Alamy Stock Photo / Everett Collection Inc / Alamy Stock Photo 5/7 Sarah Gado n Quite the nostalgic romp, the romantic comedy-drama A Royal Night Out fictionalises the remarkable true story of Queen Elizabeth II’s experience of VE Day in 1945. Then a young Princess Elizabeth, the royal and her sister, Princess Margaret, were permitted to sneak out of the Palace incognito, to join in the public revelry after peace was declared. A night of joyful antics follows, in which Sarah Gadon’s portrayal of the good-natured teenage Elizabeth is a touching nod to the kind-hearted monarch that the royal would later become. Serge Lemoine / Getty Images / MCPIX / Shutterstock 6/7 Samantha Bond Best known for playing Miss Moneypenny in the Pierce Brosnan James Bond films, Samantha Bond stepped up to the royal plate to play Her Majesty in the 2018 TV movie, The Queen and I . Based on the novel and play by Sue Townsend, the satirical comedy drama imagines a reality in which a new republican Prime Minister has stripped the monarch and her family of their wealth and status, relocating them to a rundown cul-de-sac. While not necessarily high art, the film was a humorous imagining of the extraordinary circumstance, in which Bond held her own with some memorably comic moments. Lisa Sheridan / Getty Images / TCD / Prod.DB / Alamy Stock Photo 7/7 Freya Wilson The youngest actress on the list, Freya Wilson played a little Princess Elizabeth in the acclaimed 2010 drama The King’s Speech , about the Queen’s father, King George VI, who called on speech therapist Lionel Logue to help tackle his stammer. Aged just 11 when the film came out, Wilson was a touching addition to the film, in which the love and affection between Elizabeth and her father (memorably rendered by Colin Firth), contributes to the moving, humanising portrayal of the former King. Topics Royals The Queen The Crown Season 5 Read More Royals The Queen of Bhutan, Jetsun Pema, often dubbed ‘the Kate Middleton of the Himalayas’, joins her rarely-seen family as she welcomes the ‘world’s richest royals’ to Bhutan The King and Queen of Thailand were visiting King Jigme Khesar and Queen Jetsun Pema of Bhutan on a state visit, which included a rare glimpse of the Crown Prince of Bhutan By Isaac Bickerstaff Features A Queen in waiting: How Princess Rajwa became Jordan’s answer to Kate Middleton As she marks her 31st birthday, Tatler celebrates the Saudi Arabian architect who married Crown Prince Hussein of Jordan and investigates her many links to the Princess of Wales By Ben Jureidini Royals Tearful Sophie, the Duchess of Edinburgh, leads Anzac Day commemorations with Princess Anne The Duchess of Edinburgh represented King Charles at a service held at the Cenotaph By Isaac Bickerstaff Royals All eyes are on the Duchess of Wellington – but who is this elegant aristocrat? Who is the Duchess of Wellington, the mother of Lady Charlotte Wellesley who was born a princess? Let Tatler introduce you By Anya Ryan Royals As an exclusive painting of King Charles and Queen Camilla graces the cover of Tatler , we reveal a history of His Majesty in portraiture Phillip Butah’s portrait depicts the couple in a rare joint portrait, but what does art reveal about the monarch’s true nature? By Ben Jureidini Features ‘Gold digger’, ‘bimbo’, ‘trapped in a loveless marriage’…as the First Lady celebrates her birthday, have we got Melania Trump all wrong? He's Time's Person of the Year and the next President of the United States. She is a former small-time Slovenian fashion model who rose to wear the mantle of First Lady. On the eve of the US presidential election back in 2020, friends, DC insiders and Melania herself gave Ben Judah the inside track… By Ben Judah Features Real Housewives of the Cotswolds : Everything we know so far From A-list neighbours to aristocratic drama, the new reality show set in the Cotswolds promises glamour, gossip, and a glimpse behind the hedges of England’s poshest postcode. Here’s who’s involved and what to expect By Tatler Royals A royal date! Princess Rajwa of Jordan looks radiant on an adventurous outing with Crown Prince Hussein Princess Rajwa and Crown Prince Hussein shared snaps of their romantic evening away on social media By Sarah Kennelly Features From the royal box at Wimbledon to becoming Canada’s first daughter: as Mark Carney is elected the Prime Minister of Canada, meet his half-British daughter, Cleo Carney She grew up in London while her father served as Governor of the Bank of England, and now she's following in his footsteps at Harvard – could First Daughter of Canada Cleo Carney be a political powerhouse in the making? By Ben Jureidini Royals Already ‘hugely influential’ behind the scenes, insiders reveal what kind of Queen Kate Middleton will be The Princess of Wales will reign with a clear vision and unprecedented approach to her role, say royal experts By Ben Jureidini Royals Princess Aiko of Japan makes a rare solo outing after making her dazzling royal debut The hugely popular 23-year-old daughter of Emperor Naruhito and Empress Masako, who is legally forbidden to inherit the Crysanthemum Throne, is continuing to step into the royal limelight By Isaac Bickerstaff Royals Lady Gabriella Windsor’s impossible year: how the royal went from heartbreak to hard work with the support of the royal family In the year following the death of her husband, Thomas Kingston, Lady Gabriella Windsor has made her slow return to public life with both diligence and grace. As she celebrates her 44th birthday, Tatler recounts the year that shook the royal family and served as a reminder that ‘we are all each other’s light’ By Ben Jureidini Facebook Instagram Pinterest X YouTube More from Tatler Newsletters Subscribe Contact Contact Us Careers Privacy notice and cookie statement Code of Conduct Terms & conditions Editorial Complaints Policy © Condé Nast Britain 2025