Olympic Summer Games (video game) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Athletes 2 Events 3 Gameplay 4 Nations represented (Playstation version) 5 Release 6 Reception 7 References Toggle the table of contents Olympic Summer Games (video game) 6 languages فارسی Français Bahasa Indonesia Ladin Suomi Svenska Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Olympic Summer Games" video game – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( February 2007 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) 1996 video game 1996 video game Olympic Summer Games Developer(s) Silicon Dreams Studio (PS & 3DO) Tiertex Design Studios Publisher(s) Black Pearl U.S. Gold (PS & 3DO) Nintendo Australia Platform(s) SNES , Game Boy , PlayStation , Sega Genesis , 3DO Release SNES NA : June 1996 EU : June 27, 1996 Game Boy NA : June 1996 EU : 1996 PlayStation EU : July 1996 NA : July 23, 1996 Sega Genesis NA : 1996 EU : 1996 3DO NA : 1996 Genre(s) Sports Mode(s) Single-player , multiplayer Olympic Summer Games is an official video game of the Atlanta 1996 Olympic Games . It is the successor to Olympic Gold and Winter Olympics . It was the last "Olympic" video game released for the fourth generation of consoles , as well as the Game Boy . It follows the already common button mashing techniques of previous (and future) games, with the usual exceptions. It has 10 events (three more than Olympic Gold ), with all but two based on track and field events. [ 1 ] Unlike Winter Olympics , there are no major differences between each event on different platforms. Athletes [ edit ] The game comes with eight preset athletes to choose from, but the player can customize their names and nationalities before entering events. Paul Chris David Kevin Gary Colin Ian Jon Events [ edit ] 100 m sprint 110 m hurdles Pole vault High jump Long Jump Triple Jump Javelin Discus Archery Skeet Gameplay [ edit ] As in the previous titles, there are three difficulty levels and both Olympics and mini-Olympics (here called "custom game") modes. However, the points table was removed, and the only way to compare results is by the medals' table. In the sprinting events, there are two qualifying rounds, and only the winner (out of four competitors) passes to the next round. On long jump, triple jump, discus and javelin each player has three attempts; the best 10 progress to the final and have three extra attempts. The best result overall wins. In high jump and pole vault, there are not qualifying rounds; the players jump in turns until missing three consecutive jumps. Nations represented (Playstation version) [ edit ] Playable countries Angola Argentina Australia Austria Belgium Bolivia Brazil Canada China Czech Republic Denmark Ecuador Finland France Great Britain Germany Greece Hungary Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Liberia Mexico Netherlands Norway Paraguay Peru Poland Portugal Romania Russia Saudi Arabia Spain Sweden Tunisia United Arab Emirates United States of America Release [ edit ] In addition to fourth generation consoles, Olympic Summer Games was developed for the three major fifth generation consoles of the time: the PlayStation , Sega Saturn , and 3DO Interactive Multiplayer . However, the Saturn version, though completed, was never released. [ 2 ] Reception [ edit ] GamePro ' s Bruised Lee and Johnny Ballgame gave negative reviews to, respectively, the Genesis and Super NES versions. They criticized the bland, simplistic graphics, shortage of sound effects, repetitive music, and the lack of variety in the gameplay of the different events. Bruised Lee remarked that the Genesis version was even worse than the Super NES one. [ 3 ] A reviewer for Next Generation contended that "Although buried behind substandard graphics (even for 16-bit standards), Olympic Summer Games features the multiple player gameplay that made Track and Field so popular." He described the gameplay's demand for a combination of intense button pounding and precise timing to be both an effective challenge and a traditionally fun experience, and scored the Super NES version three out of five stars. [ 4 ] Next Generation gave the 3DO version three out of five stars as well. The reviewer again praised the combination of button mashing and timing, and noted that while the graphics do not measure up to International Track & Field or DecAthlete , those two games would not have been able to run on the 3DO without significant compromises. [ 5 ] Reviewing the Game Boy version in GamePro , Coach Kyle praised the graphics and animation, but criticized the sound effects and said the gameplay was uninvolving. [ 6 ] The two sports reviewers of Electronic Gaming Monthly scored the PlayStation version 6.0 and 6.5 out of 10, complaining of low frame rates and a lack of lasting appeal. [ 7 ] Johnny Ballgame said that some of the events require little skill, run too long, or suffer from poor graphics. He concluded, "Individually, some events have their moments. Overall, though, this game needs more training before competing against world-class competition like International track & Field ." [ 8 ] References [ edit ] ^ "Olympic Summer Games". Electronic Gaming Monthly . No. 83. Sendai Publishing. June 1996. p. 118. ^ "Tonight We're Going to Party like it's 1996!". Sega Saturn Magazine . No. 16. Emap International Limited . February 1997. p. 11. ^ "Olympic Summer Games". GamePro . No. 94. IDG . July 1996. p. 86. ^ "Olympic Summer Games". Next Generation . No. 20. Imagine Media . August 1996. pp. 101, 103. ^ "Olympic Summer Games". Next Generation . No. 23. Imagine Media . November 1996. p. 275. ^ "ProReview: Olympic Summer Games". GamePro . No. 95. IDG . August 1996. p. 70. ^ "Box Score: Olympic Summer Games". Electronic Gaming Monthly . No. 86. Ziff Davis . September 1996. p. 142. ^ "Olympic Summer Games". GamePro . No. 96. IDG . September 1996. p. 86. Preceded by Olympic Gold Official videogame of the Summer Olympic Games Succeeded by Sydney 2000 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Olympic_Summer_Games_(video_game)&oldid=1279847438 " Categories : 1996 Summer Olympics 1996 video games 3DO games Athletics video games Cancelled Sega Saturn games Game Boy games Multiplayer and single-player video games PlayStation (console) games Sega Genesis games Sports video games set in the United States Summer Olympic video games Super Nintendo Entertainment System games Tiertex Design Studios games U.S. Gold games Video games developed in the United Kingdom Video games set in 1996 Video games set in Georgia (U.S. state) Video games with isometric graphics Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from February 2007 All articles needing additional references Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles using Infobox video game using locally defined parameters Articles using Wikidata infoboxes with locally defined images This page was last edited on 10 March 2025, at 23:04 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Olympic Summer Games (video game) 6 languages Add topic