Create Alexa Skills Kit | Amazon Alexa Voice Development {"settingsUrl":"https://ds6yc8t7pnx74.cloudfront.net/devportal-digital-assets/cf/developer-portal/getDeXSearchData"} Sign In Documentation Stack Overflow Contact Us Alexa Developer Home Alexa Developer Console Alexa Voice Service Alexa Certification Console Alexa Connect Kit Skill Builders Alexa Skills Kit Feature Updates Documentation Grow Your Business Developer Console Tech Talks Device Makers Alexa Built-in Devices Develop Alexa built-in devices with Alexa Voice Service Overview Connected Devices Connect your smart devices to Alexa Overview Development Resources Business Resources What's New Consoles Tech Talks Solution Providers Skill Agencies Alexa Connect Kit Alexa Smart Properties Tech Talks Alexa AI Products Alexa Skills Kit Alexa Routines Kit Radio Skills Kit Alexa Built-In Alexa Smart Home Dash Services Alexa Auto SDK Alexa Smart Properties Alexa Smart Properties Hospitality Senior Living Healthcare Programs Alexa Startups Alexa Fund Pitch Us Tell us about your company Portfolio Alexa Fund Portfolio companies Alexa Next Stage Online program for late-stage startups Alexa Fellowship Program for university students Alexa Prize Alexa Science Alexa Champions Voice Interoperability Initiative Office Hours Branding Alexa Branding Echo Branding Learn Alexa Learning Lab How to Videos GitHub Code Samples Docs Build Skills for Alexa Alexa Skills Kit Smart Home Skills ASK CLI and SMAPI Connect Your Device to Alexa Alexa Connect Kit Smart Home Skills Alexa Smart Properties Hospitality Residential Senior Living Healthcare Alexa Trainings and Workshops Blog Alexa Skills Kit Device Makers Alexa Auto Alexa Science Alexa Insider New to skill building? Learn how to build your first skill in 20 minutes with this beginner-level workshop. Get started × Build higher-quality Alexa skills Get personalized recommendations to improve your skills Improve your skill × Monetize your skills Learn how you can use Amazon Associates on Alexa to make money. Watch Tech Talk × Alexa Innovators: Stoked Skills Creating communal experiences with Alexa brought this business to life Learn more × Take flight with this new tutorial Build an engaging flight search skill with Alexa Conversations Get started × Alexa Skills Kit Get Started Get Deeper Grow Your Business What's New Console Alexa Skills Kit Get Started Get Deeper Grow Your Business What's New Console Previous Next Create an Amazon developer account . Registration is easy and free. Take the first step to growing your business with Amazon Alexa. Alexa > Alexa Skills Kit What Are Alexa Skills? Skills are like apps for Alexa, and provide a new channel for your content and services. Skills let customers use their voices to perform everyday tasks like checking the news, listening to music, playing a game, and more. Organizations and individuals can publish skills in the Alexa Skills Store to reach and delight customers on hundreds of millions of Alexa devices. Start building today with the Alexa Skills Kit (ASK) which provides self-service APIs, Skill Components and other tools. You can visit the design guide to learn how to design delightful Alexa experiences. The guide features best practices, design principles, example use cases, and downloadable assets to help you through your design journey. Why Build Alexa Skills? Delight Your Customers Voice is the most natural user interface. Enable customers to use their voices to easily access your content, devices, and services—wherever they are and whatever they’re doing. Easily Bring Your Vision to Life Take advantage of Amazon’s latest innovations in voice. Use our self-service APIs and tools to deliver experiences in gaming, productivity, news, music, smart home, and more. Grow Your Business Expand your reach through hundreds of millions of Alexa devices across the globe, use voice to close the distance between your brand and your customers, and make money by selling premium experiences and physical goods. What You Can Build With the Alexa Skills Kit, you can deliver voice experiences for a variety of skill types, from games to music to food and more. Take advantage of built-in voice interaction models or imagine your own custom voice experience. Custom Skills Create your own voice experience to deliver nearly any experience, including games, education, health and fitness, productivity, and shopping. Learn More Game Skills Voice games give customers an entirely new way to play games—including interactive adventures, family-friendly games, and quiz games. Learn More Music & Audio Skills Enable customers to access your Music, Podcast and Radio streaming service on hundreds of millions of Alexa devices at home or on the go. Learn More Food Ordering Skills Enable customers to find nearby restaurants and offers, and then order with Alexa or on a mobile app. Learn More Smart Home Skills Enable customers to control your cloud-connected devices and appliances using Alexa. Learn More Video Skills Enable customers to use their voices to control your video device and choose which content to watch. Learn More Flash Briefing & News Skills Make it easy for customers to get your latest news, headlines, and other short audio and text as part of daily routines. Learn More Connected Vehicle Skills Enable customers to use Alexa to control and check status of their connected vehicles from their home or on-the-go. Learn More Knowledge Skills Build Q&A skills in minutes using only spreadsheets, without writing code. Publish them for devices managed by Alexa for Business, or enable them on your personal devices. Learn More See More in the Alexa Skills Store Build Richer Experiences Create engaging content for your skills by integrating rich visuals, voice, touch, and motion, using multimodal features that work across web, mobile, and Alexa-enabled devices. Alexa Presentation Language (APL) Add rich audio, visuals, and touch to make your voice experience more engaging and easy to use. Learn More Alexa Web API for Games Build visually impressive, multimodal Alexa games using HTML5, Web Audio, CSS, and JavaScript. Learn More Quick Links Generate Quick Links to navigate customers to your custom skill via a URL from your website, mobile app, social media, or email. Learn More Alexa for Apps Enable mobile customers to quickly get to key content and functionality in your app, just by asking Alexa. Learn More How You Can Build Build It Yourself Use the Alexa Design Guide, self-service APIs, Skill Components, and other tools in the Alexa Skills Kit to build nearly any experience. Get Started Hire an Agency Work with an experienced team to build a voice experience that extends your brand’s reach and deepens customer engagement. Find an Agency Customize Your Alexa Experience Want to build an experience for your own use without coding? Use Alexa Skill Blueprints to build chore charts, keep track of your personal fitness, and more. Use a Blueprint Next Step: Get Started with Alexa Skills Ready to get started with Alexa skills? Learn how to start building today with the Alexa Skills Kit, or explore how you can grow your business with Alexa skills. Get Started Grow Your Business Shape the Future with Voice Entrepreneur Mark Cuban says developers, brands, and entrepreneurs should invest in building for voice in order to capitalize on Alexa’s reach. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Back To Top Alexa Skills Kit Alexa Skills Kit Get Started Get Deeper Grow Your Business What's New ASK Resources Tutorials & Code Samples Documentation Skill-Building Agencies Device Makers Overview Alexa Built-in Devices Overview Business Resources Alexa Connected Devices Overview Development Resources Business Resources What's New Solution Providers Overview Agreements Agreements and Terms Program Materials License Agreement Amazon Developers Services Portal Terms of Use Community Alexa on Slack Blogs Alexa Skills Kit Blog Device Makers Blog Alexa Auto Alexa Science AWS Blog Support Amazon Developer Support Contact Us Stack Overflow Follow Us: English (US) English (ANZ) English (UK) English (India) Japanese (日本語) French (Français) Italian (Italiano) German (Deutsch) Spanish (España) Spanish (México) Portuguese (Brasil) Arabic (العربية) © 2010 - 2025, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved. Terms Docs Stack Overflow Blog Alexa Developer Home Terms Docs Stack Overflow Blog Alexa Developer Home