Splatoon 2 | Nintendo | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Nintendo Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Consoles Switch Switch games Lite Online Wii & Wii U Wii games Wii accessories Wii U games Wii U GamePad Virtual Console GameCube GameCube games Controller Memory Card Nintendo 64 N64 games Cartridge Accessories N64DD SNES SNES games Controller Accessories SNES CD-ROM NES NES games Famicom Disk System Controller Diskun Handhelds List of handhelds Nintendo 3DS Nintendo DS Game Boy Game & Watch Games List of games Genres Role-playing games Sports games Fighting games Platformer games Simulation games Puzzle games Music games Franchises Mario Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Pokémon Metroid Star Fox Yoshi Devs & Publishers Nintendo Sega Sony Square Enix Capcom Hudson Soft Nintendo Co. Company Page history People Divisions Community Help and Rules General Editing Information List of editing guides Stub Templates Image Template Editor's Portal Blog Recent Blog Posts Create a Blog Post Forum Forum Index General Discussion Wiki Discussions Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS Wiki Projects Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Nintendo Wiki 40,789 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Consoles Switch Switch games Lite Online Wii & Wii U Wii games Wii accessories Wii U games Wii U GamePad Virtual Console GameCube GameCube games Controller Memory Card Nintendo 64 N64 games Cartridge Accessories N64DD SNES SNES games Controller Accessories SNES CD-ROM NES NES games Famicom Disk System Controller Diskun Handhelds List of handhelds Nintendo 3DS Nintendo DS Game Boy Game & Watch Games List of games Genres Role-playing games Sports games Fighting games Platformer games Simulation games Puzzle games Music games Franchises Mario Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Pokémon Metroid Star Fox Yoshi Devs & Publishers Nintendo Sega Sony Square Enix Capcom Hudson Soft Nintendo Co. Company Page history People Divisions Community Help and Rules General Editing Information List of editing guides Stub Templates Image Template Editor's Portal Blog Recent Blog Posts Create a Blog Post Forum Forum Index General Discussion Wiki Discussions Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS Wiki Projects in: Amiibo supported , Rated Everyone 10+ by ESRB , Rated 7 by PEGI , and 19 more Rated A by CERO Rated Parental Guidance by ACB Rated 6 by USK Rated B by SMECCV Rated All by GRAC Rated L by ClassInd Rated 6 by GSRR Splatoon games 2017 video games Nintendo Switch games Nintendo games Nintendo EPD games Games published by Nintendo Third-person shooter games Splatoon Games with DLC Major Nintendo games Games composed by Ryo Nagamatsu Games composed by Shiho Fujii English Español Português do Brasil Русский Splatoon 2 Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) Game Quote “ Splat your way to the top! ” — Tagline B Splatoon 2 [ Edit ] [ Talk ] Developer(s) Nintendo EPD Publisher(s) Nintendo Release Date(s) Nintendo Switch KO: May 2, 2019 TW: December 1, 2017 WW: July 21, 2017 Platform(s) Accessory(ies) This game is compatible with certain amiibo figures Rating(s) ESRB PEGI CERO ACB 04 02 01 02 USK SMECCV GRAC 02 02 01 CID GSRR 01 01 Credits • Gallery • Cheats • Videos Soundtrack • Scripts Key Personnel Director(s) Yusuke Amano Seita Inoue Shintaro Sato Producer(s) Hisashi Nogami (producer) Shinya Takahashi (general producer) Katsuya Eguchi (general producer) Tatsumi Kimishima (executive producer) Composer(s) Toru Minegishi Ryo Nagamatsu Shiho Fujii Asuka Hayazaki (4.0.0 version) Splatoon 2 ( JP Japanese: スプラトゥーン2 Romaji : Supuratūn 2 ) is the 2017 sequel to the 2015 Wii U online shooter named Splatoon for the Nintendo Switch , expanding on the game with new weapons and techniques. Like the original game, the game was supported with 2 years worth of content updates after launch. A sequel, Splatoon 3 , also released for the Switch, was released on September 9, 2022 . Contents 1 Gameplay 1.1 Multiplayer 1.2 Stages 1.3 Weapons 1.4 Hero Mode 1.5 Salmon Run 1.6 amiibo Support 1.7 Octo Expansion 2 Plot 2.1 Hero Mode 2.2 Octo Expansion 3 Presentation 4 Development 5 Reception 5.1 Sales 5.2 Merchandise 5.3 Manga 5.4 Anime 6 Gallery 7 External links Gameplay [ ] The game plays much like the previous game, but adds new weapon types like Splat Dualies, a pair of pistols which also allows the player to perform a Dodge Roll. Returning weapons from the original have been altered with new mechanics. All the Special Weapons have been replaced though a few have similarities. The game supports local multiplayer from multiple Switch consoles as well including LAN support. Multiplayer [ ] The modes from the original all return at launch. This time, the modes and maps rotate every two hours. In addition, the ranks for the modes are separate and performing well will let players go up more than one rank. Stages [ ] The new game has moved from Inkopolis Plaza to Inkopolis Square in this game bringing along new stages as well as remixed old ones. The Reef Musselforge Fitness Starfish Mainstage Moray Towers Humpback Pump Track Inkblot Art Academy Sturgeon Shipyard Port Mackerel Manta Maria Kelp Dome Snapper Canal Blackbelly Skatepark Shifty Station (Splatfest only) MakoMart Shellendorf Institute Arowana Mall Walleye Warehouse Goby Arena Piranha Pit Camp Triggerfish Wahoo World New Albacore Hotel Ancho-V Games Skipper Pavilion Weapons [ ] Main article: List of Weapons in Splatoon 2 Hero Mode [ ] Hero Mode is the game's single-player story campaign in which Marie recruits the player to a mission to recover the Great Zapfish. Salmon Run [ ] Salmon Run is a new horde-esque for Splatoon 2 where teams hunt Salmon for their Power Eggs . These Salmon have various versions and come in waves. There are boss salmon which take a lot hits and deal more damage but carry Golden Eggs. To complete a round, players are required to collect a certain amount of Golden Eggs. The player can control the difficulty in 5% increments, but after players complete a series of rounds, they can attempt to go again at an automatically increased difficulty, up to 200%. The online version of this mode is restricted to certain days but, locally players can do this mode anytime. amiibo Support [ ] There are new amiibo compatible as well as the original Splatoon series of amiibo. As a new function of Splatoon amiibo, players can save their setup to amiibo and bring them to another Switch to use their gear alongside a friend. Players can also use it to take pictures in Inkopolis Square. Each of the new amiibo can unlock a set of gear. The game is also getting amiibo for Off the Hook. Octo Expansion [ ] Main article: Splatoon 2: Octo Expansion The Octo Expansion is a new single campaign staring an amnesiac Octoling in some deep secret underground training. As Agent 8, the player navigates through these new and challenging levels under the guidance of Captain Cuttlefish . Upon completing these levels, the player will unlock the ability to play as the octolings in Multiplayer. Plot [ ] The game takes place 2 years after the original. Much has changed with the hub of the town moving to Inkopolis Square. The new big group is now Off the Hook , consisting of Pearl and Marina , with the Squid Sisters seeming to been broken up. Hero Mode [ ] Marie catches the eye of the protagonist and leads the player, Agent 4 , down a manhole like Cap'n Cuttlefish did in the original. Marie tells the player that the Octarians stole the Great Zapfish and that they need to help her recover it. The story mode is set in the Octo Canyon, a location not unlike Octo Valley from the first game. Octo Expansion [ ] Main article: Splatoon 2: Octo Expansion The Octo Expansion mode follows Agent 8 , an Octoling, as they try to make their way out of the facility they are kept in. Agent 8 encounters several shady characters on a subway, including C.Q. Cumber and Iso Padre . They are also helped by Cap'n Cuttlefish, Pearl (MC.Princess) and Marina (DJ_Hyperfresh). Presentation [ ] As with the original game, Splatoon 2 runs at 30fps while in Inkpolis Square, and 60fps during gameplay and visiting places such as shops. For resolution, the game's display in docked mode ranges from 864p up to 1080p, while 720p in handheld mode. [ 1 ] Development [ ] Prior to the official reveal, clips of the game in the announcement trailer led to speculations on whether or not the footage shown was a port of Splatoon or a sequel. It was also presented in the trailer in a way that promoted the game as an eSport, following investments by Nintendo in Splatoon eSport tournaments in late 2016. Splatoon 2 was revealed during the Nintendo Switch reveal presentation held in Tokyo on January 13, 2017, where it was announced for release in Q2/Q3 2017. The reveal was accompanied by a trailer featuring the game's new maps and weapons, and on-stage appearance of producer Hisashi Nogami in-character as a scientist from the Squid Research Lab, a fictional scientific group from the game, which appeared in various promotional material for the original Splatoon . An update video was unveiled on November 21, 2017, showing new hairstyles, over 140 pieces of new gear, a new mode called Clam Blitz , new music, 2 new stages and 2 old stages for normal online multiplayer and a new stage for Salmon Run. The first part of the update is due on November 23 while the second part will be delivered in mid December including the new mode. In the March 2018 Nintendo Direct , the game had a major announcement. The game will receive the 3.0 update in late April. It included over 100 new pieces of gear and at least 3 new stages being Piranha Pit , Camp Triggerfish , and Wahoo World . It also added a new Rank X for higher than S+ rank in multiplayer. During the summer, the game will receive its first DLC expansion called the Octo Expansion, which includes a new single player campaign which unlocks the ability to use an Octoling in multiplayer. It will cost $19.99 Reception [ ] Splatoon 2 received "generally favorable" reviews, according to review aggregator Metacritic. Critics stated that Splatoon 2 retained what was great about the original game while adding new features to keep the game fresh Nintendo Life gave Splatoon 2 a 10 out of 10, praising the improved single-player campaign. Destructoid and Game Informer criticised the accessibility within the game's multiplayer modes—weapons cannot be changed between matches, no split-screen play, and the Salmon Run mode is only playable online at certain times—but complemented the new weapons and gameplay. The Verge blamed the lack of a built-in voice chat feature and ease of viewing the map for taking away from the multiplayer experience, yet still calling the game an improvement over the original. GameSpot cited Splatoon 2 as "a fresh take on the already unique shooter" but pointed out that using a mobile app for voice communication made multiplayer more complicated that it needed to be. Game Revolution and GamesRadar both praised the colorful artstyle and depth of the multiplayer combat. IGN gave the game a score of 8.3/10—higher than the initial score of the original game but lower than its re-review—praising the "addicting" Salmon Run mode and improved graphics, while making similar complaints about the game's matchmaking system. Electronic Gaming Monthly and Nintendo World Report both stated that the game felt "more like Splatoon 1.5 " than a true sequel to the original, but nonetheless complementing the game's new additions. Sales [ ] Within its three first days, Splatoon 2 sold more than 671,000 copies in Japan. As of September 2017, Splatoon 2 sold 3,61 million copies worldwide. As of the end of December 2017, Splatoon 2 sold 4.91 million copies which was a little bit over one third of the Nintendo Switch install base at the time. As of the end of April 2018, Splatoon 2 sold 6.02 million copies making it the fourth most successful game on Nintendo Switch at the time. As of the end of June 2018, Splatoon 2 retain its title of fourth most successful 1st party game on the Nintendo Switch with 6.76 million copies sold. As of September 30 2018, Splatoon 2 retained his fourth place as the most successful Nintendo Switch game with 7.47 million copies worldwide. As of the end of December 2018, Splatoon 2 sold over 8.27 million copies, making it the sixth most successful Nintendo Switch game. As of March 2019 , the game reached 8.70 million copies sold, thus conserving its sixth place. The game reached 9.02 million units sold in July 2019. The game reached 9.28 million units sold by September 2019. It sold 9.81 million units as of December 2019, falling from its spotat sixth place to the rank of seventh best selling Nintendo Switch game. By March 2020 , Splatoon 2 reached 10.13 million sales worldwide and fell to the spot of eight best selling Nintendo Switch game due to Animal Crossing: New Horizons releasing and taking the seventh place. By the end of June 2020, it reached 10.71 million units sold and fell to ninth place due to being outsold by Super Mario Party . Splatoon 2 sold 11.27 million units by the end of September 2020. The game sold 11.90 million units by the end of 2020. Splatoon 2 reached 12.21 million units sold at the end of March 2021 . It reached 12.45 million units sold as of the end of June 2021. It reached 12.65 million units by the end of September 2021. It reached 13.30 million units sold by the end of March 2022 . Merchandise [ ] A Splatoon 2 -themed Nintendo Switch Bundle was released exclusively at Walmart on September 8, 2017, with a retail price of $379.99. The bundle includes: A download code for the Splatoon 2 game A Nintendo Switch carrying case ( Splatoon 2 -themed) A Nintendo Switch dock The Nintendo Switch itself Neon Pink and Neon Green Joy-Con controllers Manga [ ] A manga series based on the game and illustrated by Sankichi Hinodeya began serialization in Shogakukan's CoroCoro Comic magazine in May 2017. It was published in North America by Viz Media in late 2017. Anime [ ] An anime of the game was announced in July 2017, and was released online on August 11, 2017 being produced by CoroCoro Comic. Gallery [ ] Main article: Splatoon 2/gallery External links [ ] Splatoon 2 at Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia Splatoon 2 at GameFAQs Official North American website ↑ How Splatoon 2's Switch tech improves over Wii U (Eurogamer) Date: July 12, 2017. Author: John Linneman. Splatoon series Main series Splatoon • Splatoon 2 ( Octo Expansion ) • Splatoon 3 Related Squid Sisters Stories • Splatoon Manga • Hisashi Nogami • Toru Minegishi Mario Kart 8 Deluxe • Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Nintendo Switch Online Games with Phone App service Splatoon 2 • Mario Kart 8 Deluxe • ARMS • Mario Tennis Aces • Super Smash Bros. Ultimate • Animal Crossing: New Horizons • Nintendo Classics games Exclusive games Tetris 99 • Super Kirby Clash • F-ZERO 99 • Nintendo Entertainment System • Super Nintendo Entertainment System • Game Boy • Nintendo Classics Defunct : Super Mario Bros. 35 • Pac-Man 99 Expansion Pack Nintendo 64 ( Mature ) • Sega Genesis • Game Boy Advance • Nintendo GameCube Happy Home Paradise • Booster Course Pass • Splatoon 2: Octo Expansion Categories Categories : Amiibo supported Rated Everyone 10+ by ESRB Rated 7 by PEGI Rated A by CERO Rated Parental Guidance by ACB Rated 6 by USK Rated B by SMECCV Rated All by GRAC Rated L by ClassInd Rated 6 by GSRR Splatoon games 2017 video games Nintendo Switch games Nintendo games Nintendo EPD games Games published by Nintendo Third-person shooter games Splatoon Games with DLC Major Nintendo games Games composed by Ryo Nagamatsu Games composed by Shiho Fujii Languages Español Português do Brasil Русский Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Nintendo is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab