Important announcement regarding Cyberpunk 2077 release date | Page 19 | Forums - CD PROJEKT RED Forums Games Thronebreaker: The Witcher Tales GWENT®: The Witcher Card Game The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings The Witcher The Witcher Adventure Game Cyberpunk 2077 Jobs Store Support Log in Register Menu Hot Topics NEWS GENERAL SUGGESTIONS STORY MAIN JOBS SIDE JOBS GIGS GAMEPLAY MODS TECHNICAL PC XBOX PLAYSTATION COMMUNITY FAN ART (THE WITCHER UNIVERSE) FAN ART (CYBERPUNK UNIVERSE) OTHER GAMES BRAZILIAN COMMUNITY ITALIAN COMMUNITY JAPANESE COMMUNITY RED Tracker The Witcher Series Cyberpunk GWENT Menu Register Install the app Install JavaScript is disabled. For a better experience, please enable JavaScript in your browser before proceeding. You are using an out of date browser. It  may not display this or other websites correctly. You should upgrade or use an alternative browser . Important announcement regarding Cyberpunk 2077 release date Everywhere Threads This forum This thread + Prev 1 … Go to page Go 17 18 19 20 21 … Go to page Go 37 Next First Prev 19 of 37 Go to page Go Next Last R-10 Fresh user #361 Oct 28, 2020 I think we fans would forgive them for some mistakes in game in November. But they will definitely hear about the smallest glitch in December. Reactions: Nurul08 , Razyen , Helch0rn and 3 others Codecypher Senior user #362 Oct 28, 2020 After a good night's sleep and a conversation with my boss thankfully I could cancel my vacation and will be reapplying for another time. Now I will wait until mid novenber and I hope that the next delay wont be announced like 20 says before release. I have no doubts that the game will be great I mean I like everything I've seen so far and I'd be super happy with another 48 minute demo even if it's the exact same demo that was in 2018 but with the upgraded graphics and maybe with another ''build" this could definitely ease this low-blow. But people do gotta understand that this is not on the developers but the management. Dont send death threats to the devs who are already working hard to bring us this game. Since I got my vacation postponed I feel a bit better now personally but I also understand that not everyone have the privilege to change their vacation dates. ( Some have to schedule it turning the start of the year or at the very least a month ahead ) Please just relay the information of the next possible delay before it's like last 20 days to go. I can also imagine the absolute shitstorm when its delayed again though. This backlash is pretty severe but it could always be worse I suppose. Reactions: parasite_avi Kourteous Forum regular #363 Oct 28, 2020 Corporate business model at it's core. Last edited: Oct 28, 2020 imitenotbecrazy Senior user #364 Oct 28, 2020 Punknaught2020 said: Game has been delayed, welcome to game industry...here is a list of some games and the times they were delayed, some in detail and others whatever.  Enough evidence that its not just 2077 OMG CDPR SUCKS! Breath of the Wild. (2 years) Team fortress 2, (8-10 years) Prey, (11 years) FF XV. (6 years + another 6 )during the name change, game change etc. Pillars of Eternity, (1 Year) But lets stick with this year on games that have been delayed due to all the various current year logistics or other reasons. Cyberpunk 2077, Marvel’s Avengers, Dying Light 2, and Final Fantasy VII Remake , Animal Crossing: New Horizons, Skull & Bones, Doom Eternal (Nov 2019 - March 2020), The Last of Us Part 2 (Feb 2020 -June 2020). Metroid Prime 4 (restarted development), Watch Dogs :Legion, Rainbow six :Quarentine. Many of which were announced for 2019 release dates originally... Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines 2, and some other games that aren't even as technical or indepth as 2077 that have also been delayed from end of last year to this year and have yet to be released. The list goes on....and some of those on the list are now Q1 2021. Doesn't even include the ones that are in pre-release forever stages. But yes, blind hatred for 2077 or CDPR and the Devs, because you can't have in your hands when they promised it.  Reality check, life doesn't work out the way its planned all the time or the way you want it to. No matter how much of a vocal minority screams on the forums about it. Click to expand... Zero of these had gone gold and had PR promising up until 12 hours before the delay that the date was set in stone. They ruined their credibility with this. People are allowed to be upset, especially when they've now gone out of their own way to change things with their schedule to give CD money and play their game. Copying and pasting some BS list isn't gonna win you any favors from them either. Reactions: KakitaTatsumaru , Razyen , Helch0rn and 4 others J jt4gov Forum regular #365 Oct 28, 2020 I can't help but feel with these last two delays that their now last gen game is going to be 1:1 compared with new, current gen titles. It'll be hard to make a game developed for the day 1 Xbox One look nearly as well as a day 1 Series X game. Imo they should have launched earlier in the year as a last gen game, then take their time with the next gen patch using feedback and analytics from the community to enhance the "final" product/remaster. Then your product is compared to last gen games and you're free to make a much better final product without the fear of deadlines. KakitaTatsumaru Forum veteran #366 Oct 28, 2020 msxyz said: This small delay will give enough time to their PR department to come up with a plan to announce the real delay to 2021 On a (more) serious note, people who complain about lack of transparency (things like this are not decided overnite) forget to consider that CDPR, or at least its parent company is publicly traded. One of the first things you'll learn in a MBA is that everything revolves around stakeholders, and while  also the company clients are stakeholders in a sense (and I stress that we're talking about stakes , not stocks), as a manager you always have to maximize the profit for the stakeholders. Profit, not satisfaction. This is an important distinction. What's the difference? In the past some companies were managed to chase satisfaction, but this brought them to ruin. By maximizing profit, you'll ensure viability of the business and, at least for some of the stakeholders, profit is also instant satisfaction (i.e. outside investors). For clients, well... If CDPR releases CP2077 now it would bring satisfaction but, afterwards, there will be endless complaints for whatever reason this game got delayed again: in other words, instant gratification, but long term damage to reputation and business. Click to expand... Besides... Being listed on the stock market is a choice, not an obligation. Reactions: Ornythorinqor Kinley Ex-moderator #367 Oct 28, 2020 KakitaTatsumaru said: Besides... Being listed on the stock market is a choice, not an obligation. Click to expand... Don't know if you're familiar with CDPR's history, but it's not like they had much choice when they went public. KakitaTatsumaru Forum veteran #368 Oct 28, 2020 IndifferentEmpathy said: Lawsuits and litigations because there are contractual obligations? Click to expand... Obligations which weren't there weeks ago? BilalHuseyn Forum regular #369 Oct 28, 2020 I wonder if the current gen version will be comparatively similar to the X360 and PS3 version of Shadow of Mordor. Grumrock Rookie #370 Oct 28, 2020 Dear dear corporate overlords CD-projekt! a) How many more times do gamers need to hear the news about the transfer of the game ? b) Why do developers need to set release dates for the game if they are not included in these dates ? c) Is it possible to request a refund of a pre-order if the client is no longer sure that the game will be released at all? Thank you and I wish you a good day even though mine you completely ruined( Attachments 1578671677_4304_4c14e2f481c5862d.jpg 78.5 KB · Views: 49 KakitaTatsumaru Forum veteran #371 Oct 28, 2020 Marcus_Hicks said: They should have delayed the Next Gen & Stadia launch until next year, & only focused on PC & current Gen. Click to expand... Actually I don't even remember that Next gen and Stadia were supposed to launch at the same time as other versions, so why did it suddenly became an obligation? Reactions: Grumrock Bellator Pius Gratus Forum veteran #372 Oct 28, 2020 Well that's...that's... Well that's that I guess. I'm not surprised tbh. Who is? No really? Who is? I might sound glad but I'm not. But surprised even less so. Can't say anything about anything because someone will get offended either way. But I have my suspicions why this delay is, official statement aside, and I couldn't care less for those reasons. For me it's not about the three week delay, I have a backlog out of this world to take up my time. But it is, however you see it, another goddamn delay. I have never heard about a game going gold, only to be delayed....again. No, for me it's the constant worry if I'll ever see my CE arriving safely. All the shit I had to go through after Gamestop went out of business and other stores going back on my CE preorders. Consider it my Swingline from Office Space. Will be so nice to explain to my boss why I won't be needing that day off after all. Shall I update him about the the 10th of December? Nah. Reactions: CyBeR_Junky , imitenotbecrazy and Kinley KakitaTatsumaru Forum veteran #373 Oct 28, 2020 Punknaught2020 said: Game has been delayed, welcome to game industry...here is a list of some games and the times they were delayed, some in detail and others whatever.  Enough evidence that its not just 2077 OMG CDPR SUCKS! Breath of the Wild. (2 years) Team fortress 2, (8-10 years) Prey, (11 years) FF XV. (6 years + another 6 )during the name change, game change etc. Pillars of Eternity, (1 Year) But lets stick with this year on games that have been delayed due to all the various current year logistics or other reasons. Cyberpunk 2077, Marvel’s Avengers, Dying Light 2, and Final Fantasy VII Remake , Animal Crossing: New Horizons, Skull & Bones, Doom Eternal (Nov 2019 - March 2020), The Last of Us Part 2 (Feb 2020 -June 2020). Metroid Prime 4 (restarted development), Watch Dogs :Legion, Rainbow six :Quarentine. Many of which were announced for 2019 release dates originally... Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines 2, and some other games that aren't even as technical or indepth as 2077 that have also been delayed from end of last year to this year and have yet to be released. The list goes on....and some of those on the list are now Q1 2021. Doesn't even include the ones that are in pre-release forever stages. But yes, blind hatred for 2077 or CDPR and the Devs, because you can't have in your hands when they promised it.  Reality check, life doesn't work out the way its planned all the time or the way you want it to. No matter how much of a vocal minority screams on the forums about it. Click to expand... Minus: -Your list isn't games delayed after being gold. -Most people saying they are angry against CDprojekt are angry against their management, not the poor dev' who are being death-marched. Reactions: Razyen Mybrokenenglish Senior user #374 Oct 28, 2020 IndifferentEmpathy said: There was a reddit post by supposed CDPR dev around Schreier's #crunchgate article that this was the case for all decisions, including going gold, management does not communicate to devs and its all a mess internally. This lends a lot of credence to that post. Click to expand... A game journalist I know told me about leadership problems in CDPR 1 year ago. I'm pretty sure I wrote about it as a rumor somewhere on this forum. KakitaTatsumaru Forum veteran #375 Oct 28, 2020 doktor_fleck said: No, it's not fine. But this example you've quoted just solidifies the fact, that "shit happens". It's not that they have postponed the launch of the game just to make you feel bad. Click to expand... Problem is that we can only imagine the worst "$hit happens" because we don't know the real reasons behind all that, as we're locked behind a PR talk wall. Post automatically merged: Oct 28, 2020 KeldornOfLatria said: I'm just really sorry for all the people who took a vacation and can't reschedule it now. I totally get their frustration. But I'm also sorry for all the developers who have now to work more overtime AND (unjustifiedly) get the blame for the delay. It's not their fault, it's the management's fault for not planning according to real circumstances but (for example) to appease shareholders' expectations. AND on the other hand: They also have to keep the whole business profitable to ensure that their developers can keep their jobs. And that we keep getting great products from them. So, if we just cool down a bit and think about it: It is the right decision to make under the circumstances right now, despite all I have mentioned. Imagine if the game came out faulty. CDPR would lose way more credibility which is mostly based on the quality of their product, than they are maybe losing now. Click to expand... Won't it be easier to understand management's decision if they weren't hiding things, even from their own dev' and from their community manager? How come they and we have to rely on external investigators like Jason Schreier to perhaps find out what's really at stakes here and how it suddenly happened out of nowhere? Last edited: Oct 28, 2020 N Nurul08 Senior user #376 Oct 28, 2020 Yep shoulda moved it to 2021. Because this gets delayed again then pooooof. Sucks IndifferentEmpathy Senior user #377 Oct 28, 2020 So from the latest CDPR conference with shareholders ( http://biznes.pap.pl/en/news/all/in...d-projekt-video-games-on-cyberpunk-2077-delay ) ABOUT THE DELAY: "This situation is different" compared to previous changes to the deadline - the game for PC is ready and plays well on next-gen consoles and the company is finalizing the process concerning current gen consoles. Click to expand... Potato current gen consoles can't run the game still. FUTURE PROJECT (IMPACT OF THE DELAY): CD Projekt plans some "organizational changes" in technical departments. "Too many things were put together at late stages." - CEO Kicinski Click to expand... Somebody will take a fall for this latest delay? At least this shows they know they cannot continue making games with such organizational mess. Reactions: Spockprime , Zihlus , CyBeR_Junky and 5 others Brainweaver Forum regular #378 Oct 28, 2020 I guess as long as people accept these sort of things, companies will keep pushing the boundaries of whats acceptable. But there is not much else to do than accept it, because 99,9% of the people will still buy the game and probably don't even care this happened. If they promise to start/continue now with a new full fledged triple A Witcher game (which doesn't get delayed much), its al good again Reactions: Bloodartist Guest 4406876 Guest #379 Oct 28, 2020 Bellator Pius Gratus said: Can't say anything about anything because someone will get offended either way. Click to expand... I like to think that people could understand that, being on a forum talking about videogames, even if you see someone being let's say "angry" at the delay or at the game , they could separate real angry from "hobby pissed". I don't understand people that feel the need to come in and call users "entitled" when we talk about a hobby, and most likely when we write something "harsh" because we are pissed it stays in the place it belongs, with the intensity it deserves, which would be null and hobby related. If the game is delayed another year we'll flame the forum most likely, but I don't think it would ruin people lives, I'd still offer pizza and beer to the Devs If I meet them and greet them, and I think this works for everybody, no matter how "pissed" they appear to be writing on a videogame forum. I refuse to believe people can get really offended by anything hobby related. Reactions: Bellator Pius Gratus Mybrokenenglish Senior user #380 Oct 28, 2020 KakitaTatsumaru said: Problem is that we can only imagine the worst "$hit happens" because we don't know the real reasons behind all that, as we're locked behind a PR talk wall. Click to expand... The game is still bugged as fuck and on consoles runs like a PowerPoint slideshow. That's pretty much what the press conference says. And it sounds pretty realistic. Last edited: Oct 28, 2020 Reactions: Bloodartist , imitenotbecrazy , Ohkami741 and 1 other person Prev 1 … Go to page Go 17 18 19 20 21 … Go to page Go 37 Next First Prev 19 of 37 Go to page Go Next Last Similar threads Witcher 4 Release Date - Let's Speculate! 34 2K Apr 3, 2025 Just Announced — Cyberpunk 2077: Ultimate Edition Coming to Mac! 71 38K Monday at 10:57 AM Cyberpunk 2077: Ultimate Edition coming Launch Day to Nintendo Switch 2! 32 9K Yesterday at 8:50 AM Cyberpunk 2077 giving E:\R6.Release\dev\src\common\gpuApi\src\dx12\gpuApiDX12Error.cpp(42) error. 2 394 Jan 10, 2025 FF:06:B5 means Friend + Friend, June 2025? 3 358 Apr 2, 2025 Share: Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest Tumblr WhatsApp Email Share Link English English Polski (Polish) Deutsch (German) Русский (Russian) Français (French) Português brasileiro (Brazilian Portuguese) Italiano (Italian) 日本語 (Japanese) Español (Spanish) STAY CONNECTED Contact administration User agreement Privacy Cookie policy Press Center © 2018 CD PROJEKT S.A. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED CD PROJEKT®, Cyberpunk®, Cyberpunk 2077® are registered trademarks of CD PROJEKT S.A. © 2018 CD PROJEKT S.A. All rights reserved. All other copyrights and trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Forum software by XenForo ® © 2010-2020 XenForo Ltd. Top Bottom