The engineering behind Alexa's contextual speech recognition - Amazon Science Close Close Research areas Automated reasoning Cloud and systems Computer vision Conversational AI Economics Information and knowledge management Machine learning Operations research and optimization Quantum technologies Robotics Search and information retrieval Security, privacy, and abuse prevention Sustainability Automated reasoning Cloud and systems Computer vision Conversational AI Economics Information and knowledge management Machine learning Operations research and optimization Quantum technologies Robotics Search and information retrieval Security, privacy, and abuse prevention Sustainability Blog Publications Conferences Code and datasets Academia Academics at Amazon Amazon Nova AI Challenge Amazon Research Awards Research collaborations Academics at Amazon Amazon Nova AI Challenge Amazon Research Awards Research collaborations Careers Newsletter Social twitter instagram youtube facebook linkedin github rss Menu Research areas Automated reasoning Cloud and systems Computer vision Conversational AI Economics Information and knowledge management Machine learning Operations research and optimization Quantum technologies Robotics Search and information retrieval Security, privacy, and abuse prevention Sustainability Automated reasoning Cloud and systems Computer vision Conversational AI Economics Information and knowledge management Machine learning Operations research and optimization Quantum technologies Robotics Search and information retrieval Security, privacy, and abuse prevention Sustainability Blog Publications Conferences Code and datasets Academia Academics at Amazon Amazon Nova AI Challenge Amazon Research Awards Research collaborations Academics at Amazon Amazon Nova AI Challenge Amazon Research Awards Research collaborations Careers Newsletter Search Submit Search Conversational AI The engineering behind Alexa's contextual speech recognition How Alexa scales machine learning models to millions of customers. By Larry Hardesty January 31, 2022 Share Share Copy link Email X LinkedIn Facebook Line Reddit QZone Sina Weibo WeChat WhatsApp 分享到微信 x Automatic speech recognition ( ASR ) is the conversion of acoustic speech to text, and with Alexa, the core ASR model for any given language is the same across customers. But one of the ways the Alexa AI team improves ASR accuracy is by adapting models, on the fly, to customer context . For instance, Alexa can use acoustic properties of the speaker’s voice during the utterance of the wake word “Alexa” to filter out background voices when processing the customer’s request. Alexa's automatic speech recognition uses customer and device context to improve performance. Alexa can also use the device context to improve performance. For instance, a device with a screen might display a list of possible responses to a query, and Alexa can bias the ASR model toward the list entries when processing subsequent instructions. Recently, Alexa also introduced a context embedding service, which uses a large neural network trained on a variety of tasks to produce a running sequence of vector representations — or embeddings — of the past several rounds of dialogue, both the customer’s utterances and Alexa’s responses. The context embeddings are an on-tap resource for any Alexa machine learning model, and the service can be expanded to include other types of contextual information, such as device type, customers’ skill and content preferences, and the like. Theory into practice At Amazon Science, we report regularly on the machine learning models — including those that use context — that enable improvements to Alexa’s speech recognizer . But rarely do we discuss the engineering effort required to bring those models into production. Related content On-device speech processing makes Alexa faster, lower-bandwidth Innovative training methods and model compression techniques combine with clever engineering to keep speech processing local. To get a sense for the scale of that effort, consider just one of Alexa’s deployed context-aware ASR models, which uses conversational context to improve accuracy when Alexa asks follow-up questions to confirm its understanding of commands. For instance: Customer: “Alexa, call Meg.” Alexa: “Do you mean Meg Jones or Meg Bauer?” Customer: “Bauer.” When Alexa hears “Bauer” in the second dialogue turn, it favors the interpretation “Bauer” over the more common “power” based on the context of the previous turn. On its initial deployment, conversational-context awareness reduced the ASR error rate during such interactions by almost 26%. The underlying machine learning model factors in the current customer utterance, the text of the previous dialogue turn (both the customer’s utterance and Alexa’s response), and relevant context information from the Alexa services invoked by the utterance. This might include entries from an address book, a list of smart-home devices connected to Alexa, or the local-search function’s classification of names the customer mentioned — names of restaurants, of movie theaters, of gas stations, and so on. But once the model has been trained, the engineers’ work is just beginning. Problems of scale The first engineering problem is that there’s no way to know in advance which interactions with Alexa will require follow-up questions and responses. Embedding context information is a computationally intensive process. It would be a waste of resources to subject all customer utterances to that process, when only a fraction of them might lead to multiturn interactions. Instead, Alexa temporarily stores relevant context information on a server; utterances are time stamped and are automatically deleted after a fixed span of time. Only utterances that elicit follow-up questions from Alexa pass to the context embedding model. Related content Reducing unnecessary clarification questions from voice agents New approach improves F1 score of clarification questions by 81%. For storage, the Alexa engineers are currently using AWS’s DynamoDB service. Like all of AWS’s storage options, DynamoDB encrypts the data it stores, so updating an entry in a DynamoDB table requires decrypting it first. The engineering team wanted to track multiple dialogue events using only a single table entry; that way, it would be possible to decide whether or when to begin a contextual embedding with a single read operation. If the contextual data were stored in the same entry, however, it would have to be decrypted and re-encrypted with every update about the interaction. Repeated for every customer utterance and Alexa reply every day, that would begin to add up, hogging system resources and causing delays. Senior software development engineer Kyle Goehner. Instead, the Alexa engineers use a two-table system to store contextual information. One table records the system-level events associated with a particular Alexa interaction, such as the instruction to transcribe the customer’s utterance and the instruction to synthesize Alexa’s reply. Each of these events is represented by a single short text string, in a single table entry. The entry also contains references to a second table, which stores the encrypted texts of the customer utterance, Alexa’s reply, and any other contextual data. Each of those data items has its own entry, so once it’s written, it doesn’t need to be decrypted until Alexa has decided to create a context vector for the associated transaction. “We have tried to keep the database design simple and flexible,” says Kyle Goehner, who led the engineering effort behind the follow-up contextual feature. “Even at the scale of Alexa, science is constantly evolving and our systems need to be easy to understand and adapt.” Computation window Delaying the creation of the context vector until the necessity arises poses a challenge, however, as it requires the execution of a complex computation in the middle of a customer’s interaction with Alexa. The engineers’ solution was to hide the computation time under Alexa’s reply to the customer’s request. All Alexa interactions are initiated by a customer utterance, and almost all customer utterances elicit replies from Alexa. The event that triggers the creation of the context vector is re-opening the microphone to listen for a reply. The texts of Alexa’s replies are available to the context model before Alexa actually speaks them, and the instruction to reopen the microphone follows immediately upon the instruction to begin the reply. This gives Alexa a narrow window of opportunity in which to produce the context vector. Because the instruction to re-open the microphone (expect-speech directive) follows immediately upon the instruction to begin executing Alexa’s reply (speak directive) , the reply itself buys the context model enough time to produce a context vector. If the context model fails to generate a context vector in the available time, the ASR model simply operates as it normally would, without contextual information. As Goehner puts it, the contextual-ASR model is a “best-effort” model. “We’re trying to introduce accuracy improvement without introducing possible points of failure,” he says. Consistent reads To ensure that contextual ASR can work in real time, the Alexa engineers also took advantage of some of DynamoDB’s special features. Like all good database systems, DynamoDB uses redundancy to ensure data availability; any data written to a DynamoDB server is copied multiple times. If the database is facing heavy demand, however, then when new data is written, there can be a delay in updating the copies. Consequently, a read request that gets routed to one of the copies may sometimes retrieve data that’s out of date. To guard against this, every time Alexa writes new information to the contextual-ASR data table, it simultaneously requests the updated version of the entry recording the status of the interaction, ensuring that it never gets stale information. If the entry includes a record of the all-important instruction to re-open the microphone, Alexa initiates the creation of the contextual vector; if it doesn’t, Alexa simply discards the data. Related content How Alexa learned Arabic Arabic posed unique challenges for speech recognition, language understanding, and speech synthesis. “This work is the culmination of very close collaboration between scientists and engineers to design contextual machine learning to operate at Alexa scale,” says Debprakash Patnaik, a software development manager who leads the engineering teams behind the new system. “We launched this service for US English language and saw promising improvements in speech recognition errors,” says Rumit Sehlot, a software development manager at Amazon. “We also made it very easy to experiment with other contextual signals offline to see whether the new context is relevant. One recent success story has been adding the context of local information — for example, when a customer asks about nearby coffee shops and later requests driving directions to one of them.” “We recognize that after we’ve built and tested our models, the work of bringing those models to our customers has just begun,” adds Ivan Bulyko, an applied-science manager for Alexa Speech. “It takes sound design to make these services at scale, and that’s something the Alexa engineering team reliably provides.” Research areas Conversational AI Tags Automatic speech recognition (ASR) Alexa About the Author Larry Hardesty Larry Hardesty is the editor of the Amazon Science blog. Previously, he was a senior editor at MIT Technology Review and the computer science writer at the MIT News Office. Related content A quick guide to Amazon’s 50-plus papers at EMNLP 2024 Staff writer November 14, 2024 Large language models predominate, both as a research subject themselves and as tools for researching topics of particular interest to Amazon, such as speech, recommendations, and information retrieval. Conversational AI The 10 most viewed blog posts of 2024 Staff writer December 24, 2024 Large language models remained a hot topic, but posts about cryptography and automated reasoning also drew readers. An AI agent for data science: Amazon Q Developer in SageMaker Canvas Yaroslav Kharkov , Gerald Friedland April 10, 2025 New tool lets customers build, train, and deploy machine learning models using only natural language. Machine learning Work with us See more jobs See more jobs Manager, Applied Scientist IN, TS, Hyderabad Welcome to the Worldwide Returns & ReCommerce team (WWR&R) at Amazon.com. WWR&R is an agile, innovative organization dedicated to ‘making zero happen’ to benefit our customers, our company, and the environment. Our goal is to achieve the three zeroes: zero cost of returns, zero waste, and zero defects. We do this by developing products and driving truly innovative operational excellence to help customers keep what they buy, recover returned and damaged product value, keep thousands of tons of waste from landfills, and create the best customer returns experience in the world. We have an eye to the future – we create long-term value at Amazon by focusing not just on the bottom line, but on the planet. We are building the most sustainable re-use channel we can by driving multiple aspects of the Circular Economy for Amazon – Returns & ReCommerce. Amazon WWR&R is comprised of business, product, operational, program, software engineering and data teams that manage the life of a returned or damaged product from a customer to the warehouse and on to its next best use. Our work is broad and deep: we train machine learning models to automate routing and find signals to optimize re-use; we invent new channels to give products a second life; we develop highly respected product support to help customers love what they buy; we pilot smarter product evaluations; we work from the customer backward to find ways to make the return experience remarkably delightful and easy; and we do it all while scrutinizing our business with laser focus. You will help create everything from customer-facing and vendor-facing websites to the internal software and tools behind the reverse-logistics process. You can develop scalable, high-availability solutions to solve complex and broad business problems. We are a group that has fun at work while driving incredible customer, business, and environmental impact. We are backed by a strong leadership group dedicated to operational excellence that empowers a reasonable work-life balance. As an established, experienced team, we offer the scope and support needed for substantial career growth. Amazon is earth’s most customer-centric company and through WWR&R, the earth is our customer too. Come join us and innovate with the Amazon Worldwide Returns & ReCommerce team! Applied Scientist, Personalization GB, MLN, Edinburgh We’re looking for a Machine Learning Scientist in the Personalization team for our Edinburgh office experienced in generative AI and large models. You will be responsible for developing and disseminating customer-facing personalized recommendation models. This is a hands-on role with global impact working with a team of world-class engineers and scientists across the Edinburgh offices and wider organization. You will lead the design of machine learning models that scale to very large quantities of data, and serve high-scale low-latency recommendations to all customers worldwide. You will embody scientific rigor, designing and executing experiments to demonstrate the technical efficacy and business value of your methods. You will work alongside a science team to delight customers by aiding in recommendations relevancy, and raise the profile of Amazon as a global leader in machine learning and personalization. Successful candidates will have strong technical ability, focus on customers by applying a customer-first approach, excellent teamwork and communication skills, and a motivation to achieve results in a fast-paced environment. Our position offers exceptional opportunities for every candidate to grow their technical and non-technical skills. If you are selected, you have the opportunity to make a difference to our business by designing and building state of the art machine learning systems on big data, leveraging Amazon’s vast computing resources (AWS), working on exciting and challenging projects, and delivering meaningful results to customers world-wide. Key job responsibilities Develop machine learning algorithms for high-scale recommendations problems. Rapidly design, prototype and test many possible hypotheses in a high-ambiguity environment, making use of both quantitative analysis and business judgement. Collaborate with software engineers to integrate successful experimental results into large-scale, highly complex Amazon production systems capable of handling 100,000s of transactions per second at low latency. Report results in a manner which is both statistically rigorous and compellingly relevant, exemplifying good scientific practice in a business environment. Sr. Applied Scientist, Prime Video Peak Forecasting US, WA, Seattle Prime Video is a first-stop entertainment destination offering customers a vast collection of premium programming in one app available across thousands of devices. Prime members can customize their viewing experience and find their favorite movies, series, documentaries, and live sports – including Amazon MGM Studios-produced series and movies; licensed fan favorites; and programming from Prime Video add-on subscriptions such as Apple TV+, Max, Crunchyroll and MGM+. All customers, regardless of whether they have a Prime membership or not, can rent or buy titles via the Prime Video Store, and can enjoy even more content for free with ads. Are you interested in shaping the future of entertainment? Prime Video's technology teams are creating best-in-class digital video experience. As a Prime Video technologist, you’ll have end-to-end ownership of the product, user experience, design, and technology required to deliver state-of-the-art experiences for our customers. You’ll get to work on projects that are fast-paced, challenging, and varied. You’ll also be able to experiment with new possibilities, take risks, and collaborate with remarkable people. We’ll look for you to bring your diverse perspectives, ideas, and skill-sets to make Prime Video even better for our customers. With global opportunities for talented technologists, you can decide where a career Prime Video Tech takes you! In Prime Video READI, our mission is to automate infrastructure scaling and operational readiness. We are growing a team specialized in time series modeling, forecasting, and release safety. This team will invent and develop algorithms for forecasting multi-dimensional related time series. The team will develop forecasts on key business dimensions with optimization recommendations related to performance and efficiency opportunities across our global software environment. As a founding member of the core team, you will apply your deep coding, modeling and statistical knowledge to concrete problems that have broad cross-organizational, global, and technology impact. Your work will focus on retrieving, cleansing and preparing large scale datasets, training and evaluating models and deploying them to production where we continuously monitor and evaluate. You will work on large engineering efforts that solve significantly complex problems facing global customers. You will be trusted to operate with complete independence and are often assigned to focus on areas where the business and/or architectural strategy has not yet been defined. You must be equally comfortable digging in to business requirements as you are drilling into design with development teams and developing production ready learning models. You consistently bring strong, data-driven business and technical judgment to decisions. You will work with internal and external stakeholders, cross-functional partners, and end-users around the world at all levels. Our team makes a big impact because nothing is more important to us than delivering for our customers, continually earning their trust, and thinking long term. You are empowered to bring new technologies to your solutions. If you crave a sense of ownership, this is the place to be. Applied Scientist , Amazon US, WA, Seattle Amazon Advertising operates at the intersection of eCommerce and advertising, and is investing heavily in building a world-class advertising business. We are defining and delivering a collection of self-service performance advertising products that drive discovery and sales. Our products are strategically important to our Retail and Marketplace businesses driving long-term growth. We deliver billions of ad impressions and millions of clicks daily and are breaking fresh ground to create world-class products to improve both shopper and advertiser experience. With a broad mandate to experiment and innovate, we grow at an unprecedented rate with a seemingly endless range of new opportunities. The Ad Response Prediction team in Sponsored Products organization build advanced deep-learning models, large-scale machine-learning pipelines, and real-time serving infra to match shoppers’ intent to relevant ads on all devices, for all contexts and in all marketplaces. Through precise estimation of shoppers’ interaction with ads and their long-term value, we aim to drive optimal ads allocation and pricing, and help to deliver a relevant, engaging and delightful ads experience to Amazon shoppers. As the business and the complexity of various new initiatives we take continues to grow, we are looking for talented Applied Scientists to join the team. Key job responsibilities As a Applied Scientist II, you will: * Conduct hands-on data analysis, build large-scale machine-learning models and pipelines * Work closely with software engineers on detailed requirements, technical designs and implementation of end-to-end solutions in production * Run regular A/B experiments, gather data, perform statistical analysis, and communicate the impact to senior management * Establish scalable, efficient, automated processes for large-scale data analysis, machine-learning model development, model validation and serving * Provide technical leadership, research new machine learning approaches to drive continued scientific innovation * Be a member of the Amazon-wide Machine Learning Community, participating in internal and external MeetUps, Hackathons and Conferences Applied Scientist, Prime Video - Content Understanding and Enrichment US, WA, Seattle Prime Video is a first-stop entertainment destination offering customers a vast collection of premium programming in one app available across thousands of devices. Prime members can customize their viewing experience and find their favorite movies, series, documentaries, and live sports – including Amazon MGM Studios-produced series and movies; licensed fan favorites; and programming from Prime Video add-on subscriptions such as Apple TV+, Max, Crunchyroll and MGM+. All customers, regardless of whether they have a Prime membership or not, can rent or buy titles via the Prime Video Store, and can enjoy even more content for free with ads. Are you interested in shaping the future of entertainment? Prime Video's technology teams are creating best-in-class digital video experience. As a Prime Video team member, you’ll have end-to-end ownership of the product, user experience, design, and technology required to deliver state-of-the-art experiences for our customers. You’ll get to work on projects that are fast-paced, challenging, and varied. You’ll also be able to experiment with new possibilities, take risks, and collaborate with remarkable people. We’ll look for you to bring your diverse perspectives, ideas, and skill-sets to make Prime Video even better for our customers. With global opportunities for talented technologists, you can decide where a career Prime Video Tech takes you! Key job responsibilities As an Applied Scientist in the Content Understanding Team, you will lead the end-to-end research and deployment of video and multi-modal models applied to a variety of downstream applications. More specifically, you will: - Work backwards from customer problems to research and design scientific approaches for solving them - Work closely with other scientists, engineers and product managers to expand the depth of our product insights with data, create a variety of experiments to determine the high impact projects to include in planning roadmaps - Stay up-to-date with advancements and the latest modeling techniques in the field - Publish your research findings in top conferences and journals About the team Our Prime Video Content Understanding team builds holistic media representations (e.g. descriptions of scenes, semantic embeddings) and apply them to new customer experiences supply chain problems. Our technology spans the entire Prime Video catalogue globally, and we enable instant recaps, skip intro timing, ad placement, search, and content moderation. Applied Scientist, Prime Video - Content Understanding and Enrichment US, WA, Seattle Prime Video is a first-stop entertainment destination offering customers a vast collection of premium programming in one app available across thousands of devices. Prime members can customize their viewing experience and find their favorite movies, series, documentaries, and live sports – including Amazon MGM Studios-produced series and movies; licensed fan favorites; and programming from Prime Video add-on subscriptions such as Apple TV+, Max, Crunchyroll and MGM+. All customers, regardless of whether they have a Prime membership or not, can rent or buy titles via the Prime Video Store, and can enjoy even more content for free with ads. Are you interested in shaping the future of entertainment? Prime Video's technology teams are creating best-in-class digital video experience. As a Prime Video team member, you’ll have end-to-end ownership of the product, user experience, design, and technology required to deliver state-of-the-art experiences for our customers. You’ll get to work on projects that are fast-paced, challenging, and varied. You’ll also be able to experiment with new possibilities, take risks, and collaborate with remarkable people. We’ll look for you to bring your diverse perspectives, ideas, and skill-sets to make Prime Video even better for our customers. With global opportunities for talented technologists, you can decide where a career Prime Video Tech takes you! Key job responsibilities As an Applied Scientist in the Content Understanding Team, you will lead the end-to-end research and deployment of video and multi-modal models applied to a variety of downstream applications. More specifically, you will: - Work backwards from customer problems to research and design scientific approaches for solving them - Work closely with other scientists, engineers and product managers to expand the depth of our product insights with data, create a variety of experiments to determine the high impact projects to include in planning roadmaps - Stay up-to-date with advancements and the latest modeling techniques in the field - Publish your research findings in top conferences and journals About the team Our Prime Video Content Understanding team builds holistic media representations (e.g. descriptions of scenes, semantic embeddings) and apply them to new customer experiences supply chain problems. Our technology spans the entire Prime Video catalogue globally, and we enable instant recaps, skip intro timing, ad placement, search, and content moderation. Senior Applied Scientist, FireTV US, WA, Seattle Do you want to re-invent how millions of people consume video content on their TVs, Tablets and Alexa? We are building a free to watch streaming service called Fire TV Channels (https://techcrunch.com/2023/08/21/amazon-launches-fire-tv-channels-app-400-fast-channels/). Our goal is to provide customers with a delightful and personalized experience for consuming content across News, Sports, Cooking, Gaming, Entertainment, Lifestyle and more. You will work closely with engineering and product stakeholders to realize our ambitious product vision. You will get to work with Generative AI and other state of the art technologies to help build personalization and recommendation solutions from the ground up. You will be in the driver's seat to present customers with content they will love. Using Amazon’s large-scale computing resources, you will ask research questions about customer behavior, build state-of-the-art models to generate recommendations and run these models to enhance the customer experience. You will participate in the Amazon ML community and mentor Applied Scientists and Software Engineers with a strong interest in and knowledge of ML. Your work will directly benefit customers and you will measure the impact using scientific tools. Applied Scientist, Artificial General Intelligence US, MA, Boston The Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) team is looking for a passionate, talented, and inventive Applied Scientist with a strong deep learning background, to build industry-leading technology with Large Language Models (LLMs) and multi-modal systems. You will support projects that work on technologies including multi-modal model alignment, moderation systems and evaluation. Key job responsibilities As an Applied Scientist with the AGI team, you will support the development of novel algorithms and modeling techniques, to advance the state of the art with LLMs. Your work will directly impact our customers in the form of products and services that make use of speech and language technology. You will leverage Amazon’s heterogeneous data sources and large-scale computing resources to accelerate advances in generative artificial intelligence (GenAI). You are also expected to publish in top tier conferences. About the team The AGI team has a mission to push the envelope in LLMs and multimodal systems. Specifically, we focus on model alignment with an aim to maintain safety while not denting utility, in order to provide the best-possible experience for our customers. Applied Scientist III, Amzn Shipping-Prd & Tech, Amzn Shipping-Prd & Tech IN, HR, Gurugram Our customers have immense faith in our ability to deliver packages timely and as expected. A well planned network seamlessly scales to handle millions of package movements a day. It has monitoring mechanisms that detect failures before they even happen (such as predicting network congestion, operations breakdown), and perform proactive corrective actions. When failures do happen, it has inbuilt redundancies to mitigate impact (such as determine other routes or service providers that can handle the extra load), and avoids relying on single points of failure (service provider, node, or arc). Finally, it is cost optimal, so that customers can be passed the benefit from an efficiently set up network. Amazon Shipping is hiring Applied Scientists to help improve our ability to plan and execute package movements. As an Applied Scientist in Amazon Shipping, you will work on multiple challenging machine learning problems spread across a wide spectrum of business problems. You will build ML models to help our transportation cost auditing platforms effectively audit off-manifest (discrepancies between planned and actual shipping cost). You will build models to improve the quality of financial and planning data by accurately predicting ship cost at a package level. Your models will help forecast the packages required to be pick from shipper warehouses to reduce First Mile shipping cost. Using signals from within the transportation network (such as network load, and velocity of movements derived from package scan events) and outside (such as weather signals), you will build models that predict delivery delay for every package. These models will help improve buyer experience by triggering early corrective actions, and generating proactive customer notifications. Your role will require you to demonstrate Think Big and Invent and Simplify, by refining and translating Transportation domain-related business problems into one or more Machine Learning problems. You will use techniques from a wide array of machine learning paradigms, such as supervised, unsupervised, semi-supervised and reinforcement learning. Your model choices will include, but not be limited to, linear/logistic models, tree based models, deep learning models, ensemble models, and Q-learning models. You will use techniques such as LIME and SHAP to make your models interpretable for your customers. You will employ a family of reusable modelling solutions to ensure that your ML solution scales across multiple regions (such as North America, Europe, Asia) and package movement types (such as small parcel movements and truck movements). You will partner with Applied Scientists and Research Scientists from other teams in US and India working on related business domains. Your models are expected to be of production quality, and will be directly used in production services. You will work as part of a diverse data science and engineering team comprising of other Applied Scientists, Software Development Engineers and Business Intelligence Engineers. You will participate in the Amazon ML community by authoring scientific papers and submitting them to Machine Learning conferences. You will mentor Applied Scientists and Software Development Engineers having a strong interest in ML. You will also be called upon to provide ML consultation outside your team for other problem statements. If you are excited by this charter, come join us! Sr. Applied Scientist, Campaign and Creative IN, HR, Gurugram We're on a journey to build something new a green field project! Come join our team and build new discovery and shopping products that connect customers with their vehicle of choice. We're looking for a talented Senior Applied Scientist to join our team of product managers, designers, and engineers to design, and build innovative automotive-shopping experiences for our customers. This is a great opportunity for an experienced engineer to design and implement the technology for a new Amazon business. We are looking for a Applied Scientist to design, implement and deliver end-to-end solutions. We are seeking passionate, hands-on, experienced and seasoned Senior Applied Scientist who will be deep in code and algorithms; who are technically strong in building scalable computer vision machine learning systems across item understanding, pose estimation, class imbalanced classifiers, identification and segmentation.. You will drive ideas to products using paradigms such as deep learning, semi supervised learning and dynamic learning. As a Senior Applied Scientist, you will also help lead and mentor our team of applied scientists and engineers. You will take on complex customer problems, distill customer requirements, and then deliver solutions that either leverage existing academic and industrial research or utilize your own out-of-the-box but pragmatic thinking. In addition to coming up with novel solutions and prototypes, you will directly contribute to implementation while you lead. A successful candidate has excellent technical depth, scientific vision, project management skills, great communication skills, and a drive to achieve results in a unified team environment. You should enjoy the process of solving real-world problems that, quite frankly, haven’t been solved at scale anywhere before. Along the way, we guarantee you’ll get opportunities to be a bold disruptor, prolific innovator, and a reputed problem solver—someone who truly enables AI and robotics to significantly impact the lives of millions of consumers. Key job responsibilities Architect, design, and implement Machine Learning models for vision systems on robotic platforms Optimize, deploy, and support at scale ML models on the edge. Influence the team's strategy and contribute to long-term vision and roadmap. Work with stakeholders across , science, and operations teams to iterate on design and implementation. Maintain high standards by participating in reviews, designing for fault tolerance and operational excellence, and creating mechanisms for continuous improvement. Prototype and test concepts or features, both through simulation and emulators and with live robotic equipment Work directly with customers and partners to test prototypes and incorporate feedback Mentor other engineer team members. A day in the life - 6+ years of building machine learning models for retail application experience - PhD, or Master's degree and 6+ years of applied research experience - Experience programming in Java, C++, Python or related language - Experience with neural deep learning methods and machine learning - Demonstrated expertise in computer vision and machine learning techniques. See more jobs About Research areas Blog Publications Conferences Code and datasets Academia About Amazon Amazon Developer Amazon Web Services Awards and recognitions Newsletter Careers FAQs Get more from Amazon Science Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Amazon.com | Conditions of Use | Privacy | © 1996-2025 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates Social twitter instagram youtube facebook linkedin github rss