Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/zelda A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to zelda r/zelda r/zelda Check out our Echoes of Wisdom MegaThreads and r/ZeldaArtContest ! /r/Zelda is the unofficial hub for anything and everything The Legend of Zelda - the iconic Nintendo series. Feel free to share news, reviews, opinions, fan art, humour, videos, or anything else Zelda. For fans, by fans. Members Online • Reditor-Jul-250698 [OoT] Why is "Ocarina of Time" so massively loved by the community? Discussion Don't get me wrong, as a huge Zelda fan I absolutely loved "Ocarina of Time". In fact, I think it is one of the greatest Zelda games ever made. That said though, this game does get massively loved by the community, even going as far as to consider it the "definitive" best Zelda game ever made with no comparison at all, as if all Zelda games after OoT were not in the same good quality. Again, don't get me wrong, I love OoT, though personally I find its gameplay style to be "old" or "outdated", which makes sense seeing how this game was originally released for the N64 in 1998. Future Zelda games does take the same formula OoT had, and greatly expands upon it. And yet, with how many features future Zelda games have, I still don't understand why OoT is still considered far better than them. I personally loved "Twilight Princess", and I consider it as one of my most favorite Zelda games I've ever played. And yet, I've seen many people "hate" this game, either they don't like the "wolf" sections or they just don't see it as good as "Ocarina of Time". "Twilight Princess" has more features than "Ocarina of Time", such as having horseback combat and using hidden sword skills. As a matter of fact, I see "Twilight Princess" as an "expanded" version of "Ocarina of Time" due to how similar both games are, with TP having way more than OoT. Then there is "Breath of the Wild", which is by far one of the greatest Zelda games ever made. With its massive open world, freedom of exploration, and many more challenges, this is without the doubt the biggest Zelda game ever made. Its sequel "Tears of the Kingdom" expanded the game much further by adding the "Sky Islands" and the "Depths", allowing the player to explore both the sky and underground. And yet, despite the massive improvements compared to other Zelda games, people still consider "Ocarina of Time" as the best. With all that said, why is  Ocarina of Time" so loved by the community? What exactly does OoT have that future Zelda games don't? Is there something in OoT many see that I don't? Or am I just being biased here? Again, I love OoT, but I still don't get why people prefer this game over future Zelda games. What exactly do future games not have that OoT does? Just what exactly are missing from those games? Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Check out our Echoes of Wisdom MegaThreads and r/ZeldaArtContest ! Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 8, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics