Home - Golden Globe Foundation Home About Us Our Story Our Mission Leadership Our Members Annual Report Grants Our Focus Areas Grantees Current Grantee Resources Apply For A Grant What’s Happening Foundation News & Events Grantee News & Events Success Stories Newsletter Contact Us Mission Statement: The Golden Globe Foundation supports underrepresented communities in Southern California seeking to thrive in the creative arts and journalism.  We also fund film preservation and free speech protections worldwide. See Our Impact The Golden Globe Foundation continues a long history of entertainment-related grantmaking. The Golden Globe Foundation was formed in 2023, following the sale of the Golden Globe Awards show to Eldridge Globes, LLC, to perpetuate the philanthropic mission of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association.  The proceeds of that sale and existing resources of the organization allow the Foundation to continue its grantmaking. Who We Are The Foundation and its predecessor, the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, have long supported a diverse range of nonprofit organizations assisting underserved communities, universities, and colleges, and film restoration projects in the United States and internationally, as well as programs providing aid and assistance to journalists across the globe. Our Story Our Vision A World Where All Creatives Flourish. What We Do Over the last three decades, the licensing fees from the Golden Globe Awards have enabled the Golden Globe Foundation , and its predecessor, the HFPA, to make donations of more than $55 million to these colleges and nonprofit organizations. Our Mission Global Reach Foundation donations support a diverse range of nonprofit organizations assisting underserved communities, universities, and colleges. The grants also support film restoration projects in the United States and abroad, as well as programs providing aid and assistance to journalists across the globe. $ 00 Million Total amount given away by the Foundation over the last 28 years! 00 Students Received scholarships to help them pursue their dreams! 00 Films Restored, including King Kong (1933), Paths of Glory (1957) and A Fistful of Dollars (1964) The Golden Globe Foundation has awarded $55 million in grants to support arts, education, journalism, and film restoration programs for various non-profit organizations. Learn More Our Grants Cultural Exchange Learn More Film Restoration & Preservation Learn More Film Schools Learn More Journalism Press Freedom Learn More Journalism Schools Learn More Pre-Professional Education & Mentoring Learn More Professional Training & Mentoring Learn More Special Projects Learn More --> Featured Grantees Latest News National Hispanic Media Coalition Honors Michelladonna, Zoraida Córdova and More at 2025 Impact Awards Reception from National Hispanic Media Coalition Ceremony gathers industry leaders and decision makers to recognize impactful organizations and individuals building a strong Latino community in New York City The National Hispanic Media Coalition (NHMC) held its annual Impacts New York Awards Reception in New York City on Wednesday, April 23rd, 2025. The evening was hosted and emceed by award-winning actor, […] Read More Justice for My Sister Celebrates 10 Years with Film Festival at JANM Justice for My Sister marks a decade of empowering storytelling, media advocacy, and violence prevention with the 2nd Annual Justice for My People Film Festival, taking place Saturday, April 26 at the Japanese American National Museum in Los Angeles. This special evening celebrates the achievements of the nonprofit’s Workforce Development and Youth Leadership programs, spotlighting fiction […] Read More 12th Annual EasterSeals Disability Film Challenge Short Films – Watch Now! Easterseals Disability Film Challenge (EDFC), an annual 5-day long contest open to filmmakers worldwide, prompts artists to collaborate on creating 1- to 5-minute films integrating story elements that acknowledge disability, making EDFC a platform for aspiring storytellers – with and without disabilities – to write, shoot, and edit short films showcasing disability in its many […] Read More all news Navigation About Us Grants What’s Happening Contact Us Subscribe to Newsletter Email The Golden Globe Foundation will store your name and email address and use them to send occasional newsletters. Withdraw consent by clicking on the link in an issue. Read our Privacy Policy for more details. Leave this field empty if you're human: © Golden Globe Foundation. Golden Globe(s)®, Cecil B. Demille® and Golden Globes® Statuette design mark are the registered trademarks and service marks and the Golden Globe® statuette the copyrighted property, of Golden Globes, LLC. Copyright © Golden Globes, LLC. Hollywood Foreign Press Association® is a registered trademark of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. All rights reserved. Cookie Settings Terms of Use Website Privacy Policy