The Morning After: Google Pixel 5a with 5G - Thurrott.com Upgrade to Premium Log In Home Windows 11 Windows 11 Feature Tracker (Premium) Windows 11 on Arm Copilot+ PC Windows 11 Field Guide (Premium) Programming Windows (Premium) Windows 10 Mobile Copilot+ PC Microsoft Surface Mac + macOS Chromebook + Chrome OS Laptop reviews + more hardware Android Google Pixel iPhone + iOS iPad + iPadOS Apple Vision Pro Cloud + AI A.I. Microsoft Copilot OpenAI Apple Intelligence Web browsers OneDrive Microsoft consumer services Google Microsoft 365 Microsoft Teams OneDrive Home Tech Digital media Smart home Wearables Apple Vision Pro Games PC gaming Xbox Series X Xbox Series S Sony PlayStation Nintendo Podcasts Windows Weekly Hands-On Windows First Ring Daily The Sams Report Paul What I Use Travel Paul’s articles Paul’s books Eternal Spring Mexico City Guidebook Windows 11 Field Guide Windows Everywhere Windows 10 Field Guide Premium From the Editor’s Desk Ask Paul What I Use Online Accounts (2025) Digital Decluttering Tech Nostalgia Windows 11 Feature Tracker Windows 11 Field Guide Software dev Modernizing .NETpad (2025) Modernizing .NETpad (2024) Programming Windows – History series Join Thurrott Premium Premium FAQ Forums Contact About Thurrott.com Upgrade to Premium Blog Uncategorized Post The Morning After: Google Pixel 5a with 5G Paul Thurrott Aug 27, 2021 16 As you might expect, I spent a lot of time with the Google Pixel 5a with 5G yesterday, getting it configured the way I want. And as you might likewise expect, I have some more observations. For those who missed it, Google announced the mid-range Pixel 5a with 5G 10 days ago , and despite being very interested in the premium Pixel 6 Pro that’s coming later this year , I ended up preordering one thanks to a trade-in that made doing so more affordable. It arrived yesterday . Windows Intelligence In Your Inbox Sign up for our new free newsletter to get three time-saving tips each Friday — and get free copies of Paul Thurrott's Windows 11 and Windows 10 Field Guides (normally $9.99) as a special welcome gift! " * " indicates required fields Email * Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ Photo taken with the Pixel 5a If you’re familiar with the way I typically do things, you know I always perform a clean install on any new device, be it a PC, smartphone, or what have you. But as I started down that first boot experience with the Pixel 5a with 5G, it occurred to me that this was a very minor upgrade over last year’s Pixel 4a with 5G, which I’ve been using since last November , and that I was simply swapping out the phones. So this time, for the first time in I don’t even remember how long, I stepped through the Pixel’s upgrade experience. The biggest change, when compared to the clean install I normally perform, is the “Copy apps & data” phase during setup. You’re prompted to connect your old phone to the Pixel 5a with 5G using the supplied USB-C cable and then you choose which content—apps, photos and videos, music and other audio, SMS messages, and so on—to copy over. I chose to copy it all. The copy process took about 15 minutes, I guess, and while I might argue that I could probably manually install most of the apps I need in that amount of time, there are other advantages to undergoing this. In addition to the obvious—important data like text messages and on-devices images—it recreates your home screen layout(s) as well. That bit is interesting because I’ve been using the Android 12 Beta on my previous phone, and there are some layout capabilities in that new OS that are not available in Android 11, which comes on the Pixel 5a with 5G. And I was using one of them: a 4×5 grid that I’m particularly fond of. What Google did with the Pixel 5a with 5G was choose a 5×5 grid instead. So the icons were all in the right place, but there was a “hole” in the leftmost column because I had no icons there on the old phone. That’s understandable, but I can’t upgrade to the Android 12 Beta because the Pixel 5a with 5G is not a supported device. (And perhaps it never will be since Android 12 should be finalized within just a few weeks, so I might have to wait for the final release.) Denied my 4×5 grid, I played around with a few other layouts and settled on a 4×4 grid instead. This leaves me icons where I want them, but it also makes them larger, like I have vision issues, and the result kind of reminds me of iPhone and iPad home screens. It’s temporary, I keep telling myself. The layout thing is just a personal preference, but there’s one more side-effect of my upgrade experience that I was a little surprised by. I saved time by not having to manually install my apps and by not having to add and remove icons from the home screen, yes. But I still needed to sign in to almost every single app manually, so the overall time savings wasn’t all that great. I spent the better part of an hour stepping through every app in All Apps and signing in or doing whatever else they required (some apps, like Bose Music, required me to manually connected to a peripheral over Bluetooth while others, like Hue, have other requirements). The other stumbling block, oddly, was the Google Pixel 5a (5G) Case I purchased to protect the phone. It only costs $29, which is sort of reasonable for this kind of thing, and it’s quite different from the horrible recycled material cases that Google provided for previous Pixel models. So I was curious. But this isn’t a minimalist case like the third-party case I’ve been using with the Pixel 4a with 5G . It adds a lot of additional heft to the device, and while I like that its exterior mimics the soft-touch feel of the phone itself, I’ll be looking for a thinner third-party replacement. And that’s not even the real problem. The real problem is that the case is far too tight and thus far too hard to add and then remove from the phone. I put the phone into the case before I added the Mint Mobile SIM, and I was literally worried I would physically damage the phone while trying to get the case off of it again. I’ve experienced this kind of thing before, of course, but this was the worst I’ve ever seen. Photo taken with the Pixel 5a The thing is, the most minimalist look and feel would be to not even use a case. And while this is something I’d considered with previous polycarbonate-based Pixels like the Pixel 3a XL and Pixel 4a with 5G, thanks to their durability, I never did so. And that’s because I’m always thinking down the road to when I’ll inevitably want to use that phone as a trade-in for some future purchase. Keeping the phone as pristine as possible is job one, especially when you’re paying for these devices with your own money, as I do. (Come on, Google. I exist. Seriously.) Photo taken with the Pixel 5a With the Pixel 5a with 5G, however, Google went with what it calls a “premium metal” unibody design instead of polycarbonate. I’ve heard that it’s just aluminum, like so many other handsets. But Google also opted to coat the exterior with a soft-touch finish that most likely gives it its Army green color and absolutely could be scratched off. In fact, this was an issue with last year’s Pixel 5, which I never bought for three reasons: it was too small, and too expensive, and its resin coating (I really like the color) was too easy to rub or scratch off. Given the Pixel’s history, it would be naïve to assume that the Pixel 5a with 5G won’t suffer from the same problem. So here we are. Speaking of problems, let’s digress a bit and discuss branding. Photo taken with the Pixel 5a When Google launched the Pixel 4a last year, there were some major differences when compared to the Pixel 3a family from 2019. First, Google delayed the launch from May to August because of the COVID-19 pandemic. And second, Google only provided a single Pixel 4a model, the smaller one. There was no XL model, as with all Pixel releases before then. Photo taken with the Pixel 5a Google later released the Pixel 4a with 5G, however, and this sort of fills the role of an XL version of the previous 4a, since it included a larger display, plus some other improvements, like 5G compatibility and a dual-lens camera system. Why Google didn’t just brand this thing as the Pixel 4a XL is unclear. But what is clear is that the phone went by multiple names in Google’s marketing, online store, and websites. Sometimes it’s called Pixel 4a (4G), for example, and sometimes it’s called the Pixel 4a with 5G. Photo taken with the Pixel 5a Flash forward to August 2021, and we see the same problem. But this time, the Pixel 5a with 5G identifies itself using three different names depending on where you look: Pixel 5a, Pixel 5a (5G), and Pixel 5a with 5G. Many won’t be bothered by this, and I see that many reviewers simply call it the Pixel 5a, which makes some sense since there are no other 5a derivates this year. But I will admit to a bit of aggravation when I connected the handset to my car this morning so I could listen to an audiobook on the way to the gym, and it identified itself as a Pixel 5a. Sigh. Ultrawide photo taken with the Pixel 5a As far as actually using the device goes, I have little to report. The biggest difference between this handset and its predecessor, at least so far, is the case, which makes it feel bigger and heftier. Well, that and the downgrade to Android 11, which I’m surprised to say is quite noticeable, but is also at least temporary. I have to slowly turn off app notifications as they annoy me—another thing that upgrade process might bring over from the older phone—and the camera experience seems identical, as it should. The photos are excellent, but I wish there was a telephoto/optical zoom functionality. (All of the images in this post, except for those of the phone itself, were taken with the Pixel 5a. As I guess we’re going to call it now. Photo taken with the Pixel 5a I can say that the battery life already appears to be excellent. I charged the Pixel 5a before configuring and using it yesterday, and then I used it a lot, including during a lengthy neighborhood block party (which was the source of some of these images). I then used it this morning on a dog walk, and at the gym. It got down to about 64 percent battery life in all that time. Not bad. More soon. Share post Please check our Community Guidelines before commenting Conversation 16 comments JacobTheDev Premium Member 27 August, 2021 - 2:11 pm <p>"and it’s quite different from the horrible recycle material cases that Google provided for previous Pixel models"</p><p><br></p><p>Funny, I actually prefer the recycled fabric cases! I was disappointed that they’re not offering one for the Pixel 5a, and I’m hoping they’ll still make one for the Pixel 6.</p> Log in to Reply Paul Thurrott Premium Member 27 August, 2021 - 3:55 pm <p>They actually hurt my hands when I hold them. I like the way they look. </p> Log in to Reply rmlounsbury Premium Member 27 August, 2021 - 2:22 pm <p>I had the same experience with the case. I put it on after realizing I didn’t swap my SIM and the new cases hold on with quite the death grip. </p><p><br></p><p>My time with the Pixel 5a was all but about 15 minutes though. After getting halfway through the setup I stopped and started the RMA process. The bigger issue which I had some concerns about was the size and heft of the 5a. I wanted a larger screen than the 5.7" of Pixel 4 but the 5a ended up being too big and bulky. The second issue being the relatively small field of view on the OLED panel which really bothered me.</p><p><br></p><p>The Pixel 4 wasn’t a long term option and after some deliberation I ended up with the Pixel 5. Slightly smaller and lighter that the Pixel 4, keeps the 90hz refresh, and doubles the battery. The only downside is the channel for Pixel 5 is already gone so I had to go the used market. Either way, important lesson learned for me on device size. The 6" screen is the sweet spot. </p> Log in to Reply sherlockholmes Premium Member 27 August, 2021 - 2:22 pm <p>The morning after? Did you sleep with your Pixel, Paul? 😉 </p> Log in to Reply ghostrider 28 August, 2021 - 6:09 am <p>So, the only things he can moan about really in this case is the 3rd party case he bought and the name – I take it everything else is ok then? This mid-range Pixel line seems to be maturing very well, and are now perfectly functional/nothing really bad phones that are <em>good enough</em> for the majority at a sensible price. I think Google have finally found their new Nexus!</p> Log in to Reply Paul Thurrott Premium Member 28 August, 2021 - 10:45 am <p>Moan about? Let’s be a bit nicer than that, please.</p> Log in to Reply winner 28 August, 2021 - 12:49 pm <p>Paul, do you notice the size difference between the 4a5g and the 5a5g very much?</p> Log in to Reply Paul Thurrott Premium Member 30 August, 2021 - 8:40 am <p>Yeah, but that’s partly because the case I’m using is so much heftier. The 5a is taller and thinner (side to side) but thicker and heavier. I do notice the weight difference without the case, but not so much the general size.</p> Log in to Reply phxmark 28 August, 2021 - 1:00 pm <p>I am expecting mine today and so glad I read this. Switching from a 3XL  using the 12 beta so I will not do the transfer thing and manually install my apps instead. And I do have the case from Google in my checkout from the Google store but will cancel that and look for a thinner third party case. Thanks for posting this. It was a huge help !</p> Log in to Reply troughley Premium Member 28 August, 2021 - 2:38 pm <p>I do enjoy these usability updates Paul, keep them coming! My Pixel 5a just showed up this morning and so far the size is definitely an improvement from the Pixel 4a [4G].</p> Log in to Reply Michael Rivers 28 August, 2021 - 11:55 pm <p>Huh. My case isn’t particularly tight. I have the grey one with the orange accents. There must be some variability in size.</p> Log in to Reply yoshi 30 August, 2021 - 9:33 am <p>I saw a few reviews that complained about the case as well. One person couldn’t even get the case to go on the phone. </p><p><br></p><p>Myself though, it’s nice and snug but I haven’t had difficulty taking the case on and off. I purchased the same color as you – Maybe Moon.</p> Log in to Reply jlmerrill 29 August, 2021 - 11:27 pm <p>I’ve heard that the 5A overheats when recording 4K video and will quit.</p> Log in to Reply Paul Thurrott Premium Member 30 August, 2021 - 8:39 am <p>Yeah, that’s not unique to this phone. The 4a with 5G had/has the same issue.</p> Log in to Reply bats 30 August, 2021 - 10:43 am <p>Every time Thurrott writes these "Morning After" posts, i can’t help but laugh. I picture Thurrott, in bed, naked under the sheets smoking a cigarette, with whatever phone, resting on a pillow, laying next to him. </p><p><br></p><p>I am happy with 3 XL, and the 5a with 5G doesn’t seem like it’s going to change my life for the better. Perhaps I’ll just wait for the PT to flirt with the Pixel 6 (XL). </p> Log in to Reply crunchyfrog 30 August, 2021 - 4:27 pm <p>I cancelled my order for this phone. The 4a I have is good enough for now and the Pixel 6 is about the size of a carton of milk so I’m passing on that too.</p> Log in to Reply About author Paul Thurrott Paul Thurrott is an award-winning technology journalist and blogger with 30 years of industry experience and the author of 30 books. He is the owner of Thurrott.com and the host of three tech podcasts: Windows Weekly with Leo Laporte and Richard Campbell, Hands-On Windows , and First Ring Daily with Brad Sams. He was formerly the senior technology analyst at Windows IT Pro and the creator of the SuperSite for Windows from 1999 to 2014 and the Major Domo of Thurrott.com while at BWW Media Group from 2015 to 2023. You can reach Paul via email , Twitter or Mastodon . View Articles Currently on Forums Visit the forums [CLOSED] Ask Paul for Friday, April 25 Posted by Paul Thurrott 9 comments Questions for 4/24 – closed Posted by Brad Sams 5 comments Moving over to the Framework in order to make me less dependent on the whims of Big Tech Posted by draconiscz 20 comments When will you be removing the “A BWW Media Group property” Tagline from the closing title screens? Posted by jonzey 3 comments Podcasts Podcast Hub First Ring Daily 1775: A Touch of Revenue Aired on April 25, 2025 by Brad Sams with 0 Comments The Sams Report: It’s a Chrome Game Aired on April 25, 2025 by Brad Sams with 1 Comment First Ring Daily 1774: Adobe’s Slow Start Aired on April 24, 2025 by Brad Sams with 0 Comments Windows Weekly 929: The Blue Screen of Soup Aired on April 24, 2025 by Paul Thurrott with 0 Comments Join the crowd where the love of tech is real - become a Thurrott Premium Member today! Explore Premium Benefits Windows Intelligence In Your Inbox Sign up for our new free newsletter to get three time-saving tips each Friday " * " indicates required fields Email * Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ © 2025 Thurrott LLC About Thurrott.com Contact help and support Email Paul RSS A Free Gift For You Get a completely free copy of Paul Thurrott’s knowledge-packed Windows 11 and Windows 10 Field Guides when you sign up for our new Windows Intelligence newsletter. Three fresh tips in your inbox each Friday: " * " indicates required fields Email * Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ X