Nintendo Switch 2: timeline of rumors and leaks | Tom's Guide Skip to main content Open menu Close menu Tom's Guide Tom's Guide Search Search Tom's Guide Sign in View Profile Sign out RSS Newsletters Newsletter US Edition Australia UK US Canada Best Picks Phones Streaming TVs Computing AI Mattresses Videos More Newsletter News Fitness Reviews How Tos Home Best VPN Deals Coupons Antivirus Entertainment Wellness Security Laptops Smart Home Audio Gaming Forums Trending Switch 2 Pre-Orders iPhone 17 Air Best laptops Best Mattress Best TVs Wordle Today Gaming Nintendo Nintendo Switch 2: timeline of rumors and leaks News By Scott Younker published 27 March 2025 From the OG Switch to the Sequel Comments ( 0 ) ( ) When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . (Image credit: Nintendo/YouTube) Jump to: 2017 2019 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 With the official launch of the Nintendo Switch 2 right around the corner, you may wonder how we got here and what rumors were correct. With that in mind, we tracked down every rumor that Tom's Guide has reported on and built a timeline of the history of the Switch 2 from the release of the original Switch in 2017 to the teaser video dropped in January 2025. Read on to see how the Switch 2 came to be via rumors and speculation. You may like Nintendo Switch 2 games — here’s the latest rumors and our predictions I played the Nintendo Switch 2 for two hours — here's what I like and what I don't 2017 - The original Switch launches (Image credit: Tom's Guide) After struggling to follow up the massive success of the Nintendo Wii with the foreshadowing Wii U, Nintendo officially launched the Switch in March of 2017. We described it in our review as a "fantastic console for all kinds of gamers, even if you're not a Nintendo fan." It's a console that many of us use regularly, several years into its lifespan . Its launch price was $299, a friendly price even compared to the PS4 and Xbox One, which were nearing the end of their cycles but still selling around $250. And significantly less than the PS5 and Xbox Series X that launched a few years later. Sign up to get the BEST of Tom's Guide direct to your inbox. Get instant access to breaking news, the hottest reviews, great deals and helpful tips. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. 2019 - A liter version (Image credit: Tom's Guide) Two years after the original Switch launched to great acclaim, Nintendo surprised us with a "lite" version of the console. The Nintendo Switch Lite released on September 20, 2019 for $199. Unlike the Switch, the Lite does not feature detachable Joy-Con controllers or the ability to connect to a TV via a dock or otherwise. It's solely meant for handheld play. It's still an excellent console , and its lower price makes for a great entry console. However, our Switch Lite review found it a little hard on those with bigger hands. At the same time, Nintendo also launched an updated regular Switch featuring a new Nvidia Tegra X1+ SoC, which is more efficient than the Tegra X1 that came with the OG Switch. It extended the battery life to between 4.5 and 9 hours. It was an interesting move since most other consoles don't get a new, slightly better version without other redesigned features, much like Sony 's PS5 Slim or PS5 Pro . This year was the first that we at Tom's Guide began to see rumors of a Nintendo Switch 2, though some of those were related to the mysterious Switch Mini (which turned out to be the Lite) and the first rumblings of the OLED Switch, which some thought were a sequel console. 2021 - OLED displays and a Pro (Image credit: Nintendo) The slightly higher-end OLED Switch launched on October 8, 2021, for $349.99. Beyond the new OLED display, it also features a slightly larger 7-inch screen. It's a nice upgrade for the Switch, though as we concluded in our Switch OLED review , "If you take it for what it is, the Switch OLED is a solid system, and an easy bet for gamers who haven’t taken the plunge on a Switch yet. But if you consider what it might have been, the Switch OLED may simply be a stopgap before Nintendo takes another big risk on another inventive idea." In 2019, we started to hear rumblings of a new Nintendo console dubbed the Nintendo Switch Pro . This leaked console in a bit of foreshadowing was supposed to be more powerful than the Switch, with an OLED display, a new Nvidia chipset, and 4K resolution. At this time, Nintendo denied it was working on a console and said that the Switch was about halfway through its lifecycle. 2022 - First hints of a sequel (Image credit: MHN1994 (Reddit)) After a year or so of Switch Pro rumors, we got our first real hints of the actual Switch 2. In March, Nvidia suffered a serious data breach that produced a number of insights into Nvidia hardware. Importantly, for Nintendo purposes, Nvidia DLSS source code revealed something called the "NVN2." The current Switch is dubbed "NVN" in the same database, meaning that Nvidia was working with Nintendo on some kind of sequel to the Switch. At the time, it was still speculatedthat this might refer to the rumored Switch Pro. That same year, a Nintendo Q&A session teased a future backwards compatible Nintendo console, though Nintendo didn't say anything more about its "next-gen device." 2023 - The rumor mill heats up While the idea of the Switch 2 was in the ether, it didn't really pick up steam until 2023 when the rumor mill really kicked into gear, helped along by Nintendo. To start the year, a UK governmental report seemed to reveal that Nintendo was working on a new console. If there is a hive full of rumor-mongers, this seemed to kick them into gear. In March of 2023, Nintendo of America President Doug Bowser was directly asked about a Switch follow-up. He demurred. "One of the things we look at always is how can we surprise and delight. How can we introduce new unique ways of playing. That´s always in front of our mind,” said Bowser. He couldn’t be drawn much further noting that he “should be careful about what I personally would like to see [in a new Switch].” Various rumors sprouted up, reporting that Switch 2 would launch in late 2023, possibly in 2024 or 2025. Nintendo officially squashed a 2023 release in May when president Shuntaro Furukawa insisted that Nintendo had no hardware releases planned for the year. In June, Ubisoft hinted that a Switch 2 is coming after poor game sales We did start to see some specs hinting at the features the Switch 2 could hold. Potential Specs March - An Nvidia Tegra 2 chip could power the Switch 2 August - Tipster claims the console will have a bigger LCD display and 512GB of storage, they also said Nintendo would keep using cartridges August - The Switch 2 might have a camera , possibly for VR December - DLSS 3 and ray tracing teased Back half of 2023 (Image credit: Nvidia) In August, we got our first suggestion of a price thanks to a reportedly unreliable tipster who reported a potential price of $399 , about $50 more than the Switch OLED. In one of the stranger rumors, a leaker dubbed Jonathan Bark claimed Nintendo would drop the Switch branding in favor of a new name, the Nintendo Focus . This one went nowhere, and most leakers stuck to the Switch 2. In September, a Eurogamer article suggested that Nintendo was showcasing the Switch 2 to developers at the annual Gamescom conference. This was apparently a tech demo, and that same month, a podcast detailed the Gamescom showing said that Nintendo's demo ran at 4K resolution with a 60 fps framerate. Huge numbers compared to the Switch, which runs Breath of the Wild closer to 720p and 30fps. In October, a n ew patent hinted at the slightly redesigned console, though patents can be both illuminating and misleading, as not everything patented always makesit into a final product. To wrap up the year, Doug Bowser returned to hint at a Switch transition. "Our goal is to minimize the dip you typically see in the last year of one cycle and the beginning of another," Bowser said. "I can't speak to the possible features of a new platform, but the Nintendo Account is a strong basis for having that communication as we make the transition." Another tease of the Switch 2, but not a definite confirmation, yet. 2024 - More rumors and first looks The year 2024 started with a flurry of rumors before calming down in the summer. A lull in the storm before the autumn dam broke with seemingly unending rumors. January to July 2024 (Image credit: Baidu Tieba via Reddit) The year kicked off with rumors that we would see the Switch 2 in March and that it might cost $400 , as claimed by an analyst who also said Switch 2 games would hit the $70 mark. In late January, a YouTuber claimed the Switch 2 would be powered by a Cortex processor, a surprise after months of leaks pointing to an Nvidia chip. They also briefly pointed to a potential second Switch 2 model they dubbed the Switch 2 Pro. February brought a return of Nvidia CPU rumors, plus contradictory reports that the Switch would either arrive in March or not until 2025. At the end of the month, a leak suggested a June reveal. March and April brought some quiet with only a few leaks. One in which it was claimed that Nintendo was purposely delaying the Switch 2 until "the right moment." There was also an absurd rumor we didn't believe, claiming the Switch sequel would be dubbed the Nintendo Attach — fortunately, this wasn't true. We did get our first hint of the magnetic rail system for the Joy-Cons in April, though the Spanish gaming site Vandal didn't have more details than that. May finally brought a real official "announcement" from Nintendo when president Furukawa said during a financial results call that a next-generation Switch will be announced "this fiscal year" — April to March, giving the company a March 31, 2025, deadline to announce something. And thenthe rumor mill appeared to fall asleep in June and July. August through December 2024 Hands on with Switch 2 Model - Let's talk about this...thing - YouTube Watch On We briefly got one of the first Dock rumors in August, suggesting that the new console needs a second cooler and a 60W charger. Much more powerful than the current 39W-rated charger. Plus, a new release window of April 2025. A massive leak hit in September when a Redditor claimed to have seen renders of the console, which revealed a larger device with a second USB-C port on the top of the console. We got our first hint that the new console would feature an 8-inch display. A peripheral maker went on a Spanish podcast that same month, claimed the Switch 2 was "done" and "ready" to go, suggesting a March or April 2025 launch with redesigned Joy-Con controllers. October took a break before Nintendo woke up in November. Furukawa spoke on an earnings call and reiterated that a new console would be revealed before the end of March 2025. He also announced that Nintendo Switch Online would be available on the "successor" console. They also confirmed that "Nintendo Switch software will also be playable on the successor to the Nintendo Switch" during a financial presentation. December had so many rumors that it was nearly impossible to catch everyone. We saw dummy units for the first time, more claims on the reveal date, more third-party accessories makers claiming to have seen the console, hands-on videos , discovered patents, and more leaks about the dock . Everything changed as the calendar flipped from 2024 to 2025. 2025 - Nintendo makes things official The rumors continued as the new year started, including a bold accessory maker showing off dummy units during CES 2025 in early January. That company ended up retracting its claims about the dummy units after Nintendo leaned on them. Nintendo also seemed to troll fans with a new product announcement that turned out to be the Alarmo clock . Finally, on January 16, Nintendo revealed the Switch 2 with a teaser trailer that showed off the new console. It answered a lot of questions and left us with many more. YouTube Watch On Nintendo promised that a future Nintendo Direct on April 2, 2025, would offer more details, including technical specifications, possible new games, and what the new C button does. Which left the rumor train rumbling down the tracks. Most of the rumors in February and March have focused on potential pricing for the new console. We've seen numbers everywhere from $299 to $499, most recently, analysts have stated that it will be closer to the $499 prices. Several rumors have focused on the release window, which is now speculated to be sometime in June. Technical details have been limited a bit. However, there has been more speculation about the Joy-Cons thanks to the rumor that the redesigned controllers might be able to act like a PC mouse. And that's where we stand as we wait for the April Nintendo Direct to illuminate more about Nintendo's next console. Back to Switch 2 launch hub More from Tom's Guide Xbox handheld reportedly arriving this year, new PC-like console in 2027 PS5 Pro review: The most powerful console ever comes at a steep price AI-powered PlayStation characters are being tested at Sony — what we know Today's best Switch Lite and  Switch OLED deals 399 Amazon customer reviews ☆ ☆ ☆ ☆ ☆ $199 View $199.99 View Paper Mario: The T... $276.45 View Show more We check over 250 million products every day for the best prices See more Gaming News Scott Younker Social Links Navigation West Coast Reporter Scott Younker is the West Coast Reporter at Tom’s Guide. He covers all the lastest tech news. He’s been involved in tech since 2011 at various outlets and is on an ongoing hunt to build the easiest to use home media system. When not writing about the latest devices, you are more than welcome to discuss board games or disc golf with him. You must confirm your public display name before commenting Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name. Logout Read more Nintendo Switch 2 games — here’s the latest rumors and our predictions I played the Nintendo Switch 2 for two hours — here's what I like and what I don't Nintendo Switch 2 — 7 biggest questions that need answers at Nintendo Direct April 2 Nintendo Direct live updates — Metroid Prime 4, Pokemon, and more announced Nintendo Switch 2 rumored specs — here’s what we know so far Nintendo Switch 2 pre-orders delayed — latest updates and everything we know right now Latest in Nintendo Nintendo Switch 2 pre-orders — 5 expert tips to help you score a console Nintendo Switch 2 pre-order listings are flooding eBay — how to tell which ones are scams Nintendo Switch 2 pre-orders live: retailers to check now and latest updates Nintendo can’t stop trying to drain my wallet — amiibo becomes latest Switch 2 accessory to get a price hike I track console restocks for a living — here’s my 6 essential Switch 2 pre-order tips Nintendo Switch 2 — GameStop reveals trade-in prices for your original Switch Latest in News ChatGPT was down — live updates on short outage This newly discovered iOS flaw could completely brick your iPhone with a single line of code CMF Phone 2 Pro is official — and it could be the budget phone of the year Bissell just launched its latest cordless stick vacuum — and it's perfectly timed for pet-shedding season Netflix just got a new Western thriller movie — and it's already crashed the top 10 Major Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge leak just tipped thinness, weight and key specs LATEST ARTICLES 1 This newly discovered iOS flaw could completely brick your iPhone with a single line of code 2 ChatGPT is down — live updates on significant outage 3 Saatva Classic vs Tempur-Pedic Tempur-Adapt Hybrid: Which luxury mattress should you buy? 4 CMF Phone 2 Pro is official — and it could be the budget phone of the year 5 Netflix just got a new Western thriller movie — and it's already crashed the top 10 Tom's Guide is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . Terms and conditions Contact Future's experts Privacy policy Cookies policy Accessibility Statement Advertise with us About us Archives Careers © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up