For the love of god give us an offline mode! :: Diablo® IV General Discussions Login Store Home Discovery Queue Wishlist Points Shop News Stats Community Home Discussions Workshop Market Broadcasts About Support Change language Get the Steam Mobile App View desktop website © Valve Corporation. All rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries. Privacy Policy | Legal | Steam Subscriber Agreement | Refunds STORE Home Discovery Queue Wishlist Points Shop News Stats COMMUNITY Home Discussions Workshop Market Broadcasts About SUPPORT Install Steam login | language 简体中文 (Simplified Chinese) 繁體中文 (Traditional Chinese) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) ไทย (Thai) Български (Bulgarian) Čeština (Czech) Dansk (Danish) Deutsch (German) Español - España (Spanish - Spain) Español - Latinoamérica (Spanish - Latin America) Ελληνικά (Greek) Français (French) Italiano (Italian) Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian) Magyar (Hungarian) Nederlands (Dutch) Norsk (Norwegian) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese - Portugal) Português - Brasil (Portuguese - Brazil) Română (Romanian) Русский (Russian) Suomi (Finnish) Svenska (Swedish) Türkçe (Turkish) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Українська (Ukrainian) Report a translation problem Store Page Diablo® IV All Discussions Screenshots Broadcasts Videos News Guides Reviews All Discussions Screenshots Broadcasts Videos News Guides Reviews Diablo® IV Store Page View Stats: Global Achievements Diablo® IV > General Discussions > Topic Details Ted View Profile View Posts Jun 2, 2024 @ 11:39am For the love of god give us an offline mode! Twice in the last hour or so the server has kicked me for no logical reason which means I lose all the dungeon progress up until that point. I play completely solo, I will never buy cosmetics or any other junk and forcing always online is of zero benefit to me as a customer. I am tired of losing progress because because I am forced to be always online < > Showing 1 - 15 of 16 comments potato View Profile View Posts Jun 2, 2024 @ 11:40am not gonna happen, it's basically an mmo, not even diablo 3 got offline and that wasn't live service #1 Ted View Profile View Posts Jun 2, 2024 @ 11:44am I play it as a solo game, I rarely see anyone since the game is still pretty dead and I block all social features and treat it as a single player game. There is absolutely no reason they cant do this, they choose not to for their benefit not ours #2 potato View Profile View Posts Jun 2, 2024 @ 11:46am Originally posted by Ted : I play it as a solo game, I rarely see anyone since the game is still pretty dead and I block all social features and treat it as a single player game. i see people everywhere just cause you're choosing to cut yourself off doesn't change facts #3 Ogami View Profile View Posts Jun 2, 2024 @ 12:04pm Originally posted by potato : not gonna happen, it's basically an mmo, not even diablo 3 got offline and that wasn't live service The funny thing is that on console Diablo 3 is perfectly playable 100% offline. One of the main reasons i actually prefer the Switch version over the PC one, no need for all that "persistent online" BS. #4 potato View Profile View Posts Jun 2, 2024 @ 12:05pm Originally posted by Ogami : The funny thing is that on console Diablo 3 is perfectly playable 100% offline. yea, that's because you have to pay for online on consoles #5 Ted View Profile View Posts Jun 2, 2024 @ 12:14pm Originally posted by Ogami : Originally posted by potato : not gonna happen, it's basically an mmo, not even diablo 3 got offline and that wasn't live service The funny thing is that on console Diablo 3 is perfectly playable 100% offline. One of the main reasons i actually prefer the Switch version over the PC one, no need for all that "persistent online" BS. They absolutely can make an offline mode, they just choose to force online in the hope of selling you the typical live service garbage microtransaction stuff some people are stupid enough to buy. They are never going to sell this stuff to a lot of us though, so always online is just an annoyance. #6 ⚜ Maître de Bredouille ⚜ View Profile View Posts Jun 2, 2024 @ 12:39pm A separated offline-mode like in D2R for normal and hardcore mode should actually be self-evident. But it was designed from the beginning as an online-only game with world-events, cross platforming, online-shop and "social interaction".  The proponents and the marketing people call this "modern gaming". If an offline-mode is not built in from the beginning, I think it will never be... I think that nowadays pure solo players or people with bad internet connection (e.g. in rural areas) are seen as a minority, which can be neglected...they complain, but this does not lead to a noticeable drop in sales of those games. Last edited by ⚜ Maître de Bredouille ⚜ ; Jun 2, 2024 @ 12:44pm #7 Ted View Profile View Posts Jun 2, 2024 @ 12:48pm I could sometimes forget I am not playing something exactly like D2R... until the server decides it just randomly wants to disconnect me. This is a decent game don't get me wrong but I prefer D2R simply because it can be played completely offline which avoids so much BS #8 ⚜ Maître de Bredouille ⚜ View Profile View Posts Jun 2, 2024 @ 1:09pm I can understand that. You're actually looking forward to a good product, but you're forced to buy a feature that you don't want and that can spoil your fun... #9 Ted View Profile View Posts Jun 2, 2024 @ 7:19pm Originally posted by The smile of the Guardian Lion : I can understand that. You're actually looking forward to a good product, but you're forced to buy a feature that you don't want and that can spoil your fun... Yeah you got it. The always online would be an annoyance but it is doubled by the fact the server has disconnected me for no reason many times since I bought the game, with means I lose a lot of progress pretty much every time. And for what reason?! Certainly not one that benefits me as a consumer #10 Super King Big Nutz View Profile View Posts Jun 2, 2024 @ 8:47pm Warhammer 40K Imquisitor was designed to be online only with events, seasons and such, yet recently got an offline mode that allowed you to opt out of said online activities. So it's not a matter of Blizzard not being able to provide an offline mode for this, just they flat out don't want to, a fact which is keeping me from buying this...I don't like being at the mercy of someone else's internet/server issues. #11 az4a3l View Profile View Posts Jun 2, 2024 @ 8:50pm Wait till its released on the switch... #12 Ted View Profile View Posts Jun 2, 2024 @ 9:12pm Originally posted by Super King Big Nutz : Warhammer 40K Imquisitor was designed to be online only with events, seasons and such, yet recently got an offline mode that allowed you to opt out of said online activities. So it's not a matter of Blizzard not being able to provide an offline mode for this, just they flat out don't want to, a fact which is keeping me from buying this...I don't like being at the mercy of someone else's internet/server issues. Absolutely correct, they CAN do this they just choose not to. But they will never get a single cent for microtransactions out of me and I am sure there are plenty of others just like us who only want to play offline. They would be better off to not have us taking up server bandwidth since we are clearly not playing this as an online game. It obviously is an issue they care about as they also kick you from the game if you AFK for too long and because I work from home and often have to drop the game immediately as work obviously takes priority, I get kicked if work stuff takes too long or I die as the always online nature means I cant really pause mid fight Originally posted by az4a3l : Wait till its released on the switch... Yea thank you for this but I may give that one a big miss :P Last edited by Ted ; Jun 2, 2024 @ 9:13pm #13 Knight View Profile View Posts Jun 3, 2024 @ 2:45am Originally posted by potato : not gonna happen, it's basically an mmo, not even diablo 3 got offline and that wasn't live service Right, because in this time new games are coming and will be more drawn than it was with Diablo in the past and today. When a new game comes out by surprise that is offline and is far superior than Diablo, then the devs will lose gamers. Diablo will be forgotten like a toiletpaper get flushed in the toilet. #14 pascal.martinez View Profile View Posts Jun 3, 2024 @ 3:37am Originally posted by Ted : Twice in the last hour or so the server has kicked me for no logical reason which means I lose all the dungeon progress up until that point. I play completely solo, I will never buy cosmetics or any other junk and forcing always online is of zero benefit to me as a customer. I am tired of losing progress because because I am forced to be always online Good morning, I play offline. I create my character and when I leave the game and want to get back into it...I no longer have the character created. Is this normal because I'm offline? #15 < > Showing 1 - 15 of 16 comments Per page: 15 30 50 Diablo® IV > General Discussions > Topic Details Date Posted: Jun 2, 2024 @ 11:39am Posts: 16 Discussions Rules and Guidelines Report this post REASON Note: This is ONLY to be used to report spam, advertising, and problematic (harassment, fighting, or rude) posts. © Valve Corporation. All rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries. Some geospatial data on this website is provided by geonames.org . Privacy Policy | Legal | Steam Subscriber Agreement | Cookies View mobile website