Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/AnimalCrossing A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to AnimalCrossing r/AnimalCrossing r/AnimalCrossing Welcome to the Animal Crossing subreddit! The subreddit dedicated to the Animal Crossing video game franchise by Nintendo.   Please make sure to read the rules before posting, thank you! Members Online • xaffable How To Transfer Island To A New User On The Same Switch New Horizons Hey everyone, first time posting here. If this has been discussed before, I did not find it. Backstory: My wife is a huge Animal Crossing fan and had been asking me to play it. We created a new user account and connected it to her Nintendo Switch Online profile on my Switch (she has her own) and I downloaded and started playing NH using it. I ended up really enjoying the game and decided to purchase it last night on the eshop under my profile after several hours and a few days of gameplay. I knew the island data could not be transferred to a different switch, but I figured I should be able to move it between users, right? Welp, everything I found online and Nintendo, despite finding a hopeful Reddit thread on r/NintendoSwitch that said they could delink a Nintendo account from a user account, said no. So today I prepped to delete my entire island and moved everything I could over to my wife's island. Right as I was about to delete it though, I found that you can actually transfer the save data between users! TL;DR: Played ACNH under wife's user account, decided to buy it my own, was told I couldn't transfer save data between users on the same switch, but then found a way to do it. HUGE NOTE: This will require the deletion of at least 1 user account. You will lose save data for other games associated with it. Backing up all other game save data to a Nintendo Online account is highly recommended for any profile you delete. Here's what you'll want to do: Create a 2nd villager, if you don't have one already, under another user account on the Switch (may not be necessary). Go to your Nintendo Switch User settings and delete the user account that is currently the Island Representative. Create a new user profile on the Switch. Start ACNH using the new user profile you created. You will get a screen that will look like this 6. Go through the steps to take over the existing Island Representative profile that is no longer connected to a User account. Make sure you pick up where you left off and not begin fresh (I forget the exact wording and unfortunately did not take screenshots of all the screens). TA-DA! You've just changed the user account connected to it. Now, if you don't want the villager you created in Step 1, you can launch the game as that user and delete it from within Animal Crossing. If you have a Nintendo Online account, you can now add it to the new user account to import your name, activity history, save data, and everything else connected to it. Please note if your Nintendo Online account is currently connected to another user (as it was in my case), you will need to delete that user account first. If a Nintendo Online account is being used and save data from other games is backed up, the end result is you having the Island Representative villager transferred over to your user account (even though you technically created a new one). I hope this helps someone. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 13, 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2020 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics