Elon Musk blurs the line between his government and business roles | Georgia Public Broadcasting Skip to main content Close menu Live Menu Close Watch Toggle sub-navigation Featured Specials and Programs All Creatures Great and Small Antiques Roadshow PBS News Hour Miss Scarlet & The Duke Finding Your Roots Doc Martin All Programs GPB Originals Georgia Legends Lawmakers A Fork in the Road View Finders Georgia Outdoors Your Fantastic Mind GPB Originals Browse by Genre Arts & Music Culture Drama Food History News & Public Affairs TV Schedule GPB Programs PBS Passport TV Highlights this Week PBS KIDS Ways to Watch Newsletters Contact GPB Listen Toggle sub-navigation Featured Programs The Daily Morning Edition All Things Considered Serendipity John Lemley's City Cafe Fresh Air Here and Now Code Switch/Life Kit Wait Wait... Don't Tell Me! All Programs Podcasts GA Today Salvation South Battleground: Ballot Box Football Fridays in Georgia Narrative Edge Peach Jam Podcast A Fork in the Road Radio Schedule GPB Classical Radio Programs Podcasts GPB News Find Your Station Ways to Listen Contact GPB Newsletters Learn Toggle sub-navigation Featured Chemistry Matters Classroom Conversations Podcast GASHA Go! World Georgia Farmcraft® Georgia Classroom Georgia Studies Collection Econ Express Let’s Go Enviro Let's Learn GA! Lights, Camera, Budget! Live Explorations Physics in Motion School Stories Virtual Field Trips VR in the Classroom Writers Contest For Kids & Teachers GPB Games PBS KIDS PBS LearningMedia on Twitter on Facebook on Email News Toggle sub-navigation Featured Programs & Series Lawmakers Lawmakers: Beyond the Dome 1A Battleground: Ballot Box GA Today Podcast Storycorps Narrative Edge More GPB News Politics Georgia News Justice Arts & Life Health All GPB News Radio Schedule Radio Stations GPB Apps Podcasts Contact GPB News Follow Us on Apple News Newsletters Sports Toggle sub-navigation GHSA Sports Football Basketball Cheerleading On Demand GPB Sports Blog All Sports High School Football Scores & Schedule On Demand Teams Rankings Brackets Heads Up Georgia Football Home GPB Sports App GPB Sports Blog GPB Sports OnDemand Events Toggle sub-navigation Browse by Type Community Donor Kids & Family Screenings All Events Browse by Category Education News Sports Television Sign up to receive GPB Event announcements via Email. Sign up on Twitter on Facebook on Instagram Kids & Families Toggle sub-navigation For Kids Video Games For Parents & Caregivers Kids & Families Blog Kids & Families Events GPB KIDS - Ways to Watch Support Us Toggle sub-navigation Support GPB Ways to Give Planned Giving Sustainers GPB Passport Leadership Giving Corporate Sponsorship Vehicle Donations GPB Next Matching Gifts Search Show search Search Hide search Close Passport Donate Search Listen Live Watch Live GPB Newsletter CTA Sign Up For Our Newsletter News Topics Georgia National Politics Lawmakers Elections Don't Miss Don't Miss: Support GPB Today New Podcast: Manufacturing Danger: The BioLab Story TV Highlights This Week Messages Banner Image Section Branding Header Content Tagged as: News Politics Elon Musk blurs the line between his government and business roles February 22, 2025 1:20 PM | Updated: February 22, 2025 7:30 PM By: Tamara Keith Share this page Share this page on Twitter Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Email Share this page on Print Primary Content play pause Listen Listening... / Caption Elon Musk holds a chainsaw that was gifted to him at the Conservative Political Action Conference at the Gaylord National Resort Hotel And Convention Center on Thursday in Oxon Hill, Md. / Getty Images President Trump was speaking at a Saudi investment conference in Miami on Wednesday when he gave a shout-out to billionaire tech titan Elon Musk, seated with other business leaders and dignitaries in the audience. "He's been making a bit of news lately, very positive news," Trump said, urging Musk to stand for applause. It wasn't clear whether Musk was there in his role as the leader of DOGE — a project to slash the federal government — or as the man behind X, SpaceX, xAI and Starlink. Musk is a "special government employee," a role created by Congress in the 1960s that allows parts of the federal government to bring someone on for a specific role, on a temporary basis. With this classification, Musk doesn't have to divest from his businesses, but he is supposed to follow conflict-of-interest laws and recuse himself when necessary. Ethics experts say that by continuing to run his businesses while also working for the government, Musk is blurring the lines between his roles in a way that could hurt the public trust. Musk and the White House say they will avoid conflicts of interest. World leaders meet with Musk As members of Musk's DOGE team are continuing their march through government agencies looking for waste, Musk himself seems to be everywhere, often at Trump's side but also making solo appearances, as he did Thursday at the Conservative Political Action Conference outside of Washington, D.C. Musk was a surprise guest on the main stage. And as part of his introduction, the president of Argentina, Javier Milei, presented him with a red and chrome chainsaw. "President Milei has a gift for me," Musk said as music pumped in the room. Then Musk waved the chainsaw around excitedly, shouting, "This is the chainsaw for bureaucracy!" Taking a chainsaw to bureaucracy is what Musk claims to be doing with his project known as the Department of Government Efficiency. Video posted on X shows Musk and Milei sitting in front of U.S. and Argentinian flags to pose for a more formal photo, suggesting they met before Musk went out on stage. Last week, when Musk met with Narendra Modi, the prime minister of India, there were questions about whether he was there as a member of the Trump administration or as the CEO of Tesla, which is looking to expand into India. Musk brought three of his children to the meeting, which was attended by aides to the prime minister. The setup looked much like a bilateral meeting between leaders; there were U.S. and Indian flags set up behind them as Musk presented Modi with a gift. In India, news presenters excitedly speculated about the reasons for their meeting. Modi, asked about it later in a press conference at the White House, said he and Musk go way back. A White House official not authorized to speak about the matter publicly told NPR that Musk met with Modi in his personal capacity and not as a special government employee. Later, though, Musk was in the Oval Office for Trump's meeting with Modi. A press release from the prime minister's office highlighted Musk's roles as "head of the U.S. Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) and CEO of Tesla." "Prime Minister and Mr. Musk discussed strengthening collaboration between Indian and US entities in innovation, space exploration, artificial intelligence, and sustainable development. Their discussion also touched on opportunities to deepen cooperation in emerging technologies, entrepreneurship and good governance," read the press release. Changing hats "by the hour" In frequent posts on his social media site X, Musk ping-pongs between talking about his work slashing the government and promoting his business ventures, many of which have government contracts or are regulated by federal agencies. On Friday, Musk celebrated the Trump administration Department of Justice dropping a lawsuit against SpaceX. "He's basically a walking conflict of interest," said Richard Briffault, who specializes in government ethics at Columbia Law School. Briffault is not alone in raising alarms about Musk's large business holdings creating a conflict with his work in the government. "Musk seems to be in a position with the White House's consent that he can just change hats by the hour as it suits him," said Don Fox, who was the top lawyer at the Office of Government Ethics during the George W. Bush and Obama administrations. Fox said there's little indication the normal process to avoid conflicts is being followed. For high-level government employees, including those like Musk, that generally involves filing a financial disclosure report and coming to an ethics agreement with the Office of Government Ethics to identify potential conflicts and commit to a plan for avoiding them. The White House says Musk will file a confidential disclosure of his financial interests by the end of next month and has been briefed on ethics requirements. Typically those disclosures are required within 30 days of starting work. "The thing the public should be concerned about is, we don't know," said Fox. "Is he looking after our interests as taxpayers and citizens, or is he looking after his own business interests?" Caption President Trump is joined by Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk, and his son, X Musk, during an executive order signing in the Oval Office at the White House on Feb. 11. / Getty Images In an interview with Sean Hannity that aired Tuesday on Fox News, Trump and Musk downplayed the risk. Musk said he had never asked Trump for anything "ever." Musk said if a conflict arose, he would recuse himself. Trump chimed in, "If there's a conflict, you won't be involved. I mean, I wouldn't want that. And he won't want it." The White House didn't provide any examples of Musk recusing himself thus far. All these questions about Musk come as Trump just fired the Biden-appointed and Senate-confirmed director of the office of Government Ethics, who was only a couple of months into a five-year term. Other watchdogs have also been fired across the government. "Whatever the guardrails are there in terms of preventing public officials from engaging in self-dealing, enforcement seems to be gone," said Briffault. The nature of his leadership With Musk's role, it's almost impossible for anyone on the outside to see what he's actually doing. Because Musk is working out of the Executive Office of the President, there are no requirements for public disclosure. Musk, however, insists his work is transparent, as he posts on social media regularly about contracts DOGE claims to have canceled. In a recent court filing challenging the project's work, the Justice Department claimed that Musk is not an employee of the U.S. DOGE Service and is not the U.S. DOGE Service administrator. Instead, it asserted that Musk is an employee in the White House office and functions as a senior adviser to the president. That description is at odds with the way both Trump and Musk have described his job and the work of DOGE. John Yoo, a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley, said the idea of bringing in an outside expert or, say, a family member to advise the president has happened many times before. It was even litigated, back when then-first lady Hillary Clinton was leading health care reform efforts for her husband's administration. Conservatives sued to block that effort and ultimately failed, with the district court in D.C. determining that Clinton could proceed. "The real rule is to make sure that Hillary Clinton in 1993 or Elon Musk in 2025, all they're doing is giving advice," said Yoo of the ruling from the early 1990s. He was a clerk in the D.C. circuit court at the time and said he remembers it well. "As long as they have no power to order anyone to do anything, it stays on the legal side of the line." Yoo, who was a top Justice Department lawyer in the George W. Bush administration, said this is the legal line the White House is trying to walk with Musk, who to any outside observer presents as a powerful figure in Trump's administration. "And this is why the White House produced that funny declaration where they kind of said Elon Musk has no power," Yoo said. This lack of clarity about Musk's authority makes the ethical waters particularly murky, according to Stephen Gillers, an emeritus professor of legal ethics at New York University. "The hole we're in is the product of two facts: We'll never know, probably never know ... exactly what he's up to," said Gillers. "[And] even if we knew everything he was up to, there's nothing we can do about it." The White House official dismissed the criticisms as partisan, saying there is no concern in the White House about whether Musk will follow strict ethics rules. Tags : doge Elon Musk Bottom Content Donate Support Quality Journalism GPB is committed to bringing you comprehensive news coverage from Georgia, across the country and around the world.  Your support makes this possible.  Please consider making a gift today to support this vital public service. Support GPB Newsletter Signup Sign Up For Our Newsletters Connect with GPB Connect with GPB on Facebook Connect with GPB on Instagram Connect with GPB on Twitter Connect with GPB on YouTube Connect with GPB on Apple News Footer Footer First Nav (Main Menu) Watch Listen Learn News Sports Events Kids & Families Support Us Search Footer Second Nav Menu Help Center About GPB Contact Us Closed Captioning Directions Studio Production Program Submissions Footer Third Nav Menu Support Us Careers Accessibility FCC Public Files Drawing Rules News Media Request Open Records and Document Retention Policy Privacy Policy Georgia Public Broadcasting 260 14th St. NW Atlanta , GA 30318 United States (404) 685-2400 In Atlanta (800) 222-4788 Outside Atlanta ask@gpb.org Newsletter Signup Sign Up For Our Newsletters Connect with GPB Connect with GPB on Facebook Connect with GPB on Instagram Connect with GPB on Twitter Connect with GPB on YouTube Connect with GPB on Apple News © Copyright 2025, Georgia Public Broadcasting. All Rights Reserved. Georgia Public Radio® GPTV®