Google Pixel 5A review: Snappy performance, familiar design - CNET X Your Guide To a Better Future Trending AI Tech VPN Streaming Services Mobile Home Entertainment Computing Services & Software Gaming All Tech Money Banking Credit Cards Mortgages Home Equity Taxes All Money Home Energy Electric Vehicles Home Security Smart Home Kitchen & Household Yard & Outdoors All Home Wellness Sleep Nutrition Fitness Personal Care All Wellness Home Internet Broadband By Location Internet Routers All Home Internet Deals Tech Home Wellness Gift Guides All Deals Gift Guide Cover Stories More Video Price Finder Editors' Choice CNET Perspectives All More Back Today's Highlights 01 AI Essentials: 27 Ways to Make Gen AI Work for You 02 This Modest Gadget Is the New Superhero of the Energy-Efficient Home 03 How to Prepare for a Recession: 5 Money Rules Experts Recommend 04 Switch 2 Hands-On: Is It Worth the Upgrade? My First Impressions 05 Boost Your Protein Intake Without Overhauling Your Meals -- Here's How 06 Nintendo Switch 2 Preorder Guide 07 Is Buying a Home Cheaper in a Recession? Today's Top 6 Housing Market Questions 08 Hybrid Meat Is All the Rage. Here's What It Is and Why It's Worth Trying 09 Tariffs Explained: What It All Means for You AI ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now Wellness 9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep 10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More 7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood Back Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it. Explore all Best VPN Deals Best Gifts Under $300 Apple Deals iPad MacBook AirPods iPhone TV & Audio Deals TV Roku Sonos Streaming Gaming Deals Xbox PS5 Nintendo Switch Gaming PCs Back Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank. Explore all Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals Best Amazon Deals Smart Home Deals Smart Home Home Security Robot Vacuum Smart Thermostat Equipment Deals Portable ACs Generators Electric Lawnmowers Air Purifiers Kitchen Deals Coffee Makers Keurig Air Fryers Back Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings. Explore all Best Mattress Deals Fitness Gifts Fitness Deals & Gifts Fitbit Garmin Meal Delivery Kit Glasses and Contacts Back Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion. Explore all 100 Days of Holiday DIY Father's Day Gifts Under $100 Under $50 Hottest Toys Online Flower Delivery Services Gaming Tweens Available on Amazon People Who Already Have It All Gift Baskets Back Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives. Explore all My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds How Good Are EVs in the Cold? I Drove in the Arctic to Find Out Meet the AI Fraud Fighters: A Deepfake Granny, Digital Bots and a YouTube Star Inside the Rise of 7,000 Starlink Satellites – and Their Inevitable Downfall Big TVs Are the Next Frontier, but It's a Complicated Picture Sleep Isn't Cheap. Still, You Don't Have to Break the Bank Back AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas. Explore all Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? ChatGPT Glossary: 42 AI Terms That Everyone Should Know AI News Samsung's Galaxy AI Update Google Gemini on the iPhone Hidden AI Features Available on Your iPhone Right Now Microsoft Is Testing an AI Chatbot for Xbox AI Products ChatGPT Google Gemini Microsoft Copilot Dall-E AI Guides Prompt Engineering What is an LLM? AI vs. AGI: What You Need to Know How to Get Started with ChatGPT Back Gift Guide Our gifting experts are obsessively searching for holiday gifts that are unique, thoughtful and suitable for any budget. Explore all Best Tech Gifts 30 of the Best Tech Gifts Under $100 for 2025 Best Gifts for Gamers in 2025 Best Travel Tech Gifts: Must-Haves for the Journey and the Destination Gifts For Kids Best Toys for Kids in 2025 34 Best Gifts for Teens in 2025 60+ Best Star Wars Gifts for 2025 Gifts for Everyone The 20 Best Gift Baskets of 2025: Find the Perfect Edible Gift Best Gifts Available on Amazon: From $10 to $250 32 Unique Gifts for People Who Have Everything Back VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy. Explore all Best VPN Best iPhone VPN Best Mac VPN Best VPNs Free Amazon Fire Stick Android Mobile Windows Streaming VPN Reviews ExpressVPN Surfshark NordVPN NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN Back Streaming Services News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming. Explore all Best Live Streaming Services Best Streaming Services Best Streaming Device Best Streaming Services Music Free TV Youtube TV vs. Hulu Live Anime 4K Netflix Alternatives Streaming Services for Kids Streaming Service Reviews YouTube TV Hulu Plus Live TV Netflix Max Back Mobile We deliver the best buying advice, news and how-to content on the coolest tech available. Explore all Best Phones Best Over Ear Headphones Best Phone Plans Best Phones iPhone Android Cheap Samsung Best Headphones Noise Cancelling Headphones Headphones Wireless Earbuds Budget Earbuds Best Phone Plans Family Prepaid Cheap Unlimited Data Back Home Entertainment We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies. Explore all Best TV Best Record Player Best Soundbar For Your Home Theater Home Theater Systems Projectors 4K Projectors AV Receiver Best of TVs 55-inch 65-inch 75-inch 85-Inch Budget Smart Best for Streaming Streaming Device Fire TV Stick Roku Back Computing What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it. Explore all Best Laptop Best Gaming PC Best Monitors Best Laptops Macbook Budget Chromebook HP Gaming 2-in-1 Windows Best Tablets Best Overall E-ink Tablet iPad Apple iPad 9th Gen Review Back Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day. Explore all Best Antivirus Best Password Manager Best Web Hosting Best Apps Language Learning Weather iPad Drawing Food Delivery Best Web Hosting Wordpress Cheap Minecraft Server VPS Software Reviews Hostinger Ionos GoDaddy A2 Software Downloads Download.com Back Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming. Explore all Best Quest 3 Games Best VR Headset Best Graphics Card Virtual Reality Best Meta Quest 2 Accessories Best Quest 2 Head Strap Meta Quest 2 Review The Best PSVR Games Console Gaming Best Nintendo Switch Multiplayer Games Best M2 SSD for PS5 Best PSVR 2 Games Steam Deck OLED Review Gaming Accessories Best Nintendo Switch Controller Best Meta Quest 2 Accessories Best Quest 2 Head Strap Best Gaming Chair Back Banking From high-yield savings accounts to no-fee checking accounts, CNET helps you get the most out of your bank accounts. Explore all Best Budgeting Apps Best 5% Savings Accounts CD & Saving Rates CD Rates Saving Accounts 5% Savings Accounts High-Yield Savings Accounts Budgeting Apps Budgeting Apps Rocket Money Pocketsmith YNAB Cleo Back Credit Cards From building your credit score to choosing the best credit card, CNET's experts are there every step of the way. Explore all Best Debit Cards for Kids and Teens Best Prepaid Debit Cards Reviews Prime Visa Chase Sapphire Preferred Chase Sapphire Reserve Chase Freedom Unlimited American Express Gold Blue Cash Everyday from Amex Reward Guides Chase Ultimate Rewards Guide Amex Points Guide How to Maximize Cash Back Back Mortgages From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about mortgages. Explore all Current Mortgage Rates Current Refinance Rates Mortgage Rates Compare Mortgage Rates 30-Year Rates FHA Mortgage Lenders Mortgage Rate Predictions Refinance Rates Compare Refinance Rates 15-Year 30-Year Refinancing Guide Back Home Equity From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about home equity. Explore all Best Home Equity Rates Best HELOC Rates Home Equity Lender Reviews Best Home Equity Loan Lenders LoanDepot Rocket Mortgage Figure Home Equity Bank Reviews Chase Bank of America U.S. Bank Citizens Home Equity Credit Union Reviews Golden 1 Credit Union Bethpage Federal Credit Union Credit Union of Texas Alliant Credit Union Back Mortgages & Home Equity From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about mortgages. Explore all Current Mortgage Rates Current Refinance Rates Mortgage Rates Compare Mortgage Rates 30-Year Rates FHA Mortgage Lenders Mortgage Rate Predictions Refinance Rates Compare Refinance Rates 15-Year 30-Year Refinancing Guide Home Equity Home Equity Loan Rates HELOC Rates Home Equity Lenders HELOC Lenders Back Taxes Everything you need to navigate tax season and get your biggest refund. Explore all Best Tax Software How to File Your Taxes for Free Best Tax Software Online Tax Software Free Tax Filing Self-Employed Taxes Tax Software Reviews TurboTax H&R Block Cash App Taxes TaxSlayer FreeTaxUSA TaxAct Jackson Hewitt IRA Direct File Back Identity Theft Keep your identity and personal data safe with expert-vetted ID theft protection services. ID Theft Services ID Theft Protection Aura LifeLock IdentityForce Zander Identity Guard IDShield Identity IQ Experian Identity Back Broadband Our experts can help you get online fast with helpful advice and tested, frequently-updated reviews of routers and internet service providers. Explore all Best Internet Speed Tests How to Keep Your Internet During a Power Outage Best Internet Providers Best Overall High-Speed Satellite Fiber Best Internet Deals Internet Deals Overall Cheap Internet Providers Internet and TV Bundles Internet Deals For Seniors Internet Provider Reviews Starlink Verizon 5G Spectrum AT&T Air T-Mobile 5G Xfinity Back By Location These are our top internet picks based on where you are in the United States. Explore all Best Internet Providers in Your Area Low Cost Internet Guide for All 50 States East Region New York City, NY Charlotte, NC New Jersey Atlanta, GA Central Region Chicago, IL Dallas, TX St Louis, MO Houston, TX West Region Los Angeles, CA Seattle, WA San Francisco, CA Denver, CO Back Internet Routers CNET experts unpack everything you need to know about internet routers. Explore all How to Reset Your Router The 3 Questions to Ask Before Changing Your Router Our Top Picks for Routers Best Overall Mesh Wi-Fi Router Systems Gaming Routers Wi-Fi Extenders Mesh Wi-Fi Router Reviews Eero 6 Plus Nest Wifi Pro TP-Link Deco XE75 Netgear Orbi AX6000 Router Comparisons Nest Wifi vs Google Wifi Eero 6 Plus vs Eero Pro 6E Nest Wifi Pro vs Eero Pro 6E Nest Wifi vs Nest Wifi Pro Back Energy We help you balance cost savings and comfort at home 24/7. Explore all Best Portable Power Stations Best Solar Generators Best Alkaline Batteries Best in Solar Power Batteries Panels Inverters Portable Solar Panels Solar Equipment Reviews SolarEdge Battery Tesla Solar Roof Tesla Powerwall 3 Tesla Solar Panels Home Energy Systems Tank Water Heaters vs. Tankless Water Heaters Heat Pump vs. Furnace Heat Pump vs. Air Conditioner Battery vs. Generator Back Electric Vehicles Expert guidance on the future of transportation Explore all 2025 Audi Q6, SQ6 E-Tron: Audi's Newest EV Is Its Most Compelling The 2024 EV Tax Credit: Save Big on These Vehicles Best EVs Electric Cars Most Affordable Electric SUVs Plug-In Hybrids EV Charging Best EV Charger Home EV Charging Explained Free and Easy EV Charging Options News and Guides The 2024 EV Tax Credit Guide The Nicest Charging Station I've Visited States Banning Gas Powered Cars Are Electric Vehicles Good for Our Planet? Back Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure. Explore all Best Home Security Camera Best Video Doorbell Cameras Best Outdoor Home Security Cameras Best Security Systems Homes DIY Cheap Apartments Best Security Cameras Without a Subscription Indoor Security Cameras Wireless Solar-Powered Best Security Products Ring Video Doorbells Nanny Cams Smoke Detector Smart Locks Back Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you. Explore all Smart Thermostats Smart Plugs Best in Smart Home Outdoor Smart Plugs Smart Hubs & Displays Smart Devices Smart Lights Smart Speakers Back Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly. Explore all Best Cordless Vacuums Best Robot Vacuum Best Air Purifiers Best in Vacuums & Appliances Vacuum Cleaners Robot Vacuums Dishwashers Dehumidifiers Tower Fans Refrigerators Best in Office Needs Office Chairs Standing Desks Surge Protectors Best in Cooking Needs Air Fryers Toaster Ovens Bread Machines Microwaves Back Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp. Explore all Best Grills Best Fire Pits Best Patio Heaters Best Grills Portable Grills Gas Grills Pellet Grills Charcoal Grills Kamado Grills Grilling Tools & Accessories Best Equipment for Home Leaf Blowers Electric Lawn Mowers Pressure Washers Coolers Cordless Drill Back Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night. Explore all Best Mattress Best Firm Mattress Best Queen Size Mattress Mattress Reviews Purple Helix Layla Nectar Beautyrest Saatva DreamCloud Best Mattresses Memory Foam King-Size Hybrid Organic Soft Firm Adjustable Side Sleepers Hotel Best Sleep Products Earplugs for Sleeping Cooling Comforters Sleep Headphones Heated Blankets Back Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy. Explore all Best Meal Delivery Services Best Vitamins and Supplements Best Vitamins & Supplements Multivitamins Vitamins for Healthy Hair, Skin and Nails Vitamins for Energy Creatine Supplements Best Meal Kits Meat Keto Cheapest Healthy Vegan Meal Kit Reviews HelloFresh Hungryroot Grocery Fresh N Lean EveryPlate Back Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need. Explore all Best Treadmills Best Ellipticals Best Exercise Bikes Best Fitness Equipment Peloton Alternatives Rowing Machines Home Exercise Equipment Smart Home Gyms Best Fitness Accessories Massage Guns Smart Scale Chest Strap Heart-Rate Monitors Compression Socks Best Virtual Fitness Weightlifting Shoes YouTube Channels for Free Workouts Workout Apps for Women Fitness Apps Tonal Smart Home Gym Review Back Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean. Explore all Best Places to Buy Glasses Online Best Places to Buy Contact Lenses Online Best Electric Toothbrushes Best in Eyewear Places to Buy Replacement Prescription Lenses Online Reading Glasses Blue-Light-Blocking Glasses Prescription Sunglasses Best in Dental Care Invisible Braces Options Teeth-Whitening Strips Teeth Whitening Kits Best In Skincare Facial Sunscreens Vitamin C Serums Mineral Sunscreens Reef-Safe Sunscreens Brands You Should Try Back Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world. Explore all Back Price Finder CNET Shopping helps you get the best prices on your favorite products. Get promo codes and discounts with a single click. Explore all Back Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend. Explore all 2024 Winners Money & Health Tools AI, Smart Home & Future Tech Subscription Services EVs, Energy Tech & Solar Services Phones, Earbuds, Laptops, TVs & More Back CNET Perspectives CNET Perspectives is a select group of creators, experts and thought leaders sharing first-person perspectives about our changing world. Explore all Tech Mobile Google Pixel 5A review: Snappy performance, familiar design Google's newest Pixel phone is solid and affordable at $449, even if the 5G support leaves plenty of hanging questions. Article updated on August 19, 2021 at 7:00 AM PDT Our Experts Written by Eli Blumenthal Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement Eli Blumenthal Former Senior Editor Eli Blumenthal was a senior editor at CNET covering the latest in the ever-changing worlds of telecom, streaming and sports. He previously worked as a technology reporter at USA Today. Expertise 5G | Mobile networks | Wireless carriers | Phones | Tablets | Streaming devices | Streaming platforms | Mobile | Console gaming See full bio Why You Can Trust CNET 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25+ Years of Experience 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 10,000 11,000 12,000 13,000 14,000 15,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space How we test CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise. 8.5 / 10 SCORE Pixel 5A with 5G Buy at Google Store Pros Nice screen Speedy performance IP67 water-resistant Affordable price Cons No wireless charging 5G support in the US is unclear Table of Contents Google Pixel 5A review: Snappy performance, familiar design Snappy performance, familiar design Impact of the chip shortage 5G… with a catch Pixel 5A 5G specs Update, July 21, 2022: Google has since replaced the Pixel 5A with 5G with the Pixel 6A. You can read our full Pixel 6A review for the latest model. Last year's review of the Pixel 5A with 5G continues unchanged below. Google's $449 Pixel 5A with 5G is the second major Pixel announcement this year, hot on the heels of the Pixel 6 teaser earlier this month . It features a Qualcomm Snapdragon 765G processor that powers a 6.34-inch OLED display. The phone also has IP67 water- and dust-resistance. So while Google's highest-end Pixel 6 and 6 Pro phones will include the new in-house Tensor chip, the 5A (as I'll call it from now on) will have more in common with last year's Pixel 4A 5G . For Pixel fans with deeper pockets, the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro's chip and redesign could be exciting, but this Pixel likely will be shooting for a more budget-conscious crowd. For the value, it's hard to not like what Google has done with the Pixel 5A. The only real thing holding it back is Google's inability to commit to supporting upcoming 5G networks that are set to start coming online in a few months. If you're looking for a cheaper Pixel, you won't have to wait for the Pixel 6's release date sometime this fall, as the 5A will be released on Aug. 26 and can be bought in the US carrier-unlocked directly from Google or with Google Fi. The phone will also be available in Japan. (While it's not coming to the UK or Australia, the price converts to roughly £320 or AU$630.) I've spent the past few days with Google's new phone. While it feels like a worthy successor to the Pixel 4A 5G so far, here's what you'll want to keep in mind if you want a cheaper 5G Pixel or Android phone on a budget . Snappy performance, familiar design The 5A's chip is the same as the one used in last year's 4A 5G: the Qualcomm Snapdragon 765G processor. The similarities don't end there, as both phones also have 6GB of RAM and 128GB of storage. They each have similar front and rear cameras with a hole punch for the front camera, and both have a fingerprint reader on the back and a 3.5mm headphone jack on top. Sarah Tew/CNET The camera system is nearly identical to last year's Pixel 4A with 5G (and the Pixel 5). It has the same lenses and all the same features, including a portrait mode, Night Sight and an ultrawide lens. In my week with the phone, the cameras proved versatile and more than capable of taking crisp photos during the day and at night. For more on the Pixel's cameras, see our Pixel 5 review last year. Enlarge Image In daylight, the Pixel 5A does a nice job capturing details and colors. Eli Blumenthal/CNET Enlarge Image Night Sight isn't the sharpest but it remains an impressive -- and capable -- feature for a $449 phone. Eli Blumenthal/CNET The differences begin with a larger 6.34-inch OLED display with a 20:9 aspect ratio that's similar to the Galaxy S21 . That's compared to a 6.2-inch display on the 4A 5G at a 19.5:9 aspect ratio, which we've seen on devices such as the Pixel 5 and iPhone 12. The 5A is running Android 11 in my tests, but if past Pixel trends hold true the phone will likely be among the first to get Android 12 . The new OS will include the new Material You design, refreshed notifications and even more customizable options that could be exclusive to the Pixel series . Watching videos on YouTube, Netflix or Disney Plus worked fine. Games on Stadia or Xbox Game Pass also played well, though some (particularly those on Xbox) were letterboxed and wouldn't play in full screen. I encountered a similar issue with YouTube TV (though not the regular YouTube app). The Pixel 5A letterboxes certain apps like YouTube TV. Eli Blumenthal/CNET Performance, however, was solid and it was certainly playable with a good internet connection. More intensive localized games such as Call of Duty: Mobile also worked largely as expected. The stereo speakers, however, lack clarity. While they can get loud they aren't as full or rich at maximum volume as other devices. The phone's IP67-rated water and dust resistance should help withstand the elements and features a significantly larger battery (4,620 mAh compared to 3,800 mAh) that can be fast-charged using the included 18-watt USB-C wall charger. The Pixel's fast charging wasn't particularly speedy in my tests, going from empty to 21% in 20 minutes and needing around 47 minutes to hit 50%. The OnePlus Nord 2 can go from zero to 70% in an hour using its 30-watt fast charger. Getting up to a nearly full charge took around two hours on the Pixel. I do like that the battery indicator in the notification tray continues to show how much battery you have left, as opposed to a vague percentage. Google claims the battery should be able to run a full day, and from my limited testing these few days the phone seems to hold up to that estimate even after I was taxing it with gaming, video watching, hotspotting and photo taking. Impact of the chip shortage The global chip shortage appears to have affected the Pixel line's tradition of offering a bounty of colors, with the 5A just coming in "mostly black" (which to me looked a little green in certain light). Brian Rakowski, vice president of product management at Google, told reporters that this was a result of "supply chain challenges." "It's an industry-wide shortage," he said, noting that the limited chips available has also meant limiting the places Google will sell the 5A as opposed to offering a wide distribution through a variety of carriers and retailers. Sarah Tew/CNET "We definitely could not get as many chips as we wanted for this." As with last year's Pixel 4A 5G, there's no wireless charging on this new model. Google also appears to have dropped the "spectral and flicker sensor," which could impact taking pictures or videos of screens or shooting under artificial lighting like fluorescent lights. (These changes may not necessarily be related to the chip shortage.) The good news is that the 5A keeps most of Google's Pixel software features , including call screening for fighting robocalls, car crash detection and a recorder app that can transcribe in real time, as well as photography features like Night Sight for improved images in low light. Google is promising three years of Android software and security updates in addition to the feature updates it has routinely offered for Pixel phones. Sarah Tew/CNET 5G… with a catch 5G support is indeed part of this cheaper Pixel, but the details of that support get complicated. You should be able to connect to low-band 5G networks from T-Mobile, AT&T and Verizon. But whereas last year's Pixel 5 included support for higher-frequency millimeter-wave 5G networks, the 5A does not. This means faster speeds, from what Verizon calls Ultra Wideband and what AT&T calls 5G Plus, won't be supported. For a midrange phone this isn't a deal-breaker, but it isn't ideal. Since Google Fi runs on T-Mobile's network, it works fine on that carrier's low-band as well as its faster midband 5G offering, which it calls Ultra Capacity 5G. Looking into 5G's future, the 5A's support will be even more complicated. The phone's support of 5G networks running on the C-band is unclear. This is wireless spectrum that Verizon, AT&T and T-Mobile spent billions on earlier this year. For Verizon and AT&T, that should provide a significant speed boost beyond just a handful of city blocks. The first of these networks from AT&T and Verizon should arrive later this year, with Verizon stating earlier this year that this C-band network will allow it to offer peak download speeds of 1 gigabit per second . The Pixel 5, ironically, was announced as one of the first phones to support Verizon's C-band network . Google Pixel 5A with 5G refines the budget Android phone +27 More See all photos On a hardware level, the 5A should support these forthcoming networks as it has the proper band support inside (what's known as band N77 or N78). The issue is that Google won't commit to updating the software on the Pixel 5A with 5G to enable it. "The hardware is capable but there hasn't been a lot of deployment yet in the US so the software work would still need to be done," Rakowski said. "We don't have any plans to announce on that front." When pressed, Rakowski added that Google will "stay in touch with the carriers and evaluate" future support but added that "we're not going to commit, we're not going to make a statement now about future support for what might come in an update." We already know that more people are holding onto devices for longer , so the lack of support from Google for this upcoming network upgrade -- especially when the physical hardware supports it -- is concerning. If you're with T-Mobile or a carrier that runs on its network (like Google Fi) you have less to worry about when it comes to accessing a speedy midband 5G network. As for prospective buyers who have AT&T or Verizon, that lack of future support could muddy what's otherwise a solid $449 phone. Pixel 5A 5G specs Pixel 5A 5G Pixel 4A 5G Pixel 3A Display size, resolution 6.34-inch OLED, 2,400x1,080 pixels 6.2-inch OLED, 2,340x1,080 pixels 5.6-inch OLED, 2,220x1,080 pixels Pixel density 413ppi 413ppi 441ppi Dimensions 156x73x8.8mm 154x74x8.2mm (Sub-6 only); 154x74x8.5 mm (mmWave + Sub-6) 151x70x8.2mm Weight 6.45 oz; 183g 5.93 oz; 168g (Sub-6 only); 6.03 oz; 171g (mmWave + Sub-6) 5.19 oz; 147g Software Android 11 Android 11 Android 9.0 Camera 16-megapixel (ultrawide), 12-megapixel (dual pixel) 12.2-megapixel (standard), 16-megapixel (ultrawide) 12.2-megapixel Front camera 8-megapixel 8-megapixel 8-megapixel Video 4K 4K 4K Chipsets Snapdragon 765G (processing power chip), Titan M chipset (security chip) Snapdragon 765G 2GHz octa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 670 Storage 128GB 128GB 64GB RAM 6GB 6GB 4GB Headphone Jack Yes Yes No Battery 4,620 mAh 3,800 mAh 3,000 mAh Special features 5G, IP67 water resistance, dual SIM (nano-SIM and e-SIM), stereo speakers, 18W fast charging 5G, dual-SIM (nano-SIM and e-SIM), fast charging AR in Google Maps, time-lapse video shooting Price (USD) $449 $499 $399 Mobile Guides Phones Best iPhone Best Galaxy S24 Deals Best Phone Best iPhone Deals Samsung Galaxy S24 Review Best Android Phones Best Samsung Galaxy Phone Pixel 8 Pro Review iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review Best iPhone 15 Deals Foldable Phones Best Foldable Phones Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review OnePlus Open Review Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals Headphones Best Wireless Earbuds Best Noise Canceling Headphones Best Headphones Best Over Ear Headphones Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls Best Headphones for Work at Home Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds Best Wireless Headphones Mobile Accessories Best iPhone 15 Cases Best iPhone 14 Cases Best Power Bank for iPhone Best Airpods Pro Accessories Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories Best Speakerphone Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount Best iPhone Fast Charger Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android Smartwatches Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7 Best Apple Watch Bands Best Android Smartwatch Apple Watch Ultra Review Best Smartwatch Wireless Plans Best Prepaid Phone Plans Best Cheap Phone Plans Best Unlimited Data Plans Best Phone Plans Best Phone Plan Deals Best Senior Phone Plans Best Family Phone Plans Best Travel Phone Plans Best Verizon Plans ELI BLUMENTHAL Former Senior Editor Eli Blumenthal was a senior editor at CNET covering the latest in the ever-changing worlds of telecom, streaming and sports. He previously worked as a technology reporter at USA Today. See full bio Your guide to a better future Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Coupons Videos Software Downloads About CNET Press Room Newsletters Licensing Sitemap Careers Accessibility Cookie Settings Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information instagram youtube tiktok facebook x flipboard US France Germany Japan Korea © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company.   All rights reserved.