Samson Acquires Southern Furniture | Home Accents Today Skip to content Select Region or Brand Business Charleston, SC Colorado Columbia, SC Greenville, SC Idaho Pennsylvania Lehigh Valley, PA Long Island, NY Mecklenburg, NC Minnesota New Jersey New Orleans, LA Oklahoma City, OK Rochester, NY South Carolina Color Magazine Legal Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Missouri New York North Carolina Rhode Island South Carolina Virginia Wisconsin Construction Milwaukee, WI Oregon Home Furnishings Designers Today Furniture Today Gifts & Decorative Accessories Home Accents Today Home Furnishings News Home Textiles Today Pet Age Manage Account Wed, April 30 2025 Events Markets Galleries Trends Edit Invites Press Releases Professional Announcements BTM Business Connect Behind The Deal Submissions Advertise Advertising & Marketing Tips Advertise Eguide Media Kit Editorial and Special Products Calendar Issues Home Accents Today Furniture Lighting & Decor Free Newsletter Subscribe News Furniture Lighting & Decor Reader Rankings Industry News Retail People Industry Insights Retail Sales Business News Markets Best of the Best of Market Voting Edit Invites Market News High Point Atlanta Las Vegas Dallas Styles/Trends Edit Invites Trends Lamps Lighting Rugs Home Decor eResources Videos Photos Buyers Guide Research Store Advertise Advertise Advertising & Marketing Tips Media Kit Editorial and Special Products Calendar Press Releases Professional Announcements BTM Business Connect Behind The Deal Submissions Contributor Content Events Designer Experience Reader Rankings Retailer Excellence Awards Trailblazers & Titans Furniture Today Leadership Category: Furniture Lighting & Decor - date_display: Samson Acquires Southern Furniture Furniture Lighting & Decor Staff // October 1, 2019 Home > Furniture Lighting & Decor > Samson Acquires Southern Furniture Samson Acquires Southern Furniture Furniture Lighting & Decor Staff // October 1, 2019 Samson Holding (0531.HK) has acquired Southern Furniture, a 96-year-old custom upholstery manufacturer based in Conover, NC, to support its Universal Furniture brand . The acquisition reflects Samson’s global investments in vertical manufacturing to support its supply chain and diversified customer base around the world. Southern Furniture will be operated by, and eventually assimilated into, the Universal brand. “Launched only three years ago, Universal’s current married cover-to-frame upholstery program, produced in our Asia facility, has become a significant percentage of our overall business, and continues to be the fastest growing segment of our business,” said Universal Furniture President and CEO Jeff Scheffer . “The acquisition of Southern Furniture affords us the ability to accept special orders, further enhancing our whole home value proposition,” added Scheffer. “Southern Furniture represents a good strategic fit for Universal. Both companies share an alignment in product line, price point and quality,” said Samson Holding Chairman Samuel Kuo. “We feel confident that Universal is extremely well positioned to continue serving our existing customers and our employees,” said Jerome Bolick, former CEO of Southern Furniture. “They are in good hands.” Samson is a wholly owned subsidiary of Samson Holding Ltd. currently headquartered in Dongguan, Guangdong, China, with subsidiaries in the U.S., U.K., France, China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Samson Holding is listed on the Main Board of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and generates annual revenues in excess of $450 million. Samson is one of the leading wholesalers in the U.S. residential furniture industry. It produces and sells a wide range of furniture under its own brands including Baker Interiors Group, Universal Furniture, Legacy Classic Furniture , Craftmaster Furniture, Grand Manor Furniture, Lacquer Craft Hospitality, Samson International and licensing programs such as Paula Deen, Coastal Living, Rachel Ray and Wendy Bellissimo. In addition to producing its own brand’s products, the company’s manufacturing division in China, under the name of Lacquer Craft Mfg., is a supplier of choice for many leading furniture brands and private label retailers in North America and the rest of the world. Universal Furniture creates quality furnishings for the whole home with a focus on function and lifestyle. The company’s casegood, upholstery, accent and accessory designs are developed under the brand names Universal Furniture (Lifestyle Collections), To The Trade (Interior Design) and Spaces (Millennial and Youth), and sold through retailers and interior designers throughout North America and around the world. Founded in 1968, Universal Furniture is a brand of Samson Holdings, one of the world’s largest vertically integrated furniture manufacturers. Share this! Related Content DreamFit Hires Sleep Industry Veteran as New President Sleep industry veteran Chealen Martin has been named Pres[...] December 11, 2024 ISFD Brings Innovation+Design Competition to Pinnacles The International Society of Furniture Designers is addin[...] December 9, 2024 Progess Lighting Unveils Its Winter 2025 Collection Ahead of Lightovation Progress Lighting will showcase its new Winter 2025 Colle[...] December 9, 2024 RW Collective Announces New Holiday Decor Collection RW Collective is introducing a new holiday decor collecti[...] December 9, 2024 Las Vegas Market Announces Influencer Program for January The first three (A) List Influencers in Las Vegas Market'[...] December 9, 2024 Kuzco Promotes Two Execs into Vice President Roles Kuzco Group has announced the promotion of two exceptiona[...] December 9, 2024 Home Accents Today Daily Signup for your daily digest of industry news and trends. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy News Furniture Lighting & Decor Industry News Retail People Industry Insights Retail Sales Reader Rankings Sponsored Content Markets Edit Invites Market News High Point Atlanta Las Vegas Dallas Styles/Trends Edit Invites Trends Lamps Lighting Rugs Home Decor eResources HAT Digital Issues Furniture Lighting & Decor Issues Videos Photos Buyers Guide Research Store Issues Advertise Media Kit Events Markets Galleries Trends Edit Invites Press Releases Professional Announcements BTM Business Connect Behind The Deal Submissions Advertise Advertising & Marketing Tips Advertise Eguide Media Kit Editorial and Special Products Calendar Issues Home Accents Today Furniture Lighting & Decor ABOUT Home Accents Today covers the major domestic home furnishings and gift markets, providing retailers, interior designers, manufacturers and distributors with the most comprehensive “first look” at trends, new products and best practices. CONTACT About Us Contact Us About BridgeTower Media Advertise Accessibility Statement Media Kit CONNECT NEWSLETTER Sign up to get exclusive industry information delivered to your inbox. NETWORK Furniture Today Designers Today Gifts & Decorative Acc. HFN Home Textiles Today Pet Age © 2025 BridgeTower Media. All rights reserved. Use of this website is subject to its Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Your California Privacy Rights/Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info/Cookie Policy We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settings ACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT PHP Code Snippets Powered By : XYZScripts.com