Tesla (TSLA) releases Q1 2023 results: Meets expectations, impresses with gross margin | Electrek Skip to main content Toggle main menu Electrek Logo Go to the Electrek home page Switch site 9to5Mac Logo 9to5Mac 9to5Google Logo 9to5Google 9to5Toys Drone DJ Logo DroneDJ Space Explored About Privacy Toggle social menu Toggle dark mode Search for: Submit Toggle search form Exclusives Autos Electric Vehicle Price Guide – best prices for dealers in the US Tesla Ford GM BMW Jaguar VW Daimler/Mercedes Hyundai Nissan Toyota Alt. Transport Ebikes Electric Motorcycles Bus Hyperloop Autonomy Tesla Autopilot Cruise Automation Uber Waymo Energy Green Energy Climate Tesla Shop Store Toggle dark mode Tesla TSLA - Tesla Stock Price Tesla (TSLA) releases Q1 2023 results: Meets expectations, impresses with gross margin Fred Lambert | Apr 19 2023 - 1:05 pm PT 51 Comments Tesla (TSLA) released its financial results and shareholders letter for the first quarter of 2023 after market close today. We are updating this post with all the details from the financial results, shareholders’ letter, and the conference call later tonight. Refresh for the latest information. Tesla Q1 2023 earnings expectations As we reported in our Tesla Q1 2023 earnings preview earlier today, the Wall Street consensus for this quarter was $23.617 billion in revenue and earnings of $0.85 per share . It’s a harder quarter to predict for Wall Street due to the significant price cuts that Tesla implemented during the quarter. Advertisement - scroll for more content We will be looking to see if Tesla meets, beats, or misses the expectations. Tesla Q1 2023 financial results Just after the market close today, Tesla released its financial results and confirmed that it managed to meet expectations $0.85 per shar e (non-GAAP) on earnings and missed on revenue by about $300 million. Tesla reported $23.3 billion in revenue in Q1 2023, down ~$300 million from Wall Street’s expectations, but it did meet earnings expectations. The biggest news is likely the fact that the company managed to retain industry-leading 19.3% gross margins on its automotive business despite the price cuts earlier this quarter. Tesla explained its pricing strategy in the shareholder letter: Our near-term pricing strategy considers a long-term view on per vehicle profitability given the potential lifetime value of a Tesla vehicle through autonomy, supercharging, connectivity and service. We expect that our product pricing will continue to evolve, upwards or downwards, depending on a number of factors. Top comment by jon s. Liked by 10 people Mercedes Benz Group ADR has about the same gross margin. View all comments The automaker added about its gross margin: Although we implemented price reductions on many vehicle models across regions in the first quarter, our operating margins reduced at a manageable rate. We expect ongoing cost reduction of our vehicles, including improved production efficiency at our newest factories and lower logistics costs, and remain focused on operating leverage as we scale. We will be posting our follow-up posts here about the earnings and conference call to expand on the most important points (refresh the page to see the most recent posts): Tesla gives Cybertruck update, shares new pictures of production, and more Elon Musk announces timing for Tesla Cybertruck delivery event Tesla reports massive increase in energy storage deployment thanks to Megafactory Tesla says price drops are long-term thinking, but it’s really about demand Here’s Tesla’s Q1 2023 shareholder presentation in full: e826b065-cc14-467c-8c9c-e1feb7189ba8 Download Here’s Tesla’s conference call for the Q1 results: Add Electrek to your Google News feed. FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More. Stay up to date with the latest content by subscribing to Electrek on Google News .  You’re reading Electrek— experts who break news about Tesla , electric vehicles, and green energy , day after day. Be sure to check out our homepage for all the latest news, and follow Electrek on Twitter , Facebook , and LinkedIn to stay in the loop. Don’t know where to start? Check out our YouTube channel for the latest reviews. Featured from Electrek Electrek Logo Tesla insider buys stock for the first time in years and it’s hilarious Fred Lambert Apr 29 2025 Here are the cheapest EVs we could find for lease at under $300/month right now [Updated] Peter Johnson Apr 29 2025 The first giant 15 MW turbine is up at Germany’s largest offshore wind farm Michelle Lewis Apr 28 2025 Tesla gives update on Tesla Semi factory, says on track for volume production in 2026 Fred Lambert Apr 28 2025 Subscribe to Electrek on YouTube for exclusive videos and subscribe to the podcast . Comments Expand Close comments Expand Close comments Guides Tesla Tesla is a transportation and energy company. It… TSLA stock Author Fred Lambert fredericlambert Fred is the Editor in Chief and Main Writer at Electrek. You can send tips on Twitter (DMs open) or via email: fred@9to5mac.com Through Zalkon.com, you can check out Fred’s portfolio and get monthly green stock investment ideas. Fred Lambert's favorite gear Combat Edge Get an edge on MMA with the best stats EnergySage EnergySage helps you get the best price possible on a home solar installation for free and without hassel.