Microsoft’s AR glasses aren’t cutting it with US soldiers, says leaked report | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI More Expand The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Menu Expand Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health COVID-19 Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters Command Line Installer Notepad Verge Deals Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Microsoft’s AR glasses aren’t cutting it with US soldiers, says leaked report Comments Drawer Tech / AR Microsoft’s AR glasses aren’t cutting it with US soldiers, says leaked report The reports cite a number of shortcomings with the technology, with one tester reportedly claiming: ‘The devices would have gotten us killed.’ The reports cite a number of shortcomings with the technology, with one tester reportedly claiming: ‘The devices would have gotten us killed.’ by James Vincent Oct 13, 2022, 11:48 AM UTC Link Facebook Threads Microsoft’s AR goggles are intended to provide soldiers with live information via a head-up display. Image: US Army James Vincent is a senior reporter who has covered AI, robotics, and more for eight years at The Verge. Microsoft’s augmented reality Hololens goggles are getting a rough ride in tests by the US Army, according to internal military evaluations seen by Bloomberg and Insider . Soldiers testing the headsets have complained about their “mission-affecting physical impairments,” and say that wearing the goggles can cause headaches, nausea, and eyestrain. Acceptance of the tech “remains low,” says a summary prepared for Army and Defense Department officials and seen by Bloomberg , with soldiers complaining that the headsets don’t “contribute to their ability to complete their mission.” One testimony reported by Insider was even blunter. “The devices would have gotten us killed,” said the tester — referring to the light emitted by the goggles’ head-up display, which could alert enemy troops to the wearer’s presence. Despite criticisms, the Army says the tests are so far considered to be a success Although these reports highlight shortcomings with the tech, they also point to tangible improvements, such as the hardware’s reliability. A spokesperson for the Army told Insider that tests of the goggles — known as the Integrated Visual Augmentation System, or IVAS — were so far considered to be a success. “The emerging results indicate that the program achieved success in most of the Army evaluation criteria,” Brigadier General Christopher D. Schneider told Insider in a press statement. “However, the results also identified areas where IVAS fell short and needs additional improvements, which the Army will address.” Microsoft won a series of contracts potentially worth tens of billions of dollars to supply the US Army with its AR glasses. The contracts have been seen as validation not only of Microsoft’s augmented reality strategy, but of the feasibility of the AR tech in general. The goggles are intended to provide soldiers with live information on navigation and commands via a head-up display, as well as offer thermal and night-vision views. Earlier this year, a Senate committee cut $350 million of the Army’s $400 million procurement request to buy more units from Microsoft, stating that members were “concerned that IVAS continues to face software, hardware and user-acceptance challenges that the Army has not sufficiently addressed.” However, the Army is still pushing ahead with the project, and started taking delivery of a first batch of 5,000 goggles in September this year. See More : AR Microsoft News Policy Tech Most Popular Most Popular Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now New Starlink subscription drops hardware price to $0 Duolingo will replace contract workers with AI Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck The DJI Phantom is no more Installer A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in AR Meta is laying off employees in Reality Labs Here’s more of what you’ll see through Meta’s $1,000 smart glasses Snap’s AR Spectacles now support a virtual keyboard and GPS Everything we know about Apple’s Vision Pro The Vision Pro is getting easier to share with guests, and adding a new iPhone app The Vision Pro NBA app turns some games into a miniature 3D diorama Meta is laying off employees in Reality Labs Alex Heath Apr 24 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Here’s more of what you’ll see through Meta’s $1,000 smart glasses Umar Shakir Apr 1 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Snap’s AR Spectacles now support a virtual keyboard and GPS Andrew Liszewski Mar 17 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Everything we know about Apple’s Vision Pro Verge Staff Apr 13 Comments Comment Icon Bubble The Vision Pro is getting easier to share with guests, and adding a new iPhone app Wes Davis Feb 21 Comments Comment Icon Bubble The Vision Pro NBA app turns some games into a miniature 3D diorama Wes Davis Feb 15 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Apr 29 Whatever happened to the Kids Online Safety Act? Apr 29 MAGA’s next wave of influencers saved TikTok Apr 29 Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Apr 29 Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck Apr 29 Starlink’s got company — and orbital overcrowding is a disaster waiting to happen Apr 29 Meta’s ChatGPT competitor shows how your friends use AI The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved