‘It’s hard to describe scoring the winner in the World Cup final. The ball came to me, I controlled it, and time stopped. It was like slow motion. I heard silence’: Andres Iniesta recalls scoring winner for Spain against the Netherlands in 2010 | FourFourTwo Skip to main content Open menu Close menu FourFourTwo FOOTBALL NEWS, FEATURES, QUIZZES Search Search FourFourTwo Sign in View Profile Sign out Subscribe US Edition UK Australia US Canada 대한민국 Türkiye Soccer Cleat Buying Guides Newsletter News Video Features Quizzes Clubs More Interviews Features The Magazine Archive Subscribe Lists How to watch About FourFourTwo Magazine Why subscribe? Fascinating feature articles, covering everything from grass-roots football to the international scene 'ACCESS ALL AREAS' pass to exclusive interviews with the biggest and best names in the game! From $29.99 View Trending WATCH the UCL Transfers Interviews Messi Ronaldo EPL News ‘It’s hard to describe scoring the winner in the World Cup final. The ball came to me, I controlled it, and time stopped. It was like slow motion. I heard silence’: Andres Iniesta recalls scoring winner for Spain against the Netherlands in 2010 By Ryan Dabbs Contributions from Dani Gil published 8 March 2025 Andres Iniesta describes what it felt like to score the winning goal in the 2010 World Cup final for Spain against the Netherlands When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . Iniesta celebrates scoring in the World Cup final Andres Iniesta has reflected on what it feels like to score the winning goal in the World Cup final, after bagging against the Netherlands in Johannesburg for Spain in 2010. With the game in the final minutes of extra-time after Spain and the Netherlands had endured a difficult stalemate in the regular 90 minutes, the 2010 World Cup final looked destined for a penalty shootout. Andres Iniesta , though, had other ideas, smashing the ball into the bottom corner of Maarten Stekelenburg's goal after finding space in the Netherlands box and being played through by Cesc Fabregas . In doing so, the Barcelona midfielder won Spain their first-ever World Cup trophy, though the tournament itself didn't go plain-sailing. You may like ‘The second leg at Chelsea will stay with me forever. Luckily, the ball went to the one spot where Petr Cech couldn’t reach it, which was almost miraculous’: Barcelona legend explains 2009 Champions League stunner at Stamford Bridge ‘I have bittersweet memories of beating Arsenal in 2006. Being on the bench in Paris really hurt, as in my view it wasn’t fair, but I didn’t let it bring me down’: Barcelona legend reflects on first Champions League victory Andres Iniesta reflects on what it felt like to score in the 2010 World Cup final Iniesta fires into the bottom corner (Image credit: Getty Images) "At the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, we lost our opening match," Iniesta exclusively tells FourFourTwo . "Afterwards, the message wasn’t exactly ‘stay calm’, because when you lose your first game at a World Cup, the rest of the group stage is played under added pressure. But we felt that we’d actually played well against Switzerland . "If we’d played that game 10 times, we would have won nine, so all we could do was keep trying, not doubt ourselves, and trust that we had the team to move forward. That’s what happened, and we progressed all the way to the final." Iniesta with the World Cup trophy (Image credit: Getty Images) Indeed, that first match defeat against Switzerland certainly piled the pressure on Spain, with Gelson Fernandes scoring the game's only goal. Iniesta and his team-mates managed to recover in their next two group games, against Honduras and Chile, to progress to the last 16, where they beat Portugal 1-0. In fact, that same 1-0 scoreline saw Spain reach the final in South Africa, with Paraguay and Germany - and, eventually, the Netherlands - all felled by a solitary goal. Get FourFourTwo Newsletter The best features, fun and footballing quizzes, straight to your inbox every week. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. "It was a tough and uncomfortable final," Iniesta - who ranked at no.15 in FourFourTwo 's list of the greatest players of all time - reflects. "Rarely do those kinds of matches turn out to be open and entertaining. The Netherlands changed their style of play because of the opponent they were facing. They played aggressively, they showed us a lot of respect. The match was intense. "Then in extra-time, I scored the winner. It’s hard to put that feeling into words. The ball came to me from Cesc Fabregas, I controlled it, and time stopped. It was like a slow-motion action. I heard silence. Why? I don’t know. Iniesta holds up the World Cup trophy (Image credit: Alamy) "I suppose the experience and responsibility from so many years at the elite level taught me to face high-pressure situations like that more calmly. Maybe someone else wouldn’t have even controlled the ball. That was the moment for Spain’s history to change with that World Cup." With that goal, Iniesta etched his name into the history books, and sat either side of two European Championship titles. TOPICS Andrés Iniesta Barcelona Spain World Cup World Cup 2010 Ryan Dabbs Social Links Navigation Staff writer Ryan is a staff writer for FourFourTwo, joining the team full-time in October 2022. He first joined Future in December 2020, working across FourFourTwo, Golf Monthly, Rugby World and Advnture's websites, before eventually earning himself a position with FourFourTwo permanently. After graduating from Cardiff University with a degree in Journalism and Communications, Ryan earned a NCTJ qualification to further develop as a writer while a Trainee News Writer at Future. With contributions from Dani Gil Read more ‘The second leg at Chelsea will stay with me forever. Luckily, the ball went to the one spot where Petr Cech couldn’t reach it, which was almost miraculous’: Barcelona legend explains 2009 Champions League stunner at Stamford Bridge ‘I have bittersweet memories of beating Arsenal in 2006. Being on the bench in Paris really hurt, as in my view it wasn’t fair, but I didn’t let it bring me down’: Barcelona legend reflects on first Champions League victory ‘Brazil didn’t panic against England in 2002 – their style of play made it easier to defend, even with 10 men, and we held on without too much fear of losing’: Selecao star reveals confidence during World Cup quarter-final ‘When we saw Sergio Busquets exaggerating, we felt a great injustice had been done. It made us mentally strong. We gave everything, we left our souls on the pitch’: Javier Zanetti on Inter Milan and Barcelona’s 2010 Champions League classic Quiz! Can you get 100% in our World Cup 2010 quiz? ‘There was a time when it was said Xavi and I were incompatible – we proved the opposite. Our connection grew organically, without forcing anything’: Barcelona legend Andres Iniesta recalls early criticism when playing alongside team-mate Latest in Stories Kevin De Bruyne could be forced to play for Manchester City after his contract expires: here's why 'Liam Delap is gonna have, I would say, the best part of 10 to 12 big boy teams looking at him. Not only looking at him, wanting to sign him!' Ben Foster predicts which clubs could sign in-demand Ipswich Town star Why Manchester United should go after Aaron Ramsdale this summer to help solve Ruben Amorim's goalkeeping conundrum Tottenham boss Ange Postecoglou lined up for shock Premier League job if he is sacked this summer: report Is Tottenham captain Son Heung-min injured? Premier League injury update Arsenal sporting director given go-ahead for Martin Odegaard upgrade: report Latest in News Chelsea eyeing shock move for Fulham flop: report Kevin De Bruyne could be forced to play for Manchester City after his contract expires: here's why 'Liam Delap is gonna have, I would say, the best part of 10 to 12 big boy teams looking at him. Not only looking at him, wanting to sign him!' Ben Foster predicts which clubs could sign in-demand Ipswich Town star Fantasy Premier League tips for GW34: Three defenders you should consider signing Tottenham boss Ange Postecoglou lined up for shock Premier League job if he is sacked this summer: report Is Tottenham captain Son Heung-min injured? Premier League injury update LATEST ARTICLES 1 The daunting stat that will have managers looking over their shoulders this summer – Serie A are the worst offenders in Europe 2 Kevin De Bruyne could be forced to play for Manchester City after his contract expires: here's why 3 Friday Football Quiz, episode 60: Can you get 20 correct answers? 4 Jose Mourinho for Leeds United: 'Brave guys' response indicates job likelihood, ahead of links 5 Fantasy Premier League tips for GW34: Three defenders you should consider signing FourFourTwo is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . Terms and conditions Contact Future's experts Privacy policy Cookies policy Accessibility statement Careers About FourFourTwo Advertise with us Worldwide How to pitch to FourFourTwo © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036.