How ‘Shape of Water”s submerged love scenes were flooded with romance – Orange County Register Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 63°F Friday, April 25th 2025 e-Edition Home Page News News Crime and Public Safety Investigative Reporting Election Business Best Reviews Housing Politics Health Environment Weather Orange County North OC Anaheim Brea Buena Park Cypress Fullerton Garden Grove La Habra La Palma Orange + Villa Park Placentia Santa Ana Seal Beach+ Los Alamitos Stanton Tustin Westminster Yorba Linda South OC Costa Mesa Dana Point Fountain Valley Huntington Beach Irvine Laguna Beach Laguna Niguel + Aliso Viejo Laguna Hills Ladera Ranch Lake Forest Laguna Woods Mission Viejo Newport Beach Rancho Santa Margarita San Clemente San Juan Capistrano Sports Sports Angels Dodgers Chargers Rams Ducks Kings Lakers High School Sports Clippers College Sports UCLA Sports USC Sports Olympics Boxing/MMA Soccer Horse Racing Things To Do Things To Do Restaurants Food and Drink Movies Music + Concerts Amusement Parks + Disneyland Theater + Arts Casinos TV and Streaming Home + Garden Travel Books Comics Best of Orange County Orange County Register Store Events Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columns Commentary Letters to the Editor Editorial Board Endorsements SCNG Premium Sponsored Content Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint The T.E.A. Subscribe Log In Logout Get the latest news delivered daily! Sign Up Movies | How ‘Shape of Water”s submerged love scenes… Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get the latest news delivered daily! Sign Up Subscribe Log In Search 63°F Friday, April 25th 2025 e-Edition Movies Food & Drink Movies Music Amusement Parks Theater & Arts Casinos Travel Books Comics Events Trending: Vote for Best of OC Police kill ex-RHOC's brother Man, toddler killed in crash Eddie V's is closing Trump news Things To Do Movies How ‘Shape of Water”s submerged love scenes were flooded with romance Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) By Bob Strauss | rstrauss@scng.com | Daily News UPDATED: December 5, 2017 at 9:08 AM PST Guillermo del Toro’s “The Shape of Water” may not boast the century’s weirdest sci-fi movie coupling. That honor probably goes to the 2016 Mexican movie “The Untamed” (which, BTW, you should seek out). But del Toro’s vision of human/fantastic creature sex is likely be the most romantic ever filmed. By the time Sally Hawkins’ mute heroine Elisa Esposito gets the gilled-and-gorgeous, unnamed fish man (played by del Toro’s regular monster mimer Doug Jones) alone in her flooding bathroom, the two beings’ need for each other could not be more palpable. RELATED : It takes a village, and some K-Y Jelly, to squeeze into ‘The Shape of Water’s’ latex fish man body suit Especially Elisa’s, whose association of erotic pleasure with water is carefully set up from early in the film. “First of all, female sexuality seen in a natural way is very rare in movies,” del Toro points out. “It’s always objectifying, always serving glamor or a wink-wink perversity, it doesn’t exist except from the male gaze. What I wanted to do was show how integral water was to her. When you’re blessed to have your first encounter in the bath where you’d been alone, it’s a very special repairing of your soul.” “I land in her bathtub as my place of refuge,” Jones adds about his amphibious character. “Now we have no barriers between us, and privacy, so our touching becomes a big love scene. It had a purity and innocence to it that communicated volumes, I thought.” RELATED : Why Guillermo del Toro is taking a break after monster love story ‘The Shape of Water’ The bathroom set in Elisa’s apartment was recreated in a water tank for when Elisa gets a bright idea for an even more heightened experience. “When she stuffed towels under the door, turned the faucets on and flooded the room, we were in the tank,” Jones explains. “That was about eight feet of water, so we would have to gather our air at the top while treading water and then dive down to start the scene. Speakers were underwater with Guillermo on microphone, giving us very specific instructions: things to work out with camera angles, what looks best. It was like a dance underwater. That’s what it felt like, just beautiful.” While the creature makes for Elisa’s ideal leading man, his nemesis, the government agent Strickland, is the real monster in the voiceless woman’s eyes, especially after he sexually harasses her at work. With all of the current exposure of sexual misconduct in the entertainment industry and other fields, that scene plays particularly more charged than it was probably meant to when the movie was made last year. Michael Shannon, the actor who plays Strickland, acknowledges the sequence’s upsetting nature, but feels that it adds extra import to the film. “It’s important to keep thinking about why people do that and why they think it’s OK to,” says the busy actor, whose other potential awards season contender “The Current War” has been indefinitely shelved due to the fallout from the massive allegations against its distributor, Harvey Weinstein. “The fact that that scene is in the movie, it’s an honest portrayal of a man who is very screwed-up in the head. “The way we’re dealing with the problem right now is great, holding people accountable and stuff,” Shannon adds. “But we can’t just sweep it under the rug, that’s not the way to solve the problem. We have to get to the root of it, and as an artist I feel like it’s my responsibility to explore that and keep it in people’s thoughts.” Originally Published: December 5, 2017 at 7:57 AM PST Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Newsroom Guidelines News Tips Contact Us Report an Error Most Popular Most Popular Feds, family members angered by pending early release of man who killed teens in OC Feds, family members angered by pending early release of man who killed teens in OC Public workers may get more pension benefits under new bill Public workers may get more pension benefits under new bill Photos: JCPenney meets excavator in Orange, making way for 167 condo plan Photos: JCPenney meets excavator in Orange, making way for 167 condo plan Dodgers plumbing the depths to give players all the comforts Dodgers plumbing the depths to give players all the comforts OC woman, her 2 sisters and brother get prison terms for fake business fraud scheme OC woman, her 2 sisters and brother get prison terms for fake business fraud scheme Newport Beach opens its first all-accessible playground Newport Beach opens its first all-accessible playground OC supervisors call on Department of Justice to reassess Andrew Do plea deal and sentencing OC supervisors call on Department of Justice to reassess Andrew Do plea deal and sentencing California ranks No. 2 for housing costs in U.S. California ranks No. 2 for housing costs in U.S. Recent whales washed up in Orange and Los Angeles counties show evidence of poisoning from toxic algae Recent whales washed up in Orange and Los Angeles counties show evidence of poisoning from toxic algae Chatsworth basketball star Alijah Arenas in serious condition after crash Chatsworth basketball star Alijah Arenas in serious condition after crash More in Movies So you saw ‘Conclave’ the movie. Here’s what it got right – and wrong – about real-life conclaves The Oscars mandate voters watch all nominated movies, set new rules for AI and refugee filmmakers Enter the Matrix with Lilly Wachowski at the Academy Museum in LA How a real-life encounter led Nadia Conners and Walton Goggins to make ‘The Uninvited’ 2017 December 5 Subscribe Sign Up For Newsletters e-Edition Breaking News Marketplace Classified Obituary Legals Local Job Board About OC Register About Southern California News Group MediaNews Group Work With Us Privacy Policy Accessibility News Archive Advertising Solutions Get in Touch with a Marketing Strategist Request Media Kit Creative Services Content Marketing Contact Us Corrections OC Register Store Reader Rewards Photo Reprints Sponsored Access Partners Live Traffic Map Newspapers in Education Sponsor a Student Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright © 2025 MediaNews Group Close