Alexa Skills Kit for Business | Amazon Alexa Developers {"settingsUrl":"https://ds6yc8t7pnx74.cloudfront.net/devportal-digital-assets/cf/developer-portal/getDeXSearchData"} Sign In Documentation Stack Overflow Contact Us Alexa Developer Home Alexa Developer Console Alexa Voice Service Alexa Certification Console Alexa Connect Kit Skill Builders Alexa Skills Kit Feature Updates Documentation Grow Your Business Developer Console Tech Talks Device Makers Alexa Built-in Devices Develop Alexa built-in devices with Alexa Voice Service Overview Connected Devices Connect your smart devices to Alexa Overview Development Resources Business Resources What's New Consoles Tech Talks Solution Providers Skill Agencies Alexa Connect Kit Alexa Smart Properties Tech Talks Alexa AI Products Alexa Skills Kit Alexa Routines Kit Radio Skills Kit Alexa Built-In Alexa Smart Home Dash Services Alexa Auto SDK Alexa Smart Properties Alexa Smart Properties Hospitality Senior Living Healthcare Programs Alexa Startups Alexa Fund Pitch Us Tell us about your company Portfolio Alexa Fund Portfolio companies Alexa Next Stage Online program for late-stage startups Alexa Fellowship Program for university students Alexa Prize Alexa Science Alexa Champions Voice Interoperability Initiative Office Hours Branding Alexa Branding Echo Branding Learn Alexa Learning Lab How to Videos GitHub Code Samples Docs Build Skills for Alexa Alexa Skills Kit Smart Home Skills ASK CLI and SMAPI Connect Your Device to Alexa Alexa Connect Kit Smart Home Skills Alexa Smart Properties Hospitality Residential Senior Living Healthcare Alexa Trainings and Workshops Blog Alexa Skills Kit Device Makers Alexa Auto Alexa Science Alexa Insider Alexa Skills Kit Get Started Get Deeper Grow Your Business What's New Console Alexa Skills Kit Get Started Get Deeper Grow Your Business What's New Console Previous Next Build with Amazon's Newest Devices & Services Introducing new products and services that bring ambient intelligence to life. Learn More Alexa Skills Kit > Grow Your Business Grow Your Business with Voice Voice interfaces have changed how people interact with technology and services. Customers use Alexa billions of times each week through hundreds of millions of Alexa devices, in their living rooms, kitchens, bedrooms, cars, and more. They use voice in place of mobile devices and in situations where they used no device previously. You can take advantage to better serve your current customers as well as reach and acquire new ones. Expand Your Reach Make it easy for customers to access your news, music, and other content and services using their voices, whether at home or on the go. Let Your Brand Speak Build experiences that let customers interact with your games, characters, and other brand assets in new ways. You can also innovate building voice-only experiences. Sell Goods and Services Generate additional revenue by selling your company's goods and services or premium content using transaction features. On this page: Expand Your Reach | Let Your Brand Speak | Sell Goods and Services | Ways to Market Your Skills | Additional Resources Expand Your Reach Engage millions of new and existing customers wherever they are. Let customers use their voices to easily access your news, music, and other content and services at home, on the go, and through multiple device types—including smart speakers, smart TVs, cars, headphones, and more. Headspace Headspace reimagined its meditation app for voice to provide a customer experience free of mobile interruptions. Customers are responding to the simpler and more seamless option by linking accounts, trying premium experiences, and coming back for more. Read Story IndusAssist Induslnd Bank created IndusAssist, a secure voice banking solution, to address its customers’ most common informational and transactional needs. The bank drove fast adoption of IndusAssist which now covers 74% of all customer transactions requests. Read Story NPR: Wait Wait Quiz NPR worked with VaynerMedia to design a highly engaging Alexa skill that remains fresh with timely new quiz questions refreshed every week. The interactive game that tests fans' knowledge supports customer retention, helping it maintain a sizable recurring weekly audience. The skill has received over 4,000 reviews as of June 2020. Read Story Let Your Brand Speak Use voice to close the distance between your brand and your customers. Make it simple, natural, and hands-free for customers to interact with your products and services. Utilize the games, stories, and content you’ve already made, or create new voice-first experiences for your customers. Ubisoft To drum up excitement for the launch of Assassin’s Creed Odyssey, Ubisoft created a game companion experience for Alexa. In the Spartan skill, Alexios delivers in-game information, answers questions, and even tells jokes to engage and delight fans at home. Ubisoft also produced a funny and well-received video featuring Alexios in action. Read Story Disney: Disney Music Group The Disney Hits Challenge skill collaborated with Creativity Inc to offer a new way for customers to engage with Disney’s music library and discover the Disney Hits playlist on streaming music services. Disney supports the skill with a digital campaign across their owned channels, including DTC emails, social media, and live event activations. A trailer explaining the gameplay also went live on YouTube and across socials at launch. It has received more than 500,000 unique plays. Read Story General Mills: Lucky Charms Lucky Charms partnered with Xandra to create one of the first story telling Alexa skills for a CPG brand in an effort to elevate their presence and drive instant association among the increasing number of families using voice assistants at home. Lucky and his magical friends take customers on an immersive choose-your-own-adventure that allows for experimentation in their modern story telling strategy and the creation of a sonic identity. The skill is highly engaging, with over 160 sessions per day on average. Read Story Sell Goods and Services Become a pioneer and build the future of premium and shopping experiences on voice. With Alexa, you can sell your company's goods and services or premium voice content using transaction features. Learn More Sony Pictures Television Sony Pictures Television built Alexa skills to bring Jeopardy! and Who Wants to Be a Millionaire to millions of fans at home. Both games include premium content—Jeopardy! via a subscription and Millionaire via a consumable model—to give fans more of the content they love. Read Story The Ellen DeGeneres Show: HeadsUp! VaynerMedia helped The Ellen DeGeneres Show translate their popular game Heads Up! into a voice-first experience, reimagining the gameplay to be driven by audio clues. Fans of the game and show loved the voice-first game, so much so that they played through the content quickly and wanted more. Listening to their customer’s feedback, they created more content and introduced In-Skill Purchasing (ISP) options, allowing customers to purchase additional premium content from within the skill. Read Story Luminary Luminary, a leading premium podcasting service, worked with Rain to bring their service to customers through their Alexa devices as a new way for listeners to enjoy their content. To attract new listeners, they integrated monetization into their skill in the form of subscriptions. This includes the use of the Buy Once Enjoy Everywhere (BOEE) model where users can subscribe through the skill and also have access to Luminary Premium on their other devices. Read Story Ready to Start? Start building your skill with the Alexa Skills Kit, or hire an experienced agency to build your skill for you. Get Started Find an Agency Ways to Market Your Skills Reach More Customers with Quick Links for Alexa (Beta) Add a link from your mobile app, website, or online ads that customers can click to launch your skill. Learn More Promotion by Amazon Make your skill more likely to be promoted across Amazon’s marketing channels. Learn More Marketing Guidelines Refer to our guidelines for using the Amazon Echo and Alexa brands. See Guidelines Subscribe to Our Newsletter Back To Top Alexa Skills Kit Alexa Skills Kit Get Started Get Deeper Grow Your Business What's New ASK Resources Tutorials & Code Samples Documentation Skill-Building Agencies Device Makers Overview Alexa Built-in Devices Overview Business Resources Alexa Connected Devices Overview Development Resources Business Resources What's New Solution Providers Overview Agreements Agreements and Terms Program Materials License Agreement Amazon Developers Services Portal Terms of Use Community Alexa on Slack Blogs Alexa Skills Kit Blog Device Makers Blog Alexa Auto Alexa Science AWS Blog Support Amazon Developer Support Contact Us Stack Overflow Follow Us: English (US) English (ANZ) English (UK) English (India) Japanese (日本語) French (Français) Italian (Italiano) German (Deutsch) Spanish (España) Spanish (México) Portuguese (Brasil) Arabic (العربية) © 2010 - 2025, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved. Terms Docs Stack Overflow Blog Alexa Developer Home Terms Docs Stack Overflow Blog Alexa Developer Home