Financial Advisor IQ - Content Page Home ThinkTank Video Webcasts Sponsored Webcasts Newsletters ETF Insider Deconstructed Most Popular Content View Content by Issue About Us Register Contact Us Customer Service Our Publications FundFire Ignites Close Menu My Account Saved Content Help Close Menu Sign Up Log In Login Javascript is disable in your web browser. Please enable JavaScript for better experience. Fidelity Institutional Gets New Chief Mike Durbin shifts to a new role and is replaced by Vadim Zlotnikov, former head of Fidelity Asset Management Solutions. By DJ Shaw | December 7, 2022 Fidelity Investments has appointed Vadim Zlotnikov head of its Fidelity Institutional unit, replacing longtime leader Mike Durbin in part of a broader reorganization of the unit, the firm has confirmed. Zlotnikov had spent nearly three years as president of Fidelity Asset Management Solutions , the unit that builds models and other packaged products for institutional investors. He was previously president of global asset allocation, per the firm's website. Prior to joining Fidelity, Zlotnikov served in various leadership roles at AllianceBernstien , including chief marketing officer and co-head of multi-asset solutions, according to his LinkedIn profile. Vadim Zlotnikov Zlotnikov Fidelity The change is part of a reorganization through which Fidelity is splitting institutional asset management from its advisor technology and services business. Advisor-focused operations such as clearing and custody sales, relationship management, service and operations teams will now work with the firms' brokerage operations and technology team, according to the spokesperson. Ron DePoalo will remain head of Fidelity's Fund and Brokerage Operations and Technology division, and he will take on leadership of these efforts. The spokesperson said the realignment "allows for greater technology innovation and speed to market in an industry where clients value scale, digital technologies and differentiated service." In the past year, the firm has bulked up its Wealthscape advisor platform, improved fixed-income trading, and piled on more "tax-aware" and separately managed account options to model portfolios. Durbin joined Fidelity in 2009, as president of institutional wealth services, and had been head of Fidelity Institutional since October 2017, according to his LinkedIn profile. He will move into the role of senior advisor and report to Abigail Johnson , Fidelity chairman and CEO, while remaining "actively involved" with the firm's wealth management and institutional clients, according to a Fidelity spokesperson. "Fidelity has a long heritage of asking talented leaders to take on new and different roles as a way to infuse fresh perspectives into other parts of the company," the spokesperson said a statement emailed to FA-IQ, adding that the changes went into effect in mid-November. According to the spokesperson, Fidelity Institutional represented about $3.5 trillion under advisement as of September and serves more than 14,500 client firms, including RIAs, banks, broker-dealers and other intermediaries, as of the first quarter of 2022. Contact the reporter: dshaw@financialadvisoriq.com Purchase a reprint: click here or (212) 542-1265 December 7, 2022 Select Issue Select Issue Print Morgan Stanley Trims Workforce by 2%, Goldman CEO Warns of Job Cuts Fidelity Institutional Gets New Chief Robinhood Opens Waitlist for IRA Offering Advisor Group Tidies Up Advisor Fees Across Affiliates RIAs Must Define Value Props to Recruit Top Talent: Schwab Shops, BDs Leave Customers Vulnerable to Identity Theft: SEC On FinancialTimes.com BlackRock Chief Larry Fink Pressured to Resign over ESG ‘Hypocrisy’ Industry Moves LPL Lures $650M Team from Lincoln Financial Mercer Advisors Adds $5B Wealth-Management Firm in California LPL Partners with Holistiplan to Provide Advisors Tax Planning Software Truist Loses $456M Advisor Duo to D.A. Davidson LPL Appoints Chief Technical Strategist SVB Names New President of U.S. Wealth Management Mercer Nabs $850M Michigan Wealth Management Firm loading... Most Popular Schwab Family Among Largest Funders of Trump Inauguration Jury Sides with SEC Against FA Accused of $9M Annuity Scheme FAs Slow to Embrace SMA-to-ETF Conversions Despite Tax Efficiencies Ameriprise, RayJay Execs Tout FA Recruiting Pipelines amid Upheavals Stifel Refocuses Recruiting as CEO Nods to RIA Competition Legal & Privacy Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright Cookie Policy Contact Us Help Sign Up Reprints Advertise My Account Settings Reset Password Saved Content Editorial Contact the Editor Our Reporters Send a Tip Corporate About Us Meet the Team Our Publications Work with Us FAQ Legal & Privacy Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright Cookie Policy Contact Us Help Sign Up Reprints Advertise My Account Reset Password Editorial Contact the Editor Our Reporters Send a Tip Corporate About Us Meet the Team Our Publications Work with Us FAQ Copyright © 2025  F.T. Specialist Inc. All rights reserved.