Pixel 6A vs. Pixel 5A With 5G:What Specs Are Changing - Saltar al contenido Envíos a todo  el  país Pagos contraentrega Paga con  Sistecrédito inicio Tienda Lista de deseo Mi cuenta Carrito Checkout inicio Tienda Lista de deseo Mi cuenta Carrito Checkout Búsqueda de productos $ 0 0 Cart $ 0 0 Cart Búsqueda de productos inicio Tienda Lista de deseo Mi cuenta Carrito Checkout inicio Tienda Lista de deseo Mi cuenta Carrito Checkout Uncategorized Pixel 6A vs. Pixel 5A With 5G:What Specs Are Changing Por yim hml 15 julio, 2023 2 diciembre, 2024 Google's more affordable Pixel 6A borrows a lot from the pricier Pixel 6. Google’s Pixel 6A is here, and it represents a change from last year’s Pixel 5A with 5G in just about every way. It has a new design inspired by the beautiful Pixel 6, a smaller screen, Google’s Tensor processor and camera features like Magic Eraser, which debuted on the Pixel 6. Preorders have begun, with the phone hitting stores on July 28. Here’s a closer look at the biggest differences between this year’s Pixel 6A and its predecessor. Screen and design As expected, Google is once again having its A-series borrow the design of its latest flagship Pixels. The Pixel 6A is smaller than not just the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro, but also more compact than the 5A with 5G. Compared to last year’s device, the Pixel 6A sports a 6.1-inch screen versus the 5A with 5G’s 5.34-inch display. Both displays are OLED and use Corning’s Gorilla Glass 3 cover glass. The Pixel 6 uses the new Gorilla Glass Victus. The 6A does sport an improved contrast ratio of over 1 million to 1, as well as a “high brightness mode.” The latter two features seem to be brought over directly from the Pixel 6 line. The front camera on the 6A is now centered, a departure from the upper-left corner placement of the 5A. Also in line with the 6 series is a rear design that features a camera bar. Though after looking closely, this camera bar seems to be a hybrid between the Pixel 6 line and what seems to be coming in the fall with the Pixel 7 that Google also teased at its IO developer conference. Both the Pixel 5A and 6A are IP67-certified for water and dust resistance. The 6A drops the 3.5mm headphone jack that was present on the 5A with 5G but does move its fingerprint sensor beneath the display. Neither device supports wireless charging, however. The Pixel 6A runs on Google’s Tensor processor. Processor, 5G and storage As one might expect, Google’s newest Pixel runs on its Tensor silicon, the same chip that powers the 6 and 6 Pro. Last year’s Pixel 5A with 5G used Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 765G processor. Both phones have 6GB of RAM and 128GB of storage, though the Pixel 6A’s LPDDR5 RAM should be more power-efficient, and its storage is UFS 3.1, which could have some performance improvements. Both phones support 5G. We should add that it appears that only Verizon’s Pixel 6A will support millimeter-wave 5G (which is only available in parts of certain cities, stadiums and airports around the country). If you want that device it will run you $500 from the carrier, a $50 premium compared to the regular Pixel 6A that is sold unlocked directly by Google. Camera On paper, the Pixel 5A and 6A share largely similar camera setups. Both main shooters are 12.2-megapixel dual-pixel main lenses with f1.7 aperture and 77-degrees field of view. Google touts the main sensor on the 6A as being a wide lens. The ultrawide on the 6A is also 12 megapixels, a change from the 16-megapixel ultrawide on the 5A with 5G. As for the front shooters, both are 8 megapixels, though the 6A has an ever-so-slightly larger field of view (84 degrees versus 83 degrees on 5A with 5G). The biggest changes, however, seem to be in software. Google is giving the 6A a number of the big camera upgrades it bestowed on the 6 line last year, including the “Magic Eraser” for removing people or objects from photos, “face unblur” which should help keep faces visible even when people are moving, and “Real Tone” for accurately capturing skin tones. Navegación de entradas Anterior Anterior Amazon Drivers Suffer Injuries at Rate of Almost 1 in 5, Union Study Says Siguiente Continuar My Solution to Lost AirPods:The AirTags U1 Chip Publicaciones Similares Uncategorized iPhone 14 – All The Rumours and Leaks So Far Por yim hml 15 julio, 2023 2 diciembre, 2024 Rumours about the next iPhone continue to grow. It seems as though we’ve barely got used to the current one before a new model is being teased. The iPhone 14 is expected to be the next release in Apple’s 2022 Flagship line. There are rumours buzzing around regarding the design, price, and features, but these… Leer más iPhone 14 – All The Rumours and Leaks So Far Continuar Uncategorized ‘Stranger Things’ or ‘Obi-Wan Kenobi’: Which Will You Watch? Por yim hml 15 julio, 2023 2 diciembre, 2024 Netflix and Disney Plus stream their big hitters May 27. CNET staffers make the case for Stranger Things or Star Wars. Are you Team Hawkins or Team Tatooine? The next Star Wars TV show pits Obi-Wan Kenobi against his darkest enemy, Darth Vader. But that isn’t the only clash of titans on your screens right… Leer más ‘Stranger Things’ or ‘Obi-Wan Kenobi’: Which Will You Watch? Continuar Uncategorized SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro Wireless Review: Great but Imperfect Gaming Headset Por yim hml 15 julio, 2023 A successor to SteelSeries’ beloved flagship Arctis Pro gaming headset line, which turned four this year, the new SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro keeps some of the best aspects of its predecessor and other Arctis kin, like the hot-swappable battery, dual 2.4GHz and Bluetooth wireless connectivity, speaker drivers designed for high-res audio and signature Arctis design and comfort. For the… Leer más SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro Wireless Review: Great but Imperfect Gaming Headset Continuar Consumer Electronics | Machinery | Uncategorized 5W Digital Announces Expansion of Dedicated Houseware and Appliances Team Por yim hml 15 julio, 2023 5W Digital, the in-house full-service digital agency for 5WPR, announces today the expansion of their dedicated houseware and appliances digital team after expansion of client roster welcoming key leaders from the industry. 5W Digital crafts and executes social media and paid media strategy, content creation, influencer marketing, brand ambassador programming and community management for clients in… Leer más 5W Digital Announces Expansion of Dedicated Houseware and Appliances Team Continuar Uncategorized ‘Sharkcano’:NASA Spots Eruption of Underwater Volcano Where Sharks Live Por yim hml 15 julio, 2023 NASA should consider getting into the cheesy disaster movie business. It already has an elevator pitch for a low-budget film. “You’ve heard of sharknado, now get ready for sharkcano,” NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center tweeted on Sunday. NASA hasn’t lost its mind. Goddard shared an image from the Earth-observing Landsat 9 satellite showing a disturbance in the… Leer más ‘Sharkcano’:NASA Spots Eruption of Underwater Volcano Where Sharks Live Continuar Uncategorized How to Watch One of 2022’s Biggest Asteroids Zoom Past Earth Por yim hml 15 julio, 2023 A massive asteroid is heading our way, and it’ll make its closest pass by our planet in centuries on May 27. Called 1989 JA (or sometimes just asteroid 7335), it’s 1.2 miles (1.8 kilometers) in diameter, which helps earn it the classification of a “potentially hazardous” object according to astronomers, even though it poses no… Leer más How to Watch One of 2022’s Biggest Asteroids Zoom Past Earth Continuar Deja un comentario Cancelar respuesta Tu dirección de correo electrónico no será publicada. Los campos obligatorios están marcados con * Comentario * Nombre * Correo electrónico * Web Guardar mi nombre, correo electrónico y sitio web en este navegador para la próxima vez que haga un comentario. Somos importadores directos de china, Manejamos lujos y accesorios para Motos Facebook-f Instagram Enlaces Tienda Mi Cuenta Carrito Checkout Lista de deseos Información Políticas de Privacidad Políticas de devoluciones Contacto Cra. 36 # 15-87, Magangué, Bolívar Email: ventas@multilujosbyg.com Cel: 300-838-2812 Atención: Lun-sab 8:00AM - 5:00PM 2025 © Multilujos b&g