Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/TheCrownNetflix A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to TheCrownNetflix r/TheCrownNetflix r/TheCrownNetflix https://www.reddit.com/r/TheCrownNetflix/s/krIGVxSNvK Welcome to the Unofficial Subreddit for the Emmy Award-Winning Netflix Original Series 'The Crown' created by Peter Morgan. The Crown is a fictional drama series inspired by real events and tells the story of Queen Elizabeth II and the political and personal events that shaped her reign. This subreddit is a place to discuss the series and more that relate to the topic. The final season of The Crown is now available to stream. Members Online • abisgirl How Olivia Colman Ruined The Crown for Me I just began a quarantine binge watching of The Crown so long after friends encouraged me to do so. I was surprisingly engaged in a subject I’d never been before and of course began googling the real life people the characters are based upon and looked forward to each new episode—-that is until season 3. I just can’t understand it. Even if the producers are against aging actors in favor of complete recasts, logically another season should have belonged to the previous cast. The years that began season 3 would have still had the queen a young and svelte woman. She still had a glamour, vitality, and a sex appeal that wouldn’t really see a great shift until the 80’s when her body began changing and she looked as old as Colman. Olivia Colman is utterly devoid of any of these in this role. She has no charm, no vigor, no spark. She is either cold, sullen, unsuited, or dead. She looks at least as old as the queen mother did in the previous season. She has zero chemistry with her leading man which is a huge disappointment because even today you can feel something alive between the the queen and her husband and that was also an intriguing aspect of the previous seasons. Tobias tries to connect with her but she seems to be unable to join him and it falls flat. The chemistry bit would  be okay if it felt that any of this were true because of some deep character development but it’s not. They seem to be illustrating that the pair have reached a deep comfort zone together. So why is she so stiff awkward when discussing a man she has known her entire life at their 25th anniversary? Colman just seems to have no idea what to do with this character. She is just pasting on a stern demeanor perhaps to overcompensate for her own naturally relaxed and open manner. I don’t know but it really is tragic. And I don’t understand how it went from casting actors with some resemblance to the real people to throwing that out of the window with Colman and HBC who bare no resemblance to real people or the previous actors and really annoy me that they don’t even bother to give them blue contact as a minor nod. Why bother with the wigs and the costumes if you’re not trying to commit to recreating a look? The blue eyes might have helped Colman get into the role more and possibly brightened her up a bit. And speaking of costumes and recreating a look—-that was my other irritation with Colman. Her walk and mannerisms. Her clothes were always crumpled and wrinkled. She had no elegance and just appeared sloppy. From all I’ve seen, the queen was a fit, poised, and well put together woman. This actress just possess none of that and plays the role with no logical subtext and no clear understanding of who the woman was/is externally or internally. The show suddenly went Hollywood and it didn’t need to. The only saving grace for the season was that a lot of it focused on other characters and I didn’t have to look at queen who looks as if she eats and drinks too much and who drags down the energy in every scene she’s in. The real queen never looked like she didn’t take care of herself—-even today she still looks quite good. Many of the other characters were good though. I know I’m ranting but I had no one watching this with me to share my deep disappointment with. 😩 Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . https://www.reddit.com/r/TheCrownNetflix/s/krIGVxSNvK Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 14, 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2020 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics