Teacher Awards Leadership Back Leadership Budget & Finance Equity & Diversity Families & the Community Professional Development Recruitment & Retention School & District Management School Climate & Safety Student Achievement Student Well-Being Policy & Politics Back Policy & Politics Education Funding Every Student Succeeds Act Federal Law & Courts School Choice & Charters Standards & Accountability States Teaching & Learning Back Teaching & Learning Assessment College & Workforce Readiness Curriculum Early Childhood English Learners Mathematics Reading & Literacy Science Social Studies Special Education Teaching Teacher Preparation Teaching Profession Technology Back Technology Artificial Intelligence Classroom Technology Ed-Tech Policy IT Infrastructure & Management Personalized Learning Privacy & Security All Topics Jobs Back Jobs Search for Jobs Sign up for Job Alerts Virtual Career Fairs Post a Job Career Advice Careers at EdWeek Opinion Back Opinion Opinion Blogs Submit an Essay Submit a Letter to the Editor About Us Advertising & Marketing Solutions Group Subscriptions Recruitment Advertising Events and Webinars The State of Teaching Leaders to Learn From Current Issue Special Reports Newsletters Resources Trackers Video EdWeek Research Center EdWeek Top School Jobs EdWeek Market Brief Menu Search Sign In Subscribe Subscribe Reset Search Leadership Policy & Politics Teaching & Learning Technology Opinion Jobs Market Brief Follow Topic Unfollow Topic Teacher Awards Read about awards for teachers, including the National Teacher of the Year award, and the teachers who win them Open image caption Close image caption Keishia Thorpe, who has worked to open up college education for her students, has won the $1 million Global Teacher Prize. Varkey Foundation via AP Teaching Profession Maryland Teacher Wins $1 Million Global Prize Keishia Thorpe received the prize for her work teaching immigrant and refugee students and helping them attend college. Madeline Will , November 11, 2021 • 2 min read Remove Save to favorites Open image caption Close image caption First lady Jill Biden stands beside Juliana Urtubey, 2021 National Teacher of the Year, at a ceremony to honor the 2020 and 2021 State and National Teachers of the Year at the White House on Monday. Evan Vucci/AP Teaching Profession Joe and Jill Biden Honor Teachers at Long-Delayed White House Ceremony The president, with the first lady in attendance, called teachers the "single most consequential people in the world beyond our parents." Madeline Will , October 18, 2021 • 4 min read Remove Save to favorites Teaching Profession Video 2021 National Teacher of the Year: Special Education Is the 'Heartbeat' of Schools Juliana Urtubey, an elementary special education teacher in Las Vegas, is the third special educator to receive the national honor in the program's nearly seven-decade history. Emma Patti Harris & Madeline Will , May 6, 2021 • 3:13 Open image caption Close image caption Juliana Urtubey Courtesy Photo Teaching Profession Juliana Urtubey, an Elementary Special Educator, Is the 2021 National Teacher of the Year Known as Ms. Earth for her work with school gardens, Urtubey is a National Board-certified teacher in Las Vegas. Madeline Will , May 6, 2021 • 4 min read Remove Save to favorites Open image caption Close image caption From left: John Arthur (Utah), Alejandro Diasgranados (D.C.), Maureen Stover (N.C.), Juliana Urtubey (Nev.) Courtesy of CCSSO Teaching Profession Here Are the Four Finalists for 2021 National Teacher of the Year The four finalists for the 2021 National Teacher of the Year challenge inequities both in their school communities and on a national level. Madeline Will , January 27, 2021 • 5 min read Remove Save to favorites Teaching Profession Tabatha Rosproy Is the First Early Childhood Educator to Be National Teacher of the Year The first preschool teacher to win the national award in its 68-year history teaches in a local retirement community and nursing home in Winfield, Kan. Madeline Will , May 21, 2020 • 5 min read Remove Save to favorites Open image caption Close image caption Image of Linda Rost, Chris Dier, Leila Kubesch, and Tabatha Rosproy, courtesy of CCSSO Teaching Profession Teacher of the Year Nominees Speak Out The four finalists for National Teacher of the Year say their fellow teachers are sharing their stories and their students' stories more than ever, and it's time for policymakers to listen. March 3, 2020 • 6 min read Remove Save to favorites Teaching Profession Q&A The Nation's Top Teachers on Self-Care, Student Voice, and What They Would Say to Trump The four finalists for National Teacher of the Year say their fellow teachers are sharing their stories and their students' stories more than ever, and it's time for policymakers to listen. Madeline Will , February 24, 2020 • 11 min read Remove Save to favorites Teaching Profession Meet the Top Four Teachers in the Country The Council of Chief State Schools Officers announced the four finalists for the National Teacher of the Year. Madeline Will , January 16, 2020 • 4 min read Remove Save to favorites Teaching Profession Trump Did Attend Teacher of the Year Ceremony, But Two Honorees Boycotted Two award-winning teachers boycotted today's White House ceremony honoring the teachers of the year, saying that they wouldn't support an administration whose policies they feel have harmed their immigrant, refugee, and LGBTQ students. Sarah Schwartz , April 29, 2019 • 6 min read Remove Save to favorites Teaching Profession President Trump Won't Meet With National Teacher of the Year at the White House Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos will instead present the award to 2019 Teacher of the Year Rodney Robinson, according to the Council of Chief State School Officers. Sarah Schwartz , April 26, 2019 • 3 min read Remove Save to favorites Teaching Profession Rodney Robinson, Who Teaches Civics to Students in Juvenile Detention, Wins 2019 National Teacher of the Year Robinson said his students, who are all incarcerated, deserve as much of a chance to achieve as other teenagers. "They just made mistakes, and they're paying for mistakes. But America is a country of second chances." Sarah Schwartz , April 24, 2019 • 4 min read Remove Save to favorites Teaching Profession Video ‘We Shouldn’t Just Stay in Our Classrooms. We’re Teachers’ Mandy Manning has not been shy about advocating for her immigrant and refugee students. When she was awarded the 2018 National Teacher of the Year, she presented President Donald Trump with letters from her students talking about what coming to the U.S. meant to them, but also how his negative rhetoric about immigrants empowers their classmates to say hateful things such as, “go back to your country.” Along with several state teachers of the year, she recently organized a Teach-In in El Paso, Texas, to protest undocumented families from being separated and detained. In an interview with correspondent Kavitha Cardoza, Manning talks about some of the early experiences she had teaching in Armenia and Japan and how feeling like an outsider informs her teaching. She also addresses how students are feeling more empowered (and why that’s not always a good thing) and why she continues to fight this fight. Kavitha Cardoza , March 7, 2019 • 4:53 Open image caption Close image caption National Teacher of the Year finalists Rodney Robinson, Danielle Riha, Kelly Harper, and Donna Gradel at the CCSSO office. Photo courtesy of CCSSO. Teaching Profession Q&A We Must Restore Respect to the Teaching Profession, Nation's Top Teachers Say The four nationally recognized educators spoke about attracting new talent to the profession and the importance of civics education. Sarah Schwartz , February 25, 2019 • 6 min read Remove Save to favorites Load More ▼ About Us Our Organization Our History Our People Careers at EdWeek Contact Us Letters to the Editor Help/FAQ Customer Service Contact the Newsroom Get EdWeek Subscriptions Newsletters & Alerts Group Subscriptions Content Licensing & Permissions Do Business With Us Advertising & Marketing Solutions Recruitment & Job Advertising K-12 Market Intelligence Custom Research High contrast ©2025 Editorial Projects in Education, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Policy twitter instagram youtube facebook linkedin