Teamwork makes the dream-work.  Absolutely blown away by the progress made… | Chris Blackwell-Frost Agree & Join LinkedIn By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . Skip to main content LinkedIn Articles People Learning Jobs Games Join now Sign in Chris Blackwell-Frost’s Post Chris Blackwell-Frost Chief Executive Officer at Vanguard Healthcare Solutions 1mo Report this post Teamwork makes the dream-work.  Absolutely blown away by the progress made over the last 8 weeks by the Vanguard Healthcare Solutions team working closely with Gethin Hughes and the wider team Cwm Taf Morgannwg University Health Board .  Phase 1 completed with a new endo suite and first patients through the doors on Tuesday next week. Vanguard Healthcare Solutions 6,732 followers 1mo Vanguard CEO, Chris Blackwell-Frost , visited The Royal Glamorgan Hospital on Friday to meet with Gethin Hughes , Chief Operating Officer for Cwm Taf Morgannwg University Health Board . The Health Board has reacted quickly and effectively to the need for the urgent replacement of sections of the roof at the Princess of Wales Hospital. Vanguard is helping by combining mobile and modular facilities to provide endoscopy treatment and scope processing, four operating theatres, and two wards.  Chris and Gethin met as the endoscopy facilities were 'handed over' to the Health Board, with the first patients being treated on Tuesday. 54 6 Comments Like Comment Share Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Ian Yuill Chief Executive Officer & Co-Founder @Portland Clinical | Integrated Healthcare Insourcing | Clinical Demand Management 1mo Report this comment Congrats Chris! Like Reply 1 Reaction 2 Reactions Mark Davies Coach,  Non Executive Director and Independent strategic adviser in Healthcare 1mo Report this comment Excellent partnership working - well done all - Like Reply 1 Reaction 2 Reactions William Johnson Landlord. 1mo Report this comment Top job Chris ! Well done. Like Reply 1 Reaction 2 Reactions See more comments To view or add a comment, sign in 3,110 followers 91 Posts View Profile Connect Explore topics Sales Marketing IT Services Business Administration HR Management Engineering Soft Skills See All LinkedIn © 2025 About Accessibility User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Choices Cookie Policy Copyright Policy Brand Policy Guest Controls Community Guidelines العربية (Arabic) বাংলা (Bangla) Čeština (Czech) Dansk (Danish) Deutsch (German) Ελληνικά (Greek) English (English) Español (Spanish) فارسی (Persian) Suomi (Finnish) Français (French) हिंदी (Hindi) Magyar (Hungarian) Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian) Italiano (Italian) עברית (Hebrew) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) मराठी (Marathi) Bahasa Malaysia (Malay) Nederlands (Dutch) Norsk (Norwegian) ਪੰਜਾਬੀ (Punjabi) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese) Română (Romanian) Русский (Russian) Svenska (Swedish) తెలుగు (Telugu) ภาษาไทย (Thai) Tagalog (Tagalog) Türkçe (Turkish) Українська (Ukrainian) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) 简体中文 (Chinese (Simplified)) 正體中文 (Chinese (Traditional)) Language Sign in to view more content Create your free account or sign in to continue your search Sign in Welcome back Email or phone Password Show Forgot password? Sign in or By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . New to LinkedIn? Join now or New to LinkedIn? Join now By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy .