Wimbledon 2018: Angelique Kerber beats Serena Williams to end fairytale | The Week The Week US Edition US UK SUBSCRIBE & SAVE Less than $3 per week × Search Sign in View Profile Sign out The Explainer Talking Points The Week Recommends Newsletters Cartoons From the Magazine The Week Junior More Politics World News Business Health Science Food & Drink Travel Culture History Personal Finance Puzzles Photos The Blend All Categories Newsletter sign up Newsletter Home Sports Tennis in depth Wimbledon 2018: Angelique Kerber beats Serena Williams to end fairytale Kerber stuns American favourite to become first German to win Wimbledon title since Steffi Graf Newsletter sign up Newsletter Serena Williams and winner Angelique Kerber embrace after the 2018 Wimbledon Ladies Final (Image credit: Michael Steele/Getty Images) By The Week Staff last updated 14 July 2018 Angelique Kerber spoiled Serena Williams’ Wimbledon fairytale as she became the first German to win the Venus Rosewater Dish since Steffi Graf in 1996. Williams was the heavy favourite coming into the final but Kerber proved too canny and athletic for the American’s power game, returning serve with interest and using angles to move her opponent round the court and never giving up on a point. Kerber broke serve in the first game of the match and Williams won only five of her nine service games in an error-strewn performance. Subscribe to The Week Escape your echo chamber. Get the facts behind the news, plus analysis from multiple perspectives. SUBSCRIBE & SAVE Sign up for The Week's Free Newsletters From our morning news briefing to a weekly Good News Newsletter, get the best of The Week delivered directly to your inbox. From our morning news briefing to a weekly Good News Newsletter, get the best of The Week delivered directly to your inbox. Sign up The American’s tribulations were summed up by one point in the final game of the match when she missed an easy smash with the court at her mercy and fell to the floor in disbelief. Minutes later it was Kerber who was prostrate on the Centre Court turf as Williams netted a return to hand the 30-year-old German a third Grand Slam title, to go with her Australian and US Open wins in 2016. Wimbledon 2018: Serena Williams sets up final clash against Angelique Kerber Kerber, the former world number one, came into the match as one of only five women to have beaten Williams in a Grand Slam final, and was clearly undaunted by the challenge, moving Williams around the court and absorbing her power shots. For the first time in the tournament Williams, who has played just 14 matches since returning to the sport after having a baby and suffering health problems, looked short of ideas and energy. And she was unable to come up with an answer for the questions posed by Kerber, the first player in the world’s top 50 that Williams faced at the tournament. Williams, who had not lost in SW19 since 2014, was aiming for her eighth Wimbledon title and victory would have bought her level with Margaret Court’s record of 24 Grand Slam wins. She was also aiming to become only the second mother to win Wimbledon and the first since Evonne Goolagong in 1980. Not even the presence of close friend Meghan Markle , the Duchess of Sussex, in the royal box alongisde Kate Middleton , Duchess of Cambridge, could help her, as Kerber won in just over an hour. But Williams was gracious in defeat. “I was really happy to get this far,” she said. “It’s obviously disappointing but I can’t be disappointed - I have so much to look forward to.” “Kerber’s tactic of drawing her opponent into playing longer rallies ultimately paid off, with Williams making 24 unforced errors to Kerber’s five and managing only one break of serve,” says The Times . “While Williams overhit and miscued shots, to the surprise of the Centre Court crowd, Kerber kept her cool and showed great composure when serving for the match.” Kerber is “one of the defensive masters of the modern game”, says Kevin Mitchell of The Guardian . “And she will frighten everyone around her for the foreseeable future.” As for Williams: “Nearly 11 months after giving birth to her first child, Olympia, and just 14 matches and two slams into her comeback, Williams more than justified her 25th seeding, but she could not sustain her run when it mattered against a tenacious and clever opponent.” “Often in the past, defeat has wrecked her. She has maybe reached a more philosophical stage of what has been a wonderful career, and might yet be gilded with another few trophies. Just getting this far after all she has been through over the past couple of years was a considerable achievement.” Explore More Meghan Markle Wimbledon 2018 Serena Williams Sign up for Today's Best Articles in your inbox A free daily email with the biggest news stories of the day – and the best features from TheWeek.com Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. The Week Staff Social Links Navigation Latest Codeword: April 24, 2025 The Week's daily codeword puzzle By The Week Staff Crossword: April 24, 2025 The Week's daily crossword By The Week Staff Sudoku medium: April 24, 2025 The Week's daily medium sudoku puzzle By The Week Staff You might also like Serena Williams and her ‘evolution’ away from tennis In the Spotlight The 23-time grand slam champion is set to retire after the US Open By Mike Starling, The Week UK What has Serena Williams been doing? In the Spotlight The tennis great made a surprise return to the court this week after a year away By Richard Windsor, The Week UK Simone Biles reportedly sparked more mental health conversation than Naomi Osaka or Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview Speed Read By Brigid Kennedy ‘It’s unprofessional - it’s not cool’: Serena Williams shocked at Australian Open In Depth China’s Wang Qiang takes advantage of American’s mistakes in Melbourne By The Week Staff US Open: Bianca Andreescu stuns Serena Williams to win first grand slam title - how the pundits reacted In Depth Williams’s bid to equal Margaret Court’s record is denied by Canadian teenager By The Week Staff US Open women’s final: Serena Williams vs. Bianca Andreescu preview and predictions The Week Recommends Can Serena end her grand slam drought and equal Margaret Court’s record? By The Week Staff Simona stuns Serena at Wimbledon: game, set and ‘best match’ for Halep Speed Read Romanian blows away seven-time champion in less than an hour on Centre Court By The Week Staff Wimbledon women’s final preview: Serena Williams vs. Simona Halep predictions, betting odds, TV The Week Recommends Can Serena win a 24th grand slam or will it be a second for Simona? By The Week Staff View More ▸ TheWeek About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Advertise With Us The Week is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036.