Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - ESRB ESRB Home Publishers Privacy Certified Ratings Ratings Guide In-depth information on the ESRB rating system. Ratings Process Find out how we assign age and content ratings. Where to Find Ratings Whether online or in-store, here is where you can find our ratings. Frequently Asked Questions Tools for Parents Parental Controls Learn how to manage your family’s video game and device use. Family Gaming Guide A user-friendly guide to help you manage your kids’ video game experiences. Mobile App Download our free mobile app to search ratings on the go. ¡Vamos a Jugar! Blog About Our History Assigning age and content ratings since 1994. Contact Advanced Search Go to Search Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Nintendo Platforms Nintendo Switch Language, Suggestive Themes, Use of Alcohol and Tobacco, Violence No Interactive Elements Rating Summary This is a role-playing game in which players lead adventurers on a quest to save the world from calamity. As players traverse through environments, they can interact with characters, complete objectives, and battle fantastical creatures (e.g., giant frogs, mechanical beasts, man-eating plants) and human enemies. Players use swords to kill enemies in melee-style combat. Battles are accompanied by slashing sounds, colorful light effects, and depleting health meters. Cutscenes depict additional acts of violence: a boy impaled with a sword; a child shoved off a cliff. The game contains some suggestive material: female characters/creatures wearing outfits that expose large amounts of cleavage; camera pans and lingering shots on buttocks and/or breasts; dialogue that states, “You were staring...Pervert!” During the course of the game, characters make references to alcohol in the dialogue (e.g., “Booze! I want booze,” “Cheers love! Get me a beer.”), and patrons can be seen drinking alcohol in the background; one character is depicted with a cigar in his mouth. The words “sh*t” and “a*shole” are heard in the game. Explore More Games Jujutsu Kaisen Cursed Clash Platforms Windows PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Nintendo Switch, Xbox One, Xbox Series Bendy and the Ink Machine Platforms PlayStation 5, Nintendo Switch Broken Sword - Shadow of the Templars: Reforged Platforms PlayStation 5, Nintendo Switch Additional Resources Family Gaming Guide A user-friendly guide to help provide you with the key information you need to manage your kids' video game experiences. → Parental Controls Parental Controls help you manage your children's video game use, even when you aren't around. → Ratings Guide In-depth information about the ESRB rating system. → Mobile App Use our free mobile app to look up rating information and read rating summaries on the go. → ← → Share Proud member of Site Map Home Search ESRB Ratings Most Viewed Games Recently Rated Games Ratings Ratings Guide Ratings Process Where to Find Ratings ESRB Retail Council Frequently Asked Questions Tools for Parents Parental Controls Family Gaming Guide Mobile App ¡Vamos a Jugar! Blog ESRB Blog About Our History The Team Careers Contact Contact Form Search ESRB.org © 2025 Entertainment Software Association. The ESRB rating icons are registered trademarks of the Entertainment Software Association. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy