Mushroom Kingdom (Super Mario Odyssey) - Super Mario Wiki, the Mario encyclopedia Mushroom Kingdom ( Super Mario Odyssey ) From the Super Mario Wiki, the Mario encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Mushroom Kingdom Boss(es) Knucklotec Torkdrift Mechawiggler Mollusque-Lanceur Cookatiel Ruined Dragon Power Moons 116 Regional coins 100 The Mushroom Kingdom is the fifteenth kingdom visited in Super Mario Odyssey . It is the greater location of Peach's Castle , which is based on its design from Super Mario 64 , sharing a similar layout (including the castle grounds , first floor interior, and courtyard ), with the music of the interior being rearranged as well. The kingdom itself contains multiple references to Super Mario 64 , with many of them taking the form of Power Moon requirements. The Mushroom Kingdom can be first seen by traveling through a painting in the Luncheon Kingdom , which leads to Yoshi's House on a floating platform away from the main area. The rest of the area cannot be explored until after rescuing Princess Peach from Bowser in the Moon Kingdom , after which the Odyssey can fly to the kingdom. Power Moons have a much different appearance in this kingdom, resembling Power Stars . However, when they are loaded into the Odyssey, they appear as Power Moons. Contents 1 Brochure details 2 Checkpoint Flag locations 2.1 Odyssey 2.2 Peach's Castle Main Entrance 2.2.1 Names in other languages 2.3 Mushroom Pond 2.3.1 Names in other languages 2.4 Goomba Woods 2.4.1 Names in other languages 2.5 Yoshi's House 2.5.1 Names in other languages 3 Bonus areas 4 Enemies 5 Paintings 5.1 Warp paintings 5.2 Boss paintings 6 Power Moons 7 Regional coins 8 Crazy Cap items 9 Gallery 10 Names in other languages 10.1 Mushroom Kingdom 10.2 Peach's Castle 11 Notes Brochure details Mushroom Kingdom " Most Famous of All Kingdoms " Peach's Castle " The elegant heart of the kingdom. " Population Middling Size Wide-ish Locals Toads Currency 64-esque Industry Pipes , Tourism Temperature Average 81°F (27°C) You'll always know whose castle this is. A Lovely Portrait in Glass Because Princess Peach is so often absent from her kingdom, her citizens took it upon themselves to create a stained-glass portrait of her on the castle balcony. While a pale reflection of the genuine article, the portrait brings comfort to the citizenry when their princess can't be with them. Less "art storage" and more "art prison." Towering Mysteries In older times, the towers dotting the landscape here were watchtowers. Now they hold and preserve a series of mysterious paintings. These incredibly detailed works are so real that admirers speak of being pulled into another world by the paintings. However, it's extremely rare for tourists to be permitted to see them, due to some undescribed danger, and casual visits are discouraged. An image of the national attitude. Places to Relax The Toads of the Mushroom Kingdom value their relaxation and have created several lovely spots on the castle grounds for that purpose. Neither too small nor too large, and with just the right amount of ornamentation, these plazas and courtyards exemplify the best traits of this kingdom. A bit more dangerous than it looks. A bit. Slightly Scary Woods Even the serene Mushroom Kingdom has its more dangerous locales. This forest was originally planted for mushroom cultivation, but while the mushrooms have flourished, a large number of wild Goombas have also moved in. While it's come to be known as Goomba Woods , it's still a pleasant place for a stroll, so if you're not afraid of these fearsome beasts, why not treat yourself to a walk? Not very deep, so a good place to swim. A Castle's Water Feature The only lake on the castle grounds features a small but lovely waterfall and is a popular spot to visit. The lake formed naturally, but some claim that its shape is familiar. Hmm... Not Mushrooms These fruit thrive in the warm climate here and are a favorite of many creatures that reside in the Mushroom Kingdom. Three Keys to the Kingdom Visit Peach's Castle, the face and heart of the kingdom. Relax in the various soothing spots scattered about. Stroll through the rolling hills and dales of the castle grounds. Map Checkpoint Flag locations It has been requested that more images be uploaded for this article. Remove this notice only after the additional images have been added. Specifics: Odyssey landing site Odyssey Main article: Odyssey The Odyssey lands near a fountain southeast of Peach's Castle. Many characters appear near the fountain, including Hint Toad , Uncle amiibo , Jammin' Toad , and people from various other kingdoms. A Starshroom Crazy Cap is also nearby. Peach's Castle Main Entrance This Checkpoint Flag is right in front of the door to Peach's Castle. Underneath the bridge are three regional coins . Names in other languages Language Name Meaning Notes Japanese ピーチ城 正面 [?] Pīchi Jō Shōmen Peach's Castle Facade French Entrée principale du château de Peach [?] Peach's Castle Main Entrance German Pilz-Palast: Haupteingang [?] Mushroom Palace Main Entrance Spanish ( NOE ) Entrada principal del Castillo de Peach [?] Peach's Castle Main Entrance Mushroom Pond Main article: Mushroom Pond This small pond south of Peach's Castle has Dorrie swimming in it. The Roving Racers are found near the edge of the pond. Names in other languages Language Name Meaning Notes French Lac aux champignons [?] Mushrooms Lake German Pilzteich [?] Mushroom Pond Goomba Woods Main article: Goomba Woods These Goomba-infested woods are located north of Peach's Castle. Names in other languages Language Name Meaning Notes French Bois des Goombas [?] Goomba Woods German Gumbaforst [?] Goomba Forest Yoshi's House Main article: Yoshi's House Yoshi's House is far floating far south of the main area. It is reached through a painting in the Luncheon Kingdom. Mario can find a Power Moon by Wall Jumping up the chimney. This is the only part of the kingdom that is accessible before saving Peach. Names in other languages Language Name Meaning Notes French Maison de Yoshi [?] Yoshi's House German Yoshis Haus [?] Yoshi's House Bonus areas Bonus area Accessed via Location Description Mario Picture Match Mini Rocket East of Goomba Woods An area with a Picture Match minigame. Mario must assemble cardboard parts of his facial features to closely match the original picture. Courtyard Locked door guarded by a Toad On the steep slope leading to Goomba Woods An exact recreation of the courtyard from Super Mario 64 , where Mario must open all eight treasure chests scattered throughout to obtain a Power Moon , as well as throw and spin Cappy onto a glowing spot on top of the fountain to obtain another Power Moon. Mario can only access this area while wearing his Mario 64 or Metal Mario set. The Sea of Clouds Warp Pipe At the main river's source A platforming area among a sea of clouds composed of colorful block-like structures and seesaw-like lifts, where Mario must capture Yoshi and help him eat all of the fruits scattered throughout the area to obtain a Power Moon while avoiding the Maw-Rays that emerge from the clouds. This area must first be accessed by eating the fruit blocking the Warp Pipe as Yoshi, who is found on top of Peach's Castle . Moving 2D Area Well West of Peach's Castle An 8-bit area composed of moving walls and spinning platforms. Mario must remain within these walls at all times while avoiding the Bullet Bills and Fuzzies throughout the area. If he falls out of these walls, he will fall into the void below and will have to restart this area. Enemies Enemies marked with an asterisk (*) are only found in bonus areas, while the non-boss enemies marked with a caret (^) are found during the boss rematches. Goombas Goomba Towers Mini Goombas Maw-Rays * Bullet Bills * Fuzzies * Chinchos *^ Pulse Beams ^ Sherm ^ Gushen ^ Moonsnakes ^ Lava Bubble ^ Burrbos *^ Knucklotec (boss) Torkdrift (boss) Mechawiggler (boss) Mollusque-Lanceur (boss) Cookatiel (boss) Ruined Dragon (boss) Paintings There are eight paintings in this kingdom, six of which are boss rematch paintings while the other two are warp paintings. Warp paintings The painting that leads to the Snow Kingdom The painting that leads to the Seaside Kingdom There are two warp paintings. One is located near some trees next to the Odyssey. It can lead the player either to the Snow Kingdom Clifftop at the Snow Kingdom or the Diving Platform at the Seaside Kingdom , and can be used at any time. The other painting is found at Yoshi's House and can be only accessed from a painting at Luncheon Kingdom . Boss paintings There are six boss rematch paintings. Knucklotec 's painting is located inside a tower to the southwest of the castle, Torkdrift 's painting is located inside a tower in the forest to the north of the castle that can be accessed by climbing a vine, Mechawiggler 's painting is located inside a tower by the garden to the east of the castle, Mollusque-Lanceur 's painting is located inside a pipe at the bottom of the lake where Dorrie is, Cookatiel 's painting is located inside a tower by the lake where Dorrie is, and Ruined Dragon 's painting is located inside a pipe under the castle's moat which is blocked with a fruit that only Yoshi can eat. The painting to Knucklotec's rematch The painting to Torkdrift's rematch The painting to Mechawiggler's rematch The painting to Mollusque-Lanceur's rematch The painting to Cookatiel's rematch The painting to Ruined Dragon's rematch Power Moons The Mushroom Kingdom has star-shaped Power Moons. Main article: List of Power Moons in the Mushroom Kingdom There are a total of 116 Power Moons (98 regular Power Moons and 6 Multi Moons ) to be found in the Mushroom Kingdom, more than any other kingdom in the game; 61 of these moons are obtained by completing achievements for Toadette . Regional coins Main article: List of regional coins in the Mushroom Kingdom There are a total of 100 regional coins to be found in Mushroom Kingdom, which take the form of Super Mario 64 's star-stamped coins. They also resemble the Purple Coins found in the Super Mario Galaxy games. Crazy Cap items Item Description Price Note Mario 64 Cap A charmingly blocky version of a classic. 15 Required for "Totally Classic!" and "Courtyard Chest Trap" Mario 64 Suit When you just want to wrap yourself in nostalgia. 20 Required for "Totally Classic!" and "Courtyard Chest Trap" Mushroom Cushion Set This mushroom pattern on these cushions has certainly withstood the test of time. A tablecloth is also included in the set! 10 N/A Peach's Castle Model Who wouldn't want a scale model of this famous castle! Even the beautiful stained glass window in the center has been faithfully re-created. 25 N/A Pipe Sticker A sticker designed to look like a pipe. 5 N/A Coin Sticker A sticker designed to look like a coin. 5 N/A Block Sticker A sticker designed to look like a block. 5 N/A ? Block Sticker A sticker designed to look like a ? block. 5 N/A Mushroom Kingdom Sticker A sticker inspired by Peach's Castle. 10 N/A Mushroom Kingdom Power Moon A Power Moon that periodically appears in the Mushroom Kingdom. 100 N/A Gallery Mushroom Kingdom sticker 64-esque currency A view of Peach's Castle Peach's Castle after collecting 999 Power Moons The Crazy Cap Starshroom Yoshi's House The Mushroom Kingdom seen from space. Names in other languages Mushroom Kingdom Language Name Meaning Notes Japanese キノコ王国 国内外の人々に愛される王国 [?] Kinoko ōkoku Kokunaigai no hitobito ni aisareru ōkoku Mushroom Kingdom Kingdom loved by people around the world Chinese 蘑菇王国(Simplified) Mógū wángguó 蘑菇王國(Traditional) Mógū wángguó [?] Mushroom Kingdom Dutch Paddenstoelenrijk Veruit het beroemdste koninkrijk ter wereld [?] Mushroom Kingdom By far the most famous kingdom in the world French Royaume Champignon Le royaume le plus célèbre au monde [?] Mushroom Kingdom The most famous kingdom in the world German Pilz-Königreich Das berühmteste Königreich überhaupt [?] Mushroom Kingdom The most famous Kingdom of them all Italian Regno dei Funghi Il reame più celebre al mondo [?] Mushroom Kingdom The most famous realm in the world Korean 버섯 왕국 국내외 사람들에게 사랑받는 왕국 [?] Beoseot Wangguk Guknaeoe Saramdeulege Sarangbatneun Wangguk Mushroom Kingdom A kingdom loved by people at home and abroad Russian Грибное королевство Самое знаменитое королевство в мире [?] Gribnoye korolevstvo Samoye znamenitoye korolevstvo v mire Mushroom Kingdom The most famous kingdom in the world Spanish Reino Champiñón El reino más famoso de todo el mundo [?] Mushroom Kingdom The most famous kingdom in the whole world Peach's Castle Language Name Meaning Notes Japanese ピーチ城 王国の中心に位置する 美しき城 [?] Pīchi-jō Ōkoku no chūshin ni ichi suru Utsukushiki shiro Peach's Castle Beautiful castle located in the heart of the Kingdom Chinese 桃花公主城堡(Simplified) Táohuāgōngzhǔ chéngbǎo 碧姬公主城堡(Traditional) Bìjīgōngzhǔ chéngbǎo [?] Princess Peach's Castle Dutch Peach' kasteel Het geliefde hart van het rijk [?] Peach's Castle The beloved heart of the kingdom French Château de Peach La délicate perle de la région [?] Peach's Castle The delicate pearl of the region German Pilz-Palast Das Herz des Königreichs [?] Mushroom Palace The Heart of the Kingdom Italian Castello di Peach Il maestoso cuore del regno [?] Peach's Castle The majestic heart of the kingdom Korean 피치 성 왕국의 중심에 위치하는 아름다운 성 [?] Pichi Seong Wanggukui Jungsime Wichihaneun Areumdaun Seong Peach's Castle A beautiful castle located in the heart of the kingdom Russian Замок Пич Прекрасное сердце королевства [?] Zamok Pich Prekrasnoye serdtse korolevstva Peach's Castle The beautiful heart of the Kingdom Spanish Castillo de Peach El corazón del reino es su elegante castillo [?] Peach's Castle The heart of the kingdom is its elegant castle Notes Toad as he appears in The Super Mario Bros. Movie , with a pin showing a Peach's Castle logo on his backpack (bottom-left) When the eight chests in the hidden replica of Super Mario 64 's castle courtyard are opened in the correct order, the eighth chest corresponds to the position of the Big Boo holding the cage that leads to Big Boo's Haunt . The two 2D Power Moons in this kingdom resemble regular Power Moons in a gold color and make the normal 8-bit version sound of obtaining a Power Moon, rather than the Super Mario 64 sound. The Multi Moons obtained from the boss rematches also appear as a trio of Power Moons, rather than a trio of Power Stars. In The Super Mario Bros. Movie , Toad 's backpack has three pins on it that have the designs of stickers from Super Mario Odyssey , with one of them being based on the Peach's Castle sticker. The design of the Mushroom Kingdom in Super Mario Odyssey is used to portray Peach's Castle in later games such as Princess Peach: Showtime! and Mario & Luigi: Brothership . [ Edit ] Super Mario Odyssey Playable characters Mario • Cappy Non-playable characters Princess Peach • Tiara • Bonneters • Bonneter biologist • Frogs • Hint Toad • Uncle amiibo • Talkatoo • Tostarenans • Desert Wanderer • Sheep • Moe-Eyes • Sphynx • Jaxi • Glydon • Koopas • Roving Racers • Lakitus • Goombettes • Lochladies • Style Sisters • Dorries • Steam Gardeners • Rabbits • New Donkers • Mayor Pauline • Band • Shiverians • Shiverian Racers • Shiverian Elder • Bubblainians • Coach • Dog • Volbonans • Poochy • Toads • Captain Toad • Toad Brigade ( Green Toad · Yellow Toad · Purple Toad ) • Archivist Toadette • Jammin' Toad • Yoshi • Luigi a Enemies Astro-Lanceur • Banzai Bill • Big Chain Chomp • Big Poison Piranha Plant • Bitefrost • Broode's Chain Chomp • Bullet Bill • Burrbo • Chain Chomp • Chargin' Chuck • Cheep Cheep • Chincho • Coin Coffer • Donkey Kong • Fire Bro • Fire Piranha Plant • Fuzzy • Goomba • Gushen • Hammer Bro • Klepto • Komboo • Lava Bubble • Magmato • Maw-Ray • Mini Goomba • Moonsnake • Parabones • Paragoomba • Poison Piranha Plant • Pokio • Pulse Beam • Sherm • Spiny • Stairface Ogre • T-Rex • Trapeetle • Tropical Wiggler • Ty-foo • Uproot • Urban Stingby • Urban Stingby Larva • Yoofoe Obstacles Banzai Bill Cannon • Barrel • Bill Blaster • Boulder • Cannonball • Firework bomb • Fortress turret • Freezing water • Ice • Icicle • Lava • Lava Geyser • Oil drum • Pepper • Poison • Quicksand • Revolving lattice wall • Rotating defense mechanism • Senobi Generate Point • Shell • Spike Trap • Wind • Wind Blow Tower • Wooden roller Bosses Broodals Topper • Hariet • Spewart • Rango Large bosses Madame Broode • Knucklotec • Torkdrift • Bowser • Mechawiggler • Mollusque-Lanceur • Cookatiel • Ruined Dragon • RoboBrood Items Bubble • Coin • Coin pile • Fruit • Heart • Hidden Coin • Key • Life-Up Heart • Moon Shard • Multi Moon • Note • Nut • Pauline's lost items • Power Moon • Regional coin • Rock • Rocket Flower • Seed • Turnip • Yoshi's Egg Objects ? Block • 2D block • 8-bit character • 8-bit pipe • Airship • Arrow Sign • Bar • Barrier • Beanstalk • Big mushroom • Binding Band • Binoculars • Bird (traveling) • Block • Boombox • Bowser statue • Brick Block • Bubbler • Butterfly • Cactus • Checkpoint Flag • Cheese rock • Coin Block • Coin ring • Crate • Dumpster • Falling Platform • Fish • Floating corn • Flower (Cap Throw) • Flower (environmental object) • Flower Road • Fog • Frost-Frosted Cake • Giant Swing • Girder • Glowing spot • Goomba button • Ground-Pound Switch • Hat Catapult • Hat cloud • Hat Launcher • Hat Trampoline • Hidden Block • Hill • Hip Drop Move Lift • Hint Art • Hole • Jaxi Stand • Jaxi Statue • Jizo • Keyhole Pedestal • Knob-like structure • Koopa Shell • Lantern • Lava cannon • Letter • Lever Switch • Lift • Lochlady Dress • Lurker • Manhole • Meat • Mini Rocket • Moon Cage • Moon Pedestal • Moon Pipe • Moon platform • Moon Rock • Motor scooter • Movable cover • Mushroom Platform • Mysterious sprout • P Switch • Parking lot • Penguin • Pipe • Pole • Pole (bollard) • Post • Propeller Pillar • Push-Block • Puzzle Part • Rankings Board • RC Car • Red door • Rising Stone Pillar • Rock wall • Rotating building • Rotating dial • Rotating platform • Sand Geyser • Scarecrow • Seagull • Seesaw • Slots • Small animal • Small bird • Small UFO • Snow • Soft wall • Soirée Bouquet • Spark pylon • Sparkle Water • Spinning block • Spinning saucepan • Steel Block • Stone marker • Stone spire • Stone wall • Stupendous Stew • Swing • Swinging Scaffolding • Sword • Tail Tree • Tapering platform • Taxi • Trampoline • Transparent Platform • Trash Can • Travel Tip • Treasure chest • Tree • Vanishing platform • Volcano • Wardrobe closet • Warp hole • Wedding-announcement poster • Wire Net Platform • Wooden pendulum • Yellow turnstile • Zipper Locations Main game Cap Kingdom (Bonneton) • Cascade Kingdom (Fossil Falls) • Sand Kingdom (Tostarena) • Lake Kingdom (Lake Lamode) • Wooded Kingdom (Steam Gardens) • Cloud Kingdom (Nimbus Arena) • Lost Kingdom (Forgotten Isle) • Metro Kingdom (New Donk City) • Snow Kingdom (Shiveria) • Seaside Kingdom (Bubblaine) • Luncheon Kingdom (Mount Volbono) • Ruined Kingdom (Crumbleden) • Bowser's Kingdom ( Bowser's Castle ) • Moon Kingdom (Honeylune Ridge) The Odyssey Continues... Mushroom Kingdom ( Peach's Castle ) • Dark Side (Rabbit Ridge) • Darker Side (Culmina Crater) Other Odyssey • Crazy Cap • Starshroom Moves Backward Somersault • Cap Jump • Cap Throw • Capture • Crawl • Crouch • Dash • Dive • Double Jump • Downward Throw • Drill Spin • Ground Pound • Ground Pound Jump • Jump • Long Jump • Quick Swim • Roll • Side Somersault • Spin Jump • Spin Throw • Swim • Triple Jump • Upward Throw • Wall Jump Gameplay elements amiibo • Balloon World a • Beach Volleyball • Bound Bowl Grand Prix • Completion • Gravity • Gravity field • Health Meter • Jump-Rope Challenge • Koopa Freerunning • Koopa Trace-Walking • Nintendo Labo b • Objectives • Picture Match • RC Car Challenge • Snapshot Mode Music compositions " Break Free (Lead the Way) " • " Fossil Falls " • " Jump Up, Super Star! " Further info The Art of Super Mario Odyssey • Gallery • Glitches • Lists of names in other languages ( Clothing · Music List · Power Moons · Souvenirs ) • Mario Reads Your Letters • Music List • Nintendo Music • Original soundtrack • Pre-release and unused content • Quotes • Sound selection • Staff • The Super Mario Players a In version 1.2.0 or later b In version 1.3.0 or later [ Edit ] Kingdoms in Super Mario Odyssey Cap Kingdom (Bonneton) Locations Glasses Bridge • Central Plaza • Sometimes Bridge • Top-Hat Tower Story missions Cappy of the Cap Kingdom VR mission Find Band Members in the Cap Kingdom! Cascade Kingdom (Fossil Falls) Story missions Our First Power Moon • Multi Moon Atop the Falls Sand Kingdom (Tostarena) Locations Tostarena Town • Tostarena Ruins • Moe-Eye Habitat • Inverted Pyramid • Underground Temple • Deepest Underground • Jaxi Ruins • Desert Oasis Story missions Atop the Highest Tower • Moon Shards in the Sand • Showdown on the Inverted Pyramid • The Hole in the Desert Lake Kingdom (Lake Lamode) Locations Courtyard • Water Plaza Story missions Broodals Over the Lake Wooded Kingdom (Steam Gardens) Locations Sky Garden Tower • Forest Charging Station • Secret Flower Field • Deep Woods Story missions Road to Sky Garden • Flower Thieves of Sky Garden • Path to the Secret Flower Field • Defend the Secret Flower Field! Cloud Kingdom (Nimbus Arena) Story missions Hat-to-Hat Combat Lost Kingdom (Forgotten Isle) Story missions N/A Metro Kingdom (New Donk City) Locations Construction Site • New Donk City Hall • New Donk City Hall Plaza • Mayor Pauline Commemorative Park • Outdoor Café • Underground Power Plant Story missions The Scourge on the Skyscraper • A Fresh Start for the City • A Traditional Festival! Snow Kingdom (Shiveria) Locations Shiveria Town • Icicle Cavern • Hollow Crevasse • Wind-Chill Cavern • Snowy Mountain • Snowline Circuit • Iceburn Circuit Story missions The Cake Thief's Parting Gift • The Bound Bowl Grand Prix Seaside Kingdom (Bubblaine) Locations Lighthouse • Underwater Tunnel to the Lighthouse • Glass Palace • Rolling Canyon • Hot Spring Island • Beach House Story missions The Glass Is Half Empty! VR mission Find Band Members in the Seaside Kingdom! Luncheon Kingdom (Mount Volbono) Locations Peronza Plaza Story missions The Broodals Are After Some Cookin' • Under the Cheese Rocks • Big Pot on the Volcano: Dive In! • Climb Up the Cascading Magma • Cookatiel Showdown! VR mission Find Band Members in the Luncheon Kingdom! Ruined Kingdom (Crumbleden) Story missions Battle with the Lord of Lightning! Bowser's Kingdom ( Bowser's Castle ) Story missions Infiltrate Bowser's Castle! • Smart Bombing • Big Broodal Battle • Showdown at Bowser's Castle Moon Kingdom (Honeylune Ridge) Locations Underground Moon Caverns • Wedding Hall Story missions Bowser's Moon Wedding Mushroom Kingdom ( Peach's Castle ) Locations Courtyard • Goomba Woods • Mushroom Pond • Yoshi's House Dark Side (Rabbit Ridge) Locations Rabbit Ridge Tower Story missions Arrival at Rabbit Ridge! Darker Side (Culmina Crater) Story missions Long Journey's End Click on a Power Moon icon to see a list of all Power Moons in that kingdom Click on a regional coin icon to see a list of all regional coins in that kingdom Retrieved from " https://www.mariowiki.com/index.php?title=Mushroom_Kingdom_(Super_Mario_Odyssey)&oldid=4831156 " Categories : Grasslands Super Mario Odyssey kingdoms Meta categories: Articles that need more images Articles with unsourced foreign names Navigation menu Page actions Article Discussion Read View source History Page actions Article Discussion More Tools Languages Personal tools Create account Log in Browse Games Characters Locations Items Allies Enemies Species Moves Search Navigation Main page Featured articles Wiki maintenance Recent changes Random page Help Community The 'Shroom Proposals Mario Boards Discord servers Tools What links here Related changes Special pages Printable version Permanent link Page information Languages Italiano This page was last edited on April 8, 2025, at 10:29. Content is available under Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported unless otherwise noted. Privacy policy About MarioWiki Disclaimers Mobile view