God of War on Steam Login Store Home Discovery Queue Wishlist Points Shop News Stats Community Home Discussions Workshop Market Broadcasts About Support Change language Get the Steam Mobile App View desktop website © Valve Corporation. All rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries. Privacy Policy | Legal | Steam Subscriber Agreement | Refunds STORE Home Discovery Queue Wishlist Points Shop News Stats COMMUNITY Home Discussions Workshop Market Broadcasts About SUPPORT Install Steam login | language 简体中文 (Simplified Chinese) 繁體中文 (Traditional Chinese) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) ไทย (Thai) Български (Bulgarian) Čeština (Czech) Dansk (Danish) Deutsch (German) Español - España (Spanish - Spain) Español - Latinoamérica (Spanish - Latin America) Ελληνικά (Greek) Français (French) Italiano (Italian) Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian) Magyar (Hungarian) Nederlands (Dutch) Norsk (Norwegian) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese - Portugal) Português - Brasil (Portuguese - Brazil) Română (Romanian) Русский (Russian) Suomi (Finnish) Svenska (Swedish) Türkçe (Turkish) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Українська (Ukrainian) Report a translation problem Your Store Your Store Home Community Recommendations Recently Viewed Steam Curators New & Noteworthy New & Noteworthy Popular Top Sellers Most Played New Releases Upcoming Releases News & Updates Recently Updated Promos & Events Special Offers Sale Events Steam Replay Steam Next Fest The Steam Awards Categories Categories Special Sections Free To Play Demos Early Access Steam Deck Great on Deck Controller-Friendly Remote Play VR Titles VR Hardware Software Soundtracks macOS SteamOS + Linux For PC Cafés Genres Action Action Arcade & Rhythm Fighting & Martial Arts First-Person Shooter Hack & Slash Platformer & Runner Third-Person Shooter shmup Adventure Adventure Adventure RPG Casual Hidden Object Metroidvania Puzzle Story-Rich Visual Novel Role-Playing Role-Playing Action RPG Adventure RPG JRPG Party-Based Rogue-Like Strategy RPG Turn-Based Simulation Simulation Building & Automation Dating Farming & Crafting Hobby & Job Life & Immersive Sandbox & Physics Space & Flight Strategy Strategy Card & Board City & Settlement Grand & 4X Military Real-Time Strategy Tower Defense Turn-Based Strategy Sports & Racing Sports & Racing All Sports Fishing & Hunting Individual Sports Racing Racing Sim Sports Sim Team Sports Themes Themes Adult Only Anime Horror Mystery & Detective Open World Sci-Fi & Cyberpunk Space Survival Player Support Player Support Co-Operative LAN Local & Party MMO Multiplayer Online Competitive Singleplayer Points Shop News Labs All Games > Action Games > PlayStation Studios™ Franchise > God of War Community Hub God of War God of War Developer Santa Monica Studio , Jetpack Interactive Publisher PlayStation Publishing LLC Released Jan 14, 2022 His vengeance against the Gods of Olympus years behind him, Kratos now lives as a man in the realm of Norse Gods and monsters. It is in this harsh, unforgiving world that he must fight to survive… and teach his son to do the same. Recent Reviews: Overwhelmingly Positive (1,210) - 95% of the 1,210 user reviews in the last 30 days are positive. All Reviews: Overwhelmingly Positive (109,921) - 96% of the 109,921 user reviews for this game are positive. Release Date: Jan 14, 2022 Developer: Santa Monica Studio , Jetpack Interactive Publisher: PlayStation Publishing LLC Tags Popular user-defined tags for this product: Action Singleplayer Story Rich Adventure Mythology Combat Third Person RPG Hack and Slash Violent Open World Fantasy Exploration Atmospheric Gore Action RPG Souls-like Emotional 3D PvE + Reviews All Reviews: Overwhelmingly Positive (96% of 109,921) All Time Recent Reviews: Overwhelmingly Positive (95% of 1,210) Recent Sign in to add this item to your wishlist, follow it, or mark it as ignored Links & info Features Single-player Steam Achievements Steam Cloud Remote Play on TV Family Sharing Requires agreement to a 3rd-party EULA God of War EULA Languages : English and 17 more Interface Full Audio Subtitles English ✔ ✔ ✔ French ✔ ✔ ✔ Italian ✔ ✔ ✔ German ✔ ✔ ✔ Spanish - Spain ✔ ✔ ✔ Dutch ✔ ✔ Japanese ✔ ✔ ✔ Korean ✔ ✔ Polish ✔ ✔ ✔ Portuguese - Portugal ✔ ✔ ✔ Portuguese - Brazil ✔ ✔ ✔ Russian ✔ ✔ ✔ Spanish - Latin America ✔ ✔ ✔ Turkish ✔ ✔ Traditional Chinese ✔ ✔ Czech ✔ ✔ Hungarian ✔ ✔ Greek ✔ ✔ See all 18 supported languages Ratings Blood and Gore Intense Violence Strong Language Age rating for: ESRB View Steam Achievements (37) Includes 37 Steam Achievements View all 37 Title: God of War Genre: Action , Adventure , RPG Developer: Santa Monica Studio , Jetpack Interactive Publisher: PlayStation Publishing LLC Franchise: PlayStation Studios Release Date: Jan 14, 2022 View update history Read related news View discussions Find Community Groups Embed 93 metacritic Read Critic Reviews Awards Awards The Steam Awards 2022 Winner Outstanding Story-Rich Game Award Check out the entire PlayStation Studios™ collection on Steam Buy God of War $49.99 Add to Cart View Community Hub About This Game Enter the Norse realm His vengeance against the Gods of Olympus years behind him, Kratos now lives as a man in the realm of Norse Gods and monsters. It is in this harsh, unforgiving world that he must fight to survive… and teach his son to do the same. Grasp a second chance Kratos is a father again. As mentor and protector to Atreus, a son determined to earn his respect, he is forced to deal with and control the rage that has long defined him while out in a very dangerous world with his son. Journey to a dark, elemental world of fearsome creatures From the marble and columns of ornate Olympus to the gritty forests, mountains and caves of pre-Viking Norse lore, this is a distinctly new realm with its own pantheon of creatures, monsters and gods. Engage in visceral, physical combat With an over the shoulder camera that brings the player closer to the action than ever before, fights in God of War™ mirror the pantheon of Norse creatures Kratos will face: grand, gritty and grueling. A new main weapon and new abilities retain the defining spirit of the God of War series while presenting a vision of conflict that forges new ground in the genre. PC FEATURES High Fidelity Graphics Striking visuals enhanced on PC. Enjoy true 4K resolution, on supported devices, [MU1] with unlocked framerates for peak performance. Dial in your settings via a wide range of graphical presets and options including higher resolution shadows, improved screen space reflections, the addition of GTAO and SSDO, and much more. NVIDIA® DLSS and Reflex Support Quality meets performance. Harness the AI power of NVIDIA Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) to boost frame rates and generate beautiful, sharp images on select Nvidia GPUs. Utilize NVIDIA Reflex low latency technology allowing you to react quicker and hit harder combos with the responsive gameplay you crave on GeForce GPUs. Controls Customization Play your way. With support for the DUALSHOCK®4 and DUALSENSE® wireless controllers, a wide range of other gamepads, and fully customizable bindings for mouse and keyboard, you have the power to fine-tune every action to match your playstyle. Ultra-wide Support Immerse yourself like never before. Journey through the Norse realms taking in breathtaking vistas in panoramic widescreen. With 21:9 ultra-widescreen support, God of War™ presents a cinema quality experience that further expands the original seamless theatrical vision. Mature Content Description The developers describe the content like this: Gameplay consists of frequent combat scenarios with characters punching and kicking or using their axe to slash/stab/impale enemies. Some larger enemies  are opened up to intense finishing moves showing enemies being ripped apart, dismembered, or decapitated. Strong Language is used in the dialogue. System Requirements Minimum: Requires a 64-bit processor and operating system OS: Windows 10 64-bit Processor: Intel i5-2500k (4 core 3.3 GHz) or AMD Ryzen 3 1200 (4 core 3.1 GHz) Memory: 8 GB RAM Graphics: NVIDIA GTX 960 (4 GB) or AMD R9 290X (4 GB) DirectX: Version 11 Storage: 70 GB available space Additional Notes: DirectX feature level 11_1 required Recommended: Requires a 64-bit processor and operating system OS: Windows 10 64-bit Processor: Intel i5-6600k (4 core 3.5 GHz) or AMD Ryzen 5 2400 G (4 core 3.6 GHz) Memory: 8 GB RAM Graphics: NVIDIA GTX 1060 (6 GB) or AMD RX 570 (4 GB) DirectX: Version 11 Storage: 70 GB available space Additional Notes: DirectX feature level 11_1 required PRIVACY POLICY USER AGREEMENT Software subject to license HEALTH WARNING WARNING: IF YOU HAVE A HISTORY OF EPILEPSY OR SEIZURES, CONSULT A DOCTOR BEFORE USE. CERTAIN PATTERNS MAY TRIGGER SEIZURES WITH NO PRIOR HISTORY. BEFORE USING AND FOR MORE DETAILS, SEE IMPORTANT HEALTH AND SAFETY WARNINGS © 2018, 2021 Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC. God of War is a registered trademark or trademark of Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC and related companies. View all What Curators Say 556 Curators have reviewed this product. Click here to see them. Customer reviews for God of War Overall Reviews: Overwhelmingly Positive (109,921 reviews) Recent Reviews: Overwhelmingly Positive (1,210 reviews) Review Type All (156,571) Positive (150,358) Negative (6,213) Purchase Type All (156,571) Steam Purchasers (109,921) Other (46,650) Language All Languages (156,571) Your Languages (71,170) Customize Date Range To view reviews within a date range, please click and drag a selection on a graph above or click on a specific bar. Show graph Lifetime Only Specific Range (Select on graph above) Exclude Specific Range (Select on graph above) Playtime Filter reviews by the user's playtime when the review was written: No Minimum Over 1 hour Over 10 hours No minimum to No maximum Played across all devices Played mostly on Steam Deck Display Show reviews in selected display order Summary Most Helpful Recent Funny Use new helpfulness system. Only applies to Summary and Most Helpful views. Learn More Off-topic Review Activity When enabled, off-topic review activity will be filtered out.  This defaults to your Review Score Setting. Read more about it in the blog post . Enabled Show graph Hide graph Filters Filters Excluding Off-topic Review Activity Playtime: Played Mostly on Steam Deck Loading reviews... Loading reviews... Loading reviews... Loading reviews... Loading reviews... There are no more reviews that match the filters set above Adjust the filters above to see other reviews Loading reviews... Review Filters You can use this widget-maker to generate a bit of HTML that can be embedded in your website to easily allow customers to purchase this game on Steam. Enter up to 375 characters to add a description to your widget: Create widget Copy and paste the HTML below into your website to make the above widget appear Popular user-defined tags for this product: (?) Sign In Sign in to add your own tags to this product. Sign In © 2025 Valve Corporation.  All rights reserved.  All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries. VAT included in all prices where applicable. Privacy Policy | Legal | Steam Subscriber Agreement | Refunds | Cookies View mobile website About Valve | Jobs | Steamworks | Steam Distribution | Support | Recycling | Gift Cards | | |