List of Academy Award winners and nominees for Best International Feature Film - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Winners and nominees 2 Multiple wins and nominations Toggle Multiple wins and nominations subsection 2.1 Multiple wins 2.2 Multiple nominations 3 See also 4 Notes 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents List of Academy Award winners and nominees for Best International Feature Film 5 languages Español فارسی Bahasa Indonesia Português 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia National origin of Academy Award winners and nominees for Best International Feature Film (as of 2025 [update] ) Won the award Nominated for the award United States (ineligible for competition) The Academy Award for Best International Feature Film (formerly known as Best Foreign Language Film prior to 2020) is handed out annually by the U.S.-based Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to a feature-length motion picture produced outside the United States of America with a predominantly non-English dialogue track. [ 1 ] When the first Academy Awards ceremony was held on May 16, 1929, to honor films released in 1927–28, there was no separate category for foreign language films. Between 1947 and 1955 , the Academy presented Special/Honorary Awards to the best foreign language films released in the United States. [ 2 ] These awards, however, were not handed out on a regular basis (no award was given in 1953 ), and were not competitive since there were no nominees but simply one winning film per year. For the 1956 Academy Awards , a competitive Academy Award of Merit, known as the Best Foreign Language Film Award, was created for non-English speaking films, and has been given annually since then. Unlike other Academy Awards, the Best International Feature Film Award is not presented to a specific individual. It is accepted by the winning film's director, [ 1 ] but is considered an award for the submitting country as a whole. As of 2014 [update] , the Academy changed its rules so that the name of the director is etched onto the Oscar statuette, in addition to the film's country. [ 3 ] The director also gets to keep the statuette. Over the years, the Best International Feature Film and its predecessors have been given almost exclusively to European films: out of the 74 awards handed out by the Academy since 1947 to foreign language films, fifty-seven have gone to European films , [A] nine to Asian films , [B] five to films from the Americas and three to African films . The late Italian filmmaker Federico Fellini directed four winning motion pictures during his lifetime, more than any other director. If Special Awards are taken into account, then Fellini's record is tied by his countryman Vittorio De Sica . The Soviet epic War and Peace (1966–67), for its part, is the longest motion picture to have won the Best Foreign Language Film Award. Filmed from 1962 to 1966, it ran for more than seven hours. [ 4 ] Winners and nominees [ edit ] In the following table, the years are listed as per Academy convention, and generally correspond to the year of film release ; the ceremonies are always held the following year. Films in bold and dark blue background have received an Academy Award; winning films from 1947 to 1955 won a Special/Honorary Award as denoted in the key, while all other winning films won a regular Academy Award of Merit. Films that are neither highlighted nor in bold are the nominees. When sorted chronologically, the table always lists the winning film first and then the four other nominees. The Submitting country column indicates the country that officially submitted the film to the Academy, and is not necessarily indicative of the film's main country of production. The original titles of the films are also mentioned, as well as the names of the directors and the languages used in the dialogue track, even though none of these elements is officially included in the nomination. When several languages are used in a film, the predominant one is always listed first; the names of the other languages are written in smaller typesize and placed between brackets. When a film's original title is in a language that uses a non- Latin script , it is first transliterated into the Latin alphabet and then written in its original script . Films from the former Yugoslavia are written in both Latin and Cyrillic due to the fact that the previously official Serbo-Croatian language used both alphabets. Chinese film titles are romanized according to the pinyin system, and are written using the characters employed in their submitting country, i.e. traditional Chinese ones for films submitted by Hong Kong and Taiwan , and simplified Chinese ones for films submitted by the People's Republic of China. Table key ‡ Special/Honorary Award (1947–1955) Year Film Title used in nomination Original Title Director(s) Submitting Countries Language(s) 1947 (20th) Shoe-Shine ‡ [C] Sciuscià Vittorio De Sica Italy Italian , English 1948 (21st) Monsieur Vincent ‡ [D] Maurice Cloche France French 1949 (22nd) Bicycle Thieves ‡ [E] Ladri di biciclette Vittorio De Sica Italy Italian 1950 (23rd) The Walls of Malapaga ‡ [F] French Au-delà des grilles Italian Le mura di Malapaga René Clément {co-production} France Italy French, Italian 1951 (24th) Rashomon ‡ [G] 羅生門 Akira Kurosawa Japan Japanese 1952 (25th) Forbidden Games ‡ [H] Jeux interdits René Clément France French 1954 (27th) Gate of Hell ‡ [I] 地獄門 Teinosuke Kinugasa Japan Japanese 1955 (28th) Samurai, The Legend of Musashi ‡ [J] 宮本武蔵 Hiroshi Inagaki 1956 (29th) La Strada [K] Federico Fellini Italy Italian The Captain of Köpenick [K] Der Hauptmann von Köpenick Helmut Käutner West Germany German Gervaise [K] René Clément France French Harp of Burma [K] ビルマの竪琴 Kon Ichikawa Japan Japanese Qivitoq [K] Erik Balling Denmark Danish 1957 (30th) Nights of Cabiria Le notti di Cabiria Federico Fellini Italy Italian The Devil Strikes at Night Nachts, wenn der Teufel kam Robert Siodmak West Germany German Gates of Paris Porte des Lilas René Clair France French Mother India मदर इंडिया Mehboob Khan India Hindi Nine Lives Ni liv Arne Skouen Norway Norwegian 1958 (31st) Mon Oncle Jacques Tati France French Arms and the Man Helden Franz Peter Wirth West Germany German La Venganza Juan Antonio Bardem Spain Spanish The Road a Year Long La strada lunga un anno / Cesta duga godinu dana / Цеста дуга годину дана Giuseppe De Santis Yugoslavia Italian The Usual Unidentified Thieves I soliti ignoti Mario Monicelli Italy 1959 (32nd) Black Orpheus Orfeu Negro Marcel Camus France Brazilian Portuguese The Bridge Die Brücke Bernhard Wicki West Germany German The Great War La grande guerra Mario Monicelli Italy Italian Paw Astrid Henning-Jensen Denmark Danish The Village on the River Dorp aan de rivier Fons Rademakers Netherlands Dutch 1960 (33rd) The Virgin Spring Jungfrukällan Ingmar Bergman Sweden Swedish Kapo Gillo Pontecorvo Italy Italian La Vérité Henri-Georges Clouzot France French Macario Roberto Gavaldón Mexico Spanish The Ninth Circle Deveti krug / Девети круг France Štiglic Yugoslavia Serbo-Croatian 1961 (34th) Through a Glass Darkly Såsom i en spegel Ingmar Bergman Sweden Swedish Harry and the Butler Harry og kammertjeneren Bent Christensen Denmark Danish Immortal Love 永遠の人 Keisuke Kinoshita Japan Japanese The Important Man Animas Trujano / El hombre importante Ismael Rodríguez Mexico Spanish Plácido Luis García Berlanga Spain 1962 (35th) Sundays and Cybele Les Dimanches de Ville d'Avray Serge Bourguignon France French Electra Ηλέκτρα Michael Cacoyannis Greece Greek The Four Days of Naples Le quattro giornate di Napoli Nanni Loy Italy Italian Keeper of Promises (The Given Word) O Pagador de Promessas Anselmo Duarte Brazil Brazilian Portuguese Tlayucan Luis Alcoriza Mexico Spanish 1963 (36th) 8½ Federico Fellini Italy Italian Knife in the Water Nóż w wodzie Roman Polanski Poland Polish Los Tarantos Francisco Rovira Beleta Spain Spanish The Red Lanterns Τα κόκκινα φανάρια Vasilis Georgiadis Greece Greek Twin Sisters of Kyoto 古都 Noboru Nakamura Japan Japanese 1964 (37th) Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow Ieri, oggi, domani Vittorio De Sica Italy Italian Raven's End Kvarteret Korpen Bo Widerberg Sweden Swedish Sallah Shabati סאלח שבתי Ephraim Kishon Israel Hebrew The Umbrellas of Cherbourg Les Parapluies de Cherbourg Jacques Demy France French Woman in the Dunes 砂の女 Hiroshi Teshigahara Japan Japanese 1965 (38th) The Shop on Main Street Obchod na korze Ján Kadár and Elmar Klos Czechoslovakia Slovak Blood on the Land Το χώμα βάφτηκε κόκκινο Vasilis Georgiadis Greece Greek Dear John Käre John Lars-Magnus Lindgren Sweden Swedish Kwaidan 怪談 Masaki Kobayashi Japan Japanese Marriage Italian Style Matrimonio all'italiana Vittorio De Sica Italy Italian 1966 (39th) A Man and a Woman Un homme et une femme Claude Lelouch France French The Battle of Algiers La battaglia di Algeri Gillo Pontecorvo Italy Arabic , French Loves of a Blonde Lásky jedné plavovlásky Miloš Forman Czechoslovakia Czech Pharaoh Faraon Jerzy Kawalerowicz Poland Polish Three Tri / Три Aleksandar Petrović Yugoslavia Serbo-Croatian 1967 (40th) Closely Watched Trains Ostře sledované vlaky Jiří Menzel Czechoslovakia Czech, German Bewitched Love El amor brujo Francisco Rovira Beleta Spain Spanish I Even Met Happy Gypsies Skupljači perja / Скупљачи перја Aleksandar Petrović Yugoslavia Serbo-Croatian Live for Life Vivre pour vivre Claude Lelouch France French Portrait of Chieko 智恵子抄 Noboru Nakamura Japan Japanese 1968 (41st) War and Peace Война и мир Sergei Bondarchuk Soviet Union Russian , French, German The Boys of Paul Street A Pál-utcai fiúk Zoltán Fábri Hungary Hungarian The Firemen's Ball Hoří, má panenko Miloš Forman Czechoslovakia Czech The Girl with the Pistol La ragazza con la pistola Mario Monicelli Italy Italian Stolen Kisses Baisers volés François Truffaut France French 1969 (42nd) Z Costa-Gavras Algeria French, Russian, English Ådalen 31 Bo Widerberg Sweden Swedish Battle of Neretva Bitka na Neretvi / Битка на Неретви Veljko Bulajić Yugoslavia Serbo-Croatian Italian German English The Brothers Karamazov Братья Карамазовы Kirill Lavrov , Ivan Pyryev and Mikhail Ulyanov Soviet Union Russian My Night with Maud [L] Ma nuit chez Maud Éric Rohmer France French 1970 (43rd) Investigation of a Citizen Above Suspicion Indagine su un cittadino al di sopra di ogni sospetto Elio Petri Italy Italian First Love Erste Liebe Maximilian Schell Switzerland German Hoa-Binh Raoul Coutard France French Peace in the Fields Paix sur les champs Jacques Boigelot Belgium Tristana Luis Buñuel Spain Spanish 1971 (44th) The Garden of the Finzi Continis Il giardino dei Finzi-Contini Vittorio De Sica Italy Italian Dodes'ka-den どですかでん Akira Kurosawa Japan Japanese The Emigrants Utvandrarna Jan Troell Sweden Swedish The Policeman השוטר אזולאי Ephraim Kishon Israel Hebrew Tchaikovsky Чайковский Igor Talankin Soviet Union Russian 1972 (45th) The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie Le Charme discret de la bourgeoisie Luis Buñuel France French The Dawns Here Are Quiet А зори здесь тихие Stanislav Rostotsky Soviet Union Russian I Love You Rosa אני אוהב אותך רוזה Moshé Mizrahi Israel Hebrew My Dearest Señorita Mi querida señorita Jaime de Armiñán Spain Spanish The New Land Nybyggarna Jan Troell Sweden Swedish 1973 (46th) Day for Night La Nuit américaine François Truffaut France French The House on Chelouche Street הבית ברחוב שלוש Moshé Mizrahi Israel Hebrew L'Invitation Claude Goretta Switzerland French The Pedestrian Der Fußgänger Maximilian Schell West Germany German Turkish Delight Turks Fruit Paul Verhoeven Netherlands Dutch 1974 (47th) Amarcord Federico Fellini Italy Italian Cats' Play Macskajáték Károly Makk Hungary Hungarian The Deluge Potop Jerzy Hoffman Poland Polish Lacombe, Lucien Lacombe Lucien Louis Malle France French The Truce La tregua Sergio Renán Argentina Spanish 1975 (48th) Dersu Uzala Дерсу Узала Akira Kurosawa Soviet Union Russian Letters from Marusia Actas de Marusia Miguel Littín Mexico Spanish The Promised Land Ziemia obiecana Andrzej Wajda Poland Polish Sandakan No. 8 サンダカン八番娼館 望郷 Kei Kumai Japan Japanese Scent of a Woman Profumo di donna Dino Risi Italy Italian 1976 (49th) Black and White in Color La Victoire en chantant [M] Jean-Jacques Annaud Ivory Coast French Cousin Cousine Jean-Charles Tacchella France French Jacob the Liar Jakob der Lügner Frank Beyer East Germany German Nights and Days Noce i dnie Jerzy Antczak Poland Polish Seven Beauties Pasqualino Settebellezze Lina Wertmüller Italy Italian 1977 (50th) Madame Rosa La Vie devant soi Moshé Mizrahi France French Iphigenia Ιφιγένεια Michael Cacoyannis Greece Greek Operation Thunderbolt מבצע יונתן Menahem Golan Israel Hebrew A Special Day Una giornata particolare Ettore Scola Italy Italian That Obscure Object of Desire Cet obscur objet du désir / Ese oscuro objeto del deseo Luis Buñuel Spain French, Spanish 1978 (51st) Get Out Your Handkerchiefs Préparez vos mouchoirs Bertrand Blier France French The Glass Cell Die gläserne Zelle Hans W. Geißendörfer West Germany German Hungarians Magyarok Zoltán Fábri Hungary Hungarian Viva Italia! I nuovi mostri Mario Monicelli , Dino Risi , Ettore Scola Italy Italian White Bim Black Ear Белый Бим Чёрное ухо Stanislav Rostotsky Soviet Union Russian 1979 (52nd) The Tin Drum Die Blechtrommel Volker Schlöndorff West Germany German The Maids of Wilko Panny z Wilka Andrzej Wajda Poland Polish Mama Turns 100 Mamá cumple cien años Carlos Saura Spain Spanish A Simple Story Une histoire simple Claude Sautet France French To Forget Venice Dimenticare Venezia Franco Brusati Italy Italian 1980 (53rd) Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears Москва слезам не верит Vladimir Menshov Soviet Union Russian Confidence Bizalom István Szabó Hungary Hungarian Kagemusha (The Shadow Warrior) 影武者 Akira Kurosawa Japan Japanese The Last Metro Le Dernier Métro François Truffaut France French The Nest El nido Jaime de Armiñán Spain Spanish 1981 (54th) Mephisto István Szabó Hungary Hungarian The Boat Is Full Das Boot ist voll Markus Imhoof Switzerland German Man of Iron Człowiek z żelaza Andrzej Wajda Poland Polish Muddy River 泥の河 Kōhei Oguri Japan Japanese Three Brothers Tre fratelli Francesco Rosi Italy Italian 1982 (55th) To Begin Again Volver a empezar José Luis Garci Spain Spanish Alsino and the Condor Alsino y el cóndor Miguel Littín Nicaragua Spanish Coup de Torchon ('Clean Slate') Coup de torchon Bertrand Tavernier France French Flight of the Eagle Ingenjör Andrées luftfärd Jan Troell Sweden Swedish Private Life Частная жизнь Yuli Raizman Soviet Union Russian 1983 (56th) Fanny and Alexander Fanny och Alexander Ingmar Bergman Sweden Swedish Carmen Carlos Saura Spain Spanish Entre Nous Coup de foudre Diane Kurys France French The Revolt of Job Jób lázadása Imre Gyöngyössy , Barna Kabay Hungary Hungarian Le Bal Ettore Scola Algeria No dialogue 1984 (57th) Dangerous Moves La Diagonale du fou Richard Dembo Switzerland French Beyond the Walls מאחורי הסורגים Uri Barbash Israel Hebrew Camila María Luisa Bemberg Argentina Spanish Double Feature Sesión continua José Luis Garci Spain Wartime Romance Военно-полевой роман Pyotr Todorovsky Soviet Union Russian 1985 (58th) The Official Story La historia oficial Luis Puenzo Argentina Spanish Angry Harvest Bittere Ernte Agnieszka Holland West Germany German Colonel Redl Oberst Redl István Szabó Hungary Hungarian Three Men and a Cradle Trois Hommes et un couffin Coline Serreau France French When Father Was Away on Business Otac na službenom putu / Отац на службеном путу Emir Kusturica Yugoslavia Serbo-Croatian 1986 (59th) The Assault De aanslag Fons Rademakers Netherlands Dutch, English, German '38 – Vienna Before the Fall 38 – Auch das war Wien Wolfgang Glück Austria German Betty Blue 37°2 le matin Jean-Jacques Beineix France French The Decline of the American Empire Le Déclin de l'empire américain Denys Arcand Canada My Sweet Little Village Vesničko má středisková Jiří Menzel Czechoslovakia Czech 1987 (60th) Babette's Feast Babettes gæstebud Gabriel Axel Denmark Danish, Swedish, French Au Revoir Les Enfants (Goodbye, Children) Au Revoir les Enfants Louis Malle France French Course Completed Asignatura Aprobada José Luis Garci Spain Spanish The Family La famiglia Ettore Scola Italy Italian Pathfinder Ofelaš / Veiviseren Nils Gaup Norway Northern Sami 1988 (61st) Pelle the Conqueror Pelle Erobreren Bille August Denmark Scanian , Danish, Swedish Hanussen István Szabó Hungary Hungarian The Music Teacher Le Maître de Musique Gérard Corbiau Belgium French Salaam Bombay! सलाम बॉम्बे! Mira Nair India Hindi Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown Mujeres al Borde de un Ataque de Nervios Pedro Almodóvar Spain Spanish 1989 (62nd) Cinema Paradiso Nuovo cinema Paradiso Giuseppe Tornatore Italy Italian Camille Claudel Bruno Nuytten France French Jesus of Montreal Jésus de Montréal Denys Arcand Canada Waltzing Regitze Dansen med Regitze Kaspar Rostrup Denmark Danish What Happened to Santiago Lo que le pasó a Santiago Jacobo Morales Puerto Rico [N] Spanish 1990 (63rd) Journey of Hope Reise der Hoffnung Xavier Koller Switzerland German, Turkish Cyrano de Bergerac Jean-Paul Rappeneau France French Ju Dou 菊豆 Zhang Yimou , Yang Fengliang China Mandarin The Nasty Girl Das schreckliche Mädchen Michael Verhoeven West Germany German Open Doors Porte aperte Gianni Amelio Italy Italian 1991 (64th) Mediterraneo Gabriele Salvatores Italy Italian Children of Nature Börn náttúrunnar Friðrik Þór Friðriksson Iceland Icelandic , English The Elementary School Obecná škola Jan Svěrák Czechoslovakia Czech The Ox Oxen Sven Nykvist Sweden Swedish Raise the Red Lantern 大紅燈籠高高掛 Zhang Yimou China Mandarin 1992 (65th) Indochine Régis Wargnier France French, Vietnamese Close to Eden У́рга — территория любви Nikita Mikhalkov Russia Russian Daens Stijn Coninx Belgium Dutch, French, Latin A Place in the World Un lugar en el mundo Adolfo Aristarain Uruguay [O] Spanish Schtonk! Helmut Dietl Germany German 1993 (66th) Belle Époque Fernando Trueba Spain Spanish Farewell My Concubine 霸王別姬 Chen Kaige Hong Kong Mandarin Hedd Wyn Paul Turner United Kingdom Welsh The Scent of Green Papaya Mùi đu đủ xanh Trần Anh Hùng Vietnam Vietnamese The Wedding Banquet 囍宴 Ang Lee Taiwan Mandarin, English 1994 (67th) Burnt by the Sun Утомлённые солнцем Nikita Mikhalkov Russia Russian Before the Rain Пред дождот Milcho Manchevski Macedonia Macedonian , English, Albanian Eat Drink Man Woman 飲食男女 Ang Lee Taiwan Mandarin Farinelli: Il Castrato Farinelli Gérard Corbiau Belgium Italian, French Strawberry and Chocolate Fresa y chocolate Tomás Gutiérrez Alea , Juan Carlos Tabío Cuba Spanish 1995 (68th) Antonia's Line Antonia Marleen Gorris Netherlands Dutch All Things Fair Lust och fägring stor Bo Widerberg Sweden Swedish Dust of Life Poussières de vie Rachid Bouchareb Algeria French O Quatrilho Fábio Barreto Brazil Brazilian Portuguese, Italian The Star Maker L'uomo delle stelle Giuseppe Tornatore Italy Italian 1996 (69th) Kolya Kolja Jan Svěrák Czech Republic Czech A Chef in Love შეყვარებული კულინარის 1001 რეცეპტი Nana Jorjadze Georgia French, Georgian The Other Side of Sunday Søndagsengler Berit Nesheim Norway Norwegian Prisoner of the Mountains Кавказский пленник Sergei Bodrov Russia Russian Ridicule Patrice Leconte France French 1997 (70th) Character Karakter Mike van Diem Netherlands Dutch Beyond Silence Jenseits der Stille Caroline Link Germany German Four Days in September O Que é Isso, Companheiro? Bruno Barreto Brazil Brazilian Portuguese Secrets of the Heart Secretos del corazón Montxo Armendáriz Spain Spanish The Thief Вор Pavel Chukhray Russia Russian 1998 (71st) Life Is Beautiful La vita è bella Roberto Benigni Italy Italian, German Central Station Central do Brasil Walter Salles Brazil Brazilian Portuguese Children of Heaven بچه های آسمان Majid Majidi Iran Persian The Grandfather El abuelo José Luis Garci Spain Spanish Tango Tango, no me dejes nunca Carlos Saura Argentina 1999 (72nd) All About My Mother Todo sobre mi madre Pedro Almodóvar Spain Spanish East-West Est-Ouest Régis Wargnier France French, Russian Himalaya Himalaya, l'enfance d'un chef Éric Valli Nepal Dolpo Solomon & Gaenor Solomon a Gaenor Paul Morrison United Kingdom Welsh, Yiddish Under the Sun Under solen Colin Nutley Sweden Swedish 2000 (73rd) Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon 臥虎藏龍 Ang Lee Taiwan Mandarin Amores perros Alejandro González Iñárritu Mexico Spanish Divided We Fall Musíme si pomáhat Jan Hřebejk Czech Republic Czech Everybody's Famous! Iedereen beroemd! Dominique Deruddere Belgium Dutch The Taste of Others Le goût des autres Agnès Jaoui France French 2001 (74th) No Man's Land Ničija zemlja Danis Tanović Bosnia & Herzegovina Bosnian , French, English, Serbian Amélie Le fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain Jean-Pierre Jeunet France French Elling Petter Næss Norway Norwegian Lagaan लगान Ashutosh Gowariker India Hindi, English Son of the Bride El hijo de la novia Juan José Campanella Argentina Spanish 2002 (75th) Nowhere in Africa Nirgendwo in Afrika Caroline Link Germany German, English, Swahili The Crime of Father Amaro El crimen del padre Amaro Carlos Carrera Mexico Spanish Hero 英雄 Zhang Yimou China Mandarin The Man Without a Past Mies vailla menneisyyttä Aki Kaurismäki Finland Finnish Zus & Zo Paula van der Oest Netherlands Dutch 2003 (76th) The Barbarian Invasions Les Invasions barbares Denys Arcand Canada French Evil Ondskan Mikael Håfström Sweden Swedish The Twilight Samurai たそがれ清兵衛 Yoji Yamada Japan Japanese Twin Sisters De tweeling Ben Sombogaart Netherlands Dutch Želary Ondřej Trojan Czech Republic Czech 2004 (77th) The Sea Inside Mar adentro Alejandro Amenábar Spain Spanish As It Is in Heaven Så som i himmelen Kay Pollak Sweden Swedish The Chorus Les choristes Christophe Barratier France French Downfall Der Untergang Oliver Hirschbiegel Germany German Yesterday Darrell Roodt South Africa Zulu 2005 (78th) Tsotsi Gavin Hood South Africa Zulu, Xhosa , Afrikaans , Setswana The Beast in the Heart La bestia nel cuore Cristina Comencini Italy Italian Joyeux Noël Christian Carion France French, English, German Paradise Now الجنة الآن Hany Abu-Assad Palestine [P] Arabic Sophie Scholl – The Final Days Sophie Scholl – Die letzten Tage Marc Rothemund Germany German 2006 (79th) The Lives of Others Das Leben der Anderen Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck Germany German After the Wedding Efter brylluppet Susanne Bier Denmark Danish Swedish Hindi English Days of Glory Indigènes Rachid Bouchareb Algeria Arabic French Pan's Labyrinth El laberinto del fauno Guillermo del Toro Mexico Spanish Water वाटर Deepa Mehta Canada Hindi 2007 (80th) The Counterfeiters Die Fälscher Stefan Ruzowitzky Austria German Beaufort בופור Joseph Cedar Israel Hebrew Katyń Andrzej Wajda Poland Polish Mongol Монгол Sergei Bodrov Kazakhstan Mongolian , Mandarin 12 Nikita Mikhalkov Russia Russian, Chechen 2008 (81st) Departures おくりびと Yōjirō Takita Japan Japanese The Baader Meinhof Complex Der Baader Meinhof Komplex Uli Edel Germany German The Class Entre les murs Laurent Cantet France French Revanche Götz Spielmann Austria German Waltz with Bashir ואלס עם באשיר Ari Folman Israel Hebrew 2009 (82nd) The Secret in Their Eyes El secreto de sus ojos Juan José Campanella Argentina Spanish Ajami עג'מי / عجمي Scandar Copti , Yaron Shani Israel Arabic, Hebrew The Milk of Sorrow La teta asustada Claudia Llosa Peru Spanish, Quechua A Prophet Un prophète Jacques Audiard France French, Arabic The White Ribbon Das weiße Band Michael Haneke Germany German 2010 (83rd) In a Better World Hævnen Susanne Bier Denmark Danish Biutiful Alejandro González Iñárritu Mexico Spanish Dogtooth Κυνόδοντας Yorgos Lanthimos Greece Greek Incendies Denis Villeneuve Canada French Outside the Law Hors-la-loi /خارجون عن القانون Rachid Bouchareb Algeria French, Arabic 2011 (84th) A Separation جدایی نادر از سیمین Asghar Farhadi Iran Persian Bullhead Rundskop Michaël R. Roskam Belgium Dutch Footnote הערת שוליים Joseph Cedar Israel Hebrew In Darkness W ciemności Agnieszka Holland Poland Polish Monsieur Lazhar Philippe Falardeau Canada French 2012 (85th) Amour Michael Haneke Austria French Kon-Tiki Joachim Rønning and Espen Sandberg Norway Norwegian No Pablo Larraín Chile Spanish A Royal Affair En kongelig affære Nikolaj Arcel Denmark Danish War Witch Rebelle Kim Nguyen Canada French, Lingala 2013 (86th) The Great Beauty La grande bellezza Paolo Sorrentino Italy Italian The Broken Circle Breakdown Felix van Groeningen Belgium Dutch The Hunt Jagten Thomas Vinterberg Denmark Danish The Missing Picture L'image manquante Rithy Panh Cambodia French Omar عمر Hany Abu-Assad Palestine Arabic 2014 (87th) Ida Paweł Pawlikowski Poland Polish Leviathan Левиафан Andrey Zvyagintsev Russia Russian Tangerines მანდარინები / Mandariinid Zaza Urushadze Estonia Estonian , Russian, Georgian Timbuktu Abderrahmane Sissako Mauritania Tamasheq , Bambara , Arabic, French Wild Tales Relatos Salvajes Damián Szifron Argentina Spanish 2015 (88th) Son of Saul Saul fia László Nemes Hungary Hungarian Embrace of the Serpent El abrazo de la serpiente Ciro Guerra Colombia Cubeo , Huitoto , Ticuna , Wanano , Spanish, Portuguese, German, Catalan , Latin, English Mustang Deniz Gamze Ergüven France Turkish Theeb ذيب Naji Abu Nowar Jordan Arabic A War Krigen Tobias Lindholm Denmark Danish 2016 (89th) The Salesman فروشنده Asghar Farhadi Iran Persian Land of Mine Under sandet Martin Zandvliet Denmark German, Danish A Man Called Ove En man som heter Ove Hannes Holm Sweden Swedish Tanna Martin Butler and Bentley Dean Australia Nauvhal Toni Erdmann Maren Ade Germany German 2017 (90th) A Fantastic Woman Una mujer fantástica Sebastián Lelio Chile Spanish The Insult قضية رقم ٢٣ Ziad Doueiri Lebanon Lebanese Arabic Loveless Нелюбовь Andrey Zvyagintsev Russia Russian On Body and Soul Testről és lélekről Ildikó Enyedi Hungary Hungarian The Square Ruben Östlund Sweden Swedish, Danish, English 2018 (91st) Roma Alfonso Cuarón Mexico Spanish, Mixtec Capernaum کفرناحوم Nadine Labaki Lebanon Lebanese Arabic Cold War Zimna wojna Paweł Pawlikowski Poland Polish Never Look Away Werk ohne Autor Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck Germany German Shoplifters 万引き家族 Hirokazu Kore-eda Japan Japanese 2019 (92nd) Parasite 기생충 Bong Joon-ho South Korea Korean Corpus Christi Boże Ciało Jan Komasa Poland Polish Honeyland Медена земја Tamara Kotevska and Ljubomir Stefanov North Macedonia Macedonian , Turkish, Bosnian Les Misérables Ladj Ly France French Pain and Glory Dolor y Gloria Pedro Almodóvar Spain Spanish 2020/21 (93rd) [ 5 ] Another Round Druk Thomas Vinterberg Denmark Danish, Swedish Better Days 少年的你 Derek Tsang Hong Kong Mandarin, English Collective Colectiv Alexander Nanau Romania Romanian , English The Man Who Sold His Skin الرجل الذي باع ظهره Kaouther Ben Hania Tunisia Arabic, English, French, Flemish Quo Vadis, Aida? Jasmila Žbanić Bosnia and Herzegovina Bosnian, English, Serbian, Dutch 2021 (94th) Drive My Car ドライブ・マイ・カー Ryusuke Hamaguchi Japan Japanese, English, Korean, Korean Sign Language , Mandarin, Tagalog , German, Indonesian Flee Flugt Jonas Poher Rasmussen Denmark Danish The Hand of God È stata la mano di Dio Paolo Sorrentino Italy Italian Lunana: A Yak in the Classroom ལུང་ནག་ན Pawo Choyning Dorji Bhutan Dzongkha The Worst Person in the World Verdens verste menneske Joachim Trier Norway Norwegian 2022 (95th) All Quiet on the Western Front Im Westen nichts Neues Edward Berger Germany German, French Argentina, 1985 Santiago Mitre Argentina Spanish Close Lukas Dhont Belgium French, Dutch EO IO Jerzy Skolimowski Poland Polish The Quiet Girl An Cailín Ciúin Colm Bairéad Ireland Irish 2023 (96th) The Zone of Interest Jonathan Glazer United Kingdom German, Polish, Yiddish Io Capitano Matteo Garrone Italy Wolof , French Perfect Days Wim Wenders Japan Japanese Society of the Snow La sociedad de la nieve J.A. Bayona Spain Spanish The Teachers' Lounge Das Lehrerzimmer İlker Çatak Germany German, Turkish, Polish, English 2024 (97th) I'm Still Here Ainda Estou Aqui Walter Salles Brazil Portuguese Emilia Pérez Jacques Audiard France Spanish, English Flow Straume Gints Zilbalodis Latvia No dialogue The Girl with the Needle Pigen med nålen Magnus von Horn Denmark Danish The Seed of the Sacred Fig دانه‌ی انجیر معابد Mohammad Rasoulof Germany Persian Multiple wins and nominations [ edit ] Multiple wins [ edit ] Six directors have won the award more than once. Wins Director Films 4 Vittorio De Sica Shoe-Shine , Bicycle Thieves , Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow and The Garden of the Finzi Continis Federico Fellini Nights of Cabiria , La Strada , 8½ and Amarcord 3 Ingmar Bergman The Virgin Spring , Through a Glass Darkly and Fanny and Alexander 2 René Clément The Walls of Malapaga and Forbidden Games Asghar Farhadi A Separation and The Salesman Akira Kurosawa Rashomon and Dersu Uzala Multiple nominations [ edit ] Nominations Director Films 5 Vittorio De Sica Shoe-Shine , Bicycle Thieves , Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow , Marriage Italian Style and The Garden of the Finzi Continis 4 Federico Fellini Nights of Cabiria , La Strada , 8½ and Amarcord Akira Kurosawa Rashomon , Dodes'ka-den , Dersu Uzala and Kagemusha (The Shadow Warrior) José Luis Garci To Begin Again , Double Feature , Course Completed and The Grandfather Mario Monicelli The Usual Unidentified Thieves , The Great War , The Girl with the Pistol and Viva Italia! Ettore Scola A Special Day , Viva Italia! , Le Bal and The Family István Szabó Confidence , Mephisto , Colonel Redl , Hanussen Andrzej Wajda The Promised Land , The Maids of Wilko , Man of Iron and Katyń 3 Pedro Almodóvar Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown , All About My Mother and Pain and Glory Denys Arcand The Decline of the American Empire , Jesus of Montreal and The Barbarian Invasions Ingmar Bergman The Virgin Spring , Through a Glass Darkly and Fanny and Alexander Rachid Bouchareb Dust of Life , Days of Glory and Outside the Law Luis Buñuel Tristana , The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie and That Obscure Object of Desire René Clément The Walls of Malapaga , Forbidden Games and Gervaise Ang Lee The Wedding Banquet , Eat Drink Man Woman and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon Nikita Mikhalkov Close to Eden , Burnt by the Sun and 12 Moshé Mizrahi I Love You Rosa , The House on Chelouche Street and Madame Rosa Carlos Saura Mama Turns 100 , Carmen and Tango Jan Troell The Emigrants , The New Land and Flight of the Eagle François Truffaut Stolen Kisses , Day for Night and The Last Metro Bo Widerberg Raven's End , Ådalen 31 and All Things Fair Zhang Yimou Ju Dou , Raise the Red Lantern and Hero 2 Hany Abu-Assad Paradise Now and Omar Jacques Audiard A Prophet and Emilia Pérez Susanne Bier After the Wedding and In a Better World Sergei Bodrov Prisoner of the Mountains and Mongol Michael Cacoyannis Electra and Iphigenia Joseph Cedar Beaufort and Footnote Gérard Corbiau The Music Teacher and Farinelli: Il Castrato Jaime de Armiñán My Dearest Senorita and The Nest Zoltán Fábri The Boys of Paul Street and Hungarians Asghar Farhadi A Separation and The Salesman Miloš Forman Loves of a Blonde and The Firemen's Ball Vasilis Georgiadis The Red Lanterns and Blood on the Land Alejandro González Iñárritu Amores perros and Biutiful Michael Haneke The White Ribbon and Amour Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck The Lives of Others and Never Look Away Agnieszka Holland Angry Harvest and In Darkness Juan José Campanella Son of the Bride and The Secret in Their Eyes Ephraim Kishon Sallah Shabati and The Policeman Claude Lelouch A Man and a Woman and Live for Life Caroline Link Beyond Silence and Nowhere in Africa Miguel Littin Letters from Marusia and Alsino and the Condor Louis Malle Lacombe, Lucien and Au Revoir Les Enfants (Goodbye Children) Jiří Menzel Closely Watched Trains and My Sweet Little Village Noboru Nakamura Twin Sisters of Kyoto and Portrait of Chieko Paweł Pawlikowski Ida and Cold War Aleksandar Petrović Three and I Even Met Happy Gypsies Gillo Pontecorvo Kapo and The Battle of Algiers Fons Rademakers The Village on the River and The Assault Dino Risi Scent of a Woman and Viva Italia! Stanislav Rostotsky The Dawns Here Are Quiet and White Bim Black Ear Francisco Rovira Beleta Los Tarantos and Bewitched Love Walter Salles Central Station and I'm Still Here Maximilian Schell First Love and The Pedestrian Paolo Sorrentino The Great Beauty and The Hand of God Jan Svěrák The Elementary School and Kolya Giuseppe Tornatore Cinema Paradiso and The Star Maker Thomas Vinterberg The Hunt and Another Round Régis Wargnier Indochine and East-West Andrey Zvyagintsev Leviathan and Loveless See also [ edit ] Academy Award for Best International Feature Film List of countries by number of Academy Awards for Best International Feature Film List of actors nominated for Academy Awards for non-English performances List of Academy Award–winning foreign-language films (in categories other than the International Feature Film category itself) Saturn Award for Best International Film Notes [ edit ] A ^ : Europe's tally includes three awards won by the Soviet Union and an award won by Russia. It also includes five Special/Honorary Awards : two won by Italy, two won by France and one shared between them for The Walls of Malapaga (1949). [ 6 ] B ^ : Japan's four-award tally includes three Honorary Awards . [ 6 ] C ^ : Shoe-Shine (1946) won a Special Award because "the high quality of this motion picture, brought to eloquent life in a country scarred by war , is proof to the world that the creative spirit can triumph over adversity". [ 7 ] D ^ : Monsieur Vincent (1947) won a Special Foreign Language Film Award. It was voted by the Academy Board of Governors as the most outstanding foreign language film released in the United States during 1948. [ 7 ] E ^ : Bicycle Thieves (1948) won a Special Foreign Language Film Award. It was voted by the Academy Board of Governors as the most outstanding foreign language film released in the United States during 1949. [ 7 ] F ^ : The Walls of Malapaga (1949) won an Honorary Foreign Language Film Award. It was voted by the Board of Governors as the most outstanding foreign language film released in the United States in 1950. [ 7 ] G ^ : Rashomon (1950) won an Honorary Foreign Language Film Award. It was voted by the Board of Governors as the most outstanding foreign language film released in the United States during 1951. [ 7 ] H ^ : Forbidden Games (1952) won an Honorary Foreign Language Film Award. It was named Best Foreign Language Film first released in the United States during 1952. [ 7 ] I ^ : Gate of Hell (1953) won an Honorary Foreign Language Film Award. It was named Best Foreign Language Film first released in the United States during 1954. [ 7 ] J ^ : Samurai, The Legend of Musashi (1954) won an Honorary Foreign Language Film Award. It was named Best Foreign Language Film first released in the United States during 1955. [ 7 ] K 1 2 3 4 5 : For the 29th Academy Awards , the names of the producers were included in the nominations for the Foreign Language Film category. Dino De Laurentiis and Carlo Ponti won the award for La Strada (1954). Gyula Trebitsch and Walter Koppel were nominated for The Captain of Köpenick (1956), Annie Dorfmann for Gervaise (1956), Masayuki Takagi for Harp of Burma (1956), and O. Dalsgaard-Olsen for Qivitoq (1956). [ 8 ] L ^ : The film received its 1969 nomination under the title My Night with Maud . It had no U.S. distributor at the time. When it was released in Los Angeles on April 15, 1970, it became eligible for consideration for Academy Awards in other categories, and received a 1970 nomination for Writing under the title My Night at Maud's . Today, the latter title is the most commonly used when referring to the film in the English-speaking world . [ 8 ] M ^ : Originally released under the title La Victoire en chantant , the film was reissued in France under the title Noirs et Blancs en couleur (a literal French translation of its English title Black and White in Color ) following its 1976 Academy Award win. [ 9 ] N ^ : Although films produced inside the United States are not eligible for consideration for the Best Foreign Language Film Award, [ 1 ] those produced in U.S. overseas possessions were eligible at the time. Puerto Rico , an unincorporated territory of the United States, was thus able to receive a nomination for What Happened to Santiago (1989). [ 10 ] However, this rule was changed in 2011 barring Puerto Rican submissions. [ 11 ] O ^ : This is not an official nomination. After the nominations were announced, information came to light that showed this film was wholly produced in Argentina , and had insufficient Uruguayan artistic control. The film was declared ineligible and removed from the final ballot. [ 12 ] P ^ : Paradise Now (2005) was initially nominated as a submission from Palestine and presented as such on the "official Academy website" . Archived from the original on April 9, 2006 . Retrieved February 11, 2008 . {{ cite web }} :  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown ( link ) However, following protests from pro-Israeli groups in the United States , the Academy decided to designate it as a submission from the Palestinian Authority , a move that was decried by the film's director Hany Abu-Assad . During the awards ceremony , the film was eventually announced by presenter Will Smith as a submission from the Palestinian Territories . References [ edit ] General Variety Staff (March 1, 2007). "Best Foreign Film" . Variety . Archived from the original on October 21, 2012 . Retrieved July 23, 2008 . Specific ^ a b c "Rule Fourteen: Special Rules for the Best Foreign Language Film Award" . 81st Academy Awards Rules . Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences . Archived from the original on June 23, 2011 . Retrieved January 22, 2009 . ^ "History of the Academy Awards" . Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences . Archived from the original on October 1, 2014 . Retrieved January 22, 2009 . ^ Pond, Steve (September 18, 2014). "Oscars to Add Winning Foreign Language Director's Name on Statuette" . The Wrap . Archived from the original on August 15, 2018 . Retrieved January 4, 2018 . ^ Arnold, William (December 16, 2007). "A rare chance to see a legendary – and lengthy – War and Peace " . Seattle Post-Intelligencer . Retrieved February 11, 2008 . ^ The eligibility period for the 93rd ceremony was extended through to February 28, 2021, due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic . ^ a b "Foreign Language Film Facts" . Academy Award Statistics . Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences . 2008. Archived from the original on June 13, 2007 . Retrieved September 2, 2008 . ^ a b c d e f g h Levy, Emanuel (2003). All about Oscar: The History and Politics of the Academy Awards . New York: Continuum International Publishing Group. p. 207. ISBN 978-0-8264-1452-6 . OCLC 50291058 . ^ a b "The Official Academy Awards Database" . (click on "Basic Search", then choose "Foreign Language Film" in the "Award Category" section, then click on "Search") . Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences . Archived from the original ( JSP ) on July 7, 2008 . Retrieved September 2, 2008 . ^ "L'avis de la Fnac sur La Victoire en chantant " . Fnac . Archived from the original on November 5, 2018 . Retrieved September 2, 2008 . ^ " Lo Que Le Paso a Santiago (1989) – Awards" . Movies & TV Dept. The New York Times . 2012. Archived from the original on February 17, 2012 . Retrieved September 3, 2008 . ^ Puerto Rico queda excluido de la carrera por el Oscar Archived May 2, 2013, at the Wayback Machine ; El Nuevo Día (October 5, 2011) ^ Marx, Andy (February 26, 1993). "Acad rejects 'World' " . Variety . Archived from the original on February 7, 2009 . Retrieved September 3, 2008 . External links [ edit ] "The Official Academy Awards Database" . Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences . Archived from the original on February 8, 2009 . Retrieved February 9, 2016 . "The Motion Picture Credits Database" . Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences . Archived from the original on April 15, 2013 . Retrieved January 22, 2009 . "IMDb Academy Awards Page" . Internet Movie Database . Archived from the original on April 9, 2010 . Retrieved November 14, 2007 . v t e Academy Award for Best International Feature Film submissions Award winners and nominees (by country) Year 1956 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966 1967 1968 1969 1970 1971 1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Country Afghanistan Albania Algeria Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bangladesh Belarus Belgium Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Brazil Bulgaria Burkina Faso Cambodia Cameroon Canada Chad Chile China Colombia Costa Rica Côte d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Czech Republic Denmark Dominican Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Ecuador Egypt Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Greenland Guatemala Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Lithuania Luxembourg Malawi Malta Mauritania Malaysia Mexico Moldova Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Mozambique Namibia Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria North Macedonia Norway Pakistan Palestine Panama Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Russia Saudi Arabia Serbia Senegal Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Somalia South Africa South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Tunisia Turkey Uganda Ukraine United Kingdom Uruguay Uzbekistan Venezuela Vietnam Yemen Czechoslovakia Puerto Rico Soviet Union Yugoslavia Award winners in other categories Nominees in other categories Acting nominations for non-English performances v t e Academy Award for Best International Feature Film 1947–1955 (Honorary) 1947: Shoeshine – Vittorio De Sica 1948: Monsieur Vincent – Maurice Cloche 1949: Bicycle Thieves – Vittorio De Sica 1950: The Walls of Malapaga – René Clément 1951: Rashomon – Akira Kurosawa 1952: Forbidden Games – René Clément 1953: No Award 1954: Gate of Hell – Teinosuke Kinugasa 1955: Samurai, The Legend of Musashi – Hiroshi Inagaki 1956–1975 1956: La Strada – Federico Fellini 1957: Nights of Cabiria – Federico Fellini 1958: My Uncle – Jacques Tati 1959: Black Orpheus – Marcel Camus 1960: The Virgin Spring – Ingmar Bergman 1961: Through a Glass Darkly – Ingmar Bergman 1962: Sundays and Cybèle – Serge Bourguignon 1963: 8½ – Federico Fellini 1964: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow – Vittorio De Sica 1965: The Shop on Main Street – Ján Kadár & Elmar Klos 1966: A Man and a Woman – Claude Lelouch 1967: Closely Watched Trains – Jiří Menzel 1968: War and Peace – Sergei Bondarchuk 1969: Z – Costa-Gavras 1970: Investigation of a Citizen Above Suspicion – Elio Petri 1971: The Garden of the Finzi-Continis – Vittorio De Sica 1972: The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie – Luis Buñuel 1973: Day for Night – François Truffaut 1974: Amarcord – Federico Fellini 1975: Dersu Uzala – Akira Kurosawa 1976–2000 1976: Black and White in Color – Jean-Jacques Annaud 1977: Madame Rosa – Moshé Mizrahi 1978: Get Out Your Handkerchiefs – Bertrand Blier 1979: The Tin Drum – Volker Schlöndorff 1980: Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears – Vladimir Menshov 1981: Mephisto – István Szabó 1982: Volver a Empezar ('To Begin Again') – José Luis Garci 1983: Fanny and Alexander – Ingmar Bergman 1984: Dangerous Moves – Richard Dembo 1985: The Official Story – Luis Puenzo 1986: The Assault – Fons Rademakers 1987: Babette's Feast – Gabriel Axel 1988: Pelle the Conqueror – Bille August 1989: Cinema Paradiso – Giuseppe Tornatore 1990: Journey of Hope – Xavier Koller 1991: Mediterraneo – Gabriele Salvatores 1992: Indochine – Régis Wargnier 1993: Belle Époque – Fernando Trueba 1994: Burnt by the Sun – Nikita Mikhalkov 1995: Antonia's Line – Marleen Gorris 1996: Kolya – Jan Svěrák 1997: Character – Mike van Diem 1998: Life Is Beautiful – Roberto Benigni 1999: All About My Mother – Pedro Almodóvar 2000: Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon – Ang Lee 2001–present 2001: No Man's Land – Danis Tanović 2002: Nowhere in Africa – Caroline Link 2003: The Barbarian Invasions – Denys Arcand 2004: The Sea Inside – Alejandro Amenábar 2005: Tsotsi – Gavin Hood 2006: The Lives of Others – Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck 2007: The Counterfeiters – Stefan Ruzowitzky 2008: Departures – Yōjirō Takita 2009: The Secret in Their Eyes – Juan José Campanella 2010: In a Better World – Susanne Bier 2011: A Separation – Asghar Farhadi 2012: Amour – Michael Haneke 2013: The Great Beauty – Paolo Sorrentino 2014: Ida – Paweł Pawlikowski 2015: Son of Saul – László Nemes 2016: The Salesman – Asghar Farhadi 2017: A Fantastic Woman – Sebastián Lelio 2018: Roma – Alfonso Cuarón 2019: Parasite – Bong Joon-ho 2020: Another Round – Thomas Vinterberg 2021: Drive My Car – Ryusuke Hamaguchi 2022: All Quiet on the Western Front – Edward Berger 2023: The Zone of Interest – Jonathan Glazer 2024: I'm Still Here – Walter Salles v t e Academy Awards lists Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) Records Most awards per ceremony Combined major Academy Awards Superlatives Big Five All four acting categories Acting All nominees Best Actor Best Actress Best Supporting Actor Best Supporting Actress Non-English acting noms Actor multi-nom years Multi-win actors Multi-nom actors "Oscar love curse" Directing Best Director Film Winning films Multi-noms in same category Two acting awards for same film Foreign-language wins Foreign-language noms in other categories International Feature nominees International Feature: count by country Best Animated Feature submissions Best Documentary Feature submissions Best Animated Short submissions Best Documentary Short submissions Animated feature noms in other categories Countries of the nominees Africa Argentina Australia Austria Baltic Belarus Belgium Brazil Bulgaria Canada Chile Colombia Cuba Czech Republic Europe France Germany Greece Hungary India Iran Ireland Israel Italy Japan (South) Korea Latin America Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Nordic Pakistan Philippines Poland Puerto Rico Romania Russia Spain Switzerland United Kingdom Nominees demographics Asian Black Hispanic Indigenous Jewish Muslim Other Ceremonies Families False names Multi-win years Awards for Walt Disney Posthumous wins and noms Best Picture presenters Trophies on public display Oldest and youngest LGBTQ Women in non-gendered categories Combined major awards EGOT Triple Crown of Acting Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_Academy_Award_winners_and_nominees_for_Best_International_Feature_Film&oldid=1278957439 " Category : Academy Award for Best International Feature Film Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use mdy dates from October 2021 Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2025 All articles containing potentially dated statements Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2014 Articles containing Georgian-language text Articles containing Persian-language text Articles containing Arabic-language text Articles containing Hebrew-language text Articles containing Dzongkha-language text CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown Featured lists This page was last edited on 5 March 2025, at 17:40 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents List of Academy Award winners and nominees for Best International Feature Film 5 languages Add topic