Avatar 2 Must Be Among Highest-Grossing Films Ever Just to Break Even ​ Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals Royals Royals PEOPLE StyleWatch: Spring 2025 Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals StyleWatch Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe This week's Puzzler crossword is here! Can you solve it? Play now! Entertainment Movies 'Avatar 2' Must Be Among Top 5 Highest-Grossing Films Ever Just to Break Even, James Cameron Says James Cameron has been working on his sequel since 2013 By Ryan Parker Ryan Parker Ryan Parker is the former Senior News Editor, Weekends for PEOPLE. He left PEOPLE in 2023. People Editorial Guidelines Published on November 22, 2022 03:08PM EST Avatar: The Way of Water. Photo: 20th Century Studios James Cameron is simply telling it like it is concerning his highly-anticipated upcoming film, A vatar : The Way of Water . The Disney film, due out next month, will need to be a massive hit at the box office just to break even due to its gigantic budget, the filmmaker said in a recent candid interview with GQ . And by massive, he estimates it will need to be among the top five highest-grossing films of all time to break even, let alone turn a profit. That feat would seem likely impossible if it were not Cameron, who has been atop that mountain before with Titanic (1997) and the original Avatar (2009). With an estimated budget that has likely now ballooned greater than $250 million — Cameron would not tell GQ an exact number other than "Very f---ing [expensive]" — the film will need to crack $2 billion to be among the top five money-makers. Beyond Titanic at No. 3 and Avatar at No. 1, the other three top five highest-grossing films are Avengers: Endgame at No. 2, Star Wars: The Force Awakens at No. 4 and Avengers: Infinity War at No. 5. The Oscar-winning director, 68, told Disney and 20th Century Studios executives exactly what they were getting into, he said, calling his massive undertaking "the worst business case in movie history." James Cameron Says Leonardo DiCaprio Nearly Lost Titanic Role Over His Attitude in Audition Mark Fellman/Twentieth Century Fox To turn a profit, Cameron said he told the execs, "You have to be the third or fourth highest-grossing film in history. That's your threshold. That's your break even." Cameron has been working on his sequel since 2013. The film was due out years ago, but kept getting the release date pushed. "I like difficult," the director told GQ . "I'm attracted by difficult. Difficult is a f---ing magnet for me. I go straight to difficult. And I think it probably goes back to this idea that there are lots of smart, really gifted, really talented filmmakers out there that just can't do the difficult stuff. So that gives me a tactical edge to do something nobody else has ever seen, because the really gifted people don't f---ing want to do it." James Cameron Says He Cursed at Fox Exec Who 'Flipped Out' Over Avatar Runtime Cameron's films usually turn a monster profit, but he also works with monster budgets, including the Avatar films, Terminator 2: Judgment Day and the aforementioned Titanic . And he said he took pride in his visions — which usually requires deep pockets. "And I used to be really defensive about that because it was always the first thing anybody would mention," Cameron said. "And now I'm like, 'If I can make a business case to spend a billion dollars on a movie, I will f---ing do it.' Do you want to know why? Because we don't put it all on a pile and light it on fire. We give it to people." Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from juicy celebrity news to compelling human interest stories. He continued, "If the studio agrees and thinks it's a good investment, as opposed to buying an oil lease off of the north of Scotland, which somebody would think was a good investment, why not do it?" Avatar: The Way of Water arrives in theaters on Dec. 16. Close You Might Like The Fab Four Are Headed to the Big Screen! Here's Everything We Know So Far About The Beatles Biopics Entertainment April 01, 2025 Everything We Know About Mel Gibson's Passion of the Christ Sequel Entertainment January 31, 2018 Jeremy Allen White and Jeremy Strong Tease 'Beautiful and Unprecedented' Journey in Bruce Springsteen Biopic Deliver Me from Nowhere Entertainment April 03, 2025 Related Articles Zoe Saldaña Showcases Avatar: Fire and Ash at CinemaCon 2025, Teases 'Forsaken' Na'vi Patricia Clarkson Goes the Distance for Equal Pay as Lilly Ledbetter in Powerful Lilly Trailer (Exclusive) A Minecraft Movie Becomes Highest Grossing Film of 2025 After Massive $80 Million Second Weekend See the Actors of The Beatles Biopics Side-by-Side with the Real Rockers They Play Mighty Ducks Star Shaun Weiss Got His Start on Pee-wee's Playhouse — and Has the Best Paul Reubens Story Jack Black's A Minecraft Movie Beats His Super Mario Bros. Movie to Set New Box Office Record 16 Years After Hannah Montana: The Movie , Choreographer Jamal Sims Spills Secrets Behind ‘Hoedown Throwdown' (Exclusive) Emilio Estevez Reveals He Wrote a Script for Mighty Ducks 4. Why the Film Never Came to Be Holiday in the Sun Star Austin Nichols Says Kissing 15-Year-Old Mary-Kate Olsen When He Was 20 ‘Felt Wrong’ Tom Hanks Shares Cryptic Post About His 'First Day of Work' as Woody in Toy Story 5 Taylor Swift’s Eras Tour Director to Helm Remake of The Bodyguard : Report Paul Reubens Posthumously Looks Back on Pee-wee Herman Alter Ego and How He 'Lost Control' of His Life in New Doc Trailer A Goofy Movie Stars Bill Farmer, Jason Marsden Reunite on the Open Road for Disney Cult Classic's 30th Anniversary The King of Kings , Starring Oscar Isaac as Jesus, Breaks a Box Office Record Set by 1998's Prince of Egypt Harry Potter 's Tom Felton Confirms There's an OG Cast Group Text — and Shares What He Last Sent (Exclusive) I Thought Barbie Was Fun but A Minecraft Movie Is Actually Funny... and Better PEOPLE Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies