Port of Bellingham, WA - Official Website | Official Website Skip to Main Content Create a Website Account - Manage notification subscriptions, save form progress and more. Website Sign In Airport Maritime Real Estate Economic Development About Us Search Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Cruise the Port Welcome to the Port of Bellingham Check Flight Status Parking Ride Amtrak Find Moorage Alaska Ferry Port Jobs Commission Members, Meetings & Minutes Bids & Contracts Open & Awarded Opportunities Available Real Estate Leasing Opportunities Broadband High Speed Internet Access Port of Bellingham News Fairhaven Quiet Zone Launches, Reducing Train Noise Long awaited change balances noise reduction with enhanced safety at crossings Read on... Port Releases Annual Economic Development Progress Report, Showcasing Key Achievements The Port is pleased to announce its annual Whatcom County Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy progress report, highlighting significant achievements of community stakeholders and economic development partners across Whatcom County. Read on... 2025 Port Update The Port is hard at work on more than 200 capital projects to promote sustainable economic development, optimize transportation gateways and manage publicly owned land to benefit Whatcom County Read on... Port Commission Selects 2025 Officers, Sets Meeting Schedule Port Commissioner Bobby Briscoe has been selected by the Commission to serve as President of the Board of Commissioners Read on... Port Releases 2023-24 Sustainability Report The Port is committed to promoting sustainability throughout Whatcom County. Read on... New Study Highlights Strength of Maritime Sector as Working Waterfront Continues to Innovate Whatcom County's Maritime Industry supports 6,400 jobs, $416 million in labor income, and $1.6 billion in business revenues. Read on... Bellingham International Airport Powers Up Green with a 250-Panel Solar Installation Bellingham International Airport is the latest Port transportation terminal to feature a signature clean energy project Read on... Port Commission Adopts $36.7 Million 2025 Budget, Keeps Tax Levy Flat The Port Board of Commissioners has adopted a $36.7 million 2025 operating and capital budget that supports the Port’s mission Read on... Port Secures $1.5 Million Clean Ports Grant Federal grant will be used to advance several key goals from the Port's Climate Action Strategy Read on... Port Releases 2025 Draft Strategic Budget The Port is pleased to present a 2025 Draft Strategic Budget Read on... Bellingham International Airport Makes Environmental Improvements Airport Transitions to Fluorine-Free Foam for Environmental Benefits Read on... Port Announces Public Open Houses at the Bellingham Shipping Terminal Unique opportunity for public to learn about current operations and future development plans Read on... Port and Bellingham Cold Storage Sign Historic 50-Year Lease Extension Lease extension sets the stage for major infrastructure investments and new job opportunities Read on... Port Awarded $2.8 Million Grant for Electrification of Bellingham Shipping Terminal Grant to support sustainable maritime operations Read on... Port Receives $17.9 Million Grant to Reconnect the Bellingham Shipping Terminal to Rail The new rail connection will create jobs, reduce carbon emissions, and keep supply chains and the economy moving forward Read on... Olympics/Team USA Watch Party this Sunday in The Portal Container Village Come join us for a free Olympics watch party on a giant video screen at Kulshan Trackside's all ages beer garden this Sunday, July 28th to cheer on the USA women's soccer team as they battle arch rival Germany Read on... Northwest Tune-Up Festival Returns to Bellingham's Waterfront The Northwest Tune-Up Festival brings music, bikes, art and PNW energy to Bellingham's downtown waterfront July 12-14 Read on... The Shoestring Circus Headlines a Busy Weekend at The Portal on Bellingham's Downtown Waterfront The sunny weekend forecast is perfect for families to enjoy an exciting weekend on Bellingham's downtown waterfront Read on... Northline Seafoods Completes State-of-the-Art Seafood Vessel in Bellingham The "Hannah" Departs Bellingham for Maiden Voyage to Bristol Bay Read on... The Portal Container Village Open Seven Days A Week for the Summer Season The Portal offers a vibrant array of amenities and activities for visitors of all ages Read on... Bulk Cargo Vessel Scheduled to Arrive at the Bellingham Shipping Terminal April 4 ABC Recycling shutting down operations and removing metal from Bellingham's waterfront Read on... Port Approves Lease Termination Agreement with ABC Recycling due to Environmental Concerns ABC Recycling to remove metal from Bellingham's waterfront and shut down operations Read on... Alaska Airlines Adds Third Daily Flight between Bellingham and Seattle The Port is please to announce Alaska Airlines is expanding service from Bellingham International Airport Read on... Port Welcomes Canadian Naval Ships to the Bellingham Shipping Terminal The Port is proud to welcome the Canadian Naval ships Yellowknife, Nanaimo and Edmonton to the Bellingham Shipping Terminal from March 8-10. Read on... The Northwest Maritime Apprenticeship Program Moves to Permanent Status The Northwest Maritime Apprenticeship Program Moves to Permanent Status...and into a New Training Facility Read on... Marine Trades Career Exploration and Job Fair Returns May 9 The Port's Marine Trades Job Fair is set to return to Bellingham's Waterfront on Thursday, May 9 from 10 am to 1 pm at the Fishermen’s Pavilion Read on... Northwest Tune-Up Bike and Music Festival Returns to Bellingham's Waterfront in 2024 Northwest Tune-Up Bike and Music Festival Releases 2024 Early Bird Tickets, VanLife Reservations, & Lodging Deals Read on... Regional Economic Partnership Welcomes New Director of Economic Development Tyler Schroeder has been hired as the new Director of Economic Development for the Regional Economic Partnership at the Port of Bellingham Read on... Shipping Terminal Modernization Project Starts, Spurring Environmental Improvement & Economic Growth The Shipping Terminal Modernization Project will remove historic contamination, restore water depths for ship access, install a state-of-the-art stormwater system, fortify the main dock, and stimulate job creation throughout the region. Read on... Port Releases Annual Economic Development Progress Report The Port is pleased to announce the release of its annual Whatcom County Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy Read on... Fire & Story Festival is back at Bellingham's Waterfront Beacons of fire will guide visitors to Bellingham's downtown waterfront January 23-25 Read on... Port Commission Selects 2024 Officers, Sets Meeting Schedule Port Commissioner Ken Bell has been selected by the Commission to serve as President of the Board of Commissioners for 2024 Read on... The Port Welcomes Exciting Expansion of The Portal Container Village in 2024 Zeeks Pizza, Bin 13 Wine Bar, and Local Artisan Retail Space will further enhance the social and cultural landscape of Bellingham’s downtown waterfront Read on... The Return of Marine Cargo is a Big Win for Whatcom County In a huge win for our regional economy, ABC Recycling has started exporting recycled metal from the Bellingham Shipping Terminal to global markets Read on... Public Comment Period Open for Recreation, Conservation and Public Access Plan The Port is updating its Recreation, Conservation and Public Access Plan Read on... Port Releases 2024 Draft Strategic Budget The Port is pleased to present a 2024 Draft Strategic Budget which supports the Port's mission Read on... Port Commission Welcomes New Aviation Director at Bellingham International Airport The Port's Board of Commissioners welcomed Kip Turner as the new Director of Aviation at Bellingham International Airport at a Commission meeting last night Read on... Port Adopts Comprehensive Climate Action Strategy The Port has adopted a comprehensive Climate Action Strategy to address the urgent challenges of climate change Read on... Port and Whatcom PUD Broadband Update The Port, Whatcom PUD, and Whatcom County have made significant progress on the extension of broadband infrastructure to unserved and underserved areas in Whatcom County Read on... Ribbon Cutting Celebrates Delivery of Affordable, High-Speed Internet to Unserved Residents The Port, in partnership with Whatcom County, Whatcom County Public Utility District, Washington State and PogoZone is excited to announce the extension of high-speed, affordable broadband to 476 unserved homes and businesses Read on... Bellingham International Airport to Conduct Emergency Response Drill A full-scale emergency exercise will take place this Friday, September 8th from 9 am-2 pm at Bellingham International Airport to train emergency responders in a safe and controlled environment. Read on... Northwest Tune Up Festival Takes Over Bellingham's Waterfront July 14-16 Port sponsors spectacular three-day celebration of bikes, beer, live music and more Read on... Port Seeks Feedback on Public Open Spaces The Port is conducting a brief survey about how Whatcom County residents use Port public open spaces and their perceptions about needed improvements or amenities Read on... The Port Remembers Beloved Former Commissioner Jim Jorgensen The Port mourns the passing of former Commissioner Jim Jorgensen and extends its deepest sympathies to his family and many friends throughout our community and beyond Read on... Port Seeks Public Input on Draft Climate Action Strategy The Port is seeking public input through June 7th on a Draft Climate Action Strategy to address the urgent challenges of climate change with an early focus on greenhouse gas mitigation and sea level rise. Read on... Bellingham International Airport Adds New Seasonal Destination Airport celebrates launch of seasonal, Saturday-only service to Denver on Southwest Airlines Read on... Marine Trades Job Fair Returns to Bellingham's Waterfront on May 4th The Port's Marine Trades Job Fair will return to Bellingham's waterfront on Thursday, May 4th from 10 am to 1 pm at the Fishermen's Pavilion Read on... Port Acquires Complex to Support Industry The Port has purchased about six acres, including six buildings with approximately 71,000 square feet of office and industrial space, to support the continued growth of Whatcom County’s industries. Read on... Port Prepares for Green Marine's Certification The Port is the newest participant in Green Marine, the leading environmental certification for North America's maritime industry. Read on... Applications Open for Northwest Washington Disaster Grants Program The Washington State Department of Commerce, in partnership with FORWARD and local community organizations, is accepting applications from businesses that sustained physical damage or economic loss due to flooding in Northwest Washington Read on... Port Commission Selects 2023 Officers, Sets Meeting Schedule The first Port Commission meeting of 2023 will be held at 4 pm on January 10. Read on... The Northwest Tune-Up Festival Returning to Bellingham's Downtown Waterfront July 14-16 The Northwest Tune-Up Festival, featuring 50-plus exhibitors, bike events, beer & world-class bands, returns to Bellingham July 14-16, 2023 Read on... Port Releases 2023 Final Strategic Budget The Port is pleased to present its 2023 Final Strategic Budget. Read on... 31st Annual Holiday Port Festival Brings Back Santa and the Gingerbread Contest The Port celebrates another year of Holiday Port at the Bellingham Cruise Terminal on Dec. 3-4 with performances by over 30 local bands, orchestras, choirs and performance groups and includes more than 700 performers. Read on... Port Reopens Little Squalicum Beach Park Following Major Beach Improvement Project The Port has successfully completed a public access and habitat improvement project Read on... Southwest Airlines Announces New Destination from Bellingham International Airport Southwest connects Bellingham to Denver with seasonal Saturday nonstop service Read on... Port Releases Draft 2023 Strategic Budget The Port is pleased to present the 2023 Draft Strategic Budget. Read on... Native Artwork Dedication Ceremony on Bellwether Plaza Lummi House of Tears Head Carver Jewell James Creates Double Thunderbird Read on... Temporary Native Art Mural Brings Bold and Exciting Energy to Bellingham's Downtown Waterfront A ten piece art mural titled 'Honoring the Salish Sea' has been added to the second floor window bays of the historic Boardmill Building Read on... Little Squalicum Beach Park to be Closed for Shoreline Restoration Project Little Squalicum Beach Park will be closed for several months beginning the week of July 25th while the Port improves public access and enhances habitat for critical species. Read on... Bellingham SeaFeast Hires Program Director to Oversee Popular Waterfront Event The Bellingham SeaFeast Board of Directors is pleased to announce Kevin Coleman has been hired to serve as Program Director Read on... The Port of Bellingham 4th of July Festival is Coming Annual community celebration of Whatcom County's biggest fireworks display, live music, family games and more! Read on... Northwest Tune-Up Launches Single Day Tickets & Announces Band Schedule As the weather turns from 3rd Winter towards Spring/1st Summer in the Pacific Northwest, the buzz is in the air with excitement for the upcoming Northwest Tune Up Bike, Beer and Music Festival Read on... Corvus Energy Opening New Clean Energy Factory at the Port of Bellingham The Port is excited to announce Corvus Energy has chosen Whatcom County to expand its operations and open a new factory Read on... Debbie Granger Wins Prestigious 2022 Puget Sound Maritime Achievement Award Ms. Granger will Attend the Port’s Marine Trades Job and Internship Fair on May 19th Encouraging Women to Consider Marine Trades Career Opportunities Read on... Music, Bike and Beer Festival Coming to Bellingham's Downtown Waterfront July 8-10 The Northwest Tune-Up to feature 50-plus exhibitors with bike demos and races alongside world-class music on Bellingham's downtown waterfront Read on... Port Wins Creative Partnership Award for Bike Park and Container Village The Port has won the 2022 Creative Partnership award from the Washington Public Ports Association for bringing a large bike park and Container Village to the citizens of Whatcom County Read on... Marine Trades Job and Internship Fair Set for May 19th Port helps connect working waterfront employers to potential employees Read on... Lehigh Cement Donation Supports Project to Expand Small-Watercraft Dock in Squalicum Harbor Lehigh Cement provides boost to the Bellingham Sailing Foundation's Youth Dock Expansion Project Read on... Freedom Boat Club Coming Soon to Squalicum Harbor Freedom Boat Club, the world’s largest boat club operator and leaders within the boat sharing concept, announced its newest location with the addition of Port of Bellingham. Read on... Marine Life Center Re-Opens to Walk-Ins Beginning March 14 The Port is excited to fully re-open the Marine Life Center to walk-ins beginning Monday, March 14th! Read on... Affordable, High Speed Internet for Unserved Areas of Whatcom County Moves Forward The Port, in partnership with Whatcom County and the PUD, has secured over $10 million during the past year to address one of Whatcom County’s biggest economic development and infrastructure challenges, access to high-speed internet Read on... Whatcom County's Economic Development Strategy is Finalized The Whatcom County Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy for 2022-2026 was approved by the County Council Read on... Port Issues RFP to Redevelop the Historic Boardmill Building The Port has issued a Request for Proposals to redevelop the historic Boardmill Building on Bellingham's downtown waterfront. Read on... Port Commission Selects 2022 Officers, Sets Meeting Schedule Port Commissioner Bobby Briscoe has been selected by the Commission to serve as President of the Board of Commissioners for 2022. Commissioner Ken Bell was chosen to be Vice President and Michael Shepard was selected for Secretary. Read on... 31st Annual Holiday Port Wrap Up On Dec. 4th, the Port celebrated the 31st year of Holiday Port at the Bellingham Cruise Terminal Read on... Port Releases 2022 Final Strategic Budget The Port is pleased to present its 2022 Final Strategic Budget. Read on... Holiday Port with Santa, Treasure Quest, 'Virtual' Gingerbread Contest & More Dec 3-5 The Port invites the community to celebrate its 31st Annual Holiday Port at the Bellingham Cruise Terminal December 3-5 Read on... Bellingham International Airport Welcomes Southwest Airlines Airport celebrates launch of daily, nonstop service by Southwest to Las Vegas, Oakland and beyond Read on... Port Releases Draft 2022 Strategic Budget The Port is pleased to present the 2022 Draft Strategic Budget Read on... Bellingham SeaFeast Celebrates Waterfront and Maritime Culture on October 30th Bellingham SeaFeast 2021 on Saturday, October 30, 2021 from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. celebrates our waterfront sector and maritime culture Read on... Port Lights up Digester Tanks and Installs Community Stage on Downtown Waterfront The Port has installed color changing lights to illuminate the six massive steel-riveted digester tanks on Bellingham’s downtown waterfront Read on... The Great Washington ShakeOut Earthquake and Tsunami Drill Coming Oct. 21 At 10:21 a.m. on Oct. 21, Washington’s network of 122 coastal tsunami sirens will be tested using the wailing sound of a tsunami warning Read on... Port Accepting Food Truck Reservations on Bellingham's Downtown Waterfront The Port is excited to announce food truck reservations are now being accepted for the Waterfront District in downtown Bellingham. The Port has two food truck pads available for reservation next to the Kulshan Trackside beer garden. Read on... Port Moves Forward on Affordable Workforce and Family Housing and Local Food Campus Project The Port has approved an option to sell 3.3 acres of property on Bellingham’s downtown waterfront to Mercy Housing Northwest and The Millworks LLC to develop an affordable workforce and family housing project and local food campus Read on... Port Ending Emergency Ferry Service to Point Roberts with Reopening of US/Canada Border With the announcement from the Canadian Government regarding the reopening of the US/Canada border to non-essential travel, Thursday, August 12th will be the final day of the Port’s emergency ferry service to Point Roberts Read on... Port Secures Cargo Crane to Help Create Jobs at the Bellingham Shipping Terminal The Port’s modernization of the Bellingham Shipping Terminal marks a major milestone this week with the arrival of a 120 metric ton capacity Harbor Crane. Read on... New Energy Efficiency Resources Available for Rural Whatcom County Businesses The Port has partnered with Sustainable Connections and the Community Energy Challenge to help rural businesses complete energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. Read on... Marine Life Center to Host Beach Clean-up Event on July 23rd The Port's Marine Life Center is excited to announce a beach clean-up volunteer day on July 23rd. Read on... Southwest Airlines Announces Destinations from Bellingham International Airport Southwest Airlines announces twice daily service between Bellingham and Oakland and once daily service between Bellingham and Las Vegas starting on November 7, 2021 Read on... 'Blast Over the Bay' Independence Day Fireworks Launching Soon The Port and Bellingham Regional Chamber of Commerce are bringing back one of Whatcom County’s favorite traditions, a free fireworks display launched high over Bellingham Bay in honor of Independence Day Read on... Port Secures Grant for New Electric Bus Company in Ferndale The Washington State Department of Commerce has awarded the Port a $300,000 economic development strategic reserve fund grant to support Vicinity Motor Corp Read on... Port Adjusts Point Roberts Ferry Schedule Beginning June 3rd, passenger-only ferry service will be offered by the Port free-of-charge on Mondays and Thursdays between Point Roberts Marina and the Bellingham Cruise Terminal Read on... Port Reactivates Large Working Waterfront Property in Fairhaven The Port has signed a lease with Fairhaven Industrial Marine Repair to occupy 16-acres of marine industrial property in Fairhaven beginning this month Read on... Port Secures $100,000 Grant to Assist Ferndale Company's Expansion The Regional Economic Partnership at the Port of Bellingham is pleased to announce the Washington State Department of Commerce has awarded the Port with a $100,000 economic development strategic reserve fund grant to assist 360 Modular Building Systems Read on... Port to Significantly Reduce Carbon Footprint by Switching to 100% Carbon Free Electricity The Port is now receiving 100% renewable energy for its Bellingham operations and will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 86% annually. Read on... Port Adds Six New Electric Vehicle Charging Stations The Port has added six new electric vehicle charging stations in Fairhaven and downtown Bellingham for increased convenience to electric vehicle owners in Whatcom County and visitors traveling through the Port’s transportation terminals. Read on... Southwest Airlines Announces Intent to Serve Bellingham International Airport Southwest Airlines and Bellingham International Airport announced Southwest plans to launch flights to Bellingham in the second half of 2021. Read on... Marine Life Center to Reopen March 1 The Marine Life Center will reopen for appointment visits on March 1st 2021! Read on... Port Commission Selects 2021 Officers, Sets Meeting Schedule Port Commissioner Ken Bell has been selected by the Commission to serve as President of the Board of Commissioners for 2021. Commissioner Michael Shepard was picked to be Vice President and Bobby Briscoe was chosen for Secretary. Read on... Bellingham International Airport Restrooms Now Touchless The Port has upgraded all terminal restrooms at Bellingham International Airport with touchless technology Read on... Holiday Port Festival and Gingerbread Competition The Holiday Port Festival will look a lot different this year with new procedures to protect public health Read on... Port Commission Approves 2021 Strategic Budget The Port Commission this week approved their 2021 operating and capital budget and five-year, $66.7 million capital improvement plan including $31.6 million in offsetting grants. Read on... Outdoor Holiday Decorations and Large “Snow Globe” Coming to the Bellingham Cruise Terminal The Bellingham Cruise Terminal will welcome in the winter holidays with a stunning outdoor viewing experience including lights, decorations and a “snow globe” holiday scene Read on... Port Secures $6.85 Million Federal Grant in Support of Working Waterfront The Port has been awarded a $6.85 Million Grant to upgrade the Bellingham Shipping Terminal, increase trade and commerce, and restore working waterfront jobs Read on... The Great Washington ShakeOut Earthquake Drill The Great Washington ShakeOut will be held on October 15th at 10:15 am! Read on... Bellingham International Airport Installs Mamava Lactation Suites The Port has installed two Mamava lactation suites at the Bellingham International Airport in support of travelling families Read on... Bellingham International Airport to Conduct Emergency Response Drill The Port and community partners will conduct a full-scale airport emergency response exercise at the Bellingham International Airport from 9:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Wednesday, September 16. Read on... Port Increasing the Frequency and Convenience of Emergency Point Roberts Ferry Service The Port is increasing the frequency of temporary, emergency ferry service from Point Roberts to two times per week and changing the arrival location to Bellingham Read on... Salish Sea Scavenger Hunt The Port's Marine Life Center is announcing the first annual Salish Sea Scavenger Hunt with missions to explore local intertidal marine life! Read on... Countywide Partnership Launches Grant Program for Businesses Impacted by COVID-19 Applications are being accepted beginning this week for a competitive grant program – called Whatcom ReStart Read on... Marine Life Center Set to Re-Open with New Procedures to Protect Public Health The Port is excited to re-open the Marine Life Center on July 20th. Read on... Regional Economic Partnership Helps Launch "Safer, Stronger, Together" Campaign The Whatcom County Health Department and the Port's Regional Economic Partnership, in collaboration with Chambers of Commerce, Whatcom County Tourism, and Downtown Business Partnerships, are kicking off a campaign to communicate health and safety measures Read on... New Report on Economic Impacts of COVID-19 on Lummi Nation and Whatcom County Fishing Industry The Regional Economic Partnership at the Port has released a report with results of three fishing industry surveys on the economic impacts on local businesses. The survey was developed in coordination with the Working Waterfront Coalition Read on... Local Lab Provides Key Re-Opening Resource for Whatcom County Businesses Northwest Laboratory is providing COVID-19 testing services for area Whatcom County businesses, including the local manufacturing community. Read on... Regional Economic Partnership & Whatcom County Health Department Working Together to Reopen Economy Whatcom County’s economy has been hard hit by the global COVID-19 pandemic and local officials are developing new resources to help businesses overcome financial hardship and reopen safel Read on... New Report Details Economic Impacts of COVID-19 on Whatcom County Businesses The Regional Economic Partnership at the Port of Bellingham has released a report detailing the results of a general survey on the economic impacts of COVID-19 on Whatcom County businesses. Read on... New Survey Examines Economic Impacts of COVID-19 on Whatcom County’s Commercial Fishing Industry Local economic development officials are urging commercial fishing businesses to respond to an economic impact survey Read on... Port Closes Park and Open Space Gathering Areas To follow COVID-19 social distancing guidelines, the Port is closing the downtown waterfront bike park, the playground at Zuanich Park, workout stations along the Squalicum Promenade, the picnic shelter at Marine Park, and Jorgensen Pier in Blaine. Read on... Port Welcomes Silfab Solar Expansion, New Clean Tech Jobs State support helps secure expansion of major solar module manufacturer at growing Bellingham waterfront center for clean energy research and innovation Read on... County Will Hold Community "After the Flood" Meeting on Saturday February 8th The Whatcom County communities of Sumas, Everson, Nooksack, Lynden, Marietta, and Lummi Nation were significantly impacted by the “Super Bowl Flood”. To that end, an “After the Flood” public information meeting has been scheduled on February 8th. Read on... Port Commission Selects 2020 Officers, Sets Meeting Schedule Commissioner Michael Shepard has been selected by the Commission to serve as President of the Board of Commissioners for 2020 Read on... Major Waterfront Infrastructure Maintenance Project Underway The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), in partnership with local sponsor Port of Bellingham, has started a major waterfront infrastructure project to restore the Squalicum Waterway to its authorized width and depth Read on... 29th Annual Holiday Port Wrap Up The Port celebrated the 29th year of Holiday Port at the Bellingham Cruise Terminal on December 6-8 Read on... Public Hearing on Proposed Modification to Port's Comprehensive Scheme of Harbor Improvements A public hearing will be held on November 19, 2019 at 4:30 pm at 1801 Roeder Avenue in Bellingham to receive comment regarding a proposed modification to the Port Comprehensive Scheme of Harbor Improvements for the Waterfront District Read on... Shoreline Repair Work Notice The Port will be repairing three shoreline areas in Bellingham which were damaged during an extreme storm event over the next several weeks, Read on... Waterfront Bike Park Reopens to the Public With a few days of sunshine, the Port's waterfront bike park has finally dried out enough to complete repairs and reopen this popular facility to the public.  Picnic tables have also been added for the benefit of parents and spectators. Read on... Waterfront Bike Park Grand Opening Celebration Postponed After meeting with its bike park maintenance crew, the Port has decided to postpone the grand opening celebration Read on... Waterfront Bike Park Temporarily Closed Due to recent heavy rainfall, the Port's Waterfront Bike Park has experienced erosion and is closed until further notice. Read on... Waterfront Bike Park Notice Due to recent heavy rainfall, the Port's Waterfront Bike Park has experienced some erosion. Safety cones have been added to identify eroded areas and the track will be repaired following the predicted rainfall this weekend and into next week. Read on... Waterfront Mountain Bike Park Opens to the Public The Port is pleased to announce the grand opening of a new mountain bike park on Bellingham's downtown waterfront. Read on... Port Employee to Serve on Surrey, BC Board of Trade Board of Directors John Michener, Regional Economic Partnership Program Manager with the Port, has become the first American citizen appointed to serve on the Surrey, British Columbia Board of Trade Read on... New Waterfront Roads Open to the Public Granary Avenue and Laurel Street are now open allowing the public to drive through Bellingham's downtown waterfront for the first time in over 100 years Read on... Fourth of July Celebration The Port is partnering with the Bellingham Regional Chamber of Commerce and Haggen to provide the community with its annual July 4th fireworks display Read on... Port Seeks Native Artwork Proposals The Port is seeking individuals or businesses to provide proposals for Native Artwork in a highly visible community gathering place located at Bellwether on the Bay Read on... New Economic Development Brochure Showcases Whatcom County A new brochure touting the benefits of doing business throughout Whatcom County including each of the small cities has been published Read on... Free E-Commerce Training for Businesses The Port Regional Economic Partnership and the Economic Development Association of Skagit County bring free e-commerce training for businesses in May 2019. Read on... Port to Apply for Rural Broadband Funding The Port is submitting an application to Washington State’s Community Economic Revitalization Board for a broadband construction grant to help make high-speed internet more accessible to unserved and underserved communities in Whatcom County Read on... SeaFeast Board Hires Executive Director to Oversee Popular Waterfront Event The Bellingham SeaFeast Board of Directors is pleased to announce Liz Purdy has been hired to serve as Executive Director for the increasingly popular event which celebrates Whatcom County’s rich maritime heritage... Read on... Port and Lummi Nation Work to Strengthen Relationship The Port and Lummi Nation have reached a landmark agreement setting the stage for a new era of cooperation and economic growth. Read on... Port Seeks Waterfront Event Proposals The Port is seeking proposals from event planners and coordinators to hold a ticketed event in one of three Port of Bellingham waterfront parks in 2019 Read on... New Waterfront Road Open to Public In a milestone event for the Port’s downtown waterfront redevelopment project, the City of Bellingham has opened  Granary Avenue. Read on... Allegiant Announces New Non-Stop Service Between Bellingham and Anchorage Allegiant Airlines today announced new non-stop service from Bellingham  to Anchorage beginning June 5, 2018, with one-way fares as low as $59. Read on... Port Commission Selects 2019 Officers, Sets Meeting Schedule Port Commissioner Bobby Briscoe has been selected by the Commission to serve as President, Commissioner Ken Bell was picked to be Vice President and Commissioner Michael Shepard was chosen for Secretary. Read on... All American Marine Builds 'Vessel of the Year' Local boat builder All American Marine, Inc. has announced the Enhydra was named vessel of the year at the International WorkBoat Show. Read on... Waterfront District Environmental Impact Statement Addendum Available for Public Comment The Port has released an Environmental Impact Statement Addendum for proposed changes to the 2013 Waterfront District Sub-Area Plan Read on... Holiday Port Festival and Gingerbread Contest Coming December 7-9 The Port celebrates the 28th year of Holiday Port at the Bellingham Cruise Terminal with performances by over 35 local bands, orchestras, choirs and performance groups with more than 700 performers. Read on... Port Receives Rural Broadband Feasibility Study Grant The Community Economic Revitalization Board (CERB) has approved a $50,000 grant to the Port for a Rural Broadband Feasibility Study Read on... New Service Contract at the Bellingham Shipping Terminal International cargo vessels are expected to arrive at the Bellingham Shipping Terminal on a regular basis as the result of a new service contract between the Port of Bellingham and Ports America. Read on... New Interpretive Signs at Squalicum Harbor A new set of interpretive signs at Squalicum Harbor draws attention to how the commercial fleet interacts with the Salish Sea and distant waters beyond, and helps define Whatcom County as a true maritime community. Read on... Port Switching to 100% Wind and Solar Energy The Port is teaming up with Puget Sound Energy to reduce its carbon footprint by purchasing 100 percent of its power from wind and solar sources. Read on... SeaFeast Thank You from the Port's Executive Director On behalf of the Port, I would like to extend a big thank you to the many people who helped make the 3rd Annual SeaFeast a huge success Read on... Port to Apply for Rural Broadband Funding The Port's Economic Development Division is submitting an application to Washington State’s Community Economic Revitalization Board for a broadband planning grant to help make high-speed internet more accessible to unserved and underserved communities Read on... Allegiant Airlines Announces New Non-Stop Service to Tucson Allegiant has announced new non-stop service from Bellingham to Tucson  beginning on November 15, 2018, with one-way fares as low as $69. Read on... Port Celebrates Strong Economy with New and Expanding Businesses - Marine Trades Leads the Way This year is off to a strong start with new and expanding businesses locating at the Port. Read on... Port Earns Clean Audit The Port has received a favorable audit opinion from the Washington State Auditor’s Office. Read on... Another Successful Cargo Shipment from the Bellingham Shipping Terminal There was more activity at the Bellingham Shipping Terminal last week than there has been in the past two decades. Read on... New Photography Exhibit at Bellingham International Airport A canopy of Evergreens, a babbling brook, an orange and purple sunset – these are just a few of the photographic images greeting Bellingham travelers at the TSA-lineup area in Bellingham International Airport starting May 17th Read on... Port Proposes to Update the Waterfront District Master Plan The Port has submitted a proposal to the City of Bellingham to update the Waterfront District Master Plan to improve the layout of parks and roads through the interior of the downtown waterfront. Read on... New Equipment Coming to the Bellingham Shipping Terminal The Port of Bellingham Board of Commissioners has authorized the purchase of equipment needed to make the Bellingham Shipping Terminal fully operational. Read on... Industrial Icon Finds New Home on the Waterfront The ‘Acid Ball’, an over 400,000 pound industrial icon from Georgia-Pacific’s former pulp and paper mill, has been moved to Waypoint Park Read on... Port Hires Director of Economic Development The Port is pleased to announce the hiring of Don Goldberg as its Director of Economic Development. Read on... Port to Host Public Open House on Proposed Changes to Waterfront District Master Plan The Port invites the public to attend an Open House to learn about proposed changes to the Waterfront District Master Plan Read on... Port Commission Selects 2018 Officers, Adjusts Meeting Schedule Port Commissioner Ken Bell was selected by the Commission on Tuesday to serve as President of the Board of Commissioners for 2018. Commissioner Bobby Briscoe was picked to be Vice President and Michael Shepard was chosen for Secretary. Read on... Port Welcomes New Commissioners Michael Shepard and Ken Bell Michael Shepard and Ken Bell were sworn into office as the Port’s newest Commissioners on Tuesday, January 2, 2018. Read on... Port Seeks Community Input on Two New Waterfront Designs The Port Commission is evaluating two new options for improving  public access through the downtown waterfront and would like to hear from the community before making a decision. Read on... Port Networks with Regional Working Waterfront Industry Port staff recently attended the 51st Pacific Marine Expo, the West Coast’s largest commercial fishing and marine industry trades show, to network with the regional marine trades sector and market Port facilities. Read on... Port Updates Mission Statement The Port's Board of Commissioners has approved an updated mission statement for the agency. Read on... Holiday Port Festival and Gingerbread Contest Coming December 1-3 The Port of Bellingham celebrates another year of Holiday Port at the Bellingham Cruise Terminal with performances by over 35 local bands, orchestras, choirs and performance groups and includes more than 700 performers. Read on... Public Meetings and Hearing on Port’s Recreation, Conservation and Public Access Plan The Port has released a Draft of its Recreation, Conservation and Public Access Plan. Read on... Construction Begins on Two Major Waterfront Redevelopment Projects Construction has started on two major waterfront redevelopment projects. Read on... Cargo Vessel Set to Arrive at the Bellingham Shipping Terminal The 590-foot cargo ship MV Diana Bolten will arrive at the Bellingham Shipping Terminal on October 3rd. Read on... Bellingham SeaFeast to Celebrate the Importance of Whatcom County's Working Waterfront Whatcom County’s vibrant working waterfront will be on full display this weekend at Bellingham’s second annual SeaFeast. Read on... 2017 Bellingham SeaFeast Program is Now Available The official program for Bellingham's signature waterfront event is now available. Read on... Itek Ready to Move into New Solar Manufacturing Facility on Bellingham's Downtown Waterfront Major construction activity is nearly complete on Itek Energy’s new 48,000-square-foot solar panel manufacturing plant on Bellingham’s downtown waterfront. Read on... Port Welcomes Innovative Pet Care Company to Property Near Bellingham International Airport One of the Port’s newest tenants, Puget Hound, is open for business in the former Whatcom Humane Society building located near the Bellingham International Airport. Read on... Port Installs New Roof at the Bellingham Shipping Terminal The Port has completed a $500,000 project to replace the 45,786 square foot roof on Warehouse 2 at the Bellingham Shipping Terminal. Read on... Downtown Waterfront Redevelopment Area to be Opened to View Fireworks The Port is inviting the community to view Whatcom County’s largest Independence Day fireworks display from the former Georgia-Pacific site on Bellingham’s Downtown Waterfront. Read on... Port Earns Clean Audit from State The Port is pleased to announce it has received a clean audit from the Washington State Auditor’s Office. Read on... Improvements Planned for Blaine Harbor's Marine Industrial Area The Port has awarded a $750,000 contract to American Construction of Tacoma to rehabilitate three deteriorated piers in Blaine Harbor in support of the working waterfront. Read on... Whatcom Waterway Cleanup Project Receives Washington Public Ports Association Environmental Award The Port of Bellingham has been awarded the 2017 Port Environmental Award by the Washington Public Ports Association for successfully completing one of the largest environmental cleanup projects in state history. Read on... Port Commissioners Invite Community to June Sessions of 'Coffee with a Commissioner' What do you think should be the focus of the Port of Bellingham? Do you have questions or concerns you’d like to share with this special purpose municipal government? Read on... Port Approves Rental Policy in Support of Marine Trades The Port Commission has voted 3-0 in support of a Water Reliant Commercial Marine Rental Policy to provide a consistent and predictable rent structure for working waterfront employers. Read on... All American's New Boat Manufacturing Facility Underscores Resurgence of Working Waterfront The hull of a 125-foot, three-deck tour boat was towed across Bellingham Bay today, where its builder, All American Marine, will tow it ashore to the company’s new, nearby Downtown facility. Read on... Community Invited to have 'Coffee with a Commissioner' The Port is hosting ‘Coffee with a Commissioner’ so its elected Commissioners can talk directly with the people they serve. Read on... Port Seeks Public Input on Parks and Recreation Plan The Port recently launched a project to update its Recreation, Conservation and Open Space Plan. Read on... Waterfront District Update from the Port's Executive Director It is an exciting time to be involved with our Downtown Waterfront redevelopment. Read on... Port Authorizes Major Improvements to Fairhaven Shipyard The Port has awarded a $12.5 million environmental cleanup contract to Whatcom County-based IMCO General Construction which will result in major improvements to 7.66 acres of Fairhaven marine industrial property in support of the working waterfront. Read on... Port and WTA Offer "Ride-Shuttle-Fly" Service to Bellingham International Airport The Port and Whatcom Transportation Authority (WTA) are working together to bring transit service to Bellingham International Airport. Read on... Port Provides Economic Development Grants to Whatcom County's Small Cities The Port Commission has authorized $65,000 in cost sharing funds to support economic development projects in Blaine, Lynden, Ferndale and Everson. Read on... Port Secures $125,000 Workforce Development Grant for Itek Energy The Port has secured a $125,000 workforce development grant from the Washington State Department of Commerce to help local solar panel manufacturer Itek Energy streamline operations, increase efficiency and reduce costs. Read on... Port Hires New Marine Terminals Business Development Manager The Port  is pleased to announce the hiring of Chris Clark as its Marine Terminals Business Development Manager. Read on... Port Appoints New Manager of Marinas The Port of Bellingham is pleased to announce the appointment of Alan Birdsall as its new Manager of Marinas. Read on... Waterfront Redevelopment Art Project A whimsical piece of urban art will be getting a makeover as progress continues on Bellingham’s downtown waterfront redevelopment project. Read on... Public Hearing on Port District Boundaries to be Held January 24 The Port’s Board of Commissioners will hold a public hearing on January 24, 2017 at 4:00 p.m. at 1801 Roeder Avenue, Bellingham to receive public comment regarding the reaffirmation of the existing Port Commission districts. Read on... New Import/Export Customer at the Bellingham Shipping Terminal The Port Commission has authorized a Harbor Land Lease with GrandCamp International, LLC (GrandCamp) for 5 acres of property and up to 7 acres of aquatic lands near the Bellingham Shipping Terminal to support timber related activities. Read on... Port Commission Selects 2017 Officers Port Commissioner Dan Robbins has been selected by the Commission to serve as President of the Port of Bellingham’s Board of Commissioners for 2017.  Commissioner Bobby Briscoe was picked to be Vice President and Michael McAuley was chosen for Secretary. Read on... P.E.T.S. Program Provides Therapy Dogs at Belligham Airport Whatcom Therapy Dogs has partnered with the Bellingham International Airport to provide a new stress-relieving program: Pups Easing Traveler Stress, or PETS, in the commercial air terminal. Read on... Port Gingerbread Contest Announces "Northwest Adventure" Theme This year’s Holiday Port Gingerbread House Contest theme is “Northwest Adventure,” and contestants can compete in this category or in one of many other age-or-group categories. Read on... Holiday Port, Gingerbread Contest Coming December 2-4 On Dec 2-4 the Port of Bellingham celebrates another year of Holiday Port at the Bellingham Cruise Terminal with performances by over 35 local bands, orchestras, choirs and performance groups and includes more than 700 performers. Read on... Local Solar Panel Manufacturer Expanding to the Waterfront The Port Commission has authorized a Purchase and Sale agreement with Pando Innovations, LLC (Itek Energy) for approximately two acres of property and a 48,000 square foot warehouse near Bellingham’s downtown waterfront. Read on... Harcourt Developments Announces Plans for Downtown Waterfront Harcourt Developments, the development partner for 19 acres on Bellingham’s downtown waterfront, announced plans this week to build four large-scale projects within the next several years. Read on... Alaska Airlines Adds Service between Bellingham and Kona, Hawaii Passengers flying out of Bellingham International Airport (BLI) will have convenient access to some of Hawaii’s best snorkeling and the world-famous Hawaii Volcanoes National Park starting November 12 Read on... Major Cleanup Project Underway on Bellingham's Waterfront Construction is underway on a major environmental cleanup project which will transform the landscape of Bellingham’s city center waterfront. Read on... Construction Begins on a New Manufacturing Facility for All American Marine Construction has started on a $10 million project to build a new manufacturing facility for local boat builder All American Marine on Bellingham’s central waterfront. Read on... Choose Whatcom Launches Economic Development Website Choose Whatcom, a collaboration of business service, economic development and workforce organizations, has unveiled a new regional economic development tool. Read on... Bellingham International Airport Wins Another Award Bellingham International Airport was honored at an annual conference of Allegiant Airlines with an “Above and Beyond” award for cutting operating costs and maintaining a low-cost transportation facility. Read on... Bond Refinancing to Save the Port $860,000 The Port is refinancing the balance of a $5 million bond issued in 2005 to cash in on historically low interest rates and reduce debt payments by $860,000 over the next ten years. Read on... Bellingham International Airport Receives Highest Customer Satisfaction Rating in the Nation Bellingham International Airport has scored the highest customer satisfaction rating for any airport in the nation. Read on... Port Supports Small Cities with Economic Development Funds Four small cities in Whatcom County will get extra help with economic development projects this year. The Port's Board of Commissioners has approved spending $75,000 in matching funds for projects in Blaine, Sumas, Ferndale, and Lynden. Read on... Community Open House for Reconstruction Alternatives to Blaine's Marine Drive The Port of Bellingham and City of Blaine will be hosting a Community Open House at Blaine City Hall on January 19 from 6-8 pm to discuss reconstruction alternatives for the road leading to Blaine pier at the end of Marine Drive. Read on... Port Commission Selects 2016 Officers Port Commissioner Michael McAuley was selected by the Commission on Tuesday to serve as president of the Port’s Board of Commissioners for 2016. Commissioner Bobby Briscoe was picked to be vice president and Dan Robbins was chosen for secretary. Read on... Port Welcomes New Commissioner Bobby Briscoe Bobby Briscoe was sworn into office as the Port’s newest Commissioner on Tuesday, January 5, 2015. Read on... New Ownership for Bellwether on the Bay Buildings The Port announced a change in ownership for three mixed-use office buildings and the last developable parcel in the Bellwether on the Bay development area. Read on... Itek Energy Installs Large Community Solar Project on Bellingham's Waterfront Bellingham-based itek Energy, Washington’s leading manufacturer of solar photovoltaic (PV) modules, has completed a solar installation on the banks of Georgia Pacific’s former Aeration Stabilization Basin. Read on... All American Marine to Move from Fairhaven to Bellingham's Central Waterfront The Port and All American Marine have reached an agreement to relocate the boat-builder from Fairhaven to a Port-owned marine trades area on Bellingham’s central waterfront which will allow the company to expand and hire additional employees. Read on... Port Appoints Director of Aviation The Port of Bellingham announced today that Sunil Harman will join the team on November 2nd to manage the Ports aviation operations. Read on... Scotty Browns Opens Bellingham Airport Location (May 14, 2012) – The Port of Bellingham and Scotty Browns USA are pleased to announce that Bellingham’s second Scotty Browns Restaurant opened successfully at the Bellingham International Airport over the weekend. Read on... View All News /CivicAlerts.aspx Downtown Waterfront Redevelopment Overview & Sustainability Master Plan & Updates Rebuilding the Waterfront Economy Creating New Family Wage Jobs Improving Public Access to Water New Waterfront Parks and Trails Restoring the Health of Land and Water Cleaning Up Historic Contamination Port Commission The Board of Commissioners is a non-partisan, three-person elected body that oversees all Port operations by providing policy direction and decisions in public meetings. Commission Meetings Meetings start at 4:00 pm in the Harbor Center Conference Room, 1801 Roeder Avenue in Bellingham with a public comment period at both 4:00 and 5:30 pm. Watch on YouTube Upcoming Meetings Agendas & Minutes Contact Commissioners Port of Bellingham Mission To promote sustainable economic development, optimize transportation gateways, and manage publicly owned land and facilities to benefit Whatcom County. Find out more... Port of Bellingham Calendar of Events May 6 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OPEN PUBLIC MEETING BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OPEN PUBLIC MEETING Read On May 20 *CANCELLED* BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OPEN PUBLIC MEETING *CANCELLED* BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OPEN PUBLIC MEETING Read On Jun 3 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OPEN PUBLIC MEETING BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OPEN PUBLIC MEETING Read On View All Events /Calendar.aspx Public Boat Launches Locate our public boat launches, boat launch rates, instructions for day use, and more. Welcome to the Port of Bellingham Find directions, maps, ground transportation, travel tips, and more. 1 A boat in port at sunset 2 A boat docked at a large port Sustainability The Port: Completed the largest solar panel installation on any public building in Whatcom County. Click this link to watch a video about this project. Cut greenhouse gas emissions by over 85 percent. Click this link to learn more about climate change initiatives. Is leading one of the largest environmental cleanup projects in the nation. Click this link to learn about Port efforts to clean-up historic contamination from Blaine Harbor and a dozen state-listed sites in Bellingham Bay. Pay Your Bill Book a Meeting / Event Contact Us Contact Us Contact Us Port of Bellingham 1801 Roeder Avenue Bellingham, WA 98225 Phone: 360-676-2500 Hours Monday through Friday 8 am to 5 pm Closed for Lunch 11:30 am to 1 pm Airport Directions Board of Commissioners Contact Us View Our Directory Webcams, Weather & Tide Quick Links The Portal Container Village Arrivals & Departures Airport Lodging Airport Parking Busses & Shuttles Car Rental Jobs Lost & Found Ticket Counter /QuickLinks.aspx Government Websites by CivicPlus® Home Contact Us Accessibility Site Map Refund & Privacy Policy Copyright Notices /QuickLinks.aspx Loading Loading Do Not Show Again Close Arrow Left Arrow Right [] Slideshow Left Arrow Slideshow Right Arrow