Apple CEO Tim Cook’s Annual Pay in 2022: $63 Million × Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage Read Next: Warner Bros. Discovery Beats Lawsuit Over Superman Rights Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up Home Business Business News Apple CEO Tim Cook’s Pay Falls to $63M Former Vice President Al Gore also announced that he would retire from Apple's board of directors. By Georg Szalai Plus Icon Georg Szalai Global Business Editor More Stories by Georg Comcast CEO Brian Roberts’ Pay Dips to $33.9M, President Michael Cavanagh’s Drops to $28.3M in 2024 ‘Floating Clouds Obscure the Sun’ Wins Best Film Award in Beijing Fest’s Forward Future Section Jiang Wen Talks New Technologies, Dumplings, and Why, as a Director, He “Showers” Actors With Praise View All January 11, 2024 2:18pm Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Tim Cook Emma McIntyre/WireImage Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Apple CEO Tim Cook received a pay cut in the technology company’s latest fiscal year following shareholder guidance and a “recommendation” from the executive himself. Cook’s annual compensation package hit $63.2 million after rising to $99.4 million during the 2022 fiscal year, according to a regulatory filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. For the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, Cook’s target compensation dropped to $49 million, down more than 40 percent from the CEO’s 2022 target compensation. As a result, Cook’s performance-based stock awards rose to 75 percent. Related Stories Business Europe Hits Meta, Apple With $790M in Antitrust Fines Business Fresh Off 'Severance' Success, But Amid Tariff Turmoil, Apple Offers Rare TV+ Discount For the latest fiscal year, Cook earned a $3 million base salary, while he received another $47 million from stock awards. Beyond that, he made $10.7 million from non-equity compensation and $2.5 million in other compensation, mostly in the form of security costs. During the 2022 fiscal year, Cook had received a $3 million base salary, roughly $83 million from stock awards, $12 million in non-equity compensation and $1.4 million in other compensation. He had been paid $98.7 million in 2021. Apple reported a September quarter revenue record for iPhone and an all-time revenue record in its services business. “We now have our strongest lineup of products ever heading into the holiday season, including the iPhone 15 lineup and our first carbon-neutral Apple Watch models, a major milestone in our efforts to make all Apple products carbon neutral by 2030,” Cook said in November. The company also said Thursday that former Vice President Al Gore, who has been on its board since 2003, would retire after the upcoming shareholder meeting. Another Apple director, James Bell, is also retiring. Apple named Wanda Austin, the former CEO of The Aerospace Corporation, as a new board member. “We’re deeply grateful to Al and James for their many years of service to Apple — their insights, energy, and values have made us a stronger company in so many ways,” said Cook in a statement. “For more than 20 years, Al has contributed an incredible amount to our work — from his unconditional support for protecting our users’ privacy, to his incomparable knowledge of environment and climate issues. James’s dedication has been extraordinary, and we’re thankful for the important perspectives and deep expertise he’s offered on audit, finance, and so much more over the years.” Read More About: Apple THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe Sign Up More from The Hollywood Reporter THR, Esq Warner Bros. Discovery Beats Lawsuit Over Superman Rights Michael Cavanagh Comcast CEO Brian Roberts’ Pay Dips to $33.9M, President Michael Cavanagh’s Drops to $28.3M in 2024 THR, Esq Harvard Was First. Hollywood Could Be Next Charter Communications Charter Loses 181,000 Pay TV Subscribers in First Quarter international ‘Ne Zha,’ ‘Boonie Bears’ Success Earns Praise, But Panel Says China Needs More Hit Film Franchises YouTube $8.9B in YouTube Ads Help Power Alphabet to Hugely Profitable Quarter Shopping With THR Beyond Yoga’s Hollywood-Coveted Activewear Gets a Rare Price Drop — Shop These 10 Trending Styles By Erin Lassner 21 Affordable Luxury Gifts Under $200, From Aluminum Luggage to Cashmere Tees By Tim Chan Jennifer Aniston’s Favorite Low-Impact Body Sculpting Workout Is Hitting the Road This Spring — Here’s How to Join the Challenge From Home By Danielle Directo-Meston The Best Dyson Airwrap Alternatives On Sale for Mother’s Day, From Shark Beauty’s Star Hairstylist-Approved Tool to Our Favorite T3 Styler By Natalie Alcala , Danielle Directo-Meston THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Email Address Subscribe Today Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Most Popular ‘Andor’ Creator Explains That Shocking Assault Scene: “We’re All the Product of Rape” By James Hibberd Harvey Weinstein’s Life Behind Bars: “He’s Still Running Sh**” (Exclusive) By Phoebe Eaton Nikki Glaser Says Timothée Chalamet Almost Skipped Golden Globes Monologue So He Wouldn’t “Have to Deal” With Being Roasted: “I Get It” By Lexi Carson First Look at the Cover of ‘BTS: A Little Golden Book Biography’ (Exclusive) By Nicole Fell Departing ‘911’ Actor Says Heartfelt Goodbye: “It Has Been My Honor” By Rick Porter Must Reads No. 1 on the Call Sheet: Bella Ramsey Takes Charge of ‘The Last of Us’ By James Hibberd The Rage of ‘Adolescence’: Inside the Single-Shot Sensation Blowing Up the Manosphere By Lily Ford Tina Fey on Her New Netflix Series: “It Saved Me From Just Shrinking Up Like a Little Granny Apple Head” By Mikey O'Connell The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up PMC Logo Most Popular One of Taylor Swift’s Inner Circle Gave Heartbreaking Insight As To Why She’s Laying Low Top 50 Highest-Paid Athletes of All Time MFA Boston to Rescind Promised Gift of Benin Bronzes, Close Dedicated Gallery Ye Claims He Had Incestuous Relationship With Male Cousin, Describes Details In New Song You may also like The Best Yoga Mats for Any Practice, According to Instructors 1 year ago Ferrari’s First EV Might Have Synthetic Gears 6 hours ago Erica Banks Shuts Down Comparisons To Any Other Women Rappers After GloRilla Claims 6 hours ago Inside Gigi Perez’s Debut Album: ‘Sailor Song,’ The Track That Was Hardest to Finish & More 7 hours ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues E-edition Access The Hollywood Reporter About Us Media Kit Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage News Expand news menu Latest News Culture & Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Reviews Ratings Live Feed Heat Vision The Fien Print Music Expand music menu Grammys K-Corner Awards Expand awards menu News Awards Chatter Podcast Feinberg Forecast Behind The Screen The Race THR Presents Oscar Season Hub Lifestyle Expand lifestyle menu Person of Interest News Style Shopping Arts Real Estate Rambling Reporter Business Expand business menu THR, Esq Report Features Unions / Labor Film / TV Tax Credits Signings / Representation THR Charts Expand thr-charts menu Streaming Ratings Broadcast Ratings Weekend Box Office Chart More Essentials Expand more-essentials menu International News Video THR Podcasts Featured Voices Follow Us Follow THR on Facebook Follow THR on Instagram Follow THR on X Follow THR on YouTube Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Advertise Careers Contact Us Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. ad