Emma Stone Was Holding The Best Actress Card: Oscar Best Picture Snafu Skip to main content Open Mega Menu Got A Tip? deadline-logo-svg Deadline Follow Us: site categories TV Film Awards Awards Hub Digital Issues Box Office Biz International Politics Theater Reviews Obits Video Events Contenders Television: Docs+Unscripted+Variety Television Film: Nominees Film: Documentary Film: International Film: Los Angeles Film: London Sound & Screen Film Television Other For The Love Of Docs Visual Effects + Screen Festivals North America Sundance Toronto Telluride SXSW Tribeca Europe Cannes Zurich Venice Berlin/EFM Middle East Red Sea Asia Tokyo Insider News Alerts Menu deadline-logo-svg Deadline Read Next: ‘Baby Reindeer’s Richard Gadd, ‘Slow Horses’ Take Top Prizes At BAFTA TV Craft Awards – Full Winners List Got A Tip? Tip Us Dismiss News Banner Breaking News Horror Is All The ROI Rage For Small & Midsize Movies In 2024’s Most Valuable Blockbuster Tournament Read the full story Home Awards News Emma Stone On ‘La La Land’ & ‘Moonlight’ Best Picture Snafu: “I Was Holding The Best Actress Card The Entire Time” By Anthony D'Alessandro Anthony D'Alessandro Editorial Director/Box Office Editor @AwardsTony More Stories By Anthony Magnolia Pictures Acquires Sundance Documentary ‘Folktales’ About Arctic Norwegian Teens & Their Sled Dogs ‘Thunderbolts*’ Looks To Create Lightning And Fire Up Summer Box Office With $175M Global Opening – Preview Lionsgate Promotes Taylor du Pont To Head Of Television Post Production View All February 26, 2017 10:05pm 13 Comments Services to share this page. Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Email Show more sharing options Share on LinkedIn Pin it Submit to Reddit Post to Tumblr Share on WhatsApp Print This Page Rex/Shutterstock It was almost a serendipitous moment at the Oscars : Emma Stone wins best actress for La La Land along with best director Damien Chazelle, and then the movie wins best picture. But that’s not how the latter part of it went down as best picture presenter Warren Beatty confessed he was reading incorrectly off the best actress winner card which listed Emma Stone as best actress, instead of the best picture card. Stone’s take: “I was holding the best actress card the entire time. I had that card. I’m not looking to start anything,” she told the press in the Oscar media room, “I don’t know what happened (with them), but I wanted to tell all of you first.” “I think everyone is in a state of confusion, but everyone is excited for Moonlight , ” Stone said regarding the oops moment tonight, “A strange happening for Oscar history.” Related Stories News Writers Guild Of America West Staff Union Wins Voluntarily Recognition, Moves To Negotiate First Contract News 'The King Of Kings' Surpasses 'Parasite' To Become Top-Grossing Korean Film In The U.S. Here’s the thing: It’s likely both Stone and Beatty had their own respective best actress cards since the accounting firm provides two identical envelopes for each winner. So it’s possible the second best actress Emma Stone envelope was handed to Beatty somehow. Watch on Deadline Barry Jenkins props that theory as he told the press corps, “There were two cards…But please write this down, the La La Land crew was so gracious. I can’t imagine being in their position and having to do this.” Nonetheless, like La La Land producer Jordan Horowitz who called out the real best picture winner on stage, Stone remained classy in giving props for Moonlight, “I’m an actor and I dream of this kind of thing and in a realistic context, I f***king love Moonlight . I’m so excited for Moonlight . Of course, it was an amazing thing to hear La La Land .  I think we all would have loved to win best picture. But I’m so excited about Moonlight . It’s one of the best films.” The 28-year old actress takes home her first Oscar tonight for playing Mia in La La Land , a struggling actress who falls for a struggling jazz musician in the City of Angels . Two years ago, Stone was here at the Dolby Theatre with her first nomination for playing a pot-addled and emotionally distraught movie star’s daughter in Birdman. Of all the titles that Stone could win an Oscar for, La La Land is a special one for her having cut her teeth as a child actress in the Phoenix, Arizona musical theater scene performing in such shows as The Princess and the Pea, The Wind in the Willows and Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dream Coat. Prior to La La Land, you could say she had the ideal warm-up: Taking over for Michelle Williams as Sally Bowles in the 2014-15 run of Cabaret, which marked Stone’s Broadway debut. On playing Mia, Stone said backstage, “I’ve known her for 13 years. I moved here when I was 15 and know what it felt like to go on audition after audition.” Sometimes Oscar winners and nominees can wind up here doing a limited amount of press, and by flying into L.A. for a weekend prior to nom balloting. Not Stone. She’s been working it and raising the profile of the Lionsgate/Summit film since her return from the pic’s launch and Venice-Telluride and Toronto. In less than 12 years, Stone has become a household name here in Hollywood. One of her early turns included a guest turn on Louis C.K. HBO comedy series Lucky Louie in 2006 as a rebellious daughter who takes refuge in C.K.’s domicile. A natural blonde, Stone was told by producer Judd Apatow to keep her hair red when she scored the role of Jules, a pungent girl who Jonah Hill’s Seth steals a kiss from. She never changed it back. Starring opposite Woody Harrelson and Jesse Eisenberg in Zombieland further raised her profile, but it was Sony’s 2010 thrifty teen comedy ($8M production cost, $75M global B.O.) Easy A that showed that Stone had the power to carry a film all on her own. Not only was it critically acclaimed, but it opened at No. 1 back in September 2010 to $17.7M. La La Land, which currently counts north of $140M at the domestic B.O., is Stone’s fourth highest grossing live-action movie of all-time after The Amazing Spider-Man ($262M), The Amazing Spider-Man 2 ($202M), and The Help ($169.7M). Stone capped off her acceptance speech on stage admitting, “I still have a lot of growing and learning to do and this guy is a beautiful symbol to continue on this journey.” Must Read Stories Hide Articles Onyx Preps ‘Desperate Housewives’ Offshoot Via Kerry Washington & Natalie Chaidez Bleecker Street Media Founder & CEO Andrew Karpen Dies Of Cancer At 59 ‘Thunderbolts*’ Looks To Fire Up The Summer With $175M Global Bow: Preview Disney & Marvel Won’t Play Nicepool With Justin Baldoni In Blake Lively Battle Read More About: Barry Jenkins Breaking News Emma Stone La La Land Moonlight Oscars 13 Comments Subscribe to Deadline Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Sign Up 13 Comments JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Sidebar Trending on Deadline 1 CBS Series 'Einstein' Starring Matthew Gray Gubler Pushed To 2026-27 Season 2 Final Autopsy Reports Confirm Cause Of Death For Gene Hackman & His Wife Betsy Arakawa 3 'Dexter: Resurrection' Sets Premiere Date; Drops First Teaser Trailer 4 CBS Claims Victory With 17th Consecutive Season As Most-Watched Broadcaster; 'Tracker' Leads The Way Again In Season 2, 'Matlock' In Second Place 5 Disney & Marvel Don't Want To Play Nicepool With Justin Baldoni Over 'Deadpool' In Blake Lively Battle 6 'Thunderbolts*' Looks To Create Lightning And Fire Up Summer Box Office With $175M Global Opening - Preview 7 Smaller Movies, Big Profit: Horror Is All The ROI Rage In 2024's Most Valuable Blockbuster Tournament 8 'Desperate Housewives' Offshoot 'Wisteria Lane' In Works At Onyx From Kerry Washington & Natalie Chaidez 9 ‘Match Game’ Returns To ABC With Martin Short As Host 10 'The King Of Kings' Surpasses 'Parasite' To Become Top-Grossing Korean Film In The U.S. deadline-logo-svg Deadline Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Latest Awards News Bowen Yang & Matt Rogers Take Las Culturistas Culture Awards To Bravo Celia Keenan-Bolger To Receive 2025 Isabelle Stevenson Tony Award For Advocacy Work 'The Last Of Us' Season 2 New Characters: Who's Who? Al Madrigal & Jessica Marie Garcia To Co-Host NHMC's 2025 Impact Awards Marketplace Newswire Deadline About Us Advertise Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility AdChoices California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Sitemap TV Film Awards Box Office Business International Connect with Us Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks Have a Tip? We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Send Us a Tip Stay in the Know Sign up for our breaking news alerts Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. PMC Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Site Close the menu deadline-logo-svg TV Expand the sub-menu Castings Ratings Late-Night Primetime Pilot Panic Film Expand the sub-menu Festivals Reviews Castings Acquisitions Documentary Awards Expand the sub-menu Awards Hub Emmys Oscars Tonys Box Office Expand the sub-menu International B.O. Specialty B.O. Broadway B.O. Business Expand the sub-menu Politics Legal Executives Agencies International Expand the sub-menu Festivals Film TV International Insider Video Expand the sub-menu Trailers The Actor's Side Behind The Lens The Process More Expand the sub-menu Obituaries Theater Music Podcasts Insider Follow Us Alerts & Newsletters Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertise About Us Give us feedback Leave us a tip Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. ad