The Walking Dead season 11 part 3 release schedule | episode 24 news | Radio Times Going Out Holidays Money RT shop RT puzzles Newsletters Download our app TV Guide Back to Main menu On TV now On TV tonight On streaming TV Back to Main menu What to watch Back to TV Best shows on Netflix Best shows in iPlayer Best shows on Disney+ Best shows on Prime Video Streaming guide Back to TV Apple TV+ Disney+ Netflix NOW Prime Video Paramount+ TV by genre Back to TV Drama Comedy Documentaries Entertainment Sci-Fi Fantasy Popular TV Back to TV Doctor Who Race across the World You Andor Britain's Got Talent The Last of Us The Handmaid's Tale Taskmaster MobLand The Stolen Girl I, Jack Wright Sport on TV Back to TV Live sports Football Cricket Tennis All sports Soaps Back to Main menu Coronation Street EastEnders Emmerdale All soaps Film Back to Main menu Vue Pass for RadioTimes.com Gaming Magazine More Back to Main menu Radio listings Audio RT podcasts Radio news The Best Ever Technology Tech guides Going Out Books Subscribe Going Out Holidays Money RT shop RT puzzles Newsletters Download our app Search Home TV Sci-fi The Walking Dead season 11 part 3 release schedule: When will episode 24 air? ❚ We may earn commission from links on this page. Our editorial is always independent ( learn more ). The Walking Dead season 11 part 3 release schedule: When will episode 24 air? The latest updates on the zombie drama's dramatic swansong. **Warning: This article contains spoilers for The Walking Dead season 11** Curtis Bonds Baker/AMC James Hibbs Published: Monday, 14 November 2022 at 4:10 pm Share on facebook Share on twitter Share on pinterest Share on reddit Email to a friend The penultimate episode of The Walking Dead season 11 has now landed, and the stakes have never been higher ahead of next week’s finale, which will be the last episode of the show ever. Ad The 23rd episode, titled Family, landed on Monday (14th November) and saw Pamela Milton (Laila Robins) risk everything to keep control of her community. Elsewhere, the life of beloved character Judith Grimes was left hanging in the balance, but will she survive? The final season of The Walking Dead is arriving via Star on Disney Plus throughout October and November. While next week’s finale will be the last ever episode of The Walking Dead, fans do have the spin-off titled The Walking Dead: Dead City to look forward to, which will see the return of Maggie (Lauren Cohan) and Negan (Jeffrey Dean Morgan). Meanwhile, Fear the Walking Dead , The Walking Dead: World Beyond and anthology series Tales of the Walking Dead will also continue building out this fascinating post-apocalyptic universe. Sign up to Disney Plus for £7.99 a month or £79.90 a year But for now, when is episode 24 of The Walking Dead season 11 set to land? Read on to learn everything you need to know about the release schedule for The Walking Dead. Be the first to get the latest drama news, direct to your inbox Keep up to date with all the dramas - from period to crime to comedy Email address Sign Up By entering your details you are agreeing to our terms and conditions and privacy policy . You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. The Walking Dead season 11 part 3 release schedule Jeffrey Dean Morgan as Negan in The Walking Dead season 11 AMC/YouTube The release schedule for The Walking Dead season 11 part 3 is as follows: The Walking Dead season 11 episode 17 Lockdown - Monday 3rd October (out now) The Walking Dead season 11 episode 18 A New Deal - Monday 10th October (out now) The Walking Dead season 11 episode 19 Variant - Monday 17th October (out now) The Walking Dead season 11 episode 20 What's Been Lost - Monday 24th October (out now) The Walking Dead season 11 episode 21 Outpost 22 - Monday 31st October (out now) The Walking Dead season 11 episode 22 Faith - Monday 7th November (out now) The Walking Dead season 11 episode 23 Family - Monday 14th November (out now) The Walking Dead season 11 episode 24 Rest in Peace - Monday 20th November This is the final part of the 11th season with Rest in Peace set to draw the entire series to a close on Monday 20th November in the UK. Thankfully, fans have films and spin-offs to look forward to - including one focused on longtime favourite Daryl Dixon. The Walking Dead writer and producer Scott M Gimple told Total Film : “Daryl is a fish out of water to start with [in the spin-off]. If Daryl finds himself with new people, he’s a fish out of water. "In France, in a country that’s going through the apocalypse, [it’s] an entirely different thing. He finds himself having to reinvent himself again, having to find himself again, and also, not being with – probably – the only people in the world he’s comfortable with.” When will The Walking Dead season 11 episode 24 air? Norman Reedus as Daryl Dixon in The Walking Dead Jace Downs/AMC The Walking Dead season 11 episode 24 will air on Monday 20th November 2022 in the UK (via Disney Plus ). The episode is ominously titled 'Rest in Peace' and, as the final episode of the series, will likely lead into the spin-off series centring on Daryl (Norman Reedus), and also one focused on both Negan (Jeffrey Dean Morgan) and Maggie (Lauren Cohan). How to watch The Walking Dead season 11 part 3 online Norman Reedus as Daryl Dixon and Seth Gilliam as Father Gabriel Stokes in The Walking Dead. Jace Downs/AMC Season 11 of The Walking Dead started airing on 23rd August 2021 in the UK, one day behind the US. The season then took a break after 8th October 2021, before returning for more zombie action and drama in episode 9 on 21st February 2022. That block of episodes drew to a close on 11th April, and since 3rd October we've now launched into an eight-episode stretch that will culminate in the series finale. The Walking Dead is available to watch now on Star on Disney Plus, with episode 21 premiering on 31st October 2022. Sign up to Disney Plus for £7.99 a month or £79.90 a year . If you’re looking for something else to watch, check out our TV Guide or Streaming Guide , or visit our Sci-fi hub for all the latest news and features. Ad The latest issue of Radio Times magazine is on sale now – subscribe now . For more from the biggest stars in TV, listen to the Radio Times View From My Sofa podcast . Authors James Hibbs Drama Writer James Hibbs is a Drama Writer for Radio Times, covering programmes across both streaming platforms and linear channels. He previously worked in PR, first for a B2B agency and subsequently for international TV production company Fremantle. He possesses a BA in English and Theatre Studies and an NCTJ Level 5 Diploma in Journalism. Visit us on Twitter Ad Ad Ad The best TV and entertainment news in your inbox Sign up to receive our newsletter! Email address Sign Up By entering your details, you are agreeing to site title privacy policy. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Subscribe to RT! Subscribe to Radio Times magazine and get £10 issues for £10! Get the offer Could your home unlock your dreams? Releasing equity from your home could help give you the retirement you've been dreaming of? HOW MUCH COULD I RELEASE? 30% off an RHS Membership! Step into spring with endless adventures and a 30% saving on a year's membership! Find out more Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Pinterest Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Tiktok Visit us on Rss Privacy & Cookies Terms & Conditions Code of Conduct Advertise Complaints About Us Contact Us Manage Privacy Settings Website is owned and published by Immediate Media Company Limited. www.immediatemedia.co.uk © Immediate 2025 GoodFood.com olivemagazine.com GardenersWorld.com MadeforMums.com HistoryExtra.com TheRecommended.com RadioTimesMoney.com RadioTimesPuzzles.com TV listings TV Streaming What to Watch Drama Comedy Soaps Anime Entertainment Fantasy Sci-fi Doctor Who Film Marvel Star Wars Fast and Furious Netflix Disney+ Sport Football Rugby union Cricket Formula 1 Boxing Gaming Upcoming games Technology Tech guides Magazine Radio The Best Ever Going Out Quizzes Podcast Subscribe Radio listings