Timeline of a crisis: Cyberpunk 2077 | PR Week Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Information Links Skip to Site Search Skip to Footer Skip to Accessibility Information Home Page Information Links HAYMARKET MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS: PRWEEK us PRWEEK US PRWEEK UK PRWEEK Middle East PRWeek Campaign US MM+M 30-Day Trial Sign in Register Newsletters PR Week Global Search Menu Menu HAYMARKET MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS: PRWEEK us PRWEEK US PRWEEK UK PRWEEK Middle East PRWeek Campaign US MM+M Main Navigation News Show News Agency Breakfast Briefing Consumer Corporate Healthcare Media Public Affairs Technology In-depth Show In-depth Salary Survey 40 Under 40 AI Special Report Best Places to Work Agency Business Report Hall of Fame 25th Anniversary Crisis management Power List Newsmakers Women of Distinction Health Influencer 30 People in PR Show People in PR Hall of Fame archive Gen Zeitgeist Opinion Newsmakers Steve Barrett on PR Don Spetner Dashboard 25 Around the office Pride in PR Resources Show Resources PR 101 Podcasts Digital Editions Ebooks Agency Business Report Premium Salary Survey DE&I Digest Campaign Case Studies Family Trees Cannes Dashboard Webinars Renew Subscribe Events Show Events PRWeek US Awards PRDecoded Healthcare Awards Healthcare Conference AI Deciphered Crisis Comms Conference Women of Distinction PRWeek 40 Under 40 PRWeek Global Awards PRWeek Purpose Awards Hall of Fame Webinars Agency Breakfast Briefing Consumer Corporate Healthcare Media Public Affairs Technology Search Search Trending : Salary Survey Women of Distinction PRWeek U.S. Awards winners Agency Business Report PR 101 Timeline of a crisis: Cyberpunk 2077 Feature The video game took 7 years to hit the shelves, but it still left fans dissatisfied. by Aleda Stam December 21, 2020 Share article on Twitter Share article on Facebook Share article on LinkedIn January 2013 CD Projekt Red, the Polish game developer responsible for hit game franchise The Witcher released a vague trailer that showed a graphic snapshot of the world within Cyberpunk 2077 . With its roots in the retro-future tabletop game, fans were intrigued but confused about what the game would encompass. The developer goes dark for five years as it works on the game. June 2018 At E3 2018 , fans got their first real look at the game with a surprise premiere at Xbox’s conference. The world of Cyberpunk 2077 seemed massive and immersive, and hype around the game exploded. Fans and critics alike couldn’t wait for the game, and it won more than 100 awards at the convention, including Best Game and People’s Choice. June 2019 Fans were overwhelmed with the latest game trailer at E3 2019. CD Projekt Red revealed that Keanu Reeves would voice Johnny Silverhand, one of the main characters. The game’s release date was set for April 16, 2020, but over the next year it would be pushed back to September 17 and then to November 19, 2020, much to fans’ dismay. Delays were explained with short statements from CD Projekt Red. October 2020 CD Projekt Red pushes back the Cyberpunk 2077 release date yet again to December 10. Fans were confused as the developer had previously announced the game had “gone gold,” meaning it was essentially done. In a statement, CD Projekt Red said the game was completed, but there was room for improvement. December 10 Cyberpunk 2077 finally launches. Despite the seven-year wait and bugs still bogging down the system, fans flocked to the game. On launch day, the game broke 1 million concurrent viewers on Twitch , and received 8 million pre-orders. The game got some favorable reviews for the PC version, but the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions received much harsher critiques, with fans criticizing gaping glitches and crashes. Journalists were also irritated they were only given the PC version a few days before launch and were forbidden from including original gameplay footage in their reviews. “CD Projekt Red had nearly a decade to architect the great Cyberpunk 2077 mythos,” Cecilia D’Anastasio wrote for Wired . “Game reviewers had just a couple of days to assess it, and were hamstrung in how they could portray it.” CD Projekt Red issued an apology for the poor performance, and offered refunds and future patches. Liana Ruppert , a journalist at Game Informer with photo-sensitive epilepsy, released the most notable review with a PSA after experiencing a grand mal seizure while reviewing the game. After criticism from epilepsy advocates about the game’s insufficient health and safety disclaimers, CD Projekt Red updated its warning and said it would work on a “more permanent solution.” Conclusion: Miss CD Projekt Red overpromised and underdelivered. It purposely kept reviewers from seeing the buggy console versions of the game. Takeaways Despite positive sales numbers, the developer was left putting out fires for frustrated fans playing a glitchy game. After seven years in development, there should have been more answers. Unlike other media, video games pose a greater economic investment, which leads to a more critical user base. Fans expect — and deserve — much better. More... Timeline of a crisis: Moderators revolt against Reddit after hefty API changes Timeline of a crisis: Elon Musk and Starlink step up to the plate for Ukraine Timeline of a crisis: The #MeToo movement comes to Google Timeline of a crisis: Intel's security meltdowns Timeline of a Wild Fyre Have you registered with us yet? Register now to enjoy more articles and free email bulletins Register Already registered? Sign in Get our email newsletters Resources Salary Survey Women of Distinction PRWeek US Awards Dashboard 25 PRDecoded Healthcare Awards Agency Business Report Best Places to Work Health Influencer 30 PR 101 AI Special Report 40 Under 40 Hall of Fame The Power List Pride in PR Global Awards Crisis Comms Conference Purpose Awards PRWeek US 25th Anniversary Brand Entertainment Awards Gen Zeitgeist The Future of Work Bellwether Survey Changemakers Webinars Podcasts Subscribe to PRWeek Resources Up next: Omnicom, Ogilvy sued by 2022 World Cup migrant workers over ‘sportswashing’ The NextGen Awards are back What PR pros can learn from Bill Belichick’s CBS interview Hilti Group names Yves Boeni to lead corp comms ‘We'll be on shifts like this is the army, except it's the conclave’: How Pope Crave is preparing for the real-life papal conclave Chronicling for Congress: Inside Deja Foxx’s content creation campaign model Amazon’s tariff cost report: Is it worth the political risk? ‘Just tone deaf’ – Nike’s London Marathon campaign backlash Breakfast Briefing: 5 things for PR pros to know on Tuesday morning ‘We made a mistake’: Degree celebrates the return of Original Cool Rush deodorant scent with parade JOIN, SHARE, LIKE, FOLLOW US ON: f t I l yt About PRWeek About Us Contact Us Editorial Calendar Advertise Subscribe Subscribe to PRWeek Newsletters FAQ Global PRWeek UK Campaign Asia © Haymarket Media Group Ltd. | Terms & Conditions | Cookie Notice | Privacy Notice | Cookie Settings