2012 Heisman Trophy finalists: Johnny Manziel, Manti Te'o and Collin Klein Latest U.S. Pope Francis Coverage World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio Local News Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes America Decides CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Eye on America Face the Nation Here Comes the Sun Sunday Morning The Takeout The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed CBS Village Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Davos Interviews A Moment With... Innovators & Disruptors Economy 4.0 U.S. Pope Francis Coverage World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports Watch CBS News X-DoNotUse-Sports 2012 Heisman Trophy finalists: Johnny Manziel, Manti Te'o and Collin Klein December 4, 2012 / 10:00 AM EST / CBS News Photo by Jeff Zelevansky/Getty Images Heisman finalists: Manziel, Te'o and Klein Texas A&M quarterback Johnny Manziel, Notre Dame linebacker Manti Te'o and Kansas State quarterback Collin Klein are the finalists for the Heisman Trophy. Manziel is the favorite to win college football's most famous award when it is presented Saturday night in New York. He would be the first freshman to win the Heisman and the first Texas A&M player since halfback John David Crow won the school's only Heisman in 1957. Te'o is trying to become the first defense-only player to win a Heisman and the eighth player from Notre Dame. The Fighting Irish have had seven Heisman winners, tied for the most, but none since Tim Brown in 1987. Klein would be the first player from Kansas State to win the Heisman. Here's a look at how the three finalists stack up. 2012 Heisman Trophy finalists: Johnny Manziel, Manti Te'o and Collin Klein Photo by Jamie Squire/Getty Images Collin Klein, quarterback, Kansas State For Kansas State, there was a clear path to the BCS championship game and a likely Heisman Trophy for Collin Klein. That all changed after an unexpected November blitz by Baylor. A week after taking over the top spot in the BCS rankings, and getting so close to a chance to play for their first national championship, Klein threw three interceptions and the Wildcats were throttled 52-24 at Baylor. Still Klein is a finalist for the award based on his impressive numbers throughout the season and he padded his credentials in the Big 12 title game: Klein threw a touchdown pass and ran for two scores and No. 7 Kansas State beat No. 23 Texas 42-24 on Saturday night for its third conference title in 117 years and a trip to the Fiesta Bowl. Amazingly, Klein was largely overlooked coming out of high school in Loveland, Colo. His only other interest came from the likes of Colorado State and Utah. Just how highly sought were his quarterback skills? Even the coaches at Kansas State turned him into a wide receiver when he first got on campus. Now they have a Heisman finalist at quarterback. 2012 Heisman Trophy finalists: Johnny Manziel, Manti Te'o and Collin Klein Photo by Scott Halleran/Getty Images Johnny Manziel, quarterback, Texas A&M Johnny Manziel, better known around Texas as Johnny Football, crashed the Heisman party after he led the Aggies to an upset win over then No.1-ranked Alabama. Now his chances to become the first freshman to win the award have improved even more after accounting for five more touchdowns in the Aggies' rout of Missouri.  Manziel won the starting job near the end of training camp and went on to account for 4,600 yards of total offense. He has thrown for 24 touchdowns and ran for 19 this season to make him the favorite to win the Heisman Trophy. Before dominating Missouri, Manziel had already broken the NCAA freshman quarterback rushing record of 1,029 yards set by Missouri's Brad Smith in 2002, and the freshman record for total offense of 3,827 yards set in 2000 by Jared Lorenzen on A&M. He is the fifth player and first freshman in FBS history to pass for at least 3,000 yards with at least 1,000 yards rushing in a season. CBSSports.com's Gregg Dowel says Manziel should win the Heisman despite his freshman status. "Johnny Manziel is the best player in college football this season, a large statement to make about any freshman, any year, but an enormous one to make about a freshman this season -- when there are so many viable candidates," Doyel writes. 2012 Heisman Trophy finalists: Johnny Manziel, Manti Te'o and Collin Klein Photo by Jeff Gross/Getty Images Manti Te'o, linebacker, Notre Dame Notre Dame linebacker Manti Te'o says if he wins the Heisman Trophy it would be a victory for all defensive players. "It would definitely be a great step for all of us," he said. Te'o would become just the second defensive player to capture the award, joining Michigan's cornerback Charles Woodson, who won in 1997. While being a defensive player makes winning the award a challenge, Te'o is the face of a defense that for much of the season carried the top-ranked Fighting Irish (12-0) and has Notre Dame on the brink of its first national championship since 1988. He finished the regular season with 103 tackles and seven interceptions — a school record for a linebacker. But Te'o, who appeared on the cover of Sports Illustrated earlier this year, said that the prestigious award is not his goal.  "I'd rather be holding a crystal ball than a bronze statue," he said. Featured Who Will Be the Next Pope? What Happens Next After Pope Francis' Death 2025 NFL Draft Live Blog NBA Playoffs Live Blog Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue Be the first to know Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting. Not Now Turn On