Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/CDProjektRed A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to CDProjektRed r/CDProjektRed r/CDProjektRed Somewhere in The Continent, Night City or possibly somewhere in an electronic thieves den. Members Online • glootech Cyberpunk 2077 release decision from a one year perspective Hi guys, Never posted here before, but it's been almost a year since the launch of Cyberpunk 2077 so I've been thinking about the game and the whole business decision regarding releasing it last year. First of all, I think we have a consensus regarding the state the game was at release: from technical perspective the game was pretty bad (and I'm not going to talk about the story/characters - it doesn't matter for the point I'll try to make). It was ambitious, but deeply flawed and everyone started shouting that how could they have released the game that was pretty much unfinished - nothing really controversial there. Everyone thinks that they shouldn't have released the game last year and patch it up beforehand to avoid this whole mess, right? So now we are one year into the patching process and the game looks a bit better, but it still neither lives up to the hype nor can be considered polished (or even finished - again from the technical point of view) whatsoever. Now hear me out. I believe the decision to release in December 2020 was the best decision the management could have made and the devs should be deeply thankful they did it. Now that's a bit controversial and made some of you very angry, right? Please read the entire post before you downvote me because I'll try to make a point there and would like to hear what you guys think. So first of all - was the release the best decision that CDPR could have made for the gamers? Probably not. They've made a lot of bad decisions along the development process (we've all read the articles) and don't even start me on crunch culture which is something I consider absolutely appaling. But from the businness point of view? They clearly had an unfinished product and were aware of this. They probably knew that even 6 months of development wouldn't make much difference (please remember that the devs were in crunch mode - their productivity was probably extremely low by December and needed a break). We now can be certain it wouldn't - even after a year of additional development the game is in a pretty bad state. The gamers really wanted the game and the management might have been afraid they'll cancel preorders if they delay the game for another year or more. Additional year of development costs a lot of money, even in Poland, where wages are low. They need cash for their current operations - without the money they can't operate and eventually will be taken over by a different company. The shareholders wanted their dividend - the company can't pay it out if they don't have any profits. Have you heard of the sunken cost fallacy? It's where you've put a lot of money into a project and don't want to stop just because you've already put a lot of money into it. I believe a variant of this applies here - they could've put more time and money into development to make the game better, just because they didn't want to release a broken product. But that could kill the entire company and they were well aware of it. So they gave one more little push to iron out the biggest flaws and released. The game was pretty well received, sans technical difficulties and their reputation went down the gutter for a while - at least until they release a new game with "The Witcher" slapped on the box. We've been through it so many times I can't even count - with Bethesda, Ubisoft and so on, gamers always forget and forgive. And people got angry, sure, but the sales were still good even if on the lower side of what they've expected. The company has cash for further operations, so if the next game is good it's all good. I know the devs were really angry about this decision, but as I've said before - they should be really thankful the game has been released. One of ther reasons is that the management took full blame for the situation, so nobody was angry at the devs, right? They did their best, they even got their bonuses. And what should be the strategy for now? Well, you won't like it, but mind it I'm not talking about the best strategy for gamers but for the company. I think all the big DLCs should be cancelled unless they are The Best Things Ever(tm). They won't sell a lot more copies of the game, they themselves might not even sell well (because the game has a reputation now and people will be very careful before they buy something with Cyberpunk logo on it). They should probably delegate a small team to fix the worst bugs and just move on to another game. I'm not sure about the next gen console versions. I think it's not worth it, but I don't really have a strong opinion about that. So what do you guys think? I'd really like to hear people's opinions on this one. And I wish CDPR all the best and hope that they've thought about their development process now and won't make the same mistakes and deliver more great games. Edit: sorry, I'm really bad at formatting. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 4% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of November 18, 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of November 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2021 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics