Poll Results: Oscars 2020 — Best Animated Feature Film  - IMDb Menu Movies Release Calendar Top 250 Movies Most Popular Movies Browse Movies by Genre Top Box Office Showtimes & Tickets Movie News India Movie Spotlight TV Shows What's on TV & Streaming Top 250 TV Shows Most Popular TV Shows Browse TV Shows by Genre TV News Watch What to Watch Latest Trailers IMDb Originals IMDb Picks IMDb Spotlight IMDb Podcasts Awards & Events Oscars Cannes Film Festival Star Wars SXSW Film Festival STARmeter Awards Awards Central Festival Central All Events Celebs Born Today Most Popular Celebs Celebrity News Community Help Center Contributor Zone Polls For Industry Professionals Language English (United States) Language Fully supported English (United States) Partially supported Français (Canada) Français (France) Deutsch (Deutschland) हिंदी (भारत) Italiano (Italia) Português (Brasil) Español (España) Español (México) All All Watchlist Sign In EN Fully supported English (United States) Partially supported Français (Canada) Français (France) Deutsch (Deutschland) हिंदी (भारत) Italiano (Italia) Português (Brasil) Español (España) Español (México) Use app JavaScript Required This page may not function properly without JavaScript enabled ◄ IMDb Polls Poll: Oscars 2020 — Best Animated Feature Film A poll by urbanemovies Which of the Oscar nominees for the 'Best Animated Feature Film' Academy Award do you think should win? Get complete The Oscars (2020) coverage on IMDb's Award Central Oscars Guide. Discuss the topic here or take other Oscars 2020 polls here. Results of 664 votes: 1. Toy Story 4 (2019) 250 Filmmakers: Josh Cooley, Mark Nielsen, Jonas Rivera 2. Klaus (2019) 177 Filmmakers: Sergio Pablos, Jinko Gotoh, Marisa Roman 3. How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World (2019) 113 Filmmakers: Dean DeBlois, Bradford Lewis, Bonnie Arnold 4. I Lost My Body (2019) 76 J'ai perdu mon corps (original title) Filmmakers: Jérémy Clapin, Marc Du Pontavice 5. Missing Link (2019) 48 Filmmakers: Chris Butler, Arianne Sutner, Travis Knight Related Polls Give Yourself a Hand A poll by TsarStepan Which of these seemingly self-reliant/possibly sentient or possessed hands freaks you out the most? Discuss these spooky hands over here. Golden Globes 2020 — Best Motion Picture, Animated A poll by pere-25366 Which of the nominees of 2020 Golden Globe Awards for Best Motion Picture - Animated do you think should win? After voting, you may discuss the poll here. Best Hugh Jackman Movie A poll by Paok-Kilkis Which movie starring Hugh Jackman is your favorite? Discuss the list here! How long was the longest movie you've watched at the movie theater? A poll by TsarStepan In terms of minutes, how long was the longest movie* you've watched at the movie theater? "To say that something, like time, is a social construction is not to say that it doesn’t exist or it is … Favorite Action Fantasy Movie A poll by CyrilMartin Movies that have at least 25,000 votes and an IMDb rating of at least 7.5 are considered. Which of these is your favorite Action Fantasy Movie? Discuss here Loch Ness Monster Movies A poll by mariojacobs The Loch Ness Monster, or Nessie, is a creature in Scottish folklore that is said to inhabit lake Loch Ness in the Scottish Highlands. It is often described as large, long-necked, and with one or more… Franchises Supposedly Ending in 2019 A poll by Paok-Kilkis Which franchise that is supposed to be ending in 2019 do you believe will return? Discuss the list here! Foreign Language Films Nominated for Best Animated Feature Film Oscars A poll by Dibyayan_Chakravorty Which of these foreign language films that were nominated for Oscars Best Animated Feature Film of the Year category, is your favorite? After voting, you may discuss the poll here. Oscars 2020 — Most Exciting First-Time Nominee? A poll by urbanemovies Which of these select first-time rookie nominees or first-time journeyman nominees are you the most excited about their 2020 Oscar nomination? Get complete The Oscars (2020) coverage on IMDb's Award C… Most Anticipated Film of Spring 2019 A poll by Dibyayan_Chakravorty Which film are you most looking forward to seeing during the Spring (in the Northern Hemisphere) of 2019 (March 20, 2019 to June 21, 2019)? After voting, you may discuss the poll here. Best Primitive Human Movie Character To Go Ape Over A poll by urbanemovies Hominids, better known as great apes, are a taxonomic family of primates that includes eight current species from four groups: Gorilla (Eastern and Western Gorillas); Pongo (Bornean, Sumatran and Tapa… Laika Feature Films A poll by JackSlater4 The American film studio Laika has been producing stop-motion animated films since its 2009 feature debut, Coraline. There are currently five movies in its repertoire, with more on the way. It's a ver… Favorite Dev Patel Movie A poll by Gabrielfox Dev Patel was born on 04/23/1990 in Harrow, London, England, UK. So far he has participated in 17 movies and 4 TV series. Which movie starring Dev Patel is your favorite? Discuss this poll here. Annie Awards 2020 - Best Animated Feature A poll by TsarStepan Which of the following nominees best deserves to win the Best Feature award for the 2020 Annie Awards? Let's discuss the best of the major animation studios have to offer over here! Golden Globes 2020 - Favorite Winner A poll by chandrabhanusolanki Who is your favorite among the winners of the 77th Golden Globe Awards? After voting, you may discuss the poll here Annapurna Pictures A poll by mariojacobs Annapurna Pictures is an American independent media company founded by Megan Ellison in 2011 and based in Los Angeles, California. It is active in film, television and theatrical production, film dist… DreamWorks Oscar Animations A poll by mariojacobs DreamWorks Animation is an American animation studio and a subsidiary of Universal Pictures.  It produces animated feature films, television programs, and online virtual games.  Which is your favorite… Most Anticipated Animation of 2018 A poll by iakhtar-33380 Which animated movie are you most looking forward to? Discuss Here October — Cybersecurity Awareness Month A poll by mariojacobs Which is your favorite advice/step to protect yourself from the horrors of ransomware, malware, and cybercriminals? Join the Discussion Here in the IMDb Poll Community Forum Best High Fantasy Movie A poll by CyrilMartin High fantasy, or epic fantasy, is a subgenre of fantasy defined by the epic nature of its setting or by the epic stature of its characters, themes, or plot. Movies that have at least 50,000 votes and … IMDb Polls Follow @IMDb on Twitter Poll FAQ Share this page: How Many Have You Seen? Find out right here . Clear your history Recently Viewed Get the IMDb app Sign in for more access Sign in for more access Follow IMDb on social Get the IMDb app For Android and iOS Help Site Index IMDbPro Box Office Mojo License IMDb Data Press Room Advertising Jobs Conditions of Use Privacy Policy Your Ads Privacy Choices IMDb, an Amazon company © 1990- 2025 by IMDb.com, Inc.