VIDEO | Colonial pre-K teacher named Delaware’s 2020 Teacher of the Year | The Latest from WDEL News | wdel.com Skip to main content You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Facebook Twitter Instagram Email iOS App Android App Site search Search Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Listen Listen Now Listen on Smart Speakers State News Wilmington Beaches Sports Traffic Current Incidents & Construction TrafficWatch Alerts DelDOT Traffic Cams About WDEL TrafficWatch Weather Business Education WDEL mobile app WDEL mobile app for Apple WDEL mobile app for Google Play WDEL Events/Community Calendar Contest Rules Advertise on WDEL More About Us Members Only Group WDEL News & TrafficWatch Alerts Awards Driving Directions Employment Opportunities Virtual Job Fair EEO Report FCC Public Inspection File Privacy Policy Terms of Use COPPA Programs Full Program Schedule Rick Jensen (Weekdays 10am-2pm) Del-AWARE The Ramsey Show America at Night Red Eye Radio WDEL Lifestyle On The Money Retirement Income Source Pathways to Service The Money Pit Motley Fool Money Real Estate Today CBS Eye on Veterans Podcasts Rick Jensen Del-AWARE On The Money WDEL Lifestyle Pathways to Service Features Listen on Amazon Echo WDEL SnoWatch Gas Prices Search On Air State News Wilmington Beaches Sports Traffic Weather Business Education Podcasts Events Contest Rules Advertise Digital Marketing Radio Marketing More About Us WDEL history Awards Members Only Group Driving Directions Employment Opportunities Virtual Job Fair EEO Report FCC Applications FCC Public Inspection File Privacy Policy Terms of Use COPPA VIDEO | Colonial pre-K teacher named Delaware’s 2020 Teacher of the Year Share this Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter Instagram Email iOS App Android App 68° Clear Wilmington, DE (19810) Today A few passing clouds, otherwise generally sunny. High 79F. Winds NW at 10 to 15 mph.. Tonight Clear skies with a few passing clouds. Low 52F. Winds NNE at 5 to 10 mph. Updated: April 30, 2025 @ 1:11 am Full Forecast WDEL $5k Home Improvement Sweepstakes Sponsored by Thunderstruck Roofing and Restoration WDEL E-News Get our latest headlines delivered right to your inbox. Sign up now! WDEL TrafficWatch Alerts Get WDEL TrafficWatch alerts on your phone 2025 Wilmington Flower Market Click here for details VIDEO | Colonial pre-K teacher named Delaware’s 2020 Teacher of the Year Sean Greene Oct 16, 2019 - 6:00 am Oct 16, 2019 - 6:00 am Comments Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email 2020 Delaware Teacher of the Year Rebecca Vitelli Sean Greene Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Rebecca Vitelli had to learn how to love school as a student, but the prekindergarten teacher in the Colonial School District is now Delaware’s 2020 Teacher of the Year. The 4 th year teacher at the Colonial Early Education Center was selected from a group of 20 district and charter teachers statewide to win Delaware’s top teaching honor, and said she draws from her own experiences growing up in upstate New York. Rebecca Vitelli had to learn how to love school as a student, but the prekindergarten teacher in the Colonial School District is now Delaware’s 2020 Teacher of the Year. “Growing up, I was not always that child that loved school. I had so much anxiety and so much stress, but I always loved working with children. Growing up, I was working in classrooms, I would get involved, and I realized I loved this. I also noticed that there were some children, even our youngest learners, that didn’t love school and were feeling those same anxieties, and fears, and frustrations, and I thought, who better to help be this voice of change and create these environments where children feel so loved and appreciated, than someone like me who could emphasize with them and how they felt so stressed or felt so overwhelmed and nervous.” Pre-K is still an area of growth for many school districts in Delaware, and Vitelli said one of her goals with her new post is to change what people think about education before kindergarten. “I’m told all the time ‘you’re preschool, so are you babysitting?’ What we do is unbelievable, and there is, in my opinion, nothing more powerful than being that child’s first interaction with school, and getting them to love school, love learning, and love themselves, 90 percent of the brain is developed by age 5. 90 percent. Every moment that we have to create these powerful interactions and wonderful memories, and these feeling and relationships is wiring the brain to be able to learn and to be connected and willing to learn.” That being willing to learn part is something that Vitelli has to overcome at times in a classroom that can include a mix of students with disabilities along with their normally developing peers. “Last year, I had a student who at the beginning of the year he wouldn’t even enter the classroom, he couldn’t even cross over the threshold. He was so anxious and nervous; he was basically throwing up on Open House Night. He really struggled with transitions and feeling safe and feeling ownership in that space. We really worked hard with him in building that relationship, and his mom and him came back with me at the beginning of the year. He started kindergarten this year and his mom said that he stopped at the doorway at Open House, he took a deep breath, and said ‘Mom, I’ve got this’. He loves school now, and it’s an honor to have been a part of the child’s journey.” It’s been a quick rise for Vitelli, who graduated from the University of Delaware in 2014, and earned her Master of Education in exceptional children and youth with a concentration in autism and severe disabilities two years later. Rebecca’s father taught in inner-city New York, while her mother worked in a more rural district. “My entire life, they have been role models to help me love school and knowing what the power of education means. Loving learning, and being creative and thinking outside the box. Being that person for the people you’re working with.” Impressively, Rebecca said she’s actually been nominated into the Teacher of the Year program all four years of her career, but said this year’s nominations were extra special. “This past round, I know it came from multiple people. It came from some of the families that I worked with, it came from my speech therapist, and some of the other teachers I work with.  It wasn’t the voice of one that nominated me, but it was the voice of many. I’m honored, and overwhelmed that so many people see me as a voice and a power for change. It’s really humbling. Could I ever imagine that it would be me in this moment? No, but I’m so grateful, and I’m so excited to learn and grow and for the opportunity.” As for winning the Teacher of the Year Award, Rebecca said she actually has to draw on what she tries to teach her students. “Really, ‘wow’ is the only thing I was able to say. I am so truly humbled, honored, excited, overjoyed, and overwhelmed. There are so many feelings. We know how to show our students how to handle big feelings, and I’m having so many big feelings right now. It’s truly an honor, and I’m truly, truly humbled. “I’m so proud to be a teacher in Delaware and represent so many wonderful, passionate, dynamic educators in this field.  I truly cannot wait to use my voice to help advocate for teachers, students, and public education.” Rebecca’s voice will be used to address various community groups and state organizations for the next 12 months, and will be Delaware’s candidate for the National Teacher of the Year. Vitelli also earned a $5,000 grant that will go back into her classroom. She might not have loved school at first, but it’s clear Rebecca Vitelli sure does now. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save McKean High School educator named 2021 Delaware Teacher of the Year A Red Clay Consolidated School District educator is chosen as Delaware's 2021 Teacher of the Year. William Penn social studies teacher Shelby Borst named 2025 Delaware Teacher of the Year The winner of the Delaware Teacher of the Year honor is often seen as a leading voice for the teaching community, but this year's winner wants… Tags Teacher Rebecca Vitelli Student School Education Year Mom Classroom Trending Now Facebook Twitter Instagram Email iOS App Android App Notices EEO Report FCC On Line Public Files COPPA Prize Winner Acknowledgment FCC Applications Sections Listen News Sports Traffic Programs Podcasts Events Contest Rules Online Features Advertise on WDEL Services Submission Forms Search Weather × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox Copyright © 2025 Forever Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Forever Media and Its affiliates and their Radio Station(s) do not and shall not discriminate, in any manner on the basis of race, ethnicity, religion, gender, or age respecting their recruiting, employment or advertising practices. | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital .