Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/soccer A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to soccer r/soccer r/soccer The football subreddit.   News, results, and discussion about the beautiful game. Members Online • SneakyBradley_ The Germany 2014 World Cup winning squad: Where are they now? During the latest season break both André Schürrle and Benedikt Höwedes announced their retirement from football having both achieved the ultimate prize with their country back in 2014. Since that incredible victory in Brazil, the team has experienced a quite drastic change in fortunes and personnel, despite manager Joachim Löw still overseeing the German side. Some of the 23-man squad remain at the top level, with the stars of others fading; here then, is where the victorious 2014 Germany World Cup squad are now… #1 – Manuel Neuer – Goalkeeper – Bayern Munich Winning the Golden Glove in 2014, Manuel Neuer was undeniably the best goalkeeper in the world back in 2014 and his name was even in the hat for the Ballon d'Or, coming 3rd with a healthy 15% of the votes, especially considering the freakish talent he was up against with Messi and Ronaldo (who won it) ahead of him. Nowadays he captains the side to regular Bundesliga titles and is still as quick-reflexed as ever, sensing danger from with predator-like precision and bailing out rare errors from his back line. Injury problems seem to be behind him too, and he’s still holding down the number 1 jersey for the national side. He’ll undoubted have his eye on a 9th Bundesliga trophy and a 3rd Champion’s League winner’s medal in the next 12 months, being the serial winner he is. #2 – Kevin Großkreutz – Defender – Free Agent A lifelong Borussia Dortmund fan-become-legend, nobody on this list’s star has fallen quite like that of Großkreutz. Having left the side he adored in 2015, things went downhill faster than a Sadio Mane hattrick; some factors out of his hands, but other issues were firmly of his own ridiculous doing. First came the paperwork issue as the big bossmen at Galatasary failed to submit the relevant documents in time, meaning the defender was ineligible to feature until January 1st. FIFA rejected any appeal and Großkreutz collected his paycheck before returning to Germany on January 6th without a single showing for the Turkish club. It was Stuttgart who bought him back home and the player looked happy to be back on the field, but the club were unable to retain their Bundesliga status, finishing 17th and being relegated for the first time in 41 years. The worst was yet to come though… Four days after being in a bar fight which saw he and a 16-year old be taken to hospital and a further four suspects arrested, the club terminated Kevin’s contract by mutual consent. “I made a mistake and for that I’m very sorry. I accept the consequences and regret that my time at Stuttgart has come to an end in this way,” said Großkreutz before adding “I don’t want anything to do with football for the time being.” One month later, he signed for Darmstadt 98. Make of that what you will. Recently e was kicked out of Uerdingen and has now sued the club over outstanding salary payments. Additionally he has resigned as manager of Landesliga (6th tier) club Türkspor Dortmund which he coached for a year. The man lives for the drama. #3 – Matthias Ginter – Defender – Borussia Mönchengladbach The youngest player on this list, Matthias Ginter was just 20 when he was selected for the World Cup squad following an impressive season with Freiburg. After the World Cup he signed for Borussia Dortmund before switching to his current club, Mönchengladbach, in 2017 where he has performed to a very strong level, helping the side return to the Champion’s League last season, a feat the side will be looking to repeat in the 20-21 campaign. #4 – Benedikt Höwedes – Defender – Retired Here he is then, the first of the retirees and a bonafide Schalke legend. Höwedes somewhat surprisingly featured in every single minute of the 2014 triumph, along with Neuer and captain Philipp Lahm – he was exceptionally reliable and versatile, slotting into the left back role with ease and providing the solid performances expected of him throughout. He almost opened the scoring in the final too, his header cannoning off the post late in the first half, placing him centimeters from immortality. Having racked up 240 professional games for Schalke, a vast number of which as captain, he departed on loan to Juventus in 2017. Sadly, the injuries had caught up with him incredibly quickly, resulting in Höwedes only being able to feature in 3 games for the Italian champions. A move to Lokomotiv Moscow followed, ending his 17-year affiliation with Schalke. After two seasons in Russia, the club and player agreed to terminate his contract by mutual consent due to family reasons with his retirement arriving less than two months later, on July 31st of this year. #5 – Mats Hummels – Defender – Borussia Dortmund Another sure-fire legend of the professional game; Mats Hummels has been a leader at the heart of every defensive line he’s featured within. Scoring a couple of goals at the tournament, including the vital winner against France in the quarters, Hummels was a shining light of this German era. A Bayern youth player, Mats made the unholy switch back to the champions in 2016 following over 200 games for BVB. There, he would win three league titles, adding to his two previous collected with Dortmund, before making the £30 million return to the yellow and black, where he remains today, having had a wonderful season back towards the peak of his elegant defensive powers. Most noteworthy however, is that he was one of three veteran players (alongside Jérôme Boateng and Thomas Müller) who Löw would no longer be considering for selection as of 2019. Many have questioned this decision, especially given Germany’s less-than-consistent performances over the past couple of years, but the finger sniffer has held firm, and Hummels hasn’t featured in the national side since 2018. #6 – Sami Khedira – Midfielder – Juventus The ticking midfield maestro at the heart of the 2014 midfield, Khedira had another exceptional tournament to follow on from his 2010 success which saw him move to Real Madrid, where he won everything Spanish football has to offer. As his contract expired with Madrid, he was picked up by Juventus, in typical free transfer fashion. A consistent performer in Italy, introducing others into play delightfully, he’s managed a tidy amount of goals over his five-year Italian tenure too. Injuries have really started to ramp up however, and his legs are getting heavier on the field, so it wouldn’t be a surprise to see him depart The Old Lady come the end of his contract in summer. #7 – Bastian Schweinsteiger – Midfielder – Retired Rightly hailed by Joachim Löw as one of the greatest footballers Germany has ever produced, Bastian Schweinsteiger enjoyed an illustrious career at Bayern Munich, racking up 500 games across all competitions and playing a variety of important roles through the years. For many, he was man of the match in the 2014 final. Man-marking Messi out of the game for massive periods, controlling the midfield and launching attacks from deep – without him, the result could have been very different. Truly his finest hour. Post World Cup injury issues became ever clearer (this is becoming a bit of a theme, isn’t it), and with his career in Germany winding down, a switch to Louis van Gaal’s Manchester United army ensued. Sadly though, he struggled to pick up the pace the side demanded, and it never really felt like he achieved what was hoped of him at Old Trafford. Mourinho’s arrival spelt the end for the German, being harshly treated and effectively pushed out of the squad and placed on the unwanted list. As a result, he moved to Chicago Fire in the MLS and performed really well, seemingly having a new lease of life as he looked to guide the club to World Cup victory, if some journalists are to be believed… Retirement in 2019 followed and he now works as a pundit, casting his footballing brain across the airwaves. #8 – Mesut Özil – Midfielder – Arsenal During the 2010 and 2014 World Cups, and for every season in between, Mesut Özil was one of the finest players on the planet; a serial assister who glided across the pitch with craftsmenship and fluidity like no other, he was the heartbeat of the attack for Germany, Real Madrid and Arsenal. Having experienced massive success at Werder Bremen and Real Madrid, his move to Arsenal in 2013 was met with glee, as another giant of the game was set to make a splash in the Premier League – and splash he did. It’s easy to forget due to Arsenal’s turgid recent years, that for many years Özil way THE man for Arsenal. Nowadays, he’s sometimes not even bench warming, and instead is smashing Fortnite whilst collecting his £350,000 per week and failing to make any sort of impact within the plans of Arteta and Unai Emery before him. The real controversy lies in his retirement from the national team though. After being pictured with Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan (along with İlkay Gündoğan) fans were outraged, as the image was seen as an endorsement of the president’s highly controversial policies. The DFB publicly distance themselves from the situation, but following a frankly horrendous 2018 World Cup campaign, the issue reared its head again. Özil addressed the concerns, stating that they solely discussed football, not politics, and that he was simply respecting the office of his family’s nation. He even battled back by zoning in on a potential lack of criticism received by Lothar Matthäus, who had met with Russian president Vladimir Putin before going on to accuse Reinhard Grindel, the DFB president, of racism. He promptly stepped down from the nation side in protest of his treatment, sparking yet more criticism in the direction of the Arsenal attacking midfielder. Nothing has changed since, but there was that occasion in 2019 when Erdoğan was best man at Özil’s wedding. I’m sure they only spoke about football though… #9 – André Schürrle – Forward – Retired The man who assisted that famous winning goal, André Schürrle, has experienced a turbulent career following the World Cup win. Leaving Chelsea in 2015 having never cemented his place in the starting line-up, he moved to Wolfsburg for approximately £22 million, performing to a high level in the green shirt and pushing him back towards the very top of his game. The result, a move to Borussia Dortmund for another sizeable fee but again his career took a nosedive. Injuries struck, and alongside it, poor performances. A loan move to Fulham showed promise, including a banging goal against Burnley, but he wasn’t the player Premier League had witnessed 4 years prior as Fulham dropped down to the Championship at the first time of asking. Another loan to Spartak Moscow failed to spark an upturn in form and retirement followed at just 29 years of age, with Schürrle stating that he no longer wanted to face the loneliness and endless competition of top-tier football. A beauty to watch on his day, it’s a real shame he never quite acheievd what was anticipated of him. At least we’ll always have that assist, and that performance against Brazil in the infamous 7-1, everyone else had downed tools, but Schürrle, brilliantly, was having none of that. #10 – Lukas Podolski – Forward – Antalyaspor Despite playing a bit-part in this crowning moment for his country, Lukas Podolski will live long in the memory of German fans, with wonderful World Cup campaigns in both 2006 and 2010 and a team of the tournament appearance at Euro 2008. The King of Köln, possessing unreal speed a foot like a traction engine, often saved his very best for the German national side, and is a cult hero for many across the globe. Having played in Germany, England, Italy and Japan and now Turkey with Antalyaspor, the man is best known for his dual spells at FC Köln where he racked up a mightily impressive 79 league goals, using his explosive pace to maximum effect in the Bundesliga. Nowadays, when he’s not appearing in the Turkish Süper Lig, he putting his well-earned cash to a good cause, having founded the Lukas Podolski Foundation for Sport and Education which aims to give prospects to disadvantaged children and young people, fight child poverty, and promote social inclusion and integration and understanding among nations. #11 – Miroslav Klose – Forward – Retired I simply cannot do this man justice in words. The all-time leading goal scorer in World Cup history, having converted in the famous 7-1 demolition of Brazil (surpassing Ronaldo Nazário’s as he went), Klose retired from the national side following his greatest triumph. Whilst well-regarded as a scoring machine for both club and country, he is often boxed in as simply an aerial threat when in reality, he is far more than that. Possessing a rapid change of pace, strong build-up abilities and ultimately, some of the finest movement you’re ever likely to see, Klose was a complete striker. Plus, he could even pull off a somersault celebration, and what’s not to love about that. Spending almost his entire club career in Germany, he eventually retired at Lazio with, as expected, a solid scoring record. Having been part of the national side’s coaching set-up, he is now second-in-command to the incredible Hansi Flick at Bayern, where his tactical nous is certain to help him to flourish into a blooming boss in future. #12 – Ron-Robert Zieler – Goalkeeper – FC Köln Imagine making your professional debut with Northampton Town and ending up in a World Cup winning squad. That’d be bloody mint. A Manchester United youth prospect, Zieler carved out a fantastic career for himself. The goalkeeper made over 200 appearances across two spells for Hannover and had a strong season with Stuttgart before a second tricky term, when he scored a calamitous own goal against Bremen. Caught out pulling his socks up when a throw-in came his way, he miscontrolled the ball and was forced to dive in vain as the ball trickled into the net. If that isn’t legacy, I don’t know what is. Now he sits happily on the bench for FC Köln, but if Timo Horn continues his current form, he could find himself between the sticks once more. #13 – Thomas Müller – Forward – Bayern Munich The Bundesliga champion, assist master, space-invader, world cup top scorer, Germany centurion. What can be said about Müller that hasn’t been already. He’s perennially underrated, being one of the finest and most consistent players of a generation. Aged just 24 when the 2014 contest rolled around, he had already accumulated 49 international appearances, and followed on from his destruction of England and Argentina in 2010 with another 5 goals at the finals, pairing a silver boot with his previous gold in South Africa. The man has hardly missed a beat since, with his only real blip coinciding with the turbulent tenure of Niko Kovač. Now at 30 years of age, he’s leading Bayern to yet more league glory, with this year’s Champion’s League being a cherry atop his sporting cake. As mentioned earlier however, Müller has been frozen out of the Germany squad by Joachim Löw, seemingly one of the scapegoats of the group stage exit in Russia. He stated that he was “angry and surprised” by the dropping of himself and his fellow teammates and given his incredible form (particularly this past season) it is more than understandable as to why. #14 – Julian Draxler – Midfielder – Paris Saint-Germain Destined for great things was young Julian. You’d have found him floating around the top of many a top prospect lists around the time of the tournament in Brazil; and whilst he’s had a more than respectable career in many a sense, he hasn’t truly hit the heights expected of him during those early Schalke days. After moving onto Wolsburg for a hefty sum, it felt like Draxler was set to kick his career into the upper gears, helping the club reach the Champion’s League quarter finals for the first time ever. However, the club felt he had not met up to the lofty expectations and Draxler duly wished to move on. Offers arrived but it would take until Christmas Eve later that year when PSG would stump up €42 million to secure his services, ending what the midfielders described as “the worst first half of a season of my career.” He only made 20 appearances across all competitions for the French capital club in the previous term, without registering a single goal. Maybe the farmers have too much for him and again, it may be time to move on. #15 – Erik Durm – Defender – Eintracht Frankfurt When I heard Huddersfield Town were signing former World Cup winning defender you better believe my fantasy football senses were tingling off the charts. The tingling was short lived. Huddersfield finished bottom and Durm was an absolute shadow of the player many Yorkshire fans had expected. But enough about the bad part, let’s hear some good. With BVB he had some good times, racking up a tidy half century of appearances in the yellow and black, and now he’s back in the Bundesliga with Frankfurt where he hopes to reignite his career on home soil. #16 – Philipp Lahm – Defender – Retired Captaining a side as gargantuan as this is no easy task, and there aren’t too many captains that measure up to the golden goose that is Philipp Lahm. Lahm was the ultimate in high-level versatility, playing in the back line and midfield, with technical ability and tackling acumen on either foot – he’s also one of the most tactically intelligent players I’ve ever had the joy of watching, always appearing in the correct position and barely breaking stride to disrupt opposition moves. At the World Cup he was imperious, starring in multiple positions and staking his claim as one of the best players at the tournament. Watching him lift the trophy (a first for unified Germany) was a joy to be hold and the highlight of a career that included a multitude of awards. Should he move into management, I have no doubt he would be a success, given his second-to-none understanding of the game. Plus, he’s a wonderful man, helping to support a number of charities and advocating for tolerance of homosexuality in football. #17 – Per Mertesacker – Defender – Retired Back in the day Per Mertesacker was one of the most effective centre backs in Europe. At Hannover and Werder Bremen he established himself as a sensible centre back with an exceptional understanding of the game and disciplinary record. Obviously dominant in the air (being a whopping 6 foot 7) it is often forgotten how cool the man was with the ball at his feet – sure, he has a lack of pace, but was rarely caught out in the Bundesliga or internationally. At the German World Cup in 2006, the 2008 Euros and the 2010 World Cup Mertesacker was a regular feature, showing a strong partnership with Christian Metzelder at the heart of defence. The emergence of Mats Hummels, Holger Badstuber and Jérôme Boateng ultimately played into the stepping back of Mertesacker, but he’ll be fondly remembered at international level. At Arsenal, he was a great leader and player, but injuries derailed his later years. His performance in the 2017 FA Cup final will live long in the memory – having not started all season, he rolled back the years and put in a titanic performance, leading Arsenal to yet another FA Cup triumph. He’s still at Arsenal now, as he manages the academy and continues to showcase his professionalism and desire to the next generation. #18 – Toni Kroos – Midfielder – Real Madrid You obviously don’t win the World Cup nowadays without a premium squad, but the stacked level of this squad this squad is just absurd. At the time of the tournament Kroos was still a Bayern player, moving to Madrid shortly after and continuing his meteoric to the top of the midfield tree. His incredible performance in that 7-1 demolition was a huge statement on the biggest stage, yet he still somehow moved for just under £30 million. One of the transfers of the millennium without a doubt. He’s been a constant at the spine of the side since, forming a fruitful relationship with both Casemiro and Modric, helping to capture La Decima, the first of a hattrick of Champion’s League trophies for Toni in white. And he’s still doing it to this day, dictating tempo, snaffling attacks and scoring the occasional banger (see Germany v Sweden at the Russia World Cup), simply put, he can do it all and we’re incredibly lucky to be able to witness a player of his calibre week in, week out. #19 – Mario Götze – Midfielder – Free Agent From a talent fully realised, to one who was destined for so much more. After coming off the bench in the final and quite brilliantly squeezing home the winning extra time goal Götze had punched a one-way ticket to mega stardom, individual awards and championship glory throughout his career. And whilst much of this success reigns true, the train much have gotten a little lost en route to the destination. A mixture of less-than-incredible form and ultimately, a metabolic disorder which causes the fibres of the muscles to not function correct, meant young Mario pulled into the station a few stops short of the all-time greats. Now he’s a free agent, and the versatile forward could be of some use to a number of Bundesliga sides, depending on who can afford his wage demands. Who knows what the future will hold for the 28 year old, but I’m sure everyone hopes he’ll be able to somehow rediscover that electric form that put him on the roadmap in the first place. #20 – Jérôme Boateng – Defender – Bayern Munich The younger brother of Ghana’s Kevin Prince-Boateng, Jérôme backed his abilities when leaving Manchester City in search of more playing time in central defence, rather the being farmed out at right back. People weren’t sure he was good enough, but not only did he talk the talk, he walked the walk, ran the run and showed everyone in England exactly what they had been missing, becoming one of the most decorated defenders the game has ever seen along the way. Sure, there have been some downs (mainly Kovač dropping him and Messi imploding his ankles with the force of one thousand suns) but its been a career in Germany full of ups, including last season. With David Alaba moving to centre back, Boateng was imperious, cleaning up attacks and helping build from the base of Bayern’s traditional 4-2-3-1, helping the side add yet another European trophy to their illustrious cabinet. This year will be more of a challenge than the last given Flick’s pancake-thin squad, but Boateng will likely shine once again before inevitably moving to Manchester United as his decline hits. #21 – Shkodran Mustafi – Defender – Arsenal Everton > Sampdoria > Valencia > Arsenal – Shkodran Mustafi has had quite the memorable career path thus far. Eligible to represent Germany, North Macedonia and Albania, Mustafi made the right choice in opting to appear for his birth nation, appearing as a substitute throughout the 2014 tournament, and getting his hands on sport’s greatest prize. Following the tournament, he moved to Spain and was one of the standout centre backs in La Liga, hence why Arsenal came sniffing for his signature. Surprising as it may be, he hasn’t always been the meme player he is now and he’s definitely shown a return to form under Arteta, whether he’s the standard they require anymore remains to be see, but this season will likely tell all. #22 – Roman Weidenfeller – Goalkeeper – Retired Another Dortmund legend, Roman Weidenfeller was unfortunate to only total 5 international games for Germany, largely due to the wealth of goalkeeping talent they’ve had the pleasure of selecting from throughout the years. Having played for the black and yellow club from 2002 to 2018 he was the number one choice for many a year, until being overhauled by current keeper, Roman Bürki. Still on the payroll at the club, he continues to work for BVB as an international ambassador. #23 – Christoph Kramer – Midfielder – Borussia Mönchengladbach Last but absolutely not least, it’s the man who had the weirdest experience of the final by far. Starting his first game at the tournament due to Sami Khedira’s last minute injury, he suffered a concussion early in the match following a collision with Argentinian defender Garay, eventually being replaced by André Schürrle. The real kicker was that Kramer spent 14 minutes charging about the pitch in typical fashion before famously asking the referee whether it was the final that he was playing in, prompting his much-needed substitution. Providing strength and leadership in the centre of the park, Kramer now turns out for Mönchengladbach where he is soon to rack up a century of appearances. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 28, 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2020 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics