Watch The Crown | Netflix Official Site Netflix Home Netflix Home Sign In Trailers Episodes More to Watch Plans The Crown The Crown Email address Email address Email address Email address Email address Join Now Join Now Join Now Join Now Join Now Endless entertainment starting at $7.99 The Crown Email address Email address Email address Email address Email address Join Now Join Now Join Now Join Now Join Now Endless entertainment starting at $7.99 The Crown 2023 6 Seasons ⁨TV-MA⁩ Drama Inspired by real events, this fictional dramatization tells the story of Queen Elizabeth II and the political and personal events that shaped her reign. Starring: Imelda Staunton, Jonathan Pryce, Lesley Manville Creators: Peter Morgan Trailers 2m 5s TRAILER Season 6 Part 1 Trailer: The Crown 2m 18s TRAILER Season 5 Trailer: The Crown 2m 30s TRAILER Season 4 Trailer: The Crown 2m 19s TRAILER Season 3 Trailer: The Crown 2m 20s TRAILER Season 2 Trailer: The Crown 2m 45s TRAILER The Crown (Trailer) 2m 35s TEASER Series Trailer: The Crown 2m 25s TRAILER Season 6 Part 2 Trailer: The Crown Episodes Select Season Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Season 5 Season 6 57m 1. Wolferton Splash A young Princess Elizabeth marries Prince Philip. As King George VI's health worsens, Winston Churchill is elected prime minister for the second time. 1h 1m 2. Hyde Park Corner With King George too ill to travel, Elizabeth and Philip embark on a four-continent Commonwealth tour. Party leaders attempt to undermine Churchill. 59m 3. Windsor With Elizabeth in a new role, Philip tries to assert some power. Churchill wants to delay the coronation. King George's disgraced brother arrives. 58m 4. Act of God When dense smog cripples London for days and creates a serious health hazard, Churchill's inaction leaves him vulnerable to his political enemies. 55m 5. Smoke and Mirrors Elizabeth rejects protocol by appointing Philip to coordinate her coronation, but his ideas create conflict. The Duke of Windsor returns to London. 58m 6. Gelignite Margaret and Peter come to the Queen with a request. With a royal scandal about to break in the newspapers, the Queen Mother intervenes. 59m 7. Scientia Potentia Est As the Soviets test the H-bomb, both Churchill and Eden have major health crises. Angry about her inadequate education, the Queen hires a tutor. 58m 8. Pride & Joy The Queen and Philip embark on an exhausting world journey. Margaret takes over some of her sister's official duties and tries to liven things up. 1h 9. Assassins As tensions with Philip increase, the Queen spends time with her old friend Porchey. Churchill's portrait is painted for his 80th birthday. 55m 10. Gloriana Margaret and Peter are reunited, but another obstacle stands in their way. The Queen is torn between her duty as sovereign and her love for her sister. More Details Watch offline Available to download Genres Political TV Shows, TV Dramas, British, TV Shows Based on Real Life This show is ... Intimate, Drama, Royalty, London, British, Critically Acclaimed, Based on Real Life, Halls of Power, TV About The Crown Go behind the scenes and learn more on Tudum.com Audio German - Audio Description, German, English - Audio Description, English [Original], Spanish (Latin America) - Audio Description, Spanish (Latin America), French - Audio Description, French, Italian - Audio Description, Italian Subtitles English, Spanish (Latin America), French, Chinese (Simplified), Chinese (Traditional) Cast Imelda Staunton, Jonathan Pryce, Lesley Manville, Olivia Colman, Helena Bonham Carter, Tobias Menzies, Claire Foy, Matt Smith, Vanessa Kirby, Dominic West You Might Also Like The Last Czars Young Royals The Queen's Gambit All the Light We Cannot See Unorthodox Pride & Prejudice The King Blood, Sex & Royalty Dance of the Forty One Trending Now You Black Mirror Havoc Ransom Canyon Love on the Spectrum Despicable Me 4 Adolescence Den of Thieves 2: Pantera iHostage Young Sheldon A Plan To Suit Your Needs Standard with ads 1080p Good video quality Less ads than you might think $7.99 /mo Standard 1080p Good video quality No ads $17.99 /mo Premium 4K + HDR Best video quality Immersive sound (spatial audio) No ads $24.99 /mo Discover your next favorites, plus new releases every week More About Netflix Join Now Join Now Join Now Join Now Join Now Questions? Call 1-844-505-2993 FAQ Help Center Account Media Center Investor Relations Jobs Netflix Shop Redeem Gift Cards Buy Gift Cards Ways to Watch Terms of Use Privacy Cookie Preferences Corporate Information Contact Us Speed Test Legal Notices Only on Netflix Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Ad Choices Select Language English Español Questions? Call 1-844-505-2993 FAQ Help Center Account Media Center Investor Relations Jobs Netflix Shop Redeem Gift Cards Buy Gift Cards Ways to Watch Terms of Use Privacy Cookie Preferences Corporate Information Contact Us Speed Test Legal Notices Only on Netflix Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Ad Choices Select Language English Español