Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Gameplay 2 Development 3 Notes 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment 6 languages Deutsch Español Français 한국어 Italiano Português Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Upcoming video game by AAA Games Studio 2025 video game Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment Developer(s) AAA Games Studio Publisher(s) JP : Koei Tecmo WW : Nintendo Series The Legend of Zelda Dynasty Warriors Platform(s) Nintendo Switch 2 Release Late 2025 Genre(s) Hack and slash Mode(s) Single-player Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment [ a ] is an upcoming hack and slash game developed by Koei Tecmo 's AAA Games Studio and published by Nintendo internationally and by Koei Tecmo in Japan for the Nintendo Switch 2 . It is the first video game to release from AAA Games Studio. Like its predecessors, Age of Imprisonment is a crossover that mixes the world and characters of Nintendo's The Legend of Zelda series with the gameplay of Koei Tecmo's Dynasty Warriors series, and serves as a prequel to The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom (2023). Age of Imprisonment is expected to release in late 2025. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] [ 3 ] Gameplay [ edit ] Further information: Hyrule Warriors gameplay and Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity gameplay This section is empty. You can help by adding to it . ( April 2025 ) Development [ edit ] Nintendo announced Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment on April 2, 2025 alongside the upcoming Nintendo Switch 2 console during a Nintendo Direct presentation, where gameplay elements and game mechanics were showcased. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] The trailer shows playable characters Princess Zelda and Rauru fighting various enemies. Following its formation in 2024, this will be the very first video game to release from AAA Games Studios. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] Notes [ edit ] ^ Japanese : ゼルダ無双 封印戦記 , Hepburn : Zeruda Musō: Fūin Senki , lit. " Zelda Musou: Chronicle of the Sealed War " References [ edit ] ^ "Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment" . Nintendo . Archived from the original on April 4, 2025 . Retrieved April 11, 2025 . ^ Schlottag, Stephanie (April 2, 2025). "Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment - Next installment announced, going into the past" (in German). Gamestar . Retrieved April 11, 2025 . ^ Böhme, Sascha (April 3, 2025). "Koei Tecmo Announces Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment for Switch 2" (in German). The G Net . Retrieved April 11, 2025 . ^ "Nintendo Direct: Nintendo Switch 2 – April 2, 2025" (in German). Nintendo . April 2, 2025 . Retrieved April 11, 2025 . ^ Valentine, Rebekah (April 2, 2025). "Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment Announced for Nintendo Switch 2" . IGN . Archived from the original on April 2, 2025 . Retrieved April 18, 2025 . ^ Hilliard, Kyle (April 2, 2025). "Hyrule Warriors: Age Of Imprisonment Is The Next Zelda Musou Game For Nintendo Switch 2" . Game Informer . Archived from the original on April 9, 2025 . Retrieved April 18, 2025 . ^ Pulliam-Moore, Charles (April 2, 2025). "Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment hits the Switch 2 this winter" . The Verge . Archived from the original on April 7, 2025 . Retrieved April 18, 2025 . External links [ edit ] Official website v t e The Legend of Zelda Main series 2D The Legend of Zelda The Adventure of Link A Link to the Past Link's Awakening DX '19 Oracle of Seasons and Oracle of Ages Four Swords Four Swords Adventures The Minish Cap Phantom Hourglass Spirit Tracks A Link Between Worlds Tri Force Heroes Echoes of Wisdom 3D Ocarina of Time 3D Majora's Mask 3D The Wind Waker Twilight Princess Skyward Sword Breath of the Wild Tears of the Kingdom Spin-offs CD-i games Link: The Faces of Evil and Zelda: The Wand of Gamelon Zelda's Adventure Tingle Freshly-Picked Tingle's Rosy Rupeeland Irozuki Tingle no Koi no Balloon Trip Hyrule Warriors Hyrule Warriors Age of Calamity Age of Imprisonment Others LCD games Satellaview games Link's Crossbow Training My Nintendo Picross: Twilight Princess Cadence of Hyrule Universe Characters Link Princess Zelda Ganon / Ganondorf Ocarina of Time characters Navi Tingle Anju and Kafei Midna Linkle Urbosa Sidon Purah Elements Triforce Master Sword Gerudo Water Temple Quotes " It's dangerous to go alone! " " I am Error " Other media Cartoon ( episodes ) Manga Twilight Princess Gamebooks Symphony of the Goddesses Creating a Champion Goddess Trilogy Hyrule Historia Art & Artifacts Encyclopedia People Eiji Aonuma Hidemaro Fujibayashi Yoshiaki Koizumi Koji Kondo Yōichi Kotabe Toru Minegishi Shigeru Miyamoto Tadashi Sugiyama Kensuke Tanabe Takashi Tezuka Yasuhisa Yamamura Companies Nintendo Nintendo EAD Nintendo EPD Animation Magic Capcom Flagship DIC Entertainment Grezzo Koei Tecmo Omega Force Team Ninja Tantalus Media Vanpool Fan works The Legend of Neil Ben Drowned Ship of Harkinian Legend Maker Zeldathon " Power of the Triforce " Related Super Smash Bros. Soulcalibur II Tetris DS Nintendo Land NES Remix Sonic Lost World Mario Kart 8 Super Mario Maker 2 Nintendo World Championships: NES Edition Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hyrule_Warriors:_Age_of_Imprisonment&oldid=1287731359 " Categories : Action games Crowd-combat fighting games Fantasy video games Hack and slash games Koei Tecmo games The Legend of Zelda spinoff games Nintendo Switch 2 games Nintendo Switch 2-only games Open-world video games Single-player video games Upcoming video games scheduled for 2025 Video games developed in Japan Video games featuring female protagonists Video game prequels Video games that use Amiibo figurines Video games with cel-shaded animation Warriors (video game series) Hidden categories: Articles containing Japanese-language text CS1 German-language sources (de) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use mdy dates from April 2025 Use American English from April 2025 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Short description matches Wikidata Articles using Infobox video game using locally defined parameters Articles using Wikidata infoboxes with locally defined images Articles to be expanded from April 2025 All articles to be expanded Articles with empty sections from April 2025 All articles with empty sections Official website not in Wikidata This page was last edited on 28 April 2025, at 02:59 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment 6 languages Add topic