Chloé Zhao | Mount Holyoke College Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Directory News & Stories Athletics Events Information For Current Students Alums Parents & Families Faculty Staff Five College Students New Students Prospective employees Give Academics Find Your Program STEM at Mount Holyoke The Arts at Mount Holyoke Enhance Your Learning International Learning After Mount Holyoke Academic Centers and Facilities Academic Support and Resources Faculty Mentorship Research Excellence and Opportunity Degrees and Graduation Requirements Faculty Accomplishments Admission & Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Visiting or Connecting with Mount Holyoke Inclusive Admission Student Experience Living on Campus Campus Experience Community and Belonging Beyond Campus Athletics Why Mount Holyoke Alum Network and Support At a Glance Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Mission and Administration News & Stories Sustainability We Are Mount Holyoke Why a Women's College? Search Directory Chloé Zhao Chloé Zhao Alum The first woman of color to win an Academy Award for best director Website Links Wikipedia page Born in Beijing and raised there and in England, two-time Oscar winner Chloé Zhao is one of the film industry’s most acclaimed directors. Her film “ Nomadland ” swept the 93rd annual Academy Awards in 2021, winning best picture and best director, as well as a best actress award. She is the first woman of color to receive an Academy Award for best director and only the second woman to win that category in nearly a century. “Nomadland” also won Golden Globe Awards  and British Academy Film Awards for best picture and best director. The film premiered at the 2020 Venice Film Festival, where it was awarded the Golden Lion, among other accolades. In all, Zhao earned 34 trophies for directing “Nomadland,” making her the most awarded person in a single season. Her first feature film, “Songs My Brothers Taught Me,” was set on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota. It premiered to acclaim at the 2015 Sundance Festival and was nominated for a Caméra d’Or Award at the Cannes Film Festival later that year. Zhao’s next film, “The Rider” — which, like “Nomadland,” features a cadre of nonprofessional actors — took the top prize at the Directors’ Fortnight festival, held in conjunction with the Cannes Film Festival, in 2017. Her film “ Eternals ,” part of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, was released in November 2021. Class year: 2005 Major: political science major, film studies minor; Honorary Doctor of Fine Arts, 2021 Happening at Mount Holyoke Recent campus news Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Class of 2021 honorary degree recipients Mount Holyoke College has announced the three trailblazing honorary degree recipients who will join its 2021 Commencement. Arts: Fine and Performing Awards and Honors Alum Leadership Traditions and Annual Events Commencement Chloé Zhao ’05 wins at the Academy Awards Chloé Zhao ’05 has made history with her wins at the 93rd Academy Awards, held April 26, 2021. Alum Awards and Honors Chloé Zhao’s latest film tops Cannes “The Rider,” a film by Chloé Zhao ’05, won the Art Cinema Award, the top prize at Cannes’ Directors’ Fortnight. Alum Arts: Fine and Performing more news Visit Mount Holyoke Request Information Apply 50 College Street South Hadley, MA 01075 USA 413-538-2000 Academics Admission & Financial Aid Student Experience Why Mount Holyoke Giving Directory Events Academic Calendar Athletics Careers Campus Map Consumer Information Connect with Us Instagram Facebook LinkedIn Youtube TikTok Non-Discrimination Statement Mount Holyoke College is a women’s college that is gender diverse. The College is committed to providing equal access and opportunity in employment and education to all employees and students. In compliance with state and federal law, Mount Holyoke College does not discriminate on the basis of race, ethnicity, color, genetic information, sex, national or ethnic origin, religion, age, physical or mental disability, marital status, sexual orientation, pregnancy, gender identity or expression, ancestry, veteran or military status, or any other legally protected status under federal, state or local law. Copyright © 2025 Trustees of Mount Holyoke College Digital Privacy Statement Terms of Use Land Acknowledgement Statement Accessibility Barriers Form