The Last of Us Season 2: Early Renewal, Trailer, Release Date, Cast, and Everything You Need to Know | Teen Vogue Skip to main content Newsletter Search Search Newsletter STYLE POLITICS CULTURE IDENTITY VIDEO SUMMIT SHOPPING Newsletter Culture The Last of Us Season 2: Early Renewal, Trailer, Release Date, Cast, and Everything You Need to Know The story continues. By Sara Delgado April 10, 2025 Courtesy of HBO Looking for updates on The Last of Us season 2? Then you've come to the right place. The show, which currently boasts the biggest debut season in HBO’s history, wrapped its first season in March 2023, and ever since then, viewers have been anticipating the continuation of the saga, which is finally on the horizon. And we have good news: the series has already been renewed for a third season . Below, we have combed the interview for every single clue and update on The Last of Us season 2 — from casting news to release date updates and first-look photos and clips. Keep reading to learn everything we know so far about The Last of Us season 2. Jump to your preferred section: AccordionItemContainerButton LargeChevron Early season 3 renewal Release date Plot Cast Trailers First-look pictures Is The Last of Us season 3 confirmed? It is, indeed. HBO announced that The Last of Us season 3 was a go on April 9, 2025, ahead of the premiere of season 2. “It can’t be overemphasized how proud HBO is for the outstanding achievement we believe the second season of The Last of Us is," Francesca Orsi, executive vice president of HBO Programming and head of HBO drama series and films, said of the early renewal. "Craig, Neil, Carolyn and the entire executive producer team, cast, and crew have delivered a masterful follow-up and we’re thrilled to carry the power of Craig and Neil’s storytelling into what we know will be an equally moving and extraordinary third season.” There is no news yet on when the third season could begin production. ↑BACK TO TOP LIST When is The Last of Us season 2 coming out? Courtesy of HBO The Last of Us season 2 will premiere on April 13, 2025, at 9:00 p.m. ET/PT on HBO. The show will be available to stream on Max. Season two will feature seven episodes , as opposed to season 1, which had nine. HBO announced the release date while rolling out a series of new posters, which you can check out below with previously released ones. Arrow Arrow If you are surprised by the long wait between seasons, we had a warning. Bella Ramsey already noted that "it [would] be a while" between seasons 1 and 2 back in March 2023. “I think we'll probably shoot at the end of this year, beginning of next,” Ramsey said during a TV appearance, "so it'll probably be the end of 2024, early 2025.” Filming and casting for the long-anticipated season were affected by the Hollywood strikes, with the writers' room resuming as deals were reached. ↑BACK TO TOP LIST What is The Last of Us season 2 about? While The Last of Us season 1 was a pretty faithful adaptation of Naughty Dog's 2013 video game of the same name and its 2014 expansion, The Last of Us: Left Behind , The Last of Us season 2 is expected to adapt part of The Last of Us Part II , the sequel game released in 2020, which notoriously features a five-year time jump. The second season's official logline is as follows: “Five years after the events of the first season, Joel and Ellie are drawn into conflict with each other and a world even more dangerous and unpredictable than the one they left behind.” Courtesy of HBO Speaking to British GQ in 2023, the series' showrunners teased The Last of Us Part II will be adapted into multiple seasons beginning with season 2. "We will not say how many. But more than one is factually correct," Craig Mazin said. The show is also expected to introduce more videogame changes starting with season 2. “There are going to be things that are going to be different, and there are things that are going to be identical,” Mazin said. “There are things that are going to be added and enriched. There are some things that are going to be flipped. Our goal remains exactly what it was for the first season, which is to deliver a show that makes fans happy. We've got an incredible returning cast. It's a daunting task. But Jesus, so was the first season. You can't make everyone happy. But we've made a lot of people happy and that's our intention to do it again.” Craig Mazin and Neil Druckmann filming The Last of Us season 2 Photograph by Liane Hentscher/Courtesy of HBO Speaking to Deadline in 2024, Mazin added: “Our show as people know it on HBO is going to cover the material from the second game and then quite a bit of material that is relevant to that story but, as I said, wanders down interesting new paths, unseen stories that were told within the context of that game's material.” He also added that "the story may require Season 4.” ↑BACK TO TOP LIST Who is in the cast of The Last of Us season 2? Arrow Arrow The Last of Us season 2 will star Pedro Pascal as Joel Miller and Bella Ramsey as Ellie. Back in 2023, series co-creator Neil Druckmann put fan speculation about Ramsey's potential recasting to rest , confirming the actor would definitely reprise the role of Ellie in season 2. The returning cast from season one also includes Gabriel Luna as Tommy and Rutina Wesley as Mari. Related: Why The Last of Us Star Bella Ramsey Almost Didn't Take the Role of Ellie There will also be plenty of new (familiar) faces joining The Last of Us season 2. Kaitlyn Dever will be joining the series as Abby; Young Mazino has been tapped as Jesse, and Isabela Merced will also join the cast as Dina, Ellie's second romantic interest . Related: Isabela Merced Talks Child Stardom and Living Fearlessly Speaking to Collider about being cast as Dina, Merced said: “I'm so excited for people to see my chemistry with Bella. Bella and I have so much chemistry. From the first day, it was there. There's no work to be done. I really respect Bella. I just saw Catherine Called Birdy and Bella has such range and just an honesty about their work. I'm learning so much. I'm very honored to be here.” Additional casting for The Last of Us season 2 includes Catherine O'Hara in a yet-undisclosed role as well as Danny Ramirez as Manny, Ariela Barer as Mel, Chilling Adventures of Sabrina 's Tati Gabrielle as Nora, and Jeffrey Wright as Isaac Dixon. (Fun fact: Wright already voiced the character Dixon in the video game The Last of Us Part II .) ↑BACK TO TOP LIST Is there a trailer for The Last of Us season 2? HBO released the official trailer for The Last of Us season 2 on March 8, 2025, following a panel at SXSW . In the trailer, we see Joel and Ellie making their way through the wilderness to reach Jackson, where Joel's brother Tommy lives. We see them enjoy the wintry settlement, where we get a peek at Ellie and Dina dancing. However, though life seems idyllic for humans within, the outside is crawling with “monsters” and it looks like they'll have an epic battle this season — among some other drama, including broken promises. You can watch the trailer below: The first official teaser trailer for The Last of Us season 2 arrived on September 26, 2024, a.k.a. Outbreak Day, a.k.a. The Last of Us Day, the date the virus changed everything in the original game. The trailer was a little over two minutes long and shows Ellie and Joel experiencing blinks of happiness… until everything goes to sh*t. The intense trailer is downright goosebump-inducing and shares peeks of the menacing storylines that lie ahead. HBO released a second, much shorter teaser on January 6, 2025, to announce the official release of the season. In the clip, which you can watch below, we get another peek at Kaitlyn Dever as Abby, Isabela Merced as Dina, and Jeffrey Wright as Isaac Dixon. “It doesn't matter if you have a code like me. There are just some things everyone agrees are just wrong,” Abby can be heard saying as chaos flashes through the screen. HBO previously released a shorter teaser for The Last of Us season 2 on August 4, 2024, while presenting HBO and Max's original programming lineup for late 2024 and 2025. The clip gave viewers their first look at Dever, Merced, O'Hara, and Wright. In the clip, O'Hara's character interrogates Pascal's Joel, the latter breaking down in tears as he proclaims he saved Ellie. (ICYMI: in the last episode of season 1, Joel killed the Firefly soldiers and Marlene to escape with and save Ellie, as the surgery she was being prepped for to find a cure for Cordyceps could result in her death.) X content This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. ↑BACK TO TOP LIST Are there any first-look clips and photos from The Last of Us season 2? At the time of writing, HBO has put out a handful of images from The Last of Us season 2, showing multiple of both returning and new actors in character. You can check them out below: Courtesy of HBO Courtesy of HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/Courtesy of HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/Courtesy of HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/Courtesy of HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/Courtesy of HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/Courtesy of HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/Courtesy of HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/Courtesy of HBO Photograph by Liane Hentscher/Courtesy of HBO ↑BACK TO TOP LIST This post will continue to be updated as news breaks about The Last of Us season 2. Want more great Culture stories from Teen Vogue ? Check these out: Underneath Chappell Roan’s Hannah Montana Wig? A Pop Star for the Ages Is Your New Favorite Song Real or AI? Bridgerton Showrunner Clarifies Benedict’s Sexuality & Talks Francesca’s Queer Plot Twist The Borders of Country Music Are Finally Crumbling Sometimes You Gotta Pop Out and Show Your Alignment With Abusers A New Generation of Pretty Little Liars Takes on the Horrors of Being a Teenage Girl VCHA Talk Debut Journey, Touring With TWICE, and Making the Most of Every Moment Is Anime “Cool” Now? Megan Thee Stallion & More Experts Have Thoughts Gaten Matarazzo Talks Spoilers, Dustin Henderson, and Growing Up on Stranger Things Internet Mean Girls Came After Avantika. She Continues to Laugh Sara Delgado is a freelance writer, editor, and translator specializing in culture and fashion content with experience across digital, print, and social media based in Madrid, Spain. She was previously the online editor of Schön! Magazine and is now a contributing editor-at-large at Teen Vogue . She has written for Dazed , ... Read more Editor-at-large Keywords The Last of Us Everything You Need to Know HBO Bella Ramsey Read More Culture Yellowjackets Showrunners on S3 Finale: 'How Could They Possibly Ever Re-Find Normalcy?' “For me, it's a lot of fun to watch someone go really dark.” By Lex McMenamin Culture Liv Hewson Wants You to Keep Watching Yellowjackets After Season 3 Finale “I'm Van too,” Hewson tells Teen Vogue . By Lex McMenamin TV Everything We Know About The White Lotus Season 4 From potential plotlines and locations to some major changes. By Sara Delgado Culture Sex Lives of College Girls Officially Over, Fails to Find New Streaming Home "...We’ve now come to the end of the road." By Sara Delgado TV Forget Heartstopper Season 4, We're Getting a Heartstopper Film Here’s everything we know about the final installment of the beloved Netflix franchise. By Sara Delgado Culture Is Kit Connor Ready to Move on From Heartstopper ? Season 4 of the show is still up in the air. By Sara Delgado TV Jelly vs Bonrad: First TSITP Season 3 Trailer Reveals a Big Hint Is it summer already? By Sara Delgado TV Wednesday Season 2 Locks 2-Part Summer Release With First Trailer Featuring old monsters and new creepy dolls. By Sara Delgado Culture Joe Goldberg Hunts the Loves of His Life in New You Season 5 Trailer "I'm not a maybe. I'm 'The One.'" 🫣 By Sara Delgado TV Peneloise Will Be 'More Bonded Than Ever' in Bridgerton Season 4 Plus, we also got a first look at the Li sisters. By Sara Delgado TV Serena Explains Why Kordell Wasn't in Love Island Spinoff Announcement Here’s everything you need to know about ‘Love Island: Beyond the Villa.’ By Aiyana Ishmael Culture It’s Official: We’re Getting a Black Snape in the Harry Potter Reboot Hot Quirrell? That wasn’t on our bingo cards. 👀 By Kara Nesvig The young person’s guide to conquering (and saving) the world. Teen Vogue covers the latest in celebrity news, politics, fashion, beauty, wellness, lifestyle, and entertainment. Facebook X Pinterest Instagram Tiktok More from Teen Vogue About Teen Vogue Newsletter Signup Video Contact Contact Us Careers User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Visual Stories © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Teen Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices