Oscar nominations 2018: 'The Shape of Water' leads with 13, including best picture IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content NBC News Logo Politics U.S. News Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut World Business Sports Editors' picks Shopping Tipline Health Science Culture & Trends Share & Save — My News Manage Profile Email Preferences Sign Out Search Search Profile My News Sign Out Sign In Create your free profile Sections U.S. News Decision 2024 Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech & Media Weather Video Features Photos NBC Select NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News MSNBC Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now More From NBC CNBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Print Whatsapp Reddit Pocket Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Business Sports Editors' picks Shopping Tipline Health Science Culture & Trends Movies Oscar nominations 2018: 'The Shape of Water' leads with 13, including best picture "The Shape of Water", directed by Guillermo del Toro, received 13 Academy Award nominations, including best picture. Daniel Kaluuya was nominated for best actor, while Greta Gerwig became the fifth woman nominated for best director. / Updated By Daniel Arkin Oscar voters lavished 13 nominations on "The Shape of Water" on Tuesday, including best picture, giving the whimsical science-fiction romance an edge in an unusually wide-open race. Greta Gerwig became the fifth woman nominated for best director at the Academy Awards. "Lady Bird," the coming-of-age comedy she also wrote, scored five nominations, including best picture. The seven other movies competing for the top prize are sensitive love story "Call Me by Your Name," Winston Churchill biopic "Darkest Hour," World War II drama "Dunkirk," satirical horror hit "Get Out," lush period piece "Phantom Thread," Pentagon Papers docudrama "The Post," and acerbic revenge comedy "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri." "Three Billboards," which centers on a mother desperate for vengeance after the rape and murder of her teen daughter, pocketed seven nods — including one for its lead actress, Frances McDormand, who is widely considered a lock to win. The film took home top honors at the Golden Globes earlier this month. The sexual misconduct scandals roiling Hollywood, fueled by the #MeToo movement , cast a long shadow over the Oscar race. James Franco, who was accused of inappropriate sexual behavior just days before voting ended, was not nominated for his turn in "The Disaster Artist," a behind-the-scenes comedy he also directed. Franco won the best actor in a comedy award at the Golden Globes. Sally Hawkins in "The Shape of Water." Kerry Hayes / Twentieth Century Fox The best director category emerged as a referendum on gender inequality in the entertainment industry. Gerwig follows four other women: Lina Wertmuller, Jane Campion, Sofia Coppola and Kathryn Bigelow, who won an Oscar for her Iraq war drama "The Hurt Locker." "The Shape of Water," directed by Mexican auteur Guillermo del Toro, came close to tying the Oscars record of 14 nominations shared by "All About Eve," "Titanic" and "La La Land." The lauded movie stars Sally Hawkins as a mute janitor who falls in love with a sea creature. The producers of the broadcast surely hope it goes off without a hitch after last year's show climaxed with a mix-up: "La La Land," the candy-colored musical, was incorrectly announced as the best picture before "Moonlight" was awarded the prize. This year, the Academy and the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers reportedly have a plan to avoid another mistake. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service (Updated JULY 7, 2023) NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Advertise Select Shopping © 2025 NBCUniversal Media, LLC NBC News Logo MSNBC Logo Today Logo