Peter Thiel Subscribe To Newsletters Get in Touch Get In Touch With Peter Thiel Get In Touch PROFILE Peter Thiel Investor, Founders Fund $19.4B $143M (0.74%) Real Time Net Worth as of 4/29/25 Reflects change since 5 pm ET of prior trading day. #100 in the world today Photo by Courtesy of Peter Thiel From the Editor PayPal cofounder Peter Thiel remains a general partner of venture capital firm Founders Fund, where he is involved in firm strategy and weighs in on its large investments. Among its investments are Stripe and SpaceX, two of the most valuable unicorns in the world. He also cofounded CIA-backed big data startup Palantir, which went public via a direct listing in 2020. Thiel, the first big investor in Facebook, has sold most of his stake in the social network; He left the board in 2022. His Thiel Foundation gives a small number of young entrepreneurs $100,000 over two years to skip college and build their own company. Thiel moved to Los Angeles from San Francisco in early 2018 after calling Silicon Valley a "one-party state." Wealth History HOVER TO REVEAL NET WORTH BY YEAR Forbes Lists #131 Billionaires (2025) #116 Forbes 400 (2024) #12 The Midas List: Top Tech Investors (2024) #73 Powerful People (2016) #79 Richest In Tech (2016) More Lists Personal Stats Age 57 Source of Wealth Facebook, investments, Self Made Self-Made Score 8 Philanthropy Score 2 Residence Los Angeles, California Citizenship United States Marital Status Married Children 1 Education Bachelor of Arts/Science, Stanford University; Doctor of Jurisprudence, Stanford University Did you know Thiel found himself at the center of controversy after Forbes revealed in May 2016 that he was secretly funding lawsuits in an attempt to destroy Gawker Media. Thiel, a Trump delegate in California, was one of the very few outspoken Trump supporters in Silicon Valley; he spoke at the Republican National Convention. Related People & Companies Elon Musk Cofounder View Profile Meta Platforms Holds stake in Facebook View Profile Stanford University Attended the school View Profile Mark Zuckerberg View Profile Stripe Holds stake in Stripe View Profile Reid Hoffman Friend View Profile See More See Less More on Forbes Apr 28, 2025 The Top Stock Of Trump’s First 100 Days: Peter Thiel’s Palantir Up 54% since Trump took office, Palantir has emerged unscathed from the S&P 500’s worst start to a presidency in 51 years. By Derek Saul Forbes Staff Apr 7, 2025 NVIDIA-Backed Rescale Builds The AI Era’s Digital Engineering Backbone Rescale’s early investors include Sam Altman, Jeff Bezos, Paul Graham, and Peter Thiel. By Dasha Shunina Contributor Sep 27, 2024 Billionaire Peter Thiel Sold $600 Million Of Palantir Stock This Week As data mining firm Palantir’s shares continue to climb, Thiel is cashing out. He’s not the only Palantir insider doing so. By Phoebe Liu Forbes Staff Aug 29, 2024 JD Vance Presses Billionaire Peter Thiel For Campaign Donations: ‘Get Off The Sidelines’ Peter Thiel said last year that he wouldn't be funding any candidates in 2024 after supporting Donald Trump in his 2016 campaign. By Mary Whitfill Roeloffs Forbes Staff Aug 6, 2024 Peter Thiel-Backed Cyber Warfare Contractor Boldend Gets Acquired Merged company plans to use AI to test the security of U.S. national infrastructure. Their offensive operations remain under wraps. By Thomas Brewster Forbes Staff Jul 31, 2024 Meet The Crypto-Pioneering, Biohacking, Psychedelic-Promoting Billionaire Who Wants To Reimagine The Olympics Christian Angermayer is seemingly behind every flashy investment of the last decade. With boundless bravado and a roster of famous friends—including Peter Thiel, Uma Thurman, and the president of Rwanda—he’s getting ready to launch an Olympiad for athletes on steroids. By Will Yakowicz Forbes Staff Jul 16, 2024 JD Vance And Peter Thiel: What To Know About The Relationship Between Trump’s VP Pick And The Billionaire Vance once worked for Thiel in venture capital and later received millions of dollars in donations from the billionaire during his Senate run. By Antonio Pequeño IV Forbes Staff Jun 30, 2024 Billionaire Bitcoin Buyer Reveals Shock Flip After Ethereum, XRP And Crypto Price Boom Billionaire bitcoin buyer Peter Thiel has revealed he's sold much of his bitcoin... By Billy Bambrough Senior Contributor Jun 25, 2024 World Champ Magnus Carlsen’s Fantasy Chess Startup Raises $3 Million Norway-based Fantasy Chess has raised pre-seed funding without a product from investors SNÖ Ventures, Coatue and funds led by billionaires Yuri Milner and Peter Thiel. By Alex Konrad Former Staff Jun 15, 2024 This Texas Tycoon Is Suing Vivek Ramaswamy, Ken Griffin, Peter Thiel And Others Claiming They Sabotaged His Startup Private equity investor Toby Neugebauer says his billionaire backers squashed his “anti-woke” startup. They say his allegations are preposterous. By John Hyatt Forbes Staff May 14, 2024 Peter Thiel Invests In Polymarket Political Betting Platform—But The Future Of Gambling On Elections Remains Unclear Regulators proposed new rules Friday that would explicitly ban gambling on political contests. By Zachary Folk Forbes Staff Jan 31, 2024 Billionaire Peter Thiel Backs Doping-Friendly Olympics Rival — What To Know About The ‘Enhanced Games’ “Sports can be safer without drug testing,” the Enhanced Games claims, adding its reformed contest will let “athletes become superheroes.” By Robert Hart Forbes Staff Dec 14, 2023 SoftBank-Naver Joint Venture’s NFT Unit Raises $140 Million From Peter Thiel-Backed Private Equity Firm Line Next says the deal is the biggest blockchain and Web3 investment so far this year in Asia. By Zinnia Lee Forbes Staff Aug 30, 2023 Jeffrey Epstein Set Up Meetings With Trump Associates—Including Peter Thiel And Thomas Barrack—Before 2016 Election, Report Says Jeffrey Epstein set up several meetings with people close to former President Donald Trump in the lead-up to the 2016 presidential election, the Wall Street Journal reported Wednesday, including billionaire PayPal and Palantir cofounder Peter Thiel. WATCH Aug 30, 2023 Jeffrey Epstein Set Up Meetings With Trump Associates—Including Peter Thiel And Thomas Barrack—Before 2016 Election, Report Says Thiel told the Wall Street Journal he was “naive” to meet with Epstein. By Sara Dorn Forbes Staff May 18, 2023 Peter Thiel Appeared To Meet With Jeffrey Epstein, Report Says—Latest Billionaire With Epstein Ties Records show the venture capitalist was scheduled to meet with Epstein on multiple occasions in 2014. By Antonio Pequeño IV Forbes Staff More Articles also on forbes The Top Stock Of Trump’s First 100 Days: Peter Thiel’s Palantir NVIDIA-Backed Rescale Builds The AI Era’s Digital Engineering Backbone Billionaire Peter Thiel Sold $600 Million Of Palantir Stock This Week © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Terms of Service Digital Terms of Sale Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Forbes Accolades Forbes Press Room Advertise