Tiger Woods car accident: Revisiting 2021 crash that is still affecting five-time Masters winner | Sporting News Skip to main content Shop Tickets United States [English] Editions United States [English] Argentina Australia Brasil Canada India 日本 México 대한민국 España ไทย United Kingdom United States [Español] Việt Nam NFL NFL Home News Teams Scores Schedule Standings NFL Teams AFC East Buffalo Bills Miami Dolphins New England Patriots New York Jets AFC North Baltimore Ravens Cincinnati Bengals Cleveland Browns Pittsburgh Steelers AFC South Houston Texans Indianapolis Colts Jacksonville Jaguars Tennesse Titans AFC West Denver Broncos Kansas City Chiefs Las Vegas Raiders Los Angeles Chargers NFC East Dallas Cowboys New York Giants Philadelphia Eagles Washington Commanders NFC North Chicago Bears Detroit Lions Green Bay Packers Minnesota Vikings NFC South Atlanta Falcons Carolina Panthers New Orleans Saints Tampa Bay Buccaneers NFC West Arizona Cardinals Los Angeles Rams San Francisco 49ers Seattle Seahawks NBA NBA Home News Teams Playoffs Scores Schedule Standings NBA Teams Atlantic Boston Celtics Brooklyn Nets New York Knicks Philadelphia 76ers Toronto Raptors Central Chicago Bulls Cleveland Cavaliers Detroit Pistons Indiana Pacers Milwaukee Bucks Southeast Atlanta Hawks Charlotte Hornets Miami Heat Orlando Magic Washington Wizards Northwest Denver Nuggets Minnesota Timberwolves Oklahoma City Thunder Portland Trail Blazers Utah Jazz Pacific Golden State Warriors LA Clippers Los Angeles Lakers Phoenix Suns Sacramento Kings Southwest Dallas Mavericks Houston Rockets Memphis Grizzlies New Orleans Pelicans San Antonio Spurs MLB MLB Home News Teams Scores Schedule Standings Transactions MLB Teams AL East Baltimore Orioles Boston Red Sox New York Yankees Tampa Bay Rays Toronto Blue Jays AL Central Chicago White Sox Cleveland Guardians Detroit Tigers Kansas City Royals Minnesota Twins AL West Athletics Houston Astros Los Angeles Angels Seattle Mariners Texas Rangers NL East Atlanta Braves Miami Marlins New York Mets Philadelphia Phillies Washington Nationals NL Central Chicago Cubs Cincinnati Reds Milwaukee Brewers Pittsburgh Pirates St. Louis Cardinals NL West Arizona Diamondbacks Colorado Rockies Los Angeles Dodgers San Diego Padres San Francisco Giants NHL NHL News Playoffs Scores Schedule Standings Golf Golf News Leaderboard ••• Explore More Soccer NCAAMB NCAAWB NCAAF WNBA Boxing MMA WWE F1 NASCAR Tennis College High School Darts Horse Racing More Sports Fantasy Betting Watch Watch How to Watch Streaming Services fubo Sling Paramount+ Peacock ESPN+ Apple TV DAZN Best Streaming Services Best VPN Services Listen SiriusXM Lifestyle Lifestyle See More The Scene Entertainment Fashion Money Relationships Sneakers Trending Essentials Tickets Stadium Guides Golf News Leaderboard ••• News Leaderboard Featured NFL NBA MLB NHL Sports NFL NBA MLB NHL Soccer NCAAF NCAAMB NCAAWB WNBA Boxing MMA WWE F1 NASCAR Golf Tennis College High School Darts Horse Racing More Sports Explore More Fantasy Betting Watch The Scene Tickets Stadium Guides Editions United States [English] Argentina Australia Brasil Canada India 日本 México 대한민국 España ไทย United Kingdom United States [Español] Việt Nam About Us Careers Privacy Policy Privacy Preferences Tiger Woods car accident: Revisiting 2021 crash that is still affecting five-time Masters winner Bryan Murphy • • The days of seeing prime Tiger Woods out on the golf course are long gone. The five-time Masters champion hasn't been himself for a number of years. Woods has required numerous operations on his back, ankle and Achilles, putting his future in the sport at jeopardy. The decline of Woods is not anything new. He hasn't played in nearly as many PGA Tour events as in the past due to the injuries. At 49 years old, Woods isn't getting any younger, and the days of contending for a top spot may be long behind him. While there have been a number of ailments for Woods, his decline started back in 2021 when he suffered career-threatening leg injuries in a horrific car accident . The Sporting News revisits the crash and his recovery since then. MORE: Tiger Woods finishes with career-worst score at Augusta at Saturday's Round 3 Tiger Woods car crash On the morning of Feb. 23, 2021, Tiger Woods was involved in a single-car accident that resulted in "major damage" to the vehicle. The golfer suffered serious leg injuries in the accident and had to be extracted from the car using an ax and other tools, Los Angeles County Fire Department chief Daryl Osby told CNN . Woods was first discovered by a neighborhood man who said the golfer was unconscious after the crash. First responders said that Woods was alert when they arrived at the scene of the crash. He was taken to a hospital via ambulance after the accident. PIC: Picture of Tiger Woods' vehicle via live feed from the NBC in Los Angeles. pic.twitter.com/ckWoKiLnqj — Austin Kellerman (@AustinKellerman) February 23, 2021 This morning @LMTLASD responded to a roll-over collision in which @TigerWoods was injured. Please see our statement... pic.twitter.com/cSWOxKZC1w — LA County Sheriffs (@LASDHQ) February 23, 2021 Los Angeles County Sheriff Alex Villanueva said that Woods was "lucky to be alive" after the accident. The next day, Feb. 24, Woods' team released a statement on X, formerly Twitter, announcing that he suffered multiple fractures to the upper and lower fibula and tibia in his right leg. The injuries had to be stabilized with a rod, and he also needed screws and pins inserted into his foot and ankle. pic.twitter.com/vZitnFV0YA — Tiger Woods (@TigerWoods) February 24, 2021 On March 5, Woods revealed in a statement that he did not have any memory of the crash or driving that morning, per the Associated Press . Woods told deputies — both at the wreckage and later at the hospital — that he did not know how the crash occurred and didn’t remember driving, according to the affidavit. In April, it was revealed by Los Angeles County Sheriff Alex Villanueva that Woods was traveling 84 to 87 mph in a 45 mph zone, confirming that speeding was the cause of the crash. "The primary causal factor for this traffic collision was driving at a speed unsafe for the road conditions and the inability to negotiate the curve of the roadway," the sheriff said at a news conference. MORE: Who sponsors Tiger Woods now? Explaining new 2024 logo Tiger Woods recovery The accident left Woods' future as a golfer very much in doubt, with an emergency physician saying at the time that it was "unclear" whether he would be able to golf again. "Can he come back from this? It's unclear at this point," Dr. Robert Glatter, an emergency physician at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City, told USA Today . "We don't know. But it's going to be a long rehab period and it's going to be painful. We can assume that he's going to go through bumps and twists and turns. "It's really unclear. But at least he has life right now." Two days after the accident, Woods was transported to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, 18 miles from downtown Los Angeles, for "continuing orthopedic care and recovery," per his doctors. Woods' X account followed up a day later by announcing that he had "received follow-up procedures" that were deemed "successful." Statement of Anish Mahajan, MD, Interim CEO/CMO, Harbor-UCLA Medical Center: pic.twitter.com/isZOkD8FSG — Harbor-UCLA Medical Center (@HarborUCLA) February 26, 2021 pic.twitter.com/2ENJKZGxVh — Tiger Woods (@TigerWoods) February 27, 2021 Woods discussed his rehab in an interview with Golf Digest in May 2021. He called recovery from the injuries "painful", even though he was three months removed from the crash. "This has been an entirely different animal," Woods said. "I understand more of the rehab processes because of my past injuries, but this was more painful than anything I have ever experienced." In November 2021, Woods revealed in an interview that he is unlikely to ever return to the PGA Tour full-time. It was a combination of his injuries and his age. "I think something that is realistic is playing the tour one day — never full time, ever again — but pick and choose, just like Mr. (Ben) Hogan did. Pick and choose a few events a year and you play around that," Woods said . "You practice around that, and you gear yourself up for that. I think that’s how I’m going to have to play it from now on. It’s an unfortunate reality, but it’s my reality. And I understand it, and I accept it." MORE: Breaking down Tiger Woods' career earnings from golf, other ventures Less than a year after the horrific accident, Woods made a return to the course in December 2021. The golfer announced that he would participate in the PNC Championship, an event at which golfers team up with a member of their family in a two-day tournament. Wedge game. 💯 A near hole-out and big smile from @TigerWoods . pic.twitter.com/jJgXdZcfin — PGA TOUR (@PGATOUR) December 19, 2021 Speed and finesse. @TigerWoods is putting it all together. pic.twitter.com/ci7ukrbbEm — PGA TOUR (@PGATOUR) December 19, 2021 Woods was paired with his 12-year-old son, Charlie, where the pair finished a combined 25-under-par . It was good for a second-place finish behind only John Daly and John Daly II. The legend of the sport continues to defy what doctors initially said after his crash. He has managed to come back and play in numerous events, though the frequency of his appearances are dwindling. “Yeah, mobility, it’s not where I would like it but … I’m very lucky to have this leg; it’s mine,” Woods said ahead of the 2023 Masters . “Yes, it has been altered and there’s some hardware in there, but it’s still mine.” After withdrawing from the 2023 Masters during the third round with a plantar fasciitis injury, he had surgery later that month to address post-traumatic arthritis in his right ankle that stemmed from his car accident . “I hurt every day,” he said ahead of the 2024 Masters . “Some days I just feel really good. Other days, not so much.” Prime Tiger is in the past. But fans can still appreciate his greatness, especially as he toughs it out moving forward with body working against him. Bryan Murphy Bryan Murphy joined The Sporting News in 2022 as the NHL/Canada content producer. Previously he worked for NBC Sports on their national news desk reporting on breaking news for the NFL, MLB, NBA and NHL, in addition to covering the 2020 and 2022 Olympic Games. A graduate of Quinnipiac University, he spent time in college as a beat reporter covering the men’s ice hockey team. Crafted for fans since 1886 Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Privacy Preferences Sporting News NFL Teams NBA Teams MLB Teams Soccer Teams F1 Teams Copyright @ 2025 Sporting News Holdings Images by Getty Images, Imagn and AP Images. All Rights Reserved.