Oscar Animation Analysis: Netflix Triumphs, Shorts Get Diverse, 'Frozen 2' Snubbed Toggle navigation Film TV Shorts Awards Tech VFX CG Animation VR/AR/MR Tools Biz Business Box Office Report Artist Rights Studios Cities Bay Area London Los Angeles Montreal New York City Vancouver Paris Toronto Country France Japan Canada UK Spain China Germany Ireland Mexico Charts & Data CALENDAR: 2024 Animated Movies Animation Industry Layoff Tracker Top 50 Most-Viewed Indie Youtube Shorts Search: Film TV Shorts Interviews Business VFX/Tech Artist Rights Box Office Festivals Awards Feature Film Shorts VFX Oscar Animation Analysis: Netflix Triumphs, Shorts Get Diverse, ‘Frozen 2’ Snubbed By Alex Dudok de Wit | 01/13/2020 10:30 pm | Be the First to Comment! Share Tweet Email 0 The nominations are out for the 2020 Academy Awards. You can see the lists in the three animation-related categories here , along with reactions from the nominees. Read on for our analysis. Animated Feature There are no huge surprises among the nominees in the animated feature category, but there is one bombshell omission: Walt Disney Animation Studios’ Frozen 2. The mega-profile sequel, which is currently the second-highest-grossing animated film of all time, has been snubbed, even though its predecessor won the statuette in 2014. It’s a bombshell omission not necessarily because it deserved a nomination, but rather because the Academy has rubber-stamped a nomination for ever WDAS film since the studio’s 2012 release Wreck-It Ralph. Disney-Pixar’s Toy Story 4 has been nominated, and will be perceived as the favorite. Again, that’s not necessarily due to its quality compared to the other films, but rather because the Academy members generally vote for Walt Disney Company productions (with last year’s Spider-Verse win being a notable exception). And TS4 belongs to the most beloved franchise of the most successful studio in the category’s history (Pixar has won in nine of the 17 years the award has existed). The leader of this year’s indie pack, Jérémy Clapin’s I Lost My Body, is also nominated, despite being ignored by the Golden Globes and the BAFTAs. Made by France’s Xilam, it’s the only non-U.S. production, and the closest thing to an indie film in the running — although it has a powerful American distributor in Netflix. It’s also the only nominee not to be aimed at a family audience: a rarity in the category, and hopefully a sign of more unpredictable choices in the years to come. Netflix’s other major contender, its self-produced Klaus, is also among the five. The film’s animation was produced in Spain, but because it’s an in-house Netflix production, it counts as an American film. On the other hand, GKIDS — an indie distributor with a very strong Oscars record, which had submitted at least ten features this year — has come away empty-handed, the first time in seven years that it hasn’t been nominated. In effect, Netflix has snapped up the spot(s) GKIDS would normally dominate. Netflix has previously won Oscars in international feature and documentary, but this year marks its first appearance in animation. The streamer has a couple of self-produced animated films due out in 2020, not to mention others it may collect for distribution; if it starts aiming for one or two slots each year, its presence could upend the dynamics of the category and threaten Disney’s dominance. And that’s saying nothing of other new players, like Apple. This year’s list is rounded out by Missing Link, Laika’s cgi/stop-motion hybrid, and Dreamworks’s threequel How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World. Both are well-received films from established studios with some awards buzz — Missing Link was this year’s surprise Golden Globe winner . Yet Laika has never triumphed at the Oscars, while Dreamworks hasn’t won since Shrek took the category’s very first award in 2002. A category hardly known for its diversity is once again filled with films by white male directors. This is partly a reflection of the industry, although this year’s list of 32 submitted features (a record number) featured an array of works from around the world. The year’s two highest-grossing international animated films — China’s Ne Zha and Japan’s Weathering with You — missed out on nominations twice over, as both were also in the running for the international feature film Oscar. Animated Short Film The animated shorts make for one of the more eclectic line-ups in the category’s recent history. What strikes us first is that three of the five are stop-motion works: Bruno Collet’s Memorable, Siqi Song’s Sister, and Daria Kashcheeva’s Daughter. We can’t remember another year when this medium dominated the list. Incidentally, these all count as indie productions. The other two contenders, Matthew A. Cherry’s Hair Love and Rosanna Sullivan’s Kitbull, are 2d. This means that, for the first time in seven years, there are no overtly cg films in the running. Last year’s nominees were a diverse bunch by the Academy’s standards, and this year’s continue that trend — if it can already be called a trend. Three films are directed by women, and two of them — Sister and Daughter — are student films. Hair Love comes from African-American director (and former NFL player) Cherry, and tells the story of a black dad’s struggles to style his daughter’s hair. Having started life on Kickstarter, the film was subsequently picked up by Sony Pictures Animation, which won last year’s animated feature Oscar for Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse. With Sony’s promotional muscle behind it and a POV rarely represented in Oscar-nominated animation shorts, this film has a lot of momentum going into the race. (Note: Hair Love was co-directed by industry veterans Bruce W. Smith and Everett Downing Jr., who are not officially nominated, as the number of nominees is capped at two — in this case, Cherry and producer Karen Rupert Toliver.) (edited) Kitbull came out of Pixar’s new Sparkshorts talent-spotting program, and is a rare hand-drawn offering from the studio. Finally, a running theme: all nominees except for Kitbull are intimate studies of family relations. Visual Effects The big snub in this category is Alita, which tied for the most VES Award nominations last week with five. Other films that received five VES nominations were Toy Story 4 and The Lion King, which is repped with a nomination here in the Oscars vfx category. Moving Picture Company (MPC) took the award three years ago for its work on another Disney remake, The Jungle Book, and could well win again for its work on The Lion King. But the Academy also appreciates “invisible fx” work, which sets up an intriguing clash with Martin Scorsese’s The Irishman, whose pioneering de-aging technology was handled by Industrial Light & Magic. The film is a triumph of subtle effects, which blend into the live-action environment to the point of invisibility, whereas The Lion King’ s world is an entirely artificial creation. A win for The Irishman would be a rare vfx victory for a film that is neither fantasy nor sci-fi. Disney has two other horses in this race, both flashy franchise films: Avengers: Endgame and Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker The final nominee is 1917, Sam Mendes’s eye-catching First World War drama, which also plays strong in the “invisible fx” category. What Do You Think? Please enable JavaScript to view the poll powered by Disqus. Share Tweet Email 0 Read More: Academy Awards Daughter Hair Love How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World I Lost My Body Kitbull Klaus Memorable Missing Link Netflix Oscars Sister The Lion King Toy Story 4 Alex Dudok de Wit More Articles Alex Dudok de Wit is Deputy Editor of Cartoon Brew. Sponsored Stories from Cartoon Brew Sponsored by More Productions ‘The 21’ Is A Powerful Story About Faith, Resilience, And Devoted Love By Cartoon Brew Connect | 5 months ago Sponsored by Wondershare Social Media Ready: How Animators Can Optimize Their Content For TikTok, Instagram, And YouTube By Cartoon Brew Connect | 3 months ago Sponsored by NFB Enjoy Oscar-Winning Animator Torill Kove’s Heartwarming Shorts, Available Online For A Limited Time By Cartoon Brew Connect | 5 months ago Latest News from Cartoon Brew Business The Hive Studio Expands To Europe With New Athens Studio By Amid Amidi | 3 hours ago Cartoon Brew Pick Cartoon Brew Pick: ‘Is That All There Is?’ By Josh O’Caoimh By Chris Robinson | 6 hours ago Anime Mamoru Hosoda’s ‘Scarlet’ Coming To U.S. Theaters In December 2025 By Amid Amidi | 1 day ago Feature Film Netflix Debuts Teaser For ‘Lost In Starlight,’ Its First Korean Original Animated Film By Amid Amidi | 1 day ago Box Office Report ‘The King Of Kings’ Squashes ‘Parasite’ To Become Top-Grossing Korean Film In U.S. History By Amid Amidi | 1 day ago Business South Korean Government To Invest $1 Billion Into Animation Industry By Amid Amidi | 4 days ago Books Join Us For Today’s Cartoon Brew Livestream: A Conversation With Bill Kroyer By Amid Amidi | 4 days ago Cartoon Brew Pick ‘No Leaders, Please’ Is An Exploration Of The Fluid And Shapeshifting Nature Of Identity By Chris Robinson | 5 days ago Feature Film Netflix To Release ‘KPOP Demon Hunters’ On June 20 By Amid Amidi | 5 days ago Feature Film Annecy Selects 21 Animated Features For Competition Lineups By Amid Amidi | 6 days ago Feature Film Netflix Announces Annecy Festival Line-Up Including World Premiere Of ‘Fixed’ By Amid Amidi | 6 days ago Festivals Cartoon Network Studios 25th Anniversary Panel At Annecy Will Feature Genndy Tartakovsky, Craig McCracken, Rebecca Sugar, Pen Ward, And Others By Amid Amidi | 6 days ago Share Tweet Email 0 About Cartoon Brew Staff Submit a Tip Comment Guidelines Contact us Advertise on Cartoon Brew Today ©2025 Cartoon Brew, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy 52814 × ‹ › × Previous Next