2022 Player of the Year Preseason Watch List - Walter Camp | College Football Poll.com Tickets FCS NFL NFL Rankings NFL Weekly Picks Rankings Weekly Picks Feature Picks iGaming NonGamStopBets Best Non-GamStop Casino Sites NonGamStop.NonStopCasino Sportsbooks Non-GamStop-Betting.com FastestPayout MinimumDeposits UK Siti scommesse non AAMS Odds More Bowl Schedule Season Preview Coaching Changes Playoff Explained About CFP Advertising Tickets News/Commentary 2022 Bednarik Award Watch List Announced by Maxwell Football Club 2023 Super Bowl Odds PAC-12 Media Pick Utah To Repeat As Champs 2022 Player of the Year Preseason Watch List - Walter Camp Houston Edges Cincinnati as Favorite in 2022 American Conference Preseason Media Poll Media selects preseason 2022 Pac-12 All-Conference Football Team C-USA Announces Media's Predicted Order of Finish for 2022 2022 Player of the Year Preseason Watch List - Walter Camp July 31, 2022 by WalterCamp.org The Walter Camp Football Foundation has announced the names of 52 “players to watch” for its 2022 Player of the Year award, the nation’s fourth-oldest individual college football accolade. There are 44 offensive players (22 quarterbacks, 12 running backs and 10 receivers/tight ends) on the preseason watch list along with eight from the defensive side of the ball. Players from 40 different schools representing 11 conferences (including independents) are represented on the preseason watch list.  Alabama, Georgia, and Ohio State each have three players on the watch list, while four schools (Kentucky, USC, Texas, and Iowa State) have two. “We are proud to continue the great work of Walter Camp and recognize the best college football players in the nation,” Foundation president Tony Mortali said. “This watch list is a great start to what is shaping up to be another exciting year of college football.” Former Michigan State and current Seattle Seahawk rookie running back Kenneth Walker III was the 2021 Walter Camp Player of Year. he 2022 watch list will be narrowed to 10 semi-finalists in mid-November.  The 2022 Walter Camp Player of the Year recipient, which is voted on by the 130 NCAA Bowl Subdivision head coaches and sports information directors, will be announced on ESPN’s College Football Awards Show (date TBD). The winner will then receive his trophy at the Foundation’s 55th annual national awards banquet in New Haven, Conn in early 2023. Please note: Appearing on the preseason Watch List is not a requirement for a player to win the Walter Camp award or be named to the All-America team. 2022 Walter Camp Player of Year Preseason Players to Watch Jordan Addison, WR, junior, USC Rasheen Ali, RB, sophomore, Marshall Braelon Allen, RB, sophomore, Wisconsin Will Anderson, LB, junior, Alabama Kayshon Boutte, WR, junior, LSU Brock Bowers, TE, sophomore, Georgia Andre Carter II, LB, junior, Army West Point Jalen Carter, DT, junior, Georgia Dante Cephas, WR, junior, Kent State Sean Clifford, QB, senior, Penn State Blake Corum, RB, junior, Michigan Malik Cunningham, QB, senior, Louisville JT Daniels, QB, junior, West Virginia Josh Downs, WR, junior, North Carolina Dillon Gabriel, QB, junior, Oklahoma Brett Gabbert, QB, junior, Miami (Ohio) Jake Haener, QB, senior, Fresno State Jaren Hall, QB, junior, BYU Frank Harris, QB, senior, UTSA Sam Hartman, QB, senior, Wake Forest TreVeyon Henderson, RB, sophomore, Ohio State Xavier Hutchinson, WR, senior, Iowa State Quentin Johnston, WR, junior, TCU Phil Jurkovec, QB, senior, Boston College Calijah Kancey, DT, junior, Pittsburgh Devin Leary, QB, junior, North Carolina State Will Levis, QB, senior, Kentucky Grayson McCall, QB, senior, Coastal Carolina Will McDonald IV, DE, senior, Iowa State Michael Mayer, TE, junior Notre Dame Tanner Mordecai, QB, senior, SMU Lew Nicholls, RB, sophomore, Central Michigan Aiden O’Connell, QB, senior, Purdue Spencer Rattler, QB, junior, South Carolina Eli Ricks, DB, junior, Alabama Kelee Ringo, DB, sophomore, Georgia Brad Roberts, RB, senior, Air Force Bijan Robinson, RB, junior, Texas Chris Rodriquez, RB, senior, Kentucky Spencer Sanders, QB, senior, Oklahoma State Noah Sewell, LB, junior, Oregon Jaxson Smith-Njigba, WR, junior, Ohio State C.J. Stroud, QB, sophomore, Ohio State Tavion Thomas, RB, junior, Utah Payton Thorne, QB, junior, Michigan State Cedric Tillman, WR, senior, Tennessee Sean Tucker, RB, sophomore, Syracuse Tyler Van Dyke, QB, sophomore, Miami (Fla.) Deuce Vaughn, RB, junior, Kansas State Caleb Williams, QB, sophomore, USC Xavier Worthy, WR, sophomore, Texas Bryce Young, QB, junior, Alabama Walter Camp, “The Father of American football,” first selected an All-America team in 1889. Camp – a former Yale University athlete and football coach – is also credited with developing play from scrimmage, set plays, the numerical assessment of goals and tries and the restriction of play to eleven men per side. The Walter Camp Football Foundation ( www.waltercamp.org ) – a New Haven-based all-volunteer group – was founded in 1967 to perpetuate the ideals of Camp and to continue the tradition of selecting annually an All-America team. The Walter Camp Foundation is a member of the National College Football Awards Association (NCFAA), which encompasses the most prestigious awards in college football. Founded in 1997, the NCFAA and its 25 awards now boast over 800 recipients, dating to 1935. Visit www.ncfaa.org to learn more about the association. The Walter Camp Award is a member of the National College Football Awards Association (NCFAA), which encompasses college football’s most prestigious awards. The NCFAA’s 25 awards have honored more than 800 recipients since 1935. Visit NCFAA.org for more information. The members of the NCFAA are unveiling preseason watch lists over a two-week period. Sixteen of the association’s 25 awards are presenting their preseason watch list during this time as the NCFAA has spearheaded a coordinated effort to promote each award’s preseason candidates. Following is the remaining 2022 preseason watch list calendar: Mon., Aug. 1: Bednarik Award Founded in 1941, the Football Writers Association of America consists of journalists, broadcasters, publicists, photographers and key executives in all areas of college football. The FWAA works to govern media access and gameday operations while presenting awards and honors, including an annual All-America team. For more information about the FWAA and its programs and initiatives on the FWAA website . Copyright 2025 © CollegeFootballPoll.com About CFP / Contact Legal Statements We've noticed you're using an Ad-Blocker. Ad revenue keeps CFP online and free. We promise not to use any pop-ups or pop-unders... just normal, unintrusive banners. We hope you'll consider adding us to your ad-blocker whitelist .