Xenoblade Chronicles | Xenoblade Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Xenoblade Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio WiseAdventurer NDS123 Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Xenoblade Wiki 24,638 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio WiseAdventurer NDS123 Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki in: Featured articles , Xenoblade Chronicles , Xenoblade Chronicles series , Games English Deutsch Español Français Türkçe Xenoblade Chronicles Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) This article was a featured article ! Xenoblade Chronicles Developer Monolith Soft Publisher Nintendo Composers Manami Kiyota Yoko Shimomura ACE+ Yasunori Mitsuda Arrangers Sarah Àlainn Genre Action-Role Playing Game modes Single-player Platform(s) Wii Wii U eShop Languages American English, British English, French, German, Italian, Japanese, European Spanish Rating CERO : B (12+) PEGI : 12 ACB : M ESRB : T Release date Wii June 10, 2010 August 19, 2011 September 1, 2011 April 6, 2012 Wii U eShop July 27, 2016 August 5, 2015 April 28, 2016 Xenoblade Chronicles , known in Japan as Xenoblade (Japanese: ゼノブレイド , Zenobureido ), is a role-playing video game published by Nintendo and developed by Monolith Soft for the Wii console. The game was announced during E3 2009, when a trailer was released to media. The trailer shows a futuristic sword-wielding character battling giant robots and creatures as well as third-person exploration gameplay. In January 2010, the game was renamed from Monado: Beginning of the World to Xenoblade to honor Tetsuya Takahashi , "who poured his soul into making this and who has been working on the Xeno series". The game was released on June 10, 2010 in Japan, and released on August 19, 2011 in PAL regions. The game was released in North America on April 6, 2012. It is the first entry in the Xenoblade Chronicles series . Contents 1 Categories 2 Gameplay 3 Story 4 Characters 5 Xenoblade Chronicles 3D 6 Xenoblade Chronicles Wii U eShop 7 Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition 8 Reception 8.1 Awards 9 Merchandise 9.1 Nintendo Switch Online Icon Elements 9.1.1 List of Icon Elements 10 Gallery 11 Trailers 12 External Links Categories [ ] Characters Quests Enemies NPCs Places Items Gems Weapons Armour Collectopaedia Gameplay [ ] The game conveys the feeling of freedom to players through large, open environments, and is not as focused on cutscenes and story as its sibling games Xenogears and Xenosaga . Xenoblade Chronicles has an action-based battle system where normal attacks will happen automatically at intervals, similar to the set up in Final Fantasy XII . However, everything else is done manually, including movement of the character players are using, which plays an integral role into Shulk 's special attacks. Special attacks recharge separately when used and are set by players on a Battle Palette at the bottom of the screen. The game also has the Visions system, where players can see glimpses of the future, and try to react or prevent it from happening. The game has a number of features labeled as "Time Saving Support Features." For instance, while the game has a day and night time cycle, players can "wind the clock" to the time they want to go to, rather than just letting time elapse. Additionally, while the game is about exploration, many warp points have been added to aid in traversing the land. The game also sports a "save anywhere" feature, a feature relatively rare among console RPGs. Another of the game's systems is the Affinity system, in which characters can partake in many optional Quests with non-player characters. Completing such quests can alter perception of the character in the towns, and open up additional story sequences. The game has extensive customisation, such as being able to change a playable character's outfits, and having those changes be seen in battle, field, and even event scenes. Story [ ] Main article: Xenoblade Chronicles (plot) Characters [ ] Shulk Reyn Fiora Sharla Dunban Melia Riki Xenoblade Chronicles 3D [ ] Main article: Xenoblade Chronicles 3D A New 3DS port of this game, titled Xenoblade Chronicles 3D , was released worldwide in April 2015. This port was co-developed by Monster Games, an independent company, since Monolith Soft was working on the upcoming Xenoblade title at the time (which was released as Xenoblade Chronicles 2 in 2017). It is not compatible with previous Nintendo 3DS models. Xenoblade Chronicles Wii U eShop [ ] The downloadable Wii version of Xenoblade Chronicles was released on the Wii U eShop on August 5, 2015 in PAL territories, on April 28, 2016 in the Americas, and on July 27, 2016 in Japan. The downloadable digital distribution takes up 6588.0 MB of hard disk space. The game is fully playable on either the Gamepad using off-TV play, or on the TV, and does not require a Wii Remote. By buying the game on the eShop, Nintendo of Europe offered purchasers €10/£9 off Xenoblade Chronicles X during the two weeks following its release in December 2015. Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition [ ] Main article: Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition At the end of the September 4, 2019 Nintendo Direct, a high-definition remaster port titled Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition was announced to be released on May 29th 2020 for the Nintendo Switch. The Definitive Edition improves the graphics of the original game with high-definition assets and redesigned key characters. Most music tracks were remastered with new recordings, although the original versions remain available as an option. The user interface has been updated for improved ease of use. The Definitive Edition does not include the features of the 3DS version, namely Collection Mode and amiibo compatibility. It is the first Xenoblade Chronicles released with new language options such as Korean, Simplified Chinese, and Traditional Chinese. A new epilogue story called Xenoblade Chronicles: Future Connected was included, centered around Shulk and Melia on Bionis' Shoulder accompanied by two of Riki 's children, Kino and Nene . This additional story is accessible from the beginning and it is not needed to clear the main storyline. Reception [ ] Famitsu awarded the game 9/9/9/9 in its review, totaling 36/40. Xenoblade Chronicles debuted at #1 in its week of release in Japan, selling 83,000 copies. It was also voted the third most interesting game released in Japan during the first half of 2010 in a survey conducted by Dengeki. Awards [ ] IGN - 2012 Best Wii U / Wii Game IGN - 2012 People's Choice Best Wii U / Wii Game Nintendo Life - Staff Award for Wii Retail Game of 2012 Nintendo Life - Community Award for Wii Retail Game of 2012 TechTudo (Brazlian website) - Best Wii-exclusive game of 2012 (in Portuguese). Gamespot UK - Editor's Choice Best Wii Game of 2011 MMGN - 2011 Best RPG Merchandise [ ] Several tie-in products have been released. These include: A Xenoblade Chronicles Special Soundtrack which was available as a free download in Europe for anyone who registered a copy of Xenoblade Chronicles within a certain period of time after its release. It was also included as a physical CD in Japan with the first print run of Xenoblade Chronicles 3D . The full Xenoblade Original Soundtrack was released as a 4-CD set in Japan. Xenoblade: The Secret File is a book released in Japan. It contains concept art, background information on the game, and a short story. A French version was released later in France with a very limited number of pre-orders of the game (only 1000 copies). Xenoblade: The Complete Guide is a book released in Japan. It is a strategy guide that contains maps, enemy drops, and other information useful for players of the game. A special bundle containing the Xenoblade Chronicles game copy with a red Wii Classic Controller was released in Europe. A Xenoblade Chronicles Steelbook was offered in Europe for a limited time as a pre-order bundle of the game. A trilogy promotion and commemorative coin collection was offered in Europe for a very limited registration of the three Xenoblade Chronicles , The Last Story and Pandora's Tower game copies on the Nintendo Club website (Games trilogy know as Operation Rainfall trilogy in North America). This tie-in consist of a special black case containing the three gold-coloured coins bearing their respective game's logo on one side and a symbol on the reverse. A 40-piece Xenoblade Chronicles puzzle was released worldwide for the Puzzle Swap game on Nintendo 3DS in June and July of 2013, with the exact release date varying by region. An amiibo of Shulk was released worldwide in January and February of 2015 as part of a line of Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U amiibo, with the exact release date varying by region. In the US, the amiibo is exclusive to Gamestop. Two Xenoblade Chronicles themes were created for the New Nintendo 3DS: One theme is "Xenoblade Chronicles: Monado" which gives a view of Shulk and friends overlooking the Bionis . The song playing in this theme is Gaur Plain . Another theme is "Xenoblade Chronicles: Mechonis" which shows the Box Art and plays the Main Theme . Two bundles of Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition were released, the Definitive Works Set in North America, and the Collector's Set in Europe and Japan, with a new 250-page artbook. Several goodies from Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition were made in Japan, in particular the Monado keychain also available in Europe as a pre-order bonus from certain stores. Goodsmile will make a scale figure of Melia from Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition . Two physical rewards from Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition are added on My Nintendo Store in September of 2020, they are a Phone Ring Holder purchasable for 500 Platinum Points, and Three Sheets of Stickers for 300 Platinum Points. Nintendo Switch Online Icon Elements [ ] From June 2nd, 2023 to June 9th, 2023, Nintendo Switch Online Icon Elements of characters from Xenoblade Chronicles were made available, with icons based on their appearances in Xenoblade Chronicles and Definitive Edition . List of Icon Elements [ ] Shulk ( Xenoblade Chronicles , Definitive Edition , and Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Appearance) Fiora ( Xenoblade Chronicles , Definitive Edition , and Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Appearance) Mecha-Fiora ( Xenoblade Chronicles and Definitive Edition Appearance) Reyn ( Xenoblade Chronicles and Definitive Edition Appearance) Sharla ( Xenoblade Chronicles and Definitive Edition Appearance) Dunban ( Xenoblade Chronicles and Definitive Edition Appearance) Melia ( Xenoblade Chronicles and Definitive Edition Appearance) Riki ( Xenoblade Chronicles and Definitive Edition Appearance) Mumkhar ( Xenoblade Chronicles Appearance) Alvis ( Definitive Edition Appearance) Gallery [ ] Japanese box art for Xenoblade Chronicles on the Wii A prototype cover for Xenoblade Chronicles on the Wii, previously hidden and masked in a piece of official press art Wii box art with no logo Trailers [ ] Xenoblade ゼノブレイド 紹介映像 The eShop Introduction Video Xenoblade Chronicles – eShop Release Trailer The eShop release trailer Wii Monado Beginning of The World E3 Trailer Monado: Beginning of the World E3 2009 reveal trailer Xenoblade Chronicles - European Trailer European Trailer 11th August, 2014 External Links [ ] Iwata Asks: Xenoblade Chronicles Comprehensive spreadsheet Japanese Comprehensive Encyclopedia (JCE), a Japanese Xenoblade database. Xenoblade Chronicles on FrontierNav, a mapping website. Categories Categories : Featured articles Xenoblade Chronicles Xenoblade Chronicles series Games Languages Deutsch Español Français Türkçe Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Sci-fi Xenoblade Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Xenoblade Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab