Google Pixel 6 event: everything to expect on October 19 | TechRadar Skip to main content Open menu Close menu Tech Radar TechRadar the technology experts Search Search TechRadar Sign in View Profile Sign out RSS US Edition Asia Singapore Europe Danmark Suomi Norge Sverige UK Italia Nederland België (Nederlands) France Deutschland España North America US (English) Canada México Australasia Australia New Zealand Phones Computing TVs AI Streaming Health Audio VPN More Cameras Home News Reviews Opinion How to Versus Deals Coupons Best Tech Radar Pro Tech Radar Gaming Trending Nintendo Switch 2 ChatGPT Best VPN Best laptop NYT Wordle today Phones Google Pixel Phones Google Pixel 6 event: everything to expect on October 19 News By Tom Bedford published 19 October 2021 Not just the Pixel 6 at the Pixel Fall Launch When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . (Image credit: Google) Jump to: Will show up... May show up... Probably won't show up... It's official: the Google Pixel 6 is getting an unveiling today (October 19) at a bespoke event - though we already know lots of information about the phone and its Pro relative due to Google teasing them copiously. The launch starts at 10am PT / 1pm ET / 6pm BST on October 19, (that's 4am in AEDT on October 20). To follow along with the launch as it happens you can either head to our Pixel 6 launch live blog , or learn how to watch the Pixel 6 live stream . So the Google Pixel 6 and 6 Pro will definitely show up (well, you'd hope, at their own event) but what else could we see? Some rumors point to some likely additions, and others dream of some more unlikely surprises. You may like Google Pixel 10 rumors – 5 things we think we know and 3 we don't Leaked Google Pixel 9a promo materials reveal almost everything – and a launch could be just hours away We've made some guesses, and categorized them below by how likely they are: some are almost definite, some are possible, and some are less-than-likely. Let's start off with the most likely announcements at the Pixel 6 event on October 19. Will show up... (Image credit: Google) 1. Google Pixel 6 If the Google Pixel 6 doesn't show up at its own launch event, something has gone seriously wrong on Google's end. Did it stay out too late the night before and wake up with no memory of the night before, and have to go through some Vegas-themed comedy set pieces to find the Pro before the launch event? Less has come out about the Pixel 6 than its big sibling. It'll possibly have a 50MP main and 12MP ultra-wide camera, a screen with a 90Hz refresh rate, 8GB of RAM and 33W charging. We know the device will have the same Tensor chipset as the Pro, which is one made by Google itself, but we don't actually know how good this is just yet. Get daily insight, inspiration and deals in your inbox Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. (Image credit: Google) 2. Google Pixel 6 Pro We know a bit more about the Pixel 6 Pro than its basic counterpart - it sounds like a flashier phone, making it a better target for leakers. Apparently it'll have a 6.67-inch screen with a 120Hz refresh rate, the same cameras as the standard phone but with a 48MP telephoto snapper, a 5,000mAh battery and perhaps up to 12GB of RAM. This is expected to be Google's anticipated return to the premium phone market after positioning the Pixel 5 as a mid-ranger, with lots of homemade software, including one particular thing lots of people are anticipating... Android 12 running on a Google Pixel 4a 5G (Image credit: Future) 3. Android 12 Google usually releases the yearly update to Android - this year Android 12 - to older Pixel phones when the newest one releases. Admittedly that's been a bit complicated this year since the code has already been unveiled , but the new software isn't actually available to download on phones just yet. We know all the Android 12 features, the flagship of which is the Material You theme which lets you set a house style for all your phone's menus and screens, but so far it's only available in beta mode. Hopefully at the Pixel 6 event, Android 12 will get released to the first few phones, or we'll at least hear a release date. May show up... Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 3 (Image credit: Aakash Jhaveri) 1. Google Pixel Fold Rumors of the Google Pixel Fold have been circulating for a while - this is expected to be Google's first foldable phone , one that takes inspiration from the Pixel 6 but... well, folds. Lots of rumors have been pointing to a late-2021 unveiling, but that doesn't necessarily mean it'll get shown off during the October launch - and these rumors could be totally wrong, of course. There have been lots of rumors and reports over several years, which is one of the reasons we're anticipating it, yet we still have a very unclear image of the phone. A full unveiling is very unlikely, but perhaps a tease is possible? Google Pixel Buds A-Series (Image credit: Future) 2. Google Pixel Buds (2021) We already saw the Google Pixel Buds A-series earlier this year, but it's possible the company is working on a yearly update to its top-end Pixel Buds (2020) . We haven't heard much about these true wireless earbuds - in fact, we haven't really heard any rumors suggesting they're coming at all. So why are these buds in the 'possible' column? Well, because we didn't hear much about Google's other Pixel Buds before they launched either, so there's precedent for silence. And they're also more likely than some of the other products we have on this list. 3. Google Pixel Pass This one is a little different, and we've only learned about it through a major leak around a week ahead of the October 19 Pixel launch. According to a source, Google is set to launch a new yearly upgrade system called Pixel Pass . There are similarities to Apple One (that's a service that includes a variety of Apple 's services under one cost) but this would also adapt in "regular updates" for your Pixel smartphone alongside access to Google's services. While it's not entirely clear, we think that means you'd be able to upgrade your phone through the service to the Pixel 7 and beyond when new hardware arrives. On top of that, you'd get access to Google Play Pass , YouTube Premium, Google One and Google Fi. What is Google Pixel Pass? Leaked Pixel 6 upgrade system explained Probably won't show up... What the Google Pixel Watch may look like (Image credit: Google) 1. Google Pixel Watch We've been hearing reports of the Google Pixel Watch from before written history began, but still it's never shown up. At this point, we're not really confident that it'll ever show up. This was expected to be a Google smartwatch that showcased Wear OS in its purest form - Wear OS has been through various iterations since we started hearing the rumors though. Maybe we'll be surprised, and Google will finally decide to show off its first-ever smartwatch. But since the company recently bought Fitbit , it's likely saving its wearable efforts for devices under that brand - and the latest leaks suggest that the Pixel Watch won't arrive before 2022 . The Google Pixel 5a (Image credit: Future) 2. Google Pixel 6a The a-series of Pixel phones often come out around six months after the originals, and offer similar features and designs at a lower price, with some corners cut to keep them affordable. As a result, we wouldn't expect to see the Pixel 6a at the October event - it'll much more likely show up in March or April 2022. Not only would a Pixel 6a compete with the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro, which would have similar features but cost more, but with an ongoing global shortage of chipsets and other tech components, Google likely doesn't want to be making three separate phones at the same time. Google Pixel 6 is the first Pixel launch I've been interested in since the Pixel 3 See more News about Phones TOPICS Google Tom Bedford Social Links Navigation Contributor Tom Bedford joined TechRadar in early 2019 as a staff writer, and left the team as deputy phones editor in late 2022 to work for entertainment site (and TR sister-site) What To Watch. He continues to contribute on a freelance basis for several sections including phones, audio and fitness. Read more Google Pixel 10 rumors – 5 things we think we know and 3 we don't Leaked Google Pixel 9a promo materials reveal almost everything – and a launch could be just hours away Google Pixel 9a: five of the biggest upgrades The best Pixel phones 2025: our reviews help you choose the Google phone that's right for you The best Google Pixel 8 and 8 Pro deals for March 2025 The best Google Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro deals for March 2025 Latest in Google Pixel Phones Get $300 off any of the latest Google Pixel 9 devices with this handy coupon code at Visible Wireless The Google Pixel 9a is finally available to buy - here are the best preorder deals to get the latest device for free I tested the Google Pixel 9a, and it would be the perfect bargain phone if it wasn’t so dang ugly Google Pixel 10 rumors – 5 things we think we know and 3 we don't Prices have leaked for the Google Pixel 10 series – as well as several generations of the Pro Fold Mint Mobile's latest sale can save you up to $400 on Google Pixel 9, Galaxy S25 and more Latest in News Tiny11 strikes again, as bloat-free version of Windows 11 is demonstrated running on Apple’s iPad Air – but don’t try this at home Sorry, Max's password crackdown just got serious – here’s how much it will cost to add an extra member to your subscription One of the best budget Fitbit alternatives is about to get a new upgrade A surprising 80% of people would pay for Apple Intelligence, according to a new survey – here’s why Major electronics store sees millions of user records allegedly leaked online Marks and Spencer has suffered a cyberattack - here’s what we know so far LATEST ARTICLES 1 Quordle hints and answers for Thursday, April 24 (game #1186) 2 NYT Connections hints and answers for Thursday, April 24 (game #683) 3 NYT Strands hints and answers for Thursday, April 24 (game #417) 4 This massive 85-inch Hisense U6N mini-LED 4K TV is down to its cheapest price 5 AWS joins Microsoft in pausing data center projects - is AI demand falling off? TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . About Us Contact Future's experts Contact Us Terms and conditions Privacy policy Cookies policy Advertise with us Web notifications Accessibility Statement Careers © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up