Infantino scolds World Cup critics in extraordinary diatribe | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Russian strike on Kyiv kills at least 12 in biggest attack on Ukrainian capital since last summer Tens of thousands file into St. Peter's Basilica to pay final respects to Pope Francis Crimea is a focus of discussions to end Russia's war in Ukraine. Here's why it's so coveted Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES In unintended filing, feds say Trump administration strategy to end New York toll is a losing battle Gov. Tim Walz pledges to protect Minnesota from the 'chaos' he says Trump has unleashed on the world National Weather Service to resume translating its products for non-English speakers Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Hegseth had an unsecured internet line set up in his office to connect to Signal, AP sources say Gov. Tim Walz pledges to protect Minnesota from the 'chaos' he says Trump has unleashed on the world Judge halts parts of Trump’s overhaul of US elections, including proof-of-citizenship requirement Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Long wait is over for Cam Ward, Travis Hunter and other draft prospects about to join the NFL NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell is ready for more  celebratory hugs that can turn into heavy lifting NBA set to announce defensive player of the year award winner Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES 'SNL' to close out its 50th season with Scarlett Johansson and Bad Bunny Coco Jones is fearless on debut album 'Why Not More?' 10 movies that defined the Vietnam War on the big screen Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Wall Street's rally roars into a 3rd day as companies' profits keep piling up, for now at least Most Americans expect higher prices as a result of Trump's tariffs, a new AP-NORC poll finds China denies any suggestion it is currently in talks with the US over tariffs Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Bonobos in Congo form girl groups to fend off male aggression, study says NASA's Lucy spacecraft beams back pictures of an asteroid shaped like a lumpy bowling pin Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs FACT FOCUS:  Trump misrepresents facts about coal as he signs executive orders to boost its use Oddities TOP STORIES April showers bring cross-country dust instead of flowers to New England via 'dirty rain' Photos: Contestants haul heavy sacks of coal in unusual Yorkshire tradition Kings serenaded by another national anthem by harmonica chorus from Koreatown senior citizen center Humanoid robots run a Chinese half-marathon alongside flesh-and-blood competitors Sweets from the sky! A helicopter marshmallow drop thrills kids in suburban Detroit The top photos of the week by AP's photojournalists Be Well TOP STORIES Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Sleep training is no longer just for babies. Some schools are teaching teens how to sleep Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos: Pope Francis' body is escorted by cardinals and Swiss Guards as mourners look on Photos: Kyiv pummeled by deadly Russian drone and missile strikes Photos of dialysis patients struggling to get treatment in blockaded Gaza Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change $50 million prize funded by Musk foundation goes to carbon-removal company that helps Indian farmers 84% of the world's coral reefs hit by worst bleaching event on record Health TOP STORIES USDA withdraws a plan to limit salmonella levels in raw poultry Whooping cough cases are rising again in the US Novavax says its COVID-19 shot is on track for full FDA approval after delay Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Trump science cuts target bird feeder research, AI literacy work and more Nintendo Switch 2 preorders see 'overwhelming' demand, frustrations for hopeful buyers One Tech Tip: Thinking of buying a secondhand phone? Some tips on what to look for Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES Bluebells and other spring flowers can be nature's antidote to stressful times One Tech Tip: Thinking of buying a secondhand phone? Some tips on what to look for Private equity executive raped and tortured women at his Manhattan apartment, prosecutors say Religion TOP STORIES Pope Francis' ordinary shoes bring pride to his Argentine neighborhood  — and his cobbler Polish and Israeli presidents lead March of the Living at Auschwitz Pope Francis' doctor says pontiff died 'without suffering, at home' Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES Trump dice que Rusia hizo "concesión bastante grande" porque no invadió toda Ucrania Ataque ruso en Kiev deja 12 muertos en mayor operativo contra capital ucraniana desde julio pasado Vaticano mantiene abierta la capilla ardiente de Francisco toda la noche debido a la gran afluencia Juez prohíbe a Trump negar fondos a ciudades "santuario" que limitan cooperación migratoria Jueza bloquea partes de reforma electoral de Trump, incluida prueba de ciudadanía Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Russian strike on Kyiv kills at least 12 in biggest attack on Ukrainian capital since last summer Tens of thousands file into St. Peter's Basilica to pay final respects to Pope Francis Crimea is a focus of discussions to end Russia's war in Ukraine. Here's why it's so coveted Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES In unintended filing, feds say Trump administration strategy to end New York toll is a losing battle Gov. Tim Walz pledges to protect Minnesota from the 'chaos' he says Trump has unleashed on the world National Weather Service to resume translating its products for non-English speakers Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Hegseth had an unsecured internet line set up in his office to connect to Signal, AP sources say Gov. Tim Walz pledges to protect Minnesota from the 'chaos' he says Trump has unleashed on the world Judge halts parts of Trump’s overhaul of US elections, including proof-of-citizenship requirement Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Long wait is over for Cam Ward, Travis Hunter and other draft prospects about to join the NFL NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell is ready for more  celebratory hugs that can turn into heavy lifting NBA set to announce defensive player of the year award winner Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES 'SNL' to close out its 50th season with Scarlett Johansson and Bad Bunny Coco Jones is fearless on debut album 'Why Not More?' 10 movies that defined the Vietnam War on the big screen Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Wall Street's rally roars into a 3rd day as companies' profits keep piling up, for now at least Most Americans expect higher prices as a result of Trump's tariffs, a new AP-NORC poll finds China denies any suggestion it is currently in talks with the US over tariffs Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Bonobos in Congo form girl groups to fend off male aggression, study says NASA's Lucy spacecraft beams back pictures of an asteroid shaped like a lumpy bowling pin Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs FACT FOCUS:  Trump misrepresents facts about coal as he signs executive orders to boost its use Oddities TOP STORIES April showers bring cross-country dust instead of flowers to New England via 'dirty rain' Photos: Contestants haul heavy sacks of coal in unusual Yorkshire tradition Kings serenaded by another national anthem by harmonica chorus from Koreatown senior citizen center Humanoid robots run a Chinese half-marathon alongside flesh-and-blood competitors Sweets from the sky! A helicopter marshmallow drop thrills kids in suburban Detroit The top photos of the week by AP's photojournalists Be Well TOP STORIES Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Sleep training is no longer just for babies. Some schools are teaching teens how to sleep Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos: Pope Francis' body is escorted by cardinals and Swiss Guards as mourners look on Photos: Kyiv pummeled by deadly Russian drone and missile strikes Photos of dialysis patients struggling to get treatment in blockaded Gaza Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change $50 million prize funded by Musk foundation goes to carbon-removal company that helps Indian farmers 84% of the world's coral reefs hit by worst bleaching event on record Health TOP STORIES USDA withdraws a plan to limit salmonella levels in raw poultry Whooping cough cases are rising again in the US Novavax says its COVID-19 shot is on track for full FDA approval after delay Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Trump science cuts target bird feeder research, AI literacy work and more Nintendo Switch 2 preorders see 'overwhelming' demand, frustrations for hopeful buyers One Tech Tip: Thinking of buying a secondhand phone? Some tips on what to look for Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES Bluebells and other spring flowers can be nature's antidote to stressful times One Tech Tip: Thinking of buying a secondhand phone? Some tips on what to look for Private equity executive raped and tortured women at his Manhattan apartment, prosecutors say Religion TOP STORIES Pope Francis' ordinary shoes bring pride to his Argentine neighborhood  — and his cobbler Polish and Israeli presidents lead March of the Living at Auschwitz Pope Francis' doctor says pontiff died 'without suffering, at home' Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES Trump dice que Rusia hizo "concesión bastante grande" porque no invadió toda Ucrania Ataque ruso en Kiev deja 12 muertos en mayor operativo contra capital ucraniana desde julio pasado Vaticano mantiene abierta la capilla ardiente de Francisco toda la noche debido a la gran afluencia Juez prohíbe a Trump negar fondos a ciudades "santuario" que limitan cooperación migratoria Jueza bloquea partes de reforma electoral de Trump, incluida prueba de ciudadanía Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Russian strike on Kyiv kills at least 12 in biggest attack on Ukrainian capital since last summer Tens of thousands file into St. Peter's Basilica to pay final respects to Pope Francis Crimea is a focus of discussions to end Russia's war in Ukraine. Here's why it's so coveted Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES In unintended filing, feds say Trump administration strategy to end New York toll is a losing battle Gov. Tim Walz pledges to protect Minnesota from the 'chaos' he says Trump has unleashed on the world National Weather Service to resume translating its products for non-English speakers Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Hegseth had an unsecured internet line set up in his office to connect to Signal, AP sources say Gov. Tim Walz pledges to protect Minnesota from the 'chaos' he says Trump has unleashed on the world Judge halts parts of Trump’s overhaul of US elections, including proof-of-citizenship requirement Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Long wait is over for Cam Ward, Travis Hunter and other draft prospects about to join the NFL NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell is ready for more  celebratory hugs that can turn into heavy lifting NBA set to announce defensive player of the year award winner Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES 'SNL' to close out its 50th season with Scarlett Johansson and Bad Bunny Coco Jones is fearless on debut album 'Why Not More?' 10 movies that defined the Vietnam War on the big screen Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Wall Street's rally roars into a 3rd day as companies' profits keep piling up, for now at least Most Americans expect higher prices as a result of Trump's tariffs, a new AP-NORC poll finds China denies any suggestion it is currently in talks with the US over tariffs Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Bonobos in Congo form girl groups to fend off male aggression, study says NASA's Lucy spacecraft beams back pictures of an asteroid shaped like a lumpy bowling pin Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs FACT FOCUS:  Trump misrepresents facts about coal as he signs executive orders to boost its use Oddities TOP STORIES April showers bring cross-country dust instead of flowers to New England via 'dirty rain' Photos: Contestants haul heavy sacks of coal in unusual Yorkshire tradition Kings serenaded by another national anthem by harmonica chorus from Koreatown senior citizen center Humanoid robots run a Chinese half-marathon alongside flesh-and-blood competitors Sweets from the sky! A helicopter marshmallow drop thrills kids in suburban Detroit The top photos of the week by AP's photojournalists Be Well TOP STORIES Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Sleep training is no longer just for babies. Some schools are teaching teens how to sleep Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos: Pope Francis' body is escorted by cardinals and Swiss Guards as mourners look on Photos: Kyiv pummeled by deadly Russian drone and missile strikes Photos of dialysis patients struggling to get treatment in blockaded Gaza Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change $50 million prize funded by Musk foundation goes to carbon-removal company that helps Indian farmers 84% of the world's coral reefs hit by worst bleaching event on record Health TOP STORIES USDA withdraws a plan to limit salmonella levels in raw poultry Whooping cough cases are rising again in the US Novavax says its COVID-19 shot is on track for full FDA approval after delay Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Trump science cuts target bird feeder research, AI literacy work and more Nintendo Switch 2 preorders see 'overwhelming' demand, frustrations for hopeful buyers One Tech Tip: Thinking of buying a secondhand phone? Some tips on what to look for Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES Bluebells and other spring flowers can be nature's antidote to stressful times One Tech Tip: Thinking of buying a secondhand phone? Some tips on what to look for Private equity executive raped and tortured women at his Manhattan apartment, prosecutors say Religion TOP STORIES Pope Francis' ordinary shoes bring pride to his Argentine neighborhood  — and his cobbler Polish and Israeli presidents lead March of the Living at Auschwitz Pope Francis' doctor says pontiff died 'without suffering, at home' Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES Trump dice que Rusia hizo "concesión bastante grande" porque no invadió toda Ucrania Ataque ruso en Kiev deja 12 muertos en mayor operativo contra capital ucraniana desde julio pasado Vaticano mantiene abierta la capilla ardiente de Francisco toda la noche debido a la gran afluencia Juez prohíbe a Trump negar fondos a ciudades "santuario" que limitan cooperación migratoria Jueza bloquea partes de reforma electoral de Trump, incluida prueba de ciudadanía Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Russian strike on Kyiv kills at least 12 in biggest attack on Ukrainian capital since last summer Tens of thousands file into St. Peter's Basilica to pay final respects to Pope Francis Crimea is a focus of discussions to end Russia's war in Ukraine. Here's why it's so coveted Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES In unintended filing, feds say Trump administration strategy to end New York toll is a losing battle Gov. Tim Walz pledges to protect Minnesota from the 'chaos' he says Trump has unleashed on the world National Weather Service to resume translating its products for non-English speakers Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Hegseth had an unsecured internet line set up in his office to connect to Signal, AP sources say Gov. Tim Walz pledges to protect Minnesota from the 'chaos' he says Trump has unleashed on the world Judge halts parts of Trump’s overhaul of US elections, including proof-of-citizenship requirement Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Long wait is over for Cam Ward, Travis Hunter and other draft prospects about to join the NFL NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell is ready for more  celebratory hugs that can turn into heavy lifting NBA set to announce defensive player of the year award winner Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES 'SNL' to close out its 50th season with Scarlett Johansson and Bad Bunny Coco Jones is fearless on debut album 'Why Not More?' 10 movies that defined the Vietnam War on the big screen Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Wall Street's rally roars into a 3rd day as companies' profits keep piling up, for now at least Most Americans expect higher prices as a result of Trump's tariffs, a new AP-NORC poll finds China denies any suggestion it is currently in talks with the US over tariffs Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Bonobos in Congo form girl groups to fend off male aggression, study says NASA's Lucy spacecraft beams back pictures of an asteroid shaped like a lumpy bowling pin Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs FACT FOCUS:  Trump misrepresents facts about coal as he signs executive orders to boost its use Oddities TOP STORIES April showers bring cross-country dust instead of flowers to New England via 'dirty rain' Photos: Contestants haul heavy sacks of coal in unusual Yorkshire tradition Kings serenaded by another national anthem by harmonica chorus from Koreatown senior citizen center Humanoid robots run a Chinese half-marathon alongside flesh-and-blood competitors Sweets from the sky! A helicopter marshmallow drop thrills kids in suburban Detroit The top photos of the week by AP's photojournalists Be Well TOP STORIES Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Sleep training is no longer just for babies. Some schools are teaching teens how to sleep Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos: Pope Francis' body is escorted by cardinals and Swiss Guards as mourners look on Photos: Kyiv pummeled by deadly Russian drone and missile strikes Photos of dialysis patients struggling to get treatment in blockaded Gaza Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change $50 million prize funded by Musk foundation goes to carbon-removal company that helps Indian farmers 84% of the world's coral reefs hit by worst bleaching event on record Health TOP STORIES USDA withdraws a plan to limit salmonella levels in raw poultry Whooping cough cases are rising again in the US Novavax says its COVID-19 shot is on track for full FDA approval after delay Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Trump science cuts target bird feeder research, AI literacy work and more Nintendo Switch 2 preorders see 'overwhelming' demand, frustrations for hopeful buyers One Tech Tip: Thinking of buying a secondhand phone? Some tips on what to look for Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES Bluebells and other spring flowers can be nature's antidote to stressful times One Tech Tip: Thinking of buying a secondhand phone? Some tips on what to look for Private equity executive raped and tortured women at his Manhattan apartment, prosecutors say Religion TOP STORIES Pope Francis' ordinary shoes bring pride to his Argentine neighborhood  — and his cobbler Polish and Israeli presidents lead March of the Living at Auschwitz Pope Francis' doctor says pontiff died 'without suffering, at home' Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES Trump dice que Rusia hizo "concesión bastante grande" porque no invadió toda Ucrania Ataque ruso en Kiev deja 12 muertos en mayor operativo contra capital ucraniana desde julio pasado Vaticano mantiene abierta la capilla ardiente de Francisco toda la noche debido a la gran afluencia Juez prohíbe a Trump negar fondos a ciudades "santuario" que limitan cooperación migratoria Jueza bloquea partes de reforma electoral de Trump, incluida prueba de ciudadanía Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Infantino scolds World Cup critics in extraordinary diatribe Infantino scolds World Cup critics in extraordinary diatribe 1 of 4 | FIFA President Gianni Infantino speaks at a press conference Saturday, Nov. 19, 2022 in Doha, Qatar. (AP Photo/Abbie Parr) Read More 2 of 4 | FIFA President Gianni Infantino speaks at a press conference Saturday, Nov. 19, 2022 in Doha, Qatar. (AP Photo/Abbie Parr) Read More 3 of 4 | FIFA President Gianni Infantino speaks at a press conference Saturday, Nov. 19, 2022 in Doha, Qatar. (AP Photo/Abbie Parr) Read More 4 of 4 | FIFA President Gianni Infantino speaks at a press conference Saturday, Nov. 19, 2022 in Doha, Qatar. (AP Photo/Abbie Parr) Read More By GRAHAM DUNBAR Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit DOHA, Qatar (AP) — Gianni Infantino said he feels gay. That he feels like a woman. That he feels like a migrant worker. He lectured Europeans for criticizing Qatar’s human rights record and defended the host country’s last-minute decision to ban beer from World Cup stadiums. The FIFA president delivered a one-hour tirade on the eve of the World Cup’s opening match, and then spent about 45 minutes answering questions from media about the Qatari government’s actions and a wide range of other topics. “Today I feel Qatari,” Infantino said Saturday at the start of his first news conference of the World Cup. “Today I feel Arab. Today I feel African. Today I feel gay. Today I feel disabled. Today I feel a migrant worker.” Infantino later shot back at one reporter who noticed he left women out of his unusual declaration. “I feel like a woman,” the FIFA president responded. Qatar has faced a litany of criticism since 2010, when it was chosen by FIFA to host the biggest soccer tournament in the world. Migrant laborers who built Qatar’s World Cup stadiums often worked long hours under harsh conditions and were subjected to discrimination, wage theft and other abuses as their employers evaded accountability, London-based rights group Equidem said in a 75-page report released this month. Infantino defended the country’s immigration policy, and praised the government for bringing in migrants to work. “We in Europe, we close our borders and we don’t allow practically any worker from those countries, who earn obviously very low income, to work legally in our countries,” Infantino said. “If Europe would really care about the destiny of these people, these young people, then Europe could also do as Qatar did. “But give them some work. Give them some future. Give them some hope. But this moral-lesson giving, one-sided, it is just hypocrisy.” Qatar is governed by a hereditary emir who has absolute say over all governmental decisions and follows an ultraconservative form of Islam known as Wahhabism. In recent years, Qatar has been transformed following a natural gas boom in the 1990s, but it has faced pressure from within to stay true to its Islamic heritage and Bedouin roots. Under heavy international scrutiny, Qatar has enacted a number of labor reforms in recent years that have been praised by Equidem and other rights groups. But advocates say abuses are still widespread and that workers have few avenues for redress. Infantino, however, continued to hit the Qatari government’s talking points of turning criticism back onto the West. “What we Europeans have been doing for the past 3,000 years we should be apologizing for the next 3,000 years before we start giving moral lessons to people,” said Infantino, who moved last year from Switzerland to live in Doha ahead of the World Cup. In response to his comments, human rights group Amnesty International said Infantino was “brushing aside legitimate human rights criticisms” by dismissing the price paid by migrant workers to make the tournament possible and FIFA’s responsibility for it. “Demands for equality, dignity and compensation cannot be treated as some sort of culture war – they are universal human rights that FIFA has committed to respect in its own statutes,” said Steve Cockburn, Amnesty’s head of economic and social justice. QATAR’S PUSHBACK A televised speech by Qatar’s emir , Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, on Oct. 25 marked a turning point in the country’s approach to any criticism, claiming it had been “subjected to an unprecedented campaign that no host country has ever faced.” Since then, government ministers and senior World Cup organizing staff have dismissed some European criticism as racism, and calls to create a compensation fund for the families of migrant workers as a publicity stunt. WHAT ABOUT EUROPE? Qatar has often been criticized for laws that criminalize homosexuality, limit some freedoms for women and do not offer citizenship to migrants. “How many gay people were prosecuted in Europe?” Infantino said, repeating previous comments that European countries had similar laws until recent generations. “Sorry, it was a process. We seem to forget.” He reminded that in one region of Switzerland, women got the right to vote only in the 1990s. He also chided European and North American countries who he said did not open their borders to welcome soccer-playing girls and women that FIFA and Qatar worked to help leave Afghanistan last year. Albania was the only country that stepped up, he said. “ONE LOVE” Seven of Europe’s 13 teams at the World Cup said their captains will wear an anti-discrimination armband in games in defiance of a FIFA rule, taking part in a Dutch campaign called “One Love.” FIFA has declined to publicly comment significantly on that issue, or on the urging of European soccer federations for FIFA to support a compensation fund for the families of migrant workers. The ripostes came Saturday. FIFA now has its own armband designs, with more generic slogans, in partnership with various U.N. agencies. Armbands for the group games say: “FootballUnitesTheWorld,” “SaveThePlanet,” “ProtectChildren,” and “ShareTheMeal.” At quarterfinal games, “NoDiscrimination” will be used. Not good enough, the German soccer federation said a couple hours later, deciding to stay with the heart-shaped, multi-colored “One Love” armband logo. FIFA also wants to create a legacy fund from its revenues tied to this year’s World Cup — and will let its critics, or anyone who wants, to contribute. “And those who invest a certain amount will be part of a board that can decide where the money goes,” Infantino said. Legacy funds from previous World Cups went directly to soccer in the host nation — $100 million from FIFA to South Africa in 2010 and Brazil in 2014. Some money was spent on new vehicles for officials and even more opaque projects. Two priorities this time for global projects are education and a “labor excellence hub” in partnership with the United Nations-backed International Labor Organization. MEDIA JIBES British media reports this week noted fans wearing England shirts and cheering outside the team hotel were people from India who lived and worked in Qatar. It followed reports of Qatar’s project to pay expenses for about 1,500 fans from the 31 visiting teams to travel to the World Cup, sing in the opening ceremony on Sunday and stay to post positive social media content about the host country. It fed a long-standing narrative that Qatar pays people to be sports fans. “You know what this is? This is racism. This is pure racism,” Infantino said of the criticism about the England cheer squad. “Everyone in the world had a right to cheer for whom he wants.” Infantino spoke while knowing he will be unopposed for re-election as FIFA president in March. “Unfortunately for some of you,” he said to reporters Saturday, “it looks like I will be here for another four years.” ___ AP World Cup coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/world-cup and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports GRAHAM DUNBAR Dunbar is an Associated Press sports news reporter in Geneva, Switzerland. He focuses on the governing bodies, institutions and politics of international sports. twitter mailto Most read Tennessee board recommends that governor pardon country star Jelly Roll In rare rebuke of Putin, Trump urges Russia to ‘STOP!’ after deadly attack on Kyiv Black churches back embattled Smithsonian African American history museum after Trump’s order Pastor calls for ‘full Target boycott’ over concerns about diversity, equity, inclusion The owner of a Dominican nightclub whose roof collapsed, killing 232, speaks for the first time The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook