'Xenoblade Chronicles 2' Review: A Great Game But With A Few Performance Issues Subscribe To Newsletters Trump Tracker Billionaires Billionaires View All Billionaires World's Billionaires Forbes 400 America's Richest Self-Made Women China's Richest India's Richest Indonesia's Richest Korea's Richest Thailand's Richest Japan's Richest Australia's Richest Taiwan's Richest Singapore's Richest Philippines' Richest Hong Kong's Richest Malaysia's Richest Money & Politics 2024 Election Innovation Innovation View All Innovation AI Big Data Cloud Cloud 100 Consumer Tech Creator Economy Cybersecurity Digital Transformation Enterprise Commerce Enterprise Security and Protection Enterprise Tech Enterprise Growth Strategy Future Of Work Gaming Healthcare Innovation Rules Retail Industry SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Science Social Media Sustainability & Climate Transportation Venture Capital Technology VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program TikTok BrandVoice | Paid Program Leadership Leadership View All Leadership C-Suite CEO Network CFO Network CHRO Network CIO Network CMO Network Leadership Strategies Careers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Education Forbes EQ | Paid Program ForbesBLK ForbesWomen Under 30 Working Remote Over 50 Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Money Money View All Money Banking & Insurance ETFs & Mutual Funds Fintech Hedge Funds & Private Equity Investing Investor Hub Markets Personal Finance Retirement Taxes Top Advisor | SHOOK Wealth Management Forbes Digital Assets Forbes Digital Assets Home Web3 Community News Crypto Prices NFT Prices Research Learn Crypto Basics BTC DeFi Web3 Education NFTs Crypto Investments Events Crypto Portfolios Business Business View All Business Aerospace & Defense Energy Food & Drink Hollywood & Entertainment Law Manufacturing Media Policy Retail SportsMoney Entertainment Digest Small Business Small Business View All Small Business Entrepreneurs Franchises Small Business Strategy Lifestyle Lifestyle View All Lifestyle Arts Boats & Planes Cars & Bikes Dining ForbesLife Forbes Travel Guide Spirits Style & Beauty Travel Vices Watches Real Estate Real Estate View All Real Estate Commercial Real Estate Forbes Global Properties Residential Real Estate Forbes Vetted Forbes Vetted View All Forbes Vetted Mattress & Sleep Bed Frames Mattresses Mattress Toppers Pillows Sheets & Bedding Sleep Products Home Bathroom Cleaning & Laundry Decor Furniture Heating & Cooling Hobbies Home Office Kitchen & Dining Outdoor Pets Storage & Organization Tools Wine & Bar Fashion Accessories Clothing Eyewear Footwear Jewelry Handbags & Purses Lingerie & Sleepwear Outdoor & Fitness Apparel Outerwear Watches Kids & Baby Gear Baby Gear Kids Clothes & Accessories Nursery Pregnancy & Postpartum Toys & Books Gear Apparel & Accessories Bikes Camping & Hiking Climbing Fishing & Hunting Fitness Golf Running Tennis & Racket Sports Tools & Tech Training & Recovery Water Sports Wellness Winter Sports Beauty & Grooming Haircare Makeup Nailcare Shaving Skincare Personal Products Wellness & Self Care Tech & Electronics Audio Cameras Computers, Tablets & Accessories Gaming Home Office Online Tools Smart Home Devices Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories Streaming TVs Travel Cruises Hotels & Lodging Luggage Travel Products Gifts Father's Day Holiday Mother's Day Valentine's Day Wedding Deals Black Friday Cyber Monday Amazon Prime Day Beauty & Grooming Big Sales Fashion Gear Home Tech & Electronics Travel Deals Mattress & Sleep Forbes 101 Advisor Advisor Best Credit Cards Of 2025 Compare Credit Cards Balance Transfer Credit Cards Cash Back Credit Cards Travel Credit Cards Business Credit Cards Mortgages & Loans Best Mortgage Lenders Today's Mortgage Rates Today's Refinance Rates Best Personal Loans Loans For Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Student Loan Lenders Best Student Loan Refinance Lenders Business Loans Banking Best Online Banks CD Rates High-Yield Savings Accounts Money Market Account Life Insurance Cheap Life Insurance No Exam Life Insurance Travel Insurance Covid-19 Travel Insurance Cheap Travel Insurance Companies Best Car Insurance Compare Car Insurance Quotes Cost Of Car Insurance Cheap Car Insurance Pet Insurance How Much Is Pet Insurance? Cheap Pet Insurance Business Services Best LLC Services Best Registered Agent Services How To Set Up An LLC How To Start A Business Cost To Start An LLC Best Payroll Services Best HR Software Best HRIS Systems Best PEO Services Best Applicant Tracking Systems Best Website Builders Best Web Hosting Services Best Domain Registrar Best Ecommerce Platform Best Landing Page Builder Best VoIP Service What Is VoIP? Best Answering Services Best Call Center Software Best Cloud Phone System Best Project Management Software Free Project Management Software Best Task Management Software Free Task Management Software Best Gantt Chart Software Best VPN Best Free VPN Best Cheap VPN Best Antivirus Software Best Password Managers Home Services Best Moving Companies Best Long Distance Moving Companies Best Car Shipping Companies Best Interstate Moving Companies How Much Do Movers Cost? Best Home Warranty Companies Cheapest Home Warranty Companies Are Home Warranties Worth It? Home Warranty Cost Best Home Appliance Insurance Best Solar Companies Best Solar Panels Cost Of Solar Panels Solar Tax Credit By State Are Solar Panels Worth It? Best Pest Control Companies Best Termite Control Companies Best Mosquito Control Companies Pest Control Cost How Much Do Exterminators Cost? Best Home Security Companies Best Home Security Systems Home Security System Cost Cheapest Home Security Systems Best Wireless Home Security Systems Best Internet Providers Cheapest Internet Plans Fastest High Speed Internet Providers Best Internet Only Plans Best Fiber Internet Providers Forbes Advisor UK Health Health Healthy Aging Best Medical Alert Systems Medicare Medicare Advantage Plans Medicare Supplement Plans Medicare Advantage By State Health Insurance Hearing Aids Best Hearing Aids Senior Living Mind Best Online Therapy Best CBD Gummies Best CBD Oil Best Protein Powders Lists Video Newsletters Newsletters Crypto Confidential Editorial Newsletters Forbes Games Forbes Games View All Forbes Games Frase by Forbes Pinpoint by LinkedIn Queens by LinkedIn Crossclimb by LinkedIn Forbes Magazine Forbes Magazine Forbes Asia Free Issue of Forbes Latest Latest Coronavirus Coverage Daily Cover Stories Dark Capital Editors' Picks Breaking News Featured Featured 2025 Best-In-State Wealth Advisors List 2025 America's Top Women Wealth Advisors AI’s Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It DNA of Success Embracing And Bracing For AI Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program Your Four-Part Blueprint To Unlock AI Value In 2025 | Paid Program Diners Club International Celebrates 75 Years | Paid Program Leadership Lessons: Small Business Playbook Potential Has No Age Summit | Paid Program Celebrating The Power Of Partnership: Why Teamwork Is Key In the Fight Against Cancer | Paid Program Protecting What Matters Most: How Gerber Life Insurance Offers Affordable Coverage For Your Whole Family | Paid Program Presented by EY - Beyond The Blueprint: How These Four CEOs Built Billion-Dollar Businesses | Paid Program 2/3 By 2030: Philip Morris International Marks A Milestone  And Aims For A Smoke-Free Future | Paid Program 2025 America's Top Wealth Advisors Forbes Insights: Your Guide To Marketing In The Era Of AI | Paid Program The Undergrad's New Journey To Real-World Ready | Paid Program Forbes Insights: Your Five-Step Strategy To Unleash AI’s Value In Marketing | Paid Program Forbes Video Series: AI 50 AI 50 List By The Numbers: Meet The Forbes 30 Under 30 Europe Class Of 2025 United To End Blood Cancer: Meet The Leaders Turning Passion Into Progress | Paid Program Advertise with Forbes Report a Security Issue Editorial Values and Standards Site Feedback Contact Us Careers at Forbes Tips Corrections Privacy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms AdChoices Reprints & Permissions © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. Subscribe To Newsletters 'Xenoblade Chronicles 2' Review: A Great Game But With A Few Performance Issues By Ollie Barder Share Save Innovation Gaming 'Xenoblade Chronicles 2' Review: A Great Game But With A Few Performance Issues By Ollie Barder , Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Ollie Barder covers Japanese pop-culture and gaming from Tokyo. for Forbes Games Reviews Follow Author Jan 07, 2018, 12:00pm EST Share Save This article is more than 7 years old. Rex makes for a great protagonist. Credit: Nintendo Way back in 1998, the original PlayStation was graced with the first Xenogears game and it was a masterful piece of gaming. Nearly twenty years later, we now have the new Xenoblade Chronicles 2 on the Nintendo Switch and it is genuinely brilliant. Xenoblade Chronicles 2 is set within the world of Alrest . A realm made up of a huge cloud sea filled with beasts called Titans that humanity lives on top of. At the center of Alrest is the World Tree and at its summit, the land of Elysium . The game is mostly centered around Rex and he starts off initially as a cloud sea salvager but ends up as a Driver of a Blade called Pyra . Blades are weaponized lifeforms that are linked to their Drivers and you encounter many of them across the game, they also obviously tie into the combat system but I will get onto that in a moment. Unfortunately, some have already criticized the visual depiction of these Blades in the game but to be honest, this is par for the course in anime and manga. So I had no issues with them at all. While Xenoblade Chronicles X on the Wii U was meant more as a spiritual successor to the original Xenoblade Chronicles on the Wii, Xenoblade Chronicles 2 is, in fact, a direct sequel to the first game but I obviously won’t spoil how. Alrest is a visually stunning world to play in. Credit: Nintendo Xenoblade Chronicles 2 also takes the same anime-inspired visuals and storytelling used in prior Xeno games and elevates that quite noticeably. This is because visually and aurally the game is masterfully done. The English dub is also surprisingly decent but there is a free Japanese language pack DLC if you are interested. Personally, I prefer the original Japanese dialogue but your mileage may vary on that. However, there is one caveat to all this sumptuous production quality. While the game looks and sounds great in docked mode, when your play Xenoblade Chronicles 2 in portable mode it does take a very noticeable hit in performance . This was something I thought would be a widespread issue with Switch games at launch but thus far it seems this overt performance discrepancy has been mercifully more limited. That said, playing Xenoblade Chronicles 2 in portable mode does do the game itself a disservice and to ignore that would be disingenuous on my part. Admittedly, the game is still eminently playable, so there aren’t any game breaking functionality issues caused by this schism in performance but it is something you will notice in a visual sense when you play the game. As for the game itself, it is fundamentally an action role-playing game of a sort and is very well done. Unlike traditional turn-based strategy type encounters, Xenoblade Chronicles 2 opts for a more open-ended albeit passively tactical approach. The combat while passive is quite involved. Credit: Nintendo In that, while the game is not a direct input to action type of control, as in The Legend of Zelda , you start attacks on an enemy and these continue on their own. With each attack, you also fill up extra attacks. Once filled you can initiate each extra attack, which in turn fills up a more powerful special attack. Each layer of these attacks adds more potency to what you can do and on top of that, you can switch between Blades to open up even more combat variety and options. The result of all this is that the combat system feels closer to an MMO and forces you to be more aware of your surroundings. This is because other enemies can join the fight depending on your location, so you often need to lure individual enemies away from a pack before engaging them. Despite the accessible and layered approach to combat and the upbeat anime visuals, Xenoblade Chronicles 2 is not an easy game and you will die a lot. Thankfully, this isn’t too much of a penalty, as you normally respawn close to where you met your demise. The result is that this spurs you on to do better next time and learn what you did wrong. What’s more, the intriguing and involved narrative also plays a huge part in you persevering against difficult opponents, as you want to know how the story progresses. Overall, Xenoblade Chronicles 2 is a very good role-playing game and one that not only is a proud addition to the Xeno series but also adds another great game to the library of the already buoyant Switch. That said, the discrepancy in performance between the docked and portable versions of the game is somewhat unfortunate and may limit your enjoyment. The good news on this though is that both modes are still very playable, so from a gameplay standpoint, Xenoblade Chronicles 2 delivers regardless of how you want to play it. Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Platform: Nintendo Switch Developer: Monolith Soft Publisher: Nintendo Released: December 1st 2017 Price: $59.99 Score: 8.5/10 Disclosure: Nintendo sent me a copy of this game for the purposes of this review. Follow me on Twitter , Facebook and YouTube . I also manage Mecha Damashii and do toy reviews over at hobbylink.tv . Read my Forbes blog here . Editorial Standards Forbes Accolades LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Digital Terms of Sale Terms of Service Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Reprints & Permissions Forbes Press Room Advertise