The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild announced at E3! | News | Nintendo UK Overview Orders Address book Nintendo Account details {{pageTitle}} , {{gameSystem}} Starting from: {{regularPrice}} {{lowestPrice}} Search Wish List Sign In × Close How about... All Nintendo Switch games All Nintendo Switch games on sale All Nintendo 3DS games All Super Mario games All The Legend of Zelda games All Pokémon games × Visit us on Facebook Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem X @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons YouTube NintendoUK Instagram NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope Twitch NintendoUK LinkedIn Visit us on LinkedIn Games Previous Games Overview Nintendo Switch 2 games Nintendo Switch games Recent releases Upcoming games Demos Free-to-start games DLC Smart device games Nintendo 3DS games Wii U games Characters hub Hardware Previous Hardware Nintendo Switch 2 Overview Features GameChat GameShare Nintendo Switch 2 games Nintendo Switch 2 accessories Nintendo Switch 2 bundles Transferring from Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Family Overview Nintendo Switch – OLED Model Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Lite Which Nintendo Switch is right for you? Nintendo Sound Clock: Alarmo Game & Watch: The Legend of Zelda amiibo Nintendo 3DS Family Nintendo History Nintendo Switch Online Previous Nintendo Switch Online Overview What's included? Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack Classic games Exclusive benefits Nintendo Music Nintendo eShop My Nintendo Store Support News Previous News Overview Nintendo Direct Indie World Ask the Developer Creator's Voice Tips and tricks Events Stay in touch ... Misc. Previous Misc. My Nintendo Career Sitemap Home News 2016 June Facebook Twitter The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild announced at E3! 17/06/2016 There was an announcement made at E3*, a video game show held in Los Angeles, about the new The Legend of Zelda title for Wii U and Nintendo’s next system, code-named NX. * E3: Electronic Entertainment Expo, or E3, is an exhibition with a focus on video game related topics, held annually in Los Angeles, USA. This year’s E3 was held from 14th June to 16th June 2016. To see more from this year's E3, please visit http://e3.nintendo.com . To start off, have a look at this video. Subscribe to on YouTube As you can see, the game’s title has now been announced as The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild . The character design has been renewed. The setting is an open world, vast as far as the eye can see. This is where the new adventure takes place. +3 Here’s a message for fans from our producer Mr Aonuma, who visited E3. A message from Mr Aonuma Dear Zelda fans, The new Zelda game, The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild for Wii U, has finally been presented at E3. The theme for this new title is “rethinking the conventions of the Zelda series”. Breaking from tradition, the player has the freedom to go wherever they wish to go, to do whatever they wish to do, in a vast open world. This is a whole new, unprecedented game in the history of Zelda. In the Nintendo booth at E3, we arranged statues of characters from the game in diorama-like settings, borrowed from the game. We wanted to entertain visitors and help them experience the world of the new Zelda game. The picture here shows Mr Miyamoto and I bravely challenging an in-game monster called a Bokoblin. I know we are acting a bit silly for our age, but I hope this gives you a bit of a laugh… +11 Nintendo Treehouse: Live The latest information on The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild was announced in the live show Nintendo Treehouse: Live. Have fun watching the videos! Gameplay flow Subscribe to on YouTube In the game’s open world, players find themselves climbing towers or mountains for a better view to find interesting looking places. You’ll then need to figure out how to visit these places. Even the mountains in the distance are not a mere landscape – you can actually go there! Similarities with the first Zelda game Subscribe to on YouTube This is a video where Mr Miyamoto, the father of the The Legend of Zelda series, talks about fascinating common factors this new game has with the first The Legend of Zelda game. Exploring in the wild Subscribe to on YouTube One exciting factor of this game is the search for monster hideouts and treasure chests containing items scattered across the world. This world is affected by the natural environment, such as the weather and temperature changes, which is also key to solving puzzles. Shrines of Trials Subscribe to on YouTube Subscribe to on YouTube Subscribe to on YouTube Subscribe to on YouTube On top of the dungeons, there are over 100 places called Shrines of Trials. Discovering Shrines and working out how to get to them is part of the fun, and there are numerous ways to solve the puzzles. Use your instincts to enjoy exploration, and experience adventures in whichever way you like. Numerous weapons, strategic combat Subscribe to on YouTube In this game, many types of weapons are on offer, and on top of that you can take weapons away from enemy characters. You can beat enemy characters in numerous ways. One bright idea could help you wipe out all the enemies at once without breaking a sweat! Hunt and harvest for your life Subscribe to on YouTube Another thing that’s unique in this game is that you can’t cut grass to get hearts. In order to regain health, you’ll need to hunt animals, such as boars and birds, as well as harvest plants like mushrooms and berries. Undiscovered world Subscribe to on YouTube What we presented at E3 is merely a small part of the world – what awaits you in the vast open world remains to be seen… New amiibo announced Subscribe to on YouTube We will be releasing a total of three amiibo from The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild: Link (Archer), Link (Rider) and Guardian. Here's a video with more details. Subscribe to on YouTube Also, this title will be compatible with the previously released Wolf Link amiibo. Wolf Link can join you as a partner. Subscribe to on YouTube The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild will be released in 2017. Get ready for a brand new adventure! Please note that all content, media and artwork are based on this software as shown during the Electronic Entertainment Expo in June 2016. Check out our The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild gamepage for further updates in the future! Home News 2016 June Facebook Twitter Wii U The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Step into a world of discovery, exploration and adventure in The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, a boundary-breaking new game in the acclaimed series Find out more Wii U Nintendo UK's official site for the Wii U console and its games. Discover the new Wii U console, the Wii U GamePad and Wii U games. Find out more The Legend of Zelda Hub Journey to the kingdom of Hyrule and discover timeless adventures on Nintendo’s official The Legend of Zelda hub. Find out more amiibo Discover amiibo, a brand new way to interact with your favourite Nintendo characters and games. Find out more 14/06/2016 | Wii U Nintendo gives players unprecedented freedom of adventure in The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Find out more 15/06/2016 | Nintendo 3DS XL Nintendo highlights The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild during first day of E3 Find out more 05/05/2016 | Wii U The Legend of Zelda for Wii U will be playable for the first time at E3 Find out more More News Latest news 17/04/2025 | Nintendo Switch Nintendo eShop Highlights – 17/04/2025 This week's new Nintendo eShop games are here! 10/04/2025 | Nintendo Switch Nintendo eShop Highlights – 10/04/2025 What's new on Nintendo eShop? Let's take a look! 04/04/2025 | Nintendo Switch 2 Creator's Voice: The Duskbloods Learn more about FromSoftware’s upcoming game for Nintendo Switch 2 03/04/2025 | Nintendo Switch 2 Ask the Developer Vol. 17, GameChat – Chapter 3 In a new light 03/04/2025 | Nintendo Switch 2 Ask the Developer Vol. 17, GameChat – Chapter 2 Festival vibes More News UK & Ireland Change country België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera UK & Ireland South Africa See all regions België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera South Africa UK & Ireland See all regions Parents & Parental Controls Support Company Information Career Website Privacy Policy Cookie settings Legal information Service Termination CSR Modern Slavery Transparency Statement Contact © Nintendo. 2025 × Change country België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera UK & Ireland South Africa × Attention! You are about to leave the Nintendo of Europe site. Nintendo of Europe is not responsible for the content or security of the site you are about to visit. Cancel Continue × Survey Dear visitor, Thank you for visiting the Nintendo website! You have been randomly chosen to take part in a brief survey. By taking a few minutes to share your thoughts and opinions, you will be helping us to improve our website. Naturally, any information provided by you in this survey will be treated in confidence. Your Nintendo of Europe Team Decline invitation Take the survey × Facebook Visit us on Facebook: Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem × X @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons × YouTube NintendoUK × Instagram Join us on Instagram: NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope × Twitch Visit us on Twitch: NintendoUK × LinkedIn Visit us on LinkedIn ×