Oscars 2020 best and worst moments ​ Skip to content Entertainment Weekly Search Please fill out this field. Newsletters Sweepstakes Search Please fill out this field. TV TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge Binge EW's Binge Podcast Episodes The Challenge The Golden Bachelor The Masked Singer RuPaul's Drag Race Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowstone Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge 9-1-1 The Masked Singer Outlander RuPaul's Drag Race Saturday Night Live Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowjackets Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue The best and worst moments from the 2020 Oscars By Maureen Lee Lenker Maureen Lee Lenker Maureen Lee Lenker is a senior writer at Entertainment Weekly with over seven years of experience in the entertainment industry. An award-winning journalist, she's written for Turner Classic Movies, Ms. Magazine , The Hollywood Reporter , and more. She's worked at EW for six years covering film, TV, theater, music, and books. The author of EW's quarterly romance review column, "Hot Stuff," Maureen holds Master's degrees from both the University of Southern California and the University of Oxford. Her debut novel, It Happened One Fight , is now available. Follow her for all things related to classic Hollywood, musicals, the romance genre, and Bruce Springsteen. EW's editorial guidelines and Mary Sollosi Mary Sollosi Mary Sollosi is the former assistant features editor at Entertainment Weekly . She left EW in 2022. EW's editorial guidelines Updated on December 15, 2021 02:27PM EST 01 of 17 Oscars 2020 highlights CRAIG SJODIN via Getty Images (2); Kevin Winter/Getty Images Hollywood's biggest night is always full of highs and lows. Whether it's a surprise win, a truly revelatory musical performance, or an off-color joke, there's no shortage of opportunities for audiences to applaud and cringe in equal measure. The 2020 Oscars seemed likely to be extremely predictable (and still too male and too white), but for movie lovers the world over, it's hard not to get caught up in the magic of the Academy Awards. Here are this year's best and worst Oscar moments. 02 of 17 WORST: Janelle Monáe's head-scratching opening Kevin Winter/Getty Images Janelle Monáe is an electrifying performer, and we loved her shout-out to women directors and her own identity as a black, queer artist. But overall, this was a bizarre amalgamation of nods to movies that weren't nominated and tone-deaf backup dancers sporting Joker getups and World War I uniforms referencing 1917. Saoirse Ronan's instantly meme-able reaction of mixed horror and confusion pretty much sums it up. It's honestly the weirdest opening since Rob Lowe danced with Snow White — and we don't know what to make of it, except to scratch our heads. — Maureen Lee Lenker 03 of 17 BEST: Steve Martin and Chris Rock give a not monologue Kevin Winter/Getty Images No host means no opening monologue, but that didn't stop the night's first presenters, Steve Martin and Chris Rock , from trying. The two came out joking about being demoted (having both formerly hosted), before launching into a litany of lines mocking everything from Jeff Bezos to the Academy's ongoing diversity issues. Rock had a great zinger about Cynthia Erivo hiding black nominees from the Academy that gave us one of the first genuine laughs of the night. The bit as a whole was a much-needed reset after the bizarre opening number. — MLL 04 of 17 WORST: Famous people introducing other famous people Kevin Winter/Getty Images; ob Latour/Shutterstock We appreciate that the Academy wants to pack the presenter list with both up-and-comers and beloved stars alike. But for a show that often gets knocked for its running time, it made precisely zero sense to bring out actors like Beanie Feldstein and Kelly Marie Tran to then present the next round of presenters. It was a talent redundancy that was both a waste of viewers' time and a slap in the face to actors who deserved to be presenters in their own right. — MLL 05 of 17 BEST: Brad Pitt wins big Kevin Winter/Getty Images The first award of the night, Best Supporting Actor, marked the final victory of this awards season for Once Upon a Time in Hollywood 's Brad Pitt , who has brightened every ceremony that's recognized him with charming, irreverent speeches. "They told me I only have 45 seconds up here, which is 45 seconds more than the Senate gave John Bolton this week," he began. "I'm thinking maybe Quentin does a movie about it. In the end, the adults do the right thing." He went on to give a shout-out to stunt coordinators and to his costar Leonardo DiCaprio: "I'll ride on your coattails any day," he said. "The view's fantastic." He concluded by dedicating the award to his children, and reflecting upon his own incredible journey as an actor: " Once Upon a Time in Hollywood — ain't that the truth?" — Mary Sollosi 06 of 17 BEST: Celebrating female filmmakers Amy Sussman/Getty Images The Academy didn't recognize any female filmmakers with a Best Director nomination this year — again — but the stars in attendance wanted to celebrate the snubbed artists instead. It started on the carpet, where Natalie Portman wore a cape embroidered with the names of eight female directors who didn't receive nominations; over the course of the show, Janelle Monáe and Mark Ruffalo both gave a shout-out to female directors, and Little Women costume designer Jacqueline Durran 's heartfelt thanks to the snubbed Greta Gerwig earned an enormous cheer from the audience. —MS 07 of 17 BEST: Mom's spaghetti ETIENNE LAURENT/EPA-EFE/Shutterstock After a montage about songs that have defined the films they appear in, Eminem came out for an explosive surprise performance of his Oscar-winning classic "Lose Yourself," from 2002's 8 Mile . The response from the audience ranged from mild confusion to great enthusiasm; the response in the EW Oscars war room was pure ecstasy. — MS 08 of 17 WORST: A recap halfway through the show? Utkarsh Ambudkar came out somewhere around the halfway mark to deliver a rap recap of the ceremony so far. Last year, the lack of a host brought a freshness to the proceedings, but this year it mostly led to unfunny, unremarkable moments like this. It was cute, innovative even, when Lin-Manuel Miranda penned a "rap-up" for the 2011 Tony Awards, but this just felt redundant and dull. The jokes fell flat, and it was a completely unnecessary sum-up of a ceremony when there was still so much left to go. — MLL 09 of 17 BEST: All the montages Andrew Cooper/Columbia; Everett Collection; Neon Any dyed-in-the-wool Oscar lover is HERE for the montages. We don't care if the ceremony is six hours long if it means we get about 20 more montages that make us cheer, laugh, and get goosebumps. This year the producers indulged that love. They gave us great montages on subjects ranging from documentaries to the power of song to create unforgettable screen moments. Even better though? Instead of a traditional clip package of an isolated scene while announcing nominees, we got fantastic montages weaving together themes and numerous standout moments from the best films and performances of the year. It felt like a blast to the best of Oscars past, and we could not love it more. — MLL 10 of 17 BEST: Tom is Spartacus Rob Latour/Shutterstock After announcing that the Academy Museum will open in December — and joking that he was there this morning, installing drywall — Tom Hanks exited the stage with a cry of "I am Spartacus!" The classic reference had a double meaning coming from the star, as both a tribute to the late Kirk Douglas and a nod to Hanks' own directorial debut, 1996's That Thing You Do! , in which the protagonist often quotes the 1960 film. — MS 11 of 17 WORST: Cats cameo Kevin Winter/Getty Images James Corden and Rebel Wilson made a noble effort at poking fun at themselves and the disaster that was Cats . We'll admit their presenting the award for Best Visual Effects was deliciously ironic, but they managed to kill the moment by licking and pawing at the microphone. Not the cat's meow by any stretch of the imagination. — MLL 12 of 17 BEST: Cynthia Erivo makes us all 'Stand Up' Kevin Winter/Getty Images In a night of frankly dull Best Song performances (yes, even Sir Elton John ), Cynthia Erivo was the outlier. She delivered a knockout rendition of her Best Song nominee "Stand Up" from Harriet . Her vocals, especially on the high notes, were incredible, and they capped it off with stellar backup singers harmonizing around her. The performance closed on the perfect note, a black-and-white photo of Harriet Tubman as the stage lights went out leaving the stage bathed in the flickers of standing lanterns. It was a powerful, emotional moment made all the more so by Erivo's powerhouse vocals and songwriting. The audience listened to the name of the song and gave Erivo a much-deserved standing ovation — and we were joining her at home. — MLL 13 of 17 BEST: Bong Joon Ho is ready to drink MARK RALSTON/AFP via Getty Images Parasite won Best International Feature (to a delighted response from the audience), making history as the first Oscar in the category awarded to South Korea. Accepting the trophy, awards season icon Bong Joon Ho acknowledged that the category had just been renamed (from Best Foreign Language Film), expressing how honored he was to be the first recipient since the name change, and celebrated his cast, who were not recognized with acting nominations (but won the SAG ensemble award last month, in a thrilling upset). "I'm ready to drink tonight," he said as he left the stage. But wait, maybe don't hit the booze just yet! Right afterward, he was honored with the statuette for Best Director, for which he delivered another sincere speech, then concluded with his promise "to drink tonight until next morning." — MS 14 of 17 BEST: Martin Scorsese gets a standing ovation ABC Imagine being so beloved you get a standing ovation during someone else's acceptance speech? Martin Scorsese suddenly found the Oscar audience on its feet applauding him at Best Director winner Bong Joon Ho's behest . Bong paid homage to all the fellow auteurs in his category, but gave a special nod to Scorsese: "When I was young and studying cinema, there was a saying that I carved deep into my heart, which is, the most personal is the most creative. That quote is from our great Martin Scorsese." Was there a more pure moment of the night than Bong deservedly taking home gold while also using his time to honor other filmmakers? We're hard-pressed to name one. — MLL 15 of 17 BEST: Remembering River Phoenix Joaquin Phoenix used his moment accepting the statuette for Best Actor as a platform to call for change. "This form of expression has given me the most extraordinary life," he said. "But I think the greatest gift that it's given me is the opportunity to use our voice for the voiceless." He spoke at length about some of the issues facing us today, and our responsibility to take care of each other and our planet. The most affecting moment, however, came at the end of his time onstage. "When he was 17," Phoenix said, struggling to remain composed, "my brother wrote the lyric: 'Run to the rescue with love, and peace will follow.'" —MS 16 of 17 BEST: Parasite takes home the top prize MARK RALSTON/AFP via Getty Images The final award of the night was one for the books — literally. Parasite 's Best Picture win marked a new milestone in the Oscars' 92-year history, as the first non-English language film to take the top prize (not to mention that it also won Best International Feature, so the double nomination didn't even split its votes). Far from sucking the life out of the room, the stunning upset injected a vibrant new energy into the tired telecast. —MS 17 of 17 WORST: Judy Garland never won a competitive Oscar David Hindley/LD Entertainment/Roadside Attraction; Silver Screen Collection/Getty Images No disrespect to Renée Zellweger and her deserved victory, but it is heartbreaking to see her win gold for playing a legendary entertainer who never won in her own right. Judy Garland was a sterling, one-of-a-kind performer, as evidenced by Zellweger's interpretation of her — and her lack of Oscar gold is still one of the biggest oversights in Oscar history. In 1940, she was awarded a special Academy Juvenile Award for her work in The Wizard of Oz, but she lost both times she was nominated (for A Star Is Born and Judgment at Nuremberg ). Zellweger rightfully paid tribute to Garland in her speech, declaring her victory "an extension of the celebration of her legacy that began on our film set." But it still roils that Garland never got the validation from her peers she so desperately craved — and deserved a hundred times over. — MLL Close Read more: The Awardist Oscars Related Articles Demi Moore says 'human part' of her 'has disappointment' over Oscars loss: 'Would have been wonderful' Yes, that was Deadpool & Wolverine 's Dancepool at the Oscars — and he got a fist bump from Iron Man Here’s every iconic venue the Oscars have called home (and no, they’re not all in Hollywood) Remembering the Oscars' biggest controversies, scandals, and WTF moments (including some you may have forgotten over the years) Oscars crowd loudly reacts to Conan O'Brien joke about not being afraid to stand up to a powerful Russian The Oscars, Mindy Kaling's sports comedy Running Point , and Survivor top this week's Must List Who has won the most Oscars? See record-holders in major categories Zoe Saldaña thanks immigrant parents and husband's 'beautiful hair' after Oscars Best Supporting Actress win See Wicked cast hit the Oscars: Cynthia Erivo, Ariana Grande, Jeff Goldblum, and more Doja Cat reacts to criticism of James Bond tribute performance at 2025 Oscars: 'I feel good that I pushed myself' James Bond Oscars tribute brings out Doja Cat, Raye, and Lisa of Blackpink for theme song medley Wicked star Cynthia Erivo misses shot at being youngest to EGOT with Oscars loss Michelle Trachtenberg, Shannen Doherty, Marianne Faithfull omitted from Oscars 'In Memoriam' segment Goldie Hawn jokes she can't read the nominees during Oscars presentation with Andrew Garfield Nick Offerman mispronounces Amy Poehler's name in sweet Parks and Rec reunion at the Oscars Oliver Hudson jokes he's 'concerned' mom Goldie Hawn loves Andrew Garfield more than him after Oscars Entertainment Weekly Newsletters Follow Us TV Movies Music What To Watch Binge Celebrity The Awardist Books Theater About Us Terms of Service Subscribe Advertise Careers Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Entertainment Weekly is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies