Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition on Nintendo Switch will be released this May | Polygon Skip to main content The homepage Guides Games Entertainment The homepage Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search What to Play What to Watch Guides Expand All Guides Assassin’s Creed Shadows Avowed Blue Prince Destiny 2 Diablo 4 Elden Ring FFXIV Fortnite Marvel Rivals Monster Hunter Wilds Pokémon Go Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Games Expand All Gaming Tabletop Nintendo PC PlayStation Xbox Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Anime Horror Sci-fi Fantasy Deals Expand All Deals Buyer’s Guides Sales Guides Gift Guides Puzzles Expand Puzzmo Home External Link SpellTower Typeshift Flipart Really Bad Chess Crossword Newsletters Video Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition on Nintendo Switch will be released this May News Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition on Nintendo Switch will be released this May Remake will include a reworked UI and remastered music by Charlie Hall Mar 26, 2020, 2:34 PM UTC Facebook Link Nintendo/YouTube Charlie Hall is Polygon’s tabletop editor. In 12-plus years as a journalist & photographer, he has covered simulation, strategy, and spacefaring games, as well as public policy. Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition for the Nintendo Switch, first announced in September 2019, now has a release date. The remake will arrive on May 29, and includes a few new features. The release will also be accompanied by a new art book, Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Works Set . Xenoblade Chronicles was developed by Monolith Soft and released in 2012 in North America. It follows main character Shulk on a quest for revenge after the destruction of her home. The spring release date for the new edition of the game was made public during Thursday’s Nintendo Direct, along with a few new details on the game. This Definitive Edition will include a new epilogue called Xenoblade Chronicles: Future Connected. The game’s visuals have also been improved, along with the the user interface. The HUD and the menu screens should both be easier to use. Fans can also look forward to remastered and remixed music from the original. Switch Lite $ 200 $ 200 Nintendo Switch consoles are often sold out, but you can still pick up the handheld-only Switch Lite, which is perfect for portable gaming. Read More $200 at Best Buy Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy . See More : Gaming News Nintendo Xenoblade Chronicles Xenoblade Chronicles Nintendo Wii Nintendo Wii logo Explore The Game Most Popular Thunderbolts* takes the MCU back to what it’s always done best 8BitDo no longer shipping to US from China due to Trump tariffs The best new RPG books of 2025 so far Jackson’s residents were right to vote against Ellie ‘It was real cat wrangling’: Alex Horne and Greg Davies on Taskmaster’s ‘chaotic’ series 19 Switchboard The best way to stay up to date on all things Nintendo Switch 2. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in News Helldivers 2 players finally stopped the planet-cracking Singularity Altered TCG’s wild new print-on-demand service is available now How to watch the Borderlands 4 State of Play Far Cry 4 gets 60 fps update on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X a decade after launch Netflix’s new sci-fi romance K-animation looks like it’s going to break my heart (positive) Barbarian director’s next horror movie looks just as surprising and even nastier Gaming Apr 29 Helldivers 2 players finally stopped the planet-cracking Singularity By Cass Marshall Comments Comment Icon Bubble Gaming Apr 29 Altered TCG’s wild new print-on-demand service is available now By Charlie Hall Comments Comment Icon Bubble Gaming Apr 29 How to watch the Borderlands 4 State of Play By Nicole Carpenter Comments Comment Icon Bubble News Apr 29 Far Cry 4 gets 60 fps update on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X a decade after launch By Ian Walker Comments Comment Icon Bubble Animation Apr 29 Netflix’s new sci-fi romance K-animation looks like it’s going to break my heart (positive) By Petrana Radulovic Comments Comment Icon Bubble Trailers Apr 29 Barbarian director’s next horror movie looks just as surprising and even nastier By Austen Goslin Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad The Latest ⚡️ 31 minutes ago Saw Gerrera is Star Wars at its very best Apr 29 Flappy Bird returns on Android, now without the weird crypto stuff Apr 29 How to get a free First Order Stormtrooper outfit in Fortnite Apr 29 Mamoru Hosoda’s newest film gets a first teaser and December release date Apr 29 An indie game dev revives a long-lost genre: the heavy-metal-band video game Apr 29 Show off your great manga taste with Uniqlo’s Ai Yazawa collection Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok About Us Masthead Editorial Ethics and Guidelines Community Guidelines How to Write for Polygon Contact Send Us a Tip Privacy Notice Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Settings Licensing Accessibility Platform Status Careers © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved