Apple invites press to September 10th event, confirming iPhone 11 launch date Click to Skip Ad Closing in... Subscribe BGR logo Follow BGR on X Follow BGR on Google News Follow BGR on Instagram Subscribe to BGR on YouTube Like BGR on Facebook search close Search close News close Tech Entertainment Science Business Lifestyle Reviews Best Guides Deals More close Accessories Apps & Software Audio Cameras Cars Computers Gaming Home & Kitchen Home Theater How To Mobile Security Shows Smart Home Space Tablets About Us Sign up for our daily newsletter Subscribe Follow BGR on X Follow BGR on Google News Follow BGR on Instagram Subscribe to BGR on YouTube Like BGR on Facebook About BGR Advertising Contact Us Get our daily newsletter in your inbox BGR's team sends an AM subscriber-only newsletter with the top tech & entertainment stories at 9AM ET. Sign up to read it. Email: Subscribe By signing up, I agree to the Terms of Use and 					have reviewed the Privacy Notice. TRENDING: iOS 18 iPhone 16 Apple Watch Battery Life AirPods Max 2 watchOS 11 Apple One Reset AirPods T-Mobile gives you up to $3,200 to switch! Home Tech Apple invites press to September 10th event, confirming iPhone 11 launch date By Zach Epstein Updated Aug 29th, 2019 12:16PM EDT If you buy through a BGR link, we may earn an affiliate commission, helping support our expert product labs. Guess what, Apple fans… it’s official: the new iPhone 11 smartphone lineup will be unveiled on September 10th. Apple just sent invitations to reporters and bloggers for a press conference that will be held at its headquarters in Cupertino, California on Tuesday, September 10th. If that date sounds familiar it’s because BGR pegged it weeks ago as the date on which Apple would be unveiling its next-generation iPhone lineup. As soon as an executive from one of Apple’s carrier partners accidentally revealed that the iPhone 11 series will be released on September 20th , we knew that Apple would make the announcement on the 10th. Wednesday of that week would normally have been Apple’s go-to day for its big iPhone press conference, but that Wednesday happens to fall on September 11th this year. Apple’s invitations for this year’s iPhone event will undoubtedly be analyzed and picked apart by hardcore Apple fans and bloggers, but the bottom line is that there really isn’t that much left to be revealed next month when Apple finally makes the iPhone 11 series official. Pretty much everything has leaked at this point, though the names of the new phones are still somewhat up in the air; multiple independent reports suggest that the phones will be called the iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro, and iPhone 11 Pro Max. The name of the new phablet might have been swiped from a protein bar , but it would be wise of Apple to designate its iPhone XR successor as the main “iPhone 11” model. After all, the iPhone XR was last year’s best-selling iPhone model and we fully expect its successor to be the most popular option in 2019 and throughout most of 2020. Don't Miss : Today’s deals: $169 AirPods Pro 2, $490 75-inch smart TV, $12 Crest 3D whitening toothpaste, more As for the new features we can expect from the iPhone 11 and iPhone 11 Pro handsets, this year’s update is all about the camera. Okay, it’s not “all” about the camera, but the camera will indeed be the biggest focus of Apple’s new iPhone 11 lineup. Apple had long been the leader in mobile photography until Huawei pulled ahead a few years ago, and now there are several other Android phone makers like Google and Samsung that have better-rated cameras than Apple’s most recent iPhones. The company will look to change that with the new dual-lens camera on the iPhone 11 and the even more advanced triple-lens camera on the iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max. Rumor has it that low-light photography will be a big focus for Apple, which makes sense considering how much buzz Google has generated with its Night Sight feature on Pixel phones. The new iPhone 11 cameras will also have some nifty features that aren’t available on other smartphones, if recent leaks pan out. As for the design of the iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro, and iPhone 11 Pro Max, 2019 is shaping up to be a lot like 2016 for Apple’s iPhone. The iPhone 7 reused the same design for a third consecutive year back then, so Apple set it apart by giving it some new finishes and a new camera on the iPhone 7 Plus. In 2019, the iPhone 11 will once again use the same iPhone design for a third consecutive year, so it’ll also feature new cameras and new finishes. The most reliable insiders out there suggest that Apple’s next-gen iPhones will have a matte finish thanks to new frosted glass backs, and there might even be a new color in store for the iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max. We can obviously also expect the new A13 processor in Apple’s iPhone 11 series handsets to back plenty of power, and there are probably at least a few exciting new features that haven’t leaked yet. If you want to see what else is in store for the iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro, and iPhone 11 Pro Max, mark your calendars for September 10th. And not that Apple fans need reminding, but this means preorders will open on September 13th and the iPhone 11 lineup will be released on Friday, September 20th. Also expected at the event are the Apple Watch Series 5, release timing for Apple’s TV+ streaming service, and more. Tech. Entertainment. Science. Your inbox. Sign up for the most interesting tech & entertainment news out there. Email: SIGN UP By signing up, I agree to the Terms of Use and have reviewed the Privacy Notice. This article talks about: Apple iPhone 11 iPhone 11 Pro iPhone 11 Pro Max Zach Epstein Executive Editor Zach Epstein has been the Executive Editor at BGR for more than 15 years. He manages BGR’s editorial team and ensures that best practices are adhered to. He also oversees the Ecommerce team and directs the daily flow of all content. Zach first joined BGR in 2007 as a Staff Writer covering business, technology, and entertainment. His work has been quoted by countless top news organizations, and he was recently named one of the world's top 10 “power mobile influencers” by Forbes. Prior to BGR, Zach worked as an executive in marketing and business development with two private telcos. Zach Epstein's latest stories Sonos Arc Ultra review: Stellar sound like no other LG LRYKC2606S review: Smart Mirror InstaView Counter-Depth MAX Refrigerator Nolah Evolution 15 mattress review: Update after 2 years More Tech Researchers ran an unauthorized AI experiment on Redditors Tech Joshua Hawkins Satechi launches sleek Qi2 travel chargers designed for power users on the go Tech José Adorno Perplexity AI now works in WhatsApp – here’s how to use it Tech Chris Smith DeepSeek avoids South Korea ban, but it still sends data to China Tech Chris Smith Latest News Have a library card? Here are 5 free movies to stream this week on Kanopy (April 27) Entertainment Jacob Siegal Netflix is adding a collection of Hitchcock’s best movies in June Entertainment Jacob Siegal Feel-good TV alert: Everyone’s sleeping on this Netflix Canadian series that’s a quiet masterpiece Entertainment Andy Meek Call Her Icon: Hulu is releasing a docuseries about game-changing podcast queen Alex Cooper Entertainment Andy Meek Tech. Entertainment. Science. Your inbox. Sign up for the most interesting tech & entertainment news out there. Email: SIGN UP By signing up, I agree to the Terms of Use and have reviewed the Privacy Notice. News & Reviews You Can Trust BGR’s audience craves our industry-leading insights on the latest in tech and entertainment, as well as our authoritative and expansive reviews. We guide our loyal readers to some of the best products, latest trends, and most engaging stories with non-stop coverage, available across all major news platforms. Editorial Standards How We Test Products Founded in 2006 Over 2 billion visitors 100K+ articles published Millions of readers helped Follow BGR on X Follow BGR on Google News Follow BGR on Instagram Subscribe to BGR on YouTube Like BGR on Facebook GREENWICH, CT Our 						Mission Statement Honest news coverage, reviews, and opinions since 2006. - 						Jonathan S. Geller, Founder News Tech Entertainment Science Reviews Deals Guides About BGR Advertising Contact Us Privacy Policy AdChoices Terms Of Use California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences BGR is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 BGR Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved.