Grey's Anatomy: When Does Season 17 Premiere? | PS Entertainment Skip to main content Popsugar Subscribe Go to Navigation Entertainment Tv Let's Get Dark and Twisty: Grey's Anatomy Sets Season 17's 2-Hour Premiere in November By Mekishana Pierre Updated on Sep 18, 2020 at 1:10 PM ABC ABC If you weren't already excited for November, ABC is giving you another reason to ring in fall with bells on. On Thursday, the network unveiled the premiere dates for its fall TV lineup , and now we officially know when we're heading back to Grey Sloan! Not only will Grey's Anatomy be making its return on Nov. 12, but the season will also kick off with a two-hour premiere to pack in all the juicy drama we've been deprived of. The medical drama abruptly ended its 16th season early due to the COVID-19 pandemic. But according to executive producer Krista Vernoff, any loose strings from the season 16 finale will be addressed in the upcoming installment! And of course, the season will be tackling the real-life woes of the current pandemic. "There's no way to be a long-running medical show and not do the medical story of our lifetimes," Vernoff said. With two full-time cast members added to the roster and lots of questions left unanswered due to the early ending, season 17 is already bringing the drama and surprise we look forward to. See you on Nov. 12! TV Grey's Anatomy Entertainment News By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy. Cookie Settings About Us Meet the PS Staff Meet the PS Council Ethics Statement Health Reporting Guidelines Product Review Guidelines Write For Us Careers Advertise With Us Press Accessibility Privacy Cookie Policy Terms + Conditions Contact PS UK PS Australia This publication is a Vox Media network. © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved. Health Nutrition Mental Health Sleep Condition Center Breast Cancer Fitness Workouts Running Sports Fitness Videos For the W Beauty Skin Care Nails Hair Makeup Reviews Skinposium Balance Sex Relationships Parenting Financial Health Home Rest Stop Identity Crowned Juntos Where I'm From Out Loud Shopping Beauty Fitness Fashion Home Gift Guides Product Reviews My Must Haves Influenced Cookie Settings About Us Meet the PS Staff Meet the PS Council Ethics Statement Health Reporting Guidelines Product Review Guidelines Write For Us Careers Advertise With Us Press Accessibility Privacy Cookie Policy Terms + Conditions Contact PS UK PS Australia © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved.