2020 Golden Globes: Date, Time, and How to Watch Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close TV Recaps TV Movies Comedy Music What to Stream Books Theater Art Awards Coverage Podcasts Criticism About Newsletters New York App Cinematrix Archive Vulture Festival Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift Menu Menu Close Close TV Recaps TV Movies Comedy Music What to Stream Books Theater Art Awards Coverage Podcasts Criticism About Newsletters New York App Cinematrix Archive Vulture Festival Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Leave a Comment Search Search Close Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. awards season How to Watch the 2020 Golden Globes By Rebecca Alter , a staff writer who covers comedy and pop culture Jan. 3, 2020 The Gold Rush Brought to you by save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account’s ‘Saved for Later’ section. Comment The Gold Rush Brought to you by Please welcome to the stage, Bradley Cooper’s white suit. Photo: NBCUniversal via Getty Images There are just two more sleeps until the 2020 Golden Globes , which airs on Sunday, January 5. And because this year is already in total chaos and disarray, Ricky Gervais has risen from his three-year hosting slumber to trigger us all with his tangiest zingers and zingiest japes . Imagine saying, “And the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture – Drama goes to … Joker. ” Twisted . Will Fiji Water Girl make another appearance? Will Taylor Swift and Andrew Lloyd Webber win for their Cats song “ Beautiful Ghosts ”? You’ll have to either read our coverage or tune in to find out — ideally both. You’ve already found your way to Vulture , so here’s how to do the second part. Because the Golden Globes are decided on by the 90-ish member Hollywood Foreign Press Association, they can be less of an ironclad Oscars predictor and more of a fun excuse to see celebrities put on their Sunday clothes and party. Thus, the Globes red carpet is one of the best. Last year, it brought us the aforementioned Fiji Girl and one hilarious Lady Gaga interview . This year, the red carpet will begin livestreaming from the Beverly Hilton at 6 p.m. ET on the official Golden Globes Facebook page . If you happen to have cable and want to watch on television, E! is starting their red-carpet pregame at 4 p.m. with E! Countdown to the Red Carpet: The 2020 Golden Globe Awards . At 6 p.m., Ryan Seacrest and Giuliana Rancic will host the network’s live red-carpet coverage. At 7 p.m., NBC will air its Golden Globes Arrivals Special. If you want to skip the red carpet and go straight for those sweet, sweet trophies, the NBC broadcast of the ceremony begins at 8 p.m. You can also livestream on the NBC app , providing you have a cable provider. If your cords don’t match your gems (which is to say they’re cut ), there are plenty of free livestreaming options: You can sign up for a free seven-day trial of Hulu + Live TV or two free weeks of YouTube TV . If you’re a PlayStation Vue subscriber, it’s still operating until January 30, so you’ll be able to watch the Golden Globes, but you’ll have to find a new service in time for the Grammys and the Oscars. Such is life during the streaming wars! Related Marriage Story Leads 2020 Golden Globe Nominations The Golden Globes Will Never Top Elizabeth Taylor’s ‘Gladiator!!!’ Moment Tags: awards season golden globes 2020 how to watch television hollywood ricky gervais cable streaming More Show Leave a Comment Golden Globe Awards 2020: How to Watch Sunday Night Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. Most Viewed Stories Cinematrix No. 395: April 25, 2025 Whitney Cummings Finds Her People I Can’t Believe Étoile Got Away With This The Harry Potter TV Show Casting Is Getting Messy The Women at the Heart of Sinners ’s Success Whitney Cummings Finds Her People I Can’t Believe Étoile Got Away With This Cinematrix No. 395: April 25, 2025 Which Papal Candidate Is Which Guy From Conclave ? The Deeper Meaning Behind Conclave ’s Surprise Ending, Explained Sign In to Comment Most Popular Cinematrix No. 395: April 25, 2025 Whitney Cummings Finds Her People I Can’t Believe Étoile Got Away With This The Harry Potter TV Show Casting Is Getting Messy The Women at the Heart of Sinners ’s Success Whitney Cummings Finds Her People I Can’t Believe Étoile Got Away With This Cinematrix No. 395: April 25, 2025 Which Papal Candidate Is Which Guy From Conclave ? “Is He Threatening Enough?” Latest News from Vulture chapters 12 mins ago “Is He Threatening Enough?” The role of Tony Soprano came down to three actors. Inside an HBO conference room, Sopranos creator David Chase needed convincing. By Jason Bailey sleep paralysis demons 28 mins ago HAIM Haunts Logan Lerman in Lonely Hotel Room “Down to Be Wrong” is the latest video from the band’s new album rollout. endings 12:00 p.m. Babygirl Just Isn’t An Erotic Thriller The film about a female CEO cheating with a male intern is less scintillating and more a chilly, half-formed women’s picture. that's all i wanted 12:00 p.m. Be Our Father Figure, Harris Babygirl ’s best scene is when its upstart intern reaches for the brown liquor. By Roxana Hadadi my single is dropping 11:59 a.m. Young Thug Turns the Page on ‘Money on Money’ And seems to call Gunna “a rat.” movie review 11:30 a.m. Babygirl Might Just Be the Year’s Hottest Movie Though what’s great about this sexy Nicole Kidman-Harris Dickinson drama is how surprising it can be. By Alison Willmore now streaming 11:27 a.m. The 9 Best Movies and TV Shows to Watch This Weekend You can spend the whole weekend in a galaxy far, far away. hahas and uhohs 11:00 a.m. Bill Maher Says Larry David ‘Lost the Argument’ by Playing ‘the Hitler Card’ Claiming David’s op-ed parodying Maher’s dinner with Trump was “kind of insulting to 6 million dead Jews.” overnights 10:00 a.m. You Recap: Old Flames Just when Joe thinks he can slither away, the ghosts of girlfriends past return to haunt him. vulture lists 10:00 a.m. Every Tom Hardy Movie, Ranked If there’s one thing this guy loves, it’s a weird little voice. overnights 10:00 a.m. Étoile Recap: This Must Be the Place The lonely nature of revitalizing the companies and pursuing perfection is beginning to weigh on everyone. sxsw 2025 10:00 a.m. The Accountant 2 Cannot Be Taken Seriously Do not approach this sequel, starring Ben Affleck as an underworld accountant again, with any sort of sobriety. By Alison Willmore influences 9:53 a.m. Coco Jones Finally Feels Like She’s in Control How the club and Cold Stone helped the singer finish her debut album. art review 8:35 a.m. Rashid Johnson’s Visual Feast The new Rashid Johnson survey at the Guggenheim is sprawling and stunning. overnights 8:00 a.m. You Recap: Trust Exercise After how Louise acts in this episode, I can no longer root for her to survive. the grub street diet 6:00 a.m. Roy Choi Is in a Lunch Club “We all throw in suggestions for where to eat, but we have one Yoda in the club.” By Alan Sytsma vulture 10x10 5:00 a.m. The CPA Puzzle 10-Across, Four Letters: Setting for Paddington’s latest adventure vulture games 5:00 a.m. Cinematrix No. 395: April 25, 2025 Can you name an Oscar-nominated movie starring Willem Dafoe? cast away 2:10 a.m. Sydney Sweeney to Star in Split Fiction Movie from Jon M Chu The best selling video game is in development as an upcoming film. coming soon 1:29 a.m. Belly Faces the Battle of the Brothers One final decision for the last season of The Summer I Turned Pretty . More Stories Have an Account? Log In TV Movies Comedy Music Books What To Stream Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us About Vulture About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data vulture is a Vox Media Network . © 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All rights reserved.