East Bay - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History and development 2 Cities 3 Culture 4 Transportation Toggle Transportation subsection 4.1 Rail 5 Economy 6 Major employers 7 Higher education 8 See also 9 References Toggle the table of contents East Bay 8 languages العربية Български Español Français עברית Nederlands 日本語 Simple English Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikivoyage Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 37°42′N 122°00′W ﻿ / ﻿ 37.7°N 122°W ﻿ / 37.7; -122 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Eastern region of the San Francisco Bay Area, California, US For other uses, see East Bay (disambiguation) . 37°42′N 122°00′W ﻿ / ﻿ 37.7°N 122°W ﻿ / 37.7; -122 Region in California, United States East Bay Region The East Bay in 2015, with the Bay Bridge connecting from Oakland to Treasure Island and San Francisco Oakland and the Bay Bridge Oakland Mount Diablo Map of incorporated and unincorporated areas in East Bay, California Country United States State California Part of San Francisco Bay Area Principal city Oakland Other municipalities List Fremont Hayward Concord Berkeley Antioch Richmond Area codes 510/341 , 925 The East Bay is the eastern region of the San Francisco Bay Area and includes cities along the eastern shores of San Francisco Bay and San Pablo Bay . The region has grown to include inland communities in Alameda and Contra Costa counties. [ 1 ] With a population of roughly 2.8 million in 2024, it is the most populous subregion in the Bay Area, containing the second- and third-most populous Bay Area counties of Alameda (1.7 million) and Contra Costa (1.1 million). [ 2 ] Oakland is the largest city in the East Bay by population and the third largest in the Bay Area. The city serves as a major transportation hub for the U.S. West Coast , and its port is the largest in Northern California . Increased population has led to the growth of large edge cities such as Alameda , Concord , Emeryville , Fremont , Hayward , Livermore , Pleasanton , San Ramon , and Walnut Creek . History and development [ edit ] Although initial development in the greater Bay Area focused on San Francisco , the coastal East Bay came to prominence in the middle of the 19th century as the part of the Bay Area most accessible by land from the east. The transcontinental railroad was completed in 1869 with its western terminus at the newly constructed Oakland Long Wharf , and the new city of Oakland rapidly developed into a significant seaport. Today the Port of Oakland is the Bay Area's largest port and the fifth largest container shipping port in the United States. [ 3 ] In 1868, the University of California was formed from the private College of California and a new campus was built in what would become Berkeley. The 1906 San Francisco earthquake saw a large number of refugees flee to the relatively undamaged East Bay, and the region continued to grow rapidly. As the East Bay grew, the push to connect it with a more permanent link than ferry service resulted in the completion of the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge in 1936. The Bay Area saw further growth in the decades following World War II, with the population doubling between 1940 and 1960, and doubling again by 2000. The 1937 completion of the Caldecott Tunnel through the Berkeley Hills fueled growth further east, where there was undeveloped land. Cities in the Diablo Valley, including Concord and Walnut Creek , saw their populations increase tenfold or more between 1950 and 1970. The addition of the BART commuter rail system in 1972 further encouraged development in increasingly far-flung regions of the East Bay. Today, the valleys east of the Berkeley Hills contain large affluent suburban communities such as Walnut Creek, San Ramon and Pleasanton . The East Bay is not a formally defined region, aside from its being described as a region inclusive of Alameda and Contra Costa counties. As development moves generally eastward, new areas are described as being part of the East Bay [ by whom? ] . In 1996, BART was extended from its terminus in Concord to a new station in Pittsburg , symbolically incorporating the newly expanded Delta communities of Pittsburg and Antioch as extended regions of the East Bay. [ 4 ] Beyond the borders of Alameda County, the large population of Tracy is connected as a bedroom community housing commuters traveling to or through the East Bay. Cities [ edit ] Except for some hills and ridges which exist as parklands or undeveloped land, and some farmland in eastern Contra Costa and Alameda Counties, the East Bay is highly urbanized. The East Bay shoreline is an urban corridor with several cities exceeding 100,000 residents, including the cities of Oakland , Hayward , Fremont , Richmond , and Berkeley . In the inland valleys on the east side of the Berkeley Hills, the land is mostly developed, particularly on the eastern fringe of Contra Costa county and the Tri-Valley area. In the inland valleys, the population density is less and the cities smaller. Cities exceeding 100,000 residents in the inland valleys include Antioch and Concord . East Bay cities include: Acalanes Ridge [ i ] Alameda Alamo [ i ] Albany Alhambra Valley [ i ] Antioch Ashland [ i ] Bay Point [ i ] Bayview [ i ] Berkeley Bethel Island [ i ] Blackhawk [ i ] Brentwood Byron [ i ] Camino Tassajara [ i ] Canyon [ i ] Castle Hill [ i ] Castro Valley [ i ] Cherryland [ i ] Clayton Clyde [ i ] Concord Contra Costa Centre [ i ] Crockett [ i ] Danville Diablo [ i ] Discovery Bay [ i ] Dublin East Richmond Heights [ i ] El Cerrito El Sobrante [ i ] Emeryville Fairview [ i ] Fremont Hayward Hercules Kensington [ i ] Knightsen [ i ] Lafayette Livermore Martinez Montalvin Manor [ i ] Moraga Newark Norris Canyon [ i ] North Gate [ i ] North Richmond [ i ] Oakland Oakley Orinda Pacheco [ i ] Piedmont Pittsburg Pinole Pleasant Hill Pleasanton Port Costa [ i ] Reliez Valley [ i ] Richmond Rodeo [ i ] Rollingwood [ i ] San Leandro San Lorenzo [ i ] San Miguel [ i ] San Pablo San Ramon Saranap [ i ] Shell Ridge [ i ] Sunol [ i ] Tara Hills [ i ] Union City Vine Hill Walnut Creek ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z aa ab ac ad ae af ag ah ai aj ak al am Unincorporated Community Culture [ edit ] The East Bay has a free weekly newspaper, the East Bay Express , which has reported on the culture and politics of the East Bay for over 30 years, and has influenced the identification of the East Bay as a culturally defined region of the Bay Area. The East Bay Monthly , another free newspaper, has been published since 1970. In the early years of the evolution of USA Today , during the early 1980s, they operated regional newspapers, with the region's paper entitled East Bay Today . [ 5 ] [ 6 ] The Solano Avenue Stroll , the oldest and largest street festival in the greater San Francisco Bay Area, is held every September on the Solano Avenue shopping district in Albany and Berkeley. The East Bay is the birthplace of many musical acts, including Creedence Clearwater Revival , Country Joe and the Fish . Counting Crows , Yesterday and Today , Digital Underground , Green Day , Operation Ivy , Primus , Rancid , Set Your Goals , Tower of Power (whose debut album is titled East Bay Grease ), The Pointer Sisters , MC Hammer , Tony! Toni! Toné! , Tupac Shakur , Too Short , Spice 1 , en Vogue , Pete Escovedo and Sheila E , Keyshia Cole , and Mac Dre . The region is a major center for the development of rock , folk , funk , jazz , hip hop , soul and women's music . Bay Area thrash metal has centered strongly on the East Bay, including the bands Exodus and Metallica , among others. Possessed and Death , both considered the first death metal bands, [ 7 ] [ 8 ] [ 9 ] [ 10 ] have roots or connections in the East Bay: Possessed formed in El Sobrante , with Death debuting nationally while in Concord . Major music (and sports) venues include the Oakland Arena ; adjacent Oakland Coliseum ; the Oakland Paramount Theater , venue for the Oakland East Bay Symphony ; the Fox Oakland Theatre , the UC Berkeley Greek Theater , the nonprofit The Freight and Salvage , and the Concord Pavilion (formerly Sleep Train Pavilion). Major museums include the Oakland Museum of California , the Lawrence Hall of Science and the Chabot Space and Science Center . The East Bay Regional Parks District operates over fifty parks, many consisting of significant acreage of wildlands, in the East Bay, many directly adjacent to urban centers. Tilden Regional Park , is one of the largest regional parks (2,000 acres (8.1 km 2 )) located directly adjacent to the urban center of Berkeley. Briones Regional Park , at 5,000 acres, is another large wildlands park near an urban center, Walnut Creek. The East Bay also has a rich political history. One of the revolutionary movements founded in Oakland was the Black Panther Party . [ 11 ] [ 12 ] [ 13 ] [ 14 ] [ 15 ] [ 16 ] [ 17 ] The East Bay is home to many of the restaurants central to the creation of California cuisine , including Chez Panisse . Transportation [ edit ] v t e East Bay Rail Stations Legend to Bakersfield (2024) Oakley Antioch Antioch-Pittsburg Pittsburg Center to Sacramento Pittsburg/​Bay Point Martinez North Concord/ Martinez (planned) Hercules Concord Richmond Pleasant Hill/ Contra Costa Centre El Cerrito del Norte Walnut Creek El Cerrito Plaza Lafayette Orinda North Berkeley Redwood Valley Berkeley Downtown Berkeley Ashby Rockridge Emeryville MacArthur Oakland Central 19th Street Oakland 12th Street Oakland City Center West Oakland Oakland – Lake Merritt Jack London Square Fruitvale Oakland Coliseum Oakland International Airport San Leandro Bay Fair Hayward Castro Valley Hayward West Dublin/ Pleasanton South Hayward Dublin/​Pleasanton Sunol Niles Union City (planned) Ardenwood Pleasanton Fremont Livermore Fremont to Stockton–Downtown Warm Springs/ South Fremont to San Francisco and San Jose Silicon Valley BART extension Key Amtrak BART Altamont Corridor Express Redwood Valley Railway Niles Canyon Railway All vehicular crossings of the San Francisco Bay land in the counties comprising the East Bay. Interstate highways in the East Bay include Interstates 80 , 580 , 680 , 880 , 980 , and 238 . California State Routes 24 , 4 , 13 , 92 , 160 , 242 , 84 , and Richmond Parkway are limited access highways for at least part of their lengths in the area. State Route 61 , State Route 84 , State Route 123 , State Route 185 , and State Route 238 are major surface streets that receive state funding for maintenance. San Pablo Avenue previously carried U.S. Route 40 until the terminus was moved progressively east to Utah . AC Transit is the major bus transit agency for the region, and provides bus service throughout Alameda and Contra Costa counties, hence the "AC" moniker. County Connection , WestCAT , WHEELS , Tri Delta Transit and Union City Transit also provide bus service in the East Bay. Ferry service is provided by San Francisco Bay Ferry from Jack London Square and Alameda Harbor, with service at Richmond Ferry Terminal slated to begin in 2018. Hercules may also see future ferry service to San Francisco. Bicycle transportation is strongly promoted by city and county agencies, and by organizations like the East Bay Bicycle Coalition . Major pedestrian paths across the region include the San Francisco Bay Trail , the Bay Area Ridge Trail , the Ohlone Greenway , Iron Horse Regional Trail , Contra Costa Canal Trail, and the Richmond Greenway . Rail [ edit ] Rail service in the East Bay dates to the First transcontinental railroad , when the Western Pacific Railroad was contracted by the Central Pacific Railroad to provide the link between the Bay and Sacramento . This railroad eventually became the Niles Canyon Railway . Service to Alameda commenced in September 1869, four months after driving the golden spike at Promintory, Utah . Oakland Long Wharf eventually became the western terminus before ferry service to San Francisco. This road provided the sole link to the rest of the country until about 1879 when a more direct route across the Carquinez Strait was completed. Today, Altamont Corridor Express (ACE) operates commuter rail services through Niles Canyon to San Jose. Streetcar service across the East Bay was historically provided by the Key System , incorporated in 1902 as the San Francisco, Oakland, and San Jose Railway . An amalgamation of several streetcar companies established in the late part of the century, the Key System provided interurban routes across Alameda county, with connections to San Francisco ferries via their private Key System Pier. Southern Pacific ran a competing system, East Bay Electric Lines, until they, too, had the Key System take over operations. When the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge opened in 1936, Key System cars could make the trip directly to the Transbay Terminal across the lower deck. Streetcars were replaced with busses in 1948 and transbay service halted in 1958. The system's assets were sold to the newly formed AC Transit in 1960. The East Bay's modern rail transit service is Bay Area Rapid Transit , or BART, which was primarily designed to deliver commuters to San Francisco via the Transbay Tube , and to a lesser extent Oakland and Berkeley. Amtrak 's California Zephyr terminates in Emeryville , providing connections as far as Chicago , and further stations across the East Bay are served by Amtrak California 's Coast Starlight and San Joaquin . Economy [ edit ] The East Bay has a mixed economy of services, manufacturing, and small and large businesses. The region is headquarters to a number of highly notable businesses, including Kaiser Permanente , Chevron , and Safeway , among others. The East Bay Economic Development Alliance was founded by Alameda County as the Economic Development Advisory Board in 1990 as a public/private partnership with the mission to promote the East Bay as an important region for development, with Contra Costa County joining in 1996, and the current name chosen in 2006. [ 18 ] Major employers [ edit ] This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . ( October 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) The East Bay, as a part of the greater Bay Area, is a highly developed region, and is a major center for new and established economic ventures. Along with the county governments of Alameda and Contra Costa, the largest employers are: University of California, Berkeley with approximately 20,000 employees [ 19 ] [ failed verification ] AT&T with approximately 11,000 employees The U.S. Postal Service with approximately 10,000 employees Tesla with approximately 10,000 employees Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory with approximately 8,750 employees Chevron Corp. (world headquarters in San Ramon ) with 8,730 employees Safeway (world headquarters in Pleasanton ) with 7,922 employees Bank of America with 7,081 employees PG&E with approximately 5,200 employees Kaiser Permanente (US headquarters in Oakland ) with 4,730 employees Lucky Stores with 4,631 employees Bio-Rad Laboratories with 4,300 employees Wells Fargo with about 4,000 employees Workday (world headquarters in Pleasanton ) with 3,865 employees Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory with 3,816 employees Mount Diablo Unified School District with 3,700 employees West Contra Costa Unified School District with 3,360 employees Alta Bates Summit Medical Center with 3,100 employees John Muir Medical Center with 3,023 employees Sandia National Laboratories with 1,670 employees Oracle with 1,500 employees Western Digital with 1,300 employees Seagate with 1,050 employees Other major companies with headquarters in the East Bay include 10x Genomics , 24 Hour Fitness , Alibris , ANG Newspapers , Clif Bar , Clorox , Columbus Salame , Dreyer's , Ellie Mae , GE Digital , Ghirardelli Chocolate Company , Gillig Corporation , LeapFrog , Peet's Coffee , Pixar Animation Studios , Ross Stores and Workday . Mervyn's headquarters were located in the East Bay until they declared bankruptcy. The New United Motor Manufacturing, Inc. (NUMMI) automobile manufacturing plant employed about 5,100 employees at its peak. Tesla, Inc. has taken over part of the NUMMI plant, which is still the only automobile manufacturing plant in California. Higher education [ edit ] The East Bay is served by a number of both public and private higher education institutions: Colleges Two-year ( community colleges ) Berkeley City College Chabot College College of Alameda Contra Costa College Diablo Valley College Laney College Las Positas College Los Medanos College Merritt College Ohlone College Universities Public California State University, East Bay (CSU East Bay) University of California, Berkeley (UC Berkeley) Private California College of the Arts Holy Names University (defunct) John F. Kennedy University Life Chiropractic College West Mills College at Northeastern University Patten University Saint Mary's College of California Samuel Merritt University See also [ edit ] San Francisco Bay Area portal Wikivoyage has a travel guide for East Bay . East Bay Housing Organizations Transportation in the San Francisco Bay Area References [ edit ] ^ "East Bay Division" . League of California Cities. ^ "California Population & Housing Estimates from 2020 to 2024" . ArcGIS . Retrieved October 25, 2024 . ^ "North American Container Traffic, 2009 Port Ranking" (PDF) . Retrieved 2010-08-11 . ^ "North Concord Station Information" . Retrieved 2010-08-12 . ^ Liedtke, Michael (October 1991). "The Oakland Tribune Rides Again" . American Journalism Review . Archived from the original on 2014-10-10 . Retrieved 2014-12-02 . ^ Prince, Richard (August 23, 2011). "Sharpton to Deploy MSNBC on "Battlefield" " . Robert C. Maynard Institute for Journalism Education. Archived from the original on May 21, 2013 . Retrieved August 18, 2013 . ^ John Peel, Albert Mudrian (2004). Choosing Death: The Improbable History of Death Metal and Grindcore (page 70) . Feral House . ISBN 1-932595-04-X . ^ Possessed band page, Eduardo Rivadavia, Allmusic : "The brutal Seven Churches was arguably the first true death metal album and set the stage for the genre's breakaway from thrash." ^ Aldis, N. & Sherry, J. Heavy Metal Thunder , 2006, San Francisco: Chronicle ISBN 0-8118-5353-5 ^ Allmusic.com Death Biography ^ [Marchese, Beth-Ann. "Oakland." Let's Take a Look at California, 2017. Retrieved 05 October 2017.] ^ "Review of Living for the City: Migration, Education, and the Rise of the Black Panther Party in Oakland, California" . Contemporary Sociology . 42 (1): 134– 135. 2013. doi : 10.1177/0094306112468722n . ISSN 0094-3061 . JSTOR 41722851 . S2CID 220839319 . ^ Mulloy, D. J. (2010-07-01). "New Panthers, old Panthers and the politics of black nationalism in the United States" . Patterns of Prejudice . 44 (3): 217– 238. doi : 10.1080/0031322X.2010.489732 . ISSN 0031-322X . S2CID 144782902 . ^ San Francisco Bay Area : Its People, Prospects and Problems. San Francisco : the associates, 1948., 1948. ^ "What We Don't Learn about the Black Panther Party — but Should. (Cover Story)". Rethinking Schools . 32 (1): 26– 33. Fall 2017. ^ Jones, Brenda Payton (February 2007). "The BLACK PANTHERS STILL MAKING a DIFFERENCE". Ebony . 62 (4): 190. ^ Murch, Donna (2007-12-06). "The Campus and the Street: Race, Migration, and the Origins of the Black Panther Party in Oakland, CA" . Souls . 9 (4): 333– 345. doi : 10.1080/10999940701703794 . ISSN 1099-9949 . S2CID 144004830 . ^ "About the East Bay EDA" . East Bay Economic Development Alliance. Archived from the original on December 13, 2011. ^ "Statistical Summary and Data on UC Students, Faculty, and Staff" . University of California. Archived from the original on 2014-12-08 . Retrieved 2014-12-02 . v t e East Bay Counties Alameda Contra Costa Major cities Oakland Fremont Hayward Concord Berkeley Richmond Antioch Cities and towns 25k-100k Alameda Brentwood Castro Valley Danville Dublin Livermore Martinez Newark Oakley Pittsburg Pleasant Hill Pleasanton San Leandro San Pablo San Ramon Union City Walnut Creek Cities and towns 10k-25k Alamo Albany Ashland Bay Point Cherryland Clayton Discovery Bay El Cerrito El Sobrante Emeryville Fairview Hercules Lafayette Moraga Orinda Piedmont Pinole San Lorenzo Cities and towns under 10k Bayview Bethel Island Blackhawk Byron Camino Tassajara Clyde Crockett Diablo East Richmond Heights Kensington Knightsen Montalvin Manor Mountain View Pacheco Port Costa Rodeo Rollingwood Sunol Tara Hills Vine Hill Regional organizations AC Transit East Bay Municipal Utility District East Bay Regional Park District East Bay Green Corridor v t e San Francisco Bay Area Bodies of water Bodega Bay Carquinez Strait Clifton Forebay Golden Gate Grizzly Bay Guadalupe River Half Moon Bay Lake Berryessa Napa River Oakland Estuary Petaluma River Richardson Bay Richmond Inner Harbor Russian River Sacramento River San Francisco Bay San Leandro Bay San Pablo Bay Sonoma Creek Suisun Bay Tomales Bay Counties Alameda Contra Costa Marin Napa San Francisco San Mateo Santa Clara Solano Sonoma Cities and towns Major cities Oakland San Francisco San Jose 100k–250k Antioch Berkeley Concord Daly City Fairfield Fremont Hayward Richmond San Mateo Santa Clara Santa Rosa Sunnyvale Vacaville Vallejo 50k–100k Alameda Brentwood Cupertino Dublin Gilroy Livermore Milpitas Mountain View Napa Novato Palo Alto Petaluma Pittsburg Pleasanton Redwood City San Leandro San Rafael San Ramon South San Francisco Union City Walnut Creek 25k–50k Belmont Benicia Burlingame Campbell Danville East Palo Alto El Cerrito Foster City Hercules Lafayette Los Altos Los Gatos Martinez Menlo Park Morgan Hill Newark Oakley Pacifica Pleasant Hill Rohnert Park San Bruno San Carlos San Pablo Saratoga Suisun City Windsor 10k–25k Albany American Canyon Clayton Corte Madera Dixon Emeryville Half Moon Bay Healdsburg Hillsborough Larkspur Mill Valley Millbrae Moraga Orinda Piedmont Pinole Rio Vista San Anselmo Sonoma Under 10k Atherton Belvedere Brisbane Calistoga Cloverdale Colma Cotati Fairfax Los Altos Hills Monte Sereno Portola Valley Ross St. Helena Sausalito Sebastopol Tiburon Woodside Yountville CDPs over 10k Alamo Alum Rock Ashland Bay Point Castro Valley Cherryland Discovery Bay El Sobrante Fairview North Fair Oaks San Lorenzo Stanford Tamalpais-Homestead Valley Sub-regions East Bay North Bay San Francisco Peninsula Santa Clara Valley Other Homelessness Politics Sports Transportation v t e State of California Sacramento (capital) Topics Culture food music languages California sound sports California Dream Crime Demographics Earthquakes Economy agriculture Education Environment Geography climate ecology flora fauna Government Capitol districts governor legislature Supreme Court Healthcare Abortion History Law LGBT rights National Historic Landmarks National Natural Landmarks NRHP listings Politics congressional delegations elections People Protected areas state parks state historic landmarks Symbols Transportation Water Index of articles Regions Antelope Valley Big Sur California Coast Ranges Cascade Range Central California Central Coast Central Valley Channel Islands Coachella Valley Coastal California Conejo Valley Cucamonga Valley Death Valley East Bay (SF Bay Area) East County (SD) Eastern California Emerald Triangle Gold Country Great Basin Greater San Bernardino Inland Empire Klamath Basin Lake Tahoe Greater Los Angeles Los Angeles Basin Lost Coast Mojave Desert Mountain Empire North Bay (SF) North Coast North County (SD) Northern California Orange Coast Owens Valley Oxnard Plain Peninsular Ranges Pomona Valley Sacramento–San Joaquin River Delta Sacramento Valley Saddleback Valley Salinas Valley San Fernando Valley San Francisco Bay Area San Francisco Peninsula San Gabriel Valley San Joaquin Valley Santa Clara Valley Santa Clara River Valley Santa Clarita Valley Santa Ynez Valley Shasta Cascade Sierra Nevada Silicon Valley South Bay (LA) South Bay (SD) South Bay (SF) South Coast Southern Border Region Southern California Transverse Ranges Tri-Valley Victor Valley Wine Country Metro regions Fresno–Madera Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim Sacramento–Roseville Riverside–San Bernardino–Ontario San Diego–Tijuana San Jose–San Francisco–Oakland Counties Alameda Alpine Amador Butte Calaveras Colusa Contra Costa Del Norte El Dorado Fresno Glenn Humboldt Imperial Inyo Kern Kings Lake Lassen Los Angeles Madera Marin Mariposa Mendocino Merced Modoc Mono Monterey Napa Nevada Orange Placer Plumas Riverside Sacramento San Benito San Bernardino San Diego San Francisco San Joaquin San Luis Obispo San Mateo Santa Barbara Santa Clara Santa Cruz Shasta Sierra Siskiyou Solano Sonoma Stanislaus Sutter Tehama Trinity Tulare Tuolumne Ventura Yolo Yuba Most populous cities Los Angeles San Diego San Jose San Francisco Fresno Sacramento Long Beach Oakland Bakersfield Anaheim California portal Authority control databases International FAST National United States Israel Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=East_Bay&oldid=1287571934 " Categories : Subregions of the San Francisco Bay Area Regions of California Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images Pages using infobox settlement with no coordinates Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from October 2024 Pages using BSsplit instead of BSsrws Articles needing additional references from October 2017 All articles needing additional references All articles with failed verification Articles with failed verification from October 2017 This page was last edited on 27 April 2025, at 03:11 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents East Bay 8 languages Add topic