Oscars 2018: Common and Andra Day highlight politics and activism | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo Common and Andra Day’s Oscars performance recapped all of this year’s news What really matters In a world with too much noise and too little context, Vox helps you make sense of the news. We don’t flood you with panic-inducing headlines or race to be first. We focus on being useful to you — breaking down the news in ways that inform, not overwhelm. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join today Culture Common and Andra Day’s Oscars performance recapped all of this year’s news The musicians backed political activists and called out the NRA and Donald Trump in their Oscars performance. by P.R. Lockhart Mar 5, 2018, 5:10 AM UTC Facebook Link Common and US singer Andra Day perform during the 90th Annual Academy Awards show on March 4, 2018, in Hollywood, California. Mark Ralston/AFP/Getty Images In less than three minutes on the Oscars stage, rapper Common and singer Andra Day recapped the last year of political controversy and called for an increase in public activism. The musicians were performing “Stand Up for Something” from Marshall , the film about the nation’s first black Supreme Court justice, Thurgood Marshall. The song was nominated for Best Original Song at this year’s ceremony. “On Oscar night, this is the dream we tell. A land where dreamers live and freedom dwells. Immigrants get the benefits, we put up monuments for the feminists,” Common said as the performance opened, in reference to current political fights over the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program as well as the #MeToo movement. Common performs “Stand Up for Something” at the 90th Academy Awards on March 4, 2018. The rapper also mentioned the survivors of the Parkland, Florida, school shooting and their fight for gun control as well as references to Haiti and Africa, which the president controversially referred to as “ shithole countries ” earlier this year. “Tell the NRA they in God’s way, and to the people of Parkland, we say àse. Sentiments of love from the people, from Africa, Haiti, to Puerto Rico ,” Common said. (The National Rifle Association quickly responded on Twitter , tweeting a video about its support for military veterans.) Later in the performance, the musician also referred to the NFL players who have spent the past two seasons kneeling to protest racial injustice and police violence. In a ceremony that has readily engaged with politics, Common also referred to the president, speaking of Donald Trump as “a president that trolls with hate.” “He don’t control our fate because God is great,” he added. Andra Day, joined onstage by a number of prominent activists, performs “Stand Up for Something” at the 90th Academy Awards on March 4, 2018. Common and Day were joined onstage by a number of prominent activists working on a number of causes, including Patrisse Khan-Cullors of the Black Lives Matter Network, Me Too founder Tarana Burke, and longtime labor activist Dolores Huerta. According to Variety , other activists onstage included Alice Brown Otter of the Standing Rock Youth Council; author and Syrian refugee Bana Alabed; Bryan Stevenson of the Equal Justice Initiative; Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards; transgender rights activist and author Janet Mock; chef José Andrés of World Central Kitchen; and Nicole Hockley, managing director of Sandy Hook Promise. “Stand Up for Something” has been a backdrop for political statements throughout this awards season. When Day and Common performed the song last month on Jimmy Kimmel Live , Day dedicated the performance to DACA recipients, also known as DREAMers. See More : Awards Shows Culture Movies Music Oscars More in this stream See all The Oscars’ new “popular film” category is a bad idea from a panicked organization By Emily St. James Why The Shape of Water is a natural choice for Best Picture By Alissa Wilkinson How to watch this year’s Oscar-winning short films By Alissa Wilkinson Most Popular Neil Gorsuch is the hero America deserves The real reason DOGE failed isn’t what you think How Trump lost Canada The US has quietly gotten into another war in the Middle East Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword Today, Explained Understand the world with a daily explainer plus the most compelling stories of the day, compiled by news editor Sean Collins. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Culture Can you do 11 push-ups? Should you? MAGA glam isn’t about beauty — it’s about politics The unspoken rules of MAGA womanhood When did people stop dancing at the club? Why are so many people into astrology? The life of a dairy cow Culture Apr 29 Can you do 11 push-ups? Should you? Are we all just “wellness bros” now? By Kyndall Cunningham Today, Explained newsletter Apr 27 MAGA glam isn’t about beauty — it’s about politics Examining what’s underneath the “Republican makeup” look. By Sean Collins Culture Apr 25 The unspoken rules of MAGA womanhood How Kristi Noem and Karoline Leavitt offer two visions of conservative femininity. By Constance Grady Culture Apr 25 When did people stop dancing at the club? DJs, club owners, and patrons alike say there’s way too much standing around. By Alex Abad-Santos Explain It to Me Apr 25 Why are so many people into astrology? Astrology’s enormous appeal, explained for believers and skeptics. By Alex Abad-Santos Future Perfect Apr 24 The life of a dairy cow The surprising truth about milk is hiding in plain sight. By Marina Bolotnikova Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Vox Vox logo Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok About us Our staff Ethics & Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Newsletters Privacy Notice Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Settings Licensing Accessibility Platform Status Careers © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved