Splatoon 2 has been updated to version 5.5.0 (Update: patch notes released) - My Nintendo News Skip to content My Nintendo News Nintendo News News Reviews News Via Email Contact & News Tips Search for... My Nintendo News Nintendo News Navigation Menu Search for... Navigation Menu News Reviews News Via Email Contact & News Tips Splatoon 2 has been updated to version 5.5.0 (Update: patch notes released) September 30, 2021 ssf1991 Update: The patch notes have been released. You can see them down below. By now, you may have heard about a Splatoon 2 update that Nintendo announced earlier this month. Although this update doesn’t add any new content, as Nintendo stopped doing that for the game long ago and Splatoon 3 is coming next year, it is still a lengthy update that makes a lot of important changes to the game. The biggest change in the update, as is usually the case with Splatoon 2 updates nowadays, is that many of the game’s weapons have had their specifications re-balanced. There are also a handful of bugs that have been fixed. The official patch notes have not been released in English yet, and they are only available in Japanese. When they’re available, we’ll update the post as soon as we can. Changes to Multiplayer Specifications for some of the main weapons have changed: Weapon Change Splattershot Tentatek Splattershot Kensa Splattershot Hero Shot Replica Octoshot Replica Increased maximum damage that can be dealt from 35.0 to 36.0. Slowed damage falloff speed relative to projectile travel time. Splat Roller Krak-On Splat Roller Kensa Splat Roller Hero Roller Replica Reduced the ink consumption of horizontal and vertical swings by roughly 5%. Octobrush Octobrush Nouveau Kensa Octobrush Herobrush Replica Reduced ink consumption when moving while holding down the ZR Button by roughly 10%. Splat Dualies Enperry Splat Dualies Kensa Splat Dualies Hero Dualie Replicas Reduced ink consumption of rolling from 9% of the ink tank to 7% of the ink tank. .52 Gal .52 Gal Deco Kensa .52 Gal Reduced the radius of turf inked when a shot lands far away by roughly 5%. Points required for using specials have changed for some weapons: Weapon Before After Forge Splattershot Pro 200 190 Luna Blaster 180 170 Cherry H-3 Nozzlenose 190 180 Slosher Deco 220 210 Kensa Splat Dualies 210 200 Splat Brella Hero Brella Replica 200 190 Kensa .52 Gal 180 190 Custom Jet Squelcher 180 190 Foil Squeezer 190 200 E-liter 4K 180 190 E-liter 4K Scope 180 190 Fixed an issue in Inkblot Art Academy in which it was possible to enter the opposing team’s base by jumping over certain walls in Turf War, Splat Zones, and Rainmaker. Fixed an issue in Skipper Pavilion in which it was possible to enter the opposing team’s base by transferring between certain grates. Other Changes We observed changes after distribution of Ver 5.4.0 and made additional adjustments to slightly lower the fighting power of certain weapons that could hold the battle line from further away. Also, we made adjustments to narrow the margins by which certain weapons were strengthened in Ver 5.4.0 while also lowering the frequency at which special weapons can be triggered. At the same time, we expanded weapon choice by increasing the abilities of certain weapons that excel at closer ranges. In addition, we reviewed some of the weapons that previously had their capabilities lowered, and as a result we slightly reverted some of the lowered values and made some adjustments to points required for special weapons. We will observe the changes after this update and make further adjustments to Splatoon 2 in the future. When you download the latest update data, you will no longer be able to communicate in The Shoal with players using older update data. This update also includes changes not listed here, such as improvements to the gameplay experience. Sufficient space on the internal system memory or a microSD card is required to download the update. Save data will still be available for use after downloading the update. Source Share this! Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Like this: Like Loading... Related Tags: news Nintendo nintendo switch Splatoon 2 update video games Leave a Reply Cancel reply previous Castlevania’s director says that “it’s very challenging to release main games of a long-term series on a regular basis” next Zippo says more Rare games coming to Nintendo Switch Online Popular Now GameStop investigating stores selling Nintendo Switch 2 only in bundles Sonic Racing CrossWorlds features tracks from Unleashed, Colours, and Riders Nintendo aiming for up to 1080p resolution, 60 FPS with HDR, in handheld with Donkey Kong Switch 2 seemingly supports low latency Bluetooth audio if audio device supports BT 5.2 CD Projekt Red: Cyberpunk on Switch 2 is "best way to experience the game on the go” US: GameStop to continue to cancel bots and duplicate orders to reopen inventory for Switch 2 pre-orders Speedrunner reaches credits of Zelda: Breath of Wild on the Switch 2 Rumour: Pokemon Gen 10 (Codename Gaia) set to take place in Greek Islands Switch 2 version of Dragon Ball Sparking! ZERO has been rated in Saudi Arabia Platinum Games now hiring for new online action game Excite Global Media Ltd. England and Wales company registration number 11019498 Copyright © 2025 My Nintendo News / Excite Global Media Ltd. X Facebook Threads Bluesky Neve | Powered by WordPress Excite Global Media Ltd. England and Wales company registration number 11019498 Copyright © 2025 My Nintendo News / Excite Global Media Ltd. X Facebook Threads Bluesky Neve | Powered by Discover more from My Nintendo News Subscribe now to keep reading and get access to the full archive. Type your email… Subscribe Continue reading %d