If You Invested $1,000 in Google Stock When It Acquired YouTube, Here's How Much You'd Have Today - Alphabet (NASDAQ:GOOG) - Benzinga España India Italia 대한민국 日本 My Account Benzinga Edge Benzinga Research Benzinga Pro Login Get Benzinga Pro Data & APIs Events Premarket Advertise Contribute España India Italia 대한민국 日本 Login Register Our Services News Earnings Guidance Dividends M&A Buybacks Legal Interviews Management Offerings IPOs Insider Trades Biotech/FDA Politics Healthcare Markets Pre-Market After Hours Movers ETFs Forex Cannabis Commodities Binary Options Bonds Futures CME Group Global Economics Mining Previews Small-Cap Real Estate Penny Stocks Digital Securities Volatility Options Ratings Analyst Color Downgrades Upgrades Initiations Price Target Ideas Trade Ideas Long Ideas Short Ideas Technicals From The Press Jim Cramer Rumors Whisper Index Stock of the Day Best Stocks & ETFs Best Penny Stocks Best S&P 500 ETFs Best Swing Trade Stocks Best Blue Chip Stocks Best High-Volume Penny Stocks Best Small Cap ETFs Best Stocks to Day Trade Best REITs Money Investing Cryptocurrency Mortgage Insurance Yield Personal Finance Forex Startup Investing Real Estate Investing Prop Trading Credit Cards Stock Brokers Crypto News Earnings Guidance Dividends M&A Buybacks Legal Interviews Management Offerings IPOs Insider Trades Biotech/FDA Politics Healthcare Markets Pre-Market After Hours Movers ETFs Forex Cannabis Commodities Binary Options Bonds Futures CME Group Global Economics Mining Previews Small-Cap Real Estate Penny Stocks Digital Securities Volatility Options Ratings Analyst Color Downgrades Upgrades Initiations Price Target Ideas Trade Ideas Long Ideas Short Ideas Technicals From The Press Jim Cramer Rumors Whisper Index Stock of the Day Best Stocks & ETFs Best Penny Stocks Best S&P 500 ETFs Best Swing Trade Stocks Best Blue Chip Stocks Best High-Volume Penny Stocks Best Small Cap ETFs Best Stocks to Day Trade Best REITs Money Investing Cryptocurrency Mortgage Insurance Yield Personal Finance Forex Startup Investing Real Estate Investing Prop Trading Credit Cards Stock Brokers Crypto Research My Stocks Tools Free Benzinga Pro Trial Calendars Analyst Ratings Calendar Conference Call Calendar Dividend Calendar Earnings Calendar Economic Calendar FDA Calendar Guidance Calendar IPO Calendar M&A Calendar SPAC Calendar Stock Split Calendar Trade Ideas Free Stock Reports Insider Trades Trade Idea Feed Analyst Ratings Unusual Options Activity Heatmaps Free Newsletter Government Trades Perfect Stock Portfolio Easy Income Portfolio Short Interest Most Shorted Largest Increase Largest Decrease Calculators Margin Calculator Forex Profit Calculator 100x Options Profit Calculator Screeners Stock Screener Top Momentum Stocks Top Quality Stocks Top Value Stocks Top Growth Stocks Recent Markets April 26, 2023 6:53 PM 2 min read If You Invested $1,000 in Google Stock When It Acquired YouTube, Here's How Much You'd Have Today by Chris Katje Benzinga Staff Writer Follow Zinger Key Points Google acquired YouTube in 2006, its largest purchase ever at the time. YouTube now makes more in revenue each quarter than Google paid for the company at the time. Feel unsure about the market’s next move? Copy trade alerts from Matt Maley—a Wall Street veteran who consistently finds profits in volatile markets. Claim your 7-day free trial now. Add Comment GOOG Alphabet Inc $161.48 -0.58 % Stock Score Locked: Want to See it? Benzinga Rankings give you vital metrics on any stock – anytime. Reveal Full Score Edge Rankings Momentum 46.45 Growth 64.28 Quality 90.82 Value 52.28 Price Trend Short Medium Long Overview GOOGL Alphabet Inc $159.50 -0.69 % Zinger Key Points Google acquired YouTube in 2006, its largest purchase ever at the time. YouTube now makes more in revenue each quarter than Google paid for the company at the time. Feel unsure about the market’s next move? Copy trade alerts from Matt Maley—a Wall Street veteran who consistently finds profits in volatile markets. Claim your 7-day free trial now. In 2006, Google made the biggest acquisition in its history, which has transformed the company. The acquisition of YouTube is considered by many experts to be one of the best acquisitions of all time. Here’s a look at how Google stock has performed since the acquisition. What Happened : On Oct. 9, 2006, Google announced it was paying $1.65 billion in a stock-for-stock deal to acquire video platform YouTube, which is now one of its biggest revenue drivers. “The YouTube team has built and exciting and powerful media platforms that complement Google’s mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful,” former Google CEO Eric Schmidt said at the time. “Together, we are natural partners to offer a compelling media entertainment service to users, content owners and advertisers." Now operating under the Alphabet Inc GOOG GOOGL umbrella, YouTube has been an important piece to the success of the company. In the last fiscal year, YouTube ads brought in $28.8 billion in revenue, out of the $257.6 billion total for the company, representing over 10% of company revenue. In the recently reported first quarter, YouTube generated $6.7 billion in revenue. The YouTube segment has also increased Alphabet’s presence in the streaming market with an offering that includes its own videos and content from other media partners with YouTube TV. Alphabet also recently became the new partner for NFL Sunday Ticket, landing a deal with the National Football League that could help boost subscriptions. Until the 2007 acquisition of DoubleClick for $3.1 billion, the YouTube purchase was the biggest bet by the company. Alphabet has spent $2 billion or more on several deals since the YouTube acquisition. It’s crazy to imagine paying $1.65 billion for YouTube today, with the unit making over $6 billion each quarter for Alphabet in revenue. Related Link: David (Microsoft) Vs. Goliath (Google) Battle For AI Dominance: How Analysts See Alphabet Faring Investing $1,000 in GOOG: Investors who liked the buyout of YouTube or saw the potential of Google’s growth with the video component being added have been pleasantly rewarded. Shares of Google traded at $430 on the morning of Oct. 10, 2006, the day after the YouTube acquisition was announced. A $1,000 investment in Google stock could have purchased 2.33 shares at the time. Google had a two-for-one stock split in 2014 that would have turned the investment into 4.66 shares. A 20-for-one split would have made the investment a total of 93.20 shares in 2022. The 93.20 shares would be worth $9,7161.10 today, based on a price of $104.25 for Alphabet shares at the time of writing. This represents a hypothetical return of 871.6% over the last 16 years and 6 months. Read Next: 9 Companies That Changed Their Iconic Names Photo: Shutterstock Loading... Loading... GOOG Alphabet Inc $161.48 -0.58 % Stock Score Locked: Want to See it? Benzinga Rankings give you vital metrics on any stock – anytime. Reveal Full Score Edge Rankings Momentum 46.45 Growth 64.28 Quality 90.82 Value 52.28 Price Trend Short Medium Long Overview GOOGL Alphabet Inc $159.50 -0.69 % Market News and Data brought to you by Benzinga APIs © 2025 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Posted In: Education Top Stories Tech General Doubleclick Eric Schmidt if you invested 1000 catalyst National Football League NFL Sunday Ticket Technology Stocks YouTube YouTube TV Benzinga simplifies the market for smarter investing Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about. Join Now: Free! Already a member? Sign in Comments Close menu Loading... Connect With Us About Benzinga About Us Careers Advertise Contact Us Market Resources Advanced Stock Screener Tools Options Trading Chain Analysis Comprehensive Earnings Calendar Dividend Investor Calendar and Alerts Economic Calendar and Market Events IPO Calendar and New Listings Market Outlook and Analysis Wall Street Analyst Ratings and Targets Trading Tools & Education Benzinga Pro Trading Platform Options Trading Strategies and News Stock Market Trading Ideas and Analysis Technical Analysis Charts and Indicators Fundamental Analysis and Valuation Day Trading Guides and Strategies Live Investors Events Pre market Stock Analysis and News Cryptocurrency Market Analysis and News Ring the Bell A newsletter built for market enthusiasts by market enthusiasts. Top stories, top movers, and trade ideas delivered to your inbox every weekday before and after the market closes. Subscribe Terms & Conditions Do Not Sell My Personal Data/Privacy Policy Disclaimer Service Status Sitemap © 2025 Benzinga | All Rights Reserved