It's Official: Apple Will Unveil The iPhone 11 On September 10 Skip to content Country Singapore Malaysia International Topics Entrepreneurs Startups Editor Picks News Reader Job Trends Lifestyle About Advertise Country Close Country Open Country Singapore Malaysia International Topics Close Topics Open Topics Entrepreneurs We spotlight trailblazers in the entrepreneurship world, exploring their groundbreaking ventures, innovative strategies, and the latest trends shaping the business landscape. Startups Fresh new ideas and groundbreaking innovations are constantly shaking up industries. Here, you can find out more about the emerging startups in the region and how they are driving meaningful change. Editor Picks Carefully curated stories chosen by our editors—spotlighting inspiring, and must-read articles across business, tech, lifestyle, and more. News Reader Your daily digest of the latest headlines. Stay updated with quick, reliable summaries of the key news shaping Singapore, Malaysia, and the world. Job Trends The job market is constantly evolving—stay informed of emerging industries, in-demand skills, and the shifting employment landscape. Lifestyle Here’s where all the fun and light-hearted stuff is. About Advertise Geek It’s Official: Apple Will Unveil The iPhone 11 On September 10 Jared Alex Tan 30 Aug 2019 Two weeks ago, we speculated if Apple was dropping hints about the iPhone 11 in its latest beta of iOS13 — an image included in the update showed the Calendar app set at September 10, and past releases have used that exact method to “leak” the date of their iPhone events as well. And well, it looks like our suspicions were right after all. Apple sent out invitations for an event yesterday (not to us, unfortunately – maybe next year!), and the date is listed as none other than…you guessed it, September 10. It’s not Apple’s style to explicitly say what they’re planning to reveal, but it’s pretty much a foregone conclusion that the event — which will take place at the company’s Headquarters in Cupertino, California — will unveil the successors to the iPhone XR, XS and XS Max. So what can we expect from this year’s offerings? It’s widely believed that the iPhone 11 will rock a triple camera system, which’ll (finally) put them on the same level as phones from other brands. The iPhone is also rumoured to feature Reverse Wireless Charging, which means that you can use the phone to charge other devices (or AirPods!). Image Credit: iHelp BR Apart from that we might also see a new version of the Apple Watch, which has historically seen updates in September as well. In the same vein as the iOS leak the Watch OS 6 beta hinted at the return of the ceramic finish, along with a brand new titanium version as well. If you’re looking for the new 16-inch Macbook or an update to the iPad Pro, however, you might have to wait a little longer. Apple typically doesn’t announce that line of products alongside the iPhone, but the September event is usually a good indicator that those are next in line. We’ve said it before, but it’s worth saying again — if you’re planning on getting a new iPhone, this could be the worst possible time to get a new one. A refresh is definitely coming in less than two weeks, so just hold on till then. Feature Image Credit: Apple Also Read We Tried iOS13, WatchOS 6 And iPad OS – Here’s Why You Should Be Excited Geek Singaporean Gadget Enthusiast News Reader Table of Contents Popular Posts This S’wakian quit engineering to pursue F&B, now his Kuching restaurant has expanded to KL “The money is staring at us”: Lim Tean on how PAR plans to fund free healthcare & education MITI allegedly “stole” an agency’s design—here’s what creatives can do to protect their work. This 70 Y/O M’sian makes unique watches that marry Swiss precision with local culture GE2025: From jobs to housing, where does each party stand on bread-and-butter issues? More From Vulcan Post “The money is staring at us”: Lim Tean on how PAR plans to fund free healthcare & education Yoganeetha Sivakumar 29 Apr 2025 GE2025: From jobs to housing, where does each party stand on bread-and-butter issues? Yoganeetha Sivakumar 28 Apr 2025 GE2025: Four constituencies where even PAP ministers will face a tough fight Michael Petraeus 28 Apr 2025 Ong Ye Kung: Singapore must be decisive, but with checks & balances Jayme Teo 25 Apr 2025 GE2025: Singapore could have 4 parties in the Parliament, as SDP tries to break the dry spell Michael Petraeus 25 Apr 2025 GE2025: What is a sample count and is it even accurate? Yoganeetha Sivakumar 25 Apr 2025 Handwritten names and empty stages: How GE2025 took an unexpected turn Jacky Yap 24 Apr 2025 She grew her home-based biz into a cafe that catered IU and SUJU’s S’pore shows, here’s how Jayme Teo 24 Apr 2025 “The money is staring at us”: Lim Tean on how PAR plans to fund free healthcare & education Yoganeetha Sivakumar 29 Apr 2025 GE2025: From jobs to housing, where does each party stand on bread-and-butter issues? Yoganeetha Sivakumar 28 Apr 2025 GE2025: Four constituencies where even PAP ministers will face a tough fight Michael Petraeus 28 Apr 2025 Ong Ye Kung: Singapore must be decisive, but with checks & balances Jayme Teo 25 Apr 2025 GE2025: Singapore could have 4 parties in the Parliament, as SDP tries to break the dry spell Michael Petraeus 25 Apr 2025 GE2025: What is a sample count and is it even accurate? Yoganeetha Sivakumar 25 Apr 2025 Handwritten names and empty stages: How GE2025 took an unexpected turn Jacky Yap 24 Apr 2025 She grew her home-based biz into a cafe that catered IU and SUJU’s S’pore shows, here’s how Jayme Teo 24 Apr 2025 Vulcan Post creates content to make smarter consumers and inspired entrepreneurs. Our vision is to be the knowledge hub of Singapore and Malaysia. About Advertise Careers Contact Us About Advertise Careers Contact Us Countries Singapore Malaysia International Topics Entrepreneurs Startups Editor Picks News Reader Job Trends Lifestyle Opinions Pinned Post Products F&B Geek Serial App User Must Read Entertainment Yahoo News Social Media User Online Shopper Luminary Traveller Funding Gadget Enthusiast Gamer Fintech Cryptocurrency Copyright © 2025 VulcanPost Search Search International Edition Singapore Edition Malaysia Edition Malaysia Edition Search Search Featured Topics E-Commerce Tech giants Digital Banking Singapore affairs Cryptocurrency Subscription Login About Us Reach Out Careers About Us Reach Out Careers Tiktok Instagram Facebook Vulcan Post aims to be the knowledge hub of Singapore and Malaysia. © 2021 GRVTY Media Pte. Ltd. (UEN 201431998C.)