The Last of Us Part 2 Remastered launch times and release date | PC Gamer Skip to main content Open menu Close menu PC Gamer PC Gamer THE GLOBAL AUTHORITY ON PC GAMES Search Search PC Gamer Sign in View Profile Sign out Subscribe US Edition UK US Canada Australia Games Hardware News Reviews Guides Video Forum More PC Gaming Show Software Movies & TV Coupons Magazine Newsletter Community guidelines Affiliate links Meet the team About PC Gamer PC Gamer Magazine Subscription Why subscribe? Subscribe to the world's #1 PC gaming mag Try a single issue or save on a subscription Issues delivered straight to your door or device From $32.49 View Deal Popular Oblivion Remastered Marathon Baldur's Gate 3 Schedule 1 Marvel Rivals Games RPG The Last of Us Part 2 The Last of Us Part 2 Remastered launch times and release date Guides By Elie Gould published 3 April 2025 Time to fight clickers with better graphics. Comments ( 0 ) ( ) When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . (Image credit: Sony) Jump to: When is The Last of Us Part 2 remaster unlock time? Is there preloading for The Last of Us Part 2 Remastered? It's only been a year since The Last of Us Part 2 Remastered released on PlayStation 5, so I'm happy to see a quick turnaround for this PC port. Although PC players could already play The Last of Us Part 2 on PS5 if they were desperate, this remaster will provide a couple of improvements. This version of The Last of Us Part 2 will have better graphics and performance, as well as a few new modes like No Return. This is actually a roguelike survival mode, which lets players choose from a roster of characters, each with their own loadouts and unique traits. On every run, players will encounter randomised combat encounters in key locations in the game. There'll also be some unique twists to make this mode feel a little different from the main campaign. 2025 games : This year's upcoming releases Best PC games : Our all-time favorites Free PC games : Freebie fest Best FPS games : Finest gunplay Best RPGs : Grand adventures Best co-op games : Better together But the hardest part of this mode isn't choosing which character to play as or dealing with the new scenarios, it's probably the fact that death in No Return is permanent. If you fail a run, you lose all of your weapons, items, and upgrades that you collected on that run, and you will then have to start over with a new set of random scenarios. You may like The Last of Us Part 2: everything we know about TLOU on PC The Last of Us Part 2 Remastered review The Last of Us Part 2 Remastered isn't perfect on PC but it's a million times better than Part 1 It may only be a small part of the remaster, but it's still a nice addition, especially if you've already played the original campaign on PS4 or 5. When is The Last of Us Part 2 remaster unlock time? (Image credit: Sony) Los Angeles : 10 am PST on Thursday, April 3 New York : 1 pm EDT on Thursday, April 3 Brasilia : 2 pm BRT on Thursday, April 3 London : 5 pm BST on Thursday, April 3 Berlin : 6 pm CET on Thursday, April 3 Cairo : 7 pm EET on Thursday, April 3 New Delhi : 10:30 pm IST on Thursday, April 3 Jakarta : 12 am WIB on Friday, April 4 Tokyo : 2am JST on Friday, April 4 Sydney : 4am AEDT on Friday, April 4 Auckland : 6am NZDT on Friday, April 4 Is there preloading for The Last of Us Part 2 Remastered? You can already start preloading The Last of Us Part 2 Remastered. If you go onto the Steam page and purchase the game, you can get a bit of a head start on downloading it, so you can hopefully play it straight away when it releases. The download size is approximately 100 GB, which isn't small by any means, so it's probably better to start downloading it sooner rather than later. The biggest gaming news, reviews and hardware deals Keep up to date with the most important stories and the best deals, as picked by the PC Gamer team. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Elie Gould News Writer Elie is a news writer with an unhealthy love of horror games—even though their greatest fear is being chased. When they're not screaming or hiding, there's a good chance you'll find them testing their metal in metroidvanias or just admiring their Pokemon TCG collection. Elie has previously worked at TechRadar Gaming as a staff writer and studied at JOMEC in International Journalism and Documentaries – spending their free time filming short docs about Smash Bros. or any indie game that crossed their path. You must confirm your public display name before commenting Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name. Logout Read more The Last of Us Part 2: everything we know about TLOU on PC The Last of Us Part 2 Remastered review The Last of Us Part 2 Remastered isn't perfect on PC but it's a million times better than Part 1 HBO announces The Last of Us Season 2 release date: April 13 Kingdom Come: Deliverance 2 launch times and release date Death Stranding 2's PS5 release date is in June, let's hope it doesn't take 8 months to hit PC this time Latest in RPG Dragon Age creator says Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 is 'kind of to JRPGs what Baldur's Gate 3 was to CRPGs' An Oblivion Remastered player ended up in 'the backrooms of Oblivion' trying to find the exact location from The Elder Scrolls 6 teaser trailer With Larian finally at the end of its journey with Baldur's Gate 3, what do we want next from the new kings of the RPG? 'We are profoundly thankful for your lasting devotion': Elden Ring celebrates 30 million copies sold just a month before Elden Ring Nightreign Dark Souls 2 cut content includes a giant enemy crab wearing a castle tower as a shell which you could enter from above for massive damage There's a reason Oblivion Remastered's new voice actors all sound familiar: It's a huge Skyrim reunion Latest in Guides Oblivion Remastered leveling explained—with skill exploits to rank up faster Best attributes for each character in Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 Path of Exile 2 Dawn of the Hunt endgame mechanics explained Every goal and reward in the Phasmophobia Cursed Hollow 2025 event Best classes in Oblivion Remastered When is the Cheshire Cat coming to Disney Dreamlight Valley? HARDWARE BUYING GUIDES LATEST GAME REVIEWS 1 Best Steam Deck accessories in Australia for 2025: Our favorite docks, powerbanks and gamepads 2 Best graphics card for laptops in 2025: the mobile GPUs I'd want in my next gaming laptop 3 Best mini PCs in 2025: The compact computers I love the most 4 Best 14-inch gaming laptop in 2025: The top compact gaming laptops I've held in these hands 5 Best Mini-ITX motherboards in 2025: My pick from all the mini mobo marvels I've tested 1 Be Quiet! Dark Mount gaming keyboard review 2 Be Quiet! Light Mount gaming keyboard review 3 Skin Deep review 4 Crucial P310 1 TB (2280) review 5 WD Black SN7100 1 TB review PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and conditions Privacy policy Cookies policy Advertise with us Accessibility Statement Careers © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up