Super Bowl Locations for 2026, 2027 and Beyond ON SI SI SWIMSUIT SI TICKETS SI RESORTS SI SHOPS MY ACCOUNT SUBSCRIBE NOW KENTUCKY DERBY NFL NBA WNBA MLB GOLF SOCCER NCAAF NCAAB MEDIA BETTING FANTASY Mexico US Super Bowl Locations for 2026, 2027, and Beyond Liam McKeone | Feb 12, 2025 Mercedes-Benz Stadium will host the 2028 Super Bowl / Dale Zanine-Imagn Images In this story: Kansas City Chiefs Philadelphia Eagles New Orleans Saints San Francisco 49ers Los Angeles Rams Los Angeles Chargers Atlanta Falcons The Super Bowl is the marquee event in American sports, and each year cities across the country engage in a competition to be named the host city for a Super Bowl. Hosting "The Big Game" comes with economic benefits as tens of thousands of people flood in for two weeks in February who wouldn't be there otherwise. It also is a mark of prestige for the stadium fortunate enough to host a Super Bowl. It makes for a competitive process. The NFL announces host cities for Super Bowls several years in advance due to the preparation and planning required for a city to hold such an endeavor. Super Bowl LVIII between the Kansas City Chiefs and San Francisco 49ers, for example, was held at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas. That was announced in 2021. Now that New Orleans has wrapped up its 11th Super Bowl, hosting Super Bowl LIX for the Philadelphia Eagles' dominant win over the Kansas City Chiefs, where will the Super Bowl be in the coming years? Buy Now. SIP February Super Bowl. Sports Illustrated's Super Bowl Commemorative Issue. dark Future Super Bowl Locations Here are all the Super Bowl locations that have been announced, stretching to 2028. YEAR SUPER BOWL STADIUM CITY 2026 Super Bowl LX Levi's Stadium Santa Clara, Ca. 2027 Super Bowl LXI SoFi Stadium Los Angeles 2028 Super Bowl LXII Mercedes-Benz Stadium Atlanta Super Bowl Location 2026 Super Bowl LX, which will occur at the conclusion of the 2025 season on February 8, 2026, is scheduled to be held Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara, Ca. It's the second Super Bowl the stadium will play host to after it held Super Bowl L back in 2016. Super Bowl Location 2027 Super Bowl LXI, to be held at the conclusion of the 2026 season on February 14, 2027, is set to take place at SoFi Stadium in Los Angeles, Ca. It's a familiar locale for the Big Game in recent years as the first Super Bowl held at SoFi was back in 2022. It marks the ninth Super Bowl held in the greater Los Angeles area. Super Bowl Location 2028 Super Bowl LXII, to be held at the conclusion of the 2027 season in February 2028 (official date TBD), will be hosted at Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta, Ga. It will be the second Super Bowl hosted at the venue after it played home to the 2019 Super Bowl. When are Super Bowl locations announced? Super Bowl locations are usually announced somewhere between three and four years in advance. The announcements often come in concert with big NFL gatherings, like owner's meetings or league meetings. For example, Atlanta was announced as the host city for the 2028 Super Bowl in October of 2024 during the annual fall owner's meetings. Right now we know the Super Bowl locations for the next four years. In fall 2025 we can expect to hear about the 2029 Super Bowl. Which city has hosted the most Super Bowls? A natural follow-up question to all this information is which city has hosted the most Super Bowls. There aren't many options given the NFL (outside of one season) has always given the Super Bowl to cities that reside in temperate climates or cities that have a domed stadium for their NFL teams. If it feels like the Super Bowl is just on rotation with a bunch of warm-weather cities and the occasional dome, well... That's by design. All that is to say you shouldn't be surprised to hear that Miami and New Orleans have played host to the most Super Bowls. Of the 58 Super Bowls that have occurred, Miami has hosted 11 of them, as has New Orleans. Over a third of all Super Bowls have been held in one of those two cities. Predicting future Super Bowl locations While there was a time cities would bid over the right to host a Super Bowl, the NFL has nixed that practice in recent years. Rather, the league now chooses what venue will host the Super Bowl and the city chosen must put together an adequate proposal on how the infrastructure will provide for all the requisite events. To that end it makes it both difficult and easy to predict future Super Bowl locations. On the one hand, there are only so many cities that check the boxes the NFL is looking for— a warm weather environment and/or a domed stadium, venues and public spaces for the events that accompany the Super Bowl, optimal accomodations for the teams, things of that nature. There are a few obvious choices, though. It seems very like AT&T Stadium, home of the Dallas Cowboys, will get a Super Bowl sooner rather than later. Jerry Jones will push hard for it as he enters his mid-80s and the stadium has more than enough room around it to put on the show the NFL likes to put on. Additionally, Hard Rock Stadium in Miami should get a Super Bowl bid quite soon. The city is tied for hosting the most Super Bowls in history, as noted above, so it feels like it's only a matter of time before the NFL returns. Other potential host cities include: Ford Field, which has hosted a Super Bowl in the past and just hosted the NFL draft to great acclaim; State Farm Stadium, a recent staple in the Super Bowl host rotation; and one of the several cities who could potentially get a new domed stadium in the next five years, like Chicago or Buffalo. Read More About the Super Bowl manual Published Oct 15, 2024 | Modified Feb 12, 2025 LIAM MCKEONE Liam McKeone is a senior writer for the Breaking and Trending News team at Sports Illustrated. He has been in the industry as a content creator since 2017, and prior to joining SI in May 2024, McKeone worked for NBC Sports Boston and The Big Lead. In addition to his work as a writer, he has hosted the Press Pass Podcast covering sports media and The Big Stream covering pop culture. A graduate of Fordham University, he is always up for a good debate and enjoys loudly arguing about sports, rap music, books and video games. McKeone has been a member of the National Sports Media Association since 2020. Follow liam_mckeone Home / NFL Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Takedown Policy Terms and Conditions SI Accessibility Statement Sitemap A-Z Index FAQ Cookie Settings © 2025 ABG-SI LLC - SPORTS ILLUSTRATED IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF ABG-SI LLC. - All Rights Reserved. The content on this site is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Betting and gambling content is intended for individuals 21+ and is based on individual commentators' opinions and not that of Sports Illustrated or its affiliates, licensees and related brands. All picks and predictions are suggestions only and not a guarantee of success or profit. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, crisis counseling and referral services can be accessed by calling 1-800-GAMBLER.