YouTube Ad Revenue Q1 2025 Hits $8.9B, Alphabet Beats Estimates YouTube Ad Revenue Q1 2025 Hits $8.9B, Alphabet Beats Estimates Plus Icon Film Plus Icon TV Plus Icon What To Watch Plus Icon Music Plus Icon Docs Plus Icon Digital & Gaming Plus Icon Global Plus Icon Awards Circuit Plus Icon Video Plus Icon What To Hear VIP Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Got a Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Variety Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Variety Plus Icon Read Next: Netflix Goes Global on Italy’s ‘The Sea Beyond’ With Multi-Season Deal That Includes Movie Prequel (EXCLUSIVE) Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Home Digital News Apr 24, 2025 1:08pm PT YouTube Ad Revenue Bulks Up 10.3% to $8.9 Billion as Alphabet Q1 Net Profit Jumps 46% Company says it has more than 270 million paid subscriptions overall, driven by YouTube and Google One By Todd Spangler Plus Icon Todd Spangler NY Digital Editor xpangler Latest Comcast CEO Brian Roberts Pay Package Drops to $33.9 Million in 2024 4 hours ago Elizabeth Murphy Burns, Trailblazing Broadcast TV Exec, Dies at 79 4 hours ago iHeartMedia Hires David Hillman, Former CBS and Venu Sports Exec, as Chief Legal Officer 21 hours ago See All Getty Images YouTube continues to rake in money from advertisers worldwide, with the video giant’s ad revenue reaching $8.93 billion in the first quarter of 2025, up 10.3% year over year — a solid double-digit bump off an already large haul. Alphabet , which owns Google and YouTube, handily topped Wall Street financial estimates for the period. YouTube’s ad sales revenue was just a hair short of analyst expectations of $8.97 billion for Q1, according to StreetAccount. The figure does not include billions more in revenue YouTube generates through subscription services like YouTube TV and YouTube Premium, which Alphabet does not break out in earnings reports. Related Stories VIP+ What Warner Bros. Can Learn From Netflix About Video Game Strategy Frank Zappa’s Unaired Concert Special to Be Released After More Than 50 Years The internet company said it now has more than 270 million paid subscriptions overall, driven by YouTube and Google One, its consumer cloud storage service. YouTube Music and Premium topped 125 million subs during the quarter , and the company expanded its cheaper Premium Lite product to users in the U.S., priced at $7.99 per month (versus $13.99/month for YouTube Premium and $10.99/month for YouTube Music).. Popular on Variety Overall, Alphabet reported revenue of $90.23 billion (up 12%) and net profit of $34.54 billion (up 46%), translating to earnings per share of $2.81. Wall Street was expecting $89.12 billion in revenue and earnings per share of $2.01, according to LSEG Data & Analytics. “We’re pleased with our strong Q1 results, which reflect healthy growth and momentum across the business,” Sundar Pichai, CEO of Alphabet and Google, said in prepared remarks. “Search saw continued strong growth, boosted by the engagement we’re seeing with features like AI Overviews, which now has 1.5 billion users per month. Driven by YouTube and Google One, we surpassed 270 million paid subscriptions. And Cloud grew rapidly with significant demand for our solutions.” YouTube, which turned 20 this year, released new stats as part of marking launch in 2005, including touting more than 20 billion videos uploaded to date . For full-year 2024, YouTube had an estimated $54.2 billion in revenue, making it the second-largest media company after Disney, and in 2025 it’s poised to take the No. 1 spot, according to analyst firm MoffettNathanson . As for how macroeconomic uncertainty might affect the company’s Q2 advertising sales, chief business officer Philipp Schindler said on the earnings call Thursday that “it’s too early to really comment on that.” For full-year 2025, he said, new U.S. tariffs “will obviously cause a slight headwind to our ads business” primarily with respect to spending from Asia Pacific-based retailers. Meanwhile, Google last week was served another legal setback after a U.S. federal judge ruled that Google held illegal monopolies in internet ad-tech markets ; Google said it will appeal the decision. That came after an August 2024 ruling by another federal court that Google has a monopoly in internet search and that the company broke the law by inking multibillion-dollar deals to make its search engine the default on browsers and smartphones including devices from Apple and Samsung. The U.S. government has proposed that Google be forced to divest the Chrome browser as a result of its anticompetitive behavior. YouTube at 20: How the Video Colossus Launched the Creator Economy and Turned From Hollywood Foe to Friend Read More About: Alphabet, Google, media earnings, YouTube Jump to Comments More from Variety Disney to Preview ‘Zootopia 2,’ ‘Elio,’ ‘Toy Story 5’ and More at This Year’s Annecy Festival Celtics Sale Shows Media’s New Pot of Gold: Sports Teams as Mega-Brands FCC Chairman Opens Probe Into Disney and ABC DEI Practices: ‘Iconic’ Company ‘Recently Went All In on DEI’ Disney Store to Launch May the 4th ‘Star Wars’ Collection, Starting With Limited-Edition Weekly Drops Next  Month (EXCLUSIVE) Nintendo Switch 2 Won’t Be Superior Successor — But It Still Matters Warner Bros. Discovery, Netflix, Disney and More Media Stocks Rally as Trump Sets 90-Day Pause on Tariffs for Some Countries JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Most Popular Netflix CEO Ted Sarandos Says Movie Theater Model Is ‘Outdated’: ‘Most of the Country’ Cannot ‘Walk to a Multiplex… Megyn Kelly Delivers 11-Minute Rant About George Clooney After He Blasts Her for Not Being a Journalist: ‘Are Hollywood Roles Getting a Little Hard… Sydney Sweeney to Star in ‘Split Fiction’ Film Adaptation From Director Jon M. Chu, ‘Deadpool and Wolverine’ Writers… Meghan Markle Didn’t Film Netflix Show at Her Own House Because '80 People in the Kitchen Isn’t the Childhood Memory’ She Wants for Her… Bill Maher Fires Back at Larry David for ‘My Dinner With Adolf’ Essay Spoofing His Trump Meeting: ‘It’s Kind of Insulting to Six Million Dead Jews… Pete Davidson on Going Tattoo-Free and His Concern for Young Men and Social Media: ‘They Don’t Even Have a F—ing Shot’ Damon Wayans Is ‘Walking Away With Deep Gratitude’ After ‘Poppa’s House’ Cancellation: ‘This Show Gave Me More Than I Could’ve Ever Imagined… ‘The Masked Singer’ Reveals Identity of Nessy: Here Is the Celebrity Under the Costume Carrie Preston and Michael Emerson on the Violent End of His 'Elsbeth' Arc, and Why It Was Hard to Film After 26 Years of Marriage: 'I Never Like… Noah Schnapp Reflects on Coming Out Before ‘Stranger Things’ Season 5 Filming: ‘I’m Finally Living Truthfully’ Must Read TV COVER | Noah Wyle Was Nearing a ‘Nervous Breakdown.’ Then Came ‘The Pitt’ By Andrew Wallenstein 2 weeks Awards Oscars Add Best Stunt Design Category Starting in 2027 Film ‘Sinners’ Review: Ryan Coogler’s Deep South From-Dusk-Till-Dawn Vampire Film Is a Lavishly Serious Popcorn Movie Film CinemaCon Takeaways: Fights Over Theatrical Window, Fizzling Star Power and Amazon MGM’s Big Promise Film Cannes Film Festival Lineup: Wes Anderson, Richard Linklater, Ari Aster, Julia Ducournau, Kelly Reichardt in Competition Sign Up for Variety Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Variety Confidential A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast More From Our Brands Rolling Stone Julianne Moore Is Super Rich, Maybe a Cult Leader in New ‘Sirens’ Trailer Robb Report Rocker Gene Simmons Is Rolling Out of His $14 Million Ultra-Modern Villa in Beverly Hills Sportico Sportico Transactions: Moves and Mergers Roundup for April 25 WWD Jacquemus Celebrates L.A. Opening with Bananas, Bouquets and Bubbly, Joined by Lori Harvey, Laura Harrier, Cole Sprouse and More TVLine Survivor’s [Spoiler] Says Joe Was ‘Brittle’ and Had ‘Zero Self-Awareness’ Variety About Us Newsletter Variety Events Luminate - Film & TV Advertise Media Kit Careers Customer Service Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Variety Magazine Subscribe Variety Digital Login Group Subscriptions Variety Archives Back Issues Help VIP+ Subscribe Login Learn More FAQ Connect Instagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Variety The Business of Entertainment Subscribe Today Have a News Tip? Let us know Variety Close the menu Expand the sub menu Film News Reviews Podcasts Box Office Events Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu TV News Reviews Podcasts Ratings Pilot Scorecard Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu What To Watch Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Music News Album Reviews Concert Reviews Hitmakers Music For Screens Grammys Expand the sub menu Docs Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Tech Features Global VIP+ Tech Expand the sub menu Global News Asia Markets & Festivals Features Expand the sub menu Awards Circuit News Film Predictions TV Predictions Video Artisans Columns Awards Circuit Podcast Expand the sub menu Video Popular Cover Shoots - Behind the Scenes Actors on Actors Power of Women Events Artisans Expand the sub menu What to Hear Lists & Features Expand the sub menu VIP+ Daily Commentary Special Reports Video Expand the sub menu More Coverage Obituaries - submit obituaries to obits@variety.com Photos Podcasts Scene Voices Theater Expand the sub menu More Variety Live Media Summits Vscore Luminate - Film & TV Variety Archives Variety500 Industry Executives Have a News Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Alerts and Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Follow Us Got a Tip? Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Advertise About Contact Us Variety is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Variety Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Icon Link Plus Icon ad