List of female Academy Award winners and nominees for non-gendered categories - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Best Animated Feature 2 Best Cinematography 3 Best Costume Design 4 Best Director 5 Best Documentary Film (Feature) 6 Best Documentary Film (Short) 7 Best Film Editing 8 Best International Feature Film 9 Best Makeup and Hairstyling 10 Best Music (Original Score) 11 Best Music (Original Song) 12 Best Picture 13 Best Production Design 14 Best Short Film (Animated) 15 Best Short Film (Live Action) 16 Best Sound 17 Best Visual Effects 18 Best Writing (Adapted Screenplay) 19 Best Writing (Original Screenplay) 20 Best Writing (Original Story) 21 Special Awards 22 Notes 23 References Toggle the table of contents List of female Academy Award winners and nominees for non-gendered categories Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This list of female Academy Award winners and nominees for non-gendered categories details women who have won or been nominated for awards in non-gender-specific categories. The nominees are arranged, in alphabetical order, by film title, with the winners listed first. It's fully current as of the 97th Academy Awards , which took place in 2025. Best Animated Feature [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Animated Feature Year Name Film Status Notes 2007 Marjane Satrapi Persepolis Nominated First woman to be nominated for Best Animated Feature. Shared with Vincent Paronnaud . 2011 Jennifer Yuh Nelson Kung Fu Panda 2 Nominated First woman of color to be nominated for Best Animated Feature. 2012 Brenda Chapman Brave Won First woman to win for Best Animated Feature. Shared with Mark Andrews . 2013 [ note 1 ] Jennifer Lee Frozen Won Shared with Chris Buck and Peter Del Vecho . Kristine Belson The Croods Nominated Shared with Kirk DeMicco and Chris Sanders . 2014 Bonnie Arnold How to Train Your Dragon 2 Nominated Shared with Dean DeBlois . 2015 Rosa Tran Anomalisa Nominated Shared with Charlie Kaufman and Duke Johnson . 2016 Arianne Sutner Kubo and the Two Strings Nominated Shared with Travis Knight . Osnat Shurer Moana Nominated Shared with John Musker and Ron Clements . 2017 [ note 2 ] Darla K. Anderson Coco Won Shared with Lee Unkrich . Ramsey Ann Naito The Boss Baby Nominated Shared with Tom McGrath . Nora Twomey The Breadwinner Nominated Shared with Anthony Leo . Lori Forte Ferdinand Nominated Shared with Carlos Saldanha . Dorota Kobiela Loving Vincent Nominated Shared with Hugh Welchman and Ivan Mactaggart . 2018 Nicole Paradis Grindle Incredibles 2 Nominated Shared with Brad Bird and John Walker . 2019 Bonnie Arnold How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World Nominated First woman with multiple nominations in this category. Shared with Dean DeBlois and Brad Lewis . Jinko Gotoh Marisa Román Klaus Nominated Shared with Sergio Pablos . Arianne Sutner Missing Link Nominated Shared with Chris Butler and Travis Knight. 2020 Dana Murray Soul Won Shared with Pete Docter . Kori Rae Onward Nominated Shared with Dan Scanlon . Gennie Rin Peilin Chou Over the Moon Nominated Shared with Glen Keane . 2021 Yvett Merino Encanto Won First Latina to win and be nominated for Best Animated Feature. Shared with Jared Bush , Byron Howard , and Clark Spencer . Monica Hellström Signe Byrge Sørensen Charlotte de la Gournerie Flee Nominated First animated documentary to be nominated in this category. Shared with Jonas Poher Rasmussen . Andrea Warren Luca Nominated Shared with Enrico Casarosa . Osnat Shurer Raya and the Last Dragon Nominated Shared with Don Hall , Carlos López Estrada , and Peter Del Vecho . 2022 Elisabeth Holm Caroline Kaplan Marcel the Shell with Shoes On Nominated Shared with Dean Fleischer Camp , Andrew Goldman, and Paul Mezey . Domee Shi Lindsey Collins Turning Red Nominated 2023 Denise Ream Elemental Nominated Shared with Peter Sohn . Karen Ryan Julie Zackary Nimona Nominated Shared with Nick Bruno and Troy Quane . Sandra Tapia Díaz Robot Dreams Nominated Shared with Pablo Berger , Ibon Cormenzana, and Ignasi Estapé. Amy Pascal Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse Nominated Shared with Kemp Powers , Justin K. Thompson, Phil Lord , and Christopher Miller . 2024 Liz Kearney Memoir of a Snail Nominated Shared with Adam Elliot . Best Cinematography [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Cinematography Year Name Film Status Notes 2017 Rachel Morrison Mudbound Nominated First woman to be nominated for Best Cinematography. 2021 Ari Wegner The Power of the Dog Nominated 2022 Mandy Walker Elvis Nominated Best Costume Design [ edit ] At least one woman has been nominated for Best Costume Design at every ceremony since the category's inception. Academy Award for Best Costume Design [ note 3 ] Year Name Film Status Notes 1948 [ note 1 ] Black-and-White Irene B.F.'s Daughter Nominated Among the inaugural nominees in costume categories. Color Dorothy Jeakins Karinska Joan of Arc Won First women to win in costume categories. Among the inaugural nominees in costume categories. Edith Head The Emperor Waltz Nominated Among the inaugural nominees in costume categories. Shared with Gile Steele . 1949 Black-and-White Edith Head The Heiress Won First woman to win for Best Costume Design (B&W). First woman with multiple nominations in costume categories. First woman to be nominated in both costume categories. Shared with Gile Steele. Color Marjorie Best Leah Rhodes The Adventures of Don Juan Won Shared with Travilla . Kay Nelson Mother Is a Freshman Nominated 1950 Black-and-White Edith Head All About Eve Won First woman with multiple wins in costume categories. Shared with Charles LeMaire . Color Edith Head Dorothy Jeakins Elois Jenssen Gwen Wakeling Samson and Delilah Won Jeakins was the first woman with multiple wins for Best Costume Design (Color). Head was the first woman to win in both costume categories. Shared with Gile Steele. 1951 Black-and-White Edith Head A Place in the Sun Won Renié The Model and the Marriage Broker Nominated Shared with Charles LeMaire. Margaret Furse The Mudlark Nominated Shared with Edward Stevenson . Lucinda Ballard A Streetcar Named Desire Nominated Color Irene Sharaff An American in Paris Won First LGBT woman to be nominated in a non-acting category and first to win in any category. Shared with Orry-Kelly and Walter Plunkett . Helen Rose The Great Caruso Nominated Shared with Gile Steele. 1952 Black-and-White Helen Rose The Bad and the Beautiful Won Edith Head Carrie Nominated Dorothy Jeakins My Cousin Rachel Nominated Shared with Charles LeMaire. Sheila O'Brien Sudden Fear Nominated Color Edith Head Dorothy Jeakins The Greatest Show on Earth Nominated Shared with Miles White . Karinska Mary Wills Hans Christian Andersen Nominated Shared with Clavé . Helen Rose The Merry Widow Nominated Shared with Gile Steele. 1953 Black-and-White Edith Head Roman Holiday Won Helen Rose Dream Wife Nominated Shared with Herschel McCoy . Renié The President's Lady Nominated Shared with Charles LeMaire. Color Mary Ann Nyberg The Band Wagon Nominated Irene Sharaff Call Me Madam Nominated 1954 Black-and-White Edith Head Sabrina Won Rosine Delamare The Earrings of Madame de... Nominated Shared with Georges Annenkov . Helen Rose Executive Suite Nominated Color Irene Sharaff Brigadoon Nominated Mary Ann Nyberg Irene Sharaff A Star Is Born Nominated Shared with Jean Louis . 1955 Black-and-White Helen Rose I'll Cry Tomorrow Won Beatrice Dawson The Pickwick Papers Nominated Edith Head The Rose Tattoo Nominated Color Irene Sharaff Guys and Dolls Nominated Helen Rose Interrupted Melody Nominated Edith Head To Catch a Thief Nominated Mary Wills The Virgin Queen Nominated Shared with Charles LeMaire. 1956 Black-and-White Helen Rose The Power and the Prize Nominated Edith Head The Proud and Profane Nominated Mary Wills Teenage Rebel Nominated Shared with Charles LeMaire. Color Irene Sharaff The King and I Won Marjorie Best Giant Nominated Shared with Moss Mabry . Edith Head Dorothy Jeakins The Ten Commandments Nominated Shared with Ralph Jester , John Jensen , and Arnold Friberg . Maria De Matteis War and Peace Nominated Costume Design 1957 Edith Head Funny Face Nominated Shared with Hubert de Givenchy . 1958 The Buccaneer Nominated Shared with Ralph Jester and John Jensen. Mary Wills A Certain Smile Nominated Shared with Charles LeMaire. 1959 [ note 4 ] Black-and-White Edith Head Career Nominated Mary Wills The Diary of Anne Frank Nominated Shared with Charles LeMaire. Helen Rose The Gazebo Nominated Color Elizabeth Haffenden Ben-Hur Won Adele Palmer The Best of Everything Nominated Renié The Big Fisherman Nominated Edith Head The Five Pennies Nominated Irene Sharaff Porgy and Bess Nominated 1960 Black-and-White Edith Head The Facts of Life Won Shared with Edward Stevenson. Deni Vachlioti Never on Sunday Nominated Marik Vos The Virgin Spring Nominated Color Irene Sharaff Can-Can Nominated Irene Midnight Lace Nominated Edith Head Pepe Nominated Marjorie Best Sunrise at Campobello Nominated 1961 Black-and-White Dorothy Jeakins The Children's Hour Nominated Color Irene Sharaff West Side Story Won Flower Drum Song Nominated Edith Head Pocketful of Miracles Nominated Shared with Walter Plunkett. 1962 Black-and-White Norma Koch What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? Won Edith Head The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance Nominated Ruth Morley The Miracle Worker Nominated Denny Vachlioti Phaedra Nominated Color Mary Wills The Wonderful World of the Brothers Grimm Won Dorothy Jeakins The Music Man Nominated Edith Head My Geisha Nominated 1963 Black-and-White Edith Head Love with the Proper Stranger Nominated Wives and Lovers Nominated Color Renié Irene Sharaff Cleopatra Won Shared with Vittorio Nino Novarese . Edith Head A New Kind of Love Nominated 1964 Black-and-White Dorothy Jeakins The Night of the Iguana Won Edith Head A House Is Not a Home Nominated Norma Koch Hush… Hush, Sweet Charlotte Nominated Color Margaret Furse Becket Nominated Edith Head What a Way to Go! Nominated Shared with Moss Mabry. 1965 Black-and-White Julie Harris Darling Won Edith Head The Slender Thread Nominated Color Phyllis Dalton Doctor Zhivago Won Marjorie Best The Greatest Story Ever Told Nominated Shared with Vittorio Nino Novarese. Edith Head Inside Daisy Clover Nominated Shared with Bill Thomas . Dorothy Jeakins The Sound of Music Nominated 1966 Black-and-White Irene Sharaff Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? Won Helen Rose Mister Buddwing Nominated Jocelyn Rickards Morgan! Nominated Color Joan Bridge Elizabeth Haffenden A Man for All Seasons Won Dorothy Jeakins Hawaii Nominated Edith Head The Oscar Nominated Costume Design 1967 Theadora Van Runkle Bonnie and Clyde Nominated Irene Sharaff The Taming of the Shrew Nominated Shared with Danilo Donati . 1968 Margaret Furse The Lion in Winter Nominated Phyllis Dalton Oliver! Nominated 1969 Margaret Furse Anne of the Thousand Days Won Irene Sharaff Hello, Dolly! Nominated Edith Head Sweet Charity Nominated 1970 Airport Nominated Margaret Furse Scrooge Nominated 1971 Yvonne Blake Nicholas and Alexandra Won Shared with Antonio Castillo . Margaret Furse Mary, Queen of Scots Nominated 1972 Anna Hill Johnstone The Godfather Nominated Norma Koch Lady Sings the Blues Nominated Shared with Ray Aghayan and Bob Mackie . 1973 Edith Head The Sting Won Holds the record for most wins in this category, with eight. Holds the record for most wins by a woman in any category, with eight. Marik Vos Cries and Whispers Nominated Dorothy Jeakins The Way We Were Nominated Shared with Moss Mabry. 1974 Theoni V. Aldredge The Great Gatsby Won Anthea Sylbert Chinatown Nominated Theadora Van Runkle The Godfather Part II Nominated 1975 Milena Canonero Ulla-Britt Söderlund Barry Lyndon Won Yvonne Blake The Four Musketeers Nominated Shared with Ron Talsky . Karin Erskine Henny Noremark The Magic Flute Nominated Edith Head The Man Who Would Be King Nominated 1976 Mary Wills The Passover Plot Nominated 1977 Edith Head Airport '77 Nominated Holds the record for most nominations in this category, with 35. Holds the record for most nominations by a woman in any category, with 35. Shared with Burton Miller . Anthea Sylbert Julia Nominated Florence Klotz A Little Night Music Nominated Irene Sharaff The Other Side of Midnight Nominated 1978 Renié Caravans Nominated Patricia Norris Days of Heaven Nominated 1979 Shirley Ann Russell Agatha Nominated Ambra Danon La Cage aux Folles Nominated Shared with Piero Tosi . Judy Moorcroft The Europeans Nominated 1980 Patricia Norris The Elephant Man Nominated Anna Senior My Brilliant Career Nominated 1981 Milena Canonero Chariots of Fire Won Anna Hill Johnstone Ragtime Nominated Shirley Ann Russell Reds Nominated 1982 Bhanu Athaiya Gandhi Won First woman of color to win and be nominated for Best Costume Design. Shared with John Mollo . Elois Jenssen Rosanna Norton Tron Nominated Patricia Norris Victor/Victoria Nominated 1983 Marik Vos Fanny and Alexander Won Anne-Marie Marchand The Return of Martin Guerre Nominated 1984 Patricia Norris 2010 Nominated Jenny Beavan The Bostonians Nominated Shared with John Bright . Judy Moorcroft A Passage to India Nominated Ann Roth Places in the Heart Nominated 1985 Emi Wada Ran Won Aggie Guerard Rodgers The Color Purple Nominated Milena Canonero Out of Africa Nominated 1986 Jenny Beavan A Room with a View Won Shared with John Bright. Anna Anni Otello Nominated Theadora Van Runkle Peggy Sue Got Married Nominated 1987 Dorothy Jeakins The Dead Nominated Jenny Beavan Maurice Nominated Shared with John Bright. Marilyn Vance-Straker The Untouchables Nominated 1988 Deborah Nadoolman Coming to America Nominated Jane Robinson A Handful of Dust Nominated Patricia Norris Sunset Nominated Milena Canonero Tucker: The Man and His Dream Nominated 1989 Phyllis Dalton Henry V Won Gabriella Pescucci The Adventures of Baron Munchausen Nominated Elizabeth McBride Driving Miss Daisy Nominated 1990 Franca Squarciapino Cyrano de Bergerac Won Gloria Gresham Avalon Nominated Elsa Zamparelli Dances with Wolves Nominated Milena Canonero Dick Tracy Nominated 1991 Ruth Myers The Addams Family Nominated Corinne Jorry Madame Bovary Nominated 1992 Eiko Ishioka Bram Stoker's Dracula Won Sheena Napier Enchanted April Nominated Jenny Beavan Howards End Nominated Shared with John Bright. Ruth E. Carter Malcolm X Nominated First African-American and black woman to be nominated for Best Costume Design. 1993 [ note 5 ] Gabriella Pescucci The Age of Innocence Won Sandy Powell Orlando Nominated Janet Patterson The Piano Nominated Jenny Beavan The Remains of the Day Nominated Shared with John Bright. Anna B. Sheppard Schindler's List Nominated 1994 Lizzy Gardiner The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert Won Shared with Tim Chappel . Colleen Atwood Little Women Nominated April Ferry Maverick Nominated Moidele Bickel Queen Margot Nominated 1995 Julie Weiss 12 Monkeys Nominated Shuna Harwood Richard III Nominated Jenny Beavan Sense and Sensibility Nominated Shared with John Bright. 1996 Ann Roth The English Patient Won Ruth Myers Emma Nominated Alexandra Byrne Hamlet Nominated Janet Patterson The Portrait of a Lady Nominated 1997 Deborah Lynn Scott Titanic Won Ruth E. Carter Amistad Nominated First African-American and woman of color with multiple nominations in this category. Janet Patterson Oscar and Lucinda Nominated Sandy Powell The Wings of the Dove Nominated 1998 [ note 5 ] Shakespeare in Love Won Colleen Atwood Beloved Nominated Alexandra Byrne Elizabeth Nominated Judianna Makovsky Pleasantville Nominated Sandy Powell Velvet Goldmine Nominated 1999 [ note 5 ] Lindy Hemming Topsy-Turvy Won Jenny Beavan Anna and the King Nominated Colleen Atwood Sleepy Hollow Nominated Ann Roth The Talented Mr. Ripley Nominated Shared with Gary Jones . Milena Canonero Titus Nominated 2000 Janty Yates Gladiator Won Rita Ryack How the Grinch Stole Christmas Nominated Jacqueline West Quills Nominated 2001 [ note 5 ] Catherine Martin Moulin Rouge! Won Shared with Angus Strathie . Milena Canonero The Affair of the Necklace Nominated Jenny Beavan Gosford Park Nominated Judianna Makovsky Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone Nominated Ngila Dickson The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring Nominated Shared with Richard Taylor . 2002 [ note 5 ] Colleen Atwood Chicago Won Julie Weiss Frida Nominated Sandy Powell Gangs of New York Nominated Ann Roth The Hours Nominated Anna B. Sheppard The Pianist Nominated 2003 [ note 5 ] Ngila Dickson The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King Won Shared with Richard Taylor. Dien van Straalen Girl with a Pearl Earring Nominated Ngila Dickson The Last Samurai Nominated Wendy Stites Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World Nominated Judianna Makovsky Seabiscuit Nominated 2004 Sandy Powell The Aviator Won Alexandra Byrne Finding Neverland Nominated Colleen Atwood Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events Nominated Sharen Davis Ray Nominated 2005 [ note 5 ] Colleen Atwood Memoirs of a Geisha Won Gabriella Pescucci Charlie and the Chocolate Factory Nominated Sandy Powell Mrs Henderson Presents Nominated Jacqueline Durran Pride & Prejudice Nominated Arianne Phillips Walk the Line Nominated 2006 Milena Canonero Marie Antoinette Won Patricia Field The Devil Wears Prada Nominated Sharen Davis Dreamgirls Nominated Consolata Boyle The Queen Nominated 2007 Alexandra Byrne Elizabeth: The Golden Age Won Twelfth consecutive woman to win in this category. Jacqueline Durran Atonement Nominated Marit Allen La Vie en Rose Nominated Posthumous nomination . Colleen Atwood Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street Nominated 2008 Catherine Martin Australia Nominated Jacqueline West The Curious Case of Benjamin Button Nominated 2009 [ note 5 ] Sandy Powell The Young Victoria Won Janet Patterson Bright Star Nominated Catherine Leterrier Coco Before Chanel Nominated Monique Prudhomme The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus Nominated Colleen Atwood Nine Nominated 2010 [ note 5 ] Alice in Wonderland Won Antonella Cannarozzi I Am Love Nominated Jenny Beavan The King's Speech Nominated Sandy Powell The Tempest Nominated Mary Zophres True Grit Nominated 2011 Lisy Christl Anonymous Nominated Sandy Powell Hugo Nominated Arianne Phillips W.E. Nominated 2012 Jacqueline Durran Anna Karenina Won Joanna Johnston Lincoln Nominated Eiko Ishioka Mirror Mirror Nominated Posthumous nomination . Colleen Atwood Snow White and the Huntsman Nominated 2013 Catherine Martin The Great Gatsby Won Patricia Norris 12 Years a Slave Nominated Holds the record for most nominations without a win in this category, with six. 2014 Milena Canonero The Grand Budapest Hotel Won Colleen Atwood Into the Woods Nominated Anna B. Sheppard Maleficent Nominated Jacqueline Durran Mr. Turner Nominated 2015 Jenny Beavan Mad Max: Fury Road Won Sandy Powell Carol Nominated Cinderella Nominated Jacqueline West The Revenant Nominated 2016 [ note 5 ] Colleen Atwood Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them Won Joanna Johnston Allied Nominated Consolata Boyle Florence Foster Jenkins Nominated Madeline Fontaine Jackie Nominated Mary Zophres La La Land Nominated 2017 Jacqueline Durran Beauty and the Beast Nominated Darkest Hour Nominated Consolata Boyle Victoria & Abdul Nominated 2018 [ note 5 ] Ruth E. Carter Black Panther Won First African-American and black woman to win for Best Costume Design. Mary Zophres The Ballad of Buster Scruggs Nominated Sandy Powell The Favourite Nominated Mary Poppins Returns Nominated Alexandra Byrne Mary Queen of Scots Nominated 2019 Jacqueline Durran Little Women Won Sandy Powell The Irishman Nominated Shared with Christopher Peterson . Mayes C. Rubeo Jojo Rabbit Nominated First Latina to be nominated for Best Costume Design. Arianne Phillips Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Nominated 2020 Ann Roth Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom Won Oldest woman to win in any category, at age 89. Alexandra Byrne Emma Nominated Trish Summerville Mank Nominated Bina Daigeler Mulan Nominated 2021 Jenny Beavan Cruella Won Jacqueline Durran Cyrano Nominated Shared with Massimo Cantini Parrini . Jacqueline West Dune Nominated Shared with Robert Morgan . 2022 [ note 5 ] Ruth E. Carter Black Panther: Wakanda Forever Won First African-American and woman of color with multiple wins in this category. First Black woman to win multiple Oscars. Mary Zophres Babylon Nominated Catherine Martin Elvis Nominated Shirley Kurata Everything Everywhere All at Once Nominated Jenny Beavan Mrs. Harris Goes to Paris Nominated 2023 [ note 5 ] Holly Waddington Poor Things Won Jacqueline Durran Barbie Nominated Jacqueline West Killers of the Flower Moon Nominated Janty Yates Napoleon Nominated Shared with Dave Crossman . Ellen Mirojnick Oppenheimer Nominated 2024 Arianne Phillips A Complete Unknown Nominated Lisy Christl Conclave Nominated Janty Yates Gladiator II Nominated Shared with Dave Crossman. Linda Muir Nosferatu Nominated Best Director [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Director Year Name Film Status Notes 1976 Lina Wertmüller Seven Beauties Nominated First woman to be nominated for Best Director. 1993 Jane Campion The Piano Nominated 2003 Sofia Coppola Lost in Translation Nominated 2009 Kathryn Bigelow The Hurt Locker Won First woman to win for Best Director. 2017 Greta Gerwig Lady Bird Nominated 2020 [ note 1 ] Chloé Zhao Nomadland Won First woman of color to win and be nominated for Best Director. Emerald Fennell Promising Young Woman Nominated 2021 Jane Campion The Power of the Dog Won First woman with multiple nominations in this category. 2023 Justine Triet Anatomy of a Fall Nominated 2024 Coralie Fargeat The Substance Nominated Best Documentary Film (Feature) [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature Film Year Name Film Status Notes 1948 Janice Loeb The Quiet One Nominated First woman to be nominated for Best Documentary Feature Film. 1955 Nancy Hamilton Helen Keller in Her Story Won First woman to win for Best Documentary Feature Film. 1972 Sarah Kernochan Marjoe Won Shared with Howard Smith . 1973 Gertrude Ross Marks Walls of Fire Nominated Shared with Edmund F. Penney. 1974 [ note 1 ] Judy Collins Jill Godmilow Antonia: A Portrait of the Woman Nominated Natalie R. Jones The Wild and the Brave Nominated Shared with Eugene S. Jones. 1975 Shirley MacLaine The Other Half of the Sky: A China Memoir Nominated 1976 Barbara Kopple Harlan County, U.S.A. Won 1977 Julia Reichert Union Maids Nominated Shared with Jim Klein and Miles Mogulescu. 1978 Joan Root Mysterious Castles of Clay Nominated Shared with Alan Root . Anne Bohlen Lyn Goldfarb Lorraine Gray With Babies and Banners: Story of the Women's Emergency Brigade Nominated 1981 Suzanne Bauman Against Wind and Tide: A Cuban Odyssey Nominated Shared with Paul Neshamkin and Jim Burroughs. Mary Benjamin Susanne Simpson Eight Minutes to Midnight: A Portrait of Dr. Helen Caldicott Nominated Shared with Boyd Estus . Tete Vasconcellos El Salvador: Another Vietnam Nominated First Latina to be nominated for Best Documentary Feature Film. Shared with Glenn Silber. 1982 Meg Switzgable In Our Water Nominated 1983 Robin Anderson First Contact Nominated Shared with Bob Connolly . Tina Viljoen The Profession of Arms Nominated Shared with Michael Bryans. Julia Reichert Seeing Red Nominated First woman with multiple nominations in this category. Shared with James Klein. 1984 Nancy Sloss High Schools Nominated Shared with Charles Guggenheim . Cheryl McCall Streetwise Nominated 1985 Maria Florio Victoria Mudd Broken Rainbow Won Susana Blaustein Muñoz Lourdes Portillo The Mothers of Plaza de Mayo Nominated 1986 [ note 6 ] Brigitte Berman Artie Shaw: Time Is All You've Got Won Tied with Joseph Feury and Milton Justice for Down and Out in America , which was also directed by a woman, Lee Grant . Despite that, Grant didn't share the award personally because, under the Academy rules at the time, only credited producers were accepted for nomination in this category. Nevertheless, according to the revised rules, the credited director must be named as a nominee alongside the producers. [ 1 ] Sharon I. Sopher Witness to Apartheid Nominated 1987 Aviva Slesin The Ten-Year Lunch: The Wit and Legend of the Algonquin Round Table Won Callie Crossley Eyes on the Prize: America's Civil Rights Years Nominated First African-American and woman of color to be nominated for Best Documentary Feature Film. Shared with James A. DeVinney. Barbara Herbich A Stitch for Time Nominated Shared with Cyril Christo. 1988 Nan Bush Let's Get Lost Nominated Shared with Bruce Weber. Ginny Durrin Promises to Keep Nominated Renee Tajima-Peña Christine Choy Who Killed Vincent Chin? Nominated 1989 Yvonne Smith Adam Clayton Powell Nominated Shared with Richard Kilberg. Betsy Broyles Breier For All Mankind Nominated Shared with Al Reinert . Judith Leonard Super Chief: The Life and Legacy of Earl Warren Nominated Shared with Bill Jersey. 1990 Barbara Kopple American Dream Won First woman with multiple wins in this category. Shared with Arthur Cohn . Susan Robinson Building Bombs Nominated Shared with Mark Mori . Judith Montell Forever Activists: Stories from the Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade Nominated 1991 Allie Light In the Shadow of the Stars Won Shared with Irving Saraf . Susan Raymond Doing Time: Life Inside the Big House Nominated Shared with Alan Raymond. Hava Kohav Beller The Restless Conscience: Resistance to Hitler Within Germany 1933-1945 Nominated Diane Garey Wild by Law Nominated Shared with Lawrence Hott. 1992 Barbara Trent The Panama Deception Won Shared with David Kasper. Sally Dundas Fires of Kuwait Nominated Nina Rosenblum Liberators: Fighting on Two Fronts in World War II Nominated Shared with Bill Miles . Margaret Smilow Roma Baran Music for the Movies: Bernard Herrmann Nominated 1993 Susan Raymond I Am a Promise: The Children of Stanton Elementary School Won Shared with Alan Raymond. Susan Todd Children of Fate Nominated Shared with Andrew Young. Betsy Thompson For Better or For Worse Nominated Shared with David Collier. Chris Hegedus The War Room Nominated Shared with D.A. Pennebaker. 1994 Freida Lee Mock Maya Lin: A Strong Clear Vision Won First woman of color to win for Best Documentary Feature Film. First woman and woman of color to be nominated in both documentary categories (For the further information, see Best Documentary Short Film). Deborah Hoffmann Complaints of a Dutiful Daughter Nominated Connie Field Marilyn Mulford Freedom on My Mind Nominated Jean Bach A Great Day in Harlem Nominated 1995 Jeanne Jordan Troublesome Creek: A Midwestern Nominated Shared with Steven Ascher . 1996 Susan W. Dryfoos The Line King: The Al Hirschfeld Story Nominated Anne Belle Deborah Dickson Suzanne Farrell: Elusive Muse Nominated 1997 Michèle Ohayon Julia Schachter Colors Straight Up Nominated 1998 Liz Garbus The Farm: Angola, U.S.A. Nominated Shared with Jonathan Stack . Barbara Sonneborn Janet Cole Regret to Inform Nominated 1999 Nanette Burstein On the Ropes Nominated Shared with Brett Morgen . Paola di Florio Lilibet Foster Speaking in Strings Nominated 2000 Deborah Oppenheimer Into the Arms of Strangers: Stories of the Kindertransport Won Shared with Mark Jonathan Harris . Deborah Hoffmann Frances Reid Long Night's Journey into Day Nominated 2001 Edet Belzberg Children Underground Nominated Deborah Dickson Susan Froemke LaLee's Kin: The Legacy of Cotton Nominated Justine Shapiro Promises Nominated Shared with B.Z. Goldberg. 2002 Gail Dolgin Daughter from Danang Nominated Shared with Vicente Franco. 2003 Susan R. Behr My Architect Nominated Shared with Nathaniel Kahn . 2004 Zana Briski Born into Brothels Won Shared with Ross Kauffman. Byambasuren Davaa The Story of the Weeping Camel Nominated Shared with Luigi Falorni. Karolyn Ali Lauren Lazin Tupac: Resurrection Nominated 2006 Amy Berg Deliver Us from Evil Nominated Shared with Frank Donner . Heidi Ewing Rachel Grady Jesus Camp Nominated Jocelyn Glatzer Laura Poitras My Country, My Country Nominated} 2007 Eva Orner Taxi to the Dark Side Won Shared with Alex Gibney . Audrey Marrs No End in Sight Nominated Shared with Charles Ferguson . Meghan O'Hara Sicko Nominated Shared with Michael Moore . Andrea Nix Fine War/Dance Nominated Shared with Sean Fine . 2008 Ellen Kuras The Betrayal (Nerakhoon) Nominated Shared with Thavisouk Phrasavath . Tia Lessin Trouble the Water Nominated Shared with Carl Deal . 2009 Lise Lense-Møller Burma VJ Nominated Shared with Anders Østergaard. Elise Pearlstein Food, Inc. Nominated Shared with Robert Kenner . Judith Ehrlich The Most Dangerous Man in America: Daniel Ellsberg and the Pentagon Papers Nominated Shared with Rick Goldsmith. Rebecca Cammisa Which Way Home Nominated 2010 Audrey Marrs Inside Job Won Shared with Charles Ferguson. Trish Adlesic Gasland Nominated Shared with Josh Fox . Lucy Walker Waste Land Nominated Shared with Angus Aynsley. 2012 Philippa Kowarsky Estelle Fialon The Gatekeepers Nominated Shared with Dror Moreh . Amy Ziering The Invisible War Nominated Shared with Kirby Dick . 2013 Caitrin Rogers 20 Feet from Stardom Won Shared with Morgan Neville and Gil Friesen . Signe Byrge Sorensen The Act of Killing Nominated Shared with Joshua Oppenheimer . Lydia Dean Pilcher Cutie and the Boxer Nominated Shared with Zachary Heinzerling . Jehane Noujaim The Square Nominated Shared with Karim Amer. 2014 Laura Poitras Mathilde Bonnefoy Citizenfour Won Shared with Dirk Wilutzky . Rory Kennedy Last Days in Vietnam Nominated Shared with Keven McAlester. Joanna Natasegara Virunga Nominated Shared with Orlando von Einsiedel . 2015 Signe Byrge Sorensen The Look of Silence Nominated Shared with Joshua Oppenheimer. Liz Garbus Amy Hobby What Happened, Miss Simone? Nominated Shared with Justin Wilkes . 2016 Caroline Waterlow O.J.: Made in America Won Shared with Ezra Edelman . Donatella Palermo Fire at Sea Nominated Shared with Gianfranco Rosi . Julie Goldman Life, Animated Nominated Shared with Roger Ross Williams . Ava DuVernay 13th Nominated Shared with Spencer Averick and Howard Barish . 2017 Julie Goldman Abacus: Small Enough to Jail Nominated Shared with Steve James and Mark Mitten . Agnès Varda Rosalie Varda Faces Places Nominated Shared with JR . Joslyn Barnes Strong Island Nominated Shared with Yance Ford . 2018 [ note 7 ] Elizabeth Chai Vasarhelyi Shannon Dill Free Solo Won Shared with Jimmy Chin and Evan Hayes. Joslyn Barnes Su Kim Hale County This Morning, This Evening Nominated Shared with RaMell Ross . Diane Quon Minding the Gap Nominated Shared with Bing Liu . Eva Kemme Of Fathers and Sons Nominated Shared with Talal Derki , Ansgar Frerich, and Tobias N. Siebert. Betsy West Julie Cohen RBG Nominated 2019 [ note 7 ] Julia Reichert American Factory Won Shared with Steven Bognar and Jeff Reichert. Kirstine Barfod Sigrid Dyekjær The Cave Nominated Shared with Feras Fayyad . Petra Costa Joanna Natasegara The Edge of Democracy Nominated Shared with Shane Boris and Tiago Pavan. Waad Al-Kateab For Sama Nominated Shared with Edward Watts . Tamara Kotevska Honeyland Nominated Shared with Ljubomir Stefanov and Atanas Georgiev. 2020 [ note 7 ] Pippa Ehrlich My Octopus Teacher Won Shared with James Reed and Craig Foster. Bianca Oana Collective Nominated Shared with Alexander Nanau. Nicole Newnham Sara Bolder Crip Camp Nominated Shared with Jim LeBrecht. Maite Alberdi Marcela Santibáñez The Mole Agent Nominated Garrett Bradley Lauren Domino Time Nominated Shared with Kellen Quinn. 2021 Jessica Kingdon Kira Simon-Kennedy Ascension Nominated Shared with Nathan Truesdell . Traci A. Curry Attica Nominated Shared with Stanley Nelson . Monica Hellström Signe Byrge Sørensen Charlotte de la Gournerie Flee Nominated First animated documentary to be nominated in this category. Shared with Jonas Poher Rasmussen . Rintu Thomas Writing with Fire Nominated Shared with Sushmit Ghosh . 2022 Odessa Rae Diane Becker Melanie Miller Navalny Won Shared with Daniel Roher and Shane Boris. Laura Poitras Nan Goldin All the Beauty and the Bloodshed Nominated Shared with Howard Gertler, John Lyons, and Yoni Golijov. Sara Dosa Ina Fichman Fire of Love Nominated Shared with Shane Boris. Monica Hellström A House Made of Splinters Nominated Shared with Simon Lereng Wilmont. 2023 Michelle Mizner Raney Aronson-Rath 20 Days in Mariupol Won Shared with Mstyslav Chernov . Maite Alberdi The Eternal Memory Nominated Kaouther Ben Hania Four Daughters Nominated Shared with Nadim Cheikhrouha. Nisha Pahuja Cornelia Principe To Kill a Tiger Nominated Shared with David Oppenheim. 2024 Rachel Szor No Other Land Won Shared with Basel Adra , Hamdan Ballal and Yuval Abraham . Shiori Itō Hanna Aqvilin Black Box Diaries Nominated Shared with Eric Nyari. Aniela Sidorska Paula DuPré Pesmen Porcelain War Nominated Shared with Brendan Bellomo and Slava Leontyev . Emily Kassie Sugarcane Nominated Shared with Julian Brave NoiseCat and Kellen Quinn. Best Documentary Film (Short) [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Documentary Short Film Year Name Film Status Notes 1960 Altina Schinasi George Grosz' Interregnum Nominated First woman to be nominated for Best Documentary Short Film. Shared with Charles Carey. 1966 Helen Kristt Radin The Odds Against Nominated Shared with Lee R. Bobker . 1969 [ note 1 ] Joan Horvath Jenny Is a Good Thing Nominated Joan Keller Stern The Magic Machines Nominated 1970 Vivien Carey Oisin Nominated Shared with Patrick Carey . 1972 Martina Huguenot van der Linden This Tiny World Won First woman to win for Best Documentary Short Film. Shared with Charles Huguenot van der Linden. 1973 June Wayne Four Stones for Kanemitsu Nominated Shared with Terry Sanders . 1974 Lesley Foster John Muir's High Sierra Nominated Shared with Dewitt Jones . 1975 Claire Wilbur The End of the Game Won Shared with Robin Lehman . Kristine Samuelson Arthur and Lillie Nominated Shared with Jon Else and Steven Kovacs. 1976 Lynne Littman Barbara Myerhoff Number Our Days Won 1977 Helen Whitney First Edition Nominated Shared with DeWitt L. Sage, Jr. 1978 Jacqueline Phillips Shedd The Flight of the Gossamer Condor Won Shared with Ben Shedd . 1981 Linda Chapman Pam LeBlanc Freddi Stevens See What I Say Nominated 1982 Terre Nash If You Love This Planet Won Shared with Edward Le Lorrain. Freida Lee Mock To Live or Let Die Nominated First woman of color to be nominated for Best Documentary Short Film. First woman and woman of color to be nominated in both documentary categories (For further information, see Best Documentary Feature Film). 1983 Cynthia Scott Flamenco at 5:15 Won Shared with Adam Symansky. Vivienne Verdon-Roe In the Nuclear Shadow: What Can the Children Tell Us? Nominated Shared with Eric Thiermann. Dea Brokman Ilene Landis You Are Free (Ihr Zent Frei) Nominated 1984 Marjorie Hunt The Stone Carvers Won Shared with Paul Wagner. Joan Sawyer Code Gray: Ethical Dilemmas in Nursing Nominated Shared with Ben Achtenberg. Irina Kalinina Recollections of Pavlovsk Nominated 1985 Barbara Willis Sweete Making Overtures: The Story of a Community Orchestra Nominated 1986 Vivienne Verdon-Roe Women – for America, for the World Won First woman with multiple nominations in this category. Alison Nigh-Strelich Debonair Dancers Nominated Sonya Friedman The Masters of Disaster Nominated Madeline Bell Red Grooms: Sunflower in a Hothouse Nominated Shared with Thomas L. Neff. 1987 Sue Marx Pamela Conn Young at Heart Won Deborah Dickson Frances Steloff: Memoirs of a Bookseller Nominated Megan Williams Language Says It All Nominated Lynn Mueller Silver into Gold Nominated 1988 Karen Goodman The Children's Storefront Nominated Lise Yasui Ann Tegnell Family Gathering Nominated Nancy Hale Meg Partridge Portrait of Imogen Nominated 1990 Karen Goodman Chimps: So Like Us Nominated Shared with Kirk Simon . Freida Lee Mock Rose Kennedy: A Life to Remember Nominated First woman of color with multiple nominations in this category. Shared with Terry Sanders. 1991 Debra Chasnoff Deadly Deception: General Electric, Nuclear Weapons and Our Environment Won Immy Humes A Little Vicious Nominated 1992 Gerardine Wurzburg Educating Peter Won Shared with Thomas C. Goodwin ( p. a. ) Wendy L. Weinberg Beyond Imagining: Margaret Anderson and the 'Little Review' Nominated Sally Bochner The Colours of My Father: A Portrait of Sam Borenstein Nominated Shared with Richard Elson. Dorothy Fadiman When Abortion Was Illegal: Untold Stories Nominated 1993 Margaret Lazarus Defending Our Lives Won Shared with Renner Wunderlich . Elaine Holliman Chicks in White Satin Nominated Shared with Jason Schneider. 1994 Dee Mosbacher Frances Reid Straight from the Heart Nominated 1995 Nancy Dine Jim Dine: A Self-Portrait on the Walls Nominated Shared with Richard Stilwell. Freida Lee Mock Never Give Up: The 20th Century Odyssey of Herbert Zipper Nominated Shared with Terry Sanders. 1996 Jessica Yu Breathing Lessons: The Life and Work of Mark O'Brien Won First woman of color to win for Best Documentary Short Film. Susanne Simpson Special Effects: Anything Can Happen Nominated Shared with Ben Burtt . 1997 Donna Dewey Carol Pasternak A Story of Healing Won Terri Randall Family Video Diaries: Daughter of the Bride Nominated Andrea Blaugrund Still Kicking: The Fabulous Palm Springs Follies Nominated Shared with Mel Damski . 1998 Keiko Ibi The Personals: Improvisations on Romance in the Golden Years Won 1999 Susan Hannah Hadary King Gimp Won Shared with William A. Whiteford. 2000 Tracy Seretean Big Mama Won 2001 [ note 8 ] Sarah Kernochan Lynn Appelle Thoth Won Lianne Klapper McNally Artists and Orphans: A True Drama Nominated Freida Lee Mock Jessica Sanders Sing! Nominated Mock holds the record for most nominations without a win in this category, with four. 2002 Alice Elliott The Collector of Bedford Street Nominated 2003 [ note 8 ] Maryann DeLeo Chernobyl Heart Won Sandy McLeod Gini Reticker Asylum Nominated Katja Esson Ferry Tales Nominated 2004 Gerardine Wurzburg Autism Is a World Nominated Hanna Polak The Children of Leningradsky Nominated Shared with Andrzej Celinski. Erin Faith Young Hardwood Nominated Shared with Hubert Davis . 2005 Corinne Marrinan A Note of Triumph: The Golden Age of Norman Corwin Won Shared with Eric Simonson . Kimberlee Acquaro Stacy Sherman God Sleeps in Rwanda Nominated 2006 [ note 8 ] Ruby Yang The Blood of Yingzhou District Won Shared with Thomas Lennon . Leslie Iwerks Recycled Life Nominated Shared with Mike Glad. Karen Goodman Rehearsing a Dream Nominated Shared with Kirk Simon. Susan Rose Behr Two Hands Nominated Shared with Nathaniel Kahn . 2007 Cynthia Wade Vanessa Roth Freeheld Won Amanda Micheli Isabel Vega La Corona Nominated 2008 Megan Mylan Smile Pinki Won Irene Taylor Brodsky The Final Inch Nominated Shared with Tom Grant. Margaret Hyde The Witness: From the Balcony of Room 306 Nominated Shared with Adam Pertofsky. 2009 Elinor Burkett Music by Prudence Won Shared with Roger Ross Williams . Julia Reichert The Last Truck: Closing of a GM Plant Nominated Shared with Steven Bognar. Anna Wydra Rabbit à la Berlin Nominated Shared with Bartek Konopka. 2010 Karen Goodman Strangers No More Won Shared with Kirk Simon. Sara Nesson Poster Girl Nominated Shared with Mitchell Block . Jennifer Redfearn Sun Come Up Nominated Shared with Tim Metzger. Ruby Yang The Warriors of Qiugang Nominated Shared with Thomas Lennon . 2011 Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy Saving Face Won Shared with Daniel Junge . Robin Fryday Gail Dolgin The Barber of Birmingham: Foot Soldier of the Civil Rights Movement Nominated Posthumous nomination for Dolgin. Rebecca Cammisa Julie Anderson God Is the Bigger Elvis Nominated Lucy Walker Kira Carstensen The Tsunami and the Cherry Blossom Nominated 2012 Andrea Nix Fine Inocente Won Shared with Sean Fine . Sari Gilman Kings Point Nominated Shared with Jedd Wider. Cynthia Wade Robin Honan Mondays at Racine Nominated Cori Shepherd Stern Open Heart Nominated Shared with Kief Davidson. 2013 Sara Ishaq Karama Has No Walls Nominated 2014 Ellen Goosenberg Kent Dana Perry Crisis Hotline: Veterans Press 1 Won Aneta Kopacz Joanna Nominated 2015 Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy A Girl in the River: The Price of Forgiveness Won First woman and woman of color with multiple wins in this category. Courtney Marsh Chau, Beyond the Lines Nominated Shared with Jerry Franck . Dee Hibbert-Jones Nomi Talisman Last Day of Freedom Nominated 2016 Joanna Natasegara The White Helmets Won Shared with Orlando von Einsiedel . Daphne Matziaraki 4.1 Miles Nominated Kahane Cooperman Raphaela Neihausen Joe's Violin Nominated 2017 Laura Checkoway Edith+Eddie Nominated Shared with Thomas Lee Wright . Elaine McMillion Sheldon Heroin(e) Nominated Shared with Kerrin Sheldon . Kate Davis Traffic Stop Nominated Shared with David Heilbroner . 2018 Rayka Zehtabchi Melissa Berton Period. End of Sentence. Won 2019 Carol Dysinger Elena Andreicheva Learning to Skateboard in a Warzone (If You're a Girl) Won Kristine Samuelson Life Overtakes Me Nominated Shared with John Haptas. Smriti Mundhra St. Louis Superman Nominated Shared with Sami Khan . Laura Nix Colette Sandstedt Walk Run Cha-Cha Nominated 2020 Alice Doyard Colette Won Shared with Anthony Giacchino . Charlotte Cook Do Not Split Nominated Shared with Anders Hammer . Sophia Nahli Allison Janice Duncan A Love Song for Latasha Nominated First Black women to be nominated for Best Documentary Short Film. 2021 Elizabeth Mirzaei Three Songs for Benazir Nominated Shared with Gulistan Mirzaei 2022 Kartiki Gonsalves Guneet Monga The Elephant Whisperers Won Evgenia Arbugaeva Haulout Nominated Shared with Maxim Arbugaev. Anne Alvergue Beth Levison The Martha Mitchell Effect Nominated 2023 Sheila Nevins Trish Adlesic The ABCs of Book Banning Nominated Christine Turner The Barber of Little Rock Nominated Shared with John Hoffman. Jean Tsien Island in Between Nominated Shared with S. Leo Chiang . 2024 Molly O’Brien Lisa Remington The Only Girl in the Orchestra Won Kim A. Snyder Janique L. Robillard Death by Numbers Nominated Smriti Mundhra Maya Gnyp I Am Ready, Warden Nominated Ema Ryan Yamazaki Instruments of a Beating Heart Nominated Shared with Eric Nyari. Best Film Editing [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Film Editing Year Name Film Status Notes 1934 Anne Bauchens Cleopatra Nominated First woman to be nominated for Best Film Editing. Among the inaugural nominees in this category. 1935 [ note 1 ] Barbara McLean Les Misérables Nominated Margaret Booth Mutiny on the Bounty Nominated 1936 Barbara McLean Lloyd's of London Nominated First woman with multiple nominations in this category. 1938 Alexander's Ragtime Band Nominated 1939 The Rains Came Nominated Dorothy Spencer Stagecoach Nominated Shared with Otho Lovering . 1940 Anne Bauchens North West Mounted Police Won First woman to win for Best Film Editing. 1943 Barbara McLean The Song of Bernadette Nominated 1944 Wilson Won 1947 Monica Collingwood The Bishop's Wife Nominated 1950 Barbara McLean All About Eve Nominated 1951 Adrienne Fazan An American in Paris Nominated Dorothy Spencer Decision Before Dawn Nominated 1952 Anne Bauchens The Greatest Show on Earth Nominated 1955 Alma Macrorie The Bridges at Toko-Ri Nominated 1956 Anne Bauchens The Ten Commandments Nominated 1957 Viola Lawrence Pal Joey Nominated Shared with Jerome Thoms . 1958 Adrienne Fazan Gigi Won 1960 Viola Lawrence Pepe Nominated Shared with Al Clark . 1962 Anne V. Coates Lawrence of Arabia Won 1963 Dorothy Spencer Cleopatra Nominated 1964 Anne V. Coates Becket Nominated 1967 Marjorie Fowler Doctor Dolittle Nominated Shared with Samuel E. Beetley . 1968 Eve Newman Wild in the Streets Nominated Shared with Fred R. Feitshans Jr. 1969 Françoise Bonnot Z Won 1970 Thelma Schoonmaker Woodstock Nominated First documentary to be nominated in this category. 1973 Verna Fields Marcia Lucas American Graffiti Nominated 1974 Dorothy Spencer Earthquake Nominated 1975 Verna Fields Jaws Won Dede Allen Dog Day Afternoon Nominated Lynzee Klingman One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest Nominated Shared with Richard Chew and Sheldon Kahn . 1976 Eve Newman Two-Minute Warning Nominated Shared with Walter Hannemann . 1977 Marcia Lucas Star Wars Won Shared with Paul Hirsch and Richard Chew. 1979 Lisa Fruchtman Apocalypse Now Nominated Shared with Richard Marks , Walter Murch , and Gerald B. Greenberg . 1980 Thelma Schoonmaker Raging Bull Won Anne V. Coates The Elephant Man Nominated 1981 Dede Allen Reds Nominated Shared with Craig McKay . 1982 Carol Littleton E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial Nominated 1983 Lisa Fruchtman The Right Stuff Won Shared with Glenn Farr , Stephen A. Rotter , Douglas Stewart , and Tom Rolf . 1984 Nena Danevic Amadeus Nominated Shared with Michael Chandler . 1985 Kaja Fehr Prizzi's Honor Nominated Shared with Rudi Fehr . 1986 Claire Simpson Platoon Won Susan E. Morse Hannah and Her Sisters Nominated 1987 Gabriella Cristiani The Last Emperor Won 1989 Noëlle Boisson The Bear Nominated 1990 Lisa Fruchtman The Godfather Part III Nominated Shared with Barry Malkin and Walter Murch. Thelma Schoonmaker Goodfellas Nominated 1992 Geraldine Peroni The Player Nominated 1993 Anne V. Coates In the Line of Fire Nominated Veronika Jenet The Piano Nominated 1994 Sally Menke Pulp Fiction Nominated 1996 Pip Karmel Shine Nominated 1998 Simona Paggi Life is Beautiful Nominated Anne V. Coates Out of Sight Nominated Leslie Jones The Thin Red Line Nominated Shared with Billy Weber and Saar Klein . 1999 Lisa Zeno Churgin The Cider House Rules Nominated 2000 Dede Allen Wonder Boys Nominated 2001 Dody Dorn Memento Nominated Jill Bilcock Moulin Rouge! Nominated 2002 Thelma Schoonmaker Gangs of New York Nominated 2004 The Aviator Won First woman with multiple wins in this category. 2005 Claire Simpson The Constant Gardener Nominated 2006 Thelma Schoonmaker The Departed Won Tied the record for most wins in this category, with three. Clare Douglas United 93 Nominated Shared with Richard Pearson and Christopher Rouse . 2007 Juliette Welfling The Diving Bell and the Butterfly Nominated 2009 Chris Innis The Hurt Locker Won Shared with Bob Murawski . Sally Menke Inglourious Basterds Nominated 2010 Pamela Martin The Fighter Nominated 2011 Anne-Sophie Bion The Artist Nominated Shared with Michel Hazanavicius . Thelma Schoonmaker Hugo Nominated 2014 Sandra Adair Boyhood Nominated 2015 Margaret Sixel Mad Max: Fury Road Won Maryann Brandon Mary Jo Markey Star Wars: The Force Awakens Nominated 2016 Joi McMillon Moonlight Nominated First Black woman and woman of color to be nominated for Best Film Editing. Shared with Nat Sanders . 2017 Tatiana S. Riegel I, Tonya Nominated 2019 Thelma Schoonmaker The Irishman Nominated 2020 Chloé Zhao Nomadland Nominated 2021 Pamela Martin King Richard Nominated 2022 Monika Willi Tár Nominated 2023 Jennifer Lame Oppenheimer Won Thelma Schoonmaker Killers of the Flower Moon Nominated Holds the record for most nominations in this category, with nine. 2024 Juliette Welfling Emilia Pérez Nominated Best International Feature Film [ edit ] The Academy Award for Best International Feature Film is awarded to countries rather than filmmakers. This list contains female directors of nominated films who typically accept the award on behalf of their country. Academy Award for Best International Feature Film Year Name Film Country Status Notes 1959 Astrid Henning-Jensen Paw Nominated First woman to direct a film to be nominated for Best International Feature Film. 1976 Lina Wertmüller Seven Beauties Nominated 1983 Diane Kurys Entre Nous Nominated 1984 María Luisa Bemberg Camila Nominated First Latina to direct a film to be nominated for Best International Feature Film. 1985 [ note 9 ] Agnieszka Holland Angry Harvest Nominated Coline Serreau Three Men and a Cradle Nominated 1988 Mira Nair Salaam Bombay! Nominated First woman of color to direct a film to be nominated for Best International Feature Film. 1995 Marleen Gorris Antonia's Line Won First woman to direct a film to win for Best International Feature Film. 1996 Nana Jorjadze A Chef in Love Nominated Berit Nesheim The Other Side of Sunday Nominated 1997 Caroline Link Beyond Silence Nominated 2000 Agnès Jaoui The Taste of Others Nominated 2002 Caroline Link Nowhere in Africa Won First woman to direct multiple films nominated in this category. Paula van der Oest Zus & Zo Nominated 2005 Cristina Comencini The Beast in the Heart Nominated 2006 Susanne Bier After the Wedding Nominated Deepa Mehta Water Nominated 2009 Claudia Llosa The Milk of Sorrow Nominated 2010 Susanne Bier In a Better World Won 2011 Agnieszka Holland In Darkness Nominated First woman to direct multiple films nominated in this category, each representing a different country. 2015 Deniz Gamze Ergüven Mustang Nominated 2016 Maren Ade Toni Erdmann Nominated 2017 Ildikó Enyedi On Body and Soul Nominated 2018 Nadine Labaki Capernaum Nominated 2019 Tamara Kotevska Honeyland Nominated Shared with Ljubomir Stefanov . 2020 Kaouther Ben Hania The Man Who Sold His Skin Nominated Jasmila Žbanić Quo Vadis, Aida? Nominated Best Makeup and Hairstyling [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Makeup and Hairstyling Year Name Film Status Notes 1982 Sarah Monzani Michèle Burke Quest for Fire Won First women to win and be nominated for Best Makeup and Hairstyling. 1986 Michèle Burke The Clan of the Cave Bear Nominated First woman with multiple nominations in this category. Shared with Michael Westmore . 1988 [ note 1 ] Ve Neill Beetlejuice Won Shared with Steve La Porte and Robert Short . Bari Dreiband-Burman Scrooged Nominated Shared with Thomas R. Burman . 1989 Lynn Barber Driving Miss Daisy Won Shared with Manlio Rocchetti and Kevin Haney . Maggie Weston The Adventures of Baron Munchausen Nominated Shared with Fabrizio Sforza . 1990 Michèle Burke Cyrano de Bergerac Nominated Shared with Jean-Pierre Eychenne . Ve Neill Edward Scissorhands Nominated Shared with Stan Winston . 1991 Christina Smith Hook Nominated Shared with Monty Westmore and Greg Cannom . 1992 Michèle Burke Bram Stoker's Dracula Won First woman with multiple wins in this category. Shared with Greg Cannom and Matthew W. Mungle . Ve Neill Ronnie Specter Batman Returns Nominated Shared with Stan Winston. Ve Neill Hoffa Nominated Shared with Greg Cannom and John Blake . 1993 Ve Neill Yolanda Toussieng Mrs. Doubtfire Won Shared with Greg Cannom. Christina Smith Judith A. Cory Schindler's List Nominated Shared with Matthew W. Mungle. 1994 [ note 10 ] Ve Neill Yolanda Toussieng Ed Wood Won Shared with Rick Baker . Hallie D'Amore Judith A. Cory Forrest Gump Nominated Shared with Daniel C. Striepeke . Carol Hemming Mary Shelley's Frankenstein Nominated Shared with Daniel Parker and Paul Engelen . 1995 Lois Burwell Braveheart Won Shared with Peter Frampton and Paul Pattison . Colleen Callaghan Roommates Nominated Shared with Greg Cannom and Bob Laden . 1996 Deborah La Mia Denaver Ghosts of Mississippi Nominated Shared with Matthew W. Mungle. 1997 Lisa Westcott Veronica Brebner Beverley Binda Mrs Brown Nominated Tina Earnshaw Titanic Nominated Shared with Greg Cannom and Simon Thompson . 1998 [ note 10 ] Jenny Shircore Elizabeth Won Lois Burwell Saving Private Ryan Nominated Shared with Conor O'Sullivan and Daniel C. Striepeke. Lisa Westcott Veronica Brebner Shakespeare in Love Nominated 1999 Christine Blundell Topsy-Turvy Won Shared with Trefor Proud . Michèle Burke Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me Nominated Shared with Mike Smithson . 2000 [ note 10 ] Gail Ryan How the Grinch Stole Christmas Won Shared with Rick Baker. Michèle Burke The Cell Nominated Shared with Edouard F. Henriques . Ann Buchanan Amber Sibley Shadow of the Vampire Nominated 2001 Colleen Callaghan A Beautiful Mind Nominated Shared with Greg Cannom. 2002 [ note 10 ] Beatrice De Alba Frida Won First Latina to win and be nominated for Best Makeup and Hairstyling. Shared with John E. Jackson . Barbara Lorenz The Time Machine Nominated Shared with John M. Elliott Jr. 2003 Yolanda Toussieng Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World Nominated Shared with Edouard F. Henriques. Ve Neill Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl Nominated Shared with Martin Samuel . 2004 Valli O'Reilly Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events Won Shared with Bill Corso . Jo Allen The Sea Inside Nominated Shared with Manolo García . 2005 Tami Lane The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe Won Shared with Howard Berger . Nikki Gooley Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith Nominated Shared with Dave Elsey . 2006 Montse Ribé Pan's Labyrinth Won Shared with David Martí . 2007 Jan Archibald La Vie en Rose Won Shared with Didier Lavergne . Ve Neill Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End Nominated Shared with Martin Samuel. 2009 Mindy Hall Star Trek Won Shared with Barney Burman and Joel Harlow . Jenny Shircore The Young Victoria Nominated Shared with Jon Henry Gordon . 2010 Yolanda Toussieng The Way Back Nominated Shared with Gregory Funk and Edouard F. Henriques. 2011 Lynn Johnson Albert Nobbs Nominated Shared with Martial Corneville and Matthew W. Mungle. Amanda Knight Lisa Tomblin Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 Nominated Shared with Nick Dudman . 2012 Lisa Westcott Julie Dartnell Les Misérables Won Tami Lane The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey Nominated Shared with Peter Swords King and Rick Findlater . 2013 Adruitha Lee Robin Mathews Dallas Buyers Club Won Gloria Pasqua-Casny The Lone Ranger Nominated Shared with Joel Harlow. 2014 Frances Hannon The Grand Budapest Hotel Won Shared with Mark Coulier . Elizabeth Yianni-Georgiou Guardians of the Galaxy Nominated Shared with David White . 2015 [ note 10 ] Lesley Vanderwalt Elka Wardega Mad Max: Fury Road Won Shared with Damian Martin . Eva von Bahr The 100-Year-Old Man Who Climbed Out of the Window and Disappeared Nominated Shared with Love Larson . Siân Grigg The Revenant Nominated Shared with Duncan Jarman and Robert Pandini . 2016 Eva von Bahr A Man Called Ove Nominated Shared with Love Larson. 2017 Lucy Sibbick Darkest Hour Won Shared with Kazuhiro Tsuji and David Malinowski . Lou Sheppard Victoria & Abdul Nominated Shared with Daniel Phillips . 2018 [ note 10 ] Kate Biscoe Patricia Dehaney Vice Won Shared with Greg Cannom. Pamela Goldammer Border Nominated Shared with Göran Lundström . Jenny Shircore Jessica Brooks Mary Queen of Scots Nominated Shared with Marc Pilcher . 2019 Anne Morgan Vivian Baker Bombshell Won Shared with Kazu Hiro. Naomi Donne Rebecca Cole 1917 Nominated Shared with Tristan Versluis . Nicki Ledermann Kay Georgiou Joker Nominated 2020 [ note 10 ] Mia Neal Jamika Wilson Ma Rainey's Black Bottom Won First African-American and black women to win and be nominated for Best Makeup and Hairstyling. Shared with Sergio López-Rivera . Marese Langan Laura Allen Claudia Stolze Emma Nominated Eryn Krueger Mekash Patricia Dehaney Hillbilly Elegy Nominated Shared with Matthew W. Mungle. Gigi Williams Kimberley Spiteri Colleen LaBaff Mank Nominated Dalia Colli Pinocchio Nominated Shared with Mark Coulier and Francesco Pegoretti . 2021 [ note 10 ] Linda Dowds Stephanie Ingram The Eyes of Tammy Faye Won Shared with Justin Raleigh . Stacey Morris Carla Farmer Coming 2 America Nominated Shared with Mike Marino . Nadia Stacey Naomi Donne Julia Vernon Cruella Nominated Eva von Bahr Dune Nominated Holds the record for most nominations without a win in this category, with three. Shared with Donald Mowat and Love Larson. Anna Carin Lock House of Gucci Nominated Shared with Göran Lundström and Frederic Aspiras . 2022 Judy Chin Annemarie Bradley The Whale Won Shared with Adrien Morot . Heike Merker Linda Eisenhamerová All Quiet on the Western Front Nominated Naomi Donne The Batman Nominated Tied the record for most nominations without a win in this category, with three. Shared with Mike Marino and Mike Fontaine. Camille Friend Black Panther: Wakanda Forever Nominated Shared with Joel Harlow. 2023 [ note 10 ] Nadia Stacey Poor Things Won Shared with Mark Coulier and Josh Weston . Karen Hartley Thomas Suzi Battersby Ashra Kelly-Blue Golda Nominated Kay Georgiou Lori McCoy-Bell Maestro Nominated Shared with Kazu Hiro. Luisa Abel Oppenheimer Nominated Ana López-Puigcerver Montse Ribé Society of the Snow Nominated Shared with David Martí. 2024 [ note 10 ] Stéphanie Guillon Marilyne Scarselli The Substance Won Shared with Pierre-Olivier Persin . Crystal Jurado A Different Man Nominated Shared with Mike Marino and David Presto . Julia Floch Carbonel Emilia Pérez Nominated Shared with Emmanuel Janvier and Jean-Christophe Spadaccini . Traci Loader Suzanne Stokes-Munton Nosferatu Nominated Shared with David White. Frances Hannon Laura Blount Sarah Nuth Wicked Nominated Best Music (Original Score) [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Original Score [ note 11 ] Music Score of a Dramatic or Comedy Picture Year Name Film Status Notes 1945 Ann Ronell G.I. Joe Nominated First woman to be nominated for Best Original Score. First woman to be nominated in both music categories (For the further information, see Best Original Song). Shared with Louis Applebaum . Original Song Score 1970 Tylwyth Kymry (lyrics) The Baby Maker Nominated Shared with Fred Karlin (music) . Original Song Score and Its Adaptation or Adaptation Score 1974 Angela Morley (adaptation score) The Little Prince Nominated First transgender woman to be nominated in any category. Shared with Alan Jay Lerner & Frederick Loewe (song score) ; Douglas Gamley (adaptation score) . 1977 The Slipper and the Rose Nominated First transgender woman with multiple nominations in any category. Shared with Sherman Brothers (song score) . Original Song Score and Its Adaptation or Adaptation Score 1983 Marilyn Bergman (song score) Yentl Won First woman to win for Best Original Score. First woman to win in both music categories (For the further information, see Best Original Song). Shared with Michel Legrand (song & adaptation score) ; Alan Bergman (song score) . Original Musical or Comedy Score 1996 Rachel Portman Emma Won 1997 [ note 1 ] Anne Dudley The Full Monty Won Lynn Ahrens Anastasia Nominated Shared with Stephen Flaherty & David Newman . Original Score 1999 Rachel Portman The Cider House Rules Nominated 2000 Chocolat Nominated 2016 Mica Levi Jackie Nominated Subsequently came out as non-binary . 2019 Hildur Guðnadóttir Joker Won 2021 Germaine Franco Encanto Nominated First Latina to be nominated for Best Original Score. 2023 Laura Karpman American Fiction Nominated 2024 Camille Emilia Pérez Nominated Shared with Clément Ducol . Best Music (Original Song) [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Original Song Year Name Film Song Status Notes 1935 Dorothy Fields (lyrics) Roberta "Lovely to Look At" Nominated First woman to be nominated for Best Original Song Shared with Jerome Kern (music) ; Jimmy McHugh (lyrics) . 1936 Swing Time " The Way You Look Tonight " Won First woman to win for Best Original Song. First woman with multiple nominations in this category. Shared with Jerome Kern (music) . 1945 Ann Ronell (music & lyrics) G.I. Joe "Linda" Nominated First woman to be nominated in both music categories (For the further information, see Best Original Score). 1953 Sylvia Fine (lyrics) The Moon Is Blue "The Moon Is Blue" Nominated Shared with Herschel Burke Gilbert (music) . 1959 Sylvia Fine (music & lyrics) The Five Pennies "The Five Pennies" Nominated 1960 Dory Langdon (lyrics) Pepe "Faraway Part of Town" Nominated Shared with André Previn (music) . 1962 Two for the Seesaw "Song from Two for the Seesaw (Second Chance)" Nominated 1968 Marilyn Bergman (lyrics) The Thomas Crown Affair " The Windmills of Your Mind " Won First woman to win in both music categories (For the further information, see Best Original Score). Shared with Michel Legrand (music) ; Alan Bergman (lyrics) . 1969 [ note 1 ] The Happy Ending " What Are You Doing the Rest of Your Life? " Nominated Dory Langdon (lyrics) The Sterile Cuckoo " Come Saturday Morning " Nominated Shared with Fred Karlin (music) . 1970 Marilyn Bergman (lyrics) Pieces of Dreams " Pieces of Dreams " Nominated Shared with Michel Legrand (music) ; Alan Bergman (lyrics) . 1971 Sometimes a Great Notion " All His Children " Nominated Shared with Henry Mancini (music) ; Alan Bergman (lyrics) . 1972 The Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean "Marmalade, Molasses & Honey" Nominated Shared with Maurice Jarre (music) ; Alan Bergman (lyrics) . Marsha Karlin (lyrics) The Little Ark "Come Follow, Follow Me" Nominated Shared with Fred Karlin (music) . 1973 Marilyn Bergman (lyrics) The Way We Were " The Way We Were " Won First woman with multiple wins in this category. Shared with Marvin Hamlisch (music) ; Alan Bergman (lyrics) . Linda McCartney (music & lyrics) Live and Let Die " Live and Let Die " Nominated Shared with Paul McCartney (music & lyrics) . 1974 Betty Box (lyrics) Benji "I Feel Love" Nominated Shared with Euel Box (music) . 1976 Barbra Streisand (music) A Star Is Born " Evergreen " Won First and only person to win for acting ( Best Actress for Funny Girl ) and songwriting. Shared with Paul Williams (lyrics) . Carol Connors & Ayn Robbins (lyrics) Rocky " Gonna Fly Now " Nominated Shared with Bill Conti (music) . 1977 The Rescuers "Someone's Waiting for You" Nominated Shared with Sammy Fain (music) . Carole Bayer Sager (lyrics) The Spy Who Loved Me " Nobody Does It Better " Nominated Shared with Marvin Hamlisch (music) . 1978 Marilyn Bergman (lyrics) Same Time, Next Year "The Last Time I Felt Like This" Nominated Shared with Marvin Hamlisch (music) ; Alan Bergman (lyrics) . 1979 Carole Bayer Sager (lyrics) Ice Castles " Through the Eyes of Love " Nominated Shared with Marvin Hamlisch (music) . Marilyn Bergman (lyrics) The Promise "I'll Never Say Goodbye" Nominated Shared with David Shire (music) ; Alan Bergman (lyrics) . 1980 Lesley Gore (lyrics) Fame " Out Here on My Own " Nominated Shared with Michael Gore (music) . Dolly Parton (music & lyrics) Nine to Five " 9 to 5 " Nominated 1981 Carole Bayer Sager (music & lyrics) Arthur " Arthur's Theme (Best That You Can Do) " Won Shared with Burt Bacharach , Christopher Cross & Peter Allen (music & lyrics) . 1982 Buffy Sainte-Marie (music) An Officer and a Gentleman " Up Where We Belong " Won Shared with Jack Nitzche (music) ; Will Jennings (lyrics) . Marilyn Bergman (lyrics) Best Friends " How Do You Keep the Music Playing? " Nominated Shared with Michel Legrand (music) ; Alan Bergman (lyrics) . Tootsie " It Might Be You " Nominated Shared with Dave Grusin (music) ; Alan Bergman (lyrics) . Yes, Giorgio "If We Were in Love" Nominated Shared with John Williams (music) ; Alan Bergman (lyrics) . 1983 Irene Cara (lyrics) Flashdance " Flashdance... What a Feeling " Won First Black woman to win in a non-acting category. Shared with Giorgio Moroder (music) ; Keith Forsey (lyrics) . Marilyn Bergman (lyrics) Yentl " Papa, Can You Hear Me? " Nominated First woman to be nominated multiple times in the same category for the same film. Shared with Michel Legrand (music) ; Alan Bergman (lyrics) . " The Way He Makes Me Feel " Nominated 1986 Cynthia Weil (lyrics) An American Tail " Somewhere Out There " Nominated Shared with James Horner & Barry Mann (music) . Diane Nini (lyrics) The Karate Kid Part II " Glory of Love " Nominated Shared with David Foster (music) ; Peter Cetera (music & lyrics) . 1987 Diane Warren (music & lyrics) Mannequin " Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now " Nominated Shared with Albert Hammond (music & lyrics) . 1988 Carly Simon (music & lyrics) Working Girl " Let the River Run " Won 1989 Marilyn Bergman (lyrics) Shirley Valentine " The Girl Who Used to Be Me " Nominated Shared with Marvin Hamlisch (music) ; Alan Bergman (lyrics) . 1992 Linda Thompson (lyrics) The Bodyguard " I Have Nothing " Nominated Shared with David Foster (music) . 1993 Carole Bayer Sager (music & lyrics) Beethoven's 2nd "The Day I Fall in Love" Nominated Shared with James Ingram & Clif Magness (music & lyrics) . Janet Jackson (music & lyrics) Poetic Justice " Again " Nominated Shared with James Harris III & Terry Lewis (music & lyrics) . 1994 Carole Bayer Sager & Patty Smyth (music & lyrics) Junior " Look What Love Has Done " Nominated Shared with James Ingram & James Newton Howard (music & lyrics) . 1995 Marilyn Bergman (lyrics) Sabrina "Moonlight" Nominated Shared with John Williams (music) ; Alan Bergman (lyrics) . 1996 Barbra Streisand (music & lyrics) The Mirror Has Two Faces " I Finally Found Someone " Nominated Shared with Bryan Adams , Marvin Hamlisch & Mutt Lange (music & lyrics) . Diane Warren (music & lyrics) Up Close and Personal " Because You Loved Me " Nominated 1997 Lynn Ahrens (lyrics) Anastasia " Journey to the Past " Nominated Shared with Stephen Flaherty (music) . Diane Warren (music & lyrics) Con Air " How Do I Live? " Nominated 1998 Armageddon " I Don't Wanna Miss a Thing " Nominated Allison Moorer (music & lyrics) The Horse Whisperer "A Soft Place to Fall" Nominated Shared with Gwil Owen (music & lyrics) . Carole Bayer Sager (music & lyrics) Quest for Camelot " The Prayer " Nominated Shared with David Foster (music & lyrics) ; Tony Renis & Alberto Testa (lyrics) . 1999 Aimee Mann (music & lyrics) Magnolia " Save Me " Nominated Diane Warren (music & lyrics) Music of the Heart " Music of My Heart " Nominated 2000 Björk (music) Dancer in the Dark " I've Seen It All " Nominated Shared with Lars von Trier & Sjón Sigurdsson (lyrics) . 2001 Enya & Roma Ryan (music & lyrics) The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring " May It Be " Nominated Shared with Nicky Ryan (music & lyrics) . Diane Warren (music & lyrics) Pearl Harbor " There You'll Be " Nominated 2002 Julie Taymor (lyrics) Frida "Burn It Blue" Nominated Shared with Elliot Goldenthal (music) . 2003 Annie Lennox & Fran Walsh (music & lyrics) The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King " Into the West " Won Shared with Howard Shore (music & lyrics) . Annette O'Toole (music & lyrics) A Mighty Wind "A Kiss at the End of the Rainbow" Nominated Shared with Michael McKean (music & lyrics) . 2005 Kathleen "Bird" York (music & lyrics) Crash " In the Deep " Nominated Shared with Michael Becker (music) . Dolly Parton (music & lyrics) Transamerica "Travellin' Thru" Nominated 2006 Melissa Etheridge (music & lyrics) An Inconvenient Truth " I Need to Wake Up Won First song from a documentary to win in this category. Anne Preven (lyrics) Dreamgirls " Listen " Nominated Shared with Scott Cutler & Henry Krieger (music) . Siedah Garrett (lyrics) " Love You I Do " Nominated Shared with Henry Krieger (music) . 2007 Markéta Irglová (music & lyrics) Once " Falling Slowly " Won Shared with Glen Hansard (music & lyrics) . 2008 M.I.A. (music & lyrics) Slumdog Millionaire " O... Saya " Nominated Shared with A. R. Rahman (music & lyrics) . 2010 Dido (lyrics) 127 Hours " If I Rise " Nominated Shared with A. R. Rahman (music) ; Rollo Armstrong (lyrics) . Hillary Lindsey (music & lyrics) Country Strong "Coming Home" Nominated Shared with Troy Verges & Tom Douglas (music & lyrics) . 2011 Siedah Garrett (lyrics) Rio "Real In Rio" Nominated Shared with Sérgio Mendes & Carlinhos Brown (music) . 2012 Adele (music & lyrics) Skyfall " Skyfall " Won Shared with Paul Epworth (music & lyrics) . Bombay Jayashri (lyrics) Life of Pi " Pi's Lullaby " Nominated Shared with Mychael Danna (music) . 2013 Kristen Anderson-Lopez (music & lyrics) Frozen " Let It Go " Won Shared with Robert Lopez (music & lyrics) . Karen O (music & lyrics) Her " The Moon Song " Nominated Shared with Spike Jonze (lyrics) . 2014 Danielle Brisebois (music & lyrics) Begin Again " Lost Stars " Nominated Shared with Gregg Alexander (music & lyrics) . Diane Warren (music & lyrics) Beyond the Lights " Grateful " Nominated 2015 Diane Warren & Lady Gaga (music & lyrics) The Hunting Ground " Till It Happens to You " Nominated Anohni (lyrics) Racing Extinction " Manta Ray " Nominated First transgender woman to be nominated for Best Original Song. Shared with J. Ralph (music) . 2017 Kristen Anderson-Lopez (music & lyrics) Coco " Remember Me " Won Shared with Robert Lopez (music & lyrics) . Diane Warren (music & lyrics) Marshall " Stand Up for Something " Nominated Shared with Lonnie Lynn (lyrics) . Mary J. Blige & Taura Stinson (music & lyrics) Mudbound " Mighty River " Nominated Blige was the first person to be nominated for acting ( Best Supporting Actress for Mudbound ) and songwriting in the same year. Shared with Raphael Saadiq (music & lyrics) . 2018 Lady Gaga (music & lyrics) A Star is Born " Shallow " Won Shared with Mark Ronson , Anthony Rossomando & Andrew Wyatt (music & lyrics) . Gillian Welch (music & lyrics) The Ballad of Buster Scruggs "When a Cowboy Trades His Spurs for Wings" Nominated Shared with David Rawlings (music & lyrics) . SZA (lyrics) Black Panther " All the Stars " Nominated Shared with Sounwave (music) ; Kendrick Lamar & Anthony Tiffith (music & lyrics) . Diane Warren (music & lyrics) RBG " I'll Fight " Nominated 2019 Breakthrough "I'm Standing with You" Nominated Kristen Anderson-Lopez (music & lyrics) Frozen II " Into the Unknown " Nominated Shared with Robert Lopez (music & lyrics) . Cynthia Erivo (music & lyrics) Harriet " Stand Up " Nominated Shared with Joshuah Brian Campbell (music & lyrics) . 2020 H.E.R. (music & lyrics) ; Tiara Thomas (lyrics) Judas and the Black Messiah " Fight for You " Won Shared with Dernst Emile II (music) . Diane Warren (music & lyrics) ; Laura Pausini (lyrics) The Life Ahead " Io Sì (Seen) " Nominated Celeste Waite (lyrics) The Trial of the Chicago 7 "Hear My Voice" Nominated Shared with Daniel Pemberton (music & lyrics) . 2021 Billie Eilish (music & lyrics) No Time to Die " No Time to Die " Won First person born in the 21st century to win in any category. Shared with Finneas O'Connell (music & lyrics) . Diane Warren (music & lyrics) Four Good Days "Somehow You Do" Nominated Beyoncé (music & lyrics) King Richard " Be Alive " Nominated Shared with DIXSON (music & lyrics) . 2022 Rihanna (music) ; Tems (music & lyrics) Black Panther: Wakanda Forever " Lift Me Up " Nominated Shared with Ludwig Göransson (music) ; Ryan Coogler (music & lyrics) . Mitski (music) Everything Everywhere All at Once "This Is a Life" Nominated Shared with David Byrne & Ryan Lott (music & lyrics) . Diane Warren (music & lyrics) Tell It Like a Woman "Applause" Nominated Lady Gaga (music & lyrics) Top Gun: Maverick " Hold My Hand " Nominated Shared with BloodPop (music & lyrics) . 2023 Billie Eilish (music & lyrics) Barbie " What Was I Made For? " Won Youngest person to win multiple Oscars, at age 22. Shared with Finneas O'Connell (music & lyrics) . Diane Warren (music & lyrics) Flamin' Hot "The Fire Inside" Nominated 2024 Camille (music & lyrics) Emilia Pérez " El Mal " Won Shared with Clément Ducol (music & lyrics) ; Jacques Audiard (lyrics) . Brandi Carlile (music & lyrics) Elton John: Never Too Late " Never Too Late " Nominated Shared with Elton John , Andrew Watt & Bernie Taupin (music & lyrics) . Camille (music & lyrics) Emilia Pérez "Mi Camino" Nominated Shared with Clément Ducol (music & lyrics) . Diane Warren (music & lyrics) The Six Triple Eight "The Journey" Nominated Holds the record for most nominations without a win in this category, with 16. Tied the record for most nominations without a win in any category, with 16. Best Picture [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Picture Year Name Film Status Notes 1973 Julia Phillips The Sting Won First woman to win and be nominated for Best Picture. Shared with Tony Bill and Michael Phillips . 1976 Taxi Driver Nominated First woman with multiple nominations in this category. Shared with Michael Phillips. 1979 Tamara Asseyev Alex Rose Norma Rae Nominated 1982 Kathleen Kennedy E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial Nominated Shared with Steven Spielberg . 1984 Arlene Donovan Places in the Heart Nominated 1985 Kathleen Kennedy The Color Purple Nominated Shared with Steven Spielberg, Frank Marshall , and Quincy Jones . 1987 Sherry Lansing Fatal Attraction Nominated Shared with Stanley R. Jaffe . 1988 Norma Heyman Dangerous Liaisons Nominated Shared with Hank Moonjean . 1989 Lili Fini Zanuck Driving Miss Daisy Won Shared with Richard D. Zanuck . 1990 Lisa Weinstein Ghost Nominated 1991 Barbra Streisand The Prince of Tides Nominated Shared with Andrew Karsch . 1993 Jan Chapman The Piano Nominated 1994 [ note 1 ] Wendy Finerman Forrest Gump Won Shared with Steve Tisch and Steve Starkey . Niki Marvin The Shawshank Redemption Nominated 1995 Lindsay Doran Sense and Sensibility Nominated 1996 Jane Scott Shine Nominated 1997 Bridget Johnson Kristi Zea As Good as It Gets Nominated Shared with James L. Brooks . 1998 Donna Gigliotti Shakespeare in Love Won Shared with David Parfitt , Harvey Weinstein , Edward Zwick , and Marc Norman . Alison Owen Elizabeth Nominated Shared with Eric Fellner and Tim Bevan . Elda Ferri Life Is Beautiful Nominated Shared with Gianluigi Braschi . 1999 Kathleen Kennedy The Sixth Sense Nominated Shared with Frank Marshall and Barry Mendel . 2000 Kit Golden Leslie Holleran Chocolat Nominated Shared with David Brown . Stacey Sher Erin Brockovich Nominated Shared with Danny DeVito and Michael Shamberg . Laura Bickford Traffic Nominated Shared with Edward Zwick and Marshall Herskovitz . 2001 Fran Walsh The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring Nominated Shared with Peter Jackson and Barrie M. Osborne . 2002 The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers Nominated 2003 The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King Won Sofia Coppola Lost in Translation Nominated Shared with Ross Katz . Judie G. Hoyt Mystic River Nominated Shared with Robert Lorenz and Clint Eastwood . Kathleen Kennedy Seabiscuit Nominated Shared with Frank Marshall and Gary Ross . 2004 Nellie Bellflower Finding Neverland Nominated Shared with Richard N. Gladstein . 2005 Cathy Schulman Crash Won Shared with Paul Haggis . Diana Ossana Brokeback Mountain Nominated Shared with James Schamus . Caroline Baron Capote Nominated Shared with William Vince and Michael Ohoven . Kathleen Kennedy Munich Nominated Shared with Steven Spielberg and Barry Mendel. 2006 Christine Langan Tracey Seaward The Queen Nominated Shared with Andy Harries . 2007 Lianne Halton Juno Nominated Shared with Mason Novick and Russell Smith. Jennifer Fox Michael Clayton Nominated Shared with Kerry Orent and Sydney Pollack . JoAnne Sellar There Will Be Blood Nominated Shared with Paul Thomas Anderson and Daniel Lupi . 2008 Kathleen Kennedy Ceán Chaffin The Curious Case of Benjamin Button Nominated Shared with Frank Marshall. Donna Gigliotti The Reader Nominated Shared with Anthony Minghella ( p. n. ), Sydney Pollack ( p. n. ), and Redmond Morris . 2009 [ note 12 ] Kathryn Bigelow The Hurt Locker Won Shared with Mark Boal , Greg Shapiro , and Nicolas Chartier . Carolynne Cunningham District 9 Nominated Shared with Peter Jackson. Finola Dwyer Amanda Posey An Education Nominated Sarah Siegel-Magness Precious: Based on the Novel 'Push' by Sapphire Nominated Shared with Lee Daniels and Gary Magness . 2010 Emma Thomas Inception Nominated Shared with Christopher Nolan . Celine Rattray The Kids Are All Right Nominated Shared with Gary Gilbert and Jeffrey Levy-Hinte . Ceán Chaffin The Social Network Nominated Shared with Dana Brunetti , Michael De Luca , and Scott Rudin . Darla K. Anderson Toy Story 3 Nominated Alix Madigan Anne Rosellini Winter's Bone Nominated 2011 Letty Aronson Midnight in Paris Nominated Shared with Stephen Tenenbaum . Rachael Horovitz Moneyball Nominated Shared with Michael De Luca and Brad Pitt . Sarah Green Dede Gardner The Tree of Life Nominated Shared with Bill Pohlad and Grant Hill . Kathleen Kennedy War Horse Nominated Shared with Steven Spielberg. 2012 Margaret Menegoz Amour Nominated Shared with Stefan Arndt , Veit Heiduschka , and Michael Katz . Stacey Sher Pilar Savone Django Unchained Nominated Shared with Reginald Hudlin . Debra Hayward Les Misérables Nominated Shared with Tim Bevan, Eric Fellner, and Cameron Mackintosh . Kathleen Kennedy Lincoln Nominated Holds the record for most nominations without a win in this category, with eight. Shared with Steven Spielberg. Donna Gigliotti Silver Linings Playbook Nominated Shared with Bruce Cohen and Jonathan Gordon. Kathryn Bigelow Megan Ellison Zero Dark Thirty Nominated Shared with Mark Boal. 2013 Dede Gardner 12 Years a Slave Won Shared with Brad Pitt, Jeremy Kleiner , Steven McQueen , and Anthony Katagas . Megan Ellison American Hustle Nominated Shared with Charles Roven , Richard Suckle , and Jonathan Gordon. Robbie Brenner Rachel Winter Dallas Buyers Club Nominated Megan Ellison Her Nominated Shared with Vincent Landay and Spike Jones . Gabrielle Tana Tracey Seaward Philomena Nominated Shared with Steve Coogan . Emma Tillinger Koskoff The Wolf of Wall Street Nominated Shared with Martin Scorsese , Leonardo DiCaprio , and Joey McFarland . 2014 Cathleen Sutherland Boyhood Nominated Shared with Richard Linklater . Nora Grossman The Imitation Game Nominated Shared with Ido Ostrowsky and Teddy Schwarzman . Oprah Winfrey Dede Gardner Selma Nominated Winfrey was the first woman of color to be nominated for Best Picture. Shared with Christian Colson and Jeremy Kleiner. Lisa Bruce The Theory of Everything Nominated Shared with Tim Bevan, Eric Fellner, and Anthony McCarten . Helen Estabrook Whiplash Nominated Shared with Jason Blum and David Lancaster . 2015 Blye Pagon Faust Nicole Rocklin Spotlight Won Shared with Steve Golin and Michael Sugar . Dede Gardner The Big Short Nominated Shared with Jeremy Kleiner and Brad Pitt. Kristie Macosko Krieger Bridge of Spies Nominated Shared with Marc Platt and Steven Spielberg. Finola Dwyer Amanda Posey Brooklyn Nominated Mary Parent The Revenant Nominated Shared with Alejandro G. Iñárritu , Steve Golin, Arnon Milchan , and Keith Redmon . 2016 Adele Romanski Dede Gardner Moonlight Won Gardner was the first woman with multiple wins in this category. Shared with Jeremy Kleiner. Carla Hacken Julie Yorn Hell or High Water Nominated Donna Gigliotti Jenno Topping Hidden Figures Nominated Shared with Peter Chernin , Pharrell Williams , and Theodore Melfi . Angie Fielder Lion Nominated Shared with Emile Sherman and Iain Canning . Kimberly Steward Lauren Beck Manchester by the Sea Nominated Shared with Matt Damon , Chris Moore , and Kevin J. Walsh . 2017 Émilie Georges Call Me by Your Name Nominated Shared with Luca Guadagnino , Peter Spears , and Marco Morabito . Lisa Bruce Darkest Hour Nominated Shared with Tim Bevan, Eric Fellner, Anthony McCarten, and Douglas Urbanski . Emma Thomas Dunkirk Nominated Shared with Christopher Nolan. Evelyn O'Neill Lady Bird Nominated Shared with Eli Bush and Scott Rudin. Megan Ellison JoAnne Sellar Phantom Thread Nominated Shared with Paul Thomas Anderson and Daniel Lupi. Kristie Macosko Krieger Amy Pascal The Post Nominated Shared with Steven Spielberg. 2018 Ceci Dempsey Lee Magiday The Favourite Nominated Shared with Ed Guiney and Yorgos Lanthimos . Gabriela Rodríguez Roma Nominated First Latina to be nominated for Best Picture. Shared with Alfonso Cuarón . Lynette Howell Taylor A Star is Born Nominated Shared with Bill Gerber and Bradley Cooper . Dede Gardner Vice Nominated Shared with Jeremy Kleiner, Adam McKay , and Kevin Messick . 2019 Kwak Sin-ae Parasite Won First woman of color to win for Best Picture. Shared with Bong Joon-ho . Pippa Harris Jayne-Ann Tenggren 1917 Nominated Shared with Sam Mendes and Callum McDougal. Jenno Topping Ford v Ferrari Nominated Shared with Peter Chernin and James Mangold . Jane Rosenthal Emma Tillinger Koskoff The Irishman Nominated Shared with Martin Scorsese and Robert De Niro . Chelsea Winstanley Jojo Rabbit Nominated Shared with Carthew Neal and Taika Waititi . Emma Tillinger Koskoff Joker Nominated Shared with Todd Phillips and Bradley Cooper. Amy Pascal Little Women Nominated Shannon McIntosh Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Nominated Shared with David Heyman and Quentin Tarantino . 2020 Frances McDormand Mollye Asher Chloé Zhao Nomadland Won McDormand is the first woman to win for acting ( Best Actress for Fargo ) and producing. McDormand is the first person to win for acting (Best Actress for Nomadland ) and producing in the same year. Shared with Peter Spears and Dan Janvey. Ceán Chaffin Mank Nominated Shared with Eric Roth and Douglas Urbanski. Christina Oh Minari Nominated Ashley Fox Emerald Fennell Promising Young Woman Nominated Shared with Josey McNamara and Ben Browning. 2021 Laura Berwick Becca Kovacik Tamar Thomas Belfast Nominated Shared with Kenneth Branagh . Mary Parent Dune Nominated Shared with Denis Villeneuve and Cale Boyter . Sara Murphy Licorice Pizza Nominated Shared with Adam Somner and Paul Thomas Anderson. Jane Campion Tanya Seghatchian The Power of the Dog Nominated Shared with Emile Sherman, Iain Canning, and Roger Frappier . Kristie Macosko Krieger West Side Story Nominated Shared with Steven Spielberg. 2022 Catherine Martin Gail Berman Elvis Nominated Shared with Baz Luhrmann , Patrick McCormick, and Schuyler Weiss. Kristie Macosko Krieger The Fabelmans Nominated Shared with Steven Spielberg and Tony Kushner . Alexandra Milchan Tár Nominated Shared with Todd Field and Scott Lambert. Dede Gardner Frances McDormand Women Talking Nominated Shared with Jeremy Kleiner. 2023 Emma Thomas Oppenheimer Won Shared with Charles Roven and Christopher Nolan. Marie-Ange Luciani Anatomy of a Fall Nominated Shared with David Thion . Margot Robbie Robbie Brenner Barbie Nominated Shared with David Heyman and Tom Ackerley . Amy Derning Kristie Macosko Krieger Maestro Nominated Shared with Bradley Cooper, Steven Spielberg, and Fred Berner . Christine Vachon Pamela Koffler Past Lives Nominated Shared with David Hinojosa . Emma Stone Poor Things Nominated Shared with Ed Guiney, Andrew Lowe , and Yorgos Lanthimos. 2024 Samantha Quan Anora Won Shared with Alex Coco and Sean Baker . Tessa Ross Juliette Howell Conclave Nominated Shared with Michael A. Jackman. Mary Parent Tanya Lapointe Dune: Part Two Nominated Shared with Cale Boyter and Denis Villeneuve. Maria Carlota Bruno I'm Still Here Nominated Shared with Rodrigo Teixeira Dede Gardner Joslyn Barnes Nickel Boys Nominated Shared with Jeremy Kleiner. Coralie Fargeat The Substance Nominated Shared with Tim Bevan and Eric Fellner. Best Production Design [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Production Design [ note 13 ] Year Name Film Status Notes Black-and-White 1941 Julia Heron (set decoration) That Hamilton Woman Nominated First woman to be nominated in production categories. Shared with Vincent Korda (production design) . 1942 Black-and-White Fay Babcock (set decoration) The Talk of the Town Nominated Shared with Lionel Banks and Rudolph Sternad (production design) . Color Julia Heron (set decoration) Jungle Book Nominated First woman to be nominated for Best Production Design (Color). First woman with multiple nominations in production categories. First woman to be nominated in both production categories. Shared with Vincent Korda (production design) . Black-and-White 1943 Julia Heron (set decoration) Casanova Brown Nominated Shared with Perry Ferguson (production design) . Color 1944 Fay Babcock (set decoration) Cover Girl Nominated Shared with Lionel Banks and Cary Odell (production design) . 1945 Mildred Griffiths (set decoration) National Velvet Nominated Shared with Cedric Gibbons and Urie McCleary (production design) ; Edwin B. Willis (set decoration) . Black-and-White 1946 Carmen Dillon (production design) Henry V Nominated Shared with Paul Sheriff (production design) . 1948 Carmen Dillon (set decoration) Hamlet Won First woman to win in production categories. Shared with Roger K. Furse (production design) . 1954 Black-and-White Grace Gregory (set decoration) This Country Girl Nominated Shared with Hal Pereira and Roland Anderson (production design) ; Samuel M. Comer (set decoration) . Color Irene Sharaff (production design) A Star Is Born Nominated Shared with Malcolm C. Bert and Gene Allen (production design) ; George James Hopkins (set decoration) . Color 1959 [ note 1 ] Julia Heron (set decoration) The Big Fisherman Nominated Shared with John DeCuir (production design) . Ruby R. Levitt (set decoration) Pillow Talk Nominated Shared with Richard H. Riedel ( p. n. ) (production design) ; Russell A. Gausman (set decoration) . 1960 Julia Heron (set decoration) Spartacus Won First woman to win for Best Production Design (Color). Shared with Harry Horner and Eric Orbom (production design) ; Russell A. Gausman (set decoration) . 1963 Black-and-White Grace Gregory (set decoration) Love with the Proper Stranger Nominated Shared with Hal Pereira and Roland Anderson (production design) ; Samuel M. Comer (set decoration) . Color Jocelyn Herbert (production design) ; Josie MacAvin (set decoration) Tom Jones Nominated Shared with Ralph W. Brinton and Ted Marshall (production design) . 1965 Black-and-White Josie MacAvin (set decoration) The Spy Who Came in from the Cold Nominated Shared with Hal Pereira and Tambi Larsen (production design) ; Ted Marshall (set decoration) . Color Ruby R. Levitt (set decoration) The Sound of Music Nominated Shared with Boris Leven (production design) ; Walter M. Scott (set decoration) . Production Design 1970 Pamela Cornell (set decoration) Scrooge Nominated Shared with Terence Marsh and Robert Cartwright (production design) . 1971 Ruby R. Levitt (set decoration) The Andromeda Strain Nominated Shared with Boris Leven and William H. Tuntke (production design) . 1974 Chinatown Nominated Shared with Richard Sylbert and W. Stewart Campbell (production design) . 1979 Linda DeScenna (set decoration) Star Trek: The Motion Picture Nominated Shared with Harold Michelson , Joseph R. Jennings , Leon Harris , and John Vallone (production design) . 1981 Ann Mollo (set decoration) The French Lieutenant's Woman Nominated Shared with Assheton Gorton (production design) . Patrizia von Brandenstein (production design) Ragtime Nominated Shared with John Graysmark and Tony Reading (production design) ; George DeTitta Sr. , George DeTitta Jr. and Peter Howitt (set decoration) . 1982 Linda DeScenna (set decoration) Blade Runner Nominated Shared with Lawrence G. Paull and David Snyder (production design) . 1983 Anna Asp (production design) Fanny and Alexander Won Polly Platt (production design) Terms of Endearment Nominated Shared with Harold Michelson (production design) ; Tom Pedigo and Anthony Mondell (set decoration) . Tessa Davies (set decoration) Yentl Nominated Shared with Roy Walker and Leslie Tomkins (production design) . 1984 Patrizia von Brandenstein (production design) Amadeus Won Shared with Karel Černý (production design) . 1985 Josie MacAvin (set decoration) Out of Africa Won Shared with Stephen B. Grimes (production design) . Maggie Gray (set decoration) Brazil Nominated Shared with Norman Garwood (production design) . Linda DeScenna (set decoration) The Color Purple Nominated Shared with J. Michael Riva and Bo Welch (production design) . Shinobu Muraki (production design) Ran Nominated First woman of color to be nominated for Best Production Design. Shared with Yoshiro Muraki (production design) . 1986 Karen O'Hara (set decoration) The Color of Money Nominated Shared with Boris Leven (production design) . Carol Joffe (set decoration) Hannah and Her Sisters Nominated Shared with Stuart Wurtzel (production design) . 1987 Joanne Woollard (set decoration) Hope and Glory Nominated Shared with Anthony D. G. Pratt (production design) . Carol Joffe (set decoration) Radio Days Nominated Shared with Santo Loquasto (production design) ; Leslie Bloom and George DeTitta Jr. (set decoration) . Patrizia von Brandenstein (production design) The Untouchables Nominated Shared with William A. Elliott (production design) ; Hal Gausman (set decoration) . 1988 Ida Random (production design) ; Linda DeScenna (set decoration) Rain Man Nominated 1989 Anne Kuljian (set decoration) The Abyss Nominated Shared with Leslie Dilley (production design) . Francesca Lo Schiavo (set decoration) The Adventures of Baron Munchausen Nominated Shared with Dante Ferretti (production design) . 1990 Lisa Dean (set decoration) Dances with Wolves Nominated Shared with Jeffrey Beecroft (production design) . Francesca Lo Schiavo (set decoration) Hamlet Nominated Shared with Dante Ferretti (production design) . 1991 Nancy Haigh (set decoration) Bugsy Won Shared with Dennis Gassner (production design) . Barton Fink Nominated Cindy Carr (set decoration) The Fisher King Nominated Shared with Mel Bourne (production design) . Caryl Heller (set decoration) The Prince of Tides Nominated Shared with Paul Sylbert (production design) . 1992 Luciana Arrighi (production design) Howards End Won Shared with Ian Whittaker (set decoration) . Linda DeScenna (set decoration) Toys Nominated Shared with Ferdinando Scarfiotti (production design) . Janice Blackie-Goodine (set decoration) Unforgiven Nominated Shared with Henry Bumstead (production design) . 1993 Ewa Braun (set decoration) Schindler's List Won Shared with Allan Starski (production design) . Luciana Arrighi (production design) The Remains of the Day Nominated Shared with Ian Whittaker (set decoration) . 1994 [ note 14 ] Carolyn Scott (set decoration) The Madness of King George Won Shared with Ken Adam (production design) . Susan Bode (set decoration) Bullets over Broadway Nominated Shared Santo Loquasto (production design) . Nancy Haigh (set decoration) Forrest Gump Nominated Shared with Rick Carter (production design) . Francesca Lo Schiavo (set decoration) Interview with the Vampire Nominated Shared with Dante Ferretti (production design) . Lilly Kilvert (production design) ; Dorree Cooper (set decoration) Legends of the Fall Nominated 1995 Merideth Boswell (set decoration) Apollo 13 Nominated Shared with Michael Corenblith (production design) . Kerrie Brown (set decoration) Babe Nominated Shared with Roger Ford (production design) . Cheryl Carasik (set decoration) A Little Princess Nominated Shared with Bo Welch (production design) . 1996 Stephenie McMillan (set decoration) The English Patient Won Shared with Stuart Craig (production design) . Cheryl Carasik (set decoration) The Birdcage Nominated Shared with Bo Welch (production design) . Catherine Martin (production design) ; Brigitte Broch (set decoration) Romeo + Juliet Nominated 1997 Nancy Nye (set decoration) Gattaca Nominated Shared with Jan Roelfs (production design) . Francesca Lo Schiavo (set decoration) Kundun Nominated Shared with Dante Ferretti (production design) . Jeannine Oppewall (production design) L.A. Confidential Nominated Shared with Jay Hart (set decoration) . Cheryl Carasik (set decoration) Men in Black Nominated Shared with Bo Welch (production design) . 1998 Jill Quertier (set decoration) Shakespeare in Love Won Shared with Martin Childs (production design) . Jeannine Oppewall (production design) Pleasantville Nominated Shared with Jay Hart (set decoration) . Lisa Dean Kavanaugh (set decoration) Saving Private Ryan Nominated Shared with Thomas E. Sanders (production design) . Cindy Carr (set decoration) What Dreams May Come Nominated Shared with Eugenio Zanetti (production design) . 1999 Luciana Arrighi (production design) Anna and the King Nominated Shared with Ian Whittaker (set decoration) . Beth Rubino (set decoration) The Cider House Rules Nominated Shared with David Gropman (production design) . Eve Stewart (production design) Topsy-Turvy Nominated Shared with John Bush (set decoration) . 2000 Merideth Boswell (set decoration) How the Grinch Stole Christmas Nominated Shared with Michael Corenblith (production design) . Jill Quertier (set decoration) Quills Nominated Shared with Martin Childs (production design) . Françoise Benoît-Fresco (set decoration) Vatel Nominated Shared with Jean Rabasse (production design) . 2001 Catherine Martin (production design) ; Brigitte Broch (set decoration) Moulin Rouge! Won Aline Bonetto (production design) ; Marie-Laure Valla (set decoration) Amélie Nominated Anna Pinnock (set decoration) Gosford Park Nominated Shared with Stephen Altman (production design) . Stephenie McMillan (set decoration) Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone Nominated Shared with Stuart Craig (production design) . 2002 Hania Robledo (set decoration) Frida Nominated Shared with Felipe Fernández del Paso (production design) . Francesca Lo Schiavo (set decoration) Gangs of New York Nominated Shared with Dante Ferretti (production design) . Nancy Haigh (set decoration) Road to Perdition Nominated Shared with Dennis Gassner (production design) . 2003 Cecile Heideman (set decoration) Girl with a Pearl Earring Nominated Shared with Ben Van Os (production design) . Lilly Kilvert (production design) ; Gretchen Rau (set decoration) The Last Samurai Nominated Jeannine Oppewall (production design) ; Leslie Pope (set decoration) Seabiscuit Nominated 2004 [ note 14 ] Francesca Lo Schiavo (set decoration) The Aviator Won Shared with Dante Ferretti (production design) . Gemma Jackson (production design) ; Trisha Edwards (set decoration) Finding Neverland Nominated Cheryl Carasik (set decoration) Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events Nominated Shared with Rick Heinrichs (production design) . Celia Bobak (set decoration) The Phantom of the Opera Nominated Shared with Anthony D. G. Pratt (production design) . Aline Bonetto (production design) A Very Long Engagement Nominated 2005 Gretchen Rau (set decoration) Memoirs of a Geisha Won Shared with John Myhre (production design) . Jan Pascale (set decoration) Good Night, and Good Luck. Nominated Shared with James D. Bissell (production design) . Stephenie McMillan (set decoration) Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire Nominated Shared with Stuart Craig (production design) . Sarah Greenwood (production design) ; Katie Spencer (set decoration) Pride & Prejudice Nominated 2006 [ note 14 ] Pilar Revuelta (set decoration) Pan's Labyrinth Won Shared with Eugenio Caballero (production design) . Nancy Haigh (set decoration) Dreamgirls Nominated Shared with John Myhre (production design) . Jeannine Claudia Oppewall (production design) ; Gretchen Rau (set decoration) The Good Shepherd Nominated Posthumous nomination for Rau. Shared with Leslie E. Rollins (set decoration) . Cheryl Carasik (set decoration) Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest Nominated Shared with Rick Heinrichs (production design) . Julie Ochipinti (set decoration) The Prestige Nominated Shared with Nathan Crowley (production design) . 2007 Francesca Lo Schiavo (set decoration) Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street Won First woman with multiple wins in this category. Shared with Dante Ferretti (production design) . Beth Rubino (set decoration) American Gangster Nominated Shared with Arthur Max (production design) . Sarah Greenwood (production design) ; Katie Spencer (set decoration) Atonement Nominated Anna Pinnock (set decoration) The Golden Compass Nominated Shared with Dennis Gassner (production design) . 2008 Rebecca Alleway (set decoration) The Duchess Nominated Shared with Michael Carlin (production design) . Kristi Zea (production design) ; Debra Schutt (set decoration) Revolutionary Road Nominated 2009 Anastasia Masaro (production design) ; Caroline Smith (set decoration) The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus Nominated Shared with Dave Warren (production design) . Sarah Greenwood (production design) ; Katie Spencer (set decoration) Sherlock Holmes Nominated Maggie Gray (set decoration) The Young Victoria Nominated Shared with Patrice Vermette (production design) . 2010 Karen O'Hara (set decoration) Alice in Wonderland Won Shared with Robert Stromberg (production design) . Stephenie McMillan (set decoration) Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 Nominated Shared with Stuart Craig (production design) . Eve Stewart (production design) ; Judy Farr (set decoration) The King's Speech Nominated Nancy Haigh (set decoration) True Grit Nominated Shared with Jess Gonchor (production design) . 2011 Francesca Lo Schiavo (set decoration) Hugo Won Shared with Dante Ferretti (production design) . Stephenie McMillan (set decoration) Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 Nominated Shared with Stuart Craig (production design) . Anne Seibel (production design) ; Hélène Dubreuil (set decoration) Midnight in Paris Nominated 2012 Sarah Greenwood (production design) ; Katie Spencer (set decoration) Anna Karenina Nominated Eve Stewart (production design) ; Anna Lynch-Robinson (set decoration) Les Misérables Nominated Anna Pinnock (set decoration) Life of Pi Nominated Shared with David Gropman (production design) . 2013 Catherine Martin (production design) ; Beverley Dunn (set decoration) The Great Gatsby Won Alice Baker (set decoration) 12 Years a Slave Nominated Shared with Adam Stockhausen (production design) . Judy Becker (production design) ; Heather Loeffler (set decoration) American Hustle Nominated Rosie Goodwin and Joanne Woollard (set decoration) Gravity Nominated Shared with Andy Nicholson (production design) . 2014 Anna Pinnock (set decoration) The Grand Budapest Hotel Won Shared with Adam Stockhausen (production design) . Maria Djurkovic (production design) ; Tatiana Macdonald (set decoration) The Imitation Game Nominated Anna Pinnock (set decoration) Into the Woods Nominated Shared with Dennis Gassner (production design) . Suzie Davies (production design) ; Charlotte Watts (set decoration) Mr. Turner Nominated 2015 Lisa Thompson (set decoration) Mad Max: Fury Road Won Shared with Colin Gibson (production design) . Rena DeAngelo (set decoration) Bridge of Spies Nominated Shared with Adam Stockhausen (production design) ; Bernhard Henrich (set decoration) . Eve Stewart (production design) The Danish Girl Nominated Shared with Michael Standish (set decoration) . Celia Bobak (set decoration) The Martian Nominated Shared with Arthur Max (production design) . 2016 Sandy Reynolds-Wasco (set decoration) La La Land Won Shared with David Wasco (production design) . Anna Pinnock (set decoration) Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them Nominated Shared with Stuart Craig (production design) . Nancy Haigh (set decoration) Hail, Caesar! Nominated Shared with Jess Gonchor (production design) . 2017 Sarah Greenwood (production design) ; Katie Spencer (set decoration) Beauty and the Beast Nominated Alessandra Querzola (set decoration) Blade Runner 2049 Nominated Shared with Dennis Gassner (production design) . Sarah Greenwood (production design) ; Katie Spencer (set decoration) Darkest Hour Nominated 2018 Hannah Beachler (production design) Black Panther Won First African-American and black woman to win and be nominated for Best Production Design. Shared with Jay Hart (set decoration) . Fiona Crombie (production design) ; Alice Felton (set decoration) The Favourite Nominated Kathy Lucas (set decoration) First Man Nominated Shared with Nathan Crowley (production design) . Bárbara Enríquez (set decoration) Roma Nominated Shared with Eugenio Caballero (production design) . 2019 Barbara Ling (production design) ; Nancy Haigh (set decoration) Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Won Regina Graves (set decoration) The Irishman Nominated Shared with Bob Shaw (production design) . Nora Sopková (set decoration) Jojo Rabbit Nominated Shared with Ra Vincent (production design) . 2020 [ note 14 ] Jan Pascale (set decoration) Mank Won Shared with Donald Graham Burt (production design) . Cathy Featherstone (set decoration) The Father Nominated Shared with Peter Francis (production design) . Karen O'Hara and Diana Stoughton (set decoration) Ma Rainey's Black Bottom Nominated Shared with Mark Ricker (production design) . Elizabeth Keenan (set decoration) News of the World Nominated Shared with David Crank (production design) . Kathy Lucas (set decoration) Tenet Nominated Shared with Nathan Crowley (production design) . 2021 [ note 14 ] Zsuzsanna Sipos (set decoration) Dune Won Shared with Patrice Vermette (production design) . Tamara Deverell (production design) Nightmare Alley Nominated Shared with Shane Vieau (set decoration) . Amber Richards (set decoration) The Power of the Dog Nominated Shared with Grant Major (production design) . Nancy Haigh (set decoration) The Tragedy of Macbeth Nominated Shared with Stefan Dechant (production design) . Rena DeAngelo (set decoration) West Side Story Nominated Shared with Adam Stockhausen (production design) . 2022 [ note 14 ] Ernestine Hipper (set decoration) All Quiet on the Western Front Won Shared with Christian M. Goldbeck (production design) . Vanessa Cole (set decoration) Avatar: The Way of Water Nominated Shared with Dylan Cole and Ben Procter (production design) . Florencia Martin (production design) Babylon Nominated Shared with Anthony Carlino (set decoration) . Catherine Martin and Karen Murphy (production design) ; Bev Dunn (set decoration) Elvis Nominated Karen O'Hara (set decoration) The Fabelmans Nominated Shared with Rick Carter (production design) . 2023 Shona Heath (production design) ; Zsuzsa Mihalek (set decoration) Poor Things Won Shared with James Price (production design) . Sarah Greenwood (production design) ; Katie Spencer (set decoration) Barbie Nominated Elli Griff (set decoration) Napoleon Nominated Shared with Arthur Max (production design) . Ruth De Jong (production design) ; Claire Kaufman (set decoration) Oppenheimer Nominated 2024 Judy Becker (production design) ; Patricia Cuccia (set decoration) The Brutalist Nominated Suzie Davies (production design) ; Cynthia Sleiter (set decoration) Conclave Nominated Beatrice Brentnerová (set decoration) Nosferatu Nominated Shared with Craig Lathrop (production design) . Best Short Film (Animated) [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film Year Name Film Status Notes 1962 Faith Hubley The Hole Won First woman to win and be nominated for Best Animated Short Film. First woman with multiple wins and nominations in this category. Shared with John Hubley . 1966 Herb Alpert and the Tijuana Brass Double Feature Won 1968 Windy Day Nominated 1969 Of Men and Demons Nominated 1974 Voyage to Next Nominated 1976 [ note 1 ] Suzanne Baker Leisure Won Caroline Leaf The Street Nominated Shared with Guy Glover . 1977 Faith Hubley The Doonesbury Special Nominated Shared with John Hubley and Garry Trudeau . 1978 Eunice Macaulay Special Delivery Won Shared with John Weldon . 1981 Janet Perlman The Tender Tale of Cinderella Penguin Nominated 1982 Dianne Jackson The Snowman Nominated 1983 Eda Godel Hallinan Sound of Sunshine - Sound of Rain Nominated 1985 Cilia van Dijk Anna & Bella Won Alison Snowden Second Class Mail Nominated 1986 Linda Van Tulden A Greek Tragedy Won Shared with Willem Thijsen. 1987 Eunice Macaulay George and Rosemary Nominated 1991 Wendy Tilby Strings Nominated 1992 Joan C. Gratz Mona Lisa Descending a Staircase Won Michaela Pavlátová Reci, Reci, Reci... Nominated 1994 Alison Snowden Bob's Birthday Won Shared with David Fine . Vanessa Schwartz The Janitor Nominated First Latina to be nominated for Best Animated Short Film. Erica Russell Triangle Nominated 1997 Joanna Quinn Famous Fred Nominated 1999 Torill Kove My Grandmother Ironed the King's Shirts Nominated Wendy Tilby Amanda Forbis When the Day Breaks Nominated 2000 Annette Schäffler Periwig Maker Nominated Shared with Steffen Schäffler. 2002 Heidi Wittlinger Das Rad Nominated Shared with Chris Stenner. 2005 Peggy Stern The Moon and the Son: An Imagined Conversation Won Shared with John Canemaker . Sharon Colman Badgered Nominated 2006 Torill Kove The Danish Poet Won 2007 Suzie Templeton Peter & the Wolf Won Shared with Hugh Welchman . 2011 Sue Goffe A Morning Stroll Nominated Wendy Tilby Amanda Forbis Wild Life Nominated 2012 Fodhla Cronin O'Reilly Head Over Heels Nominated Shared with Timothy Reckart . 2013 Lauren MacMullan Dorothy McKim Get a Horse! Nominated 2014 Kristina Reed Feast Won Shared with Patrick Osborne . Daisy Jacobs The Bigger Picture Nominated Shared with Christopher Hees. Torill Kove Me and My Moulton Nominated 2015 Imogen Sutton Prologue Nominated Shared with Richard Williams . Nicole Paradis Grindle Sanjay's Super Team Nominated Shared with Sanjay Patel . 2016 Cara Speller Pear Cider and Cigarettes Nominated Shared with Robert Valley . 2017 Dana Murray Lou Nominated Shared with Dave Mullins . Ru Kuwahata Negative Space Nominated Shared with Max Porter . 2018 Domee Shi Becky Neiman-Cobb Bao Won Alison Snowden Animal Behaviour Nominated Shared with David Fine. Louise Bagnall Nuria González-Blanco Late Afternoon Nominated 2019 Karen Rupert Toliver Hair Love Won Shared with Matthew A. Cherry . Daria Kashcheeva Daughter Nominated Rosana Sullivan Kathryn Hendrickson Kitbull Nominated Siqi Song Sister Nominated 2020 Madeline Sharafian Burrow Nominated Shared with Michael Capbarat. 2021 Joanna Quinn Affairs of the Art Nominated Shared with Les Mills. 2022 Amanda Forbis Wendy Tilby The Flying Sailor Nominated Sara Gunnarsdóttir Pamela Ribon My Year of Dicks Nominated 2023 Tal Kantor Letter to a Pig Nominated Shared with Amit R. Gicelter . Jerusha Hess Ninety-Five Senses Nominated Shared with Jared Hess . Yegane Moghaddam Our Uniform Nominated Stéphanie Clément Pachyderme Nominated Shared with Marc Rius. 2024 Shirin Sohani In the Shadow of the Cypress Won Shared with Hossein Molayemi. Nina Gantz Stienette Bosklopper Wander to Wonder Nominated Juliette Marquet Yuck! Nominated Shared with Loïc Espuche . Best Short Film (Live Action) [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Live Action Short Film Year Name Film Status Notes 1959 Shirley Clarke Skyscraper Nominated First woman to be nominated for Best Live Action Short Film. Shared with Willard Van Dyke and Irving Jacoby. 1962 Martina Huguenot van der Linden Big City Blues Nominated Shared with Charles Huguenot van der Linden. 1969 Joan Keller Stern The Magic Machines Won First woman to win for Best Live Action Short Film. 1976 [ note 1 ] Marjorie Anne Short Kudzu Nominated Claire Wilbur Nightlife Nominated Shared with Robin Lehman . Dyan Cannon Number One Nominated Shared with Vince Cannon. 1977 Beverly Shaffer Yuki Yoshida I'll Find a Way Won Yoshida was the first woman of color to win and be nominated in any non-acting category. 1978 Fern Field A Different Approach Nominated Shared with Jim Belcher. 1979 Sarah Pillsbury Board and Care Won Shared with Ron Ellis. Carol Lowell Oh Brother, My Brother Nominated Shared with Ross Lowell . 1980 Sally Heckel A Jury of Her Peers Nominated 1981 Shelley Levinson Violet Won Shared with Paul Kemp. Christine Oestreicher Couples and Robbers Nominated 1982 A Shocking Accident Won First woman with multiple nominations in this category. 1983 Janice L. Platt Boys and Girls Won 1984 The Painted Door Nominated Shared with Michael MacMillan . Sharon Oreck Lesli Linka Glatter Tales of Meeting and Parting Nominated 1985 Dianna Costello Graffiti Nominated 1986 Fredda Weiss Love Struck Nominated 1987 Jana Sue Memel Ray's Male Heterosexual Dance Hall Won Shared with Jonathan Sanger . Ann Wingate Making Waves Nominated 1988 Matia Karrell Abbee Goldstein Cadillac Dreams Nominated 1990 Hillary Ripps 12:01 PM Nominated Shared with Jonathan Heap. 1992 Jana Sue Memel Contact Nominated Shared with Jonathan Darby. 1993 Stacy Title Down on the Waterfront Nominated Shared with Jonathan Penner . Susan Seidelman The Dutch Master Nominated Shared with Jonathan Brett. Jana Sue Memel Partners Nominated Shared with Peter Weller . 1994 [ note 6 ] Ruth Kenley-Letts Franz Kafka's It's a Wonderful Life Won Shared with Peter Capaldi . Tied with Trevor . Peggy Rajski Trevor Won Shared with Randy Stone . Tied with Franz Kafka's It's a Wonderful Life . Christine Astin Kangaroo Court Nominated Shared with Sean Astin . JoBeth Williams Michele McGuire On Hope Nominated 1995 Christine Lahti Jana Sue Memel Lieberman in Love Won Memel was the first woman with multiple wins in this category. Tikki Goldberg Little Surprises Nominated Shared with Jeff Goldblum . Dianne Houston Joy Ryan Tuesday Morning Ride Nominated Houston was the first Black woman to be nominated for Best Live Action Short Film. 1996 Bernadette Carranza Wordless Nominated Shared with Antonello De Leo. 1998 Vivian Goffette La Carte Postale (The Postcard) Nominated 1999 Barbara Schock Tamara Tiehel My Mother Dreams the Satan's Disciples in New York Won Gabriele Lins Kleingeld Nominated Shared with Marc-Andreas Bochert. 2000 Ericka Frederick By Courier Nominated Shared with Peter Riegert . Joan Stein Christina Lazaridi One Day Crossing Nominated Gail Lerner Seraglio Nominated Shared with Colin Campbell. 2001 Lisa Blount The Accountant Won Shared with Ray McKinnon . Shameela Bakhsh Speed for Thespians Nominated Shared with Kalman Apple. 2002 Mie Andreasen Der Er En Yndig Man (This Charming Man) Won Shared with Martin Strange-Hansen. Anja Daelemans Fait D'Hiver Nominated Shared with Dirk Beliën. Lexi Alexander Johnny Flynton Nominated Shared with Alexander Buono. 2004 Andrea Arnold Wasp Won Ainsley Gardiner Two Cars, One Night Nominated Shared with Taika Waititi . 2005 Ulrike Grote Ausreisser (The Runaway) Nominated Lene Bausager Cashback Nominated Shared with Sean Ellis . Pia Clemente Our Time Is Up Nominated Shared with Rob Pearlstein . 2007 Louise Vesth At Night Nominated Shared with Christian E. Christiansen . Anja Daelemans Tanghi Argentini Nominated Shared with Guido Thys. 2008 Elizabeth Marre Manon on the Asphalt Nominated Shared with Olivier Pont. Steph Green Tamara Anghie New Boy Nominated Dorte Høgh The Pig Nominated Shared with Tivi Magnusson. 2009 Juanita Wilson The Door Nominated Shared with James Flynn. 2010 Samantha Waite Wish 143 Nominated Shared with Ian Barnes. 2011 Oorlagh George The Shore Won Shared with Terry George . Eimear O'Kane Pentecost Nominated Shared with Peter McDonald . Gigi Causey Time Freak Nominated Shared with Andrew Bowler . 2012 Ellen De Waele Dood van een Schaduw (Death of a Shadow) Nominated Shared with Tom Van Avermaet. 2013 Selma Vilhunen Kirsikka Saari Pitääkö Mun Kaikki Hoitaa? (Do I Have to Take Care of Everything?) Nominated 2014 Mihal Brezis Aya Nominated Shared with Oded Binnun. Talkhon Hamzavi Parvaneh Nominated Shared with Stefan Eichenberger. 2015 Serena Armitage Stutterer Won Shared with Benjamin Cleary . 2016 Anna Udvardy Sing Won Shared with Kristóf Deák . 2017 Rachel Shenton The Silent Child Won Shared with Chris Overton . Katja Benrath Watu Wore: All of Us Nominated Shared with Tobias Rosen . 2018 Jaime Ray Newman Skin Won Shared with Guy Nattiv . Maria Gracia Turgeon Fauve Nominated Shared with Jeremy Comte. Marianne Farley Marie-Hélène Panisset Marguerite Nominated Shared with Tobias Rosen. María del Puy Alvarado Mother Nominated Shared with Rodrigo Sorogoyen . 2019 Meryam Joobeur Maria Gracia Turgeon Brotherhood Nominated Delphine Girard A Sister Nominated 2020 Susan Ruzenski Feeling Through Nominated Shared with Doug Roland. Elvira Lind Sofia Sondervan The Letter Room Nominated Farah Nabulsi The Present Nominated Shira Hochman White Eye Nominated Shared with Tomer Shushan. 2021 Maria Brendle Nadine Lüchinger Ala Kachuu – Take and Run Nominated K.D. Dávila Please Hold Nominated First Latina to be nominated for Best Live Action Short Film. Shared with Levin Menekse. 2022 Rebecca Pruzan Ivalu Nominated Shared with Anders Walter . Alice Rohrwacher Le pupille Nominated Shared with Alfonso Cuarón . 2023 Nicky Bentham The After Nominated Shared with Misan Harriman . Nazrin Choudhury Sara McFarlane Red, White and Blue Nominated 2024 Victoria Warmerdam I'm Not a Robot Won Shared with Trent. Suchitra Mattai Anuja Nominated Shared with Adam J. Graves. Cindy Lee The Last Ranger Nominated Shared with Darwin Shaw. Best Sound [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Sound [ note 15 ] Sound Editing Year Name Film Status Notes 1984 Kay Rose The River Won First and only woman to receive the non-competitive Special Achievement Academy Award (Sound Effects Editing). 1986 Cecelia Hall Top Gun Nominated First woman to be nominated for competitive award in sound categories. Shared with George Watters II . 1990 The Hunt for Red October Won First woman to win competitive award in sound categories. First woman with multiple nominations in sound categories. Shared with George Watters II. 1991 Gloria Borders Terminator 2: Judgment Day Won Shared with Gary Rydstrom . 1994 Forrest Gump Nominated Shared with Randy Thom . Sound Mixing 1995 Anna Behlmer Braveheart Nominated First woman to be nominated for Best Sound Mixing. Shared with Andy Nelson , Scott Millan , and Brian Simmons . 1996 Evita Nominated First woman with multiple nominations for Best Sound Mixing. Shared with Andy Nelson and Ken Weston . 1997 L.A. Confidential Nominated Shared with Andy Nelson and Kirk Francis . 1998 [ note 1 ] Pud Cusack The Mask of Zorro Nominated Shared with Kevin O'Connell and Greg P. Russell . Anna Behlmer The Thin Red Line Nominated Shared with Andy Nelson and Paul Brincat . 2001 Moulin Rouge! Nominated Shared with Andy Nelson, Roger Savage , and Guntis Sics . 2003 The Last Samurai Nominated Shared with Andy Nelson and Jeff Wexler . Seabiscuit Nominated Shared with Andy Nelson and Tod A. Maitland . 2005 War of the Worlds Nominated Shared with Andy Nelson and Ron Judkins . 2006 Blood Diamond Nominated Shared with Andy Nelson and Ivan Sharrock . Sound Editing 2007 Karen Baker Landers The Bourne Ultimatum Won Shared with Per Hallberg . Sound Mixing 2008 Lora Hirschberg The Dark Knight Nominated Shared with Gary Rizzo and Ed Novick . 2009 Sound Mixing Anna Behlmer Star Trek Nominated Shared with Andy Nelson and Peter J. Devlin . Sound Editing Gwendolyn Yates Whittle Avatar Nominated Shared with Christopher Boyes . 2010 Sound Mixing Lora Hirschberg Inception Won First woman to win for Best Sound Mixing. Shared with Gary Rizzo and Ed Novick. Sound Editing Gwendolyn Yates Whittle Tron: Legacy Nominated Shared with Addison Teague . Sound Mixing 2011 Deb Adair Moneyball Nominated Shared with Ron Bochar , Dave Giammarco , and Ed Novick. Sound Editing 2012 [ note 6 ] Karen Baker Landers Skyfall Won First woman with multiple wins in sound categories. Shared with Per Hallberg. Tied with Paul N. J. Ottosson for Zero Dark Thirty 2014 Becky Sullivan Unbroken Nominated Shared with Andrew DeCristofaro . 2016 Sound Mixing Renée Tondelli Deepwater Horizon Nominated Shared with Wylie Stateman . Ai-Ling Lee La La Land Nominated First woman of color to be nominated in sound categories. First woman to be nominated in both sound categories and in the same year. Shared with Andy Nelson and Steven A. Morrow . Sound Editing Ai-Ling Lee Mildred Iatrou Morgan La La Land Nominated Lee was the first woman of color to be nominated in sound categories. Lee was the first woman to be nominated in both sound categories and in the same year. Sound Mixing 2017 Mary H. Ellis Baby Driver Nominated Shared with Julian Slater and Tim Cavagin . 2018 Sound Mixing Ai-Ling Lee Mary H. Ellis First Man Nominated Shared with Jon Taylor and Frank A. Montaño . Sound Editing Nina Hartstone Bohemian Rhapsody Won Shared with John Warhurst . Ai-Ling Lee Mildred Iatrou Morgan First Man Nominated Sound Editing 2019 Rachael Tate 1917 Nominated Shared with Oliver Tarney . Sound 2020 Michelle Couttolenc Sound of Metal Won Shared with Nicolas Becker , Jaime Baksht , Carlos Cortés Navarrete , and Phillip Bladh . Coya Elliott Soul Nominated Shared with Ren Klyce and David Parker . 2021 Denise Yarde Belfast Nominated Shared with Simon Chase , James Mather , and Niv Adiri . Tara Webb The Power of the Dog Nominated Shared with Richard Flynn and Robert Mackenzie . 2022 Gwendolyn Yates Whittle Avatar: The Way of Water Nominated Shared with Julian Howarth , Dick Bernstein, Christopher Boyes, Gary Summers , and Michael Hedges . 2024 Nancy Nugent Title Wicked Nominated Shared with Simon Hayes , Jack Dolman, Andy Nelson and John Marquis. Best Visual Effects [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Visual Effects Year Name Film Status Notes 1986 Suzanne M. Benson Aliens Won First woman to win and be nominated for Best Visual Effects. Shared with Robert Skotak , Stan Winston , and John Richardson . 1993 Pamela Easley Cliffhanger Nominated Shared with Neil Krepela , John Richardson, and John Bruno . 2015 Sara Bennett Ex Machina Won Shared with Mark Williams Ardington , Paul Norris , and Andrew Whitehurst . 2020 Genevieve Camilleri Love and Monsters Nominated Shared with Matt Sloan , Brian Cox , and Matt Everitt . 2023 Kiyoko Shibuya Godzilla Minus One Won First woman of color to win and be nominated for Best Visual Effects. Shared with Takashi Yamazaki , Masaki Takahashi , and Tatsuji Nojima . Best Writing (Adapted Screenplay) [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay Year Name Film Source Material Status Notes 1928-29 [ note 16 ] [ note 17 ] [ note 1 ] Josephine Lovett Our Dancing Daughters – (original) Nominated Among the first women to be nominated in writing categories. Bess Meredyth A Woman of Affairs The novel The Green Hat by Michael Arlen Nominated First woman with multiple nominations in any category. Among the first women to be nominated in writing categories. One of only three women among 36 founding members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences . Wonder of Women The novel Die Frau des Steffen Tromholt by Hermann Sudermann Nominated 1929-30 [ note 17 ] Frances Marion The Big House – (original) Won First woman to win in writing categories. First person with multiple wins in writing categories (for further information, see Best Original Story). 1932-33 Sarah Y. Mason Little Women The novel by Louisa May Alcott Won First woman to win for adaptation from previously established material. Shared with Victor Heerman . Sonya Levien State Fair The novel by Phil Stong Nominated Shared with Paul Green . 1934 Frances Goodrich The Thin Man The novel by Dashiell Hammett Nominated Shared with Albert Hackett . 1936 After the Thin Man The novel The Thin Man by Dashiell Hammett Nominated 1937 Viña Delmar The Awful Truth The play by Arthur Richman Nominated Dorothy Parker A Star Is Born A story by William A. Wellman & Robert Carson Nominated Shared with Alan Campbell and Robert Carson. 1938 Elizabeth Hill The Citadel The novel by A. J. Cronin Nominated Shared with Ian Dalrymple and Frank Wead . Lenore Coffee Four Daughters The short story Sister Act by Fannie Hurst Nominated Shared with Julius J. Epstein . 1939 Claudine West Goodbye, Mr. Chips The novella by James Hilton Nominated Shared with R.C. Sherriff and Eric Maschwitz . 1940 Joan Harrison Rebecca The novel by Daphne du Maurier Nominated First woman to be nominated in the same year in two separate categories (For the further information, see Best Original Screenplay). Shared with Robert E. Sherwood . 1941 Lillian Hellman The Little Foxes The play by Hellman Nominated First woman to be nominated for adapting her own work. 1942 Claudine West Mrs. Miniver The character Mrs. Miniver from the newspaper columns by Jan Struther Won Shared with George Froeschel , James Hilton , and Arthur Wimperis . Random Harvest The novel by James Hilton Nominated Shared with George Froeschel and Arthur Wimperis. 1944 Elizabeth Reinhardt Laura The novel by Vera Caspary Nominated Shared with Jay Dratler and Samuel Hoffenstein . 1945 Tess Slesinger A Tree Grows in Brooklyn The novel by Betty Smith Nominated First woman to be posthumously nominated in a non-acting category. Shared with Frank Davis. 1946 Sally Benson Anna and the King of Siam The novel by Margaret Landon Nominated Shared with Talbot Jennings . 1948 Irma von Cube Johnny Belinda The play by Elmer Blaney Harris Nominated Shared with Allen Vincent. 1950 Frances Goodrich Father of the Bride The novel by Edward Streeter Nominated Shared with Albert Hackett. 1953 Helen Deutsch Lili The short story Love of Seven Dolls by Paul Gallico Nominated 1954 Frances Goodrich Dorothy Kingsley Seven Brides for Seven Brothers The short story The Sobbin' Women by Stephen Vincent Benét Nominated Goodrich tied the record for most nominations without a win in this category, with four. Shared with Albert Hackett. 1955 Isobel Lennart Love Me or Leave Me A story by Daniel Fuchs Nominated Shared with Daniel Fuchs. 1960 The Sundowners The novel by Jon Cleary Nominated 1962 Eleanor Perry David and Lisa The novella Lisa and David by Theodore Isaac Rubin Nominated 1963 Phoebe Ephron Captain Newman, M.D. The novel by Leo Rosten Nominated Shared with Richard L. Breen and Henry Ephron . Harriet Frank Jr. Hud The novel Horseman, Pass By by Larry McMurtry Nominated Shared with Irving Ravetch . 1969 Bridget Boland Anne of the Thousand Days The play by Maxwell Anderson Nominated Shared with John Hale and Richard Sokolove. 1970 Renée Taylor Lovers and Other Strangers The play by Joseph Bologna & Taylor Nominated Shared with Joseph Bologna and David Zelag Goodman . 1972 Jay Presson Allen Cabaret The musical by Joe Masteroff Nominated 1975 Gladys Hill The Man Who Would Be King The short story by Rudyard Kipling Nominated Shared with John Huston . 1978 Elaine May Heaven Can Wait The play by Harry Segall Nominated Shared with Warren Beatty . 1979 Harriet Frank Jr. Norma Rae The book Crystal Lee, a Woman of Inheritance by Hank Leiferman Nominated Shared with Irving Ravetch. 1981 Jay Presson Allen Prince of the City The book Prince of the City: The True Story of a Cop Who Knew Too Much by Robert Daley Nominated Shared with Sidney Lumet . 1985 Janet Roach Prizzi's Honor The novel by Richard Condon Nominated Shared with Richard Condon. 1986 Ruth Prawer Jhabvala A Room with a View The novel by E.M. Forster Won Hesper Anderson Children of a Lesser God The play by Mark Medoff Nominated Shared with Mark Medoff. Beth Henley Crimes of the Heart The play by Henley Nominated 1988 Anna Hamilton Phelan Gorillas in the Mist The article by Harold Hayes Nominated Shared with Tab Murphy . Christine Edzard Little Dorrit The novel by Charles Dickens Nominated 1991 Agnieszka Holland Europa Europa The book I Was Hitler Youth Salomon by Solomon Perel Nominated Fannie Flagg Carol Sobieski Fried Green Tomatoes The novel Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe by Flagg Nominated Posthumous nomination for Sobieski. Pat Conroy Becky Johnston The Prince of Tides The novel by Conroy Nominated 1992 Ruth Prawer Jhabvala Howards End The novel by E.M. Forster Won First woman with multiple wins in this category. Tied the record for most wins in this category, with two. 1993 The Remains of the Day The novel by Kazuo Ishiguro Nominated 1995 Emma Thompson Sense and Sensibility The novel by Jane Austen Won First and only person to win for acting ( Best Actress for Howards End ) and screenwriting. First woman to be nominated for acting (Best Actress for Sense and Sensibility ) and screenwriting in the same year. Anna Pavignano Il Postino The novel Ardiente paciencia by Antonio Skármeta Nominated Shared with Michael Radford , Massimo Troisi , Furio Scarpelli , and Giacomo Scarpelli . 1997 Hilary Henkin Wag the Dog The novel American Hero by Larry Beinhart Nominated Shared with David Mamet . 1998 Elaine May Primary Colors The novel by Joe Klein Nominated 2000 Wang Hui-ling Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon The novel by Wang Dulu Nominated Shared with James Schamus and Kuo Jung Tsai. 2001 Fran Walsh Philippa Boyens The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring The novel by J. R. R. Tolkien Nominated Shared with Peter Jackson . 2003 The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King The novel by J. R. R. Tolkien Won Shari Springer Berman American Splendor The comic book series by Harvey Pekar & graphic novel Our Cancer Year by Pekar & Joyce Brabner Nominated Shared with Robert Pulcini . 2004 Julie Delpy Kim Krizan Before Sunset Characters from the film Before Sunrise created by Richard Linklater and Krizan Nominated Shared with Ethan Hawke and Richard Linklater. 2005 Diana Ossana Brokeback Mountain The short story by Annie Proulx Won Shared with Larry McMurtry . 2007 Sarah Polley Away from Her The short story The Bear Went Over the Mountain by Alice Munro Nominated 2008 Robin Swicord The Curious Case of Benjamin Button The short story by F. Scott Fitzgerald Nominated Shared with Eric Roth . 2009 Terri Tatchell District 9 The short film Alive in Joburg written by Neill Blomkamp Nominated Shared with Neill Blomkamp. 2010 Debra Granik Anne Rosellini Winter's Bone The novel by Daniel Woodrell Nominated 2011 Bridget O'Connor Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy The novel by John le Carré Nominated Posthumous nomination . Shared with Peter Straughan . 2012 Lucy Alibar Beasts of the Southern Wild The play Juicy and Delicious by Alibar Nominated Shared with Benh Zeitlin . 2013 Julie Delpy Before Midnight Characters from the film Before Sunrise created by Richard Linklater and Kim Krizan Nominated Shared with Ethan Hawke and Richard Linklater. 2015 Phyllis Nagy Carol The novel The Price of Salt by Patricia Highsmith Nominated Emma Donoghue Room The novel by Donoghue Nominated 2016 Allison Schroeder Hidden Figures The book Hidden Figures: The American Dream and the Untold Story of the Black Women Who Helped Win the Space Race by Margot Lee Shetterly Nominated Shared with Theodore Melfi . 2017 Dee Rees Mudbound The novel by Hillary Jordan Nominated First Black woman and woman of color to be nominated for Best Adapted Screenplay. Shared with Virgil Williams . 2018 Nicole Holofcener Can You Ever Forgive Me? The memoir by Lee Israel Nominated Shared with Jeff Whitty . 2019 Greta Gerwig Little Women The novel by Louisa May Alcott Nominated 2020 Erica Rivinoja Jena Friedman Nina Pedrad Borat Subsequent Moviefilm Based on the character Borat Sagdiyev from the television series Da Ali G Show by Sacha Baron Cohen Nominated Shared with Sacha Baron Cohen, Anthony Hines, Dan Swimer , Peter Baynham , Dan Mazer , and Lee Kern. Chloé Zhao Nomadland The book Nomadland: Surviving America in the Twenty-First Century by Jessica Bruder Nominated 2021 Sian Heder CODA Based on the screenplay La Famille Bélier by Victoria Bedos , Thomas Bidegain , Stanislas Carré de Malberg and Éric Lartigau Won Maggie Gyllenhaal The Lost Daughter The novel by Elena Ferrante Nominated Jane Campion The Power of the Dog The novel by Thomas Savage Nominated 2022 Sarah Polley Women Talking The novel by Miriam Toews Won Lesley Paterson All Quiet on the Western Front The novel by Erich Maria Remarque Nominated Shared with Edward Berger and Ian Stokell. 2023 Greta Gerwig Barbie The characters created by Ruth Handler Nominated Shared with Noah Baumbach . 2024 Léa Mysius Emilia Pérez The opera libretto by Jacques Audiard & the novel Écoute by Boris Razon Nominated Shared with Jacques Audiard, Thomas Bidegain and Nicolas Livecchi. Joslyn Barnes Nickel Boys The novel The Nickel Boys by Colson Whitehead Nominated Shared with RaMell Ross . Best Writing (Original Screenplay) [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay Year Name Film Status Notes 1940 Joan Harrison Foreign Correspondent Nominated First woman to be nominated for Best Original Screenplay. Among the inaugural nominees in this category. First woman to be nominated in the same year in two separate categories (for further information, see Best Adapted Screenplay). Shared with Charles Bennett . 1943 Lillian Hellman The North Star Nominated 1944 Gladys Lehman Two Girls and a Sailor Nominated Shared with Richard Connell . 1946 Muriel Box The Seventh Veil Won Shared with Sydney Box . 1947 Ruth Gordon A Double Life Nominated Shared with Garson Kanin . 1949 Helen Levitt Janice Loeb The Quiet One Nominated First documentary to be nominated in this category. Shared with Sidney Meyers . 1950 [ note 1 ] Ruth Gordon Adam's Rib Nominated First woman with multiple nominations in this category. Shared with Garson Kanin. Virginia Kellogg Caged Nominated Shared with Bernard C. Schoenfeld . 1952 Ruth Gordon Pat and Mike Nominated Shared with Garson Kanin. 1953 Betty Comden The Band Wagon Nominated Shared with Adolph Green . 1955 Sonya Levien Interrupted Melody Won Shared with William Ludwig . Betty Comden It's Always Fair Weather Nominated Shared with Adolph Green. Isobel Lennart Love Me or Leave Me Nominated Shared with Daniel Fuchs . 1958 Fay Kanin Teacher's Pet Nominated Shared with Michael Kanin . 1960 Marguerite Duras Hiroshima, Mon Amour Nominated 1964 Ariane Mnouchkine That Man from Rio Nominated Shared with Jean-Paul Rappeneau , Daniel Boulanger , and Philippe de Broca . 1965 Suso Cecchi d'Amico Casanova 70 Nominated Shared with Agenore Incrocci , Furio Scarpelli , Mario Monicelli , Tonino Guerra , and Giorgio Salvioni. 1970 Adrien Joyce Five Easy Pieces Nominated Shared with Bob Rafelson . 1971 Penelope Gilliatt Sunday Bloody Sunday Nominated 1972 Chris Clark Suzanne de Passe Lady Sings the Blues Nominated De Passe was the first African-American and black woman to be nominated for Best Original Screenplay. Shared with Terrence McCloy. 1973 Gloria Katz American Graffiti Nominated Shared with George Lucas and Willard Huyck . 1974 Suzanne Schiffman Day for Night Nominated Shared with François Truffaut and Jean-Louis Richard . 1976 Daniele Thompson Cousin, Cousine Nominated Shared with Jean-Charles Tacchella . Lina Wertmüller Seven Beauties Nominated 1978 Nancy Dowd Coming Home Won Shared with Robert C. Jones and Waldo Salt . 1979 Valerie Curtin ...And Justice for All Nominated Shared with Barry Levinson . 1980 Nancy Meyers Private Benjamin Nominated Shared with Charles Shyer and Harvey Miller . 1982 Melissa Mathison E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial Nominated 1983 Barbara Benedek The Big Chill Nominated Shared with Lawrence Kasdan . Nora Ephron Alice Arlen Silkwood Nominated 1984 Anna Thomas El Norte Nominated Shared with Gregory Nava . 1985 Pamela Wallace Witness Won Shared with Earl W. Wallace and William Kelley . Aida Bortnik The Official Story Nominated First Latina to be nominated for Best Original Screenplay. Shared with Luis Puenzo . 1988 Anne Spielberg Big Nominated Shared with Gary Ross . Naomi Foner Running on Empty Nominated 1989 Nora Ephron When Harry Met Sally... Nominated 1991 Callie Khouri Thelma & Louise Won Meg Kasdan Grand Canyon Nominated Shared with Lawrence Kasdan. 1993 Jane Campion The Piano Won Nora Ephron Sleepless in Seattle Nominated Shared with Jeff Arch and David S. Ward . 1994 Fran Walsh Heavenly Creatures Nominated Shared with Peter Jackson . 2000 Susannah Grant Erin Brockovich Nominated 2002 Nia Vardalos My Big Fat Greek Wedding Nominated 2003 Sofia Coppola Lost in Translation Won Kirsten Sheridan Naomi Sheridan In America Nominated Shared with Jim Sheridan . 2006 Iris Yamashita Letters from Iwo Jima Nominated Shared with Paul Haggis . 2007 Diablo Cody Juno Won Nancy Oliver Lars and the Real Girl Nominated Tamara Jenkins The Savages Nominated 2008 Courtney Hunt Frozen River Nominated 2010 Lisa Cholodenko The Kids Are All Right Nominated Shared with Stuart Blumberg . 2011 Annie Mumolo Kristen Wiig Bridesmaids Nominated 2013 Melisa Wallack Dallas Buyers Club Nominated Shared with Craig Borten . 2015 Meg LeFauve Inside Out Nominated Shared with Pete Docter , Josh Cooley , and Ronnie del Carmen . Andrea Berloff Straight Outta Compton Nominated Shared with Jonathan Herman , S. Leigh Savidge , and Alan Wenkus . 2017 Emily V. Gordon The Big Sick Nominated Shared with Kumail Nanjiani . Greta Gerwig Lady Bird Nominated Vanessa Taylor The Shape of Water Nominated Shared with Guillermo del Toro . 2018 Deborah Davis The Favourite Nominated Shared with Tony McNamara . 2019 Krysty Wilson-Cairns 1917 Nominated Shared with Sam Mendes . 2020 Emerald Fennell Promising Young Woman Won 2023 Justine Triet Anatomy of a Fall Won Shared with Arthur Harari . Samy Burch May December Nominated Shared with Alex Mechanik . Celine Song Past Lives Nominated 2024 Mona Fastvold The Brutalist Nominated Shared with Brady Corbet . Coralie Fargeat The Substance Nominated Best Writing (Original Story) [ edit ] Academy Award for Best Story Year Name Film Status Notes 1931-32 [ note 1 ] Frances Marion The Champ Won Among the first women to be nominated and the first woman to win for Best Original Story. First person with multiple wins in writing categories (for further information, see Best Adapted Screenplay) Adela Rogers St. Johns Jane Murfin What Price Hollywood? Nominated Among the first women to be nominated for Best Original Story. 1932-33 Frances Marion The Prizefighter and the Lady Nominated First woman with multiple nominations in this category. 1936 Adele Comandini Three Smart Girls Nominated 1938 Eleanore Griffin Boys Town Won Shared with Dore Schary . Marcella Burke Mad About Music Nominated Shared with Frederick Kohner . 1939 Mildred Cram Love Affair Nominated Shared with Leo McCarey . 1940 Bella Spewack My Favorite Wife Nominated Shared with Leo McCarey and Samuel Spewack . 1946 Clemence Dane Vacation from Marriage Won 1947 Dorothy Parker Smash-Up, the Story of a Woman Nominated Shared with Frank Cavett. 1948 Frances H. Flaherty Louisiana Story Nominated Shared with Robert J. Flaherty . 1949 Clare Boothe Luce Come to the Stable Nominated Virginia Kellogg White Heat Nominated 1950 Edna Anhalt Panic in the Streets Won Shared with Edward Anhalt . 1952 The Sniper Nominated 1953 Ruth Orkin Little Fugitive Nominated Shared with Ray Ashley and Morris Engel . Special Awards [ edit ] Academy Honorary Award Year Name Notes 1954 Greta Garbo "for her unforgettable screen performances." 1968 Onna White "for her outstanding choreography achievement for Oliver! " 1970 Lillian Gish "for superlative artistry and for distinguished contribution to the progress of motion pictures." 1975 Mary Pickford "in recognition of her unique contributions to the film industry and the development of film as an artistic medium." 1977 Margaret Booth "for her exceptional contribution to the art of film editing in the motion picture industry." 1981 Barbara Stanwyck "for superlative creativity and unique contribution to the art of screen acting." 1990 [ note 18 ] Sophia Loren "one of the genuine treasures of world cinema who, in a career rich with memorable performances, has added permanent luster to our art form." Myrna Loy "in recognition of her extraordinary qualities both on screen and off, with appreciation for a lifetime's worth of indelible performances." 1993 Deborah Kerr "in appreciation for a full career's worth of elegant and beautifully crafted performances." 2009 Lauren Bacall "in recognition of her central place in the Golden Age of motion pictures." 2013 Angela Lansbury "an entertainment icon who has created some of cinema's most memorable characters, inspiring generations of actors." 2014 Maureen O'Hara "One of Hollywood's brightest stars, whose inspiring performances glowed with passion, warmth and strength." 2015 Gena Rowlands "an original talent whose devotion to her craft has earned her worldwide recognition as an independent film icon" 2016 Anne V. Coates "In her more than 60 years as a film editor, she has worked side by side with many leading directors on an impressive range of films" 2017 Agnès Varda "her compassion and curiosity inform a uniquely personal cinema" 2018 Cicely Tyson "whose unforgettable performances and personal integrity have inspired generations of filmmakers, actors and audiences" 2019 Lina Wertmüller "for her provocative disruption of political and social norms delivered with bravery through her weapon of choice: the camera lens." 2021 Elaine May "for her bold, uncompromising approach to filmmaking, as a writer, director and actress" Liv Ullmann "Ullman's bravery and emotional transparency has gifted audiences with deeply affecting screen portrayals" 2022 Euzhan Palcy "a masterful filmmaker who broke ground for Black women directors and inspired storytellers of all kinds across the globe" Diane Warren "for her genius, generosity and passionate commitment to the power of song in film" 2023 Angela Bassett "Across her decades-long career, Angela Bassett has continued to deliver transcendent performances that set new standards in acting" Carol Littleton "Littleton's career in film editing serves as a model for those who come after her" 2024 Juliet Taylor "Juliet Taylor has cast iconic and beloved films and paved a new path for the field." Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award Year Name Notes 1968 Martha Raye 1972 Rosalind Russell 1992 [ note 19 ] Audrey Hepburn The award, which was voted to confer eight days prior to Hepburn's death, was presented posthumously . Her son, Sean , accepted the award at the ceremony. Elizabeth Taylor 2006 Sherry Lansing 2011 Oprah Winfrey 2013 Angelina Jolie 2015 Debbie Reynolds 2019 Geena Davis 2023 Michelle Satter Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award Year Name Notes 2018 Kathleen Kennedy Shared with Frank Marshall . 2024 Barbara Broccoli Shared with Michael G. Wilson . Academy Juvenile Award [ note 20 ] Year Name Notes 1934 Shirley Temple "in grateful recognition of her outstanding contribution to screen entertainment during the year 1934." 1938 Deanna Durbin "for [their] significant contribution in bringing to the screen the spirit and personification of youth, and as juvenile players setting a high standard of ability and achievement." Shared with Mickey Rooney . 1939 Judy Garland "for her outstanding performance as a screen juvenile during the past year." 1944 Margaret O'Brien "outstanding child actress of 1944." 1945 Peggy Ann Garner "outstanding child actress of 1945." 1960 Hayley Mills "for Pollyanna , the most outstanding juvenile performance during 1960." Notes [ edit ] ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q This year marks the first time that multiple female nominees have competed for the same award in this category. ^ All five films nominated for Best Animated Feature this year were produced by both female and male producers. ^ This category was re-introduced at the 40th Academy Awards by merging two previously separate categories for Best Costume Design (Black-and-White) and Best Costume Design (Color) into a single Best Costume Design category. ^ All five films nominated for Best Costume Design (Color) this year featured exclusively female nominees. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m All five films nominated for Best Costume Design this year featured female costume designers. ^ a b c A tie in voting this year resulted in multiple winners. ^ a b c All five films nominated for Best Documentary Feature Film this year featured female nominees. ^ a b c All films nominated for Best Documentary Short Film this year featured female nominees (on each occasion in a year with less than five films nominated). ^ This year marks the first time that multiple female-directed films have competed for the same award in this category. ^ a b c d e f g h i j All films nominated for Best Makeup and Hairstyling this year featured female make-up artists and/or hairstylists. ^ This category has had numerous name changes and demarcations throughout its history, as detailed on the award's page. ^ In 2009, the Academy expanded the number of nominees for Best Picture from five nominees to (potentially) ten nominees. In every subsequent year, there has been at least four films with female producers nominated for the award. ^ This category was re-introduced at the 40th Academy Awards by merging two previously separate categories for Best Production Design (Black-and-White) and Best Production Design (Color) into a single Best Production Design category. ^ a b c d e f All five films nominated for Best Production Design this year featured female production designers and/or set decorators. ^ This category was re-introduced at the 93rd Academy Awards by merging two previously separate categories for Best Sound Mixing and Best Sound Editing into a single Best Sound category. ^ The only occasion where there were no official nominees. Subsequent research by AMPAS has resulted in a list of unofficial or de facto nominees. ^ a b During this year, the award was bestowed as Best Writing and included original and adapted screenplays. ^ This year marks the first time that multiple women were honored with the Academy Honorary Award . ^ This year marks the first time that multiple people were honored with the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award . ^ The Juvenile Oscar was intermittently awarded between 1934 and 1960, recognizing performers under the age of eighteen. It was not gender-specific. References [ edit ] General "Winners and Nominees" . Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences . Retrieved September 21, 2011 . Specific ^ "92nd Academy Awards" (PDF) . Archived (PDF) from the original on 2019-05-02 . Retrieved 2020-02-05 . v t e Academy Awards lists Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) Records Most awards per ceremony Combined major Academy Awards Superlatives Big Five All four acting categories Acting All nominees Best Actor Best Actress Best Supporting Actor Best Supporting Actress Non-English acting noms Actor multi-nom years Multi-win actors Multi-nom actors "Oscar love curse" Directing Best Director Film Winning films Multi-noms in same category Two acting awards for same film Foreign-language wins Foreign-language noms in other categories International Feature nominees International Feature: count by country Best Animated Feature submissions Best Documentary Feature submissions Best Animated Short submissions Best Documentary Short submissions Animated feature noms in other categories Countries of the nominees Africa Argentina Australia Austria Baltic Belarus Belgium Brazil Bulgaria Canada Chile Colombia Cuba Czech Republic Europe France Germany Greece Hungary India Iran Ireland Israel Italy Japan (South) Korea Latin America Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Nordic Pakistan Philippines Poland Puerto Rico Romania Russia Spain Switzerland United Kingdom Nominees demographics Asian Black Hispanic Indigenous Jewish Muslim Other Ceremonies Families False names Multi-win years Awards for Walt Disney Posthumous wins and noms Best Picture presenters Trophies on public display Oldest and youngest LGBTQ Women in non-gendered categories Combined major awards EGOT Triple Crown of Acting Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_female_Academy_Award_winners_and_nominees_for_non-gendered_categories&oldid=1287841220 " Categories : Lists of Academy Award winners Women film score composers Women in film Women cinematographers Women filmmakers Women screenwriters Lists of women Women animators Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata This page was last edited on 28 April 2025, at 19:53 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents List of female Academy Award winners and nominees for non-gendered categories Add languages Add topic