ATP Finals: Elite eight out for Turin silverware - Roland-Garros - The official site × × ROLAND-GARROS 19 May - 8 June 2025 News Tournament RG Spirit Visit & Tickets Store Select your language FR - Français EN - English Notifications Center Notifications Settings Don't miss any news by activating notifications! Subscribe to web notifications Follow my favorite players Be careful, if you block web notifications in your browser, you will not be able to activate them here anymore. You will need to do it in your browser settings. Information have been collected by our partner Wonderpush, and used by CCM Benchmark Group, to ensure the push notification sending about what you subscribed for. You have the right to access to you personnal data, and to ask the deletion of them according to the limitations foreseen by the law. Your notifications personnal data: DOWNLOAD / DELETE Display Settings Dark Mode by You reduce your energy consumption with the Dark mode ! Did you know that? A black pixel uses less energy to illuminate your screen. Thank you for using the Dark Mode by You reduce your energy consumption with the Dark mode ! Did you know, a dark pixel consumes less energy to illuminate your screen. More and more applications and operating systems offer this solution to save energy and improve energy efficiency. Indeed, a black pixel consumes less energy to illuminate the screen, and thus allows to reduce by 63% the part of battery consumed by the screen. By using the dark mode function, you contribute to directly reduce your environmental impact. Learn more about our partnership with ENGIE. https://www.engie.com/en/partner-french-open-2022 ATP Finals: Elite eight out for Turin silverware The season finale on the men’s side is ready to roll with plenty of storylines to pour over in Italy. ©Corinne Dubreuil / FFT Friday 11 November 2022 - Alex Sharp 11 months on the road have culminated in one last shot, the prestigious ATP Finals. The 2022 season finale on the men’s tour is hosted at the Pala Alpitour in Turin, Italy, and the draw has been made ahead of a blockbuster week. The news has swirled around social media, Big Three rivals Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic are separated in the group stages. However, the world No.1 Carlos Alcaraz was absent from the drawsheet, having been forced to withdraw with an abdominal muscle tear. Nadal to give his all Considering the persistent injury battles, Nadal has managed to compile another milestone campaign. The 36-year-old, this year’s Australian Open and Roland-Garros champion , is reflecting a positive persona. Qualifying for the 17th time, the Spaniard is targeting his maiden ATP Finals crown in the ‘Green Group’ alongside Casper Ruud (1-0 Nadal), Felix Auger-Aliassime (2-0 Nadal) and his opening opponent on Sunday night, Taylor Fritz (2-1 Nadal). Will Nadal’s lack of matches be detrimental? All that is guaranteed is the world No.2 will leave it all out there on the court. "It's always great news to be playing the last event of the year. That says that you had a great season, so I'm excited," said 22-time Grand Slam winner, who fell to Tommy Paul in three sets at the Rolex Paris Masters . "Italy is a very close country for me. Being in Turin for the first time in my life, it's a new experience, so I'm very happy for that and I'm looking forward to seeing the stadium and the fans. I'll try my best as always." As well as facing debutant Fritz, Nadal will have his work cut out against his Roland-Garros final opponent Ruud, who also reached the US Open finale . Canada’s Auger-Aliassime will be dangerous for anyone. The 22-year-old lifted three tiles in three weeks en route to the Rolex Paris Masters, where he reached the semi-finals, before eventual champion Holger Rune halted his 16-match hot streak . Corinne Dubreuil / FFT Djokovic seeking history once again The relentless drive for all-time success still spurs on Djokovic. The world No.8 spearheads the ‘Red Group’ in Turin, intent on tying Roger Federer’s record of six ATP Finals trophies . Djokovic will have to navigate past 2020 champion Daniil Medvedev (7-4 Djokovic), 2019 champion Stefanos Tsitsipas (9-2 Djokovic) and Andrey Rublev (1-1). It’s fair to say it’s been a turbulent year for the Serbian. Just like Nadal, Djokovic dealt with adversity by making a major move, claiming his 21st Grand Slam title at Wimbledon . The 35-year-old, a semi-finalist in the last two ATP Finals, recently reached the silverware showdown at the Rolex Paris Masters, only to lose a high-quality clash with the soaring teen Rune . Djokovic is talking up his chances in Turin. “The level of tennis that I'm playing is high, and I like my chances. Of course, every match is like a final there. There are no easy matches,” stated the world No.8. “Every tournament is important at this stage of my career. Anywhere I play, I try to win. That's not a secret. That's kind of my mentality and approach coming into Turin.” ©Corinne Dubreuil / FFT Top spot up for grabs for Stefanos The Monday night clash between Djokovic and Tsitsipas will set out a marker for the Greek’s title credentials. The world No.3 has more than the trophy within his grasp as he could finish 2022 with the year-end No.1 ranking. Tsitsipas will need to be in supreme form, by taking the title without losing a match, the 24-year-old would jump to world No.1 for the very first time. With Alcaraz recovering on the sidelines, if Tsitsipas doesn’t chalk up 5-0 in Turin, Nadal could return to the summit within several permutations. ©Julien Crosnier / FFT Doubles delight Top seeds Wesley Koolhof and Neal Skupski are the in-form side of the 2022 campaign and they’ll shoot for an eighth title of a trophy-laden season in the Green Group. Watch out for Australian Open champions Thanasi Kokkinakis and Nick Kyrgios who will attract a legion of younger fans into the stands. Green Group Wesley Koolhof and Neal Skupski (1) Nikola Mektic and Mate Pavic (4) Ivan Dodig and Austin Krajicek (5) Thanasi Kokkinakis and Nick Kyrgios (8) Red Group Rajeev Ram and Joe Salisbury (2) Marcelo Arevalo and Jean-Julien Rojer (3) Lloyd Glasspool and Harri Heliovaara (6) Marcel Granollers and Horacio Zeballos (7) The ATP Finals official schedule in Turin News feed 04/29 Interview: "Mirra-cle" Andreeva extra motivated for Paris return 04/28 ATP / WTA: Djokovic faces ‘new reality’ in Madrid, Sabalenka and Swiatek on collision course 04/24 Roland-Garros 2025: Get your tickets! 04/22 Interview: Fearless Fonseca dreaming of Djokovic duel 04/21 ATP/WTA: Ostapenko and Rune rediscover winning ways 04/17 Roland-Garros 2025: New features for an eagerly awaited edition 04/15 Roland-Garros 2025: Entry list announced 04/14 ATP: Alcaraz reigns supreme in Monte-Carlo 04/11 RG Classic Match: Nadal – Federer (Final 2011) Other stories Mike Frey / FFT Tuesday 8 November 2022 WTA Finals: Caro The Conqueror ©Julien Crosnier / FFT Monday 7 November 2022 The new Next Gen ©Mike Frey / FFT Monday 7 November 2022 WTA Finals: Garcia flying high in Fort Worth See all news Discover the Roland-Garros Official app Download No Thanks Partners Main partner Premium partners Official partners See all partners ABOUT Accessibility: partially compliant Legal notice Privacy / cookies Privacy center USEFUL LINKS Tickets Store Rolex Paris Masters Paris Padel Major Follow us! ©2025 - all rights reserved - Fédération française de tennis