When Are The Golden Globes 2020? Date, Time, Presenters Skip navigation! ADVERTISEMENT A community celebrating Black voices, Black art, and Black folx. Latines learning, remembering, healing, and finding joy in our diverse stories. Beautycon is a global platform that brings together beauty enthusiasts, brands, and industry leaders to explore the latest trends, innovations, and conversations shaping the future of beauty. Featured Channels Fitted Horoscopes Money Diaries Good Game Not Your Token Asian My Period Get The Latest Shopping Work & Money Sex & Wellness Beauty News Entertainment Fashion Politics Lifestyle Get In Touch United States Switch To United Kingdom Germany France Australia Now Reading Your Guide To The 2020 Golden Globes Story from Pop Culture ADVERTISEMENT Everything You Need To Know About The 2020 Golden Globes Tara Edwards Last Updated December 29, 2019 , 2:00 PM Photo: George Pimentel/WireImage. Holiday season is almost over, which means it’s almost time for awards season. If you’re the kind of person who likes to consume as much TV and films as you can before awards season begins, you have until the first weekend of January to get your list completed for the first big awards show of 2020, the 77th annual Golden Globes . Last year’s Golden Globes included the controversial wins of Green Book ; Netflix winning for Roma and continuing to show that it’s not just a streaming platform with The Kominsky Method ; Glenn Close, Julia Roberts, and Regina King showing that actresses only get better with age; and Sandra Oh being an amazing host that we probably didn’t deserve. Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT While this year unfortunately does not have an exciting never-before-seen host, here’s everything you need to know about the upcoming 2020 Golden Globes. When do the Golden Globes air on TV? The 2020 Golden Globes will take place on Sunday, January 5, 2020, and will air on NBC starting at 8 p.m. ET. Where are the Golden Globes? This year's ceremony will be held once again at the Beverly Hilton Hotel located in Beverly Hills, CA. How can you watch the Golden Globes live? If you have cable, NBC will be airing the show live. You can also stream the ceremony on NBC.com or through the NBC app (available for phones, tablets, computers, and gaming consoles). If you don't have cable or the NBC app, you can also stream through YouTube TV, Hulu with Live TV, Playstation Vue, Sling TV, DirecTV, and fuboTV . Who’s hosting the Golden Globes? Ricky Gervais has been announced as the host of the 2020 Golden Globes. Gervais has hosted several years before including in 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2016. If that seems like overkill and you’re craving some variety, don’t worry — Gervais has said this will be his last year hosting . Who will hand out the actual statues at the Golden Globes? The Hollywood Foreign Press Association selected Dylan and Paris Brosnan as the Golden Globe Ambassadors for the 2020 Golden Globe Awards season. Dylan and Paris are the sons of two-time Golden Globe Award nominee Pierce Brosnan and filmmaker and environmentalist Keely Shaye Brosnan. Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT Dylan and Paris have elected to use their titles as ambassadors to focus philanthropic efforts on the issues of childhood hunger and education. The brothers have partnered with FEED, a social impact-driven brand founded by Lauren Bush Lauren , delivering nutritious meals to school-aged children around the globe. “I’ve never had to worry about where my next meal might come from — I’m lucky in that respect; but I know that millions of children worldwide don’t have that luxury. School meals provide critically important nutrition, and also incentivize parents to keep kids in school, giving them a fighting chance for a better life,” said Paris in a statement when their nomination was announced. Who's nominated at the Golden Globes? Here you can find the full list of nominees and also the people, films, and shows that were obviously snubbed . It unfortunately looks like women, especially women of color , are still being heavily underrepresented. What's the dress code? Known to be a more experimental red carpet than, say, the Oscars, expect to see more bold fashion choices on the part of attendees. Specifically, expect to see some 2020 fashion trends straight from the runway to start here such as oversized bows, colored sequin dresses, and technicolor suits from any actors wanting to do something different than the typical black suit. Where can you watch the Golden Globes red carpet? Both NBC and E! News will be hosting their annual pre-show red carpet segments. NBC will begin their red carpet coverage 7 p.m. ET. E! News will start red carpet coverage with host Ryan Seacrest at 6 p.m. ET. Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT When Are The Golden Globes 2020? Date, Time, Presenters Pop Culture • Golden Globe Awards • TV Shows written by Tara Edwards Photo: George Pimentel/WireImage. More from TV Unbothered Godfather Of Harlem Is Still That Show—And Rome Flynn Is H... The city of Harlem is synonymous with Black culture, arts, excellence, and identity. A hub for social and political activism, it laid the groundwork for th by Dontaira Terrell TV Shows America Is Still America-ing In The Last Of Us Season 2 In The Last Of Us Season 2, we’re five years into the future from when we were last with Joel (Pedro Pascal) and Ellie (Bella Ramsey), and, for the most by Patricia Karounos Entertainment These 6 Netflix Treats Are Worth Watching In April Last month gifted us a new Chappell Roan country single, a Kieran Culkin Oscar win and of course, St. Patrick’s Day. But for those of us with one eye alw by Alicia Lansom Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT Unbothered We Can’t Allow Racism To Distract From Adolescence’s Cruci... Incels, Andrew Tate, male rage and the menacing Manosphere: These are the images that come to mind when I think of the prominent themes grappled with in Ad by Estelle Uba Unbothered Paradise Is A Hit Because Sterling K. Brown Is The Hero TV... Welcome to “What’s Good,” a column where we break down what’s soothing, distracting, or just plain good in the streaming world with a “rooting fo by Kathleen Newman-B... Unbothered Severance Knows You Can’t Talk About Capitalism Without Ta... Spoilers ahead. Severance is the hit TV series everyone is talking about. The show focuses on four workers who choose to undergo a radical “severance pro by Banseka Kayembe Unbothered Let Meghan Markle Be Boring In Peace The concept of Netflix’s new lifestyle series With Love, Meghan seems simple enough: Here is Meghan Markle — or, as some know her, Meghan, Duchess by Alanna Bennett Unbothered Porsha Williams Returns To RHOA Season 16—New Drama, New... The time has finally come for Bravo fans who have patiently waited for the highly anticipated return of The Real Housewives of Atlanta. After an 18-month h by Giana Levy Entertainment These 7 Netflix Treats Are Worth Watching In March March means we’re one step closer to Spring and one step closer to knowing who will take home the biggest prize the cinematic landscape has to offer: the by Alicia Lansom Unbothered Bridgerton Season 4: Where Will We Find The Mondrichs & L... In The Bridgerton cinematic universe, Will and Alice Mondrich’s journey continues to stand out as one of the romantic drama series’ most grounded a by Dontaira Terrell TV Shows Love Is Blind Season 8 Is the Whitest It’s Ever Been Spoilers for Episodes 1-6 ahead. I’ve seen every season of Love Is Blind and I’ll be the first to say that the Netflix reality series deserves most of by Melanie Curry Unbothered Here’s Every New Black TV Show You Should Be Watching This ... by Kathleen Newman-B... Advertisement ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT COMPANY About Us Jobs Advertising Feedback R29 Intelligence Licensing and Reuse of Content INFORMATION R29 Company News Terms Privacy Cookie Policy Accessibility Archives RSS Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information EDITIONS United Kingdom Germany France Australia NEWSLETTER SIGN-UP © 2025 REFINERY29 ADVERTISEMENT