Tim Cook Is Officially a Billionaire After a 500% Pay Raise in 2021 | Observer Search for: Submit Observer Business Art Lifestyle Culture Newsletters Business Finance Media Technology Policy Wealth Insights Interviews Arts Art Fairs Art Market Art Reviews Auctions Galleries Museums Interviews Culture Theater Opera Dance Film Interviews Lifestyle Nightlife & Dining Style Travel Gift Guides Interviews Power Index Nightlife & Dining Business of Art A.I. PR About About Observer Advertise With Us Newsletters Business • Finance Tim Cook Is Officially a Billionaire After a 500% Pay Raise in 2021 The Apple CEO of 10 years received nearly $100 million in compensation in 2021. By Sissi Cao • 01/07/22 12:08pm Apple CEO Tim Cook attends the grand opening event of the new Apple store at The Grove on November 19, 2021 in Los Angeles, California. Mario Tama/Getty Images Apple (AAPL) CEO Tim Cook finally joined the billionaire club a full decade after he succeeded Steve Jobs as the chief executive of the world’s most valuable tech company. In 2021, Cook received nearly $100 million in compensation—$98.73 million, to be exact—according to Apple’s annual proxy filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission filed on Thursday. Sign Up For Our Daily Newsletter Sign Up Thank you for signing up! By clicking submit, you agree to our <a href="http://observermedia.com/terms">terms of service</a> and acknowledge we may use your information to send you emails, product samples, and promotions on this website and other properties. You can opt out anytime. See all of our newsletters Cook’s 2021 compensation represented a 500 percent increase from his 2020 pay, which surely pushed his net worth over the $1 billion mark, according to Apple Insider . Cook’s extraordinary pay raise coincided with a historic year for Apple despite the lingering economic impact of COVID-19. In fiscal 2021 (starting September 2020), the iPhone maker logged $365.8 billion in net sales, an all-time record, and $108.9 billion in operating income, a 64 percent jump from fiscal 2020. Apple stock rose about 80 percent last year and continued to soar in 2022. Earlier this week, Apple’s market cap briefly surpassed $3 trillion before stock price retreated. As CEO, Cook takes a base salary of $3 million, which remained unchanged in 2021. On top of that, he received $12 million in bonuses for hitting Apple’s financial and environmental goals, according to the proxy statement. The bulk of his compensation last year came from an equity plan valued at $82.3 million awarded at the beginning of the fiscal year. The award was arranged a decade ago when he took over as CEO on the condition that he stays on the job for ten years. The equity plan consists of two equal parts: one is performance-based and the other is scheduled to vest in three annual installments from 2023 through 2025. The non-performance-based portion will vest even if Cook retires before 2025, according to the proxy filing, although the board’s compensation committee has the power to stop it. In addition, Cook also received $1.39 million in “other compensation” in 2021, including personal security expenses, air travel, a vacation cash-out of $23,077 and a $17,400 company contribution to his 401(k) plan. However, Cook’s largest earning in 2021 wasn’t calculated in his official pay check. In August 2021, he vested about 5 million Apple shares, worth $754 million at the time. Those shares were granted in 2011 when he was promoted to CEO. Apple said the board’s compensation committee determined Cook’s stock awards by considering Apple’s size, performance, and the CEO’s responsibilities. To measure performance, Apple takes into account the company’s profitability compared to a basket of 28 primary and secondary peer companies, including Alphabet, Microsoft, Amazon, Facebook parent Meta, and others. Filed Under: Business , Finance , Tim Cook , Billionaires , Leadership , Apple SEE ALSO :  Meta A.I. Chief Yann LeCun Applauds France’s Effort to Attract U.S. Scientists ARTS Art Fairs Art Market Art Reviews Auctions Galleries Museums BUSINESS Energy Finance Media Policy Technology Climate CULTURE Books Dance Film Opera Theater LIFESTYLE Autos Hotels Nightlife & Dining Restaurants Style Travel WEALTH Billionaires Parties Philanthropy Real Estate EXPERT INSIGHTS A.I. Experts Art Market Experts Climate Experts Finance Experts POWER LISTS PR Power List Nightlife & Dining Business of Art A.I. Power List INTERVIEWS Art World Business Leaders Tastemakers Entertainers ABOUT ADVERTISE CONTACT NEWSLETTERS RSS FEEDS SITEMAP TERMS PRIVACY Privacy Terms Cookie Settings Do not sell my data Powered by WordPress VIP We noticed you're using an ad blocker. We get it: you like to have control of your own internet experience. But advertising revenue helps support our journalism. To read our full stories, please turn off your ad blocker. We'd really appreciate it. How Do I Whitelist Observer? How Do I Whitelist Observer? Below are steps you can take in order to whitelist Observer.com on your browser: For Adblock: Click the AdBlock button on your browser and select Don't run on pages on this domain . For Adblock Plus on Google Chrome: Click the AdBlock Plus button on your browser and select Enabled on this site. For Adblock Plus on Firefox: Click the AdBlock Plus button on your browser and select Disable on Observer.com. Then Reload the Page