Vanguard's New CEO Doesn't Like Reading Good News About His Firm WealthManagement.com is part of the Informa Connect Division of Informa PLC INFORMA PLC | ABOUT US | INVESTOR RELATIONS | TALENT This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726. Podcasts & Videos CE Webinars Research Newsletters Subscribe Subscribe News Related Topics RIA IBD Wirehouse RPA Insights & Analysis Regulation & Compliance Career Moves Recent in News See all SEC seal Industry News & Trends Jury Delivers Split Decision in SEC Trial Against Massachusetts RIA Jury Delivers Split Decision in SEC Trial Against Massachusetts RIA by Patrick Donachie Apr 25, 2025 3 Min Read Duke Haley, Clinton Carrier and Jeff Beck RIA Cetera Adds Advisors from Cambridge, PNC and Merrill Cetera Adds Advisors from Cambridge, PNC and Merrill by Alex Ortolani Apr 25, 2025 2 Min Read Investment Related Topics Alternative Investments Digital Assets Equities ETFs Fixed Income Investing Strategies Mutual Funds Real Estate SMAs Recent in Investment See All Apollo global management Industry News & Trends Apollo Aims for Everyday Investors With ‘New Markets’ Group Apollo Aims for Everyday Investors With ‘New Markets’ Group by Laura Benitez Apr 25, 2025 2 Min Read Stock market traders tariffs ETFs ETFs Tariff Impact on Stock Dispersion Creates New Opportunities for ETF Investor, Issuers Tariff Impact on Stock Dispersion Creates New Opportunities for ETF Investor, Issuers by Aniket Ullal, CFRA Research Apr 24, 2025 5 Min Read Wealth Planning Related Topics Estate Planning Financial Planning High Net Worth Insurance Philanthropy Retirement Recent in Wealth Planning See All thumbnail Sponsored Content Mid-Year Developments in Estate Planning Mid-Year Developments in Estate Planning Apr 14, 2025 1 Hr View thumbnail Sponsored Content Ask the Experts: Grow Your Practice with Philanthropy: Comparing DAFs and Private Foundations Ask the Experts: Grow Your Practice with Philanthropy: Comparing DAFs and Private Foundations Apr 10, 2025 Business Planning Related Topics Client Relations Growth Strategies Professional Development Diversity & Inclusion Recent in Business Planning See All Couple with their investment agent in a meeting. Sponsored Content 4 Keys To Maximizing Your Lead Gen ROI 4 Keys To Maximizing Your Lead Gen ROI Mar 13, 2025 1 Hr View RIA Edge Podcast Mark DeLotto Simon Quick Advisors RIA Edge RIA Edge Podcast: Building Wealth Firms That Last with Mark DeLotto RIA Edge Podcast: Building Wealth Firms That Last with Mark DeLotto by David Armstrong Apr 25, 2025 WealthTech Related Topics Artificial Intelligence Cybersecurity Support Platforms Recent in WealthTech See All Digital transformation concept. Sponsored Content Data Modernization Benchmarking Survey: The Winning Strategies of Data-Minded Leaders Data Modernization Benchmarking Survey: The Winning Strategies of Data-Minded Leaders Apr 8, 2025 An analyst uses a computer and dashboard for data business analysis and Data Management System Sponsored Content The Hidden Power of Your Data: Creating Smarter Client Experiences The Hidden Power of Your Data: Creating Smarter Client Experiences Mar 26, 2025 1 Hr View RIA Edge Trusts & Estates Events & Awards Related Topics WM Industry Awards Industry Calendar See All Sponsored By Mutual Funds Vanguard's New CEO Doesn't Like Reading Good News About His Firm Vanguard's New CEO Doesn't Like Reading Good News About His Firm Vanguard's New CEO Doesn't Like Reading Good News About His Firm Tim Buckley, who took over as Vanguard CEO on Jan. 1, talks about market risks, avoiding complacency and expanding abroad. January 16, 2018 4 Min Read By Charles Stein (Bloomberg) --Investors have taken on more risk during the bull market and need to avoid becoming too comfortable with current returns, said Tim Buckley, Vanguard Group’s new chief executive. “Volatile times are coming,” Buckley said. “I just don’t know when.” That view represents the balancing act Buckley faces as he takes the helm of the world’s largest mutual fund company. Vanguard oversees $5 trillion in assets and last year attracted a record $368 billion. The challenge for Buckley, 48, isn’t just managing the growth. It’s ensuring the firm keeps investors’ feet on the ground. Buckley took over on Jan. 1 , succeeding F. William McNabb. Over the course of his career he has been Vanguard’s chief information officer, its chief investment officer and head of its retail investor group. He has a bachelor’s degree and an MBA from Harvard. In an interview with Bloomberg News on Jan. 12, Buckley -- who started at the firm in 1991 as an assistant to founder John Bogle -- spoke about market risks, avoiding complacency and expanding abroad. Q. You began your career working for Jack Bogle. What did you learn in that job that will be useful to you now? A. Getting a chance to work for the founder was invaluable. What really sticks with me are the investment principles that were hammered into me early on: costs matter and putting the clients first. Related: Vanguard CEO's Biggest Challenge Is Dealing With Success Q. Vanguard once had the low-cost end of the market to itself. Today a growing group of competitors offer similar products at equally low prices, sometimes even lower prices. What’s Vanguard’s edge? A. We are low-cost across the board. We give you peace of mind so you don’t have to think about it or shop around, whether it is passive or active products. You can probably find a product here or there from another company that matches Vanguard, but you won’t find the value Vanguard offers across-the-board anywhere else. Q. What’s driving so much money to products that track indexes? A. Active management has become extremely competitive, more competitive than it has ever been. Most assets today are professionally managed. In the zero-sum game of active management, that means it’s tough to get excess returns. And prices have not come down commensurately, so too often that excess return is confiscated by high fees. Until expenses come down, active management will have a tough time outperforming the index. Q. It might surprise people to know Vanguard has been beefing up its active bond team. Why is that? A. Vanguard’s low-fee, low-risk approach to fixed income translates across different categories. Imagine that the returns in fixed-income is money spread across the highway: the big bills are in the center and the loose change is on the side. All of our competitors have to run into traffic to pick up the big bills. We can pick up the money on the side. We don’t have to take as much risk because of our low-fee structure. Related: A $20 Trillion BlackRock-Vanguard Duopoly Is Investing’s Future Q. What are the benefits of Vanguard getting so much bigger? A. You can see it in our expense-ratio line. We share our greater economies of scale. For every basis point we cut, we save our shareholders $500 million. That is a lot of money. Scale also gives us the ability to invest in new services, technology and innovative products. Q. And the downside? A. The downside of success is complacency. People start to think they are entitled to that success. We abhor complacency. We hate reading articles about Vanguard being tops in cash flow or about Vanguard’s size and success. I’d like to toss those aside and talk about what we are trying to do to improve the experience for clients. That is our war cry. Q. Can Vanguard duplicate the success it has had in the U.S. in other countries? A. The value we provide does not have geographic boundaries. In certain markets, like Australia, the U.K. and Canada, our message has resonated well. When we enter a market, if there is even a hint we are going to enter, all the competitors start to drop their prices. Does that make it tough on us? Yes. But at the end of the day it’s better for the investor. Q. What about China? A. China is a long play. Potentially there is incredible value for clients in China if you could bring a disciplined approach to investing there, one with an eye to low turnover, toward not chasing returns and keeping expenses low. The Chinese investor could benefit. It is not something that will happen overnight. Q. What message are you trying to convey to investors these days? A. We have had a nice long bull market. There is more risk in portfolios than there was in the past. Allocations to equity are higher and values are somewhat stretched. We want to be sure investors stick with their plan and stick with their bonds, which can help in tough times. Q. Some of Vanguard’s competitors specifically target millennial investors? How do you fare with that audience? A. We do well with millennials. We are a virtual firm. We invest heavily in technology, which is something millennials flock to. They are demanding clients so we have to keep improving for them. We can’t take their needs for granted. To contact the reporter on this story: Charles Stein in Boston at [email protected] To contact the editors responsible for this story: Margaret Collins at [email protected] Alan Mirabella, Josh Friedman You May Also Like RIA Edge 100: Growing Rapidly but Responsibly View List View List Latest news money-stack-closeup.jpg Mutual Funds A $7 Trillion and Growing Cash Pile Defies Wall Street Skeptics A $7 Trillion and Growing Cash Pile Defies Wall Street Skeptics Nov 15, 2024 welcome to wealthfront Mutual Funds Wealthfront Shutters Fund That Brought Dalio Playbook to Masses Wealthfront Shutters Fund That Brought Dalio Playbook to Masses Nov 6, 2024 stock-trader-tablet-glasses-nyse.jpg Mutual Funds Do Allocation Strategies Deliver Alpha? Do Allocation Strategies Deliver Alpha? Sep 17, 2024 Sign Up for Newsletters Sign up to receive the latest insights, trends, and analysis. Subscribe now CE Webinars Sponsored Content What truly sets peak performing retirement plans apart? May 21, 2025 | 2:00 pm EDT Sponsored Content Mid-Year Developments in Estate Planning Jun 10, 2025 | 2:00 pm EDT Sponsored Content GrowthTech Summit: AI, Tech Stacks & Growth Strategies for Future-Ready Advisory Firms May 8, 2025 | 2:00 pm EDT Sponsored Content Ask the Experts: Grow Your Practice with Philanthropy: Comparing DAFs and Private Foundations Jun 3, 2025 | 2:00 pm EDT View more Sponsored Content Featured WMIQ Research Active & Passive Investments in Portfolio Construction: What Advisors Are Doing Now See how advisors are combining active and passive strategies for optimal portfolio results. Read more Wealth Management Edge Jun 10 - Jun 12, 2025 Jun 10 - Jun 12, 2025 A must-attend event for advisors focused on tech, investments, and strategies to drive growth. Book with code: SAVE10WM and save 10%. Register Today Trusts & Estates Magazine Read More Latest Digital Edition Trusts & Estates: May 2025 Digital Edition Feature on International Practice Estate Planning Designing Trusts for Maximum Flexibility Estate Planning Mental Health Counseling Payments From Trust Companies and Individual Trustees Estate Planning French Tax Residency: The 183-Days Myth Estate Planning Fiduciary Law Trends Get to Know Us About Us Contact Reprints Partner With Us Advertise Marketing Solutions Research Services Trusts & Estates Issue Archive Subscriptions Contact T&E Join Us Subscribe Follow Us Copyright © 2025 Informa Connect Limited. Registered in England & Wales with number 01835199, registered office 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG. CCPA: Do not sell my personal info | Terms of Use | Code of conduct events | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy