The 2019 U.S. Open By The Numbers Subscribe To Newsletters Trump Tracker Billionaires Billionaires View All Billionaires World's Billionaires Forbes 400 America's Richest Self-Made Women China's Richest India's Richest Indonesia's Richest Korea's Richest Thailand's Richest Japan's Richest Australia's Richest Taiwan's Richest Singapore's Richest Philippines' Richest Hong Kong's Richest Malaysia's Richest Money & Politics 2024 Election Innovation Innovation View All Innovation AI Big Data Cloud Cloud 100 Consumer Tech Creator Economy Cybersecurity Digital Transformation Enterprise Commerce Enterprise Security and Protection Enterprise Tech Enterprise Growth Strategy Future Of Work Gaming Healthcare Innovation Rules Retail Industry SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Science Social Media Sustainability & Climate Transportation Venture Capital Technology VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program TikTok BrandVoice | Paid Program Leadership Leadership View All Leadership C-Suite CEO Network CFO Network CHRO Network CIO Network CMO Network Leadership Strategies Careers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Education Forbes EQ | Paid Program ForbesBLK ForbesWomen Under 30 Working Remote Over 50 Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Money Money View All Money Banking & Insurance ETFs & Mutual Funds Fintech Hedge Funds & Private Equity Investing Investor Hub Markets Personal Finance Retirement Taxes Top Advisor | SHOOK Wealth Management Forbes Digital Assets Forbes Digital Assets Home Web3 Community News Crypto Prices NFT Prices Research Learn Crypto Basics BTC DeFi Web3 Education NFTs Crypto Investments Events Crypto Portfolios Business Business View All Business Aerospace & Defense Energy Food & Drink Hollywood & Entertainment Law Manufacturing Media Policy Retail SportsMoney Entertainment Digest Small Business Small Business View All Small Business Entrepreneurs Franchises Small Business Strategy Lifestyle Lifestyle View All Lifestyle Arts Boats & Planes Cars & Bikes Dining ForbesLife Forbes Travel Guide Spirits Style & Beauty Travel Vices Watches Real Estate Real Estate View All Real Estate Commercial Real Estate Forbes Global Properties Residential Real Estate Forbes Vetted Forbes Vetted View All Forbes Vetted Mattress & Sleep Bed Frames Mattresses Mattress Toppers Pillows Sheets & Bedding Sleep Products Home Bathroom Cleaning & Laundry Decor Furniture Heating & Cooling Hobbies Home Office Kitchen & Dining Outdoor Pets Storage & Organization Tools Wine & Bar Fashion Accessories Clothing Eyewear Footwear Jewelry Handbags & Purses Lingerie & Sleepwear Outdoor & Fitness Apparel Outerwear Watches Kids & Baby Gear Baby Gear Kids Clothes & Accessories Nursery Pregnancy & Postpartum Toys & Books Gear Apparel & Accessories Bikes Camping & Hiking Climbing Fishing & Hunting Fitness Golf Running Tennis & Racket Sports Tools & Tech Training & Recovery Water Sports Wellness Winter Sports Beauty & Grooming Haircare Makeup Nailcare Shaving Skincare Personal Products Wellness & Self Care Tech & Electronics Audio Cameras Computers, Tablets & Accessories Gaming Home Office Online Tools Smart Home Devices Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories Streaming TVs Travel Cruises Hotels & Lodging Luggage Travel Products Gifts Father's Day Holiday Mother's Day Valentine's Day Wedding Deals Black Friday Cyber Monday Amazon Prime Day Beauty & Grooming Big Sales Fashion Gear Home Tech & Electronics Travel Deals Mattress & Sleep Forbes 101 Advisor Advisor Best Credit Cards Of 2025 Compare Credit Cards Balance Transfer Credit Cards Cash Back Credit Cards Travel Credit Cards Business Credit Cards Mortgages & Loans Best Mortgage Lenders Today's Mortgage Rates Today's Refinance Rates Best Personal Loans Loans For Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Student Loan Lenders Best Student Loan Refinance Lenders Business Loans Banking Best Online Banks CD Rates High-Yield Savings Accounts Money Market Account Life Insurance Cheap Life Insurance No Exam Life Insurance Travel Insurance Covid-19 Travel Insurance Cheap Travel Insurance Companies Best Car Insurance Compare Car Insurance Quotes Cost Of Car Insurance Cheap Car Insurance Pet Insurance How Much Is Pet Insurance? Cheap Pet Insurance Business Services Best LLC Services Best Registered Agent Services How To Set Up An LLC How To Start A Business Cost To Start An LLC Best Payroll Services Best HR Software Best HRIS Systems Best PEO Services Best Applicant Tracking Systems Best Website Builders Best Web Hosting Services Best Domain Registrar Best Ecommerce Platform Best Landing Page Builder Best VoIP Service What Is VoIP? Best Answering Services Best Call Center Software Best Cloud Phone System Best Project Management Software Free Project Management Software Best Task Management Software Free Task Management Software Best Gantt Chart Software Best VPN Best Free VPN Best Cheap VPN Best Antivirus Software Best Password Managers Home Services Best Moving Companies Best Long Distance Moving Companies Best Car Shipping Companies Best Interstate Moving Companies How Much Do Movers Cost? Best Home Warranty Companies Cheapest Home Warranty Companies Are Home Warranties Worth It? Home Warranty Cost Best Home Appliance Insurance Best Solar Companies Best Solar Panels Cost Of Solar Panels Solar Tax Credit By State Are Solar Panels Worth It? Best Pest Control Companies Best Termite Control Companies Best Mosquito Control Companies Pest Control Cost How Much Do Exterminators Cost? Best Home Security Companies Best Home Security Systems Home Security System Cost Cheapest Home Security Systems Best Wireless Home Security Systems Best Internet Providers Cheapest Internet Plans Fastest High Speed Internet Providers Best Internet Only Plans Best Fiber Internet Providers Forbes Advisor UK Health Health Healthy Aging Best Medical Alert Systems Medicare Medicare Advantage Plans Medicare Supplement Plans Medicare Advantage By State Health Insurance Hearing Aids Best Hearing Aids Senior Living Mind Best Online Therapy Best CBD Gummies Best CBD Oil Best Protein Powders Lists Video Newsletters Newsletters Crypto Confidential Editorial Newsletters Forbes Games Forbes Games View All Forbes Games Frase by Forbes Pinpoint by LinkedIn Queens by LinkedIn Crossclimb by LinkedIn Forbes Magazine Forbes Magazine Forbes Asia Free Issue of Forbes Latest Latest Coronavirus Coverage Daily Cover Stories Dark Capital Editors' Picks Breaking News Featured Featured 2025 Best-In-State Wealth Advisors List 2025 America's Top Women Wealth Advisors AI’s Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It DNA of Success Embracing And Bracing For AI Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program Your Four-Part Blueprint To Unlock AI Value In 2025 | Paid Program Diners Club International Celebrates 75 Years | Paid Program Leadership Lessons: Small Business Playbook Potential Has No Age Summit | Paid Program Celebrating The Power Of Partnership: Why Teamwork Is Key In the Fight Against Cancer | Paid Program Protecting What Matters Most: How Gerber Life Insurance Offers Affordable Coverage For Your Whole Family | Paid Program Presented by EY - Beyond The Blueprint: How These Four CEOs Built Billion-Dollar Businesses | Paid Program 2/3 By 2030: Philip Morris International Marks A Milestone  And Aims For A Smoke-Free Future | Paid Program 2025 America's Top Wealth Advisors Forbes Insights: Your Guide To Marketing In The Era Of AI | Paid Program The Undergrad's New Journey To Real-World Ready | Paid Program Forbes Insights: Your Five-Step Strategy To Unleash AI’s Value In Marketing | Paid Program Forbes Video Series: AI 50 AI 50 List By The Numbers: Meet The Forbes 30 Under 30 Europe Class Of 2025 United To End Blood Cancer: Meet The Leaders Turning Passion Into Progress | Paid Program Advertise with Forbes Report a Security Issue Editorial Values and Standards Site Feedback Contact Us Careers at Forbes Tips Corrections Privacy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms AdChoices Reprints & Permissions © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. Subscribe To Newsletters The 2019 U.S. Open By The Numbers By Erik Matuszewski Follow Author Share Save BETA This is a BETA experience. opt-out here Business SportsMoney The 2019 U.S. Open By The Numbers By Erik Matuszewski , Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Erik Matuszewski's coverage spans golf businesses, news & destinations Follow Author Jun 11, 2019, 01:00pm EDT Share Save This article is more than 5 years old. Pebble Beach Golf Links in California plays host to the U.S. Open for the sixth time. (Photo by ... More David Cannon/Getty Images) Getty Images The U.S. Open this week returns to venerable Pebble Beach Golf Links on California’s Monterey Peninsula for the sixth time, the third-most of any host site behind Oakmont and Baltusrol. Brooks Koepka became the seventh player to repeat as U.S. Open champion last year, following up his 2017 victory at Erin Hills with a win at Shinnecock Hills. He's seeking to become just the second golfer in history to claim three titles in a row, hoping to match Willie Anderson’s feat from 1903-05. Koepka comes to Pebble Beach having won four of golf’s last nine major championships. He received $2.16 million for his victory at last year’s U.S. Open, which had a total purse of $12 million. By comparison, Jack Nicklaus’s winning share was $20,000 from a purse of $195,095 for the first U.S. Open held at Pebble Beach in 1972. This year’s prize purse of $12.5 million is the highest among the major championships. Brooks Koepka lifts the trophy after winning the 2018 U.S. Open at Shinnecock Hills Golf Club in New ... More York.  (Photo by Ross Kinnaird/Getty Images) 2018 Getty Images For this year’s tournament, Pebble Beach will be set up at 7,075 yards and play to a par of 71. The exact yardage for each round will vary due to course setup and conditions. The field of 156 players will be cut to the low 60 scorers (and ties) following the first two rounds. There are plenty of other numbers to know from this year’s U.S. Open, including the fact that Phil Mickelson, a record six-time runner-up still gunning for his first title, will celebrate his 49 th birthday on June 16 — the final day of the championship. MORE FROM FORBES ADVISOR Nova Credit Review: How A Startup Is Helping Immigrants Get Access To Credit By Kristin Stoller , Forbes Staff The average for the 156-player field is 30.92, with reigning U.S. Senior Open winner David Toms being the oldest participant at 52. Toms is among 26 USGA champions in the field, including 12 past U.S. Open winners. There are also former winners of the U.S. Amateur, U.S. Junior Amateur and U.S. Mid-Amateur tournaments. Here are some other key numbers heading into the third of the season’s four majors: 0 – The number of players who shot below par the last time the U.S. Open was played at Pebble Beach in 2010. Graeme McDowell won the championship with a score of even-par 284, one shot better than Gregory Havret. 3 – Players in the field who have won multiple U.S. Opens: Tiger Woods (3), Ernie Els (2), Koepka (2). 4 – The number of four-time champions in U.S. Open history. Woods has three wins and is seeking to join Willie Anderson, Bobby Jones, Ben Hogan and Jack Nicklaus as four-time champs. Tiger Woods walks across the ninth green during a practice round prior to the 2019 U.S. Open at ... More Pebble Beach Golf Links. (Photo by Andrew Redington/Getty Images) Getty Images 4 – Past U.S. Junior Amateur champions in the field. Jordan Spieth (2009, ’11), Scottie Scheffler (2013), Michael Thorbjornsen (2018) and Woods (1991, ’92, ’93). 6 – The record number of runner-up finishes for Mickelson at the U.S. Open. There are some big names trailing him on that list of close calls, as Bobby Jones, Sam Snead, Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer are tied with four. 7 – Past U.S. Amateur champions in the field. Byeong Hun An (2009), Bryson DeChambeau (2015), Matthew Fitzpatrick (2013), Viktor Hovland (2018), Matt Kuchar (1997), Mickelson (1990) and Woods (1994, ’95, ’96). 7 – The number of players in the field who will be 20 years old or younger when the first round begins. 8-1 – The odds of co-favorites Koepka and Dustin Johnson, according to the Westgate Las Vegas Superbook. Woods and Rory McIlroy are both listed at 10-1 odds, followed by Spieth at 14-1. Rory McIlroy, who won the 2011 U.S. Open, comes to Pebble Beach after a win at last week's RBC ... More Canadian Open. (Photo by Michael Reaves/Getty Images) Getty Images 12 – Past U.S. Open champions in the field. Els (1994, ’97), Jim Furyk (2003), Lucas Glover (2009), Dustin Johnson (2016), Martin Kaymer (2014), Koepka (2017, ’18), McDowell (2010), McIlroy (2011), Justin Rose (2013), Webb Simpson (2012), Spieth (2015) and Woods (2000, ’02, ’08). 16 – The number of amateur golfers in the field. It’s the seventh straight year that 10 or more amateurs are competing. Among those in the field this year are Viktor Hovland, the 2018 U.S. Amateur champ, and Jovan Rebula, who won the 2018 Amateur Championship conducted by the R&A. 17 – The number of U.S. Open participants who made the field by advancing through both local and sectional qualifying, the fewest in the past four decades. Only Ken Venturi (1964) and Orville Moody (1969) won the U.S. Open after qualifying through both local and sectional play. 20 – The number of players in the field who are 40 or older. 27 – U.S. Open appearances by Mickelson, the most of any player in the field. Els is second with 26 and he has the longest active streak of consecutive appearances. SOUTHAMPTON, NY - JUNE 16:  Phil Mickelson of the United States walks up the third fairway with ... More caddie Tim Mickelson during the third round of the 2018 U.S. Open at Shinnecock Hills Golf Club on June 16, 2018 in Southampton, New York.  (Photo by Ross Kinnaird/Getty Images) Getty Images 30 – The number of countries represented in the U.S. Open field. The U.S. has the most participants, with 80, followed by England (13), South Africa (9) and Australia (8). 39 – The number of first-time U.S. Open participants in this year’s field. 44 – The number of holes-in-one in U.S. Open history. Seven of those have come at Pebble Beach, the last by Thongchai Jaidee on the fifth hole in 2010. 46 – The number of hours of network coverage that the U.S. Open will receive on FOX and FS1. 83 – This will be the 83 rd USGA championship played in California and the 13 th U.S. Open contested in the state. 92 – The yardage that Pebble Beach’s par-3 7 th hole played to during the final round of the 2010 U.S. Open, the shortest U.S. Open hole post-WWII. 117 – The number of hours of live streaming coverage for the championship on the U.S. Open website and its app channels. 1919 – The year that Pebble Beach Golf Links opened on California’s Monterey Peninsula. In 1929, it hosted the U.S. Amateur Championship for the first time and in 1972 was the site of the U.S. Open for the first time. PEBBLE BEACH, CALIFORNIA - JUNE 11: Dustin Johnson of the United States lines up a putt on the ... More seventh hole during a practice round prior to the 2019 U.S. Open at Pebble Beach Golf Links on June 11, 2019 in Pebble Beach, California. (Photo by Warren Little/Getty Images) Getty Images 9,125 – The number of entries accepted to the championship, the sixth-highest total in U.S. Open history. The record of 10,127 entries was set in 2014. $2.25 million – The record payout for this year’s champion. Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn . Editorial Standards Forbes Accolades LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Digital Terms of Sale Terms of Service Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Reprints & Permissions Forbes Press Room Advertise