Good afternoon! It is time... Britain's Andy Murray attempts to win a historic Wimbledon title and end a 77-year wait against Novak Djokovic in the final. Videos Results For You Football Rugby MotoGP All Sports Tennis Wimbledon Calendar - Results Men's Singles Women's Singles Men's Doubles Women's Doubles Mixed Doubles Previous winners Sign In Home Videos Results For You Popular Sports Football Football Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Premier League UEFA Champions League FA Cup All Competitions Rugby Rugby Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Gallagher Premiership Premiership Women’s Rugby Six Nations All Competitions MotoGP MotoGP Home Clips and Highlights Calendar Standings Cycling Cycling Home Clips and Highlights Results Race calendar All Competitions Snooker Snooker Home Clips and Highlights Results World Ranking World Championship UK Championship Masters UFC UFC Home Clips and Highlights Calendar and Events Rankings Boxing Boxing Home Clips and Highlights Boxing on TNT Sports Box Office All Sports Show All Alpine Skiing Alpine Skiing Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings World Championship Athletics Athletics Home Fixtures - Results Diamond League World Championships World Athletics Indoor Championships Tokyo 2020 Marathon All Competitions Baseball Basketball Basketball Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results NBA All Leagues Biathlon Biathlon Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings IBU World Championships Boxing Boxing Home Clips and Highlights Boxing on TNT Sports Box Office BSB BSB Home Calendar Standings Climbing Cricket Cricket Home Clips and Highlights Cricket on TNT Sports Cross-Country Skiing Cross-Country Skiing Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings World Championship Cycling Cycling Home Clips and Highlights Results Race calendar All Competitions Cyclo-Cross Cyclo-Cross Home Fixtures - Results Esports F1 F1 Home Race calendar Standings Football Football Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Premier League UEFA Champions League FA Cup All Competitions Formula E Formula E Home Calendar Rankings Fanboost Golf Golf Home Calendar - Results PGA Tour DP World Tour Ryder Cup All Competitions MotoGP MotoGP Home Clips and Highlights Calendar Standings Motorsports Motorsports Home Calendar - Results Speedway GP F1 MotoGP Superbikes All Sports Mountain Bike Mountain Bike Home Results Rankings Teams NBA NBA Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Standings Olympics Olympics Home Video Rugby Rugby Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Gallagher Premiership Premiership Women’s Rugby Six Nations All Competitions Sailing Sailing Home Calendar - Results Ski Jumping Ski Jumping Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Standings Women's standings Snooker Snooker Home Clips and Highlights Results World Ranking World Championship UK Championship Masters Speedway GP Speedway GP Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Standings Superbikes Superbikes Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Table Tennis Tennis Home Clips and Highlights Calendar - Results Australian Open Roland-Garros Wimbledon US Open All Competitions Track Cycling Triathlon Triathlon Home Fixtures - Results PTO Tour UCI Track CL UCI Track CL Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings UFC UFC Home Clips and Highlights Calendar and Events Rankings WEC WEC Home Fixtures - Results Calendar WEC Table Winter Sports Winter Sports Home Fixtures - Results All Sports WRC WRC Home Calendar Standings Welcome to TNT Sports TNT Sports is the new home of Eurosport bringing together all the same great content in one place Good afternoon! It is time... Britain's Andy Murray attempts to win a historic Wimbledon title and end a 77-year wait against Novak Djokovic in the final. N. Djokovic vs A. Murray | Wimbledon Men's Singles | Final | 07.07.2013 | London Completed N. Djokovic (1) A. Murray (2) 4 5 4 6 7 6 Summary Live Stats Rankings Related matches Related Videos Live Live Updates By Dan Quarrell Updated 07/07/2013 at 17:48 GMT+1 All Highlights - So, there you have it. Murray is the first British male to win Wimbledon in 77 years, the first Brit of either sex to win Wimbledon since 1977 (when Virginia Wade won the women's title) and he now holds two of the four Grand Slams - the US Open and Wimbledon, as well as the Olympic gold. Rafael Nadal holds the French Open, Novak Djokovic holds the Australian Open. - Murray: "I can't even remember what happened on that last point. I'm sorry. I'm not sure how long that last game was. I'm not sure, I don't know. Sorry." - Murray on his mum up in the player's box: "I did forget her but got told she was just behind me so I turned back!" - Murray: "I know how much everyone wanted to see a British winner at Wimbledon so I hope you guys enjoy this. I tried my best." - Barker tells Murray: "Talk us through the last game because it was torturous to watch." Murray: "Imagine playing it". - Andy Murray: "It was an unbelievably tough match, some really long games. I don't know how I managed to come through that last game." - Novak Djokovic: "Congratulations to Andy, you absolutely deserve this, you played wonderful tennis." - Murray looks completely shocked by the whole thing and hugs the trophy like it might be taken away from him at any second. - Sue Barker with the on-court announcement: "We've waited 77 years for this ... the men's singles Wimbledon champion ... Andy Murray". - Murray asks security if it's okay for him to climb up to the player's box before making the trip up to celebrate with his camp. First coach Ivan Lendl, then girlfriend Kim Sears. He nearly forgets to see his mum but is reminded by a member of his box and then goes back! - DJOKOVIC 4-6 5-7 4-6 - GAME, SET & MATCH! Andy Murray is the new Wimbledon champion as Djokovic drops his service return just inside the baseline only to net his forehand follow up. - ANDY MURRAY IS THE 2013 WIMBLEDON CHAMPION! - DJOKOVIC 4-6 5-7 4-5 - An incredible angled cross court forehand passing shot winner from Djokovic brings up another break point but Murray saves it with a trip into the net and a backhand stop volley winner. Deuce again! Murray's anticipation comes to the rescue before he goes on to earn himself a FOURTH CHAMPIONSHIP POINT with a forehand passing shot attempt that Djokovic can only net... - DJOKOVIC 4-6 5-7 4-5 - The third also goes begging when Murray sends a regulation backhand long down the line. Deuce. Murray hands Djokovic a break back point with a netted forehand but saves it with a big first serve that the Serb can only return long. Djokovic catches the top of the tape and sees his pick up just roll over for a winner. Break point number two for the Serb. But the Brit saves it with a cross court forehand winner after a lomg rally. Back to deuce. - DJOKOVIC 4-6 5-7 4-5 - And the Serb also saves the second, punishing a slow second serve with a backhand return winner down the line. Championship point number three... - DJOKOVIC 4-6 5-7 4-5 - Djokovic saves the first with a forehand volley winner across court after pushing Murray wide. Two more championship points remain... - DJOKOVIC 4-6 5-7 4-5 - Murray takes the first point when Djokovic hits a forehand out. And he then also takes the second with an easy forehand winner down the line off a drop shot from Djokovic that sits up into the Brit's hitting zone. 30-0. A big first serve is returned long from Djokovic and it's THREE MATCH POINTS FOR MURRAY... - DJOKOVIC 4-6 5-7 4-5 - BREAK! A backhand error from Djokovic is greeted by a quiet "come on" from Murray before the Scot goes 15-30 up with a twisting forehand after a poor lob attempt from the Scot. That quickly becomes two more break points with another running forehand passing shot winner down the line (seven passing shot winners from Murray now). And Murray does break when Djokovic nets a forehand. Murray will serve for the Wimbledon title! - DJOKOVIC 4-6 5-7 4-4 - Djokovic is left down on the deck after a spectacular point from both players, Murray coming out on top with a forehand winner. A forehand long from Djokovic a couple of points later hands Murray a game point which he seals with a long angled run across court and flicked forehand passing shot winner down the line. - DJOKOVIC 4-6 5-7 4-3 - BREAK! Murray punishes a poor drop shot from Djokovic to go 0-30 up once again. A backhand volley into the net from the Brit hands his opponent one of the points back but Murray earns himself two break back points with a backhand across court that Djokovic can only return wide on the run. The Serb saves the first with a cross court forehand winner on the approach shot. But Murray does break back at the second attempt when Djokovic goes long with a forehand. View more 1 2 3 4 How was your experience today? Change version: International English (TNT) Help centre Football Premier League Table Premier League Fixtures Champions League News Champions League Fixtures Football Fixtures More Pub finder Rugby News UFC News Boxing News MotoGP News TNT Sports Schedule & TV Guide TNT Sports Box Office About Us About TNT Sports Legal Information Terms of Use Privacy Policy Legal Information Modern Slavery Statement ©2025 TNT Sports Broadcasting Limited.  TNT SPORTS is used under license. All rights reserved.