When is Grey's Anatomy season 17 returning? - Capital Skip to content skip to navigation Capital Listen On Air Now Ant Payne 4am - 6am Now Playing The Giver Chappell Roan Download 'The Giver' on iTunes Last Played Songs Schedule Home Choose your location Radio News Artists Store TV & Film Music Celebrity Capital Buzz Internet Life Events Win Follow us on: Follow Capital on Facebook Follow Capital on Instagram Follow Capital on Youtube News TV & Film TV & Film Home I'm A Celebrity Love Island Netflix Married at First Sight Squid Game Bridgerton The Summer I Turned Pretty Only Murders In The Building Wicked The Traitors More News When is Grey's Anatomy returning? Here's when it's back on TV 17 February 2021, 09:35 Patrick Dempsey returns as Derek to Grey’s Anatomy By Katie Louise Smith When does Grey's Anatomy come back and when is the next episode? Fans will have to wait until March to see what happens next. Grey's Anatomy season 17 has managed to throw more twists, turns and heartbreaking moments into its first six episodes than we could have ever possibly imagined. The ABC medical drama is currently on hiatus, leaving fans desperate to find out what happens next after that devastating winter finale episode. (Is Meredith gonna be okay? Am I gonna be okay? Who will show up on the beach next?) But due to delays caused by the pandemic, and the fact that season 17 will be a shortened season, fans will have to wait until March to find out what happens next. READ MORE: QUIZ: Can you name all 15 of these Grey's Anatomy characters? When does Grey's Anatomy come back? Fans will have to wait until March. Picture:  ABC When is the next episode of Grey's Anatomy season 17? According to ABC , the next episode of Grey's Anatomy (17x07, the mid-season premiere) will air on Thursday 11th March. It will return at its usual time slot of 9pm ET. How many episodes of Grey's Anatomy season 17 are there? Speaking to Deadline , show runner Krista Vernoff explained why fans are having to wait 11 weeks to find out what happens next to Meredith Grey as she is treated for COVID-19 infection. It's all to do with the shortened episode count of season 17. Instead of the usual 24 episodes, Grey's Anatomy season 17 will reportedly only have 16 episodes. This makes it one of the shortest seasons in the show's history, alongside season 1's 9 episode run. Due to the delayed premiere date, 6 episodes aired before the scheduled winter hiatus, and because of the shortened episode count, the remaining episodes will air in March instead of the usual January slot in order for it to end in time for May's finale season. Grey's Anatomy teases the return of another past character in season 17 Despite the delays, fans still have a lot more to look forward to in Grey's season 17. As Meredith continues battles with COVID-19, she'll be taking plenty of trips back to her dream beach. Patrick Dempsey is still scheduled to appear in a few more episodes as Derek Shepherd. Vernoff has also teased that even more past characters could show up on Meredith's beach. So far, we've seen Derek and George O'Malley . We've also seen Richard Webber and Miranda Bailey appear, confirming that it's not just dead people that Meredith is dreaming about. Fans have a long list of characters they're hoping to see return, with Chyler Leigh's beloved Lexie Grey placed firmly at the top. READ MORE: Grey's Anatomy confirms more surprise returns in season 17 Shop our merch Latest TV & Film News MAFS Australia's Carina speaks out after Paul's big Final Task mistake Bella Ramsey confirms plans to release their own album with original music When are the MAFS Australia 2025 Final Vows and what happens? The Last of Us' Bella Ramsey paints Ellie while answering questions about season 2 MAFS Australia's Tori reveals real reason for Jack split Celebrity Big Brother 2025 final voting figures revealed What happened to Eugene in The Last of Us and why did Joel kill him? The Last of Us season 2 episode 4 release time: Here's when new episodes comes out All the MAFS Australia 'backup' brides and grooms and who was tempted Who is Love Island's Georgia Harrison having a baby with? Love Island More Features What Justin Bieber ‘Ghost’ Is Really About As Fans Think Lyrics Are About Ex Selena Gomez Rihanna’s Dating History: From Her Ex-Boyfriends To A$AP Rocky Rihanna Zendaya and Tom Holland’s complete relationship timeline - how they met to their engagement Olivia Rodrigo’s Dating History & Ex Boyfriends From Zack Bia To Joshua Bassett How Old Are One Direction Now? Ages Of Harry Styles, Niall Horan, Louis Tomlinson, Liam Payne And Zayn Malik One Direction Billie Eilish’s Dating History, Her Ex-Boyfriends From Brandon ‘Q’ Adams To Jesse Rutherford Everything You Need To Know About Little Mix, From Boyfriends To Their Original Name News Who Is Dua Lipa? Everything You Need To Know About The 'Future Nostalgia' Star Dua Lipa TV & Films Love Island Married At First Sight Australia Only Murders in the Building The Kardashians Big Brother 2025 Bridgerton Selling Sunset Featured Artists See more Featured Artists Ed Sheeran Ariana Grande Harry Styles Rihanna Justin Bieber Taylor Swift Stormzy Billie Eilish Lewis Capaldi Aitch Featured Podcasts Making The Album My Therapist Ghosted Me Reel Talk with Honey & Jonathan Ross Closet Confessions The Osbournes Podcast Pop Culture with Chanté Joseph Featured Playlists Hottest Hits Acoustic Hits K-Pop Fresh Music Friday Workout Hits Back to top Also on Capital FM Love Island MAFS Australia Taylor Swift Competition Terms and Conditions Capital Breakfast with Jordan North, Chris Stark and Sian Welby Capital Dance Capital Anthems Capital Buzz Bridgerton Podcasts Topics New Music Married at First Sight UK Listen to Global Player How to listen to Capital Chill Global Academy Netflix One Direction Harry Styles Capital Playlist Useful Links Contact Us Help How To Listen Company Details Cookies Public File Privacy Terms & Conditions Advertise Global Jobs Download the app Follow Us Follow Capital on Facebook Follow Capital on Instagram Follow Capital on Youtube © Global 2025 30 Leicester Square, London, WC2H 7LA Privacy Manager