Basil Russo - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Early and personal life 2 Italian American Cultural Organizations 3 Religious involvement 4 Awards and recognition 5 Political career 6 References Toggle the table of contents Basil Russo Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia American judge Basil Russo Personal details Born Basil M. Russo ( 1947-03-10 ) March 10, 1947 (age 78) Cleveland , Ohio , U.S. Political party Democratic Spouse Patricia Gallupoli Children Anthony and Joe Russo , Angela Russo-Otstot Alma mater John Carroll University , Cleveland–Marshall College of Law Occupation Judge Attorney Public Official, National Italian American Leader. Known for City Council Majority Leader, Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas, Judge of the Eighth District Court of Appeals, President of the Conference of Presidents of Major Italian American Organizations. Basil M. Russo (born March 10, 1947) is an American attorney , politician of the Democratic Party , and judge . He was majority leader of the Cleveland City Council . Later he served as a judge of the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas and a judge of the Ohio's Eighth District Court of Appeals . [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Russo served as managing partner of the law firm of Russo, Rosalina & Co, LPA from the firm's founding in 1978 until his retirement in 2014, except during the years he served on the bench. [ 1 ] [ 3 ] In 2014, Basil was elected as president of the Italian Sons and Daughters of America. [ 4 ] He is the father of Anthony and Joe Russo , directors of several successful Marvel superhero films, Angela Russo-Otstot , Senior Vice President of Story at AGBO Films, and Gabriella Rosalina, Managing Partner of Russo, Rosalina & Co. Early and personal life [ edit ] Russo is the son of the late State Rep. and Cleveland ward leader Anthony J. and Domenica "Donnie" Russo. [ 5 ] He is married to Patricia Russo. He is of Italian descent. Russo received an undergraduate degree from John Carroll University and his J.D. [ 6 ] degree from the Cleveland State University Cleveland-Marshall College of Law . Russo's two sons, Anthony and Joe , are Hollywood filmmakers, who are known for Welcome to Collinwood , You, Me and Dupree , Captain America: The Winter Soldier , Captain America: Civil War , Avengers: Infinity War , Avengers: Endgame and Cherry . [ 4 ] Italian American Cultural Organizations [ edit ] This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification . Please help by adding reliable sources . Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libelous . Find sources: "Basil Russo" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( September 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Russo currently serves as president of the Conference of Presidents of Major Italian American Organizations. He was elected  president in 2020. The organization is headquartered in New York City and it serves as the national representative of its 50 member Italian American organizations from throughout the U.S. www.COPOMIAO.org  Russo also serves as national president of the Italian Sons and Daughters of America. He was first elected in 2014, and again every two years thereafter. The ISDA is headquartered in Pittsburgh and is one of the largest Italian American fraternal associations in the U.S. www.orderisda.org; He is also President of the Justinian Forum Italian American Bar Association, www.thejustinianforum.org; and is Chairman of the Cleveland Italian Film Festival. He has served as a member of the executive committee of the National Italian American Foundation in Washington DC. Religious involvement [ edit ] This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification . Please help by adding reliable sources . Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libelous . Find sources: "Basil Russo" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( September 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Russo initiated the creation of the Bishop Anthony Pilla Italian American Studies Program at John Carroll University. Russo and his wife Patricia served as Chairpersons of the Advisory Committee of the Marriage and Family Ministry of the Cleveland Catholic Diocese. Awards and recognition [ edit ] This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification . Please help by adding reliable sources . Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libelous . Find sources: "Basil Russo" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( September 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Freedom Award from the American Nationalities Movement, Cleveland International Hall of Fame Inductee, Academy of Television Arts and Sciences Award, Benedictine Italian Heritage Honoree, Lifetime Achievement Award from the Cleveland Italian American Heritage Committee, Special Recognition Award from the Italian American Festival Committee, Columbian Award from the Federation of Italian American Societies, Justinian Award from the Italian American Bar Association, Award of Excellence from the San Leone Society, ISDA Outstanding Young Man of the Year Award, Multiple United States Senatorial and Congressional Proclamations for various accomplishments and achievements sponsored and presented by: Senator Rob Portman , Senator Sherrod Brown , Senator George Voinovich , Senator Mike DeWine , Congressman Dennis Kucinich, Congressman David P. Joyce, Congresswoman Marcia Fudge , and Governor John Kasich. Political career [ edit ] Russo  served as majority leader of Cleveland City Council. [ 7 ] [ 8 ] [ 9 ] References [ edit ] ^ a b "Russo Rosalina Bio" . Retrieved June 19, 2016 . ^ Judicial Notice . The Conference. 1982. ^ Congressional Record, V. 146, Pt. 12, July 27, 2000 to September 13 2000 . Government Printing Office. May 2005. pp. 16890–. ISBN 9780160749476 . GGKEY:6RR4LA5LCR1. ^ a b Michael K. McIntyre (August 22, 2014). "Cleveland's Basil Russo, father of the famous filmmaking Russo Brothers, elected president of Italian Sons and Daughters of America" . The Plain Dealer . Retrieved June 19, 2016 . ^ Michael K. McIntyre (November 19, 2011). "Five vie for Democratic leaders' endorsement" . The Plain Dealer . Retrieved June 19, 2016 . ^ "Basil Michael Russo" . www.martindale.com . ^ Ohio Public Interest Campaign (1979). The Battle of Cleveland: public interest challenges corporate power . Conference on Alternative State and Local Policies. ISBN 9780897880183 . ^ Mark Gottlieb; Diana Tittle (November 1, 1987). America's soapbox: seventy-five years of free speaking at Cleveland's City Club forum . Citizens Press. ISBN 978-0-940601-03-1 . ^ Briton Hadden (1978). Time . Time Incorporated. Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Basil_Russo&oldid=1282215663 " Categories : Living people Cleveland State University College of Law alumni Judges of the Ohio District Courts of Appeals Ohio state court judges Lawyers from Cleveland Ohio Democrats 1946 births American people of Italian descent Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use mdy dates from January 2021 BLP articles lacking sources from September 2021 All BLP articles lacking sources This page was last edited on 25 March 2025, at 01:50 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Basil Russo Add languages Add topic