Bryan Singer Fired from Queen Biopic | The Film Magazine FRESH The Film Magazine: 2014-2024 10 Best Films 2024: Joseph Wade 10 Best Films 2024: Sam Sewell-Peterson Nosferatu (2024) Review Tangerine (2015) Review The Film Magazine LATEST Reviews 2024 Film Reviews Hall of Fame Retrospective Reviews Short Film Reviews 2023 Film Reviews 2022 Film Reviews 2021 Film Reviews 2020 Film Reviews Features Ranked Movie Lists Essays/Analysis Interviews Guides Career-Defining Performances Where to Start with… Staff Shop NEW Digital Magazine Our Store Zavvi RedBubble Bryan Singer Fired from Queen Biopic Posted on December 5, 2017 October 17, 2022 by Joseph Wade Bryan Singer was today, Monday 4th December 2017, fired from his position as director on the upcoming Queen biopic Bohemian Rhapsody by the film’s studio 20th Century Fox. Production was initially halted on the 1st of December, citing Bryan Singer having “sudden unexpected unavailability”, and it has now emerged that this was the result of “on-set chaos” caused by the director unexpectedly disappearing from set and acting disrespectfully towards star Rami Malek and others. It is being reported by The Hollywood Reporter that Singer threw an object at Malek (who will play Queen front-man Freddie Mercury in the biopic) after a heated argument regarding Singer’s ongoing unexplained absences, and despite the pair reconciling shortly after it has been established that Singer did not return to the London set after Thanksgiving, leaving cinematographer Thomas Newton Sigel to direct numerous days’ worth of footage. It is said that British filmmaker Tom Hollander, who is set to play Queen manager Jim Beach, was so appalled by the director’s behaviour that he actually quit the production in protest, but has since re-joined the cast. Bryan Singer, known for directing The Usual Suspects , Superman Returns and a host of X-Men movies, has reportedly claimed that he is suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder as a result of the confrontations, but studio 20th Century Fox look set to press on with naming a new director for the remaining 2 weeks of principle photography. This isn’t the first time that Singer has been put under the microscope for problematic behaviour, the director being accused of asking teenage boys to shower nude for a scene in Apt Pupil (per reports), and reportedly creating a culture of drug use and verbal confrontations on the sets of his X-Men films. He is a BAFTA nominee (for The Usual Suspects ), César nominee (for The Usual Suspects ), and two-time Empire Awards Best Director nominee (for X-Men and Superman Returns ). Share with your friends / followers ... Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Posted in News Tagged 20th century fox , bohemian rhapsody , Bryan Singer , fox , news , queen , rami malek , thomas newton sigal , tom hollander Post navigation UK Box Office Report November 24-26 2017 UK Box Office Report December 1st-3rd 2017 Leave a Comment Cancel reply News August 08, 2024 Cineworld Announce Cinema Closures The world's 2nd largest cinema chain, Cineworld, have announced that July 18, 2024 Skydance Paramount Merger: All You Need to Know March 29, 2024 Austin Butler to Star in Darren Aronofsky Crime Thriller View All Home About FAQ Privacy Policy Our Team Pitch Your Article Contact Us Share Your Story Podcasts Short Film Facebook Twitter Donate To Us Our Store RedBubble Zavvi © The Film Magazine Ltd. (2024), Company no. 11165174 - 'The Film Magazine', 'TFM', 'thefilmagazine' and its associated brands are each associated with thefilmagazine.com and are the exclusive property of The Film Magazine Ltd. and its owners. All content, unless stated otherwise, is owned by The Film Magazine Ltd. and is protected by the copyright laws of the UK. thefilmagazine.com (“The Film Magazine”, “TFM”, “us” or “we”) respect your privacy - we will not misuse, sell or exploit any information provided to us. More information is available on our 'Privacy Policy' page.