2018 World Cup mascots narrowed down to final 3, and here's who should win | FOX Sports my favs Access and manage your favorites here DISMISS Scores Watch Odds FOX Super 6 Stories Daily Lists Search Sign In Account SPORTS & TEAMS PLAYERS SHOWS PERSONALITIES POPULAR SEARCHES - No Data Available - BROWSE BY SPORTS & TEAMS PLAYERS SHOWS PERSONALITIES Built on FIFA Men's World Cup FIFA Men's World Cup 2018 World Cup mascots narrowed down to final 3, and here's who should win Published Nov. 15, 2016 2:38 p.m. ET share facebook x reddit link Alex Dowd The World Cup has had a mascot ever since England blessed us with World Cup Willie in 1966. Since then, we've had at least one mascot chosen to represent the host country and the tournament at every World Cup. The mascot race for the 2018 edition in Russia is heating up, with three finalists revealed on Friday . Russian fans will get to choose from three animals. Cat, Wolf and Tiger are not so creatively named, but they are certainly creatively designed. I won't dive into which is which or how they got their names, I'll leave that for you to decode. What I will tell you is that there is one clear-cut answer as to whom the Russian fans should vote for. His name is Wolf, and here are the pros and cons for the three candidates. ADVERTISEMENT 1. Wolf Wolf is the favorite because just look at him. He's quick, bold and has a keen fashion sense. As the youngest candidate, he's in touch with the future of the sport. He took a selfie at the end of his extended video , for crying out loud. He's got that little extra sauce the other candidates are missing. Wolf is the coolest, and I'll fight anyone who disagrees with me. 2. Cat OK, so Cat is also pretty dope. Cat is smart and agile, and apparently versatile. He tends to do most of his damage via midfield combinations, but actually can play between the posts in a pinch. Cat possesses one glaring error, though, there's zero intimidation factor there. He's too cuddly and cute . If he were a player he'd be like Andres Iniesta, someone that would probably twist a knife in your back, but you'd still want to hug them anyway. 3. Tiger It might be harsh to put Tiger last, but someone had to be. That's not to say that energetic Tiger isn't cool, but he's just out-shined by the other candidates. Tiger might have pace for days, but the discipline seems to be a question. It makes sense, though. Tiger's ultimate goal is to reach outer space. If soccer isn't his sole passion, he can't be the World Cup mascot. No matter who the Russian faithful do elect as the tournament's mascot, the job will be in capable hands (paws?). The next step will hopefully be finding a more imaginative name for the furry ambassador. MORE FROM FOX SOCCER: share recommended Lionel Messi powers Argentina past France in dramatic World Cup final World Cup Now: Lionel Messi makes his GOAT case with elusive title World Cup Daily: A storybook ending for Lionel Messi, Argentina after all Social media reacts as Messi, Argentina win 2022 World Cup Lionel Messi cements his GOAT status with a little help from his friends Argentina vs. France highlights: Messi, Argentina win World Cup in PKs Lionel Messi says he's not done yet with Argentina national team Get more from FIFA Men's World Cup Follow your favorites to get information about games, news and more in this topic FIFA Men's World Cup NEXT STORY Lionel Messi's World Cup pursuit has become the world's shared dream recommended Lionel Messi powers Argentina past France in dramatic World Cup final World Cup Now: Lionel Messi makes his GOAT case with elusive title World Cup Daily: A storybook ending for Lionel Messi, Argentina after all Social media reacts as Messi, Argentina win 2022 World Cup Lionel Messi cements his GOAT status with a little help from his friends Argentina vs. France highlights: Messi, Argentina win World Cup in PKs Lionel Messi says he's not done yet with Argentina national team Top Leagues NFL College Football LIV Golf MLB College Basketball UFL Top Shows The Herd with Colin Cowherd First Things First Speak Breakfast Ball The Facility Affiliated Apps FOX Sports Quick Links NFL Draft NTT IndyCar Series INDY NXT Indy 500 NBA Playoff Bracket NFL Schedule Release FOX SPORTS™, SPEED™, SPEED.COM™ & © 2025 Fox Media LLC and       Fox Sports Interactive Media, LLC. All rights reserved. Use of this       website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your       acceptance of these Updated Terms of Use and Privacy Policy | Advertising Choices | Your Privacy Choices | Closed Captioning Help Press Advertise with Us Jobs FOX Cincy RSS Sitemap FS1 FOX FOX News Fox Corporation FOX Sports Supports FOX Deportes