Cyberpunk 2077 has a release date, and Keanu Reeves??? | Rock Paper Shotgun Skip to main content Best class in The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion Remastered Monster Hunter Wilds best weapons tier list Blox Fruits codes Elden Ring boss locations Best Minecraft seeds 1.21 Past Wordle answers The Maw Latest News Reviews Hardware Features Videos Guides Bestest Bests Free games Discord Deals Podcasts RSS Supporters Go Support us Get our newsletter Sign in / Create account If you click on a link and make a purchase we may receive a small commission. Read our editorial policy . Home News Cyberpunk 2077 Cyberpunk 2077 has a release date, and Keanu Reeves??? Lovely, lovely Keanu News by Alice O'Connor Former Associate Editor Published on June 9, 2019 84 comments Follow Cyberpunk 2077 Grab your fingerless leather gloves and strap on your keyboard: Cyberpunk 2077 finally has a release today, April 16th, 2020. The Witcher developers CD Projekt Red announced their grimy future RPG's release date during Microsoft's E3 pressblast tonight, also revealing that Keanu Reeves is in it??? Keanu Reeves, from the memes! And the movies! His presence on the E3 stage was particularly a pleasure because he turned up right at the end of new trailer which made our character seem a right dickhead. But if Keanu's character likes us, aw hell, we can't be that bad. Lovely, lovely Keanu. Cyberpunk 2077 — Official E3 2019 Cinematic Trailer Watch on YouTube Keanu's character uses not only his likeness and voice, but the lad did motion capture for him too. It's like Keanu Reeves is your actual cyberfriend. (It was super weird seeing Keanu try to do that E3 hypechat because he seems a quiet and private person and bigging it up on an E3 stage is so not his style? He had fun with it, though. Lovely, lovely Keanu.) Cyberpunk 2077 is coming to Steam , GOG , and the Epic Games Store on April 16th, 2020. It'll cost £50. Now they actually know when the game's coming out, I bet they wish they'd run with the tabletop's RPG original name of Cyberpunk 2020. See our E3 2019 tag for more news, previews, opinions, and increasingly surreal liveblogs. Read this next Cyberpunk 2077’s development has officially ended as The Witcher 4 Polaris moves into production CD Projekt Red still 'don't see a place for microtransactions' in singleplayer games Witcher 4 is more than ‘The Witcher 3 in new clothing’, promise CDPR, as over 400 devs work on Polaris Alice O'Connor : After ten years at RPS, Alice returned to the sea in April 2024. View comments (84) In this article Cyberpunk 2077 PS4 , PS5 , Xbox One , Xbox Series X/S , PC Follow Related topics CD Projekt RED E3 2019 Hack the planet! RPG Rock Paper Shotgun is better when you sign in Sign in and join us on our journey to discover strange and compelling PC games. Sign in with Google Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Twitter Sign in with Reddit Sign in with email Latest On Cyberpunk 2077 Should you bother with... path tracing? DLSS 3: how it works, how it performs, and when you should use it Supporters only: Object-ive Review: Cyberpunk 2077's scanner Show less, randomise more: a Cyberpunk 2077 designer on how to stop open worlds feeling exhausting I turned my PC off during the "don't switch off" symbol in five different games to see what would happen and boy was this an annoying experiment The best RPGs on PC You'll soon be able to play GOG games away from your PC through Amazon Luna Cyberpunk 2077 sequel taps Fable, Control and Dishonored expansion writer Latest News Splitgate 2 is almost ready for you try it out, as the Portal with actual guns shooter sets a date for its open beta Who knows if Stardew Valley is finished, but the dev behind it is "committed to not working" on it until Haunted Chocolatier is done Respawn reportedly lay off staff across Apex Legends and Star Wars Jedi teams, cancel two incubation projects Splinter Cell lives... in the form of Steam achievements for the 12 year old Blacklist Lush "pure stealth" metroidvania The Siege And The Sandfox launches in May Devolver Digital reveals Mycopunk, a FPS where you're a robot nobody wants trying to not get killed by fungus Borderlands 4 gets an earlier release date, as accidentally revealed by Randy Pitchford Latest Guides NYT Connections hint (Wed, 30 Apr) Wordle hint and answer today #1411 (April 30 2025) Oblivion Remastered: How to get Azura's Star Oblivion Remastered: How to get Skeleton Key NYT Connections hint (Tue, 29 Apr) Wordle hint and answer #1410 (April 29 2025) Oblivion Remastered: Nirnroot locations Top Discussions No, Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 wasn't "made" by 30 people 196 The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion Remastered review 79 Dark mode comes to Rock Paper Shotgun 61 Elder Scrolls 4 Oblivion's level scaling was a "mistake", says designer, so why is it in the remaster? 53 Baldur's Gate 3 devs Larian discuss making two new games at once: "in practice, we will probably be miserable" 31 Russia threatens to seize World Of Tanks studio's assets, accusing executives of "extremism" 22 Oblivion reigns over PC games this week, but there is still time for football, space cats and ghastly mansions 15 © 2025 Rock Paper Shotgun, an IGN Entertainment, Inc. brand. 18 Mansell Street Level 3, London, E1 8AA, United Kingdom. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission. Rock Paper Shotgun is a registered trademark of Gamer Network Limited, an affiliate of IGN Entertainment, Inc. Theme Auto Light Dark Helpful Links About Us Advertise with us Archive Authors Contact Us Corporate Site Interactive Maps Newsletters RSS Feeds Policies Accessibility Policy AdChoices Code of Conduct Cookie Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Review Policy Terms & Conditions Gamer Network Dicebreaker Digital Foundry Eurogamer GamesIndustry.biz Nintendo Life Pure Xbox Push Square Time Extension VG247