Emmanuel Macron's campaign hacked on eve of French election | French presidential election 2017 | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us World Europe US Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Emmanuel Macron’s team said false documents had been ‘leaked’ alongside genuine ones. Photograph: Jose A Torres/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Emmanuel Macron’s team said false documents had been ‘leaked’ alongside genuine ones. Photograph: Jose A Torres/AFP/Getty Images French presidential election 2017 This article is more than 7 years old Emmanuel Macron's campaign hacked on eve of French election This article is more than 7 years old En Marche! movement says posting of huge email leak online ‘clearly amounts to democratic destabilisation as was seen in the US’ Kim Willsher and Jon Henley Sat 6 May 2017 04.48 EDT First published on Fri 5 May 2017 19.00 EDT Share The French presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron has been targeted by a “massive and coordinated” hacking attack, according to his campaign team, hours before voters go to the polls. Macron, who opinion polls suggest should win Sunday’s vote by 60% to his rival Marine Le Pen’s 40%, was unable to respond to the alleged attack due to a ban on electioneering in the run-up to the opening of polling stations. Tens of thousands of internal emails and other documents, some said to be false, were released online overnight on Friday as the midnight deadline to halt campaigning passed. Obama backs Macron in last-minute intervention in French election Read more Macron’s En Marche! team said it was a clear attempt to destabilise the election. Faced with the “gravity of the situation” it would be taking all steps to throw light on who was behind the “unusual operation”. Macron announced two days ago that he was taking legal action after Le Pen made a remark implying he had an offshore bank account in the Bahamas. On Saturday morning, France’s presidential electoral authority, the CNCCEP, asked the media to avoid publishing information from the leaked documents and reminded them of their responsibilities given the seriousness of the election. “The publishing of false information falls under the law, particularly criminal law,” it wrote. Neither candidate could comment on the hacking because of the ban on communications and polls before polling stations open at 8am on Sunday. Who is Emmanuel Macron? The 39-year-old was raised in Picardy, studied philosophy and was briefly a rising star in the the civil service before joining Rothschild as an investment banker. He served François Hollande first as senior adviser then as economy minister, before resigning and launching his campaign. Macron defines himself as an energetic outsider, 'of the left' and progressive on social issues, but economically liberal and pro-business. His youthful movement En Marche! (Let’s Go!) draws thousands to its rallies. Opponents say his crusade to reinvent the political system is presumptuous and have criticised his deliberately flexible approach to policy. Read our profile Article L49 of the electoral code states it is illegal to “broadcast to the public by any means of electronic communication anything that could be considered electoral propaganda” or for anyone to “bring to public attention any new element of electoral argument at a time when the target has no possibility to provide a useful response before the end of the election campaign”. Around 9GB of data was posted by a user called EMLEAKS to the document-sharing site Pastebin that allows anonymous posting. It was not immediately clear who was responsible. En Marche! confirmed the hack, saying it had been the “victim of a massive and coordinated hack … which has given rise to the diffusion on social media of various internal information”. The documents were posted as #MacronLeaks on social networks in the .eml format and linked to Pastebin. Le Monde reported that the first documents were relayed via the 4chan forum, which it said was favoured by far-right American groups and on English-language, pro-Trump Twitter accounts. They were then relayed to WikiLeaks. ‘Marseille is cut in two’: France’s election identity crisis Guardian The En Marche! statement said the data consisted of “diverse documents, such as emails, accounting documents and contracts” hacked several weeks ago from the personal and professional accounts of some of the movement’s staffers. “Coming in the final hours of the campaign, this operation clearly amounts to democratic destabilisation as was seen in the United States,” it said, adding that En Marche! had “consistently been targeted by such initiatives” throughout the campaign. It said “many false documents” had been added to genuine stolen documents on social media “in order to sow doubt and disinformation” as part of an operation “clearly intended to harm the movement”. The authentic documents were all lawful, however, and “reflected the normal functioning of an election campaign”, the statement said. Their publication “does not alarm us as to the prospect of any questions being raised about their legality”. The WikiLeaks website posted a Twitter link to the cache of documents, saying it “contains many tens of thousands (of) emails, photos, attachments up to April 24, 2017”. It indicated it was not responsible for the leak itself. A French interior ministry official declined to comment, citing French rules barring any remarks liable to influence an election. The ban remains in place until all polling stations have closed at 8pm on Sunday. Five opinion polls published on Friday forecast that Macron would win the election with a share of 62-63%, comfortably defeating his National Front rival in France’s most turbulent and potentially significant presidential race in decades. Le Pen, Putin, Trump: a disturbing axis, or just a mutual admiration society? Read more A top official from Front National, Florian Philippot, asked on Twitter whether the leaked documents “would reveal anything that investigative journalism had kept quiet”. Macron’s team has previously blamed Russian interests for repeated attempts to hack its systems during the campaign, saying on 26 April it had been the target of unsuccessful attempts to steal email credentials since January. The Kremlin has denied any involvement. During a visit by Le Pen to Moscow in March, Vladimir Putin said Russia had no intention of meddling in the elections , but analysts said the meeting implicitly signalled support for Front National. En Marche! banned certain Russian media from campaign events. Trend Micro, a cybersecurity firm, said last month that a hacking group, believed to be part of a Russian intelligence unit, was targeting Macron and his campaign team, adding that it appeared to be the same Fancy Bear group behind the hacking of Democratic campaign officials before last year’s US presidential election. Explore more on these topics French presidential election 2017 Emmanuel Macron Marine Le Pen France Europe Hacking Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story French presidential election 2017: first round results in charts and maps 24 Apr 2017 French prime minister's novels put attitude to women in spotlight 19 May 2017 Secret plans to 'protect' France in the event of Le Pen victory emerge 18 May 2017 Ex-bullfighter and maths genius among candidates standing for Macron 11 May 2017 Putin calls for end of 'mutual mistrust' after Macron's victory in France – as it happened 8 May 2017 Macron hackers linked to Russian-affiliated group behind US attack 8 May 2017 Front National plans overhaul after defeat but faces internal resistance 8 May 2017 UK can expect Macron to be tough on Brexit, key adviser warns 8 May 2017 Newspaper front pages react to Macron victory – in pictures 8 May 2017 Emmanuel Macron vows unity after winning French presidential election 8 May 2017 Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)