NBA Draft 2021 presented by State Farm to take place on July 29 | NBA.com Navigation Toggle Home Tickets Key Dates 2025 Playoffs Schedule 2024-25 Regular Season League Pass Schedule 2024-25 NBA CrunchTime VR Schedule National TV Games Featured NBA TV Bracket Latest News Series Schedule Play-In Tournament Home Top Stories NBA Awards Draft Features Events Key Dates Transactions Future Starts Now History More Stats Home Dunk Score Players Teams Leaders Stats 101 Cume Stats Lineups Tool Media Central Game Stats Draft Quick Links Contact Us Atlantic Boston Celtics Brooklyn Nets New York Knicks Philadelphia 76ers Toronto Raptors Central Chicago Bulls Cleveland Cavaliers Detroit Pistons Indiana Pacers Milwaukee Bucks Southeast Atlanta Hawks Charlotte Hornets Miami Heat Orlando Magic Washington Wizards Northwest Denver Nuggets Minnesota Timberwolves Oklahoma City Thunder Portland Trail Blazers Utah Jazz Pacific Golden State Warriors LA Clippers Los Angeles Lakers Phoenix Suns Sacramento Kings Southwest Dallas Mavericks Houston Rockets Memphis Grizzlies New Orleans Pelicans San Antonio Spurs Players Home 2024-25 Audio Pronunciation Guide Player Stats Starting Lineups Free Agent Tracker Transactions Home Full Court Guess Rank IQ Player Path Trivia Hoop Connect Fantasy Home Bracket Challenge NBA Pick'Em Play Yahoo Fantasy Play Sorare NBA FantasyPros Tools FanDuel DFS Draft Kings DFS NBA Bet Home Authorized Gaming Operators NBA Store Jerseys Men Women Kids Custom Shop Hardwood Classics Hats Footwear Auctions NBA Game Worn NYC Store NBA Photo Store NBATickets.com Official Tickets by Ticketmaster NBA Experiences NBA G League WNBA NBA 2K League Basketball Africa League Playoffs Draft League Pass Games Schedule Watch News Stats Standings Teams Players NBA Play NBA Bet Fantasy Store Tickets Affiliates 2021 NBA Draft Home Draft Board Prospects Teams All Picks: 1-60 Trade Tracker News Video More Tickets 2021 Draft: By The Numbers Consensus Mock Draft Draft Lottery Results Early Entry Candidates Draft Combine Bleacher Report Draft News Draft Process Key Dates Draft History Every Pick: 1947-2020 2021 NBA Draft NBA Draft 2021 presented by State Farm to take place on July 29 The Draft Lottery will be held on June 22; The Draft Combine will be June 21-27. Official release March 29, 2021 7:58 PM The 2021 NBA Draft Lottery will be on June 22. The NBA Draft will be on July 29. NEW YORK — The NBA announced today that NBA Draft 2021 presented by State Farm® will take place on Thursday, July 29, beginning at 8 p.m. ET. The first round will be televised by ESPN and ABC, and the second round will air on ESPN. The NBA also announced additional key dates relating to NBA Draft 2021 presented by State Farm®: > NBA Draft Combine: Subject to evolving public health conditions, Microsoft Surface NBA Draft Combine 2021 is scheduled to take place Monday, June 21 through Sunday, June 27. ESPN networks plan to televise the NBA Draft Combine, with coverage featuring five-on-five games and strength and agility testing. > NBA Draft Lottery: NBA Draft Lottery 2021 presented by State Farm® will take place on Tuesday, June 22, airing on ESPN at 8:30 p.m. ET. > NBA Early Entry Application and Withdrawal Deadlines: The deadline for an early entry player to apply for this year’s NBA Draft is Sunday, May 30 at 11:59 p.m. ET. The deadline for an early entry player to withdraw from the NBA Draft is Monday, July 19 at 5 p.m. ET. Additional information regarding the Draft, Combine and Lottery, including the location for each event, will be announced as details are finalized. Related What to know about 2025 SoFi NBA Play-In Tournament The SoFi NBA Play-In Tournament features the Nos. 7-10 teams in each conference battling for the 7th and 8th playoff seeds. Key stats for 5 teams that made upgrades Now that the trade deadline dust has settled, take a deep dive into the numbers that matter for five teams in flux. 10 takeaways from flurry of deadline deals With the trade deadline in the rearview mirror, it's time for a look at the early returns. Power Rankings, Week 15: Jazz climb to No. 1 See where all 30 teams rank after a busy week of player movement across the league. Related What to know about 2025 SoFi NBA Play-In Tournament The SoFi NBA Play-In Tournament features the Nos. 7-10 teams in each conference battling for the 7th and 8th playoff seeds. Key stats for 5 teams that made upgrades Now that the trade deadline dust has settled, take a deep dive into the numbers that matter for five teams in flux. 10 takeaways from flurry of deadline deals With the trade deadline in the rearview mirror, it's time for a look at the early returns. Power Rankings, Week 15: Jazz climb to No. 1 See where all 30 teams rank after a busy week of player movement across the league. Latest Series preview: Pacers try to slow top-seeded Cavs Both Cleveland and Indiana boast deep rosters that deliver in the clutch, which should make for a competitive semifinals clash. Spurs' Castle named '24-25 Rookie of the Year San Antonio is 1st team with back-to-back winners since Timberwolves in 2014-15 (Andrew Wiggins) & 2015-16 (Karl-Anthony Towns). Nightly Pulse: NBA news & highlights from April 29 Stay in the know on today's NBA Playoff action with the latest news, scores and highlights from around the league. Can LeBron, Luka spark rally from 3-1 deficit? The Lakers hope to escape a 3-1 series deficit vs. the Wolves and will need their star duo to lead the way. The Athletic: Van Gundy's impact on LA's defense Veteran coach Jeff Van Gundy has played a major role in helping LA rise up the defensive ranks. ESPN averaging largest NBA playoffs audience ever ESPN platforms are averaging over 4 million viewers per game, up 13% from last year. NBA Organization NBA ID NBA Official NBA Careers NBA Fan Code of Conduct NBA Initiatives NBA Total Health NBA Cares Jr. NBA / Jr. WNBA NBA Foundation Social Justice Coalition Across The League NBA Communications Lockervision NBA Transactions Shop Global Stores NYC Store NBA Auctions NBA Photostore Subscriptions League Pass Customer Support