Google Pixel 5a launch date and specs revealed in new leak | Mashable Tech Science Life Social Good Entertainment Deals Shopping Games Search Cancel Tech Apps & Software Artificial Intelligence Cybersecurity Cryptocurrency Mobile Smart Home Social Media Tech Industry Transportation All Tech Science Space Climate Change Environment All Science Life Digital Culture Family & Parenting Health & Wellness Sex, Dating & Relationships Sleep Careers Mental Health All Life Social Good Activism Gender LGBTQ Racial Justice Sustainability Politics All Social Good Entertainment Games Movies Podcasts TV Shows Watch Guides All Entertainment SHOP THE BEST Laptops Budget Laptops Dating Apps Sexting Apps Hookup Apps VPNs Robot Vaccuums Robot Vaccum & Mop Headphones Speakers Kindles Gift Guides Mashable Choice Mashable Selects All Sex, Dating & Relationships All Laptops All Headphones All Robot Vacuums All VPN All Shopping Games Product Reviews Adult Friend Finder Bumble Premium Tinder Platinum Kindle Paperwhite PS5 vs PS5 Slim All Reviews All Shopping Deals Newsletters VIDEOS Mashable Shows All Videos Home > Tech > Mobile Google Pixel 5a launch date and specs revealed in new leak It's gonna have a big battery. By Stan Schroeder Stan Schroeder Senior Editor Stan is a Senior Editor at Mashable, where he has worked since 2007. He's got more battery-powered gadgets and band t-shirts than you. He writes about the next groundbreaking thing. Typically, this is a phone, a coin, or a car. His ultimate goal is to know something about everything. Read Full Bio on August 16, 2021 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Flipboard Google Pixel 5a 5G, previously leaked as a render (shown here) has now been (partially) photographed in the flesh. Credit: onleaks/voice It's been a long wait, but Google's Pixel 5a 5G is finally coming. Probably. According to Android Police , who has obtained some new information and photographs of various parts of the device, the Pixel 5a 5G will be launched really, really soon: on Tuesday, August 17. We've sort of known what the device will look like since February, thanks to some renders produced by leaker Steve Hemmerstoffer . In a nutshell, it looks pretty much exactly the same as the Pixel 4a 5G , and the photos obtained by Android Police confirm the design. The Pixel 5a 5G will have a dual rear camera and a fingerprint scanner on the back, and it will be roughly the same size as its predecessor, the Pixel 4a 5G, with a 6.2-inch OLED display on the front. Mashable Light Speed Want more out-of-this world tech, space and science stories? Sign up for Mashable's weekly Light Speed newsletter. Loading... Sign Me Up By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Thanks for signing up! The new pics also reveal an important specification: The phone will come with a massive 4,680mAh battery, larger than we've seen in any Pixel phone so far. SEE ALSO: 5 things we know about Google's new Pixel 6 and 6 Pro About that launch date: Android Police say notes that, while their source says the phone will launch on Aug. 17, previous rumors indicate an Aug. 26 release in stores. As for the price, rumors say the phone will retail for $450. The Pixel 5a 5G should not be confused with Google's upcoming Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro , which will have an entirely new design and will come with Google silicon inside. They will launch sometime this fall. Stan Schroeder Senior Editor Stan is a Senior Editor at Mashable, where he has worked since 2007. He's got more battery-powered gadgets and band t-shirts than you. He writes about the next groundbreaking thing. Typically, this is a phone, a coin, or a car. His ultimate goal is to know something about everything. Recommended For You Google Pixel 9a announced: Specs, price, release date, preorder details A brand new "budget" Pixel phone is here. And it's packed with power. 03/19/2025 By Matt Binder Amazon deal of the day: Upgrade to the Google Pixel 9 Pro and save $250 You can also slash up to 33% off the Sony ULT Field 1, Fire HD 10 Kids, Google Pixel tablet, and Fire TV Stick 4K Max. 03/19/2025 By Christina Buff Google's Pixel 9a finally gets a release date Pixel users don't have to wait much longer for the Pixel 9a. 03/28/2025 By Matt Binder Google Pixel 9a video leak reveals plastic build Affordability comes with cuts. 02/25/2025 By Chance Townsend Google Pixel 9a vs Pixel 9: What are the differences? Which should you buy? 03/19/2025 By Matt Binder More in Tech Chop, blend, and mix all in one device with Ninja. And did we mention it's on sale? Saving you time — and kitchen space. 14 hours ago By Samantha Mangino It's official: Prime Day returns in July 2025, tariffs and all We don't have specific dates yet, though we wouldn't be surprised if Prime Day is longer this year. 14 hours ago By Leah Stodart Our favorite Dyson Airwrap dupe is on sale for 20% off Your at-home blowouts are about to get a whole lot easier. 15 hours ago By Samantha Mangino Save on beatuy tech, skincare, and more during Amazon's Summer Beauty Event Save on everything from dermatologist-approved sunscreens to celebrity-loved concealers. 04/28/2025 By Tabitha Britt Walmart+ members get ready — Walmart+ Week is live through May 4 Get extra savings on your everyday purchases. 04/28/2025 By Samantha Mangino Trending on Mashable NYT Connections hints today: Clues, answers for April 29, 2025 Everything you need to solve 'Connections' #688 20 hours ago By Mashable Team NYT Connections hints today: Clues, answers for April 30, 2025 Everything you need to solve 'Connections' #689 3 hours ago By Mashable Team NYT Strands hints, answers for April 29 Every hint, nudge and outright answer you need to complete today's NYT Strands puzzle. 20 hours ago By Mashable Team Wordle today: Answer, hints for April 30, 2025 Here are some tips and tricks to help you find the answer to "Wordle" #1410. 3 hours ago By Mashable Team Wordle today: Answer, hints for April 29, 2025 Here are some tips and tricks to help you find the answer to "Wordle" #1409. 20 hours ago By Mashable Team The biggest stories of the day delivered to your inbox. Loading... Subscribe These newsletters may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. By clicking Subscribe, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Thanks for signing up. See you at your inbox! TECH Android Antivirus Apple Artificial Intelligence Cameras Creative Software Cryptocurrency Desktops Gaming Consoles Headphones Laptops Microsoft Mobile Productivity Smart Home Social Media Speakers Tablets Tech Industry TikTok Transportation TVs VPN Wifi/Routers SCIENCE Animals Climate Change Environment NASA Rocket Launches Space GAMES Arcade Card Casino Connections Daily Puzzles Strands Word Wordle SOCIAL GOOD DEALS How we Select Deals ENTERTAINMENT DC Comics Disney HBO Hulu Marvel Movies Music Peacock Pixar Podcasts Streaming TV Shows True Crime LIFE Careers Digital Culture Education Family & Parenting Health & Wellness House & Home Mental Health Sex, Dating & Relationships Sleep SHOP THE BEST All Beauty All Earbuds All Kitchen All Robot Vacuums Bluetooth Speakers Budget Laptops Dating Apps E-Readers Gift Guides Headphones Hookup Apps iPads Kindles Laptops Mashable Choice Mashable Selects Speakers Sexting Apps Macbooks Robot Vaccuums Robot Vaccum & Mop VPNs Windows Laptops REVIEWS Adult Friend Finder Bumble Premium Kindle Paperwhite PS5 vs PS5 Slim Tinder Platinum EVENTS Black Friday CES Cyber Monday Prime Day Samsung Galaxy Unpacked WWDC VIDEOS About Mashable Editorial Standards Contact Us We're Hiring Newsletters Sitemap ©2005–2025 Mashable, Inc., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. Mashable is a registered trademark of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without express written permission. About Ziff Davis Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise Accessibility Do Not Sell My Personal Information AdChoices