The LEGO Group sees sales and profits increase while using more sustainable materials – Blocks – the monthly LEGO magazine for fans Skip to content About Contact Meet the Team Subscribe to Blocks, the monthly LEGO magazine Facebook Twitter Instagram Blocks – the monthly LEGO magazine for fans The ultimate LEGO magazine for fans. Providing inspiration, techniques and going behind-the-scenes with LEGO experts. Subscribe Buy magazines Shop Digital Issues Institutional Subscriptions News and Features LEGO review index Account LEGO.com Menu 0 Open a search box Close a search box Search for: Search The LEGO Group sees sales and profits increase while using more sustainable materials on August 28, 2024 August 30, 2024 by Graham Leave a comment The LEGO Group has seen a strong start to the year, with product sales increasing significantly and profits returning to the level they were at two years ago, despite the company continuing to invest in new factories and sustainability initiatives. Today, the LEGO Group announced the company’s performance for the first half of 2024. The company’s revenue increased by 13% to DKK 31 billion (£3.5 billion) compared with DKK 27.4 billion £3 billion). “We are very pleased with our strong performance in the first half. We delivered double-digit growth on the top- and bottom-line and made significant progress on increasing the amount of sustainable materials used in our products,” said CEO Niels B. Christiansen. “Our portfolio continues to be relevant for all ages and interests, and this is driving significant demand across markets. We used our solid financial foundation to further increase spending on strategic initiatives which will support growth now and in the future to enable us to bring learning through play to even more children.” In the wider toy industry, sales declined by 1%, but for the LEGO Group, sales increased by 14%. That means that of all the toys sold in the first half of 2024, more of them were LEGO products. “So far this year, our top performing themes have been a mix of homegrown and licensed themes, including LEGO Icons , LEGO Star Wars , LEGO City, Lego Technic and LEGO Harry Potter ,” Niels said in his presentation for the media. “The LEGO Botanical Collection proved very, very popular. We’re maximizing creativity in our portfolio, around half of which is actually new every year. And that’s the same here in the first half. In the first half, we actually launched 297 new sets, proving the endless possibilities of the LEGO System in Play, and of course, the ongoing creativity of our designers.” Operating profit increased 26% compared to the same period last year, to DKK 8.1 billion (£914 million). That is higher than in 2021, when the company saw sales increase dramatically as people were kept at home due to restrictions in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Net profit grew 16 percent to DKK 6.0 billion (£677 million) compared with DKK 5.1 billion (£575 million) in the first half of 2023. The LEGO Group is continuing to invest as the company seeks sustainable growth. Over the past few years, the digital infrastructure has been expanded and improved to support the ever-growing organisation. Upgrade your LEGO hobby! If you take out a subscription to Blocks , the monthly LEGO magazine, you’ll get each issue first and at a discount, plus other perks including a free digital subscription and the chance to win LEGO prizes every month. As part of the company’s digital offering, the LEGO Group owns a stake in Epic Games, the developer and distributor of Fortnite . LEGO Fortnite launched last year and sets inspired by Fortnite games are launching in October. “We continue to expand the LEGO play experiences on Fortnite with the launch of LEGO Islands and a series of kid and family friendly experiences,” said Niels. “We will bridge digital and physical play with the release now on the first LEGO Fortnite sets here in October of this year. Since LEGO Fortnite launched in November last year, it has engaged over 83 million players.” Investments in physical factories and distribution centres continue too, with facilities in Vietnam and Virginia, USA under construction and factories in Mexico, Hungary and China expanding. Niels also highlighted that the cost of using more expensive sustainable materials is not being passed on to consumers. “We’re committed to making products from renewable and recycled materials by 2032 and we have tested over the last year more than 600 materials, with some success. “In the first half, we made significant and meaningful progress with mass balance, continuing to increase the amount of resin we purchased under the certified mass balance principle to now 30%. This means that an estimate of 22% of the materials that have gone into producing LEGO bricks in the first half come from renewable and recycled sources, replacing virgin fossil or oil-based materials. So as we grew the business in the first half by 13% we actually purchased less virgin fossil based material, so we had to purchase less oil based materials despite growing by 13% – that’s a fantastic achievement and a real milestone on our journey towards 2032.” Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email About the author: Graham Graham is Blocks magazine’s Editor and author of LEGO Heroes: Lego Builders Changing the World – One Brick at a Time. A LEGO expert who can’t remember life without the brick, Graham loves using that knowledge to bring Blocks to the shelf every single month. View all posts by Graham Personal website Posted in: News Tagged: LEGO LEGO CITY LEGO Harry Potter LEGO Icons LEGO Star Wars LEGO Technic Post navigation Previous Entry: Free LEGO Star Wars posters when you subscribe to the LEGO magazine for fans Next Entry: Meet George Gilliatt and get LEGO Harry Potter 76437 The Burrow signed Related Leave a Reply Cancel reply Buy the mag Blocks, the monthly LEGO magazine, Issue 127 £ 8.40 Blocks, the monthly LEGO magazine, Issue 126 £ 8.40 LEGO Fabuland retro theme – limited edition poster £ 12.70 Blocks Book of Retro LEGO Sets Volume II – Special Edition Magazine £ 12.99 Blocks magazine 12 month subscription £ 64.90 Search for: Search tweets My Tweets Go to the top © Silverback Publishing Ltd Affiliate advertising appears on this website. When you purchase a product or service via selected links, Silverback Publishing will earn a small commission. As an Amazon Associate, Silverback Publishing Ltd earns from qualifying purchases. DISCLAIMER: LEGO,  The LEGO logo, the Brick and Knob configurations and the minifigure are trademarks of the LEGO group, which does not sponsor, authorise or endorse Blocks magazine. Shop About us Contact us Terms & Conditions Facebook Twitter Instagram Discover more from Blocks – the monthly LEGO magazine for fans Subscribe now to keep reading and get access to the full archive. Type your email… Subscribe Continue reading Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website