2022 College Football Awards: Our nod for the Doak Walker Award and Maxwell Award is... - Roll 'Bama Roll Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes mobile Roll 'Bama Roll homepage Horizontal - White Roll 'Bama Roll an Alabama Crimson Tide community Follow Roll 'Bama Roll online: Follow Roll 'Bama Roll on Twitter Follow Roll 'Bama Roll on Facebook Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search Roll 'Bama Roll main menu Fanposts Sections Betting Crimson Tide Shop About Masthead Community Guidelines More All 300 communities on Horizontal - White Fanposts Sections News Alabama Football Recruiting Softball Gymnastics Stats Full Archive Betting FanDuel College Football Odds FanDuel College Basketball Odds Alabama Football Odds Alabama Basketball Odds College Football Picks and Predictions College Basketball Picks and Predictions Crimson Tide Stories Schedule Roster Stats Yahoo Crimson Tide News Yahoo Crimson Tide Team Page Yahoo Crimson Tide Transactions Shop About Masthead Community Guidelines ✕ Filed under: 2022 College Football Awards: Our nod for the Doak Walker Award and Maxwell Award is... Alabama fans are very familiar with these awards By Erik Evans Dec  7, 2022,  8:29am CST / new Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share this on Reddit Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: 2022 College Football Awards: Our nod for the Doak Walker Award and Maxwell Award is... Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Continuing our ballots for the 2022 Postseason Awards (and, more importantly, why): SEC OPOTY, DPOTY, COTY Joe Moore Award (OL) and Outland Trophy (Interior Lineman) The Chuck Bednarik Defensive PotY Jim Thorpe (DB) and Fred Biletnikoff (WR) awards The Doak Walker Award Presented by SMU, the Doak Walker award is meant to “recognize the nation’s premier running back for his accomplishments on the field, achievement in the classroom and citizenship in the community.” DeWayne McBride, RB UAB I know what you’re saying: “UAB sucks,” or “It’s Conference USA!” To which I say, 1. UAB sucks, but it’s not McBride’s fault — he’s the only reason they’re bowl eligible, 2. yes, it’s CUSA, but that also means he has to try and get it done behind a CUSA offensive line, often against big boys in paycheck games, and 3. you would be hard-pressed to find a more consistent ‘back in all of college football. In CUSA play, McBride averaged 7.44 YPC; in out of conference games it was 7.11 YPC. Against teams with a winning record, he nailed down 7.27 with 10 touchdowns; against teams below .500, it was 7.43 with 9 touchdowns. Against ranked teams, he hit 5.47 — comparable to Blake Corum’s production vs. ranked teams. And, he actually had more rushing scores vs. Top 25 teams than did Blake Corum. All this culminated with McBride leading the nation in rushing, being third in the nation in YPC average among full-time starters, and finishing second in rushing TDs (In fact, he scored in 10 of the 11 games he played.) For the year, McBride netted 1713 total yards on 233 carries with 19 tuddies. He is a diamond in the rough that has a future at the next level, even if nothing more than a rotational back. Talent will out. Powerful. Shifty. Good feet. Secures the ball. Runs through tackles. Decent breakaway speed and good vision. He’s an absolute load. And, if he reminds you of anyone, he should: He is the poor man’s Trent Richardson. Runners-up: Blake Corum, Michigan Bijan Robinson, Texas Quinshon Judkins, Ole Miss Maxwell Award Winner Unlike the Heisman, which goes to the “most outstanding player” in the country, the Maxwell Award is a bit different — honoring “the best all-around in the United States.” As I take the “all-around” part here seriously, one-note specialists better be so good that they are practically able to walk on water, or they must do a lot more than just throw or catch. And, for that reason, our nominee for the Maxwell Award is... Caleb Williams, QB Southern Cal Last season, at OU, Caleb Williams came on in relief of Spencer Rattler, who was playing like utter cheeks. It turned their season around. When Lincoln Riley bolted for LA, he took Williams with him, and a 4-8 Trojans team that already had few problems scoring shot into the stratosphere — in yards, points, ball security, per-play efficiency, and in record. The Trojans finished the season 11-2, and P12 runner-up. And those two losses? 100% not on Williams — he dominated the Utes in both contests. In fact, in two games against Utah (pre-injury) he averaged 7 YPC the first meeting and 12 YPC in the second. He threw for 8 TDs and just 1 INT, 754 yards (10.3 YPA). USC lost, but he wasn’t the reason why. As a QB, Williams is: 6th in yards per game 5th in passer rating 6th in YPA 4th in total yards 5th in explosive pass plays Leads the nation in TDs thrown (37) to just 4 interceptions and has completed 66% of his passes for over 4000 yards Oh, he’s not done either. He’s also the third-leading rusher for the Trojans with 372 yards on the ground Added another 10 touchdowns, to lead all non-option QBs And he leads the country in yards from scrimmage and scoring. He’s the only reason the Trojans were even in the discussion, in other words. No matter how bad P12 defenses may be, Williams played his ass off. His production, and USC’s record, is a proximate reflection of that. And for that reason he is our nominee for “best all-around in the United States.” Elusive doesn’t even begin to describe his footwork. More From Roll 'Bama Roll Jumbo Package: Alabama focuses on adding tight end depth during the spring Jumbo Package: NFL Draft, transfer portal were good to Alabama Alabama Softball Sweeps Missouri Alabama Baseball Sweeps Missouri BREAKING: Alabama Crimson Tide NFL Undrafted Free Agent Tracker A Day Late & A Dollar Short Random 10 Most Read Jumbo Package: Alabama focuses on adding tight end depth during the spring Josh Cuevas is on top of the depth chart, but will Brody Dalton or Jack Sammarco surpass the others? Jumbo Package: NFL Draft, transfer portal were good to Alabama Your latest Crimson Tide news and notes. Alabama Softball Sweeps Missouri The Crimson Tide improve their stock. BREAKING: Alabama Crimson Tide NFL Undrafted Free Agent Tracker A few former Bama players get their shots at winning an NFL job as an UDFA. Alabama Baseball Sweeps Missouri The 18th ranked Crimson Tide swept the hapless Missouri Tigers in a three game series over the weekend. Bama improved to 35-10 overall and 12-9 in the SEC. The Tigers fell to 13-30 and 0-21 in conference play. Loading comments... Chorus FanPosts Masthead Community Guidelines Facebook Twitter YouTube Horizontal - White Contact Have a News Tip? Browse Blogs SB Nation Masthead Company Blog Blog Openings Editorial Ethics and Guidelines Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Cookie Settings Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER ( 1-800-426-2537 ). Hope is here. GamblingHelpLineMA.org or call (800) 327-5050 for 24/7 support (MA). Visit www.mdgamblinghelp.org (MD). Call 877-8HOPE-NY or text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call 1-888-789-7777 or visit ccpg.org/chat (CT) or visit FanDuel.com/RG . Share this story Twitter Facebook