The Godfather Coda: Review - The Mancunion Skip to main content News & Opinion News Opinion Investigations Features Science & Tech Sport Lifestyle Lifestyle Food & Drink Fashion & Beauty Culture Music Arts Books Theatre On Screen Film TV Games About Us MMG Mancunion Fuse FM Fuse TV News & Opinion News ‘Solidarity with Palestine’ Students’ Union motion face… Students’ Union holds Union Assembly to debate &#… MMU students set to pay £1,716 LESS a year than UoM stu… Features “There aren’t many outlets for undergrad wo… Sign Language Week: Celebrating community and culture i… How to shop sustainably: In conversation with Beg, Stea… Opinion Football and Capitalism: Is the trajectory of football… Reclaiming what was stolen: The revival of Gaeilge The return of Labour’s hostile environment Science & Tech The science behind procrastination Could oyster blood be the key to eternal life? Laptops: A misleading term that could be harming your h… Investigations University sees rise in reports of antisemitism during… UoM Israel debate was organised by controversial pro-Is… Reducing Welcome Week waste: Paperless freshers’… Sport Varsity Swimming 2025: MMU glides into victory Football and Capitalism: Is the trajectory of football… The Halcyon Age: Big wins and humbling losses for the U… Politics Green Parties in Europe: A close-knit group or a broad… The countdown to conflict: What’s next for Taiwan… Reform UK: A new force in Welsh politics Students occupy the Simon Building on University of Manchester campus Read more Lifestyle Lifestyle Year Abroad Diaries #5: Final year dread How to get good at running (and enjoy it!) Life as a humanities student. Why does my university experience seem so differe… Food & Drink A Review of Stockport’s First Vegan Food Festival Electric Shuffle’s £12 lunch deal is well worth the money Enjoy fresh fruit and veg at the SU eats farmer’s market for just £3 The art of solo dating The best British comedy podcasts right now Hangxiety: We’ve all been there Fashion & Beauty From Fallowfield to the front row: My first London Fashion Week experience Is faux fur the solution? or is it causing more problems? A revival of British fashion at LFW: Hector Maclean’s Bastard Aristocrat… Year Abroad Diaries #5: Final year dread 11th April 2025 With the year abroad drawing to a close, it is hard not to feel apprehensive about returning to Manchester Read more Culture Music ‘Pirouette’: Model/Actriz turn things up to… In Conversation with The Murder Capital: “No art… The Murder Capital and Cusk live in Leeds: Revelling in… Books Words on the dancefloor: The Read Room Ali Smith’s Gliff: Language, surveillance, and a… Unlocking Creativity with EAC soc Arts Where women are in revolt…the three minute scream… Review: Turner: In Light and Shade Experiencing Valentine’s Day in Manchester throug… Theatre UMDS Cliffs: An enjoyably sentimental MIFTA weaved from… New Leeds review: A compelling call for community in ou… “Love mix’d with fear is sweetest”: U… Competition Is For Losers, yet Rizzle Kicks stay winning 14th April 2025 Hip-hop duo Rizzle Kicks make their long-awaited return to Manchester's O2 Ritz Read more On Screen Film CULTPLEX’s screening of A Field in England + Q&am… Bridget Jones: Mad About the Boy review: Bridget is bac… A conversation: Debating our picks for the 2025 Oscars TV Adolescence: A haunting exploration of modern boyhood Saturday Night Live at 50: Nostalgia, new comedy, and t… Remembering David Lynch Games Bubble Ghost Remake review: An inventive update on a fo… Nubby’s Number Factory review: A chaotic, addicti… “Behold! A Paleblood sky!”: A Bloodborne re… Adolescence: A haunting exploration of modern boyhood 2nd April 2025 Adolescence is a gripping series that delves into the dark realities of modern boyhood, online radicalization, and the consequences of unchecked toxic masculinity Read more About Us Get Involved Home News On Screen Film The Godfather Coda: The Death of Michael Corleone review 9th April 2022 The Godfather Coda: The Death of Michael Corleone review By Morgan Roberts The Godfather Coda: The Death of Michael Corleone: is it that much worse than its predecessors? Find out here Categories: Film TLDR Article Summary If you are human, leave this field blank. Article Summary Bot Photo: Wes Candela @ 2008-2017 Wes Candela Photography LLC “The musical term coda is sort of like an epilogue, a summing up, and that’s what we intended the movie to be”. Francis Ford Coppola’s opening speech before The Godfather Coda (the newly titled and re-edited The Godfather III ) provides an interesting look into the mindset of the esteemed director as he justifies his re-entry back into the world of The Godfather . Having seen The Godfather and it’s (almost) equally extraordinary second entry, I was going into The Godfather Coda completely blind – at least to the extent that I was not aware of the plot. What I was aware of, was the reputation it holds in filmic history: a missed third step in a glittering franchise, one which had racked up countless awards, the first two entries considered to be amongst the very best that film has to offer. There seems to be a general consensus that The Godfather III just isn’t worth the watch, as not to taint the seemingly flawless impression left by its darling older brothers. So, how does The Godfather Coda actually hold up? I think it’s fair to say that it’s a mixed bag. There are many scenes in the film which evoke the same blend of unmistakable melodrama and style as the other films in the series, along with some truly excellent performances. Despite taking place 20 years after The Godfather II , Coda continues many of its central themes, with a strong emphasis on fatherhood and family, which form the emotional aspects of the story. I found some of the most engaging moments to revolve around the intertwining themes of guilt and religion, which contained the best expressions of a true ‘coda’. Michael Corleone, the patriarch, more rich and influential than ever, toils in his conscience over his reprehensible actions during his rise to power. The plot sees him making multi-million dollar deals with the shady head of the Vatican Bank, to negotiating his relationship with his estranged wife and children. The scenes between Michael and his wife Kay are some of the most affecting scenes in the whole trilogy, with Al Pacino and Diane Keaton giving brilliantly convincing performances as once infatuated lovers turned exhausted divorcees. Another highlight of the film for me was Andy Garcia, who plays the long dead Sonny Corleone’s illegitimate son Vincent Mancini. Garcia gives an assured and charismatic performance as wildcard Mancini, fizzing off the screen in every scene. He plays Mancini with a frenzy akin to a young Pacino, and a suaveness reminiscent of De Niro’s Vito Corleone, a truly accomplished performance. However, there are also a number of serious missteps which threaten to derail the film entirely, recut or not. The main narrative, whilst thoroughly engaging in parts, falls somewhat short, particularly during the meandering second act, which contains a couple of scenes which wouldn’t look out of place in a Scarface rip-off. Sofia Coppola, whilst now an excellent director, looks wildly out of her depth here, faring poorly against her famous co-stars. Her interactions with cousin and love interest Mancini are excruciating, made even harder to watch due to the distinct lack of chemistry between the two, which overshadows any attempt at developing their relationship past surface level. Considering her importance to the story, Coppola’s performance is a genuine drawback to the film. I’m sure I’m not alone in wondering what a superior actress (such as Winona Ryder, who dropped out last minute) could have added to the film. I also found the plot often lost its footing during the various scenes detailing the dealings between the business arm of the Corleones, the Mafia, and the Vatican. There is a distinct lack of direction in these scenes – perhaps the presence of franchise veteran Robert Duvall, who refused his part due to wage conflicts, may have helped to remedy this. Along with an unnecessarily overlong final sequence and a disappointingly anti-climatic last scene, The Godfather Coda is far from the triumphant send-off that many fans would have liked. The minor edits and four minutes shaved off the original cut clearly do little to ease some of the larger issues which have plagued the third entry since its release. However, despite Coda’s host of problems, I still feel as though it is more than worthy of a watch. Whilst the narrative is nowhere as strong as its predecessors, The Godfather Coda contains enough in the way of captivating performances, and operatic, theatrical set pieces, to earn its rightful place as a reasonably satisfying ‘coda’: one that acts as an unnecessary, but an ultimately entertaining footnote to two of the greatest films ever made. 3.5/5. Tags: al pacino classic film francis ford coppola Marlon Brando robert de niro the godfather Morgan Roberts More Coverage CULTPLEX’s screening of A Field in England + Q&A with Ben Wheatley For CULTPLEX’s CURSE film festival, Ben Wheatley’s ‘A Field in England’ was screened, followed by a Q&A with the film’s director Bridget Jones: Mad About the Boy review: Bridget is back and better than ever in latest romp Almost ten years since our last encounter with the English rose, Bridget Jones is now back in the London dating in a delightful flick that will make you laugh just as much as it will make you cry A conversation: Debating our picks for the 2025 Oscars Get your popcorn and your predictions at the ready, and join us to discuss our Oscars picks and drops. Conclave review: The most fun you could have with a papal election Edward Berger’s newest film, Conclave, out of nowhere turns voting for the next pope into a wildly entertaining thriller Popular Articles Who’s ‘packing’ in the primates? Sonny Angels: The art history behind your new best friend Competition Is For Losers, yet Rizzle Kicks stay winning The Dare live in Manchester: Indie-sleaze icon at risk of falling flat Home About Us Facebook Twitter Home About Us Facebook Listen Home About Us Facebook Watch Copyright © The Mancunion Powered By Spotlight Studios 0161 275 2930 University of Manchester’s Students’ Union, Oxford Rd, Manchester M13 9PR Home Complaints Cookie Policy Get Involved Facebook Twitter Email