Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/truezelda A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to truezelda r/truezelda r/truezelda The goal of this community is to provide a place for informative and interesting Zelda related content and discussions without all the extra fluff (images, video, fan art) from /r/Zelda. It's where any kind of self-post that helps generate more in-depth discussion goes. Discuss gameplay, story, tips, post the latest news, and anything else related to Zelda!  THIS IS NOT a subreddit to state that older zelda games were the "TRUE" form of Zelda games. Read more below. Members Online • Mido128 Breath of the Wild has sold over 20 million copies News According to the the latest earnings data released today, BotW has sold 18.6 million copies so far on the Switch . The most up-to-date data for Wii U, from December 2018 , shows 1.67 million copies were sold on that console. That's a combined total of 20.27 million copies, though the out of date Wii U data means it's probably just a little bit more than that. To put this in perspective, the second highest sales for a Zelda game is Ocarina of Time with over 13 million copies sold (N64 and 3DS combined, not counting eShop). OoT was originally released in 1998. BotW achieved its 20 million sales in just over 3 years, proving the popularity of this title and the Switch. BotW is truly shaping up to be the second "OoT", in both popularity and critical reception. What remains to be seen is whether it will have the same influence, as the basis for future Zelda games, as OoT was before it. Given its popularity, I'd say it's a given that Nintendo will continue to build upon the formula set out in BotW. Even many fans of the game, like myself, can't wait to see how Nintendo builds, and improves, on this new foundation. Also, just like OoT, BotW has created many, many new Zelda fans. I'm just guessing here, but I think this subreddit has more than doubled in subscribers, since I first joined in 2016. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of August 6, 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of August 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2020 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics