Illumination Boss Chris Meledandri To Join Nintendo Board Of Directors Skip to main content Open Mega Menu Got A Tip? deadline-logo-svg Deadline Follow Us: site categories TV Film Awards Awards Hub Digital Issues Box Office Biz International Politics Theater Reviews Obits Video Events Contenders Television: Docs+Unscripted+Variety Television Film: Nominees Film: Documentary Film: International Film: Los Angeles Film: London Sound & Screen Film Television Other For The Love Of Docs Visual Effects + Screen Festivals North America Sundance Toronto Telluride SXSW Tribeca Europe Cannes Zurich Venice Berlin/EFM Middle East Red Sea Asia Tokyo Insider News Alerts Menu deadline-logo-svg Deadline Read Next: Netflix Adding Alfred Hitchcock’s ‘The Birds’, ‘Rear Window’, ‘Vertigo’ & More, Sets Screening Series In NYC Got A Tip? Tip Us Dismiss News Banner Breaking News Horror Is All The ROI Rage For Small & Midsize Movies In 2024’s Most Valuable Blockbuster Tournament Read the full story Home Film Executives Illumination Boss Chris Meledandri Nominated To Join Nintendo Board Of Directors By Anthony D'Alessandro Anthony D'Alessandro Editorial Director/Box Office Editor @AwardsTony More Stories By Anthony Smaller Movies, Big Profit: Horror Is All The ROI Rage In 2024’s Most Valuable Blockbuster Tournament Magnolia Pictures Acquires Sundance Documentary ‘Folktales’ About Arctic Norwegian Teens & Their Sled Dogs ‘Thunderbolts*’ Looks To Create Lightning And Fire Up Summer Box Office With $175M Global Opening – Preview View All May 7, 2021 10:55am Services to share this page. Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Email Show more sharing options Share on LinkedIn Pin it Submit to Reddit Post to Tumblr Share on WhatsApp Print This Page Illumination; AP Chris Meledandri , founder and CEO of Illumination, has been nominated to join Nintendo as an Outside Director. The animation studio and the world’s leading video game company are currently teaming on the anticipated upcoming Super Mario Bros. feature film. Nintendo recently made the announcement in their fiscal year-end March 2021 report, and plans to name Meledandri as Outside Director at the video game company’s 81st annual general meeting of shareholders in June. “We would like to nominate him as a new Outside Director with the expectation that he will appropriately supervise our companyʼs management from an objective perspective, while providing valuable advice to our organization, based on his broad experience and insight gained as a leader in the field of entertainment,” read the Nintendo report. Related Stories News Illumination Founder Chris Meledandri Mourns The End Of Blue Sky Studios And Celebrates Its Origins - Guest Column News Writers Guild Of America West Staff Union Wins Voluntarily Recognition, Moves To Negotiate First Contract “Our current group of Outside Directors consists of experts such as lawyers and accountants, and as members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee, they contribute to enriching the audit and supervisory system of our company through their broad insight into our corporate management. However, Mr. Meledandri is expected to be nominated as an Outside Director who will not serve as a member of the Audit and Supervisory Committee,” the report continued. Watch on Deadline Meledandri is responsible for two out of the three highest-grossing franchises worldwide: Despicable Me ($3.7 billion in worldwide box office across four movies) and Ice Age ($3.2 billion across five movies). In 2020, Illumination’s Despicable Me was reportedly the most watched film on Netflix, and Illumination’s Dr. Seuss’ The Grinch and Dr. Seuss’ The Lorax were the second and ninth most watched films on the streamer, respectively. Minions is the fourth highest-grossing animated pic worldwide with $1.159 billion, while Despicable Me 2 was nominated for two Oscars including Best Animated Feature in 2014. The long-anticipated next installment of the series, Minions: The Rise of Gru, will open theatrically on July 1, 2022. Sing 2 , voiced by Bono from U2, Pharrell Williams, Halsey, Letitia Wright, Bobby Cannavale, Chelsea Peretti, Eric Andre, Matthew McConaughey, Reese Witherspoon, Scarlett Johansson, Tori Kell, Taron Egerton and Nick Kroll, will hit theaters via Universal on December 22. Illumination’s canon also includes 2011’s Hop , 2012’s Dr. Seuss’ The Lorax , 2016’s The Secret Life of Pets and Sing , 2018’s Dr. Seuss’ The Grinch and 2019’s The Secret Life of Pets 2 , all of which have grossed $6.7B worldwide. Prior to Illumination, Meledandri was a senior executive at 20th Century Fox. He became the founding president of 20th Century Fox Animation, where he created the Ice Age franchise. Nintendo reported that its year-on-year operating profit surged 82% to $5.9 billion, with net sales of $16.1 billion up 34.4%. Must Read Stories Hide Articles Onyx Preps ‘Desperate Housewives’ Offshoot Via Kerry Washington & Natalie Chaidez Bleecker Street Media Founder & CEO Andrew Karpen Dies Of Cancer At 59 Donald Trump Tussles With Terry Moran During ABC News Interview ‘Thunderbolts*’ Looks To Fire Up The Summer With $175M Global Bow: Preview Read More About: Animation Breaking News Chris Meledandri Illumination Entertainment Nintendo Comments Subscribe to Deadline Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Sign Up No Comments JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Sidebar Trending on Deadline 1 "Frankly, I Never Heard Of You": A Testy Donald Trump Tussles With Terry Moran During Contentious ABC News Interview Marking POTUS' First 100 Days 2 Disney & Marvel Don't Want To Play Nicepool With Justin Baldoni Over 'Deadpool' In Blake Lively Battle 3 Louis Theroux On Returning To The West Bank After 15 Years For BBC Doc 'The Settlers' & Being "Perpetrator Focused" -- Guest Column 4 'Thunderbolts*' Looks To Create Lightning And Fire Up Summer Box Office With $175M Global Opening - Preview 5 Final Autopsy Reports Confirm Cause Of Death For Gene Hackman & His Wife Betsy Arakawa 6 CBS Pushes New Matthew Gray Gubler Series 'Einstein' To 2026-27 Season 7 'The King Of Kings' Surpasses 'Parasite' To Become Top-Grossing Korean Film In The U.S. 8 'Desperate Housewives' Offshoot 'Wisteria Lane' In Works At Onyx From Kerry Washington & Natalie Chaidez 9 Smaller Movies, Big Profit: Horror Is All The ROI Rage In 2024's Most Valuable Blockbuster Tournament 10 Michael Fishman On 'The Conners' Series Finale Absence: "Thankful For The Gift Of Grief" deadline-logo-svg Deadline Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Latest Film News Jenna Ortega Says She Wants To Direct A Script She's Been Working On For 10 Years: "I'm Just Putting The Puzzle Pieces Together In My Head" Wow! Emmy-Winning World Of Wonder Founders Fenton Bailey And Randy Barbato To Be Guests Of Honor At Sheffield DocFest Arnold Schwarzenegger To Receive Legacy Award From South East European Film Festival In Los Angeles Netflix Adding Alfred Hitchcock's 'The Birds', 'Rear Window', 'Vertigo' & More, Sets Screening Series In NYC Marketplace Newswire Deadline About Us Advertise Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility AdChoices California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Sitemap TV Film Awards Box Office Business International Connect with Us Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks Have a Tip? We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Send Us a Tip Stay in the Know Sign up for our breaking news alerts Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. PMC Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Site Close the menu deadline-logo-svg TV Expand the sub-menu Castings Ratings Late-Night Primetime Pilot Panic Film Expand the sub-menu Festivals Reviews Castings Acquisitions Documentary Awards Expand the sub-menu Awards Hub Emmys Oscars Tonys Box Office Expand the sub-menu International B.O. Specialty B.O. Broadway B.O. Business Expand the sub-menu Politics Legal Executives Agencies International Expand the sub-menu Festivals Film TV International Insider Video Expand the sub-menu Trailers The Actor's Side Behind The Lens The Process More Expand the sub-menu Obituaries Theater Music Podcasts Insider Follow Us Alerts & Newsletters Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertise About Us Give us feedback Leave us a tip Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. ad