Tesla (TSLA) releases Q3 earnings: surprisingly large profit, miss on revenue | Electrek Skip to main content Toggle main menu Electrek Logo Go to the Electrek home page Switch site 9to5Mac Logo 9to5Mac 9to5Google Logo 9to5Google 9to5Toys Drone DJ Logo DroneDJ Space Explored About Privacy Toggle social menu Toggle dark mode Search for: Submit Toggle search form Exclusives Autos Electric Vehicle Price Guide – best prices for dealers in the US Tesla Ford GM BMW Jaguar VW Daimler/Mercedes Hyundai Nissan Toyota Alt. Transport Ebikes Electric Motorcycles Bus Hyperloop Autonomy Tesla Autopilot Cruise Automation Uber Waymo Energy Green Energy Climate Tesla Shop Store Toggle dark mode Feature Tesla TSLA - Tesla Stock Price Tesla (TSLA) releases Q3 earnings: surprisingly large profit, miss on revenue Fred Lambert | Oct 23 2019 - 4:57 pm PT 0 Comments Tesla has released its financial results and shareholders letter for the third quarter of 2019 after market close today. We are updating this post with all the details from the financial results, shareholders letter, and the conference call later tonight. As we reported in our Q3 earnings preview post earlier today, Wall Street was expecting revenue of about $6.517 billion for the quarter and a loss of $0.15 per share. Tesla announced that it made $6,3 billion in revenue and it reported surprising profits of $1.91 per share (Non-GAAP) – just below expectation for revenue and way over expectations for earnings. Advertisement - scroll for more content Revenue is down year-over-year for the first time in a while. Tesla explains: “Compared to Q3 of 2018, the percentage of leased vehicles has tripled and alone has impacted revenue by the majority of the YoY decrease. Model 3 mix has increased while we have taken actions leading to the reduction of the ASP of our products. These ASP reductions are particularly impacted by the launch of the Standard Range trims of Model 3 and pricing actions earlier in the year. They still managed to deliver a profit, to the surprise of many, due to significantly improved The automaker explained in its shareholders letter: “GAAP Automotive gross margin improved by 393bp QoQ to 22.8% (improved by 366bp QoQ excluding regulatory credits). Margin was impacted in part due to fundamental improvements in our operating efficiency, including higher fixed cost absorption, reductions in manufacturing and material costs and continued improvements in vehicle quality and in part due to Smart Summon-related deferred revenue recognition, FX and other non-recurring items. Improved gross profit combined with a decline in operating expenses resulted in material improvement of GAAP net income.” The stock was up more than 17% in aftermarket trading when Tesla reported the beat. Here we will be posting our follow-up posts about the earnings and conference call to expand on the most important points (refresh the page to see the most recent posts): Tesla announces Model Y production is ahead of timeline, now aims for Summer 2020 Tesla releases pictures of Model 3 production in Gigafactory 3 Tesla updates Autopilot safety numbers; almost 9x safer than average driving Tesla Semi electric truck production to start ‘with limited volumes’ in 2020 Elon Musk: Tesla electric ‘Cybertruck’ pickup is our best product ever Here’s Tesla’s Q2 2019 shareholder letter in full: [scribd id=431759774 key=key-ubCvvegYPajDryruU5uY mode=scroll] Add Electrek to your Google News feed. FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More. Stay up to date with the latest content by subscribing to Electrek on Google News .  You’re reading Electrek— experts who break news about Tesla , electric vehicles, and green energy , day after day. Be sure to check out our homepage for all the latest news, and follow Electrek on Twitter , Facebook , and LinkedIn to stay in the loop. Don’t know where to start? Check out our YouTube channel for the latest reviews. Featured from Electrek Electrek Logo EV sales are surging in Europe, except for Tesla Fred Lambert Apr 24 2025 Tesla (TSLA) begins to shy away from growth guidance after terrible quarter Fred Lambert Apr 22 2025 InMotion launches new 28 MPH electric unicycle with air suspension Micah Toll Apr 24 2025 Fast charging just got sleeker: Delta’s 50kW Wallbox launches in US Michelle Lewis Apr 23 2025 Subscribe to Electrek on YouTube for exclusive videos and subscribe to the podcast . Comments Expand Close comments Guides Tesla Tesla is a transportation and energy company. It… TSLA stock Author Fred Lambert fredericlambert Fred is the Editor in Chief and Main Writer at Electrek. You can send tips on Twitter (DMs open) or via email: fred@9to5mac.com Through Zalkon.com, you can check out Fred’s portfolio and get monthly green stock investment ideas. Fred Lambert's favorite gear Combat Edge Get an edge on MMA with the best stats EnergySage EnergySage helps you get the best price possible on a home solar installation for free and without hassel.