Titanic director James Cameron addresses Titan submarine loss ​ Skip to content Entertainment Weekly Search Please fill out this field. Newsletters Sweepstakes Search Please fill out this field. TV TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge Binge EW's Binge Podcast Episodes The Challenge The Golden Bachelor The Masked Singer RuPaul's Drag Race Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowstone Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us TV TV Reviews TV Reunions TV Recaps Comedy Crime Drama Family Horror Reality Sci-Fi Thriller Movies Movie Reviews Trailers Film Festivals Movie Reunions Movie Previews Music Music Reviews Music Festivals What To Watch TV Reviews Movie Reviews Binge 9-1-1 The Masked Singer Outlander RuPaul's Drag Race Saturday Night Live Survivor Virgin River The Voice Yellowjackets Celebrity The Awardist The Awardist Podcast Episodes Golden Globes Grammys Emmys SAG Awards Tony Awards Oscars Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Reality Rewind Issue Top Stories 1 Why Terrence Howard turned down Marvin Gaye biopic 2 'Wuthering Heights' casting director defends Margot Robbie, Jacob Elordi choices 3 'Havoc' ending explained 4 'Harry Potter' cast: Then and now James Cameron addresses Titan submersible tragedy: 'Struck by the similarity of the Titanic disaster' The Titanic director called the apparent loss of the OceanGate craft and the five people on board "astonishing" and "really quite surreal." By Oliver Gettell Oliver Gettell Senior news editor, EW.com EW's editorial guidelines Updated on June 22, 2023 05:56PM EDT James Cameron directing the 2005 documentary 'Aliens of the Deep'. Credit: Everett Collection James Cameron , the Oscar-winning Titanic director and deep-sea exploration enthusiast, is weighing in on the apparent loss of the Titan submersible and the five people aboard after a days-long rescue effort that captured worldwide attention. Speaking to ABC News , Cameron noted that experts had voiced concerns about the OceanGate craft in the past, and he likened the presumed implosion of the submersible to the Titanic catastrophe itself. "Many people in the community were very concerned about this sub," he said, "and a number of the top players in the deep-submergence engineering community even wrote letters to the company saying that what they were doing was too experimental to carry passengers, and it needed to be certified, and so on." Cameron, who has made more than 30 dives to the Titanic wreck site, added that he was "struck by the similarity of the Titanic disaster itself, where the captain was repeatedly warned about ice ahead of his ship and yet he steamed at full speed into an ice field on a moonless night, and many people died as a result. And for a very similar tragedy where warnings went unheeded to take place at the same exact site — with all the diving that's going on all around the world — I think is just astonishing. It's really quite surreal." As a submersible designer himself — he helped create the Deepsea Challenger and in 2012 piloted it to the deepest part of the Earth's ocean — Cameron said he's familiar with the challenges of underwater exploration and the importance of rigorous testing and safety precautions. "It is absolutely critical for people to really get the take-home message from this, from our effort here, is [that] deep-submersible diving is a mature art," he said. "The safety record is the gold standard, absolutely — not only no fatalities, but no major incidents." He added, "Of course [what happened with the Titan is] the nightmare that we've all lived with. Since all of us entered this field of deep exploration, we live with it in the back of our minds." The Titan submersible lost contact with its mother ship Sunday, more than halfway into a planned dive to the wreckage of the Titanic. A massive search ensued, but hopes dimmed early Thursday when the U.S. Coast Guard announced that a debris field had been found near the site. OceanGate Expeditions said in a statement that the pilot and four passengers were believed to "have sadly been lost." "These men were true explorers who shared a distinct spirit of adventure, and a deep passion for exploring and protecting the world's oceans," the company added. "We grieve the loss of life and joy they brought to everyone they knew." Related content: King Princess, descendant of couple who died on the Titanic, addresses lost submersible The View 's Joy Behar compares 'stupidity' of missing submarine scandal to Titanic disaster Missing submersible victim's stepson slams Cardi B as 'complete bitch' after she criticized him Close Read more: Movies Related Articles First Avatar: Fire and Ash footage shows off Na'vi Wind Traders and Ash People at CinemaCon Tom Cruise makes new friends, dangles from a plane in Mission: Impossible — The Final Reckoning trailer Rob Reiner explains why he didn't want James Caan's feet cut off in Misery Marlon Wayans demands sacrifice in terrifying trailer for Jordan Peele-produced sports horror film Him Wuthering Heights casting director defends Margot Robbie, Jacob Elordi choices amid backlash: 'It's just a book' For Ryan Coogler, that 'Sinners' post-credits scene is the key to the entire movie I Know What You Did Last Summer director breaks down trailer, says Sarah Michelle Gellar isn't coming back: 'I harassed her!' Adria Arjona says filming first Star Wars rape scene in Andor was the 'acting Olympics' Ben Affleck looks back at working with Matt Damon and Kevin Costner on Field of Dreams The Accountant 2 director teases Anna Kendrick's return for a third film: 'She wants to do it' On Swift Horses director says Daisy Edgar-Jones' bond with Jacob Elordi 'transcends sexuality' The Virgin Suicides cast 25 years later: See the stars of Sofia Coppola's girlhood classic, then and now American Psycho casting director thinks Austin Butler is too beautiful to play Patrick Bateman Havoc director Gareth Evans breaks down those 2 epic action scenes: 'I've never taken on a sequence of that scale' Daisy Edgar-Jones and On Swift Horses director explain that 'ride into the sunrise' ending Weapons first look: Barbarian director makes his 'horror epic' with Julia Garner and Josh Brolin (exclusive) Entertainment Weekly Newsletters Follow Us TV Movies Music What To Watch Binge Celebrity The Awardist Books Theater About Us Terms of Service Subscribe Advertise Careers Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Entertainment Weekly is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies