Jed Whedon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Career 2 Awards 3 Personal life 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Jed Whedon 15 languages Català Čeština Deutsch Español فارسی Français 한국어 Italiano مصرى 日本語 Português Русский Suomi ไทย Türkçe Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia American screenwriter and musician This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification . Please help by adding reliable sources . Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libelous . Find sources: "Jed Whedon" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( October 2009 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Jed Whedon Whedon in 2014 Born Jed Tucker Whedon ( 1975-07-18 ) July 18, 1975 (age 49) Occupation(s) Writer, musician Spouse Maurissa Tancharoen ​ ( m. 2009) ​ Children 1 Father Tom Whedon Relatives John Whedon (grandfather) Zack Whedon (brother) Joss Whedon (half-brother) Kevin Tancharoen (brother-in-law) Jed Tucker Whedon (born July 18, 1975) is an American screenwriter and musician, and the son of screenwriter Tom Whedon , grandson of screenwriter John Whedon , and the brother of screenwriter Zack Whedon and of filmmaker Joss Whedon . Career [ edit ] Jed Whedon (middle back) with other cast and crew for Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog Alongside his brothers Joss and Zack and his then fiancée Maurissa Tancharoen , he co-created and co-wrote the musical Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog as well as playing almost every instrumental part. It was the subject of a salute by The Paley Center for Media [ 1 ] and won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Special Class – Short-format Live-Action Entertainment Programs. [ 2 ] Prior to Dr. Horrible , Whedon composed scores for video games, and was a member of his now-defunct Los Angeles–based band The Southland .  In 2010, he released an album entitled History of Forgotten Things under the band name "Jed Whedon and the Willing". Assisting him on the album were his wife Maurissa Tancharoen and their mutual friend Felicia Day , The Southland's guitarist and co-songwriter Nicholas Gusikoff and bassist Ethan Phillips, Jed's longtime friends Amir Yaghmai and Beau Barbour, and Jed's brothers Zack and Sam. With Felicia Day, he composed the music to the song " (Do You Wanna Date My) Avatar " and music and lyrics for I'm the one that's cool for the web series The Guild , the videos for which he also directed. [ 3 ] He and his wife, Maurissa, were staff writers on Dollhouse , the Fox series created by his older brother Joss, prior to its cancellation. They then joined the staffs of Spartacus: Blood and Sand , co-created by former Mutant Enemy writer Steven S. DeKnight , and Drop Dead Diva . In 2012, he released an EP with his wife Maurissa titled This Girl , which includes the track "Remains", written in 2009 for the TV show Dollhouse's season one finale, "Epitaph". Assisting on the album are Felicia Day singing backing vocals on "Second Nature" and "Mr. Electric" and Sam Whedon playing guitar on "Dangerous". In contrast to most of Jed's other music, lyrics are credited to Maurissa first on this record. The following year, both he and his wife sang on Joss' original score for his movie Much Ado About Nothing. Whedon worked with his wife Maurissa and brother Joss on The Avengers . [ 4 ] He and Maurissa worked as showrunners, producers, and writers for the ABC show Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. from 2013 to 2020. In 2016, his band, Jed Whedon and the Willing, released their second studio album, an EP titled Like Snow with assistance from longtime musical collaborators Amir Yaghmai and Zack Whedon. Awards [ edit ] For his work on Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog , Whedon won two Streamy Awards for Best Writing for a Comedy Web Series and Best Original Music for a Web Series. [ 5 ] Personal life [ edit ] On April 19, 2009, he married fellow screenwriter Maurissa Tancharoen . [ 6 ] The couple had a daughter in 2015. [ 7 ] References [ edit ] ^ "Dr. Horrible's Sing-Alog Blog" . PaleyFest . Archived from the original on February 21, 2009. ^ "2009 Emmy Winners" . Los Angeles Times . ^ "Love Dr. Horrible? Check out Felicia Day's Avatar" . SciFi Wire . August 17, 2009. Archived from the original on January 7, 2010 . Retrieved August 21, 2009 . ^ "The Purple" . Archived from the original on February 19, 2020 . Retrieved October 20, 2023 . ^ "1st Annual Streamy Award Nominees & Winners" . Retrieved January 7, 2013 . ^ Official Dr. Horrible Twitter updates: Maurissa and Jed are getting married in less than 48 hours Maurissa Tancharoen Whedon ^ "Happy Birthday, Benny Sue!! It's great to be TWO! Lots of love to @motancharoen, @misterkarate and Tommy & Minnie.Thanks for the invite. And the sun came out to play too.#birthdaygirl" . Archived from the original on December 24, 2021. External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Jed Whedon . Jed Whedon at IMDb v t e Joss Whedon Filmography Unrealized projects Television Buffy the Vampire Slayer Angel Firefly Dollhouse Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. The Nevers Films Written Buffy the Vampire Slayer Toy Story Alien Resurrection Titan A.E. Atlantis: The Lost Empire The Cabin in the Woods In Your Eyes Justice League production Directed Serenity The Avengers Much Ado About Nothing Avengers: Age of Ultron Comics Written Fray Tales of the Slayers Tales of the Vampires Serenity Those Left Behind Better Days Buffy the Vampire Slayer Season 8 Season 9 Season 10 Season 12: The Reckoning Angel After the Fall Astonishing X-Men Runaways Sugarshock! Created Abigail Brand Armor Blindfold Danger Kavita Rao Klara Prast Ord Tildie Soames Web Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog Family John Whedon (grandfather) Tom Whedon (father) Jed Whedon (brother) Zack Whedon (brother) Maurissa Tancharoen (sister-in-law) Related Bellwether Pictures Mutant Enemy Productions Whedonesque.com Whedonverse (comics) Authority control databases International ISNI VIAF WorldCat National Germany United States France BnF data Artists MusicBrainz Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Jed_Whedon&oldid=1277725944 " Categories : 1974 births 21st-century American singers American male screenwriters American male television writers American television writers American showrunners American rock singers American television producers Hugo Award–winning writers Living people Whedon family Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use mdy dates from March 2014 BLP articles lacking sources from October 2009 All BLP articles lacking sources Articles with hCards Commons category link from Wikidata Place of birth missing (living people) This page was last edited on 26 February 2025, at 10:15 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Jed Whedon 15 languages Add topic