The Last of Us' initial season two episode written, strike impact uncertain on 2025 release | Eurogamer.net Skip to main content 2025 Release Schedule Oblivion Remastered Tips Oblivion Thieves Guild Oblivion Best Class Oblivion Vampirism Volleyball Legends codes Supporters only Deals Buy eShop codes Go Support us Sign in / Create account Latest PC PlayStation Xbox Nintendo Digital Foundry News Reviews Videos Features Guides If you click on a link and make a purchase we may receive a small commission. Read our editorial policy . Home News The Last of Us' initial season two episode written, strike impact uncertain on 2025 release But it's not all fungal and games. News by Victoria Kennedy News Reporter Published on July 17, 2023 17 comments Follow The Last of Us The first episode of the second season of The Last of Us has been written. Showrunner and series co-creator Craig Mazin confirmed work on the second season of the Emmy-nominated adaptation had begun, although production was halted due to the ongoing writers strike. Please note, some points below could be considered spoilers for The Last of Us (both TV series and games). The Last of Us | Official Trailer | Max A little teaser for The Last of Us, season one. Watch on YouTube "We know what the whole season is, and I was actually able to get a write and submit the first episode right before the deadline hit," Mazin told Deadline . "So now I'm just walking around kind of brain-writing, I guess, which I don't think is scabbing. I take walks and I think through the scenes because when the bell rings and this is over because the companies have finally come to their senses, I'm going to have to basically shoot myself out of a cannon because we really want to try and get this show on the air when it's supposed to be on the air." In addition, Mazin stated that The Last of Us Part 2 writer Halley Gross has joined the team for the show's second season. "Neil and I had been sitting and talking with Halley Gross, who also worked on the second game as a writer, and Bo Shim, the new writer that was in our little tiny room with us, - obviously not a mini room because we're greenlit the proper, we're a real show, and because I hate that mini room stuff," Mazin told the publication. Halley Gross co-wrote The Last of Us Part 2 with Neil Druckmann. Image via GamerBraves . While the showrunner is still hopeful the second season of The Last of Us will make its original 2025 release, he said the strikes could mean the studio has to push its timeframe back. "That hurts us, and it hurts the audience, and it hurts HBO," Mazin said. "We all, everybody wants to get back to work; I think everybody that's actually doing the work, including the network people who are with us on the ground, I think everybody just wants to get this solved. So fingers crossed," he continued. As for what season two will entail, Mazin affirmed it will not cover all of the events from the second game. "There's more story, so this show will not end with Season two unless people don't watch it and we'll get cancelled," he said. The team will still remain faithful to its source material, with Mazin saying certain aspects will be "exactly the way they were in the game". However, and as with season one, the team will also use its own creative ideas to develop upon Naughty Dog 's story. "We're going to do other things that are in the game and we're gonna do some things that are in the game but we're gonna do them differently in our own method. No matter if you have played the game or not. You will be surprised as the season unfolds. We have some interesting twists and turns." The Last of Us Part 2 introduced new characters, such as Abby. Image Naughty Dog. Additionally, Mazin has not ruled out characters from season one returning for season two, even if their fate in the first season was rather final. "There's always a chance for everything," he stated."With us you never know, and we obviously don't confine ourselves by timelines. People who are dead sometimes reappear and sometimes we meet people that we didn't even know and then we find out that they are somebody." (This made me think of that "Dina" Easter egg the showrunners neither confirmed or denied). However, Mazin has ruled out another Bill and Frank episode, saying the team doesn't want to "milk" it. "When we do something that we think is beautiful, we let it be as it is and find other beautiful things to do," Mazin said. Murray Bartlett as Frank and Nick Offerman as Bill. Image HBO. Meanwhile, and as previously reported, season two of The Last of Us will have more infected than the first season, with Deadline suggesting "viewers who flocked to the series with no affinity for horror or video games, may have to close their eyes a few more times next season". Mazin added "there will be moments, just like there were in the first season, where the infected are very present." The bloater is season one made quite an impact. Image HBO. As for The Last of Us games, last week composer Gustavo Santaolalla suggested that a new version of Part 2 is on the horizon . In addition, The Last of Us Part 3 rumours began making rounds again earlier this month, with reports suggesting "major filming" for the series' next instalment could begin as soon as this year. Read this next The Last of Us TV show renewed for season three, and the second hasn't even aired yet PSA: The Last of Us Part 2 Remastered's new 2.0 update is reportedly wiping character upgrades The Last of Us Part 2 game director has no problem with PC mods, even if that means Shrek Ellie Victoria Kennedy : Joining Eurogamer in 2022, Victoria is a baby-faced old soul with a penchant for Pimm's, pancakes and pirates, but not all at the same time 🥞 actually, maybe all at the same time... View comments (17) In this article The Last of Us PS3 Follow The Last of Us Part I PS5 , PC Follow See 1 more The Last of Us Part II PS4 Follow Related topics Action Adventure Naughty Dog PC PS3 PS4 PS5 Shooter Sony Computer Entertainment Sony Computer Entertainment Europe Eurogamer is better when you sign in Join our community of gamers and get access to personalised reading recommendations and much more! Sign in with Google Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Twitter Sign in with Reddit Sign in with email Latest News EA reportedly lays off over 300 staff, cancels new Titanfall game The Sims 4's latest DLC brings kitchen clutter, workshop tinkering, and fashion for the elderly Borderlands 4 release date moves forward, perhaps because 2K knows exactly when GTA 6 is coming out Chinese dark fantasy Wuchang: Fallen Feathers release date announced DK Rap composer explains why Nintendo didn't credit him in the Super Mario Bros. Movie Yennefer voice artist doesn't yet know if she's back for The Witcher 4 A Minecraft Movie is leaning into the memes with sing-along screenings Latest Guides How to get Daedric Armor in Oblivion Remastered How to get the Skeleton Key in Oblivion Remastered Oblivion Remastered Luck explained Best weapons in Oblivion Remastered and where to find them Abra 100% perfect IV stats, shiny Abra in Pokémon Go How to join the Fighters Guild in Oblivion Remastered All Chapel locations in Oblivion Remastered Top Discussions As Days Gone gets its PS5 remaster, it's only right that it gets a critical reevaluation too 102 Dark mode comes to Eurogamer 92 Bethesda asks The Elder Scrolls fans to suggest Oblivion Remastered improvements, with difficulty scaling among top ideas 55 Baldur's Gate 3 boss says studio didn't do DLC because it was the "boring" option 44 Elden Ring sales pass 30m 43 Far Cry 4 gets surprise PS5 patch adding 60fps support 37 The Last of Us season 2 episode three speaks loudest in its quietest moments 32 © 2025 Eurogamer.net  a brand of IGN Entertainment, Inc. All rights reserved. 18 Mansell Street Level 3, London, E1 8AA, United Kingdom. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission. Eurogamer is a registered trademark of Gamer Network Limited. Theme Auto Light Dark Helpful Links About Us Advertise with us Archive Authors Contact Us Corporate Site Interactive Maps Newsletters RSS Feeds Policies Accessibility Policy AdChoices Code of Conduct Cookie Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Review Policy Terms & Conditions Gamer Network Dicebreaker Digital Foundry GamesIndustry.biz Nintendo Life Pure Xbox Push Square Rock Paper Shotgun Time Extension VG247 Across Europe Eurogamer.de Eurogamer.es Eurogamer.pl Eurogamer.pt