2020 NBA draft date: NBA draft will take place on Oct. 15, draft lottery will take place on Aug. 25 (report) - masslive.com Skip to Article Set weather Back To Main Menu Close Quick Look - Change your current location » Current - Mostly Sunny Tonight Low - Mostly Sunny Tomorrow High - Mostly Sunny View full weather report Celtics 2020 NBA draft date: NBA draft will take place on Oct. 15, draft lottery will take place on Aug. 25 (report) Updated: Jun. 04, 2020, 3:01 p.m. | Published: Jun. 04, 2020, 2:43 p.m. Boston Celtics 2019 basketball draft players show off their jerseys at a news conference, Monday, June 24, 2019, in Boston. From left are Carsen Edwards, Grant Williams, Romeo Langford and Tremont Waters. (AP Photo/Elise Amendola) AP By Tom Westerholm | twesterh@masslive.com The NBA draft and draft lottery have officially been moved back, according to ESPN’s Adrian Wojnarowski . The lottery will take place on Aug. 25 amid the playoffs, which will now be played at Disney World in Orlando. The draft itself, meanwhile, will happen on Oct. 15, just three days after the latest Finals game could be played. Previously, the draft was scheduled for later this month. But when it became clear the NBA was coming back, having the draft in June was no longer a possibility. An important part of the draft is the ability to make trades and roster moves, and if the season was still going, teams in the postseason would not be able to deal their own players. The Boston Celtics will likely have three first-round draft picks: Their own, the Memphis Grizzlies’ first-round pick (protected 1-6) and the Milwaukee Bucks’ selection, which will almost certainly be the final pick of the first round. The Celtics were gifted a bit of a favor by the new format: The Grizzlies are currently the eighth seed in the Western Conference, but they face a couple of tough tests from the New Orleans Pelicans and Portland Trail Blazers as the season winds down. If those teams catch them, the pick could end up in the lottery. If an unlikely scenario unfolds where the Grizzlies fall out of the postseason and jump up into the top four, Boston’s pick becomes unprotected next season in a much stronger draft (although the Grizzlies’ young core would be a year older and even more advanced). The rest of the offseason schedule, some of which is tentative, was reported by the Athletic’s Shams Charania . Per Charania, free agency will open on Oct. 18, just three days after the draft. Charania also reported that Nov. 10 is the target date for training camps and Dec. 1 would be opening night. The NBA’s plan for returning to action includes 22 teams , including the 16 teams currently in the playoff picture, as well as five teams from the Western Conference and the Washington Wizards from the East. The league’s Board of Governor’s voted 29-1 to approve the plan on Thursday. “The Board’s approval of the restart format is a necessary step toward resuming the NBA season,” NBA commissioner Adam Silver said in a statement. “While the COVID-19 pandemic presents formidable challenges, we are hopeful of finishing the season in a safe and responsible manner based on strict protocols now being finalized with public health officials and medical experts. We also recognize that as we prepare to resume play, our society is reeling from recent tragedies of racial violence and injustice, and we will continue to work closely with our teams and players to use our collective resources and influence to address these issues in very real and concrete ways.” If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Footer Navigation Contact Us Contact MassLive Contact The Republican Subscriptions MassLive.com Newsletters Breaking news push alerts The Republican E-edition Login Subscriptions and Circulation MassLive Media About MassLive Media Advertise with us Sponsor Content Accessibility Statement Follow Us Facebook Worcester Facebook Red Sox Facebook Patriots Facebook Bruins Facebook Twitter YouTube HS Sports Twitter Sports Twitter Instagram HS Sports Instagram RSS MassLive.com Sections News Sports Entertainment Politics Opinion High School Sports Betting Living Real Estate Obituaries Classifieds Autos Jobs More on MassLive.com Careers at MassLive Archives Community rules The Republican Archives The Republican Special Sections Place an ad Your Privacy Choices Privacy Policy | User Agreement | Ad Choices Disclaimer Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement , (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our Privacy Policy , and Your Privacy Choices and Rights (updated 1/1/2025). © 2025 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here . Ad Choices