Wimbledon 2024 men’s singles final result: Carlos Alcaraz retains his title with a straight sets triumph over seven-time champion Novak Djokovic on Centre Court Videos Results For You Football Rugby MotoGP All Sports Tennis Wimbledon Calendar - Results Men's Singles Women's Singles Men's Doubles Women's Doubles Mixed Doubles Previous winners Sign In Home Videos Results For You Popular Sports Football Football Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Premier League UEFA Champions League FA Cup All Competitions Rugby Rugby Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Gallagher Premiership Premiership Women’s Rugby Six Nations All Competitions MotoGP MotoGP Home Clips and Highlights Calendar Standings Cycling Cycling Home Clips and Highlights Results Race calendar All Competitions Snooker Snooker Home Clips and Highlights Results World Ranking World Championship UK Championship Masters UFC UFC Home Clips and Highlights Calendar and Events Rankings Boxing Boxing Home Clips and Highlights Boxing on TNT Sports Box Office All Sports Show All Alpine Skiing Alpine Skiing Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings World Championship Athletics Athletics Home Fixtures - Results Diamond League World Championships World Athletics Indoor Championships Tokyo 2020 Marathon All Competitions Baseball Basketball Basketball Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results NBA All Leagues Biathlon Biathlon Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings IBU World Championships Boxing Boxing Home Clips and Highlights Boxing on TNT Sports Box Office BSB BSB Home Calendar Standings Climbing Cricket Cricket Home Clips and Highlights Cricket on TNT Sports Cross-Country Skiing Cross-Country Skiing Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings World Championship Cycling Cycling Home Clips and Highlights Results Race calendar All Competitions Cyclo-Cross Cyclo-Cross Home Fixtures - Results Esports F1 F1 Home Race calendar Standings Football Football Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Premier League UEFA Champions League FA Cup All Competitions Formula E Formula E Home Calendar Rankings Fanboost Golf Golf Home Calendar - Results PGA Tour DP World Tour Ryder Cup All Competitions MotoGP MotoGP Home Clips and Highlights Calendar Standings Motorsports Motorsports Home Calendar - Results Speedway GP F1 MotoGP Superbikes All Sports Mountain Bike Mountain Bike Home Results Rankings Teams NBA NBA Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Standings Olympics Olympics Home Video Rugby Rugby Home Clips and Highlights Fixtures - Results Gallagher Premiership Premiership Women’s Rugby Six Nations All Competitions Sailing Sailing Home Calendar - Results Ski Jumping Ski Jumping Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Standings Women's standings Snooker Snooker Home Clips and Highlights Results World Ranking World Championship UK Championship Masters Speedway GP Speedway GP Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Standings Superbikes Superbikes Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Table Tennis Tennis Home Clips and Highlights Calendar - Results Australian Open Roland-Garros Wimbledon US Open All Competitions Track Cycling Triathlon Triathlon Home Fixtures - Results PTO Tour UCI Track CL UCI Track CL Home Fixtures - Results Calendar Men's standings Women's standings UFC UFC Home Clips and Highlights Calendar and Events Rankings WEC WEC Home Fixtures - Results Calendar WEC Table Winter Sports Winter Sports Home Fixtures - Results All Sports WRC WRC Home Calendar Standings Welcome to TNT Sports TNT Sports is the new home of Eurosport bringing together all the same great content in one place Wimbledon 2024 men’s singles final result: Carlos Alcaraz retains his title with a straight sets triumph over seven-time champion Novak Djokovic on Centre Court C. Alcaraz vs N. Djokovic | Wimbledon Men's Singles | Final | 14.07.2024 | Centre Court Completed C. Alcaraz (3) N. Djokovic (2) 6 6 7 7 2 2 6 4 Summary Live Stats Rankings News Related matches Related Videos Live Live Updates By Paul Hassall Updated 14/07/2024 at 17:01 GMT+1 All Highlights 17:01 FULL REPORT: ALCARAZ DOWNS DJOKOVIC AGAIN TO RETAIN CROWN Carlos Alcaraz beat Novak Djokovic in straight sets to retain his Wimbledon crown and win a fourth Grand Slam. Read our report below. Wimbledon men 'I'm repeating my dream' - Alcaraz dominates Djokovic to defend Wimbledon crown 15/07/2024 at 08:13 17.00 THE 2024 CHAMPION CARLOS ALCARAZ ADDRESSES CENTRE COURT Carlos says it is a dream for him. He recalls saying it as a kid and loves that he has realised that childhood hope of winning Wimbledon (again). He describes Wimbledon as the most beautiful tournament, court and trophy. He discusses blowing the three match points and says Djokovic is an unbelievable fighter. He admits it was a difficult moment but tried to stay calm and play his best tennis in the tie break. He was glad he found solutions in the end. He doesn't consider himself as a champion in the same way as Djokovic (Federer and Nadal) - yet - but wants to keep building his path and his journey. He praises Novak for his rapid recovery to reach the final and touches upon the England-Spain Euros final, joking that he's done his job, over to La Roja now. 16:52 RUNNER-UP NOVAK DJOKOVIC REACTS TO HIS RUN AT SW19 THIS YEAR It's worth remembering Djoker only had knee surgery three weeks prior to the commencement of the tournament. To even play at the All-England Club is impressive but to reach the final is rather incredible really.... Nole says it's not the result he wanted and that the first couple of sets were not up to par from his perspective. However, he credits Carlos for playing 'complete tennis.' He says he tried to push him by saving the three match points but it was not meant to be. He admits the Spaniard is a deserved winner today. He discusses his recovery from the knee injury and while the result is raw now he will be proud of playing in a 10th final and for his efforts to get back on court so quickly. 16:43 16:42 ALCARAZ STATS Alcaraz (21y 70d) is the third-youngest player in the Open Era to win the Men’s Singles title at Wimbledon in back-to-back editions, after Becker (18y 227d, 1985-86) and Borg (21y 26d, 1976-77). Only Rod Laver (19) has registered more wins from his first 20 matches in Men’s Singles at Wimbledon than Carlos Alcaraz (18/20) during the Open Era. Alcaraz is the youngest player to win all his first six seasonal matches against top-5 player in the ATP since the ATP Rankings were published in 1973. 16:40 NOT BAD CARLITOS, NOT BAD AT ALL! 16:37 GAME, SET AND MATCH! - DJOKOVIC 2-6 2-6 6-7 ALCARAZ Carlos Alcaraz is a Wimbledon champion once again. The Spaniard successfully defends his title, once again downing the 24-time major winner, Djokovic in a repeat of last year’s final. Carlitos somehow recovered from blowing three match points at 5-4 to seal it on his fourth MP by a 7-4 scoreline in the breaker in what was a high-class two hours and 27 minutes. It is the No.3 seed’s second title in SW19 and his fourth major overall, following on from the French Open he won in Paris last month. Image credit: Getty Images 16:32 TIE-BREAK LATEST: DJOKOVIC 3-3 ALCARAZ Alcaraz rolls a very make-able pass into the tramlines to miss a huge early chance but gets on the board with a bullet 1-2 punch down the middle. Djokovic arrows what is usually a trademark backhand into the net and is the first to cough up a mini break when Alcaraz sizzles a forehand down the line. A clutch serve re-focuses the 24-time major winner and he’s level at the change of ends as Alcaraz skews a backhand wide. 16:28 DJOKOVIC 2-6 2-6 6-6 ALCARAZ Credit to Carlos Alcaraz. The youngster’s head could be all over the place, but he finds the plus-one off the forehand and another clutch serve to do the heavy lifting. An impish drop volley is simply too good and has Nole applauding its genius before the Serb returns long to close the game to love. It’s the perfect lift for Carlitos heading into the breaker. 16:25 16:24 DJOKOVIC 2-6 2-6 6-5 ALCARAZ From serving for the title to serving to stay in it. Alcaraz can’t bite straight back as Nole holds to 15 to crank up more pressure on the 21-year-old. 16:22 BREAK! - DJOKOVIC 2-6 2-6 5-5 ALCARAZ It’s a disaster for Alcaraz. The Spaniard has thrown away three match points and butchers another error into the net to allow Novak to break back. The final was almost over. Can the defending champion reset his mind to avoid going into a fourth set? 16:21 ON WE GO! - ALCARAZ HAS BLOWN THREE MATCH POINTS DEUCE! - The Spaniard has the title on his racquet but drills a drive volley wide... BREAK POINT - IT's another error wide off the forehand. Lifeline Novak! 16:19 ALCARAZ SERVING TO RETAIN HIS WIMBLEDON TITLE 15-0 - Djokovic arrows a backhand wide. 30-0 - A huge serve down the T is too hot-to-handle. 40-0 - A one-two punch off a low slice is picked up into the net. THREE CHAMPIONSHIP POINTS FOR CARLOS ALCARAZ! 40-15 - A double fault! 40-30 - a tight error into the net off Nole's sharp return... 16:14 BREAK! - DJOKOVIC 2-6 2-6 4-5 ALCARAZ Alcaraz senses the moment to go big on the return and a 106 mph forehand down the line lays down the gauntlet. A succession of big forehands then breach Nole’s defences again before an improvised, snatch volley clocks up triple break point. Djokovic punches away a volley to fend off one but is undone again by another brilliant backhand crosscourt pass. Alcaraz will now serve for the title. 16:11 DJOKOVIC 2-6 2-6 4-4 ALCARAZ That’s more like it from Carlitos. The Spaniard lands the first serve more regularly and secures the cushion of 40-0 with a rasping plus-one off the crosscourt forehand. Djokovic offers a brief riposte with a volley at the net but Alcaraz’s fifth ace eases him level at what is now the business end of the set. 16:07 DJOKOVIC 2-6 2-6 4-3 ALCARAZ Djokovic has got that Mojo flowing on serve now and he faces little resistance en route to an emphatic love hold. 16:06 16:05 DJOKOVIC 2-6 2-6 3-3 ALCARAZ It’s the first major test on the Alcaraz serve – but he eventually comes out unscathed following a 10-plus-minute examination. Djokovic throws the kitchen sink at the defending champion but fluffs another backhand volley at the net and then sizzles a forecourt forehand just long. In both points he was in charge but still manages to hit back from 40-15 to deuce via a drive volley and proactive, attacking tennis. Nole calls for the crowd to respond and it doesn’t go unnoticed by Alcaraz, who produces a drop-lob combo and raises his arm aloft. The Serb is unimpressed and earns a BP with a sharp backhand pass with Alcaraz stranded at the net. The No.3 seed responds with clutch serving and grinds out the hold courtesy of his fourth ace of the afternoon. 15:53 View more 1 2 3 4 How was your experience today? Change version: International English (TNT) Help centre Football Premier League Table Premier League Fixtures Champions League News Champions League Fixtures Football Fixtures More Pub finder Rugby News UFC News Boxing News MotoGP News TNT Sports Schedule & TV Guide TNT Sports Box Office About Us About TNT Sports Legal Information Terms of Use Privacy Policy Legal Information Modern Slavery Statement ©2025 TNT Sports Broadcasting Limited.  TNT SPORTS is used under license. All rights reserved.