Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/NBA_Draft A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to NBA_Draft r/NBA_Draft r/NBA_Draft A hub for the hardcore NBA Draft enthusiast.  The home of hype and hope. Where logical evaluation and substance generate discussion, rather than conventional stereotypes and uninspiring cliches.    Analysis, articles, highlight videos, news & updates, information, rumors, interesting stats, podcasts, etc. Members Online • KaneAybul Advanced Stats & Scouting Consensus Statistical Model 2021 Draft Class - The return of the model that projects prospects better than the actual draft **Full 2021 model output can be found here ** **Last year's final model and overall model methodology (minus the changelog below) is here and the evaluation of its performance year one is here ** After last year's model successfully projected the advanced metrics of the 2020 draft class ~20% better than the actual draft (at least in the first year), a solid result for the first truly out-of-sample test, I thought I'd bring it back this year. I did have to make some changes due to data availability constraints (namely Jacob Goldstein's PIPM disappearing after he was hired by the Wizards), but those changes yielded remarkably similar performance to last year's model; again right at about ~20% on predicting advanced metric impact. Change Log: I altered the dependent variable to be a multi-year impact variable called LEBRON produced by the good people at BBall Index rather than the amalgamation I had before. Much simpler. The new model is more refined and uses publicly available data: a blended average of top mock draft picks, OPM, DPM, Turnover %, college team SRS, and a designation that identifies Stretch 4s published by Bart Torvik. Rather than have 2 separate models for domestic and international players, the simplicity of the model allows me to pull the variables for all players, regardless of league. I have to impute DPM, OPM, TOs, and whether or not the player is a Stretch 4, but that's pretty easily approximated using box score data. How this will perform for int'l and G-League prospects remains to be seen. While I would have liked to test the model within an existing sample, imputing the aforementioned variables is a pretty manual task and wouldn't be reasonable for a dataset with so many players. So we get to watch its performance play out together! Honestly though, given the generic nature of OPM and DPM especially, I don't see why those variables wouldn't have at least some predictive power. Besides, last year's international model was pretty iffy at best, likely because I made the mistake of including too many variables in the final regression, which can cause overfitting. Remember, this is not my personal big board, just a way of synthesizing the available advanced metrics in a rigorous and (apparently) useful way. This should influence, but not determine, anyone's view on a given prospect. Without further ado, here's how the model projects a potential first year for this year's class. Alperen Sengun Evan Mobley Franz Wagner Cade Cunningham Jalen Green Jalen Johnson Corey Kispert Chris Duarte Moses Moody Davion Mitchell James Bouknight Scottie Barnes Jalen Suggs Isaiah Jackson Trey Murphy Jonathan Kuminga Kai Jones Usman Garuba Miles McBride Jared Butler Quentin Grimes Cameron Thomas Josh Giddey Keon Johnson Filip Petrusev Jaden Springer Ayo Dosunmu Bones Hyland Tre Mann Josh Christopher Analysis Sengun the Magnificent - John Hollinger rejoices! It should come as an only moderate surprise that a statistical model and the godfather of basketball analytics have fallen in love with the same prospect. The model sees elite playmaking stats, surprisingly solid defense, and crazy scoring volume for the type of efficiency he has and can't help but buy in. Departing from the model a bit and adding my own thought: His shooting projects well with shooting 80% at the foul line, and though he struggles as a rim protector and guarding in space, he has a sneaky good, Jokic-like defensive impact via steals, deflections, rebounding, and excellent positioning and help instincts. Remember folks, this kid was doing this as an 18-year-old against much stiffer competition than what players experience in the NCAA. Franz Wagner? - Wagner had a fantastic defensive year at Michigan this year. His 6.1 DPM as a SF is one of the best by a player at his position in recent memory. Typically, players with his defensive production struggle to find ways to contribute offensively. Not the case for Wagner. He had a silly A/TO ratio for a wing at 2.33 and despite shooting only 34% from 3, projects well as a shooter with decent mechanics and an 84% stroke from the FT line. His 56.3% shooting from 2pt range signals solid finishing abilities as well though he needs to improve his off-hand. So while he may not have the ceiling of other players in this draft, the model bets on him being a high-impact player for years in the league. Cade at 4?? - Much buzz has come out recently questioning the prevailing wisdom around having Cade as the untouchably best prospect in the draft. While the model isn't nearly as low on him as it was on Anthony Edwards last year, it does raise its eyebrows at him a bit. The model doesn't love his mediocre-to-bad passing statistics and believes he's just a solid, not spectacular, defender. Turnovers get punished double in the model, and Cade's high TOs per 36 hurt him here. Other big movers - Jalen Suggs gets dinged by the model for unconvincing offensive output; mediocre 3pt shooting and highly pedestrian playmaking. The model believes strongly in production over physical attributes and "potential", so players like Jonathan Kuminga, Keon Johnson, and Ziaire Williams predictably take big knocks. The model doesn't believe Josh Giddey can defend at a high level, and his absurd passing doesn't make up for across-the-board poor shooting. Chris Duarte gets a massive bump; high efficiency at the rim, projectable 3pt shot, solid passing, and strong defense all carry Duarte much higher than he'll actually go on draft night. He is the Malachi Flynn or Desmond Bane of this class, both of whom the model put in the lottery last year (which doesn't seem as crazy after both of their first seasons). Anyway, hope you all enjoy a look at this year's model. Love the discussion, so happy to go back and forth in the comments to better explain what's going on in the model, debate prospects, etc. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 2% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 17, 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2021 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics