The Business of Tourism - What is the economic impact of hosting an Olympic Games Agree & Join LinkedIn By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . Skip to main content LinkedIn Articles People Learning Jobs Games Join now Sign in The Business of Tourism - What is the economic impact of hosting an Olympic Games Report this article Dave Alexander Dave Alexander Ops & Safety Manager | Director | Investor | Hospitality Consultant | Giant Published Oct 14, 2023 + Follow Executive Summary In this report, we examine the true economic positives and negatives of hosting one of the largest mega events there are, the Olympic Games. We look at the process starting even before bidding begins through to the economic positives and negatives that happen after such an event has taken place. The time from starting to plan an Olympic bid to the time the actual event takes place is over a decade. A lot of money is spent on hosting such an event and the past has proven that some host cities have budgeted better than others with cost overruns of up to 720%. The Olympics are not always seen in a bad light as they usually provide the host city, province or state and country with forced upgrades to road, rail and airport infrastructure benefiting citizens long term. The other side of this is the resulting upkeep expenditure on any new stadiums and other Olympic purpose built infrastructure. This, in some cases, can lead to devastating economic effects such as the Greek financial crisis recently. We will show that for the Olympics to continue, change is needed. The IOC needs to improve the attraction of economic benefits as well as cultural and social benefits to hosting cities. Introduction The Olympics are one of the most economically risky mega projects a country, province and city can take on. Whilst there are many benefits of hosting, most of which are cultural and social, there is a big cost economically to hosting such an event. In this report, we take an economically focused look at cities and country’s hosting the Olympic Games focusing particularly on the games since 1960. We examine the process and costs from pre bid expenditure to the expensive upkeep of Olympic venues particularly purpose built stadiums. We also look at what social and cultural costs and benefits such an event brings to a host city. In conclusion, we offer 3 possible solutions to the economic problem of massive cost overruns and look at what the IOC is doing going forward about the economic problem of holding an Olympic Games. Before The Games The Olympics have the highest average cost overrun of any type of megaproject ( see appendix 1 ). They are also not economically and financially viable for most cities in the world to host. Looking at games since 1960 the average cost overrun for summer games is 176% with winter coming in at 142% (Myers, 2016). These costs start well before the actual event with planning for the bidding process. In preparing for an Olympic bid, countries need to satisfy the required information by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) including plans for venues, existing infrastructure, budgets, etc. By the time Tokyo failed at their bid for the 2016 Olympics, they had spent $150M just on the bid (Business Insider, 2018). It is reported they spent about half this on their successful 2024 bid. These kinds of numbers have led to severe decreases in the cities that bid to host the Olympics. Particularly of late several cities and countries have submitted a bid and then the citizens of the country had said no resulting in withdrawals of bids. This resulted in the IOC in 2017 announcing both the 2024 and 2028 candidates for the summer games which they have not done before. The IOC has taken note of the declining bidders and John Coates, President of the Australian Olympic Committee and ex vice president of the IOC, has said in that going forward “…there must be responsible and flexible timing as to when elections take place, so they (cities) can align a potential Olympic candidacy with the growth and development in a particular region” (Grohmann, 2019). Daniel Ritterband, who worked in marketing for the London 2012 Olympics and on the Budapest bid for 2024 says that it needs to be part of a 20 year plan of economy building where the city builds up infrastructure and support over time for less economic shock after the games. This approach seems very sensible as road, rail, airport, and hotel infrastructure needs and improvements often cost more than the Games themselves. The Bidding Process Once the monetary spending has already begun with requirements needed before the bidding process begins, you get to the official bid. As outlined on the IOC website the current bid process has 5 stages. These are outlined following: -        The Invitation Phase (not a formal commitment to bid) -        The Candidature Process (a formal commitment to bid) o   Stage 1: Vision, Games concept and Strategy o   Stage 2: Governance, Legal and Venue Funding o   Stage 3: Games Delivery, Experience & Venue Legacy -        The Evaluation Committee (IOC, 2020) It is typically stated that the bid process whether you win or lose will cost a city between $50-$100 million dollars which is a huge investment for something that might not even happen. The number of host cities bidding for the Olympics has fluctuated greatly over the years and has seen a drop, particularly since the terrorist incident of nine eleven in 2001. The perceived success of LA hosting the Olympics led to an increase in cities bidding for future games going from LA’s sole bid for the 1984 games to 12 bids for the 2004 games. For more recent games like the 2024 and 2028 Olympics, there have been several withdrawals after host countries realized an almost definite cost blowout after reviewing budgets. Denver was the first and only chosen host city to reject its Olympics after voters passed a referendum refusing additional public spending for the games. Bids are usually driven by 2 main industries being construction and hospitality which are the two with the most to gain out of the mega event. More recently we see that bidding cities are no longer just judged around their expected revenues and expenses they show in their application. They also need to be able to beat competing bids. This results in a bidding environment that is open to corruption. Now more than ever we are seeing a massive investment by potential hosts in an Olympic centerpiece like Beijing’s Bird nest, which cost almost the same as the entire 1984 Los Angeles Olympics, twice over. It has been said by several economic experts that the budget proposed by a host city is like a fictitious minimum that is constantly overspent (Flyvbjerg, Stewart, Budzier, 2016). It could be said that the reason for some of the economic failings of the Olympics is something known as the winner’s curse. This is a theory that in an auction, the winning bid will usually exceed the intrinsic value and comes from the bidder that is most likely to overestimate the value of the potential asset. It is also hard to predict all the infrastructure shortfalls a city will face with things like construction leading up to a very fixed deadline. Commonly the way these get fixed is to just throw more people and money at it in the hope it will be fixed by the event. To host an Olympics a city needs roughly 35 sports venues alone, not including all other infrastructure. With regards to the Olympic Venues the IOC, in their Host City Contract state some of the requirements: “The Key Olympic Venues include all competition venues, the Olympic Villages, International Broadcast Centre (IBC), Main Press Centre (MPC), Mountain Media Centre (MMC) and other zone Media Centres when relevant, Ceremony stadium(s) and Medal Plaza(s) (when relevant), Olympic Family Hotel(s) (OFH); accommodation villages (when relevant), Olympic Park(s) and major common domain(s); and airports and other major points of arrival and departure (when relevant). In addition to the Key Olympic Venues, and where appropriate, there may be Paralympic-specific venues (competition and/or noncompetition)” (International Olympic Committee, 2018). An example of an Olympics that turned out better than most economically for the host city would be LA’s 1984 summer Olympics. They had a lot of existing useable infrastructure for the vast majority of sports and with larger money coming from broadcast rights due to developments in televisions making them more accessible to more people, they had more cash inflow. In their 2014 report entitled Olympic agenda 2020, 20+20 recommendations, the IOC outlines 40 actions the IOC will aim to take that are meant to drive the vision of the Olympic Movement going forward. Some of these include shaping the bidding process as an invitation; evaluating bid cities by assessing key opportunities and risks; reducing the cost of bidding; including sustainability in all aspects of the Olympic Games; including sustainability within the Olympic Movement’s daily operations; and to reduce the cost and reinforce the flexibility of the Olympic Games management. (International Olympic Committee, 2014). The IOC in the mid ’90s created the Olympic Games Knowledge Management Program. Their sole purpose is to work to help new host cities learn from previous ones. The program is designed to increase efficiency through shared knowledge around economics, infrastructure and planning for the Olympics. Hosting The Olympic Games Once the bidding process is done, a host is selected, infrastructure is improved and built & the city is ready, then comes hosting the actual event. At 2015 dollar levels the sport related cost of a summer games on average is $5.2B and winter $3.1B. Using these costs to evaluate previous Olympics, some of the largest overruns in history have been London 2012 costing $15B, Barcelona 1992 costing $9.7B and the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics which cost $21.9B. This which works out to an extraordinary cost of $7.9M per athlete. Most Olympics in the 20th century were held in First World countries like Europe or the USA making the cost easier to bear through already having a larger economy that could somewhat deal with the cost overruns. Also, with the Olympics in the mid to late 20th century, the IOC took some 4% of broadcasting rights where these days it is closer to 70% leaving far less of the primary revenue stream for the host city (Business Insider, 2018). Appendix 2 shows the significant increase in broadcast rights money. This leaves the host city to rely heavily on ticket sales as well as local and international sponsorships of the games. Concerning cost, the average overrun of the Olympics since 1960 has been 156 percent. In comparison, average cost overruns in major transportation projects are usually 20 percent for roads, 34 percent for large bridges and tunnels, and 45 percent for rail, 90 percent for mega dams and 107 percent for major IT projects (Flyvbjerg, et al, 2016). Another economic effect of the Olympics for the host city is leakage. In large cities such as Paris, London, Sydney and Los Angeles a lot of the big hotels, along with other tourism businesses, that have the capacity to be contracted for such events are foreign owned. This results in a lot of the tourism revenue leaving the host city and country and not benefiting the local community. It also usually means that whilst these companies see an increase in profit they don’t increase the wages and salaries of local workers. Due to this, the marginal propensity to consume lowers which in turn reduces the multiplier effect during and around the event. Looking at nonsports related costs and benefits 85% of Sochi’s over $50B budget went to the construction of nonsports related infrastructure. Sochi is an extreme example of good and bad as the upkeep of built Olympic infrastructure is estimated at $1B per year however a lot of residents see a positive in the fact that as a result of the games, the government spent billions on roads, water systems and other public infrastructure improvements that would almost certainly not have happened without the games. Another example is Beijing who spent around $22m on rail, road and airport improvements and spent over $10m on environmental cleanup. Looking at these cases it is clear the Olympics does bring some social good. The important thing to think about is where the funding is coming from and what burden any debt will place, usually through higher taxes on residents, till the city, province and country have paid it off. Another infrastructure that is a requirement of the IOC’s Host City Contract is the availability of 40,926 rooms for their staff, the media and the National Olympic Committee. For a winter Olympics, that number is 23,860. This number doesn’t even factor in tourist numbers or families and support staff of athletes such as physio’s, doctors and coaching staff. These kinds of requirements are a perfect example of how larger cities cope better with the event. There is a cheaper capital expense hosting in large cities that already have some suitable stadiums and other sports venues available for use, minimizing costs. After the Olympics, as you already have defined economic resources assigned to these venues there is no sudden need to jump your upkeep budget up as you would if you had no existing infrastructure. Although this report is largely economically based it is important to also look at the social issues surrounding the event. The Olympics have had their issues in the past be it the killing of protesters in the days before the 1968 Mexico City Games or the fatal assault on Israeli athletes at the 1972 Munich Games tarnished the image of the Olympics. One rising cost that can be a social issue is security. Security costs have jumped dramatically since the attack on September 11, 2001. The Sydney Olympics that happened one year before the attack spent around $250,000. The estimated cost now is usually between $1-2B with Athens spending $1.5B. This can be a social issue as there can be a need to move whole sections of the population, it restricts a lot of movement for the period of the games and weeks either side and it can divert spending from other essential services. The After Effects No Olympic games since 1960 have come in under budget and almost half blew their budget by 100% or more. Montreal is one of the worst with their Olympics having a cost overrun of 720%. The original projected cost for Montreal was $124M, billions below actual cost and left taxpayers with a $1.5B debt that took 3 decades to pay down. It is unfortunately hard to judge the true economic costs of such events with false declarations and statements around budgets and actual economic outlay. Flyvbjerg et al. sums this up by saying: “…Olympics officials and hosts often misinform about the costs and cost overruns of the Games. For instance, in 2005 London secured the bid for the 2012 Summer Games with a cost estimate that two years later proved inadequate and was revised upwards with around 100 percent. Then, when it turned out that the final outturn costs were slightly below the revised budget, the organizers falsely, but very publicly, claimed that the London Games had come in under budget. Such deliberate misinformation of the public about cost and cost overrun treads a fine line between spin and outright lying. It is unethical, no doubt, but very common” (Flyvbjerg et al., 2016, p.3) As well as this many economists say that “both the short- and long-term benefits of hosting the games are at best exaggerated and at worst nonexistent, leaving many host countries with large debts and maintenance liabilities” (McBride, 2018). When looking at the true economic benefit a study by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development found that the jobs boost provided by the Olympics are mainly short lived and in cities that are struggling with high unemployment, these new jobs mainly go to already employed people making the positive economic impact, particularly around jobs growth much less than sometimes stated. Paying upkeep on Olympic venues is also very expensive with Sydney spending $30m a year and Beijing spending $10m to maintain its bird nest. Whilst Sydney still utilizes its main stadium the one in Beijing is rarely used. A positive example of reuse of venues is London who turned their Olympic stadium into a soccer field for West Ham United. However after a building and conversion cost of £701M, West Ham United paid £15M. Conclusion Are extreme overrunning costs, economic fallout and fake budgets going to be the death of the modern Olympic Games? No. Whilst the IOC has definitely taken steps to improve its business model for host cities, they still have a long way to go. They have taken a big step in the right direction developing the Olympic Games Knowledge Management Program to help advise potential hosts on how to plan and run such an event. They have also taken a step in the right direction releasing their 40 point plan to shape their vision going forward. All this considered though, are the Olympics really economically viable still? There have been suggestions of having 1 host city for summer games to ease the cost and expenditure of host cities having to build new or improve old infrastructure. Expanding on this you could select 3 cities around the world with most of the needed infrastructure, one in Europe, one in the Americas and another in the southern hemisphere to host and rotate every 12 years. Another solution is making the selection process much longer so cities and countries can plan socially, economically and culturally around the effects of such an event. Some experts say it should be up to a 20 year development plan for host cities, particularly those with minimal existing resources. Currently, for a city and nation to decide to stage the Olympic Games they are deciding to take on one of the most costly and financially risky type of megaprojects that exists. Going forward a change is needed in the process and running of the Olympics to improve the attraction of economic benefit as well as cultural and social benefits to hosting cities. References Baade, R & Matheson, V. (2016). Going for the Gold: The Economics of the Olympics. Journal of Economic Perspectives, volume 30, number 2, pages 201–218. Business Insider. (Feb, 2018). Why hosting the Olympics isn't worth it anymore [video file]. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0bXJGZgR1BU&list=PL3SR6SwSUzCI633979qEx_8jyw22zoa33&index=2&t=0s Flyvbjerg, B, Stewart, A, Budzier, A. (July, 2016). The Oxford Olympics study 2016: Cost and cost overrun at the games. Retrieved from: https://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/1607/1607.04484.pdf McBride, J. (January, 2018). Council on Foreign Relations: The economics of hosting the Olympic Games. Retrieved from: https://www.cfr.org/backgrounder/economics-hosting-olympic-games Grohmann, K. (June, 2019). IOC overhauls bidding process for Games to stop dropouts. Retrieved from: https://www.reuters.com/article/us-olympics-ioc/ioc-overhauls-bidding-process-for-games-to-stop-dropouts-idUSKCN1TR1OB International Olympic Committee. (2014). Olympic agenda 2020, 20+20 recommendations. Retrieved from: https://stillmed.olympic.org/Documents/Olympic_Agenda_2020/Olympic_Agenda_2020-20-20_Recommendations-ENG.pdf International Olympic Committee. (June, 2018). Host city contract operational requirements. Retrieved from: https://stillmed.olympic.org/media/Document%20Library/OlympicOrg/Games/Host-City-Contract/HCC-Operational-Requirements.pdf#_ga=2.153119864.1981118593.1530552526-1348222140.1517340655 International Olympic Committee. (2020). Olympic games candidature process. Retrieved from: https://www.olympic.org/all-about-the-candidature-process Myers, J. (2016). World economic forum: The cost of hosting every Olympics since 1964. Retrieved from: https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2016/07/the-cost-to-cities-of-hosting-the-olympics-since-1964/ Appendix 1 (Myers, 2016) Appendix 2 (McBride, 2018) Like Comment Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Share 16 To view or add a comment, sign in Sign in Stay updated on your professional world Sign in By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . New to LinkedIn? Join now Explore topics Sales Marketing IT Services Business Administration HR Management Engineering Soft Skills See All LinkedIn © 2025 About Accessibility User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Choices Cookie Policy Copyright Policy Brand Policy Guest Controls Community Guidelines العربية (Arabic) বাংলা (Bangla) Čeština (Czech) Dansk (Danish) Deutsch (German) Ελληνικά (Greek) English (English) Español (Spanish) فارسی (Persian) Suomi (Finnish) Français (French) हिंदी (Hindi) Magyar (Hungarian) Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian) Italiano (Italian) עברית (Hebrew) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) मराठी (Marathi) Bahasa Malaysia (Malay) Nederlands (Dutch) Norsk (Norwegian) ਪੰਜਾਬੀ (Punjabi) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese) Română (Romanian) Русский (Russian) Svenska (Swedish) తెలుగు (Telugu) ภาษาไทย (Thai) Tagalog (Tagalog) Türkçe (Turkish) Українська (Ukrainian) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) 简体中文 (Chinese (Simplified)) 正體中文 (Chinese (Traditional)) Language