Watch Jill Biden Surprise 2021 National Teacher of the Year Juliana Urtubey ​ Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals Royals Royals PEOPLE StyleWatch: Spring 2025 Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals StyleWatch Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe 1 Massive Brawl Erupts Among Carnival Cruise Passengers, Landing 24 People on ‘Do Not Sail’ List 2 Tourist Filming Himself on a Zipline Unknowingly Captures Chilling Footage of Massacre in India That Killed 26 3 Robert De Niro's Daughter Airyn Comes Out as Trans in Revealing Interview About Growing Up 'Out of the Limelight' 4 Bill Belichick's Girlfriend Jordon Hudson Wears Sparkling Ring on That Finger, Sparking Engagement Rumors Politics Politician Families Jill Biden Surprises the National Teacher of the Year on TV (with Flowers!) "She is just the epitome of great teacher, a great educator," the first lady said of Nevada's Juliana Urtubey By Adam Carlson Adam Carlson Adam Carlson is the senior editor for human interest at PEOPLE, which he first joined in 2015. His work has also appeared on ABC News and CNN and in The New York Times, Time magazine and elsewhere. People Editorial Guidelines Published on May 6, 2021 10:15AM EDT Immediately after Juliana Urtubey was named the 2021 National Teacher of the Year, she got another surprise Thursday morning: First Lady Dr. Jill Biden arrived to Urtubey's Nevada classroom with a bouquet of flowers and an excited "congratulations!" "She is just the epitome of great teacher, a great educator," Biden, 69, said on CBS This Morning , which announced Urtubey's new honor and captured Biden's unannounced appearance. The first lady has been an English and writing instructor for decades and told CBS that spotlighting the profession is one of her goals in the White House. "I think for so long teachers were undervalued but now, hopefully, all of America, after this pandemic, has seen what teachers have done and how they've just taken care of our kids," Biden said. "It's just been such a tough time, and teachers have risen to this moment." Urtubey, an elementary and special education teacher, said she was "obviously elated" by Biden's surprise. She also grew emotional as she listened to some of her students tell CBS about how she had changed them. "She didn't just see the students as students," one of them said on CBS This Morning . Another agreed, calling Urtubey — also known among students as "Ms. Earth," for her use of gardens in her teaching — "kind-hearted, all knowing, fun yet also sort of serious when it comes to our behavior." Jill Biden Gets Right to Work While Still Teaching — the New First Lady Talks White House Plans First Lady Dr. Jill Biden (left) speaks with students ias she visits the Christa McAuliffe School in Concord, New Hampshire, on March 17. SUSAN WALSH/POOL/AFP via Getty Speaking with CBS, Urtubey choked up as she reflected on her career. "I get to be part of a whole new world with so many students. I haven't seen so mammy of those students in such a long time, so it's so beautiful. I'm just so excited," she said. Later, after the first lady's surprise, the pair was interviewed on CBS This Morning where Urtubey also talked about the support she said teachers need moving forward, including pay commensurate with their work and the resources to ensure "joyous and just education." "My job is to make sure that I help my students find their strengths. Kids with thinking and learning differences have so many possibilities, so much potential," she said, "and it's just my job to find it, make them believe it and then help them grow." 8 Celebrities Who Were Teachers Before They Got Famous It was the students, said the first lady (who is thought to be the first in her position to work outside the White House), that kept her in the classroom as well. "They make such a difference, and I think it's our job to give them confidence and give them skills and, like Juliana said, to give them joy and support in their lives," Biden said. The first lady is on a two-day trip through Colorado, Nevada and Utah where she is visiting with teachers and nurses and talking about the administration's work on COVID-19 vaccine distribution. Close You Might Like All About Jimmy Carter and Rosalynn Carter's Children and Grandchildren Politics February 19, 2023 Hunter Biden’s 5 Children: All About His Son and Daughters Politics June 22, 2023 Michelle Obama Breaks Her Silence on Why She Skipped Trump's Inauguration — and the Moment She Made the Decision Politics April 23, 2025 Related Articles All About Robert F. Kennedy Jr.’s 6 Children Melania Trump, a 'Quiet' Catholic, 'Admired' Pope Francis and Has 'No Issue' Attending His Funeral on Her Birthday (Exclusive) Vanessa Trump Supports Tiger Woods in First IG Post About New Boyfriend Michelle Obama’s Brother Craig Robinson Thought She and Barack Would Last ‘About a Month’ Who Is U.S. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth's Wife? What to Know About Jennifer Rauchet Who Is Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro’s Wife? All About Lori Shapiro Michelle Obama Says Her Newfound Independence Since Leaving White House Fueled Speculation She and Barack Were Divorcing Longtime Congressman's Daughter, 23, Dies 'Unexpectedly' on Italy Trip Following Rare Cancer Diagnosis Melania Trump Skips Stepdaughter Tiffany's Baby Shower in Miami, Which Was Hosted by Ivanka (Exclusive) Who Is Kick Kennedy? All About RFK Jr.'s Daughter (Who’s Been Linked to Ben Affleck) Maria Shriver Reveals She's 'In a Good Place' with Arnold Schwarzenegger — and What They're Proud of 4 Years After Divorce (Exclusive) Who Is Karoline Leavitt's Husband? All About Nicholas Riccio and His Relationship with the White House Press Secretary Laura Bush Once Wrote a Hand-Written Apology to Daughter Jenna Bush Hager for Parenting Misstep Maria Shriver Says She Hopes Her Kids with Ex-Husband Arnold Schwarzenegger Don’t Get Divorced: ‘I Believe in Marriage’ Maria Shriver Says That 15 Years After Her Mother Eunice Kennedy Shriver's Death, 'I Still Talk to Her All the Time' (Exclusive) Who Is Chuck Schumer’s Wife? All About Iris Weinshall PEOPLE Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies