Tesla Stock Flying High: 5 Key Takeaways From Q3 2019 Earnings Tesla Stock Flying High: 5 Key Takeaways From Q3 2019 Earnings News News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Sales All news Reviews Car Reviews Test Drives First Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test All reviews Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 All Features Videos Podcasts Photos Newsletter SIGN UP FOR FREE Chime in with article commenting. Sign In Sign Up News News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Sales All news Reviews Car Reviews Test Drives First Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test All reviews Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 All Features Videos Podcasts Photos Newsletter page ad skin Home Tesla News Tesla Stock Flying High: 5 Key Takeaways From Q3 2019 Earnings Yesterday's Tesla Q3 2019 earning report and investors call took most people by surprise. EVANNEX By : EVANNEX Oct 24, 2019 at 7:11am ET Facebook X LinkedIn Flipboard Reddit WhatsApp E-Mail Share Comment Tesla beat the street. According to Bloomberg , "The electric-car maker earned $1.86 a share in the third quarter, exceeding the most optimistic projection by a wide margin and beating the consensus estimate for a 24-cent loss." Yes, Tesla showed a profit. And the stock price soared as "shares climbed as much as 21% to $308.50," in after hours trading after 3Q earnings were reported by the electric automaker. Related Stories: Will Tesla Fail To Show Revenue Growth For the First Time In Years? This article comes to us courtesy of EVANNEX (which also makes aftermarket Tesla accessories). Authored by Matt Pressman. The opinions expressed in these articles are not necessarily our own at InsideEVs. Above: Tesla's Model 3 (Photo: Casey Murphy, EVANNEX ) So what happened? Discussing CEO Elon Musk earlier this week, Tesla Chair Robyn Denholm provides a clue when she remarked (via Fortune ), "I don't expect normalcy." She added, "You can see the progress. Nobody, 15 years ago, was thinking about electric vehicles or sustainable energy with batteries. Today, the fact that the rest of the industry is moving that way is phenomenal.” Above: Loup Ventures' Gene Munster provides salient feedback on Tesla's 3Q earnings report (YouTube: CNBC Television ) Tesla's 3Q numbers were anything but normal. Sure, revenue ( as predicted ) was a slight miss — Tesla reported revenue of 6.3 billion, just shy of expectations. That said, the company's earnings report was packed with positives to whet the appetite of investors. To recap key takeaways, Gene Munster (via Loup Ventures ) provides five valuable insights. 1. HIGH MARGIN SOFTWARE Munster explains, "The business model is slowly shifting to high-margin software. Tesla recognized $30M in deferred revenue related to Autopilot this quarter... [and] Tesla currently has just under half a billion in unrecognized revenue on the books. To illustrate potential margin improvement, at a 100k/quarter delivery run rate, every ~$60M in FSD deferred revenue recognized adds about 1% to auto gross margins." 2. MODEL Y IS COMING In addition, "Tesla is now expecting volume production of Model Y (1,000 per week) by mid-2020. This is 6-9 months ahead of what we had been expecting. Long-term, the company expects Model Y to account for about half of total deliveries." According to Musk, the crossover could actually outsell the Model S , X and 3 combined . 3. DELIVERY GUIDANCE According to Tesla, the company "reiterated their guidance of delivering at least 360,000 vehicles in 2019. This implies that Tesla will deliver greater than 104k vehicles in Q4 vs expectations of 104k. This would result in y/y delivery growth of 16%, in line with Sep-19’s y/y growth." 4. AUTOMOTIVE GROSS MARGINS As the sales mix continues to tilt towards Model 3 (in favor of S and X), many expected automotive gross margins to suffer. That wasn't the case. Munster notes, "Automotive gross margins were 22.8% vs. about 19% last quarter.... The takeaway: manufacturing efficiencies related to labor, logistics, and procurement are improving." 5. CHINA'S GIGAFACTORY It's reported that, " Gigafactory Shanghai is now ahead of schedule and production is expected to start this quarter... China currently represents about 11% of total sales, but that percentage will grow once the Gigafactory is operational and vehicle sales don’t face a price headwind from import tariffs of >15%." Check out the photo gallery from Tesla's Shareholder Letter to see the progress at Gigafactory 3. === Source: Bloomberg , Fortune , Loup Ventures , Tesla , CNBC Television InsideEVs Editor’s Note: EVANNEX , which also sells aftermarket gear for Teslas, has kindly allowed us to share some of its content with our readers, free of charge. Our thanks go out to EVANNEX. Check out the site here . Source: Evannex Share this Story Facebook X LinkedIn Flipboard Reddit WhatsApp E-Mail Got a tip for us? Email: tips@insideevs.com Join the conversation ( ) Trending Slate Emerges From Stealth With A Low-Cost, Transforming EV Pickup Walmart Opens Up About Its EV Charging Network: Charge Better Slate Unveiled A Cheap EV. Tesla's Is Still A Mystery. The Electric Van Is Poised To Take Over The World latest articles Tesla Cybertruck Demand Is Way Below Its Annual Production Capacity 1:30pm - News - Waymo Might Sell You A Robotaxi One Day 1h ago - Critical Materials - Slate Unveiled A Cheap EV. Tesla's Is Still A Mystery. 4h ago - Podcast - Volvo EX30 Begins Very Timely Production In Europe 4h ago - Manufacturing / Production - Slate's Affordable EV Truck Has No Screen, Uses Your Phone For Updates 15h ago - Software - RECOMMENDED FOR YOU Tesla Cybertruck Demand Is Way Below Its Annual Production Capacity Waymo Might Sell You A Robotaxi One Day Kia’s Fast Charging Network Just Doubled In Size Slate Unveiled A Cheap EV. Tesla's Is Still A Mystery. Volkswagen Could Beat Tesla With ID. Buzz Robovan Volvo EX30 Begins Very Timely Production In Europe Nissan Officially Kills Pair Of Electric Sedans Meant For U.S. Subscribe to our Newsletter Receive exciting Automotive news, updates, and special offers straight to your inbox. Subscribe Follow Us Facebook X Flipboard Google News YouTube RSS About Us Advertising Contact insideEVs 650 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10022 USA Privacy policy Cookie policy Cookie Settings Terms of use © 2025 Motorsport Network. All rights reserved. Logotype News All news News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Sales Reviews All reviews Car Reviews Test Drives First Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test Features All Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 Makes All Makes Abarth Acura Afeela Aptera Aston Martin Audi Automobili Pininfarina BMW Bollinger Buick BYD Byton Cadillac Chevrolet Chrysler Citroën Cupra Dacia Daimler Dodge DS Faraday Future Ferrari Fiat Fisker Ford GAC Geely General Motors Genesis GMC Honda Hyundai Infiniti Jaguar Jeep Karma Kia Koenigsegg Land Rover Lexus Lincoln Lordstown Motors Lotus Lucid Lynk & Co MAN Maserati Mazda Mercedes-AMG Mercedes-Benz MG Mini Mitsubishi NEVS Nikola Motor NIO Nissan Opel Peugeot Pininfarina Polestar Porsche Ram Renault Rimac Rivian Rolls-Royce Scout Motors SEAT Skoda Smart Stellantis Subaru Suzuki Telo Trucks Tesla TOGG Toyota Uaz VinFast Volkswagen Volvo Workhorse Xiaomi Xpeng Zeekr Models Tesla Model Y Hyundai Ioniq 5 Rivian R1S Toyota bZ4X Lucid Gravity Ram Ramcharger Body Style All Body Styles Sedan Coupe SUV/Crossover Hatchback Truck Convertible Videos Podcast Photos Edition USA / Global Switch Theme Light Dark Auto Current Edition USA / Global Edition: USA / Global Édition: France Edizione: Italia Edição: Brasil Ausgabe: Deutschland Edisyon: Türkiye Edition: Argentina Cancel SIGN UP FOR FREE Chime in with article commenting. Sign In Sign Up