Grey's Anatomy season 17 - release date, episodes and more Search Latest News TV Reality TV US TV Movies Soaps Showbiz Tech Digital Spy 25th Anniversary Digital Spy Holidays Features All Videos Newsletter Forums Follow About Us Write For Us Cookies Policy Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content TV Movies Soaps Tech News Forums Newsletter Havoc ending Buy new DS magazine Alison Hammond outfits You season 5 review Hollyoaks' shock comeback We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. TV US TV Grey's Anatomy season 17: Release date, how to watch online, cast and everything you need to know Grey's Anatomy season 17: Release date, how to watch online, cast and everything you need to know What's the diagnosis? By Sam Ashurst and Abby Robinson Updated: 05 November 2020 Grey's Anatomy spoilers follow. Grey's Anatomy is returning for an astonishing 17th season. It was announced that star Ellen Pompeo (Meredith Grey), who has appeared in the medical drama from the very beginning, had signed on for not just one, but two more seasons of the show at the beginning of 2018. What to Read Next She wasn't initially planning on appearing in the upcoming chapter, but decided to extend her contract by a year. "I like my situation here," she told TVLine . "As much as the idea of something new appeals to me...the truth is, I have three kids. I don't really want to travel and leave [them]. I don't want to be a circus traveller and live in hotels. "And the network and studio continue to incentivise me and just make me offers that I can't refuse." Getty Images Production was paused due to the pandemic, which stopped the final four episodes of season 16 from making it to air. But the cast and crew are now back on set (adhering to social distancing guidelines, of course), to ensure that the beloved series continues its extraordinary run. According to Variety , the magic of camera lenses has been employed to make it look like the actors are positioned closer than they actually are. And the show's more intimate moments have also undergone some rejigging. "Obviously you can't have people making out, but there's been a lot of sex on Grey's Anatomy that doesn't involve kissing," showrunner Krista Vernoff told The Hollywood Reporter . "There's a lot of sexy lifting of clothes and pulling down of clothes and taking off of things and standing behind a person in a sexy way. There's a lot of ways to skin that cat, so to speak. "I think it's safe to say there's going to be less kissing across the board on TV this year." Ali Goldstein // ABC But while there's still work to do be done, the premiere is ready to go. Grey's Anatomy season 17 air date: When will it arrive? The two-hour event, which will crossover with Station 19 , is set to hit screens on Thursday, November 12 on ABC in the US. For fans of the show in the UK, Sky Witness will be your go-to when it arrives, but it's likely you'll be waiting quite a while. Season 16 arrived on our green and pleasant shores just before it wrapped up in the states. Grey's Anatomy season 17 cast: Who's in it? So, who else is joining Pompeo in the upcoming chapter? Giacomo Gianniotti will return as Andrew DeLuca, alongside Jackson Avery (Jesse Williams), Maggie Pierce (Kelly McCreary), Miranda Bailey (Chandra Wilson), Amelia Shepherd (Caterina Scorsone), and Richard Webber (James Pickens Jr). Fans were worried about Richard's future given his health problems, but his illness was finally diagnosed and he's now in the "safe zone" . Kelsey McNeal Deadline reported that Kim Raver (Teddy Altman), Camilla Luddington (Jo Karev) and Kevin McKidd (Owen Hunt, who is a military doctor and will likely play a key role in the upcoming Covid storylines) all signed three-year contracts, which would take them through to season 19. Both Anthony Hill (who plays Winston Ndugu) and Richard Flood (who plays Cormac Hayes) have also been upped to series regulars. ABC But what about the old guard? "I'd love to have some of the old cast come back, like the original cast," Pompeo said on The Late Late Show With James Corden . "That would be the most amazing day." And it sounds like her wish might come true. A returning cast member has been teased by Vernoff. "It's an ongoing effort and if I can make it happen, it'll be exciting," she told Entertainment Tonight . "And if I can't make it happen, we have other exciting things happening." Fans of the series think it'll be either Sandra Oh (Dr Cristina Yang), Sarah Drew (Dr April Kepner) or Kate Walsh (Dr Addison Montgomery). Juanito Aguil // Getty Images But there are plenty of names that probably won't be on the list. Pompeo described the show's work environment as 'toxic' during the first ten years, with speculation that Patrick Dempsey (Derek Shepherd) was to blame, which prompted her to release a statement . "As a show, we all had a part to play in the environment, me included, as many workplaces do. We changed that story. That's the story we all have the power to change! "None of my comments in print are ever meant to shade anyone. That's so not productive. "My words about my journey are always meant to inspire and reflect. My shade is very obvious when I'm not subtle about it, you all should know that! "I'm aware how much love there is for this show and these characters... No-one has more love than me. I've dedicated half my life to it. The show has been a blessing for us all in different ways. The negative vibes...not healthy." Ron Tom // ABC Katherine Heigl is another who feels unlikely to return. "I don't know if I would or if I wouldn't,” she said when asked about an Izzie comeback (via Entertainment Tonight ). "I almost feel like that would almost be distracting again to what they've done with that show in the seven years since I left... and what that's become and what it is to the fans now. "It must feel like it would just be like, 'Yeah, we already let that go... Why are you here?'" Given the history between Heigl and the show , it would be wonderful if she returned for a cameo, even if it was part of a silent montage. People still ask her and creator Shonda Rhimes about their feud, so it would be a really nice end to that (real-life) story. Gregg DeGuire // Getty Images Grey's Anatomy season 17 plot: What's the story? In the trailer for the premiere, Station 19's Andy Herrera (Jaina Lee Ortiz) and Pompeo gave fans a taste of what to expect: "It's a war zone and we're the ones on the front line. With all the lives in need, our world is ablaze. What we're up against now is unlike anything that came before. At times it seems like there's no end in sight. "We won't stop fighting. We won't stop feeling. Because sometimes, we all need saving." Mitch Haaseth // ABC Official synopses have also been released by Vernoff (via TVLine ). In episode one, titled 'All Tomorrow's Parties', we'll see how Covid has affected Grey Sloan. "It's all hands on deck [and] a whole new world for our hospital and for all of our characters," said Vernoff. In episode two, 'The Centre Won't Hold', here's what we can expect: "Bailey finds herself in the middle of an argument with patients' families as they await news about their children who were injured." We also know that it'll focus on Teddy, Winston, Amelia and Link. ABC Speaking on The Hollywood Reporter's Top Five podcast , Vernoff said that initially, she didn't want to include the pandemic, believing that viewers were fatigued by the ordeal: "I spent the whole hiatus kicking it around, and I came into the writers' room thinking that I had made the decision that we were not going to do it. "They really convinced me that it would be irresponsible to not. To be kind of the biggest medical show and ignore the biggest medical story of the century felt irresponsible to them to the medical community. "These doctors are traumatised. They are not trained or wired to hold the hands of dying people all day who are alone without their families." Instagram Giacomo told Entertainment Tonight that the season will start "about a month and a half [into] full COVID, adding: "It's going to take place a little beyond where we left off in the last season…We're not picking up right where we left off." And while not all of the stories that were planned for the end of season 16 will feature in the upcoming chapter, Vernoff told TVLine that viewers "will get to see some of the immediate moments from where we left off". She added: "There was great material that we had already shot but did not get a chance to air, [so] we found a way to build it into our premiere." Disney // ABC DeLuca's Bipolar disorder is one storyline that will be explored further. A love triangle has also developed between Meredith, DeLuca and Cormac Hayes, and Pompeo has teased that there's going to be "a new favourite couple", but didn't say who. View full post on X As for Owen and Teddy, their relationship is well and truly on the rocks after Owen discovered what had happened between his wife-to-be and Tom Koracick (Greg Germann). Their wedding was postponed, but will the couple be able to move forwards after this? There's also Amelia and Link's baby son, which Vernoff told The Hollywood Reporter "is not [called] Derek". Grey's Anatomy: How long will the series run for? "I'm hopeful that Grey's Anatomy stays a part of our schedule," ABC Entertainment President Karey Burke told Deadline in June. "They [show bosses] certainly know that we'd like it to be part of our schedule for as long as they are interested in making more episodes." But will Pompeo say yes to more? "Shonda [Rhimes] and I have both said that when I'm ready to stop, we’re going to stop the show," she told Variety in 2017. "The story is about Meredith Grey’s journey and when I'm done, the show will end." Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images Before Pompeo signed up for another season, she told Entertainment Weekly that she felt like they were "coming to the end of the stories that we've told and that we can tell". She added: "I'm really excited to do some new things, it's about time that I mix it up and I'm really excited about my producing career, and I'm definitely looking for a change. "At some point I have to wrap it up." Grey's Anatomy season 17 trailer: When can I watch it? Right now! We've popped it below, just for you. Grey's Anatomy airs on Thursdays on ABC in the US. It airs on Sky Witness in the UK. Grey's Anatomy Season 17 DVD [2021] Now 11% Off £16 at Amazon Watch Grey's Anatomy with Disney+ Shop at Disney+ How to Save a Life: The Inside Story of Grey's Anatomy by Lynette Rice Now 67% Off £7 at Amazon Credit: Headline Grey's Anatomy season 1 £13 at Amazon Grey's Anatomy season 2 £20 at Amazon Grey's Anatomy season 3 £20 at Amazon Grey's Anatomy season 4 £20 at Amazon Grey's Anatomy, season 5 £20 at Amazon Grey's Anatomy season 6 £20 at Amazon Grey's Anatomy season 7 £20 at Amazon Grey's Anatomy season 8 £20 at Amazon Grey's Anatomy season 9 £20 at Amazon Grey's Anatomy season 10 £20 at Amazon Grey's Anatomy season 11 £20 at Amazon Grey's Anatomy season 12 £23 at Amazon Grey's Anatomy season 13 £23 at Amazon Grey's Anatomy season 14 £23 at Amazon Grey's Anatomy season 15 £23 at Amazon Digital Spy has launched its first-ever digital magazine with exclusive features, interviews, and videos. Access the latest edition with a 1-month free trial, only on Apple News+ . Interested in Digital Spy's weekly newsletter? Sign up to get it sent straight to your inbox – and don't forget to join our Watch This Facebook Group for daily TV recommendations and discussions with other readers. Sam Ashurst Freelancer writer Sam is an entertainment writer with NCTJ accreditation and a twenty-year career as a film journalist. Starting out as a staff writer at Total Film , moving up to Deputy Online Editor, Sam was responsible for Total Film ’s YouTube channel, where he revolutionised the magazine’s approach to video junkets, creating influential formats that spread to other outlets. He’s interviewed a wide range of film icons, including directors such as David Lynch, Quentin Tarantino, Paul Thomas Anderson, Sofia Coppola, Ridley Scott, Michael Bay and Sam Raimi, as well as actors such as Meryl Streep, Nic Cage, Brad Pitt, George Clooney, Anne Hathaway, Margot Robbie, Natalie Portman, Kermit the Frog, all of the Avengers and many more. Sam has also interviewed several comic creators, including Stan Lee, Alan Moore, Grant Morrison, and he has a zombie cameo in The Walking Dead comic. In 2014, Sam went freelance, working directly for film studios including Warner Brothers, 20th Century Fox and Disney, as well as covering red carpet events for film marketing company PMA Productions. Sam is the co-host, producer and editor of the Arrow Video podcast , which has seen year-on-year growth since its creation in 2017, gaining over half a million listens in that time. His byline has appeared in outlets such as Yahoo , MTV, Dazed , Esquire, Harper’s Bazaar, Cosmopolitan, Elle , and Good Housekeeping among others. In 2012, Sam made it to the final of the Leicester Square Theatre New Comedian of the Year competition, and went on to become a filmmaker himself, directing three features that have all played major festivals, and secured distribution – starring in two of them. Jim Carrey once mistook Sam for Johnny Cash, and John Carpenter told him to ‘Keep up the good work.’ He promises to try his best. linkedIn Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Grey's Anatomy Ellen Pompeo shares Grey's Anatomy fan frustration Pompeo has blunt response about her Grey's future Grey's Anatomy star auditioned for The White Lotus Grey’s Anatomy's Eric Dane reveals ALS diagnosis Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Netflix's "addictive" new drama enters top chart Netflix's new Grey's Anatomy-style show is "dull" Ellen Pompeo addresses Grey's Anatomy future Netflix's Pulse is missing one vital thing Grey's Anatomy star "embarrassed" by sex scene Grey's Anatomy creator's biggest career hurdle Grey’s Anatomy star reveals doubt over iconic line Grey's Anatomy star on daughter watching show Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Features Exclusives US TV Reality TV Soaps Spoilers Coronation Street EastEnders Emmerdale Home and Away Hollyoaks Casualty Neighbours Waterloo Road Doctors Black Friday Gaming Showbiz LGBTQ+ Spy Star Wars Marvel Anime Doctor Who WWE Netflix Disney+ Apple TV+ Prime Video NOW DIGITAL SPY, PART OF THE HEARST UK ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2025 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved. RSS About & Contact Details Terms &amp; Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Complaints Sitemap Advertising Cookies Choices