Golden Globes Acquired By Dick Clark Prod., Eldridge; HFPA Winds Down Skip to main content Open Mega Menu Got A Tip? deadline-logo-svg Deadline Follow Us: site categories TV Film Awards Awards Hub Digital Issues Box Office Biz International Politics Theater Reviews Obits Video Events Contenders Television Film: Nominees Film: Documentary Film: International Film: Los Angeles Film: London Sound & Screen Film Television Other For The Love Of Docs Visual Effects + Screen Festivals North America Sundance Toronto Telluride SXSW Tribeca Europe Cannes Zurich Venice Berlin/EFM Middle East Red Sea Asia Tokyo Insider News Alerts Menu deadline-logo-svg Deadline Read Next: FCC, Paramount Start Talks Around Skydance Merger Got A Tip? Tip Us Home Business News Golden Globes Acquired By Dick Clark Productions & Eldridge; HFPA To Wind Down By Nellie Andreeva Nellie Andreeva Co-Editor-in-Chief, TV @DeadlineNellie More Stories By Nellie Blumhouse TV Lands ‘Darkly’ Novel For Series Adaptation Executive Produced By Jamie Lee Curtis Jenn Lyon Lands Lead In NBC Comedy Pilot ‘Stumble’ Ryan Eggold Joins ‘Seven Sisters’ FX Pilot View All June 12, 2023 10:11am 14 Comments Services to share this page. Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Email Show more sharing options Share on LinkedIn Pin it Submit to Reddit Post to Tumblr Share on WhatsApp Print This Page Getty Dick Clark Productions and Eldridge said Monday morning that they have acquired all the Golden Globes ’ assets, rights and properties from the Hollywood Foreign Press Association , turning the Hollywood awards show into a commercial enterprise. As a result, the HFPA and its membership, which have handed out the awards, will shutter. The announcement was made by Todd Boehly , Chairman of Eldridge, and Jay Penske, CEO, chairman and Founder, Penske Media, who also is CEO of DCP. Related Stories News Golden Globes Set 2024 Date With No Broadcast Partner Yet News ‘Green Wave’ Helmer Xu Lei Talks Chinese Film Funding And Directing His Father In The Comedy-Drama With proceeds from the transaction and the existing resources of the HFPA, the new owners will launch the Golden Globe Foundation, which will carry on HPFA’s entertainment-related charitable giving. As part of the deal, DCP and its partners will plan, host and produce the annual Golden Globe Awards show and will pursue commercial opportunities for the Golden Globes globally. Watch on Deadline Dick Clark Prods. said in February that the 81st annual Golden Globe Awards will be held Sunday, January 7, 2024. There is no broadcast partner yet for the event after the awards show’s most recent contract with its longtime network, NBC, came to an end. Discussions have been held with outlets including NBC. Today’s transaction completes a process that was kicked off last July, when the HFPA approved Eldridge Industries’ proposal to create a private entity to manage its Golden Globes assets, with a separate nonprofit to preserve its charitable and philanthropic programs. The restructure was proposed by Boehly, the Eldridge chairman and CEO who was named interim CEO of the HFPA in fall 2021 amid the organization’s restructuring after backlash over its practices and lack of diversity. Eldridge along with PMC in a joint venture own dick clark productions, which produces the Golden Globes. “We are excited to close on this much anticipated member-approved transaction and transition from a member-led organization to a commercial enterprise,” said HFPA President Helen Hoehne. The 2023 Golden Globe Awards marked the awards show’s return to TV following a non-televised 2022 ceremony amid the controversy surrounding the lack of diversity among HFPA membership. The ceremony drew 6.3 million viewers, an all-time low. Penske Media Eldridge acquired dcp in January as part of a larger strategic alliance, with Eldridge augmenting its existing partnership with Penske Media’s entertainment media brands and SXSW. PME is a PMC subsidiary and joint venture between Penske Media Corporation and Eldridge. PMC is the owner of Deadline. Must Read Stories Hide Articles Jesse Plemons To Play Plutarch Heavensbee In ‘Hunger Games: Sunrise On The Reaping’ ‘Revenge Of The Sith’ Rerelease Snags $3M+, ‘Accountant 2’ Counts $2.5M Tom Hanks & Apple’s ‘Greyhound’ Sequel To Begin Filming Early 2026 Casting Society Warns About Online Scams That Offer Auditions For Money Read More About: Breaking News Corporate Affairs Golden Globes Hollywood Foreign Press Association Todd Boehly 14 Comments Subscribe to Deadline Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Sign Up 14 Comments JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Sidebar Trending on Deadline 1 "The Hitler Thing": Bill Maher Lashes Out At Larry David's Mocking Of 'Real Time' Host's Trump Dinner 2 'Hunger Games: Sunrise On The Reaping' Movie Taps Jesse Plemons To Play Plutarch Heavensbee In Lionsgate Adaptation 3 'Revenge Of The Sith' $3M+ Thursday Strong With The Force, 'Accountant 2' Counts $2.5M From Previews 4 'The Conners' Series Finale: How Laurie Metcalf's Unexpected Burst Of Emotion Impacted The Final, Bittersweet Moment 5 'The Bachelor' Star Litia Garr Signs With Smith&Saint 6 Michael B. Jordan's 'Thomas Crown Affair' From Amazon MGM Studios Gets Early 2027 Release 7 Marvel Comics & Marvel Studios Team On MCU Movie Comic With 'Fantastic Four: First Steps' 8 'Superman' Will Debut Globally This Summer As Warner Bros Discovery Escapes Legal Kryptonite In Rights Suit 9 Jennifer Lawrence & Robert Pattinson Cannes Competition Film 'Die, My Love' Boarded By Patrick Wachsberger's 193 For International Sales 10 Sean "Diddy" Combs Fails To Have Cassie Ventura 2016 Hotel Beating Footage Excluded From Sex Trafficking Trial; Rejected Plea Deal Revealed deadline-logo-svg Deadline Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Latest Business News Ex-Congressman George Santos Sentenced To 7+ Years In Prison After Fraud Conviction - Update Brillstein Signs Brandon Berman & Harrison Forman, Creators Of Live Dating & Comedy Show 'UpDating' 'The Bachelor' Star Litia Garr Signs With Smith&Saint Casting Society Warns Actors & Fellow Casting Pros About Online Scams That Offer Auditions In Exchange For Money Marketplace Newswire Deadline About Us Advertise Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility AdChoices California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Sitemap TV Film Awards Box Office Business International Connect with Us Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks Have a Tip? We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Send Us a Tip Stay in the Know Sign up for our breaking news alerts Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. PMC Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Site Close the menu deadline-logo-svg TV Expand the sub-menu Castings Ratings Late-Night Primetime Pilot Panic Film Expand the sub-menu Festivals Reviews Castings Acquisitions Documentary Awards Expand the sub-menu Awards Hub Emmys Oscars Tonys Box Office Expand the sub-menu International B.O. Specialty B.O. Broadway B.O. Business Expand the sub-menu Politics Legal Executives Agencies International Expand the sub-menu Festivals Film TV International Insider Video Expand the sub-menu Trailers The Actor's Side Behind The Lens The Process More Expand the sub-menu Obituaries Theater Music Podcasts Insider Follow Us Alerts & Newsletters Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertise About Us Give us feedback Leave us a tip Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. ad