Abdulrazak Gurnah – Facts – 2021 - NobelPrize.org Skip to content Open the search menu Close the search menu Close Mobile Menu Toggle Mobile Menu Nobel Prizes & laureates All Nobel Prizes All Nobel Prizes 2024 Physics prize Chemistry prize Medicine prize Literature prize Peace prize Prize in economic sciences About About the prize Alfred Nobel Award ceremonies Nomination Organisation Stories Educational Events & museums Open the search menu Close the search menu Header Search Submit a search term Enhanced Page Navigation Abdulrazak Gurnah – Facts – 2021 Nobel Prize in Literature 2021 Summary Laureates Abdulrazak Gurnah Facts Nobel Lecture Prize presentation Podcast Interview Prose Nobel diploma Photo gallery Other resources Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech Share this Facebook X LinkedIn Email this page Abdulrazak Gurnah Facts Navigate to: Summary -- Facts -- Nobel Lecture -- Prize presentation -- Podcast -- Interview -- Prose -- Nobel diploma -- Photo gallery -- Other resources Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech © Nobel Prize Outreach. Photo: Stefan Bladh Abdulrazak Gurnah Nobel Prize in Literature 2021 Born:		1948 Prize motivation: 					“for his uncompromising and compassionate penetration of the effects of colonialism and the fate of the refugee in the gulf between cultures and continents” Prize share: 				1/1 Work The theme of the refugee’s disruption runs throughout Abdulrazak Gurnah's work. He grew up on the island of Zanzibar, but in the 1960s oppression and persecution of citizens of Arab origin forced him to leave the country. Eventually he settled in England. His novels depict a culturally diversified East Africa. Gurnah’s dedication to truth and his aversion to simplification are striking. This can make him bleak and uncompromising, at the same time as he follows the fates of individuals with great compassion and unbending commitment. To cite this section MLA style: Abdulrazak Gurnah – Facts – 2021. NobelPrize.org. Nobel Prize Outreach 2025. Fri. 25 Apr 2025. <https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/literature/2021/gurnah/facts/> Back to top Back To Top Takes users back to the top of the page Book tips What to read? Curious about 2021 literature laureate Abdulrazak Gurnah but can’t decide which of his books to start with? Here three members of the Swedish Academy give their recommendations. Nobel Prizes and laureates Nobel Prizes 2024 Six prizes were awarded for achievements that have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind. The 12 laureates' work and discoveries range from proteins' structures and machine learning to fighting for a world free of nuclear weapons. See them all presented here. Explore prizes and laureates Look for popular awards and laureates in different fields, and discover the history of the Nobel Prize. Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Decrease the year by one - Choose a year you would like to search in Increase the year by one + Explore About the Nobel Prize organisation The Nobel Foundation Tasked with a mission to manage Alfred Nobel's fortune and has ultimate responsibility for fulfilling the intentions of Nobel's will. The prize-awarding institutions For more than a century, these academic institutions have worked independently to select Nobel Prize laureates. Outreach organisations Several outreach organisations and activities have been developed to inspire generations and disseminate knowledge about the Nobel Prize. Press Contact FAQ Privacy policy Terms of use For developers Media player Careers Join us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Nobel Prize Copyright © Nobel Prize Outreach 2025 Scroll to top