This Is Every Actress Who Played Queen Elizabeth II on The Crown Search Ree's Life Food and Recipes Home and Life Holiday Beauty Style News and Entertainment Giveaways Subscribe New: Ree's Best Family Meals The Pioneer Woman Products About The Pioneer Woman Newsletter Follow Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content Ree's Life Food & Recipes Home & Life Comfort Food The Pioneer Woman Products Subscribe sign in Search Cheesy Lasagna Recipes Soup-Inspired Recipes Mac and Cheese Recipes Eggless Desserts Healthy Casseroles News and Entertainment TV Shows A Break Down of Every Actress Who Has Played Queen Elizabeth II on 'The Crown' A Break Down of Every Actress Who Has Played Queen Elizabeth II on 'The Crown' From the first season to the last! By Josiah Soto Published: Nov 14, 2023 5:04 PM EST Save Article It's almost time to bid a farewell to the incredible journey that is The Crown . Season 6 part 1 will air on November 16, with the series marking its official end with part 2 on December 14. Some of us are in denial that our favorite Netflix series is wrapping up, but instead of being all melancholy about it—we thought we'd take this moment to honor the incredible cast that have portrayed some of the world's most notable figures throughout its run. While every role has been pivotal to the story, the series would hardly be what it is without the depiction of Queen Elizabeth II . If you, too, were completely mesmerized by the story of Queen Elizabeth II , then get this: We created a brief timeline of each iteration throughout the series with the different actresses who played her. Claire Foy, Olivia Colman, Imelda Staunton, and Verity Russell have all done phenomenal jobs at recreating the essence of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth, so take a scroll as we prepare to say goodbye to the series as a whole. 1 Claire Foy as Queen Elizabeth II in Seasons 1 and 2 Robert Viglasky // Netflix Ah, back to those early season days! Claire Foy was the brave soul who first took on the role (winning an Emmy for it in 2018) and setting the standard of what it meant to depict Queen Elizabeth II. She embodied her at the age of 21, which took place in 1947, to the age of 38 in 1964. When Claire first introduced Elizabeth, we met her as a Princess who was about to marry Philip Mountbatten—and just before taking the throne after the death of her father, King George VI. Besides The Crown , Claire has some pretty notable roles! You may have seen her in The Girl in the Spider's Web and the award winning film, Women Talking . 2 Verity Russell as Princess Elizabeth in Seasons 1 and 3 Alex Bailey / Netflix Though Verity didn't have a major role in The Crown , she appeared every once in a while through flashbacks in both season 1 and 3. In the show's first season, we meet her as a young, 12-year-old Princess, mostly alongside her sister, Princess Margaret. Verity makes one more appearance in a season 3 flashback, this time at age 17. It was a brief, but important scene that showed Princess Elizabeth and Princess Margaret being reprimanded for suggesting that Margaret should be Queen. The Crown is Verity's first and only acting role! It's hard to imagine, considering she did such an amazing job each time she was shown on screen. Outside of The Crown , Verity lives a private and quiet life in London, England. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 3 Olivia Colman as Queen Elizabeth II in Seasons 3 and 4 Alex Bailey / Netflix Olivia Colman was handed the baton (or should we say the Crown) from Claire in season 3. Olivia began her role right where things left off in the previous season—seeing her at the age of 38 in 1964. She continued to portray the Queen until the end of season 4, which saw the Queen at the age 64 in 1990. Colman did a fabulous job in both seasons, especially given the topics that were covered: The 1966 mining disaster in Aberfan and Princess Margaret's divorce in 1978. Olivia is known for so much more outside of The Crown . She earned an Oscar in 2019 for her role as Queen Anne in The Favourite , and has been nominated for two more since! Other works include Broadchurch and Empire of Light . 4 Imelda Staunton as Queen Elizabeth in Seasons 5 and 6 Robert Viglasky/Netflix Last (but certainly not least), we have Imelda Staunton who took over the role as Queen in season 5. Again, it started right where it was left off, so Imelda first depicted the Queen in 1991. Now, season 5 was definitely a heavy one, covering topics like Elizabeth's "annus horribilis" and the divorce of Prince Charles and Diana. Imelda is set to reprise her role as the Queen in the sixth and final season of The Crown . It will cover events that happened up until 2005. Imelda famously played Dolores Umbridge in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix , and has other roles in works such as Cranford and Fingersmith . Josiah Soto Digital Content Producer Josiah is the Digital Content Producer for the commerce team at Popular Mechanics, Best Products, Runner’s World, and Bicycling Magazine. He also writes for “BIO Buys”—a column on Biography.com—giving readers the lowdown on what products their favorite celebs are using. In another life, Josiah was an editor at ThePioneerWoman.com, where he sharpened his expertise on all things lifestyle, food-news, and entertainment. Outside work related matters, he’s a fan of Studio Ghibli films, unimportant reality TV drama, and melancholy Lorde songs. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below TV Shows 10 TV Shows Like 'Ransom Canyon' to Watch Now 'Sweet Magnolias' Has Been Renewed for Season 5 Will 'Ransom Canyon' Return for Season 2? Where Is 'Ransom Canyon' Filmed? Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 30 Shows on Netflix That Are Calling Your Name When Is the Kentucky Derby in 2025? Where to Watch 'Ransom Canyon' Meet the 'Ransom Canyon' Cast Why This 'Cobra Kai' Star Is Quitting Acting Understanding the 'Yellowstone' Dutton Family Tree The Best Shows on Paramount+ Worth Watching Wait, Is '1923' Season 3 Happening? Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Subscribe About The Pioneer Woman Other Hearst Subscriptions Newsletter A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Sitemap Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads