2020 Oscars: Complete list of winners at Academy Awards - ABC News ABC News Video Live Shows Shop Log In Stream on Culture 2020 Oscars: Complete list of winners at Academy Awards Check out who brought home the night's biggest awards. By Hayley FitzPatrick February 9, 2020, 11:14 PM 1:30 Brad Pitt arrives at the Oscars in Hollywood, Calif., Feb. 9, 2020. Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty Images Some of the biggest names in Hollywood took home awards at the 92nd Academy Awards Sunday night. Renee Zellweger won the coveted best lead actress award for her performance in "Judy," while Joaquin Phoenix won the best lead actor award for "Joker." South Korean film "Parasite" had an incredible night, winning best picture, best director, original screenplay and best international feature film. MORE: Oscars 2020 recap: 'Parasite' breaks barriers, Eminem's unexpected performance Brad Pitt won his first acting Oscar, for best actor in a supporting role in "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood," and got political in his acceptance speech , and Laura Dern snagged the best supporting actress award for "Marriage Story." SLIDESHOW:Top moments from the 2020 Oscar telecast Check out the full list of 2020 Oscar winners: Best Picture "Ford v. Ferrari" "The Irishman" "Jojo Rabbit" "Joker" "Little Women" "Marriage Story" "1917" "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood" "Parasite" (winner) 2:58 What to know about 'Parasite' ahead of the 2020 Oscars Here's what you need to know about "Parasite,” the film nominated for best picture at the Oscars. ABCNews.com "Parasite" cast and crew accept the award for Best Picture for "Parasite" during the 92nd Oscars at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, Calif., Feb. 9, 2020. Mark Ralston/AFP via Getty Images Best Director Martin Scorsese, "The Irishman" Todd Phillips, "Joker" Sam Mendes, "1917" Quentin Tarantino, "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood" Bong Joon-ho, "Parasite" (winner) Actor in a Leading Role Antonio Banderas, "Pain and Glory" Leonardo DiCaprio, "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood" Adam Driver, "Marriage Story" Joaquin Phoenix, "Joker" (winner) Jonathan Pryce, "The Two Popes" Joaquin Phoenix reacts as he accepts the award for best performance by an actor in a leading role for "Joker" at the Oscars, Feb. 9, 2020, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP Actress in a Leading Role Cynthia Erivo, "Harriet" Saoirse Ronan, "Little Women" Charlize Theron, "Bombshell" Scarlett Johansson, "Marriage Story" Renee Zellweger, "Judy" (winner) Renee Zellweger accepts the award for best performance by an actress in a leading role for "Judy" at the Oscars, Feb. 9, 2020, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP Actor in a Supporting Role Tom Hanks, "A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood" Al Pacino, "The Irishman" Joe Pesci, "The Irishman" Anthony Hopkins, "The Two Popes" Brad Pitt, "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood" (winner) Brad Pitt accepts the award for Best Supporting Actor for "Once upon a Time...in Hollywood" during the 92nd Oscars at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, Calif., Feb. 9, 2020. Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP Actress in a Supporting Role Kathy Bates, "Richard Jewell" Laura Dern, "Marriage Story" (winner) Scarlett Johansson, "Jojo Rabbit" Florence Pugh, "Little Women" Margot Robbie, "Bombshell" Laura Dern wins the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress in "Marriage Story" at the 92nd Academy Awards in Hollywood, Calif., Feb. 9, 2020. Mario Anzuoni/Reuters Animated Feature Film "How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World" "I Lost My Body" "Klaus" "Missing Link" "Toy Story 4" (winner) 0:29 More clues about 'Toy Story 4' revealed The 30-second spot which aired during the Super Bowl featured the "Toy Story" gang at a carnival. Walt Disney Studios Animated Short Film "Dcera (Daughter)" "Hair Love" (winner) "Kitbull" "Memorable" "Sister" 4:56 Matthew Cherry opens up about his Oscar-nominated film, ‘Hair Love’ Cherry was a wide receiver in the NFL before making the switch to Hollywood as a filmmaker. ABCNews.com MORE: Oscars 2020: See all the best red carpet looks of the night Original Screenplay "Knives Out" "Marriage Story" "1917" "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood" "Parasite" (winner) Editor’s Picks Female directors snubbed in 2020 Oscar nominations -- here's what can be done How to watch Oscar-nominated films from home Oscars by the numbers: A-list actress' look can cost $10 million Bong Joon Ho wins the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay for "Parasite" at the 92nd Academy Awards in Hollywood, Calif., Feb. 9, 2020. Mario Anzuoni/Reuters Adapted Screenplay Taika Waititi, "Jojo Rabbit" (winner) Steve Zaillian, "The Irishman" Anthony McCarten, "The Two Popes" Greta Gerwig, "Little Women" Todd Phillips and Scott Silver, "Joker" Taika Waititi accepts the award for Best Adapted Screenplay for 'Jojo Rabbit' at the 92nd Academy Awards in Hollywood, Calif., Feb. 9, 2020. Mario Anzuoni/Reuters Live Action Short Film "Brotherhood" "Nefta Football Club" "The Neighbors' Window" (winner) "Saria" "A Sister" Production Design Barbara Ling and Nancy Haigh accept the Oscar for Best Production Design for "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood" at the 92nd Academy Awards in Hollywood, Calif., Feb. 9, 2020. Mario Anzuoni/Reuters Costume Design "The Irishman" "Jojo Rabbit" "Joker" "Little Women" (winner) "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood" Jacqueline Durran accepts the award for best costume design for "Little Women" at the Oscars, Feb. 9, 2020, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP Documentary Feature "American Factory" (winner) "The Cave" "The Edge of Democracy" "For Sama" "Honeyland" Julia Reichert, left, and Steven Bognar accept the award for best documentary feature for "American Factory" at the Oscars, Feb. 9, 2020, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP MORE: Female directors were snubbed in 2020 Oscar nominations -- here's what can be done Documentary Short "In the Absence" "Learning to Skateboard in a War Zone If You're a Girl" (winner) "Life Overtakes Me" "St. Louis Superman" "Walk Run Cha-Cha" Carol Dysinger and Elena Andreicheva accept the Oscar for Best Documentary Short Subject for "Learning to Skateboard in a Warzone (If You're a Girl)" at the 92nd Academy Awards in Hollywood, Calif., Feb. 9, 2020. Mario Anzuoni/Reuters Sound Editing "Ford v Ferrari" (winner) "Joker" "1917" "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood" "Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker" SLIDESHOW: Stars who've never been nominated Sound Mixing "Ad Astra" "Ford v Ferrari" "Joker" "1917" (winner) "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood" Cinematography "The Irishman" "Joker" "The Lighthouse" "1917" (winner) "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood" Roger Deakins wins the Oscar for Best Cinematography for "1917" at the 92nd Academy Awards in Hollywood, Calif., Feb. 9, 2020. Mario Anzuoni/Reuters Film Editing "Ford V. Ferrari" (winner) "The Irishman" "Jojo Rabbit" "Joker" "Parasite" Andrew Buckland, left, and Michael McCusker accept the award for best film editing for "Ford v Ferrari" at the Oscars, Feb. 9, 2020, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP Visual Effects "Avengers: Endgame" "The Irishman" "The Lion King" "1917" (winner) "Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker" Guillaume Rocheron, Greg Butler and Dominic Tuohy win the Oscar for Best Visual Effects for "1917" at the 92nd Academy Awards in Hollywood, Los Angeles, Calif., Feb. 9, 2020. Mario Anzuoni/Reuters Makeup and Hairstyling "Bombshell" (winner) "Joker" "Judy" "Maleficent: Mistress of Evil" "1917" Vivian Baker, left, and Kazu Hiro accept the award for best makeup and hairstyling for "Bombshell" at the Oscars, Feb. 9, 2020, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP MORE: Check out these 2020 nominees at their first Oscars red carpet International Feature Film "Corpus Christi" "Honeyland" "Les Miserables" "Pain and Glory" "Parasite" (winner) South Korean director Bong Joon-ho accepts the award for Best International Feature Film for "Parasite" during the 92nd Oscars at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, Calif., Feb. 9, 2020. Mark Ralston/AFP via Getty Images Original Score "Joker" (winner) "Little Women" "Marriage Story" "1917" "Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker" Hildur Gudnadottir wins the Oscar for Best Original Score for "Joker" at the 92nd Academy Awards in Hollywood, Calif., Feb. 9, 2020. Mario Anzuoni/Reuters Original Song "I Can't Let You Throw Yourself Away" - "Toy Story 4" "I'm Gonna Love Me Again" – "Rocketman" (winner) "I'm Standing With You" – "Breakthrough" "Into The Unknown" – "Frozen 2" "Stand Up" – "Harriet" Related Topics Oscars Sponsored Content by Taboola Popular Reads Trump has lowest 100-day approval rating in 80 years: POLL Apr 27, 12:04 AM Pope Francis updates: Pope Francis' coffin has been closed Apr 25, 5:50 PM Trump admin live updates: Trump rallies with supporters to mark 100 days 3 hours ago US fighter jet rolls off aircraft carrier, sinks into ocean, Navy says Apr 28, 4:36 PM ABC News Live 24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events ABC News Network Privacy Policy Your US State Privacy Rights Children's Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads About Nielsen Measurement Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Contact Us © 2025 ABC News