Barclays Atp World Tour Finals - Sportsmax Skip to main content Home Athletics Football Cricket NBA More Sports Baseball Basketball Bobsled Body Building Boxing Cycling Darts Gymnastics Hockey Horse Racing Motorsport Netball NFL Racket Sports Rugby Shooting Snooker Tennis Volleyball Water Sports Winter Sports Videos Zone LATEST STORIES McKenzie’s half-century hands Jamaica Titans first win in tense T20 Breakout League clash Caribbean queens among first to qualify for inaugural World Athletics Ultimate Championship Sunil Narine inspires KKR to vital win over Delhi Capitals GCB backs Permaul, Anderson in legal challenge against ball tampering charges Shai Hope sidelined again as Multan Sultans suffer humiliating 10-wicket defeat West Coast Fever unveil mural to honour Fowler-Nembhard after emotional return 'We just don’t have the legs': Bahamas to miss World Athletics Relays Title contenders turn focus to Michael Holding Senior Cup quarter-finals CWI champions cricket as catalyst for regional growth at CIS25 Conference 'Long time coming': Hazell overwhelmed by Saint Lucia’s 2027 Carifta Swim Champs hosting milestone Home Athletics Football Cricket NBA More Sports Baseball Basketball Bobsled Body Building Boxing Cycling Darts Gymnastics Hockey Horse Racing Netball Motorsport NFL Racket Sports Rugby Shooting Snooker Tennis Volleyball Water Sports Winter Sports Videos Zone Home Athletics Football Cricket NBA More Sports Baseball Basketball Bobsled Body Building Boxing Cycling Darts Gymnastics Hockey Horse Racing Motorsport Netball NFL Racket Sports Rugby Shooting Snooker Tennis Volleyball Water Sports Winter Sports Videos Zone Barclays Atp World Tour Finals ATP Finals: Nadal's wait rolls on as Medvedev tees up Thiem showdown The world number two has 86 singles titles, including 20 majors, to his name, yet the season-ending showdown is not counted among his honours, and it was Medvedev who progressed to a final with last year's runner-up Dominic Thiem thanks to a 3-6 7-6 (7-4) 6-3 success. Medvedev was in relentless form, though Nadal pulled out his full repertoire of shots to take the lead in the opener before clawing himself back from 4-1 down in the second set tie-break. Ultimately, though, Medvedev had too much and, after clinching the second set, maintained the momentum to break twice in the decider and claim his first win over Nadal. After an aggressive start, Medvedev had three chances to break in game three, yet the Russian failed to take the opportunity to nose himself ahead. Nadal, however, made no such mistake five games later as he constructed an excellent rally from the baseline before drawing world number four Medvedev into an overhit forehand. The set was wrapped up in Nadal's favour at the first time of asking, but Medvedev responded in force and a double-fault from Nadal handed him the next break. Medvedev had a second break in his sights at 4-1 up, yet a missed cross-court backhand gave Nadal a reprieve, and the 34-year-old hammered home a venomous serve. An emphatic Medvedev ace saved a break point, but a pair of volleys put Nadal on the front foot, with the southpaw then lashing a cross-court forehand beyond his opponent. More clinical shots dragged Nadal level and what looked set to be a crucial break followed – the 13-time French Open champion lifting a delicate lob down the line after Medvedev had closed in on the net. Yet Nadal went from serving to win the match to serving to stay in the set within the space of nine points. Nadal held his nerve to force a tie-break, in which a slice of good fortune with a lob saw Medvedev take a 6-3 lead, with the set sealed in his favour on the second set point. The intensity continued into the decider, with blow after blow exchanged until Medvedev – on his third chance – broke with a powerful return, forcing Nadal to serve to stay in the match. But Medvedev had the answer for everything his opponent threw at him and, after a perfect forehand teed up match point, victory was secured when a tame Nadal shot hit the net. WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Medvedev - 42/22 Nadal - 30/30 ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Medvedev - 13/3 Nadal - 3/3 BREAK POINTS WON Medvedev - 4/11 Nadal - 3/4 ATP Finals: No extra motivation needed for Nadal as Djokovic eyes 'perfect ending' Spanish great Nadal has won 22 singles grand slam titles, a record in the men's game, but has surprisingly never been crowned champion at the season-ending event. Nadal made a personal-best start to 2022, winning 20 straight matches and lifting the Australian Open title. However, he has only played once since the US Open due to becoming a father for the first time and recuperating from injuries. Still, at the age of 36, Nadal is grateful to still be getting a crack at finally ticking off the ATP Finals on his impressive list of accomplishments. "I try my best in every single event. That's true. Doesn't matter if I won it [in the past] or not," Nadal, a two-time runner-up, said at an ATP media day prior to the tournament in Turin. "When I enter a tennis tournament, I want to win and I'm going to try my best to achieve that goal. Here I was not able to make it, I was not good enough to make it in the past. "So I just accept that and I'm happy to give myself another chance at the age of 36 — something, for me, that was difficult to imagine years ago. "Of course it's going to be a challenge, but I hope I will be ready to give myself a chance. That's what I am looking for, just practising as good as possible with the right attitude and just trying to be ready for the action that's going to start on Sunday." Djokovic's season has been a complicated one. Absent from the Australian and US Opens due to not being vaccinated against COVID-19, the Serbian great did triumph at Wimbledon, but there were no ranking points on offer at SW19. He has slipped to eighth in the rankings as a result but does have four titles to his name in 2022 and Djokovic is eyeing a record-equalling sixth ATP Finals title and first since 2015. "It would be a perfect ending," Djokovic said." The cherry on the cake, for sure, but it's a long way. It's a long week. "You've got to play the best players in the world. You have to play more or less everyone in this tournament at least once, so I look forward to it. "I've had experience in this tournament, in this format, many times and hopefully that can serve me in a good way." ATP Finals: Relentless Medvedev motors through dead rubber before Nadal semi The world number four had not dropped a set against Alexander Zverev or Novak Djokovic and showed the already-eliminated Diego Schwartzman no mercy in a 6-3 6-3 success on Friday. Medvedev wasted little time in taking command of proceedings, even if Schwartzman battled to an initial hold. The Russian led at the next opportunity, picking out the right corner of the court with his forehand and then racing through his own service games to preserve his advantage. A sharp increase in pressure then allowed Medvedev to clinch the opener on Schwartzman's serve, despite seeing an outrageous stretching return to tee up set point go to waste. Medvedev converted next time, following up a blistering cross-court effort by blasting straight through his opponent at the net. The breakthrough in the second again came in Schwartzman's second service game, with the third of three break points a sweetly struck backhand. That was enough to seal victory, Medvedev breezing through this dead rubber - served out to love - before the real business continues against Nadal in Saturday's semi-final. WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Medvedev - 30/19 Schwartzman - 13/8 ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Medvedev - 4/1 Schwartzman - 0/0 BREAK POINTS WON Medvedev - 3/9 Schwartzman - 0/2 ATP Finals: Rublev beats Tsitsipas in straight sets Rublev had only won two of his past seven contests before arriving at the season-ending tournament at the Pala Alpitour but saw off fourth seed Tsitsipas 6-4 6-4. The fifth seed from Russia gained sweet revenge, having lost to his Greek opponent in this event in London last year. Rublev did not face a break point as he levelled his head-to-head record with Tsitsipas at 4-4 with a statement win. The Moscow native won 90 per cent of points behind his first serve and broke Tsitsipas once in each set, sealing victory in an hour and a half. Rublev joined world number one Novak Djokovic at the top of the Green Group on a night to forget for Tsitsipas. WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Rublev – 31/7 Tsitsipas – 31/17 ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Rublev – 9/3 Tsitsipas– 12/2 BREAK POINTS WON Rublev – 2/7 Tsitsipas – 0/0 ATP Finals: Rublev edges Medvedev in all-Russian thriller The sixth seed came from behind to beat his fellow Russian in a match lasting over two and a half hours to put himself top of the Red Group, with the pool's other two players, Novak Djokovic and Stefanos Tsitsipas, playing later on Monday. Rublev got off to a fast start, securing a break to put himself 4-1 up in the first set. However, Medvedev saw off two set points to take it to a tie-break, before fending off five more set points on his way to taking an extraordinary opener. World number seven Rublev hit back with two breaks in a strong second set to level the match, Medvedev not helping himself with six double faults. Medvedev, the fourth seed, cut down the errors in a tight final set that did not see a solitary break of serve as a tie-break was required to settle an absorbing contest. But after a remarkable final stand from Medvedev that saw him save four match points, Rublev finally got over the line make a winning start. ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Medvedev - 24/8 Rublev - 9/1 WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Medvedev - 46/26 Rublev - 38/24 BREAK POINTS WON Medvedev - 1/2 Rublev - 3/9 ATP Finals: Rublev fights back to beat Tsitsipas and clinch last-four spot Rublev had failed to make it out of the group stage on each of his first two appearances at the season-ending showpiece. It initially looked as if he would fall short once again in this winner-take-all clash with Tsitsipas, with both men looking to join Novak Djokovic in progressing from the Red Group. He was outclassed by Tsitsipas in the first set but showed the grit to recover from 0-30 down in the opening game of the second to find a crucial hold of serve. That proved the catalyst for a stunning turnaround, as Rublev dominated with his fierce forehand and a series of superb passing shots to seal a 3-6 6-3 6-2 victory in Turin. He will face Casper Ruud on Saturday for a place in the final. Rublev told Prime Video of that semi-final encounter: "I'm really looking forward because Casper is such a nice person, great player, great fighter, he has achieved so many things this season, so it's going to be a really good challenge for me." ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Rublev – 10/2 Tsitsipas – 10/2 WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Rublev – 36/22 Tsitsipas – 25/12 BREAK POINTS WON Rublev – 3/5 Tsitsipas – 1/3 ATP Finals: Ruud beats Fritz to reach last four, Alcaraz youngest year-ending world number one Ruud made it two wins out of two in the Green Group to seal his semi-final spot with a 6-3 4-6 7-6 (8-6) defeat of Fritz in Turin. The third seed eliminated Rafael Nadal when he won the first set and in doing so guaranteed that injured 19-year-old Alcaraz will be the youngest player to be at the top of the ATP rankings at the end of a year. Ruud stormed into a 3-0 lead and did not allow Fritz a way back into the first set, but the American broke for the first time to level the match when his opponent was serving to stay in the second. The battling Fritz fended off two break points in the fifth game of the deciding set and saved two match points as he fought back from 5-1 down in the tie-break to draw level at 6-6. Norwegian Ruud was not to be denied, though, becoming the first player to reach the semi-finals when eighth seed Fritz drilled a forehand long at the Palbata Alpitour. Fritz will do battle with Felix Auger-Aliassime on Thursday for a place in the last four. ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Ruud - 14/3 Fritz - 15/0 WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Ruud - 36/4 Fritz  - 36/1 BREAK POINTS WON Ruud - 1/5 Auger-Aliassime - 1/4 ATP Finals: Ruud fights back to beat Rublev and reach semis The Norwegian will play defending champion Daniil Medvedev in the semi-finals after a gruelling 2-6 7-5 7-6 (7-5) victory over Rublev in Turin on Friday that lasted two hours and 26 minutes. Ruud had lost all four of his previous meetings with Rublev, who promptly moved ahead by comfortably winning his ninth straight set in this head-to-head. Rublev then looked poised for victory when he struck first in the second set but Ruud, who hit 39 winners, fought back with two breaks of his own to force the decider in a high-quality contest. The 22-year-old again bounced back from being broken in the third set and ultimately prevailed in a tense tie-break, producing a big serve when it mattered most with his second match point. Ruud therefore finishes second to Novak Djokovic in the Green Group, with Rublev exiting at the round-robin stage for a second straight year after narrowly losing the winner-takes-all clash. With Alexander Zverev also through, this is the first time since 1994 that three of the four semi-finalists are former champions – with Ruud the exception. WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Rublev - 33/22 Ruud - 39/31 ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Rublev - 14/3 ​Ruud - 14/3 BREAK POINTS WON Rublev - 4/11 ​Ruud - 3/5 ATP Finals: Ruud roars back to beat late replacement Norrie Norrie stepped in as a second alternate at the season-ending event at the Pala Alpitour following Stefanos Tsitsipas' withdrawal due to an elbow injury on Wednesday. The Briton got off to a flyer in his first ATP Finals match, but eighth seed Ruud hit back to win 1-6 6-3 6-4 in the night session after losing his opening Green Group contest to world number one Novak Djokovic. Ruud lost only two games when the two met in the San Diego Open final last month and Norrie looked hungry for revenge as he bossed the first set, grasping both break-point opportunities. Ruud won the only break point of the second set to force a decider and just one further break was enough to get him up and running in the competition. After becoming the first Norwegian to win an ATP Finals match, Ruud will do battle with Andrey Rublev to join Djokovic in qualifying from the group. WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Ruud  – 32/22 Norrie– 30/20 ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Ruud  – 10/0 Norrie – 6/3 BREAK POINTS WON Ruud – 2/5 Norrie – 2/2 ATP Finals: Ruud sets up Djokovic clash for Turin title as Rublev hopes end The 23-year-old Norwegian has enjoyed a stunning season, reaching two grand slam finals, and his 6-2 6-4 semi-final dismissal of Russian Rublev was impressively authoritative. After Ruud coasted through the opening set, the occasion fell wholly flat when Ruud broke serve in the first game of the second, and did so again in the third game. Rublev sat shaking his head at his chair in the break between games, also shrugging his shoulders towards his support team and looking lost for ideas. He only began to make an impact after slipping 4-0 behind, and at 5-2 he broke Ruud's serve to narrow the gap and give the Turin crowd hope the contest could take off. At 5-4, it was briefly tense, but Ruud served for the match for a second time and this time made it count, sealing victory with a brilliant backhand winner to become the first Scandinavian finalist at the ATP Finals since Stefan Edberg in 1990. Ruud will overtake Rafael Nadal and end the year at number two in the ATP rankings should he carry off the title on Sunday; however, he has a 0-3 career record against Djokovic. Djokovic earlier battled past Taylor Fritz by winning a pair of tight tie-breaks to earn a straight-sets victory in the first of Saturday's semi-finals. ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Ruud – 10/0 Rublev – 9/0 WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Ruud – 20/0 Rublev – 19/1 BREAK POINTS WON Ruud – 4/4 Rublev – 1/1 ATP Finals: Sensational Thiem downs Nadal in London classic The Austrian needed three tie-breaks to take a four-set victory over Nadal at the Australian Open in January and Tuesday's clash in London was similarly played on a knife-edge. In the end, Thiem made it three wins in his previous four meetings with the French Open champion, prevailing 7-6 (9-7) 7-6 (7-4) after nearly two and a half hours of the highest quality tennis at the O2 Arena. Nadal enjoyed a one-sided victory over Andrey Rublev in his first match in the group, but this was more in keeping with the three-set battle Thiem had with Stefanos Tsitsipas. The level of serving – only 15 points were dropped behind a first serve during the opening 12 games – and the supremacy of the groundstrokes meant there were no break points prior to the first tie-break, Thiem clinching it with an inside-out forehand winner after roaring back from 2-5 down. There was no let-up in the standard and intensity of play early in the second either, as summed up by consecutive points in which first Nadal and then Thiem produced astonishing running forehand winners. Thiem at last got the first break of the match to go 4-3 ahead but the US Open champion promptly surrendered that lead as Nadal refused to give in. An uncharacteristically loose game from the Spaniard gifted Thiem three match points, but the 20-time grand slam champion, still waiting for his first ATP Finals trophy, dug deep to keep the contest alive. In the second tie-break, a spectacular backhand down the line helped Thiem edge ahead 4-3 and, although Nadal saved two further match points, his sixth defeat of the year was sealed when he pushed a backhand into the tramlines. "I think it was a great match from the first to the last point," Thiem, who hit 37 winners to 22 unforced errors, said to Amazon Prime Sport. "I was pretty lucky to get the first set, 2-5 down in the tie-break, and against Rafa, obviously it's nice to win the first set but still I had to stay super focused. "I had the feeling the whole match was very high-level but I'm very happy with the way I served. Most of the time I get the first serve in, I'm into the offence. When I was in difficult situations, the serve helped me out a lot." Thiem will be the first player to qualify for the semi-finals if Tsitsipas defeats Rublev in the late session. WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Nadal: 25/16 Thiem: 37/22 ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Nadal: 2/1 Thiem: 6/2 BREAK POINTS WON Nadal: 1/2 Thiem: 1/5 ATP Finals: Sinner replaces Berrettini as Medvedev reflects on memorable win over Zverev Medvedev made it two wins from two in Turin as he fought to a 6-3 6-7 (3-6) 7-6 (8-6) victory over Alexander Zverev on Tuesday. That win sealed the defending champion's place in the semi-finals, and he will now aim to maintain his momentum when he returns to the court for his final group game. However, he will not face Berrettini as initially scheduled, after the Italian world number seven was forced to withdraw with an injury he sustained against Zverev on Sunday. Berrettini had to retire from that match, and compatriot Sinner will replace him. Sinner's first match will be against Hubert Hurkacz in a repeat of the Miami Open final – the Pole claiming his maiden ATP Masters 1000 title on that occasion. Hurkacz lost his first match of his debut Finals, going down to Medvedev, who was made to work harder against Zverev. "Definitely one of the matches to remember," Medvedev said after his win over the German. "When you win 8-6 in the tie-break in the third... "It was 4-2 for him, so I was like okay, he serves a few aces, it's done. I made it 6-4, and I was like okay, that's my moment now. "Just an amazing feeling. Not actually much to say about the match, just amazing. "Sometimes that's how tennis is. You just try to do your best. Sometimes luck is on your side, sometimes not. Sometimes it's more than just luck. I just try to do my best, and I'm really happy the past seven matches went in my favour." ATP Finals: Sinner shines on unexpected Turin debut Matteo Berrettini's withdrawal due to injury meant Sinner stepped in as a late replacement for his fellow Italian, and the 20-year-old rose to the occasion with a 6-2 6-2 victory in Turin. Daniil Medvedev is already assured of a place in the semi-finals, and Sinner could join the defending champion in qualifying from the Red Group following a commanding bow at the Pala Alpitour. The first alternate raised the roof on home soil, with Hurkacz unable to break his serve as the seventh seed from Poland suffered back-to-back defeats to prop up the group. Sinner, a winner of four titles in a stellar season, broke twice in each set and won 74 per cent of points behind his first serve as he took centre stage soon after he might have been a spectator. The world number 11 said: "I knew around 5[pm] that I would play. I was ready to go on court. It is an incredible feeling playing here in Italy with thousands of people cheering for you, and I am trying my best. I will enjoy the moment. I played well and felt good in the warm-up. It was an incredible match." Sinner could move into the last four if he beats Medvedev or if Alexander Zverev is beaten by Hurkacz on Thursday. WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Sinner – 17/11 Hurkacz – 14/14 ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Sinner – 5/0 Hurkacz – 4/0 BREAK POINTS WON Sinner – 4/6 Hurkacz – 0/5 ATP Finals: Thiem gets revenge on Tsitsipas for 2019 final defeat Tsitsipas emerged victorious in three sets in the 2019 meeting and while this was a similarly well-contested match, it was Thiem who came out on top 7-6 (7-5) 4-6 6-3 this time. Thiem took the first set in a tiebreaker having generally looked the more threatening of the two, and although Tsitsipas fought back well in the second, the Austrian got the job done impressively to give the world number three a satisfying start that he feels could be vital. Speaking on court afterwards, Thiem said: "I experienced in the past four years how important it is to have a good start in this tournament, to ideally win the first match. I am very happy that I did it." Tsitsipas was put under pressure on several occasions in the first set, forced to save three break points as he held firm to take Thiem into a tiebreak. He then looked in with a great chance of taking control of the match when going 4-1 up, but he lost his serve to see his lead quickly cut to 5-4, the first of four successive points rattled off by Thiem that sealed the set. Tsitsipas came out fighting in the second, however, taking Thiem to deuce in the latter's opening service game before then breaking at the second time of asking. That game proved decisive too, as he took the set 6-4. Yet any momentum from that soon vanished, Thiem quickly finding himself 3-0 up in the decider having dropped just three points as Tsitsipas' sole opportunity to break back went begging as he trailed 4-1. The rest of the contest went with serve, Thiem getting his campaign in Group London 2020 off to a winning start, with Rafael Nadal and Andrey Rublev the other two in the pool. WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Thiem: 37/30 Tsitsipas: 30/26 ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Thiem: 9/2 Tsitsipas: 8/1 BREAK POINTS WON Thiem: 1/4 Tsitsipas: 1/3 ATP Finals: Thiem tamed as Rublev signs off in style The Russian took advantage of an off day for his opponent to score a 6-2 7-5 victory, a fine way to end a year in which he has won a tour-leading five titles. Thiem was already assured of a semi-final place before Thursday's clash at the O2, while Rublev was certain to go home, having already lost to Rafael Nadal and Stefanos Tsitsipas. Rather than Thiem completing a clean sweep of his three round-robin matches, however, it was Rublev who began on the front foot and coasted through the opening set. Rublev had squandered a match point with a double fault against Tsitsipas, and he clearly had a point to prove. Had he taken that opportunity on Tuesday, there would have been considerably more on the line in this contest. Thiem, one short of 300 career wins, hauled his way back from 4-2 behind to lead 5-4 on serve in the second set, but this was not a match when the US Open winner was at his best. Rublev had a sniff on the Thiem serve at 5-5, forcing three break points and taking the third of those when the Austrian floated a backhand volley wide. He sealed victory with an ace, and later said on BBC Two: "I started well from the first return. I don't think Domi started well and I took advantage from the beginning. "In the end it was not easy for Domi but I think he is now focused on the semis and I wish him the best of luck. "He deserves to be where he is and he deserves to win the title, so we'll see what will happen." WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Rublev - 26/9 Thiem - 16/15 ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Rublev - 11/0 Thiem - 10/3 BREAK POINTS WON Rublev - 4/10 Thiem - 1/1 ATP Finals: Tsitsipas eliminates Medvedev after mammoth two tie-break encounter With both men having lost their opening match in their first red group encounters, the two headed into their Wednesday match knowing they needed a victory to stay in the semi-final hunt. Now, it will be 2019 Finals winner Tsitsipas who remains in the mix after seeing off 2020 champion and former US Open winner Medvedev across a two-hour-and-21-minute encounter, handing Novak Djokovic the group in the process. The Greek second seed looked to be racing away to an early finish after cruising to the first set, but found himself embroiled in a much closer follow-up. A bruising second set forced the pair into a lengthy tie-break, which stretched its points out to double figures before Medvedev prevailed. The two could then not be separated in the third, only for Tsitsipas to dominate the tie-break the second time around and race away to a crucial win that sets up a winner-takes-all clash with Andrey Rublev. ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Tsitsipas – 9/1 Medvedev – 16/2 WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Tsitsipas – 47/25 Medvedev – 34/28 BREAK POINTS WON Tsitsipas – 2/3 Medvedev – 1/1 ATP Finals: Tsitsipas eliminates Rublev and puts Thiem into semi-finals Defending champion Tsitsipas landed a 6-1 4-6 7-6 (8-6) victory, and that was good news for Dominic Thiem whose place in the semi-finals was guaranteed by the outcome on Tuesday. Rublev can no longer reach the final four, and it will come down to a clash on Thursday evening between Tsitsipas and Nadal to determine who joins Thiem in advancing from the London 2020 group. Nadal was at courtside to check out his next opponent, and Tsitsipas looked in deep trouble when he faced match point in the deciding tie-break - only for Rublev to double-fault. Both men came into this match on the back of defeats on Sunday, Tsitsipas edged out in a decider by Thiem while Rublev was beaten in straight sets by Nadal, who then lost to Thiem in a stunning contest on Tuesday afternoon. This season has seen Rublev win five ATP titles, more than anyone else on tour, but his breakthrough at grand slam and Masters 1000 level has yet to come. The same can be said for Tsitsipas; however, the Greek triumphed at this tournament last season to take a significant career step. After Tsitsipas swept through the opening set with little resistance, Rublev stepped it up for the second and nine consecutive games went with serve. It was a surprise when Rublev broke to level the match, a string of unforeseen errors from Tsitsipas giving up three set points. Rublev required just one, yelling "Come on!" as his opponent sent a forehand long. Rublev then saved five break points in winning a dramatic third game of the decider, before the tie-break threw up plenty of drama. Tsitsipas had the match in his hands with two serves at 5-4 in the tie-break, but he lost both points and Rublev then blundered when serving at match point. When Tsitsipas carved out his own match point, a forehand into the net from Rublev settled the outcome. WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Tsitsipas: 24/16 Rublev:  26/32 ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Tsitsipas: 10/0 Rublev:  6/2 BREAK POINTS WON Tsitsipas: 2/9 Rublev: 1/1 ATP Finals: US Open runner-up Ruud shows class against Auger-Aliassime The victory put Ruud top of the Green Group, with the pool's two other players, Rafael Nadal and Taylor Fritz, set to face off later on Sunday. A tight first set saw each game go to serve as it went all the way to a tie-break, with Ruud – this year's beaten US Open finalist – finding a crucial break at 3-2 up, giving him the momentum to nose ahead. They continued to be closely matched in the second set too, though Ruud again managed to break Auger-Aliassime at a critical juncture in the match. With the set tied at three apiece, ATP Finals debutant Auger-Aliassime double-faulted at 40-15 down on his own serve to put Ruud within two games of victory. The world number four took full advantage, who is making his second appearance in the season-ending tournament, kicking on to secure a straight-sets success without offering a single break point to begin his tournament in impressive fashion. ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Ruud - 5/1 Auger-Aliassime - 14/3 WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Ruud - 19/5 Auger-Aliassime - 30/9 BREAK POINTS WON Ruud - 1/1 Auger-Aliassime - 0/0 ATP Finals: Victorious Ruud 'fought fire with fire' to progress The Norwegian has enjoyed a fine 2021, winning five ATP Tour titles, and has now moved into the semi-finals in Turin on his debut appearance at the prestigious year-ending event. Ruud appeared to be on the way out when he was trailing by a set and a break against Rublev, having lost all four of the previous meetings between the pair. But he fought back to win 2-6 7-5 7-6 (7-5) on Friday and extend his impressive season by at least one more match. "The court is playing very fast and Andrey plays very fast," said Ruud, who triumphed despite only winning 98 of the 208 points played in an intense battle where his Russian opponent also impressed. "He rips the ball harder than anyone on the tour and serves very well on his first serve. "We all want to play under control and with initiative, but it is not easy against Rublev because he makes you run and play defensively all the time. "I knew I had to fight fire with fire. "On the big points, I think I played quite smartly." Aside from Ruud, the other three semi-finalists (Medvedev, Novak Djokovic and Alexander Zverev) are all former ATP Finals winners, making this event the first since 1994 where that has happened. US Open champion Medvedev represents a daunting challenge in the last four for Ruud, who bounced back from an opening Green Group loss to Djokovic by beating alternate Cameron Norrie before his high-quality winner-takes-all clash with Rublev. "I am looking forward to Saturday already – it is going to be another tough battle," said the 22-year-old after firing down 14 aces in his victory. "Medvedev is a different kind of player to Rublev. He is one of the best in the world, and he has proven himself as one of the best over the past two or three years. "I have played against him a couple of times and lost both, but I know a little bit about what I am going to face, and it is going to be a fun challenge. "I am just enjoying the moment." Two of the last three players to reach the last four on debut at the ATP Finals have gone on to win the tournament, Grigor Dimitrov (2017) and Stefanos Tsitsipas (2019). Ruud will dream of replicating that duo, but Rublev must come to terms with a second consecutive group-stage exit in the ATP Finals. "It is tough," Rublev said. "Hopefully I can get through it to get a good lesson, which will give me a huge improvement. "In the moment, I got tight, which is normal. Casper played well. He has a great forehand – one of the best on tour." ATP Finals: Zverev beats Hurkacz to set up Djokovic semi-final Zverev knew a victory over Hurkacz would see him through to the semi-finals from the Red Group along with Daniil Medvedev and the third seed duly prevailed 6-2 6-4. The 2018 champion did not face a break point as Hurkacz bowed out after losing all three matches on his debut at the season-ending tournament in Turin. Zverev's commanding win also ended alternate Jannik Sinner's hopes of qualifying on home soil at the Pala Alpitour. The German will do battle with world number one Djokovic for a place in the final after losing only 11 points behind his serve in his final round-robin match. Zverev got off to a storming start and never looked back, surging into a 4-0 lead in the opening set and breaking once in the second to put himself two wins away from claiming the title for a second time. WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS Zverev  – 22/8 Hurkacz – 20/20 ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS Zverev  – 11/0 Hurkacz – 11/0 BREAK POINTS WON Zverev – 3/7 Hurkacz – 0/0 1 2 3 4 Address: 14 Ocean Boulevard, Kingston, Jamaica Telephone: (876) 619-7629 Sales: This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Digital: This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Website: sportsmax.tv Company About Contact Us Site Terms Privacy Cookie Policy TOP CATEGORIES Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Football International Motorsport NBA Netball NFL Other Sports Sport Tennis Zone Company Pages Copyright © SportsMax.tv All Rights Reserved. TOP