Diablo III: Eternal Collection | Diablo Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Diablo Wiki Explore Main Page All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Diablo Classes Warrior Rogue Sorcerer Barbarian Monk Spells Quests Levels Tristram Cathedral Catacombs Caves Hell Diablo: Hellfire Walkthrough Diablo II Classes Amazon Assassin Barbarian Druid Necromancer Paladin Sorceress Acts Act I Act II Act III Act IV Act V Quests Locations Rogue Encampment Lut Gholein Kurast Docks Pandemonium Fortress Harrogath Act Bosses Andariel Duriel Mephisto Diablo Baal Walkthrough Horadric Cube Diablo III Classes Barbarian Demon Hunter Monk Necromancer Wizard Witch Doctor Crusader Acts Act I Act II Act III Act IV Act V Quests Act Bosses The Butcher Belial Azmodan Diablo Malthael Walkthrough Kanai's Cube Diablo IV Classes Barbarian Druid Necromancer Sorceress Rogue More Diablo Immortal Classes Barbarian Crusader Demon Hunter Monk Necromancer Wizard Quests Lore Timeline Locations Clans and Orders Races Novels Sin Wars Legacy of Blood Community Forums Wiki editing forum Diablo gameplay forum Off-topic forum Diablo Wiki Discord Wiki editing rules Recent blogs Wiki Achievements Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Diablo Wiki 15,010 pages Explore Main Page All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Diablo Classes Warrior Rogue Sorcerer Barbarian Monk Spells Quests Levels Tristram Cathedral Catacombs Caves Hell Diablo: Hellfire Walkthrough Diablo II Classes Amazon Assassin Barbarian Druid Necromancer Paladin Sorceress Acts Act I Act II Act III Act IV Act V Quests Locations Rogue Encampment Lut Gholein Kurast Docks Pandemonium Fortress Harrogath Act Bosses Andariel Duriel Mephisto Diablo Baal Walkthrough Horadric Cube Diablo III Classes Barbarian Demon Hunter Monk Necromancer Wizard Witch Doctor Crusader Acts Act I Act II Act III Act IV Act V Quests Act Bosses The Butcher Belial Azmodan Diablo Malthael Walkthrough Kanai's Cube Diablo IV Classes Barbarian Druid Necromancer Sorceress Rogue More Diablo Immortal Classes Barbarian Crusader Demon Hunter Monk Necromancer Wizard Quests Lore Timeline Locations Clans and Orders Races Novels Sin Wars Legacy of Blood Community Forums Wiki editing forum Diablo gameplay forum Off-topic forum Diablo Wiki Discord Wiki editing rules Recent blogs Wiki Achievements in: Re-releases Diablo III: Eternal Collection Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) "Evil is unleashed." - Tagline (src) Diablo III: Eternal Collection Developer(s) Blizzard Entertainment Team 3 Nintendo (Switch version, troubleshooting) Iron Galaxy (Switch version, porting) Publisher(s) Blizzard Entertainment Released 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One) November 2, 2018 (Nintendo Switch) [ 1 ] Genre(s) Action role-playing game, hack and slash Mode(s) Singleplayer (Internet connection required), Multiplayer Platform(s) PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Media Boxed release Input methods Controller Diablo III: Eternal Collection is a console exclusive version of Diablo III It combines the Ultimate Evil Edition and Rise of the Necromancer pack into a single bundle. It cost $39.99 USD at launch, but rose to $60 USD later. [ 2 ] Contents 1 Overview 1.1 Description 1.2 Features 1.3 Exclusives 2 Development 3 Images 4 Videos 5 References 6 External links Overview [ ] The collection was initially released for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. The Nintendo Switch Version launched on November 2, 2018. The Switch version contains the following bonuses: Legend of Ganondorf cosmetic armor set Triforce portrait frame Cucco pet Echoes of the Mask cosmetic wings [ 3 ] The Switch version differs from the PC version in that Adventure Mode is unlocked immediately. [ 1 ] It does not have crossplay with the PS4/Xbox One versions, though this could change in the future. [ 4 ] On the subject of crossplay, in October 2018, Blizzard told Business Insider "it's a question of when, not if." [ 5 ] However, in December of the same year, Blizzard stated that there were "no current plans for such a feature." [ 6 ] Description [ ] Signs of the end times draw powerful heroes from all over Sanctuary to rise up and defeat an evil reborn. Challenge Death itself as Malthael , the Angel of Death, attempts to harness the infernal powers of the Black Soulstone . Commanding the powers of Blood, bone, and armies of undead, the Necromancer joins the fight. [ 7 ] Features [ ] The Diablo III: Eternal Collection is an unparalleled action role-playing experience and contains Diablo III , the Reaper of Souls expansion set, and the Necromancer class together in one definitive volume. Rise as one of humanity's last defenders — Crusader , Barbarian , Witch Doctor , Demon Hunter , Monk , Wizard , or Necromancer —and level up with devastating powers and legendary loot. Lay waste to legions of evil throughout all five acts of the Diablo III storyline, or explore the open world in Adventure Mode to hunt bounties on the elder evils that lurk throughout the mortal realms. Take part in seasonal events and earn exclusive rewards including armor sets, companion pets, and other fiendishly cool goodies. [ 7 ] Exclusives [ ] Includes Switch-exclusive bonus cosmetics, featuring a full intimidating armor transmog set befit for the King of All Evil, Ganondorf Play with up to 4 friends online, offline via local coop, or on a single console couch-coop style Supports all Switch controller configurations, including single and dual Joy-Con action [ 7 ] Supports amiibo figures and adds a new amiibo Portal Legendary item . Development [ ] "We were essentially sitting around and talking about projects that would be amazing and additive to what the company has, and maybe even trailblaze some new things. The Switch was a thing we were all playing, and something we were all interested in. We thought of it as something sweet to bring [Diablo III] onto, and then we started experimenting with the Switch and then got to talking with Nintendo--where we believed that it would be feasible and fun to play on. We wanted to guarantee that it would be smooth and responsive, to ensure that it was everything that you wanted it to be for an [action RPG]." - Pete Stilwell (src) A teaser for the Switch version The Eternal Collection will receive updates at the same rate as the PC version of Diablo III. [ 4 ] Porting Diablo III to the Switch took nine months. It was reportedly a smooth process, with "conversion on the graphics side of things presenting the biggest challenge." Nintendo provided trouble-shooting support. 8-9 Blizzard staffers also worked with Iron Galaxy in regards to the porting process. [ 8 ] The porting process was made easier for Blizzard in light of Team 3 's experience in porting the original Diablo III to the PlayStation and Xbox consoles. Working on the Switch also allowed Blizzard to become familiar with the console's hardware. [ 9 ] The Switch version of the game was teased in February 2018. It was later revealed in August of the same year. [ 10 ] On September 13, 2018, Nintendo confirmed the release date of November 2, 2018. [ 11 ] An Eternal Collection Bundle will be released that bundles the game with a copy of a Diablo-themed Nintendo Switch. [ 12 ] Images [ ] Switch control scheme Ganondorf armor set Switch lobby Cosmetics Triforce portrait frame Female Wizard Triforce portrait Videos [ ] Diablo III Eternal Collection - announcement trailer (Nintendo Switch) Diablo III Eternal Collection - Announcement Video - Nintendo Switch References [ ] ↑ 1.0 1.1 2018-08-17, Blizzard Confirms Diablo 3 Eternal Collection For Nintendo Switch Release . GameSpot , accessed on 2018-08-19 ↑ 2017-06-20, Rise of the Necromancer Pack Arrives June 27! . Blizzard Entertainment , accessed on 2017-06-21 ↑ 2018-08-16, DIABLO 3: SWITCH – HELL IS COMING TO NINTENDO! . Blizzpro , accessed on 2018-08-16 ↑ 4.0 4.1 2018-09-04, PAX West 2018 Diablo III Nintendo Switch Q&A . Blizzplanet , accessed on 2018-09-06 ↑ 2018-10-12, The makers of 'Warcraft' and 'Diablo' are planning to make 'Diablo 3' work across competing consoles: 'It's a question of when, not if' . Business Insider , accessed on 2018-10-13 ↑ Game Informer #108 ↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 Diablo 3 Eternal Collection - Nintendo Switch . Amazon , accessed on 2018-09-11 ↑ 2018-08-17, The Diablo 3 Switch Port Took 9 Months . Kotaku , accessed on 2018-08-17 ↑ 2018-08-17, Overwatch On Switch Is Feasible, But StarCraft 2 Isn't . GameSpot , accessed on 2018-08-17 ↑ 2018-08-16, Blizzard Entertainment Announced Diablo III Nintendo Switch . Blizzplanet , accessed on 2018-08-17 ↑ 2018-09-13, Nintendo Direct 9.13.2018 . Nintendo , accessed on 2018-09-14 ↑ 2018-10-15, Coming Soon: Diablo III Bundle for Nintendo Switch . Blizzard Entertainment , accessed on 2018-10-16 External links [ ] Nintendo – Diablo III: Eternal Collection for Nintendo Switch - Nintendo Game Details Blizzard – Diablo III: Eternal Collection on Switch XPGoblin - All Crossplay Information Diablo Games Core Series — Diablo • Diablo II • Lord of Destruction • Diablo Immortal • Diablo III • Reaper of Souls • Rise of the Necromancer • Diablo IV • Vessel of Hatred Licensed Expansions — Hellfire • Unearthed Arsenal Tabletop RPGs — Dungeons and Dragons: Diablo II Edition ( The Bloodstone Tomb , The Awakening , Diablerie , To Hell and Back , The Secret Cow Level ) • Diablo: The Roleplaying Game Board Games — Diablo Chess • Diablo III Mahjong • Diablo: The Board Game Re-releases — Diablo Battle Chest • Diablo II: Resurrected • Diablo III: Ultimate Evil Edition • Diablo III: Eternal Collection Canceled — Salvation • Diablo Junior • Diablo III • Diablo MMO • The King in the North • Project Hades Categories Categories : Re-releases Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Diablo Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab