Elon Musk: Twitter boss on hate speech, lay-offs and sleeping in the office - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Close menu BBC News Menu Home Israel-Gaza war War in Ukraine Climate Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech More Science Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures BBC Verify World News TV Newsbeat US & Canada Musk on hate speech, Twitter lay-offs and sleeping in the office 12 April 2023 Summary Elon Musk, boss of Twitter and CEO of Tesla and SpaceX, gave an impromptu interview to the BBC on Tuesday evening Speaking at Twitter HQ, he covered topics ranging from mass lay-offs to hate speech and his habit of sleeping in the office The billionaire admitted he only bought Twitter because he had to, and described running the firm as "quite painful" and "a rollercoaster" He also spoke about mass lay-offs he has overseen, saying the company was now down to 1,500 staff members from an initial 8,000 The BBC objected this week to a new label describing it as "government funded media" on its main Twitter account - and Musk agreed the tag would be changed Addressing his controversial tweets, he said: "I think I should not tweet after 3am" And he disputed that hate speech and misinformation was now more common, as investigations have found Live Reporting Edited by Paul Gribben Key things we learned from the interview published at 15:20 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 15:20 BST 12 April 2023 We're closing our live coverage of Elon Musk's interview with the BBC shortly. It was a wide-ranging and lengthy conversation, covering issues including hate speech and disinformation on the platform, whether Musk would be open to selling Twitter and who he voted for in 2020. If you'd like a summary of some of the most important things we learned during it, they've been compiled for you here . And James Clayton’s interview with Musk can be listened to in full on BBC Sounds in Americast's new episode - ‘Elon Musk Speaks to the BBC' . Thanks for joining us. This page was brought to you by Adam Durbin, Patrick Jackson, Paul Gribben, Laura Gozzi, Andre Rhoden-Paul, Alys Davies, Sam Hancock, Ben Bevington, Frances Mao and Tiffany Wertheimer, with contributions from James Clayton, Mike Wendling, Zoe Kleinman and Marianna Spring. Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Bulletproof shoes and voting for Biden - more from Musk's interview published at 15:05 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 15:05 BST 12 April 2023 As we've said - and as you may have noticed yourself, if you watched the interview - this was a long and rather meandering interview, in which Elon Musk touched upon a variety of topics beyond Twitter. Here's a few things he mentioned: Musk bought Twitter "because a court was going to force him to," he said right off the bat. The startlingly frank answer set the tone for the interview Trump "may or may not come back" to Twitter but the platform should not be about partisan politics and if it wants to be a "digital town square" it should allow people of all political persuasions Musk voted for Joe Biden, rather than Donald Trump, in 2021. There has been much speculation over Musk's political allegiances He wanted to turn one of the Twitter office buildings into a homeless shelter but building management "rejected" the proposal Asked whether he's an impulsive person, Musk acknowledged he "shot himself in the foot with tweets multiple times" and said he would "wear bulletproof shoes" going forward. That's when he then said that he should "probably" not tweet after 3am Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing NPR quits Twitter after 'state-affiliated' label published at 14:51 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 14:51 BST 12 April 2023 Image source, EPA US public broadcaster NPR has decided to leave Twitter , external , following a row with the social media firm over a new label associating it with government control. The new tag - which describes NPR as "government funded media" - was initially "state-affiliated media", the same designation used for media organisations linked to autocratic regimes in Russia, China and Iran. NPR says even the "government funded" label is misleading and inaccurate, pointing out that less than 1% of its $300m annual budget comes from the US government. The broadcaster's CEO John Lansing says the decision was taken to avoid having its journalism hosted on a platform that will "risk our credibility", adding he has "lost my faith in the decision-making at Twitter". The move means all 52 of NPR's accounts will no longer post on Twitter, but Lansing adds individual NPR journalists and employees will be allowed to make their own decisions over whether to continue using the social media app. The BBC is currently in a dispute with Twitter over a similar move, although Elon Musk did tell James Clayton in last night's interview the company plans to amend the label on the BBC's main account to say "publicly funded" media . But NPR says that, even if the description is changed to "publicly funded" on its Twitter accounts as well, it will not change the decision to stop using the platform. Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Has misinformation declined on Twitter? published at 14:40 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 14:40 BST 12 April 2023 Kayleen Devlin BBC Monitoring disinformation team When it comes to Elon Musk’s claim that misinformation has fallen on Twitter, the devil is in the detail - or lack thereof. He claimed in the interview that there was now less misinformation on the platform because since he took over they had “eliminated so many of the bots that were pushing scams and spam”. But exclusive BBC research tells a different story. We analysed more than 1,000 previously banned accounts that had been let back on Twitter since Musk bought the company and found that since being reinstated, over a third of them had spread hate or misinformation. This included false anti-vax claims, misogyny and anti-LGBT rhetoric, and the denial of the true result of the US 2020 election. It is possible that Musk’s take on misinformation is more limited than the criteria we used, but in order to see definitively what’s happened you’d need two things: access to data before and after his takeover and - crucially - a clear understanding of how misinformation is being defined in Twitter’s Musk era. We don’t have a full picture of either. Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Musk flirts with the far right published at 14:28 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 14:28 BST 12 April 2023 Mike Wendling US disinformation reporter More than three million Twitter users listened to the Musk interview live, but he opened up a brief question-and-answer session afterwards to just a few people. Among them were influencers on the right-wing culture war fringes. At the behest of one of them, he defended a far-right troll who was recently convicted of tricking people into wasting their vote in the 2016 US presidential election. On his own Twitter account, Musk has engaged , external with QAnon influencers and other marginal characters. He's also railed against pronouns and Covid restrictions - both red meat topics for hardcore American conservatives. Perhaps it's a way for one of the world's richest people to maintain a veneer of edginess, but there are signs that some of his more out-there tweets are turning off some users and advertisers. Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Lack of proper process in UK Twitter redundancies, lawyer says published at 14:11 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 14:11 BST 12 April 2023 Chris Vallance Technology Reporter Elon Musk defended the way in which Twitter employees were dismissed as the firm shed thousands of staff from around 8,000 to currently 1,500. He said the company had faced bankruptcy if it did not "cut costs immediately", while also acknowledging it was a "painful" process for him. But for lawyer Jo Keddie, who represented a substantial number of UK Twitter employees facing redundancy through law firm Winckworth Sherwood, there were concerns about a "lack of proper process" for those affected by redundancy and how they were being treated by the firm. Whatever the financial situation, Keddie tells me, there are strict legal obligations that cannot be ignored, including consulting with affected employees: Quote Message We felt it necessary to remind Twitter UK of those obligations on a number of occasions when we were supporting several affected employees who had been 'locked out of the office and the IT systems without any prior warning in early November 2022." Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Musk's 'increasing eccentricity' clear from interview published at 13:51 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 13:51 BST 12 April 2023 Adam Durbin Live reporter Elon Musk appears to be have become even more eccentric in recent years, at a significant cost to his reputation, a former BBC technology editor has said. Rory Cellan-Jones, who interviewed the billionaire in 2016 about his then-insurgent electric car company Tesla , thinks part of the issue is Musk himself is a "Twitterholic" - that is to say, the company's boss is addicted to using his new platform to the detriment of other business ventures. He says seven years ago Musk was a "colourful" and talkative interview subject, but his conversation with the BBC last night encapsulates a growing problem for the tech executive. Cellan-Jones says "childish" antics have done a lot to destroy a reputation built up through "bold, brave and imaginative" work at Tesla and his rocket firm Space X. As evidence for this, he cites Twitter's claim that traditional verification will be removed from accounts which don't pay for the new Twitter Blue subscription service on 20 April - a day referred to as 4/20 and mostly associated with cannabis use and internet meme culture. "Musk is like a brilliant artist, who spends all of his time on Instagram talking rubbish", Cellan-Jones adds. Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing What it's like to interview the billionaire Twitter boss published at 13:25 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 13:25 BST 12 April 2023 James Clayton North America technology reporter Over the weekend I decided to drop Elon Musk an email. He'd just added a label on Twitter to a BBC account saying "government funded media". I thought I'd send him a link to how the BBC is funded - predominantly through the licence fee. On Tuesday lunchtime I typed another email, requesting a chat about his first six months as Twitter boss. To my surprise, he responded. "Sure, how about tonight?" he said. I wasn't totally sure if he was being serious. I prepped for the interview, hoping it would happen - but wondering if it actually would. The curveball came just before the interview - when Elon Musk's team insisted the interview should be live on Twitter Spaces. You can read the full account by James here Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Class clown vs business leader personas on show published at 13:00 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 13:00 BST 12 April 2023 Zoe Kleinman Technology editor, BBC News In an encounter with Elon Musk you may be talking to the world’s richest man, an entrepreneur in his early 50s and a father of young (and older) children. But you are also talking to a gamer and a prolific social media user who is absolutely soaked in the jargon and banter of internet culture and who, by his own admission, "probably shouldn’t tweet after 3am". From the very start of his interview and continuing later on Twitter, he couldn’t resist repeatedly sniggering at the BBC acronym because it also has an unofficial explicit meaning. Believe me, those of us who work here have heard it all before. His fans lapped this up, of course, because he was effectively blowing a raspberry in our faces. He was playing to his own crowd, and thoroughly enjoying it. However, in a more serious moment he said that actually he respects the BBC and what it does. In the course of the interview he flipped constantly between Elon the class clown and Elon the business leader. One minute he’s talking about the enormous financial challenges facing Twitter and what he has done to prevent it from going bust, the next he’s joking that his dog is now the CEO. Perhaps the dirty jokes were a defence mechanism, perhaps it was pure theatre – or maybe a mixture of the two. But whatever was going on inside his head, he was careful not to display a single chink in the armour. Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing How Elon Musk's tweets unleashed a wave of hate published at 12:34 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 12:34 BST 12 April 2023 Marianna Spring Disinformation and social media correspondent This isn’t the first time that the BBC has tried to interview Elon Musk since he took over Twitter. For a recent investigation for BBC Panorama I tried to get in touch with Musk - with no response. It was only after the investigation aired that the man himself tweeted about it. "Sorry for turning Twitter from nurturing paradise into a place that has… trolls," he said in one tweet, posting a screengrab of the report. "Trolls are kinda fun," Mr Musk said in another reply. His tweets unleashed a torrent of abuse against me from other users. There were hundreds of posts, many including misogynistic slurs and abusive language. There have also been threatening messages, including depictions of kidnap and hanging - more proof to back up BBC Panorama's investigation that hate on Twitter is thriving. The whole episode raised questions about what freedom of expression really means on the new Twitter, where trolling seems to be fair game and even journalists looking to hold the social media platform to account become the targets. This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Media caption, Watch: Behind the Stories - Disinformation correspondent Marianna Spring on trolls, online abuse and Elon Musk Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Twitter can’t protect from trolling, insiders told BBC published at 12:13 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 12:13 BST 12 April 2023 Marianna Spring Disinformation and social media correspondent During the interview with the BBC, Elon Musk dismissed - and joked about - concerns about hate speech and disinformation. His approach contrasted starkly with what Twitter insiders told me in interviews for a recent BBC Panorama investigation . They said that the company is no longer able to protect users from trolling, state-co-ordinated disinformation and child sexual exploitation, following lay-offs and changes under his ownership. Both current and former employees explained how features intended to protect Twitter users from trolling and harassment are proving difficult to maintain, amid what they describe as a chaotic working environment in which Mr Musk is shadowed by bodyguards at all times. Exclusive academic data plus testimony from Twitter users backs up their allegations, suggesting hate is thriving under Mr Musk's leadership, with trolls emboldened, harassment intensifying and a spike in accounts following misogynistic and abusive profiles. The investigation for Panorama also revealed how targeted harassment campaigns aimed at curbing freedom of expression, and foreign influence operations - once removed daily from Twitter - are going "undetected", according to a recent employee. Rape survivors have been targeted by accounts that have become more active since the takeover, with indications they've been reinstated or newly created. Twitter and Musk did not reply to the BBC’s request for comment. Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Twitter - worth the price Musk paid? published at 11:45 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 11:45 BST 12 April 2023 Dearbail Jordan Business reporter Elon Musk claims that even if someone offered to buy Twitter now for the $44bn he paid for it, he’d say “no”. But is that true? Remember, Musk desperately tried to back out of the deal. He claims Twitter had just months left to live when he took over and was being run like a non-profit. Twitter’s costs were outstripping the amount of revenue it was generating. In its last full-year results published before Musk took over, total sales hit $5bn in 2021 but costs and expenses reached $5.5bn. In fact, it has only had two profitable years since 2012. Musk reckons Twitter is now close to breaking even. No wonder - sacking 6,500 workers does tend to lighten one’s costs. But he has also been proactive in finding ways to boost sales through things such as changing Twitter users for “blue tick” verification. So yes, Twitter might be nearing break even now because of drastic cost-cutting. But the question is whether it can sustain that path to profitability and make the company worth that $44bn price tag. Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing The BBC's Musk interview in 90 seconds published at 11:16 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 11:16 BST 12 April 2023 If you literally only have a couple of minutes but want to catch up on Musk's interview with the BBC, here's a highlights video - in 90 seconds: This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Media caption, Watch: Elon Musk's last-minute interview with the BBC Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Twitter close to breaking even, Musk says published at 10:52 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 10:52 BST 12 April 2023 The trials and tribulations of Twitter as a business are rarely far from the headlines, so how the social media firm's finances are doing was a key part of Elon Musk's interview. Here are some of his key claims about the health of the social media firm: Asked if he bought Twitter for $44bn because a US court forced him too, Musk says "yeah, yeah I did" The firm's CEO says Twitter is "roughly breaking even" after previous management ran it functionally as a "non-profit" He says the company was on track to collapse within four months of him taking over, after a drop in revenue from around $4.5bn (£3.6bn) a year to $3bn Musk adds that "drastic action" was required, which led to his sacking of around 6,500 staff members since he took over He acknowledges recent events led to some turbulence in revenue over advertisers leaving the platform, but he says they "are coming back" Afrer Musk's purchase of Twitter for $44bn last year he took the company private, which means the BBC is unable to check his claims about its finances. Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Musk reveals he sometimes sleeps in office published at 10:27 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 10:27 BST 12 April 2023 In his interview, Elon Musk said he "sometimes" slept in Twitter's HQ on a couch in a "library that nobody goes to" on the seventh floor. When Musk first took over Twitter, several employees shared photos of its office space that had been converted into bedrooms . At the time, Musk also emailed all Twitter staff saying they would "need to be extremely hardcore" to succeed, and work "long hours at high intensity". "Only exceptional performance will constitute a passing grade," he wrote. In a tweet he subsequently deleted, Musk posted that he himself would work and sleep in the office "until the org is fixed". Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Watch the full interview published at 09:14 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 09:14 BST 12 April 2023 You can watch the full interview at the top of this page by clicking the clip. If you're in the UK you can also watch on BBC iPlayer . Want to catch up on the key things Musk said? Read our full story here. Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing How is the BBC funded? published at 09:03 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 09:03 BST 12 April 2023 Image source, EPA Elon Musk says a new label on the @BBC Twitter account  describing the corporation as "government funded media" is to be updated. The appearance of the designation saw the BBC contact Twitter -  with a spokesperson saying it wanted to resolve the issue "as soon as possible". As the UK's national broadcaster, the BBC operates through a Royal Charter agreed with the government . The BBC Charter states the corporation "must be independent", particularly over "editorial and creative decisions, the times and manner in which its output and services are supplied, and in the management of its affairs". A licence fee is paid by UK households and raised £3.8bn ($4.7bn) in 2022 for the BBC , external , accounting for about 71% of the corporation's total income of £5.3bn - with the rest coming from its commercial and other activities like grants, royalties and rental income. The BBC also receives more than £90m per year from the government to support the BBC World Service, which predominantly serves non-UK audiences. The national broadcaster's output is also paid for through the work of commercial subsidiaries like BBC Studios, as well as through advertising on services offered to audiences outside of the UK. Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Musk tweets post-interview published at 08:58 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 08:58 BST 12 April 2023 It's nearly 01:00 in San Francisco, where the interview was held - and Elon Musk has been tweeting. He's retweeted a few memes that poke fun at the BBC interview, and also posted: "I said BBC could come Twitter, then, to my surprise, a reporter shows up" Earlier in the day, he emailed our reporter about the interview he had requested, saying: "let's do it tonight". This X post cannot be displayed in your browser. Please enable Javascript or try a different browser. View original content on X The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Skip X post Allow X content? This article contains content provided by X. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read X’s cookie policy , external and privacy policy , external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’ . Accept and continue The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. End of X post Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing 'Let's do it tonight' - how last-minute interview came about published at 08:42 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 08:42 BST 12 April 2023 These kinds of interviews - ones that are high-profile and will cover a wide range of topics - are usually organised well in advance. But Elon Musk is notoriously unpredictable. James Clayton's interview with him on Tuesday evening, came about after he emailed the Twitter boss asking about the BBC's labelling on Twitter as "government-funded media". Usually, a reporter would receive a reply from someone within the company's media team - but not Elon Musk. He replied personally, so Clayton took his shot and asked for an interview. "Let's do it tonight" was the reply. In the end, Clayton and the BBC team just had a few hours to prepare for an interview that was to be live streamed to three million people online on Twitter (a prerequisite from Musk) - as well as the BBC's audience. Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Little emotion from Musk in spontaneous interview published at 08:30 British Summer Time 12 April 2023 08:30 BST 12 April 2023 Zoe Kleinman Technology editor, BBC News Someone who worked closely with Elon Musk once said to me “never bet against him” and I think this interview highlights exactly what she means. He doesn’t express much emotion. He’s spontaneous - agreeing to the interview at short notice - but controlling. He dictates the where, when and how. He challenges the reporter on many occasions, and won’t finish the interview when it ends. If you’re in his sphere there’s no doubt who is in charge. Even though he admitted to some mistakes at Twitter since his tumultuous takeover six months ago, there was no sign of contrition. "Yes, things happened, and now the CEO is my dog" was the vibe. He's adamant that the site is thriving - although we have only got his word for it - and reluctant to admit there's been an increase in hate and misinformation since he took charge. Whether privately the interview has given him food for thought, I'm sure we will never know - but I hope so. Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing previous page Page 1 of 4 1 2 3 … 4 next page Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.