The Differences in How James Cameron Wrote 'Avatar' and 'Titanic' | No Film School Sections Podcast Newsletter Gear guides About Contact Advertise Community Guidelines Terms Privacy DMCA Takedown Notice Privacy No Film School AI Screenwriting \e607 Directing \e606 Cinematography & Cameras \e605 Editing & Post-Production \e602 Documentary \e603 Movies & TV \e60a Producing \e608 Distribution & Marketing \e604 Festivals & Events \e611 Fundraising & Crowdfunding \e60f Sound & Music \e601 Games & Transmedia \e60e Grants, Contests, & Awards \e60d Film School \e610 Jobs \e60c Marketplace & Deals \e60b Off Topic \e609 This Site \e600 Screenwriting Directing The Differences in How James Cameron Wrote 'Avatar' and 'Titanic' Sometimes you tackle two different genres in two different ways. CREDIT: Mashable India Jason Hellerman Sep 06, 2021 James Cameron is one of the best writers and directors ever to set foot on the face of the earth. The guy's imagination is humongous. He plays in wild worlds and uses technology in a way to aid storytelling. It always feels like he's at the forefront of the next new wave. But Cameron also plays in so many different worlds, from the distant planets in Avatar to the recent past in Titanic . Writing these two stories had to be approached from two very distinct vantage points. they're different genres, have wildly different characters , and incredibly different worlds . So how did this all get done by one person? And what changed in his process from one film to the other? Check out this video from Behind the Curtain and let's talk after. How James Cameron Wrote Avatar and Titanic in Different Ways It's so interesting to hear how Avatar was born from the desire to use CG characters and prove what his company could do. Cameron set himself a challenge and then backed it up with hard work and ideation that pushed the boundaries. Once he had the germ of an idea, he wrote a treatment and buried it for nine years. He went back to it when the technology was better and decided to just work at it with a producer. For him, getting the visuals was the way in, and then the process, and then he could build the story. Titanic was almost the direct opposite. He was working with submarines and the ocean floor and kept thinking about the story behind the artifacts. He wanted to transport people somewhere and capture an emotional journey. He was obsessed with the history of the Titanic . He saw characters jumping off the page, and he explored the emotionality of what built up everyone's experience on the boat. At first, Cameron resisted the urge to write Titanic because of the budget. But he leaned into Avatar because he knew it would be expensive but cutting edge. For Cameron, Titanic started as what he thought would be a doc, but it became a movie. Avatar was a technological advancement that became about exploration. These different ways into the stories allowed Cameron to stay interested in his topics as he wrote them. He stayed passionate about them. That passion transferred in the room to the people around him and led to two of the most top-grossing movies of all time. What's your take on this process? Let us know in the comments. Source: Behind the Curtain avatar James Cameron titanic screenwriting advice Screenwriting tips screenwriting Romance Sci Fi Screenwriting Directing Editing & Post-Production Documentary Topics How this Editor Got Movies Into SXSW and Sundance This Year Leah Boatright is a documentary editor who doesn't shy away from a hard story. Jason Hellerman Apr 30, 2025 Leah Boatright is a documentary editor with a decade of experience focusing on stories where private lives intersect with larger societal forces, exploring themes of belief, survival, and control. Her recent work includes Baby Doe (SXSW 2025) and The Librarians (Sundance/SXSW 2025). And her past projects include the Emmy-nominated Storm Lake (2021) and The Fourth Wall (Tribeca 2023). While she has worked with commercial clients like HBO and Vogue, her focus remains on complex films that embrace ambiguity. She works in New York City. We were so excited to talk to her about her new project, Baby Doe . Let's dive into the interview. - YouTube www.youtube.com Keep Reading Show less Loading more Popular Screenwriting Topics 5 Writing Tips from C.S. Lewis Jason Hellerman Apr 23, 2025 Cinematography & Cameras Editorial Editing & Post-Production Homepage Main Featured Topics Foundry Unveils Nuke Stage to Unify Pre-Production and Final Pixels in Virtual Productions Sponsored Content Apr 23, 2025 Directing Editorial Homepage Main Featured Movies & TV Topics What Two Things Hold Most Filmmakers Back? Jason Hellerman Apr 23, 2025 Movies & TV Sound & Music Topics Why Is There So Much Irish Music in 'Sinners'? Jason Hellerman Apr 23, 2025 AI Editing & Post-Production Cinematography & Cameras Topics AWS Showcases How AI is Shaping the Future of the Media and Entertainment Industry at NAB 2025 Sponsored Content Apr 21, 2025 Latest Directing Editorial Homepage Main Featured Topics In 1974, Francis Ford Coppola Directed The Two Most Important Movies of the Year Jason Hellerman Apr 29, 2025 Movies & TV Screenwriting Directing Topics How Seth Rogen Pitches a Comedy Idea Like 'Neighbors' Jason Hellerman Apr 29, 2025 Directing Movies & TV Topics Jordan Peele and Ryan Coogler on Using Fear As Fuel Jason Hellerman Apr 29, 2025 Cinematography & Cameras Topics Is the New Godox KNOWLED MG6K One of the Brightest New Pro Lighting Fixtures? Jourdan Aldredge Apr 29, 2025 Cinematography & Cameras Topics Save Thousands of Dollars on DZOFilm’s Vespid Prime Lenses With Major Price Cut Jourdan Aldredge Apr 29, 2025 Get our eBook "How to Write a Screenplay" FREE: