Home - Cinapse Features ▼ Editorial Interview Make It a Double Roundtable Reviews Spinema Two Cents In Theaters At Home ▼ The Archivist Arrow Heads Criterion Collection Streaming ▼ Field of Streams Film Festivals ▼ Austin Film Festival Chattanooga Film Festival Fantasia Fantastic Fest New York Asian Film Festival Old School Kung Fu Fest Sundance SXSW On TV About Cinapse Staff Tees Skip to the content Cinapse Cinapse Features Editorial Interview Make It a Double Roundtable Reviews Spinema Two Cents In Theaters At Home The Archivist Arrow Heads Criterion Collection Streaming Field of Streams Film Festivals Austin Film Festival Chattanooga Film Festival Fantasia Fantastic Fest New York Asian Film Festival Old School Kung Fu Fest Sundance SXSW On TV About Cinapse Staff Tees Home Fantastic Fest 2021: The Cinapse Team’s Most Anticipated Sept 23–30, Austin, TX……Sept 30 — Oct 3, at Home! After the resounding success of SXSW Online earlier this year, we started to see an uptick in vaccinations, and many festivals start to move towards restoring some in person components, including one of our favorites, Fantastic Fest. Conditions in Texas the last few weeks prompted a pivot from the full plans to something more cautious. A move away from the badge system and back to back screenings dominating the Alamo S Lamar. Instead, a festival over several locations in town, fewer screenings, and a ticked system per screening. Even with this pared back approach, the majority of screenings already seem sold out. Interested in going, I’d keep an eye on those screenings in case some tickets open up/get returned. What is new this year is the creation of Fantastic Fest at Home which is exactly what it sounds like. Showcasing films from this year’s Festival, as well as from previous Fests, dropping each day with a 48 hour viewing window. A Fantastic Fest experience on your own sofa! As to the Fest proper, Cinapse will have a team on the ground providing coverage throughout. You can see the full schedule here , but for now, read on to see some of the team’s most anticipated features, and check back over the next week as cover what unfolds. Chaos Reigns! Dan Tabor: @danthefan Fantastic Fest is the festival I spend the year counting down to, and to be honest canceling my ticket this year for the second year in a row, due to the change up in screenings wasn’t easy. That being said I will however be partaking in Fantastic Fest at home and these are the films I am looking forward to most, some will be screening virtually and some will not. After Blue ( Dirty Paradise ) : “On a mysterious new planet populated entirely by women, teenager Roxy and her mother undergo a fantastical journey in pursuit of a murderous criminal”. Based SOLELY on the still I keep seeing online and the synopsis, I kind of need to see this. After Blue Agnes : “Fantastic Fest favorite Mickey Reece is back with his most ambitious production yet, the story of a headstrong young nun accused of possession and her best friend who’s left to grapple with the aftermath”. Climate of the Hunter one of my favorite surprises of the fest last year. It felt truly original in its Lynchian soap opera-esque take on vampires in a way I didn’t feel was possible. Needless to say I am up for his latest. Black Friday : “A ragtag group of toy store employees get more than they bargained for when Black Friday shoppers mutate into violent monsters”. I worked retail for five years, so I am here for this. Sounds more reality than fiction to me. The Exorcism of God : Mexican possession movies are one of my favorite obscure subgenres I catch at Festivals. Thanks to the high percentage of Roman Catholics south of the border, there’s a real reverence and authentic fear in these films that you haven’t seen in the US since The Exorcist . So whenever I see one I have to check it out. Last of the Wolves : “A hard-won truce between rival yakuza gangs threatens to erupt into bloody violence when a psychopathic hoodlum is released from prison and vows to avenge the death of his boss”. You had me at “Yakuza” and “Bloody Violence”. Limbo : Limbo has actor/director Soi Cheang returning to his roots to tell a gritty detective story that sounds right up my alley. Titane : Julia Ducournau, the director of one of my favorite films in the last few years, the coming of age cannibal masterpiece RAW is back, and I honestly can’t wait. The film won the The Palme d’Or this year and leads me to believe this may be the mainstream breakthrough for the young director. V/H/S/94 : Hopefully with Barrett returning to the series he will make good and finish the story arc from the first two films he was building toward. Also, with that roster this , should be an amazing entry to say the least. David Delgado: @daviddelgadoh If we’re talking about the movie I think I’ll like the most — Titane , from a newer director who had an astounding debut with Raw , and I’ll be excited for everything she makes. But that’s coming out soon and it’s less of an unknown quantity, having already played at film festivals. In contrast, there’s something like V/H/S/94 with a world premiere at Fantastic Fest. I’m usually not a fan of anthology pictures but I’ve really liked both of the previous entries, and it’s been quite a white since the last one with V/H/S Viral in 2014. Add that up with the roster of directors (Chloe Okuno, Jennifer Reeder, Ryan Prows, Simon Barrett, and Timo Tjahjanto) and I’m anticipating some surprises and a solidly good time. Titane Ed Travis: @Ed_Travis The Beta Test : To be honest, Jim Cummings is simply event cinema to me after Thunder Road and The Wolf of Snow Hollow . They’re wildly different films anchored by vulnerable performances from Cummings. I don’t even know what genre Beta Test might fall in, or really even the plot for the film. I don’t need to. Titane : Filmmaker Julia Ducournau frightens me. And with the one-two punch of her previous film Raw being a brass-knuckled punch to the soul and her Palme d’Or win at Cannes, Titane looks like the ultimate bad time at the movies and there’s no better place to see it than with a Fantastic Fest crowd. Dynasty / Master of the Flying Guillotine : I’ve spent the last several years of my life digging deeper and deeper into my action cinema roots and really prioritizing my writing and viewing around that, my most beloved genre. Action cinema wouldn’t be what it is today without kung fu films, and I’m thrilled to check these both out. A 3D screening of Dynasty feels like a once-in-a-lifetime experience and while I’ve seen and loved Master Of The Flying Guillotine many times before, watching it with a RZA commentary track with a crowd feels like something I can’t pass up. Mad God : Anytime a filmmaker spends decades on a particular project, my curiosity is piqued. So when someone like visual effects master Phil Tippett creates a stop motion opus, that feels like something that demands my attention. Again, much like with The Beta Test … I don’t really know what this movie is about, or even what genre it might fall into. I simply know I want to experience it on a big screen and I entrust myself into Tippett’s hands. Mad God Lamb : Most of my other highly anticipated picks come from a previous knowledge of who the filmmakers are, or a love for the genre the films fall into. Lamb looks like a total wild card. I’m not familiar with any of the cast or crew beyond Noomi Rapace, and yet the trailer promised something very weird, very European, and possibly devastating. I’m not sure what to expect, but I’ve got a feeling about this one. Jon Partridge: @Texas_Jon After her brilliant short Junior , and thoroughly blowing away Fantastic Fest back in 2016 with her debut feature Raw , I’m here for anything Julia Ducournau has to offer. After storming Canne with Titane , it seems a great film to kick-start Fantastic Fest 2021. Alice Krige has a talent for picking memorable horror roles and She Will looks to put her front and center. A retreat to a remote cabin in Scotland, local lore and history, a bubbling evil presence, a score by Clint Mansell, AND Malcolm McDowell. I’m sold. It wouldn’t be Fantastic Fest without a mildly absurdist, deeply black comedy from Scandanavia. The Trip , from director Tommy Wirkola ( Dead Snow ), seems to tick all the boxes. A couple head to a remote location to fix their marriage, while the husband seems determined to “end things”. Not in a divorce proceedings kind of way, if you get my drift. His plans go awry. Entertainment is assured. Dinosaur wrangler and stop-motion maestro Phil Tippet finally completed Mad God , his decades in the works apocalyptic adventure and is sharing his imagination (and apparent madness) with the Fest. After bringing to life other people’s vision for so long, it’ll be fascinating to see this long gestating project on the big screen. Finally, I love when a smart concept overcomes a low budget. Beyond the Infinite Two Minutes looks to deliver just that, featuring a small group of people working in a tea shop, who find that a computer monitor in the apartment upstairs is connected to their future, albeit only 2 minutes forward in time. Shot on an iPhone, seemingly in one-take, this one looks like it’ll charm, entertain, and boggle the mind in equal measure. Described by Fantastia Fest as “ One Cut of the Dead meets Tenet ”, how can you not be sold. Beyond the Infinite Two Minutes Julian Singleton: @gambit1138 The Fantastic Fest lineup this year is full of hotly anticipated titles and curious surprises alike–it’s hard to fully gauge which one I’m the most eagerly looking forward to, since each one seems so full of exciting possibility. As a diehard fan of Raw, Sinister , and Thunder Road alike, I’m looking forward to the next films from each of their respective creators. The buzz out of Cannes for Julia Ducournau’s Titane reminds me heavily of how Parasite brought down the house in both Nice and Austin in 2019. Sinister scared the shit out of me — and reuniting star Ethan Hawke with director Scott Derrickson and writer/Austin local C. Robert Cargill can only mean more disturbing visions are on the horizon. With the tender beauty, sheer anxiety, and uncomfortable hilarity brought on by Thunder Road and The Wolf of Snow Hollow , it’s clear fellow Austin filmmaker Jim Cummings can expertly balance whatever blend of genres strikes his fancy–so I have absolutely no idea what to expect from The Beta Test in the best way. The festival always has a fittingly fantastic selection of animated films each year, too–with The Deer King and Poupelle of Chimney Town providing distinctly wondrous visions from their creative teams. Standing out among the crowd, though is BELLE , the latest from Wolf Children and Summer Wars director Mamoru Hosoda. Having brought social media and human behavior to strikingly new means of representation in his last few films, Hosoda casts a keen eye at the beautiful contradictions in how we represent ourselves in our families, friendships, and the world at large amidst ever-evolving technology and a rich history of Japanese folklore. Referenced as a new take on Beauty and the Beast, I can only imagine how a story of terror, compassion, and transformation will translate to online avatars via Hosoda’s sure hand. Lamb And to just make a point short — Lamb looks terrifying. Chock full of the dread and absurd humor that marks A24’s particular brand of horror in the trailer alone, Lamb also looks stunningly shot and anchored by a fierce and dynamic performance by Noomi Rapace. Of what I’ve seen in the festival lineup — The Found Footage Phenomenon and Woodlands Dark and Days Bewitched are the two of the best horror documentaries out there, covering found footage and folk horror with gleefully intense enthusiasm and utmost respect for their genres. And who can turn down a screening of Master of the Flying Guillotine , one of the most gonzo kung fu competition films out there–with a live commentary by the RZA? After a long delayed return and all of the re-organization complications to get to this point, it’s amazing to see Fantastic Fest return in such top form. September 21, 2021 Film Festivals , SXSW SXSW , Sxsw 2021 COPSHOP: An Ensemble Barnburner Bound and Determined to Entertain You The hit or miss Joe Carnahan hits big Copshop is exactly the kind of movie we say we never get anymore. It’s not based on a pre-existing IP. It banks on star power and the strength of its ensemble cast. It’s unapologetically R-rated and aimed squarely at adults. It was almost certainly made on a “medium” budget. And yet. Here it is. Copshop — in all its glory. And audiences are all the better for it. The biggest draw here for me personally is star Frank Grillo. As an action cinema junkie I’ll follow Grillo just about anywhere and have done so for many years now. And as such, that means I will also frequently take in Joe Carnahan films as well, as they’re business and creative partners through their WarParty Films production company. It’s been a pretty great collaboration between these guys, yielding such hits as The Grey , Wheelman , Boss Level , and now Copshop , among others. Carnahan is a hit or miss writer/director for my taste, but his partnership with Grillo has been fruitful. Of course, Gerard Butler is likely the biggest star among Copshop’s gifted ensemble, and the right Butler vehicle has also been known to get my ass in a theater seat. But as the old saying goes, come for the Grillo and Butler, stay for the Louder. Yes, Copshop is very much an ensemble genre-defier giving room for the cast to shine bright and have a blast with the twisty, sharp, and relentless script from Kurt McCloud and Carnahan (and a “story by” credit for Mark Williams). But for all the great and memorable performances (beyond the 3 leads Toby Huss’ unhinged/chatty contract killer Anthony Lamb brings a unique energy to proceedings), and for all the household names with the biggest floating heads on the poster, this is Alexis Louder’s star making performance and she handily commands the audience’s attention. Grillo’s sleazy-suited and man-bunned fixer on the run Teddy Muretto is in some deep trouble with some very bad people, so he assaults Louder’s Detective Valerie Young simply in order to get locked up and buy some time to escape ole Gerry Butler’s hitman character Bob Viddick. But two can play that game and soon Viddick and Muretto are locked in cells just across the block from one another with Detective Young astutely beginning to piece together the larger situation at hand. One minute a comedy, the next a siege film, the next a twisty thriller, and the next an Agatha Christie-like mystery, Copshop somehow deftly navigates all these potential genre and tonal shifts to create a really surprising and engaging single location barnburer. Muretto, Viddick, and Young are the core characters on a hundred mile an hour collision course with one another, but when hitmen, dirty cops, and innocents all start descending on our isolated desert police station, and shifting alliances, forced team ups, and shocking revelations start piling up, our writers seem to be having a blast wringing every last drop of juice they can out of their game cast of ensemble players. Copshop , against all odds, winds up being one of this year’s most entertaining crime/action films. It likely isn’t for everyone as the monologues can be a little stagey, the F-bombs come more by the second than the minute, and it all feels very highly orchestrated. But I found it to be a chaotic symphony that results when you plop a few well-written and convincingly performed (not to mention highly volatile) characters right into the middle of a single-night, single-location setting and let things play out within those limitations. And so while it won’t win any Oscars, Copshop stands out by being pretty damn good at everything it is trying to do (and it’s trying to do a lot). When it goes for gore, it’s gnarly. When it goes the extra mile to show-not-tell a little character trait or nuance, it pays off and deepens our understanding of our characters. When gunfights pop off, a hint of John Woo stylings emerge. When it kids around, the jokes largely land. And when Alexis Louder is on screen… you pay attention. It’s a jack-of-all-trades kind of movie that just really executes well on its premise, so very satisfyingly so. And I’m Out. Copshop hits theaters September 17th, 2021 from Open Road September 16, 2021 In Theaters 2021 , Action , Copshop , Frank Grillo , Gerard Butler , Thriller Blu-Ray Review: IN THE HEIGHTS Jon M. Chu’s musical follow-up to CRAZY RICH ASIANS now out on Blu-ray and 4K from Warner Brothers Bodega owner Usnavi (Anthony Ramos, Hamilton ) welcomes the viewer to Washington Heights in the joyous, vibrant, yet thoughtful film adaptation of Lin Manuel Miranda’s first musical, In the Heights . Usnavi employs his teen cousin and dreams of going back to the Dominican Republic and re-opening his dad’s old bar there. He also crushes hard on Vanessa (Melissa Barrera, Vida on Starz), who works at a neighborhood salon and wants to be a fashion designer. His friend Benny (Corey Hawkins, Straight Outta Compton ) is a taxi dispatcher whose ex Nina (Leslie Grace) has come home after her first year at Stanford. There’s a large cast of characters as the scope of the musical covers the neighborhood and the family Usnavi and his neighbors have made for themselves. Matriarch Abuela Claudia is the role Olga Merediz originated on Broadway and to which she thankfully returns here. Merediz’s performance of “Paciencia y Fe,” Claudia’s ballad of memory and home, is an absolute miracle, a stunning moment of utter perfection — the staging, choreography and direction also factor into this. The choreography for In the Heights impresses throughout, from dancing hands in “No Me Diga” showing off manicures to the hundreds of dancers showing off moves at a public pool in “96,000.” The music is more of a mixed bag, especially as one or two of the actors don’t have strong singing voices. Nevertheless, the harmonies in “Alabanza” still give me chills. This film adaptation for In the Heights has a few updates to the original theatrical story — a mother who had her own song is dead in this version and another character is now undocumented — but since original author Quiara Alegría Hudes adapted the screenplay, the spirit of the musical remains the same. The neighborhood is still gentrifying, and each character has a distinct identity and dream. It’s something of a thrill to see this color-filled musical, with such an inclusive cast, on screen at this moment in our nation’s time. Special features on the Blu-ray release of In the Heights include: two “singalong” tracks: “In the Heights” and “96,000” around 43 minutes of behind-the-scenes shorts, Paciencia y Fe , delving deeper into different aspects of the production. They include scenes from the table read and discussion of the casting process. DP Alice Brooks talks about how the cinematography aimed to “let Washington Heights shine through the movie.” “Wepa!”, the short delving into the dance influences and the interviews with the various associate choreographers, is a particular standout. I can’t recall another production where I was able to hear from so much of a choreography team. In “That Music in the Air,” Olga Merediz brings her original notes from the Broadway show to her studio recording for the film. a breakout menu of the musical numbers Get it at Amazon: If you enjoy reading Cinapse, purchasing items through our affiliate links can tip us with a small commission at no additional cost to you. In the Heights — [ Blu-ray ] | [ 4K UHD Blu-ray ] September 10, 2021 At Home Anthony Ramos , Jon M. Chu , Lin Manuel Miranda , Musicals , Olga Merediz Criterion Review: BEASTS OF NO NATION (2015) Cary Joji Fukunaga’s child soldier epic marks another vital collaboration between Criterion and Netflix Beasts of No Nation follows young Agu (Abraham Attah) as his life in an unnamed West African country is reduced to ruins in the wake of a brutal civil war. His mother and two youngest siblings escape to the capital city in a taxi-turned-sardine-can, packed to the brim with paying refugees and piled sky-high with meager belongings; Agu’s father, brother, grandfather, and best friend are all slaughtered as the Government-backed National Reformation Council (NRC) seeks out enemy spies. Agu himself escapes into the wilds of the jungle, where he immediately crosses the path of a band of unrelenting child soldiers allied with the rebel National Defense Force (NDF). Their party is led by the charismatic, commanding, and cruel Commandant (Idris Elba) who decides to take Agu under his wing. But such salvation comes at a crushing cost as Agu is initiated into the life of a child soldier, where taking others’ lives will become an all-too-regular part of Agu’s own. Cary Joji Fukunaga had felt compelled to tell the stories of African child soldiers since his short film days as an NYU student, but hadn’t found the right inspiration until he’d been referred Uzodinma Iweala’s debut novel. Itself a synthesized re-telling of various West African conflicts and testimonies by former youths forced to kill for a conflict that had torn their childhoods apart, Beasts of No Nation found hard-earned truth in sifting through and blending multiple perspectives. Fukunaga’s film takes a similar approach, seeking to depict a far more personal view of life-changing conflicts that are often themselves distilled into “ABCD acronyms” for 5-minute Western news stories. The result is a remarkable and effective experience, one that doesn’t fall into either camp of the child soldier cinematic canon. Beasts does have brief hallucinatory experiences, drenched in red-and-blue infrared, but doesn’t become a waking dreamscape like Tarkovsky’s I van’s Childhood. Nor is Fukunaga’s film, for all of its brutality and grueling moral choices, buried in soul-crushing realism like Elem Klimov’s Come and See . Its lack of cultural specificity becomes its own point. The sole exposition of the conflict comes in fractured radio broadcasts, along with the presence of Nigerian ECOMOG soldiers and UN Peacekeepers, so we must rely on Agu and his experiences to make sense of an increasingly senseless world. The film isn’t wholly defined by its predominant subject matter, either: Fukunaga’s first act is set in the uneasy calm of peacetime, and while the storm clouds of war brood on the horizon, we see Agu as a child first and foremost. We see Agu scheme with his friends and brothers for fun as much as for money, and we see how the decisions Agu and his family make — both for their day to day lives, as well as in conflicts rooted in far more generational concerns — inform the gripping, high-stakes choices they must confront when war finally comes to their doorstep. This way, viewers never lose sight of the person Agu is the more he is forced to become an identity-less pawn of war. Whether he’s fleeing from an army, wielding a machete into someone’s skull, consoling a silent friend, or rampaging through a government building, Agu is a child first and a soldier second. It’s an important distinction, one Agu himself is terrified others might lose of him once the conflict reaches its end. It recalls the film’s beginning, as Fukunaga’s camera pulls out from a hollow TV into the vibrant world of Agu’s village, where Agu peddles the TV to anyone who’s willing to buy it as he and his friends dance in the confines of their “imagination TV.” The world is far more expansive than what the screen defines it to be, yet is a perspective we take for granted. Conversely, by limiting our perspective to Agu’s for the duration of Beasts of No Nation , Fukunaga roots us in an expansive worldview that has in the past been reduced or ignored for its horrors and overwhelming moral ambiguity. This is a world where victims become perpetrators, no matter one’s age, and every evil is a bitterly necessary one. What Fukunaga points his criticism towards are the origins of the circumstances that place these children in conflict. Elba’s Commandant is a ruler whose personality is infectious. His speeches hypnotize all under his command and force his troops to re-contextualize their individual suffering under a nationalized worldview driven by cultural and societal vengeance. As such, the battalion becomes a brotherhood, and each singular act of cruelty becomes something immediately justifiable. But those who pull the strings know far better–using every human being at their disposal to gain meager advantages in an ultimate control over natural resources or inter-governmental promotions. There’s even a brief moment where the interim leader of the country delays meeting Elba’s Commandant in favor of a foreign businessman–suggesting bigger powers at work who are taking advantage of this war-wracked country for a chance at a lucrative business opportunity. While these conflicts don’t directly involve Agu, he is a witness — and so we are able to piece together the larger schemes at work. Criterion’s selection of Beasts of No Nation is already notable for its place in recent film history as now streaming giant Netflix’s first theatrically-released narrative feature. Back then, it was a move once scoffed at by movie theaters and studio titans–now, studios have been forced to embrace a shorter theatrical window and the proliferation of at-home on-demand content. But what’s often eclipsed from this fact is how Beasts is a film that rejects the then-traditional mandates that goalposted a financially lucrative Western film. Compared to more “palatable” films like Hotel Rwanda or Empire of the Sun , It’s a film full of uncomfortable moral ambiguity, uncompromising bloodshed, and no American stars (let alone white American stars). According to the included making-of featurette, financing was difficult to attain for these exact reasons–and six years later, Beasts of No Nation ’s legacy as both an important touchstone in representation as well as the evolution of modern film is cemented in this Blu-ray package. VIDEO/AUDIO Criterion presents Beasts of No Nation in a 1080p HD transfer in its original 2.39:1 aspect ratio, sourced from the film’s original 2K digital master and approved by writer-director-cinematographer Cary Joji Fukunaga. Included is a 5.1-channel DTS-HD Master Audio track, sourced from the film’s original digital audio master files. English SDH subtitles are included for the main feature. Like Criterion’s past Netflix collaborations, Beasts of No Nation excels due to a format-pushing amount of visual clarity without the encumbrance of a limited streaming network connection. Being natively shot on digital further breaks down the need for additional restoration efforts, resulting in a transfer that’s as close to original quality as one can get for this film. Fukunaga’s signature visuals–organic light, clashing color combinations, and an emphasis on the vibrant chaos of the natural world–are fully realized here, with dark shadows lit by flickering firelight, hypnotic infrared visuals that slowly bleed back into realistic colors, and smoky, dust-strewn rubble all beautifully depicted without loss of detail or clarity. The accompanying 5.1-channel track brings the frenzied soundscape to uncomfortably detailed reality, balancing foley work, dialogue, and Dan Romer’s score in equal measure. SPECIAL FEATURES Audio Commentary: Newly recorded exclusively for this release, this track features Cary Joji Fukunaga and First Assistant Director Jon Mallard. Passion Project: This extensive behind-the-scenes documentary produced for this new Blu-ray edition examines the arduous production process, including Beasts ’ origins in Uzodinma Iweala’s novel; Fukunaga’s adaptation, which keeps faithful to the Krio Pidgin English of the source material; searching for and casting the film’s legion of child actors, led by newcomer Abraham Attah and mentored by Idris Elba; and the necessary evolution of Fukunaga’s freeform yet disciplined shooting style, after circumstances unexpectedly led him to become his own Cinematographer position shortly into the shoot. Cary Joji Fukunaga and Franklin Leonard: Fukunaga sits with the film and TV producer (and founder of the influential screenwriting organization The Black List) to discuss the writer/director’s reckoning as an American foreigner tackling this particular subject, the origins of the project, and his consultation with former child soldiers to ensure Beasts’ dedication to authenticity. Costume Design: Beasts Costume Designer Jenny Eagan talks through her methodology of sourcing and creating regionally authentic costumes in remote shooting locations. Trailer for Beasts of No Nation ’s original dual Netflix/theatrical release. Booklet including an essay by critic Robert Daniels on Beasts of No Nation ’s relationship with the history of cinema, child soldiers, and colonialism, notably in how the film defies stunted Western expectations of the agency of the film’s protagonists as well as that of the countries they call home. Beasts of No Nation is now available on Blu-ray and DVD from The Criterion Collection. Get it at Amazon: If you enjoy reading Cinapse, purchasing items through our affiliate links can tip us with a small commission at no additional cost to you. September 9, 2021 At Home , Criterion Collection Beasts Of No Nation , Criterion Collection , Idris Elba , Movies , Netflix Screen Comparisons: BROTHERHOOD OF SATAN’s New Arrow Video Edition vs Earlier Mill Creek Blu-ray Arrow Video’s new edition of Brotherhood of Satan released this week . This article contains several comparisons which contrast Mill Creek’s earlier Blu-ray transfer with the new release from Arrow. The frames aren’t necessarily exact matches, but should give a solid indication of the visual differences. Viewing tips: For gauging clarity and resolution, these images are best viewed on a large monitor with widescreen aspect ratio — if viewing on a mobile device, pinch-zoom for closer inspection. Elements like color, brightness, and contrast are more easily compared in a narrow window or upright mobile. Brotherhood of Satan fits into a weird little 70s subgenre of highly entertaining films in which respected western actors like Ernest Borgnine ( The Devil’s Rain ), R. G. Armstrong ( Race with the Devil ), and in this case, Strother Martin, hammed it up as outwardly unassuming agents of Satan, entrenched deep in the heart of small towns that hide secret societies that worship the devil. The film has been on Blu-ray domestically a couple times before thanks to Mill Creek, first as a double feature with Mr. Sardonicus in 2013, and again in a triple feature entitled “Psycho Circus” with Torture Garden and The Creeping Flesh in 2017. This comparison analyzes the new Arrow Video edition against the “Psycho Circus” release of the movie. On a purely technical analysis, the first thing I noticed is that the movie file on the new Blu-ray disc is almost twice as large as the version which was on the Mill Creek triple feature (an absolutely huge difference, even allowing for Arrow’s inclusion of uncompressed audio and commentary). Given that three films shared that same disc, it’s unsurprising that there was heavy compression involved. In reviewing the transfers, I was surprised to discover they look practically identical to my eyes. The source certainly appears to be the same, exhibiting identical telltale flecks and imperfections. I’d venture to guess that many observers will not see any differences at all in the images below, especially at a normal viewing distance. There are some differences, though: The most important is that Arrow’s disc has a bit better clarity. This is a very slight difference, only noticeable on close inspection of the grain detail, and probably owes to the Mill Creek disc’s liberal compression. The framing is also a bit different for most of the film, a bit tighter on Arrow’s release (meaning the Mill Creek version shows a little more of the frame). Coloration also varies slightly, but so imperceptibly that it’s almost not even worth bringing up. The screenshots below are in chronological order. In the first few, the framing is identical between the two versions. Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video At this point in the film, most likely coinciding with a reel change, the framing shifts a bit and Arrow’s is slightly tighter for the rest of the movie. Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Mill Creek // Bottom: New Arrow Video On a pure image quality basis I’d give Arrow the slightest edge, but the differences are so small as to be virtually identical. The difference in image quality alone is certainly not a compelling reason to consider an upgrade. That said, there’s much more to the package, as Arrow’s version brings several bonus features which were not part of Mill Creek’s barebones versions. And while the Mill Creek editions were inexpensive budget releases, their valuations have crept up over the years making them not quite the cheapskate slam dunks they used to be. SPECIAL EDITION CONTENTS High Definition Blu-ray (1080p) presentation Original uncompressed mono audio Optional English subtitles Brand new audio commentary by writers Kim Newman and Sean Hogan Satanic Panic: How the 1970s Conjured the Brotherhood of Satan, a brand new visual essay by David Flint The Children of Satan, exclusive new interview with actors Jonathan Erickson Eisley and Alyson Moore Original Trailers and TV and Radio Spots Image Gallery Reversible sleeve featuring original and newly commissioned artwork by Richard Wells FIRST PRESSING ONLY: Illustrated booklet featuring new writing by Johnny Mains and Brad Stevens A/V Out. Get it at Amazon: https://amzn.to/3Dwkf0p If you enjoy reading Cinapse, purchasing items through our affiliate links can tip us with a small commission at no additional cost to you. Except where noted, all 16:9 screen images in this review are direct captures from the disc(s) in question with no editing applied, but may have compression or resizing inherent to file formats and Medium’s image system. September 1, 2021 At Home , Screen Comparisons The Archivist #136: GUYVER: DARK HERO & the Brilliance of Filmmaker Steve Wang A quick look at one of the best action filmmakers you may never have heard of The Archivist — Welcome to the Archive. As home video formats have evolved over the years, a multitude of films have found themselves in danger of being forgotten forever due to their niche appeal. Thankfully, Warner Bros. established the Archive Collection, a Manufacture-On-Demand DVD operation devoted to thousands of idiosyncratic and ephemeral works of cinema. The Archive has expanded to include a streaming service, revivals of out-of-print DVDs, and factory pressed Blu-ray discs. Join us as we explore this treasure trove of cinematic discovery! John Woo, George Miller, James Cameron… Steve Wang? At first glance, one of these things may not feel like the others, but I’m here to declare filmmaker Steve Wang an underappreciated action filmmaking genius who has had a brilliant and varied Hollywood career but nonetheless deserves reappraisal and further renown than he’s yet achieved with the general public. I myself wasn’t particularly familiar with the man until recently, though it turns out his fingerprints have been all over movies I’ve loved for decades. Perhaps kept most busy throughout his career by his special effects work, Wang has had a hand in creature design and practical effects work dating back to such classics as Predator , Monster Squad , Hell Comes To Frogtown , and Gremlins 2 , then all the way up to Bill & Ted Face The Music . You’ve probably also experienced some of his handiwork without necessarily knowing it. But it’s his directorial work on 3 films I’ve seen recently that I’d love to highlight. The Guyver (1991) Co-Directed with Screaming Mad George (himself a special effects artist who deserves more acclaim), The Guyver is an absolutely unhinged manga adaptation with perhaps one of the best and strangest “opening crawls” in cinematic history — dropping us into a world where creatures called “Zoanoids” created mankind as a biological weapon, exist among us as shapeshifting monsters, and created the powerful Guyver tech which, when tapped, can turn a human into the ultimate killing machine. The Guyver exists at the crossroads of body horror, slapstick comedy, and martial arts action. And it’s every ounce as weird and wonderful as that sounds. With a game turn from the legendary Mark Hamill as a cop who stumbles into this bizarre scenario and ultimately ends up in a, shall we say, extensive and impressive transformation sequence, Hamill appears to be having a blast throughout, even if he’s not the titular Guyver character as much of the film’s marketing indicated. Our lead, Sean Barker (Jack Armstrong) also stumbles into this whole world quite accidentally, tapping into the power of the Guyver by chance and becoming wrapped up in an intergalactic struggle beyond his comprehension when he becomes the martial arts “man in suit” Guyver. One part Power Rangers , all parts awesome, The Guyver is weird, wild, and wonderful, featuring incredible creature designs and make up effects, fantastic martial arts action, and an impossibly weird and indelible world all on what must have been a shoestring budget. I watched The Guyver via Arrow’s UK Blu-ray release. Guyver: Dark Hero (1994) Sean Barker (now played by David Hayter who curiously went on to voice Solid Snake in the Metal Gear Solid video games, and also wrote X-Men & X2 ) thought he had beaten the Kronos Corporation and saved the planet from the Zoanoid threat, but it turns out his fight has only just begun, and the world he’s been swept up into is bigger than he ever imagined. Wang here assumes full directorial control and it seems Guyver: Dark Hero contains more of his unfiltered vision. This time featuring some early computer generated effects work, Guyver: Dark Hero is an ambitious if maybe a tad long sci-fi/action epic that is legendary in the circles I run in as an action cinema fan for an iconic kick frequently dubbed “the Guyver kick”. https://tenor.com/bxkar.gif It’s at this point that I should mention Koichi Sakamoto and his Alpha Stunts team. Unknown to me by name until I came in contact with the remarkable action cinema historian and podcaster Mike Scott from the Adkins Undisputed podcast, Sakamoto and his team are L.A. based action designers and choreographers, many of whom hail from Japan. Sakamoto is deep in the world of Japanese inspired “man in suit” properties such as Power Rangers , Ultraman , Kamen Rider , and the like. I’ve always been aware of this kind of stuff, but have never personally been a big follower. What’s neat, however, is seeing how much these kinds of shows and movies have been proving grounds for some of our greatest action filmmakers today like Sakamoto and Isaac Florentine. What Guyver: Dark Hero trades in to great success is brilliantly captured, agile, hard-hitting martial arts choreography which makes these silly insect creatures and practical monster suits somehow look awesome, allowing for “man in suit” martial arts that are pretty much unrivaled. That Guyver kick alone is a feat of agility and timing even if you aren’t wearing an armored mech suit. Dark Hero does indeed go darker and grander in scale than the first Guyver film, with double agents, an archeological dig for a UFO, and countless monster mash ups. It looks exactly like a movie that didn’t have an enormous budget but put ALL of its limited resources up on the screen to entertain and delight viewers. I watched Guyver: Dark Hero via Warner Archive’s DVD release of the film, which I believe is the only way for a US customer to own a physical copy of the film. Drive (1997) (not a Warner Archive title, but included in this article as relevant to the discussion) (*not a Warner Archive title, but included in this article as relevant to the discussion) With Drive , Steve Wang tackled a classic American genre in the “buddy action” picture, but infused it with Hong Kong style martial arts and gun battles that are just about unrivaled in terms of US-made action films. Starring the frankly legendary Mark Dacascos doing some of the most effortless looking martial arts you’ll ever see in an English language film, Drive partners our lead superhuman martial arts machine Toby Wong with Kadeem Hardison’s down and out sidekick Malik. An evil corporation will stop at nothing to get the performance enhancing tech that powers Toby’s heart, but only if Toby can’t get himself to a lab where he can expose them for the group of assassins they are first. So Malik is kind of Toby’s hostage as they begrudgingly bond over various life and death action set pieces as they race across the country to take down the bad guys. At some point a scenery chewing Brittany Murphy shows up, and the whole effort is simply excellent work all around. Wang’s experience on the film was compromised, however, when distributors at HBO chose to take final edit, chop the movie down, alter the music, and generally alter the original tone of the movie. So while the film is somewhat of an under the radar cult classic, the version that many saw over the years really was a compromised final product. Today Wang’s original vision of Drive is available in a Director’s Cut thanks to MVD’s latest Blu-ray release. But this knowledge perhaps offers a clue as to why Steve Wang hasn’t gone on and directed dozens more projects since this martial arts classic. It seems his creative vision was stifled in a painful process, so even though the final film is now available and absolutely vindicates Wang as an “ahead of his time” visionary, he hasn’t opted to direct all that many films since this experience. I watched Drive via MVD’s recently released, bonus-feature-rich Blu-ray release. And so, while Steve Wang may not be the household name that a James Cameron really is, Wang (similarly to Cameron) has cut his teeth and kept them sharp on amazing special effects work and parlayed that into opportunities to direct. Wang hasn’t had as many “at-bats” as many far more famous directors, but with these three films being his signature features, he’s created some all-time good times at the movies. And his confidence, vision, and capability to deliver deserve respect to be put on his name. And I’m Out. August 29, 2021 The Archivist 1990s , 90s Horror , Action , Guyver Dark Hero , Horror , Sci-Fi , SciFi Arrow Heads #87: THE CAT O’ NINE TAILS 4K Dario Argento’s sophomore feature is a bloody Giallo beautifully restored in vivid HDR Arrow Heads — UK-based Arrow Films has quickly become one of the most exciting and dependable names in home video curation and distribution, creating gorgeous Blu-ray releases with high quality artwork and packaging, and bursting with supplemental content, often of their own creation. From cult and genre fare to artful cinema, this column is devoted to their weird and wonderful output. Fresh off of the success of his debut murder-mystery The Bird with the Crystal Plumage , writer-director Dario Argento was commissioned to make a Giallo successor on a fittingly larger scale. The result of his efforts, The Cat O’ Nine Tails , exceeds and overwhelms expectations one could have for a Crystal Plumage followup, amping up a narrative that’s even more twisted and bloody as its predecessor. The film follows blind crossword puzzle creator Franco “Cookie” Arno (Karl Malden) and crime beat reporter Carlo Giordani (James Franciscus) as they sleuth out the culprit behind a rising body count at a secretive pharmaceutical company. With Carlo acting as Cookie’s eyes and Cookie as Carlo’s quick deductive wit, the pair evade close attempts on their lives as they break into labs, steal documents, and even rob graves to uncover a grim conspiracy rife with additional genetics, blackmail, corruption, and gruesome displays of death. When his young niece is kidnapped by the killer, Cookie will stop at nothing to exact his own form of blind, bloody justice and tie the film’s myriad plots to a bitter end. As someone far more familiar with Argento’s more supernatural-rooted outings, seeing a film like The Cat O’ Nine Tails was a fascinating and thrilling affair. While the film is more of a noir suspense thriller like more traditional Giallo films rather than a horror movie, there’s still an unshakable sense of fear and dread throughout. Very much in the vein of Hitchcock, Argento teases out the terror facing his characters before meeting their bloody ends, often with a gleefully perverse sense of humor. And, like his later films, Argento pulls no punches in depicting the sensationally brutal nature of the characters’ nefarious deeds. The most unexpected of which is a train accident that’s cut together with seconds-long clips of grisly close-ups in both wide-angle and close-up, evocative of Sam Peckinpah or Arthur Penn. However, with no veneer of ghosts, goblins, or witches to lend an omniscient sense of horror or detachment from these sadistic sequences, the actions of The Cat O’ Nine Tails are instead rooted in the characters’ own creepy calculated nature. The crimes are rooted instead rooted in the everyday–giving both this film and Argento’s preceding effort a far more sinister quality that also makes it a pulpy guilty pleasure. While The Cat O’ Nine Tails has received criticism about the indulgent overcomplexity of its plot (including from Argento himself), Argento and his crew still manage to guide us through the film’s left-field twists and turns through T he Cat O’ Nine Tails ’ inventive and engaging visual flair. When the camera’s not bobbing and weaving in the characters’ voyeuristic POVs, there’s texture-driven closeups of hands on stone, blood on sheer tile, or poisoned milk inching closer to an actress’ unaware lips. If the camera’s still, there are wild pops of primary colors amidst layered, color-muted surfaces. No matter the circumstance, every frame and sequence pops with kinetic tension and suspense–action is either brimming under the surface or exploding outward in a geyser of viscera. Karl Malden and James Franciscus root the insanity of the film in relatable and magnetic performances, delivering the most ridiculous of plot twists with dedicated rationality. Franciscus–looking his most Charlton Heston–is the classic intrepid reporter eager to break a case, sneaking his way past police barricades or secret locked doors with an unbelievable amount of charm. Malden, in contrast, plays his material with an infectious glee–at one point he exclaims “I love shouting puzzles” in connection to the film’s twists and turns–and carries the audience through a bizarre character transformation from a seemingly kindly crossword puzzle maker to a cane-knife-wielding vengeful killer. I honestly couldn’t believe this was the same guy from On the Waterfront and A Streetcar Named Desire –and was one of The Cat O’ Nine Tails most effective and enjoyable surprises. With a vivid new 4K UHD restoration, Arrow’s new limited collectors’ edition of The Cat O’ Nine Tails is a must for any die-hard fan of Argento — or any cinephile with a penchant for well-shot, blood-soaked capers. VIDEO/AUDIO Arrow presents The Cat O’ Nine Tails in 4K HDR in its original 2.35:1 aspect ratio sourced from a 4K restoration of the original camera negative conducted by L’Immagine Ritrovata, alongside a restoration of the original mono sound mix. Both Italian and English-language prints and audio are presented with the film, both considered equal versions of the film due to the nature of post-production dubbing for Italian films of the time. Continuing their unerring efforts to present Argento and other Giallo films in the highest quality possible, Arrow’s 4K HDR presentation of The Cat O’ Nine Tails is technically superb. Argento’s trademark wide-ranging color palette thrives with the expanded capabilities of HDR, with primary colors of blue cars, yellow ambient light, and especially crimson blood notably vivid throughout. The various textures of the film’s production design–the sterile, bright genetics labs, the gritty asphalt in city alleys, and 70’s wood paneling aplenty–are all well-represented without any fuzzy degradation of image quality in enhancing the film’s original negative. Despite being recorded wholly in post-production, sound quality is also excellent for the film’s dubbed dialogue and foley work. SPECIAL FEATURES Audio Commentary by critics Alan Jones and Kim Newman Nine Lives: An interview with writer/director Dario Argento The Writer O’ Many Tales: An interview with co-writer Dardano Sacchetti Child Star: An interview with actress Cinzia De Carolis Giallo in Turin: An interview with production manager Angelo Iacono Script Pages for the lost original ending, translated into English Trailers from the film’s Italian, United States, and International releases Collector’s Edition Exclusives: Illustrated Booklet featuring an original essay on the film by Dario Argento and writing by critics Barry Forshaw on the film’s merits and context within Argento’s filmography, Troy Howarth on the film’s origins, production, and legacy, and Howard Hughes on composer Ennio Morricone’s iconic collaborations with vocalist Edda Dell’Orso Double-Sided Poster featuring new artwork by Obviously Creative and original theatrical art Six Lobby Cards reproduced from the film’s theatrical release Limited Edition Packaging and Reversible Cover Art The Cat O’ Nine Tails is now available in a Limited 4K UHD Collector’s Edition courtesy of Arrow. Get it at Amazon: If you enjoy reading Cinapse, purchasing items through our affiliate links can tip us with a small commission at no additional cost to you. August 29, 2021 Arrow Heads , At Home 4k Uhd , Arrow Heads , Arrow Video , Cat O’ Nine Tails , Dario Argento , Giallo , Horror , Movies , Mystery DUNE Screen Comparisons: Arrow Video’s New 4K Restoration vs the 2010 Blu-ray DUNE is back on Blu and new on 4K UHD. Here’s how it compares to the earlier Blu-ray edition This article contains several comparisons which contrast Universal’s 2010 Blu-ray transfer with the new Arrow Video restoration. The frames aren’t necessarily exact matches, but should give a solid indication of the visual differences. Please note that, as I don’t have the means to capture the 4K disc, the Blu-ray version of Arrow’s disc was used for this article. While both formats use the same restoration, the actual 4K disc has a higher true resolution and color palette than what is captured here. Dune is back in a big way. Denis Villeneuve’s fiercely anticipated remake has finally been dated for an October release, and Arrow has pulled all the stops to reintroduce David Lynch’s sprawling, bizarre, and cultishly-adored 1984 version of the film in the most lovingly stacked release it’s ever had. The film will have both 4K UHD and Blu-ray options, set for August 31st. Arrow’s carefully restored 4K edition is almost certainly the ultimate physical home video release for this title. Universal’s earlier Blu-ray from 2010 wasn’t bad at all, a pretty respectful edition, all things considered. Comparing the new and old transfers, I have a few main observations. Arrow’s version is consistently cropped larger on the frame, meaning you see more picture at the edges. It also has much clearer film grain appearance (this was likely smoothed in the earlier edition). The color timing is also a bit different, though I’m not prepared to declare a winner on that front. Neither seems inherently better to me; they’re just a little different (with the Arrow version being slightly more vibrant). How You Dune Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Creature/Makeup FX Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Close-ups Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Additional Screencaps Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video Top: Old Universal // Bottom: New Arrow Video A/V Out. Get it at Amazon: If you enjoy reading Cinapse, purchasing items through our affiliate links can tip us with a small commission at no additional cost to you. Limited Edition 4K Blu-ray | Limited Edition Blu-ray | 4K Steelbook (10/5) Except where noted, all 16:9 screen images in this review are direct captures from the disc(s) in question with no editing applied, but may have compression or resizing inherent to file formats and Medium’s image system. August 27, 2021 At Home , Screen Comparisons MY HEART CAN’T BEAT UNLESS YOU TELL IT TO is an Understated Exploration of Modern-Day Vampirism In Jonathan Cuertas’ debut feature, everyone’s driven by a hunger to survive In recent years, horror films have turned their piercing gaze to the ties that bind. From Hereditary to Marrowbone to both versions of We Are What We Are , the toxicity that can seep out of generations of family tradition and protection has proven fertile material for all sorts of nighttime terrors. The idea of family as a refuge from the traumas of the world is subverted into its own nightmarish zone from which there’s no escape–either by circumstance or by blood, you’ll always be a part of the family. My Heart Can’t Beat Unless You Tell It To , the debut feature by Jonathan Cuartas, is the latest iteration of familial terror, here infusing the dedication of siblings with the insidiously symbiotic relationship akin to the one between Dracula and his helper Renfield. Dwight (Patrick Fugit) and Jessie’s (Ingrid Sophie Schram) lives are devoted to sheltering their weak and reclusive younger brother, Thomas (Owen Campbell). Frail, sickly Thomas is unable to go out during the day and is endlessly hungry for blood–and unable to procure victims of his own, Thomas and Jessie’s days consist of finding new victims and draining them to keep Thomas (and their family unit) alive. Thomas craves a relationship outside of just his brother and sister; Dwight dreams of escaping his family; Jessie thinks of nothing else but keeping them together. When Jessie’s latest catch reveals to be an unexpected tragedy for Dwight, the three siblings’ ties are tested against their more selfish, independent urges. My Heart Can’t Beat Unless You Tell It To is a fiercely stripped-down and realistic reworking of vampire tales, very much in the vein of George Romero’s Martin or Tomas Alfredson’s Let The Right One In . Its 89-minute runtime refuses any time spent explaining the lore behind Thomas’ condition or the circumstances that drove these siblings into a life of murder and secrecy. Instead, Cuartas is rooted in the immediacy of Dwight, Jessie, and Thomas’ situation, whether it’s pulse-pounding with the tension of chasing an escaped victim or achingly mundane as they bury another body before going to their soul-sucking day jobs. What impact viewers may glean from the film depends on their ability to enjoy the latter as much as the former–as Fugit and Schram pine for something more from their lives amidst the tedium of their occasionally blood-spattered days, I found myself also wanting more from the time spent outside of the gripping sequences of familial tension in their creaky suburban home, or in the bloodcurdlingly methodical sequences of Dwight and Jessie predicting their victims’ next moves with all of the enthusiasm of clocking into a dead-end office job. That said, patience pays off as the characters’ deliberate emotional detachment from their acts comes into conflict with increasingly personal and chaotic stakes. The few moments where Cuartas plays off of centuries of vampiric cultural knowledge come in Thomas’ undercut attempts to interact with the outside world, notably a life-threatening attempt to toss a message to a neighbor in daylight, one that has rippling consequences for every member of the family. Otherwise, Thomas’ illness is just that–one, that in any other circumstance, would provide the backbone for a heartfelt indie drama as much as a down-and-dirty horror film. Performances are strong from each sibling, each underplaying their roles with a stoic reserve until they’re forced to reveal their inner conflicts in the heat of a stressful situation. While Fugit and Campbell play fantastically off each other, the film is easily Schram’s–while Thomas may be a literal vampire, it’s Jessie who becomes a cold and calculating Angel of Death, doing whatever it takes to keep her family fed. What’s more, Schram can pivot from brutal to benevolent on a dime, while the same balancing act (by nature) is more difficult for Dwight and Thomas to pull off. What’s also particularly fascinating about My Heart Can’t Beat Unless You Tell It To is its choice of victims. Vampires throughout Western lore often archetypically embody some sort of anxiety-driving force–but here, Cuertas pays just as much attention to his characters’ choices of who to target. Dwight and Jessie narrow their focus to the homeless, prostitutes, or migrant workers–characters who, like the family struggling with an illness behind closed doors, would more often than not go unheeded by society if they vanished from the face of the Earth. But these victim-hunting sequences give glimmers of exposition into these victims’ circumstances–notably how an escape to America for a better life leads to another fight for survival–lending our central family’s struggle to keep on living another day a deeper, grueling emotional cost. While Thomas is clearly a vampire, the ties that bind family, victim, and perpetrator all share their own similar blood-sucking bond. My Heart Can’t Beat Unless You Tell It To is now available on Blu-ray and DVD courtesy of MPI Media Group and Dark Sky Films. Get it at Amazon: If you enjoy reading Cinapse, purchasing items through our affiliate links can tip us with a small commission at no additional cost to you. August 26, 2021 At Home Dark Sky , Drama , Horror , Jonathan Cuertas , Movies , My Heart Can’t Beat Unless You Tell It To , Vampires LONE WOLF & CUB Panel Discussion With Max Allan Collins & Ed Travis When the good folks at Hidive & Sentai paired the author of Road To Perdition with some guy… If I’m being totally honest, it’s long been a dream or hope of mine that I would be so verbal and effusive in my praise of something over such a long period of time that eventually someone would recognize me as having something worthwhile to say on the subject. Well, over the years I guess I’ve written and talked enough about the Lone Wolf & Cub movies that I managed to convince the good folks over at Sentai’s Hidive streaming service to invite me to converse about the films on a panel for their Sentai At Home event this year. Their streaming service Hidive features the TV adaptation of Lone Wolf & Cub , which I’ll need to check out once I finish wading through the many thousands of pages that make up the original manga, from Kazuo Koike and Goseke Kojima. Humorously, they ended up pairing me with Max Allan Collins, who is… decidedly more distinguished, noteworthy, and interesting than me. I mean, the guy took his love of Lone Wolf & Cub and created a graphic novel so amazing it was adapted into a major motion picture with Tom Hanks, Paul Newman, Daniel Craig, Jude Law, and more. At best, I hope I held my own chatting with the creator of Road To Perdition . But most importantly, I think we had a really interesting conversation. I hope Lone Wolf & Cub fans will enjoy. And if anyone ends up checking out the Lone Wolf & Cub tv series on Hidive, let me know how it is! And I’m Out. August 23, 2021 Roundtable Reviews 1970s , 2021 , Action , Action Adventure , Drama , Lone Wolf And Cub Previous Page Next Page Search for: Close Features Show sub menu Editorial Interview Make It a Double Roundtable Reviews Spinema Two Cents In Theaters At Home Show sub menu The Archivist Arrow Heads Criterion Collection Streaming Show sub menu Field of Streams Film Festivals Show sub menu Austin Film Festival Chattanooga Film Festival Fantasia Fantastic Fest New York Asian Film Festival Old School Kung Fu Fest Sundance SXSW On TV About Cinapse Staff Tees Copyright © 2025 Cinapse. All rights reserved. Theme: The Headlines By Themeinwp. Powered by WordPress.