Today in Sports - Hideki Matsuyama become first Japanese male to win a golf major with Masters win | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals fall short of a majority in Parliament in the wake of comeback election victory Takeaways from Canada's election: America's northern ally rejects Trump after he dominates race Vietnam marks 50 years since war’s end and focuses on reconciliation during a period of new tensions Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES The US government has a new policy for terminating international students' legal status Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Harvard pledges reforms following internal reports on antisemitism and anti-Arab bias Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Trump greets Whitmer with a hug and gives her a win — new jets for Michigan airbase Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Prank calls to other players unrelated to the one received by Shedeur Sanders, AP source says Haliburton and Pacers eliminate Bucks from playoffs, closing OT with 8-0 run to win 119-118 Spurs' Castle wins rookie of the year, joining Wembanyama as back-to-back San Antonio winners Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Movie Review: 'Thunderbolts' is Marvel, and Florence Pugh, in high gear Judge orders Trump administration to restore $12 million for pro-democracy Radio Free Europe Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plummets to Covid-era low as trade war stokes anxiety 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Runaway kangaroo on the loose named Sheila shuts down Alabama interstate Why a New York zoo is feeding a baby vulture with a hand puppet Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Take It Down Act, addressing nonconsensual deepfakes and 'revenge porn,' passes. What is it? Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: Israel frees a Gaza medic detained since troops killed 15 rescue workers Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES La electricidad vuelve a España y Portugal. La causa del apagón es un misterio El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa El rey danés visita Groenlandia mientras Trump muestra interés en la estratégica isla ártica Juez duda de argumento del gobierno de EEUU de que tribunal no puede revisar declaración fronteriza Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo en modo de campaña, centrado en rencores y quejas Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals fall short of a majority in Parliament in the wake of comeback election victory Takeaways from Canada's election: America's northern ally rejects Trump after he dominates race Vietnam marks 50 years since war’s end and focuses on reconciliation during a period of new tensions Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES The US government has a new policy for terminating international students' legal status Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Harvard pledges reforms following internal reports on antisemitism and anti-Arab bias Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Trump greets Whitmer with a hug and gives her a win — new jets for Michigan airbase Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Prank calls to other players unrelated to the one received by Shedeur Sanders, AP source says Haliburton and Pacers eliminate Bucks from playoffs, closing OT with 8-0 run to win 119-118 Spurs' Castle wins rookie of the year, joining Wembanyama as back-to-back San Antonio winners Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Movie Review: 'Thunderbolts' is Marvel, and Florence Pugh, in high gear Judge orders Trump administration to restore $12 million for pro-democracy Radio Free Europe Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plummets to Covid-era low as trade war stokes anxiety 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Runaway kangaroo on the loose named Sheila shuts down Alabama interstate Why a New York zoo is feeding a baby vulture with a hand puppet Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Take It Down Act, addressing nonconsensual deepfakes and 'revenge porn,' passes. What is it? Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: Israel frees a Gaza medic detained since troops killed 15 rescue workers Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES La electricidad vuelve a España y Portugal. La causa del apagón es un misterio El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa El rey danés visita Groenlandia mientras Trump muestra interés en la estratégica isla ártica Juez duda de argumento del gobierno de EEUU de que tribunal no puede revisar declaración fronteriza Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo en modo de campaña, centrado en rencores y quejas Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals fall short of a majority in Parliament in the wake of comeback election victory Takeaways from Canada's election: America's northern ally rejects Trump after he dominates race Vietnam marks 50 years since war’s end and focuses on reconciliation during a period of new tensions Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES The US government has a new policy for terminating international students' legal status Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Harvard pledges reforms following internal reports on antisemitism and anti-Arab bias Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Trump greets Whitmer with a hug and gives her a win — new jets for Michigan airbase Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Prank calls to other players unrelated to the one received by Shedeur Sanders, AP source says Haliburton and Pacers eliminate Bucks from playoffs, closing OT with 8-0 run to win 119-118 Spurs' Castle wins rookie of the year, joining Wembanyama as back-to-back San Antonio winners Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Movie Review: 'Thunderbolts' is Marvel, and Florence Pugh, in high gear Judge orders Trump administration to restore $12 million for pro-democracy Radio Free Europe Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plummets to Covid-era low as trade war stokes anxiety 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Runaway kangaroo on the loose named Sheila shuts down Alabama interstate Why a New York zoo is feeding a baby vulture with a hand puppet Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Take It Down Act, addressing nonconsensual deepfakes and 'revenge porn,' passes. What is it? Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: Israel frees a Gaza medic detained since troops killed 15 rescue workers Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES La electricidad vuelve a España y Portugal. La causa del apagón es un misterio El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa El rey danés visita Groenlandia mientras Trump muestra interés en la estratégica isla ártica Juez duda de argumento del gobierno de EEUU de que tribunal no puede revisar declaración fronteriza Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo en modo de campaña, centrado en rencores y quejas Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals fall short of a majority in Parliament in the wake of comeback election victory Takeaways from Canada's election: America's northern ally rejects Trump after he dominates race Vietnam marks 50 years since war’s end and focuses on reconciliation during a period of new tensions Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES The US government has a new policy for terminating international students' legal status Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Harvard pledges reforms following internal reports on antisemitism and anti-Arab bias Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Trump greets Whitmer with a hug and gives her a win — new jets for Michigan airbase Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Prank calls to other players unrelated to the one received by Shedeur Sanders, AP source says Haliburton and Pacers eliminate Bucks from playoffs, closing OT with 8-0 run to win 119-118 Spurs' Castle wins rookie of the year, joining Wembanyama as back-to-back San Antonio winners Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Movie Review: 'Thunderbolts' is Marvel, and Florence Pugh, in high gear Judge orders Trump administration to restore $12 million for pro-democracy Radio Free Europe Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plummets to Covid-era low as trade war stokes anxiety 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Runaway kangaroo on the loose named Sheila shuts down Alabama interstate Why a New York zoo is feeding a baby vulture with a hand puppet Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Take It Down Act, addressing nonconsensual deepfakes and 'revenge porn,' passes. What is it? Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: Israel frees a Gaza medic detained since troops killed 15 rescue workers Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES La electricidad vuelve a España y Portugal. La causa del apagón es un misterio El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa El rey danés visita Groenlandia mientras Trump muestra interés en la estratégica isla ártica Juez duda de argumento del gobierno de EEUU de que tribunal no puede revisar declaración fronteriza Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo en modo de campaña, centrado en rencores y quejas Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Sports Today in Sports - Hideki Matsuyama become first Japanese male to win a golf major with Masters win By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit April 11 1936 — The Detroit Red Wings win the NHL Stanley Cup with a 3-1 victory over the Toronto Maple Leafs. 1948 — 12th US Masters Tournament, Augusta National GC: Claude Harmon shoots a record-tying 279 (−9) to finish 5 strokes ahead of runner-up Cary Middlecoff. 1961 — 15th NBA Championship: Boston Celtics beat St Louis Hawks, 4 games to 1. 1963 — Milwaukee Braves future Baseball Hall of Fame pitcher Warren Spahn beats NY Mets, 6-1 for his 328th win; most by a left-hander in MLB history. 1965 — Jack Nicklaus shoots a record 271 and wins the Masters golf tournament by nine strokes over Arnold Palmer and Gary Player. 1966 — Jack Nicklaus wins his third Masters and becomes the first to win in consecutive years as he shoots a 70 in an 18-hole playoff to beat Tommy Jacobs and Gay Brewer. 1966 — Emmett Ashford becomes first African American major league baseball umpire. 1971 — 35th US Masters Tournament, Augusta National GC: Charles Coody wins his only major title by 2 strokes ahead of runners-up Johnny Miller and Jack Nicklaus. 1976 — Ray Floyd shoots a record-tying 271 to win the Masters by eight strokes over Ben Crenshaw. Related Stories Freddy Fermin has 3 hits, Michael Lorenzen pitches 6 strong innings as Royals beat Rays 3-1 Natalie Spooner’s shootout winner lifts Sceptres to 2-1 victory over Sirens Seiya Suzuki falls a single short of the cycle, Cubs go deep four times in 9-0 rout of Pirates 1981 — Larry Holmes beats Trevor Berbick in a 15-round unanimous decision to retain his world heavyweight title in Las Vegas. 1982 — Craig Stadler beats Dan Pohl in a sudden-death playoff to take the Masters. 1983 — Spain’s Seve Ballesteros wins the Masters by four shots over Tom Kite and Ben Crenshaw. 1987 — Zoja Ivanova wins 2nd female World Cup marathon (2:30:39). 1989 — Ron Hextall scores his second career goal and becomes the first goalie to connect for a playoff goal, and the Philadelphia Flyers beat the Washington Capitals 8-5. 1993 — Bernhard Langer of Germany wraps up his second Masters title with a 20-foot eagle putt on No. 13. Langer posts a four-stroke win over Chip Beck with an 11-under 277. 1996 — Detroit Red Wings become 2nd NHL team to win 60 games in a season. 1997 — Mario Lemieux reaches the 50-goal mark for the sixth time in his NHL career in a 4-2 loss the Florida Panthers. Lemieux scores on a third-period penalty shot against John Vanbiesbrouck, to becomes the first player in NHL history to score his 50th goal of the season on a penalty shot. 1999 — 63rd US Masters Tournament, Augusta National GC: José María Olazábal of Spain wins his second Masters title, 2 strokes ahead of Davis Love III and 3 from of Greg Norman. 2004 — Phil Mickelson’s agonizing pursuit of a major ends at the Masters when he makes an 18-foot birdie putt on the final hole, ending a spectacular back-nine duel with Ernie Els. 2007 — Roberto Luongo sets an NHL record for saves in a first career playoff start, making 72 in Vancouver’s 5-4 quadruple-overtime win over Dallas. The sixth-longest playoff game in NHL history, ends on a goal by Henrik Sedin 18:06 into the fourth overtime period. 2008 — Missouri’s Jacob Priday sets a Big 12 Conference record, hitting four home runs against Texas in a 31-12 rout. The senior goes 5-for-5, drives in nine runs and scores six times. 2010 — Phil Mickelson wins his third Masters title, shooting a 5-under 67 to pull away for a three-stroke win over Lee Westwood. 2014 — Stephen Curry has 30 points, 12 assists and 10 rebounds, and Golden State clinches a playoff berth with a 112-95 win over the Los Angeles Lakers. The Lakers set a franchise low with the 54th loss of their miserable season. The 1957-58 Minneapolis Lakers lost 53 times in their 72-game season. These Lakers would finish 27-55. 2021 — 85th US Masters Tournament, Augusta National GC: Hideki Matsuyama become first Japanese male to win a golf major; hangs on to beat American Will Zalatoris by 1 stroke. _____ Most read Trump says Columbus Day will now just be Columbus Day Carney wins Canadian election, while Conservative leader loses his seat in Parliament Disgraced Cardinal Becciu formally withdraws from participation in conclave to elect pope The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook