These 3 women have  umpired major men's  singles finals | Tennis.com Watch Search Login Edit Profile Logout Live Scores News Tournaments Players & Rankings INTERVIEWS Baseline ATP Challenger Tour Live Scores News Tournaments Players & Rankings INTERVIEWS Baseline ATP Challenger Tour Advertising Baseline These 3 women have umpired major men's singles finals By Jonathan Scott Mar 27, 2021 Style Points Mirra Andreeva debuts new custom "Mirracle" Nike bag in Madrid By Stephanie Livaudais Apr 29, 2025 Social Katie Boulter cheekily calls out Alex de Minaur's 'elite' red flag behavior for going off the grid By Baseline Staff Apr 29, 2025 Social "Kids are our future": Jannik Sinner launches eponymous foundation By Baseline Staff Apr 28, 2025 Pop Culture Daniil Medvedev isn’t interested in making another tennis documentary By David Kane Apr 28, 2025 Pick of the Day Madrid Open Betting Preview: Diana Shnaider vs. Iga Swiatek By Zachary Cohen Apr 28, 2025 Social Alexander Bublik talks gaming, hypes coach’s FIFA skills in Madrid 🎮 By David Kane Apr 27, 2025 Your Game The Official 2025 Mother’s Day Tennis Gear Gift Guide By Jon Levey Apr 27, 2025 Lifestyle Game, Set, Recharge: Garbiñe Muguruza’s three non-negotiables on a long flight By Stephanie Livaudais Apr 27, 2025 Style Points Simple man Matteo Arnaldi 'privileged' by EA7 partnership, eyes future singlet fit from Armani By Matt Fitzgerald Apr 26, 2025 These 3 women have  umpired major men's  singles finals By Jonathan Scott Published Mar 27, 2021 copy_link The Open era of professional tennis began in 1968, though in its more than 50 years, just four women umpires have overseen the proceedings for men's singles championships among the Grand Slam events. According to Victoria Chiesa, writing for USOpen.org , the first woman to umpire a Wimbledon final came nearly four decades ago. Picture it: Wimbledon, 1984. Chris Evert facing off against then-nemesis Martina Navratilova. Georgina Clark, who has since passed, umpired that match—the first woman to do so for a Wimbledon women's singles finale. That said, in that time, just four women—one of them twice—have quite literally called the shots as to how the match played out in a men’s singles championship at a Grand Slam tournament. Notably, that woman who has done so twice is Sandra de Jenken, per Chiesa's reporting . She did so for back-to-back majors in 2007, at the Australian Open and Roland Garros. But just three women have done so since, meaning that 51 of the past 54 major men's singles finals have been umpired by men. Alison Hughes is among a handful of @ITFTennis officials who hope to open more doors for more women in tennis. #WomensHistoryMonth — US Open Tennis (@usopen) March 26, 2021 Advertising What's more, it means that just five of the more than 210 Grand Slam men's singles finals have been umpired by women. Dear reader, I'm not sure which stat is more staggering, the 2007-onward version or the totality of it. Now, to that trio of women that has governed from the chair since de Jenken's breakthrough in 2007. Coincidentally, each has done so at the US Open: Eva Asderaki-Moore in 2015, Alison Hughes in 2018, and Louise Azemar Engzell last year. “What we’re trying to do is to inspire other women to get involved in tennis, get involved in officiating," Asderaki-Moore told writer Chiesa , "because if we don’t have many women who start, then we don’t have them later on." Some of these four women took to officiating even as a teenager. To that girl who's perhaps doing the same: You've got net. Tennis Channel Press Careers About Contact us Media Kit Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Cookie Policy sweepstakes All rights reserved.© 2025 Tennis Channel Plus Logo Tennis Channel Logo Winner Ball Info SPINNER GRAND SLAM LOGO FULLSCREEN WHITE FULLSCREEN LATEST DOCUMENTS DOWNLOAD DOCUMENT ALBUM LIVE BLOG VISUAL STORIES