Tesla Earnings: What Happened With TSLA Skip to content News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Trade Search Search Please fill out this field. Search Search Please fill out this field. News News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Follow Us Company News Earnings Reports and News Tesla Earnings: What Happened TSLA exceeded estimates on vehicle production, adjusted EPS, and revenue By Nathan Reiff Full Bio Nathan Reiff has been writing expert articles and news about financial topics such as investing and trading, cryptocurrency, ETFs, and alternative investments on Investopedia since 2016. Learn about our editorial policies Updated October 21, 2020 06:09 PM EDT Close Key Takeaways Adjusted EPS of $0.76 vs. the $0.59 analysts expected. Revenue sharply exceeded consensus estimates. Vehicle production rose significantly YOY. What Happened Tesla's Q3 FY 2020 exceeded analyst expectations across multiple categories, as the company posted what it described as a "record quarter on many levels." Adjusted EPS of $0.76 shattered consensus estimates of $0.59; the actual figure marked an increase of 105.4% YOY. Revenue of $8.8 billion solidly beat analyst expectations of $8.2 billion for the quarter. Tesla released vehicle production figures prior to its October 21 earnings report, and this figure exceeded analyst predictions as well. With this quarter's strong earnings, Tesla seems poised to continue to grow and dominate the electric vehicle space going forward. ﻿ ﻿ Important S&P Dow Jones Indices. " Tesla Set to Join S&P 500 & 100; Apartment Income REIT to Join S&P MidCap 400 ." Click on the article title to open PDF. Accessed Dec. 11, 2020. ﻿ ﻿ (Below is Investopedia's original earnings preview, published October 16, 2020.) What to Look For Tesla Inc. ( TSLA )'s stock has risen by nine-fold in the past year as its market value has soared to $420 billion amid growing optimism about the electric automaker's future. Tesla, the world's largest automaker by market value, also handsomely beat estimates for vehicle deliveries in Q2 FY 2020 as it posted its fourth consecutive profitable quarter. ﻿ ﻿ Investors will be watching to see if Tesla can continue its streak of profitability when it reports earnings on October 21, 2020 for Q3 FY 2020. ﻿ ﻿ Analysts estimate that Tesla will report sizable year-over-year ( YOY ) gains in revenue and adjusted earnings per share ( EPS ). ﻿ ﻿ In the upcoming report, investors also will look closely at Tesla's key metric of vehicle production, which fell in Q2 2020 as the coronavirus pandemic expanded in the U.S. and globally. This figure is an important indicator of the company's ability to scale up its production to meet surging customer demand. Tesla, which reports these numbers early, blew past analysts' estimates as it boosted production by 50.7% during the quarter. ﻿ ﻿ Tesla has dramatically outpaced the stock market, providing a 1-year trailing total return of 770.3%, about 47 times the S&P 500's total return for the same period. Source: TradingView. Tesla historically has posted highly erratic earnings performance, reporting mostly EPS declines or losses over the eight quarters through Q2 FY 2019. Tesla then produced four straight quarters of profits through Q2 FY 2020, further boosting its stock on investor optimism that Tesla would be included in the S&P 500 index. The company's shares plunged in September after the company was passed over for inclusion in the index, but the stock has since recovered nearly all of that decline. ﻿ ﻿ Analysts estimate adjusted EPS will rise 57.8% in Q3 2020. While that growth is strong, nonetheless it would mark a deceleration compared to Q1 and Q2 FY 2020, both of which swung back to positive EPS after quarterly losses a year prior. ﻿ ﻿ By contrast, Tesla's revenue performance has been more stable. In the past three years, the company has posted robust quarterly revenue growth in all but two quarters, when it posted modest YOY declines. One of those quarters was Q2 FY 2020, when revenue fell 4.9%. Analysts expect revenue to rebound in Q3 FY 2020, jumping 30.2% to $8.2 billion. That quarterly revenue for Q3 FY 2020 would be about 150% bigger than the same quarter in 2017, a reflection of the company's rapid growth. ﻿ ﻿ Tesla Key Metrics Q3 2020 (FY) (Estimated) Q3 2019 (FY) Q3 2018 (FY) Adjusted Earnings Per Share ($) 0.59 0.37 0.58 Revenue ($B) 8.2 6.3 6.8 Vehicles Produced 145,036 (actual) 96,200 80,100 ﻿ Source: Visible Alpha To keep its stock rising, the company will need to produce higher volumes of vehicles. That's why investors focus on vehicle production as a key measure of Tesla's longterm ability to grow its revenue, earnings and market share. Tesla also must keep production rising to protect and boost its market share amid stiffening competition from emerging rival electric vehicle manufacturers such as Nikola Corp. ( NKLA ) and NIO Ltd. ( NIO ) as well as big automakers such as GM. Investors have watched Tesla's vehicle production rates particularly closely in Q3 FY 2020, in part because the company shut down production at its Fremont, California factory for several weeks earlier in the year due to the pandemic. ﻿ ﻿ In spite of this setback, the company was able to exceed analyst expectations for vehicle deliveries, a related metric, for Q2 FY 2020. ﻿ ﻿ Because Tesla releases quarterly car production figures ahead of its earnings reports, it is clear that the company beat analyst expectations on the production front. In Q3 FY 2020, Tesla produced 145,036 vehicles, ahead of the predicted 143,400 vehicles. Tesla's Q3 production was nearly six times the level only three years ago in Q3 FY 2017. ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ Do you have a news tip for Investopedia reporters? Please email us at tips@investopedia.com Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. Tesla Inc. " Q3 2020 Update ," Pages 1, 4. S&P Dow Jones Indices. " Tesla Set to Join S&P 500 & 100; Apartment Income REIT to Join S&P MidCap 400 ." Click on the article title to open PDF. Visible Alpha. " Visible Alpha ." Tesla Inc. " Tesla Announces Date for Third Quarter 2020 Financial Results and Webcast ." Wall Street Journal. " Why Tesla Was Left Out of the S&P 500 ." Tesla. " Tesla Operational Update ." CNBC. " Tesla shares soar after reporting big beat on second-quarter deliveries ." Tesla. " Tesla Q3 2020 Vehicle Production & Deliveries ." Take the Next Step to Invest Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Partner Links Related Articles Tesla and Alphabet Report This Week. They'll Set the Tone for Big Tech Earnings Tesla Stock Rises With Earnings On Deck After the Closing Bell Tuesday Tesla's Q1 Earnings Miss Estimates What Analysts Think of Tesla Stock Ahead of Earnings Companies Are Beating Q1 Earnings Estimates So Far. Some Big Results Are Up Next What Analysts Think of Apple Stock Ahead of Earnings What Analysts Think of Microsoft Stock Ahead of Earnings What Analysts Think of Meta Stock Ahead of Earnings Meta Isn't the Only Social Stock Reporting This Week. What To Expect From Reddit and Snap What Analysts Think of Intel Stock Ahead of Earnings Royal Caribbean Profit, Outlook Boosted by Higher Prices, Lower Costs Q1 Earnings Growth Perks Up With a Busy Week Ahead What Analysts Think of Google Parent Alphabet's Stock Ahead of Earnings Sherwin-Williams Stock Rises as Firm Benefits From Higher Prices, Lower Costs Honeywell Stock Rises as Firm Posts Strong Results, Plans to Counter Tariffs Starbucks Stock Slides as Revenue, Profit Miss Estimates About Us Terms of Service Dictionary Editorial Policy Advertise News Privacy Policy Contact Us Careers Your Privacy Choices # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Investopedia is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies