Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/Games A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to Games r/Games r/Games The goal of /r/Games is to provide a place for informative and interesting gaming content and discussions.  Submissions should be for the purpose of informing or initiating a discussion, not just with the goal of entertaining viewers. Memes, comics, funny screenshots, arts-and-crafts, etc. will be removed. Members Online • lanzelloth Xenoblade Chronicles is a great game, and you should play it I don't usually play JRPG's because I think a lot of them are boring. (However I'm not ignorant enough to think a whole genre can be totally bad, there are definitely some real gems, which is why I still maintain some interest and curiousity) With the recent r/games ' GOTY poll and the end of year great games discussion all over the place, I became curious with two JRPG's that get mentioned a lot. One is Persona 4 and the other Xenoblade Chronicles. There is a popular opinion around that Xenoblade Chronicles is the best JRPG in this generation, but unfortunately it came out at the end of the Wii's life cycle, so it doesn't get the attention it deserves. This got me really interested to try it. Oh boy I'm glad I did, and now I'm here to talk about how great Xenoblade Chronicles is, and how you should play it if you get the chance. Two things people say about XC that stood out were that it has good combat, and it looks really good. The main menu gives a really good first impression, although cliched is still a nice shot [1] , great music too. The game itself looks really good, both technically (e.g. pushing the Wii's limits) and artistically. Also everyone speaks with an English accent, I consider that a plus. Now one thing to note, however, is that I haven't finished the game. I'm writing this at 30 hours into the game. Howlongtobeat.com shows that on average it takes 70h to beat this game. According to some spoiler free FAQ I got to about 30% of the game, so that means it's probably gonna take me 100h to finish. My pace is not exactly completionist, but I take my time in between the story missions to explore, craft gems, find and beat the unique monsters. The game starts with you controlling someone from the past, which serves as a tutorial to combat basics [1] [2] . You get introduced to the excellent tutorial pop ups that are present throughout the whole game every time a new concept is introduced, similar to far cry 3 skill tutorials but only pictures, all these are accessable anytime for you to review [1] . The combat is real time, you control only one character that auto-attacks and you have cooldown based skills. The other characters are AI controlled (you can switch character out of combat). The AI for the most part does a decent job, although definitely not as good as a human could. One example, there is a mechanic that involve teamwork ('break' enemy stance, then someone else 'topple' them), and the AI would sometimes not follow through. The fun and the strategy come from choosing when to use these skills (called arts in this game, skills are something else). The first hours of combat felt like when I was starting playing starcraft, information overload [1] . You're trying to figure out what your controlled character's doing and using arts at the right time, such as to follow through other character arts, or when certain debuffs are on, all the while you're trying to figure out who's attacking who. What you're supposed to do (and what the AI follows) for each character neatly have their own tutorial pages. Depending on which character you're controlling you have a different job. If you're controlling Shulk (main character), your job would be to do as much damage as possible without gaining aggro [1] [2] [3] . If you're controlling Reyn (Shulk's best friend mate), your job is to get the aggro [1] [2] [3] . Yes, there's an aggro mechanic, if there's a red ring around you that means an enemy is attacking you, yellow arrows indicate which enemy [1] . I have to mention I really liked the two right from the beginning, they seem like likeable dudes blokes. Reyn is the bigger and more athletic one, Shulk is smaller, more thoughtful and 'delicate' (as Fiora -in game character- puts it). Reyn, part of the military, as the "tank" use a big ass shield/jackhammer thing as a shield and weapon. Shulk, head of the weapon research program, is studying the Monado, the legendary weapon that won them the last war, uses big swords like cloud. This duo works really well as you try to get used to the combat, Reyn charges at them from the front, and Shulk accurately slices them from the back/side. The combat is really fun, I found myself going around still fighting monsters that I already outlevel i.e. "grinding". Which is funny because usually the problems with JRPG's are the combat being a bore/chore and grinding is to be avoided. I was having a lot of fun trying to do a good job and also using the different characters (the characters are uniquely different). Furthermore little by little more mechanics are introduced to the game, as you gain more skills by levelling up or progress story wise and gain access to more characters (while accompanied by the excellent tutorials). Some examples, just to give you an idea of how the game progressively gets more complex and interesting: some arts have bonus effects if done from the back or side, monado arts, break-topple-daze, luring ,fighting mechon enemies, putting gems in slots, gem crafting, affinities, trading, heart to hearts, tension, battle affinity, encouragement, reviving allies, skill tree, skill links, chain attacks, toppling bosses/minibosses, and so on... The game also includes one of the best examples of story and gameplay working together. Shulk with The Monado has visions of the future, and thus have the power to change it (this is a major plot element). This ties into the gameplay in two ways. One, during combat Shulk will get visions of enemies doing things that cause significant damage (or death) accompanied with a countdown timer of when it's gonna happen. When that happens, it's up to you what to do. You can choose to use an art to block it, or use some buff/debuff to reduce the damage, topple/daze the enemy, or direct the tank to aggro lock the enemy so that attack hits the tank instead, or maybe you blew all your cooldowns prematurely and now helpless. Two, when finding loot from dead monsters/ground you will have visions that tell you that those items you just picked up are used in future quest, so don't sell/discard them. This is a real convenience, although for some reason they chose not to include the items required for a major sidequest (rebuilding a city) to get the same treatment. This is one valid complaint about this game. Now, before I finish, I'm gonna talk about the story/writing a bit. Like I mentioned I haven't finished the game, so it's hard to talk about it. However I can say that, the story in the beginning is quite good. The characters are believable and relatable. There are times that the story is really moving. However, the part that I'm in now, the writing feels really weak and watery. Just to top it off, i have to mention about the controls. You can play with the classic controller or wiimote+nunchuck. This game doesn't use any of the wiimote capabilities, and the lack of the second stick means controlling the camera is frustrating with the wiimote+nunchuck (especially because combat is real time). Playing with the wiimote+nunchuck is simply the worse option. Lastly if you're now thinking about trying the game, go watch some gameplay videos on youtube. That's usually the best way to decide whether you'll like the (or any) game or not. (Actually best way is to try the demo, but no demo here) link to more pictures Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 17, 2013 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 2013 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2013 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics