History of Black Golden Globe Winners and Nominees JavaScript required We’re sorry, but Coda doesn’t work properly without JavaScript enabled. Skip to content Gallery History of Black Golden Globe Winners and Nominees History of Black Golden Globe Winners and Nominees Actors Directors Data More Share Explore History of Black Golden Globe Winners and Nominees Timeline of Black excellence: Golden Globes nominees and winners in the motion picture acting and directing categories from 1959 to present day. I would like to thank the Academy Wikipedia ⁠ and the Wiki pack ⁠ and Spotify pack ⁠ in making this doc. Though the Golden Globe Awards cover a wide range of categories in both film and TV, this doc will focus on the acting and directing categories in motion pictures to highlight the accomplishments of Black artists. The 78th Golden Globe Awards will take place on February 28th, 2021 and will honor the best of 2020 and early 2021 TV and film. ⁠ The Golden Globe Awards ⁠ are accolades bestowed by the 87 members of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association beginning in January 1944, recognizing excellence in film, both American and international, and American television. The annual ceremony at which the awards are presented is normally held every January, and is a major part of the film industry's awards season, which culminates each year in the Academy Awards. The eligibility period for the Golden Globes corresponds to the calendar year (i.e., January 1 through December 31). As you go through this doc, play these 2021 Golden Globes-nominated tracks by Black artists: Best Original Song Nominees Best Original Song Nominees Spotify - Track Artists Title Album Image Music & Lyrics by Movie Play Song Spotify - Track Artists Title Album Image Music & Lyrics by Movie Play Song 1 Connect to Spotify ⁠ D’Mile ⁠ ⁠ H.E.R. ⁠ ⁠ Tiara Thomas ⁠ Judas and the Black Messiah ​ 2 Connect to Spotify ⁠ Sam Ashworth ⁠ ⁠ ⁠ Leslie Odom Jr. ⁠ One Night in Miami ​ 3 Connect to Spotify ⁠ Celeste ⁠ ⁠ Daniel Pemberton ⁠ ⁠ The Trial of the Chicago 7 ​ 4 Connect to Spotify ⁠ Andra Day ⁠ ⁠ Raphael Saadiq ⁠ The United States vs. Billie Holiday ​ There are no rows in this table ⁠ Nominated Actors Nominated Actors 3 ⁠ Nominated Director Nominated Director 3 ⁠ Congratulations to all of this year’s nominees! Issa Rae said it best at the 2017 Emmys... 👇 ⁠ ⁠ ⁠ Best Original Song Nominees Nominated Actors Nominated Director Want to print your doc? This is not the way. Try clicking the ⋯ next to your doc name or using a keyboard shortcut ( Ctrl P ) instead.