Jessie Anderson (The Walking Dead) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Appearances Toggle Appearances subsection 1.1 Comic book series 1.2 Television series 1.2.1 Season 5 1.2.2 Season 6 2 Casting 3 Reception 4 References Toggle the table of contents Jessie Anderson ( The Walking Dead ) 4 languages Español Français Português کوردی Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Fictional character This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Jessie Anderson" The Walking Dead – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( January 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Fictional character Jessie Anderson The Walking Dead character Jessie, as portrayed by Alexandra Breckenridge in the television series (left) and  in the comic book series (right) . First appearance Comic : "Issue #72" (2010) Television : " Remember " (2015) Last appearance Comic : "Issue #85" (2011) Television : " No Way Out " (2016) Created by Robert Kirkman Charlie Adlard Adapted by Scott M. Gimple ( The Walking Dead ) Portrayed by Alexandra Breckenridge In-universe information Occupation Television : Hair Stylist Pantry Worker for the Alexandria Safe-Zone Spouse Pete Anderson Children Ron Anderson (son) Television : Sam Anderson (son) Jessie Anderson is a fictional character in the comic book series The Walking Dead and was portrayed by Alexandra Breckenridge in the television series of the same name . She is a resident in the Alexandria Safe-Zone. Created by writer Robert Kirkman and artist Charlie Adlard , the character made her debut in The Walking Dead #72 in 2010. In both media, Jessie is living in an unhappy, abusive marriage with her husband Pete and her son Ron (and Sam in the TV series) in the Alexandria Safe-Zone.  She is eventually devoured by walkers, along with her youngest son Sam, when a herd swarms Alexandria. Appearances [ edit ] Comic book series [ edit ] Jessie appears as a resident of the Alexandria Safe-Zone community which Rick Grimes and his survivors enter. She makes her first appearance at the dinner party for the community, appearing nervous and quiet. [ 1 ] Although her investment in the safe zone itself is limited and she refuses to speak about her marital problems, she is abruptly encountered by Rick, who faces the issue immediately. [ volume & issue needed ] Rick confronts her in private and she admits that Pete has been physically abusive, but still stands by him. [ volume & issue needed ] She remains protective of their son, Ron. [ volume & issue needed ] A series of events occurs that begins with Rick confronting Pete, which ultimately ends with Pete being executed after murdering Alexandria's leader's wife, Regina. [ volume & issue needed ] Jessie grieves silently, but rather shortly, as she finds herself relieved that the trouble is over. [ volume & issue needed ] She expresses gratitude towards Rick about the situation and later becomes more interested in him. [ volume & issue needed ] She begins to make romantic advances on him, which he returns later. [ volume & issue needed ] Rick begins to move on from his late previous wife, Lori, as his relationship with Jessie grows stronger. [ volume & issue needed ] During the horde that attacks Alexandria, Jessie, Rick, his son Carl , and her son, Ron cover themselves in guts to move through the horde. [ volume & issue needed ] The plan fails and Ron is devoured by walkers, and she is later bitten. [ volume & issue needed ] She is unable to let go of Carl's hand as the horde moves in his direction, forcing Rick to amputate her hand with a hatchet to save his son. [ volume & issue needed ] She is later found by Sgt. Abraham Ford devoured and reanimated; Ford shoots her to avoid Rick seeing her undead. [ volume & issue needed ] Television series [ edit ] Season 5 [ edit ] See also: The Walking Dead (season 5) In the episode " Remember ", Jessie appears as a member of the Alexandria Safe-Zone who gives supplies to newcomer Rick Grimes, who recently shaved his long beard, and Jessie offers to give him a haircut. Later, when the group explores the neighborhood, Rick loses sight of Carl and Judith and runs into Jessie, who shows a panicking Rick that they are just talking to some elderly residents. In the episode " Forget ", Jessie, Pete, Ron, and Sam attend Deanna's party. In " Spend ", Jessie is shown when Rick visits her. She explains to him that her owl sculpture was broken, but does not know who did it. Rick promises to look into it, but Jessie questions what he will do, and he tells her that he will think of some kind of punishment. Later in the episode, Jessie's young son Sam asks Carol for a gun for protection, which raises her suspicions toward Pete's domestic treatment of his family. Carol then visits Pete and Jessie's home during the evening, asking for Jessie when Pete answers the door. In response, he replies, "Not a good time." Carol then informs Rick that Jessie is being abused and suggests that Sam may be, as well. In the episode " Try ", Jessie is in her garage when Rick shows up, informing her that he knows her family's secret. She tells him that she is a grown, married woman who can take care of herself. Jessie closes the garage door on Rick. Jessie appears to be crying about her problems, when Rick walks through her door, asking her to let him help her. She then gives him permission to help her. Pete walks through the back door drunk. He demands Rick to leave, but Jessie tells him softly to leave. "Just go", she tells both Pete and Rick. Pete punches Rick, which leads to them having a fight in their house, and then in the street after they blast through the window, brawling. In the season finale " Conquer ", Jessie is among the crowd discussing the fight. Season 6 [ edit ] See also: The Walking Dead (season 6) In the season premiere, " First Time Again ", Jessie first appears in a flashback. She is first seen hugging a devastated Sam at their home when Ron walks out. Later, Jessie is in the armory when Rick walks in. Jessie admonishes Rick for his behavior with Ron in the woods. In the episode " JSS " when the Wolves attack Alexandria, Jessie hides with Sam in a closet, but goes downstairs to warn Ron away from the house, as she knows a Wolf is inside, armed with a gun. A Wolf sneaks up behind her and slams her to the floor. The Wolf goes to pick up Jessie's gun that she threw away when she was attacked. Jessie rises from the ground and picks up some scissors from her stylist set and runs towards the Wolf when her back is turned. Jessie repeatedly stabs the Wolf in the chest violently. Ron walks in and watches her as Jessie kills the Wolf. Jessie then stabs the Wolf's brain to prevent reanimation. In the episode " Now ", Jessie listens to Rick's speech after he is chased by a super pack of walkers to the gates of Alexandria and now the community is surrounded by walkers. She goes home and removes the dead Wolf from her kitchen. Later, Jessie kills a zombified Betsy, who had committed suicide after her husband's death. In the episode " Heads Up ", Jessie is at Rosita Espinosa 's weapons-training class learning how to use a machete. In the midseason finale, " Start to Finish ", Jessie helps Rick, an injured Deanna, Carl, Michonne, Gabriel, and Ron into her house after Alexandria is swarmed with walkers. She urgently pushes against the walkers that are trying to push into her house along with the others. Pushing the walkers out downstairs, there seem to be too many and they begin entering the house. They all rush upstairs and formulate a plan to escape. They cover themselves in walker blood and guts and start walking through the herd, holding hands. In the midseason premiere, " No Way Out ", Jessie is seen walking through the herd with Rick and the others. They stop and discuss an adapted plan to leave Alexandria. Jessie attempts to get Sam to go with Gabriel and Judith to the church for safety, but he refuses. Walking through the night, Sam begins to panic when he sees a young boy walker. He starts making noise and Jessie and Ron desperately try to calm him down, but the walkers find him and devour him. Jessie breaks down in tears, still holding onto Sam's hand. Carl, Ron, and Rick tell her that they must leave to avoid discovery by the walkers. She does not listen, however, leading the walkers to find and devour her. While Jessie is being eaten alive, Carl attempts to escape, but is unable due to her tight grip on his hand. Rick chops off her hand with his hatchet to save Carl from being pulled in after her. Casting [ edit ] Breckenridge explained: "I didn't know anything. I hadn't watched the show before. I'd watched the pilot a long time ago, which I enjoyed, but I wasn't into the blood and guts at the time, so I didn't continue watching for that reason. When I got the part, I watched all four seasons in a week and was having zombie nightmares. It was like cramming for an exam. I hadn't read the comics and when I first had my meeting with Scott Gimple , he suggested I not read the comics because the show and characters aren't always exact to the comics. If you've seen the comics, my character has short black hair with bangs and wears a headband — and she's a meek; she's a weaker character than I'm playing on the show, which is great because I enjoy playing a stronger character." [ 2 ] Reception [ edit ] This section is empty. You can help by adding to it . ( March 2015 ) References [ edit ] ^ The Walking Dead #72 (November 2010) ^ Goldberg, Lesley (March 1, 2015). " 'Walking Dead': Is Romance Ahead for Rick?" . The Hollywood Reporter . Los Angeles, California: Eldridge Industries . Retrieved April 9, 2018 . v t e The Walking Dead franchise Charlie Adlard Robert Kirkman Tony Moore Comic books The Walking Dead Television series The Walking Dead Episodes season 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 Accolades Soundtrack Vol. 1 2 Fear the Walking Dead Episodes season 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Other series The Walking Dead: World Beyond Tales of the Walking Dead The Walking Dead: Dead City The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon The Walking Dead: The Ones Who Live Aftershow Talking Dead episodes Web series The Walking Dead Torn Apart Cold Storage Fear the Walking Dead Flight 462 Video game series Telltale series Season One Season Two Michonne A New Frontier The Final Season Skydance Interactive Saints & Sinners – Chapter 1 Saints & Sinners – Chapter 2: Retribution Other games Survival Instinct Road to Survival No Man's Land Overkill's The Walking Dead Onslaught Survivors Destinies Crossovers Tekken 7 The Escapists Brawlhalla Fortnite Battle Royale Rogue Company Funko Fusion Novels Rise of the Governor The Road to Woodbury The Fall of the Governor, Part One and Two Invasion Search and Destroy Return to Woodbury Rides The Walking Dead: The Ride Characters Comic book series Aaron Alpha Jessie Anderson Andrea Beta Connie Dante Rosita Espinosa King Ezekiel Abraham Ford The Governor Gregory Hershel Greene Maggie Greene Carl Grimes Judith Grimes Lori Grimes Rick Grimes Lance Hornsby Dale Horvath Morgan Jones Lydia Magna Caesar Martinez Mercer Pamela Milton Paul "Jesus" Monroe Spencer Monroe Michonne Negan The Prisoners Carol Peletier Sophia Peletier Eugene Porter Princess Glenn Rhee Siddiq Stephanie Gabriel Stokes Shane Walsh Tyreese Yumiko Television series The Walking Dead Daryl Dixon Merle Dixon Elijah Enid Beth Greene Jadis Jerry Dawn Lerner Milton Mamet Lizzie and Mika Samuels Simon T-Dog Sasha Williams Fear the Walking Dead Alicia Clark Madison Clark Daniel Salazar Victor Strand Video game series Clementine Lee Everett Category Portals : Comics Speculative fiction/Horror Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Jessie_Anderson_(The_Walking_Dead)&oldid=1268255496 " Categories : Characters created by Robert Kirkman Comics characters introduced in 2010 Fictional characters from Virginia Fictional hairdressers Fictional housewives Fictional zombies Image Comics female characters The Walking Dead (franchise) characters American female characters in television Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from January 2021 All articles needing additional references Use American English from March 2021 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from March 2021 Comics articles needing issue citations Articles with unsourced statements from March 2015 Articles to be expanded from March 2015 All articles to be expanded Articles with empty sections from March 2015 All articles with empty sections This page was last edited on 8 January 2025, at 22:05 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Jessie Anderson ( The Walking Dead ) 4 languages Add topic