Kylian Mbappe vs Argentina at 2018 World Cup was even better than we remember - The Athletic World Cup Teams Scores & Schedule Standings Kylian Mbappe vs Argentina at 2018 World Cup was even better than we remember Michael Cox Dec. 12, 2022 Updated Dec. 18, 2022 This is a series re-assessing famous individual or team performances in World Cup history. Some will be legendary displays by established world-class players or performances that fell short, others will be once-in-a-lifetime cameos that have nevertheless gone down in folklore. It’s easy to look back upon historic displays with rose-tinted spectacles or to revise our memories of particular performances based upon what came afterwards. A second look at these games can be revealing. Why this game? France versus Argentina at the 2018 World Cup was the match that confirmed Kylian Mbappe ’s status as one of the world’s outstanding footballers — and perhaps the future best player in the world. What was the context? On paper, this was a routine second-round clash between two previous World Cup winners who hadn’t impressed in the group stage. Argentina had been shambolic at times, while France had simply been dull. A seven-goal thriller was something of a surprise. This was also billed as a meeting between two great No 10s — one coming towards the end, one just emerging. This was Lionel Messi ’s fourth attempt to win the World Cup, and Kylian Mbappe’s first. We didn’t know at the time, of course, that Mbappe would go on to win it, or that they would link up at Paris Saint-Germain three years later. (Photo: Mehdi Taamallah/NurPhoto via Getty Images) Was Mbappe as good as we remember? If anything, better. The defining moment of Mbappe’s performance has become his roaring rub through the Argentina side to win the penalty for the opener, but really, the entire game revolves around him. After France have gone 2-1 down and Benjamin Pavard ’s absurd swerving effort brings it back to 2-2, Mbappe suddenly has a period when he’s absolutely unstoppable. Advertisement Sheer speed is most impressive, and most detectable, over 50 yards or more, which is why we all remember that run. But his acceleration for his first goal is arguably a better indication of his talent. It’s over a mere few yards, so is less striking. But Mbappe sprints onto his own touch almost before anyone else can even react to it. The Argentina goalkeeper Franco Armani could have done better, but is probably surprised by how quickly Mbappe takes the shot. His second goal is simple, running onto an Antoine Griezmann pass with a direct run from the right — the fact that his finish is played at the same angle to his run almost brings an extra element of immediacy. But it’s about more than that. It’s about the fact that Argentina are utterly terrified of him. The left-back Nicolas Tagliafico tries to stick tight and prevent him turning, which makes sense. But Tagliafico fouls Mbappe, gets booked and then can’t tackle him. Marcos Rojo fouls him for the penalty, gets booked and then also can’t foul him. And because Argentina are trying to get men around him, space opens up down that side. Griezmann starts drifting into the space behind Tagliafico. Right-back Pavard finds himself unmarked because Angel Di Maria is concerned with Mbappe. They help to make inroads down that side. And Mbappe isn’t confined to the right flank. He darts inside and tries to drive through the centre, something he’s keen to do more of at PSG . He’s not quite Messi, but nor is he a pure speedster, even at this nascent stage. What was his best moment? That burst through the defence remains astonishing to watch, like a Formula 1 driver deploying DRS. In the space of seven seconds, Mbappe goes from rushing to collect a loose ball 75 yards from goal, to being brought down in the opposition penalty box. There’s a burst to reach the ball in the first place, another burst to make sure he’s clear of any Argentina players trying to bring him down, and then finally another burst to speed past Rojo, who is completely baffled about whether to back off or shut down Mbappe. In the end, he just bundles him over. What might we have forgotten? The main theme of the game is how physical Argentina are when trying to stop him. Seven minutes into the match, Mbappe drives through the middle of the pitch and four Argentina players converge on him, one bringing him down. From the free kick, Griezmann thumps the ball against the bar. That foul for the penalty leaves Mbappe hurt and needing treatment. He’s already won the penalty, so there’s no need for him to exaggerate the foul. He gingerly limps off the pitch, and watches Griezmann’s successful spot kick from the touchline. Shortly afterwards, Mbappe runs directly in behind and Tagliafico brings him down. He gets booked, but it could have been interpreted as a red-card offence for denying a clear goalscoring opportunity. It’s also very close to being a second penalty. At times, the physicality feels like something out of a World Cup from the 1980s. Argentina are absolutely petrified of him, much like they were of Michael Owen in 1998, and try to stop him through force. Early in the second half, Mbappe is tripped by Di Maria while Ever Banega slides in from a different angle, catching Mbappe with his studs when he’s already on the ground. Maybe it was purely accidental, but it looked rather pre-meditated. Banega became the third player, after Rojo and Tagliafico, to be cautioned for fouling Mbappe. What happened next? Mbappe went on to win the World Cup, scoring France’s final goal in a 4-2 win over Croatia . That strike was nothing to do with speed — it was a smartly taken long-range shot, which was cut past the defender and surprised Danijel Subasic. Since then, his international career has been mixed — he missed the crucial penalty as France were eliminated from Euro 2020 by Switzerland , although he scored in the Nations League final victory over Spain . He was arguably the main star going into this World Cup, aiming to help France become the first side to win consecutive World Cups since Pele’s Brazil, back in 1958 and 1962. (Photos: Getty Images/Design: Sam Richardson) Michael Cox concentrates on tactical analysis. He is the author of two books - The Mixer, about the tactical evolution of the Premier League, and Zonal Marking, about footballing philosophies across Europe. Follow Michael on Twitter @ Zonal_Marking National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Culture Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two LNH Memorabilia & Collectibles Men's College Basketball Men's World Cup Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News UK Women's Football WNBA Women's College Basketball Women's Euros Women's Hockey Women's World Cup The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Montréal (français) Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Support Sitemap