The Majors: Everything you need to know about golf’s nine Grand Slam events Today's Golfer Today's Golfer Menu Primary Navigation - Desktop (Horizontal) More from Today's Golfer Equipment Reviews Best Equipment TG Awards What's in the Bag Golf Clubs Golf Balls Golf Shoes Golf Bags Golf Clothing Golf Trolleys Golf Accessories GPS & Rangefinders Insurance Course Reviews Top 100: Best Golf Courses and Resorts United Kingdom Europe Rest of World The Today's Golfer Club Golf Escapes News & Tour Equipment news General news Tour news The Majors Opinion The Ryder Cup Features Equipment Features Instruction Features Player Features Course Features Today's Golfer Magazine Subscribe Manage my subscription Latest Issue Newsletter Best Golf Deals Golf Tips Rules of Golf Bunker Play Golf Short Game Driving and Woods Fault Fixes Fitness Iron Play Putting Rescue Shots Strategy Swing Drills Swing Setup Tuition Features Golf Pitching Golf Chipping Golf Giveaways Drive for Defibs Join More... Breadcrumb Navigation Back to Home Back to News & Tour Back to The Majors: Everything you need to know about golf’s nine Grand Slam events in 2025… The Majors: Everything you need to know about golf’s nine Grand Slam events in 2025… Professional golf has nine Major events each season – four in the men’s game and five in the women’s. These are the events every player dreams of winning – the events on which their careers are ultimately judged when they end. At todays-golfer.com, we bring you everything you need to know about the Grand Slam Tournaments, covering them all on-site and from our UK base. The men do battle at The Masters (April), US PGA Championship (May), US Open (June) and The Open (July – the only men’s Major on British soil), while the women compete at the Chevron Championship (April), US Women’s Open (May), KPMG Women’s PGA Championship (June), the Amundi Evian Championship (July), and the AIG Women’s Open (August). From our in-depth guides to the fields and the courses the Championships are played on, to interviews with the key protagonists and everything you missed from each day of the Major weeks, we’re on hand to bring it all to you. Golf’s Major Championships 2025 The Masters Tournament Dates: April 10–13, 2025 Location: Augusta National Golf Club, Augusta, Georgia, USA Defending Champion: Scottie Scheffler The Chevron Championship Dates: April 24–27, 2025 Location: The Club at Carlton Woods, The Woodlands, Texas, USA Defending Champion: Nelly Korda PGA Championship Dates: May 15–18, 2025 Location: Quail Hollow Club, Charlotte, North Carolina, USA Defending Champion: Xander Schauffele U.S. Women’s Open Dates: May 29–June 1, 2025 Location: Erin Hills Golf Course, Erin, Wisconsin, USA Defending Champion: Yuka Saso U.S. Open Dates: June 12–15, 2025 Location: Oakmont Country Club, Oakmont, Pennsylvania, USA Defending Champion: Bryson DeChambeau KPMG Women’s PGA Championship Dates: June 19–22, 2025 Location: Fields Ranch East at PGA Frisco, Frisco, Texas, USA Defending Champion: Amy Yang The Amundi Evian Championship Dates: July 10–13, 2025 Location: Evian Resort Golf Club, Évian-les-Bains, France Defending Champion: Ayaka Furue The Open Championship Dates: July 17–20, 2025 Location: Royal Portrush Golf Club, Portrush, Northern Ireland Defending Champion: Xander Schauffele AIG Women’s Open Dates: July 31–August 3, 2025 Location: Royal Porthcawl Golf Club, Porthcawl, Wales Defending Champion: Lydia Ko 9 big names missing the Masters There are quite a few big names missing the Masters. Here are nine household names... Golf News How many players are in the Masters, and how did they qualify? The full field for 2025 at Augusta The first men’s major is closing in. So how many players are in the field... Golf News 14 things I wish I’d known before my first visit to The Masters at Augusta National Planning to attend The Masters at Augusta, or just want to know what it’s like?... Golf News The Masters PGA Championship US Open The Open Championship The Masters Tournament 2025 The gnomes have taken over at Augusta National… even Niall Horan wants one! by Rob Jerram With a full collection valued at $25k, it’s no wonder The Masters gnome is a... Every hole-in-one at the Masters (and how they happened) by Alex Perry A Masters hole-in-one just hits differently, doesn’t it? Here’s a brief history of every ace... Why does the Masters champion get a Green Jacket? by Rob Jerram The winner of the year’s first golf major receives the famous Green Jacket for victory... Why no one wants to win the Masters Par 3 Contest by Rob McGarr Winning is the goal in every golf tournament – except for one. At Augusta National’s Par 3... What will Rory McIlroy serve at his Champions’ Dinner? And how does it compare to previous winners by Rob Jerram The defending champion has the honor of setting the Masters Champions Dinner menu. Rory McIlroy... We're live at Augusta National Golf Club bringing you everything you need to know from the year's first golf Major Videos The greatest 36 holes in golf: Why 2025 is the time to experience Trump International, Scotland Mizuno and The Foundry: their new custom fitting facility offering the best technology in the industry LIV Golf Miami: The Duels leaderboard and highlights Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Back to top Sitemap Contact us Privacy and cookie policy Legal Info Subscribe to Today's Golfer Complaints Policy Speak Up About us How we test Privacy Settings Do not sell my information © 1962-2025  Bauer Media Group Bauer Media Group consists of : Bauer Consumer Media Ltd, Company number 01176085; Bauer Radio Limited,  				Company number: 1394141; Registered office: Media House, Peterborough Business Park, Lynch Wood, Peterborough PE2 6EA and H Bauer Publishing,  				Company number: LP003328; Registered office: The Lantern, 75 Hampstead Road, London NW1 2PL 				All registered in England and Wales.  VAT no 918 5617 01 H Bauer Publishing are authorised and regulated for credit broking by the FCA (Ref No: 845898) Primary Navigation - Mobile Equipment Reviews Best Equipment TG Awards What's in the Bag Golf Clubs Golf Balls Golf Shoes Golf Bags Golf Clothing Golf Trolleys Golf Accessories GPS & Rangefinders Insurance Course Reviews Top 100: Best Golf Courses and Resorts United Kingdom Europe Rest of World The Today's Golfer Club Golf Escapes News & Tour Equipment news General news Tour news The Majors Opinion The Ryder Cup Features Equipment Features Instruction Features Player Features Course Features Today's Golfer Magazine Subscribe Manage my subscription Latest Issue Newsletter Best Golf Deals Golf Tips Rules of Golf Bunker Play Golf Short Game Driving and Woods Fault Fixes Fitness Iron Play Putting Rescue Shots Strategy Swing Drills Swing Setup Tuition Features Golf Pitching Golf Chipping Golf Giveaways Drive for Defibs Join