Why Wisconsin bans car makers from selling directly to public The best time to support independent local news is now. Donate today 👋 Hello! You've read quite a few articles on our site. Our goal is to build strong, informed and connected communities across Wisconsin. Can you help? Please share our stories and, if you can afford to, become a monthly supporter . Close Newsletters Donate Sign In Search for: Search About us Recent stories Coverage areas Open dropdown menu Government Economy Education Environment Health & Welfare Justice & Safety Opinion Photo Essays News about Wisconsin Watch Major projects Open dropdown menu Change is on the Air Fact briefs False Choice Mississippi River Basin Ag & Water Desk News414 NEW News Lab Prison Problems Statehouse coverage Voter guide Bsky Twitter TikTok YouTube Facebook Instagram Close Our Investigations. Your Inbox. Subscribe to our newsletters Skip to content Bsky Twitter TikTok YouTube Facebook Instagram Wisconsin Watch Nonprofit, nonpartisan news about Wisconsin Newsletters Donate Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Sign In About us Recent stories Coverage areas Open dropdown menu Government Economy Education Environment Health & Welfare Justice & Safety Opinion Photo Essays News about Wisconsin Watch Major projects Open dropdown menu Change is on the Air Fact briefs False Choice Mississippi River Basin Ag & Water Desk News414 NEW News Lab Prison Problems Statehouse coverage Voter guide Posted in Economy Wisconsin bans auto manufacturers from selling directly to the public. Here’s why. Electric vehicle maker Tesla is challenging state laws that ban auto companies from selling to consumers. by Annie Pulley / The Badger Project April 24th, 2025 April 24th, 2025 Why you can trust Wisconsin Watch Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Click to share on Threads (Opens in new window) Threads Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit A Tesla is seen in a parking lot in Necedah, Wis., on Nov. 7, 2019. Wisconsin’s explicit ban on direct auto sales has ignited an ongoing legal dispute between the state and Tesla. (Coburn Dukehart / Wisconsin Watch) Reading Time: 3 minutes Never miss stories like this one. We cover issues that deserve more attention. Get our free Wednesday newsletter and you’ll always be in the know. Sign up now Ever wondered why you can’t just go to a store and buy a new car? Why must you haggle at a dealership? You can find the reason in state law. In Wisconsin, auto manufacturers are prohibited from selling directly to consumers. Instead, they must sell their vehicles to dealerships, which then sell them to the public. The state’s nearly 35-year-old, explicit ban on direct sales has ignited an ongoing legal dispute between the state and Elon Musk’s electric vehicle company, Tesla. But Wisconsin isn’t an outlier. Seventeen states bar direct sales, while 18 states allow them, according to a 2020-2021 report from the National Conference of State Legislatures. Laws in the remaining states fall somewhere in the middle of this balance. The Wisconsin law at the center of the Tesla dispute says “A factory shall not, directly or indirectly, hold an ownership interest in or operate or control a motor vehicle dealership in this state.” Industry and legislative history The Wisconsin State Legislature enacted the factory store rule in 1993 after the Wisconsin Automobile & Truck Dealers Association lobbied to expand protections for car dealers, said Madeline Kasper, an analyst with the Wisconsin Legislative Reference Bureau, in an email. But restrictions on manufacturers operating auto dealerships in Wisconsin date back to the mid-20th century and were first enacted to protect dealerships from having to compete with auto manufacturers, Kasper said. Stay informed without getting overwhelmed. All week long, our editors are collecting interesting, important stories from sources we trust. On Fridays, they make a shortlist and send it out as a free email newsletter. Why not sign up now? Sign up The practice of selling new vehicles through dealerships began as the auto industry expanded in the early 20th century. Manufacturers partnered with independent dealers so they could prioritize and invest in the production of cars rather than their distribution. Before states intervened on behalf of dealerships, manufacturers could force dealers to accept cars regardless of whether the dealer wanted them and could terminate contracts with dealerships for no reason, wrote Daniel Crane , a law professor at the University of Michigan who teaches legislation and regulation, in a 2016 paper . Prohibiting manufacturers from selling directly to consumers was meant to limit manufacturers’ ability to unfairly compete by selling the same types of cars sold by the dealer, Crane said. Tesla has attacked the current interpretation of the factory store rule, noting that Tesla can’t compete with dealerships because dealerships don’t sell Tesla products. “That rationale is completely inapplicable to non-franchising manufacturers, like Tesla, who have no franchisees they could possibly exploit,” the company wrote in its court filings . The suit may end up before the Wisconsin Supreme Court, which made Musk’s heavy involvement in the recent election for an open seat on the court — he unsuccessfully spent about $20 million trying to get the right-leaning candidate elected — eye-raising. more from wisconsin watch Has Elon Musk’s PAC in the 2025 Wisconsin Supreme Court race set the record for outside spending on state court elections? Vicious ads, record spending, Elon Musk: Wisconsin Supreme Court race reflects nasty, new normal The state-imposed limits on direct sales began to loosen in 2014, two years after Tesla debuted its second car, Crane explained in another paper . Looser restrictions on sales are essential for electric vehicles to compete with the better-established auto companies, and the traditional dealership model is ill-suited to their sale and service, Crane argues. New car dealerships’ contribution to state tax revenue isn’t insignificant, however. The tax revenue from the sale of vehicles both new and traded-in as well as parts, accessories and repairs at new car dealerships in Wisconsin was nearly $600 million in 2024, according to the Department of Revenue. This accounted for nearly 8% of the state’s $7.6 billion in total sales tax revenue last year. Tesla and Wisconsin In Wisconsin, Tesla operates two galleries in Madison and Milwaukee, but neither can sell vehicles or even discuss pricing or promotions. Wisconsin residents who wish to purchase a Tesla must do so online or visit a neighboring state that doesn’t impose direct sales restrictions. In December, Tesla requested dealer licenses in Dane and Milwaukee counties, hoping to convert its two gallery locations to dealerships. When a state agency rejected the requests, the company filed suit on Jan. 15 in Outagamie County Circuit Court, raising questions of judge shopping. The company said that it is a licensed motor vehicle dealer in 30 states and Washington, D.C., and that Wisconsin residents purchased between 3,000 and 4,000 of its vehicles last year. The company prioritizes direct sales, saying that the model is better for its consumers, who, the company says , prefer its uniform prices and “middleman-free experience.” Tesla argues that it qualifies for an exemption to state law because car dealers could not own and operate a dealership selling Tesla products “in a manner consistent with the public interest and that meets the reasonable standard and uniformly applied qualifications of the factory.” After initially filing in Outagamie County, where no Tesla showroom exists, the court transferred the case to Milwaukee County in March, according to online records. This article first appeared on The Badger Project and is republished here under a Creative Commons license. The Badger Project is a nonpartisan, citizen-supported journalism nonprofit in Wisconsin. Help us spread the truth. Tom Kertscher Wisconsin Watch reporter Before I joined Wisconsin Watch, I spent a lot of time debunking posts on Facebook and Instagram. Some of that work was funded by Meta, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg's social media company. In January 2025, Zuckerberg announced he was ending the fact-checking program at Meta. The loss of that program underscores the importance of citizen involvement in fact-checking — whether it’s checking claims made on social media or anywhere at all. It’s my hope that more citizens keep an eye out for surprising and dubious claims — and bring them to the attention of fact checkers. Our fact briefs, which answer a question yes or no in 150 words, are done in partnership with Gigafact and have been held up as a model for other news organizations . Wisconsin Watch monitors what Wisconsin’s politicians are saying and what other folks are saying about Wisconsin. But we could use your eyes and ears too. If you're on social media or consuming news and come across a statement that seems off — or is interesting, but you can’t tell whether it’s true or false — let us know . Then post our published briefs to inform the debates happening in your social media channels. In the meantime, if you think this work is important, please show your support by making a donation of any amount today. Together, we can help ensure that communities across Wisconsin have access to reliable information. One-time Monthly Annually One-time $5 $10 $50 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $20 $50 Other Donation amount												per month $ Annually $120 $365 $520 Other Donation amount												per year $ Click the button below to go to our secure payments page. Donate now Latest stories International students stripped of legal status in the US are piling up wins in court by Kate Brumback / Associated Press April 24th, 2025 April 24th, 2025 ‘A practice driven by a lack of good options’: Homeless drop-offs in Eau Claire showcase need for state action by Hallie Claflin / Wisconsin Watch April 24th, 2025 April 23rd, 2025 Was a World Trade Center building destroyed on 9/11 by ‘controlled demolition’? by Tom Kertscher / Wisconsin Watch April 23rd, 2025 April 23rd, 2025 Does Canada impose 200% tariffs on US dairy products? by Tom Kertscher / Wisconsin Watch April 23rd, 2025 April 23rd, 2025 Help us investigate end-of-life care solutions in Wisconsin by Wisconsin Watch April 23rd, 2025 April 23rd, 2025 Tagged: cars , Economy , Elon Musk , news , Wisconsin Bsky Twitter TikTok YouTube Facebook Instagram About Our newsletters Awards and honors Republishing guidelines Ethics Funding Pitch guidelines for freelancers Corrections and clarifications Our People Our people Board of Directors Journalism Advisory Board Jobs at Wisconsin Watch Our Impact Stories making a difference What we cover Economy Education Environment Government Health Justice System Media Partners Republishing guidelines Contact Mailing address: Wisconsin Watch P.O. Box 5079 Milwaukee, WI 53205 608-262-3642 info@wisconsinwatch.org Send Us A Tip Who we are Wisconsin Watch is a project of the Wisconsin Center for Investigative Journalism (WCIJ Inc.) — a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. Federal tax ID: 26-2143608 © 2025 Wisconsin Watch Powered by Newspack User Agreement and Privacy Policy Sign in Close Sign in with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email. Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Terms of use and privacy policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Complete your transaction Close