Sally Hawkins wins best actress at LA Film Critics Awards Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Watch Live Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Sally Hawkins wins best actress at LA Film Critics Awards 4 December 2017 Share Save Share Save Reuters Sally Hawkins is widely expected to get an Oscar nomination Britain's Sally Hawkins has been named best actress at a film ceremony in Los Angeles as Hollywood's awards season gets going. Hawkins is best known for playing Mrs Brown in the Paddington films but won the award on Sunday for her role in fantasy romance The Shape of Water. She received the accolade at the LA Film Critics Association Awards. It's one of many ceremonies leading up to the Oscars in March, where Hawkins is likely to be among the contenders. She has been nominated for an Oscar once before - in 2013 for her role in Blue Jasmine. StudioCanal She also plays Mary Brown in the Paddington films The Shape of Water - directed by Guillermo del Toro - tells the story of a mute woman who falls in love with a captured sea creature in a high-security government facility. Del Toro was named best director at Sunday's ceremony in LA, while the film also won best cinematography. Hawkins, who also won a Golden Globe in 2008 for Happy-Go-Lucky, told Deadline she felt "honoured" to work with del Toro. 'A dream' "He is the most remarkable person, and you feel honoured to be in his presence," she said. "He inspires everyone he comes into contact with, and everyone who he works with just wants to do the best for him." The 41-year said she felt "lucky" to work on the film and expected to be asked to leave at any moment. "I felt, every day, like I'd have a tap on the shoulder to be asked to leave. As cliched as it sounds, I really felt that was going to happen at any moment. Or I'd wake up from the dream." The night's other main winner was the Italian-American gay coming-of-age romance Call Me By Your Name, which won three awards, including best picture. Other British winners included Radiohead's Jonny Greenwood, who picked up the award for best music/score for the film Phantom Thread. Follow us on Facebook , on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts , or on Instagram at bbcnewsents . If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk. Del Toro wins the Golden Lion at Venice Hugh Grant gets to grips with Paddington Biopic of obscure painter becomes surprise hit British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.