A Real Pain - Golden Globes The Show Awards Database 2025 Nominations Winners/Nominees Carol Burnett Award Cecil B. DeMille Award History Golden Globes History About Award Rules and Entry Forms Media Info Publicist Info Voter Application Voter Biographies Membership Board of Directors Golden Globes Leadership Team Contact Us FAQs News Latest News Video Gallery Skip to content 82nd Annual Golden Globes® LIVE COVERAGE . Awards Database 4 Nominations 1 Win A Real Pain “A Real Pain” (2024), directed by Jesse Eisenberg, is a poignant comedy-drama that follows two mismatched Jewish American cousins, David (Eisenberg) and Benji (Kieran Culkin), as they travel to Poland to honor their late grandmother. The film delves into their personal histories and the complexities of their relationship against the backdrop of their family’s past. Critics have lauded the film for its emotional depth and the compelling performances of Eisenberg and Culkin. It has received four Golden Globe nominations, including Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy, Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy (Eisenberg), Best Supporting Actor in a Motion Picture (Culkin), and Best Screenplay. Despite these accolades, the film has yet to secure any wins. “A Real Pain” premiered at the Sundance Film Festival. Role Credit Cast: Jesse Eisenberg , Kieran Culkin Director: Jesse Eisenberg Writer: Jesse Eisenberg Golden Globe Awards 2025 Nominee Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy A Real Pain 2025 Nominee Best Performance by a Male Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy A Real Pain Jesse Eisenberg 2025 Winner Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in any Motion Picture A Real Pain Kieran Culkin 2025 Nominee Best Screenplay - Motion Picture A Real Pain Jesse Eisenberg Subscribe to Newsletter Email address Submit GG will store your name and email address and use them to send the Weekly Globe newsletter. Withdraw consent by clicking on the link in an issue. Read our Privacy Policy . Something went wrong! Please try again. Thank you for your submission! Tabulation proudly provided by KPMG LLP (US) The Show Awards Database 2025 Nominations Winners/Nominees Carol Burnett Award Cecil B. DeMille Award History Golden Globes History About Award Rules and Entry Forms Media Info Publicist Info Voter Application Voter Biographies Membership Board of Directors Golden Globes Leadership Team Contact Us FAQs News Latest News Video Gallery Golden Globe(s)®, Cecil B. Demille® and Golden Globes® Statuette design mark are the registered trademarks and service marks and the Golden Globe® statuette the copyrighted property, of Golden Globes, LLC. Copyright © Golden Globes, LLC. Hollywood Foreign Press Association® is a registered trademark of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. All rights reserved. Accessibility Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Adchoices Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices Dismiss Disclaimer Your Privacy Rights Golden Globes, LLC (“Golden Globes”) uses first and third-party technologies to enable PMC and third-parties to collect information about you and your interactions with our sites and services (including clicks, cursor movements and screen recordings). Learn more HERE . By continuing to use our sites or services, you agree to our Terms of Use (including the class action waiver and arbitration provisions) and Privacy Policy , which have recently changed. Search Search