Joss Whedon Put on Blast by Original Writer for The Avengers: 'He's a Bad Person' CBR Menu Sign in now Close Movies Submenu Movie News Movie Features Movie Lists Movie Reviews TV Submenu TV News TV Features TV Lists TV Reviews Comics Submenu Comics News Comics Features Comics Lists Comics Previews Comics Reviews Anime Submenu Anime News Anime Features Anime Lists Games Submenu Game News Game Features Game Lists Game Guides Videos Threads More Submenu Lists Interviews Community Sign in Newsletter Menu Follow Followed Like More Action Sign in now The CW MCU, DCU & More Dragon Ball Lord of the Rings Procedurals & Dramas Westerns Zelda Close Joss Whedon Put on Blast by Original Writer for The Avengers: 'He's a Bad Person' By Jeremy Dick Published Oct 23, 2023 Follow Followed Like Link copied to clipboard Related Deadpool 3 Director Says Ryan Reynolds Wants Deadpool to 'Lose' to Wolverine Fantastic Four Director Talks Casting the New First Family: 'Chemistry Is Super Important' 10 Great Disney Movie Characters Who Don't Deserve The Hate They Get Sign in to your CBR account Writer Zak Penn has some choice words for Joss Whedon related to what happened with the first Avengers movie developed for the MCU. Released in 2012, The Avengers is written and directed by Whedon, though Penn was able to maintain a story credit. The writer, who had penned The Incredible Hulk , had spent years working on The Avengers , as he was originally on board to write the screenplay himself. That changed when Whedon was hired as director in 2010, as his first order of business was to toss Penn's script. Reflecting on the situation in the new book MCU: The Reign of Marvel Studios , Penn shared the story behind getting replaced with Whedon, whom he described as rude and unpleasant throughout the whole ordeal. Related Deadpool 3 Director Says Ryan Reynolds Wants Deadpool to 'Lose' to Wolverine Shawn Levy says that Ryan Reynolds was rooting for Deadpool to "lose" the battle to Hugh Jackman's Wolverine. Posts "All the other directors we had been talking about, Joss wasn't on the list," Penn explained. "I heard he was going to rewrite the script himself. He didn't even want to meet with me - which, by the way, I always call the writer I'm replacing. I feel like that's courtesy." Upon reaching out to Whedon personally, Penn added, "He said to me, 'No, it's not awkward for me. I'm rewriting you.' It became pretty apparent that he had less than zero interest in, in any way, having me involved with the movie." Zak Penn Didn't Know What to Tell His Kids Getting ousted from such a high-profile project was obviously frustrating in many ways, though Penn was particularly concerned how he'd break this news to his children. Unfortunately, Whedon allegedly didn't care. As Penn said, "My kids have grown up while I've been working on it. They've all told their friends about it. What's going to happen when their friends are like, 'Your dad didn't work on Avengers ?' [Whedon responded,] 'What's going to happen when my kids think that you wrote half the story?'" Related Fantastic Four Director Talks Casting the New First Family: 'Chemistry Is Super Important' Matt Shakman, the director of the MCU's upcoming Fantastic Four reboot, has confirmed that the film is still going strong despite company struggles. Posts "I think he's a d*ck," Penn concluded. "I think he's a bad person, and it was really surprising. Remember, my bonus is based on my credit. So literally millions and millions of dollars, which is not the issue here, but that just came out of my pocket and went into Joss's pocket." Penn has since contributed to the screenplays for the hit films Ready Player One and Free Guy , as well as the superhero TV show Alphas . He also created the upcoming sci-fi thriller series Beacon 23 , which stars Lena Headey of Game of Thrones and is coming to MGM+ in November. Source: MCU: The Reign of Marvel Studios, per ComicBookMovie Movies The Avengers (2012) joss whedon Follow Followed Like Share Facebook X LinkedIn Reddit Flipboard Copy link Email Close Recommended Zak Penn to Write ROM Movie For Hasbro & Paramount Hasbro and Paramount's ROM: The Space Knight movie has sprung back to life with the hiring of Ready Player One screenwriter Zak Penn. Posts Mar 26, 2018 After Suits LA, NBC Is Reviving Another Popular USA Network Series 9 Years After Final Episode TV NBC is going back to the USA Network well to bring back another hit show from the past. Posts 6 hours ago Kelly Marie Tran Reveals How She Coped With Star Wars Toxicity Star Wars Kelly Marie Tran had a bad experience with some Star Wars fans, but she turned it into something positive. Posts 1 6 hours ago David F. Sandberg's Video Game Adaptation Struggles to Stay Alive Until Dawn 2025's Until Dawn attempts to bring the fun and fear of the games to life, but unfortunately, struggles to survive. Posts 5 hours ago This Game in the Dragon Age Series is an Underappreciated Gem dragon age The Dragon Age series is known for titles like Origins and Veilguard, but one underrated DA title is worth another look. Posts 1 minute ago Wil Wheaton Says His Star Trek: TNG Castmates Are Still His 'Family' Star Trek: The Next Generation Wheaton starred as Wesley Crusher in Star Trek: The Next Generation. Posts 5 hours ago Trending Now Yellowjackets Season 3 Finale Sets a New Record for the Hit Series "It Is a Modern Western" Henry Thomas Takes on a Different Kind of Role for High Ground Spy x Family Studio Animates Preview for Ambitious New Hololive Project Join Our Team Our Audience About Us Press & Events Contact Us Follow Us Advertising Careers Terms Privacy Policies CBR is part of the Valnet Publishing Group Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.