Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen Subscribe To Newsletters Get in Touch Get In Touch With Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen Get In Touch PROFILE Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen $6.7B Real Time Net Worth as of 4/30/25 Reflects change since 5 pm ET of prior trading day. #509 in the world today Photo by Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg From the Editor Third-generation owner of Lego, Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen led the toy company known for its interlocking plastic bricks from 1979 to 2004. He and his three grown children together evenly split ownership of a 75% stake in the $7.2 billion (sales) business. He stepped down from Lego's board in 2019. His son Thomas, Lego's deputy chairman, will replace him as chair of family holding company Kirkbi in 2023. His grandfather Ole, a carpenter, started making wooden toys in his workshop in 1932 before moving into plastic in the 1940s. The family also owns about half of theme park operator Merlin Entertainments, which it took private with a consortium in 2019. Wealth History HOVER TO REVEAL NET WORTH BY YEAR Forbes Lists #540 Billionaires (2025) Personal Stats Age 77 Source of Wealth Lego Residence Billund, Denmark Citizenship Denmark Marital Status Married Children 3 Education Bachelor of Arts/Science, Aarhus Business School; Master of Business Administration, International Institute for Management and Development Did you know The original Legoland, built in 1968 in Kristiansen's hometown of Billund, is made up of over 20 million Lego bricks. The word "Lego" comes from the Danish words "LEg GOdt" ("play well"). In Their Own Words When children play games or build their own creations in the physical world, they actively challenge both the laws of nature and intellectual and physical limits. Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen Related People & Companies Thomas Kirk Kristiansen Family View Profile Lego Group Holds stake in Lego Group View Profile Denmark Citizen of Denmark View Profile Agnete Kirk Thinggaard Family View Profile Sofie Kirk Kristiansen Family View Profile Susanne Klatten Related by education: International Institute for Management and Development View Profile See More See Less More on Forbes 1 hour ago Naoya Inoue Vs. Ramon Cardenas Undercard We prepare you for the Naoya Inoue vs. Ramon Cardenas boxing card with a look at the undercard of the anticipated title fight between Inoue and Cardenas. By Trent Reinsmith Contributor Apr 15, 2020 Lego Donates $50 Million To Support Families During COVID-19 Lego recently made headlines when it announced a $50 million grant to families affected by COVID-19, and it is also making 13,000 facemasks a day for workers on the frontlines. By Afdhel Aziz Contributor Nov 20, 2019 Aegon, Qualtrics And Lego Leverage The Smile To Rock Employee Engagement And Productivity Smile is the ninth factor of the H.A.P.P.I.N.E.S.S. equation. It’s the last in a nine blog series looking at factors that help businesses increase happiness to drive growth, productivity and bottom-line results. This post looks at how companies like Aegon, Qualtrics and Lego leverage the smile. By Stan Phelps Former Contributor Oct 29, 2019 Lego Billionaire Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen Builds New ‘Campus’—With Bricks Lego has announced the opening of a new campus in Billund, Denmark, inspired by a painting of the toymaker's famous bricks in billionaire owner Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen’s office By David Dawkins Former Staff Jun 28, 2019 Lego Family Team Up With Blackstone For $6 Billion Deal For Merlin Theme Parks The Lego family led by billionaire Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen and his three heirs will take theme park group Merlin Entertainments, which owns Madame Tussauds, Alton Towers and The London Eye, private in a $5.9 billion (£4.7 billion) deal with Blackstone. By David Dawkins Former Staff Mar 29, 2019 LEGO Buys U.S. Solar Power Builder Adding to its existing offshore wind investments, the holding company that owns LEGO has just purchased a U.S. solar power developer. By John Parnell Former Contributor Mar 24, 2017 Meet The Billionaires Behind The Top 100 Brands Of 2017 Together they reap riches of more than $1.1 trillion, thanks to you and your favorite brands. By Katie Taylor Contributor Aug 11, 2016 How Lego Rebuilt Itself As A Purposeful And Sustainable Brand The centerpiece of this initiative is Lego’s Sustainable Materials Center, which is expected to recruit more than 100 employees in an effort to find and implement sustainable alternatives to existing materials by 2030. By Simon Mainwaring Contributor Apr 18, 2015 Did You Ever Wonder What LEGO Does When They're Not Building Bricks? Each year, the LEGO Foundation holds its “LEGO Idea Conference.” It is an invitation-only event and I am fortunate to be on the guest list. The LEGO Foundation hosted me, along with about 300 leaders in the field of play, education, learning, and international development for three days in the [...] By Jordan Shapiro Contributor Mar 13, 2014 The Richest People In Europe With 468 billionaires, Europe claims 28% of the world's ten-figure fortunes adding up to an aggregate net worth of $1.95 trillion. Russia leads the count with 111 billionaires - the same number as the state of California - while Germany has the second-highest, boasting 85 ten-digit fortune. The United Kingdom is [...] By Natalie Robehmed Former Staff Mar 11, 2014 Meet The Richest Billionaire In Every Country In 1987, the first Forbes global wealth list found 140 billionaires from 24 countries. Now with 1,645 ten-digit fortunes spread across 69 world entities, we bring you the definitive list of the richest billionaire in each country. The world's richest are responsible for some of their nation's most well-known products: South [...] By Natalie Robehmed Former Staff Feb 10, 2012 LEGO Upping its Stake in Hungary As Other Foreign Investors Fold Used by permission ©2012 The LEGO Group With a 125 million Euro ($165 million) investment in a brand new plant in Hungary, iconic toy maker LEGO is betting that Hungary remains a good long term play, despite its current woes and erratic leadership. The world’s fourth largest toy maker, whose bright [...] By Karina L. Tahiliani Contributor Jan 12, 2009 The Richest People You've Never Heard Of Meet the not-so-famous people behind some of the biggest fortunes on earth. Nov 26, 2001 Idealists in Toyland Sales are slipping at the Danish icon of wholesome play. CEO Kjeld Kirk  Kristiansen brings in help from outside. Mar 2, 2001 Forbes Faces: Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen After suffering a loss of $123 million in 2000, the Lego CEO looks to put the pieces back together. Mar 1, 2001 Forbes Faces: March 1, 2001 Lego's Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen closes two factories; Bernard Arnault, Thomas Lee launch buyout firm; Gateway's Theodore Waitt's disappointments continue. More Articles also on forbes Naoya Inoue Vs. Ramon Cardenas Undercard Lego Donates $50 Million To Support Families During COVID-19 Aegon, Qualtrics And Lego Leverage The Smile To Rock Employee Engagement And Productivity © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Terms of Service Digital Terms of Sale Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Forbes Accolades Forbes Press Room Advertise