North Bay (San Francisco Bay Area) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transportation 2 Law enforcement 3 History 4 Major cities 5 Environmental Conservation 6 See also 7 References Toggle the table of contents North Bay (San Francisco Bay Area) 7 languages العربية Български Español Français עברית 日本語 Русский Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikivoyage Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 38°18′N 122°30′W ﻿ / ﻿ 38.3°N 122.5°W ﻿ / 38.3; -122.5 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Subregion of the San Francisco Bay Area in California, United States This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "North Bay" San Francisco Bay Area – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( July 2023 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) San Francisco is in the foreground in this picture looking north. San Pablo Bay continues north surrounded by parts of (left to right) Marin , Sonoma , Solano and Napa Counties. The North Bay is a subregion of the San Francisco Bay Area , in California , United States. The largest city is Santa Rosa , which is the fifth-largest city in the Bay Area. It is the location of the Napa and Sonoma wine regions , and is the least populous and least urbanized part of the Bay Area. It consists of Marin , Napa , Solano and Sonoma counties. Transportation [ edit ] The North Bay is connected to San Francisco by the Golden Gate Bridge and to the East Bay by the Richmond–San Rafael Bridge , Carquinez Bridge and the Benicia–Martinez Bridge . Several ferry routes operate between the North Bay and San Francisco, from terminals located in Angel Island , Larkspur , Sausalito , Tiburon and Vallejo . The Sonoma–Marin Area Rail Transit ( SMART ), a commuter rail line from Larkspur to Cloverdale , was approved by voters in November 2008. Passenger service began between the Sonoma County Airport station and San Rafael in August 2017 and was completed as far south as Larkspur in 2019. Law enforcement [ edit ] The law enforcement in the Sonoma–Marin Area Rail Transit is being provided by its contracted law enforcement agencies . [ 1 ] History [ edit ] San Francisco in the foreground looking north over Marin . The area was the home of Pomo Native Americans before European invasion. The Russians first settled the area at Fort Ross as a fur-trading post, but the area was later settled by the Spanish-Mexican Alta California . The Bear Flag Revolt took place in the town of Sonoma , which is also the location of the last of the California Missions . General Mariano Guadalupe Vallejo , the last secretary to the Governor of California before its annexation to the United States, kept his home in Sonoma; his ranch, now a National Historic Landmark, was in nearby Petaluma . The North Bay remained isolated and rural well into the 20th Century. The opening of the Golden Gate Bridge in the 1930s transformed Marin County from a dairy farming region into an upscale suburban area. Until the 1990s, the region's growth was at a gradual pace, with significant restrictions on development being imposed in Marin and Napa Counties in the 1970s (future Senator Barbara Boxer was an important figure in the North Bay's open space preservation movement). Major cities [ edit ] The largest city in the North Bay is Santa Rosa , with a population of 175,000. Other major cities include: (sorted by population) Vallejo 121,000 Fairfield 116,000 Vacaville 100,000 Napa 80,000 Petaluma 60,000 San Rafael 59,000 Novato 56,000 Environmental Conservation [ edit ] Marin County has been at the forefront of environmental conservation and sustainable development. Initiatives such as the Marin Carbon Project aim to increase carbon sequestration in rangelands, significantly reducing the region's ecological footprint. [ 2 ] Additionally, local organizations collaborate to preserve natural habitats, promote renewable energy, and implement sustainable agricultural practices, ensuring the protection of the North Bay's diverse ecosystems for future generations. See also [ edit ] San Francisco Bay Area portal North Coast AVA North Coast (California) San Pablo Bay National Wildlife Refuge Suisun City References [ edit ] ^ "Law Enforcement Agencies to Join SMART in Promoting Rail Safety" . November 2019 . Retrieved July 9, 2023 . ^ Hawtin, Joe. "Sustainable Development and Environmental Conservation in Marin County: Strategies and Innovations – Marin County Visitor" . www.marincountyvisitor.com . Retrieved 2024-11-21 . v t e San Francisco Bay Area Bodies of water Bodega Bay Carquinez Strait Clifton Forebay Golden Gate Grizzly Bay Guadalupe River Half Moon Bay Lake Berryessa Napa River Oakland Estuary Petaluma River Richardson Bay Richmond Inner Harbor Russian River Sacramento River San Francisco Bay San Leandro Bay San Pablo Bay Sonoma Creek Suisun Bay Tomales Bay Counties Alameda Contra Costa Marin Napa San Francisco San Mateo Santa Clara Solano Sonoma Cities and towns Major cities Oakland San Francisco San Jose 100k–250k Antioch Berkeley Concord Daly City Fairfield Fremont Hayward Richmond San Mateo Santa Clara Santa Rosa Sunnyvale Vacaville Vallejo 50k–100k Alameda Brentwood Cupertino Dublin Gilroy Livermore Milpitas Mountain View Napa Novato Palo Alto Petaluma Pittsburg Pleasanton Redwood City San Leandro San Rafael San Ramon South San Francisco Union City Walnut Creek 25k–50k Belmont Benicia Burlingame Campbell Danville East Palo Alto El Cerrito Foster City Hercules Lafayette Los Altos Los Gatos Martinez Menlo Park Morgan Hill Newark Oakley Pacifica Pleasant Hill Rohnert Park San Bruno San Carlos San Pablo Saratoga Suisun City Windsor 10k–25k Albany American Canyon Clayton Corte Madera Dixon Emeryville Half Moon Bay Healdsburg Hillsborough Larkspur Mill Valley Millbrae Moraga Orinda Piedmont Pinole Rio Vista San Anselmo Sonoma Under 10k Atherton Belvedere Brisbane Calistoga Cloverdale Colma Cotati Fairfax Los Altos Hills Monte Sereno Portola Valley Ross St. Helena Sausalito Sebastopol Tiburon Woodside Yountville CDPs over 10k Alamo Alum Rock Ashland Bay Point Castro Valley Cherryland Discovery Bay El Sobrante Fairview North Fair Oaks San Lorenzo Stanford Tamalpais-Homestead Valley Sub-regions East Bay North Bay San Francisco Peninsula Santa Clara Valley Other Homelessness Politics Sports Transportation v t e State of California Sacramento (capital) Topics Culture food music languages California sound sports California Dream Crime Demographics Earthquakes Economy agriculture Education Environment Geography climate ecology flora fauna Government Capitol districts governor legislature Supreme Court Healthcare Abortion History Law LGBT rights National Historic Landmarks National Natural Landmarks NRHP listings Politics congressional delegations elections People Protected areas state parks state historic landmarks Symbols Transportation Water Index of articles Regions Antelope Valley Big Sur California Coast Ranges Cascade Range Central California Central Coast Central Valley Channel Islands Coachella Valley Coastal California Conejo Valley Cucamonga Valley Death Valley East Bay (SF Bay Area) East County (SD) Eastern California Emerald Triangle Gold Country Great Basin Greater San Bernardino Inland Empire Klamath Basin Lake Tahoe Greater Los Angeles Los Angeles Basin Lost Coast Mojave Desert Mountain Empire North Bay (SF) North Coast North County (SD) Northern California Orange Coast Owens Valley Oxnard Plain Peninsular Ranges Pomona Valley Sacramento–San Joaquin River Delta Sacramento Valley Saddleback Valley Salinas Valley San Fernando Valley San Francisco Bay Area San Francisco Peninsula San Gabriel Valley San Joaquin Valley Santa Clara Valley Santa Clara River Valley Santa Clarita Valley Santa Ynez Valley Shasta Cascade Sierra Nevada Silicon Valley South Bay (LA) South Bay (SD) South Bay (SF) South Coast Southern Border Region Southern California Transverse Ranges Tri-Valley Victor Valley Wine Country Metro regions Fresno–Madera Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim Sacramento–Roseville Riverside–San Bernardino–Ontario San Diego–Tijuana San Jose–San Francisco–Oakland Counties Alameda Alpine Amador Butte Calaveras Colusa Contra Costa Del Norte El Dorado Fresno Glenn Humboldt Imperial Inyo Kern Kings Lake Lassen Los Angeles Madera Marin Mariposa Mendocino Merced Modoc Mono Monterey Napa Nevada Orange Placer Plumas Riverside Sacramento San Benito San Bernardino San Diego San Francisco San Joaquin San Luis Obispo San Mateo Santa Barbara Santa Clara Santa Cruz Shasta Sierra Siskiyou Solano Sonoma Stanislaus Sutter Tehama Trinity Tulare Tuolumne Ventura Yolo Yuba Most populous cities Los Angeles San Diego San Jose San Francisco Fresno Sacramento Long Beach Oakland Bakersfield Anaheim California portal Authority control databases VIAF 38°18′N 122°30′W ﻿ / ﻿ 38.3°N 122.5°W ﻿ / 38.3; -122.5 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=North_Bay_(San_Francisco_Bay_Area)&oldid=1258684257 " Categories : Subregions of the San Francisco Bay Area Regions of California Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from July 2023 All articles needing additional references Coordinates on Wikidata This page was last edited on 21 November 2024, at 01:01 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents North Bay (San Francisco Bay Area) 7 languages Add topic