2020 National Teacher of the Year, Tabatha Rosproy Answers Your Questions | NAEYC Skip to main content Advertisement NAEYC Join/Renew Login Shop Our Work For Educators Find resources that help you in your programs. For Families Find research-based resources, tips and ideas for families—from child development to reading, writing, music, math, and more! For Faculty and Students Search an ECE degree directory, explore professional standards, and join our community of practice. For Advocates and Policymakers Engage with our policy agendas , advocacy resources , and current initiatives. Resources Books Learn about and purchase the best books and resources to support young children's learning and development. Young Children Stay up to date with research-based, teacher-focused articles on birth to age 8 in our award-winning, peer-reviewed journal. Educating Young Children Read NAEYC's new member-exclusive magazine for early learning community and practice! (Access past issues of TYC here.) Professional Development Enhance your career and improve your knowledge, skills, and practices with our online training . Topics Explore key early childhood topics such Developmentally Appropriate Practice, play, and math. Blog Stay up-to-date on issues in early childhood education and hear perspectives from a wide range of educators. Position Statements Learn about NAEYC’s informed positions on significant issues affecting young children’s education and development. Events Annual Conference Discover the latest research and best practices, and engage with our diverse community of professionals! Professional Learning Institute Ignite and fulfill your professional development goals! Public Policy Forum Join us at the members-only event and build your advocacy skills, expand your networks, and advance federal and state early childhood policy. Week of the Young Child Celebrate young children and their families with hands-on activities encouraging movement and healthy lifestyles through music, food, and art. Sponsor with NAEYC Find a sponsorship opportunity that’s right for you and help support early childhood educators, parents, and other professionals. Trainings & Webinars Deepen your professional knowledge wherever you are with NAEYC’s exciting webinar series and online and face-to-face training opportunities. Accreditation Early Learning Program Quality Assessment & Accreditation Discover the benefits of early childhood accreditation, learn about the s implified process , find support and resources for your program or login to the accreditation portal . Early Learning Accreditation Portal Login to the Early Learning Accreditation Portal to take charge of your accreditation process. Higher Education Accreditation Explore accreditation of early childhood higher education programs, discover the accreditation system standards , and view a list of accredited programs . Accreditation Research Databases Access accreditation data on early learning and higher education program characteristics and quality for research purposes. Get Involved Learn about Membership Join your professional membership association, explore local Affiliates , and access unbeatable member benefits. Advance your Career Explore jobs in the Career Center and find higher education and professional development opportunities. Become an Advocate Develop grassroots efforts advancing early childhood in your community with these tools and resources. Join our Communities Say HELLO and discuss, network, and connect with our interest forums and online communities. Align with Us Support our mission and reach the NAEYC audience through your advertisement, conference exhibit booth, or sponsorship. Leadership Opportunities Become a leader in your professional association. About Us People Read about NAEYC’s leadership , mission, values and beliefs , and strategic governance . Partner Become an organizational or corporate partner to inspire early childhood education at the local and national level. News and Updates Stay current on all things related to your professional association, from book releases to policy updates. Careers at NAEYC Join NAEYC’s team and help us advance the education of young children across the country. Donate Support access to high-quality early childhood education programs and opportunities and resources for educators. Contact Us Contact us with your questions-- we're here to help! Search X Search Enter your keywords Popular Searches: DAP ; Coping with COVID-19 ; E-books ; Anti-Bias Education ; Online Store 2020 National Teacher of the Year, Tabatha Rosproy Answers Your Questions You are here Home / Resources / Blog / 2020 National Teacher of the Year, Tabatha Rosproy Answers Your Questions 10/28/2020 We are so excited for the upcoming 2020 Annual Conference ! On November 8, Tabatha Rosproy, the first preschool educator to be named National Teacher of the Year, will kick off the event as the Opening Plenary Speaker during her session “Early Childhood: Where Stories Begin.”  Ahead of the session, we asked NAEYC Members in Hello to share some questions for Tabatha, and her responses are below. We hope you'll join us November 8-10 for an educational, inspirational and fun learning experience. Join thousands of other early education professionals from around the globe at the event where learning happens. What are the highly valued components of full group experiences for preschoolers (i.e. circle time)? Daily whole group experiences are such a powerful time of connection for my students. I used to spend a lot of time doing the standard calendar, weather, days of the week regimen, but what I have realized over time is that those things are not at the top of my priority list, nor do I think they are super developmentally appropriate for my 4-year-olds. We also know that in Pre-K, we struggle to have enough time for everything we need to fit in, so I had to prioritize. I found that our time is best spent on connection activities, building our school family and laying the foundation for our day. We do things like checking in with our feelings, doing peer to peer connection activities, wishing our absent friends well, welcoming one another, and introducing big ideas for the day. It is time well spent now that I’ve given myself permission to take away some of the things that don’t serve the long-term goals for my students. In the ideal world, what changes would one see in early childhood education? I’d love for early childhood education, ages 3-5, to be universally funded by every state. I’d also love to see more 0-3 programs started and funded everywhere! And I absolutely want to see early childhood educators given the same respect, invitations to the table, and comparable pay as our elementary and secondary counterparts. What strategies does she use to keep her optimism and enthusiasm up in the face of very difficult times? My husband jokes that I am an eternal optimist. Like I could have my hand smashed in a door and say, “Well, at least my other hand feels okay!” But this pandemic has been a struggle for even the most optimistic of us. The biggest thing I do is positive self-talk. Every day, I say to myself, “I am going to get through this day/experience/moment. And I am going to learn something, because I can grow in discomfort.”  I also have taken a lot more time than I usually do on things that bring me joy. I read, watch movies, do crafts, organize virtual game nights with my friends, find places we can meet up outside and social distance, have Friday night dance parties with my cats, play Dungeons & Dragons with my husband, and laugh every chance I get. First of all I wanted to say congratulations to Tabatha Rosproy! It shows that we are actually making great progress in acknowledgment of early childhood education that a preschool teacher has finally been named teacher of the year so congratulations! I do have a question, "how does it feel?" Being named National Teacher of the Year feels almost unbelievable! I still wake up sometimes wondering if it was a dream. I never imagined myself receiving this kind of honor, and getting the incredible opportunities it provides. But most of all, I feel proud and determined to give early childhood education the platform it has deserved for so long. So often when I'm asked, "oh, you're a teacher...what grade?" I explain that I work in early childhood education. The audience then replied with, "so, you're JUST a daycare worker." The disconnect that a teacher can only be K-12 has always bothered me and the bias that occurs from the majority of people who ask me the question and do not realize that ECE is equally if not more essential to our youth and their lifelong learning. So I guess my second question to you is, "how do you respond to that type of interpretation of teaching and education? " I also get this kind of comment frequently.  First off, I say that calling me “just” a daycare worker is diminishing to the hard, essential, valuable work that childcare providers do every day.  Our jobs serve different functions in society, but there is definite overlap in our purpose of serving students and families, and childcare providers should also be valued for everything they do for children. But I think the big misconception is that anyone who works with young children isn’t a “serious” professional. That couldn’t be further from the truth. But people aren't going to realize that on their own. It is our job, as ECE teachers, to shape that narrative. And we can do that by using every platform we have to sing the praises, joys, and absolute triumphs of ECE. Awareness builds public perception, and many people just don’t know what we do all day and why it’s important. It’s time we tell them. Audience: Teacher Age: Early Primary , Infant/Toddler , Kindergarten , Preschool Topics: Event , Annual Conference View the discussion thread. Advertisement Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Advertisement Related Register to join us for the 2020 Annual Conference, November 8-10! Members Only Article Member Spotlight: Christie Phelps Members Only Annual Conference Leaderboard Prize Winners Members Only Become a Member Support our efforts to secure a bright future for young children, educators, and  families. Join or Renew Support NAEYC Donate to help NAEYC advance a strong and dynamic early childhood profession and connect educators to cutting-edge resources. Make a Donation Find Your Affiliate Connect with professionals in your community at conferences, networking events, advocacy efforts, leadership opportunities and more! Connect Get updates from NAEYC Get updates from NAEYC Email Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Pinterest About Mission & Strategic Direction Our Work People Careers @NAEYC Contact Us Your Early Childhood Career Early Childhood Career Center For Faculty & Students Advance your Career Higher Ed Programs Directory Professional Development Power to the Profession Resources and Favorites Books Young Children journal Teaching Young Children magazine For Families Hello—online community Shop FAQs Get Involved Annual Conference Professional Learning Institute Public Policy Forum Week of the Young Child Interest Forums & Online Communities Become an Accredited Center Trainings and Webinars Take Action Volunteer Advocate Partner Sponsor Advertise Membership Benefits Join or Renew Membership Options Families Membership Contact Us Support FAQ Site Name © National Association for the Education of Young Children 1401 H Street NW, Suite 600, Washington, DC 20005 | (202)232-8777 | (800)424-2460 | [email protected] Home Privacy Statement Terms of Use Cookie Policy Blog Careers at NAEYC Support Contact Us