Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna - The Golden Country (Expansion Pass), version 2.0.0 out now - patch notes Submit a news tip Home Features News Reviews Guides × Home Features News Reviews Guides ☰ Switch 2 Switch Switch eShop amiibo Mobile Revisiting the four “worst” Kirby games [Let’s Talk] Did you pre-order Nintendo Switch 2? Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom timeline placement and lore additions Examining Switch 2’s launch and how it stacks up to other recent Nintendo debuts Here’s where and how to pre-order Nintendo Switch 2 Nintendo isn’t retiring Diddy Kong and here’s why [Let’s Talk] Mario Kart World Direct reactions More of the worst Shiny Pokemon of all time Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna – The Golden Country (Expansion Pass), version 2.0.0 out now – patch notes Posted on September 14, 2018 by Brian ( @NE_Brian )  in News , Switch Have you purchased the Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Expansion Pass? If so, Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna – The Golden Country is now available to download with the latest update. Speaking of the update, all users can download version 2.0.0. The patch notes are as follows: Issues Fixed Fixed an issue occurring in quests where defeating specific enemies was necessary to complete the quest. Following battle with the enemy, this issue caused certain event scenes not to play or to suffer from extended loading, preventing quest progress. Changes and New Features Functionality has been added to the title screen to make the Expansion Pass story scenario “Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna – The Golden Country” playable. Torna – The Golden Country is an additional story that takes place 500 years prior to the events of Xenoblade Chronicles 2. Play as Jin—Rex’s main adversary and leader of the mystery-shrouded society of Torna—in a bygone era and uncover the truth about the lost Tornan titan and the origins of the Aegis. Delve into new gameplay mechanics like Vanguard Switch, a tactic that allows you to switch between the front and back lines during a battle, and Community, a feature that lets you deepen your connection with the inhabitants of Alrest. Added functionality for receiving the final round of items associated with the Expansion Pass. Elma’s Overdrive ability is now usable during battle when the auto-battle option is initially set to Enabled, but the player switches to manual controls during battle. Elma is now a blade who can join your party during the “Challenge Battle: Nopondemonium” in the Expansion Pass. Share this: Facebook Bluesky Threads Mastodon Email More Print LinkedIn Tumblr Pinterest Pocket Telegram WhatsApp Nextdoor Related More: Monolith Soft , top , Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Leave a Reply Search Top Posts DK Rap composer on why Nintendo didn't credit him in The Super Mario Bros. Movie Switch 1 not compatible with Nintendo Switch 2 dock Raidou Remastered getting a collector's edition from Limited Run Games Revisiting the four "worst" Kirby games Nintendo on why Switch 2 is launching in June Famitsu's most wanted games - April 27, 2025 - first Nintendo Switch 2 games appear Nintendo Switch 20.0.0 update out now, patch notes - virtual game cards, Switch 2 transfers, more Super Technos World: River City & Technos Arcade Classics gameplay - 12 retro games on Nintendo Switch List of all prices for Nintendo Switch 2 Upgrade Packs Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition 1.0.2 update out now, patch notes Recent Posts Donkey Kong gets updated Nintendo Switch icon following system update [update: other changes] Nintendo Switch 20.0.0 update out now, patch notes – virtual game cards, Switch 2 transfers, more Puzzle platformer Nico Saves the State drops on Nintendo Switch this week [update: trailer] Star Wars: Episode I: Jedi Power Battles, Star Wars: Bounty Hunter are the next Nintendo Switch Online Game Trial in North America Nuclear Gladiators 3000 announced for Nintendo Switch Against the Storm coming to Nintendo Switch VGP Switch physical release reprint updates Duck Detective: The Ghost of Glamping coming to Nintendo Switch About Review Policy Privacy Policy Contact us Reviews Features Podcasts News © Copyright 2025 Manage Cookie Settings