igc7Super Mario Odyssey - Nintendo Switch Preferences Iraqi Dinar US Dollar EN Arabic My Account Register Log in Wishlist (0) Close AOC camra Router Hard desk Black Friday Headset PlayStation Back Console Video Games PlayStation Accessories Xbox Back Console Video Games Xbox Accessories Nintendo Back Console Video Games Nintendo Accessories Oculus Back Console Oculus Accessories IGC Product Twisted Minds Back Gaming Monitor Twisted Gaming Desk Twisted Monitor Arms Stand Gaming Headset RGB Lighting Microphone Twisted Minds Gaming Mouse Rarzer (0) items You have no items in your shopping cart. All Categories Search Menu Shopping cart Filters Personal menu Preferences Search Previous product Nintendo Switch New Super Mari... Next product Nintendo Switch Super Mario Pa... Super Mario Odyssey - Nintendo Switch Be the first to review this product 76,930 About this item Explore 3D kingdoms filled with secrets and surprises, including costumes for Mario and several ways to interact with environments Mario's new friend, Cappy, lets you master new moves like cap throw, cap jump and capture Visit astonishing new locales, such as the skyscraper-packed New Donk City, and run into familiar friends and foes as you try to save Princess Peach from Bowser's clutches and foil his dastardly wedding plans Hand a Joy-Con controller to a friend to enjoy simultaneous multiplayer: Player 1 controls Mario while Player 2 controls Mario’s new ally Cappy Unlock even more features with the exclusive new amiibo figures - Mario, Princess Peach and Bowser dressed in their wedding outfits Add to wishlist Add to compare list Email a friend Share: Overview Reviews Contact Us Product Description Embark on a captivating, globe-trotting adventure. Join Mario on a massive, globe-trotting 3D adventure and use his incredible new abilities to collect Moons so you can power up your airship, the Odyssey, and rescue Princess Peach from Bowser's wedding plans. This sandbox-style 3D Mario adventure—the first since 1996's beloved Super Mario 64 and 2002's Nintendo GameCube classic Super Mario Sunshine—is packed with secrets and surprises, and with Mario's new moves like cap throw, cap jump, and capture, you'll have fun and exciting gameplay experiences unlike anything you've enjoyed in a Mario game before. Get ready to be whisked away to strange and amazing places far from the Mushroom Kingdom! System Requirements: Supported Platforms: Nintendo - Switch. Nintendo account required for game activation and installation.​ From the manufacturer Embark on a cap-tivating, globe-trotting adventure Explore incredible places far from the Mushroom Kingdom as you join Mario and his ally Cappy on a massive, globe-trotting 3D adventure. Use amazing abilities like the power to capture and control objects, animals, and enemies to collect Power Moons so you can power up the Odyssey airship and save Princess Peach from Bowser’s wedding plans. Super Mario Odyssey Thanks to heroic, hat-shaped Cappy, Mario’s got moves that’ll make you rethink his traditional run-and-jump gameplay like cap jump, cap throw, and capture. Use captured cohorts such as enemies, objects, and animals to progress through the game and uncover loads of hidden collectibles. And if you feel like playing with a friend, just pass them a Joy-Con controller! Player 1 controls Mario while Player 2 controls Cappy. This sandbox-style 3D Mario adventure the first since 1996’s beloved Super Mario 64 and 2002’s Nintendo GameCube classic Super Mario Sunshine is packed with secrets and surprises, plus exciting kingdoms to explore. Features Explore astonishing locales like skyscraper-packed Donk City to your heart’s content, and run into familiar friends and foes as you try to save Princess Peach from Bowser’s dastardly wedding plans. Find something interesting? Toss your cap at it and see what happens! There are lots of fun and surprising ways to interact with your surroundings. Be sure to bring any coins you find to a Crazy Cap store, where you can exchange them for decorative souvenirs for the Odyssey and outfits for Mario! Some destinations have very exclusive dress codes, after all… Awards The Game Awards 2017 Winner Best Family Game. Game Critics Awards Best of E3 2017 Best of Show, Best Console Game, Best Action/Adventure Game. 2017 Nintendo. Super Mario Odyssey and Nintendo Switch are trademarks of Nintendo. Write your own review Only registered users can write reviews Review title: * Review text: * Rating: Bad Excellent Submit review Your name * Your email * Subject: * Enquiry * Submit Product Description Embark on a captivating, globe-trotting adventure. Join Mario on a massive, globe-trotting 3D adventure and use his incredible new abilities to collect Moons so you can power up your airship, the Odyssey, and rescue Princess Peach from Bowser's wedding plans. This sandbox-style 3D Mario adventure—the first since 1996's beloved Super Mario 64 and 2002's Nintendo GameCube classic Super Mario Sunshine—is packed with secrets and surprises, and with Mario's new moves like cap throw, cap jump, and capture, you'll have fun and exciting gameplay experiences unlike anything you've enjoyed in a Mario game before. Get ready to be whisked away to strange and amazing places far from the Mushroom Kingdom! System Requirements: Supported Platforms: Nintendo - Switch. Nintendo account required for game activation and installation.​ From the manufacturer Embark on a cap-tivating, globe-trotting adventure Explore incredible places far from the Mushroom Kingdom as you join Mario and his ally Cappy on a massive, globe-trotting 3D adventure. Use amazing abilities like the power to capture and control objects, animals, and enemies to collect Power Moons so you can power up the Odyssey airship and save Princess Peach from Bowser’s wedding plans. Super Mario Odyssey Thanks to heroic, hat-shaped Cappy, Mario’s got moves that’ll make you rethink his traditional run-and-jump gameplay like cap jump, cap throw, and capture. Use captured cohorts such as enemies, objects, and animals to progress through the game and uncover loads of hidden collectibles. And if you feel like playing with a friend, just pass them a Joy-Con controller! Player 1 controls Mario while Player 2 controls Cappy. This sandbox-style 3D Mario adventure the first since 1996’s beloved Super Mario 64 and 2002’s Nintendo GameCube classic Super Mario Sunshine is packed with secrets and surprises, plus exciting kingdoms to explore. Features Explore astonishing locales like skyscraper-packed Donk City to your heart’s content, and run into familiar friends and foes as you try to save Princess Peach from Bowser’s dastardly wedding plans. Find something interesting? Toss your cap at it and see what happens! There are lots of fun and surprising ways to interact with your surroundings. Be sure to bring any coins you find to a Crazy Cap store, where you can exchange them for decorative souvenirs for the Odyssey and outfits for Mario! Some destinations have very exclusive dress codes, after all… Awards The Game Awards 2017 Winner Best Family Game. Game Critics Awards Best of E3 2017 Best of Show, Best Console Game, Best Action/Adventure Game. 2017 Nintendo. Super Mario Odyssey and Nintendo Switch are trademarks of Nintendo. Sign up for our newsletter Subscribe Wait... Information About us Customer service My account My account Addresses Orders Shopping cart Wishlist Contact Us Baghdad - Almansour pavilion-store@gmail.com 07801499994 Copyright © 2025 IGC7. All rights reserved. Powered by nopCommerce