GPT-3.5 vs. GPT-4: Biggest differences to consider | TechTarget Search Enterprise AI Search the TechTarget Network Login Register Explore the Network TechTarget Network Business Analytics CIO Data Management ERP Search Enterprise AI AI Business Strategies AI Careers AI Infrastructure AI Platforms AI Technologies More Topics Applications of AI ML Platforms Other Content News Features Tips Webinars 2024 IT Salary Survey Results Sponsored Sites More Answers Conference Guides Definitions Opinions Podcasts Quizzes Tech Accelerators Tutorials Videos Follow: Home Machine learning platforms Tech Accelerator What is GenAI? Generative AI explained Tip GPT-3.5 vs. GPT-4: Biggest differences to consider GPT-3.5 or GPT-4? With multiple OpenAI language models to choose from, picking the right option for your organization's needs comes down to the details. Share this item with your network: By Leah Zitter, Ph.D. Published: 12 Feb 2025 With a growing number of underlying model options for OpenAI's ChatGPT, choosing the right one is a necessary first step for any AI project. Knowing the differences between GPT-3, GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 is essential when purchasing SaaS-based generative AI tools. GPT-3.5, the refined version of GPT-3 rolled out in November 2022, is currently offered in ChatGPT's free web app version and its premium Turbo API versions. GPT-4 , released in March 2023, provides an even more advanced GPT choice for workplace tasks and comes with its own Turbo version. Turbo versions represent incremental improvements, such as lower latency and minor bug fixes. Choosing between GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 means parsing out the differences in their respective features. By breaking down the two models' key differences in capabilities, accuracy and pricing, organizations can decide which OpenAI GPT model is right for them. GPT-3.5 vs. GPT-4: The major differences GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 are both versions of OpenAI's generative pre-trained transformer model , which powers the ChatGPT app. They're currently available to the public with a range of capabilities, features and price points. This article is part of What is GenAI? Generative AI explained Which also includes: 8 top generative AI tool categories for 2025 Will AI replace jobs? 17 job types that might be affected 25 of the best large language models in 2025 Extended capabilities The difference in capabilities between GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 indicates OpenAI's interest in advancing the features of its models to meet increasingly complex use cases across industries. GPT-3.5 GPT-3.5 has the following key capabilities: Understands and generates humanlike text using natural language comprehension and generation to complete various natural language-related tasks. Translates text from one language to another with some fluency and accuracy. Answers questions by providing relevant information, making it suitable for chatbots and virtual assistants using GPT-3.5 Turbo, which is tailored to work with the Chat Completions API. Generates concise summaries of longer text, such as documentation and reports. Generates content for various use cases and writing projects, such as emails and code. The GPT-3.5 Turbo models are upgraded versions of GPT 3.5, with more fine-tuned language comprehension and next-generation capabilities. Users can access three model variants through the GPT-3.5 Turbo API: Gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct is an instruction model that provides terser and more relevant responses . It supports a 4,096-token context window . Gpt-3.5-turbo-1106 has a 16,385-token context window for faster and more efficient processing. Gpt-3.5-turbo-0125 supports a 16,385-token context window with improvements that include higher accuracy at responding in requested formats and a fix for a bug that caused a text encoding issue for non-English language function calls. GPT-3 vs. GPT-3.5 In June 2020, OpenAI released GPT-3. Following GPT-1 and GPT-2, the vendor's previous iterations of the generative pre-trained transformers, GPT-3 became the largest and most advanced language model. The large language model works by training itself on large volumes of internet data to understand text input and generate text content in various forms. In November 2022, OpenAI released its ChatGPT chatbot , powered by the underlying GPT-3.5 model, an updated iteration of GPT-3. GPT-3.5 has improved language comprehension and text creation and reduced model bias. While sometimes still referred to as GPT-3 , it is GPT-3.5 that underlies the free version of ChatGPT today. GPT-4 OpenAI designed GPT-4 to be more reliable, creative and capable of handling nuanced instructions than its predecessors. GPT-4's extended capabilities include the following: Multimodality. GPT-3 is unimodal, so it can only process and generate text. GPT-4 can process both text and images. Larger context windows. Context windows refer to the number of tokens a model will accept as an input. The larger the context size, the more prompts you can fit into your window. GPT-3.5 has an input context window of 16,000 and an output context window of 4,000. GPT-4 has a context window of up to 128,000 for input and 4,000 for output. GPT-4's larger window size enables use cases such as long-form content creation, extended conversations, and document search and analysis. Capabilities. GPT-3.5 was trained on 175 billion parameters, while GPT-4 was trained on a parameter close to 1 trillion. This provides GPT-4 versions with more advanced contextual awareness and reasoning capabilities than their GPT-3.5 counterparts. Broader general knowledge. GPT-4 versions are trained on a larger, more diverse data set that lets them process more complex requests, such as composing songs, writing screenplays or learning a user's writing style. User experience. GPT-4 offers a more humanlike, seamless experience with improved context retention and response depth. However, GPT-4 is slower than GPT-3.5 due to the increased computational demands associated with its 1 trillion parameters. Accuracy. According to OpenAI , GPT-4 demonstrates human-level performance on various professional and academic benchmarks. Its factual accuracy is 40% higher than that of GPT-3.5. It is also 82% less likely to generate unsafe content than GPT-3.5. GPT-3.5 is only trained on content up to September 2021, limiting its accuracy on queries related to more recent events. GPT-4, however, can browse the internet and is trained on data through April 2023 or December 2023, depending on the model version . Recent research indicated that the performance and behavior of both GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 can vary greatly over time. For example, one model might surpass the other in a specific construct, such as accuracy, during particular periods. Availability and pricing GPT-3.5 is free, while its Turbo versions charge a fee. GPT-3.5 The following table details GPT-3.5 Turbo API costs. GPT-3.5 Turbo API pricing Model Input Output Gpt-3.5-turbo-1106 $1.00 per 1 million tokens $2.00 per 1 million tokens Gpt-3.5-turbo-0125 $0.50 per 1 million tokens $1.50 per 1 million tokens Gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct $1.50 per 1 million tokens $2.00 per 1 million tokens GPT-4 GPT-4 is free. GPT-4 Plus and GPT-4 Pro cost $20 and $200 per month, respectively. See ChatGPT pricing for details. The following table details GPT-4 API costs. GPT-4 API pricing Model Input Output 128,000-token context lengths (gpt-4-turbo) $0.01 per 1,000 prompt tokens $0.03 per 1,000 sampled tokens 8,000-token context lengths (gpt-4 and gpt-4-0314) $0.03 per 1,000 prompt tokens $0.06 per 1,000 sampled tokens 32,000-token context lengths (gpt-4-32k and gpt-4-32k-0314) $0.06 per 1,000 prompt tokens $0.12 per 1,000 sampled tokens Introduction to GPT-4 Turbo In November 2023, OpenAI debuted GPT-4 Turbo, along with a GPT-4 Turbo with Vision model, with a larger context window and significantly cheaper pricing. Its 128,000-token context window -- equivalent to sending approximately 300 pages of text in a single prompt -- offers enhanced accuracy, speed and versatility. It's also three times cheaper for input tokens and two times more affordable for output tokens than GPT-4, which has a maximum of 4,096 output tokens. GPT-4 Turbo API pricing Model Input Output GPT-4 Turbo $10 per 1 million prompt tokens $30 per 1 million sampled tokens GPT-4 Turbo with Vision $10 per 1 million prompt tokens $30 per 1 million sampled tokens Rate limits on how often the model can be used within a specified period of time are available in the rate limits guide . Update and future On May 13, 2024, OpenAI released the more powerful, cost-effective and faster GPT-4o. This was followed by the release of GPT-4o mini, a scaled-back and cheaper version of GPT-4o. A growing number of clues indicate that OpenAI will release a GPT-5.0 version sometime in 2025. OpenAI's original goal was to produce a large language model ( LLM ) with artificial general intelligence that passes the Turing test. Researchers claim generative models have long passed the human intelligence threshold. Indeed, OpenAI CEO Sam Altman aspires to create software bots with artificial superintelligence that outperform humans. Ethical considerations GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 raise significant ethical considerations . These powerful LLMs can generate convincing but potentially false or harmful content, perpetuating biases present in their training data. Concerns include the following: Spread of misinformation. Automation of harmful tasks. Potential for job displacement. Erosion of human creativity. Responsible development and deployment are, therefore, crucial. They require ongoing research into mitigating biases , detecting and addressing harmful outputs, and developing transparent and accountable systems. Editor's note: This article was updated in February 2025 to provide additional information on GPT 3.5 Turbo models, more details on GPT-4 capabilities and new pricing. Leah Zitter, Ph.D., is a seasoned writer and researcher on generative AI, drawing on over a decade of experience in emerging technologies to deliver insights on innovation, applications and industry trends. Will Kelly, a freelance writer and content strategist, previously contributed to this article. Next Steps Gemini vs. ChatGPT: What's the difference? GitHub Copilot vs ChatGPT: How do they compare? Compare large language models vs. generative AI CNN vs. GAN: How are they different? GANs vs. VAEs: What is the best generative approach? Related Resources Introduction to MLFlow, the open-source tool for machine learning –Talk Vertica’s High-Performance Advanced Analytics Platform Powers Jaguar TCS Racing –Video Vertica’s High-Performance Advanced Analytics Platform Powers Jaguar TCS Racing –Video Jaguar TCS Racing Virtual Garage Tour―NYC, Vertica's Advanced Analytics Platform –Video Dig Deeper on Machine learning platforms GPT-4.1 explained: Everything you need to know By: Sean Kerner OpenAI's GPT-4.1 targets coding for developers By: Esther Shittu ChatGPT vs. GPT: How are they different? By: George Lawton OpenAI GPT-4.5, Alexa+ and the move to wiser AI systems By: Esther Shittu Sponsored News Sustainable AI in Action: 3 Real-World Examples –Equinix Understanding Revenue Cycle Metrics for Healthcare Financial Success –Greenway Health Can Backups Scale? The Vanishing Backup Window –Exagrid See More Related Content GPT-4o explained: Everything you need to know – WhatIs context window – WhatIs ChatGPT vs. GPT: How are they different? – Search Enterprise AI Latest TechTarget resources Business Analytics CIO Data Management ERP Search Business Analytics Yellowfin joins GenAI fray, launches new NLQ capabilities The longtime BI vendor is the latest to add generative AI-powered natural language query capabilities aimed at enabling more ... Tableau enters the agentic AI era with the launch of Next The new platform features agents addressing needs such as data preparation and natural language-based analysis, and includes a ... 8 top self-service analytics tools Self-service analytics tools, such as Power BI, Tableau and Qlik, help users analyze data independently with AI, automation and ... Search CIO AI tests limits of data privacy regulation OpenAI CEO Sam Altman speaks about where data privacy guardrails are needed and where there might be room to rework privacy ... Policymakers look to state laws for federal data privacy law Twenty U.S. states have adopted comprehensive data privacy laws, meaning that businesses face a complex network of laws with ... The top quantum computing jobs in 2025 Quantum research is a growing field with several available career paths for tech professionals, including quantum software ... Search Data Management 7 data cleansing best practices Organizations rely on data for analytics and decision-making, but if that data is flawed, inconsistent or otherwise unreliable, ... Unified databases: A powerhouse behind generative AI success Unified databases support generative AI (GenAI) by integrating all data types into a single platform, streamlining infrastructure... Monte Carlo launches first agents for data observability Though the vendor already provides monitoring and troubleshooting capabilities, generative AI-powered agents for each aim to make... Search ERP 4 common challenges of supplier relationship management Problems with suppliers can affect a company's supply chain and, eventually, its bottom line. Learn some of the best ways to ... ERP customers seek answers to AI questions before investing ERP customers say yes to AI investments, as long as they can realize efficiency and productivity gains. Infor offers process mining, automation in CloudSuite ERP With Velocity Suite, Infor embeds process mining, automation and generative AI into its industry-specific CloudSuite ERP. About Us Editorial Ethics Policy Meet The Editors Contact Us Advertisers Partner with Us Media Kit Corporate Site Contributors Reprints Answers Definitions E-Products Events Features Guides Opinions Photo Stories Quizzes Tips Tutorials Videos All Rights Reserved, Copyright 2018 - 2025 , TechTarget Privacy Policy Cookie Preferences Cookie Preferences Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Close