Oscars 2018: The complete list of winners and nominees for the 90th Academy Awards Subscribe 4 weeks for 99¢ ADVERTISEMENT 2018 Academy Awards Frances McDormand addresses the crowd after winning the Oscar for lead actress in "Three Billboards outside Ebbing, Missouri." (Mark Ralston / AFP / Getty Images) Oscars 2018: The complete list of winners and nominees for the 90th Academy Awards "The Shape of Water" won Oscars for best picture and directing at the 2018 Academy Awards. Frances McDormand and Gary Oldman won the lead acting awards. Guillermo del Toro — a frequent winner this awards season — took home the directing trophy. Allison Janney and Sam Rockwell won the supporting acting awards. Screenplay awards went to Jordan Peele for "Get Out" and James Ivory for "Call Me by Your Name." "Dunkirk" won for sound editing, sound mixing and film editing. Jimmy Kimmel returned as host for the ceremony held March 4 at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood. Recap the Times' Academy Awards coverage of winners, reactions, surprises and more. Gary Oldman plays Winston Churchill as he becomes England's prime minister in "Darkest Hour." Actor in a leading role Gary Oldman Winner "Darkest Hour" Video Daniel Day-Lewis "Phantom Thread" Daniel Kaluuya "Get Out" Interview Timothée Chalamet "Call Me by Your Name" Denzel Washington "Roman J. Israel, Esq." Interview Actor in a supporting role Sam Rockwell Winner "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" Interview Woody Harrelson "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" Christopher Plummer "All the Money in the World" Interview Richard Jenkins "The Shape of Water" Interview Video Willem Dafoe "The Florida Project" Interview Video Sam Rockwell, left, and Frances McDormand in a scene from "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. (Merrick Morton / AP) Actress in a leading role Frances McDormand Winner "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" Meryl Streep "The Post" Interview Video Sally Hawkins "The Shape of Water" Interview Saoirse Ronan "Lady Bird" Margot Robbie "I, Tonya" Interview Actress in a supporting role Allison Janney Winner "I, Tonya" Lesley Manville "Phantom Thread" Mary J. Blige "Mudbound" Laurie Metcalf "Lady Bird" Octavia Spencer "The Shape of Water" Interview Video James Ivory, at 89, is the screenwriter of "Call Me by Your Name." (Myung J. Chun / Los Angeles Times) Adapted screenplay James Ivory Winner "Call Me by Your Name" Interview Scott Neustadter & Michael H. Weber "The Disaster Artist" Aaron Sorkin "Molly's Game" Interview Scott Frank & James Mangold and Michael Green ; Story by James Mangold "Logan" Virgil Williams and Dee Rees "Mudbound" Miguel (voiced by Anthony Gonzalez), a clerk (Gabriel Iglesias) and great-great grandmother Mamá Imelda (Alanna Ubach) in the animated movie "Coco." (Disney / Pixar) Animated feature film “Coco” Winner Review “Ferdinand” Review Video “The Boss Baby” Review “Loving Vincent” Review “The Breadwinner” Review A scene of Kobe Bryant. (Kobe Inc. and Glen Keane Productions) Animated short “Dear Basketball” Winner “Lou” “Revolting Rhymes” “Garden Party” “Negative Space” The Shape of Water' review by Kenneth Turan Best picture “The Shape of Water” Winner Review Video “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri” Review Video “Dunkirk” Review Video “Call Me by Your Name” Review Video “Get Out” Review Video “Lady Bird” Review Video “The Post” Video “Phantom Thread” Review Video “Darkest Hour” Video Ryan Gosling as K and Sylvia Hoeks as Luv in "Blade Runner 2049." Warner Bros. Pictures / Alcon En Cinematography Roger Deakins Winner "Blade Runner 2049" Bruno Delbonnel "Darkest Hour" Video Hoyte van Hoytema "Dunkirk" Video Dan Laustsen "The Shape of Water" Video Rachel Morrison "Mudbound" Video Phantom Thread review by Justin Chang Costume design Mark Bridges Winner "Phantom Thread" Video Luis Sequeira "The Shape of Water" Video Jacqueline Durran "Darkest Hour" Video Jacqueline Durran "Beauty and the Beast" Video Consolata Boyle "Victoria & Abdul" Interview Director Guillermo del Toro explains how 'The Shape of Water' is about today. Directing Guillermo del Toro Winner "The Shape of Water" Interview Video Christopher Nolan "Dunkirk" Interview Jordan Peele "Get Out" Video Paul Thomas Anderson "Phantom Thread" Interview Greta Gerwig "Lady Bird" Interview Video Bryan Fogel and Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov in a scene from "Icarus." (Netflix) Documentary feature “Icarus” Winner “Last Men in Aleppo” “Faces Places” “Abacus: Small Enough to Jail” “Strong Island” A scene from "Heaven is a Traffic Jam on the 405," an Oscar nominated short film about the 56 year-old artist Mindy Alper. (ShortsTV) Documentary short “Heaven is a Traffic Jam on the 405” Winner “Traffic Stop” “Edith+Eddie” “Heroin(e)” “Knife Skills” 'Dunkirk' Movie review by Kenneth Turan Film editing Lee Smith Winner "Dunkirk" Video Sidney Wolinsky "The Shape of Water" Video Tatiana S. Riegel "I, Tonya" Video Paul Machliss and Jonathan Amos "Baby Driver" Jon Gregory "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" Video Daniela Vega in the film "A Fantastic Woman." (Sony Pictures Classics) Foreign language film “A Fantastic Woman” Winner Review “Loveless” Review “The Square” Review “On Body And Soul” “The Insult” Joanne (Rachel Shenton) with her student Libby (Maisie Sly) in a scene from "The Silent Child," an Oscar-nominated short film. (The Silent Child) Live-action short “The Silent Child” Winner “My Nephew Emmett” “Watu Wote / All of Us” “The Eleven O'Clock” “DeKalb Elementary” Makeup and hairstyling Kazuhiro Tsuji , David Malinowski and Lucy Sibbick Winner "Darkest Hour" Arjen Tuiten "Wonder" Daniel Phillips and Lou Sheppard "Victoria & Abdul" Alexandre Desplat at the scoring session of "The Shape of Water," for which he had the challenge of both grounding and accentuating the fantasy in a story that is part fairy tale, part Cold War spy thriller and part love story. (Alex Bailey) Original score Alexandre Desplat Winner "The Shape of Water" Interview Jonny Greenwood "Phantom Thread" Video Carter Burwell "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" Interview Hans Zimmer "Dunkirk" John Williams "Star Wars: The Last Jedi" Jordan Peele explains 'the sunken place'. Original screenplay Jordan Peele Winner "Get Out" Video Emily V. Gordon and Kumail Nanjiani "The Big Sick" Video Greta Gerwig "Lady Bird" Interview Video Guillermo del Toro and Vanessa Taylor ; Story by Guillermo del Toro "The Shape of Water" Interview Video Martin McDonagh "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" Interview Video Original song Remember Me Winner Music: Kristen Anderson-Lopez and Robert Lopez ; Lyrics: Kristen Anderson-Lopez and Robert Lopez "Coco" Stand Up for Something Music: Diane Warren ; Lyrics: Diane Warren and Common "Marshall" Mystery of Love Music: Sufjan Stevens ; Lyrics: Sufjan Stevens "Call Me by Your Name" Mighty River Music: Raphael Saadiq ; Lyrics: Mary J. Blige , Raphael Saadiq and Taura Stinson "Mudbound" This is Me Music: Benj Pasek and Justin Paul ; Lyrics: Benj Pasek and Justin Paul "The Greatest Showman" Production design Production Design: Paul D. Austerberry ; Set Decoration: Shane Vieau and Jeff Melvin Winner "The Shape of Water" Production Design: Sarah Greenwood ; Set Decoration: Katie Spencer "Beauty and the Beast" Production Design: Dennis Gassner ; Set Decoration: Alessandra Querzola "Blade Runner 2049" Production Design: Sarah Greenwood ; Set Decoration: Katie Spencer "Darkest Hour" Production Design: Nathan Crowley ; Set Decoration: Gary Fettis "Dunkirk" Interview Sound editing Richard King and Alex Gibson Winner "Dunkirk" Matthew Wood and Ren Klyce "Star Wars: The Last Jedi" Nathan Robitaille and Nelson Ferreira "The Shape of Water" Julian Slater "Baby Driver" Mark Mangini and Theo Green "Blade Runner 2049" Sound mixing Mark Weingarten , Gregg Landaker and Gary A. Rizzo Winner "Dunkirk" David Parker , Michael Semanick , Ren Klyce and Stuart Wilson "Star Wars: The Last Jedi" Julian Slater , Tim Cavagin and Mary H. Ellis "Baby Driver" Christian T. Cooke , Brad Zoern and Glen Gauthier "The Shape of Water" Ron Bartlett , Doug Hemphill and Mac Ruth "Blade Runner 2049" Visual effects John Nelson , Gerd Nefzer , Paul Lambert and Richard R. Hoover Winner "Blade Runner 2049" Christopher Townsend , Guy Williams , Jonathan Fawkner and Dan Sudick "Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2" Joe Letteri , Daniel Barrett , Dan Lemmon and Joel Whist "War For the Planet of the Apes" Stephen Rosenbaum , Jeff White , Scott Benza and Mike Meinardus "Kong: Skull Island" Ben Morris , Mike Mulholland , Neal Scanlan and Chris Corbould "Star Wars: The Last Jedi" ADVERTISEMENT Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | About Our Ads | © | About This Site