Mark Zuckerberg, Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer | Meta Skip to content Back to Media Gallery Mark Zuckerberg Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg is the founder, chairman and CEO of Meta, which he originally founded as Facebook in 2004. He is responsible for setting the overall direction and product strategy for the company. In October 2021, Facebook rebranded to Meta to reflect all of its products and services across its family of apps and a focus on developing social experiences for the metaverse — moving beyond 2D screens toward immersive experiences like augmented and virtual reality to help build the next evolution in social technology. Mark is also the co-founder and co-CEO of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative (CZI) with his wife Priscilla. They founded CZI in 2015 to help solve some of society’s toughest challenges — from eradicating disease and improving education, to addressing the needs of our local communities. Through collaboration, providing resources and building technology, CZI’s mission is to help build a more inclusive, just and healthy future for everyone. Mark was born in White Plains, New York. He studied computer science at Harvard University before moving to Palo Alto, California in 2004. facebook.com/zuck instagram.com/zuck More From Mark Zuckerberg “We’re a company where everyone here wakes up in the morning and thinks about how we’re going to help people connect and communicate.” ( Interview with The Verge, Oct. 2022 ) “We believe the metaverse will be the successor to the mobile internet. We’ll be able to feel present, like we’re right there with people, no matter how far apart we actually are. We’ll be able to express ourselves in new, joyful, completely immersive ways and that’s going to unlock a lot of amazing new experiences.” ( Meta Connect 2021 ) “If you look at the history of science, most big advances are preceded by new tools to observe things.” ( Forbes, March 2023 ) Downloads: Usage Restrictions: Images may only be used to illustrate articles about Meta. Original 4K (1573 × 2160px) HD (1621 × 2226px) Web (800 × 1098px)