Assassin's Creed Valhalla release date moved to November 10 for Xbox Series X launch | VG247 Skip to main content Monopoly Go Dice Links Anime Rangers X codes Azure Latch codes Assassin's Creed Shadows Guides Blue Lock Rivals codes Roblox game codes News Reviews Articles Guides Baldur's Gate 3 Diablo IV Fallout 4 Elden Ring Black Myth: Wukong Deals Sign in / Create account Support us Buy eShop codes If you click on a link and make a purchase we may receive a small commission. Read our editorial policy . Home News Assassin's Creed: Valhalla Assassin's Creed Valhalla release date moved to November 10 for Xbox Series X launch News by Stephany Nunneley-Jackson Former News Editor Published on Sept. 9, 2020 Follow Assassin's Creed: Valhalla Ubisoft has moved the release date of Assassin's Creed Valhalla to coincide with the launch of Xbox Series X. Previously set for release on November 17, Assassin's Creed Valhalla will now release on November 10. This is the same day Xbox Series S and Xbox Series X will launch . On the same day, the game will also be made available for Xbox One, PlayStation 4, through the Epic Games Store and on Ubisoft Store for PC, Stadia, and Uplay+. It will be made available on PS5 when the console launches. With the Xbox Series X, you can expect the game to run at 60 FPS in full 4K resolution in addition to higher resolution textures and improved shadow quality along with clutter density. The game will also take advantage of the Direct Storage, benefiting from faster loading times and smoother world transversal. Finally, the game will also use Microsoft's Smart Delivery, allowing you to buy the game once and play it on either Xbox One, Xbox Series X, or Xbox Series S. Cross-save functionality between Xbox One and Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S will also be supported on both games so you can keep your progression from one platform to another. To see this content please enable targeting cookies. Manage cookie settings Assassin's Creed Valhalla is available for purchase on Amazon for $60 . Read this next Assassin’s Creed Valhalla’s final update is here A video game has won a Grammy for the first time, and it was DLC Destiny 2 and Assassin's Creed crossover is a match made in Valhalla Stephany Nunneley-Jackson : Stephany is formerly VG247’s News Editor, with 22 years experience (with 15 of them at VG247). With a brain that lacks adhesive ducks, the ill-tempered, chaotic neutral fembot does her best to bring you the most interesting gaming news. She is also unofficially the site’s Lord of the Rings/Elder Scrolls Editor. View comments (0) In this article Assassin's Creed: Valhalla PS4 , PS5 , Xbox One , Xbox Series X/S , PC Follow Related topics Action Adventure Assassin's Creed Blockbuster ESRB Mature 17+ Historical News PC PEGI 18 PS4 PS5 See 6 more › Sony Stadia Ubisoft Video Xbox Xbox Series X/S Sign in and unlock a world of features Get access to commenting, homepage personalisation, newsletters, and more! Sign in with Google Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Twitter Sign in with Reddit Sign in with email Latest On Assassin's Creed: Valhalla Assassin's Creed Valhalla River Raids: River Map Clues, River Raid Keys, and more Assassin's Creed Valhalla: Order of the Ancients locations GAAS-LIGHTING That one live service game you begrudgingly like? It's probably just as bad as all the others, you just need an intervention Shine Divine! Assassin's Creed Valhalla Divine Rarity: Where do you find Platinum Ingots? How to start the Assassin's Creed Valhalla: Dawn of Ragnarok DLC LET'S GO A-VIKING Assassin's Creed Valhalla Guide: Lead the Viking conquest of England Assassin's Creed Valhalla: How to beat Erik Loyalskull Assassin's Creed Valhalla: Best Skills and Character Upgrades Latest News UPDATE: Just like magic: Randy Pitchford accidentally reveals new Borderlands 4 release date, then immediately deletes because googling time zones is hard Bayonetta developer Platinum Games is hiring for a new online action game, even after many long-time staff have departed for other studios "You’ll be needing them for the fight to come" Helldivers 2 dev Arrowhead reveals when it'll announce its next Warbond, and teases "more exciting news" soon inZOI's extraordinary launch and PUBG's ongoing popularity led to Krafton's "record-high" financial quarter There's a lot of Rey Dau in this next batch of Monster Hunter Wilds Event Quests, including a Free Challenge Quest for the Arch-Tempered version A Minecraft Movie gets special "Block Party" screenings that'll encourage you to "sing (and meme) along" as Jack Black burns a defenceless animal alive in front of some kids If you're desperate for more from Larian after Baldur's Gate 3, will you really have to wait until 2030? Latest Guides Oblivion Remastered Pilgrimage Quest: Wayshrine Locations Oblivion Remastered Paranoia Quest guide Oblivion Remastered Unfriendly Competition Quest guide Oblivion Remastered Oblivion Gate locations Where to buy Lockpicks in Oblivion Remastered Oblivion Remastered leveling explainer and tips Love and Deepspace banners: Current banner, next banner, and a complete list of past banners Top Discussions In preparation for Borderlands 4 I played through Borderlands 3, and I'm torn on how to deal with the Ava problem 7 Bethesda, I know you want Oblivion Remastered feedback, so please help me not have the same old problems sneakily fingering this countess' ring 2 Dark mode comes to VG247 1 © 2025 VG247 a brand of IGN Entertainment, Inc. 18 Mansell Street Level 3, London, E1 8AA, United Kingdom.All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission. VG247 is a registered trademark of Gamer Network Limited, an affiliate of IGN Entertainment, Inc. Theme Auto Light Dark Helpful Links About Us Advertise with us Archive Authors Contact Us Corporate Site Interactive Maps Newsletters RSS Feeds Policies Accessibility Policy AdChoices Code of Conduct Cookie Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Review Policy Terms & Conditions Gamer Network Dicebreaker Digital Foundry Eurogamer GamesIndustry.biz Nintendo Life Pure Xbox Push Square Rock Paper Shotgun Time Extension