Season 3 | The Blacklist Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In The Blacklist Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Cast Cast Characters Season 1 Characters FBI Agents Criminals Employed by Raymond Reddington Incarcerated Deceased Season 2 Characters Crew Writers Season 1 Crew Creators Executive Producers Directors Season 2 Crew Season 3 Crew Show Season 8 Season 9 Season 10 The Blacklist (Comic) The Blacklist: Conspiracy The Blacklist: Redemption Helping Out Policies Getting Started Wiki tutorial Help pages Orphaned pages Broken redirects Wanted pages Community Recent blog posts Forum Community News Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content The Blacklist Wiki 698 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Cast Cast Characters Season 1 Characters FBI Agents Criminals Employed by Raymond Reddington Incarcerated Deceased Season 2 Characters Crew Writers Season 1 Crew Creators Executive Producers Directors Season 2 Crew Season 3 Crew Show Season 8 Season 9 Season 10 The Blacklist (Comic) The Blacklist: Conspiracy The Blacklist: Redemption Helping Out Policies Getting Started Wiki tutorial Help pages Orphaned pages Broken redirects Wanted pages Community Recent blog posts Forum Community News in: Season 3 Episodes Season 3 Edit Edit source History Purge Talk (0) Season 3 Season Information Announced February 5, 2015 Episodes 23 Aired October 1, 2015 - May 19, 2016 Executive Producers Jon Bokenkamp John Davis John Eisendrath John Fox Michael Watkins James Spader J. R. Orci Lukas Reiter Daniel Cerone Stars James Spader Megan Boone Diego Klattenhoff Harry Lennix Amir Arison Mozhan Marnò Ryan Eggold Hisham Tawfiq Premiere “ The Troll Farmer ” Finale “ Alexander Kirk: Conclusion ” Season Chronology Previous Season 2 Next Season 4 NBC's The Blacklist ​​​​​​ was renewed for a third season on February 5, 2015 . It premiered on October 1, 2015, and concluded on May 19, 2016. The season consisted of 23 episodes. Contents 1 Synopsis 2 Episodes 3 Gallery 4 Videos 5 External Links Synopsis [ ] In the third season of the hit NBC drama “The Blacklist,” FBI Agent Elizabeth “Liz” Keen is now a fugitive and on the run with criminal mastermind Raymond “Red” Reddington . With Assistant FBI Director Harold Cooper under investigation, a conflicted Agent Donald Ressler leads the FBI Task Force on a massive manhunt for Liz and Red – more dangerous together than apart since Liz has expert knowledge of FBI procedures and no one exceeds Red's vast resources. As they struggle to stay one step ahead of their former colleagues and Liz immerses herself into Red’s underworld of disreputable contacts and covert operations, will the notorious list of new Blacklisters this season play a key role in their survival or their demise? Liz is on an unpredictable journey of self-discovery and all the pieces of her life, including her indefinable relationship with Tom , will be drastically challenged as she continues to believe Red holds all the answers. Episodes [ ] Season Three Episodes No. in Season No. in Series Title Directed by Written by Original air date 1 45 “ The Troll Farmer ” Michael Watkins Jon Bokenkamp John Eisendrath October 1, 2015 Synopsis: LIZ AND RED ARE ON THE RUN - The season premiere kicks off with the FBI hunting Liz for the murder of the Attorney General. Red and Liz are named to the FBI's Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list and set out on the run to evade capture. Red calls upon a Blacklister called "The Troll Farmer," to help them flee the city, while the task force must question whom of their own can still be trusted. Dembe is put in a dangerous and compromising position. 2 46 “ Marvin Gerard ” Andrew McCarthy J. R. Orci (Story) Lukas Reiter (Story) Daniel Knauf (Teleplay) Brandon Sonnier (Teleplay) Brandon Margolis (Teleplay) October 8, 2015 Synopsis: THE FBI CORNERS LIZ AND RED - Ressler is hot on the trail for Liz after she escapes to the Russian embassy for safety. There is no one left for her to trust but Red, who enlists a lawyer named Marvin Gerard to get them out of a sticky hostage situation. Meanwhile, the FBI tries to force Cooper out of the task force. 3 47 “ Eli Matchett ” Steven A. Adelson Lukas Reiter J. R. Orci October 15, 2015 Synopsis: Red and Liz take a detour towards the Midwest as part of their mission to exonerate Liz and defeat the Cabal. Ressler , Samar and Aram continue to track the fugitives and in the process stumble upon what could become a global food crisis . Meanwhile, Cooper turns to an unlikely ally . 4 48 “ The Djinn ” Omar Madha Daniel Cerone October 22, 2015 Synopsis: Red and Liz continue their mission to clear Liz’s name. Red enlists the help of the task force to help them find a woman called the Djinn , a mysterious woman who fulfills revenge fantasies. They believe the Djinn can lead them to the Cabal, the next step in exonerating Liz. 5 49 “ Arioch Cain ” Alex Zakrzewski Dawn DeNoon October 29, 2015 Synopsis: An enormous bounty is posted for Agent Keen drawing out any number of unknown assassins while the FBI and Reddington join forces to protect her. 6 50 “ Sir Crispin Crandall ” Ami Canaan Mann Dave Thomas November 5, 2015 Synopsis: Red and Liz catch wind that Andras Halmi, a trusted advisor of The Director has gone missing . In pursuit of finding Halmi, Red and Liz narrowly escape a violent confrontation. Meanwhile, Tom ends up in a brutal “Fight Club” to find the one man he thinks will be able to exonerate Liz. 7 51 “ Zal Bin Hasaan ” Michael Watkins Brandon Sonnier Brandon Margolis November 12, 2015 Synopsis: A family tragedy in Samar's past resurfaces when the Task Force hunt for an elusive international terrorist. The FBI and the Cabal gain significant ground in their search for Liz and Red . Meanwhile, Tom encounters complications in his plan to exonerate Liz. 8 52 “ Kings of the Highway ” Terrence O'Hare Brian Studler November 19, 2015 Synopsis: THE FALL FINALE - Red and Liz are unexpectedly separated from each other when Red falls into a dangerous situation. Samar makes a risky decision to help Liz while Tom and Cooper continue on their expedition to exonerate Liz. 9 53 “ The Director ” Mary Lambert Daniel Cerone January 7, 2016 Synopsis: Reddington and Aram resort to bold measures in hopes of guaranteeing Elizabeth Keen's safety as she awaits trial. 10 54 “ The Director: Conclusion ” John Terlesky Lukas Reiter January 14, 2016 Synopsis: Red works with the task force to outmaneuver the Cabal and exonerate Elizabeth Keen before she is assassinated; Red delivers an ultimatum. 11 55 “ Mr. Gregory Devry ” Alex Zakrzewski Daniel Knauf Janaury 21, 2016 Synopsis: Liz tries to reclaim her life; Red helps the task force an assembly of high-level criminals in hopes of apprehending the leaders of lethal crime syndicates. 12 56 “ The Vehm ” Michael Watkins Vincent Angell January 28, 2016 Synopsis: After an associate of Red's is murdered, he alerts the task force that a vigilante group from the Middle Ages known as "The Holy Vehm" has been resurrected and is lethal. Red teams up with Liz and the task force to stop the assassins before any more of the targets are killed. Meanwhile, upon receiving shocking news, Liz carefully considers her next move. 13 57 “ Alistair Pitt ” Bill Roe Nicole Phillips (Story & Teleplay) Adam Sussman (Story) February 4, 2016 Synopsis: Red and Liz work with the taskforce to stop who has resurfaced to unite two rival crime families. Tom reconnects with a former flame. 14 58 “ Lady Ambrosia ” Tim Hunter Taylor Martin February 11, 2016 Synopsis: After a missing child that has been presumed dead turns up alive, Red and Liz work with the taskforce to search for a dangerous woman who may be kidnapping children. Meanwhile, Tom faces shocking consequences after his plan to help Liz goes awry. 15 59 “ Drexel ” Anton Cropper Dave Metzger February 18, 2016 Synopsis: After the founder of a successful internet start-up is found dead, Red recognizes the crime scene as the work of a notorious killer. Liz and the task force work with Red to track the murderer through a dangerous underground news source. Meanwhile, Tom faces a life threatening situation, while Liz considers options for her baby. 16 60 “ The Caretaker ” Don Thorin, Jr. Dave Thomas February 25, 2016 Synopsis: After a State Department official is found dead in Beijing, Red and Liz link the murder to a secret keeper known as "The Caretaker," who maintains an impenetrable safety deposit vault for criminals. Red and Liz work with the task force to find the Caretaker and his collection of lethal and classified secrets. Meanwhile, Tom makes a risky decision, while Liz persists on her quest to find out more about her mother. 17 61 “ Mr. Solomon ” Eagle Egilsson Brian Studler April 7, 2016 Synopsis: After Red learns that a tactical nuclear weapon is being targeted by thieves, it's a race against the clock as the task force struggles to stop them -- and prevent an imminent nuclear disaster. Meanwhile, Tom and Liz make a decision that will change their relationship forever. 18 62 “ Mr. Solomon: Conclusion ” John Terlesky Daniel Cerone April 14, 2016 Synopsis: After a tragedy puts a member of the team in grave danger, the task force must rely on Red and his unconventional methods to survive. Meanwhile, Tom and Liz face an unexpected complication that could affect their baby's future. 19 63 “ Cape May ” Michael Watkins Daniel Knauf April 21, 2016 Synopsis: A mysterious beauty on the run from unknown assailants accidentally crosses paths with Reddington and enlists his help to fight back against her attackers. 20 64 “ The Artax Network ” Don Thorin, Jr. Dawn DeNoon April 28, 2016 Synopsis: After an unexpected loss devastates the FBI task force, they must track down their assailants; a mysterious group whose agents operate using a worldwide satellite network. Meanwhile, Reddington is forced to confront a ghost from his past -- one who knows many of Red's secrets. 21 65 “ Susan Hargrave ” Andrew McCarthy J. R. Orci (Story) Lukas Reiter (Story) Vincent Angell (Teleplay) Daniel Cerone (Teleplay) Brian Studler (Teleplay) May 5, 2016 Synopsis: When Reddington links an elegant, powerful and extremely dangerous woman to the recent tragic events, the task force is forced to play a deadly cat and mouse game to stop her before she strikes again. 22 66 “ Alexander Kirk ” Michael Dinner Jon Bokenkamp (Story & Teleplay) John Eisendrath (Story & Teleplay) J. R. Orci (Story) Lukas Reiter (Story) May 12, 2016 Synopsis: The FBI task force's hunt for revenge nears its endgame. As Reddington and the team close in on the mysterious arch-criminal responsible for recent tragic events, they're forced to operate outside their comfort zone -- and outside the law -- in order to take down their enemy once and for all. 23 67 “ Alexander Kirk: Conclusion ” Bill Roe Lukas Reiter J. R. Orci May 19, 2016 Synopsis: As Reddington and the task force close in on the person responsible for Liz's death, a shocking betrayal leaves them racing to save one of their own. Gallery [ ] Videos [ ] The Blacklist Season 3 Promo "It's Good To Be Wanted" (HD) External Links [ ] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Blacklist_(TV_series) http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2741602/ http://www.nbc.com/the-blacklist/ http://www.thefutoncritic.com/showatch/blacklist/listings/ http://www.youtube.com/user/NBCBlacklist Season 3 Episodes · The Troll Farmer · Marvin Gerard · Eli Matchett · The Djinn · Arioch Cain · Sir Crispin Crandall · Zal Bin Hasaan · Kings of the Highway · The Director · The Director: Conclusion · Mr. Gregory Devry · The Vehm · Alistair Pitt · Lady Ambrosia · Drexel · The Caretaker · Mr. Solomon · Mr. Solomon: Conclusion · Cape May · The Artax Network · Susan Hargrave · Alexander Kirk · Alexander Kirk: Conclusion · Categories Categories : Season 3 Episodes Add category Cancel Save Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. The Blacklist Wiki is a FANDOM TV Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab