Tesla's Q3 2019 Surprise Could Lead To Q4 Win Tesla's Q3 2019 Surprise Could Lead To Q4 Win News News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry All news Reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test All reviews Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 All Features Videos Podcasts Photos Newsletter SIGN UP FOR FREE Chime in with article commenting. Sign In Sign Up News News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry All news Reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test All reviews Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 All Features Videos Podcasts Photos Newsletter page ad skin Home News Corporate / Financial Tesla's Q3 2019 Surprise Could Lead To Q4 Win It seems back-to-back profitable quarters is in order. EVANNEX By : EVANNEX Oct 30, 2019 at 7:07am ET Facebook X LinkedIn Flipboard Reddit WhatsApp E-Mail Share Comment Back in 2013, riding on the success wave of the then-newly-launched Model S , Tesla reported profits in the first quarter. “Tesla reached profitability in the first quarter of 2013 for the first time in our 10-year history," wrote CEO Elon Musk in his quarterly earnings letter to shareholders. More Tesla Q3 2019 Content: Tesla Stock Flying High: 5 Key Takeaways From Q3 2019 Earnings This article comes to us courtesy of EVANNEX (which also makes aftermarket Tesla accessories). Authored by Shankar Narayanan. The opinions expressed in these articles are not necessarily our own at InsideEVs. Photo: Casey Murphy, EVANNEX Tesla has reported just five profitable quarters in its history, the last of which came in 2018 when Tesla reported back-to-back profitable quarters in Q3 and Q4-2018. Tesla slipped back into the red for the next two quarters before getting back into the black in Q3-19, when Wall Street analysts were busy discussing how significant their losses would be — instead a huge surprise arrived and the stock surged 28% within 48 hrs of the earnings release, forcing Tesla shorts to count $1.47 billion in mark-to-market losses. Source: TSLA Stock (via Google) as of market close: 10/25/19 Though Tesla’s third-quarter net revenue of $6.303 billion was shy ( as anticipated ) of Wall Street estimates of $6.33 billion, the electric car maker beat profitability expectations by a wide margin, reporting adjusted earnings of $1.86 per share, when the market anticipated a loss of 42 cents per share. “Our operating cost is at the lowest level since Model 3 production started,” said Elon Musk, in his opening remarks to investors during the third quarter 2019 earnings call. Tesla CFO Zachary Kirkhorn gave a bit more detail as he listed improved gross profit, reduced operating expenses and the absence of negative one-time items as reasons for Tesla’s improved third-quarter performance. Source: Tesla Q3-19 Update Tesla’s automotive margin slipped from ~25% in the second half of 2018, when it reported profits, to ~20% in the first half of 2019, when it reported losses. In the recent quarter, automotive margin improved to 22.8%, which played a huge role in helping Tesla turn in profits. Data Source: Tesla Quarterly Statements Tesla got itself squeezed from both ends in the first quarter. As the average selling price dropped a hefty 15% compared to the previous quarter, R&D and SG&A expenses increased, accounting for nearly 28% of revenues. Thanks to the double whammy, Tesla reported an operating loss back in Q1 of $521 million. However, there were ample signs of recovery during Q2. The average selling price declined by less than 5% while operating expenses excluding restructuring accounted for 18.8% of revenues. Tesla reported an operating loss of $167 million, out of which $117 million was due to restructuring. In the third quarter, the average selling price declined by just 2.12%, while operating expenses shrunk to less than 18% of revenue and there were no restructuring-related expenses. This allowed cost efficiencies created during the quarter to be passed directly to the bottom line, helping Tesla to report operating profits of $261 million. Source: Tesla Model 3 (October 28th, 2019) Good news for Tesla: The average selling price in Q3-2019 ($55,186) is already very close to Tesla Model 3 mid variant price ($53,990) and there probably isn’t much room for it to go down from here. Above: Model 3 AWD orders outpace RWD orders (Data Source: NHTSA) If Tesla manages to increase or hold Model S and Model X sales during the fourth quarter, the average selling price could move higher or stabilize, helping Tesla post healthy gross margins. Any cost efficiencies created during the quarter due to increasing volumes can be transferred to the bottom line. Back to back profitable quarters seem to be in the cards for Tesla. === Author Bio: Shankar Narayanan is the editor of 1redDrop.com . Has an MBA from Kent State University and an engineering degree from Madurai Kamaraj University. He has been an active contributor to top financial sites like SeekingAlpha and GuruFocus, and has a penchant for talking business, finance, and technology. InsideEVs Editor’s Note: EVANNEX , which also sells aftermarket gear for Teslas, has kindly allowed us to share some of its content with our readers, free of charge. Our thanks go out to EVANNEX. Check out the site here . Source: Evannex Share this Story Facebook X LinkedIn Flipboard Reddit WhatsApp E-Mail Got a tip for us? Email: tips@insideevs.com Join the conversation ( ) Trending The Telo MT1 May Be Tiny, But It's Still Built For Hard Work Foxconn's Model C Is Coming To The U.S.—But It Won't Wear A Foxconn Badge Slate Unveiled A Cheap EV. Tesla's Is Still A Mystery. Why The Slate Truck Doesn’t Use LFP Batteries latest articles Toyota And Google's Waymo May Build An Autonomous Car Platform Together 34m ago - Autonomous Vehicles - GM’s Orion Plant Was Supposed To Be All-EV. Now, Maybe Not 4h ago - News - How The Lucid Gravity Became A Fast-Charging Monster 6h ago - Charging - Nissan's Turnaround Plan Almost Convinced Me. Then The Bomb Dropped. 6h ago - Power Moves - I Bought A 'Unicorn' Volvo V90 PHEV. Here's How It's Going 7h ago - Ownership Experience - RECOMMENDED FOR YOU Volvo Goes Into Cost-Cutting Mode Toyota And Google's Waymo May Build An Autonomous Car Platform Together VW Group’s Cariad Software Division Had A Bad Year. Again GM’s Orion Plant Was Supposed To Be All-EV. Now, Maybe Not Tesla Needs You To Use Full Self-Driving So Badly It's Offering Insurance Discounts How The Lucid Gravity Became A Fast-Charging Monster We Sat Down With Faraday Future At CES 2025. It Got Weird Subscribe to our Newsletter Receive exciting Automotive news, updates, and special offers straight to your inbox. Subscribe Follow Us Facebook X Flipboard Google News YouTube RSS About Us Advertising Contact insideEVs 650 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10022 USA Privacy policy Cookie policy Cookie Settings Terms of use © 2025 Motorsport Network. All rights reserved. Logotype News All news News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry Reviews All reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test Features All Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 Makes All Makes Abarth Acura Afeela Aptera Aston Martin Audi Automobili Pininfarina BMW Bollinger Buick BYD Byton Cadillac Chevrolet Chrysler Citroën Cupra Dacia Daimler Dodge DS Faraday Future Ferrari Fiat Fisker Ford GAC Geely General Motors Genesis GMC Honda Hyundai Infiniti Jaguar Jeep Karma Kia Koenigsegg Land Rover Lexus Lincoln Lordstown Motors Lotus Lucid Lynk & Co MAN Maserati Mazda Mercedes-AMG Mercedes-Benz MG Mini Mitsubishi NEVS Nikola Motor NIO Nissan Opel Peugeot Pininfarina Polestar Porsche Ram Renault Rimac Rivian Rolls-Royce Scout Motors SEAT Skoda Smart Stellantis Subaru Suzuki Telo Trucks Tesla TOGG Toyota Uaz VinFast Volkswagen Volvo Workhorse Xiaomi Xpeng Zeekr Models Tesla Model Y Hyundai Ioniq 5 Rivian R1S Toyota bZ4X Lucid Gravity Ram Ramcharger Body Style All Body Styles Sedan Coupe SUV/Crossover Hatchback Truck Convertible Videos Podcast Photos Edition USA / Global Switch Theme Light Dark Auto Current Edition USA / Global Edition: USA / Global Édition: France Edizione: Italia Edição: Brasil Ausgabe: Deutschland Edisyon: Türkiye Edition: Argentina Cancel SIGN UP FOR FREE Chime in with article commenting. Sign In Sign Up