Report: Latest Cyberpunk 2077 delay announcement blindsides its dev team TechTarget and Informa Tech’s Digital Business Combine. TechTarget and Informa TechTarget and Informa Tech’s Digital Business Combine. Together, we power an unparalleled network of 220+ online properties covering 10,000+ granular topics, serving an audience of 50+ million professionals with original, objective content from trusted sources. We help you gain critical insights and make more informed decisions across your business priorities. Game Market Research GDC Vault GDC Advertise With Game Developer Stay Updated Stay Updated Trending Related Topics Nintendo Switch 2 Lawsuits & Legal News Remote Work & RTO Recent in Trending GDC 25 A player character in Avowed duel-wields pistols. Programming How Avowed's QA team stomped out bugs by working inside the design tools How Avowed's QA team stomped out bugs by working inside the design tools by Bryant Francis Apr 22, 2025 9 Min Read thumbnail Production Cronos: The New Dawn devs say remote work made its unique combat possible Cronos: The New Dawn devs say remote work made its unique combat possible by Bryant Francis Apr 17, 2025 5 Min Read News Deep Dives Mobile Game Design Programming Developer Blogs Related Topics Browse Latest Blogs Submit Your Blog Post Frequently Asked Questions Blogging Rules and Guidelines Recent in Developer Blogs Read Featured Blogs A character portrait next to a note and magnifying glass Design Is Blue Prince's success due to 'social play?' Is Blue Prince's success due to 'social play?' by Danielle Riendeau Apr 25, 2025 4 Min Read A trophy. Business It's time for gaming awards to rethink the strategy/sim category It's time for gaming awards to rethink the strategy/sim category by Greg Foertsch Apr 9, 2025 6 Min Read More Related Topics Interviews Q&As Deep Dives Postmortems Culture Unionization Business Marketing Design Programming Production Art Audio PC Steam Deck Console Mobile Extended Reality Recent in More Read More: Business A character portrait next to a note and magnifying glass Design Is Blue Prince's success due to 'social play?' Is Blue Prince's success due to 'social play?' by Danielle Riendeau Apr 25, 2025 4 Min Read A  graphic with the word "play" in the center Business The huge, hidden web game market no one talks about (and how to get in) The huge, hidden web game market no one talks about (and how to get in) by Dmitry Kachmar Apr 15, 2025 9 Min Read Sponsored By Game Platforms Console Report: Latest Cyberpunk 2077 delay announcement blindsides its dev team Report: Latest Cyberpunk 2077 delay announcement blindsides its dev team Report: Latest Cyberpunk 2077 delay announcement blindsides its dev team CD Projekt Red has delayed Cyberpunk 2077 , but according to comments now circulating online it did so without first informing the developers currently working on the game. Alissa McAloon , Publisher October 27, 2020 2 Min Read CD Projekt Red has once again announced a delay of its blockbuster RPG Cyberpunk 2077 but, according to comments now circulating online, it did so without first informing the developers currently working on the game. Shortly after the announcement hit social media, Bloomberg's Jason Schreier shared on Twitter that a source within CDPR says an internal email was sent out announcing the delay at almost the exact same moment a statement was published on CDPR's social media channels. That shift now sees Cyberpunk 2077 releasing on December 10, a delay announced less than a month before the November 19 release date marked off during the game's last delay a few months back. That announcement hit Twitter today along with the caption "we have important news to share with you" and offers "our humble apologies" to players that had expected the game to launch in mid-November. But given the very public struggle CD Projekt Red has had with crunch culture throughout Cyberpunk 2077 's development, it's unlikely that delay will give its developers any breathing room. "We feel we have an amazing game on our hands, and are willing to make every decision, even the hardest ones, if it ultimately leads to you getting a video game you'll fall in love with," concludes today's statement from CDPR studio head Adam Badowski and co-CEO Marcin IwiÅ„ski. Studio leadership notably backtracked on its anti-crunch promises at the end of September, with an internal email snagged by Bloomberg showing that the company started to mandate six-day workweeks in what was then thought to be the final stretch before launch. "I know this is in direct opposition to what we've said about crunch," reads Badowski's comments in that leaked email last month. "It's also in direct opposition to what I personally grew to believe a while back -- that crunch should never be the answer. But we've extended all other possible means of navigating the situation." Schreier's tweets note that the nature of post-launch patches mean the development team was likely already expecting to crunch for at least the month past the game's launch, and this latest delay only pushes that finish line out further. About the Author Alissa McAloon Publisher, GameDeveloper.com As the Publisher of Game Developer, Alissa McAloon brings a decade of experience in the video game industry and media. When not working in the world of B2B game journalism, Alissa enjoys spending her time in the worlds of immersive sandbox games or dabbling in the occasional TTRPG. See more from Alissa McAloon Daily news, dev blogs, and stories from Game Developer straight to your inbox Stay Updated You May Also Like New Switch 2 Info The Switch 2 on a yellow background Business Nintendo tells customers in Japan to expect Switch 2 hardware shortage at launch Nintendo tells customers in Japan to expect Switch 2 hardware shortage at launch by Chris Kerr Apr 23, 2025 2 Min Read A Nintendo Switch 2 with the Nintendo Switch 2 camera. Business Nintendo Switch 2 dodges tariff price increase, but accessories will experience 'price adjustments' Nintendo Switch 2 dodges tariff price increase, but accessories will experience 'price adjustments' by Bryant Francis Apr 18, 2025 3 Min Read Get daily news, dev blogs, and stories from Game Developer straight to your inbox Subscribe to Game Developer Newsletters to stay caught up with the latest news, design insights, marketing tips, and more Stay Updated Trending Stories Characters do battle in fantasy game Wartorn. PC Wartorn developer Stray Kite shows how small studios can chase big ideas in a turbulent 2025 Wartorn developer Stray Kite shows how small studios can chase big ideas in a turbulent 2025 by Bryant Francis Apr 24, 2025 7 Min Read A king, a noblewoman, and an assassin strike a pose in key art for Crusader Kings 3. Business Paradox Interactive's return-to-office policy may be driving employees away from the studio Paradox Interactive's return-to-office policy may be driving employees away from the studio by Bryant Francis Apr 24, 2025 11 Min Read A player character in Avowed duel-wields pistols. Programming How Avowed's QA team stomped out bugs by working inside the design tools How Avowed's QA team stomped out bugs by working inside the design tools by Bryant Francis Apr 22, 2025 9 Min Read Top GDC25 Reads A player character in Avowed duel-wields pistols. Programming How Avowed's QA team stomped out bugs by working inside the design tools How Avowed's QA team stomped out bugs by working inside the design tools Production Cronos: The New Dawn devs say remote work made its unique combat possible Cronos: The New Dawn devs say remote work made its unique combat possible A headshot of Piotr Babieno, Bloober CEO, against the backdrop of Cronos: The New Dawn Business Bloober CEO: creating a 'safe,' sustainable workplace takes priority in studio leadership Bloober CEO: creating a 'safe,' sustainable workplace takes priority in studio leadership First person screen of Alyx holding her hands up from Half Life Alyx Business Behind the headlines at Valve's rocky start Behind the headlines at Valve's rocky start A fishing boat at sunset in the creepy world of Dredge Design Dredge wasn't originally going to be a narrative game, but then it became one of 2023's best Dredge wasn't originally going to be a narrative game, but then it became one of 2023's best More from GD Blog with Game Developer Blogging Guidelines Game Developer Podcast Submit a Tip Connect About Us Advertise With Game Developer Contact Us Join Us Stay Updated Follow Us Copyright © 2025. This website is owned and operated by Informa TechTarget, part of a global network that informs, influences and connects the world’s technology buyers and sellers. All copyright resides with them. Informa PLC’s registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. TechTarget, Inc.’s registered office is 275 Grove St. Newton, MA 02466. Home | Cookie Policy | Privacy | Terms of Use