Nintendo Switch 2 vs. Switch 1: Every Detail Compared - CNET X Your Guide To a Better Future Trending AI Tech VPN Streaming Services Mobile Home Entertainment Computing Services & Software Gaming All Tech Money Banking Credit Cards Mortgages Home Equity Taxes All Money Home Energy Electric Vehicles Home Security Smart Home Kitchen & Household Yard & Outdoors All Home Wellness Sleep Nutrition Fitness Personal Care All Wellness Home Internet Broadband By Location Internet Routers All Home Internet Deals Tech Home Wellness Gift Guides All Deals Gift Guide Cover Stories More Video Price Finder Editors' Choice CNET Perspectives All More Back Today's Highlights 01 Tariff Pricing Tracker: We're Watching 11 Products You Might Need to Buy 02 At Just $169, Apple's AirPods Pro 2 Just Matched Their Lowest Price of the Year 03 This Modest Gadget Is the New Superhero of the Energy-Efficient Home 04 iPhone 16E vs. Pixel 9A: I Tested the Cameras and Was Surprised 05 Unlock Green Tea’s Hidden Benefits for Focus and Calm 06 Preparing for a Recession? 6 Financial Tips That Make Sense 07 Hybrid Meat Is All the Rage. Here's Why It's Worth Trying 08 Nintendo Switch 2 Preorder Guide 09 Tariffs Explained: What It All Means for You AI ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now Wellness 9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep 10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More 7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood Back Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it. Explore all Best VPN Deals Best Gifts Under $300 Apple Deals iPad MacBook AirPods iPhone TV & Audio Deals TV Roku Sonos Streaming Gaming Deals Xbox PS5 Nintendo Switch Gaming PCs Back Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank. Explore all Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals Best Amazon Deals Smart Home Deals Smart Home Home Security Robot Vacuum Smart Thermostat Equipment Deals Portable ACs Generators Electric Lawnmowers Air Purifiers Kitchen Deals Coffee Makers Keurig Air Fryers Back Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings. Explore all Best Mattress Deals Fitness Gifts Fitness Deals & Gifts Fitbit Garmin Meal Delivery Kit Glasses and Contacts Back Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion. Explore all 100 Days of Holiday DIY Father's Day Gifts Under $100 Under $50 Hottest Toys Online Flower Delivery Services Gaming Tweens Available on Amazon People Who Already Have It All Gift Baskets Back Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives. Explore all My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds How Good Are EVs in the Cold? I Drove in the Arctic to Find Out Meet the AI Fraud Fighters: A Deepfake Granny, Digital Bots and a YouTube Star Inside the Rise of 7,000 Starlink Satellites – and Their Inevitable Downfall Big TVs Are the Next Frontier, but It's a Complicated Picture Sleep Isn't Cheap. Still, You Don't Have to Break the Bank Back AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas. Explore all Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? ChatGPT Glossary: 42 AI Terms That Everyone Should Know AI News Samsung's Galaxy AI Update Google Gemini on the iPhone Hidden AI Features Available on Your iPhone Right Now Microsoft Is Testing an AI Chatbot for Xbox AI Products ChatGPT Google Gemini Microsoft Copilot Dall-E AI Guides Prompt Engineering What is an LLM? AI vs. AGI: What You Need to Know How to Get Started with ChatGPT Back Gift Guide Our gifting experts are obsessively searching for holiday gifts that are unique, thoughtful and suitable for any budget. Explore all Best Tech Gifts 30 of the Best Tech Gifts Under $100 for 2025 Best Gifts for Gamers in 2025 Best Travel Tech Gifts: Must-Haves for the Journey and the Destination Gifts For Kids Best Toys for Kids in 2025 34 Best Gifts for Teens in 2025 60+ Best Star Wars Gifts for 2025 Gifts for Everyone The 20 Best Gift Baskets of 2025: Find the Perfect Edible Gift Best Gifts Available on Amazon: From $10 to $250 32 Unique Gifts for People Who Have Everything Back VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy. Explore all Best VPN Best iPhone VPN Best Mac VPN Best VPNs Free Amazon Fire Stick Android Mobile Windows Streaming VPN Reviews ExpressVPN Surfshark NordVPN NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN Back Streaming Services News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming. Explore all Best Live Streaming Services Best Streaming Services Best Streaming Device Best Streaming Services Music Free TV Youtube TV vs. Hulu Live Anime 4K Netflix Alternatives Streaming Services for Kids Streaming Service Reviews YouTube TV Hulu Plus Live TV Netflix Max Back Mobile We deliver the best buying advice, news and how-to content on the coolest tech available. Explore all Best Phones Best Over Ear Headphones Best Phone Plans Best Phones iPhone Android Cheap Samsung Best Headphones Noise Cancelling Headphones Headphones Wireless Earbuds Budget Earbuds Best Phone Plans Family Prepaid Cheap Unlimited Data Back Home Entertainment We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies. Explore all Best TV Best Record Player Best Soundbar For Your Home Theater Home Theater Systems Projectors 4K Projectors AV Receiver Best of TVs 55-inch 65-inch 75-inch 85-Inch Budget Smart Best for Streaming Streaming Device Fire TV Stick Roku Back Computing What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it. Explore all Best Laptop Best Gaming PC Best Monitors Best Laptops Macbook Budget Chromebook HP Gaming 2-in-1 Windows Best Tablets Best Overall E-ink Tablet iPad Apple iPad 9th Gen Review Back Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day. Explore all Best Antivirus Best Password Manager Best Web Hosting Best Apps Language Learning Weather iPad Drawing Food Delivery Best Web Hosting Wordpress Cheap Minecraft Server VPS Software Reviews Hostinger Ionos GoDaddy A2 Software Downloads Download.com Back Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming. Explore all Best Quest 3 Games Best VR Headset Best Graphics Card Virtual Reality Best Meta Quest 2 Accessories Best Quest 2 Head Strap Meta Quest 2 Review The Best PSVR Games Console Gaming Best Nintendo Switch Multiplayer Games Best M2 SSD for PS5 Best PSVR 2 Games Steam Deck OLED Review Gaming Accessories Best Nintendo Switch Controller Best Meta Quest 2 Accessories Best Quest 2 Head Strap Best Gaming Chair Back Banking From high-yield savings accounts to no-fee checking accounts, CNET helps you get the most out of your bank accounts. Explore all Best Budgeting Apps Best 5% Savings Accounts CD & Saving Rates CD Rates Saving Accounts 5% Savings Accounts High-Yield Savings Accounts Budgeting Apps Budgeting Apps Rocket Money Pocketsmith YNAB Cleo Back Credit Cards From building your credit score to choosing the best credit card, CNET's experts are there every step of the way. Explore all Best Debit Cards for Kids and Teens Best Prepaid Debit Cards Reviews Prime Visa Chase Sapphire Preferred Chase Sapphire Reserve Chase Freedom Unlimited American Express Gold Blue Cash Everyday from Amex Reward Guides Chase Ultimate Rewards Guide Amex Points Guide How to Maximize Cash Back Back Mortgages From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about mortgages. Explore all Current Mortgage Rates Current Refinance Rates Mortgage Rates Compare Mortgage Rates 30-Year Rates FHA Mortgage Lenders Mortgage Rate Predictions Refinance Rates Compare Refinance Rates 15-Year 30-Year Refinancing Guide Back Home Equity From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about home equity. Explore all Best Home Equity Rates Best HELOC Rates Home Equity Lender Reviews Best Home Equity Loan Lenders LoanDepot Rocket Mortgage Figure Home Equity Bank Reviews Chase Bank of America U.S. Bank Citizens Home Equity Credit Union Reviews Golden 1 Credit Union Bethpage Federal Credit Union Credit Union of Texas Alliant Credit Union Back Mortgages & Home Equity From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about mortgages. Explore all Current Mortgage Rates Current Refinance Rates Mortgage Rates Compare Mortgage Rates 30-Year Rates FHA Mortgage Lenders Mortgage Rate Predictions Refinance Rates Compare Refinance Rates 15-Year 30-Year Refinancing Guide Home Equity Home Equity Loan Rates HELOC Rates Home Equity Lenders HELOC Lenders Back Taxes Everything you need to navigate tax season and get your biggest refund. Explore all Best Tax Software How to File Your Taxes for Free Best Tax Software Online Tax Software Free Tax Filing Self-Employed Taxes Tax Software Reviews TurboTax H&R Block Cash App Taxes TaxSlayer FreeTaxUSA TaxAct Jackson Hewitt IRA Direct File Back Identity Theft Keep your identity and personal data safe with expert-vetted ID theft protection services. ID Theft Services ID Theft Protection Aura LifeLock IdentityForce Zander Identity Guard IDShield Identity IQ Experian Identity Back Broadband Our experts can help you get online fast with helpful advice and tested, frequently-updated reviews of routers and internet service providers. Explore all Best Internet Speed Tests How to Keep Your Internet During a Power Outage Best Internet Providers Best Overall High-Speed Satellite Fiber Best Internet Deals Internet Deals Overall Cheap Internet Providers Internet and TV Bundles Internet Deals For Seniors Internet Provider Reviews Starlink Verizon 5G Spectrum AT&T Air T-Mobile 5G Xfinity Back By Location These are our top internet picks based on where you are in the United States. Explore all Best Internet Providers in Your Area Low Cost Internet Guide for All 50 States East Region New York City, NY Charlotte, NC New Jersey Atlanta, GA Central Region Chicago, IL Dallas, TX St Louis, MO Houston, TX West Region Los Angeles, CA Seattle, WA San Francisco, CA Denver, CO Back Internet Routers CNET experts unpack everything you need to know about internet routers. Explore all How to Reset Your Router The 3 Questions to Ask Before Changing Your Router Our Top Picks for Routers Best Overall Mesh Wi-Fi Router Systems Gaming Routers Wi-Fi Extenders Mesh Wi-Fi Router Reviews Eero 6 Plus Nest Wifi Pro TP-Link Deco XE75 Netgear Orbi AX6000 Router Comparisons Nest Wifi vs Google Wifi Eero 6 Plus vs Eero Pro 6E Nest Wifi Pro vs Eero Pro 6E Nest Wifi vs Nest Wifi Pro Back Energy We help you balance cost savings and comfort at home 24/7. Explore all Best Portable Power Stations Best Solar Generators Best Alkaline Batteries Best in Solar Power Batteries Panels Inverters Portable Solar Panels Solar Equipment Reviews SolarEdge Battery Tesla Solar Roof Tesla Powerwall 3 Tesla Solar Panels Home Energy Systems Tank Water Heaters vs. Tankless Water Heaters Heat Pump vs. Furnace Heat Pump vs. Air Conditioner Battery vs. Generator Back Electric Vehicles Expert guidance on the future of transportation Explore all 2025 Audi Q6, SQ6 E-Tron: Audi's Newest EV Is Its Most Compelling The 2024 EV Tax Credit: Save Big on These Vehicles Best EVs Electric Cars Most Affordable Electric SUVs Plug-In Hybrids EV Charging Best EV Charger Home EV Charging Explained Free and Easy EV Charging Options News and Guides The 2024 EV Tax Credit Guide The Nicest Charging Station I've Visited States Banning Gas Powered Cars Are Electric Vehicles Good for Our Planet? Back Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure. Explore all Best Home Security Camera Best Video Doorbell Cameras Best Outdoor Home Security Cameras Best Security Systems Homes DIY Cheap Apartments Best Security Cameras Without a Subscription Indoor Security Cameras Wireless Solar-Powered Best Security Products Ring Video Doorbells Nanny Cams Smoke Detector Smart Locks Back Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you. Explore all Smart Thermostats Smart Plugs Best in Smart Home Outdoor Smart Plugs Smart Hubs & Displays Smart Devices Smart Lights Smart Speakers Back Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly. Explore all Best Cordless Vacuums Best Robot Vacuum Best Air Purifiers Best in Vacuums & Appliances Vacuum Cleaners Robot Vacuums Dishwashers Dehumidifiers Tower Fans Refrigerators Best in Office Needs Office Chairs Standing Desks Surge Protectors Best in Cooking Needs Air Fryers Toaster Ovens Bread Machines Microwaves Back Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp. Explore all Best Grills Best Fire Pits Best Patio Heaters Best Grills Portable Grills Gas Grills Pellet Grills Charcoal Grills Kamado Grills Grilling Tools & Accessories Best Equipment for Home Leaf Blowers Electric Lawn Mowers Pressure Washers Coolers Cordless Drill Back Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night. Explore all Best Mattress Best Firm Mattress Best Queen Size Mattress Mattress Reviews Purple Helix Layla Nectar Beautyrest Saatva DreamCloud Best Mattresses Memory Foam King-Size Hybrid Organic Soft Firm Adjustable Side Sleepers Hotel Best Sleep Products Earplugs for Sleeping Cooling Comforters Sleep Headphones Heated Blankets Back Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy. Explore all Best Meal Delivery Services Best Vitamins and Supplements Best Vitamins & Supplements Multivitamins Vitamins for Healthy Hair, Skin and Nails Vitamins for Energy Creatine Supplements Best Meal Kits Meat Keto Cheapest Healthy Vegan Meal Kit Reviews HelloFresh Hungryroot Grocery Fresh N Lean EveryPlate Back Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need. Explore all Best Treadmills Best Ellipticals Best Exercise Bikes Best Fitness Equipment Peloton Alternatives Rowing Machines Home Exercise Equipment Smart Home Gyms Best Fitness Accessories Massage Guns Smart Scale Chest Strap Heart-Rate Monitors Compression Socks Best Virtual Fitness Weightlifting Shoes YouTube Channels for Free Workouts Workout Apps for Women Fitness Apps Tonal Smart Home Gym Review Back Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean. Explore all Best Places to Buy Glasses Online Best Places to Buy Contact Lenses Online Best Electric Toothbrushes Best in Eyewear Places to Buy Replacement Prescription Lenses Online Reading Glasses Blue-Light-Blocking Glasses Prescription Sunglasses Best in Dental Care Invisible Braces Options Teeth-Whitening Strips Teeth Whitening Kits Best In Skincare Facial Sunscreens Vitamin C Serums Mineral Sunscreens Reef-Safe Sunscreens Brands You Should Try Back Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world. Explore all Back Price Finder CNET Shopping helps you get the best prices on your favorite products. Get promo codes and discounts with a single click. Explore all Back Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend. Explore all 2024 Winners Money & Health Tools AI, Smart Home & Future Tech Subscription Services EVs, Energy Tech & Solar Services Phones, Earbuds, Laptops, TVs & More Back CNET Perspectives CNET Perspectives is a select group of creators, experts and thought leaders sharing first-person perspectives about our changing world. Explore all Tech Gaming Nintendo Switch 2 vs. Switch 1: Every Detail Compared The Nintendo Switch 2's official specs aren't too different, but the new console has a lot of upgrades on the original Switch. David Lumb Senior Reporter David Lumb is a senior reporter covering mobile and gaming spaces. Over the last decade, he's reviewed phones for TechRadar as well as covered tech, gaming, and culture for Engadget, Popular Mechanics, NBC Asian America, Increment, Fast Company and others. As a true Californian, he lives for coffee, beaches and burritos. Expertise Smartphones | Gaming | Telecom industry | Mobile semiconductors | Mobile gaming See full bio David Lumb April 4, 2025  1:45 p.m. PT 6 min read Nintendo The Nintendo Switch 2 may look like its predecessor, but there's been a lot of changes to its features and under the hood. The new console has "10x the graphics performance" compared to the original Switch, says Nvidia , which built the custom processor powering the Switch 2. The Switch 2, with a release date on June 5, is priced at $450 alone or $500 in a bundle with Mario Kart World , the headliner of the console's launch games. Here's all the info on how to preorder the Switch 2 . This story is part of Nintendo Switch 2 , a collection of all things related to Nintendo's next-gen game console. Note that we're mostly comparing the Switch 2 to the original Switch 1 released in March 2017, because looping in the Switch Lite gets complicated. Nintendo Switch 2 vs. Switch OLED vs. Switch 1 Switch 2 Switch OLED Switch 1 Price $450 $350 $300 Release date June 5, 2025 Oct. 8, 2021 March 3, 2017 CPU/GPU Custom Nvidia Custom Tegra Custom Tegra Storage 256GB 64GB 32GB Battery Size 5,220 mAh 4,310 mAh 4,310 mAh Battery Life 2-6.5 hours 4.5-9 hours 4.5-9 hours Video Output 4K (3,840 x 2,160) HD (1,920 x 1,080 pixels) HD (1,920 x 1,080 pixels) Max framerate 120 fps 60 fps 60 fps HDR, VRR support HDR / VRR up to 120Hz N/A N/A Dimensions 166 x 272 x 13.9mm 102 x 242 x 13.9mm 102 x 239 x 13.9mm Screen size 7.9 inches 7.0 inches 6.2 inches Weight 401 g 320 g (0.93 lbs.) 297 g (0.88 lbs.) USB and Ports 2x USB-C, 3.5mm USB-C, 3.5mm USB-C, 3.5mm Design Broadly, the Switch 2 is a larger version of its predecessor, with everything looking slightly inflated: bigger footprint, bigger screen, bigger Joy-Cons. Original Switch: The original Switch, with Joy-Cons slotted into the side rails, is a little over 9.4 inches wide, 4 inches tall, a little over half an inch thick and weighs about 10.5 ounces (297 grams). The Joy-Cons slide into place from the top of the device's sides, while a thin wedge of plastic pops out of the back of the console to serve as a kickstand. The Switch also came with a dock, which the console could slot into for recharging and outputting to a TV or large display via HDMI port. Switch OLED: The Switch OLED is ever-so-slightly wider to accommodate the larger display, but the same height in order to be compatible with Joy-Cons. Switch 2: The new Switch 2 is bigger in every way, but it has the same overall shape and layout as the original. The new Joy-Cons will indeed be held in place on the console magnetically, and connect to the console via pins. The new console also sports a wide U-shaped kickstand that spans almost its entire rear width, which can be moved around to prop up the Switch 2 at a variety of angles. Nintendo says the console has more powerful speakers, which we're looking forward to testing. The Switch 2's dock is largely similar in function though it has rounded edges and an internal fan to cool down the console during long game sessions. More importantly, it can output games in 4K to TVs, but only for select games. From the January reveal trailer, a Joy-Con comparison between the Switch 1 (left) and Switch 2 (right). Screenshot by David Lumb/CNET Joy-Cons The Joy-Cons were a marvel when they arrived on the first Switch, and while they're functionally similar in its successor, the Switch 2's controllers have been upgraded. Original Switch: The Switch Joy-Cons are simple but powerful controllers that slide on and off the console via plastic rails, connecting and recharging via pins on the side. Detach, and they become their own micro-controllers, with little shoulder buttons to boot. The Joy-Cons are unchanged on the Switch OLED. A side view of the Switch 2 Joy-Con (top) compared to the Switch 1 Joy-Con (bottom). Switch 2: The new console's Joy-Cons are larger to fit the Switch 2, and lock into the side of the console via powerful magnets -- there are small inward-facing buttons to the side of ZR and ZL to detach the controllers from the console. The larger Joy-Cons have longer L and R outside shoulder buttons, as well as much wider SL and SR internal shoulder buttons, which are accessible when detached from the console. The Nintendo Switch 2 includes these colored caps to put on the end of Joy-Cons to make scrolling on a surface easier when using them in mouse mode. Nintendo/screenshot by CNET And yes, you can use the Switch 2 Joy-Cons as mice by placing their inner edges flat on a surface. During the Nintendo Direct, we saw one being used to control active action games like the wheelchair basketball-simulating DragXDrive and strategy games like Civilization VII. They have a removable cap that can be slipped on the inside edge to make running the controller back and forth on surfaces in mouse mode smoother. The Switch 2 looks just like the rumors said. Nintendo Display size Original Switch: The original Switch has a 6.2-inch LCD screen with 1,280x720-pixel resolution, which was reasonably impressive at launch in 2017 but has been outclassed by newer handhelds with sharper displays. The Switch Lite, the more portable and affordable version, has a 5.5-inch LCD screen. Switch OLED: The Switch OLED's display, besides having deeper darks and an overall better picture than the base game, is larger at 7 inches. To fit into the overall same frame as the original Switch, the bezels on the Switch OLED have been drastically minimized. Switch 2: Unsurprisingly, the Switch 2's larger size means a larger display. The new console has a 7.9-inch 1080p LCD screen that can get up to 120Hz refresh rate in handheld mode, or up to 4K when docked and outputting to a TV. Why no OLED display? Possibly to save on costs... or perhaps to give Nintendo room to release a Switch 2 OLED version down the line. Watch this: More Details of the Nintendo Switch 2 Revealed: Supercut 15:41 CPU/GPU Original Switch: The original Switch runs on an Nvidia custom Tegra X1 processor split into four ARM Cortex A57 CPU cores, and according to Hackaday , there are four extra A53 cores that aren't used. The Switch Lite and Switch OLED have the same hardware. Switch 2: Once again, Nintendo hasn't released any official info on the Switch 2's specs, even after the Nintendo Direct reveal stream -- and the most the company reveals is that it has a "custom processor made by Nvidia" on the Switch 2's official specs page . Nvidia confirmed it also has a custom GPU, claiming that the new console has "10x the graphics performance" of the Switch 1, and the custom processor's AI-powered features include Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS), face tracking and background removal for video chat and real-time ray tracing. We do still have more supposed details from previous leaks. Months ago on X (formerly Twitter), leaker Zuby_Tech posted that the Switch 2's CPU will be an eight-core Arm Cortex A78C. They also suggested that the GPU will be an Nvidia T239 Ampere, aligning with years of similar rumors reported on by Eurogamer and others about the custom chip, which derives from Nvidia's Tegra line of chips for smartphones and mobile devices. Nintendo RAM and storage Original Switch. The Switch has 4GB of LPDDR4 RAM and 32GB of onboard storage, expandable up to 2TB via microSD cards in the slot beneath the kickstand. Switch OLED: The only change is an upgrade to 64GB of onboard storage. Switch 2: Even after the reveal stream, Nintendo didn't release official RAM specs. Leaker Zuby_Tech posted on X back in September suggesting the Switch 2 will have 12GB of LPDDR5 RAM and 256GB of onboard storage. That leak also suggested the new console will have two internal fans, up from the single one in the original Switch. Nintendo did confirm that the new console will have 256GB of onboard storage, which can be expanded with special microSD Express cards -- sorry, your old Switch-compatible microSD cards won't work on the Switch 2. Battery life Original Switch: The original Switch packs a 4,310-mAh battery, which gives between 4.5 and 9 hours of battery life depending on screen brightness and other factors. The Switch OLED has the same size battery and battery life as the original. Switch 2: Though Nintendo didn't release details on the Switch 2's capacity in the reveal stream, the company does list specs on its website, showing it packs a 5,220mAh battery. While that's notably larger than the one in its predecessor, Nintendo estimates this will only get players between an estimated 2 and 6.5 hours, depending on games played. A screenshot from Nintendo's Switch 2 introduction video showing the console's topside and the new second USB-C port next to the 3.5mm headphone jack and, presumably, the cartridge slot to the right. Nintendo Ports Original Switch: The first Switch sports a single USB-C port out the bottom, a 3.5mm headphone jack on the top and Wi-Fi 5 plus Bluetooth 4.1 connectivity. On the top is a slot at the top for Switch game cartridges as well as the microSD slot beneath the kickstand on the rear of the console. The Switch OLED has the same ports. Switch 2: The Switch 2 retains the original's USB-C port on the bottom and 3.5mm jack on the top while adding another USB-C port on the topside. Now we know what it's for: To connect with accessories like the Nintendo Switch Camera, a webcam-like camera on a stand that lets you do Nintendo's version of FaceTiming while you play games with your friends. Nintendo hasn't clarified the console's connectivity options, and rumors on the subject are scarce. As for cartridges, Switch 2 will play some original Switch games in physical versions. The cartridge slot is to the right of the headphone jack in the above image, which is where the slot is on the original Switch. You can tell game cartridges from the two console generations apart by color: ones for the new Switch 2 are red, while older Switch 1 games are black. Watch this: We Played Nintendo Switch 2: Mario, Donkey Kong, Mouse, Camera and a Lot More 08:02 Gaming Guides Virtual Reality Gaming Best VR Headsets Best Meta Quest 2 Games and Experiences Best VR Games Best Playstation VR 2 Deals Meta Quest 2 Review PlayStation PS5 Restock Tracker Playstation Plus Review Best PS5 Games Xbox Best Xbox Series X S Controller Xbox GamePass Ultimate Review Other Gaming Best Nintendo Switch Controller Best Cloud Gaming Services Best Gaming Chair Nintendo Switch OLED Review Best Gaming Keyboard Video Games Best Online Games to Play with Friends Video Game Deals Best VR Games Best Xbox Series X Games Best PS5 Games Your guide to a better future Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Coupons Videos Software Downloads About CNET Press Room Newsletters Licensing Sitemap Careers Accessibility Cookie Settings Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information instagram youtube tiktok facebook x flipboard US France Germany Japan Korea © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company.   All rights reserved.