Shazam!'s Asher Angel Addresses DCU Future Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram Comic Book Movies and Superhero Movie News - SuperHeroHype Open Close Menu Movies TV Comics News Heroes Geek Culture Cosplay Videos Forums Shop Search Close Search Movies Shazam!’s Asher Angel Addresses DCU Future May 13, 2024 By Lee Freitag Actor Asher Angel , who portrayed the Billy Batson to Zachary Levi ‘s Shazam in two DC Extended Universe movies, has addressed his future as the character in James Gunn’s DC Universe . In an interview with ComicBookMovie.com , Angel shared that he would “always be open to going back and playing Billy Batson.” He also expressed interest in playing other DC characters but explained why he would turn down an offer to portray the title superhero, Shazam, in the DCU. “I’d never want to take Zach’s place because we’re in this together,” the actor said. “If there [are] any other characters out there in the future, I’d also be open to that. I’m pretty open! There’s a time and there’s a place, and it’ll happen.” Asher Angel reacts to Shazam! Fury of the Gods bombing in theaters After debuting as teenager Billy Batson in 2019’s Shazam!, Angel returned to the role for the movie’s 2023 sequel, Shazam! Fury of the Gods . However, unlike the original film, Fury of the Gods was met with widespread criticism and under-performed at the box office. Angel addressed the Shazam! sequel bombing at the box office during his interview with ComicBookMovie.com, noting that “the superhero genre is a really hard genre. I hate when people talk about superhero fatigue. I don’t believe in that stuff. I think whatever DC or Marvel puts out there, it’s gonna resonate, but if it resonates, it resonates. If it doesn’t, it doesn’t.” He added that he was “just happy” to have “had the opportunity to be involved in that world. It was wish fulfillment because I always wanted to be a superhero when I was a kid.” James Gunn hasn’t announced plans for Shazam yet At the time of writing, DC Studios heads James Gunn and Peter Safran have announced no plans for Billy Batson/Shazam in the DCU. While it is possible that both Angel and Levi could return as the superhero, Gunn and Safran have shown to be quite selective when it comes to which DCEU stars will be coming back for the new shared universe. After being unveiled in January 2023, the DCU will officially begin later this year with the adult animated series, Creature Commandos , followed by the live-action movie, Superman , starring David Corenswet. Other DCU projects coming down the pipeline include Peacemaker Season 2, Waller, Lanterns, Supergirl: Woman of Tomorrow, and The Brave and the Bold. Shazam! and Shazam! Fury of the Gods are currently streaming on Max . Lee Freitag Lee Freitag has been fascinated with the movie and TV industry since a young age. When he's not covering the latest superhero news, Lee can be found trying to convince his friends that Avengers: Age of Ultron is the best Avengers movie. Asher Angel DC DC Extended Universe DC Universe DCU Movie News Shazam Shazam! Shazam! 2: Fury of the Gods Shazam!: Fury of the Gods Zachary Levi Share article Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Pinterest Subscribe to our Newsletter Email Address Subscribe Trending The Batman 2 Gets Disappointing Release Date Update The Batman 2 has received a new update. Following 2022’s The Batman and 2024’s The Penguin, director Matt Reeves is… Movies 6 hours ago Black Panther 3: Ryan Coogler on Why He Made Sinners Before Marvel Sequel Filmmaker Ryan Coogler explained in a new extensive interview why he decided to helm the period vampire horror feature Sinners… News 9 hours ago Daredevil: Born Again Episode 8 Easter Eggs With O’Melveny’s & Marvel References Daredevil: Born Again Episode 8 is now available on Disney Plus, and fans are wondering about the Easter eggs and… Guides 15 hours ago Why Did Matt Save [Spoiler] in Daredevil: Born Again? Daredevil: Born Again has dropped its eighth episode. It witnessed the comeback of the deadly Bullseye, leading to numerous twists… Guides 16 hours ago What Time Does Daredevil: Born Again Episode 8 Release on Disney+? Wondering about the Daredevil: Born Again Episode 8 release date and time? With the season nearing its end, fans are… Guides 2 days ago Related Popular Wonder Woman Pick Tells Fans How to Get Her into the DCU Andor star Adria Arjona is more than willing to appease the superhero fandom by being the DC Universe‘s Wonder Woman.… Movies 2 weeks ago Shazam’s Grace Caroline Currey on Wonder Woman Rumors: ‘That’d Be Wild’ Shazam! actress Grace Caroline Currey has recently expressed her thoughts about playing Wonder Woman in the new DCU. James Gunn… News 3 weeks ago Captain Marvel’s Djimon Hounsou Says He’s ‘Underpaid’ & ‘Struggling Financially’ Djimon Hounsou has appeared in a score of Hollywood movies and TV shows since 1990, including Gladiator (2000), Eragon (2006),… News 3 months ago Zachary Levi Details Differences Between Shazam and Harold in New Movie Zachary Levi is opening up about the differences between Shazam and Harold in his new movie, Harold and the Purple… Movies 8 months ago X About Us Contact Us Advertising Ad Choices Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions SuperHeroHype is a property of Evolve Media Holdings , LLC. © 2024 All Rights Reserved. | Affiliate Disclosure: Evolve Media Holdings, LLC, and its owned and operated subsidiaries may receive a small commission from the proceeds of any product(s) sold through affiliate and direct partner links.