Integrity of the Game | NFL Football Operations NFL Football Operations Menu NFL Football Operations Search Search Gameday Back Gameday NFL Schedule Back NFL Schedule 2025 Important Dates Creating the NFL Schedule Pre-Game Back Pre-Game Super Bowl LVIII Field Preparation Uniform Inspections Countdown to Kickoff Behind the Scenes Back Behind the Scenes Game Day Assistants Event Frequency Coordinators AT Spotters NFL Equity Rule Technology Back Technology Technology and the Game NFL Next Gen Stats The Impact of TV Sideline of the Future Analytics Back Analytics Big Data Bowl The Extra Point Innovation and Football Back Innovation and Football Innovation Innovative Ideas NFL Forward Learn the Game Back Learn the Game NFL Basics Back NFL Basics Rookie's Guide Formations 101 Terms Glossary Team Histories Making the Call Back Making the Call Call it Like the Pros You Make The Call Flag Football Back Flag Football Flag Football for All Flag Football Growth NFL Coaching Timeline NFL Way to Play Back NFL Way to Play NFL WTP On-Field Demonstrations Tips for Players Tips for Coaches Officiating Back Officiating The Officials Back The Officials Responsibilities & Positions History of the Official Officiating Development Behind the Stripes Guide to the Officials' Signals Instant Replay Back Instant Replay History of Instant Replay Replay Process NFL Replay Officials Replay Assistance Rule Hawk-Eye Art McNally GameDay Central NFL Officials: Preparing for Success Spotlights Back Spotlights Hugh "Shorty" Ray Art McNally Burl Toler Jerry Seeman Sarah Thomas Journey to the NFL Back Journey to the NFL Play Football The Next Generation of NFL Stars Back The Next Generation of NFL Stars Getting Into the Game NFL Scouting Combine NFL's International Impact Back NFL's International Impact NFL's International Impact International Players International Series International Flag Football NFL Development Pipeline Back NFL Development Pipeline College Player Development College Advisory Committee Rookie Transition Program College Outreach Program All Star Games The NFL Draft Back The NFL Draft The History of the Draft Draft Rules My NFL Draft Experience NFL Draft Stories To the NFL Rookie Class of 2025 Undrafted to NFL Starter NFL Women’s Community The Rules Back The Rules 2024 NFL Rulebook NFL Video Rulebook Evolution Of The Rules Rules Changes Back Rules Changes 2024 Rules Changes 2024 Dynamic Kickoff Rule Explainer POC Videos NFL Jersey Numbers NFL Overtime Rules NFL Tie-breaking Procedures The NFL Competition Committee Inside Football Ops Back Inside Football Ops NFL Operations Back NFL Operations NFL Ops Team Honoring the Game Integrity of the Game 2025 NFL Free Agency Rules Enforcement Back Rules Enforcement NFL Rules Compliance Accountability: Fines & Appeals Gameday Accountability Social Justice Back Social Justice Social Justice Inspire Change Player-Led SJ Legislation Vet the Vote Inclusion Back Inclusion Rooney Rule Inclusive Hiring NFL and HBCUs Networking Summits NFL Women's Forum Players & Legends Back Players & Legends 2020 CBA Evolution Of The NFL Player NFL Legends Community NFL Total Wellness NFL Player Engagement Health & Safety Community Impact Back Community Impact Giving Back to NFL Communities My Cause My Cleats Their Causes, Their Impact: Player-Led Initiatives a Multiplying Force for Good Updates Facebook X (Twitter) Close Menu Reduce Motion Integrity of the Game Ensuring a consistent and fair game that is decided on the field, by the players. Share This Page Share Facebook X (Twitter) Email Integrity of the Game Explore This Section Sportsmanship It’s a great day for football. The field is in pristine condition. Screaming fans pack stadiums around the league and millions more tune in around the country. Like clockwork, the players appear, the national anthem is sung and the game begins — precisely on time. Before a game even starts, Game Operations staff, league representatives and the highly skilled officiating crew begin enforcing rules designed to create an environment that is fair for both teams, exciting and entertaining for the fans, and protects the players. Each sideline and locker room is set up with the same technology, equipment and provisions to ensure that no team has an unfair competitive advantage. After kickoff, fans watch game action — including touchdowns and disputed calls — on high-tech scoreboards. Coaches call in the next play to their quarterbacks or defensive captains as the action unfolds. Yes, it’s a great day for football. What seems like the beginning of the action is actually the result of hours, weeks and months of careful coordination and preparation by a legion of dedicated professionals who work to preserve America’s favorite sport. The NFL pays meticulous attention to every detail that goes into putting on a professional football game — crafting the rules, training the officials, implementing the technology and more — to make sure that games are fair and entertaining. The league does this by leading through consensus, but acting decisively when it’s in the best interest of the game. It starts at the top, with the Executive Committee and the commissioner. The Executive Committee includes one representative — an owner or top officer — from each of the league’s 32 clubs. Any change in game rules, league policy or club ownership or other modification to the game must be approved by at least three-fourths of the committee. Without consensus, nothing will pass. As the league’s chief executive, the commissioner has a great deal of influence. But he still must answer to the owners, who by executive committee vote have the power to remove him. To create the consensus to get things done, the commissioner’s office works with more than two dozen committees that comprehensively research and examine possible rule or policy changes before making recommendations. The Competition Committee , for example, leads the rule-making process, which takes input not only from its Coaches Subcommittee, but also from numerous other sources. And in a reflection of the league’s emphasis on player protection, about a dozen committees and subcommittees, many including outside medical experts, study injury-prevention issues in depth. When it comes to the system for developing players and playing the game, NFL Football Operations runs the show. Troy Vincent, Sr., the NFL’s executive vice president of Football Operations, and his team work to institute a culture of clarity, consistency and credibility to develop the future of the game, to honor its past while preparing for its future and to strengthen the NFL brand for players, coaches, clubs and fans. DECIDING GAMES ON THE FIELD The league goes to great lengths to provide a consistent, fair, and TV- and fan-friendly product. It’s imperative that the games are decided on the field, between the two teams. The NFL Football Operations “bible” is the Game Operations Manual — nearly 200 pages of procedures and policy for regular season games alone. It is critical that the Game Operations Manual is incredibly precise and thorough. Game Ops Manual: Fields, Footballs and Fairness Game Ops Manual: Fields, Footballs and Fairness The NFL’s Game Operations Manual covers virtually every facet of the game and game preparation — from where visiting teams work out the day before the game to the number of towels (600) and pounds of ice (500) that the home team must provide in the visiting team’s locker room. Here’s a sample of other requirements: All fields must be tested to ensure that they meet the NFL’s standards for consistency and safety. Natural fields are tested for hardness and surface stability and synthetic turf for hardness, depth and evenness. The manual dictates the specifications for tarps that can be used on NFL fields down to the weight and color, which can affect whether grass burns and how fast ice and snow melt. Each team must deliver at least 24 official Wilson NFL footballs, brushed and wiped down by the equipment manager, to the officials’ locker room 135 minutes before kickoff. The referee inspects and approves them if they meet the league’s standards. Game officials and league, team and TV representatives synchronize their watches at an officials’ meeting 90 minutes before game time to make sure that games start exactly on time. The manual dictates exact times for teams leaving the locker rooms, player introductions, the national anthem (two minutes maximum) and the coin toss. The coach-to-coach communications system must work for both teams or be used by neither. The public address system cannot be engaged after the play clock reaches 20 seconds or the center’s hand touches the ball (whichever occurs first) while when the visiting team is on offense. All artificial sound must stop when the play clock reaches 20 seconds or the offense reaches the line of scrimmage. If a home team uses any equipment to heat or cool the bench area, the visiting team must be offered the same at the home club’s expense. The home club must provide paramedics, ambulances with advanced life support equipment and an airway management physician certified in rapid sequence intubation. The league must provide two independently certified athletic trainers to monitor the broadcast feed to identify potential injuries, especially to a player’s head and neck. The home club must show replays on the stadium display for all touchdowns, safeties, turnovers, offensive fumble recoveries, first downs, instant replay reviews and potential receptions along the sideline or the back of the end zone. In stadiums with retractable roofs or walls, the home club must notify the referee or the highest-ranking league official working the game no later than 90 minutes prior to kickoff whether the roof and/or wall will be open or closed. The roof and/or wall must be in its designated position by 60 minutes prior to kickoff. Expand The Game Operations Manual is one of the league’s three comprehensive policy manuals for member clubs — the other two are for administrative and business operations, and media and public relations — and, by necessity, it is often military-like in its precision and astonishing in its thoroughness. The league’s Game Operations Department uses the manual to govern the conduct of both clubs, to ensure they protect players, coaches and football staff and provide the conditions for a fair and fan-friendly contest. Clubs may face fines and other penalties for noncompliance. The manual represents years of learning from overseeing and producing more than 15,000 NFL games — the situations, big and small, that have affected, or may affect, the on-field product and may result in one team's having an unfair advantage over another. The league edits the manual annually to try to prepare for any scenario that could affect a game. To protect players, the manual dictates the number and type of medical personnel required for each game. To ensure competitive equity, it guarantees that teams have equal access to communication tools, football technologies, facilities, etc. And to ensure equity across the league, the manual specifies the exact pylons, sideline chain sets and locations of game and play clocks. The league conducts a review of club complaints and issues from throughout the year. If there is a legitimate competitive concern, they will consider updating the policy or writing new language. Each club designates one person to oversee its gameday functions and serve as the point of contact for the Game Operations department. That person is responsible for addressing any field, stadium or operational issue that arises and coordinating needed follow-up with the league. Game Operations sends a Football Operations Representative to every game. They are responsible for checking everything from field conditions and communications equipment to game security and each coach’s booth (which must have two TV monitors for each team) before game time. During the game, they serve as a communication liaison between the game site and the Game Day Operations Center (GDOC) in New York. The GDOC monitors all games and fields calls to address any concerns with the game sites, televising networks or anything else related to game operations. This can include issues as diverse as club-controlled sound, field-level access and weather conditions that may cause a delay in a game. If GDOC spots an issue, they will alert the on-site Football Operations Representative to address the issue in real time. KEEPING UP APPEARANCES Deeper Dive: Learn more about the NFL's uniform inspectors The league also makes sure that the players take the field with approved equipment and in the designated uniform the teams have agreed to wear. A uniform inspector from Football Operations attends each game to ensure compliance — not only for appearance, but also for player protection, including mandatory proper use of thigh and knee pads, shoulder pads, approved face masks and clear visors. Each team must designate a staff member to be its contact with uniform inspectors on policies governing uniforms and on-field apparel. The NFL’s exclusive marketing agreements with approved brands mean that only those brand marks can be visible on the field. Players are not prohibited from wearing any other approved equipment they prefer, but nonpartner logos must be covered or removed. THE LAST RESORT: Team FINES The NFL takes infractions of Game Operations rules seriously — so much so that clubs risk fines as high as $500,000 for violations “affecting the competitive aspects of the game.” Some violations, such as late arrival for kickoff, can result in yardage penalties, and failure to comply with a uniform policy can result in a player’s temporary removal from the game. The league takes violations seriously because it takes its responsibilities seriously. Good governance is an essential component in producing a fair and entertaining game. Related Content Uniform Inspections Protecting players and&nbsp;maintaining&nbsp;competitive equity on game days. NFL Rules Compliance Ensuring that players and coaches conduct themselves in a way that honors the sport and respects the game. Player Health & Safety Back to Top Home Gameday Learn the Game Officiating Journey to the NFL The Rules Inside Football Ops Updates Search NFL Football Operations’ mission is to establish a culture of clarity, consistency and credibility in all aspects of the greatest game. Football is an essential piece of America’s fabric, uniting fans, players and communities with a simple yet powerful bond. We honor the game’s history while continuing to innovate and preserve the sport for future generations of fans, players, coaches, teams and officials. © 2025 National Football League. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy NFL.com Your Privacy Choices Cookie Settings Español