Assassin’s Creed Valhalla – Title Update 1.7.0 is Live, Resolves Weekly Free Item Issue News Reviews Opinions Platforms PS5 PS4 PS3 PSP Xbox Series X | S Xbox One Xbox 360 DS Switch 3DS Wii MAC, Linux, Mobile And More PC Wii U PS Vita Trending Games Atomfall Monster Hunter Wilds South of Midnight Split Fiction The First Berserker: Khazan Guides Videos Interviews Graphics Comparisons News Assassin’s Creed Valhalla – Title Update 1.7.0 is Live, Resolves Weekly Free Item Issue Eivor's hair no longer clips through their hood after Animus Anomalies, and the Raven Clan Crew outfit is now upgradeable. Posted By Ravi Sinha | On 21st, Feb. 2023 Facebook Twitter Reddit A new Title Update is available for Assassin’s Creed Valhalla , ranging in size from 500 MB on PlayStation 5 to a whopping 15.1 GB on Xbox Series X/S. The biggest fix is that it resolves an issue preventing players from claiming their weekly free premium item from the Animus Store. Other noteworthy issues addressed include rare instances where Light-Fingered prevented key items from being picked up and Eivor’s hair clipping through their hood when an Animus Anomaly is complete. Items purchased previously should no longer be missing from the player’s inventory, and they should be able to enhance/upgrade the Raven Clan Crew outfit to a higher quality going forward. You should no longer lose Helix Credits when purchasing the Twilight Set, even when owning all five pieces. Check out the full patch notes below for more details. Assassin’s Creed Valhalla is available for Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PS4, PS5, and PC. Check out our review for the base game here . After two years of support, it received its last major content update with The Last Chapter in November – head here for more details. AC Valhalla Title Update 1.7.0 – Release Notes BUG FIXES & IMPROVEMENTS River Raids Addressed: The Captain at Katzenelnbogen isn’t counted when the kill is confirmed. Assassin’s Creed Valhalla World Addressed: Resolved most of the rare instances where Light-Fingered skill prevented the pickup of key items. Eivor’s hair can clip through the hood after completing an Animus Anomaly. Armory & Inventory Addressed: Previously purchased items are missing from player inventory. The Raven Clan Crew outfit cannot be enhanced or upgraded to a higher quality. The total number of Opals in the inventory doesn’t update when picking up an Opal in the world. Miscellaneous Addressed: Resolved the error that occurs when trying to claim the Weekly Free Item. Gear packs still appear in the store when the content of the pack is already owned. Items incorrectly appear as owned in some situations. Korean language cannot be applied via Steam Language tab. It is possible to lose Helix Credits when purchasing the Twilight Set if 5/5 pieces of gear are already owned. Issues with pricing of Helix Store items when redeeming pieces of a full set. On Xbox, when buying Helix Credits through the store, they are not correctly added to the player inventory. In-game pop-ups no longer appear for Shared History and The Last Chapter when launching into the game. Follow us: Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Tagged With: Amazon Luna , Assassin’s Creed Valhalla , pc , ps4 , ps5 , Ubisoft , ubisoft montreal , Xbox One , Xbox Series S , Xbox Series X Games You May Like Assassin's Creed Valhalla Publisher: Ubisoft Developer: Ubisoft Platforms: PS4, PS5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X, PC, Stadia View More Atomfall Publisher: Rebellion Developments Developer: Rebellion Developments Platforms: PS5, Xbox Series X, PS4, Xbox One, PC View More Monster Hunter Wilds Publisher: Capcom Developer: Capcom Platforms: PS5, Xbox Series X, PC View More Amazing Articles You Might Want To Check Out! Keep On Reading! The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion Remastered Includes All DLC – Rumor The infamous horse armor is also allegedly included, which means the rumored remaster/remake could feature all... The Elder Scrolls 6 – Former Bethesda Animator Believes Studio Won’t Expand Team for Development Jeremy Bryant, who has worked with Bethesda on major games like Skyrim and Starfield, spoke about the company'... Elden Ring Nightreign Trailer Outlines Raider’s Passive and Abilities Shrug off attacks with Fighter's Resolve, stagger large foes with Retaliate or summon Totem Stella to provide ... Star Wars Zero Company Will Feature a Grittier Atmosphere Like Rogue One, Clone Wars Star Wars Zero Company wants to tap into the boots-on-the-ground atmosphere of some of the more beloved Star W... The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion Remastered is Roughly 120 GB on PC – Rumor The hotly rumored Virtuos remake/remaster is seemingly dropping later today for Xbox, PlayStation and PC, alon... Cyberpunk 2077: Ultimate Edition on Nintendo Switch 2 Will Use DLSS in All Modes In both handheld and docked mode of the Switch 2, Cyberpunk 2077: Ultimate Edition will use DLSS in Performanc... View More Terms of Use Privacy Policy Reviews Policy Community Policy Contact Us About Us Staff Advertise With Us Follow us: Copyright © 2009-2025 GamingBolt.com. All Rights Reserved.