World Cup 2010: By the numbers | The Week The Week US Edition US UK SUBSCRIBE & SAVE Less than $3 per week × Search Sign in View Profile Sign out The Explainer Talking Points The Week Recommends Newsletters Cartoons From the Magazine The Week Junior More Politics World News Business Health Science Food & Drink Travel Culture History Personal Finance Puzzles Photos The Blend All Categories Newsletter sign up Newsletter Home Sports Soccer Features World Cup 2010: By the numbers World Cup fans inject $5 billioned into South Africa's economy and were sending 4,000 Tweets per second at the height of the action. That's just the beginning... Newsletter sign up Newsletter (Image credit: Getty) By The Week Staff last updated 8 January 2015 The World Cup is over: Spain are champions, South Africa won the respect of nearly everyone with its hosting prowess, and Paul the "psychic" octopus became a global sensation. But that's not the whole story. Here, a look at the tournament through a numerical lens: 8 Goals Spain scored in their seven games in South Africa, a record low for a World Cup champion Subscribe to The Week Escape your echo chamber. Get the facts behind the news, plus analysis from multiple perspectives. SUBSCRIBE & SAVE Sign up for The Week's Free Newsletters From our morning news briefing to a weekly Good News Newsletter, get the best of The Week delivered directly to your inbox. From our morning news briefing to a weekly Good News Newsletter, get the best of The Week delivered directly to your inbox. Sign up 60 Percentage of the time defensive-minded Spain held the ball during its matches, also a record 14 Numbers of yellow cards issued during Spain's final brutal match with the Netherlands Sign up for Today's Best Articles in your inbox A free daily email with the biggest news stories of the day – and the best features from TheWeek.com Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. 700 million People worldwide who watched the World Cup championship game, according to FIFA 3,085 Tweets posted per second at the height of World Cup activity , a new high for Twitter 8-for-8 Paul the "psychic" octopus' record in predicting World Cup matches. After his statistically unlikely run, the cephalopod is reportedly retiring from the prognostication racket. $38,000 Sum offered by a Spanish businessman to rent Paul for an upcoming food festival in the small village of Carballino. "Paul, should he attend, would be on the special events program and not on the menu," say reports. $5.6 billion Amount spent by South Africa to host the games, including building and renovating 10 stadiums. ( Other estimates suggest the real figure is closer to $8-$11 billion.) "Officials believe when everything is counted the country will break even," reports the Toronto Sun . 130,000 Jobs created in South Africa by the event (though many of them were temporary construction gigs). 0.7 Percentage "Bounce" to the GDP that a country enjoys after a World Cup win, according to a 2006 study. "With unemployment hitting 42.9 percent among 16 to 24-year-olds, Spain's World Cup victory could not have come at a better time," says James Montague at CNN . 500,000 Estimated number of foreign visitors who traveled to South Africa for the World Cup, exceeding an earlier estimate by 200,000, according to the Finance Ministry 3.1 million Total number of people who attended the 64 tournament matches — the third highest figure in history 40,000 Police officers on duty at the World Cup sites to ward off criminals 172 Cases heard by the special criminal courts created by South Africa for World Cup . Most were "trivial like the theft of England's underpants and the cannabis smoking of Paris Hilton's friend." 1,432 Days until the next World Cup kicks off in Brazil Sources : The Times ( 2 ), New York , The Age , Hollywood Reporter , Fast Company , BBC , Los Angeles Times ( 2 ), Seattle Post-Intelligencer , San Francisco Chronicle , Toronto Sun , The Guardian , Wall Street Journal , CNN , Vancouver Sun ( 2 ), New Zealand Herald The Week Staff Social Links Navigation Latest 7 essentials to pack for your perfect beach day The Week Recommends Leakproof coolers and comfy chairs are a must By Catherine Garcia, The Week US David Hogg challenges Democrats' 'ineffective' old guard Talking Points He plans to fund primary challenges to Democratic incumbents By Joel Mathis, The Week US Today's political cartoons - April 28, 2025 Cartoons Monday's cartoons - political parties, COP30, and more By The Week US TheWeek About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Advertise With Us The Week is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036.