Upcoming California Super Bowls Confront Climate Risks Skip to main content Click to Expand Search Input Search for: Newsletters Sportico Log In Subscribe Account Manage Account Log Out Click to expand the Mega Menu Business Leagues Finance Law Media Valuations Tech Personalities Events Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Read Next: Knicks, Rangers Media Rights… Sportico Click to Expand Search Input Search for: Log In Subscribe Account Manage Account Log Out Home Leagues Football Upcoming California Super Bowls Confront Climate Risks By Barry M. Bloom Barry M. Bloom Senior Writer Boomskie Follow More Stories by Barry Rays Struggle at Steinbrenner Field as ‘Home’ Advantage Wanes Brewers Navigate Life on the Edge, on and Off the Field High-Priced Suns Need Massive Changes After Missing Playoffs View All February 10, 2025 9:46am Facebook Twitter Linkedin Print + additional share options added Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara, Calif., about 45 miles south of San Francisco, is the first Super Bowl in an open-air stadium since Tampa hosted at Raymond James Stadium in 2021. Photo by Ezra Shaw/Getty Images New Orleans’ Super Bowl has wrapped—the Philadelphia Eagles denied the Chiefs their third straight NFL title in a 40-22 win—and the NFL’s big game moves back out west, with the league’s next two championships hosted by the San Francisco Bay area and the Los Angeles area. With California comes the area’s susceptibility to intense weather, including wildfires, flooding, mudslides and earthquakes. Uncontrolled wildfires devastated the Los Angeles area in the first week of January, forcing the NFL to relocate a playoff game between the Los Angeles Rams and the Minnesota Vikings to State Farm Stadium in Glendale, Ariz. Just last Friday, Feb. 7, a minor earthquake struck Santa Clara County, Calif., registering a modest 3.3 on the Richter scale. This raises the question: What would happen to the Super Bowl if disaster were to strike? The NFL said in a statement it has backup plans to move every game, from the regular season to the Super Bowl, in an emergency. But according to Jim Steeg, a former NFL executive whose job it was to coordinate and make sure each Super Bowl ran smoothly, it’s not that easy to move a Super Bowl. If disaster were to strike, it’s more likely the date of the Super Bowl would be adjusted, rather than the location moved. The Super Bowl’s date has been moved before: In 2002, the game in New Orleans had to be pushed back from Jan. 27, 2002 to Feb. 3, 2002, because the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the U.S. caused the regular season games to be postponed for a week. “And as far as logistics were concerned, even that was a herculean effort,” said Steeg, an NFL executive in charge of the big game until retiring in 2005. In 1989, riots broke out in the Overtown neighborhood of Miami only days before the Super Bowl between the Niners and Bengals was to be played nearby in what was then called Pro Player Stadium. Despite 13 buildings being burned down, one person killed, 11 wounded, 400 arrested and $1 million worth of damage, the game went off as scheduled without a hitch. Super Bowls are planned years in advance, with millions of dollars poured into the project from the host committee to sponsors and the NFL itself. The 2028 game has already been awarded to Atlanta’s Mercedes-Benz Stadium, home of the Falcons. On average, Super Bowls cost the host city as much as $60 million to produce. In 2024, when the Super Bowl was held in Las Vegas, for example, $40 million was raised by the Convention and Visitor’s Authority and the other $20 million by the Super Bowl Host Committee. Local authorities kick into high gear a year out, the day after the previous game ends. Hotel rooms are booked, some fans begin to reserve flights. The effort is gigantic. Considering all this, that’s why it’s almost impossible to relocate a Super Bowl at the last minute. And that’s why the NFL moving the Rams-Vikings wild-card playoff game was so significant. On Jan. 7, two fires began sweeping through the Pacific Palisades and Altadena neighborhoods, among other areas, ultimately burning down more than 16,000 structures and displacing about 200,000 people. As game day approached, the main blazes had hardly been contained, and it became clear the game couldn’t be hosted by the Rams. Unlike the Super Bowl, playoff games are scheduled with only a week’s notice as teams jockey for postseason spots on their home field and others are eliminated. “The guiding principle for us has always been, don’t interfere and do anything that’s going to impact negatively on public safety,” NFL commissioner Roger Goodell told the Los Angeles Times at the time. “Make sure you’re not sapping resources from the responders.” The Arizona Cardinals offered State Farm Stadium and lent the Rams two team planes to help transport 355 players, team personnel, family members, six dogs and two cats to Glendale, Ariz., with about 24 hours to spare. The stadium and field were quickly painted in the Rams colors to give the team a home field flavor. The Rams overwhelmingly defeated the Vikings in front of a sold-out crowd before being eliminated the next weekend by the eventual Super Bowl champions in the snow. There’s no telling what Mother Nature will have in store for the next two California Super Bowls. Read More About: NFL Super Bowl Popular Stories NFL Rookie Signing Bonuses Jump Record 26% for… How Michael Jordan Made $300 Million in 2024 NCAA to Sell Gambling Data to Sportsbooks Via… Newsletter Breaking News The Kicker The Morning Lead Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. More From Our Brands Variety Selma Blair Is ‘Truly in Remission’ From Multiple Sclerosis After 2018 Diagnosis: ‘I Am Doing Amazingly Well’ Rolling Stone Julianne Moore Is Super Rich, Maybe a Cult Leader in New ‘Sirens’ Trailer ArtNews Rare Early Basquiat to Lead Sotheby’s Contemporary Auctions in New York with $10 M. to $15 M. Estimate BGR ChatGPT Deep Research is now available to Free users Billboard Inside Gigi Perez’s Debut Album: ‘Sailor Song,’ The Track That Was Hardest to Finish & More Sportico About Us Accessibility Advertise Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights AdChoices Privacy Preferences Your Privacy Choices Sitemap Business Law Leagues Personalities Valuations Subscriptions Log In Contact Us Connect with Us Get our latest stories in the feed of your favorite networks Icon Link Icon Link Icon Link Icon Link Have a Tip? We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Stay in the Know Sign up for our daily newsletter Enter your email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Icon Link Sportico is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Sportico Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Sportico Search for: Log In Subscribe Account Expand the sub menu Manage Account Log Out Close the menu Leagues Expand the sub menu Baseball Basketball Boxing College Sports Football Golf Hockey Motorsports Other Sports Soccer Tennis Business Expand the sub menu Commerce Finance Media Real Estate Sales Sponsorship Sports Sports Betting Team Sales Tech Video Law Expand the sub menu Analysis News Personalities Expand the sub menu Agents Athletes Executives Owners People Valuations Expand the sub menu Teams Podcasts Expand the sub menu La Previa Sporticast Events Expand the sub menu Subscribe to Sportico Follow Us Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. About Us Advertise Careers Icon Link Sportico is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Sportico Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. ad