Shazam Family (Prime Earth) | DC Database | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In DC Database Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts DC Comics Comics Current Series Recently Finished Older Series Heroes Aquaman Batman The Flash Green Lantern Martian Manhunter Superman Wonder Woman Villains The Batman Who Laughs Catwoman Darkseid Deathstroke The Joker Harley Quinn Lex Luthor Teams Birds of Prey Green Lantern Corps Justice League Justice Society Legion of Super-Heroes Suicide Squad Teen Titans Events Crisis on Infinite Earths Infinite Crisis Flashpoint The New 52 DC Rebirth Dawn of DC All In TV and Movies Current shows Batman: Caped Crusader Batwheels Creature Commandos DC Heroes United Harley Quinn Kite Man: Hell Yeah! My Adventures with Superman Peacemaker The Sandman Teen Titans Go! Arrowverse Arrow Batwoman Black Lightning The Flash Legends of Tomorrow Stargirl Supergirl Superman & Lois DC Movies James Gunn's DCU (2024-Present) The Batman Saga by Matt Reeves (2022-Present) DC Extended Universe (2013-2023) Christopher Nolan's Dark Knight Trilogy (2005-2012) Batman by Tim Burton and Joel Schumacher (1989-1997) Christopher Reeve's Superman (1978-1987) DC Universe Animated Original Movies (2007-Present) Other Batman '66 DC Animated Universe Doom Patrol Gotham Lucifer Smallville Super Friends Teen Titans Wonder Woman Community Administrators Manual of Style Recommended Reading Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content DC Database 130,907 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts DC Comics Comics Current Series Recently Finished Older Series Heroes Aquaman Batman The Flash Green Lantern Martian Manhunter Superman Wonder Woman Villains The Batman Who Laughs Catwoman Darkseid Deathstroke The Joker Harley Quinn Lex Luthor Teams Birds of Prey Green Lantern Corps Justice League Justice Society Legion of Super-Heroes Suicide Squad Teen Titans Events Crisis on Infinite Earths Infinite Crisis Flashpoint The New 52 DC Rebirth Dawn of DC All In TV and Movies Current shows Batman: Caped Crusader Batwheels Creature Commandos DC Heroes United Harley Quinn Kite Man: Hell Yeah! My Adventures with Superman Peacemaker The Sandman Teen Titans Go! Arrowverse Arrow Batwoman Black Lightning The Flash Legends of Tomorrow Stargirl Supergirl Superman & Lois DC Movies James Gunn's DCU (2024-Present) The Batman Saga by Matt Reeves (2022-Present) DC Extended Universe (2013-2023) Christopher Nolan's Dark Knight Trilogy (2005-2012) Batman by Tim Burton and Joel Schumacher (1989-1997) Christopher Reeve's Superman (1978-1987) DC Universe Animated Original Movies (2007-Present) Other Batman '66 DC Animated Universe Doom Patrol Gotham Lucifer Smallville Super Friends Teen Titans Wonder Woman Community Administrators Manual of Style Recommended Reading in: Active Teams , Good Teams , Prime Earth , and 7 more C.C. Beck/Creator 2013 Team Debuts New 52 Teams Teams Mamaragan (Prime Earth)/Quotes Families Hero Family Shazam Family (Prime Earth) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) Looking for a different version of this character? As a result of the New 52 in 2011, the entire line of DC characters was relaunched, incorporating properties belonging to the company's imprints: Wildstorm , Milestone , and Vertigo . As such, elements of this character's history have been altered in some way from the previous incarnation . For a complete list of all versions of this character, see our disambiguation page . Shazam Family Gallery Official Team Name Shazam Family Team Aliases Lightning League [ 1 ] New Squadron of Justice [ 2 ] Status Active Alignment Good Universe Prime Earth Base of Operations Philadelphia Affiliations Team Leader(s) Shazam Current Members Mary Marvel , Shazam, Jr. , Black Adam , Darla Dudley , Eugene Choi , Pedro Peña , Tawny II , Mr. Space Dinosaur Former Members C.C. Batson , Tawny I Allies Justice League , Victor Vasquez , Rosa Vasquez , Wizard Shazam Enemies Doctor Sivana , Seven Deadly Sins , Monster Society of Evil , King Kid ; Formerly Black Adam Origin Place of Formation Philadelphia Creators C.C. Beck First appearance Justice League Vol 2  #21 ( August, 2013 ) Family is the true power of Shazam... and its true weakness. — The Wizard src The Shazam Family is a group of the mightiest mortals led by Shazam (Billy Batson) . Its members, each receiving one aspect of Shazam's power, are his foster siblings. Contents 1 History 2 Paraphernalia 3 Notes 4 See Also 5 Links and References 5.1 Footnotes History When Black Adam holds Billy 's foster siblings hostage, demanding he transfer his powers to him, Billy recalled what the Wizard told him about sharing his powers with his family and transformed them into Shazams like himself and they begin battling Black Adam and the Seven Deadly Sins. Unfortunately, Billy's siblings accidentally lose their powers due to his inexperience casting magic when he empowered a tiger. Ultimately, Billy is able to trick Black Adam into reverting to mortal form, causing him to age into dust. [ 3 ] One year later, on the anniversary of Billy's adoption, C.C. Batson returned to his life, [ 1 ] looking to reunite the Batson family. [ 4 ] This creates a conflict in Billy's heart, which becomes apparent when he casts the Sharing Spell on his father to mint him as the seventh Champion of Magic. [ 5 ] Mary , Pedro , Darla , Freddy , and Eugene could not transform when C.C. is empowered, and vice versa. The Wizard explains to Billy that this was how the sharing spell had worked for thousands of years, and asks him to choose between his foster siblings and his true father to totally commit his heart towards. Billy then realizes that, as a Champion of Magic, he could rewrite the spell, and is able to empower all the champions at once, to the Wizard's astonishment. [ 6 ] Paraphernalia Equipment: Ibistick [ 2 ] Notes The Shazam Family is a cooperation of Shazam (Billy Batson) and his five foster siblings. If only one Shazam Family member is transformed, that member will have full power level; with two members transformed, each has half of the power level; with three transformed, each has only one third of the power level, and so on. [ 3 ] Recently, after Billy bestowed his father with the magic of Shazam, each of them will have one seventh of the full power level. [ 5 ] See Also 56 Appearances of Shazam Family (Prime Earth) 24 Images that include Shazam Family (Prime Earth) Team Gallery: Shazam Family (Prime Earth) Links and References Footnotes ↑ 1.0 1.1 Shazam! (Volume 3) #1 ↑ 2.0 2.1 Shazam! (Volume 5) #6 ↑ 3.0 3.1 Justice League (Volume 2) #21 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #6 ↑ 5.0 5.1 Shazam! (Volume 3) #8 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #9 Captain Marvel Supporting Beautia Sivana • Black Adam • Black Marvel Family • Bulletman • Captain Marvel, Jr. • C.C. Batson • Darla Dudley • Ebenezer Batson • Eugene Choi • Fat Marvel • Freckles Marvel • Gods of Olympus • Hill Marvel • Hoppy the Marvel Bunny • Isis • Kid Eternity • Lords of Magic • Marilyn Batson • Mary Marvel • Minute-Man • Nick Bromfield • Nora Bromfield • Osiris • Pedro Peña • Shazam ( Jebediah of Canaan • Mamaragan ) • Sinclair Batson • Spy Smasher • Steamboat • Sterling Morris • Mr. Tawky Tawny • Tall Marvel • Tanist • Uncle Marvel Villains Arson Fiend • Aunt Minerva • Baron Blitzkrieg • Black Adam • Blaze • Captain Nazi • Captain Nippon • Chain Lightning • Crocodile Man • Darkling • Doctor Allirog • Doctor Sivana • Ibac • King Kull • Madame Libertine • Mister Atom ( Charles Langley ) • Mister Banjo • Mister Finish • Mister Mind • Monster Society of Evil • Muscles McGinnis • Oom the Mighty • Sabbac • Sabina • Seven Deadly Sins • Three Faces of Evil Miscellaneous Origins • Publication History • Recommended Reading • Earth-S • Earth-5 • Earth 5 • Eternity Subway Car • Fawcett City • Rock of Eternity • WHIZ Radio Comics America's Greatest Comics (Volume  1) • Billy Batson and the Magic of Shazam! (Volume  1) • Captain Marvel Adventures (Volume  1) • Day of Vengeance (Volume  1) • Marvel Family (Volume  1) • Master Comics (Volume  1) • The Power of Shazam! (Volume  1) • Shazam!: The Monster Society of Evil (Volume  1) • Shazam! (Volume  1) • Shazam! (Volume  2) • Shazam! (Volume  3) • Shazam!: The New Beginning (Volume  1) • Superman/Shazam!: First Thunder (Volume  1) • The Trials of Shazam! (Volume  1) • Whiz Comics (Volume  1) • World's Finest (Volume  1) • Wow Comics (Volume  1) Categories Categories : Active Teams Good Teams Prime Earth C.C. Beck/Creator 2013 Team Debuts New 52 Teams Teams Mamaragan (Prime Earth)/Quotes Families Hero Family Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Horror Sci-fi DC Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. DC Database is a FANDOM Comics Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab