Tesla Q1 2021 Final EV Delivery Numbers And Outlook Tesla Q1 2021 Final EV Delivery Numbers And Outlook News News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry All news Reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test All reviews Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 All Features Videos Podcasts Photos Newsletter SIGN UP FOR FREE Chime in with article commenting. Sign In Sign Up News News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry All news Reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test All reviews Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 All Features Videos Podcasts Photos Newsletter page ad skin Home News Tesla Q1 2021 Final EV Delivery Numbers And Outlook The 12-month rolling average as of the end of Q1 was at roughly 600,000 EVs annually. Mark Kane By : Mark Kane Apr 27, 2021 at 6:09pm ET Facebook X LinkedIn Flipboard Reddit WhatsApp E-Mail Share Comment The first quarter of 2021 was Tesla 's best quarter ever - both in terms of EV production and delivery volume. The final sales numbers are in line with the preliminary numbers (the production numbers have not changed). Let's take a look at the details and then check out the outlook. Quarterly results Total production: 180,338 (up 75.6% year-over-year) Model 3/Y production: 180,338 (up 107% year-over-year) Model S/X production: 0 (down 100% year-over-year) Total deliveries: 184,877 (up 109% year-over-year) Model 3/Y deliveries: 182,847 (up 140% year-over-year) Model S/X deliveries: 2,030 (down 83% year-over-year) As we can see in Tesla's official report, despite the production being at an all-time high, the global vehicle inventory (days of supply) is actually at a very low level of just 8 days! That's lower than in the previous periods and a clear sign that there is tremendous demand for Tesla cars. Tesla Model S/X/3/Y Deliveries (quarterly) – through Q1 2021 Another look: The 12-month rolling deliveries are now at almost 600,000: Deliveries by model Sales of 3/Y increased by 140% year-over-year, and according to Tesla's report, the Model 3 is the top in its segment, while the Model Y is poised to be the best selling car of any kind at some point in the future . The Model S/X deliveries only include the outgoing version as production of the new, refreshed S/X was at 0. According to Tesla, "First deliveries of the new Model S should start very shortly." Forecast Tesla expects that the long-term average annual growth of vehicle deliveries will be at around 50% : "We plan to grow our manufacturing capacity as quickly as possible. Over a multi-year horizon, we expect to achieve 50% average annual growth in vehicle deliveries. In some years we may grow faster, which we expect to be the case in 2021. The rate of growth will depend on our equipment capacity, operational efficiency and capacity and stability of the supply chain." Taking into consideration the record Q1 2021 results as well as a very low vehicle inventory (days of supply), we guess that the year 2021 will bring a significantly higher growth rate than the long-term 50% average. The company should be able to not only exceed 800,000 units in 2021 (roughly four times the Q1 result), but maybe even reach 1,000,000. That would be the first time in history when a single brand sold 1 million all-electric cars in a year. More Tesla news Tesla Q1 2021 Earnings Report: Profitable For 7th Straight Quarter Share this Story Facebook X LinkedIn Flipboard Reddit WhatsApp E-Mail Got a tip for us? Email: tips@insideevs.com Join the conversation ( ) Trending The Telo MT1 May Be Tiny, But It's Still Built For Hard Work Foxconn's Model C Is Coming To The U.S.—But It Won't Wear A Foxconn Badge Slate Unveiled A Cheap EV. Tesla's Is Still A Mystery. Why The Slate Truck Doesn’t Use LFP Batteries latest articles Toyota And Google's Waymo May Build An Autonomous Car Platform Together 34m ago - Autonomous Vehicles - GM’s Orion Plant Was Supposed To Be All-EV. Now, Maybe Not 4h ago - News - How The Lucid Gravity Became A Fast-Charging Monster 6h ago - Charging - Nissan's Turnaround Plan Almost Convinced Me. Then The Bomb Dropped. 6h ago - Power Moves - I Bought A 'Unicorn' Volvo V90 PHEV. Here's How It's Going 7h ago - Ownership Experience - RECOMMENDED FOR YOU The Tesla Model S And Model X Are Dead In China Toyota And Google's Waymo May Build An Autonomous Car Platform Together These Electric Motors Keep Old EVs Running Longer For Less GM’s Orion Plant Was Supposed To Be All-EV. Now, Maybe Not This Tesla Model S Was Bricked After Sitting For Six Months. Here’s How It Was Revived How The Lucid Gravity Became A Fast-Charging Monster Tesla Model S, X Could Get Needed Updates 'Later This Year': Tesla Exec Subscribe to our Newsletter Receive exciting Automotive news, updates, and special offers straight to your inbox. Subscribe Follow Us Facebook X Flipboard Google News YouTube RSS About Us Advertising Contact insideEVs 650 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10022 USA Privacy policy Cookie policy Cookie Settings Terms of use © 2025 Motorsport Network. All rights reserved. Logotype News All news News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry Reviews All reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test Features All Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 Makes All Makes Abarth Acura Afeela Aptera Aston Martin Audi Automobili Pininfarina BMW Bollinger Buick BYD Byton Cadillac Chevrolet Chrysler Citroën Cupra Dacia Daimler Dodge DS Faraday Future Ferrari Fiat Fisker Ford GAC Geely General Motors Genesis GMC Honda Hyundai Infiniti Jaguar Jeep Karma Kia Koenigsegg Land Rover Lexus Lincoln Lordstown Motors Lotus Lucid Lynk & Co MAN Maserati Mazda Mercedes-AMG Mercedes-Benz MG Mini Mitsubishi NEVS Nikola Motor NIO Nissan Opel Peugeot Pininfarina Polestar Porsche Ram Renault Rimac Rivian Rolls-Royce Scout Motors SEAT Skoda Smart Stellantis Subaru Suzuki Telo Trucks Tesla TOGG Toyota Uaz VinFast Volkswagen Volvo Workhorse Xiaomi Xpeng Zeekr Models Tesla Model Y Hyundai Ioniq 5 Rivian R1S Toyota bZ4X Lucid Gravity Ram Ramcharger Body Style All Body Styles Sedan Coupe SUV/Crossover Hatchback Truck Convertible Videos Podcast Photos Edition USA / Global Switch Theme Light Dark Auto Current Edition USA / Global Edition: USA / Global Édition: France Edizione: Italia Edição: Brasil Ausgabe: Deutschland Edisyon: Türkiye Edition: Argentina Cancel SIGN UP FOR FREE Chime in with article commenting. Sign In Sign Up