Brandon Maxwell's CFDA Awards prize is a win for inclusive fashion Watch Party Newsletter DIY projects to try Avoid inflammation 🥣 Is Pilates for you? U.S. Politics Sports Entertainment Life Money Travel Opinion Crossword ONLY AT USA TODAY: Newsletters For Subscribers From the Archives Crossword eNewspaper Magazines Investigations Podcasts Video Humankind WITNESS (True Crime) Just Curious Best-selling Booklist Legals OUR PORTFOLIO: 10BEST USAT Wine Club USAT Savings Shopping Blueprint WITNESS (True Crime) Southern Kitchen Home Internet PEOPLE Awards Add Topic Brandon Maxwell takes home top CFDA Awards prize, a win for inclusive fashion Maeve McDermott USA TODAY If the 2019 CFDA Fashion Awards had a "most emotional acceptance speech" category, the prize would go to Brandon Maxwell, who was awarded womenswear designer of the year. Maxwell was named the CFDAs' top emerging womenswear designer in 2016, but Monday night's ceremony was the first time the 34-year-old won one of the annual awards show's top prizes. He was overcome with joy and nerves when he took the stage, admitting to the crowd that he would've laid off the event's open bar had he known he was going to win. In addition to dressing Michelle Obama and Duchess Meghan and recruiting fashion weeks' buzziest supermodels to walk for him, Maxwell has also proven his commitment to diversity and inclusion, casting women of different races and sizes in his runway shows. Winning one of the night's most prestigious awards is an important co-sign of his work, and proof that, as outgoing CFDAs chair Diane Von Furstenberg said earlier in the night, that the council is "aware" of the progress needed in fashion when it comes to inclusive casting and sizing alike. "To the nominees in this category, you cannot imagine what it feels like to be in your company for me," he addressed the crowd onstage. "It is an absolute pleasure...this is really once-in-a-lifetime, this is never going to happen to me again." Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. More: Jennifer Lopez tears up as she thanks her family, fashion icons at CFDA Awards In addition to thanking all those who taught him that "making a woman feel good, and making someone happy, is valid," Maxwell saluted his peers in the CFDA Awards audience, honoring his industry's many hard workers. "I have worked for ten years as a stylist before I started my company with almost every single person in this room," he said. "And I know that you're kind people and you work hard, and we scrubbed off tonight and put on a suit but the other 364 days of the year we are trying to pay the light bill and make it happen." The night's other winners included Rick Owens for best menswear designer and Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen's The Row for best accessories design, as well as Jennifer Lopez with the fashion icon award . Featured Weekly Ad About Us Newsroom Staff Ethical Principles USA TODAY Network Style Guide Responsible Disclosure Request a Correction Press Releases Accessibility Sitemap Subscription Terms & Conditions Advertiser Acceptance Policy Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Contact Us Help Center Manage Account Give Feedback Get Home Delivery eNewspaper USA TODAY Shop USA TODAY Print Editions Licensing & Reprints Advertise With Us Careers Internships Support Local Business News Tips Submitting letters to the editor Podcasts Newsletters Mobile Apps Facebook X Instagram LinkedIn Threads YouTube Reddit Flipboard 10BEST USAT Wine Club USAT Savings Shopping Best-selling Booklist Southern Kitchen Jobs Sports Betting Sports Weekly Studio Gannett Classifieds Home Internet Blueprint WITNESS (True Crime) © 2025 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Satellite Information Network, LLC.