Naomi Osaka Loses US Open Comeback Match to Danielle Collins ​ Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals Royals Royals PEOPLE StyleWatch: Spring 2025 Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals StyleWatch Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe 1 Massive Brawl Erupts Among Carnival Cruise Passengers, Landing 24 People on ‘Do Not Sail’ List 2 Tourist Filming Himself on a Zipline Unknowingly Captures Chilling Footage of Massacre in India That Killed 26 3 Robert De Niro's Daughter Airyn Comes Out as Trans in Revealing Interview About Growing Up 'Out of the Limelight' 4 Bill Belichick's Girlfriend Jordon Hudson Wears Sparkling Ring on That Finger, Sparking Engagement Rumors Entertainment Sports Tennis Naomi Osaka Loses US Open Comeback Bid in First Round: 'I Tried the Hardest with What I Could Do' Coming into the match unseeded, Osaka fought but couldn't defeat Danielle Collins at Arthur Ashe stadium, exiting the US Open sooner than she had hoped By Amethyst Tate Amethyst Tate Amethyst Tate is a Digital News Writer at PEOPLE. She joined PEOPLE in June 2022. People Editorial Guidelines Published on August 31, 2022 11:11AM EDT Photo: Matthew Stockman/Getty Naomi Osaka 's comeback bid ended in the first round at the 2022 US Open , after she lost in straight sets to Danielle Collins on Tuesday night. Collins, 27, who has not won a set against Osaka in their last three matchups, beat the 24-year-old Japanese player 7-6, 6-3. The late match didn't start at Arthur Ashe Stadium until 11 p.m., and finished after 12:30 a.m. on Wednesday. The high-quality match saw great hits from both players, as Osaka, who is currently unseeded after a tough year of injuries but won the U.S. Open title in both 2018 and 2020, had a 3-0 lead within the first 10 minutes. Collins, seeded No. 19, responded quickly, taking the game to 3-3. Despite nine double faults from Collins, the two were toe-to-toe for the remainder of the match, with Collins taking the win. During the post-game press conference, Osaka said, "I kind of thought that I played a bit too defensively. I didn't really trust my forehand that much and I think you could see that a little bit. I also felt like I was on my back foot a lot. Overall, I wouldn't say that I played very well but I tried the hardest with what I could do." Sarah Stier/Getty Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from juicy celebrity news to compelling human interest stories. Asked about her plans moving forward, Osaka admitted, "I'm not really sure. I feel like I lost in the first round of France [the French Open] too. So this year really hasn't really been a great year. I think it was just special to play on Ashe. I think a lot of players would die for that opportunity. For the tournament to let me still play on that even though I'm unseeded, I'm very thankful." Nick Kyrgios Praises Naomi Osaka for Inspiring Him to Speak Out About Mental Health Struggles Frank Franklin II/AP/Shutterstock Naomi Osaka Says She Was 'Whisked Away' Amid the Drama After Winning U.S. Open Following the game, Collins said that she learned how to improve against Osaka after her losses to the star. "When you lose to someone three times, you get a lot of information on what you can do better," she said. Danielle Collins. COREY SIPKIN/AFP via Getty "I just wanted to give myself the best shot to try to improve and do better than I did the last time and the time before, because with Naomi being the player that she is, she definitely whooped me the last time. I just had to go out and learn from that and make adjustments. I think, overall, I did that. When you lose to somebody three times, you kind of have nothing to lose," she added. Collins is set to play Spanish tennis player Cristina Bucsa in the second round of the US Open on Thursday. Close You Might Like Caroline Wozniacki Is Pregnant, Expecting 3rd Baby with Husband David Lee: ‘Officially Switching to Zone Defense’ Celebrity April 06, 2025 All About Caroline Wozniacki's Husband, Former NBA All-Star David Lee Entertainment August 31, 2023 UConn Triumphs Over South Carolina to Claim Their Record 12th Women's NCAA Championship Title Entertainment April 06, 2025 Related Articles Tiger Woods Shares Shocking News That He's Recovered from Achilles Surgery and Will Play Masters — Almost What Time Is the Men's NCAA Championship? How to Watch and Stream the Final March Madness Game Tommy Paul Says He’s ‘Going to Get In Trouble’ with Girlfriend Paige Lorenze for Revealing This ’Sore Subject’ (Exclusive) Naomi Osaka and Her Black Ruffled Nike Outfit Make Waves at US Open Before Second-Round Loss Cooper Flagg’s Family: All About the Duke Basketball Star's Parents and Siblings Tennis Stars Andre Agassi and Steffi Graf Have This Rule in Their Marriage — and It's About Pickleball (Exclusive) Jordan Chiles Wasn't 'Able to Move’ After ‘Devastating’ Olympics Medal Controversy: ‘I Still Struggle to Talk About It’ Tennis Player Dramatically Collapses Mid-Game and Leaves Court in Wheelchair Mikaela Shiffrin Recalls Being in 'Survival Mode' with Her Fiancé After Their Respective Ski Injuries (Exclusive) Man Who Scammed NBA Star Dwight Howard Out of $7 Million for Fake WNBA Team Bid Sentenced to 12 Years in Prison Patrick Mahomes Thinks He Looks 'Way Better' with His New Haircut U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Officials Fire Coach and Director Following Athletes' Allegations of Sexual Abuse JuJu Watkins Breaks Silence on Season-Ending Injury, Says ‘Love and Support’ Gave Her 'So Much Hope’ UConn Basketball Staffer Apologizes to Reporter for Threatening to 'Ruin His Life' Over Viral Postgame Video Iga Świątek Verbally Harassed by 'Aggressive' Fan During Miami Open Practice Issa Rae Says Soccer Is 'Competitive in the Best Way' as Part Owner of San Diego FC (Exclusive) PEOPLE Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies