The Last of Us Part II | The Last of Us Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In The Last of Us Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts The World Characters Ellie Williams Joel Miller Abby Anderson Tommy Miller Tess Servopoulos Marlene Dina Maria Miller Lev more... Groups FEDRA Fireflies Infected Washington Liberation Front Seraphites Jackson community Cannibals Hunters Rattlers more... Locations Austin Boston Lincoln Pittsburgh Jackson Silver Lake Salt Lake City Seattle more... Collectibles Artifacts Firefly pendants Comics Training manuals Trading cards Coins Tools Workbench Optional conversations Cordyceps brain infection Outbreak Day Timeline Main series The Last of Us Part I Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies DLC Transcripts The Last of Us Part II Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies Transcripts American Dreams Characters Groups Weapons Locations Issues Left Behind Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies Transcripts One Night Live Escape the Dark More... The Last of Us (2013) The Last of Us Remastered The Last of Us Part II Remastered The Official Podcast Halloween Horror Nights The Last of Us Complete The Last of Us Online The Board Game Cancelled film Merchandise HBO series Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Episodes Season 1 Season 2 Characters Joel Miller Ellie Williams Marlene Tommy Miller Tess Sarah Miller Bill Frank Riley more... Groups FEDRA Fireflies Infected Survivors Hunters Cannibals Jackson community Washington Liberation Front Seraphites more... Locations Austin Boston Kansas City Jackson Seattle more... More... Timeline Cordyceps brain infection Outbreak Day Transcripts HBO's Podcast Community About the wiki Administration Policies and guidelines Blocking guidelines Blogging policy Categorizing policy Deletion policy Discussions policy File policy Manual of style Spoiler policy User treatment policy more... Discord server Wiki Twitter In other languages Deutsch Español Français Italiano Polski Português do Brasil Русский External links Official website Naughty Dog's website The Last of Us subreddit Factions subreddit Uncharted Wiki Bandipedia, the Crash Bandicoot Wiki Jak and Daxter Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content The Last of Us Wiki 1,243 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts The World Characters Ellie Williams Joel Miller Abby Anderson Tommy Miller Tess Servopoulos Marlene Dina Maria Miller Lev more... Groups FEDRA Fireflies Infected Washington Liberation Front Seraphites Jackson community Cannibals Hunters Rattlers more... Locations Austin Boston Lincoln Pittsburgh Jackson Silver Lake Salt Lake City Seattle more... Collectibles Artifacts Firefly pendants Comics Training manuals Trading cards Coins Tools Workbench Optional conversations Cordyceps brain infection Outbreak Day Timeline Main series The Last of Us Part I Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies DLC Transcripts The Last of Us Part II Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies Transcripts American Dreams Characters Groups Weapons Locations Issues Left Behind Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies Transcripts One Night Live Escape the Dark More... The Last of Us (2013) The Last of Us Remastered The Last of Us Part II Remastered The Official Podcast Halloween Horror Nights The Last of Us Complete The Last of Us Online The Board Game Cancelled film Merchandise HBO series Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Episodes Season 1 Season 2 Characters Joel Miller Ellie Williams Marlene Tommy Miller Tess Sarah Miller Bill Frank Riley more... Groups FEDRA Fireflies Infected Survivors Hunters Cannibals Jackson community Washington Liberation Front Seraphites more... Locations Austin Boston Kansas City Jackson Seattle more... More... Timeline Cordyceps brain infection Outbreak Day Transcripts HBO's Podcast Community About the wiki Administration Policies and guidelines Blocking guidelines Blogging policy Categorizing policy Deletion policy Discussions policy File policy Manual of style Spoiler policy User treatment policy more... Discord server Wiki Twitter In other languages Deutsch Español Français Italiano Polski Português do Brasil Русский External links Official website Naughty Dog's website The Last of Us subreddit Factions subreddit Uncharted Wiki Bandipedia, the Crash Bandicoot Wiki Jak and Daxter Wiki in: Games , The Last of Us Part II English Deutsch Español Français Italiano Polski Português do Brasil Русский The Last of Us Part II View source History Purge Talk (0) This article is about the sequel to The Last of Us . For other pages that may have a similar name, see The Last of Us (disambiguation) . The Last of Us Part II Developer(s) Naughty Dog Publisher(s) Sony Interactive Entertainment Designer(s) Anthony Newman (game director) Kurt Margenau [ 1 ] (game director) Neil Druckmann (creative director) Writer(s) Neil Druckmann Halley Gross [ 2 ] Artist(s) Erick Pangilinan Nate Wells Kenneth Sisno Composer(s) Gustavo Santaolalla Mac Quayle (additional music) [ 3 ] Series The Last of Us Platforms PlayStation 4 Release date(s) June 19, 2020 [ 4 ] Genre(s) Action-adventure, survival horror Mode(s) Single-player Rating(s) ESRB: M PEGI: 18 CERO: Z Media Blu-ray disc Digital download (via PSN) Input methods DualShock 4 “ I'm gonna find and I'm gonna kill every last one of them. ― Ellie , launch trailer. [ 5 ] ” The Last of Us Part II is a third-person action-adventure, survival horror video game developed by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. It was released on June 19, 2020. The game is the sequel to The Last of Us and picks up the story of Ellie and Joel four years after the events of the original game. A remastered version of the game was released on January 19, 2024, for PlayStation 5 , and later PC. In 2025, the game was partially adapted into season two of HBO's TV series adaptation , with the upcoming third season believed to adapt the rest of it. Contents 1 Plot 1.1 Backstory and setting 1.2 Characters 1.3 Plot summary 2 Gameplay 3 Development 4 Marketing 4.1 Official announcement at PSX 2016 4.1.1 Reveal trailer 4.1.2 PSX Q&A 4.2 PGW 2017 trailer 4.2.1 Teaser trailer 4.3 PSX 2017 4.4 E3 2018 4.5 State of Play 2019 4.6 State of Play, May 2020 4.7 2020 TV Commercials 5 Release and reception 6 Sequel 7 Trophies 8 Gallery 8.1 Logos 8.2 Teaser posters 8.3 Concept art 8.4 Official stills 8.5 E3 2018 official stills 8.6 Videos 9 External links 10 References Plot Backstory and setting The Last of Us Part II takes place four years after the events of the first game and nearly 25 years after the outbreak of the Cordyceps brain infection began. Ellie , who is now 19 years old, returns as the protagonist whom players assume control of. Joel , in his mid-fifties, also returns as a briefly playable character, as does Abby Anderson , who functions as the game's dual protagonist. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] Joel and Ellie, having settled down in Tommy 's settlement, live in relative peace within the thriving community. While there, Ellie has even managed to form friendships with Dina and Jesse . However, the survivors face constant threats from infected and other hostile survivors. When a tragic event disrupts the tranquility of her life, a hate filled Ellie embarks on a journey to Seattle in a search for vengeance to carry out justice. As she hunts down those responsible one by one, she is confronted with the traumatizing physical and emotional consequences of her actions. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] [ 10 ] Characters Main article: Part II characters Ellie ( Ashley Johnson ) – The protagonist of the game. Ellie is a 19-year-old survivor of the Cordyceps brain infection outbreak and the only person known to be immune to the infection. Ellie lives in a large community in Jackson . She sports a tattoo over the bite scar on her right arm to hide her immunity. After witnessing a horrific attack, Ellie embarks on a personal quest for vengeance. Abby ( Laura Bailey ) [ 11 ] – The dual protagonist of the game. A former member of the Fireflies , Abby is now a member of the Washington Liberation Front and begins the game attempting to locate a resident of the community in Jackson. Abby is forced to deal with the fallout of her own quest for revenge. Joel ( Troy Baker ) – Joel is Ellie's father figure and a former smuggler , who bonded with her years ago while transporting her across the country to the Fireflies in the hopes of creating a vaccine for the CBI outbreak. Unbeknownst to Ellie, Joel killed the Fireflies who were going to kill Ellie to create a cure. Tommy ( Jeffrey Pierce ) - Tommy is Joel's younger brother and is one of the leaders of the community in Jackson , alongside his wife Maria. Tommy is the only person aware of Joel's killing of the Fireflies and deception of Ellie. Tommy, like Ellie, is on his own quest for vengeance. [ 12 ] Dina ( Shannon Woodward ) [ 13 ] - Dina is a close friend and love interest of Ellie and a resident of the community in Jackson. She is Jesse's ex-girlfriend, and kisses Ellie which causes a stir in the community. Dina accompanies Ellie to Seattle as their relationship develops. Jesse ( Stephen Chang ) [ 13 ] - Jesse is a friend of Ellie, and Dina's ex-boyfriend. He is a resident of the community in Jackson, and accompanies Ellie on her quest. Maria ( Ashley Scott ) – Maria is Tommy's wife, and a member of the Jackson community. Owen ( Patrick Fugit ) - Owen is a member of the WLF and Abby's childhood friend and ex-boyfriend. He is in a relationship with Mel and is having a child with her. Mel ( Ashly Burch ) - Mel is a medic and a member of the WLF. She is pregnant with Owen's child, which causes tension between her and Abby. Manny ( Alejandro Edda ) - Manny is a member of the WLF and a friend and roommate of Abby's. He accompanies her to Jackson and fights alongside her in Seattle. Nora ( Chelsea Tavares ) - Nora is a member of the WLF and a friend of Abby's. She accompanies Abby to Jackson and is later sought out by Ellie. Lev ( Ian Alexander ) [ 11 ] – Lev is a former member of a religious cult called the Seraphites set to wipe out all 'sin' in the world after the outbreak. Lev is branded an apostate by the Serephites for shaving his hair and is hunted by them alongside his older sister, Yara. Lev becomes Abby's companion and assists her. Yara ( Victoria Grace ) [ 11 ] – Yara is Lev's older sister who left the Seraphites with him, and is severely injured by them during their escape. She later accompanies Abby with Lev. Isaac ( Jeffrey Wright ) – Isaac is the leader of the Washington Liberation Front , and a secondary antagonist in Abby's story. Plot summary In 2034, in Jackson , Joel Miller confesses to his brother Tommy that he killed Marlene and destroyed the Fireflies' main base in Salt Lake City to prevent them killing Ellie to create a vaccine for the Cordyceps brain infection . While shocked at the news, Tommy forgives his brother for the destruction of his former group. That night, Joel visits Ellie and gifts her a guitar, intent on cementing their surrogate father-daughter relationship and starting their new life together. [ 14 ] By March, 2038, Joel and Ellie still live in relative peace in Jackson as members of the community , but have grown apart as Ellie discovered Joel's secret about his actions at the St. Mary's Hospital and the killing of the head surgeon, Jerry Anderson . [ 15 ] While on patrol, Joel and Tommy save a stranger, Abby Anderson, from an infected horde. To escape a snow storm, they flee on horseback to the Baldwin lodge where Abby's group are staying. [ 14 ] Once inside, the group reveal themselves as former Fireflies now based with the Washington Liberation Front (WLF), a militia group fighting a war with the religious fanatics known as the Seraphites in Seattle , Washington. [ 16 ] Abby reveals herself as Jerry's daughter and desires revenge for what Joel did to him and the Fireflies to save Ellie. [ 17 ] The group attacks Joel and Tommy, knocking Tommy out and Abby proceeds to torture Joel. Elsewhere, Ellie, her girlfriend Dina and friend Jesse leave Jackson to find the brothers. Hours later, Ellie reaches the lodge only for Nick and Nora to restrain her and make her watch as Abby kills Joel. Ellie swears to kill them all for their actions, then is knocked out. Jesse and Dina later rescue her and Tommy and return Joel's body to Jackson where he is buried. [ 14 ] The next day, Tommy sets out for Seattle to hunt Abby, and Ellie and Dina follow him. By April, the pair reach the city and fight their way through the WLF, with Ellie killing one of Abby's friends, Jordan and finding Tommy has already tortured and killed Nick. Following Tommy's trail, they also locate Leah , killed hours earlier by Seraphites, and they loot her corpse for information on Abby and her remaining friends. Soon after, the duo escape an infected horde, during which Ellie breaks her mask. Once at a shelter in the deserted Pinnacle Theater , Ellie reveals she is immune to the CBI while Dina reveals she is pregnant. They rest for the night, during which Ellie plays a guitar and thinks back to her fifteenth birthday with Joel. [ 18 ] The next day, Dina repairs an old FEDRA radio and uses it to track sightings by the WLF of a trespasser in Hillcrest . Assuming it is Tommy, Ellie goes there to help him. However, on arriving, she finds Jesse. The pair fight their way back to the theater, where Ellie has Jesse protect the weak Dina while she pursues a lead that Nora is at the Lakehill Seattle Hospital . On the way, Ellie encounters the Seraphites, and fights through a stalker -infested apartment complex. Once at the hospital, Ellie corners Nora in the basement and tortures her to reveal Abby's hideout at the aquarium. However, the incident leaves Ellie traumatized and regretful of what she's doing to avenge Joel. [ 15 ] The following morning, Jesse convinces Ellie they need to get Tommy to the theater and leave Seattle behind, stating he does not want to risk Dina's life further, who has grown sick. Ellie agrees, but while looking for Tommy, Ellie breaks off from Jesse to continue her pursuit of Abby. She reaches the aquarium, where she finds two more of Abby's friends; Owen and Mel . She attempts to interrogate them, but is attacked, leading to a brawl that ends in Ellie killing the pair, leading her to break down from the stress of her actions. However, Tommy then arrives with Jesse, the pair convincing her to leave with them, but they leave her map behind. That night, the trio plan their route out of the city but Abby attacks them in the theater, having tracked them down. In a standoff, Jesse is killed and Tommy is taken hostage. Ellie begs Abby to let Tommy live in exchange for her life. Abby, enraged that Ellie and Tommy killed her friends, aims her gun at Ellie. [ 19 ] The game now shifts perspective, displaying an analepsis of the prior three days, this time from Abby's perspective. On the first day, Abby fights on the front lines with Manny Alvarez and Mel, who both worry Abby's actions in Jackson have not cleared her conscience as she wanted. Later that day, Abby and Manny visit the WLF's leader, Isaac Dixon , at the forward operating base (FOB), who reveals he wants the pair to lead the WLF forces in an all-out attack on the Seraphites' island . However, Abby refuses, having heard from Nora that Owen has been ostracized from the WLF for refusing to kill an old Seraphite. Isaac does not relent, leading Abby to flee the base to find Owen. On the way, a Seraphite patrol ambushes and captures her. Abby escapes with the help of Lev and Yara , two Seraphites branded apostates because Lev refused to follow Seraphite traditions. Despite Yara breaking her arm in the escape, Abby leaves them at an abandoned office trailer. She reaches her private hideout at the aquarium, where she finds a drunk Owen speaking of a desire to find a rumored Firefly encampment in Santa Barbara . The pair have a heated argument that ends in them having sex. [ 16 ] By morning, Abby is plagued by nightmares, leading her to return to the trailer to save Lev and Yara from pursuing Seraphites. She brings them back to the aquarium, where Alice and Mel have arrived, also looking for Owen. Abby has Mel assess Yara's arm, concluding it needs to be amputated. Abby takes Lev out in to the city to retrieve supplies from the Lakehill Seattle Hospital. After fighting through an infected-filled hotel, the pair reach the hospital. Abby walks in, using her rank to get access, but is soon apprehended as Isaac has put out an order to capture her. Nora helps Abby escape and leads her to the basement, where supplies are still found. Abby collects the medical supplies after killing the rat king infected living there, and leaves the hospital with Lev. That night, Mel operates on Yara, removing her arm and saving her life. [ 20 ] By the morning, Lev flees from the aquarium to go back to his mother at the Seraphite island. Yara, knowing their mother will kill Lev for having broken Seraphite traditions, convinces Abby to go to the island with her to rescue him. On the way, Abby meets Manny again at the marina and helps him advance on a sniper, who killed his team. They corner the sniper in a restaurant, only for the sniper--who is actually Tommy--to ambush them. In the struggle, Manny is shot dead and Tommy nearly succeeds in killing Abby, but Yara saves her. Assuming Tommy drowned in the pier, Abby and Yara push on to the island. They reach the island shortly before the WLF, led by Isaac, launch their invasion. Fighting through the Seraphites, the pair find Lev at the sibling's house, who killed his mother in self-defense. The group sneak back through the island but cross Isaac's WLF team. Yara kills Isaac, sacrificing herself so Lev and Abby can escape. The duo steal a horse and ride through the WLF and Seraphite's battle at Haven. They steal a boat and flee, leaving the two factions to kill each other. Back at the aquarium, Abby and Lev find Alice, Mel and Owen have all been killed. Lev finds a map, which reveals the killer's location. Following it, they head to the Pinnacle theater and break in through the upper levels. Abby sneaks downstairs to find Tommy, back towards her, in the main hall. She trains her gun on him, and beats him to the floor. It is at this point the flashback ends, as it has now caught up with the events of Ellie's story. Abby aims her gun at Ellie, but Tommy intervenes; Abby and Lev overpower and wound him. Ellie flees back stage, where Abby pursues her. They brawl, with the fight ending with Abby successfully defeating Ellie and Dina. Abby prepares to kill Dina, but Lev convinces her not to. Abby leaves Ellie alive, warning her to never cross her again. [ 21 ] One year later, Ellie and Dina returned to Jackson, now living on a farm with Dina and Jesse's son, JJ . However, Ellie still suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder brought on by Joel's death and the events in Seattle. After Tommy gives her a lead that Abby and Lev moved to Santa Barbara , Ellie abandons her life with Dina and JJ to hunt and kill Abby again. [ 22 ] In Santa Barbara, Abby and Lev are attempting to find the Fireflies. They locate a radio station, and learn the group have moved to Catalina Island . However, as they attempt to reach it, a slave-owning group known as the Rattlers capture and torture them over several weeks, culminating in the pair attempting to escape but failing. Ellie arrives in Santa Barbara and finds the Rattler's base. She breaks in, freeing the prisoners and learns from their leader that Abby and Lev have been strung up on the beach to die. She finds them there, and frees them. Knowing they are weak from their months of torture, she threatens to kill Lev if Abby doesn't fight her. Abby agrees. They fight in the water, with Abby biting Ellie's fingers off her. Ellie eventually pins Abby under the water, but refuses to kill her after realizing killing Abby will not bring Joel back to her. She lets Abby and Lev flee on a boat to Catalina island while she returns to the farm. [ 23 ] At the farm, Ellie finds Dina and JJ have left. She finds her guitar, but is unable to play it without all her fingers. She thinks back to the day prior to Joel's death in Jackson, when she reprimanded him for defending her from Seth 's homophobic remarks at a party. That night, they talked on Joel's porch , with the pair deciding they would try to repair their relationship. In the present, Ellie sets the guitar down and leaves the farm. [ 24 ] Gameplay Ellie welding a shotgun. Ellie was originally intended to be the sole playable character in the main story. [ 25 ] However, this changed at some point before release, with Joel, Ellie, and Abby all being playable for portions of the game. The game features expanded traversal and stealth mechanics, including a jump button, ability to go prone and a dodge mechanic. Enemy AI has been improved, notably how human enemies will often communicate with each other, relaying information about Ellie's position through whistling. Crafting has also been expanded, along with new ammo types (such as explosive arrows). Two noteworthy additions are an "identification meter", which, in addition to the audio cue from the first game, alerts the player to how close an enemy is to seeing them (while it's white, the player still has the opportunity to hide, but once it turns red, they have been spotted), and an "injury gauge", which indicates when the player receives a serious wound (such as an arrow to the shoulder) and must press and hold the R1 button in order to treat it. Another new addition is the ability to pick up glass bottles and/or bricks, and throw them, while running. [ 26 ] Ellie wrestles with a shambler. The game also features new enemy types as well with two new infected types. The first is the shambler type that emits acidic spores similar to bloaters except these are also exhibited immediately after death. Further, there is also a special unique boss infected that is fought while playing as Abby. Further, there are also a new human enemy type that resemble the Brute enemies encountered in the Uncharted series , another game series created by Naughty Dog. Multiplayer was originally planned to launch with the game, [ 27 ] it was revealed this was dropped. [ 28 ] Development In February 2014, creative director Neil Druckmann said the possibility of a sequel to the The Last of Us was "about 50/50", and the team needed to develop a story "really worth telling, and that's not repeating itself". [ 29 ] In July 2014, community strategist Arne Meyer said that not considering a sequel "would be a disservice" to the studio and the fans. [ 30 ] The first hints of a sequel in development came in a patch released for The Last of Us in 2014. Naughty Dog actually leaked prototypes for Part II in the game files under the heading "thing 2 prototype"; The Last of Us , when in development, was called "thing 1" in the game files. [ 31 ] Furthermore, in December 2014, character artist Michael Knowland (who previously worked with Naughty Dog on The Last of Us ) updated his LinkedIn page to include The Last of Us 2 with him as the lead character artist who was designing head sculpts. Shortly afterwards his page was updated to remove all mention of the sequel. [ 32 ] At MetroCon 2015 in June, Nolan North , who portrays David in The Last of Us and Nathan Drake in the Uncharted series, was asked if he was involved in any future Naughty Dog projects. He replied "For now, Uncharted 4 is the last one. I know they're doing The Last of Us 2 , but my character in The Last of Us kind of met an untimely demise". [ 33 ] Druckmann later responded to North's comments, saying that a small team at Naughty Dog had explored ideas and begun building prototypes for a sequel, but were interrupted when the team shifted their focus to development of Uncharted 4: A Thief's End . [ 34 ] Rumors briefly rose again after an Easter egg referring to The Last of Us appeared in Uncharted 4's denouement specifically a picture of a pregnant woman resembling Ellie with the title The Last of Us: American Daughters next to it. Rumors peaked once more when GameInformer accidentally leaked images and information regarding a sequel to The Last of Us at E3 2016, specifically that Ellie would be 19 years old and that the story would transition between the present and the past. [ 35 ] An image was also revealed on September 26, depicting a tattooed arm holding a switchblade, evidently teasing the reveal of Ellie's tattoo. [ 36 ] Another poster was also released on the same day in 2017, this time depicting an arm holding a hammer amidst flames that resemble the face of a wolf. [ 37 ] A third poster was released by Naughty Dog to celebrate outbreak day in 2018, the image displaying a man playing an acoustic guitar in the woods with a wolf next to him. [ 38 ] Marketing Official announcement at PSX 2016 On December 3, 2016 at Sony's annual PlayStation Experience event (PSX), Naughty Dog closed the event by officially announcing a sequel to The Last of Us via a reveal trailer, titled The Last of Us Part II . [ 39 ] Ellie has been confirmed to be the main playable character who will "play differently" than Joel from the original. Troy Baker and Ashley Johnson were also confirmed to reprise their roles as Joel and Ellie respectively while Neil Druckmann will write the script. No release date has been announced and the game was noted to be in very early development by Shawn Layden. [ 40 ] Druckmann also remarked it was Naughty Dog's "most ambitious game yet". [ 41 ] Reveal trailer The trailer opens with a sequence of five shots of a forested area. The rusty remains of an abandoned vehicle and a tree with claw marks in its trunk are shown as the camera pans outwards. Some run-down houses then appear in the foreground, before an old 'Stop' road sign with the Firefly logo graffitied on it comes into view. The scene changes to Ellie sat on a bed, tuning and subsequently playing an acoustic guitar as she sings Through the Valley by Shawn James. The next shot reveals a tattoo on her arm as the camera cuts around the room, showing among many other things an open window to Ellie's left. Some have noted the resemblance between this window and the window depicted on the main menu screen of the original game. [ 5 ] While the music continues, a male figure enters through the front door. Initially nothing more than a silhouette, the man walks through the house with a revolver in his right hand, taking stock of the several dead bodies littered in the building, implied to have been killed by Ellie. None of the bodies show obvious signs of infection by the CBI from the original game. The man eventually enters Ellie's room, and the camera angle then reveals his identity: Joel. The pair exchange the following dialogue: Joel : "What are you doing, kiddo? You really gonna go through with this?" Ellie : "I'm gonna find... and I'm gonna kill... every last one of them." The trailer ends on a closeup of Ellie's face before fading-in the title The Last of Us Part II . [ 42 ] PSX Q&A At a panel after the reveal, Neil Druckmann was asked why Naughty Dog ultimately decided to make a sequel. He explained, "While a sequel may have seemed like a foregone conclusion, that wasn't the case. We knew that it needed to be a story worth telling... After spending years trying ideas, we have finally created a story worthy of Joel and Ellie." He also stated that the game was ultimately about human relationships, as was The Last of Us , and that it wouldn't work without Joel and Ellie as "it is their journey." [ 43 ] [ 44 ] Druckmann also confirmed that Gustavo Santaolalla will return as the composer for the game's soundtrack, [ 45 ] having already created a new rendition of The Last of Us theme for the sequel that was also unveiled at PSX. [ 46 ] It has also been confirmed that Bruce Straley , who helped Druckmann make early prototypes for the new game, [ 47 ] did not return to assist Druckmann with directing the sequel, instead taking a sabbatical after the pair finished working on the DLC for Uncharted , [ 48 ] and subsequently leaving Naughty Dog. [ 49 ] In his place, Halley Gross will be co-writing the story with Druckmann. [ 50 ] On April 7, it was revealed that actress Shannon Woodward would play a role in the game. [ 51 ] The game will utilize new motion capture technology for its characters as well as an entire new engine for the PlayStation 4. [ 52 ] Early reports from Druckmann indicate that Ellie is expected to play "different to Joel", particularly in regards to movement and speed. [ 53 ] PGW 2017 trailer At Paris Games Week on October 30, 2017, Naughty Dog released another trailer depicting new survivors , namely: Lev , Yara , Emily , and Abby , whose name was not revealed at the time. As of April 2021, the trailer has been viewed over 6.3 million times on PlayStation's official YouTube channel. Neil Druckmann has also remarked that these new characters will be integral to Joel and Ellie's journey in the game. [ 41 ] To create the unnamed woman's physique required the use of a body-builder double. [ 54 ] Teaser trailer The trailer uses the opening cutscene from the level "The Forrest". It opens to a clearing at night, in the middle of a forest, with burning cars littering the scene as it rains heavily. The camera follows the entire scene in one take. Two men appear, dragging Abby across the ground to Emily, where they subsequently hang her by a rope next to several other corpses. As Abby struggles to breathe, Emily draws a knife, poking the Abby's stomach, taunting her. The two men appear again, this time dragging Yara. Emily taunts Yara as well, the latter retaliating by spitting in her face. Irritated, Emily has the two men pin Yara down to "clip her wings" with a hammer. After breaking one arm, an arrow flies out of the nearby woods, killing one of the men, enabling Yara to kill the other with the hammer. Emily draws a revolver , firing into the woods as more arrows fly. Yara gets to her feet, prompting Emily to aim at her. However, Abby uses her legs to trap Emily in her grip, allowing Yara to kill her with the hammer as well. Thunder briefly erupts as Abby allows Emily's corpse to fall to the ground. With Emily dead, Yara collapses against a nearby wall, clutching her broken arm. From the woods, Lev appears with his bow . He checks on Yara, who orders him to free Abby, which he hesitantly does. Abby proceeds to pry the hammer from Emily's corpse before telling the others to prepare themselves. From the woods, a group of infected charge at the trio before the trailer cuts to black. [ 55 ] PSX 2017 In December, 2017, Neil Druckmann alongside the principal cast for The Last of Us Part II and fellow writer Halley Gross, appeared to answer questions regarding the upcoming release of the game. Druckmann and Gross revealed the game was "about 50 to 60%" complete and Druckmann himself teased that Gross provided an idea to "get a character pregnant". For the event, Ashley Johnson and Troy Baker performed Wayfaring Stranger by Johnny Cash, as a duet to open their segment, performing in role. Druckmann left it up to opinion as to whether the lyrics in the song, which focused on a journey for the two to a "mother and savior", were literal or metaphorical. Druckmann also revealed the story they wrote is "big" with "hopeful" moments, to contrast the overall theme of hate. Gross also stated the story will provide the characters an authentic arc that will grow and change them. [ 56 ] E3 2018 On June 11, 2018, Naughty Dog showcased more content from the game to an audience. Gustavo Santaolalla played live music (a segment from the game's score) for the audience and Shawn Layden introduced a gameplay demonstration for Part II . The demonstration showcased new melee combat, stealth mechanics, in-game graphics and also provided a look into the locations the player will encounter while playing as the 19-year-old Ellie. Spliced alongside the gameplay was the cinematic reveal of the characters Dina and Jesse , the former is Ellie's intimate partner while the latter is a member of Tommy 's community, depicting them at a dance. [ 13 ] State of Play 2019 On September 20, 2019, Naughty Dog posted a video on Twitter teasing The Last of Us Part II details to be revealed during PlayStation's State of Play broadcast a few days later on September 24. For each day up until the event, they tweeted a new teaser video showcasing an artifact for several key characters. [ 57 ] During the State of Play broadcast that went live on September 24, Naughty Dog unveiled a three minute trailer for The Last of Us Part II revealing the game's release date as February 21, 2020. The trailer also included more details regarding the game's plot and gameplay itself of different environments and locations, including combat with new infected types and dogs. It also confirmed Joel will join Ellie on her journey and that Jeffrey Pierce would also reprise his role as Tommy. [ 58 ] [ 12 ] The game was originally set to be released on May 29, 2020. [ 59 ] However, Naughty Dog announced on April 4, 2020 that, while The Last of Us Part II was finished, they could not ship physical copies due to the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak. [ 60 ] As such, the release date was changed to June 19, 2020. [ 4 ] State of Play, May 2020 On May 27, ahead of the game's June 19 release on PS4, Neil Druckmann provided a further release of Part II content. Included was further gameplay, notably Ellie's ability to swim and the use of a boat and rope to traverse terrain, a backstory expansion for the Washington Liberation Front and Seraphites (who are at war with one another) as well as showcasing a new extended gameplay sequence. Druckmann expressed that Naughty Dog staff aimed to make the areas players explore in the game as beautiful, big, and authentic as possible. He also elaborated that much of the story will occur in the Seattle area. Also, the open environments apparently will lead to several story moments that act as extra parts to the main story, meaning the player does not have to engage or find these moments to progress the story. [ 61 ] 2020 TV Commercials A week before release, a thirty second commercial was run on TV along with an extended version that was uploaded on all official PlayStation accounts. [ 62 ] These two versions both feature Ellie running through Seattle accompanied by a cover of True Faith by New Order. There are two versions, with Ellie holding a revolver in the American version and a switchblade in the European version. [ 63 ] The European version of the TV commercial also contained an alternate version of the cover with slight pronunciation and instrumentation changes. [ 64 ] Release and reception Review scores Publications Eurogamer 9/10 [ 65 ] Game Informer 10/10 [ 66 ] IGN 10/10 (US) [ 67 ] 7/10 (JP) [ 68 ] GameSpot 8/10 [ 69 ] Destructoid 8.5/10 [ 70 ] Telegraph 5/5 [ 71 ] Polygon 7/10 [ 72 ] Guardian 5/5 [ 73 ] Toronto Sun 5/5 [ 74 ] Aggregates Metacritic 94/100 [ 75 ] The Last of Us Part II released to universal acclaim among critics worldwide. Many praised the game for its visuals, gameplay, and story. GameSpot ' s Kallie Plagge remarked the game's combat was "intense and exhilarating", liking how the game maintained the freedom from the first game for players to choose between stealth or gunplay during combat, though did criticize that the level's sizes were too expansive, especially since collectibles available in such areas did not match the size of the level design. They concluded the game's duration of more than twenty hours could have been considerably shorter. [ 69 ] Chris Carter from Destructoid wrote praise regarding the actors, especially Ashley Johnson 's performance as Ellie, and the game's environments, believing the Naughty Dog developers brought the game's setting to life in a way that surpasses the previous installment. In fact, they declare it the best looking game on the PlayStation 4 console. However, they would have liked if the game did differ more from the first one, remarking " Part II is essentially the same wheel from the first game." Still, Carter concludes " Part II improves on what it's predecessor did in 2013." [ 70 ] Euro Gamer ' s Oli Walsh agreed Johnson was the stand out performance but especially praised Gustavo Santaolalla 's score for the game, believing the music was "excellent" in conjunction with its "minimalism". [ 65 ] However, some were critical that the game failed to evolve much from its predecessor. Maddy Myers from Polygon remarked that Part II failed to live up to the first game, citing the character's lack of growth and the dull story that felt bloated and long, citing the game's critical problem was its poor pacing and failure to justify its own existence as a sequel. [ 72 ] Koji Fukuyama from IGN agrees, saying they also found the amount of combat encounters "excessive", believing the developers failed to strike the balance between combat, story and exploration that the first game excelled at. [ 68 ] Myers believed the game's combat additions with dog enemies, new infected types and ability to go prone was a "half-hearted" effort to hide that the game was little more than the first game with a new engine. They expanded that, while it was still a strong game, the industry had evolved in the seven years since the first game's release so they were expecting more from this sequel, rather than simply more of the same. Regardless, they still thought the game was aesthetically "gorgeous" and would have received higher praise if it wasn't so similar to The Last of Us , which Myers believed the superior game. [ 72 ] IGN ' s Jonathan Dornbush contested such claims, believing the gameplay was a "satisfying evolution" from the first game with a "profound story" that justified it's creation. They go as far to say " The Last of Us Part 2 is a masterpiece that evolves the gameplay, cinematic storytelling, and rich world design of the original in nearly every way." [ 67 ] Andy McNamara from Game Informer agreed, writing that Part II was "the best narrative game [they] ever played", highlighting the complex story and compelling characters. [ 66 ] The game sold 4 million copies in its first three days, setting a new franchise record. [ 76 ] Sequel Speaking with the Script Apart podcast in April 2021, Druckmann revealed that he and Gross had written an outline for a story that explores what happens after The Last of Us Part II . He noted that the story was not in active development, but hoped that it could "see the light of day" in some form eventually. [ 77 ] In the February 2024 Grounded II documentary on the making of The Last of Us Part II , Druckmann revealed that while he doesn't have a story for a potential third game yet, he does have a concept. He feels "there's probably one more chapter to this story." [ 78 ] When asked about The Last of Us Part III while promoting the second season of HBO 's The Last of Us at SXSW 2025, Druckmann told Variety , "I guess the only thing I would say is, don't bet on there being more of Last of Us . This could be it." [ 79 ] However, on March 11, 2025, it was reported that The Last of Us Part III was in "advanced production," with some casting being done and even some scenes already filmed, despite Druckmann's comments about a third game almost a week earlier. [ 80 ] Trophies Main article: The Last of Us Part II trophies Gallery Logos Horizontal logo Teaser posters The Easter egg present in Uncharted 4: A Thief's End . Official posters for Outbreak Day 2017 featuring Abby’s arm, and Outbreak Day 2016 featuring Ellie's arm. The teaser poster for the 2018 Outbreak Day. Concept art Initial concept art unveiled at PSX 2016 Concept art of Ellie Official stills Opening shot of the reveal trailer The Firefly logo Ellie's tattoo Ellie playing the guitar Joel approaching the abandoned house A dead body inside the house. Joel wielding his revolver Joel in the trailer Joel finds Ellie and looks on as she plays her guitar “I'm gonna find and I'm gonna kill every last one of them.” Ellie riding a horse. "You think I'd let you do this on your own?" Ellie and Dina riding horses through the snow. Ellie riding a boat through a flooded city. Jackson, Wyoming. E3 2018 official stills Videos The Last of Us Part II – Official Extended Commercial PS4 June 3, 2020 The Last of Us Part II - State of Play PS4 May 27, 2020 The Last of Us Part II - Official Story Trailer PS4 May 6, 2020 The Last of Us Part II - Inside the Demo PS4 September 26, 2019 The Last of Us Part II – Release Date Reveal Trailer PS4 September 24, 2019 The Last of Us Part II – E3 2018 Gameplay Reveal Trailer PS4 June 11, 2018 The Last of Us Part II - PSX 2017 Panel PS4 December 10, 2017 The Last of Us Part II - PGW 2017 Trailer October 30, 2017 The Last of Us Part II - PlayStation Experience 2016 Panel Discussion PS4 December 3, 2016 The Last of Us Part II - PSX 2016 Reveal Trailer PS4 December 3, 2016 External links Official website The Last of Us Part II on IMDb Facebook page Twitter page Twitch page References ↑ GameSpot - The Last of Us Part II will have multiplayer ↑ GameSpot - The Last of Us 2 Brings on Westworld Writer; Story Described as "Intense" ↑ - The Last of Us Part II: how Naughty Dog made a classic amidst catastrophe , GQ UK ↑ 4.0 4.1 The Verge - New TLOU 2 Release Date (Accessed 27th of April, 2020) ↑ 5.0 5.1 TLOU2 Reveal Trailer Analysis , IGN , via YouTube ↑ The Last of Us Part II: PSX 2017 , YouTube , (Accessed 2017) ↑ "Dual Protagonists: How to Handle TWO Lead Characters in Your Screenplay" , Industrial Scripts , (Accessed June 9, 2022) ↑ Polygon: The Last of Us Part 2 , PolyGon , (Accessed December, 2016) ↑ The Last of Us Part II official website , PlayStation , (Accessed 2019) ↑ E3 2018: The Last of Us Part II is all about honoring Ellie , IGN , (Accessed 2019) ↑ 11.0 11.1 11.2 Naughty Dog Tweet (Accessed October 30, 2017) ↑ 12.0 12.1 Part II trailer (September, 24th, 2019) ↑ 13.0 13.1 13.2 E3 2018: The Last of Us Part II Gameplay , IGN ↑ 14.0 14.1 14.2 " Jackson " ↑ 15.0 15.1 " Seattle Day 2 " ↑ 16.0 16.1 " Seattle Day 1 ↑ " The Park " ↑ " Seattle Day 1 " ↑ " Seattle Day 3 " ↑ " Seattle Day 2 " ↑ " Seattle Day 3 " ↑ " The Farm " ↑ " Santa Barbara " ↑ " The Farm " ↑ Good, Owen (2018-06-14). The Last of Us Part 2’s creators said Ellie is the only playable character . Polygon. Retrieved 2018-06-15 ↑ Osborn, Alex (2018-06-12). E3 2018: New The Last of Us Part II Gameplay revealed . IGN. Retrieved 2018-06-13 ↑ Tach, Dave (2018-06-13). The Last of Us Part 2 will have multiplayer (of some sort) . Polygon. Retrieved 2018-06-15 ↑ The Last of Us 2: No Multiplayer Mode , US Gamer ↑ Eurogamer - Will there be a new "The Last of Us"? , Eurogamer ↑ Exploring ideas for The Last of Us 2 , Videgamer ↑ Annie Marie's findings , YouTube ↑ Leak by Character Artist ↑ IGN - Nolan North on the possibility of a sequel , IGN ↑ GameSpot - The Last of Us or Uncharted? , GameSpot ↑ GameInformer leak , YouTube ↑ Teased artwork , Eurogamer ↑ Outbreak Day 2017 , IGN ↑ Outbreak Day 2018 , PlayStation ↑ Trailer for the new Last of Us , The Verge ↑ Last of Us 2 revealed , Forbes ↑ 41.0 41.1 Druckmann, Neil, Another piece of the puzzle , PlayStation , (Accessed November 5, 2017) ↑ The Last of Us Part II - 2016: Reveal Trailer , PlayStation Experience , (Accessed 2 November, 2017) ↑ New Last of Us Announced , Kotaku ↑ TLOU2 Revealed at PSX , Youtube ↑ Play as Ellie in new "Last of Us" , GameSpot ↑ 2016 - Last of US 2 , PSX ↑ Straley not taking part , IGN ↑ Straley is not coming back , GameSpot ↑ Straley is out , Game Industry ↑ New writer , GameSpot ↑ Woodward in Sequel , Game Informer ↑ The Last Of Us 2 Will Be A Game 'About Hate' , Kotaku ↑ TechRadar - The Last of Us 2: What you need to know , Tech Radar ↑ Druckmann, Neil, Body Double Used Here , Instagram (Accessed 11 November, 2017) ↑ The Last of us Part II - PGW 2017 Trailer ], YouTube , (Accessed; 30 October, 2017) ↑ The Last of Us Part II: PSX 2017 , YouTube ↑ Naughty Dog Tweet , Twitter , (Accessed September 20, 2019) ↑ Naughty Dog Tweet , Twitter , (Accessed September 24, 2019) ↑ Druckmann, Neil, TLOU 2 Comes to PS4 in May , PlayStation Blog , (Accessed October 24, 2019)] ↑ Part II delayed PushSquare , (Accessed April 6, 2020) ↑ The Last of Us Part II , State of Play ↑ New TLOU 2 trailer , Games Radar ↑ TLOU 2 - Trailer, American edition , YouTube ↑ TLOU 2 - Trailer, European edition , YouTube ↑ 65.0 65.1 The Last of Us Part II review , Euro Gamer , (Accessed June 13, 2020)] ↑ 66.0 66.1 The Last of Us Part II review , Game Informer , (Accessed June 13, 2020)] ↑ 67.0 67.1 The Last of Us Part II review , American IGN , (Accessed June 12, 2020) ↑ 68.0 68.1 Review of Part II , Japanese IGN , (Retrieved 13 June, 2020) ↑ 69.0 69.1 GameSpot - The Last of Us Part II review (Accessed June 12, 2020) ↑ 70.0 70.1 The Last of Us Part II review , Destructoid , (Accessed June 12, 2020) ↑ The Last of Us Part II review , The Telegraph , (Accessed June 13, 2020) ↑ 72.0 72.1 72.2 The Last of Us Part II review , Polygon , (Accessed June 13, 2020) ↑ The Last of Us Part II review , The Guardian , (Accessed June 13, 2020) ↑ The Last of Us Part II review , Toronto Sun , Retrieved June 16, 2020 ↑ The Last of Us Part II score , Metacritic , (Accessed June 12, 2020) ↑ Last Of Us 2 Sells 4 Million In First Three Days, Setting New Franchise Record , GameSpot , (Accessed June 28, 2020)] ↑ Script Apart podcast April 2021 [timestamp: 39:51], (Accessed 1 December, 2022) ↑ Grounded II: Making The Last of Us Part II , 2 February, 2024 [timestamp: 1:58:12], (Accessed 2 February, 2024) ↑ Variety "Making ‘The Last of Us’ Season 2" by Adam B. Vary, Mar 5, 2025 ↑ THE LAST OF US PART 3 Reportedly In "Advanced Production" v · d · e Real world subjects Video games The Last of Us ( Factions MP · Remastered · Part I ) · The Last of Us: Left Behind · The Last of Us Part II ( Remastered ) · The Last of Us Online (cancelled) Compilations The Last of Us Complete Books and comics The Last of Us: American Dreams ( Issue 1 · Issue 2 · Issue 3 · Issue 4 ) · The Last of Us Strategy Guide ( Remastered ) · The Art of The Last of Us · The Last of Us: The Poster Collection · The Art of The Last of Us Part II Screen adaptations HBO's The Last of Us ( Season 1 · Season 2 · Season 3 ) · The Last of Us film (cancelled) · The Last of Us animated short film (cancelled) Stage adaptations The Last of Us: One Night Live Tabletop games The Last of Us: Escape the Dark · The Last of Us: The Board Game (cancelled) Podcast series The Official The Last of Us Podcast · HBO's The Last of Us Podcast ( Season 1 · Season 2 ) Web series The Last of Us Development Series · Grounded: Making The Last of Us · From Dreams: The Making of The Last of Us: Left Behind · The Last of Us: The Definitive Playthrough · Inside The Last of Us Part II · The Last of Us Revisited · The Last of Us: Inside the Episode · Building The Last of Us · Grounded II: Making The Last of Us Part II · The Last of Us: Game Nights Location-based entertainment Halloween Horror Nights · Future Immersive Entertainment Concept Music The Last of Us Original Soundtrack · The Last of Us Part II Original Soundtrack · The Last of Us Part II: Covers and Rarities · The Last of Us: Season 1 Soundtrack · The Sounds of the Fireflies Miscellaneous The Last of Us Official Map App · The Last of Us Stickers · Merchandise Events Firefly Pendant Contests · The Last of Us Day ( 2019 · 2020 · 2021 · 2022 · 2023 · 2024 ) · The Last of Us Design Contest · Photo Mode Contest · Play Like Ellie · The Last of Us Lock-in · Through the Valley Cover Challenge · PlayStation 4 Photo & Movie Share Contest Companies Naughty Dog · HBO v · d · e Characters and groups in The Last of Us Part II Playable characters Ellie Williams · Abby Anderson · Joel Miller FEDRA Adams · Avery · Benny · Carmelo Torres · Green · Irina · Kieran · Mali · Miller · Paul Douglas · Perez · Seb · Victor · Ward Fireflies Jerry Anderson · Kari · Marlene Jackson Adam · Alex · Astrid · Bonnie · Buckley · Cat · Chad · Claire Linden · Dina · Ellie · Eric · Eugene Linden · Greg · Gustavo · Japan · Joel Miller · Jesse · JJ · Kristen · Maria Miller · Mina · Robin · Seth · Shimmer · Sidney · Tara · Tommy Miller · William · Willy Rattlers Large Rattler · Pat · Small Rattler Seraphites August · Cabel · Constance · Duncan · Edmund · Emily · Emmett · Eva · Ezra · Harper · Henry · Jimmy · Karen · Lev · Lucia · Lyra · Marcus · Moira · Seraphite Prophet · Walter · Yara and Lev's mother · Yara · Zachary Santa Barbara Abuela · Andrew · Arnie · Jenny · Logan · McKenzie · Ori · Rattler prisoner Seattle A.J. Malidore · Aaron · Alfie · B · Barnes · Beth · Bo · Boris Legasov · Colin · Dale · Dewey · Don Carter · Ellen · Erin · Fran · Heather · Heidi · Horace · Jake · James · Jiao · Josephine Roberts · Julia · Kayla Higashi · Kyle Peters · Leon Travis · Mei · Neal Grant · Paige Vickers · Quinn · Randall · Raul · Ruby · Sam · Scott · Sheryl · Simon Vickers · Sofia Legasov · Staci · Steven · Susie · The Brandmans · Tom · Uli · Viv · Will · Yolanda · Zivah Saunders WLF Abby Anderson · Adam Peters · Alice · Alison Cole · Andre Dominguez · Bear · Cam · Carter · Chevy · Chris Marsh · Danny · Davis · Derek · Eddie · Emma Patterson · Foster · Gavin · Hernandez · Hugo Gonzalez · Isaac Dixon · Jason Patterson · Jensen · Ji-So Huang · Jo · John · Jordan · Jules · Kent · Leah · Lewis · Luis Sanchez · Manny Alvarez · Marcus Wilson · Marquez · Marta · Matt · Mel · Melissa · Mike · Misha · Mr. Alvarez · Nick · Nora Harris · Owen Moore · Pat · Paul · Price · Rebecca · Roger · Ross · Rue · Sal · Sally · Sam · Sandra · Scott · Tina · Vicky · Whitney · Whyte · Wilson · Woods · Wright · Young · Zelda Other characters Bill · Sarah Miller · Talia Groups Center for Disease Control · Federal Disaster Response Agency · Fireflies · Infected ( Runners · Stalkers · Clickers · Bloaters · Shamblers · Rat king ) · Rattlers · Ravens · Seraphites · Survivors · United States military · Washington Liberation Front v · d · e Chapters of The Last of Us Part II " Jackson " " Prologue " · " Waking Up " · " The Overlook " · " Patrol " · " The Horde " · " The Chalet " · " Packing Up " " Seattle Day 1 " " The Gate " · " Downtown " · " Eastbrook Elementary " · " Capitol Hill " · " Channel 13 " · " The Tunnels " · " The Theater " · " The Birthday Gift " " Seattle Day 2 " " Hillcrest " · " Finding Strings " · " The Seraphites " · " St. Mary's Hospital " " Seattle Day 3 " " Road to the Aquarium " · " The Flooded City " · " Infiltration " " The Park " " Tracking Lesson " " Seattle Day 1 " " The Stadium " · " On Foot " · " The Forward Base " · " The Aquarium " · " Hostile Territory " · " Winter Visit " · " The Forest " · " The Coast " " Seattle Day 2 " " Return to the Coast " · " The Shortcut " · " The Descent " · " Ground Zero " · " Return to the Aquarium " " Seattle Day 3 " " The Marina " · " The Island " · " The Escape " · " The Confrontation " " The Farm " " The Farm " " Santa Barbara " " 2425 Constance " · " Pushing Inland " · " The Resort " · " The Beach " " The Farm " " Epilogue " Lost Levels " Jackson Party " · " Seattle Sewers " · " The Hunt " v · d · e Weapons and items in The Last of Us Part II Long guns Bolt-action rifle · Bow · Crossbow · Double barrel shotgun · Flamethrower · Pump shotgun · Semi-auto rifle · Silenced submachine gun Short guns Hunting pistol · Military pistol · Revolver · Semi-auto pistol Melee weapons 2x4 · Baseball bat · Baton · Club · Crowbar · Felling axe · Fire axe · Hammer · Hatchet · Kukri · Lead pipe · Machete · Pickaxe · Scythe · Shiv · Switchblade · Tomahawk · Wrench Craftable items Arrows · Explosive arrow · Health kit · Hunting pistol ammo · Incendiary shells · Melee upgrade · Molotov · Pipe bomb · Shiv · Silencer · Smoke bomb · Stun bomb · Trap mine Supplies Ammunition · Crafting materials · Parts · Supplements Other items Armor · Backpack · Bottle · Brick · Flashlight · Gas mask · Weapon holster Miscellaneous Safe · Workbench v · d · e Collectibles in The Last of Us Part II Artifacts Ellie's journal · Volunteer request · Unnamed artifact (Jackson) · A note to Santa · Supermarket apology · Good boy combo · Eugene's Firefly pendant · Eugene's ultimatum · Photo of Eugene and Tommy · Joel's watch · Map of Seattle · Refugee note · Infected infographic · Isaac's orders · Checkpoint gate codes · Rooftop note · FEDRA census document · Bank heist plans · Bank robber letter · Antique ring · Cache hunter note · Letter from Isaac · WLF community supply chest note · Street drawing · WLF safe house supply note · Pet store key · Join WLF note · Note to informant · Emergency protocols memo · Rabbi Saunders' letter · Plea to a friend letter · Lt. Torres' final memorandum · List of known WLF agitators · WLF recruiter journal · Leah's note · Leah's photograph · Isaac's mandate · Chevy's apology · Raul's olive branch · Rebecca's tip off · Tower doodles · Raul's account · Fran's refusal · Thrift store reminder · Dad's pep talk · Subway note · Whittled statue · Soda can note · Locker room note · Subway station note · Program for Cassandra · Lone FEDRA soldier journal #1 · Lone FEDRA soldier journal #2 · The Sick Habit flyer / set list · Suicide note · Join WLF note · Boris' daughter's drawing · Yolanda's note · Need a plan note · Condolence note · Note in Hillcrest tattoo parlor · Turn in Boris note · Dale's combo · Boris' confession · Rosemont's flyer · Tara's invitation · WLF target list · Last letter to husband · Evacuation letter · WLF deserter letter · Dying husband's plea · Pharmacy note · Hospital supply list · Garage note · Bookstore note · Textile note · Stash note · Shambler note · Sniper's note · Encampment note · Arcade flyer · Arcade note · Owen's drawing of Abby · Thank you card from Mel · Zoo holiday brochure · WLF gun cache note · WLF interrogator letter · Scar's suicide note · Plea to Seraphite Prophet · Jasmine Bakery safe · Strange relic · Seraphite prayer to Prophet - Peace · Prayer for victory · Seraphite prayer to Prophet - Respect · Seraphite prayer to Prophet - Steed · Seraphite prayer to Prophet - Prosperity · Seraphite prayer to Prophet - Pairing · WLF soldier meets Prophet letter · Letter from Seraphite father to son · Failed truce · Infirmary note · Mutiny note · Ferry log · Amputation supplies · Survivor plea · Neighbor exchange · Scavenging list · Seraphite truce · Seraphite orders · Gym safe code · FEDRA orders · FEDRA final note · Annex letter · Soldier's letter · Chapel note · Patient's note · Doctor's note · Marina note · WLF scout journal · Venison distribution note · Mournful prayer note · Young Seraphite's journal · Unnamed artifact (Santa Barbara) · Abby's note · Mansion note · Runaway warning · Santa Barbara slave note · Rattler's letter home Trading cards Seismicayla · The Keene Twins · Tesseracter · Laurent Foucault, CEO SPARK · Motivator · The Starfire Kids · Chessmaster · Oozer · Doctor Uckmann · Das Wort · Flo · Big Blue · Know It All · Cardio · Kinnard, Esq. · Rockafella · Doctor Stem · Sergeant Frost · Candelabra · Bizarrebra · Kimimela · The Imp · Dr. Daniela Star · Bastet · Mortem · Beyond · The Nighthawk · Saura · Wachumero · Sahir the Sorcerer · Naledi the Youthful · Brainstorm · Reverb · The Austringer · Randy Styles · Shift · Star Sign · Arch-Enemy · Doppelganger · Bhat M'Andarr · Esquire · Tormentra · Tanager · Tatuaje · Seff-L'ho'phad · Khazakh Bright · CBB-73 · Sparkthug Coins Virginia · Alaska · Maine · New Jersey · Vermont · Kentucky · Massachusetts · Ohio · Indiana · California · New Mexico · South Carolina · North Dakota · Alabama · West Virginia · Utah · Mississippi · Nevada · Colorado · Illinois · Oregon · Wisconsin · Rhode Island · Missouri · Washington · Hawaii · Kansas · Louisiana · Idaho · North Carolina · Montana · Arkansas Training manuals Crafting · Stealth · Explosives · Precision · Covert Ops · Close Quarters · Firearms · Ordinance Interactable items Note from dad · Note from Ricky · Seraphite invitation v · d · e Locations within the United States in The Last of Us series California Catalina Island · San Francisco · Santa Barbara ( 2425 Constance · Hacienda Polanco · Mesa Bluff Park ) Colorado Boulder ( Colorado Mountain Plaza · University of Eastern Colorado ) · Denver · Silver Lake ( Todd's Steakhouse & Bar · Warren Coal Mining · Whitefish Lake · Bear Creek Lodge ) Connecticut Hartford Georgia Atlanta Massachusetts Boston ( Boston slums · Freedom Museum of Boston · The Goldstone Building · Liberty Gardens ( Raja's Arcade ) · Massachusetts State House · Mission Hill Pier · State Street Subway Station ) · Lincoln ( Lincoln High School · St. Paul's Lutheran Church ) Pennsylvania Pittsburgh ( Fort Duquesne Bridge · The Hotel Grand · Spenzür Architecture · Waverly Township ) Texas Austin ( Miller residence ) Utah Salt Lake City ( Forest Park · Logan James Bus Station · Saint Mary's Hospital ) Washington Seattle ( Bay Hardware · Capitol Hill · Chinatown-International District · Eastbrook Elementary · Forward operating base · Hillcrest · Hotel BlacRay · KMAB 13 News Station · Lakehill Seattle Hospital · Pinnacle Theater · Seaport Pavilion · Seattle Conference Center · Seattle Courthouse · Seattle Waterfront Aquarium · Seraphite island ( Haven · Old Town ) · Serevena Hotel · SoundView Stadium · Seattle synagogue · W&B Arcade · Westlake Bank ) Wyoming Jackson ( Ellie's house · Jackson Cemetery · Joel's house · Tipsy Bison ) · Teton Village ( Eugene's library · Greenplace Market ) · Jackson County ( Baldwin mansion · Ellie and Dina's farm · Hidden Pines Corral · Jackson County Hydro Dam Reservoir · Mountain View ) · Wyoming Museum of Science and History Related Quarantine zone · Weston's Pharmacy v · d · e Transcripts of The Last of Us series The Last of Us Part I " Hometown " · " The Quarantine Zone " · " The Outskirts " · " Bill's Town " · " Pittsburgh " · " The Suburbs " · " Tommy's Dam " · " The University " · " Lakeside Resort " · " Bus Depot " · " The Firefly Lab " · " Jackson " Left Behind " Back in a Flash " · " Mallrats " · " So Close " · " Fun and Games " · " The Enemy of My Enemy " · " Escape from Liberty Gardens " The Last of Us Part II " Jackson " · " Seattle Day 1 " · " Seattle Day 2 " · " Seattle Day 3 " · " The Park " · " Seattle Day 1 " · " Seattle Day 2 " · " Seattle Day 3 " · " The Farm " · " Santa Barbara " · " The Farm " · " Jackson Party " · " Seattle Sewers " · " The Hunt " The Official The Last of Us Podcast "Your watch is broken." - Summer Part 1 · "What are you scared of?" - Summer Part 2 · "You have no idea what loss is." - Fall and Left Behind · "It can't be for nothing." - Winter and Spring · Artifact 1: "Sad Town USA" · Artifact 2: "Your dad's eyes and your mom's baggage" · Artifact 3: "Still searching for the happy ending" · "Take on me" - Behind Part II · "They should be terrified of you" - Ellie · "You're my people" - Abby · "I would do it all over again" - Beyond Part II · Bonus Ep 1: "I know, I know, I know" HBO's The Last of Us Season 1 " When You're Lost in the Darkness " · " Infected " · " Long, Long Time " · " Please Hold to My Hand " · " Endure and Survive " · " Kin " · " Left Behind " · " When We Are in Need " · " Look for the Light " Season 2 " Future Days " · " Through the Valley " HBO's The Last of Us Podcast Season 1 " When You're Lost in the Darkness " · " Infected " · " Long, Long Time " · " Please Hold to My Hand " · " Endure and Survive " · " Kin " · " Left Behind " · " When We Are in Need " · " Look for the Light " Season 2 " Future Days " · " Through the Valley " Stage adaptations The Last of Us: One Night Live Web series The Last of Us Development Series · Grounded: Making The Last of Us · From Dreams: The Making of The Last of Us: Left Behind · Inside The Last of Us Part II · The Last of Us Revisited · Building The Last of Us · Grounded II: Making The Last of Us Part II Categories Categories : Games The Last of Us Part II Languages Deutsch Español Français Italiano Polski Português do Brasil Русский Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Horror The Last of Us Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. The Last of Us Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab