'Avengers: Doomsday' Cast, Release Date and What We Know ​ Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals Royals Royals PEOPLE StyleWatch: Spring 2025 Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals StyleWatch Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe 1 Massive Brawl Erupts Among Carnival Cruise Passengers, Landing 24 People on ‘Do Not Sail’ List 2 Tourist Filming Himself on a Zipline Unknowingly Captures Chilling Footage of Massacre in India That Killed 26 3 Robert De Niro's Daughter Airyn Comes Out as Trans in Revealing Interview About Growing Up 'Out of the Limelight' 4 Bill Belichick's Girlfriend Jordon Hudson Wears Sparkling Ring on That Finger, Sparking Engagement Rumors Entertainment Movies Action Movies Avengers: Doomsday : All About Robert Downey Jr.'s Return and What Was Revealed at Comic-Con From the cast to the release date, here's everything to know about the upcoming 'Avengers' movie By Kelsie Gibson Kelsie Gibson Kelsie Gibson is the SEO Editor of PEOPLE. She has been working at PEOPLE since 2021. She was formerly at POPSUGAR, Bustle, Tiger Beat and Her Campus. People Editorial Guidelines Updated on March 26, 2025 03:56PM EDT Comments Robert Downey Jr. at Comic-Con. Photo: Jesse Grant/Getty Marvel has big things in store for Avengers: Doomsday . Originally titled Avengers: The Kang Dynasty , the upcoming fifth Avengers film has undergone many changes since it was first announced at San Diego Comic-Con in July 2022. Following the introduction of He Who Remains on Disney+'s Loki , the Avengers project was initially going to revolve around an alternate-timeline variant of the character Kang the Conqueror, played by Jonathan Majors . However, after Majors was found guilty of assault and harassment in his misdemeanor trial in December 2023, Marvel reworked the script. Many new details about the film were announced at San Diego Comic-Con in July 2024, including the updated title and the new villain. In a standout moment during the Marvel presentation, it was announced that Robert Downey Jr. , who famously played superhero Iron Man , would return to the MCU as Doctor Doom . From the cast to the release date, here’s everything to know about Avengers: Doomsday . See All the Celebrities Who Attended Entertainment Weekly 's Starry Comic-Con Closing Night Party Who is the villain of Avengers: Doomsday ? While the Infinity Saga revolved around Thanos (Josh Brolin) as the main villain , the Multiverse Saga will debut Doctor Doom as the big bad in Avengers: Doomsday . Fittingly, the role will be played by Robert Downey Jr., who previously starred as Avengers superhero Iron Man who sacrificed himself to save the world in Avengers: Endgame . The announcement was made during San Diego Comic-Con in July 2024, as Downey Jr. emerged onto the panel's stage among a group of actors wearing masks and robes. “New mask, same task," Downey said as he took off Doctor Doom’s notable silver mask. "What did I tell ya? I like playing complicated characters." So, how exactly can Downey Jr. play both Iron Man and Doctor Doom? As previous films in the Multiverse Saga have teased, the MCU is teeing up for a big collision of parallel universes in Avengers 5 and 6. This has led many fans to believe that Downey Jr. will be playing an alternate-universe version of Stark, where he became the villainous Doctor Doom instead of the heroic Iron Man. Who is in the Avengers: Doomsday cast? Joseph Quinn, Ebon Moss-Bachrach, Pedro Pascal and Vanessa Kirby at Comic-Con. Amy Sussman/WireImage In addition to Downey Jr. as the chief villain, it was confirmed during Comic-Con that both the Fantastic Four and the Thunderbolts would appear in Avengers 5 and 6. For Fantastic Four , that includes Pedro Pascal as Reed Richards/Mr. Fantastic, Vanessa Kirby as Sue Storm/The Invisible Woman, Joseph Quinn as Johnny Storm/The Human Torch and Ebon Moss-Bachrach as Ben Grimm/The Thing. From the Thunderbolts, the following actors are expected to appear: Sebastian Stan as Bucky Barnes, Florence Pugh as Yelena Belova, David Harbour as Red Guardian, Wyatt Russell as U.S. Agent, Olga Kurylenko as Taskmaster, Hannah John-Kamen as Ghost, Julia Louis-Dreyfus as Valentina Allegra de Fontaine and Lewis Pullman as Bob. In March 2025, a livestream hosted by Marvel announced more additions to the cast. Those confirmed to return include Chris Hemsworth , Anthony Mackie, Danny Ramirez, Paul Rudd , Tom Hiddleston , Letitia Wright, Winston Duke and Simu Liu. During the same live stream, Marvel revealed that several of the X-Men will also appear in Doomsday , including Patrick Stewart , Ian McKellen, Alan Cumming, Rebecca Romijn and Kelsey Grammer . It's also possible that fellow Marvel star Chris Evans could also be a part of the movie. In December 2024, multiple outlets including Deadline reported that Evans will be appearing in Avengers: Doomsday, though what role he would play isn't clear. Thunderbolts* Star Florence Pugh Shares the 'Joy' of the Next Marvel Team-Up: 'They Don't Play Well with Others' What is Avengers: Doomsday about? An official plotline for the movie hasn’t been announced yet, though the comics could tease what’s in store. In 2011, a multi-issue comic was released titled Ultimate Comics: Doomsday , in which the Fantastic Four teamed up with various Marvel superheroes in hopes of stopping a mysterious villain trying to destroy their timeline. In the comics, they eventually discover that the mysterious villain is a familiar, heroic face who turned bad in the multiverse, perfectly setting things up for Downey Jr.’s return. Who is directing Avengers: Doomsday ? Joe Russo and Anthony Russo at Comic-Con. Jesse Grant/Getty Anthony and Joe Russo are slated to helm the project after a few previous director switch-ups. The movie will mark their big return to the MCU after previously directing Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014), Captain America: Civil War (2016), Avengers: Infinity War (2018), and Avengers: Endgame (2019). Who is writing Avengers: Doomsday ? Not only are the Russo brothers slated to return to the MCU, but Stephen McFeely, who co-wrote all four of the Russos’ Marvel films, will pen the script, per Variety . When will Avengers: Doomsday be released? Joe Russo, Anthony Russo and Kevin Feige at Comic-Con. Jesse Grant/Getty The movie is slated to hit theaters in May 2026 as part of the MCU’s Phase 6. Marvel Movies in Order: How to Watch All 35 Films in the MCU (By Release Date and Chronologically) Will there be another Avengers movie? Joe Russo, Anthony Russo and Kevin Feige at Comic-Con. Jesse Grant/Getty Avengers: Doomsday isn’t the only Avengers project in the works. It will be followed by Avengers: Secret Wars , which is slated to release a year later in May 2027. Many of the same production team will be involved including the Russo brothers as directors and Stephen McFeely as the screenwriter. The cast will also include Downey Jr. as Doctor Doom and the stars of The Fantastic Four and Thunderbolts* . Close Leave a Comment You Might Like Anthony Mackie Promises Avengers: Doomsday Will Give Fans 'That Old Marvel Feeling,' After Some Recent Misses Entertainment April 15, 2025 Sebastian Stan Shares the Amusing Text He Got from Anthony Mackie Following Avengers: Doomsday Cast Announcement Entertainment a day ago New Fantastic Four: First Steps Trailer Teases Julia Garner's Mysterious Silver Surfer — and a Giant God-Like Villain Entertainment April 17, 2025 Comments All comments are subject to our Community Guidelines . PEOPLE does not endorse the opinions and views shared by readers in our comment sections. Account Settings Sign Out Related Articles Thunderbolts* Reviews Praise Florence Pugh for Bringing 'Depth' to Marvel Movie: It's 'Miraculously Pretty Good' Alan Cumming Spent '5 Hours' in a Makeup Chair for X-Men 2 Role — Now It Takes Just '90 Minutes' for Avengers: Doomsday Top Gun: Maverick Studio Sued by Screenwriter's Cousin Who Claims He Wrote 'Key Scenes' That Made Sequel a 'Smash Hit' Why Isn't Anna Kendrick In The Accountant 2 ? All About Her Absence From the Movie — and Whether She'd Return For A Third Jesse Eisenberg Enlists a New Generation of Magicians in Twisty Now You See Me: Now You Don't Trailer Ryan Gosling Is Making Star Wars 'So Much Better and Cooler,' Teases Director Shawn Levy (Exclusive) Kellan Lutz and Cam Gigandet Reunite 17 Years After Twilight for Bloody Cop Thriller Desert Dawn : Trailer (Exclusive) The Accountant 2 Review: Ben Affleck Gives One of His Best Performances in Sequel Costarring Jon Bernthal Ryan Reynolds Reveals the 'Lesson' He Learned from Box Office Flop Green Lantern Josh Hartnett Makes Very Rare Social Media Appearance — and Says He'll 'Ghost' Again for Another 10 Years John Krasinski and Natalie Portman Go on a Globe-Hopping Adventure in New Fountain of Youth Trailer (Exclusive) Sunrise on the Reaping Cast: Meet the Young Stars Joining the Hunger Games Franchise (So Far) Who Is In the Avengers: Doomsday Cast? All the Actors Confirmed So Far (and Who Is Notably Missing...) President John Cena Clashes with Prime Minister Idris Elba Before Teaming Up in Heads of State Trailer Elle Fanning Teams Up with an Alien to Hunt Bigger Monsters in Action-Packed Predator: Badlands Trailer Ryan Gosling Confirmed to Lead Shawn Levy's New Star Wars Film Starfighter with 2027 Release PEOPLE Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies