Tesla (TSLA) releases Q2 2020 result: delivers profit and crushes expectations | Electrek Skip to main content Toggle main menu Electrek Logo Go to the Electrek home page Switch site 9to5Mac Logo 9to5Mac 9to5Google Logo 9to5Google 9to5Toys Drone DJ Logo DroneDJ Space Explored About Privacy Toggle social menu Toggle dark mode Search for: Submit Toggle search form Exclusives Autos Electric Vehicle Price Guide – best prices for dealers in the US Tesla Ford GM BMW Jaguar VW Daimler/Mercedes Hyundai Nissan Toyota Alt. Transport Ebikes Electric Motorcycles Bus Hyperloop Autonomy Tesla Autopilot Cruise Automation Uber Waymo Energy Green Energy Climate Tesla Shop Store Toggle dark mode Tesla TSLA - Tesla Stock Price Tesla (TSLA) releases Q2 2020 result: delivers profit and crushes expectations Fred Lambert | Jul 22 2020 - 4:30 pm PT 0 Comments Tesla has released its financial results and shareholders letter for the second quarter of 2020 after market close today. We are updating this post with all the details from the financial results, shareholders letter, and the conference call later tonight. As we reported in our Q2 earnings preview post yesterday, Wall Street was expecting revenue of about $5.146 billion for the quarter and a loss of $0.14 per share. There was a lot of speculation about whether or not Tesla would turn a profit since profitability this quarter could mean eligibility to the S&P500 and CEO Elon Musk has been teasing “breaking even” late in the quarter despite the impact of the pandemic. Advertisement - scroll for more content Today, the automaker announced that it made $6 billion in revenue and it reported a small profit of $0.50 per share (GAAP) in Q2 2020 – crushing expectations for revenue and for earnings. Tesla delivered $104M GAAP net income, $451M non-GAAP net income (ex-SBC) in Q2 – way higher than expected by virtually every analyst. In the shareholders letter, the automaker wrote about how it achieved profitability: “Our operating profit improved in Q2 despite challenging circumstances. Positive impacts included lower operating costs due to a temporary reduction in employee compensation expense, a sequential increase in regulatory credit revenue and deferred revenue recognition of $48M related to a Full Self Driving (FSD) feature release. These positive contributions were offset by significant costs related to factory shutdowns, as well as a sequential increase in non-cash SBC expense primarily attributable to $101M related to 2018 CEO award milestones.” To be fair, Tesla’s sale of regulatory credits for electric vehicles is what enabled the large profits by contributing $428 million. Other impressive metrics include that Tesla improved its gross margin quarter-over-quarter and it significantly increased its cash position: Tesla’s stock (TSLA) was up as much as 7% in aftermarket trading following the release of these results. Here we will be posting our follow-up posts about the earnings and conference call to expand on the most important points (refresh the page to see the most recent posts): Tesla releases new pictures of Model Y production line at Gigafactory Shanghai Tesla confirms ‘next US Gigafactory site has been selected’ Elon Musk hints at Tesla Roadster production in California within 12-18 months Elon Musk on Tesla Self-Driving: ‘I can almost go from my house to work with no intervention’ Tesla plans two new electric cars after Cybertruck, Musk tentatively confirms Tesla triples Solar Roof installations Here’s Tesla’s Q2 2020 shareholder letter and presentation in full: [scribd id=470064576 key=key-ZIeIYXS31a53mDHPDmaV mode=scroll] Add Electrek to your Google News feed. FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More. Stay up to date with the latest content by subscribing to Electrek on Google News .  You’re reading Electrek— experts who break news about Tesla , electric vehicles, and green energy , day after day. Be sure to check out our homepage for all the latest news, and follow Electrek on Twitter , Facebook , and LinkedIn to stay in the loop. Don’t know where to start? Check out our YouTube channel for the latest reviews. Featured from Electrek Electrek Logo The Tesla (TSLA) dilemma: company is cooked with Musk, but stock crashes without him Fred Lambert Apr 25 2025 San Francisco just joined the curbside EV charger movement Michelle Lewis Apr 25 2025 OUKITEL P5000 5,120Wh power station at exclusive $1,299, ENGWE e-bikes up to $850 off, Jackery Explorer 100 plus, Rad Power, more Reinette LeJeune Apr 25 2025 Here’s some of the coolest, sleekest (and furriest) EV tech we saw at the 2025 Shanghai Auto Show Scooter Doll Apr 25 2025 Subscribe to Electrek on YouTube for exclusive videos and subscribe to the podcast . Comments Expand Close comments Guides Tesla Tesla is a transportation and energy company. It… TSLA stock Author Fred Lambert fredericlambert Fred is the Editor in Chief and Main Writer at Electrek. You can send tips on Twitter (DMs open) or via email: fred@9to5mac.com Through Zalkon.com, you can check out Fred’s portfolio and get monthly green stock investment ideas. Fred Lambert's favorite gear Combat Edge Get an edge on MMA with the best stats EnergySage EnergySage helps you get the best price possible on a home solar installation for free and without hassel.