Why The Blacklist Is Ending After Season 10 | NBC Insider Skip to main content NBC Main menu Home Browse Sports LIVE Networks NBC Insider Peacock Toggle menu Sign Up / Log In Main menu Home Browse Sports LIVE Networks NBC Insider Peacock TV Provider Profile Sign Up / Log In Profile Manage Profile Email Preferences Sign Out NBC Insider Exclusive Create a free profile to get unlimited access to exclusive show news, updates, and more! Sign Up For Free to View NBC Insider The Blacklist James Spader Reveals the Reason The Blacklist Had to End After Season 10 After a decade on the air, we said goodbye to Reddington and the Task Force in 2023. By McKenzie Jean-Philippe Jul 11, 2023, 3:10 PM ET The Devil's Bargain with Red | The Blacklist | NBC Now Playing 3:05 Highlight The Devil's Bargain with Red | The Blacklist | NBC 3:11 Highlight Dembe Delivers Emotional Monologue about Red | The Blacklist | NBC 3:31 Web Exclusive What to Know About The Blacklist’s Siya Malik | THE BLACKLIST Load More Following a decade on the air and hundreds of masterful James Spader monologues , The Blacklist officially ended in 2023. “After 10 years, hundreds of Blacklist cases, and more than 200 episodes produced, we’re honored to reach our conclusion,” said showrunner and executive producer John Eisendrath in a statement. “It’s been incredibly fun to create the strange, devious, and delightful Blacklisters to challenge Raymond Reddington and our FBI Task Force each week. We would like to thank everyone at NBC and Sony, our extraordinary crew who make the impossible happen every day, our endlessly inventive writers and producers, and our remarkable cast who brought life to these characters. We appreciate our dedicated fanbase who came along for this wonderful ride and are excited to share this final season with them.” Photo: Fernando Marrero/ SONY /NBC Lisa Katz, NBCUniversal Television and Streaming's president of scripted content said in a statement: “It isn’t often that a series resonates so deeply with an audience that it airs for 10 seasons, but The Blacklist proved to be a perfect combination of highly talented producers, stellar writing, a cast that never failed to deliver, and a crew that always rose to the occasion. A huge thank you to our partners at Sony, everyone from the past decade who made this show an integral part of NBC’s storied history and, of course, a special nod to James Spader , whose performance remains nothing short of spectacular.” RELATED: Red's Relationship with Agnes Keen on The Blacklist , Explained So, why exactly did The Blacklist end? We answer below. Why did The Blacklist end with Season 10? In an interview with NBC, Spader revealed exactly why he believed the show had to end with Season 10. “I think if the show went beyond this year, it would turn into a very different show," Spader said. Photo: Fernando Marrero/ SONY /NBC "And I think that the thing that has been nice about this show was that we’ve never really had a really clear paradigm for the show," Spader continued. "Tonally the show shifts a lot from episode to episode, and I think that even the show has taken strange turns, and I suspect that the show, if it went much further, would just become something that would be less recognizable to me." Since The Blacklist 's first season, Spader (who's also an executive producer) instantly hooked fans as the enigmatic fugitive Reddington , who secretly helps the FBI Task Force take down hundreds of the world's most skilled and elusive criminals, a.k.a, his infamous Blacklisters. While enjoying the action-packed final season, fans have seen the Task Force celebrate 200 Blacklisters behind bars, welcomed new Task Force members, and witnessed Red finally face many of the demons haunting his past as vengeful Blacklisters returned in hopes of settling the score. RELATED: Why These Fan Favorites Returned to The Blacklist a Week Before the Final Read more about: The Blacklist James Spader The WiFi is Booming Xfinity is raising the bar. Stream your favorite shows with low lag for a smooth connection, even when everyone is online at once. You can even power hundreds of devices, so you never have to miss a moment. Learn More Related Stories Every Manager of The Office, From Michael Scott to Dwight Schrute Who Is Raymond Reddington on The Blacklist? Who Was in the Cast of The Blacklist in Season 1? The Scariest Villains on The Blacklist What Happened to Nellie Bertram in The Office? Hisham Tawfiq Opens Up About The Blacklist's 'Epic' End The Blacklist Season 10: Everything to Know How Does The Blacklist End? How Did Red Die in The Blacklist Series Finale? Unpacking That Explosive Series Finale of The Blacklist James Spader Reveals How He Feels About The Blacklist's End Harry Lennix Says This Moment Is the "Emotional Highlight" of The Blacklist The Blacklist Watch on NBC Stream on Peacock Sponsored Stories Recommended by Zergnet Recommended for You 2-Year-Old Mariska Hargitay Appears on the Merv Griffin Show Ryan Gosling and Jimmy Fallon Deserve Oscars for Playing Identical-Looking Tough Cops Scarlett Johansson Matches Katie Britt's SOTU Energy in SNL Parody: Watch Download the NBC App The NBC App is the best place to catch up on the most recent season of your favorite shows, watch live TV, and stream movies. Get The Free NBC App Footer menu About Jobs Viewer Panel Casting Advertise Peacock Tickets and NBC Studio Tour Corporate Info About Help FAQ Accessibility Closed Captioning Link TV Provider Contact Us Local Schedule Sitemap NBC Insider RSS Policies Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choice CA Notice Updated Terms of Service Parental Guidelines and TV Ratings Video Viewing Policy Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram ©2025 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. A Division of NBCUniversal