Future Super Bowl Packages - Bullseye Event Group Skip to content Bullseye Event Group Your source for Super Bowl tickets, hotel rooms and Super Bowl travel packages. Super Bowl 60 Santa Clara Super Bowl 60 Santa Clara SB60 Packages SB60 Hotels SB60 Tickets VIP Tailgates VIP Tailgates Broncos VIP Tailgate Browns VIP Tailgate Bucs VIP Tailgate Colts VIP Tailgate Lions VIP Tailgate Rams VIP Tailgate Saints VIP Tailgate Titans VIP Tailgate Panthers VIP Tailgate The Players Tailgate The Players Tailgate Tickets Tickets Sport Tickets Concert Tickets Sponsorships 317.530.3053 CONTACT Super Bowl Super Bowl Packages The 2026 Super Bowl Travel Packages Bullseye Event Group is your destination for hotel, travel packages and tickets for the upcoming Super Bowl 60 in 2026. You won’t miss a moment of Super Bowl excitement when you stay in Santa Clara with one of our Super Bowl travel packages. View Packages Hotels Fairmont San Francisco InterContental Mark Hopkins San Francisco Hotel Nikko Via San Francisco Hyatt Centric Fisherman Wharf Players Tailgate 2026 Players Tailgate Santa Clara The Players Tailgate is rated the #1 event to attend year after year on Super Bowl Sunday! Purchase Tickets Tickets 2026 Super Bowl Tickets All Super Bowl tickets purchased thru Bullseye Event Group receive a Players Tailgate Ticket for free. ($1000 savings per ticket) Purchase Tickets Players Tailgate VIP Team Tailgates VIP Tailgates - Broncos VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for every home game of the 2024 Broncos Season If you are a diehard Broncos fan and you want the best tailgating experience, you’ll want to check out the new Broncos VIP Pre-Game Tailgate. Info Broncos VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Browns VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for the 2024 Browns Season Located INSIDE the Great Lakes Science Center located directly next to Huntington Bank Field. Info Browns VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Bucs VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for every home game of the 2024 Buccaneers Season If you are a diehard Bucs fan and you want the best tailgating experience, you’ll want to check out the new Bucs Official VIP Tailgate. Info Bucs VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets The Colts VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for the 2024 Colts Season If you are a diehard Colts fan and you want a VIP tailgating experience, check out the VIP Colts Game day experience. Info The Colts VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Lions VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for every home game of the 2024 Lions Season If you are a diehard Lions fan and you want a VIP tailgating experience, you’ll want to check out the VIP Lions Pre-Game Tailgate Info Lions VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Panthers VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for the 2024 Panthers Season Located in South Lawn directly NEXT to Bank of America Stadium Info Panthers VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Rams VIP Tailgate The Ultimate All-Inclusive Tailgate Experience for every home game of the 2024 Rams Season Located OUTSIDE in the Hollywood Park Casino parking lot located next to SoFi Stadium. Info Rams VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Saints VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for the 2024 Saints Season New Orleans is known for its incredible food, good times and the Saints. We have taken all of that and put it into one offering. Info Saints VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Titans VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for the 2024 Titans Season If you are a diehard Titans fan, you’ll want to check out the all-inclusive Official Titans VIP Tailgate.  Located at the Bridge Building event venue directly Next to Nissan Stadium. Info Titans VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Falcons VIP Tailgate Info Falcons VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets 2026 Players Tailgate Santa Clara The Players Tailgate is rated the #1 event to attend year after year on Super Bowl Sunday! You do NOT need a Super Bowl Ticket to get into the Players Tailgate. Parking is not included with tailgate ticket. Info 2026 Players Tailgate Santa Clara Purchase Tickets Tickets Sponsorships 317.530.3053 CONTACT Bullseye recognizes the need for football fans the ability to plan ahead for their Super Bowl travel.  We have secured deluxe accommodation hotels in for our Super Bowl travel packages for the upcoming Super Bowls. Super Bowl LV – Tampa, 2021 Packages thru the AFC & NFC Championship games the packages are 100% refundable and contingent on your team playing in the Super Bowl The Super Bowl returns to Florida for the second consecutive year in 2021, this time returning to the beautiful Tampa Bay area, home of some of the best beaches on the Gulf Coast and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Super Bowl LV will be played at the iconic Raymond James Stadium, pirate ships and all. This will be Tampa’s fifth Super Bowl hosted since 1984, previously hosting Super Bowls XVIII (1984), XXV (1991), XXXV (2001), and their first since Super Bowl XLII in 2009. Super Bowl LVI – Los Angeles, 2022 The biggest game in the world makes its triumphant return to one of the most iconic cities in the world, as Super Bowl LVI makes its way to the new home of the Rams and Chargers, Los Angeles, California. Previously scheduled to host Super Bowl LV in 2021, the NFL decided to delay the game’s return to the City of Angels one year due to construction delays with the new stadium. This will just be Los Angeles’ third time hosting the Super Bowl, the first since Super Bowl VII at the Memorial Coliseum in 1973. Thanks to our sponsors Partners Bullseye Event Group 723 Capitol Ave, Indianapolis, IN 46225 317.530.3053 Super Bowl VIP Team Tailgates Sports Tickets Concert Tickets Sponsorships Contact Us 2026 Super Bowl Travel Packages 2026 Players Tailgate Santa Clara College Clients INDUSTRY-LEADING GAME-DAY EXPERIENCES. Terms of Use Privacy Policy 0 0 Your Cart Your cart is empty Continue Shopping