Free Shipping over $39 Esports Performance, Fighting Game Dominance - Shop VICTRIX Now! Login Click the button to redirect to the login page and we'll send you a login code, no password needed. Login Blog / games news / Diablo 3 Season 27: Start Date, Release Time, Seasonal Theme, and More Diablo 3 Turtle Beach August 27, 2022 Diablo 3 Season 27: Start Date, Release Time, Seasonal Theme, and More Games News DIABLO 3 SEASON 27: START DATE, RELEASE TIME, SEASONAL THEME, AND MORE August 27, 2022 NOTE: Diablo 3 Season 27 is now live. If Diablo Immortal isn’t quite doing it for you, don’t worry, because the Diablo 3 Season 27 Release Date is fast approaching. On this page, you’ll find all the important details about the next Diablo 3 season in one place. We’ll also use this space to countdown until the Season 27 start time, with all the latest news as we get it. For now, read on for everything you need to know about Diablo 3 Season 27. When Does Diablo 3 Season 27 Start? Update: The Diablo 3 Twitter account has confirmed that Season 26 ends on August 21 (A Sunday) and that Diablo 3 Season 27 will start on August 26 at 5 p.m. PDT/CEST/KST. At the time of writing, there is no confirmed release date for Diablo 3 Season 27 . However, based on what we know about the way Diablo 3 operates, it’s not too hard to work out when Diablo 3 Season 27 will start. For those new to the game, Diablo 3 seasons typically follow a pretty rigid formula. For instance, each Diablo 3 season will normally last 12 weeks as a bare minimum. That being said, more recently Seasons have lasted a lot longer. Both Season 23 and 22 ran for 18 and 15 weeks respectively, and Season 24 lasted 19 weeks. Blizzard also routinely end every season on a Sunday, with new seasons always starting on a Friday. Given the developers rarely deviate from this pattern we should be able to give a decent estimate on when Season 27 will start. Here comes the math. Since Season 26 started on April 15, if we assume it was to last 18 weeks, it would end on 21 August 2021 (a Sunday). This would mean Diablo 3 Season 27 would start on 26 August 2022 (a Friday). Of course, it’s possible that the season could last longer, so we may even see Season 27 start at some point in September if the developers require more time to test the new season on the PTR. What time will Diablo 3 Season 27 Start? Update - on August 26 at 5 p.m. PDT/CEST/KST Although we’re still a little hazy on the day Season 26 will start, every new Diablo 3 season always starts at the same times around the world. Players should expect Season 26 to start at 5pm PDT in North America, 5pm CEST in Europe, and 5pm KST in Asia. It’s also worth noting that typically the launch times will vary depending on if you’re playing on PC or Console. Diablo 3 console gamers might have to wait a little longer, with Season 26 possibly launching at 1am GMT the following day. Diablo 3 Season 27 Season Theme For the sake of anyone who doesn’t know, Diablo 3 has a new season theme with every new season. Sometimes these are more permanent, like the follower revamp in Season 23. On other occasions, these changes only last for one season, such as Ethereal Weapons in Season 24, or the Soul Shards in Season 25. Diablo 3 Season 26 gave us another perm addition with the brand new ‘ Echoing Nightmare ‘ activity. At the time of writing it’s not been announced what the Seasonal Theme of Diablo 3 Season 27 will be, but we’ll be sure to update this page as we get more intel. Here’s what you need to know about the Season 27 Season Theme: Season 27 introduces a new type of consumable item called Angelic Crucibles . Once uncovered by Nephalem, these heavenly artifacts can be used to Sanctify any equippable Legendary item. Sanctifying an item reforges it to have perfect Ancient-level stats on all affixes while also preserving the item’s Legendary Power. In addition, this process adds one of three new powers unique to each class. Season Theme Details: Angelic Crucibles and Sanctified Items can only be acquired in Seasonal play and will not transfer to your non-seasonal character when the season ends. Angelic Crucibles can drop anywhere in Sanctuary at level 70. Players can obtain as many Sanctified items as they would like, however, only one Sanctified item can be equipped at a time. Sanctified items can be Sanctified again using another Angelic Crucible. No stats are preserved when Sanctifying an item. Only level 70 equippable items can be Sanctified—crafted items cannot be Sanctified. Followers cannot equip Sanctified items. Details on the three Class-Specific Sanctified Powers can be found on the link. What Are The Diablo 3 Season 27 Class Sets At the start of every season, players are given a new selection of class sets as potential rewards. As always, any players who complete chapters from the Season Journey will be rewarded with three sets as part of Haedrigs Gift. Here are the Diablo 3 class sets granted by Haedrig’s Gift in Season 27: Barbarian – Wrath of the Wastes Crusader – Roland’s Legacy Demon Hunter – Unhallowed Essence Monk – Raiment of a Thousand Storms Necromancer – Bones of Rathma Witch Doctor – Helltooth Harness Wizard – Tal Rasha’s Elements Diablo 3 Season 27 Seasonal Cosmetic Rewards Beginning with Season 17, Blizzard started reintroducing previous seasonal rewards to make them available to players who may have missed them the first time around. In Season 27,  this means awards originally available from Season 15 are returning. In addition to the Chest and Glove slots of the exclusive Conqueror Set, a series of portrait frames themed around the struggle of the Eternal Conflict will be available. For the eager cosmetic pet collectors, Belphegor is keen to keep a grip on your coin as it accompanies you on your adventures across Sanctuary! In addition, because Blizzard wants to make sure seasoned players have something new to earn, they also providing new End of Journey rewards with two new cosmetic items for those who complete the entirety of the Season journey. In Season 26 players can earn the Corvus Cadaverous pet and Laurels of Knowledge portrait . That’s it – everything you need to know about Diablo 3 Season 27 . If you’re looking for more Diablo 3 Tier Lists, Builds and tips then you’ll find plenty more guides on the links below: Diablo 3 Tier List for Season 27 | Diablo 3 Best Barbarian Build | Diablo 3 Best Crusader Build | Diablo 3 Best Demon Hunter Build | Diablo 3 Best Monk Build | Diablo 3 Best Necromancer Build | Diablo 3 Best Witch Doctor Build | Diablo 3 Best Builds For Echoing Nightmare Diablo 3 Season 27 Start Time | Diablo 3 Angelic Crucibles | Diablo 3 Sanctified Powers | Diablo 3 Patch Notes | How To Claim Season Rewards Diablo 3 Set Items List | Diablo 3 Pets List | Diablo 3 Kanai’s Cube Location | How To Claim Diablo 3 Haedrig’s Gift | How To Get Death’s Breath | How To Get Ramaladni’s Gift | How To Farm Puzzle Rings | Diablo 3 Boss Fight Guides – Adria | Belial | Ghom | Rakanoth | Zoltun Kulle Back Latest News Oblivion Remastered April 29, 2025 Oblivion Remastered: How To Level Up Oblivion Remastered has been something rumoured in the gaming space for quite some time, and after the recent leaks, it's all but confirmed. Now, players who missed the original 2006 release are diving in, and we'll run through how players will be able to level up once it's time. Here's what you ... Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 April 29, 2025 Clair Obscur: Expedition 33: How Long Does It Take To Complete? Answered Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 is going to be the first major JRPG to release in 2025, and after a phenomenal year of JRPGs in 2024, players are amped. While there are a ton of expectations pertaining to the game, one aspect that we're going to touch on today, is how long it'll take to complete the ... 000 Space Marine 2 Elden Ring Nightreign April 29, 2025 Elden Ring Nightreign: All Classes Elden Ring is back, and they're going to be releasing a brand new stand alone title in the form of Nightreign. This brand new game is going to introduce four brand new classes to the Elden Ring universe and we're going to run over all of them below. Here's what we know. Elden Ring Nightreign: All... Join Our Community Giveaways, gaming gear, our discord channel and more: Giveaways, gaming gear, our discord channel and more: Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information © 2025 Turtle Beach. All rights reserved. Site Map