Xenoblade Chronicles (series) | Xenoblade Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Xenoblade Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio NDS123 WiseAdventurer Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Xenoblade Wiki 24,637 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio NDS123 WiseAdventurer Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki in: Xenoblade Chronicles series English 中文 Xenoblade Chronicles (series) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) The logo from Xenoblade Chronicles Xenoblade Chronicles is a role-playing video game franchise developed by Monolith Soft and published by Nintendo . The series currently consists of a trilogy and one spiritual successor, which cover the Nintendo Wii, Wii U, and Switch, as well as one port to the New Nintendo 3DS. In addition to the games, the series has also been featured in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U , Project X Zone 2 , The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild , and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate . Contents 1 History 2 Releases 3 Trivia 4 Gallery History [ ] The first four games in the Xenoblade Chronicles series Nintendo unveiled Xenoblade Chronicles at E3 2009, then known as Monado : Beginning of the World . The game was later renamed to Xenoblade to honor the director of the game, Tetsuya Takahashi , who birthed the Xeno metaseries. Xenoblade Chronicles (titled Xenoblade in Japan) was released on June 10, 2010 in Japan, August 19, 2011 in Europe, and April 6, 2012 in North America. On January 23, 2013, Nintendo announced a new game simply called X . At E3 2014, Nintendo revealed its full name, Xenoblade Chronicles X , and officially confirmed that it was a spiritual successor to Xenoblade Chronicles . Xenoblade Chronicles X was released on April 29, 2015 in Japan and on December 4, 2015 in North America and PAL regions. In the November 2014 Nintendo Direct, it was announced that Japan would be receiving a Xenoblade Chronicles 3D port for the New Nintendo 3DS. The game was released on April 2, 2015 in both the Japan and PAL regions while the North American version was released on April 10, 2015. On January 12, 2017, Nintendo announced Xenoblade Chronicles 2 for the Nintendo Switch. It was released in Japan, North America, Europe, Australia, Hong Kong, and Taiwan on December 1, 2017. An expansion to the game, Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna ~ The Golden Country , was released on September 14, 2018. During a Nintendo Direct presentation on September 4, 2019, Nintendo revealed Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition , a remaster of the original game with an extra story extension in the form of Xenoblade Chronicles: Future Connected . It was released on May 29, 2020. In a Nintendo Direct presentation on February 9, 2022, Nintendo revealed Xenoblade Chronicles 3 for the Nintendo Switch, to be launched in September 2022; in a trailer released on April 19, 2022, the release date was revealed to have been moved up to July 29, 2022. During the different interviews, the developers explicitly describe Xenoblade Chronicles 3 as the final game of the trilogy started with Xenoblade Chronicles then Xenoblade Chronicles 2 . An expansion to the game, Xenoblade Chronicles 3: Future Redeemed , was released on April 25, 2023. On October 29, 2024, Nintendo revealed Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition , a visually enhanced port of the original game with added story elements. It will be released on March 20, 2025. Releases [ ] Game Release Year Notes Xenoblade Chronicles 2010 First episode of the trilogy on the Nintendo Wii Xenoblade Chronicles 3D 2015 First episode ported on the New Nintendo 3DS Xenoblade Chronicles X 2015 Spiritual successor episode on the Nintendo Wii U Xenoblade Chronicles 2 2017 Second episode of the trilogy on the Nintendo Switch Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna ~ The Golden Country 2018 Prequel to the second episode on the Nintendo Switch Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition 2020 First episode remastered and ported on the Nintendo Switch Xenoblade Chronicles: Future Connected 2020 Epilogue to the first episode on the Nintendo Switch Xenoblade Chronicles 3 2022 Third episode of the trilogy on the Nintendo Switch Xenoblade Chronicles 3: Future Redeemed 2023 Prequel to the third episode on the Nintendo Switch (DLC only) Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition 2025 Spiritual successor episode visually enhanced and ported on the Nintendo Switch Trivia [ ] With the release of Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition , every installment of the Xenoblade Chronicles series will be available on the Nintendo Switch. Several people consider this series to be a part of a Xeno metaseries comprising Xenogears and the Xenosaga series . Gallery [ ] Illustration commemorating the 10th anniversary of the series Illustration commemorating the 10th anniversary of the series The first three games in the series until 2022 Categories Categories : Xenoblade Chronicles series Languages 中文 Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Sci-fi Xenoblade Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Xenoblade Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab