The Google Pixel 6 series launch date has finally been revealed | Android Central Skip to main content Open menu Close menu Android Central Search Search Android Central Sign in View Profile Sign out US Edition US UK Australia Canada India Phones Reviews Chromebooks Wearables Accessories Apps & Software More News Tablets VR & Gaming Streaming & TV Deals Forums About Us Trending Google I/O 2025 Motorola Razr Plus 2025: Google Pixel 9a Samsung Galaxy S25 Android 16 Android XR Google Pixel 10 Phones Google Pixel The Google Pixel 6 series launch date has finally been revealed News By Derrek Lee published 5 October 2021 When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . Google Pixel 6 Fall Launch (Image credit: Google) What you need to know Google has set a date for the Pixel 6 launch. The Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro are set to be fully unveiled on Tuesday, October 19. The event site features a transitional theme that can be changed by holding the space bar. Google has finally unveiled the launch date for the Google Pixel 6 and 6 Pro, both of which are set to be fully revealed on October 19 at 10 am PT/1 pm ET. That means the Pixel 6 is two weeks away from launch, and it likely won't reach consumers until later in the month. On October 19, we're officially introducing you to Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro—the completely reimagined Google phones.Powered by Tensor, Google's first custom mobile chip, they're fast, smart and secure. And they adapt to you. The event site features interactive elements to highlight dynamic theming with Material You. Holding the space bar will "change moods," and hovering your cursor over the Pixel 6 will make the widgets move and chime. You may like Google Pixel 9a finally gets a launch date after 'component quality issue' The Google Pixel 9a's exact release date is already known, report claims Pixel 9a arrives with a fresh new look, packs tons of AI features, and a massive battery life Anyone interested in tuning in can save the launch details to their calendar straight from the site. Source: Michael Fisher / Android Central (Image credit: Source: Michael Fisher / Android Central) Google has been hyping up the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro for some time, ever since it first teased the devices in August. The company revealed some details about the phones, from the design, camera setup, and the new Google Tensor chip that will tap into the power of AI to power the device. While the company hadn't initially stated when exactly it would launch outside of "this fall," rumors pointed to an October 19 announcement with a release on October 28. So far, it seems like the rumors are holding up thus far. At the launch event, we're expected to finally get the full details of the devices, including the price, specs, and features that will be powered by the new chip. Be an expert in 5 minutes Get the latest news from Android Central, your trusted companion in the world of Android Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. The Pixel 6 and 6 Pro are expected to run Android 12 out of the box, which is officially out of beta but won't arrive on current Pixel phones for another few weeks , followed by some of the best Android phones later this year. Google says it will talk more about Android 12 at its Android Dev event on October 27-28, which may be the day we see it rolling out on current devices. Have you listened to this week's Android Central Podcast? Every week, the Android Central Podcast brings you the latest tech news, analysis and hot takes, with familiar co-hosts and special guests. Subscribe in Pocket Casts: Audio Subscribe in Spotify: Audio Subscribe in iTunes: Audio Derrek Lee Social Links Navigation Managing Editor Derrek is the managing editor of Android Central, helping to guide the site's editorial content and direction to reach and resonate with readers, old and new, who are just as passionate about tech as we are. He's been obsessed with mobile technology since he was 12, when he discovered the Nokia N90, and his love of flip phones and new form factors continues to this day. As a fitness enthusiast, he has always been curious about the intersection of tech and fitness. When he's not working, he's probably working out. Read more Google Pixel 9a finally gets a launch date after 'component quality issue' The Google Pixel 9a's exact release date is already known, report claims Pixel 9a arrives with a fresh new look, packs tons of AI features, and a massive battery life Google Pixel 9: Price, specs, models, and everything you need to know Google Pixel 10a: What we expect to see Pixel 10 could show up with a new camera lens according to latest leak Latest in Google Pixel Best Buy really wants to give you $100 to buy the Google Pixel 9a — I'm not joking Alphabet's Q1 earnings exceeded expectations with a 12% increase in revenue Google initiates an Extended Repair Program for the Pixel 7a's battery issue Google I/O 2025 prepares new Material 3 'Expressive' design, XR, and much more First nine things to do with the Google Pixel 9a Google could be moving Pixel manufacturing to India to avoid high tariffs Latest in News Bark's new partnership aims to protect kids from the dark side of the internet OnePlus 13T, the compact powerful phone is coming to India as OnePlus 13s Boox goes after Kobo and Amazon with its latest color ereaders New leak suggests Samsung's Galaxy Watch Ultra 2 could launch this year AYANEO Pocket ACE pre-orders open ahead of next month's launch Google One might eventually back up your phone SIMs for easy restoration LATEST ARTICLES 1 OnePlus 13T, the compact powerful phone is coming to India as OnePlus 13s 2 Motorola's Razr 2025 is making me and my Razr Plus 2023 jealous — and that's impressive 3 AYANEO Pocket ACE pre-orders open ahead of next month's launch 4 CMF Phone 2 Pro review: Nothing but the best 5 Boox goes after Kobo and Amazon with its latest color ereaders Android Central is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . Terms and conditions Contact Future's experts Privacy policy Cookies policy Accessibility statement Careers Licensing External links disclosure About us Newsletter Advertise with us Licensing and reprints iMore Windows Central © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up