Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Post-Launch Detailed If you're seeing this message, that means JavaScript has been disabled on your browser , please enable JS to make this app work. Arrow Left Black arrow pointing left 1108 / 2456 Arrow Right Black arrow pointing right Back Arrow Left Black arrow pointing left October 20 , 2020 4 Min Read assassins creed assassins creed valhalla Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Post-Launch Detailed ubisoft Assassin’s Creed Valhalla ’s post-launch roadmap has been revealed, detailing the content that will come to the game following its November 10 launch on Xbox One, Xbox Series X|S, PlayStation 4, and Stadia. The PlayStation 5 version releases on November 12 while the Luna version will arrive with the launch of the Ubisoft Channel. Two major expansions will come to the game in 2021 as part of the Season Pass, and the first round of post-launch content begins this December with the release of Season 1, which will include access to free seasonal content and in-game events, like the Viking Yule Festival, as well as new settlement buildings and game modes. Check below for a full rundown of what else is planned for Season 1, which will be available free to all players: A new settlement area, allowing players to continue to grow and evolve their settlement. A traditional Viking Festival, the Yule Festival, for players to experience in their settlement. A new game mode: the River Raids. Building on Valhalla’s core raiding mechanic, the mode will deliver a dynamic, challenging, and highly replayable raid experience. The addition of the Ranks for Jomsviking: in Assassin’s Creed Valhalla players can create a lieutenant to be part of their raiding crew, but also recruit some from their friends and the community. In Season 1, players will see an update to the Jomsviking feature that will allow their Jomsviking to earn XP and rank up. The higher the rank of the lieutenant, the more silver players will earn when recruited by other players. Season 1 and subsequent seasons will also come with new player skills and abilities; weapons and gear; and cosmetic items for the settlement, longship, horse, and raven. Season 2, also free to all players, will follow on March 2021, and will also include free content including a new combat-oriented game mode, a Jomsviking update, and Settlement festivals, along with new gear and cosmetic items. Details on Season 3 will be revealed at a later date, but Season 2 isn’t the only content coming in 2021. The first major expansion, Wrath of the Druids, arrives Spring 2021 as a part of the Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Season Pass: In this new adventure, players will journey to Ireland and unravel the mysteries of an ancient and mysterious druidic cult, tracking and discovering their members. Diving into Gaelic myths and folklore, they’ll need to fight their way through haunted forests and dazzling landscapes while gaining influence among Gaelic kings. The second expansion, The Siege of Paris, arrives Summer 2021 and – as you might’ve guessed – focuses on a major conflict for the Vikings. More details below: In The Siege of Paris, players will have the chance to relive the most ambitious battle in Viking history with key historical figures of war-torn Frankia. During this key moment in history, players will infiltrate the fortified city of Paris and the River Seine under a prolonged siege, uncover enemy secrets, and form strategic alliances to safeguard their clan’s future. The Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Season Pass (included in the Gold, Ultimate, and Collector Editions of the game, or purchased separately) includes access to the two expansions and an exclusive quest, The Legend of Beowulf, which will be available on launch day. Finally, Discovery Tour – the educational tool that lets you explore the game in a conflict-free environment – will also be available for Assassin’s Creed Valhalla in 2021. For more information on the game, check out our previous coverage . Twitter Logo Facebook Logo Copy LinkedIn Logo Share: More From Ubisoft October 15 , 2024 6 Min Read Just Dance 2025 Edition & Just Dance VR: Welcome to Dancity Available Now Check out the full Just Dance 2025 song list and find out more about dancing in VR with Meta Quest headsets. Read More May 13 , 2024 6 Min Read How to Play the Assassin’s Creed Games In Order Whether you’re curious about how your favorite Assassin fits in or where to start unraveling the history-spanning storyline, here’s a quick rundown of the series so far. Read More October 3 , 2024 10 Min Read Prince of Persia 35th Anniversary - A Look Back at the Original Game Series creator Jordan Mechner and others share stories from the creation of 1989's Prince of Persia and what it means to them. Read More August 5 , 2024 3 Min Read Star Wars Outlaws™ Post-Launch Roadmap Revealed Learn more about the open-world Star Wars game’s Season Pass content, including two story packs, an exclusive mission, and cosmetic items. Read More