Elon Musk says his DOGE role is hurting Tesla's stock price, calling it "a very expensive job" - CBS News Latest U.S. World Politics March Madness Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio Local News Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes America Decides CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Eye on America Face the Nation Here Comes the Sun Sunday Morning The Takeout The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed CBS Village Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Davos Interviews A Moment With... Innovators & Disruptors Economy 4.0 MoneyWatch | Managing Your Money Your Taxes Retirement Watch CBS News MoneyWatch Elon Musk says his DOGE role is hurting Tesla's stock price, calling it "a very expensive job" By Megan Cerullo Megan Cerullo Reporter, MoneyWatch Megan Cerullo is a New York-based reporter for CBS MoneyWatch covering small business, workplace, health care, consumer spending and personal finance topics. She regularly appears on CBS News 24/7 to discuss her reporting. Read Full Bio Megan Cerullo Edited By Aimee Picchi Aimee Picchi Associate Managing Editor, MoneyWatch Aimee Picchi is the associate managing editor for CBS MoneyWatch, where she covers business and personal finance. She previously worked at Bloomberg News and has written for national news outlets including USA Today and Consumer Reports. Read Full Bio Aimee Picchi March 31, 2025 / 11:19 AM EDT / CBS News Tesla sales fell for the first time in years Why did Tesla sales fall for the first time in 12 years? 03:33 Tesla CEO Elon Musk acknowledged that his role in the Trump Administration with the Department of Government Efficiency , or DOGE, is weighing on the electric vehicle maker's stock, calling his advisory role "a very expensive job." Musk's role at DOGE has sparked protests from voters who are opposed to DOGE's activities, including gaining access to sensitive data for millions of Americans and shuttering entire agencies as the billionaire seeks to slash government spending. On Saturday, crowds amassed outside Tesla dealerships throughout the U.S. and in some cities in Europe to protest his government activities. About one-third of Musk's estimated $330 billion fortune consists of the stock he holds in the electric vehicle company that he continues to run while also working alongside Mr. Trump. After Mr. Trump was elected in November, Tesla rose to a record high on Dec. 17 of $479 per share, but the stock has since tumbled 48%. "This is a very expensive job, is what I'm saying," Musk said of his DOGE activities during a Sunday evening town hall in Green Bay, Wisconsin, where he gave away $1 million each to two voters. In early Monday trading, Tesla slipped $15.27, or 5.8%, to $248.28. "What [the protesters are] trying to do is put massive pressure on me, and Tesla I guess, to you know, I don't know, stop doing this," Musk said. "My Tesla stock and the stock of everyone who holds Tesla has gone, went roughly in half. I mean it's a big deal." He added, "Long term I think Tesla stock's going to do fine, so maybe it's a buying opportunity." On Saturday, protesters flocked to Tesla locations in New Jersey, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, Maryland, Minnesota and the automaker's home state of Texas, with pictures posted on social media accounts showing they held signs such as "Honk if you hate Elon" and "Fight the billionaire broligarchy." Hit to Tesla sales Aside from the protests, Tesla is also facing pressure on the sales front, with some former owners saying they have ditched their vehicles over Musk's political activities. Sales of new Teslas in Europe plunged by 45% in January, while recent data also shows that Tesla trade-ins reached a record high this month. In March, the highest share ever of Teslas from model year 2017 or newer were traded in toward new or used purchases at dealerships, according to Edmunds, a U.S. car shopping website. Notably, the trade-ins were not put toward purchases of new Teslas. Tesla will disclose its first-quarter deliveries on April 2, with Wedbush Securities analyst Dan Ives forecasting that the company shipped 7% fewer vehicles compared with a year earlier. "The anti-Musk and brand issues are clearly at play and a major factor in this weak 1Q delivery number," Ives wrote in a March 26 research note. "Musk needs to better balance being CEO of Tesla and running DOGE with investors and employees yearning for Musk's leadership at this juncture." More from CBS News Tesla EVs, charging stations targeted by possible arson in Italy and France Elon Musk gives out $1M to Wisconsin voters after unsuccessful legal challenge Federal agency workers supporting museums, libraries put on administrative leave Conservative channel Newsmax surges over 700% in stock market debut Ahead of Trump's auto tariffs, are U.S. consumers rushing to buy cars? In: Tesla DOGE Elon Musk Department of Government Efficiency Megan Cerullo Megan Cerullo is a New York-based reporter for CBS MoneyWatch covering small business, workplace, health care, consumer spending and personal finance topics. She regularly appears on CBS News 24/7 to discuss her reporting. © 2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. More from CBS News Tesla EVs, charging stations targeted by possible arson in Italy and France Elon Musk gives out $1M to Wisconsin voters after unsuccessful legal challenge Federal agency workers supporting museums, libraries put on administrative leave Conservative channel Newsmax surges over 700% in stock market debut Featured Trump Approval Poll Car Tariffs Men's March Madness Brackets March Madness TV Schedule Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Site Map Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue Be the first to know Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting. Not Now Turn On