Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition | Xenoblade Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Xenoblade Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio NDS123 WiseAdventurer Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Xenoblade Wiki 24,637 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio NDS123 WiseAdventurer Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki in: Pages with spoilers , Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition , Xenoblade Chronicles X , Games Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (1) The future doesn't belong to you! For those who have not completed games in the Xenoblade Chronicles series , this page contains spoilers regarding the plot. Discretion is advised. Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition Developer Monolith Soft Publisher Nintendo Genre Action-Role Playing Game modes Single-player, multiplayer Platform(s) Nintendo Switch Release date March 20, 2025 March 20, 2025 March 20, 2025 Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition is a role-playing video game published by Nintendo and developed by Monolith Soft for the Nintendo Switch. It is a remastered port of the original Xenoblade Chronicles X . The game was announced on X and Youtube on October 29, 2024. The game was released worldwide on March 20, 2025. Contents 1 Overview 2 List of Changes 3 First Trailer Synopsis 4 Downloadable Content 4.1 Updates 4.1.1 Version 1.0.1 4.1.2 Version 1.0.2 5 Early Purchase Bonus 6 Nintendo Switch Online Icon Elements 7 Collaborations 8 Gallery 8.1 Official Artwork 8.2 Screenshots 9 Videos 10 References Overview [ ] The Definitive Edition improves the graphics of the original game with visually enhanced graphics and updated character models. It is based on the English release of the Wii U version. Because of this, features only included in the Japanese release of the original game, such as certain character outfits and customization options for Cross , are removed. The content that appeared as paid DLC in the original game is included from the start. It will also include new story elements, likely including a continuation of what happened to Lao after the events of the main story. The new story content becomes available after clearing Chapter 12 , and will feature new music composed by Hiroyuki Sawano and Misaki Umase. There were also four new recruitable characters, such as the Qlurian Neilnail , and Liesel the test pilot. It will also include two new Skells , the Hraesvelg Skell and an Ares-type Skell wielding a halberd-like weapon. Multiple gameplay additions are also included. The Overdrive Counter Guidance will appear during Overdrive as a visual aid for the previously vague Overdrive combo mechanics. A new "Quick Cooldown" meter has been added, that will reduce cooldowns for arts by pressing the Y button. The Follow Ball now indicates the location of items needed for Mission completion. There will be a new "Floating Continent" region, Volitaris to explore as well [ 1 ] . It will also include some new customization options for Cross, including several new customization options based on characters from other games in the Xenoblade Chronicles series , such as Shulk from Xenoblade Chronicles , Pyra , Mythra , Nia , and Malos from Xenoblade Chronicles 2 , and Mio , Eunie , and Taion from Xenoblade Chronicles 3 . List of Changes [ ] The addition of a brand new story Chapter. Four new recruitable characters, Neilnail , Liesel , Ga Jiarg , and Al . The addition of new customization options for Cross , including some based on characters from other games in the Xenoblade Chronicles series. Two new Skells , the Hraesvelg and the Ares Prime . The maximum level for the party is now 99, like in other games in the series. BLADE Level and Division Points have been removed. Due to this, Field Skills can no longer be upgraded, with Field-Skills not having levels. Reward Tickets are now called Material Tickets The Follow Ball now indicates the location of items needed for Missions. It also leaves a trail toward the current destination. The addition of Quick Cooldown. Similar to Xenoblade Chronicles 3 , there are now three save files and an auto-save file. Arts now have an "!" mark when the  art's conditional extra effect can be applied. The player can now change the Time from anywhere via the menu. The party can now be changed at anytime via the "Active Members" section of the menu. Mechanics that previously used the Wii U GamePad now are accessed through the menu. Skells can now jump without activating the Flight Module after it is unlocked. Like in Xenoblade Chronicles 3 , pressing & together during gameplay will take a screenshot without the UI being displayed. First Trailer Synopsis [ ] "Rebuild humanity and survive on the mysterious planet Mira in this open-world action RPG! This visually enhanced version includes newly added story elements and more. The Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition game launches on the Nintendo Switch system March 20, 2025. Pre-orders are available now on Nintendo eShop." Downloadable Content [ ] Updates [ ] Several free updates have been released for the game on the Nintendo Switch system. These are downloaded automatically when the game is launched if the console has a working internet connection. Each update can expand the game content or fix bugs and glitches. Version 1.0.1 [ ] The version 1.0.1 update was released on March 19th, 2025. It included the following changes: Day 1 patch Version 1.0.2 [ ] The version 1.0.2 update was released on April 23rd, 2025. It included the following changes: Fixed an issue where the application would crash during skell flight in Affinity Mission : " A Girl's Wings ". Fixed an issue where the host player's position and appearance would not be displayed when joining Online Missions. Fixed an issue where the destination marker for Material Tracking and Squad Tasks would not be displayed. Fixed an issue where the sound effects were playing in mono in some movies. Fixed an issue where a dummy character would be generated and data would be corrupted when changing out Recruited BLADEs for normal characters. If data is already corrupted, it can be fixed by applying this update. Fixed an issue where environment music would start from beginning after end of combat. Fixed an issue when fighting an enemy with debuff immunity where the name of the debuff the enemy is immune to would not be displayed when attempting to apply the debuff with Soul Voice . Fixed an issue where the combat log was not properly displaying during Overdrive . Fixed an issue where " Nupopon Incarnate " would not appear during the cutscene in Normal Mission " The Divine Nupopon ". Fixed an issue where players could still control the main character after the fade to black after clearing the second act of Chapter 13 . Fixed an issue where the effects of the Augments "Overdrive Green Bonus" and "Overdrive Blue Bonus" were not being applied. Fixed an issue where damaged parts were being displayed on Skell models. Fixed an issue where the Port Side of the Ma-non Ship would be closed-off when loading an autosave after opening it. Fixed an issue where English text was displayed in the German version. Fixed an issue where the Japanese voice for " Eleonora " was playing in English, French, Italian, German, and Spanish languages. Fixed an issue where a dummy character was generated and data was corrupted when the recruitment/release of Recruited BLADEs overlapped with a save. Fixed an issue where "00" was displayed when activating Overdrive when the effect of the augment "Overdrive Count Up" was three digits or more. Fixed an issue in Online Missions where parts were restored when entering or exiting a Skell. Fixed an issue where the application would freeze if a character was added to a party immediately after a Recruited BLADE returned. Fixed an issue where "????" was displayed in the "Fashion Gear" list. Fixed an issue where Skell weapons multiplied when performing a battle trait upgrade following certain steps. Fixed an issue where slot openings were not properly reflected when performing certain steps at L's Shop . Made other text corrections, such as typos. Fixed confirmed vulnerability bugs. Changes and Additions to Functions Added tips that are displayed when opening related tips on some menu screens such as the Class Change screen. Buff and debuff icons are now displayed in Online Missions. There were two basic missions with the title " Backup Request ", and it was difficult to distinguish between them, so the quest names have been split-up. Early Purchase Bonus [ ] The Exploration Support Pack For purchasers of the digital version before April 6, 2025, they will receive the in-game Exploration Support Pack. This is also available for those who purchase the physical or digital version at GameStop. The Exploration Support Pack contains the following bonus items: 100,000 Credits Melee weapon: Advanced Iron Knife Ranged weapon: Advanced Storm Assault Rifle Survival armor series: Survival Goggles , Survival Bodywear , Survival Glove R , Survival Glove L , Survival Footwear Six weapon Augments : Melee Accuracy Up I , Ranged Accuracy Up I , Melee Attack Up I , Ranged Attack Up I , Theroid Slayer I , Secondary CD Reducer I Five armor augments: Max HP Up I , Max TP Up I , Evasion Up I , Potential Up I , Physical Resistance Up I These items can be received by visiting the Customization Center in the BLADE Barracks after starting Chapter 3 . Nintendo Switch Online Icon Elements [ ] Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition themed profile icon elements became available with Nintendo Switch Online from March 20th, 2025 to April 17th, 2026. Collaborations [ ] Through the 46th MAXIMUS CUP event trailer of Tetris 99 published on March 10, 2025, Nintendo announced that after having accumulated a total of 100 event points, earned based on the placement in each match, a new theme will unlock, featuring art, music and Tetrimino designs inspired by Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition . The music tracks that play include " Black tar ", with the first part playing when there are between 99 and 51 players remaining and the second part playing when there are between 50 and 11 players remaining, and " Uncontrollable " when there are 10 players remaining. The Tetris 99 46th MAXIMUS CUP – Mira Edition ran from March 14, 2025 until March 18, 2025. Gallery [ ] Official Artwork [ ] Key Art Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition Release Celebration Artwork of BLADE Members Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition Release Celebration Artwork of Neilnail and Liesel Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition Release Celebration Artwork of Lao and Al Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition Release Celebration Artwork My Nintendo wallpaper of Oblivia My Nintendo wallpaper of Volitaris Icon for the Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition theme in Tetris 99 Screenshots [ ] New Los Angeles Lin and Tatsu Elma Elma and Cross Lao and the Mysterious Hooded Figure, Al Cross exploring Primordia Neilnail Albus and Neilnail Furvis appearing in front of Cross and Neilnail The new character Neilnail Liesel wearing a pilot mask Dematerialization Dematerialization occuring across Mira The Hraesvelg Skell Hraesvelg Hraesvelg in-flight A Ghost A new Ares-type Skell An Ares Skell destroying a Ghost Volitaris Cross, Elma, and Lin exploring Volitaris Videos [ ] Xenoblade Chronicles X- Definitive Edition – Announcement Trailer – Nintendo Switch Xenoblade Chronicles X- Definitive Edition — The Year is 2054 — Nintendo Switch Xenoblade Chronicles X- Definitive Edition - new gameplay Xenoblade Chronicles X- Definitive Edition — Launch Trailer — Nintendo Switch References [ ] ↑ https://www.nintendo.com/jp/topics/article/affcb913-bad5-485e-ad4e-ad9b4d5ee26c Categories Categories : Pages with spoilers Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition Xenoblade Chronicles X Games Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Sci-fi Xenoblade Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Xenoblade Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab