Diana Prince (DC Extended Universe) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Fictional character biography Toggle Fictional character biography subsection 1.1 Themysciran days 1.2 Foray into World War I 1.3 Cold War 1.4 The Trinity 1.5 Remembering the Past 1.6 Forming the Justice League 1.6.1 Theatrical cut 1.6.2 Director's cut 1.7 Butterfly invasion 1.8 Meeting Shazam 1.9 Fighting Al Falcone 2 Alternate versions Toggle Alternate versions subsection 2.1 Steppenwolf victorious 2.2 Knightmare reality 3 Development and portrayal Toggle Development and portrayal subsection 3.1 Casting 3.1.1 Justice League reshoots controversy 3.2 Characterization and themes 3.2.1 Armor and equipment 4 Other appearances Toggle Other appearances subsection 4.1 Shazam! 4.2 Advertising 4.3 Video games 5 Reception Toggle Reception subsection 5.1 Accolades 6 See also 7 Notes 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Diana Prince (DC Extended Universe) 2 languages Русский 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia DC Extended Universe character "Wonder Woman (DC Extended Universe)" redirects here. For the film in the DCEU, see Wonder Woman (2017 film) . Fictional character Diana Prince DC Extended Universe character Promotional image of Gal Gadot as Wonder Woman in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016) First appearance Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016) Last appearance The Flash (2023) Based on Wonder Woman by William Moulton Marston H. G. Peter Adapted by Chris Terrio David S. Goyer Zack Snyder Allan Heinberg Jason Fuchs Portrayed by Gal Gadot Emily Carey (12 years old) Lilly Aspell (8 years old) Kimberley Von Ilberg ( Peacemaker ) In-universe information Full name Princess Diana of Themyscira (Birth Name) Diana Prince (Civilian Name) Alias Wonder Woman Species Amazon – Old God hybrid Gender Female Title Crown Princess of Themyscira Occupation Museum Curator Warrior Vigilante Affiliation Amazons Smithsonian Institution Louvre Museum Justice League Family Zeus (father) Hippolyta (mother) Ares (half-brother) Atlas (grand-uncle) Antheia , Kalypso , and Hespera (first cousins-once-removed) Significant other Steve Trevor Diana of Themyscira , also known by her civilian name Diana Prince or her superhero title Wonder Woman , is a fictional character in the DC Extended Universe (DCEU), based on the DC Comics character of the same name created by William Moulton Marston and H. G. Peter . First appearing in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice , she is portrayed by Gal Gadot and later plays a major role in the films Wonder Woman , Justice League (and its 2021 director's cut ), and Wonder Woman 1984 , along with cameo appearances in Shazam! Fury of the Gods and The Flash . Gadot's performance as Wonder Woman, the first live-action portrayal of the character in cinema, has received critical praise, beginning with her debut in Batman v Superman , where she was considered a highlight. Her performance in Wonder Woman was especially praised for its warmth, optimism, and chemistry with her co-stars. However, political backlash in some Arab countries led to bans due to Gadot's Israeli background. Her role in Justice League faced criticism for being minimized and objectified, though Zack Snyder's version received more positive feedback. Fictional character biography [ edit ] Themysciran days [ edit ] Further information: Wonder Woman (2017 film) and Wonder Woman 1984 Diana was born to Queen Hippolyta around 3000 BC on the hidden island of Themyscira , home to the Amazons , women warriors created by Zeus to protect mankind. Hippolyta explains their history to Diana, including how Ares became jealous of humanity and orchestrated its destruction. When the other gods attempted to stop him, Ares killed all but Zeus, who used the last of his power to wound Ares and force his retreat. Before dying, Zeus left the Amazons a weapon, the "Godkiller", to prepare them for Ares's return. Hippolyta reluctantly agrees to let her sister, General Antiope , train Diana as a warrior. [ a ] At age 8, Diana competes in a race during an Amazonian sporting event. She uses a shortcut to a finish line, but is caught by Antiope. Hippolyta teaches Diana about the harmful effects of cheating and tells her about being patient, for her time to be a hero will come someday. [ b ] Foray into World War I [ edit ] Further information: Wonder Woman (2017 film) In 1918, Diana, now a young woman, rescues Captain Steve Trevor , a pilot with the American Expeditionary Forces , after his plane crashes off the coast of Themyscira. The island is soon invaded by the landing party of a German cruiser pursuing Trevor. The Amazons engage and kill all the German sailors, but Antiope dies intercepting a German bullet meant for Diana. Interrogated with the Lasso of Hestia , Trevor reveals that World War I is raging in the outside world and that he is an Allied spy. He stole a notebook with valuable information from the Spanish chief chemist Isabel Maru , who is attempting to engineer a deadlier form of mustard gas under the orders of General Erich Ludendorff . Believing Ares is responsible for the war, Diana arms herself with the "Godkiller" sword, a shield, the Lasso of Hestia and her suit of armor and sets out on her own, in defiance of her mother, to stop Ares and end the war. She releases Trevor and immediately leaves Themyscira with him to find and destroy Ares. The two arrive in London and Diana is introduced to Etta Candy , Trevor's secretary. She helps Diana acquire some contemporary clothing so she can better fit in and retain her anonymity. Trevor and Diana deliver Maru's notebook to the Supreme War Council, where Patrick Morgan is trying to negotiate an armistice with Germany. Diana translates Maru's notes, revealing that the Germans plan to release the deadly gas at the Western Front. Although forbidden by his commander to act, Trevor, with secret funding from Morgan, recruits Moroccan spy Sameer, Scottish marksman Charlie, and Native American smuggler Chief Napi to help prevent the gas from being released. Diana adopts the surname "Prince" to fit in better at Trevor's suggestion. As the group approaches the trenches , Prince, unwilling to see the civilians suffer, charges into no man's land and liberates the nearby village of Veld with the aid of the group and Allied forces. The team briefly celebrates, taking a photograph in the village, where Prince and Trevor fall in love. The following morning, Prince ignores Trevor's advice to remain with Charlie and Napi and scout out the surrounding area. She also enters the castle after incapacitating an aristocratic German woman and stealing her gown as a disguise. She meets Ludendorff, whom she assumes to be the mortal disguise of Ares and plans to kill him before Steve intervenes and prevents her from doing so, fearful that their covers would be blown and result in their deaths too. Ludendorff then fires the new gas at the battle lines from an artillery gun to the castle houses. Horrified by the result of the gas, Prince blames Trevor for letting it happen as a result of letting Ludendorff live. Prince confronts and fights Ludendorff, who bolsters his own strength by consuming an elixir procured by Maru. She kills him, but is confused and disillusioned when his death does not stop the war. Morgan appears and reveals himself as Ares. When Prince attempts to kill Ares with the "Godkiller" sword, he destroys it, telling Diana that, as the daughter of Zeus and Hippolyta, she herself is the "Godkiller". He entreats her to help him destroy mankind in order to restore paradise on Earth, but she refuses. Ares attempts to direct Prince's rage and grief at Trevor's death by convincing her to kill Maru, but the memories of her experiences with Trevor cause her to realize that humans have good within them. She spares Maru and redirects Ares' lightning into him, destroying him for good. Cold War [ edit ] Further information: Wonder Woman 1984 In 1984, Diana works at the Smithsonian Museum as an archaeologist under the alias of "Diana Prince" while moonlighting as Wonder Woman. With her new co-worker, Barbara Ann Minerva , becoming envious of Diana. Barbara and Diana help the FBI identify some antiques stolen from a heist foiled by Wonder Woman, noticing that one item, the Dreamstone, contains a Latin inscription claiming to grant the holder one wish. Barbara wishes to become like Diana, but acquires the same superpowers, while Diana unknowingly wishes for Steve Trevor to be alive again, which resurrects him in another man's body; the two are reunited at a Smithsonian gala. However, only Diana can see him as Steve. While in Cairo, Egypt, Diana and Steve tried to get Max Lord to hand the stone back to them after finding out that the stone was actually created and empowered by the gods, Diana claiming that "the power of the stone is too much for Max Lord to handle." After a battle between Wonder Woman and the Emir's armed security team, who now work for Max Lord, Diana gets wounded by a gunshot before Max Lord gets away. Diana phones Barbara to find out where exactly that stone came from and the next morning, Barbara, Diana, and "Steve" discover that the Dreamstone was created and empowered by Dolos/Mendacius , the god of lies, treachery, deception, and mischief, also known as Duke of Deception . It grants a user's wish while exacting a toll, which explains why Diana got wounded in the battle because the stone was taking away her powers, unless they renounce the wish or destroy the stone. Learning from the U.S. President of a satellite system that broadcasts signals globally, Maxwell Lord , whose powers are causing his body to deteriorate, plans to globally grant wishes to steal strength and life force from the viewers and regain his health. Diana and Steve confront him at the White House , but Minerva, now aligned with Lord, defeats Prince, escaping with Lord on Marine One . Renouncing her wish and releasing Steve, Diana dons the armor of Asteria and battles Barbara, who has transformed into a cheetah -like creature. Following a brutal match, Diana tackles Cheetah into a lake and electrocutes her, then pulls her out. She confronts Max Lord and uses her Lasso of Truth to communicate with the world through him, convincing everyone to renounce their wishes, then shows Max visions of his own unhappy childhood and of his son, Alistair, who is frantically searching for his father amid the chaos. Max renounces his wish and reunites with Alistair. On Christmas , Diana meets the man whose body Trevor possessed, and then she is shown flying in the clouds before going to supposedly stop a crime after hearing police sirens wail in the distance. The Trinity [ edit ] Further information: Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice In 2015, Diana is invited to a gala by Lex Luthor where Bruce Wayne encounters her. They are both after encrypted information from Luthor's system, with Diana snagging a decryption device that Wayne plants, but when Diana is unable to extract data from the device, she hands it over to Wayne, who later finds that the files contain information on metahumans , one of which turns out to be Diana. Upon hearing Superman and Batman 's fight with Doomsday in Gotham City , Diana abandons a flight back to her job in France and joins the two heroes in their fight against the monster. Wonder Woman slices off the creature's hand and restrains it using her lasso as Batman stuns it, allowing Superman to kill the monster using a kryptonite spear at the cost of his own life. Moved by Superman's sacrifice, Prince later attends his funeral with Wayne, who invites her to help him recruit other metahumans to band together. Remembering the Past [ edit ] Further information: Wonder Woman (2017 film) Sometime later, Wayne follows up with Prince, sending her a package containing a personal note and the photographic plate from 1918 depicting her with Trevor and the other World War I fighters, which Luthor had previously used in an attempt to blackmail her. [ c ] Prince reminisces on her past while looking at the package. She sends an email to Wayne thanking him for retrieving the photographic plate of her and Trevor. [ d ] Forming the Justice League [ edit ] Theatrical cut [ edit ] Further information: Justice League (film) In 2017, Wonder Woman stops a terrorist bomb plot at the Old Bailey in London. Seeing a news report that features a signal fire burning at the Shrine of the Amazons in Greece, Prince realizes that her mother had sent a message from Themyscira to warn her of an impending invasion. She then meets with Wayne in Gotham, explaining the history of the first invasion of Earth by the forces of Apokolips . While Wayne goes after Arthur Curry and Barry Allen , Prince tracks down the elusive Victor Stone . Stone is initially hesitant about joining the team despite providing some intel to Prince, but later joins when Steppenwolf kidnaps his father and several other S.T.A.R. Labs employees in an attempt to retrieve the last Mother Box . The team rescues the employees and takes the last Mother Box during the skirmish before Aquaman arrives and saves them from a deluge of floodwater. Realizing the potential of the Mother Box, Wayne decides to have the team use it to resurrect Superman, whereas Prince and Curry express skepticism. Allen and Stone exhume Clark Kent's body and the team successfully resurrects him in the facility used to create Doomsday, but Superman, having lost his memories, attacks the group after Cyborg accidentally launches a missile at him. In the skirmish, Steppenwolf takes the last Mother Box from the group as it was left unattended. As Superman leaves with Lois to regain his memories, the five other heroes recuperate at the Batcave . Prince tends to Wayne's wounds as the two apologize for some harsh words towards each other earlier. Director's cut [ edit ] Further information: Zack Snyder's Justice League Wonder Woman calms down the school girls held hostage by the terrorist group in London and explores the tunnels underneath the Shrine of the Amazons to find imagery of the first invasion of Earth by Apokolips, led by Darkseid . She votes in favor of resurrecting Superman in addition to joining Allen and Stone along with Curry in digging up Clark Kent's corpse. Prince and Curry talk about the historical rivalry between the Amazons and Atlanteans , dismissing it while finding they have more in common than expected. She is shown to be on-par with Steppenwolf in terms of melee-fighting prowess, though he manipulates her emotions by falsely claiming he killed her mother. After Superman overpowers Steppenwolf and Aquaman impales him following the separation of the Mother Boxes, Wonder Woman lands the killing blow, decapitating the New God after Superman throws him back into the boom tube, with his disembodied head and corpse landing at Darkseid's feet back on Apokolips. Following the team's victory, Prince and Wayne decide to expand the operations of the team, starting by rebuilding Wayne's old manor into their headquarters. Diana is last seen looking towards Themyscira as she contemplates about her fellow Amazons. Butterfly invasion [ edit ] See also: Peacemaker (TV series) Further information: It's Cow or Never In 2021, Prince, alongside The Flash , Superman and Aquaman are summoned by Amanda Waller to assist the vigilante Peacemaker in fighting a group of parasitic aliens named The Butterflies, but the team arrives too late to help. Peacemaker claims to have met Prince at a party. [ 1 ] Meeting Shazam [ edit ] See also: Shazam! Fury of the Gods Shortly after, Prince, who is aware of Billy Batson / Shazam and what he had been through, arrives in Mount Olympus and restores the Wizard 's staff imbuing it with her powers. She then uses it to restore Billy to life. Afterwards, she departs from them. Fighting Al Falcone [ edit ] See also: The Flash (film) Soon after, Prince, who appears to save Batman and Alberto Falcone with her Lasso of Truth, encounters Flash, who is also tied up. Prince is nowhere to be found when Allen alters the universe after saving his mother, although he later undoes most of his changes after realizing the consequences of saving his mother. Alternate versions [ edit ] Steppenwolf victorious [ edit ] In Zack Snyder's Justice League , Diana and the rest of the Justice League are killed by the unity of the Mother Boxes. This version of events is erased after Barry Allen enters the Speed Force and reverses time. Knightmare reality [ edit ] In Zack Snyder's Justice League , in visions received by Victor of a reality where Darkseid is victorious, Diana is killed in battle during Darkseid's takeover of Earth and is cremated by the Amazons, with parademons all around them. Development and portrayal [ edit ] On casting Gal Gadot as Wonder Woman, director Zack Snyder mentioned that Gadot had "that magical quality that makes her perfect for the role." Despite being one of DC Comics ' flagship superhero characters, Wonder Woman had not been portrayed in live-action film until Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice in 2016. The character was the subject of the television series Wonder Woman , which ran from 1975 to 1979 with Lynda Carter portraying the title character. [ 2 ] Prior to that, a loosely-based television film with the same name was released in 1974 with Cathy Lee Crosby portraying a different version of Wonder Woman. [ 3 ] However, the character has been featured in Justice League and Justice League Unlimited shows in the DC Animated Universe and movies in DC Universe Animated Original Movies line, and also appeared in The Lego Movie with Cobie Smulders providing her voice. Development of a live-action Wonder Woman film began as far back as 1996, with producers and screenwriters such as Ivan Reitman , [ 4 ] Jon Cohen, [ 5 ] Joel Silver , Todd Alcott , [ 6 ] Leonard Goldberg , and Joss Whedon attached to the project. Actresses such as Sandra Bullock , Mariah Carey , Catherine Zeta-Jones and Lucy Lawless were rumored or approached to take on the title role. A film focusing on Wonder Woman during World War II impressed the heads at Silver Pictures , but Silver did not want the film to be a period piece , despite purchasing the script to prevent the cinematic rights of Wonder Woman reverting. [ 7 ] By 2013, with Warner Bros. releasing Man of Steel , the studio had opened up the idea of that film creating a shared cinematic universe to compete with one set up by Marvel Comics . In addition to proven characters such as Superman and Batman , the studio once again put Wonder Woman in consideration for adaptation, along with other characters such as Aquaman . [ 8 ] DC Entertainment president Diane Nelson said Wonder Woman "has been, since I started, one of the top three priorities for DC and for Warner Bros. We are still trying right now, but she's tricky." [ 9 ] Casting [ edit ] Israeli actress Gal Gadot was cast as Diana Prince/Wonder Woman for Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice by director Zack Snyder , having previously turned down the role of Faora-Ul in Man of Steel due to pregnancy. [ 10 ] According to Empire , Gadot won the role after screen-testing with Batman actor Ben Affleck against four other actresses. [ 11 ] Like Affleck, Gadot's casting was initially not well received, as many had considered her too "slender" for the role of Wonder Woman. [ 12 ] In preparation for the role, Gadot underwent a diet and training regimen, practiced different martial arts and gained 17 pounds of muscle. [ 13 ] [ 14 ] On Gadot's casting as Wonder Woman, Snyder said "Wonder Woman is arguably one of the most powerful female characters of all time and a fan favorite in the DC Universe. Not only is Gal an amazing actress, but she also has that magical quality that makes her perfect for the role." [ 15 ] In 2015, Patty Jenkins accepted an offer to direct Wonder Woman , [ 16 ] based on a screenplay by Allan Heinberg and a story co-written by Heinberg, Zack Snyder, Geoff Johns and Jason Fuchs. [ 17 ] Jenkins worked with Gadot on the Wonder Woman film, which eventually was conceived as a prequel to Wonder Woman's first appearance in Batman v Superman , [ 18 ] placing her in the 1910s and World War I (a decision which differs from her comic book origins as a supporter of the Allies during World War II ). [ 19 ] After lukewarm reception to Wonder Woman 1984 , a third DCEU Wonder Woman film with Jenkins directing and Gadot starring had been under development, but after James Gunn and Peter Safran became the new heads of the renamed DC Studios , Jenkins' plans were abandoned by Gunn and Safran as that film did not fit into their plans for what would become the DC Universe , which will effectively be a reboot of the DCEU. [ 20 ] However, the duo offered to let Gadot stay on as Wonder Woman in the new timeline despite confirming that Henry Cavill and Ben Affleck would not portray the DCU's new iterations of Superman and Batman, respectively. [ 21 ] Eventually, it was later reported by Variety in October 2023 that none of the DCEU actors cast for Snyder's films would be reprising their respective roles in the DCU, including Gadot as Wonder Woman. [ 22 ] Justice League reshoots controversy [ edit ] Further information: Production of Justice League (film) and Joss Whedon § Accusations of workplace harassment Years after the release of the theatrical version of Justice League , Gal Gadot revealed that she was uncomfortable shooting several scenes during the reshoots, refusing to film the shot of Barry Allen slipping and falling on Wonder Woman's chest during the battle under Gotham Harbor and utilizing a body double instead. This and replacement director Joss Whedon 's reported on-set behavior led to a dispute, with Whedon allegedly threatening to make Gadot's career "miserable," but after she promptly reported Whedon to studio executives, the situation was "taken care of." [ 23 ] [ 24 ] Gadot was one of several actors in the film, including Affleck, Cyborg actor Ray Fisher , Aquaman actor Jason Momoa , and Iris West actress Kiersey Clemons , to voice complaints about working with Whedon during the reshoots. [ 24 ] Zack Snyder's Justice League , the director's cut of the film, omits scenes added in the theatrical cut that have arguably objectified the character, including the controversial scene with Barry Allen. [ 25 ] Overall, while many of Diana's scenes are similar between the two versions of the film, several of Diana's lines and nuances are given different contexts, and the director's cut of the film displays her fighting skills more in-depth than the theatrical cut. [ 26 ] "You know Wonder Woman; she's amazing. I love everything that she represents and everything that she stands for. She's all about love and compassion and truth and justice and equality , and she's a whole lot of woman. For me, it was important that people can relate to her." [ 27 ] Gal Gadot on her thoughts on portraying Wonder Woman Characterization and themes [ edit ] A Wonder Woman who has extraordinary superpowers—said to be the strongest hero in the world—Diana is a kind, loving, compassionate, and strong-willed person, who, while initially somewhat naïve, has become all the wiser through her time in Man's World. An outspoken egalitarian , she fights for what she believes in and generally for the betterment of mankind through love and mutual understanding, as taught to her by her mother and fellow Amazons. In addition to her general willingness for empathy, however, Diana is also extremely friendly and can step back enjoy the smaller moments in life, as seen in her utter delight in experiencing ice cream for the first time in Wonder Woman and agreement with Superman (who, up until the events of Justice League , she had not spoken to much) about him not missing out on the positive results of their victory over Steppenwolf . Even alongside all of her kindness, compassion, and empathy, Diana is still also a warrior at heart, and when someone she cares about is hurt, becomes far more relentless and ruthless. Despite Steve Trevor being Wonder Woman's primary love interest as with the comics, a mutual interest between Diana and Bruce Wayne / Batman has been hinted at in the films, with critics noting their chemistry. [ 28 ] Gadot describes her character as having "many strengths and powers, but at the end of the day, she's a woman with a lot of emotional intelligence ". [ 29 ] Describing Wonder Woman's compassion, Gadot stated, "It's all her heart—that's her strength. I think women are amazing for being able to show what they feel. I admire women who do." Gadot also stated "I don't want people to think she is perfect", further explaining, "She can be naughty." [ 30 ] On Diana leaving Themyscira , a mystical island inhabited only by females, and going to the world in Wonder Woman , Gadot stated "When Diana comes to the real world she's completely oblivious about gender and society rules, that women are not equal to men." [ 31 ] Describing her role in Batman v Superman , Gadot said, "In this movie you get a glimpse of who Wonder Woman is — she's being introduced into this DC Comics universe. But we were talking about her strengths, her façade, her attitude. Why is she acting the way she is?" On Wonder Woman's battle scene with Doomsday , Gadot stated, "I remember after we did that take, Zack came to me and he said, 'Did you just have a smirk?' I said, 'Yeah.' And he asked, 'Why? I think I like it, but why?' 'Well, if he's gonna mess with her, then she's gonna mess with him. And she knows she's gonna win.' At the end of the day, Wonder Woman is a peace seeker. But when fight arrives, she can fight. She's a warrior and she enjoys the adrenaline of the fight." [ 27 ] Armor and equipment [ edit ] Further information: Wonder Woman § Weapons and other abilities , Lasso of Truth , and Wonder Woman's bracelets Diana's armor starting in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice consists of a red armored bustier, blue leather gladiator skirt, tiara, and knee-high boots with high heels , and has inspired the redesign of the mainline comics version of Wonder Woman after DC Rebirth . Along with her bracelets , which act as bracers producing pure concussive force, and lasso , Diana fights with a sword and shield in all her film appearances aside from Wonder Woman 1984 . The sword itself in Batman v Superman is inscribed with a quote from Joseph Campbell , chosen by Zack Snyder: "Life is killing life all the time and so the goddess kills herself in the sacrifice of her own animal." [ 32 ] The armor and that of the other Amazons was designed to emphasize their nature as warriors, but with femininity also in mind, according to Wonder Woman director Patty Jenkins and costume designer Lindy Hemming . [ 33 ] Jenkins elaborates, "To me, they shouldn't be dressed in armor like men. It should be different. It should be authentic and real ... and appealing to women." When asked about the decision to give the Amazons heeled sandals , Jenkins explained that they also have flats for fighting, adding "It's total wish-fulfillment ... I, as a woman, want Wonder Woman to be sexy, hot as hell, fight badass, and look great at the same time ... the same way men want Superman to have ridiculously huge pecs and an impractically big body. That makes them feel like the hero they want to be. And my hero, in my head, has really long legs." [ 34 ] Other appearances [ edit ] Shazam! [ edit ] In the animated end credits sequence in the 2019 film Shazam! , Wonder Woman was seen punching a subdued villain before riding in the Batmobile with Shazam. Advertising [ edit ] Clips of Gadot as Wonder Woman as seen in Wonder Woman 1984 are featured in a 2021 DirecTV advertisement along with professional tennis player Serena Williams , with Williams being inserted into the film dressed as Wonder Woman after a customer inadvertently merges the two figures on his television screen. [ 35 ] Video games [ edit ] Gadot's Wonder Woman appears as skins in mobile versions of the video games Injustice: Gods Among Us and Injustice 2 . She is also featured as a character in the DC Movie Pack for Lego DC Super-Villains . Reception [ edit ] Cosplayer dressed as Gal Gadot's Wonder Woman at the 2016 Montreal Comiccon Upon Wonder Woman's appearance in Batman v Superman , Jordan Hoffman of The Guardian noted in an ambivalent review of the film that Gadot's performance was the "best thing about the film". [ 36 ] Cynthia Fuchs of PopMatters added in a similar review of the film that "Wonder Woman remains Batman v Superman 's most compelling story, precisely because it's untold." [ 37 ] In Wonder Woman , Gadot's performance received a largely positive response from critics along with the film as a whole. Critics praised her chemistry with co-star Chris Pine and optimistic and lighthearted take on the character as opposed to that on other characters in the DCEU at that point. [ 38 ] [ 39 ] [ 40 ] [ 41 ] Elise Jost of Moviepilot specifically observed that "Gadot's take on Wonder Woman is one of those unique cases of an actor merging with their story, similar to Robert Downey Jr. 's Tony Stark . Gal Gadot is Wonder Woman, and Wonder Woman is Gal Gadot." She also praised Gadot's interpretation of Wonder Woman as the one in which Gadot "absolutely nails the character's unwaveringly positive outlook on life. She's a force of nature who believes in the greater good; her conviction that she's meant to save the world is stronger than her bullet-deflecting shield. She's genuine, she's fun, she's the warm source of energy at the heart of the movie." [ 42 ] However, there was some backlash in some Arab countries such as Lebanon and Qatar , which banned Wonder Woman due to Gadot's Israeli citizenship. [ 43 ] [ 44 ] Other countries such as Tunisia and Algeria saw the film pulled out of festivals due to Gadot's citizenship and military service. [ 45 ] [ 46 ] Jordan also reportedly considered a ban, but relented as there was no legal precedent for it. [ 47 ] In the theatrical release of Justice League , one of the biggest criticisms of the film was the scaling back of Wonder Woman's role and her alleged objectification by the film's creators, [ 48 ] especially during the film's reshoots. [ 49 ] In addition, Wonder Woman director Patty Jenkins lambasted Diana's portrayal in the theatrical cut, saying that it contradicted with the character's portrayal in her film and Zack Snyder's version of Justice League . [ 50 ] Wonder Woman's arc and depiction in Zack Snyder's Justice League received better reviews. [ 26 ] In Wonder Woman 1984 , Gadot once again received praise for her performance as Wonder Woman, though the film received mixed reviews. [ 51 ] Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle praised Gadot, saying, "Her performance here has dignity and earned emotion" and called her the best thing about the film and "She was the best thing in the first installment, too, but that was an excellent movie. This one isn't." [ 52 ] In addition, Diana's decision to have sex with Steve Trevor, who was actually possessing another man's body, was subject to controversy. [ 53 ] [ 54 ] [ 55 ] Accolades [ edit ] Gadot has received numerous nominations and awards for her portrayal of Diana Prince. Year Film Award Category Result Ref(s) 2016 Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice Chinese American Film Festival Most Popular US Actress in China Won [ 56 ] Critics' Choice Awards Best Actress in an Action Movie Nominated [ 57 ] Teen Choice Awards Choice Movie: Breakout Star Nominated [ 58 ] Choice Movie: Scene Stealer Nominated [ 58 ] Women Film Critics Circle Awards Best Female Action Hero Nominated [ 59 ] 2017 Wonder Woman Detroit Film Critics Society Breakthrough Nominated [ 60 ] National Board of Review Awards Spotlight Award Won [ 61 ] North Texas Film Critics Association Best Actress Nominated [ 62 ] Teen Choice Awards Choice Liplock (shared with Chris Pine ) Nominated [ 63 ] Choice Movie: Action Actress Won [ 63 ] Choice Movie: Actress Summer Nominated [ 63 ] Choice Movie: Ship (shared with Chris Pine ) Nominated [ 63 ] 2018 Jupiter Award Best International Actress Won [ 64 ] MTV Movie & TV Awards Best Fight (Wonder Woman vs German soldiers) Won [ 65 ] Best Hero Nominated [ 66 ] Palm Springs International Film Festival Rising Star Award - Actress Won [ 67 ] Santa Barbara Film Festival Virtuosos Award Won [ 68 ] Saturn Awards Best Actress Won [ 69 ] Justice League Teen Choice Awards Choice Movie Actress: Action Nominated [ 70 ] 2020 Wonder Woman 1984 Jay Entertainment Critics Awards Best Actress Won 2021 Entretenews Awards Best Actress Won Entretenews Awards Best Heroine Won Cape & Castle Awards Best Actress of the Year Won Golden Tomato Awards Fan Favorite Actress of the Year Nominated Jupiter Award Best International Actress Won Kids' Choice Awards Favorite Movie Actress Nominated [ 71 ] Favorite Superhero Won MTV Movie & TV Awards Best Hero Nominated Series Em Cena Awards Best Actress Won Alpha Pro Awards Best Actress in a Superhero Movie Won Alpha Pro Awards Best Female Hero Won Alpha Pro Awards Best Superhero Won Comic Book Film Awards Best Actress Pending Comic Book Film Awards Best Hero Pending Zack Snyder's Justice League MTV Movie & TV Awards Best Fight (Final fight between Justice League and Steppenwolf ) Nominated [ 72 ] 2022 Critics' Choice Super Awards Best Actress in a Superhero Movie Nominated [ 73 ] See also [ edit ] Wonder Woman in other media Characters of the DC Extended Universe Notes [ edit ] ^ As depicted in the flashbacks of the 2017 film Wonder Woman . ^ As depicted in the opening scene of the 2020 film Wonder Woman 1984 . ^ As depicted in the 2016 film Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice . ^ As depicted in the opening and end scenes of the 2017 film Wonder Woman . References [ edit ] ^ "Peacemaker: Every DC Easter Egg & Reference In Episode 6" . Screen Rant . 2022-02-03 . Retrieved 2022-02-18 . ^ Joby, Tom (May 12, 1980). "Cathy Crosby turns down 'Wonder Woman' offer". Associated Press . ^ Shales, Tom (November 7, 1975). "Wonder Woman Tries Comeback". The Washington Post . ^ Burr, Ty (April 19, 1996). "Comic movies" . Entertainment Weekly . Archived from the original on October 18, 2014 . Retrieved October 12, 2014 . ^ Fleming, Michael (October 28, 1999). "Hoffman on the 'Radio'; Col deal for Cohen" . Variety . Archived from the original on December 28, 2014 . Retrieved October 16, 2014 . ^ Linder, Brian (January 24, 2001). " Wonder Woman Scribe Chosen" . IGN . Archived from the original on July 26, 2006. ^ Rotten, Ryan; Douglas, Edward (March 25, 2007). "Joel Silver's Wonder Woman Update" . SuperHeroHype.com . Archived from the original on March 27, 2007 . Retrieved March 24, 2007 . ^ Shaw, Lucas; Lang, Brent (June 12, 2013). "Why 'Man of Steel' Holds the Key to Warner Bros.' Future Franchises" . TheWrap.com . Archived from the original on February 3, 2017 . Retrieved April 28, 2017 . ^ Kit, Borys (July 17, 2013). "DC Entertainment Chief Reveals What's Next for Superman, Wonder Woman and 5 Superheroes Who Deserve Movies (Q&A)" . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on August 4, 2014. ^ Bugley, Chris (September 17, 2015). "Gal Gadot is Wonder Woman because she turned down a major 'Man of Steel' role" . Batman News . Archived from the original on September 23, 2015 . Retrieved July 24, 2020 . ^ Begley, Chris (2015-07-30). "18 things revealed in the 'Batman v Superman' issue of Empire that no one's talking about" . Batman News . Retrieved 2021-07-19 . ^ "Batman V Superman: Dawn Of Justice - everything you need to know" . Empire . 3 January 2016 . Retrieved 2021-07-19 . ^ Wayne, Teddy (July 22, 2015). "Gal Gadot" . Interview . Archived from the original on July 23, 2015 . Retrieved July 22, 2015 . ^ Ryder, Taryn (March 18, 2016). "How Gal Gadot Transformed Her Body to Play Wonder Woman" . Yahoo! . Archived from the original on March 19, 2016 . Retrieved March 18, 2016 . ^ "Gal Gadot Cast as Wonder Woman in Man of Steel Sequel" . December 4, 2013. Archived from the original on January 2, 2017 . Retrieved August 13, 2016 . ^ Kit, Borys (April 15, 2015). " 'Wonder Woman' Movie Finds a New Director" . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on April 16, 2015 . Retrieved April 15, 2015 . ^ Chitwood, Adam (June 1, 2017). " 'Wonder Woman' Producer Charles Roven on the Many Writers That Tried to Tackle the Script" . Collider . Archived from the original on June 3, 2017. ^ "Upcoming Superman and Batman Film Casts Its Wonder Woman" . DC Comics. December 4, 2013. Archived from the original on June 5, 2014 . Retrieved May 26, 2014 . ^ Sloan, Jodie B. (October 5, 2016). "Why Placing 'Wonder Woman' In World War I Could Work Wonders" . Moviepilot.com . Archived from the original on November 9, 2016. ^ Welsh, Oli (2022-12-08). "Wonder Woman 3 reportedly canceled as DC Studios prepares for a new era" . Polygon . Retrieved 2023-02-17 . ^ Vary, Adam B. (January 31, 2023). "New DC Universe Unveils First 10 Projects: 'Superman: Legacy' in 2025, Batman & Robin Movie, Green Lantern Series, Wonder Woman Prequel and More" . Variety . Retrieved January 31, 2023 . ^ Siegel, Tatiana (2023-10-10). " 'Aquaman 2' Flooded With Drama: Jason Momoa Allegedly Drunk on Set, Amber Heard Scenes Cut, Elon Musk's Letter to WB and More" . Variety . Retrieved 2023-10-10 . ^ Guerrasio, Jason (2020-12-18). "Gal Gadot says her 'Justice League' experience 'wasn't the best' because of the director" . Insider . Retrieved 2021-03-24 . ^ a b Blistein, Jon (2021-05-10). "Gal Gadot Says Joss Whedon Threatened Her Career While Making 'Justice League' " . Rolling Stone . Retrieved 2021-05-18 . ^ Acuna, Kirsten; Guerrasio, Jason. "The 45 biggest differences between 'Zack Snyder's Justice League' and the 2017 theatrical version" . Insider . Retrieved 2021-03-25 . ^ a b Erbland, Kate (2021-03-19). " 'Justice League': Snyder Cut Delivers a Better Wonder Woman Than Joss Whedon, but She Still Deserves More" . IndieWire . Retrieved 2021-03-24 . ^ a b Woerner, Meredith (March 24, 2016). "Gal Gadot brings Wonder Woman to life in 'Batman v Superman' " . Los Angeles Times . Los Angeles, California. Archived from the original on August 12, 2016 . Retrieved August 13, 2016 . ^ "DCEU: 5 Couples That Are Perfect Together (& 5 That Make No Sense)" . Screen Rant . 2019-11-27 . Retrieved 2021-06-16 . ^ Coggan, Devan (March 7, 2016). "Gal Gadot on why she loves Wonder Woman: 'She's not there because of a love story' " . Entertainment Weekly . New York City: Meredith Corporation . Archived from the original on November 26, 2016 . Retrieved August 13, 2016 . ^ Nugent, John (28 January 2016). "Exclusive: Gal Gadot talks Wonder Woman's role in Batman v Superman" . Empire . Archived from the original on October 27, 2018 . Retrieved July 24, 2020 . ^ Woerner, Meredith (June 2, 2017). "What it's like to be a real-life Amazon on the set of 'Wonder Woman' " . Los Angeles Times . Los Angeles, California. Archived from the original on July 24, 2017. ^ Fussell, Sidney. "The 'Batman v Superman' director added hidden references to this one author throughout the movie" . Business Insider . Retrieved 2021-07-19 . ^ "New Wonder Woman Image; Patty Jenkins on Costumes" . The Mary Sue. March 24, 2016. Archived from the original on January 26, 2017 . Retrieved December 14, 2016 . ^ Sperling, Nicole (March 23, 2016). "Wonder Woman: Gal Gadot, Robin Wright, Connie Nielsen first look" . EW.com . Archived from the original on November 27, 2016 . Retrieved December 14, 2016 . ^ "Serena Williams is Wonder Woman in a new commercial!" . Tennis World USA . 2021-08-31 . Retrieved 2021-10-18 . ^ Hoffman, Jordan (March 23, 2016). " 'There's a lot to be worried about': a comics geek's verdict on Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on April 1, 2016 . Retrieved April 1, 2016 . ^ Fuchs, Cynthia (March 23, 2016). "The Boys Are Oversharing in 'Batman v Superman Dawn of Justice' " . PopMatters . Archived from the original on October 19, 2017 . Retrieved July 18, 2020 . ^ Nashawaty, Chris (May 29, 2017). "Wonder Woman is the smart, satisfying DC movie you've been waiting for" . Entertainment Weekly . New York City: Meredith Corporation . Archived from the original on August 9, 2017 . Retrieved May 30, 2017 . ^ Linden, Sheri (May 29, 2017). " 'Wonder Woman': Film Review" . The Hollywood Reporter . Los Angeles, California: Valence Media . Archived from the original on May 30, 2017 . Retrieved May 30, 2017 . ^ Shepherd, Jack (May 30, 2017). "Wonder Woman review roundup – Critics conclude Patty Jenkins' film better than Batman v Superman" . The Independent . London, England: Independent Print Ltd. Archived from the original on May 30, 2017. ^ Rahman, Abid (May 29, 2017). " 'Wonder Woman': What the Critics Are Saying" . The Hollywood Reporter . Los Angeles, California: Valence Media . Archived from the original on May 30, 2017. ^ Jost, Elise (June 2, 2017). "#WonderWoman: Why Gal Gadot Was The Perfect Choice To Play Wonder Woman" . Moviepilot . Archived from the original on July 13, 2017 . Retrieved July 13, 2017 . ^ Bearak, Max (June 1, 2017). "Lebanon bans 'Wonder Woman' in protest against Israeli actress Gal Gadot" . The Washington Post . Washington, D.C.: Nash Holdings . Archived from the original on August 4, 2017 . Retrieved June 2, 2017 . ^ "The new Wonder Woman movie is banned in Qatar" . Doha News . June 30, 2017. Archived from the original on September 29, 2019 . Retrieved July 18, 2020 . ^ Keslassy, Elsa (June 7, 2017). " 'Wonder Woman' Screenings Suspended in Tunisia Amid Opposition to Gal Gadot" . Variety . Archived from the original on June 20, 2017. ^ " 'Wonder Woman' Pulled From Festival in Algeria" . Vanity . June 6, 2017. Archived from the original on December 1, 2019 . Retrieved July 18, 2020 . ^ "Exclusive: Jordan Will Not be Banning Wonder Woman" . Al Bawaba . June 11, 2017. Archived from the original on June 11, 2017. ^ Berlatsky, Noah (17 November 2017). "Opinion — Wonder Woman deserves so much better than "Justice League" " . NBC News . Archived from the original on 2018-01-30 . Retrieved 2020-07-30 . ^ Curran, Brad (2019-08-29). "Justice League: Everything We Know About Wonder Woman Original Role In The Snyder Cut" . Screen Rant . Archived from the original on 2019-09-14 . Retrieved 2020-07-30 . ^ Sharf, Zack (December 10, 2020). "Patty Jenkins 'Tossed Out' Joss Whedon's 'Justice League': It Contradicted 'Wonder Woman' " . IndieWire . Archived from the original on December 10, 2020 . Retrieved December 16, 2020 . ^ Bradshaw, Peter (December 15, 2020). "Wonder Woman 1984 review – queenly Gal Gadot disarms the competition" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on December 16, 2020 . Retrieved December 16, 2020 . ^ LaSalle, Mick (December 20, 2020). "Review: Gal Gadot can't rescue 'Wonder Woman 1984' from pit of empty ideas" . San Francisco Chronicle . Archived from the original on December 24, 2020 . Retrieved December 24, 2020 . ^ Placido, Dani Di (December 26, 2020). "The Warped Morality Of 'Wonder Woman 1984' " . Forbes . Archived from the original on January 3, 2021 . Retrieved January 3, 2021 . ^ Owen, Phil (January 2, 2021). " 'Wonder Woman 1984': Steve Trevor's Resurrection Is Super Problematic" . TheWrap . Archived from the original on January 3, 2021 . Retrieved January 3, 2021 . ^ Patty Jenkins responds to controversial Wonder Woman 1984 plot point . CNET . ^ Monetti, Sandro (4 November 2016). "Blunder Woman? Gal Gadot Gets Wrong Gong – Entity" . Entity . Archived from the original on 20 December 2016 . Retrieved 3 December 2016 . ^ "Best Actress – 'La La Land,' 'Arrival,' 'Moonlight' Top Critics' Choice Nominations" . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on 3 December 2016 . Retrieved 12 December 2016 . ^ a b "Teen Choice Awards 2016—Captain America: Civil War Leads Second Wave of Nominations" . E!. 9 June 2016. Archived from the original on 28 January 2017 . Retrieved 21 September 2020 . ^ "The Women Film Critics Circle Nomination Award Picks For 2016" . criticalwomen.blogspot.co.il . Archived from the original on 7 March 2017 . Retrieved 7 March 2017 . ^ "The 2017 Detroit Film Critics Society Awards" . Detroit Film Critics Society . 7 December 2017. Archived from the original on 24 March 2019 . Retrieved 7 December 2017 . ^ "National Board of Review Winners: 'The Post' Comes Up Strong With Best Pic, Best Actress Meryl Streep, Best Actor Tom Hanks" . 28 November 2017. Archived from the original on 28 November 2017 . Retrieved 13 December 2017 . ^ "Best of 2017 from the NTFCA" . North Texas Film Critics Association . 9 December 2017. Archived from the original on 12 December 2017 . Retrieved 13 December 2017 . ^ a b c d "Teen Choice Awards 2017 Winners: The Complete List" . E! News . 14 August 2017. Archived from the original on 14 August 2017 . Retrieved 14 August 2017 . ^ "Alle Preisträger 2018" (in German). Jupiter Award . Retrieved 2021-03-28 . ^ Nordyke, Kimberley (3 May 2018). "MTV Movie & TV Awards: 'Black Panther,' 'Stranger Things' Top Nominations" . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on 22 May 2018 . Retrieved 22 May 2018 . ^ Nordyke, Kimberley (3 May 2018). "MTV Movie & TV Awards: 'Black Panther,' 'Stranger Things' Top Nominations" . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on 22 May 2018 . Retrieved 22 May 2018 . ^ "Timothée Chalamet and Sam Rockwell Set for PSIFF Honors, Lois Smith Gets Lifetime Achievement Award, and More" . IndieWire . 17 November 2017. Archived from the original on 20 November 2017 . Retrieved 17 November 2017 . ^ "Gal Gadot, Kumail Nanjiani, Timothee Chalamet Among Recipients for Virtuosos Award at Santa Barbara Film Festival" . Variety . 29 November 2017. Archived from the original on 8 January 2018 . Retrieved 5 December 2017 . ^ Hammond, Pete (27 June 2018). " 'Black Panther' Tops 44th Saturn Awards With Five; 'Blade Runner 2049', 'Shape Of Water', 'Get Out' Also Score" . Deadline Hollywood . Archived from the original on 30 June 2019 . Retrieved 28 June 2018 . ^ Johnson, Zach (12 August 2018). "Teen Choice Awards 2018 Winners: The Complete List" . E! News . Archived from the original on 15 September 2018 . Retrieved 15 September 2018 . ^ Nordyke, Kimberly (2 February 2021). "Kids' Choice Awards Unveils Nominees, Taps Kenan Thompson to Host" . The Hollywood Reporter . ^ MTV News Staff. "Your 2021 MTV Movie & TV Awards Nominations Are Here: See The Full List" . MTV News . Archived from the original on April 19, 2021 . Retrieved August 9, 2021 . ^ Davis, Clayton (February 22, 2022). "Critics Choice Super Awards: 'Spider-Man,' 'Justice League' Among Film Nominees; 'Evil,' 'Midnight Mass' Lead TV" . Variety . Archived from the original on February 22, 2022 . Retrieved February 22, 2022 . The plot description and characterization were adapted from Wonder Woman , Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice , Wonder Woman (film) and Justice League (film) at DC Extended Universe Wiki, which are available under a Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 license. External links [ edit ] Diana of Themyscira (DC Extended Universe) on DC Database , a DC Comics wiki v t e Wonder Woman William Moulton Marston Elizabeth Holloway Marston Olive Byrne H. G. Peter Other contributors Characters Wonder Women Diana Prince Orana Artemis of Bana-Mighdall Hippolyta Nubia Wonder Girls Cassie Sandsmark Donna Troy Yara Flor Supporting characters Antiope Etta Candy Fury Hephaestus Heracles/Hercules Hermes I Ching Julia and Vanessa Kapatelis Justice League Mala Nemesis (Thomas Tresser) The Olympian Paula von Gunther Philippus Poseidon Queen Desira Helena Sandsmark Sarge Steel Steve Trevor Wonder Man Zeus Zola Enemies Ares Baron Blitzkrieg Baroness Paula von Gunther Blue Snowman Veronica Cale Cheetah Circe Dark Angel Decay Doctor Cyber Doctor Poison Doctor Psycho Duke of Deception Egg Fu Eviless First Born Genocide Giganta Hades Hypnota Kung Mask Maxwell Lord Medusa Minister Blizzard Osira Queen Clea Silver Swan Superwoman Tezcatlipoca Zara Factions Amazons of Themyscira Amazons of Bana-Mighdall Children of Ares Godwatch Olympian Gods THEM! Titans of Myth Villainy Inc. Locations Aeaea Themyscira (The Paradise Islands) Publications Absolute Wonder Woman All Star Comics Wonder Woman Amazonia Batman/Superman/Wonder Woman: Trinity Comic Cavalcade Crossover The Legend of Wonder Woman Sensation Comics Superman and Wonder Woman: The Hidden Killer Superman/Wonder Woman Wonder Woman '77 The Wonder Woman Chronicles Wonder Woman: Earth One Wonder Woman Historia: The Amazons The World's Greatest Superheroes Storylines “ Introducing Wonder Woman ” (1941) Gods and Mortals (1987) Challenge of the Gods (1987–88) War of the Gods (1991) The Contest (1994) The Challenge of Artemis (1995) Paradise Island Lost (2001) Our Worlds at War (2001) The Hiketeia (2002) Down to Earth (2003–04) Who Is Wonder Woman? (2006–07) Amazons Attack! (2007) The Circle (2008) Ends of the Earth (2008) Rise of the Olympian (2009) Flashpoint (2011) The Lies (2016) Year One (2016) The Truth (2017) Godwatch (2017) Trial of the Amazons (2022) Technology Golden Girdle of Gaea Lasso of Truth Wonder Woman's bracelets In other media Film 1974 film 2009 film Wonder Woman: Bloodlines DC Extended Universe Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice 2017 film soundtrack Justice League Zack Snyder's Justice League Wonder Woman 1984 soundtrack Peacemaker: It's Cow or Never Shazam! Fury of the Gods The Flash Television Wonder Woman episodes 2011 TV pilot Miscellaneous Alternative versions Earth-Two Bizarra Superwoman Cultural impact Professor Marston and the Wonder Women Literature Wonder Women! The Untold Story of American Superheroines Category v t e Justice League characters Founding members Pre-New 52/ Rebirth Aquaman Batman Flash / Barry Allen Green Lantern / Hal Jordan Martian Manhunter Superman Wonder Woman Post-New 52/ Rebirth Aquaman Batman Cyborg Flash / Barry Allen Green Lantern / Hal Jordan Superman Wonder Woman Recurring members Adam Strange Agent Liberty Amazing-Man / Will Everett III Ambush Bug Animal Man Aqualad Atom Ray Palmer Ryan Choi Atom Smasher Aztek Batgirl/Oracle Batwing Batwoman Big Barda Black Adam Black Canary Black Condor Black Lightning Black Orchid Bloodwynd Booster Gold Blue Beetle Ted Kord Jaime Reyes Blue Devil Blue Jay Bulleteer Captain Atom Captain Marvel / Shazam Catwoman Commander Steel / Hank Heywood III Congorilla Crimson Fox Detective Chimp Doctor Fate Doctor Light Donna Troy Element Girl Elongated Man Etrigan the Demon Fire Firestorm The Flash Jay Garrick Wally West General Glory Geo-Force Godiva Green Arrow Green Lantern Guy Gardner Jade John Stewart Kyle Rayner Simon Baz Jessica Cruz Guardian Gypsy Harley Quinn Hawkman Carter Hall Katar Hol Hawkgirl and Hawkwoman Shiera Sanders Hall Shayera Hol Kendra Saunders Hourman Rick Tyler Matthew Tyler (android) Huntress Ice Glacier Jesse Quick John Constantine Kasumi Katana Lightray Lobo Madame Xanadu Manitou Dawn Manitou Raven Maxima Maya Mera Metamorpho Mister Miracle Mr Terrific Moon Maiden Mystek Naomi McDuffie Obsidian Orion Pandora Phantom Stranger Plastic Man Power Girl Question Raven Ray Red Arrow Red Tornado Robin/Nightwing Rocket Red Shade, the Changing Man Silver Sorceress Snapper Carr Starfire Stargirl Starman Mikaal Tomas Prince Gavyn Will Payton Jack Knight Steel Super-Chief Superboy Supergirl Swamp Thing Tasmanian Devil Tomorrow Woman Triumph Vibe Vixen Wonder Girl Zatanna Zauriel Other characters Supporting characters Alfred Pennyworth Arella A.R.G.U.S. Carol Ferris Highfather Iris West James Gordon Jimmy Olsen Lois Lane Lucius Fox Pariah Perry White Queen Hippolyta Steve Trevor Sue Dibny Vicki Vale Allies Amazonians Atlanteans Birds of Prey Doom Patrol GCPD Justice League Dark John Constantine Deadman Detective Chimp Etrigan the Demon Swamp Thing Zatanna Justice Society of America Lantern Corps Guardians of the Universe Zamarons Blue Lantern Corps Green Lantern Corps Indigo Tribe White Lantern Corps Legion of Super-Heroes Marvel/Shazam Family New Gods Outsiders S.T.A.R. Labs Teen Titans Robin Starfire Beast Boy Cyborg Raven Young Justice Neutral allies Amanda Waller Black Adam Captain Cold Frankenstein Jonah Hex Killer Frost Larfleeze Lobo Harley Quinn Poison Ivy Star Sapphire Suicide Squad Enemies Central rogues Amazo Anti-Monitor Black Adam Black Manta Brainiac Captain Cold Cheetah Darkseid Deathstroke Despero Doctor Destiny Doctor Light Doomsday Eclipso Felix Faust Gorilla Grodd Joker Kanjar Ro Lex Luthor Libra Mongul Nekron Neron Professor Ivo Prometheus Queen Bee Queen of Fables Sinestro Starro Steppenwolf T. O. Morrow Trigon Ultra-Humanite Vandal Savage Other supervillains Amos Fortune Black Hand Blockbuster Brain Storm Circe David Graves Doctor Polaris Doctor Sivana Epoch Funky Flashman Gamemnae General Wade Eiling Gentleman Ghost Gog Hyathis Imperiex Key King Kull Ma'alefa'ak Magog Manchester Black Manga Khan Manhunter Matter Master Maxwell Lord Merlyn Morgaine le Fey Nebula Man OMAC Paragon Per Degaton Ra's al Ghul Rama Khan Red King Reverse-Flash Shaggy Man Siren Solaris Solomon Grundy Sonar Starbreaker Weapons Master Weather Wizard Wizard Organizations Aryan Brigade Axis Amerika Brotherhood of Evil Cadre Crime Syndicate of America Darkseid's Elite Fearsome Five Female Furies Injustice League Kobra Lantern Corps Black Lantern Corps Orange Lantern Corps Red Lantern Corps Sinestro Corps League of Assassins Legion of Doom Manhunters Parademons Phantom Zone Villains Rogues Royal Flush Gang Secret Six Secret Society of Super Villains White Martians Alternative versions Alternate versions of the Justice League Extreme Justice Just'a Lotta Animals Justice Guild of America Justice League 3000 Justice League Dark Justice League Elite Justice League Europe Justice League International Justice League Queer Justice League Task Force Justice League United Justice Legion Alpha Justice Lords Super Buddies Super Jrs. Young Justice Others Superman Wonder Woman In other media DC Extended Universe Superman Batman Wonder Woman Flash Aquaman Category v t e DC Extended Universe DC Studios Development Accolades DC Universe Films Man of Steel (2013) Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016) Suicide Squad (2016) accolades Wonder Woman (2017) Justice League (2017) production Zack Snyder's Justice League Aquaman (2018) Shazam! (2019) Birds of Prey (2020) Wonder Woman 1984 (2020) The Suicide Squad (2021) Black Adam (2022) Shazam! Fury of the Gods (2023) The Flash (2023) Blue Beetle (2023) Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom (2023) Batgirl (unreleased) TV series Peacemaker season 1 (2022) Music Soundtracks Man of Steel Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice Suicide Squad Wonder Woman Justice League Aquaman Shazam! Birds of Prey Wonder Woman 1984 Zack Snyder's Justice League The Suicide Squad Black Adam Shazam! Fury of the Gods The Flash Blue Beetle Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom Singles " Heathens " " Sucker for Pain " " Purple Lamborghini " " Gangsta " " To Be Human " " Diamonds " " Boss Bitch " Cast and characters Barry Allen / The Flash Arthur Curry / Aquaman Clark Kent / Superman Lois Lane Lex Luthor Diana Prince / Wonder Woman Harley Quinn Chris Smith / Peacemaker Amanda Waller Bruce Wayne / Batman Earth-89 Zod Other media Arrowverse " Crisis on Infinite Earths " Aquaman: King of Atlantis (2021) Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Diana_Prince_(DC_Extended_Universe)&oldid=1284638189 " Categories : Characters created by Allan Heinberg Characters created by Zack Snyder DC Comics Amazons DC Comics characters who can move at superhuman speeds DC Comics characters who use magic DC Comics characters with accelerated healing DC Comics characters with superhuman durability or invulnerability DC Comics characters with superhuman senses DC Comics characters with superhuman strength DC Comics deities DC Comics female superheroes DC Comics hybrids DC Extended Universe characters Fictional antiquarians and curators Fictional archaeologists Fictional characters who can turn invisible Fictional deicides Fictional demigods Fictional fratricides Fictional princesses Fictional shield fighters Fictional swordfighters in films Fictional vigilantes Fictional World War I veterans Film characters introduced in 2016 Superheroes with alter egos Wonder Woman (film series) Wonder Woman characters Wonder Woman in other media Hidden categories: CS1 German-language sources (de) Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Short description is different from Wikidata This page was last edited on 8 April 2025, at 20:32 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Diana Prince (DC Extended Universe) 2 languages Add topic