Home - National History Day Shop Donate Find A Local Contest Contest Theme Get Started Contest Rules & Evaluation Find Your Local Contest (Affiliate) National Contest Teacher Resources Classroom Tools Courses Institutes Teaching Research Skills Advising NHD Students News & Events About NHD ® Why NHD Works People of NHD Find Your Local Affiliate 50 Years of NHD Sponsors and Supporters Get Involved Donate Volunteer to Judge Alumni Network Home Studying the past to inform the present and shape the future Learn What We Do Create a History Day Project Bring History into your Classroom Improve your Teaching Skills Celebrating 51 Years of Impact For more than 50 years, National History Day has impacted the teaching and learning of history across the world. As a 501(c)(3) non-profit, NHD’s work impacts students, teachers, schools, and communities as we strengthen our collective understanding of the past. LEARN MORE 2025 Contest Theme Rights & Responsibilities in History This year’s theme invites you to consider questions of time and place, cause and effect, change over time, and impact and significance. Learn more about the theme Subscribe to the NHD Newsletter Stay up-to-date on the latest resources, teacher opportunities, and more. SUBSCRIBE TODAY Students making history “The non-profit organization National History Day offers students in grades 6-12 the opportunity to explore significant topics of history. Correspondent Faith Salie talks with some of the young people using writing, performance art, and documentary filmmaking to tell stories of the past that resonate today, proving that history never gets old.” Watch nhd on cbs sunday morning Competition inspires students to explore history through art “Every year for 50 years, some 500,000 students from across the country have competed in National History Day, using arts to portray their researched stories. Correspondent Jeffrey Brown spent a day with the finalists to see how they defined Turning Points in History .” watch nhd on pbs news hour News & Events National History Day and Carpenters’ Hall announce selection of 27 student-teacher teams for the 2025 Young People’s Continental Congress February 17, 2025 National History Day empowers 55 educators to research and memorialize military service members February 4, 2025 National History Day empowers 48 teachers and their students to research untold stories from Veterans of the Korean War November 11, 2024 View all news & Events Support the Teaching and Learning of History Your support of National History Day is an investment in the future. donate today Judges Needed Judges make the National History Day contest possible. See how you can provide students with a high-quality educational experience. volunteer as a contest Judge Documenting personal stories, written by students, of those who gave everything for our liberty. LEARN their Stories National History Day is pleased to thank its generous donors and sponsors: View all SupportERS National History Day ® Influencing the future through discovery of the past Contact Job Openings Switch Language English Español 简体中文 العربية Stay Informed Read our newsletter for the latest resources, events, and training. Subscribe Follow us © 2025 National History Day ® 4511 KNOX ROAD, SUITE 205, COLLEGE PARK, MD 20740 | Privacy Policy | Website design by openbox9 We use cookies to analyze how visitors use our website so we can provide the best possible experience. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device. For more information, please view our Privacy Policy. Accept all cookies Accept only necessary cookies modal-check Copy - Support National History Day Demo Description National History Day was recently notified that our grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities were cancelled. This means a loss of more than $336,000 over this year and next. Can you give to help power NHD's important programming for the next two years and beyond? Donate now. Dismiss ad Dismiss ad This will close in 0 seconds