Upcoming Switch 2 games for 2025 and beyond | GamesRadar+ Skip to main content Open menu Close menu GamesRadar+ GamesRadar+ GamesRadar+ The Games, Movies, TV & Comics You Love Search Search GamesRadar+ Sign in View Profile Sign out Subscribe US Edition UK US Canada Australia Games TV Movies Hardware Video News Reviews Guides Deals More PS5 Xbox Series X Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch 2 PC Platforms Tabletop Gaming Comics Toys & Collectibles SFX Newsarama Retro Gamer Newsletters About us Features Total Film No offers found Trending Upcoming Switch 2 games Mario Kart World Donkey Kong Bananza The Duskbloods Games Upcoming Switch 2 games for 2025 and beyond Features By Emma-Jane Betts last updated 10 April 2025 From Mario Kart World to Elden Ring, here's all the upcoming Nintendo Switch 2 games to look forward to in 2025 Comments ( 0 ) ( ) When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . (Image credit: Nintendo) Jump to: 2025 TBC 2025 TBC 2026 TBC Thanks to the latest Nintendo Direct , we've a ton of upcoming Switch 2 games now confirmed and approaching us at super speed. Since the Switch 2 was revealed back on January 16 this year, there's been a sea of rumors and speculation flying around possible launch titles. From Mario Kart 9 chatter to a potential new Zelda game, we've heard it all. However, courtesy of all the Nintendo Switch 2 Direct news from April 2, we now know which gaming heroes will be leading the charge in this new era of Nintendo. From newly revealed Mario outings to some of the most exciting new games of 2025 , below we've listed every single new Nintendo Switch 2 game announced so far. We've made sure to order all the Switch 2 games by their release year, and have also included titles scheduled for 2026 and those without a release window as well. This way, you can plan your future Switch 2 game purchases at any point in time, especially if you plan to forego the Nintendo Switch pre-orders rush and wait to pick up the new console. So, read on below to find out our round-up of all the Switch 2 games to keep an eye on! You may like Upcoming Switch games for 2025 and beyond Everything announced at the Nintendo Switch 2 Direct Upcoming Switch 2 games 2025 Mario Kart World (Image credit: Nintendo) Release date: June 5, 2025 After seeing clips of it back during January 16, Mario Kart 9 (aka Mario Kart World ) has finally been revealed and is heading our way later this year. Announced during the Nintendo Switch 2 Direct showcase, the upcoming Switch 2 game sees 24 placements instead of the standard 12 racers and has a series of exciting new courses. So far, we've seen glimpses of new tracks like Yoshi's Gas Station and an Australian-inspired world. It looks fun as heck, and personally, we can't wait to see Mario's mustache fluttering in the wind as he zooms past the competition once again. The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild and Tears of the Kingdom (Image credit: Nintendo) Release date: June 5, 2025 Both The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild and The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom are getting Switch 2 Editions as soon as the console releases on June 5. So if you want to experience Hyrule with an upgraded console, now is the time. These are two of the best games ever made, so it may just be worth buying them again if you have the cash to spare as well. Sign up to the GamesRadar+ Newsletter Weekly digests, tales from the communities you love, and more Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Nintendo Switch 2 Welcome Tour (Image credit: Nintendo) Release date: June 5, 2025 Nintendo Switch 2 Welcome Tour is described by Nintendo as "an interactive exhibit". It’s a game that takes you through all the features and controls of the console as if you were walking through a museum and experiencing an exhibit for yourself. As you learn about how the Switch 2 works you'll have quizzes and mini games to play around with as well as secret facts to uncover! Basically, it seems like a very fun way to experience a tech demo. However, be warned, this doesn't come for free, you'll have to purchase it separately from the Switch 2 itself. Cyberpunk 2077 (Image credit: CD Projekt RED) Release date: June 5, 2025 Cyberpunk 2077 is one of the exciting titles expected to launch with the Switch 2, and trust us, you won't want to miss this one. Not only is it one of the best RPGs ever made, but it's also proven that it runs great on handhelds after being Steam Deck verified for years. So, if you love sci-fi and want to see Keanu Reeves on your new Nintendo console, be sure to pick this one up. Hogwarts Legacy (Image credit: Avalanche Software) Release date: June 5, 2025 Hogwarts Legacy is an upcoming Switch 2 launch game that throws players into the magical Wizarding World of the Harry Potter universe. If you haven't played this wildly successful title yet, now is the perfect time to experience it for yourself. Learn spells, attend classes, tame magical beasts, and save Hogwarts before it's too late. Split Fiction (Image credit: EA) Release date: June 5, 2025 Split Fiction is one of the best co-op games ever made and has already secured its place on our list of the best games of 2025 so far. So, to hear that it's coming to the Switch 2 is great news. Play as the two writers, Zoe and Mio, who must navigate each other's stories in order to save their work from a greedy corporation. Split Fiction is a marvel and a welcomed addition to this list. Street Fighter 6 (Image credit: Capcom) Release date: June 5, 2025 One of our favorite fighting games in recent years makes the jump to handheld, where it'll support local wireless multiplayer. It also features new modes exclusive to this Nintendo Switch 2 release. It'll launch as both a standard edition and a Years 1-2 Fighters Edition collecting together 26 fighters from across the game's DLC releases. It'll be compatible with Amiibo figures and Amiibo cards with statues for Luke, Jamie, and Kimberly shown and cards for other fighters. Hitman World of Assassination: Signature Edition (Image credit: I/O Interactive) Release date : June 5, 2025 Agent 47 has infiltrated Nintendo HQ to deftly sneak onto the new hardware, meaning you can now perform the most devious kills in the business on the go. Containing all the content from all three recent Hitman games (from 2016 onwards), it releases alongside the Nintendo Switch 2. Naturally, as the Hitman World of Assassination continues to release new content, it'll be included in this version as well. Bravely Default Flying Fairy HD Remaster (Image credit: Cattle Call) Release date: June 5, 2025 Missed Square Enix 's genre redefining Nintendo DS game? It's getting a luxurious remaster for Nintendo Switch 2. The graphics are still chibi, but the graphics are certainly looking crisp. New features include a revised UI that helps with getting through battles, and new Joy-Con mouse controlled minigames. Survival Kids (Image credit: Konami) Release date: June 5, 2025 When four kids go off exploring when they find a map, they end up stranded on an island and having to survive together. There's crafting, fishing, and cooking as four players attempt to survive together. But there's also puzzles and clambering to do as you explore the environment, upgrading skills to push further and escape the islands. Again, this goes to show how much Nintendo are pushing multiplayer features at launch. It'll release the same day as Nintendo Switch 2. Yakuza 0 Director's Cut (Image credit: SEGA) Release date : June 5, 2025 One of the best Yakuza games makes the jump to handheld, and is a great followup to last year's Yakuza Kiwami port for Nintendo Switch. Quite what makes this a Director's Cut is, however, unclear, but developers Ryu Ga Gotoku were on-hand to ask us to look forward to more Yakuza and Like a Dragon news in the future. It will release at the same time as Nintendo Switch 2. Deltarune Chapters 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 (Image credit: tobyfox) Release date: June 5, 2025 That's right, the episodic sequel to the iconic Undertale is coming to Nintendo Switch, with chapters 3 and 4 notably being brand new. A parallel story, it remixed elements of Undertale fans are familiar with while taking things in a whole new direction. The iconic shmup-style RPG combat returns alongside new modes of interaction which we hope make the most of the Nintendo Switch 2's mouse and motion controls. The huge news is this is coming out alongside the Nintendo Switch 2 launch, which means Chapters 3 and 4 are releasing simultaneously extremely soon. Civilization 7 Switch 2 edition (Image credit: Firaxis) Release date : June 5, 2025 Civilization 7 will be making its way to the Switch 2 when the console launches on June 5. For those of us who have already bought in on the original Switch, developer Firaxis has confirmed a digital upgrade will be available – though exact pricing details haven't been shared just yet. The series' latest offering was warmly received in our Civilization 7 review, so it's nice to see the handheld covering its bases with a solid offering for strategy fans. More Switch 2 launch games (Image credit: Capcom) Kunitsu-Gami: Path of the Goddess (June 5, 2025) Puyo Puyo Tetris 2S (June 5, 2025) Fortnite (June 5, 2025) Arcade Archives 2: Ridge Racer (June 5, 2025) Rune Factory: Guardians of Azuma (June 5, 2025) Nobunaga's Ambition: Awakening Complete Edition (June 5, 2025) Fast Fusion (June 5, 2025) Tamagotchi Plaza (Image credit: Bandai Namco) Release date: June 27, 2025 Tamagotchi Plaza is getting a Switch 2 version after recently announcing that it would be heading to the older console earlier this year. That's great news for all you fans of the franchise! In the new Switch game you'll run a number of different corner shops (each with their own mini games) as you fulfil orders and upgrade your stores. Meet adorable residents and build the town up to a glorious cute capitalist utopia. Tamagotchi Plaza will release in Japan on the 26 and then worldwide on June 27 for the Switch 2. Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3 + 4 (Image credit: Activision Blizzard) Release date: July 11, 2025 Just weeks after confirming a July release date for Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3 + 4, Activision has shared that the long-awaited remake package will also be kickflipping onto the Nintendo Switch 2 on the same day. Launching a little over a month after the console itself, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3 + 4 will be one of the first cross-platform launches to include the Switch 2. Its announcement also confirmed a crossover with SpongeBob SquarePants, allowing Tony Hawk and pals to skate around Bikini Bottom of all places. Donkey Kong Bananza (Image credit: Nintendo) Release date: July 17, 2025 One of the most exciting new Switch 2 games has to be the upcoming 3D action platformer Donkey Kong Bananza . From what we've seen so far, this title will be like DK's own Super Mario Odyssey, with players smashing their way through environments as they jump, leap, and solve various puzzles. The game comes out shortly after the Switch 2 releases, so luckily, we won't have that long to wait for this one. Shadow Labyrinth (Image credit: Nintendo) Release date: July 18 Bandai Namco has announced that there will be a free Switch 2 upgrade for their upcoming strange PAC-MAN inspired game. Originally the title was announced for Switch, PS5, PC and Xbox Series X, so hearing that the Switch 2 is now confirmed is a welcomed surprise. In this 2D action platformer you are a warrior called "No.8" who teams up with a yellow round orb called PUCK. Together you'll navigate a sci-fi world, uncover secrets and consume all your enemies. Looks like Kirby will have some hungry competition on Nintendo's new platform! Super Mario Party Jamboree plus Jamboree TV (Image credit: Nintendo) Release date: July 24, 2025 If you're looking for some Switch 2 party games, well you're in luck because Super Mario Party Jamboree is getting an upgrade on Nintendo's new console. Along with the base game, the Switch 2 Edition has mouse controls, audio recognition, and camera-based gameplay. There are also three new game modes! If you're after a family experience I've yet to find a better time than a Mario Party game Story of Seasons: Grand Bazaar (Image credit: Marvelous Inc.) Release date: August 27, 2025 The Story of Seasons franchise is a Nintendo icon, so it makes sense that the latest remaster of one of the best 3DS games would be heading to the Switch 2. Story of Seasons: Grand Bazaar will have you taking on the role as a farmer of the windy Zephyr Town. It's up to you to help the community and bring Zephyr back to its glory days. There's farming, crafting, and even some romance waiting you with this upcoming Switch 2 game, so be sure to mark your calendars for August. Kirby and the Forgotten Land + Star Crossed World (Image credit: Nintendo) Release date: August 28, 2025 As a Kirby superfan, I'm incredibly pleased to see that not only is Kirby and the Forgotten Land getting a fancy new Switch 2 Edition, but we're also going to see the new expansion Star Crossed World on the console as well. Forgotten Land is one of the best Kirby games ever made, so if you're new to the pink blob's franchise, it's a must-play! Daemon x Machina: Titanic Scion (Image credit: Marvelous First Studio) Release date : September 5, 2025 Look, the first game was a lot of fun when it launched exclusively on Nintendo Switch (it came to PC later), but the hardware clearly couldn't keep up with the high-octane mech action. It's great to see the game get a sequel on more powerful hardware, which promises to deliver even bigger action. The graphics also seem to be notably more detailed than the first game. It'll launch September 5, 2025. TBC 2025 Metroid Prime 4: Beyond (Image credit: Nintendo) Release date: TBC 2025 Metroid Prime 4: Beyond has been in the works since 2017. However, it's finally heading our way in 2025 and to the Switch 2, no less! That's right, Metroid Prime 4 will be one of the Switch games that also has a Switch 2 Edition, meaning you can easily play it on the new console. We still don't have a release date for Samus' big return, but knowing that the next entry in the iconic series will be for the Switch 2 is a welcome relief for fans. It also helps that Metroid Prime 4: Beyond looks to be one of the best Metroid games in years, so definitely add it to your wishlist. Pokemon Legends: Z-A (Image credit: The Pokemon Company) Release date: TBC 2025 You can't have a new Nintendo console without a new Pokemon game, can you? Pokemon Legends: Z-A is the next chapter of the iconic series and will be switching up combat as well as offering some new trainer features. We also know that it is coming out sometime this year and is an upcoming Switch 2 game. We recently saw a new trailer for the game thanks to a recent Pokemon Day presentation, and it looks stunning. So watch this space! Kirby Air Riders (Image credit: Nintendo) Release date: TBC 2025 Everyone's favourite pink mascot is back, and will be swooshing onto the Switch 2 with a sequel to the 2003 racing game, Kirby Air Ride. In Kirby Air Riders, you'll get the chance to race against your friends as one of the most adorable Nintendo characters around. Kirby's original creator Masahiro Sakurai is also directing this one, so it's a must play for every Nintendo fan. Drag x Drive (Image credit: Nintendo) Release date: TBC 2025 Drag x Drive is an upcoming Switch 2 game that fully utilizes the console's new Joy-Con features. To play this sports game, you'll be using the controllers like a computer mouse, moving them on a flat surface in order to propel your wheelchair around the court. Zoom around the map to grab the ball from the opposing team, and then flick your controller in the air to try and score a point in their basketball hoop. It's a ball game that uses all the Joy-Con's capabilities! Witchbrook (Image credit: Chucklefish) Release date: TBC 2025 We've been waiting for this cozy game since 2018, and now, finally, we're being rewarded for all our collective patience. During the Nintendo Switch 2 Direct, it was briefly confirmed that Witchbrook will be coming to the Switch 2 along with the original console. In this upcoming Switch 2 game, you'll play as the newest magical resident of the seaside city of Mossport. There you'll learn spells, grow your own business, and make a ton of friends with the local townies? Currently, there's still no firm release date. However, we do know that we can expect to see a launch sometime in "winter 2025." Elden Ring – Tarnished Edition (Image credit: FromSoftware) Release date: TBC 2025 Elden Ring is heading to the Switch 2, so rejoice all you Souls sickos. This is one of the big shock announcements to come out of the recent Nintendo Switch 2 Direct, and honestly, we're pretty pleased to hear that it's going to be added to Nintendo's catalogue. No release date for this one yet, but we do know that it is coming out sometime this year. Borderlands 4 (Image credit: Gearbox) Release date: TBC 2025 Borderlands 4 is still in development, aiming to launch in 2025, but will also be releasing on Nintendo Switch 2 as well as other consoles. The looter shooter looks as slick and bombastic as ever, and Randy Pitchford calls it "the most ambitious Borderlands game we've ever made". Considering how important co-op is to the Borderlands series, this could be one of the best games for making full use of the new GameChat functionality. Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment (Image credit: Nintendo) Release date: TBC 2025 We're not done with The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom yet! Just as The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild had Age of Calamity to dive into its backstory, this time around we're getting a prequel to Tears that delves even further into the past, expanding on Zelda's time traveling journey that happens mostly off-screen during Link's adventure. She has to help the Zonai fend off Ganon's forces, while doing some epic combos in the process. It's set for release this winter, and is developed by Koei Tecmo, as Age of Calamity was. Hades 2 (Image credit: Supergiant Games) Release date: TBC 2025 Though Hades 2 currently remains in Steam Early Access, developer Supergiant Games has confirmed that its Ancient Greek roguelike will be making its way to the Nintendo Switch 2 later this year. While an exact release date is yet to be confirmed, we'll be hearing more about its launch later in 2025 – though it remains to be seen whether it will be leaving Early Access. Final Fantasy 7 Remake Intergrade (Image credit: Square Enix) Release date: TBC The first game in the Final Fantasy 7 Remake trilogy jumps to Nintendo Switch 2, and it's the enhanced version too, which means it should include the Yuffie-led DLC. We're also told to "look forward to more updates on the Final Fantasy 7 Remake project for Switch 2" implying there may be news about Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth on the horizon as well. More upcoming Switch 2 games for 2025 Hollow Knight: Silksong (TBC 2025) Two Point Museum (TBC 2025) Goodnight Universe (TBC 2025) Marvel Cosmic Invasion (TBC 2025) Star Wars Outlaws (TBC 2025) Reanimal (TBC 2025) Human Fall Flat 2 (TBC 2025) TBC 2026 The Duskbloods (Image credit: FromSoftware) Release date: TBC 2026 The Duskbloods is the latest exciting new title for us to look forward to from FromSoftware . While it isn't a Bloodborne sequel, it sure looks like a spiritual successor thanks to its gothy aesthetic and dark Victorian setting. The game is a PvPvE title with online multiplayer front and center in its gameplay, and it will be a Switch 2 exclusive. Starseeker: Astroneer Expeditions (Image credit: System Era Softworks) Release date: TBC 2026 From Devolver Digital, this game has astronauts trying to survive in a quirky lo-poly world full of colorful biomes and vibrant wildlife, from hulking monsters to scuttling carrots. This seems to be another multiplayer title that'll make full use of Nintendo's new community features like GameChat. It's coming 2026, so expect to hear more about this one in the future. TBC Professor Layton and the New World of Steam (Image credit: Level-5) Release date: TBC The last we heard of Professor Layton and the New World of Steam was in 2023 during a Nintendo Direct. We've seen a brief clip of the new game, so we know that it is coming, and it would make perfect sense to see it on the Switch 2. While not much is known about the title, we do know that we're set to experience a fresh story filled with puzzles in the new setting of Steam Bison, which is home to advanced steam engines. Stay tuned for more updates! Tomodachi Life: Living the Dream (Image credit: Nintendo) Release date: TBC We recently learned that a new Tomodachi Life game is coming to the Nintendo Switch after over a decade of fans waiting. While a Switch 2 launch hasn't been confirmed yet, considering that Tomodachi Life: Living the Dream is only releasing in 2026 means that it's more than likely that the new console will be home to this iconic series' return. After all, Tomodachi Life was a Nintendo 3DS knock-out back in the day, and it would be a crime if it weren't available to play on the latest and greatest Nintendo console. Rhythm Heaven Groove (Image credit: Nintendo) Release date: TBC Another expected upcoming Switch 2 game joining our list is the recently announced Rhythm Heaven Groove. This is another iconic 3DS game that is finally getting a sequel after years, and we can't imagine seeing the new rhythm game not coming to the new console when it launches sometime in 2026. The Rhythm series has been going strong since 2006, and we've been waiting for more fun mini games since 2015. So, Nintendo surely won't deprive us next year by not making this a Switch 2 title, right? Project 007 (Image credit: Io Interactive) Release date: TBC Yes, Project 007 is still happening, and it's coming to Nintendo Switch 2! No extra details were given, but it's great to see IO Interactive supporting the new console so strongly, and getting a brand new release of this caliber is a big commitment in showing how the console will be able to keep up with its higher spec rivals. Enter The Gungeon 2 (Image credit: Dodge Roll) Release date: TBC This sequel to Dodge Roll's impressive roguelike brings a new 3D art style that has plenty of chaotic physics to sell the frantic energy that was one of our favorite aspects of the original. Bullets, for example, truly go flying. Creative director Dave Crooks says "fan favorite elements will return" but that it's still in development with more news to come. For more, check out our guides on how to navigate Nintendo Switch 2 pre-orders and everything you need to know about the Nintendo Switch 2 design . See more Games Features CATEGORIES Nintendo Switch 2 Platforms Nintendo Emma-Jane Betts Social Links Navigation Managing Editor, Evergreens After reviewing films throughout University and being a cosy game expert for years, I realised that entertainment journalism was my true calling in 2019. Since then, I've started multiple new farms on Stardew Valley and have written for several publications such as The Upcoming, PCGamesN, and Wargamer. I was the resident Guides Editor and horror lover for The Digital Fix before joining the GamesRadar+ team in 2024. As the Managing Editor for Evergreens, I'll be making sure that all the best lists you read on GamesRadar+ are the most helpful and fun pages on the internet! You must confirm your public display name before commenting Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name. Logout Read more Upcoming Switch games for 2025 and beyond Everything announced at the Nintendo Switch 2 Direct New games 2025 and beyond: The biggest video game release dates for PS5, Xbox Series X, PC, Switch, and more Everything we know about Nintendo Switch 2 Switch 2 launch games – every game coming to Nintendo's new console on its release day in June Nintendo Switch 2 Direct live: all the Switch 2 reveals as they happen Latest in Games Forza Horizon 5 crossplay FromSoftware says "we are profoundly thankful for your lasting devotion" as Elden Ring hits 30 million copies sold ahead of Switch 2 launch Oblivion Remastered players break out of bounds to explore everywhere from Skyrim to the rumored setting of The Elder Scrolls 6 After D&D publisher briefly tried to tear it down, Baldur's Gate 3 boss says mods like Stardew Valley's "Baldur's Village" help keep games alive: "I think you should applaud that" The rumored battle for StarCraft publishing rights is apparently over with Nexon reportedly entering main negotiations with Blizzard New Zelda: Breath of the Wild speedrun category emerges as player rocks up to Switch 2 preview event, strips Link, and beats Ganon in 7 minutes - "Staff congratulated me" Latest in Features I love Blue Prince for one simple reason: it's the closest thing we'll get to a House of Leaves game After 8 hours of being hunted by a murderous unicorn in Oblivion Remastered, I'm torn between "we're so back" and "please save me" I’m hyped for the Switch 2, but I fully believe the Switch Lite has a bright future ahead of it 20 Years of the Nintendo DS: "If someone had told you in 2004 that Nintendo was about to abandon the Game Boy, would you have believed them?" Creepy Redneck Dinosaur Mansion 3 is the first "survival horror comedy RPG metroidvania" I've ever played, and that sure is a lot of words After 3 hours, I'm impressed by how Blades of Fire smelts Dark Souls and Monster Hunter together to forge high-impact action into twisted new shapes GAME REVIEWS MOVIE REVIEWS TV REVIEWS 1 Skin Deep review: "A genuinely stellar immersive sim, replete with chaos" 2 Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 review: "An old-school feeling JRPG as dynamic as Persona but with parry-filled battles as hard-won as Sekiro" 3 Lost Records: Bloom and Rage – Tape 2 review: "Don't Nod's new coming-of-age series ends with teen defiance and queer rage" 4 Arydia: The Paths We Dare Tread review -  "Manages to give everyone something D&D can't match" 5 Blue Prince review: "This  exploration roguelike is like nothing else I've played, and became a puzzle obsession I just couldn't shake" 1 A Minecraft Movie Review: "Jack Black's irrepressible star turn helps elevate this video game adaptation" 2 The Electric State review: "Although this may be their most visually stunning movie yet, it looks like the Russos are yet to find their footing outside of the MCU" 3 Fight or Flight review: "Slick and silly action sequences garner well-earned John Wick and Bullet train comparisons" 4 Mickey 17 Review: "Bong Joon Ho's best English movie to date and arguably Robert Pattinson's best movie ever" 5 Captain America: Brave New World review: "Anthony Mackie's Cap earns his Stars and Stripes in this uneven, un-MCU thriller" 1 Doctor Who season 2, episode 3 spoiler review: 'The Well' is a "ruthlessly gripping" installment that challenges Belinda 2 Andor season 2 review: "Every bit as stellar as its predecessor – at times, it even surpasses it" 3 Doctor Who season 2, episode 2 spoiler-free review: 'Lux' is a "bold, bonkers" second episode with an amazing villain 4 Doctor Who season 2, episode 1 spoiler-free review: "'The Robot Revolution' is an impressive first episode for new companion Belinda Chandra" 5 The Last of Us season 2 review: "Brilliant and visceral but fails to capture the magic of season 1" GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and conditions Privacy policy Cookies policy Advertise with us Review guidelines Write for us Accessibility Statement Careers © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up