Reid Hoffman Subscribe To Newsletters Get in Touch Get In Touch With Reid Hoffman Get In Touch PROFILE Reid Hoffman Greylock $2.4B $1M (0.05%) Real Time Net Worth as of 4/29/25 Reflects change since 5 pm ET of prior trading day. #1528 in the world today Photo by Guerin Blask for Forbes From the Editor Reid Hoffman cofounded professional networking site LinkedIn in 2003 and is a partner at venture capital firm Greylock Partners. In 2016, Hoffman sold LinkedIn to Microsoft for $26.2 billion in cash and joined Microsoft's board. He is an investor in Airbnb, which went public in December 2020, and autonomous driving pioneer Aurora, which acquired Uber's self-driving unit. Hoffman is part of the so-called "PayPal Mafia," and was one of the first employees at the payment company that was later sold to eBay. Before PayPal, Hoffman created the (failed) dating site SocialNet, which some regard as the first online social network. He has put $1.5 billion into impact investments through charitable entities like donor-advised funds; Forbes excludes this sum from his fortune. Wealth History HOVER TO REVEAL NET WORTH BY YEAR Forbes Lists #1513 Billionaires (2025) #8 The Midas List: Top Tech Investors (2024) #240 Forbes 400 (2017) #76 Richest In Tech (2017) More Lists Personal Stats Age 57 Source of Wealth LinkedIn, Self Made Self-Made Score 8 Residence Palo Alto, California Citizenship United States Marital Status Married Education Master of Science, Oxford University; Bachelor of Arts/Science, Stanford University Did you know Hoffman was an early investor in Facebook; he put in $40,000 after introducing Peter Thiel to the startup in 2004. He hosts the podcast "Masters of Scale," which discusses startup scaling with tech leaders and has been downloaded more than 50 million times. In Their Own Words Part of what we have here in Silicon Valley is this network of people talking to each other about the key lessons to learn. We believe in bringing entrepreneurial knowledge to the world. Reid Hoffman Related People & Companies Elon Musk View Profile Microsoft Holds stake in Microsoft View Profile Stanford University Attended the school View Profile Mark Zuckerberg View Profile AirBnB Board member at AirBnB View Profile Peter Thiel Friend View Profile See More See Less More on Forbes Mar 10, 2025 Reid Hoffman Denies Musk Allegations He Helped Fund Tesla Protests Musk suggested over the weekend, without evidence, that Hoffman and other Democratic donors were responsible for recent protests outside of Tesla dealerships across the globe. By Sara Dorn Forbes Staff Mar 8, 2025 Elon Musk Dubiously Blames Billionaires George Soros, Reid Hoffman Over Tesla Protests—Citing Unnamed ‘Investigation’ Musk did not name a specific investigation, nor did he offer any additional evidence. By Conor Murray Forbes Staff Feb 11, 2025 LinkedIn Founder Reid Hoffman’s New AI Startup May Revolutionize Cancer Care Cancer is one of the leading causes of fatalities globally. By Dr. Sai Balasubramanian, M.D., J.D. Contributor Jul 22, 2024 Major Democratic Donors Split On Kamala Harris' Presidential Run—As Small Donations Surge Democratic megadonors Alex Soros and Reid Hoffman have endorsed Harris. By Sara Dorn Forbes Staff Jul 14, 2024 How Leaders Can Enhance Trust And Inclusion With AI In a recent experiment led by Reid Hoffman and Allie K. Miller, the potential of AI to enhance our decision-making processes was put to the test. By Soulaima Gourani Former Contributor Jul 6, 2024 Billionaires Bailing On Biden: Barry Diller, Christy Walton, Reed Hastings Urge Biden To Drop Out Billionaire Mark Cuban said Democrats should consider a replacement for President Joe Biden after his poor debate performance—but megadonor Reid Hoffman called pushing Biden to drop out a “bad idea.” By Brian Bushard Former Staff Apr 28, 2024 Why Billionaires Like MacKenzie Scott And Reid Hoffman Are Partnering With This Nonprofit Trying To Shake Up Philanthropy By organizing challenges and pre-screening nonprofits, Lever for Change has helped a handful of billionaires shift some giving towards global grassroots organizations. By Phoebe Liu Forbes Staff Apr 18, 2024 These Are The Big-Money Donors Backing Trump—As He Trails Biden’s Fundraising Billionaire James Simons and Reid Hoffman, meanwhile, are among the wealthy donors supporting Biden’s campaign, according to newly released Federal Election Commission filings. By Sara Dorn Forbes Staff Jan 31, 2024 Billionaire Reid Hoffman Spent $2 Million On Biden’s New Hampshire Write-In Campaign, FEC Records Show Biden won the New Hampshire primary last week, despite opting not to appear on the ballot following a feud between the state and national Democratic parties. By Sara Dorn Forbes Staff Dec 5, 2023 Here Are The Billionaires Backing Nikki Haley As A Trump Alternative: LinkedIn’s Reid Hoffman, Charles Koch And More The cash infusion comes after Haley earned a coveted endorsement last month from the Charles Koch-backed super PAC Americans for Prosperity Action. By Sara Dorn Forbes Staff Nov 17, 2023 ‘This Is Insane’: OpenAI Investors Blindsided By Sam Altman’s Firing Leading investors including Vinod Khosla and Reid Hoffman didn't receive advanced notice that OpenAI’s board would push out its CEO and cofounder, sources told Forbes. By Alex Konrad Former Staff Nov 2, 2023 Reid Hoffman Political Adviser: Progressive Rep. Tlaib Deserves Primary Challenge For Controversial Israel Comments Hoffman, the billionaire co-founder of LinkedIn, has not been involved in the discussions, the adviser, Dmitri Mehlhorn, said. By Sara Dorn Forbes Staff May 10, 2023 What Was Reid Hoffman’s Role In Funding E. Jean Carroll’s Case? The LinkedIn co-founder is a major Democratic donor. By Ana Faguy Former Staff Nov 15, 2022 From CEO Of DoSomething.org To Reid Hoffman’s Chief Of Staff: Aria Finger Is On The Vanguard Of Scaling High-Growth Tech Nonprofits A longtime leader in social impact tech, Aria Finger shares how tech nonprofits can reach meaningful scale. By Shannon Farley Contributor Jan 25, 2022 Reid Hoffman On How To Scale Up The LinkedIn cofounder and Greylock partner talks about the habits of those who create the next big thing—and those who don’t. By Diane Brady Former Staff Jan 14, 2022 Forbes All-Star Book Club: Reid Hoffman Reviews ‘Like A Mule Bringing Ice Cream To The Sun’ Reid Hoffman, the billionaire cofounder of LinkedIn and partner at venture capital firm Greylock Partners, shares what's on his bedside table. By Reid Hoffman Contributor More Articles also on forbes Reid Hoffman Denies Musk Allegations He Helped Fund Tesla Protests Elon Musk Dubiously Blames Billionaires George Soros, Reid Hoffman Over Tesla Protests—Citing Unnamed ‘Investigation’ LinkedIn Founder Reid Hoffman’s New AI Startup May Revolutionize Cancer Care © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Terms of Service Digital Terms of Sale Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Forbes Accolades Forbes Press Room Advertise