A Dog Could Have Won the First Academy Award | Geeks Main navigation Home Top Stories Latest Stories Main navigation Home Top Stories Latest Stories A Dog Could Have Won the First Academy Award Rin Tin Tin was robbed By Sam Pinnelas Published 4 years ago • 4 min read Not the actual Rin Tin Tin With this year's Academy Awards coming up, it's been a wild and unpredictable awards season thus far, which is a feat considering how predictable the Oscars tend to be year after year, with a few notable exceptions (looking at you Parasite ). But what if I were to tell you that the Oscars used to be so unpredictable that they could have given their first award to a German Shepherd dog? It's not that simple, so maybe let's go back to the beginning. Like many things in old Hollywood, all this trouble came about due to sometimes-hero-sometimes-villain Louis B. Mayer, movie producer and founder of MGM Studios. He wanted to create an organization that could improve the film industry's PR image (hero) and mediate labor disputes without involving unions (villain). After an initial meeting with a few interested individuals, Mayer invited thirty-six entertainment industry professionals to become the founding members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in January 1927. Once their concerns moved away from meddling in labor disputes, the Academy had decided to host an annual gala to celebrate themselves and hand out "Awards of Merit" in twelve categories based on five branches of profession: producers, actors, directors, writers, and technicians. However, not everyone involved was onboard right away. Writers branch member Frank Woods tried to entice Warner Bros executive Darryl Zanuck to champion the project. Thinking the idea of handing out trophies to the "best" movies a ridiculous notion, Zanuck wrote a letter back to Woods satirically describing who he would nominate for such an awards ceremony. His vote for Best Actor: Rin Tin Tin. You may be asking yourself, "Who is Rin Tin Tin?" If you were to ask that question in 1927, you would have been laughed at mercilessly. He was quite possibly the highest grossing star of 1920s cinema. He also just happened to be a dog. (left to right) Darryl Zanuck, Rin Tin Tin, Louis B. Mayer Rin Tin Tin was rescued as a one-week-old German Shepherd puppy in France during World War I and later trained as a police dog before being cast in movies to portray savior dogs or half-wolf wild animals. By the end of 1927, he had appeared in seventeen hit films, most of which were produced by none other than Darryl Zanuck. Rin Tin Tin is credited as having saved Warner Bros from bankruptcy. Thus, it should come as no surprise that Zanuck had his star on the brain when talks of a film industry awards banquet came up. Original poster for Where the North Begins (1923) After not seriously suggesting his canine star to be worthy of the Best Actor award, Zanuck continued his work at Warner Bros. However, despite his protestations, the Academy Awards were off and running a year later, and by happenstance, his boss Jack Warner was one of the original voting members of the Academy, who just so happened to hear about Zanuck's Rin Tin Tin quip. Whether as a joke or trying to elevate the status of his four-legged thespian, Warner himself voted for the dog in the first ever Best Actor category. It is at this point that I must confess the truth is clouded in murky history. The 1928 ballots are currently in a storage box at the Margaret Herrick Library in Los Angeles, and the only one suggesting a win for any animal is Warner's. With only one vote, the title of this article appears to be misleading. However, in 2020, it took 221 votes to be nominated for an acting Oscar out of 1,324 voters. Adjusted for the original members of the Academy, all it would take to be nominated in 1928 was six votes and not much more than that to win. It would have required a mild campaign from Warner to gather five extra votes from his peers; considering the millions spent campaigning today, I'd say that would have been money well spent. But those six-plus votes went to three other actors, and the rest is history. First Academy Award for Best Actor given to Emil Jannings Or is it? According to Susan Orlean, while researching her 2011 biography on Rin Tin Tin, she came across a Hollywood legend told verbally throughout the twentieth century. Rin Tin Tin actually had received the most votes for Best Actor in 1928, but the Academy feared ridicule for selecting a dog as the first recipient of the award, so they recalled the ballots and collectively agreed upon a different winner, Emil Jannings, who received the first award of the ceremony. Therefore, had Rin Tin Tin actually been selected, a dog would have been the very first Academy Award winner. Unfortunately, this story has no evidence to support it, as the only ballots known to exist from that ceremony are the ones described earlier, and none of the original Academy founding members are alive to ask. Who's to say what is truth and what is exaggeration? However, it can't be ignored that, even with the facts we do know, Rin Tin Tin had a viable chance of being not only the first acting Oscar winner but the first winner  of the most prestigious award in the Hollywood ever. 1st Academy Awards entertainment About the Creator Sam Pinnelas Not born in a log cabin on a not stormy not night... Reader insights Be the first to share your insights about this piece. How does it work? Add your insights Comments There are no comments for this story Be the first to respond and start the conversation. Sign in to comment Keep reading More stories from Sam Pinnelas and writers in Geeks and other communities. Oh No! I Didn’t Like a 98% Fresh Movie Well, it finally happened. After years of being the pretentious film guy among many of my social circles, I met my match against a piece of Oscar bait I typically love. Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom showed me that there is in fact a “good” movie that I don’t like. By that, I mean I didn’t enjoy a movie that both critics and audiences agree is good. There are plenty of film scholar favorites like Jules and Jim and plenty of crowd pleasers like Venom that I don’t like, but each of those appeals to one base while alienating the other. Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom is the first true consensus pick that left me out in the cold, and yet everyone else is eating it up with its 87 on Metacritic, 7.1 on IMDb, and 98% critic and 78% audience scores on Rotten Tomatoes. Instead of taking the loss and moving onto other Oscar hopefuls, I wanted to dive into this anomaly and try to figure out exactly why I feel different than the general population. SP By Sam Pinnelas 4 years ago in Geeks Archie's Plastic Paradise I've been reading Archie comics off and on for a while, but I'll be damned if I can remember a single, solitary story or plotline with any certainty. Somewhere along the way, I heard Archie described as "Leave It to Beaver after a corporate lobotomy," a sardonic, ironic line that made me laugh out loud while rolling across the floor slapping the tiles like a human emoji. TB By Tom Baker 2 days ago in Geeks Desert Fiends: A Gritty Tale of Survival and Betrayal “Desert Fiends” is a 2023 action-thriller film that has carved its niche as one of the most intense, nerve-wracking experiences to hit the big screen. Directed by Alejandro Torres, this gritty drama plunges audiences into the unforgiving world of a group of stranded individuals, fighting not only the harsh environment of a vast desert but also each other. The film’s unrelenting pace, complex characters, and shocking plot twists have made it an unexpected gem in the genre of survival thrillers. JSC By Jenny Smith Carlos 6 days ago in Geeks The Immortals Julie sat at the back of her classroom, just like always. She hated school — and history was the worst lesson of all. Her parents had warned her never to believe what the teachers said about the past. DM By Daniel Millington a day ago in Futurism Find us on social media Miscellaneous links Explore Contact Privacy Policy Terms of Use Support © 2025 Creatd, Inc . All Rights Reserved.