Splatoon 2 Switch bundle announced for North America, exclusive to Walmart Submit a news tip Home Features News Reviews Guides × Home Features News Reviews Guides ☰ Switch 2 Switch Switch eShop amiibo Mobile Revisiting the four “worst” Kirby games [Let’s Talk] Did you pre-order Nintendo Switch 2? Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom timeline placement and lore additions Examining Switch 2’s launch and how it stacks up to other recent Nintendo debuts Here’s where and how to pre-order Nintendo Switch 2 Nintendo isn’t retiring Diddy Kong and here’s why [Let’s Talk] Mario Kart World Direct reactions More of the worst Shiny Pokemon of all time Splatoon 2 Switch bundle announced for North America, exclusive to Walmart Posted on August 17, 2017 by Brian ( @NE_Brian )  in News , Switch A new Splatoon 2 Switch bundle is on the way to North America, Nintendo has just announced. Walmart will be the exclusive retailer of the new package. It includes a Switch unit, download code for Splatoon 2, carrying case, and Neon Pink / Neon Green Joy-Con controllers. The Splatoon 2 bundle launches on September 8. Pricing is set at $379.99. Read today’s full announcement regarding the Splatoon 2 Switch bundle below. REDMOND, Wash., Aug. 17, 2017 – Walmart will be the exclusive retail partner for a new Nintendo Switch bundle that includes a download code for the Splatoon 2 game, a fresh carrying case and colorful new Joy-Con controllers in Neon Pink and Neon Green. The bundle will be available starting Sept. 8 at a suggested retail price of $379.99 and offers fans in North America their first chance to get their hands on that Joy-Con color combination. “Consumers in Japan and Europe have already had a strong response to Splatoon 2 bundles in their territories,” said Doug Bowser, Nintendo of America’s Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing. “This exclusive Walmart bundle gives people who have been waiting to buy a Nintendo Switch a great value and incentive to get splatting.” Nintendo also announced the topic of its next Splatfest competition, which will run Sept. 1-2. Participants will pick a side to fight alongside in online Turf War battles by choosing which superpower they would prefer: flight or invisibility. Additional details about the Splatfest will be announced in the future. The Splatfest is just one of many new elements in the slate of ongoing content updates and in-game events keeping Splatoon 2 fans engaged, with more and more players jumping into battle every day. There have already been more than 400 million online battles fought across the global player base, and after less than a month on store shelves, Splatoon 2 joins other global million-selling Nintendo Switch hits like The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, 1-2-Switch and ARMS. Source: Nintendo PR Share this: Facebook Bluesky Threads Mastodon Email More Print LinkedIn Tumblr Pinterest Pocket Telegram WhatsApp Nextdoor Related More: Splatoon 2 , top , Walmart Leave a Reply Search Top Posts DK Rap composer on why Nintendo didn't credit him in The Super Mario Bros. Movie Switch 1 not compatible with Nintendo Switch 2 dock Raidou Remastered getting a collector's edition from Limited Run Games Revisiting the four "worst" Kirby games Nintendo on why Switch 2 is launching in June Famitsu's most wanted games - April 27, 2025 - first Nintendo Switch 2 games appear Nintendo Switch 20.0.0 update out now, patch notes - virtual game cards, Switch 2 transfers, more Super Technos World: River City & Technos Arcade Classics gameplay - 12 retro games on Nintendo Switch List of all prices for Nintendo Switch 2 Upgrade Packs Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition 1.0.2 update out now, patch notes Recent Posts Donkey Kong gets updated Nintendo Switch icon following system update [update: other changes] Nintendo Switch 20.0.0 update out now, patch notes – virtual game cards, Switch 2 transfers, more Puzzle platformer Nico Saves the State drops on Nintendo Switch this week [update: trailer] Star Wars: Episode I: Jedi Power Battles, Star Wars: Bounty Hunter are the next Nintendo Switch Online Game Trial in North America Nuclear Gladiators 3000 announced for Nintendo Switch Against the Storm coming to Nintendo Switch VGP Switch physical release reprint updates Duck Detective: The Ghost of Glamping coming to Nintendo Switch About Review Policy Privacy Policy Contact us Reviews Features Podcasts News © Copyright 2025 Manage Cookie Settings