Assassin's Creed III | Assassin's Creed Wiki | Fandom Assassin's Creed Wiki Welcome to Assassin's Creed Wiki! Log in and join the community. READ MORE Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Assassin's Creed Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Content Database‎ Animals‎ Assassin Intel‎ Collectibles‎ History‎ Documents‎ Events‎ Items‎ Landmarks‎ Locations‎ People‎ Individuals‎ By ethnicity By nationality By occupation By organization By place of residence By title‎ By traits By year Unidentified individuals‎ Locations‎ Cities‎ Colonies‎ Geographical features Landmarks‎ Locations by country Structures‎ Organizations‎ Assassin Brotherhood‎ Cults‎ Families‎ Militaries Ship crews Templar Order Memories‎ By Animus‎ By individual‎ Skills‎ Assassin skills‎ Genetic skills‎ Templar skills‎ Weapons‎ Personal weapons‎ Weapons by century‎ Weapons by type‎ Games Assassin's Creed Ezio Trilogy Assassin's Creed II Brotherhood Revelations Kenway Saga Assassin's Creed III Liberation Black Flag Freedom Cry Rogue Initiate Duology Unity Syndicate Layla Saga Origins Odyssey Valhalla Mirage Upcoming games Shadows Jade Codename Hexe Other games Altaïr's Chronicles Bloodlines Discovery Project Legacy Initiates Pirates Chronicles Identity Rebellion Nexus VR Other Media Comics UbiWorkshop comics The Fall The Chain Brahman Titan Comics Assassin's Creed Templars Last Descendants – Locus Uprising Reflections Origins Dark Horse Comics Valhalla – Song of Glory Valhalla – Forgotten Myths Mirage – A Soar of Eagles French graphic novels The Ankh of Isis Trilogy The Hawk Trilogy Conspiracies Bloodstone Valhalla – The Hidden Codex Manga and manhua Awakening Blade of Shao Jun Dynasty Valhalla – Blood Brothers Shadows – Iga no Monogatari Korean webtoons Forgotten Temple Novels Novelizations The Secret Crusade Renaissance Brotherhood Revelations Forsaken Black Flag Unity The Movie Odyssey Underworld Ubisoft Publishing novels Heresy Origins – Desert Oath Valhalla – Geirmund's Saga Aconyte Books novels Valhalla – Sword of the White Horse The Golden City Mirage – Daughter of No One Engine of History – The Magus Conspiracy Engine of History – The Resurrection Plot Young adult novels Last Descendants Last Descendants – Tomb of the Khan Last Descendants – Fate of the Gods Fragments – The Blade of Aizu Fragments – The Highlands Children Fragments – The Witches of the Moors Other books Prophecy of the Emperor The Silk Road Escape Room Puzzle Book Films and TV series Lineage Ascendance Embers The Movie Live action series Animated series Anime series Audiobooks Gold Board games Brotherhood of Venice Roleplaying Game Community Staff Administrators Cristophorus35 Lady Kyashira Sol Pacificus Soranin Moderators Ahmairah Lacrossedeamon Sadelyrate Xangr8 Zero-ELEC Policies Manual of Style Community Guidelines Moderation Images Images Licensing Sourcing Licensing Guidelines Be Bold Achievements Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Assassin's Creed Wiki 25,266 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Content Database‎ Animals‎ Assassin Intel‎ Collectibles‎ History‎ Documents‎ Events‎ Items‎ Landmarks‎ Locations‎ People‎ Individuals‎ By ethnicity By nationality By occupation By organization By place of residence By title‎ By traits By year Unidentified individuals‎ Locations‎ Cities‎ Colonies‎ Geographical features Landmarks‎ Locations by country Structures‎ Organizations‎ Assassin Brotherhood‎ Cults‎ Families‎ Militaries Ship crews Templar Order Memories‎ By Animus‎ By individual‎ Skills‎ Assassin skills‎ Genetic skills‎ Templar skills‎ Weapons‎ Personal weapons‎ Weapons by century‎ Weapons by type‎ Games Assassin's Creed Ezio Trilogy Assassin's Creed II Brotherhood Revelations Kenway Saga Assassin's Creed III Liberation Black Flag Freedom Cry Rogue Initiate Duology Unity Syndicate Layla Saga Origins Odyssey Valhalla Mirage Upcoming games Shadows Jade Codename Hexe Other games Altaïr's Chronicles Bloodlines Discovery Project Legacy Initiates Pirates Chronicles Identity Rebellion Nexus VR Other Media Comics UbiWorkshop comics The Fall The Chain Brahman Titan Comics Assassin's Creed Templars Last Descendants – Locus Uprising Reflections Origins Dark Horse Comics Valhalla – Song of Glory Valhalla – Forgotten Myths Mirage – A Soar of Eagles French graphic novels The Ankh of Isis Trilogy The Hawk Trilogy Conspiracies Bloodstone Valhalla – The Hidden Codex Manga and manhua Awakening Blade of Shao Jun Dynasty Valhalla – Blood Brothers Shadows – Iga no Monogatari Korean webtoons Forgotten Temple Novels Novelizations The Secret Crusade Renaissance Brotherhood Revelations Forsaken Black Flag Unity The Movie Odyssey Underworld Ubisoft Publishing novels Heresy Origins – Desert Oath Valhalla – Geirmund's Saga Aconyte Books novels Valhalla – Sword of the White Horse The Golden City Mirage – Daughter of No One Engine of History – The Magus Conspiracy Engine of History – The Resurrection Plot Young adult novels Last Descendants Last Descendants – Tomb of the Khan Last Descendants – Fate of the Gods Fragments – The Blade of Aizu Fragments – The Highlands Children Fragments – The Witches of the Moors Other books Prophecy of the Emperor The Silk Road Escape Room Puzzle Book Films and TV series Lineage Ascendance Embers The Movie Live action series Animated series Anime series Audiobooks Gold Board games Brotherhood of Venice Roleplaying Game Community Staff Administrators Cristophorus35 Lady Kyashira Sol Pacificus Soranin Moderators Ahmairah Lacrossedeamon Sadelyrate Xangr8 Zero-ELEC Policies Manual of Style Community Guidelines Moderation Images Images Licensing Sourcing Licensing Guidelines Be Bold Achievements in: Pages using duplicate arguments in template calls , Assassin's Creed III , Real world video games , Assassin's Creed series English العربية Deutsch Español فارسی Français עברית Magyar Italiano 日本語 한국어 Lietuvių Nederlands Polski Português do Brasil Русский 中文 Assassin's Creed III View source History Purge Talk (165) "On this land, I am torn. Part of me wants to fight and repel all outsiders. The other part of me is the outsider. In the name of liberty, I will fight the enemy regardless of their allegiance. While men of courage write the history of this day, the future of our land depends on those who are truly free." ―Ratonhnhaké:ton, Assassin's Creed III Gameplay Trailer. Assassin's Creed III Developer Ubisoft Montreal Publisher Ubisoft Engine AnvilNext Composer Lorne Balfe Release date PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 October 30, 2012 ( NA ) October 31, 2012 ( PAL ) Wii U November 18, 2012 (NA) November 30, 2012 (PAL) Microsoft Windows November 20, 2012 (NA) November 22, 2012 ( AU ) November 23, 2012 (EU) Genre Action-adventure Game modes Single-player , Multiplayer ESRB rating M (Mature) Platform(s) PlayStation 3 Xbox 360 Wii U Microsoft Windows PlayStation 4 Xbox One Nintendo Switch Website Assassin's Creed III is a 2012 sandbox style action-adventure video game that is developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft . It is the fifth main title in the Assassin's Creed series , and is a direct sequel to Assassin's Creed: Revelations . The game tells the stories of Haytham Kenway and Ratonhnhaké:ton , set in the American Northeast from 1754 - 1783, during the Seven Years' War and American Revolutionary Wars . It also concludes the modern-day story of their descendant Desmond Miles . Assassin's Creed III was released for Xbox 360 and PS3 on 30 October in the United States and 31 October in Europe and Australia, while the PC version was released on 20 November for the United States and 23 November in Europe, [ 1 ] delayed from its initial release date. [ 2 ] The game was also released for the Wii U in North America on 18 November. [ 3 ] On 28 February 2013, Ubisoft announced the game's sequel, titled Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag . It was released on 29 October 2013. [ 4 ] A remastered version of the game was released for Xbox One, PS4 and PC on 29 March 2019; and the Nintendo Switch version was released on 21 May 2019. Contents 1 Gameplay 1.1 Multiplayer 2 Synopsis 2.1 Plot 3 Development 4 Controversy 5 Release 5.1 Season Pass 5.2 Editions 6 Awards 7 Gallery 8 Credits 9 References Gameplay Ratonhnhaké:ton free-running Exploration is based around a large countryside area known as the Frontier , which is one and a half times larger than Rome in Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood . One-third of all gameplay content is contained there. The cities of Boston and New York may also be explored. [ 5 ] Since there is a lot more travel included in the game, the fast travel mechanic has been incorporated, which allows for quick travel from any location. [ 6 ] A whole new system of unlocking fast travel has been implemented, which is integrated into the game's natural progress. [ 5 ] This involves unlocking interconnected fast-travel points through a network of underground tunnels in Boston and New York. In a June 2012 interview, Philippe Bergeron confirmed that the Den Defense mini-game from Revelations would not be returning. [ 7 ] More varied methods of the movement have been added as well, including climbing trees, cliffs, and other natural elements, alongside leaping over wagons or sliding under obstacles. Other freerunning elements also have Ratonhnhaké:ton jumping through windows, to trees, and then onto rooftops. [ 5 ] Ratonhnhaké:ton in a fight with three British redcoat soldiers Dual-wielding weapons have been implemented, while fighting and stealth have been completely overhauled with new features, such as double-counters, multiple takedowns, and chain kills. Ratonhnhaké:ton can go into battle with a wide variety of weapons at his disposal, including two Hidden Blades , a tomahawk , flintlock pistols , rope darts , and a bow and arrow . Ratonhnhaké:ton's second Hidden Blade can be ejected and used as a dagger [ 5 ] and to skin hunted animals. Context sensitive actions, such as using enemies as human shields, is also included. The target locking system has been removed and replaced by automated enemy selection, changing the combat dynamics. [ 5 ] In addition, assassinations can now be performed with weapons other than the Hidden Blades, most notably the tomahawk and bayonets on rifles. [ 8 ] The combat system has been greatly improved, as there are thousands of new animations, few of which have been carried over from previous installments. Simple defense and counter-attacks are now more difficult, and combat has been focused on putting Ratonhnhaké:ton on the offensive, with attacks based on both speed and momentum. [ 5 ] The counter system has been completely revamped, as the developers wanted to create more strategy and options, which prompted them to create new reactions based on button presses. To counter, the Circle (PS3, PS4), B button (Xbox 360, Xbox One) or the A button (Wii U, Nintendo Switch) should be pressed, followed by that of a secondary button: Pressing the Square button (PS3, PS4), the X button (Xbox 360, Xbox One) or the Y button (Wii U, Nintendo Switch) allows Ratonhnhaké:ton to kill his target. Pressing the Circle button (PS3, PS4), the B button (Xbox 360, Xbox One) or the A button (Wii U, Nintendo Switch) will have Ratonhnhaké:ton throw his enemy to the ground. Pressing the Triangle button (PS3, PS4), the Y button (Xbox 360, Xbox One) or the X button (Wii U, Nintendo Switch) will allow Ratonhnhaké:ton to use his secondary weapon. Pressing the X button (PS3, PS4), the A button (Xbox 360, Xbox One) or the B button (Wii U, Nintendo Switch) will let Ratonhnhaké:ton stun or disarm his enemy. With these combinations, the game's developers were able to create multiple combos and enemies that resist different types of counters. The player must press an appropriate button for each enemy archetype to initiate a kill chain. [ 9 ] Assassin's Creed III introduced the naval combat gameplay feature to the franchise, by allowing Ratonhnhaké:ton to take control of a ship named the Aquila in privateer contracts and sea-based memories. A map showing different naval engagements can be accessed either from the Harbormasters in each city or directly from the Homestead harbor. Each successful privateer contract reduced the risk of trading in that particular route. During naval combat, Ratonhnhaké:ton is initially able to fire round shots and swivel guns, expanding onto other kinds of shot after upgrading the Aquila . He and his crew also have the ability to take cover from enemy shots or rogue waves. A large factor influencing the naval gameplay is the weather system, which determines the velocity of the ship through wind speed and direction. Utilizing half-sail or full-sail governs the rate at which the Aquila travels; while full-sail lets the ship move at a faster pace, half sail allows for better handling. Desmond uses the upgraded Animus 3.01 developed by Rebecca Crane while he was in a comatose state. 100% synchronization in memories returns, though synchronization is treated more like experience in an RPG leveling system with a finite amount available. [ 5 ] Activities completed during missions vary in synchronization value. The more synchronized Desmond becomes, the more the synchronization bar is filled, which can also be increased through replaying missions. Checkpoints were also introduced to mission replay, meaning that entire memories need not be replayed in order to achieve the 100% synchronization requirement. [ 5 ] Ratonhnhaké:ton hunting an elk The economic system in the game is different, as Ratonhnhaké:ton can now hunt animals, enabling him to sell the resources gathered from them. These resources can be more valuable depending on the quality of the kill performed, and on the weapon type used. For example, the pelt of a slain animal may be of lesser quality (and by extension lesser value) if it is slain with a pistol rather than an arrow. Along with this, a new property system known as the Homestead has been added, where Ratonhnhaké:ton can invite citizens to stay and build a community. Here, the inhabitants are given a second chance following various mishaps in their lives, and they generate income through trade and crafting. The Homestead expands with every resident that inhabits the area. Platforming missions, like the Assassin Tombs or Lairs of Romulus , return in the form of Peg Leg missions. As stated by Corey May , "People like those. We like those. It's not something we'd remove." [ 5 ] A regenerative health system similar to the type featured in Assassin's Creed has been implemented, and in order to regain his health, Ratonhnhaké:ton must escape from combat and rest. [ 5 ] Multiplayer Ubisoft Annecy, who developed the multiplayer components for Brotherhood and Revelations , along with Ubisoft Bucharest, were tasked with bringing multiplayer back with this installment. There is a new cooperative mode named Wolfpack , where 1 to 4 players are tasked with killing certain NPCs during a time limit, through a sequence of 25 stages. Another feature is the addition of Domination , a team mode, where players of the Animus games console need to capture areas of the virtual map they are designated, before protecting them from the opposite team. Unlike the previous multiplayer section featured in Brotherhood and Revelations , which was presented in-game as a training initiative for Abstergo recruits, the multiplayer of Assassin's Creed III is shown as a product of Abstergo Industries' entertainment branch , as a way of influencing the general public through a games console adapted with the Animus' technology. Sixteen Animi Avatars form the base of Assassin's Creed III's multiplayer, with three additional characters, introduced via downloadable content . Accompanying the Animi Avatars, seven locations are included in the base of multiplayer; Animus Core , Boston Harbor , Boston North End , Fort Wolcott , New York Brewery , Northwest Passage , Virginian Plantation . Three new maps were later introduced; Saint Pierre , Fort St-Mathieu , Charlestown . All of these maps have different variations, some featuring rain or snow, and others set during day, evening, or night. Synopsis Plot The plot of the game begins in the present day with Desmond, his father William , Rebecca Crane , and Shaun Hastings finding the Grand Temple in a cave in Turin, New York . Using Ezio's Apple of Eden to access the structure, Desmond activates a large portion of the equipment, as well as a timer indicating when the Second Disaster is predicted to occur, on December 21, 2012. His mind then falls into a fugue state, in which he relives some significant memories of his ancestor, Haytham Kenway. During a production at the London Theatre Royal , Haytham murders a man named Miko and steals a medallion which he and his associates believe allows access to a storehouse for " those who came before ". After Haytham returns with the medallion, he is dispatched to the British American colonies to find the storehouse. After preventing an attempt by crewman Louis Mills to turn him over to a trailing ship while on board the Providence , Haytham arrives in Boston. There, he is tasked with gathering together five men faithful to his cause: Charles Lee , William Johnson , Thomas Hickey , Benjamin Church and Jonathan Pitcairn . In the process, he kills a slave trader named Silas Thatcher and frees a large group of Kanien'kehá:ka tribespeople, believing it will make then amicable to his cause. One of these Kanien'kehá:ka, Kaniehtí:io , agrees to help Haytham find the storehouse on the condition that he kill General Edward Braddock , the man responsible for enslaving her people. After tracking his movements, Haytham slays Braddock as he retreats from the battle at Fort Duquesne . Haytham and Kaniehtí:io then travel to the entrance of the Grand Temple, only to find the medallion Haytham possesses cannot open it. At that moment, the pair reveals their romantic feelings for each other, beginning a relationship that will continue for some time. Shortly after, Charles Lee is formally recruited into Haytham's organization, the Templar Order . This event surprises Desmond and he ejects himself from the Animus, attempting to absorb this new information. He then engages in a brief fight with his father, saying he is being treated as a pawn, and William strikes him out of anger. Once the tension had eased, Shaun gives Desmond a choice: explore the Grand Temple or return to the Animus. The story then switches to the point of view of Ratonhnhaké:ton, Kaniehtí:io's son by Haytham. After playing hide and seek with his childhood friends in the forest near his village, he encounters Charles Lee and associates, who forcibly inform Ratonhnhaké:ton that they wish to speak with the village elders. Ratonhnhaké:ton is then knocked unconscious, and on his return to the village, he discovers it has been set ablaze. Though he is able to find his mother and attempts to free her from a collapsed structure, he is ultimately unable to save her, and she dies before his eyes. Some years later, a teenage Ratonhnhaké:ton is told by a village elder that the reason no one is allowed to leave the nearby valley is that their purpose is to protect the Grand Temple. She then shows him a crystal-like sphere , which activates at his touch and allows him to communicate with Juno . Juno informs him that he and his village are guardians of the Grand Temple, and current probabilities indicate that unless he leaves, his village will be destroyed and his people slaughtered. After showing the Kanien'kehá:ka teenager the symbol of the Assassins , she tells him to leave the valley, find Achilles Davenport —an Assassin—and convince the elder, embittered fighter to train him. After accomplishing this by protecting the Davenport manor from bandits, Ratonhnhaké:ton adopts the name " Connor " on Achilles' suggestion, and the pair set off to collect supplies from Boston. There Haytham attempts to frame his son for the events of the Boston Massacre , leaving Connor notorious in the city. He then meets Samuel Adams , who gives Connor advice on how to decrease his notoriety . On his return, Achilles presents Connor with the Aquila , a ship he can use to patrol the Eastern American seaboard. As Connor learns the art of being an Assassin, he is brought into the cities of Boston and New York , as well as a large open area, called the Frontier. After being made a full-fledged member of the Assassin Brotherhood by Achilles, Connor sets out to eliminate the Colonial Templars. William Johnson is assassinated first after he attempts to purchase the land on which Connor's people reside. Next, Connor targets John Pitcairn, the leader of the British forces at Bunker and Breed's Hills. Connor then pursues Thomas Hickey, whom he discovers is plotting to assassinate George Washington. Connor finds Hickey, and after a brief scuffle, both are thrown into prison. However, Hickey isn't detained for long and is freed through Haytham and Lee's influence, while Connor is framed for the plot against Washington and is sentenced to death by hanging. Luckily, Achilles and his fellow Assassins manage to free Connor at the execution. Connor then charges after Hickey and manages to assassinate him before the Templar can kill Washington. With Haytham, Lee, and Benjamin Church still at large, Connor fears they still plot to eliminate Washington. Connor meets with Washington, who informs him that Church has stolen goods vital to the Continental Army and has fled. Connor agrees to pursue him, and in the process meets his father, Haytham. Haytham reveals his own pursuit of Church, who has betrayed the Templars as well, and the two agree to set aside their differences and find Church together. Upon traveling to the Caribbean via the Aquila and pursuing Church's ship, Haytham and Connor locate Church and kill him, then return to the colonies to meet with Washington. Here, Haytham discovers a letter from Washington ordering the removal of all the indigenous tribes from the land, as a number of them support the British. One of the tribes to be removed is the Kanien'kehá:ka, despite their neutrality, and Connor severs his ties with Haytham and Washington as a result. He then takes off to protect his tribe's village from encroaching Patriot forces. On arriving, Connor finds his people to be safe but also discovers that the Clan Mother has dispatched tribesmen to turn back the Continental troops sent to purge the village. Connor stopped his fellows from attacking the troops but is forced to kill his closest childhood friend, Kanen'tó:kon , who had been influenced by Charles Lee. Connor becomes torn in his mission to eliminate the Templars, believing he can turn his father to the Assassin way of thinking. He then sets off to pursue Lee, who has been disgraced by Washington and taken refuge in Fort George. With the assistance of Lafayette , Connor has New York harbor shelled to create a distraction and infiltrates the fort. However, he is ambushed by Haytham, who reveals that Lee has escaped with the medallion, and the pair engages in battle. Now accepting that his father will not be convinced, Connor kills Haytham. As Desmond plays these events out in the Animus, he is occasionally taken out in order to recover power cells crucial to exploring the Grand Temple, found in locations such as Manhattan and Brazil . During these trips, he encounters Daniel Cross , a Templar mole responsible for killing the modern day Mentor and initiating a widespread purge of the Assassin Order. While exploring the Temple, Desmond occasionally encounters Juno, who reveals the events that led up to the first cataclysm that scarred the Earth. During one of these lectures, Desmond reveals that Lucy's death by his hand was no accident and that he chose to kill her after the Apple of Eden revealed she intended to take the Apple to Abstergo Industries . When a third power cell is located in Cairo , Egypt , William offers to recover it while Desmond continues to search Connor's memories for the key to the Grand Temple's inner barrier. However, William is captured by Abstergo and held in their Roman facility , the location where Desmond was kept when he was captured and forced to relive Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad 's genetic memories . Through a video message, Warren Vidic demands Desmond bring the Apple of Eden to him in exchange for William. In response, Desmond infiltrates the laboratories, where he encounters Daniel again. As Daniel corners Desmond, the Templar begins to suffer from the Bleeding Effect , as a result of being "raised" in an Animus and reliving the memories of his ancestors, Nikolai and Innokenti Orelov , for extended periods of time. Daniel then flees from the room in a panic, with Desmond in pursuit. After a short chase, Desmond assassinates Daniel and confronts Vidic in his office, where he uses the Apple to kill the Templar and his guards. Desmond then rescues William and uses the Apple to lead them safely from the facility. Once he returned to the Animus, Desmond observes as Connor pursues Lee once more. After eavesdropping on a ship's captain to ascertain Lee's location, Connor chases Lee through a vessel under construction that has been set ablaze. The two come to a stalemate after falling through a section of the ship, and Connor is impaled at the waist by a broken piece of wood. Lee asks Connor why he continues to persist, even though the Templar Order follows a cycle of their power waxing and waning. Connor replies "Because no one else will," and shoots Lee in the chest, preventing the Templar from finishing him off. A badly wounded Lee then escapes across a nearby lake via a ferry, with an injured Connor in pursuit. Finally, Connor finds Lee in a pub, and the pair shares a last drink before Connor stabs Lee lethally in the chest. Connor takes the medallion from Lee's body, and several months later, he returns to his tribe's village only to find they have moved elsewhere. He then locates the crystal sphere, presumably left behind for him to find. In the vision that it shows him, Juno reappears and instructs him to hide the medallion where no one else will find it. Connor does so, burying the medallion in the grave of Connor Davenport , Achilles' deceased son and his namesake. Now with the knowledge of the medallion's location, Desmond retrieves it and uses it to access the confines of the Temple. Here, he and the others find Juno's apparition, who instructs Desmond to activate a pedestal which will save the world from the ongoing solar flares. However, Minerva 's apparition suddenly appears and reveals that by doing as Juno says, Desmond will die and free Juno from captivity, allowing her to begin her conquest of the world. She explains that Juno was sealed long ago during the war between the First Civilization and humanity when she plotted to use the machines designed to save the world against it. Minerva, prodded by Juno, then shows Desmond that if the Sun were to unleash its power on the world, he and a small collective of humans would survive to repopulate the world. He would become a religious icon in this new world, but his words would be mistranslated and lead the world to continue a perpetual cycle of destruction. Believing the world would stand a better chance fighting against Juno, Desmond instructs the others to leave and prepare for the oncoming struggle. Desmond then activates the pedestal, taking his life and saving the world. From there, Juno appears and tells Desmond that his part has ended and that her time has come. In an epilogue, Connor takes down the Templar portraits in the Davenport Manor's basement and burns them, signifying the end of his journey. In addition, his return to his village is detailed further, showing he spoke to a hunter there, who revealed that the land had been sold to settlers in order to settle the new United States government's war debts. Connor also travels to the pier in New York, where he witnesses the last of the British Regulars leave America for good. However, he also sees evidence of the slave trade present in the newly formed nation, right next to the pier of citizens cheering at the departure of the British. Development Beginning production in January 2010, Assassin's Creed III remained in development for three years prior to its release date. [ 10 ] According to Creative Director Alex Hutchinson , the team settled on the American Revolution "once we realized you could meet Washington , sail a boat , leap from tree to tree in the middle of winter and hunt wildlife". [ 11 ] The game runs on a version of the Anvil game engine called AnvilNext , which improves environmental effects, allowing for large battle scenes and detailed close-ups. There are also seasonal changes; the landscape is warm and open in the summer and covered in snow during winter, both of which affect gameplay. [ 5 ] Although the seasons change in line with specific memories, [ 12 ] weather phenomena such as fog, rain, and snow occur naturally and impact the gameplay. [ 13 ] However, Ubisoft has said that due to memory limitations, they were unable to include interactive climbing surfaces, such as falling rocks or flower pots. [ 14 ] Creative Director Alex Hutchinson and Art Director The Chinh Ngo initially decided to center the game around the American Revolutionary War of 1775-1783 with New York , Boston and Philadelphia being the key settings. Their visit to the Ubisoft reference library was "uninspiring" and the wilderness left an "empty space" which they thought could not work in an open-world game. The Chinh quoted, "So I remember I said, We need weather. We need something to fill the space." The direction team decided to add snow, fog and rain in order to fill in the wilderness. [ 15 ] The development of the game began while Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood was nearing completion. The Chinh and his team spent six months sketching out ideas and created a pre-rendered prototype which contained a minor forest level; however, this led to unimpressive results. The art team then decided to bring 18th-century wilderness to life by featuring it as one of the most recurring environments in the game whilst starting every concept from scratch. [ 15 ] For the design of the New York cityscape, Senior Concept Artist Gilles Beloeil noted that "The goal was to show the difference between the nice Dutch district of New York and the burned-out part." The artist was asked to make the church as an important landmark to create this difference. The mood of this concept was required to be "sunset and very silhouetted". [ 15 ] At the 2012 Tokyo Game Show , Sony also announced that the 500GB bundle of its new, slimmer PS3 would be available with Assassin's Creed III . [ 16 ] Following this, the Xbox 360 version of the game comes in a two-disc set. The first disc contains the single-player portion of the gameplay, while the second disc is required for multiplayer. [ 17 ] Controversy Connor assassinating two British Loyalists with a musket Pre-release media for Assassin's Creed III came under heavy criticism from fans and critics for its seemingly biased portrayal of British Regulars. In every trailer and promotional image released, Ratonhnhaké:ton's victims were almost exclusively of British allegiance, leading some to believe that the game would be an America-versus-Britain story, rather than Assassin-versus-Templar. [ 18 ] This claim was repeatedly contested by the game's developers, with co-writer Matt Turner denying it would be an "America Ra Ra" story, and that there were members of the Templar Order on both sides of the conflict. [ 19 ] Despite these assurances and the release of further trailers that depicted the killing of both British Regulars and Continental soldiers, [ 20 ] , criticisms that the portrayal was one-sided against the British continued, [ 21 ] A number of game review sources deplored the numerous glitches and bugs within the game, even with the day one patch. [ 22 ] Release System requirements Minimum Recommended Windows Operating system Windows Vista (SP2), Windows 7 (SP1), Windows 8 CPU 2.66 GHz Intel Core2 Duo E6700 or 3.00 GHz AMD Athlon 64 X2 6000+ Intel Core 2 Duo E6700 2.6 GHz or AMD Athlon 64 X2 6000+ or better Memory 2 GB (4 GB recommended) Hard drive space 17 GB Graphics hardware 512 MB DirectX 9.0c-compliant with Shader Model 4.0 or higher Sound hardware DirectX 9.0c-compliant 5.1 sound card Network 256 kbps or faster broadband connection Assassin's Creed III was released on PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on 30 October 2012 in North America and 31 October in PAL regions. The game made its series-first appearance on the Nintendo Wii U on 18 November 2012 in North America and 30 November in PAL regions, followed by its release on Microsoft Windows on 20 November 2012 in North America, 22 November in Australia, and 23 November in Europe. Assassin's Creed III also has four missions exclusive to the PS3 and PC platforms, which were made available for download upon the game's launch date. [ 23 ] The storyline is based around Benedict Arnold , a Continental Army general who later defected to the British Army . [ 24 ] A bundle DLC, The Hidden Secrets Pack was released on 11 December 2012 and contained new missions, weapons, and outfits. [ 25 ] The multiplayer The Battle Hardened Pack was released on 9 January 2013 and contained three new playable Avatars and three new maps. [ 26 ] The singleplayer expansion DLC, The Tyranny of King Washington was released in three parts; The Infamy on 20 February 2013, [ 27 ] The Betrayal on 20 March 2013, and The Redemption on 23 April 2013. [ 28 ] Assassin's Creed III was later included in the Assassin's Creed: Anthology , exclusive to PAL regions and released on 29 November 2012, alongside the compiled Assassin's Creed , Assassin's Creed II , Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood , and Assassin's Creed: Revelations . [ 29 ] The Heritage Collection , a PAL-region exclusive released on 8 November 2013, contained the same as the Anthology apart from the DLC. [ 30 ] Assassin's Creed: The Americas Collection (known as Birth of a New World: The American Saga in PAL regions), which compiled Assassin's Creed III, Assassin's Creed: Liberation HD and Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag was released for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Microsoft Windows on 28 October 2014. [ 31 ] Assassin's Creed III Remastered , a next-gen remaster for 8th generation consoles was released on PlayStation 4 , Xbox One , and Microsoft Windows on 29 March 2019, with all previous single-player downloadable content included, and a remaster of Assassin's Creed: Liberation , [ 32 ] while a Nintendo Switch port was released on 21 May 2019. [ 33 ] Season Pass Before the game's release, Ubisoft announced a Season Pass available for purchase through Xbox Live and the PlayStation Store for 2400 Microsoft points and $29.99 respectively. The Season Pass allowed early access to five downloadable content packs, including the three-part Tyranny of King Washington campaign and multiplayer components. DLC is also an option for the Wii U, though no Season Pass for this console was available. Choosing to purchase the Season Pass would net an overall 25% discount on all five downloadable content pieces, and it was released alongside Assassin's Creed III upon launch. Editions Ubisoft announced several collector's editions of Assassin's Creed III ; with three available in Europe and Australia, one available worldwide, [ 34 ] and two available for North and Latin America. [ 35 ] Freedom Edition Join Or Die Edition Special Edition A retail copy of Assassin's Creed III . A steel book case, with cover art drawn by award-winning comic artist Alex Ross . A collector's box. A 24-centimeter high-quality figurine of Connor. Two exclusive lithographs. George Washington's notebook . An additional Animi Avatar, the Sharpshooter. Two exclusive single-player missions, Lost Mayan Ruins and Ghost of War . [ 36 ] A retail copy of Assassin's Creed III . A collector's box. Ratonhnhaké:ton's medallion. George Washington's notebook. An exclusive single player mission, Ghost of War. An additional Animi Avatar, the Sharpshooter. [ 36 ] A retail copy of Assassin's Creed III. Special packaging. An exclusive single player mission, A Dangerous Secret . [ 36 ] UbiWorkshop Edition Digital Deluxe Edition Limited Edition A retail copy of Assassin's Creed III . Five exclusive lithographs. Assassin's Creed: Subject Four . Assassin's Creed Encyclopedia Second Edition. [ 37 ] A retail copy of Assassin's Creed III . George Washington's notebook. (PDF file) Benedict Arnold DLC. Three single-player missions. The Captain of the Aquila's uniform and traditional Colonial Assassin outfit. Two additional Animi Avatars, the Sharpshooter and Red Coat. Best of audio tracks collection from previous Assassin's Creed games. [ 35 ] A retail copy of Assassin's Creed III . George Washington's notebook. [ 38 ] A statue of Ratonhnhaké:ton, with tomahawk and Hidden Blade. Assassin's Creed -inspired colonial flag. A metal belt buckle. [ 35 ] Charity Edition Allegiance Pack Famitsu DX Pack Assassin's Creed III backpack satchel Assassin's Creed III tomahawk USB key Assassin's Creed III steel postcard Assassin's Creed III notebook Assassin's Creed III belt buckle Assassin's Creed III wristband Assassin's Creed III iron on patch Assassin's Creed III steelbook Assassin's Creed III lead figurines Assassin's Creed III tomahawk keychain Assassin's Creed III: Liberation keychain Sony PS3 ULC – Captain of the Aquila, Colonial Assassin, Red Coat Multiplayer Pack Sony PS Vita ULC – Mysteries of the Bayou Assassin's Creed III: Liberation Assassin's Creed III Freedom Edition A retail copy of Assassin's Creed III . Assassin's Creed: Subject Four . The official Assassin's Creed III Flag. A retail copy of Assassin's Creed III for the PlayStation 3. A physical reference guide A PVC figurine of Connor Awards Date Award Category Recipient(s) Result 2012 Spike Video Game Awards Game of the Year Assassin's Creed III Nominated [ 39 ] Best Xbox 360 Game Nominated [ 39 ] Best PS3 Game Nominated [ 39 ] Best Action/Adventure Game Nominated [ 39 ] Best Graphics Nominated [ 39 ] Best Character Connor Kenway Nominated [ 39 ] Gallery Concept art Screenshots Videos Concept art of the Frontier Continental and British troops prepare to engage Ratonhnhaké:ton climbing a mountain in the Frontier The city of Boston Ratonhnhaké:ton riding through Boston A troop of British Regulars patrolling New York A battalion of Continental soldiers Concept art of a Kanien'kehá:ka hut Ratonhnhaké:ton on horseback in the Frontier Concept of a battle charge The Lost Mayan Ruins Ratonhnhaké:ton surveying a British Regular camp Concept art of wolves Continental soldiers walking through a forest Forest Falls concept by George Rushing Cave Door concept by George Rushing Ratonhnhaké:ton watching a British Regular patrol Ratonhnhaké:ton surveying an enemy camp Ratonhnhaké:ton passing a British Regular in Boston Ratonhnhaké:ton with George Washington in the Frontier Charles Lee grabbing a young Ratonhnhaké:ton Ratonhnhaké:ton holding his tomahawk Ratonhnhaké:ton in a canoe Ratonhnhaké:ton duel-wielding his pistol and tomahawk Ratonhnhaké:ton perched in a tree above a patrol of British Regulars Ratonhnhaké:ton fighting British Regulars with a pistol and tomahawk Ratonhnhaké:ton fighting a Continental soldier Ratonhnhaké:ton overlooking the Boston harbor A group of British Regulars in Boston Ratonhnhaké:ton hiding behind a tree Ratonhnhaké:ton climbing a cliff face Ratonhnhaké:ton assassinating a British Regular using his tomahawk A snowbound Frontier Ratonhnhaké:ton climbing through treetops Ratonhnhaké:ton hunting a target Ratonhnhaké:ton about to assassinate a British Regular Ratonhnhaké:ton hunting in the Frontier Ratonhnhaké:ton charging at a British troop at the Battle of Bunker Hill Ratonhnhaké:ton about to assassinate a Continental officer Ratonhnhaké:ton watching a British patrol AC3 Mocam 3D animation and cinematic test with early model of Charles Lee Assassin's Creed 3 - Reveal Trailer Assassin's Creed 3 - Connor's weapons UK Assassin's Creed 3 - Unite to Unlock the World Gameplay Premiere Assassin's Creed III World Gameplay Premiere North America Assassin's Creed III E3 Cinematic Trailer Assassin's Creed III - E3 2012 Domination Multiplayer Gameplay (Cam) E3 2012 - Assassin's Creed III E3 Gameplay Trailer Assassin's Creed III E3 Frontier Gameplay Demo North America Assassin's Creed 3 Naval Warfare Gameplay - Sony E3 2012 Press Conference Assassin's Creed 3 Independence Day Trailer Assassin's Creed 3 - Rise Trailer UK Assassin's Creed 3 - Boston demo commented walkthrough Trailer UK Assassin's Creed 3 - Official AnvilNext Trailer Assassin's Creed 3 - Official Naval Battles Trailer UK Assassin's Creed 3 - Official GamesCom 2012 Naval Warfare Walkthrough UK Inside Assassin's Creed III - Episode One UK Inside Assassin's Creed III - Episode Two UK Assassin's Creed III Inside Assassin's Creed Episode Three Assassin's Creed III Inside Assassin's Creed Episode Four Assassin's Creed III- 'Coming Home' Television Commercial - Ubisoft -NA- Assassin's Creed 3 - Lost Mayan Ruins DLC Trailer Assassin's Creed 3 - Official Boston Tea Party Trailer UK Assassin's Creed 3 - Official Connor Story Trailer UK Assassin's Creed III- Weapons Trailer Assassin's Creed III- Television Commercial Announcement - Ubisoft -NA- Assassins Creed III TV spot Assassin's Creed III PS3 "Liberty" TV Commercial Assassin's Creed 3 Launch TV Commercial Assassin's Creed III- Multiplayer - Trailer - Ubisoft -NA- Assassin's Creed 3 MultiPlayer Gameplay Trailer Assassin's Creed 3 - Official Launch Trailer UK Wii U- Assassin's Creed 3 "Future Of Our Land" Trailer - Nintendo NYC Conference 2012 Making Assassins Creed III A Taste of Things to Come Assassin's Creed 3 - Gameplay Tutorials Combat UK Assassin's Creed 3 - The official Tyranny Of King Washington Trailer UK Assassin's Creed 3 Official Season Pass Trailer Assassin's Creed 3 - Tyranny Of King Washington - Official Wolf Power Trailer UK Credits By type Cast Crew Cast Noah Watts as Ratonhnhaké:ton Adrian Hough as Haytham Kenway Nolan North as Desmond Miles John de Lancie as William Miles Eliza Jane Schneider as Rebecca Crane Danny Wallace as Shaun Hastings Danny Blanco-Hall as Daniel Cross Phil Proctor as Warren Vidic Gideon Emery as Reginald Birch Allen Leech as Thomas Hickey Neil Napier as Charles Lee Harry Standjofski as Benjamin Church Julian Casey as William Johnson Robert Lawrenson as John Pitcairn Carlo Mestroni as Edward Braddock Roger Aaron Brown as Achilles Davenport Kevin McNally as Robert Faulkner Akwiratékha Martin as Kanen'tó:kon Kaniehtiio Horn as Kaniehtí:io Shawn Baichoo as Stephane Chapheau Tod Fennell as Mason Weems Robin Atkin Downes as George Washington Vince Corazza as Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette Mark Lindsay Chapman as Samuel Adams Bruce Dinsmore as Paul Revere Andreas Apergis as Israel Putnam Jim Ward as Benjamin Franklin Margaret Easley as Minerva Nadia Verrucci as Juno References ↑ Sliwinski, Alexander (10 August 2012). Assassin's Creed 3 PC delayed to November . Joystiq. Archived from the original on 12 August 2012. Retrieved on 10 August 2012. ↑ Prescott, Shaun (13 July 2012). Assassin's Creed 3 for PC out 'before Christmas' . ComputerAndVideoGames.com. Archived from the original on 17 July 2012. Retrieved on 13 July 2012. ↑ Nintendo announces 23 Games Launching with Wii U on Nov. 18 . Nintendo Press Room (26 September 2012). Archived from the original on 30 September 2012. Retrieved on 26 September 2012. ↑ Grill, Scott (28 February 2013). 'Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag' confirmed by Ubisoft with box art (Photos) . Examiner.com. Archived from the original on 6 May 2013. Retrieved on 28 February 2013. ↑ 5.00 5.01 5.02 5.03 5.04 5.05 5.06 5.07 5.08 5.09 5.10 Miller, Matt. "Liberty and Death: Assassin's Creed III." Game Informer . Issue 228, April 2012, pp. 38–50 ↑ Hartup, Andy (24 September 2012). Assassin's Creed 3: Monster 3-hour playthrough, new gameplay videos . ComputerAndVideoGames.com. Archived from the original on 15 November 2012. Retrieved on 5 October 2012. ↑ Fleury, John (12 June 2012). A Lack Of Tower Defense Gameplay Confirmed For Assassin’s Creed III . We Got This Covered. Archived from the original on 3 August 2021. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. ↑ Assassin's Creed III: E3 Frontier Demo | Gameplay | Ubisoft [NA] on the Ubisoft North America YouTube channel ↑ IGN Presents: Making Assassin's Creed 3 - Refining the Assassin (Part 2) on the IGN YouTube channel ↑ Hanson, Ben (9 March 2012). Building The Assassin's Creed Universe . Game Informer . Archived from the original on 12 March 2012. Retrieved on 10 March 2012. ↑ Totilo, Stephen (19 July 2012). Assassin's Creed III's Top Creator Is Answering Your Questions Right Here, Right Now . Kotaku . Archived from the original on 22 July 2012. Retrieved on 14 September 2012. ↑ Elliot, John (9 November 2012). Assassin’s Creed III (Xbox 360) Review . COGconnected. Archived from the original on 31 May 2017. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. ↑ Darmanin, Jesmond (16 December 2012). The assassin is back . Times of Malta. Archived from the original on 12 May 2024. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. ↑ GDC Vault Staff (27 May 2013). Improving AI in Assassin's Creed III, XCOM, Warframe . Gamasutra. Archived from the original on 11 June 2013. Retrieved on 30 May 2013. ↑ 15.0 15.1 15.2 Dean, Ian. "Assassin's Creed 3". ImagineFX . Issue 89, December 2012, pp. 44-53 ↑ Fox, Sarah (20 September 2012). GameStop offers pre-orders for new PS3 500GB Assassin's Creed III bundle . Gaming Examiner. Archived from the original on 24 September 2012. Retrieved on 21 September 2012. ↑ Bell, Alan (2 October 2012). Xbox 360 Version of Assassin's Creed III Comes on Two DVDs . NZGamer. Archived from the original on 5 October 2012. Retrieved on 2 October 2012. ↑ Williams, Mike (12 June 2012). Assassin's Creed III devs have "nothing against" the British . GamingIndustry.biz. Archived from the original on 8 February 2023. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. ↑ GR Staff (9 May 2012). 'Assassin's Creed 3' Won't Just Be An 'American' Story . Game Rant. Archived from the original on 30 May 2023. Retrieved on 16 June 2012. ↑ Assassin's Creed 3 - Official AnvilNext Trailer [UK] on the Ubisoft YouTube channel ↑ GR Staff (12 June 2012). 'Assassin's Creed 3' Writer Denies British Hate . Game Rant. Archived from the original on 2 May 2023. Retrieved on 16 June 2012. ↑ Cook, Dave (30 October 2012). Assassin's Creed 3 day-one update fixes 44 bugs, patch notes here . VG247. Archived from the original on 27 September 2021. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. ↑ Graziani, Gabriel (5 June 2012). Assassin's Creed III at E3 2012: New Trailer, Exclusive PS3 Single-Player Missions . PlayStation.Blog. Archived from the original on 18 August 2020. Retrieved on 6 June 2012. ↑ Assassin's Creed 3 intro will surprise people and PS3 exclusive Benedict Arnold missions on the Zoomin Games YouTube channel ↑ LaPorte, Jordan (4 December 2012). First Assassin’s Creed III DLC Available Now . Game Informer . Archived from the original on 15 August 2019. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. ↑ Goldfarb, Andrew (9 January 2013). Assassin’s Creed III Battle Hardened DLC Out Now . IGN . Archived from the original on 11 January 2013. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. ↑ Phillips, Tom (6 February 2013). Assassin's Creed 3: The Tyranny of King Washington DLC release date . Eurogamer. Archived from the original on 4 July 2022. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. ↑ Eorl (20 March 2013). Assassin's Creed 3 - The Tyranny of King Washington: The Betrayal Now Available . AusGamers.com. Archived from the original on 18 August 2013. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. ↑ Phillips, Tom (6 November 2012). Assassin's Creed Anthology includes five games, DLC . Eurogamer . Archived from the original on 4 July 2022. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. ↑ Karmali, Luke (4 October 2013). Assassin's Creed Heritage Collection Announced For Europe . IGN . Archived from the original on 8 January 2015. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. ↑ Suszek, Mike (8 September 2014). Assassin's Creed bundles up its American saga for October . Joystiq. Archived from the original on 28 December 2014. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. ↑ Assassin’s Creed III Remastered Coming March 29 on Ubisoft 's official website ( backup link ) ↑ Assassin’s Creed III Remastered Coming to Nintendo Switch on May 21 on Ubisoft 's official website ( backup link ) ↑ EscoBlades (31 May 2012). Assassin's Creed III Ubiworkshop Edition announced . XboxGameZone.co.uk. Archived from the original on 4 August 2012. Retrieved on 1 June 2012. ↑ 35.0 35.1 35.2 EscoBlades (2 July 2012). Ubisoft announces exclusive US and Latin America Limited Edition . XboxGameZone.co.uk. Archived from the original on 1 November 2012. Retrieved on 2 July 2012. ↑ 36.0 36.1 36.2 Assassin's Creed III Pre-order . Ubisoft. Archived from the original on 30 August 2012. Retrieved on 1 June 2012. ↑ chrislewis (31 May 2012). Assassin's Creed 3: The UbiWorkshop Edition . UbiWorkshop. Archived from the original on 5 June 2012. ↑ Dack (30 August 2012). Assassin’s Creed 3 Limited Edition Gets a Notebook . Hardcore Gamer. Archived from the original on 21 September 2012. Retrieved on 6 September 2012. ↑ 39.0 39.1 39.2 39.3 39.4 39.5 Taormina, Anthony (7 December 2012). 2012 Spike Video Game Awards Winners List . Game Rant . Archived from the original on 9 July 2020. Retrieved on 12 May 2024. Assassin's Creed series Main games Assassin's Creed • Assassin's Creed II ( Battle of Forlì • Bonfire of the Vanities ) • Brotherhood ( Copernicus Conspiracy • The Da Vinci Disappearance ) • Revelations ( The Lost Archive ) • Assassin's Creed III ( Benedict Arnold • The Tyranny of King Washington ) • Liberation • Black Flag ( Freedom Cry • Aveline ) • Rogue • Unity ( Dead Kings ) • Syndicate ( Jack the Ripper • The Last Maharaja • The Dreadful Crimes ) • Origins ( The Hidden Ones • The Curse of the Pharaohs ) • Odyssey ( Legacy of the First Blade • The Fate of Atlantis ) • Valhalla ( Wrath of the Druids • The Siege of Paris • Dawn of Ragnarök ) • Mirage Animus Hub Shadows ( Claws of Awaji ) • Hexe • Invictus Spin-off games Altaïr's Chronicles • Bloodlines • Discovery • Multiplayer • Project Legacy • Multiplayer Rearmed • Recollection • Pirates • Memories • Chronicles ( China | India | Russia ) • Identity • Arno's Chronicles • Rebellion • Freerunners • Jade • Assassin's Creed Netflix mobile game Virtual Reality The VR Experience • Escape the Lost Pyramid • The Temple of Anubis • Beyond Medusa's Gate • Nexus VR Table Top Arena • Monopoly • Vendetta • Top Trumps • Risk • Brotherhood of Venice ( Roma • Tokyo XXI • Creed vs Crows • Apocalypse ) • The Last Quest of Leonardo da Vinci • Universes Beyond • Roleplaying Game Compilations Ezio Trilogy • Anthology • Heritage Collection • The Americas Collection • The Ezio Collection • The Rebel Collection Novels Renaissance • Brotherhood • The Secret Crusade • Revelations • Forsaken • Black Flag • Unity • Underworld • Last Descendants series ( Last Descendants | Tomb of the Khan | Fate of the Gods ) • Heresy • The Official Movie Novelization • Desert Oath • Odyssey • The Ming Storm series ( The Ming Storm • The Desert Threat ) • Geirmund's Saga • Fragments ( The Blade of Aizu | The Highlands Children | The Witches of the Moors ) • The Silk Road • The Imperial Jade Seal ( Chang'an Wang ) • Sword of the White Horse • The Engine of History ( The Magus Conspiracy • The Resurrection Plot ) • Escape Room Puzzle Book • The Golden City • Daughter of No One • Dynasty Audio Renaissance • Brotherhood • The Secret Crusade • Revelations • Forsaken • Black Flag • Underworld • Last Descendants series ( Last Descendants | Tomb of the Khan | Fate of the Gods ) • The Official Film Tie-In • Desert Oath • Odyssey • Gold • Geirmund's Saga • The Ming Storm series ( The Ming Storm • The Desert Threat ) • Turbulence in the Ming Dynasty • Sword of the White Horse • The Engine of History ( The Magus Conspiracy • The Resurrection Plot ) Comics Assassin's Creed • The Fall • The Chain • Awakening • Brahman • Assassins • Templars • Last Descendants – Locus • Conspiracies • Uprising • Reflections • Origins • Bloodstone • Blade of Shao Jun • Dynasty • Song of Glory • Blood Brothers • Valhalla webcomic • Forgotten Myths • The Hidden Codex • Forgotten Temple • Visionaries • A Soar of Eagles • Iga no Monogatari Non-fiction Assassin's Creed guide / artbook / CE artbook • Assassin's Creed II guide / artbook / CE artbook • Brotherhood guide / artbook • Revelations guide / artbook • Encyclopedia • Assassin's Creed III guide / artbook • Black Flag guide / artbook / CE artbook • Rogue guide / artbook • Unity guide / artbook / CE artbook • The Complete Visual History • Syndicate guide / artbook / CE artbook • A Walk Through History • The Official Coloring Book • The Essential Guide • Movie Posters • Into the Animus • Incredibuilds • The Official Collection • Origins guide / artbook / CE artbook • Infographics • The Culinary Codex • Odyssey guide / artbook / CE artbook • Complete Character Guide • 2500 Years of History • Atlas • Discovery Books ( Ancient Egypt | Ancient Greece | Viking Age | In the Heart of Baghdad | The Japan of the Samurai ) • Where's the Assassin? • Valhalla artbook • Mirage artbook / CE artbook • Shadows artbook / CE artbook Film & Television Lineage • Ascendance • Embers • French Revolution • The Syndicate • Assassin's Creed • Live-action TV series • Animated TV series • Anime series Websites Abstergo.com • Animus Next • Council • Crack The Code • Discover Your Legacy • Initiates • Project Legacy • Project Widow • Pirates Demo • Question the Creed • The Twelve Trials • Unlock the Animus • Who's In Your Blood? • Your Blood Is Not Your Own • XIXth Century Search Engine Cancelled media The Invisible Imam • The Eye of Heaven • Lost Legacy • Utopia • Bloodsail • Alliance • Covers Collection Assassin's Creed III Characters Assassins Rebecca Crane • Shaun Hastings • Desmond Miles • William Miles | Deborah Carter • Stephane Chapheau • Jamie Colley • Achilles Davenport • Robert Faulkner • Duncan Little • Miko • Louis Mills • Ratonhnhaké:ton • Clipper Wilkinson • Jacob Zenger | John de la Tour Templars Daniel Cross • Warren Vidic | Nicholas Biddle • Reginald Birch • Edward Braddock • Benjamin Church • John Harrison • Thomas Hickey • William Johnson • Haytham Kenway • Charles Lee • John Pitcairn Homestead Residents Catherine • Corrine • Diana • Ellen • Godfrey • Hunter • Lance O'Donnell • Lyle White • Maria • Myriam • Norris • Oliver • Prudence • Terry • Timothy • David Walston • Warren Isu Juno • Jupiter • Minerva Others Samuel Adams • Benedict Arnold • Amanda Bailey • David Clutterbuck • Richard Clutterbuck • Benjamin Franklin • François-Joseph Paul de Grasse • John Hancock • Jim Holden • Thomas Jefferson • Kaniehtí:io • Kanen'tó:kon • Lafayette • Oiá:ner • Israel Putnam • Paul Revere • Benjamin Tallmadge • Silas Thatcher • George Washington • Mason Locke Weems Animi Avatars Bear • Carpenter • Commander • Coyote Man • Governor • Hessian • Highlander • Huntsman • Independent • Lady Maverick • Mountebank • Night Stalker • Pioneer • Preacher • Robber • Redcoat • Sharpshooter • Silent Shadow • Strong Man Factions Assassins ( Colonial Brotherhood ) • Templars ( Abstergo Industries | Colonial Rite ) • Erudito | British Army ( Loyalists ) • Continental Army ( Patriots ) • Freemasons • Kanien'kehá:ka • Sons of Liberty Locations New York City ( Freedom Tower ) • Rome ( Abstergo laboratory ) • São Paulo • Turin, New York ( Grand Temple ) | Boston • Caribbean Sea ( Cerros • Dead Chest Island • Jamaica • Martinique ) • Charlestown • Davenport Homestead • Fort Wolcott • Frontier ( Concord • John's Town • Kanatahséton • Lexington • Monmouth • Valley Forge ) • Martha's Vineyard • New York ( West Point ) • Northwest Passage • Oak Island • Philadelphia | London ( Theatre Royal ) Events 2012 coronal mass ejection | Boston Massacre • Boston Tea Party • American Revolution and American Revolutionary War ( Battles of Lexington and Concord • Battle of Bunker Hill • Great Fire of New York • Sullivan Expedition • Battle of Monmouth • Battle of West Point • Battle of the Chesapeake • Attack on Fort George • Siege of Yorktown ) | Seven Years' War ( Braddock Expedition ) | Rebellion against King Washington Terms and concepts Abstergo Story • Achievements • Almanac pages • Animus • Assassination targets • Aquila • Blending • Cannons • Club Challenges • Contracts • Crafting • Customization • Dual-wielding • Eagle Vision • Eavesdropping • Economic system • Emails ( Desmond Miles • Rebecca Crane • Shaun Hastings • William Miles ) • Forts • Hiding spots • Horses • Hunting • Leap of Faith • Lockpicking • Lucid Memory Fragments • Memories • Multiplayer • Outfits • Pieces of Eden ( Apple of Eden • Crystal Balls • Grand Temple Key • Power sources • Rings of Eden ) • Pivots • Red Willow powers ( Bear Might • Eagle Flight • Wolf Cloak • Wolf Pack ) • Social Stealth • Synchronization • Treasure chests • Templar ring • Viewpoints • Wanted posters Weapons and tools Bayonets • Blunt weapons • Bombs ( Trip mines ) • Bow • Fists • Firearms • Heavy weapons • Hidden Blade • Naval mines • Poison darts • Rope darts • Short blades • Swords • Tomahawks DLC Benedict Arnold DLC • The Hidden Secrets Pack • The Tyranny of King Washington ( The Infamy | The Betrayal | The Redemption ) Categories Categories : Pages using duplicate arguments in template calls Assassin's Creed III Real world video games Assassin's Creed series Languages العربية Deutsch Español فارسی Français עברית Magyar Italiano 日本語 한국어 Lietuvių Nederlands Polski Português do Brasil Русский 中文 Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Horror Assassin's Creed Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Assassin's Creed Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab