Titanic director James Cameron accuses OceanGate of cutting corners Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Watch Live Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Titanic director James Cameron accuses OceanGate of cutting corners 23 June 2023 Share Save Rebecca Morelle Science Editor, BBC News Share Save Watch: James Cameron told the BBC he "felt in his bones" what happened to the sub Hollywood film director James Cameron, who directed the 1997 movie Titanic, has told the BBC the team who built the submersible which imploded with the loss of five lives had "cut corners". OceanGate, the parent company of the Titan sub, "didn't get certified because they knew they wouldn't pass". "I was very suspect of the technology that they were using. I wouldn't have gotten in that sub," he said. Cameron has completed 33 submersible dives to the Titanic wreck. Titan was built from carbon fibre and titanium. In 2012 Cameron used a different technology for the Deepsea Challenger submersible expedition in the Pacific, which took him down to 10,912m (35,800ft), the deepest known oceanic trench. The Titanic wreck is 3,810m (12,500ft) down. Cameron said that when he learned the sub had lost both its navigation and communication at the same time he immediately suspected a disaster. "I felt in my bones what had happened. For the sub's electronics to fail and its communication system to fail, and its tracking transponder to fail simultaneously - sub's gone." In losing Titan, St John's mulls a familiar tragedy He said that on Monday, when he heard the sub had gone missing, "I immediately got on the phone to some of my contacts in the deep submersible community. "Within about an hour I had the following facts. They were on descent. They were at 3,500 metres (11,483ft), heading for the bottom at 3,800 metres. "Their comms were lost, and navigation was lost - and I said instantly, you can't lose comms and navigation together without an extreme catastrophic event or high, highly energetic catastrophic event. And the first thing that popped to mind was an implosion." On Thursday, an official from the US Navy told the BBC's partner CBS News that the navy had detected "an acoustic anomaly consistent with an implosion" shortly after the Titan lost contact with the surface. The official said the information had been relayed to the US Coast Guard team, which used it to narrow the radius of the search area. Cameron suggested that there was a "terrible irony" in the loss of Titan and its crew, likening it to the loss of the Titanic itself back in 1912. "We now have another wreck that is based on unfortunately the same principles of not heeding warnings," he said. "OceanGate were warned." Cameron said that some within the deep submergence community, not including himself directly, had written a letter to OceanGate saying they believed, in his words, "you are going on a path to catastrophe". A letter sent to OceanGate by the Marine Technology Society (MTS) in March 2018 and obtained by the New York Times stated "the current 'experimental' approach adopted by OceanGate... could result in negative outcomes (from minor to catastrophic)". Separately, US court documents show a former employee of OceanGate warned of potential safety problems with the vessel as far back as 2018. The documents show that David Lochridge, the company's director of marine operations, raised concerns in an inspection report. But the co-founder of OceanGate insisted however that Titan had undergone rigorous testing. Guillermo Sohnlein, who left the company 10 years ago, told the BBC that the 14-year development programme had been "very robust". "Any expert who weighs in on this, including Mr Cameron, will also admit that they were not there for the design of the sub, for the engineering of the sub, the building of the sub and certainly not for the rigorous test programme that the sub went through." The Titan sub was not certified, but then this is not mandatory. In a blog post about it in 2019 , the company said the way that Titan had been designed fell outside the accepted system - but it "does not mean that OceanGate does not meet standards where they apply". It added that the classification agencies "slowed down innovation… bringing an outside entity up to speed on every innovation before it is put into real-world testing is anathema to rapid innovation". Cameron told BBC News the past week had "felt like a prolonged and nightmarish charade where people are running around talking about banging noises and talking about oxygen and all this other stuff". "I knew that sub was sitting exactly underneath its last known depth and position. That's exactly where they found it," he continued. He said anyone venturing to the Titanic wreck should be fully aware of the risks, as "it's a very dangerous site". "Agree to those risks, but don't be in a situation where you haven't been told about the risks of the actual platform that you're diving in there. "In the 21st Century, there shouldn't be any risks. We've managed to make it through 60 years, from 1960 until today, 63 years without a fatality... So, you know, one of the saddest aspects of this is how preventable it really was." Sign up for our UK morning newsletter and get BBC News in your inbox. Tributes paid to Titan sub 'true explorers' What will Titan investigators be looking for? 'The only solace is that they didn't suffer for days' Titanic submersible accident United States Related An 'abomination' of a sub – and the boss convinced Titan was safe 28 Sep 2024 Science & Environment Wreckage shows how Titan's hull came apart 25 Sep 2024 Footage shows underwater robot salvaging Titan sub 23 Sep 2024 More Just now Trump celebrates 100 days in office by touting record and blasting foes He tells a crowd in Michigan that he is using his presidency to deliver "profound change". Just now US & Canada 57 mins ago Four dead after car crashes through after-school camp The victims at the YNOT After School Camp are believed to range in age from seven to 18, authorities say. 57 mins ago US & Canada 4 hrs ago Trump congratulates Canada's Carney as they agree to meet in 'near future' US President Donald Trump and Prime Minister Mark Carney spoke after Canada's general election. 4 hrs ago US & Canada 4 hrs ago Fire destroys historic US church with ties to MLK The Clayborn Temple in Memphis, Tennessee, was the organising centre for Martin Luther King Jr's final campaign in 1968. 4 hrs ago US & Canada 4 hrs ago What to know about Karen Read's second murder trial The murder case that has captivated the US is back on after the first trial collapsed. 4 hrs ago US & Canada British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.