The Nobel Foundation supports the Swedish Academy’s decision to postpone the 2018 Nobel Prize in Literature - NobelPrize.org Skip to content Open the search menu Close the search menu Close Mobile Menu Toggle Mobile Menu Nobel Prizes & laureates All Nobel Prizes All Nobel Prizes 2024 Physics prize Chemistry prize Medicine prize Literature prize Peace prize Prize in economic sciences About About the prize Alfred Nobel Award ceremonies Nomination Organisation Stories Educational Events & museums Open the search menu Close the search menu Header Search Submit a search term Press release from the Nobel Foundation The Nobel Foundation supports the Swedish Academy’s decision to postpone the 2018 Nobel Prize in Literature 4 May 2018 View in Swedish The Nobel Foundation supports the Swedish Academy’s decision to postpone the 2018 Nobel Prize in Literature The Swedish Academy has decided to postpone the 2018 Nobel Prize in Literature, with the intention of awarding it in 2019. According to the Swedish Foundations Act, the Nobel Foundation is ultimately responsible for fulfilling the intentions in the will of Alfred Nobel. During the past several weeks, we have pursued a continuous dialogue with the Swedish Academy, and we support Thursday’s decision. In principle, the Nobel Prize shall be awarded every year, but decisions on Nobel Prizes have been postponed on a number of occasions during the history of the prizes. One of the circumstances than may justify an exception is when a situation in a prize-awarding institution arises that is so serious that a prize decision will not be perceived as credible. The crisis in the Swedish Academy has adversely affected the Nobel Prize. Their decision underscores the seriousness of the situation and will help safeguard the long-term reputation of the Nobel Prize. None of this impacts the awarding of the 2018 Nobel Prizes in other prize categories. The Nobel Foundation presumes that the Swedish Academy will now put all its efforts into the task of restoring its credibility as a prize-awarding institution and that the Academy will report the concrete actions that are undertaken. We also assume that all members of the Academy realise that both its extensive reform efforts and its future organisational structure must be characterised by greater openness towards the outside world. Carl-Henrik Heldin, Chairman of the Board of the Nobel Foundation Share this Facebook X LinkedIn Email this page Nobel Foundation The Nobel Foundation is a private foundation established in 1900 on the basis of the will of Alfred Nobel and the founding statutes promulgated in connection with the will. Its primary purpose is to ensure that the intentions of the will of Alfred Nobel are fulfilled. The Foundation is responsible for ensuring that the assets made available for awarding the Nobel Prize are managed in such a way as to safeguard the economic base of the Prize in a long-term perspective and guarantee the independence of the prize-awarding institutions in their work of selecting Laureates. The Nobel Foundation is also entrusted with managing and carefully developing the trademarks and intangible assets that have been built up during the more than century-long history of the Nobel Prize. Contacts [email protected] +46 8 122 084 45 About the Nobel Prize organisation The Nobel Foundation Tasked with a mission to manage Alfred Nobel's fortune and has ultimate responsibility for fulfilling the intentions of Nobel's will. The prize-awarding institutions For more than a century, these academic institutions have worked independently to select Nobel Prize laureates. Outreach organisations Several outreach organisations and activities have been developed to inspire generations and disseminate knowledge about the Nobel Prize. Press Contact FAQ Privacy policy Terms of use For developers Media player Careers Join us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Nobel Prize Copyright © Nobel Prize Outreach 2025 Scroll to top