Steam DLC Page: Assassin's Creed Valhalla Login Store Home Discovery Queue Wishlist Points Shop News Stats Community Home Discussions Workshop Market Broadcasts About Support Change language Get the Steam Mobile App View desktop website © Valve Corporation. All rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries. Privacy Policy | Legal | Steam Subscriber Agreement | Refunds STORE Home Discovery Queue Wishlist Points Shop News Stats COMMUNITY Home Discussions Workshop Market Broadcasts About SUPPORT Install Steam login | language 简体中文 (Simplified Chinese) 繁體中文 (Traditional Chinese) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) ไทย (Thai) Български (Bulgarian) Čeština (Czech) Dansk (Danish) Deutsch (German) Español - España (Spanish - Spain) Español - Latinoamérica (Spanish - Latin America) Ελληνικά (Greek) Français (French) Italiano (Italian) Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian) Magyar (Hungarian) Nederlands (Dutch) Norsk (Norwegian) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese - Portugal) Português - Brasil (Portuguese - Brazil) Română (Romanian) Русский (Russian) Suomi (Finnish) Svenska (Swedish) Türkçe (Turkish) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Українська (Ukrainian) Report a translation problem Downloadable Content For Assassin's Creed Valhalla Following Follow 75,120 Followers Ignored Featured Lists Browse Report this DLC page $39.99 Released on Dec 6, 2022 “Become the Norse god Odin as you embark on an epic journey through a realm of myth to save your son and in the face of the doom of the gods.” $39.99 Released on Dec 6, 2022 “Get access to epic content, explore new lands, and discover new gear with the Assassin's Creed® Valhalla Season Pass.” $24.99 Released on Dec 6, 2022 “Relive the most ambitious battle in Viking history. Infiltrate the city of Paris to safeguard your clan’s future.” $24.99 Released on Dec 6, 2022 “Journey to 9th-century Ireland, gain influence among Gaelic kings, and uncover the dark secrets of a mystical cult.” Top Sellers New Releases Upcoming Releases Discounts Filter to All 12 Action 4 Adventure 4 RPG 4 Add a tag Narrow by preferences Hide ignored items Hide items in my library Results may exclude some products based on your content or language preferences $39.99 Assassin's Creed® Valhalla - Dawn of Ragnarök Dec 6, 2022 Become the Norse god Odin as you embark on an epic journey through a realm of myth to save your son and in the face of the doom of the gods. $39.99 Assassin's Creed® Valhalla - Season Pass Dec 6, 2022 Get access to epic content, explore new lands, and discover new gear with the Assassin's Creed® Valhalla Season Pass. $24.99 Assassin's Creed® Valhalla - The Siege of Paris Dec 6, 2022 Relive the most ambitious battle in Viking history. Infiltrate the city of Paris to safeguard your clan’s future. $24.99 Assassin's Creed® Valhalla - Wrath of the Druids Dec 6, 2022 Journey to 9th-century Ireland, gain influence among Gaelic kings, and uncover the dark secrets of a mystical cult. No results found < > Showing 1 - 4 of 4 results Per page: 10 25 50 100 Loading more content... Explore the full franchise Assassin's Creed © 2025 Valve Corporation.  All rights reserved.  All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries. VAT included in all prices where applicable. Privacy Policy | Legal | Steam Subscriber Agreement | Refunds | Cookies View mobile website About Valve | Jobs | Steamworks | Steam Distribution | Support | Recycling | Gift Cards | | |