Absent Alcaraz leaves door open for Tsitsipas and Nadal in No 1 race Tennis Majors / ATP EN FR Menu Our Video Shows All our Shows The Eye of the Coach Video News UTS Match Points Raising a Champion Major Talk Footwork Masters The Coach and The Star Social Highlights Testing Equipment Legendary Racquets The French Insider Tips of the coach Our Podcasts The Volley Match Points Our features Feature Match report On this day List Analysis Interview Daily Recap Long-form News All our News UTS ATP WTA Australian Open Roland-Garros Wimbledon US Open This week ATP and WTA rankings This month tennis calendar Latest news see all Previous Next Videos Features News Lives Alcaraz’s absence leaves Tsitsipas and Nadal with a chance to pip him for year-end No 1 Stefanos Tsitsipas and Rafael Nadal each have the chance to overtake the US Open champion for the No 1 ranking Arturo Holmes/Getty Images. Simon Cambers November 10, 2022 The withdrawal of Carlos Alcaraz through injury from next week’s ATP Finals has opened up a three-way race for the year-end world No 1 ranking. While Alcaraz, who suffered an abdominal injury in his quarter-final against eventual champion Holger Rune at the Paris Masters, remains in pole position, both Stefanos Tsitsipas and Rafael Nadal can replace him and end the year on top. After my withdrawal yesterday and having been evaluated by my medical team, @drlopezmartinez and @JuanjoMoreno_M , unfortunately this is the result of my injury: an internal oblique muscle tear in the left abdominal wall with an estimated recovery time of six weeks. pic.twitter.com/MbVHhJF1Oe — Carlos Alcaraz (@carlosalcaraz) November 5, 2022 Alcaraz, who won the US Open in September to become the youngest ever world No 1, is now expected to be out of action for up to six weeks, opening the door, slightly, for Tsitsipas and Nadal. The groups are set for the #NittoATPFinals in Turin 🇮🇹 🤩 Green Group: @RafaelNadal @CasperRuud98 @felixtennis @Taylor_Fritz97 🤩 Red Group: @steftsitsipas @DaniilMedwed @AndreyRublev97 @DjokerNole — ATP Tour (@atptour) November 10, 2022 Tsitsipas must be an undefeated champion to go No 1 For current No 3 Tsitsipas, the situation is clear. If the Greek wins all three of his group matches and goes on to win the title, with five wins out of five, he will be No 1 for the first time. That would be a stunning achievement for Tsitsipas, who has won two more titles in 2022 and reached five other finals in what has been his most consistent year. Should he hit top spot it would make him only the second man – Marcelo Rios was the other – to ever be world No 1 without winning a slam title. Tsitsipas will have to do it the hard way, though, since his group in Turin includes former No 1s Novak Djokovic and Daniil Medvedev, as well as Andrey Rublev. Warm welcome from the Italian fans to our Rafa 🤗 🎥: Nitto ATP Finals via IG pic.twitter.com/cEZo2I7XlM — rafael_nadal_by_hippo (@rnbyhippo22) November 10, 2022 Nadal can be year-end No 1 for sixth time Rafael Nadal says he is not interested in fighting for the No 1 ranking but if he has a successful ATP Finals, he could just pinch it anyway. The 36-year-old Spaniard is 1000 points behind Alcaraz in the ATP Race and he has a chance. If Tsitsipas loses any of his group matches, then three straight wins in the group stages and a semi-final win for Nadal would make him No 1 at the end of a year for the sixth time. (He would be level on points with Alcaraz but be No1 thanks to earning more points in Grand Slams , mandatory Masters 1000s and the ATP Finals). If Nadal wins the title, whatever Tsitsipas does, then he will go No 1. That’s even if the Spaniard wins only one group match (depending on results, it is possible for a player to reach the semis with a 1-2 record). Nadal is in a group with Casper Ruud, whom he beat to win the French Open earlier this year, Felix Auger-Aliassime and Taylor Fritz. Welcome to the Top 10, @holgerrune2003 ! 🎉 Just a week after making his Top 20 debut, 🇩🇰 Holger Rune makes his Top 10 debut, jumping from No. 18 to No. 10 today after winning his first Masters 1000 in Paris. 🏆 He's the first Dane to reach the Top 10 in ATP rankings history. — TENNIS (@Tennis) November 7, 2022 Holger Rune is in Turin, too Holger Rune probably had the Next Gen Finals on his mind as he began his indoor campaign a few weeks ago. But a win in Stockholm – his second Tour title – a runner-up finish in Basel and now the biggest victory of all – i n the final of the Paris Masters against Novak Djokovic – means he has now broken into the top 10 (at No 10). Rune decided to pull out of the Next Gen Finals and is in Turin as the first alternate, something no one would have predicted when the indoor season began, or when the year started, with him down at No 103. You might also like this World No 1 Alcaraz to miss ATP Finals with abdominal injury, out for six weeks tennis majors Alcaraz’s absence leaves Tsitsipas and Nadal with a chance to pip him for year-end No 1 tennis majors VIDEO: The CRAZY week that took Rune to a new dimension tennis majors Share this story Facebook Twitter Linkedin Whatsapp Email Subscribe to our newsletter Stay in touch with the latest news, right into your inbox! " * " indicates required fields Email * Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. People in this post Carlos Alcaraz Spain Holger Rune Denmark Taylor Fritz United States More tennis news April 30, 2025 Madrid Masters: Ruud too good for Fritz, moves into last eight Casper Ruud beat Taylor Fritz 7-5, 6-4 on Tuesday evening and will face... Tennis Majors April 29, 2025 Madrid Open: Kostyuk breezes past Potapova to move into quarter-finals Marta Kostyuk defeated Anastasia Potapova 6-3, 6-2 on Tuesday evening. She'll play Belarusian... Tennis Majors April 29, 2025 Madrid Open: Sabalenka eases past Stearns to book spot in last eight Aryna Sabalenka won against Peyton Stearns 6-2, 6-4. She'll face the winner of... Tennis Majors April 29, 2025 Madrid Masters: Medvedev recovers to beat Nakashima and make quarter-finals Daniil Medvedev edged out Brandon Nakashima 3-6, 6-1, 6-4. He'll face either Taylor... Tennis Majors April 29, 2025 G.O.A.T., Serbia, 24, Murray: Everything you always wanted to know about Novak Djokovic (but never had time to find out) – updated with withdrawal from 2025 Italian Open Novak Djokovic is arguably the greatest tennis player in history and the best... Tennis Majors Your comments Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Website Comment for robots Please empty this comment field to prove you're human. Tennis Majors Legal notices Privacy Policy Terms of Use Cookie management Contact us ©Tennis Majors 2020 - 2023 | All  right reserved