Management team and board of directors | Vanguard Our leadership Our management team Our executive team and board of directors ensure that Vanguard is operated solely in the best interests of its investor-owners. 1 They are jointly responsible for stewarding the assets entrusted to Vanguard by more than 50 million clients. 2 Executive team Board of directors Executive team Board of directors Executive team Vanguard’s senior management team is responsible for executing the long-term strategy of the firm, overseeing its day-to-day operations, and managing its crew. The team is led by CEO Salim Ramji and includes experienced senior executives who are elected by the board of directors. Salim Ramji Salim Ramji is chief executive officer of Vanguard Salim Ramji is chief executive officer of Vanguard Salim Ramji is chief executive officer of Vanguard and a member of the board of directors. Prior to joining Vanguard in July 2024, Salim served in a variety of leadership roles over the past 25 years spanning investments, capital markets, and wealth management. Most recently, he was the global head of iShares and index investments at BlackRock and a member of the global executive committee. Previously, he was a senior partner at McKinsey & Company, where he led the asset & wealth management practice areas. Salim started his career as a lawyer with Clifford Chance in London and Hong Kong. He is a trustee of Graham Windham, a New York-based child-welfare organization, and serves on the international leadership council for the University of Toronto. Salim holds a bachelor’s degree in economics and politics from the University of Toronto and an M.A. degree in law from Cambridge University and is a CFA charterholder. Greg Davis Greg Davis is president and chief investment officer of Vanguard Greg Davis is president and chief investment officer of Vanguard Gregory Davis is Vanguard's president and chief investment officer, and a member of the board of directors. He is responsible for all aspects of the firm’s investment management and for overseeing enterprise risk management. Previously, Greg was principal and global head of Vanguard Fixed Income Group, responsible for its portfolio management, strategy, credit research, trading, and planning functions. He also served as the company's Asia-Pacific chief investment officer and a director of Vanguard Investments Australia. Greg is a member of the board of governors of the Investment Company Institute and a member of the Investor Advisory Committee on Financial Markets for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. He also serves as vice chair of the board of trustees for Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. From 2016 to 2024, he was a member of the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Greg earned a B.S. in insurance from Pennsylvania State University and an M.B.A. in finance from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He is a CFA charterholder and a member of the CFA Society of Philadelphia. Matthew Benchener Matthew Benchener is managing director of Vanguard Personal Investor Matthew Benchener is managing director of Vanguard Personal Investor Matt Benchener is managing director of Vanguard Personal Investor, which provides millions of individual investors with direct access to Vanguard funds, brokerage services, IRAs, cash management, and education savings. Previously, Matt led Personal Investor Client Services and Operations. He joined Vanguard in 2008 and has held several leadership positions, including chief marketing officer for Personal Investor, as well as senior roles in the firm’s Workplace Solutions and Corporate Strategy groups. Matt earned a B.A. from Johns Hopkins University and an M.B.A. from The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. Matt is a member of the board of directors of SIFMA, a leading trade association for broker-dealers, investment banks and asset managers operating in the U.S. Amma Boateng Amma Boateng is managing director of Vanguard’s Financial Advisor Services division Amma Boateng is managing director of Vanguard’s Financial Advisor Services division Amma Boateng is managing director of Vanguard’s Financial Advisor Services division, which provides investments, services, education, and research to more than 50,000 financial advisory firms and teams, representing nearly $4 trillion in assets. 3 Amma joined Vanguard in 2004. Before her current role, she headed the channel in Financial Advisor Services that serves wirehouse, independent, and regional broker-dealers. She has also worked in the company’s Investment Management Group, its Corporate Strategy department, and its Finance and Personal Investor divisions. Amma earned an A.B. in English and economics from Dartmouth College and an M.B.A. from the Stanford Graduate School of Business. In 2025, Amma was recognized on Barron's list of the 100 Most Influential Women in U.S. Finance, further highlighting her significant impact and leadership in the financial industry. Joseph Brennan Joseph Brennan is managing director and Vanguard’s global chief risk officer Joseph Brennan is managing director and Vanguard’s global chief risk officer Joseph Brennan is managing director and Vanguard's global chief risk officer. He is responsible for overseeing global risk and security functions, which include enterprise risk management, investment risk management, and cyber security and fraud protection. Previously, Joe served as head of Vanguard Equity Index Group, chief investment officer of the Asia Pacific region, a director of Vanguard Investments Australia, and head of Vanguard Portfolio Review Department. Joe earned a B.A. in economics from Fairfield University and an M.S. in finance from Drexel University. He is also a graduate of Harvard Business School's Advanced Management Program. He is a CFA charterholder and a member of the CFA Society of Philadelphia. Jon Couture Jon Couture is Vanguard’s chief human resources officer and managing director of human resources Jon Couture is Vanguard’s chief human resources officer and managing director of human resources Jon Couture is chief human resources officer and managing director of human resources, responsible for all human resources functions including talent, leadership, and culture, across the firm. Prior to joining Vanguard in 2024 he was executive vice president and chief human resources officer of Principal Financial Group, overseeing all aspects of human resources for more than 20,000 employees worldwide. Before joining Principal, he was the executive vice president–human resources for consumer lending, payments, virtual channels, operations, and innovation at Wells Fargo, and was the senior executive vice president of human resources for HSBC North America Holdings, Inc. In addition to his roles in human resources, Jon is a veteran of the U.S. Air Force. Jon holds a doctorate in human performance from the University of Southern California, a master’s degree in instructional and human performance technology from Boise State University, and a bachelor’s degree in management from Southern Illinois University. John James John James is managing director of Vanguard’s Workplace & Advisor Solutions group John James is managing director of Vanguard’s Workplace & Advisor Solutions group John James is managing director of Vanguard's Workplace & Advisor Solutions group, overseeing the firm’s intermediated businesses. Previously, John was managing director of Vanguard Workplace Solutions (formerly Vanguard's Institutional Investor Group), which serves the investment needs of employers offering company-sponsored retirement plans. He has also served as chief human resources officer and managing director of Vanguard's Human Resources division, and as the managing director of Vanguard's U.K. and European operations. John joined Vanguard in 2008 and has held leadership roles in the company's Financial Advisor Services division and overseen its Australian operations in Melbourne. John earned an M.B.A. from the University of Adelaide and holds certificates from the Wharton Advanced Management Program at the University of Pennsylvania and the Advanced Human Resource Executive Program at the University of Michigan. Chris McIsaac Chris McIsaac is managing director of Vanguard’s International division Chris McIsaac is managing director of Vanguard’s International division Chris McIsaac is managing director of Vanguard's International division, which provides investments to institutions, financial advisors, and individual clients in more than 80 countries around the world. He joined Vanguard in 1997. Most recently, Chris was head of Vanguard's Planning and Development Group, now known as Strategy, Product, Marketing, Communications Group; before that, he was head of the Workplace Solutions Group. Chris holds a B.S. from Saint Joseph's University and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. He is also a member of the Franklin Institute board of trustees. Tonya Robinson Tonya T. Robinson is general counsel of Vanguard and secretary of the Vanguard funds Tonya T. Robinson is general counsel of Vanguard and secretary of the Vanguard funds Tonya T. Robinson is general counsel of Vanguard and secretary of the Vanguard funds. She is managing director of the Office of the General Counsel, where she leads the firm’s Global Public Policy, Legal, Compliance, and Investment Stewardship departments. Prior to joining Vanguard in 2024, Tonya was the vice chair and general counsel for legal, regulatory, and compliance at KPMG LLP. She previously served in the White House as special assistant to the president for justice and regulatory policy and as acting general counsel at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Prior to her work in government, Tonya was a partner at the international law firm WilmerHale LLP and held other senior roles in the public and private sectors. Tonya serves on the boards of directors for the National Women’s Law Center and Ethics Research Center as well as the board of visitors for the Duke University Sanford School of Public Policy. Tonya holds a B.A. in public policy studies from Duke University and a J.D. from Harvard Law School. Michael Rollings Michael Rollings is chief financial officer and managing director of Vanguard’s Finance division Michael Rollings is chief financial officer and managing director of Vanguard’s Finance division Michael Rollings is chief financial officer and managing director of Vanguard's Finance division, which is responsible for corporate financial services, fund financial services, internal audit, and real estate and facilities management. Mike joined Vanguard in June 2016 and was previously executive vice president and CFO of MassMutual Financial Group. Before that he led MassMutual's Capital Markets division. Mike holds a B.S. in business administration from Georgetown University and a postgraduate degree from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. Joanna Rotenberg Joanna Rotenberg is managing director of Vanguard’s Advice & Wealth Management division Joanna Rotenberg is managing director of Vanguard’s Advice & Wealth Management division Joanna Rotenberg is managing director of Vanguard's Advice & Wealth Management division, which focuses on providing a range of capabilities to help investors meet their goals. Prior to joining Vanguard in 2025, she was president of Personal Investing at Fidelity Investments, responsible for strategy, product innovation, technology, and the full distribution and service platform. Before joining Fidelity, Joanna spent over a decade at BMO Financial Group, where she was group head of BMO Wealth Management, providing wealth and asset management solutions to clients across North America, EMEA, and Asia, and a member of the executive committees of both BMO Financial Group and BMO Wealth Management. She started her career as a partner at McKinsey & Company as a leader in their North American financial services practice. Joanna serves as treasurer of the board of directors of Sinai Health System. She is also a member of the Dean’s Advisory Board of the University of Toronto’s Rotman School of Business. Joanna holds a J.D./M.B.A. from the University of Toronto and is a member of the New York State Bar Association. Nitin Tandon Nitin Tandon is chief information officer and managing director of Vanguard’s Information Technology division Nitin Tandon is chief information officer and managing director of Vanguard’s Information Technology division Nitin Tandon is chief information officer and managing director of Vanguard’s Information Technology division, overseeing all aspects of the company’s use of technology to serve clients and manage investments. Nitin previously led Vanguard’s Retail and Corporate Systems within the Information Technology division. He joined Vanguard in 2019 to lead the Chief Technology Office and previously served as a consultant and partner for Deloitte Consulting, leading their Financial Services Cloud practice. Nitin holds a bachelor’s degree from the Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur, India. Lauren Valente Lauren Valente is managing director of Vanguard's Workplace Solutions Group Lauren Valente is managing director of Vanguard's Workplace Solutions Group Lauren Valente is managing director of Vanguard's Workplace Solutions Group, which provides investment solutions and services to meet the needs of employers offering company-sponsored retirement plans and to improve the financial wellbeing of millions of investors. In her prior role as Vanguard’s global chief human resources officer, she was responsible for overseeing all aspects of human resources, including talent, leadership, and culture. Lauren also served as a principal in the defined contribution retirement plan business, where she led Participant Services and Operations. Since joining Vanguard in 2003, she has held various roles in the organization's Workplace Solutions, Information Technology, and Personal Investor divisions. Before joining Vanguard, Lauren earned a B.S. in Decision and System Sciences from Saint Joseph's University. She earned an M.B.A. from Villanova University. Find out more about our investment professionals with FINRA's BrokerCheck . Board of directors Vanguard’s board includes 14 directors; 12 are independent directors with no affiliation with Vanguard or the Vanguard funds apart from any investments they may choose to make as individuals. The board is responsible for setting broad policies for the company; monitoring the company’s financials, operations, compliance, risk management; and electing officers. 4 Mark Loughridge serves as chairman of the board. Vanguard’s approach to Board composition reflects its commitment to ensuring that the individuals who serve as directors are appropriately independent, experienced, committed, and capable. It also ensures that they possess diversity of thought, background, experience as well as personal characteristics which contribute to the ability of the Vanguard Board to serve as effective and engaged stewards of our Member Funds and their investors. Salim Ramji Salim Ramji is chief executive officer of Vanguard Salim Ramji is chief executive officer of Vanguard Salim Ramji is chief executive officer of Vanguard and a member of the board of directors. Prior to joining Vanguard in July 2024, Salim served in a variety of leadership roles over the past 25 years spanning investments, capital markets, and wealth management. Most recently, he was the global head of iShares and index investments at BlackRock and a member of the global executive committee. Previously, he was a senior partner at McKinsey & Company, where he led the asset & wealth management practice areas. Salim started his career as a lawyer with Clifford Chance in London and Hong Kong. He is a trustee of Graham Windham, a New York-based child-welfare organization, and serves on the international leadership council for the University of Toronto. Salim holds a bachelor’s degree in economics and politics from the University of Toronto and an M.A. degree in law from Cambridge University and is a CFA charterholder. Mark Loughridge Mark Loughridge is chairman of the board Mark Loughridge is chairman of the board Mark Loughridge is chairman of the board. His responsibilities include serving as a principal point of contact for the independent directors, who appoint the chairman of the board. In addition, he coordinates the activities of the independent directors, including calling their regular executive sessions. He works to develop the agenda of board meetings and chairs the board meetings and meetings of the Independent Governance Committee. Mr. Loughridge is the retired senior vice president and chief financial officer of IBM. He also served as a fiduciary member of IBM's Retirement Plan Committee. Mr. Loughridge joined Vanguard's board of directors in 2012 and was appointed chairman in 2024. Tara Bunch Tara Bunch is head of global operations at Airbnb Tara Bunch is head of global operations at Airbnb Tara Bunch is head of global operations at Airbnb where she oversees community support, trust and safety, and payments for Hosts and guests in 220 countries and regions. She is the former vice president of AppleCare at Apple and previously served as a senior vice president at Hewlett Packard. She formerly served on the board of Out & Equal and currently serves on the boards of the University of California, Berkeley School of Engineering, and Santa Clara University's Leavy School of Business. Ms. Bunch became a Vanguard director in 2021. Greg Davis Greg Davis is president and chief investment officer of Vanguard Greg Davis is president and chief investment officer of Vanguard Gregory Davis is Vanguard's president and chief investment officer, and a member of the board of directors. He is responsible for all aspects of the firm’s investment management and for overseeing enterprise risk management. Previously, Greg was principal and global head of Vanguard Fixed Income Group, responsible for its portfolio management, strategy, credit research, trading, and planning functions. He also served as the company's Asia-Pacific chief investment officer and a director of Vanguard Investments Australia. Greg is a member of the board of governors of the Investment Company Institute and a member of the Investor Advisory Committee on Financial Markets for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. He also serves as vice chair of the board of trustees for Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. From 2016 to 2024, he was a member of the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Greg earned a B.S. in insurance from Pennsylvania State University and an M.B.A. in finance from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He is a CFA charterholder and a member of the CFA Society of Philadelphia. Scott Malpass Scott Malpass is the co-founder and managing partner at Grafton Street Partners Scott Malpass is the co-founder and managing partner at Grafton Street Partners Scott Malpass is the co-founder and managing partner at Grafton Street Partners. He serves as chair of the board of Catholic Investment Services, Inc., and as a member of the board of superintendence of the Institute for the Works of Religion in Vatican City. In June 2020, he retired as chief investment officer and vice president of the University of Notre Dame, where he also served as an assistant professor of finance at the university's Mendoza College of Business. Mr. Malpass joined the Vanguard board in 2012. John Murphy John Murphy is president and chief financial officer of The Coca-Cola Company John Murphy is president and chief financial officer of The Coca-Cola Company John Murphy is president and chief financial officer of The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC). Since joining the company in 1988, Mr. Murphy has held a variety of management, finance, and strategic planning roles across the globe. He also serves on the boards of Mexico-based Coca-Cola FEMSA, the world's largest bottler by sales volume; The Coca-Cola Foundation, TCCC's primary philanthropic arm; and Engage, a collaborative innovation and corporate venture platform that supports startups. Mr. Murphy is also on the board of trustees of the Woodruff Arts Center. He joined Vanguard’s board in 2024. Lubos Pastor Lubos Pastor is a professor of finance at the University of Chicago Lubos Pastor is a professor of finance at the University of Chicago Lubos Pastor is Charles P. McQuaid Distinguished Service Professor of Finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. He also serves as president of the European Finance Association, a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research, and a member of the advisory boards at the Andersen Institute for Finance and Economics, Fama-Miller Center for Research in Finance, Center for Research in Security Prices (CRSP), and the CRSP Index Advisory Council. He has served as director of the American Finance Association, president of the Western Finance Association, director of CRSP, board member of the National Bank of Slovakia, and associate editor of the Journal of Finance, Journal of Financial Economics , and the Review of Financial Studies . He joined Vanguard's board in 2024. Rebecca Patterson Rebecca Patterson is a former chief investment strategist of Bridgewater Associates Rebecca Patterson is a former chief investment strategist of Bridgewater Associates Rebecca Patterson has served as the chief investment strategist at Bridgewater Associates LP, an asset management firm. Previously, Ms. Patterson served as chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust. She is a member and senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and the Economic Club of New York, has served on the New York Federal Reserve’s Investor Advisory and Foreign Exchange Committees, and chairs the Council for Economic Education, which focuses on K–12 financial literacy. Ms. Patterson joined Vanguard’s board in 2025. André Perold André Perold is the chief investment officer and partner of HighVista Strategies LLC André Perold is the chief investment officer and partner of HighVista Strategies LLC André Perold is the chief investment officer and partner of HighVista Strategies LLC. He was previously the George Gund Professor of Finance and Banking at the Harvard Business School. Dr. Perold is a board member of RIT Capital Partners. He has been a Vanguard director since 2004. Sarah Bloom Raskin Sarah Bloom Raskin is a former governor of the Federal Reserve Board Sarah Bloom Raskin is a former governor of the Federal Reserve Board Sarah Bloom Raskin has served as the deputy secretary of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, as a governor of the Federal Reserve Board, and as the commissioner of financial regulation for the state of Maryland. She is currently the Colin W. Brown Distinguished Professor of the Practice at Duke Law School, and a Senior Fellow at Duke Center on Risk. Ms. Raskin is a partner in Kaya Corporation Ltd. Ms. Raskin joined Vanguard's board in 2017. Grant Reid Grant Reid is the retired chief executive officer of Mars, Incorporated Grant Reid is the retired chief executive officer of Mars, Incorporated Grant Reid retired from Mars, Incorporated, in early 2023 after more than eight years as chief executive officer. In 34 years with the company, he served across all Mars business lines and in a variety of functional areas. Under Mr. Reid's leadership, Mars combined an ambitious growth program that saw sales grow by more than 50% with a bold leadership agenda on value creation and sustainability. Currently, Mr. Reid is Chair of the Sustainable Markets Initiative Agribusiness Taskforce, driving substantial action on how to scale regenerative agriculture. He also serves as a director of Marriott International, Inc., and is senior operating partner of CVC Capital, an alternate investment manager. Mr. Reid joined Vanguard's board in 2023. David Thomas David Thomas is president of Morehouse College and a trustee of Common Fund David Thomas is president of Morehouse College and a trustee of Common Fund David Thomas is president of Morehouse College and a trustee of Commonfund. He is a former professor of business administration at Harvard Business School and the former dean of Georgetown University’s McDonough School of Business. He also previously served as an assistant professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He is currently a director of DTE Energy Company. Dr. Thomas joined Vanguard’s board in 2021. Barbara Venneman Barbara Venneman is the retired global head of Deloitte Digital Barbara Venneman is the retired global head of Deloitte Digital Barbara Venneman retired in 2024 from Deloitte Consulting LLP, where she served as the global head of Deloitte Digital and was a member of the Deloitte Global Consulting Executive Committee. Currently, she serves on the nonprofit board of Reality Changers, which prepares students to become first-generation college graduates. Ms. Venneman joined Vanguard’s board in 2025. Peter Volanakis Peter Volanakis is the retired president and chief operating officer of Corning Incorporated Peter Volanakis is the retired president and chief operating officer of Corning Incorporated Peter Volanakis is the retired president and chief operating officer of Corning Incorporated. He is a member of the BMW Group Mobility Council. Mr. Volanakis has been a Vanguard director since 2008. He also served as director of SPX Corporation (multi-industry manufacturing), director of Hypertherm Corporation (industrial manufacturing), and director of Avantor AS (life sciences). He was also an overseer of the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration at Dartmouth College and chairman of the board of trustees of Colby-Sawyer College. CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute. 1 Vanguard is owned by its funds, which are owned by Vanguard’s fund shareholder clients. 2 Figure is as of July 31, 2024. Source: Vanguard. 3 Figures are as of December 31, 2024. Source: Vanguard. 4 The Vanguard Funds are overseen by boards of trustees. Vanguard is the trusted name in investing. Since our founding in 1975, we’ve put investors first. Learn more