ITF Wheelchair Tennis Tour - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Overview 2 History 3 UNIQLO Tour 4 See also 5 References Toggle the table of contents ITF Wheelchair Tennis Tour 2 languages Italiano 日本語 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia ITF Wheelchair Tennis Tour Current season, competition or edition: 2023 ITF Wheelchair Tennis Tour Sport Professional wheelchair tennis Founded 1992 Sponsor(s) Uniqlo Related competitions ATP World Tour , WTA Tour Official website www .itftennis .com /wheelchair The ITF Wheelchair Tennis Tour (currently sponsored as the Uniqlo Wheelchair Tennis Tour and abbreviated to the Uniqlo Tour ) is a tennis tour for disabled men and women. There are three divisions: Men, Women, and Quad. The Quad division is a mixed-gender division, for players which have impairments in at least three limbs, and the competitors are allowed to use motorized wheelchairs. The tour was formed in 1992, comprising just 11 events. The tour now has over 150 events. Overview [ edit ] The ITF Wheelchair Tennis Tour is the world tour for wheelchair tennis. It is also the branch of the International Tennis Federation that is designed to protect the interests of the wheelchair tennis game.  As of 2011, 173 tournaments are covered by the tour over many different categories. The tour's main goals are: Providing opportunities for thousands of people with physical disabilities to compete in events organised at the highest level of organisation and professionalism. Offering high intensity competition and excitement for men, women, junior and quad players from the recreational to the professional level. Increasing awareness for persons with disabilities throughout the world Giving wheelchair athletes rightful recognition as top sport athletes Creating opportunities for athletes to enjoy and compete in a sport for a lifetime with able-bodied and disabled people. [ 1 ] History [ edit ] Wheelchair tennis started in the 1970s through Jeff Minnenbraker and Brad Parks . First tournament took place in Los Angeles in 1977, which was won by Parks. [ 2 ] In 1980 the National Foundation of Wheelchair Tennis (NFWT) was formed. A circuit of 10 tournaments within the USA was also established including the first US Open Wheelchair Tennis Championships. In 1981 The Wheelchair Tennis Players Association (WTPA) was formed. The WTPA was formed to: a) Foster competitive wheelchair tennis for the physically disabled throughout the world; b) Establish and enforce rules which create fair and equitable play for all participants; c) Organise a competitive network of tournaments sanctioned by the association; and d) Formulate a uniform system throughout the world. Also the WTPA with the NFWT formed the Grand Prix Circuit, linking four tournaments in major cities finishing with the US Open. The first tournaments outside of the USA began in France in 1982 as four tournaments were held. The first team competition the World Team Cup was established in 1985. The NEC Tour was formed in 1992. In 1998, the WTPA was incorporated into the USTA . [ 3 ] UNIQLO Tour [ edit ] The UNIQLO Wheelchair Tennis Tour (formerly "NEC Tour") comprises several different categories of events. The most prestigious ones are the Grand Slams and the Wheelchair Tennis Masters . The next level of tournaments is Super Series. The other categories on the main tour are known as ITF 1, 2 and 3 (these were formerly known as the Championship Series) with futures for the developing players (formally known as satellite tour).  In the Grand Slams, the prize money are determined by the organizers. For the rest of the ITF events, there are minimum amounts of (total) prize money set by the ITF. Event category Total prize money ( USD ) Winner's ranking points Governing body Grand Slams See individual articles 800 ITF ITF Masters Series See individual articles 800 ITF ITF Super Series min. 45,000 650 ITF ITF 1 min. 32,000 325 ITF ITF 2 min. 22,000 220 ITF ITF 3 min. 14,000 120 ITF ITF Futures min. 3,000 95 ITF See also [ edit ] List of Wheelchair Tennis Champions Wheelchair tennis at the Summer Paralympics BNP Paribas World Team Cup References [ edit ] ^ "ITF Tennis - Wheelchair Tennis - About NEC Tour" . www.itftennis.com . Archived from the original on 2006-03-14. ^ "ITF Tennis - Wheelchair Tennis - 1976-1980" . www.itftennis.com . Archived from the original on 2006-03-14. ^ "Adaptable athlete Professional wheelchair tennis player rising to the top" . 22 July 1998. Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=ITF_Wheelchair_Tennis_Tour&oldid=1278440616 " Categories : Wheelchair tennis tournaments International Tennis Federation Recurring sporting events established in 1992 Tennis tours and series ITF Wheelchair Tennis Tour This page was last edited on 2 March 2025, at 13:45 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents ITF Wheelchair Tennis Tour 2 languages Add topic