Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/Avatar A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to Avatar r/Avatar r/Avatar Thanks for the 700K Na'vi! The home of Avatar on Reddit! Your source for news, art, comments, insights and more on the beautiful and dangerous world of Pandora. Meet fellow Avatar fans and discuss the films, games, novels, comics and more. Zola'u nìprrte', and make yourself at Home(tree!) Members Online • ThatGuyOnReddit17 Avatar 2, I loved the original, but the sequel was disappointing from a thematics perspective Avatar 2: TWoW (2022) Damn. I know a lot of people probably enjoyed the movie, but I was pretty disappointed after watching Avatar 2 (despite its beautiful visuals, anti-imperialism/exploitation reflective themes, and intended Indigenous homage), at least after having personally loved the original Avatar film so much. However, having originally been so excited and hopeful for this sequel movie before watching it—yet while also having heard some criticisms of the film, and also negative responses from Indigenous people who had disliked the movie and the Indigenous representation and themes done by it—my biggest complaints with James Cameron's Avatar 2 are these, despite loving some of his other movies. • White Saviorism, thanks Mr. Jake Sully — one solid criticism I wondered about before watching the movie, particularly from seeing other indigenous peoples' criticisms, is definitely the underlying theme of the whole white saviorism of this brilliant random White guy from Planet Earth who was able to come and solve all the Indigenous' problems for them. as in real life, the topic of Indigenous cultures has historically been seen countlessly scrutinized about by other more fortunate, non-indigenouous cultures and individuals, many times through this very biased and white saviorist perspective. and even today still seen in modern culture and something dealt with by indigenous societies, alongside other growing issues they face. • Weak Script, "bro" — this movie not being as strong as the original Avatar in terms of script writing and plot, and kind of obnoxiously laughable at times (like how many times "bro" was probably said in the movie). While the original Avatar did great in its strong plot narrative, and execution in its symbolism and themes in comparison. • Patriarchy and Gender Stereotypes out the wazoo, "Sir" — a super patriarchal world, hitting from the leading patriarch, father figure of the protagonist who military-trains his sons to lead and protect the sisters, and only refer to him as "yes sir" (only the "sons"), and the men who coordinate, speak, and lead (from face value) amongst the clan nations. IN SPITE, of badass inclusivity in fight scenes with the women characters, and the one scene where protagonist says, "Who I'm really afraid of here is the "spiritual" (emotions-intouch one, obviously) woman, and not the male clan leader", yet the movie then proceeds to have the women start arguing and the men slide glancing in the back before trying to defuse the "emotional" scene unfolding. we had a little bit of a giggle in the theatre there for the audience... also again, besides action scenes, and of course the "women get super emotional and crying" scenes, men did not cry, only called each other bro or cool military nicknames, and did much of the plot leading. also like shi, the hippie daughter character was my favorite... but every woman besides the female wife protagonist, did almost nothing for the movie plot. • Based on Reflective Indigenous Imperialism & Environmental Exploitation, yet the "natives" are jumping around like damn monkeys — indigenous representation (and appropriation), again a big complaint by many and especially by indigenous movie watchers, was questionable. and other scenes in the film just felt embarrassing and disrespectful in the movies approach. all of this in spite of this series essentially basing the Na'vi people off of Indigenous cultures and histories in real life. orignally trying, or ideally, accurately reflecting some of these cultural traditions and practices without whitewashing or making a mockery out of these differing cultures from Western society. as well as other movie choices on this topic that I questioned from the current, ongoing conversation debate of the very obvious reference of Afro/Indigenous hair dreadlocks being used by white characters; to another particular aspect of the film that got me, of the multitude of scenes I was sitting there watching and wondering, "Why tf are the Indigenous natives jumping and crawling around looking like monkeys, hissing their teeth like savage animals, and hooting in moreso inaccurate fashions than some traditional Indigenous linguistics, but instead sounding like some scene from "Planet of the Apes" and coming off as just a laughable, classic Western-percieved mockery at times. • Boo Yah, Let's Go Soldier Culture — militant culture in this film was, contrary to the original film, much more glamorized and "hollywoodized" for "badass" action sequences and cool effects. this is in spite of the whole film's theme of abhorrent imperialism and colonialism of these (Western) foreign people, and their hyper-masculine, machismo military "bombing tf out of everything green and different to themselves" culture that we see in this series. • Swear to God, I don't remember seeing one Black person — diversity casting was lacking (despite this franchise, at least original movie, being so progressive in its themes and topics). besides a VERY few Afro/Indigenous voice acting I could hear in the movie and later looked up to see who were exactly casted, all the "foreigners" casting in the film was even more predominantly White than the first movie... however, that could be argued as reflecting the nature of Western, more White imperialism and colonization of Indigenous lands and genocide as seen in history, that are again some of the film franchise's biggest themes it reflects and was based on... but, I think it was probably just more of the phenomenon seen of predominantly White casting in Hollywood, at the irony of what this film series is thematically about and stands for. as well as on top of that, with the creation of the Na'vi people symbolizing Indigenous people in the real world, yet essentially being played overall by just White actors doing their best Indigenous and Afro impressions for the camera. Which I think can honestly say a lot about what I've been talking about here... Thanks for reading all that word mess if you got this far. Hopefully maybe you got something out of this that was perhaps helpful or challenging to think about from a different thematics perspective, and maybe as well something offering of a new light to have seen this new Avatar movie in. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 28, 2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2022 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics