Nevada's 2021 Teacher of the Year | College of Education Skip to main content Search search search search menu menu Give Request Info Visit Apply Now Give Request Info Visit Apply Now home home close close Search search Main navigation Home About About the College Office of the Dean Academic Units Centers, Institutes & Projects College Committees Advisory Board Support the College Strategic Plan Academics Prospective Students Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Graduate Programs Certifications Professional Undergraduate Admission Student Life Meet Your Advisor Scholarships Student Involvement Study Abroad Graduation Office of Field Experiences Research & Impact Research Impact Research Resources Applying for a Research Grant Community Alumni Outreach Professional Preparation Board Tutoring and Mentoring K-12 Teaching Resources Trans Studies in Education Speaker Series Faculty & Staff Directory College Committees Faculty and Staff Awards Employment Opportunities Faculty & Staff Hub Nevada's 2021 Teacher of the Year March 18, 2021 Image Not too long ago, we told you that alumna Juliana Urtubey was named Nevada's 2021 Teacher of the Year . Not only that, she is the first-ever Latino/a Nevada State Teacher of the Year. Urtubey earned a bachelor’s degree in elementary education in 2009 and a master’s degree in special education in 2011 from the college. Now, the even bigger news: She’s among just four finalists for the 2021 National Teacher of the Year . We will know more by next month, and we will keep you posted. Good luck to our stellar alumna! Faculty & Staff Contact Us 1430 E. Second Street P.O. Box 210069 Tucson, Arizona 85721 520-621-1461 coe-arizona@arizona.edu Academic Units Disability & Psychoeducational Studies Educational Policy Studies & Practice Educational Psychology Teaching, Learning & Sociocultural Studies Social Media Facebook X (formerly Twitter) Instagram YouTube We respectfully acknowledge the University of Arizona is on the land and territories of Indigenous peoples . Today, Arizona is home to 22 federally recognized tribes, with Tucson being home to the O’odham and the Yaqui. The University strives to build sustainable relationships with sovereign Native Nations and Indigenous communities through education offerings, partnerships, and community service. University Information Security and Privacy © 2025 The Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of The University of Arizona .