Apple CEO Tim Cook 2022 Compensation: $99.4M, Expected 2023 Pay Cut × Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage Read Next: CBS Pushes ‘Einstein’ Drama Back a Year to 2026-27 Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up Home Business Business News Apple CEO Tim Cook’s Pay Falls to $49M The top tech executive's target compensation had hit $99.4 million during the 2022 fiscal year. By J. Clara Chan Plus Icon J. Clara Chan Digital Media Writer jclarachan Follow Sign Up More Stories by J. Clara TikTok Shake-Up: COO V Pappas to Step Down, Ex-Disney Exec Zenia Mucha to Lead Comms The Weather Channel Gains Network of Storm-Tracking Cameras Through Google Partnership Peacock Swipes Right on Ad Deal With Match Group (Exclusive) View All January 12, 2023 3:33pm Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Tim Cook Justin Sullivan/Getty Images Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Apple CEO Tim Cook is set to receive a pay cut this year following shareholder guidance and a “recommendation” from the executive himself after his compensation rose to $99.4 million during the 2022 fiscal year, according to Securities and Exchange Commission filings. For 2023, Cook’s target compensation will drop to $49 million, which is a more than 40 percent drop from the CEO’s 2022 target compensation. As a result, Cook’s performance-based stock awards will rise to 75 percent beginning this year and in future years, the regulatory filings said. Related Stories Business Europe Hits Meta, Apple With $790M in Antitrust Fines Business Fresh Off 'Severance' Success, But Amid Tariff Turmoil, Apple Offers Rare TV+ Discount During 2022, Cook maintained a $3 million base salary, while roughly $83 million came from stock awards, $12 million in non-equity compensation and $1.4 million in other compensation. In 2021, Cook brought in a total of $98.7 million in pay, which was a 569 percent increase from the previous year. The majority of Cook’s compensation was attributed to $82.3 million in stock awards, followed by $12 million in non-equity compensation and $1.4 million in other compensation. The Apple CEO again had a base salary of $3 million during the year. Apple TV+ staged somewhat of an awards coup in early 2022 when CODA won the best-picture Oscar, making Apple — and not Netflix or Amazon — the first streamer to win the coveted award. On the consumer tech front, Apple released its latest iPhone model, the iPhone 14, and new MacBooks equipped with the M2 chip. The company’s Apple Services category, which includes Apple TV+ and Apple Music, experienced a slight slowdown in growth during 2022, and the company recently increased prices across the board for Apple TV+, Apple Music and the Apple One subscription bundle. “We’re very focused on originals only, and so we had four or five shows or so in the beginning and priced it quite low,” Cook said of the Apple TV+ price increase during an earnings call Oct. 27. “We now have a lot more content and are coming out with more each and every month, and so we we increase the price to represent the value of the service.” With 900 million paid subscriptions, the category brought in $19.2 billion in revenue during the fourth fiscal quarter. Read More About: Apple THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe Sign Up More from The Hollywood Reporter Writers Guild of America Writers Guild West Staff Union Voluntarily Recognized WME Ari Emanuel, Mark Shapiro and Bill Duffy to Buy WME’s Basketball Representation Business labor Cinematographers Guild Elects John Lindley Its National President Theater Broadway Box Office: ‘Good Night and Good Luck’ Continues Reign Snapchat Snapchat Tops 900M Monthly Active Users As Revenue Rises, But Warns of Economic “Headwinds” Francis Ford Coppola The Hollywood Reporter’s Rebecca Keegan Lands Deal to Pen Book on Coppola Family Shopping With THR Way Day Gets Extended: The 25 Best Deals From Kelly Clarkson’s Wayfair Line to Shawn Johnson’s Nashville Home By Erin Lassner Hollywood’s Top 15 Clean Beauty Picks Discounted for Credo’s Annual Sale By Erin Lassner The Best Luxury Gifts for Mother’s Day, From ‘Designer Cookies’ Loved by Emmy-Winning Stars to Amanda Seyfried’s Expensive-Smelling Hand Soaps By Danielle Directo-Meston Dyson’s Newest Smart Hair Tools Are On Sale for $100 — Where to Score the One-Day Beauty Deal By Danielle Directo-Meston , Erin Lassner THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Email Address Subscribe Today Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Most Popular ‘Andor’ Creator Explains That Shocking Assault Scene: “We’re All the Product of Rape” By James Hibberd Nikki Glaser Says Timothée Chalamet Almost Skipped Golden Globes Monologue So He Wouldn’t “Have to Deal” With Being Roasted: “I Get It” By Lexi Carson Lux Pascal Is a Proud Sister: “Pedro’s Taught Me There’s No Reason to Hide Who I Am” By Lily Ford Lar Park Lincoln, Actress in ‘Knots Landing’ and ‘Friday the 13th Part VII,’ Dies at 63 By Mike Barnes Harvey Weinstein’s Life Behind Bars: “He’s Still Running Sh**” (Exclusive) By Phoebe Eaton Must Reads Tina Fey on Her New Netflix Series: “It Saved Me From Just Shrinking Up Like a Little Granny Apple Head” By Mikey O'Connell No. 1 on the Call Sheet: Bella Ramsey Takes Charge of ‘The Last of Us’ By James Hibberd Justin Bieber’s Crisis of Faith? By Shirley Halperin The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up PMC Logo Most Popular Bath & Body Works' Hand Soaps Just Hit Their Lowest Price of the Season — Stock Up for $3 Each Mary J. Blige Sued By Her Former Stylist, Misa Hylton, For $5 Million NFL Rookie Signing Bonuses Jump Record 26% for 2025 Draft 'Flattering' Portrait that Putin Gifted to Trump Last Month Finally Unveiled You may also like The Best Yoga Mats for Any Practice, According to Instructors 1 year ago 181 Fremont’s Grand Penthouse Redefines Urban Luxury 3 hours ago Michelle Obama Says Trump Administration’s Immigration Policies “Keep Her Up At Night” 2 hours ago Fugazi Are Bringing Their Extensive Live Series to Streaming 7 hours ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues E-edition Access The Hollywood Reporter About Us Media Kit Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage News Expand news menu Latest News Culture & Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Reviews Ratings Live Feed Heat Vision The Fien Print Music Expand music menu Grammys K-Corner Awards Expand awards menu News Awards Chatter Podcast Feinberg Forecast Behind The Screen The Race THR Presents Oscar Season Hub Lifestyle Expand lifestyle menu Person of Interest News Style Shopping Arts Real Estate Rambling Reporter Business Expand business menu THR, Esq Report Features Unions / Labor Film / TV Tax Credits Signings / Representation THR Charts Expand thr-charts menu Streaming Ratings Broadcast Ratings Weekend Box Office Chart More Essentials Expand more-essentials menu International News Video THR Podcasts Featured Voices Follow Us Follow THR on Facebook Follow THR on Instagram Follow THR on X Follow THR on YouTube Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Advertise Careers Contact Us Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. ad