New Assassin’s Creed Valhalla DLC is Eivor’s ‘Last Chapter’ | Polygon Skip to main content The homepage Guides Games Entertainment The homepage Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search What to Play What to Watch Guides Expand All Guides Assassin’s Creed Shadows Avowed Blue Prince Destiny 2 Diablo 4 Elden Ring FFXIV Fortnite Marvel Rivals Monster Hunter Wilds Pokémon Go Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Games Expand All Gaming Tabletop Nintendo PC PlayStation Xbox Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Anime Horror Sci-fi Fantasy Deals Expand All Deals Buyer’s Guides Sales Guides Gift Guides Puzzles Expand Puzzmo Home External Link SpellTower Typeshift Flipart Really Bad Chess Crossword Newsletters Video Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok New Assassin’s Creed Valhalla DLC is Eivor’s ‘Last Chapter’ News New Assassin’s Creed Valhalla DLC is Eivor’s ‘Last Chapter’ Maybe back to Vinland? by Nicole Carpenter Sep 10, 2022, 8:20 PM UTC Facebook Link Image: Ubisoft Montreal/Ubisoft Nicole Carpenter is a senior reporter specializing in investigative features about labor issues in the game industry, as well as the business and culture of games. Assassin’s Creed Valhalla will get new DLC that ties up some of the game’s storylines, Ubisoft announced Saturday. The new questline is called The Last Chapter, and it’s expected to launch “in a few months time.” The Last Chapter follows three earlier DLC packs for Valhalla : Dawn of Ragnarok , The Siege of Paris , and Wrath of the Druids . Unlike those, The Last Chapter is free for all Assassin’s Creed Valhalla players. In a brief clip shown Saturday, Eivor announces that she’s ready to leave her Viking camp and “set forth for distant shores and new adventures.” What shores are those? Ubisoft doesn’t explicitly say, but it would make sense for it to be Vinland, a crucial location for Eivor — and a mystery from Valhalla that still has no answer. Vinland, in Valhalla , is located in North America. Eivor visits there once within Valhalla , but inexplicably, her remains end up there without an explain as to why. Again, Ubisoft gave no exact release date for Assassin’s Creed Valhalla ’s The Last Chapter, but it sounds like it won’t be too long before it arrives. See More : Gaming News PC PlayStation Xbox Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Playstation Playstation logo Playstation Playstation logo Playstation Playstation logo Windows Windows logo Xbox Xbox logo Xbox Xbox logo Xbox Xbox logo Explore The Game Why it matters A lot can be said about Assassin’s Creed Valhalla . (It’s huge! It’s fun! So many Vikings!) But Valhalla will be remembered as the moment Assassin’s Creed truly jumped the shark — and actually stuck the landing. — Ari Notis , Guides Editor Most Popular Thunderbolts* takes the MCU back to what it’s always done best 8BitDo no longer shipping to US from China due to Trump tariffs The best new RPG books of 2025 so far Jackson’s residents were right to vote against Ellie ‘It was real cat wrangling’: Alex Horne and Greg Davies on Taskmaster’s ‘chaotic’ series 19 Patch Notes The best of Polygon in your inbox, every Friday. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in News Helldivers 2 players finally stopped the planet-cracking Singularity Altered TCG’s wild new print-on-demand service is available now How to watch the Borderlands 4 State of Play Far Cry 4 gets 60 fps update on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X a decade after launch Netflix’s new sci-fi romance K-animation looks like it’s going to break my heart (positive) Barbarian director’s next horror movie looks just as surprising and even nastier Gaming Apr 29 Helldivers 2 players finally stopped the planet-cracking Singularity By Cass Marshall Comments Comment Icon Bubble Gaming Apr 29 Altered TCG’s wild new print-on-demand service is available now By Charlie Hall Comments Comment Icon Bubble Gaming Apr 29 How to watch the Borderlands 4 State of Play By Nicole Carpenter Comments Comment Icon Bubble News Apr 29 Far Cry 4 gets 60 fps update on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X a decade after launch By Ian Walker Comments Comment Icon Bubble Animation Apr 29 Netflix’s new sci-fi romance K-animation looks like it’s going to break my heart (positive) By Petrana Radulovic Comments Comment Icon Bubble Trailers Apr 29 Barbarian director’s next horror movie looks just as surprising and even nastier By Austen Goslin Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad The Latest ⚡️ 58 minutes ago Saw Gerrera is Star Wars at its very best Apr 29 Flappy Bird returns on Android, now without the weird crypto stuff Apr 29 How to get a free First Order Stormtrooper outfit in Fortnite Apr 29 Mamoru Hosoda’s newest film gets a first teaser and December release date Apr 29 An indie game dev revives a long-lost genre: the heavy-metal-band video game Apr 29 Show off your great manga taste with Uniqlo’s Ai Yazawa collection Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok About Us Masthead Editorial Ethics and Guidelines Community Guidelines How to Write for Polygon Contact Send Us a Tip Privacy Notice Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Settings Licensing Accessibility Platform Status Careers © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved