Letter from the CEO - adidas Annual Report 2021 Close We use cookies to improve your experience on our site. Cookies enable you to enjoy certain features, social sharing functionality and to tailor messages and display ads to your interests (on our site, and others). Cookies and Matomo also help us understand how our site is being used. Find out more in our cookie statement . Jump to content [AK + s] Jump to navigation [AK + 3] Annual Report 2021 Primary Menu adidas Logo DE Search Primary Menu Home At a Glance Targets – Results – Outlook Financial Highlights 2021 2021 Stories Impossible is nothing Our sustainability initiatives Product highlights About this Report To our Shareholders Letter from the CEO Executive Board Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report Declaration on Corporate Governace Compensation Report Board Compensation Supervisory Board Compensation Relative Development of Compensation Outlook for 2022 Independent Auditor’s Assurance Report on Examination of the Compensation Report Our Share Group Management Report – Our Company Strategy Global Brands Global Sales Global Operations Our People Attraction and Retention of Talents Leadership Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Work-life- and Health Management Learning and Performance Employee Population Sustainability Strategic Focus Area and Targets Environmental Impacts Sustainable Finance Social Impacts Supply Chain Non-Financial Statement Group Management Report – Financial Review Internal Management System Business Performance Economic and Sector Development Income Statement Statement of Financial Position and Statement of Cash Flows Treasury Financial Statements and Management Report of adidas AG Disclosures persuant to German Commercial Code Business Performance by Segment EMEA North America Greater China Asia-Pacific Latin America Outlook Risk and Opportunity Report Illustration of Risks Illustration of Opportunities Management Assessment Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes General Information Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement Additional Information Shareholdings Responsibility Statement Independent Auditor’s Report Limited Assurance Report Additional Information Ten-Year Overview Declaration of Support GRI Standard Content Index Financial Calendar Imprint Downloads Dashboard Chart Generator Annual Report 2021 Annual Report 2020 Annual Report 2019 Annual Report 2018 Annual Report 2017 newer older Search Search Close Topics filter Results Share Strategy Innovation Executive and Supervisory Board Markets Employees Sustainability Corporate Governance Targets Sourcing & Supply Chain Products Digital Reset filters Results No filter selected. en At a Glance At a Glance Targets – Results – Outlook At a Glance Financial Highlights 2021 At a Glance 2021 Stories 2021 Stories Impossible is nothing 2021 Stories Our sustainability initiatives 2021 Stories Product highlights At a Glance About this Report en To our Shareholders To our Shareholders Letter from the CEO To our Shareholders Executive Board To our Shareholders Supervisory Board To our Shareholders Supervisory Board Report To our Shareholders Declaration on Corporate Governace To our Shareholders Compensation Report Compensation Report Board Compensation Compensation Report Supervisory Board Compensation Compensation Report Relative Development of Compensation Compensation Report Outlook for 2022 Compensation Report Independent Auditor’s Assurance Report on Examination of the Compensation Report To our Shareholders Our Share en Group Management Report – Our Company Group Management Report – Our Company Strategy Group Management Report – Our Company Global Brands Group Management Report – Our Company Global Sales Group Management Report – Our Company Global Operations Group Management Report – Our Company Our People Our People Attraction and Retention of Talents Our People Leadership Our People Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our People Work-life- and Health Management Our People Learning and Performance Our People Employee Population Group Management Report – Our Company Sustainability Sustainability Strategic Focus Area and Targets Sustainability Environmental Impacts Sustainability Sustainable Finance Sustainability Social Impacts Sustainability Supply Chain Group Management Report – Our Company Non-Financial Statement en Group Management Report – Financial Review Group Management Report – Financial Review Internal Management System Group Management Report – Financial Review Business Performance Business Performance Economic and Sector Development Business Performance Income Statement Business Performance Statement of Financial Position and Statement of Cash Flows Business Performance Treasury Business Performance Financial Statements and Management Report of adidas AG Business Performance Disclosures persuant to German Commercial Code Group Management Report – Financial Review Business Performance by Segment Business Performance by Segment EMEA Business Performance by Segment North America Business Performance by Segment Greater China Business Performance by Segment Asia-Pacific Business Performance by Segment Latin America Group Management Report – Financial Review Outlook Group Management Report – Financial Review Risk and Opportunity Report Risk and Opportunity Report Illustration of Risks Risk and Opportunity Report Illustration of Opportunities Group Management Report – Financial Review Management Assessment en Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Notes General Information General Information 01 » General General Information 02 » Summary of Significant Accounting Policies General Information 03 » Discontinued Operations Notes Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 04 » Cash and cash equivalents Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 05 » Accounts Receivable Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 06 » Other Current Financial Assets Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 07 » Inventories Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 08 » Other Current Assets Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 09 » Property, Plant and Equipment Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 10 » Right-of-Use Assets Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 11 » Goodwill Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 12 » Trademarks and other Intangible Assets Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 13 » Long-Term Financial Assets Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 14 » Other Non-Current Financial Assets Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 15 » Other Non-Current Assets Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 16 » Borrowings and Credit Lines Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 17 » Other Current Financial Liabilities Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 18 » Other Provisions Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 19 » Lease Liabilities Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 20 » Accrued Liabilities Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 21 » Other Current Liabilities Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 22 » Other Non-Current Financial Liabilities Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 23 » Pensions and Similar Obligations Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 24 » Other Non-Current Liabilities Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 25 » Shareholders’ Equity Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 26 » Share-Based Payment Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 27 » Non-Controlling Interests Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 28 » Financial Instruments Notes Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement 29 » Other Operating Income Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement 30 » Other Operating Expenses Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement 31 » Cost by Nature Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement 32 » Financial Income/Financial Expenses Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement 33 » Hyperinflation Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement 34 » Income Taxes Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement 35 » Earnings per Share Notes Additional Information Additional Information 36 » Segmental Information Additional Information 37 » Additional Cash Flow Information Additional Information 38 » Other Financial Commitments and Contingencies Additional Information 39 » Related Party Disclosures Additional Information 40 » Other Information Additional Information 41 » Information relating to the German Corporate Governance Code Additional Information 42 » Events after the Balance Sheet Date Consolidated Financial Statements Shareholdings Consolidated Financial Statements Responsibility Statement Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Limited Assurance Report en Additional Information Additional Information Ten-Year Overview Additional Information Declaration of Support Additional Information GRI Standard Content Index Additional Information Financial Calendar Topics filter Compare to last year To our Shareholders Letter from the CEO Jump to content You are here: Home To our Shareholders Letter from the CEO Letter from the CEO Share Strategy Executive and Supervisory Board Markets Employees Digital DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, I can confidently say that 2021 was a much better year than 2020. On the back of successful vaccination campaigns around the globe, the worldwide economy started to recover. Sport returned to the global stage, with the UEFA EURO 2020 football tournament and the Tokyo 2020 Olympics finally taking place, creating huge excitement around the world. That said, the covid-19 pandemic continued to impact lives and businesses across the globe. At adidas, we delivered a set of strong results despite heavy disruptions in supply and demand, with currency-neutral sales up 16% to more than € 21 billion and a net income from continuing operations of € 1.492 billion – an improvement of more than € 1 billion compared to the previous year. In addition, we launched our new 2025 strategy ‘Own the Game’ which will set us up for long-term success in this attractive industry. SPORT BACK ON THE GLOBAL STAGE Let me stay on the topic of sport because that’s what adidas is all about. Sport defines our past, present and future. I was so happy to see football returning to the stadiums – albeit with reduced capacities – at the UEFA EURO 2020 last summer. For the first time, the tournament was played across the entire continent, showcasing the unifying power of sport. For us, it was a particular pleasure to host the German national football team in the newly built ‘Home Ground’ at our headquarters in Herzogenaurach, Germany. Hosting a world-class team on our premises during such a major tournament was an industry first. WINS AND WORLD RECORDS Our campus also provided the backdrop for yet another world-class sporting event: the ‘adizero: Road to Records,’ a race named after our signature performance running shoe. We invited 90 elite adidas runners to compete in our half-marathon, 10k and 5k races and they didn’t let us down, setting new world records in both the 5k and 10k events. Overall, we had a fantastic year in running with more wins, more world records and more podiums at major road races than all other brands combined. Peres Jepchirchir from Kenya led the charge, becoming the first person to win both the Olympic and the New York City marathon in the same year. STRONG FINANCIAL RESULTS The success of our athletes, teams and products underlined adidas’ credibility as the best sports brand in the world in 2021, which in turn translated into strong financial results. We ended the year with currency-neutral sales up 16%. We saw a particularly strong development in markets that operated without major covid-19 disruptions throughout the year. EMEA, North America, and Latin America recorded currency-neutral sales increases of 24%, 17%, and 47% respectively – a testament to the strong consumer demand for our brand and our products. The challenging market environment in Greater China ( +3% ) and the extensive covid-19-related restrictions in Asia-Pacific ( +8% ) weighed on our results in these markets. All markets were negatively impacted by industry-wide supply chain challenges. Combined, all external factors reduced revenue growth for the year by more than € 1.5 billion . Despite higher supply chain costs and negative currency developments, both our gross margin and operating margin improved significantly year-on-year to 50.7% and 9.4%, respectively. Net income from continuing operations reached € 1.492 billion for the year. Based on our substantial cumulative free cash flow, we returned nearly € 1.6 billion through dividend payments and share buybacks to you, our shareholders. AGREEMENT TO SELL REEBOK On top of delivering strong results despite the challenges we faced, we also reached another important milestone in 2021: We signed an agreement to sell the Reebok brand to Authentic Brands Group for a total consideration of up to € 2.1 billion . Reebok has been a valued part of adidas, and we are grateful for the contributions the brand and the team behind it have made to our company. With this change in ownership, we believe the Reebok brand will be well positioned for long-term success. ‘OWN THE GAME’ STRATEGY PUTS THE CONSUMER FIRST As for adidas, we will now completely focus our efforts on executing our ‘Own the Game’ strategy, which we launched in March 2021. ‘Own the Game’ is a growth and investment strategy, which will lead adidas to future success. Our strategy is deeply rooted in sport, puts the consumer at the heart of everything we do, and is being brought to life by our people. Our strategic focus is on increasing the credibility of the adidas brand, elevating the experience for consumers and pushing the boundaries in Sustainability. To successfully deliver on this strategy, we will invest consistently into our people and our unique workplace. This includes furthering our efforts to ensure there is a level playing field for all, as we continue our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion journey. Investments into product development, marketing, sponsoring, and digitalization are also set to increase strongly over this strategy cycle. INCREASE BRAND CREDIBILITY ‘Own the Game’ is designed to significantly increase sales and profitability, as well as gain market share over the coming years. More than 95% of sales growth is expected to come from five strategic categories: Football, Running, Training, Outdoor, and Lifestyle . We will increase brand credibility by sharpening the edges of adidas on both ends of the spectrum – in sport and in lifestyle. With the introduction of adidas Sportswear as a new consumer proposition, we are addressing the growing relevance of the ‘athleisure’ trend toward sport-inspired leisurewear. BUILD BEST-IN-CLASS EXPERIENCES Our operating model is evolving to build direct relationships with consumers and offer them best-in-class experiences in our stores and online. As a result, our company’s direct-to-consumer business is projected to account for around half of the company’s total net sales by 2025 and generate more than 80% of the targeted top-line growth. Our e-commerce revenues are forecast to double to between € 8 billion and € 9 billion . From a market perspective, our primary focus will be on EMEA, North America, and Greater China. Overall, these three strategic markets are expected to account for around 90% of sales growth by 2025. LEAD IN SUSTAINABILITY Last, but by no means least, we will expand our leadership position in sustainability. For over two decades, sustainability has been an integral part of adidas’ philosophy. A philosophy rooted in our company’s purpose ‘Through sport, we have the power to change lives.’ In the years to come, we will significantly expand our commitment to sustainability and move to a comprehensive consumer-facing program with a sustainable offering at scale: nine out of ten adidas articles will be made from sustainable materials by 2025. SUBSTANTIAL GROWTH IN SALES, PROFITABILITY, AND CASH FLOW UNTIL 2025 Based on our strategy, we have set ourselves ambitious targets that will be measured against our 2021 financial year as a baseline. We aim to increase sales by an average of between 8% and 10% per year on a currency-neutral basis over the four-year period between 2021 and 2025. Gross margin is forecast to expand to a level of between 53% and 55%, and the operating margin to a level of between 12% and 14% by 2025. Net income from continuing operations is also projected to increase substantially by an average of between 16% and 18% per year over the four-year period between 2021 and 2025. Driven by the significant top-line growth and strong bottom-line expansion, adidas will generate substantial cumulative free cash flow. The majority of this – between € 8 billion and € 9 billion for the five-year period – will be distributed to you, our shareholders, through regular dividend payouts in a range of between 30% and 50% of net income from continuing operations, complemented with share buybacks. POSITIVE OUTLOOK FOR 2022 I look into 2022 with optimism. We are well prepared to execute our strategic priorities diligently, our product line-up looks great, and we will impactfully demonstrate our brand attitude of ‘Impossible is Nothing’ throughout the entire year. Consequently, we expect currency-neutral net sales to grow at a rate between 12% and 14% and our gross margin is projected to increase to a level of between 51.5% and 52.0%. Driven by the strong sales growth and the gross margin improvement, we expect an operating margin of between 10.5% and 11.0%. We will grow the bottom line significantly faster than the top line. As a result, net income from continuing operations is anticipated to increase to a level of between € 1.8 billion and € 1.9 billion , making 2022 another successful year for adidas. TOGETHER WE ARE ADIDAS 2021 threw a variety of challenges at us. I am proud that we mastered these challenges, launched a compelling new strategy, and delivered strong financial results. My heartfelt thanks go out to all our 61,400 employees around the world. They are the ones that serve and delight our consumers every single day by creating, selling, and delivering our products. They are the ones that show incredible commitment, passion, and resilience in times of continued uncertainty. I am extremely proud to be part of this winning team. Together, we are adidas – the best sports brand in the world. Sincerely yours, Kasper Rorsted CEO Close Lifestyle Under the ‘Lifestyle’ category, we subsume all footwear, apparel, and ‘accessories and gear’ products that are born from sport and worn for style. ‘adidas Originals,’ which is inspired by sport and worn on the street, is at the heart of the ‘Lifestyle’ category. Close Athleisure The term is composed of the words athletic and leisure. It describes a fashion trend of sportswear no longer being just meant for training but increasingly shaping everyday clothing. Do you know  'Own the Game'? More on our Strategy Share this page Facebook LinkedIn Twitter previous page next page Impossible is Nothing In spring 2021, optimism in the world was in short supply. Yet adidas chose to see possibilities. We relaunched our iconic brand campaign ‘Impossible is Nothing.’ View story Services Downloads Dashboard Chart Generator Follow us on Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Corporate Website Investor Relations IR Contacts Legal Notice Privacy Notice Cookie Statement Sitemap Imprint © adidas Group  | Last update: March 9, 2022 nexxar - digital reporting evolved -  Online  Report