Congress says the Army can’t spend $400 million buying Microsoft HoloLens headsets | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI More Expand The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Menu Expand Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health COVID-19 Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters Command Line Installer Notepad Verge Deals Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Congress says the Army can’t spend $400 million buying Microsoft HoloLens headsets Comments Drawer Policy Congress says the Army can’t spend $400 million buying Microsoft HoloLens headsets But it can spend millions on a new version to fix the problems that made soldiers sick. But it can spend millions on a new version to fix the problems that made soldiers sick. by Mitchell Clark Jan 12, 2023, 7:42 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads A soldier wearing an IVAS headset. Image: US Army Congress has denied the Army’s request to buy up to 6,900 headsets based on Microsoft’s HoloLens technology , according to a report from Bloomberg . The military was apparently asking for around $400 million — instead, it’s getting around a tenth of that to go toward improving the system, as previous versions reportedly caused “mission-affecting physical impairments,” such as headaches and nausea during tests. It was those results that reportedly led to the budget for new headsets, called Integrated Visual Augmentation Systems or IVAS by the Army, not being included in the government’s $1.75 trillion spending bill . The Army says it plans to fix those, though, with a version 1.2 that will include “a new form factor” meant to address the physical symptoms, as well as “a lower profile heads-up display with distributed counterweight for improved user interface and comfort” and software improvements. Related Microsoft’s AR glasses aren’t cutting it with US soldiers, says leaked report In a statement published earlier this month , the Army said it would place orders for completed 1.2 IVAS headsets “after qualification and operational testing.” So far, around 1,000 soldiers have provided feedback based on 100,000 hours of testing with previous versions. According to Bloomberg , it awarded Microsoft around $125 million to develop version 1.2, in addition to the $40 million that Congress recently approved. The headsets are part of a potentially multibillion-dollar contract between Microsoft and the Army and have been in development since 2018 . The purpose of the IVAS is to provide soldiers with real-time information from sensors and navigation systems, as well as night and thermal vision and augmented-reality training. So far, the Army has ordered around 5,000 headsets, but its contract could let it order up to 120,000 over a decade. It’s not necessarily a surprise that Congress is putting the brakes on new orders for now, though; in 2022, a Senate committee reportedly slashed the Army’s procurement request for more headsets in 2023 in a preview of what would happen with the budget. See More : AR Microsoft News Policy Tech More in this stream See all Mercedes-Benz may drop its ‘EQ’ brand for electric cars after just a few years Patrick George Jan 12, 2023 Comments Comment Icon Bubble ExxonMobil accurately predicted climate change while publicly dismissing it Justine Calma Jan 12, 2023 Comments Comment Icon Bubble EA’s latest Madden NFL 23 fumble locked players out of the game Jay Peters Jan 12, 2023 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Most Popular Most Popular The $20,000 American-made electric pickup with no paint, no stereo, and no touchscreen Meta is laying off employees in Reality Labs Yahoo wants to buy Chrome Netflix rolls out dialogue-only subtitles GameStop’s Switch 2 preorders started poorly, too Installer A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Policy The FBI arrested a sitting judge for ‘obstruction of justice’ Everybody wants to buy Chrome Tabletop game companies sue Trump to stop tariffs IGN and CNET owner Ziff Davis sues OpenAI Yahoo wants to buy Chrome Trump goes after websites that raise money for his enemies The FBI arrested a sitting judge for ‘obstruction of justice’ Gaby Del Valle Two hours ago Comments Comment Icon Bubble Everybody wants to buy Chrome David Pierce 1:23 PM UTC Comments Comment Icon Bubble Tabletop game companies sue Trump to stop tariffs Jay Peters 2:18 AM UTC Comments Comment Icon Bubble IGN and CNET owner Ziff Davis sues OpenAI Emma Roth Apr 24 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Yahoo wants to buy Chrome Lauren Feiner Apr 24 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Trump goes after websites that raise money for his enemies Tina Nguyen Apr 24 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories 2:00 PM UTC My parents were extras in Apocalypse Now — is this their story? 54 minutes ago Google is killing software support for early Nest Thermostats 54 minutes ago Microsoft launches Recall and AI-powered Windows search for Copilot Plus PCs 2:20 AM UTC The Slate Truck is an EV pickup with no paint, no stereo, and no touchscreen Apr 24 Microsoft’s design chief on human creation in the AI era 11:42 AM UTC ChatGPT is getting a ‘lightweight’ version of its deep research tool The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved