Season 2 | The Blacklist Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In The Blacklist Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Cast Cast Characters Season 1 Characters FBI Agents Criminals Employed by Raymond Reddington Incarcerated Deceased Season 2 Characters Crew Writers Season 1 Crew Creators Executive Producers Directors Season 2 Crew Season 3 Crew Show Season 8 Season 9 Season 10 The Blacklist (Comic) The Blacklist: Conspiracy The Blacklist: Redemption Helping Out Policies Getting Started Wiki tutorial Help pages Orphaned pages Broken redirects Wanted pages Community Recent blog posts Forum Community News Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content The Blacklist Wiki 698 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Cast Cast Characters Season 1 Characters FBI Agents Criminals Employed by Raymond Reddington Incarcerated Deceased Season 2 Characters Crew Writers Season 1 Crew Creators Executive Producers Directors Season 2 Crew Season 3 Crew Show Season 8 Season 9 Season 10 The Blacklist (Comic) The Blacklist: Conspiracy The Blacklist: Redemption Helping Out Policies Getting Started Wiki tutorial Help pages Orphaned pages Broken redirects Wanted pages Community Recent blog posts Forum Community News in: Season 2 Episodes English Português do Brasil Season 2 Edit Edit source History Purge Talk (0) Season 2 Season Information Announced December 3, 2013 Episodes 22 Aired September 22, 2014 - May 14, 2015 Executive Producers Jon Bokenkamp John Davis John Eisendrath John Fox Michael Watkins Stars James Spader Megan Boone Diego Klattenhoff Harry Lennix Amir Arison Mozhan Marnò Ryan Eggold Premiere “ Lord Baltimore ” Finale “ Tom Connolly ” Season Chronology Previous Season 1 Next Season 3 NBC's The Blacklist ​​​​​​ was renewed for a second season on December 3, 2013 . It premiered on September 22, 2014, and concluded on May 14, 2015. The season consisted of 22 episodes. For the fall season it was transmitted on Mondays after "The Voice" changing to Thursday in the mid-season after the eleventh episode was broadcast after the 2015 Super Bowl. Contents 1 Synopsis 2 Episodes 3 Gallery 4 Videos 5 External Links Synopsis [ ] Raymond Reddington identifies his adversary as Milos Kirchoff , a former KGB officer who believed Red was responsible for his daughter's death. Red proves his innocence by finding her alive. He then works with Kirchoff and the FBI to find those responsible for the deception. Once the leaders of the plot have been killed, Red kills Kirchoff. Elizabeth Keen captured her now ex-husband Tom Keen and held him prisoner on a ship for 4 months until she released him. Red meets up with Tom with an alternate life (passport, money, etc.), under the agreement that Tom will never see Liz again. Peter Kotsiopulos , the field commander of the Cabal, has targeted Red for death. He does not believe that Red has possession of the Fulcrum and views Red as the only enemy to his objectives. Episodes [ ] Season Two Episodes No. in Season No. in Series Title Directed by Written by Original air date 1 23 “ Lord Baltimore ” Michael Watkins Jon Bokenkamp John Eisendrath September 22, 2014 Synopsis: RED CONFRONTS AN IMPORTANT PERSON FROM HIS PAST - Red continues to battle Berlin and faces a new threat from a man named Lord Baltimore . An important person comes back from the past into Red's world. Meanwhile, Liz tries to move forward with her life after her showdown with Tom. 2 24 “ Monarch Douglas Bank ” Paul Edwards Kristen Reidel Amanda Kate Shuman Daniel Knauf September 29, 2014 Synopsis: THE NEXT TARGET ON THE BLACKLIST IS AN UNTRUSTWORTHY BANK – When the Monarch Douglas Bank is robbed, Red seizes the opportunity to try and take the money-laundering bank down. Liz questions Red’s intentions as she investigates the crime. Meanwhile, a new member joins Cooper’s taskforce after impressing everyone on the team. 3 25 “ Dr. James Covington ” Karen Gaviola Lukas Reiter J. R. Orci October 6, 2014 Synopsis: DERANGED DOCTOR FINDS HIMSELF ON THE BLACKLIST – When a man is found with his heart cut out, Agents Keen and Ressler team up with agent Samar Navabi to uncover the intricacies of Dr. Covington’s black-market operation. Meanwhile, Red and his associate try to capitalize on a new opportunity in Indonesia, leaving Reddington in a vulnerable position. 4 26 “ Dr. Linus Creel ” Michael Watkins Mike Ostrowski October 13, 2014 Synopsis: SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY EXPERIMENT YIELDS DEADLY RESULTS – After a series of seemingly nonviolent citizens become killers, Red tips off Liz that a dangerous social-psychological experiment may be underway. Elsewhere, Red tries to convince, Naomi and her husband into accepting a complicated proposition. 5 27 “ The Front ” Steven A. Adelson Adam Sussman (Story & Teleplay) Jim Campolongo (Teleplay) October 20, 2014 Synopsis: ECO-TERRORISTS PURSUE A DEADLY TREASURE– Agents Keen , Ressler , and Cooper pursue an eco-terrorist cell in search of a destructive weapon. Meanwhile, Liz tries to lose her guardian . Elsewhere, Red uses manipulation to pursue someone close to his heart. 6 28 “ The Mombasa Cartel ” David Platt Daniel Knauf October 27, 2014 Synopsis: THE HUNTERS BECOME THE HUNTED - When a mutilated corpse washes ashore, Agent Liz Keen consults Red over what he knows about the deadly underworld of wildlife poachers. Meanwhile Agent Donald Ressler develops a dangerous habit. 7 29 “ The Scimitar ” Karen Gaviola J. R. Orci Lukas Reiter November 3, 2014 Synopsis: A CUNNING HITMAN KNOWN AS "THE SCIMITAR" TARGETS A VALUABLE SCIENTIST – When an Iranian nuclear scientist is suspiciously assassinated, a revenge ploy begins against a valued American. Red informs agents Keen and Navabi that a dangerously conniving hitman "The Scimitar" has been sent to the job. Liz and Ressler find themselves in a tricky predicament as they investigate a surveillance lead. Agent Keen attempts to gather information on Berlin , while Red finds company with a woman working at a food truck. 8 30 “ The Decembrist ” Michael Watkins John Eisendrath Jon Bokenkamp November 10, 2014 Synopsis: RED GOES AFTER THE NEW THREAT BEHIND BERLIN’S VENGEANCE – Red's motives for Berlin take a sudden turn when he learns Berlin was manipulated by the latest Blacklister to avenge Red. Red and Berlin travel to Moscow to track down a high ranking Russian official who they believe is responsible. Meanwhile, Liz struggles to keep her secret from unraveling. 9 31 “ Luther Braxton ” Joe Carnahan Jon Bokenkamp (Story & Teleplay) John Eisendrath (Story & Teleplay) J. R. Orci (Story) Lukas Reiter (Story) February 1, 2015 Synopsis: Raymond Reddington IS CAPTURED BY FEDERAL AGENTS IN THE FIRST INSTALLMENT OF THIS TWO PART SUPERBOWL SPECIAL - When the elusive Reddington is arrested and taken to a secret detention facility Liz and the task force set out to save Red before he disappears forever. Meanwhile, Red encounters Luther Braxton at the detention facility, a thief that he shares a complicated history with. 10 32 “ Luther Braxton: Conclusion ” Michael Watkins Kristen Reidel (Story) Vincent Angell (Story) Mike Ostrowski (Teleplay) Jim Campolongo (Teleplay) February 5, 2015 Synopsis: As chaos ensues at the Factory leaving the fate of Red and the task force unknown, FBI boss Cooper struggles to rescue his team from the detention facility. Meanwhile, it’s a race against time to stop Luther Braxton from attaining confidential information. 11 33 “ Ruslan Denisov ” Andrew McCarthy Jonathan Shapiro Lukas Reiter February 12, 2015 Synopsis: AN ABDUCTION MOGUL KNOWN AS "RUSLAN DENISOV" KIDNAPS AN UNDERCOVER AGENT – When an undercover CIA agent is kidnapped by a band of separatists in Uzbekistan, the task force sets a rescue mission in motion. Red informs Agents Keen and Ressler that they are up against Ruslan Denisov , a very dangerous past associate. 12 34 “ The Kenyon Family ” David Platt Daniel Knauf Vincent Angell February 19, 2015 Synopsis: THE TASK FORCE INVESTIGATES THE DISAPPEARANCE OF A POLYGAMOUS CULT LEADER "JUSTIN KENYON". - When Red tips Liz off on the disappearance of Justin Kenyon , a polygamous cult leader with dangerous shipping containers buried on his property, the task force sets out to investigate. Meanwhile Red utilizes his sources to appease Fitch ’s last words and travels to track down his hidden safe. 13 35 “ The Deer Hunter ” Andrew McCarthy Amanda Kate Shuman February 26, 2015 Synopsis: When Liz learns of a serial killer known as "The Deer Hunter" who tracks his victims like prey, Red helps the task force search for the killer. Meanwhile, the local DC police suspect the city Harbormaster was murdered as Liz struggles to keep her secret from unraveling. 14 36 “ T. Earl King VI ” Steven A. Adelson Brandon Sonnier Brandon Margolis March 5, 2015 Synopsis: REDDINGTON FALLS INTO HOSTILE TERRITORY WHEN HE ENCOUNTERS A DANGEROUS FAMILY - A former paramour involves Reddington in a deadly game with a wealthy, powerful family dynasty whose ill-begotten fortune was amassed from an underground auction of human and material contraband. Meanwhile, Tom takes on a new mission. 15 37 “ The Major ” Michael Watkins Jon Bokenkamp John Eisendrath Lukas Reiter March 12, 2015 Synopsis: When Agent Keen is questioned in court as a suspect in the murder of the DC Harbormaster, her unusual relationship with Red and their task force falls under scrutiny. Meanwhile, Red enlists Cooper and Ressler to locate “ The Major" , a dangerous former associate who is key in keeping Liz out of prison. 16 38 “ Tom Keen ” Andrew McCarthy Lukas Reiter (Story & Teleplay) J. R. Orci (Story & Teleplay) Jon Bokenkamp (Story) John Eisendrath (Story) March 19, 2015 Synopsis: As evidence mounts against Liz in the case of the murdered DC Harbormaster, a federal judge makes it clear to her that she will face severe criminal charges. Reddington and Ressler jump into high gear to exonerate Liz but the only solution is to find the recently vanished Tom Keen - wherever he may be operating in world. 17 39 “ The Longevity Initiative ” Donald Thorin Jr. Lukas Reiter J. R. Orci March 26, 2015 Synopsis: The task force tracks a scientist who abducts disabled patients to conduct experiments on immortality . Now back in Washington, DC, Tom scrambles to save himself from new enemies . 18 40 “ Vanessa Cruz ” Guy Ferland Vincent Angell Daniel Knauf April 2, 2015 Synopsis: The task force tracks a provocative female Blacklister, a frame-up artist who targets the wealthy elite. Tom Keen pleads for Liz's help. Red pressures Liz for the Fulcrum, claiming it's now a matter of life and death. 19 41 “ Leonard Caul ” Michael Waxman Brandon Margolis Brandon Sonnier Kristen Reidel Jim Campolongo April 23, 2015 Synopsis: As Red fights for his life, he pleads with Liz to track down Leonard Caul - a mysterious figure from his past with knowledge of The Fulcrum. It's a race against time for the task force to locate Caul before Red's life is threatened again, while Tom proves helpful in an unexpected way. 20 42 “ Quon Zhang ” Karen Gaviola J. R. Orci Lukas Reiter April 30, 2015 Synopsis: After decoding the information that is embedded in The Fulcrum, Red is determined to stop the imminent threat. Meanwhile, the task force discovers that deceased bodies of Chinese-American women are being smuggled out of the country under false identities. Liz continues to search for answers about her past after discovering a picture hidden in Red's secret flat. 21 43 “ Karakurt ” Steven A. Adelson Daniel Knauf May 7, 2015 Synopsis: Following Red 's intel, the FBI find themselves one-step behind the most dangerous Russian assassin, Karakurt , an enemy on U.S. soil. To avoid catastrophe, Liz and Ressler meet with Russian Counter-Intelligence who offer insight not only on Karakurt, but also on the identity of Liz’s mother. Cooper finds himself in a compromising position. 22 44 “ Tom Connolly ” Michael Watkins Jon Bokenkamp John Eisendrath May 14, 2015 Synopsis: In the season finale, Liz realizes she is being framed by The Cabal, forcing Red to use his connections to help her clear her name. As Cooper receives shocking news, Ressler , Samar and Aram must decide who on the task force can still be trusted. Gallery [ ] Videos [ ] External Links [ ] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Blacklist_(TV_series) http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2741602/ http://www.nbc.com/the-blacklist/ http://www.thefutoncritic.com/showatch/blacklist/listings/ http://www.youtube.com/user/NBCBlacklist Season 2 Episodes · Lord Baltimore · Monarch Douglas Bank · Dr. James Covington · Dr. Linus Creel · The Front · The Mombasa Cartel · The Scimitar · The Decembrist · Luther Braxton · Luther Braxton: Conclusion · Ruslan Denisov · The Kenyon Family · The Deer Hunter · T. Earl King VI · The Major · Tom Keen · The Longevity Initiative · Vanessa Cruz · Leonard Caul · Quon Zhang · Karakurt · Tom Connolly · Categories Categories : Season 2 Episodes Add category Cancel Save Languages Português do Brasil Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. The Blacklist Wiki is a FANDOM TV Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab