CUNA 2019 Maxwell, Herring, Desjardins National Award winners announced - CUInsight Skip to main content Open sub menu Partners Press Jobs Events The place for all things credit union™ Log in Subscribe Submit search Topics Industry news Leadership Technology Strategy Payments Advocacy Marketing Member experience Financial wellness Lending View all topics Explore CUInsight Partners Press releases Jobs board Events Podcasts About us Contributor community Vendor directory CUInsight Mini-Con series Contact us My Account My feed Saved articles Following Account settings Sign in Stay Up To Date Our daily newsletter Stay informed on the latest in credit union news and community. Follow Us November 14, 2019 CUNA 2019 Maxwell, Herring, Desjardins National Award winners announced by America’s Credit Unions Share Save Close tooltip Sign in to save articles for later and to follow authors and companies. Follow Partner Close tooltip Sign in to save articles for later and to follow authors and companies. More Copy Link Print Share Share Credit Union National Association’s (CUNA) National Awards Committee announced the 2019 recipients of the Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Community Service Award, the Louise Herring Philosophy-in-Action Member Service Award, and the Desjardins Awards for Financial Education. The awards, which are given in several credit union asset sizes, were selected among the winning entries at a league level. “We are proud to honor the 2019 CUNA Award recipients for the exceptional member services they provide to their members on a daily basis,” said CUNA President/CEO Jim Nussle. “Their commitment to the credit union philosophy of people helping people is an active demonstration of our cooperative superpowers at work.” The Dora Maxwell Award is presented to credit unions for outstanding social responsibility projects in their communities. First-place winners for the Dora Maxwell Award include: Evansville Teachers Federal Credit Union (Evansville, IN) NuMark Credit Union (Joliet, IL) Reading Chapter (Reading, PA) Riverfork Federal Credit Union (Grand Forks, ND) Rock Valley Credit Union (Loves Park, IL) The Louise Herring Award is given to a credit union demonstrating the internal application of credit union philosophy to help better financial matters and increase financial education for its members. First-place winners for the Louise Herring Award include: BECU (Tukwila, WA) Carolina Foothills Federal Credit Union (Spartanburg, SC) Kirtland Federal Credit Union (Albuquerque, NM) Members Credit Union (Cos Cob, CT) The Desjardins Awards honor credit unions, chapters and leagues for their commitment to both youth and adult financial literacy. First-place winners for the Desjardins Youth Financial Education Award include: Delta Schools Federal Credit Union (Antioch, CA) CORE Federal Credit Union (East Syracuse, NY) Atomic Credit Union, Inc. (Piketon, OH) Vystar Credit Union (Jacksonville, FL) First-place winners for the Desjardins Adult Financial Education Award include: Financial Health Federal Credit Union (Indianapolis, IN) Alternatives Federal Credit Union (Ithaca, NY) Harvard University Employees Credit Union (Cambridge, MA) Patelco Credit Union (Pleasanton, CA) Winning credit unions will be recognized at CUNA’s 2019 Governmental Affairs Conference (GAC), February 23 – 27, in Washington, D.C. See attached for the full list of winners with detailed award descriptions. America’s Credit Unions America’s Credit Unions America’s Credit Unions is the unified voice for not-for-profit credit unions and their more than140 million members nationwide. America’s Credit Unions provides strong advocacy, resources and services to protect, empower and advance credit unions and the people and communities they serve. For more information about America’s Credit Unions, visit AmericasCreditUnions.org. Contact Molly Safreed Director, Media Relations America's Credit Unions Cell: 571.328.0968 msafreed@americascreditunions.org Share Save Close tooltip Sign in to save articles for later and to follow authors and companies. Follow Partner Close tooltip Sign in to save articles for later and to follow authors and companies. More Copy Link Print Share Share Our daily newsletter Stay informed on the latest in credit union news and community. Recommended for you Press Release Today Michigan Credit Unions celebrate Financial Literacy Month: 17K children’s books donated Michigan Credit Union Foundation Saved Remove Press Release Today Backbase launches world’s first AI-powered banking platform, putting banks back in growth mode Backbase Saved Remove Press Release Today Educational Systems Federal Credit Union celebrates 70 years of serving the education community Educational Systems Federal Credit Union Saved Remove Press Release Today EMERGE 2025 concludes with record attendance and practical AI solutions for community financial institutions Eltropy Saved Remove Press Release Today Zest AI’s Credit Decisioning and Fraud Detection now seamlessly integrated with Temenos Loan Origination Solution Zest AI‍ Saved Remove Press Release Today BECU’s 2024 annual report: Growing its commitment to serving members and communities BECU Saved Remove Today Kitsap Credit Union welcomes Matthew Wech Vice President of Sales Kitsap Credit Union Today 10 Smart Start Scholarships awarded to 10 outstanding students Clark County Credit Union Today RCU celebrates small business growth—in May and every day Redwood Credit Union Today AUX welcomes new team member in Q1 2025 Aux The place for all things credit union™ Our daily newsletter Stay informed on the latest in credit union news and community. Follow Us About Advertise Contact Terms of service Copyright & use © 2025 CUInsight. All Rights Reserved.