Zelda Reorchestrated - Ocarina of Time Complete rearrangement released — Game Music 4 All Game Music Articles Subscribe on Patreon Download on Bandcamp Submit Music Contact About Game Music releases, events, and news 0 Jan 26 Jan 26 Zelda Reorchestrated - Ocarina of Time Complete rearrangement released genoboost Album Releases It has been a long time coming, and a few false starts and offshoots but over the holidays Zelda Reorchestrated has compiled and released their magnum opus. A full length 82 track recreation of the music to The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. The album is appropriately titled and released as Ocarina of Time - Complete . The lengthy album spans two discs with nearly two hours worth of music. From the Title Theme and classics like Kakariko Village and Lost Woods, to lesser covered tunes such as Deku Tree and Goron City. Even short themes like the Open Treasure Chest fanfare and all the songs played on Link's ocarina. These songs are all amde with the intended purpose of sounding as if they were performed by live musicians, and according to the ZREO team, were painstakingly collected, rearranged, released, and rearranged again over several years to create something they can truly be proud of. The album can be downloaded in full or in part through the albums main page .You can also check out some words from the team themselves, who I had the chance to interview back in this sites younger days, over through their announcement post for the album. genoboost Album Releases album release , Zelda Reorchestrated , Legend of Zelda Facebook 0 Twitter Reddit Tumblr 0 Likes genoboost Leave a comment genoboost Support GM4A on Patreon! Jan 27 little-scale - Nothing Has Been Left Unspoken & I.F.E. album releases Jan 25 Muse: An 8 Bit Tribute Volume 1 & 2 Related Posts Feb 17 Feb 17 The Legend of Zelda Soundscapes Volume 1 Mar 11 Mar 11 Zelda Reorchestrated Interview Sep 14 Sep 14 Jay Tholen - The Great Hylian Revival EP release and mini review Featured Article Jeremy Hanna lists 10 Best Games About Music That Aren't Rhythm Games via Thegamer.com Article Article Album Release , Music Video Listen to Atomic Hearts Original Game Soundtrack Vol. 1 on YouTube Album Release , Music Video Album Release , Music Video Music Video Laurence Manning Trio performs Zelda's Lullaby from The Legend of Zelda Music Video Music Video Game Music 4 All artists Listen to MODE 7 Listen to DJ genoboost Subscribe on Patreon Music on Bandcamp Submit your music Contact 0