Tua Tagovailoa wins second national player of the year honor - al.com Skip to Article Set weather Back To Main Menu Close Quick Look - Change your current location » Current - Mostly Sunny Tonight Low - Mostly Sunny Tomorrow High - Mostly Sunny View full weather report Birmingham Huntsville Mobile Montgomery Tuscaloosa Anniston/Gadsden Beaches Alabama Alabama Football Tua Tagovailoa wins second national player of the year honor Updated: Dec. 06, 2018, 8:07 p.m. | Published: Dec. 06, 2018, 8:04 p.m. Tua Tagovailoa won two national player of the year awards Thursday. By Michael Casagrande | mcasagrande@al.com And with the final honor of the night, the Maxwell Award went to the national player of the year. Tua Tagovailoa already won one earlier Thursday in the Walter Camp while Kyler Murray took the AP player of the year honor. This was the Thursday tiebreaker. It went to Tagovailoa. The two will continue the competition Saturday night at the Heisman Trophy ceremony, then again Dec. 29 in the Orange Bowl. Voting for the Maxwell Award was completed before last week’s conference championship games. The winner of the Maxwell and Walter Camp Awards went on to win the Heisman Trophy each of the past five seasons. The last time they weren’t in sync was 2013 when AJ McCarron took the Maxwell before Jameis Winston took the Heisman. Derrick Henry also won the Maxwell in 2015 before winning the Heisman, though Mark Ingram won neither the Walter Camp, nor the Maxwell in his Heisman season of 2009. The College Football Awards Show was a big night overall for Alabama. Jerry Jeudy won the Biletnikoff Award for the nation’s top receiver while Quinnen Williams took the Outland Trophy . If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Footer Navigation About Us About Alabama Media Group Jobs at Alabama Media Group Advertise with us About AL.com Frequently Asked Questions Accessibility Statement Contact Us Online Store Subscriptions AL.com The Birmingham News The Huntsville Times Press-Register Newsletter Already a Subscriber Manage your Subscription Place a Vacation Hold Make a Payment Delivery Feedback AL.com Sections News Business Sports High School Sports Alabama Life & Culture Opinion Archives Obituaries Jobs Autos Your Regional News Pages Anniston/Gadsden Birmingham Huntsville Mobile Montgomery Tuscaloosa Gulf Coast Beaches On the Go Mobile Apps Tablet Apps Follow Us Pinterest Twitter Facebook Instagram RSS Customer Service Send us an email Submit a news tip Buy newspaper front pages, posters and more More on AL.com Videos Weather News Site Map & search Sponsor Content Post a job Your Privacy Choices Privacy Policy | User Agreement | Ad Choices Disclaimer Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement , (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our Privacy Policy , and Your Privacy Choices and Rights (updated 1/1/2025). © 2025 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here . Ad Choices