Vincent Corleone - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Fictional character biography Toggle Fictional character biography subsection 1.1 The Godfather Part III 1.2 Abandoned sequel 2 Family 3 References Toggle the table of contents Vincent Corleone 12 languages العربية Español فارسی Français Italiano Magyar Nederlands Polski Shqip Suomi Türkçe Tiếng Việt Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Fictional character from The Godfather series This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these messages ) This  article describes a work or element of fiction in a primarily in-universe style . Please help rewrite it to explain the fiction more clearly and provide non-fictional perspective . ( March 2022 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Vincent Corleone" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( March 2022 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Fictional character Vincent Corleone The Godfather character Andy Garcia portraying Vincent Corleone First appearance The Godfather Part III Created by Mario Puzo Francis Ford Coppola Portrayed by Andy García In-universe information Alias Vincent Mancini (birth name) Nickname Vincent Vinnie Gender Male Title Boss Soldato Occupation Crime boss Family Corleone Relatives Vito Corleone (paternal grandfather) Carmela Corleone (paternal grandmother) Fredo Corleone (paternal uncle) Michael Corleone (paternal uncle) Connie Corleone (paternal aunt) Anthony Corleone (cousin) Mary Corleone (cousin) Father Sonny Corleone Mother Lucy Mancini Half-brothers Frank Corleone Santino Corleone, Jr. Half-sisters Francesca Corleone Kathryn Corleone Born 1948 Vincenzo Santino Corleone is a fictional character in the 1990 feature film The Godfather Part III . He is portrayed by Andy García , [ 1 ] who was nominated for an Academy Award for his performance. Vincent is the illegitimate son of Sonny Corleone and his mistress Lucy Mancini . He eventually succeeds his uncle Michael as head of the Corleone family . In Mario Puzo 's original 1969 novel Lucy did not conceive a child with Sonny. Coppola has said that Vincent is an amalgamation of the five Corleone family males, having his grandfather Vito 's cunning, his father Sonny 's temper, his uncle Michael 's ruthlessness, his uncle Fredo 's sensitivity, and his uncle Tom Hagen 's loyalty. Fictional character biography [ edit ] The Godfather Part III [ edit ] In The Godfather , married Sonny Corleone and his sister's bridesmaid Lucy Mancini , were having an illicit affair; Vincent Mancini is the result of that union. [ 2 ] Being illegitimate (because his parents were unmarried), he was not included in the Corleone family as a youth. As an adult, when Michael Corleone offers Vincent employment in one of the family's legitimate businesses, Vincent declines, preferring to work for Joey Zasa , who runs the remnants of the Corleone family's criminal empire in New York City . Vincent is eventually embroiled in a feud with Zasa when he senses that Zasa is trying to usurp Michael's power. Michael tries to make peace between the two, but this fails; Zasa calls Vincent a bastard, and Vincent bites his ear. That night  Zasa sends two hitmen to kill Vincent, but Vincent kills them instead after forcing one of them to reveal who hired them. Vincent attempts to ingratiate himself with his uncle by protecting him from rival Mafia families, who are in league with Zasa and an unknown traitor within Michael's circle. Encouraged by his sister Connie , Michael takes Vincent under his wing. Michael admires Vincent's courage and loyalty, but notices that Vincent has inherited Sonny's hot temper and worries he will suffer his father's fate. Vincent saves Michael from an assassination attempt orchestrated by Zasa at a Mafia summit in Atlantic City . That same night, Michael is hospitalized following a diabetic stroke . Believing Zasa will make another attempt on Michael's life, Vincent murdered him (with approval from Connie and assassin Al Neri ). Michael is angry that Vincent used violence to deal with Zasa and did so without his permission, although he used the same logic to protect his father 34 years prior by killing Virgil Sollozzo. When Vincent begins a relationship with Michael's daughter Mary , Michael fears that his nephew's growing involvement in the family's criminal activity will endanger her life. Michael tells Vincent that while he and Sonny were different, he knew Sonny would've done anything for him and warns Vincent that Sonny's temper clouded his judgment, and doesn't want Vincent to repeat the same error. When Michael learns that his old friend Don Altobello is the traitor within the family, he has Vincent spy on him. Vincent learns that Licio Lucchesi, a powerful Italian politician and criminal underworld figure, was the mastermind of the assassination plot against Michael and employed Altobello, Zasa,(a corrupt Vatican official) Frederick Keinszig, and Archbishop Gilday to undermine Michael's criminal empire. Vincent asks permission to retaliate and Michael tacitly agrees, then formally retires and names Vincent as his successor, insisting that he call himself Don Vincent Corleone. Michael's guidance has made Vincent into a better man - patient, responsible, and wise. Vincent's first act is to order the murders of Lucchesi, Keinszig, and Gilday. Connie kills Altobello (her godfather) by poisoning him. In return for being made Don, Vincent agrees to end his relationship with Mary. That same night, Altobello's assassin, Mosca, accidentally kills Mary during an attempt on Michael's life, and Vincent kills Mosca with a single gunshot. He looks on, devastated, as Michael cradles Mary’s dead body. Abandoned sequel [ edit ] What follows in Vincent's story, according to author Mario Puzo and director Francis Ford Coppola , is unknown. In The Godfather Part III DVD commentary, Coppola explains that both he and Puzo had envisioned a story depicting Vincent's reign as head of the Corleone family during the 1980s, still haunted by Mary's murder. Vincent, deviating from his predecessors' moral code, would have entered the family into the drug trade, driving the Corleone clan back into corruption and eventual decline and ending with his being killed similarly to Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar . This proposed film would have been titled either The Godfather Part IV or The Godfather: The Final Part . Flashbacks would include Vito Corleone 's early days as Don, and the childhood days of Sonny, Fredo , Michael, and Connie Corleone, when they discover the precise nature of their father's business. The film would have portrayed the early days of Tom Hagen , Luca Brasi , and Johnny Fontane , and Vito's first meeting with Hyman Roth . According to Coppola, Puzo had composed a rough draft alternating between Vincent's reign as boss and the "Happy Years" of 1926–1939; passages from the original novel not previously incorporated into the movie storylines. Leonardo DiCaprio , Luis Guzmán , Ray Liotta , and García himself all expressed interest in the film. However, this project has lain dormant since Puzo's death in 1999. [ 3 ] Family [ edit ] Sonny Corleone — father Lucy Mancini — mother Francesca Corleone — paternal half-sister Kathryn Corleone — paternal half-sister Frank Corleone — paternal half-brother Santino Corleone, Jr. — paternal half-brother Vito Corleone — paternal grandfather Carmela Corleone — paternal grandmother Fredo Corleone — paternal uncle Michael Corleone — paternal uncle Constanzia "Connie" Corleone — paternal aunt Anthony Corleone — paternal cousin Mary Corleone — paternal cousin/lover Victor Rizzi — paternal cousin Michael Rizzi — paternal cousin References [ edit ] ^ " The Godfather, Part III (1990)" . Movies & TV Dept. The New York Times . 2014. Archived from the original on 2014-07-16 . Retrieved 2014-06-24 . ^ Maslin, Janet (December 25, 1990). "Review/Film; The Corleones Try to Go Straight In 'The Godfather Part III' " . The New York Times . ^ Elvy, Craig (2020-07-15). "What The Godfather 4's Story Would Have Been (& Why It Didn't Happen)" . ScreenRant . Retrieved 2022-06-02 . Preceded by Michael Corleone Head of the Corleone crime family 1980– unknown Succeeded by Unknown v t e Mario Puzo 's The Godfather Book series Novels The Godfather (1969) The Sicilian (1984) The Godfather Returns (2004) The Godfather's Revenge (2006) The Family Corleone (2012) Authors Mario Puzo Mark Winegardner Edward Falco Film series Films The Godfather (1972) The Godfather Part II (1974) The Godfather Part III (1990) Music The Godfather " Speak Softly, Love " The Godfather Part II The Godfather Part III " Promise Me You'll Remember " Characters Corleone family Vito Corleone Michael Corleone Tom Hagen Sonny Corleone Fredo Corleone Carmela Corleone Kay Adams Connie Corleone Anthony Corleone Mary Corleone Vincent Corleone Allies Luca Brasi Peter Clemenza Al Neri Frank Pentangeli Salvatore Tessio Enemies Don Altobello Emilio Barzini Don Fanucci Moe Greene Carlo Rizzi Hyman Roth Joey Zasa Others Cardinal Lamberto Albert Volpe Video games The Godfather (1991) The Godfather (2006) The Godfather II (2009) Non-fiction The Godfather Papers and Other Confessions (1972) Take the Cannoli (2000) The Godfather Effect (2012) Related The Godfather Saga (1977) The Sicilian (1987) The Offer (2022) Parodies Il figlioccio del padrino (1973) The Funny Face of the Godfather (1973) The Freshman (1990) The Godson (1998) Mafia! (1998) Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Vincent_Corleone&oldid=1268733868 " Categories : Fictional characters involved in incest Fictional characters who are illegitimate Fictional crime bosses Fictional murderers Fictional Sicilian people Film characters introduced in 1990 The Godfather characters Male film villains Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles that need to differentiate between fact and fiction from March 2022 All articles that need to differentiate between fact and fiction Articles needing additional references from March 2022 All articles needing additional references Articles with multiple maintenance issues Short description is different from Wikidata Articles using Infobox character with multiple unlabeled fields Template:Succession box: 'after' parameter includes the word 'unknown' S-aft: 'after' parameter includes the word 'unknown' This page was last edited on 11 January 2025, at 07:41 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Vincent Corleone 12 languages Add topic