600+ Best Buy Stores Open Late for Super Mario Odyssey - Best Buy Corporate News and Information 19th Ave New York, NY 95822, USA Join Now Primary Menu About Us Corporate Responsibility Environmental Sustainability Social Impact Human Rights CR&S Report Reports and Resources People Inclusion & Belonging Careers Company About Best Buy Our Leadership Ethics Political Engagement Awards & Recognition Our Goals News & Stories Press Center Investors Best Buy Foundation 600+ Best Buy Stores Open Late for Super Mario Odyssey By Katie Huggins October 20, 2017 The countdown is on, gamers. Best Buy stores will be open late next week so you can bring home Super Mario Odyssey for the Nintendo Switch, which was just awarded a rare perfect score by Edge. More than 600 U.S. Best Buy locations will be opening simultaneously at 12:01 a.m. ET on Friday, Oct. 27. That means 9:01 p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 26, for those on West Coast; 10:01 p.m. for gamers on Mountain Time and 11:01 p.m. for fans in Central Time. Check the local store list to find a location near you hosting a late-night opening. It’s not too late to join in on Mario’s globetrotting adventure with his newest superpower, Cappy! Pre-orders for Super Mario Odyssey are still available and you’ll receive a Cappy Collectible Coin with your game. Head into select Best Buy stores on Saturday, Oct. 21 from noon to 3 p.m. to demo the game and receive a free Super Mario Odyssey Sticker Book*. Three new amiibo figures of your favorite Super Mario Odyssey characters will also be released on Friday  – Mario , Princess Peach and Bowser , all dressed in their finest wedding attire. With these amiibo, just tap the figure to the touchpoint on your Switch console to unlock new outfits, power-ups, and more . For more information on all things Super Mario Odyssey, visit an expert Blue Shirt at a local Best Buy store or visit BestBuy.com . *Must play Super Mario Odyssey demo to receive free sticker book. 1 per person while supplies last. No purchase necessary. Opportunity to play will be on a first come, first served basis, while time permits. © Copyright Best Buy. All rights reserved. BEST BUY, the BEST BUY logo, the tag design, and MY BEST BUY are trademarks of Best Buy and its affiliated companies.