National Teacher of the Year is Nevada educator | Education | Local VIEW E-EDITION 25¢ for 3 mos Support local journalism. Only 25¢ for 3 months MANAGE ACTIVATE SIGN IN Hi SIGN OUT 70°F News Local Sports Business Opinion Crime Entertainment Dining Out Investigations Obits 70°F Clear Las Vegas, NV Home Latest Headlines Things To Do In Vegas Top 100 Restaurants 2025 NV Legislature Paying the Price 7@7 video Israel at War Local Traffic Las Vegas Weather East Valley Henderson Las Vegas Downtown Nevada North Las Vegas Southwest Summerlin/Centennial Hills The Strip Remembering Oct. 1, 2017 Local Columns Bob Morris Deborah Wall Natalie Burt Sports Raiders News Golden Knights Athletics UNLV UNLV Football UNLV Basketball Nevada Preps Betting Sports Betting 101 Las Vegas Sportsbooks Formula 1 Aces Sports Columns Ed Graney Todd Dewey Adam Hill Poker On TV/Radio MMA and UFC Golf Business Casinos & Gaming Energy Housing Tourism Entrepreneurs Real Estate News Business Press Sheldon Adelson (1933-2021) Dining Out Entertainment Kats Arts & Culture Celebrity Dining Out Movies Nightlife Shows Music TV TV Guide News Education Politics and Government 2025 NV Legislature Nevada Clark County Las Vegas Nation and World Science and Technology News Columns Road Warrior Military Investigations What Are They Hiding? Remembering Jeff German Dangerous Driving Police Accountability Alpine Fire Crime Courts Homicides Robberies Shootings Homicide Tracker Faces of Death Row Opinion Editorials Letters Opinion Columns Debra J. Saunders Michael Ramirez cartoons Victor Joecks Richard A. Epstein Victor Davis Hanson Drawing Board Life Comics Puzzles Health Home and Garden Outdoors & Recreation Las Vegas Hiking Guide Travel Live Well RJ Magazine Videos Podcasts RJ Awards Obituaries Today’s Obituaries Submit an obit Autos Auto News Dealer News Classifieds Place a Classified Ad Homes Provided Content New Homes Real Estate Millions Real Estate News Classifieds Place a Classified Ad Jobs Internships Classifieds Service Directory Transportation Merchandise Legal Information Real Estate Classifieds Garage Sales Pets Rentals FAQ Place a Classified Ad Contests and Promotions Best of Las Vegas Contests TV Guide Partnered Content Business Nevada State Bank Verizon Business Education Touro University Entertainment Food La Bonita Health P3 Health Partners Home and Garden Live Well Local City of Las Vegas Find My Forever KINROSS Gold Star Student Prairie Fire Real Estate Ignite Funding IS Luxury – Discover Deluxe Desert IS Luxury – Mastering Modern Luxury Retail D&R Diamonds Travel Black Desert Resort Travel Nevada Subscriptions Newsletters Contact Us Advertise with Us Home >> Local >> Education Education ‘Grateful’ CCSD educator named National Teacher of the Year The honor for Booker Elementary School teacher Juliana Urtubey included a surprise visit to the school from first lady Jill Biden, a fellow educator. CCSD educator is first Nevadan named National Teacher of the Year (Michael Quine/Las Vegas Review-Journal) Booker Elementary School special education teacher and learning strategist Juliana Urtubey reacts to a surprise visit to the school from first lady Jill Biden on Thursday, May 6, 2021, in Las Vegas.  (Official White House Photo by Cameron Smith) Booker Elementary School special education teacher and learning strategist, Juliana Urtubey, second from right, is celebrated by, from left, her sister Natalia Urtubey, father Carlos Urtubey and husband David Olmeca Barragan after being named 2021 National Teacher of the Year Thursday, May 6, 2021. (K.M. Cannon/Las Vegas Review-Journal) @KMCannonPhoto Booker Elementary School special education teacher and learning strategist, Juliana Urtubey, is celebrated by Gov. Steve Sisolak after being named 2021 National Teacher of the Year Thursday, May 6, 2021. (K.M. Cannon/Las Vegas Review-Journal) @KMCannonPhoto Booker Elementary School special education teacher and learning strategist, Juliana Urtubey, is celebrated by Gov. Steve Sisolak after being named 2021 National Teacher of the Year Thursday, May 6, 2021. (K.M. Cannon/Las Vegas Review-Journal) @KMCannonPhoto Booker Elementary School special education teacher and learning strategist, Juliana Urtubey, right, is gets a hug from her sister Natalia Urtubey after being named 2021 National Teacher of the Year Thursday, May 6, 2021. (K.M. Cannon/Las Vegas Review-Journal) @KMCannonPhoto Booker Elementary School special education teacher and learning strategist, Juliana Urtubey, is celebrated by Clark County School District Superintendent Dr. Jesus Jara after being named 2021 National Teacher of the Year Thursday, May 6, 2021. (K.M. Cannon/Las Vegas Review-Journal) @KMCannonPhoto Booker Elementary School special education teacher and learning strategist, Juliana Urtubey, right, celebrates with her mother Yolima Otalora after being named 2021 National Teacher of the Year Thursday, May 6, 2021. (K.M. Cannon/Las Vegas Review-Journal) @KMCannonPhoto Booker Elementary School special education teacher and learning strategist, Juliana Urtubey celebrates with her nephew Leo Englert, 4, after being named 2021 National Teacher of the Year Thursday, May 6, 2021. (K.M. Cannon/Las Vegas Review-Journal) @KMCannonPhoto Booker Elementary School special education teacher and learning strategist Juliana Urtubey reacts to a surprise visit to the school from first lady Jill Biden on Thursday, May 6, 2021, in Las Vegas.  (Official White House Photo by Cameron Smith) Booker Elementary School special education teacher and learning strategist Juliana Urtubey poses for a photo with first lady Jill Biden on Thursday, May 6, 2021, during Biden's surprise visit to the school in Las Vegas.  (Official White House Photo by Cameron Smith) Booker Elementary School special education teacher and learning strategist Juliana Urtubey talks with first lady Jill Biden on Thursday, May 6, 2021, during Biden's surprise visit to the school in Las Vegas.  (Official White House Photo by Cameron Smith) Booker Elementary School special education teacher and learning strategist Juliana Urtubey talks with first lady Jill Biden on Thursday, May 6, 2021, during Biden's surprise visit to the school in Las Vegas.  (Official White House Photo by Cameron Smith) More Stories CCSD teacher assistant arrested, accused of child abuse Nevada AG joins lawsuit challenging Trump administration’s DEI directive Sandoval joins university leaders in criticizing Trump funding freeze Nevada governor reveals education reform bill, vows ‘district-level accountability’ By Aleksandra Appleton / Las Vegas Review-Journal May 6, 2021 - 5:42 am Updated May 6, 2021 - 3:00 pm A Nevada educator was recognized Thursday as the 2021 National Teacher of the Year, becoming the first Nevadan to win the prestigious award. The honor for Booker Elementary School special education teacher and learning strategist Juliana Urtubey was announced on “CBS This Morning” and included a surprise visit to the school by first lady Jill Biden, a fellow educator. “I am so grateful,” Urtubey said at a Thursday morning event organized by the Clark County School District, offering praise for her fellow Booker teachers and the other finalists for the award. “As a special education teacher, my job is to find strengths within students, and I fully believe all of our children have strengths.” Urtubey is the first Latino Teacher of the Year since 2005 to win the award, according to the Council of Chief State School Officers, which oversees the presentation. Several of her former students were featured on the CBS show after she was announced as the winner. “I get to be part of a whole new world with so many students,” Urtubey said during the segment. “I haven’t seen so many of those students in such a long time, so it’s so beautiful. I’m just so excited.” To celebrate the national honor, resort properties around Las Vegas will feature Urtubey on their marquee signs, Superintendent Jesus Jara said. Urtubey was named the 2021 Nevada Teacher of the Year in September, and represented the state in the national competition. A National Board Certified elementary special education teacher, she’s also known as “Ms. Earth” for her “efforts to beautify schools and unify the community through murals and gardens,” according to the announcement by the school officers council. “Juliana Urtubey exemplifies the dedication, creativity and heart teachers bring to their students and communities,” said the organization’s CEO Carissa Moffat Miller. “I look forward to her leadership and advocacy for a ‘joyful and just’ education for all students.” Urtubey was born in Bogota, Colombia, and raised in Phoenix, earning a bachelor’s degree in bilingual general education and a master’s degree in bilingual special education from the University of Arizona. She has taught at the Clark County School District since 2013 and was among 20 teachers named a 2018 recipient of a Heart of Education Award, a public recognition of local educators presented by The Smith Center for the Performing Arts and funded by The Rogers Foundation. As the National Teacher of the Year, she’ll receive a paid year off from classroom duties, which will be covered by the state and district, while the council arranges travel and speaking tours, according to the organization’s website. The Teacher of the Year frequently represents teachers in committees and councils, and serves as an advocate for the profession. “Juliana is an exceptional teacher leader and we are so proud to have her represent educators from Nevada and across the nation,” said Nevada Superintendent of Public Instruction Jhone Ebert. “It is fitting that Juliana is Nevada’s first-ever National Teacher of the Year, as she exemplifies the values of equity and inclusivity that drive our collective work to support students and families.” Contact Aleksandra Appleton at aappleton@reviewjournal.com or 702-383-0218. Follow @aleksappleton on Twitter. Posted on: Education , Henderson , Local , Local Las Vegas , Local Nevada , News , North Las Vegas Tagged: livestream , mc-local , rj-has-vdo MOST READ In case you missed it Don't miss the big stories. Like us on Facebook. THE LATEST CCSD teacher assistant arrested, accused of child abuse By Taylor Lane / RJ April 29, 2025 - 4:26 pm April 29, 2025 - 4:26 pm A Clark County School District teacher assistant was arrested Friday and faces charges of child abuse and battery. Nevada AG joins lawsuit challenging Trump administration’s DEI directive By Jessica Hill / RJ April 28, 2025 - 3:47 pm April 28, 2025 - 3:47 pm Nevada Attorney General Aaron Ford joined in a lawsuit challenging the U.S. Department of Education’s directive to eliminate DEI programs or lose federal education funding. Sandoval joins university leaders in criticizing Trump funding freeze By McKenna Ross / RJ April 28, 2025 - 10:37 am April 28, 2025 - 2:37 pm Three Nevada university presidents joined a nationwide coalition of academic leaders in a joint letter opposing President Donald Trump’s broad efforts to reshape academia through the “coercive use of public research funding.” Nevada governor reveals education reform bill, vows ‘district-level accountability’ By Jessica Hill / RJ April 25, 2025 - 12:35 pm April 28, 2025 - 6:54 pm Gov. Joe Lombardo said his education reform bill includes bonuses for high-performing teachers and a “tiered intervention system” for underperforming schools. New CCSD leaders Welsh, Gonzales get contracts approved By Bryan Horwath / RJ April 25, 2025 - 5:00 am April 25, 2025 - 5:00 am The Clark County School Board approved a contract for a superintendent finalist to serve as a deputy superintendent for the Clark County School District. ‘They run Chap like a prison’: Teachers, staff speak out at Las Vegas school By Katie Futterman / RJ April 25, 2025 - 5:00 am April 26, 2025 - 12:26 am Employees at Chaparral High School are speaking out about what they say is a toxic work environment that leaves teachers and support staff fearful and students with a discriminatory education. New UNLV interim president named, $540K salary approved By Katie Futterman / RJ April 24, 2025 - 11:20 pm April 24, 2025 - 11:20 pm After serving at the helm of the university for nearly two months, Chris Heavey has been named UNLV’s interim president. 3 more UNLV students have visas revoked; protest blasts Trump administration By Katie Futterman / RJ April 24, 2025 - 3:19 pm April 24, 2025 - 5:49 pm UNLV said seven students have had their visas affected by the Trump administration’s crackdown as dozens of students, faculty and community members gathered to protest. This Las Vegas student wants to save his high school’s JROTC program By Katie Futterman / RJ April 23, 2025 - 1:59 pm April 23, 2025 - 1:59 pm A petition that has drawn over 200 signatures calls on the Clark County School District to save the junior ROTC program, which is set to end next year because of budget cuts. Parent of student accused of threatening to kill Las Vegas teacher By Katie Futterman / RJ April 23, 2025 - 12:58 pm April 23, 2025 - 7:46 pm A parent is accused of entering Bailey Middle School in March and threatening to shoot and kill a teacher who allegedly mocked her daughter, according to emails between the school and Clark County School District officials. MORE STORIES INFO & EDITIONS Traffic Las Vegas Weather e-Edition Download our Apps Contests and Promotions Partnered Content SOLUTIONS Advertise with Us Place a Classified Ad FAQ At The Scene Store Rights and Permissions SUBSCRIPTIONS Subscriptions Put The Paper On Hold Report A Delivery Issue Newsletter Sign Up CONNECTIONS Contact Us Letter to Editor News Tips and Press Releases Work for LVRJ Internships AFFILIATE PUBLICATIONS Best of Las Vegas Business Press Pahrump Valley Times Boulder City Review LV New Homes Guide Vegas Nation rj magazine Lightning Digital Las Vegas News Raiders News Las Vegas Sphere Oakland A's Move Las Vegas Casinos Las Vegas Crime Las Vegas Shows Sports Betting F1 Las Vegas Las Vegas Restaurants Lake Mead Las Vegas Weather Copyright © 2019 Las Vegas Review-Journal, Inc. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP x By continuing to browse or by clicking "I Accept Cookies" you agree to our Terms of Service and our Privacy Policy , including our Privacy Notice for California Residents , and to the storing of first-party and third-party cookies on your device and consent to the disclosure of your personal information to our third party service providers or advertising partners to optimize your experience, analyze traffic and personalize content. I Accept Cookies