'The Crown' Sets Season 5 Premiere Date With Imelda Staunton as Queen Elizabeth II Search • Shop • Games • Calendar • Newsletters • Lists • Trailers • Login Shows 9-1-1 The Rehearsal Law & Order: Organized Crime The Last of Us Leverage: Redemption The Righteous Gemstones American Idol Hacks Government Cheese The Handmaid's Tale Full List Love Is Blind The Recruit The Night Agent Cobra Kai Paradise The Kardashians Good American Family Deli Boys Reacher On Call Bosch: Legacy Clean Slate The Pitt The Sex Lives of College Girls The White Lotus And Just Like That… Severance Surface The Studio Shrinking The Traitors Bridget Jones: Mad About the Boy Long Bright River The Day of the Jackal The Voice The Hunting Party One Chicago Matlock NCIS Survivor The Bachelor The Rookie 9-1-1 9-1-1: Lone Star Doc Rescue: HI-Surf Dexter: Original Sin Yellowjackets All Creatures Great and Small Miss Scarlet 1923 School Spirits All American Wild Cards Goosebumps Daredevil: Born Again Mayfair Witches Dark Winds The Way Home When Calls the Heart Outlander Power Book III: Raising Kanan Say Nothing Alien: Earth The Responder After The Flood Inspector Ellis The Gone The Flip Off Celebrity IOU Gold Rush 90 Day Fiancé Doctor Who Orphan Black: Echoes Movies What to Watch Game Shows Reviews Swooon Search Trending Easter Weekend Specials Superman Day Merch The Conners Finale Ransom Canyon 9-1-1 's Major Death ‘The Crown’ Sets Season 5 Premiere Date With Imelda Staunton as Queen Elizabeth II Meaghan Darwish September 24, 2022, 1:23 pm 1 Comment Netflix The Crown 9 Shows With a Last Chance to Win Emmys in 2024 Our Critic Predicts This Year’s Emmy Winners for Drama More It’s been nearly two years since The Crown delivered new episodes to fans, but the wait is almost over as Netflix announced the historical drama from Peter Morgan is set to premiere Wednesday, November 9. The long-awaited fifth season will see a casting shift as is tradition every two seasons on the drama. Stepping into the leading role as Queen Elizabeth II is Imelda Staunton and at her side will be Jonathan Pryce as Prince Philip. Meanwhile, Elizabeth Debicki steps in as the new Princess Diana , taking the reigns from previous star Emma Corrin . Playing Prince Charles this time around is Dominic West who will be joined by his own real-life son Senan West in the role of Prince William. Lesley Manville will portray the Queen’s sister, Princess Margaret, in this iteration which will also feature Jonny Lee Miller as former British Prime Minister John Major. The premiere date announcement comes on the heels of Queen Elizabeth II’s death, which sparked a resurgence in the show’s popularity, putting it among the top spots in the streamer’s rankings. (Credit: Netflix) Production for the show’s sixth season was in progress when the monarch’s passing was announced, and the Netflix series paused filming of the series out of respect . This is the biggest update fans have received for Season 5 since filming began in September 2021 , as teased at the time by Staunton in a video message to fans. Related 10 Best Portrayals of Queen Elizabeth II Don’t miss what’s to come for this latest chapter in the royal story, stay tuned for trailers, teases, and more as we approach the premiere date. The Crown , Season 5 Premiere, Wednesday, November 9, Netflix The Crown where to stream Subs Subs Watch options by The Crown Dominic West Elizabeth Debicki Imelda Staunton Jonathan Pryce Jonny Lee Miller Lesley Manville 1 Prue Leith Says She Wants to Spend More Time With Husband as She ‘Hasn’t Got Much Longer’ 2 ‘The Rookie’ Scoop: Lucy’s Sergeant’s Exam, Season 7 Finale Jeopardy & More 3 ‘Jeopardy!’ Fans Hail Champ After Thriller Is Decided on Final Question 4 Peter Krause Reacts to Shocking ‘9-1-1’ Death: ‘It Is a Loss’ 5 ‘Gold Rush’: Parker Schnabel & Rick Ness Find Out if Their Gambles Pay Off Newsletter Keep up with your favorite shows... delivered to your inbox! The Daily What's Worth Watching Breaking News Alerts More Newsletters Follow us Quick Links About Advertise Privacy Terms of Service Do Not Sell Contact Us Cookie Prefs Our Publications Copyright © 2025 NTVB Media, Inc., All Rights Reserved X Benefits to Registering & Following Watchlist Easy access to only the shows you care about — all in one simple place Alerts Only important notifications — when a show is returning, when it becomes available to stream, and more. Special Offers Exclusive products we release related to your favorite shows and streaming services Sign Up (It's free!)