John Goodwin, Former LEGO Foundation CEO, Joins LEF as Executive Chairman About Team Roadmap Team LearnCard Dev Support Documentation All Articles News & Press FAQ Subscibe Get Updates Updates Subscriber Updates Subscriber Success! Oops! Something went wrong. Please try again. Collaborate Contact Join Our Team Be An Advisor Partner With Us Pre-Register for ICO Become a Beta User Accessiblity Socialize Overview Join Us Whitepaper ICO Info Let's talk crypto Join Our Telegram Community Coming Soon Get Notified When Our Whitepaper Drops whitepaper Success! Oops! Something went wrong. Please try again. FAQ → Position Paper → Ico Coming Soon Keep Up To Date On Our Pre-Sale ICO SUBSCRIBER Success! Oops! Something went wrong. Please try again. Early Registration → Whitepaper Jun 27, 2022 John Goodwin, Former LEGO Foundation CEO, Joins LEF as Executive Chairman Written by Ana C. Rold Jun 27, 2022 John Goodwin, Former LEGO Foundation CEO, Joins LEF as Executive Chairman Written by Ana C. Rold Jun 27, 2022 John Goodwin, Former LEGO Foundation CEO, Joins LEF as Executive Chairman Download PDF Written by Ana C. Rold FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Date: June 27, 2022 Press Contact: Duncan Cox Email: press@learningeconomy.io John Goodwin, Former LEGO Foundation CEO, Joins Learning Economy Foundation as Executive Chairman ‍ WASHINGTON, DC — John Goodwin, former CEO of LEGO Foundation has joined the Learning Economy Foundation (LEF) as Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors. In his new leadership role, Goodwin will further catalyze LEF’s mission to bring quality skills and equal opportunity to every human on Earth, using open standards and web3 technologies. Prior to joining LEF, Goodwin spent a decade working in the LEGO ecosystem, first as EVP and CFO of The LEGO Group then later as CEO of LEGO Foundation. In addition to his position at LEF, he will continue in his capacity as Chairman of the i5 Project, an initiative led by the UN Global Compact Principles of Responsible Management in Education (PRME). “The idea of an Internet of Education has always been both aspirational and practical. With John as Chairman, I believe this vision not only to be possible, but inevitable,” said Chris Purifoy, the Co-Founder and CEO of Learning Economy Foundation. “As we move into this new phase of accelerating growth as an organization, it's important that enabling personal empowerment and public goods remain our top priority. John is the perfect visionary and leader to help ensure we stay true to that mission.” “I am thrilled to have this opportunity to work with the Learning Economy Foundation and their partners to help reduce the inequities that exist in education and employment systems and processes around the globe,” said John Goodwin, LEF’s newly-appointed Executive Chairman. “We stand on the cusp of an exciting new era where web3 technologies can unlock the potential of every individual. LEF has the humility, commitment, and capability to catalyze this change and I look forward to building a coalition of impact and delivery in my new role.” About: Learning Economy Foundation (LEF) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization leveraging global standards and web3 protocols to bring quality skills and equal opportunity to every human on earth, and address the persistent inequities that exist around the globe in education and employment. Ask Us Anything FAQ MESSAGE Thank you! Your submission has been received! Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form. ← All Articles Also read: 2024 in Review: The Year of The Skyway Ideas To Share "Ed3" A COLUMN by Scott David Meyer Web3 to Ed3 Leapfrog with LearnCard the learning noveLla Subscribe Learning Novella Success! Oops! Something went wrong. Please try again. Dr. Alison Bryant Joins LEF as COO 2024— The Year of The Skyway New Horizons = New Governace The Skyway, UNGA 2024 Scouts Embrace the Digital Era WEF + Reimagining Digital ID World Bank + LEF Found A New Alliance UNGA Symposium & Debate SuperSkills! = LERs + LEGO Foundation LEF Joins UNESCO Education is a mountain. Everyone takes a different path to the top. Learning Economy Foundation is a 501c3 non-profit with a global mission to translate leading edge technologies into transformative learning and economic systems that promote equity, mobility, privacy, and individual agency to radically improve lives throughout the world. Agency & Opportunity for all Web3 education protocols The Skyway Magazine Education is a mountain. Everyone takes a different path to the top. Learning Economy Foundation is a 501c3 non-profit with a global mission to translate leading edge technologies into transformative learning and economic systems that promote equity, mobility, privacy, and individual agency to radically improve lives throughout the world. © 2022, Learning Economy · Home · Privacy · Terms · Accessibility