Apple CEO Tim Cook’s annual pay package drops in 2023, here's how much he earned - Times of India Edition IN IN US Sign In TOI Tech Gadgets News AI New Bing Tech News Gadgets Reviews Top Gadgets Slideshows Videos How to Featured Web Stories Today's ePaper News Gadgets News Apple CEO Tim Cook’s annual pay package drops in 2023, here's how much he earned Trending Garena Free Fire Max Codes Wordle Diljit Dosanjh Tapswap Daily Codes Tomarket Secret Daily Combo Ratan Tata Death Tapcoin Daily Bounty Cards Genshin Impact Codes Blade Ball Codes MemeFi Daily Codes Garena Free Fire Max Codes Wordle Diljit Dosanjh Tapswap Daily Codes Tomarket Secret Daily Combo Ratan Tata Death Tapcoin Daily Bounty Cards Genshin Impact Codes Blade Ball Codes MemeFi Daily Codes Garena Free Fire Max Codes Wordle Diljit Dosanjh Tapswap Daily Codes Tomarket Secret Daily Combo Ratan Tata Death Tapcoin Daily Bounty Cards Genshin Impact Codes Blade Ball Codes MemeFi Daily Codes This story is from January 12, 2024 Apple CEO Tim Cook’s annual pay package drops in 2023, here's how much he earned TOI Tech Desk / TIMESOFINDIA.COM / Jan 12, 2024, 09:50 IST Share AA + Text Size Small Medium Large Follow us Apple CEO Tim Cook's 2023 compensation of $63,209,845 surpassed the $49 million target by 28%. The pay ratio between Cook and the median compensated employee is 672 to 1. The annual compensation of other top executives, including Luca Maestri, Kate Adams, and Deirdre O'Brien, was also disclosed. Apple CEO Tim Cook's 2023 compensation of $63,209,845 surpassed the $49 million target by 28%. The pay ratio between Cook and the median compensated employee is 672 to 1. The annual compensation of other top executives, including Luca Maestri, Kate Adams, and Deirdre O'Brien, was also disclosed. Every year Apple releases its annual proxy statement to investors, which includes executive compensation, among other things. The statement includes the annual pay of Apple CEO Tim Cook . As per the statement, Cook exceeded his targeted compensation for 2023. Despite a planned decrease of 40% from the 2022 target, Cook's actual earnings for the year totaled $63,209,845, surpassing the $49 million goal by approximately 28%. This comes after Cook's 2022 target of $84 million, which he exceeded with a total compensation of $99.4 million. Cook’s salary components The breakdown of Cook's 2023 compensation includes a $3 million salary, stock awards amounting to $46,970,283, non-equity incentive plan compensation of $10,713,450, and additional compensation totaling $2,526,112. While the 2023 figure represents a 36% decrease compared to his 2022 earnings, the substantial surpassing of the $49 million target highlights Cook's continued impact on Apple's success. “The 2023 annual total compensation of our CEO was $63,209,845, the 2023 annual total compensation of our median compensated employee was $94,118, and the ratio of these amounts is 672 to 1,” Apple said in the proxy filing. Apple has also disclosed that the median annual total compensation for its employees in 2023 stood at $94,118, according to the proxy filing. This revelation highlights the pay ratio of 672 to 1 between Apple CEO Tim Cook and the median compensated employee. In the latest financial disclosures from Apple, the company's top executives’s annual compensation also came to light Luca Maestri, serving as Chief Financial Officer (CFO), earned $26,935,883 in annual compensation. Kate Adams, holding the position of General Counsel and Secretary, reported a compensation of $26,941,705. Deirdre O’Brien, who serves as the Senior Vice President of Retail, had an annual compensation package. amounting to $26,937,010. Meanwhile, Jeff Williams, the Chief Operating Officer (COO), reported a total compensation of $26,961,226. About the Author TOI Tech Desk The TOI Tech Desk is a dedicated team of journalists committed to delivering the latest and most relevant news from the world of technology to readers of The Times of India. TOI Tech Desk’s news coverage spans a wide spectrum across gadget launches, gadget reviews, trends, in-depth analysis, exclusive reports and breaking stories that impact technology and the digital universe. Be it how-tos or the latest happenings in AI, cybersecurity, personal gadgets, platforms like WhatsApp, Instagram, Facebook and more; TOI Tech Desk brings the news with accuracy and authenticity. Read More End of Article FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA Photostories Bigg Boss 18: Confirmed list of the contestants of Salman Khan hosted controversial show Schengen visa denials: 5 countries with the highest rejection rates 6 mantras that are believed to help students develop focus and concentration 5 countries with the best anti-aircraft missile systems in the world Sanjay Dutt-Manyata to Hardik Pandya-Natasa Stankovic: Bollywood couples who renewed their wedding vows 8 animals that help Earth heal and how 5 psychology tips to be more mature in life and relationships From keeping his second marriage under wraps to converting to Islam; A look at Bigg Boss 18 contestant Vivian Dsena's Personal Life revelations 10 most powerful countries in the world in 2024 1 2 3 Hot Picks US Election Timeline 2024 World's Fastest Jets Delhi Drugs in Namkeen Harris vs Trump Latest Polls UP Scholarships Non-Creamy Layer Mahadev Betting App Stock market today TOP TRENDING Ric Flair Navi Mumbai Airport Prince Harry NFL Week Season Actor Nithin IPL Franchises Ayudha Puja Date Ratan Tata Kali Crown Bangladesh Diddy List Trending Stories In Section Entire Website Google CEO Sundar Pichai speaks "for the first time ever" on the court ruling that may break up Google, here's what he said Hackers hijack robot vacuums in multiple US cities, here’s what happened next Apple accused of restricting workers' rights; here’s what US labour board alleged When Ratan Tata made this request to SEBI chief for TCS' first CEO FC Kohli during TCS IPO Apple researchers conduct study on AI’s reasoning ability in mathematics: What they found Google TVs start getting AI art screensaver: Here's how this feature Reddit post with cab driver's ‘Don’t say bhaiya’ guidelines goes viral; internet divided Google tests "Quick View" for recipes in search results Elon Musk-owned Tesla's Optimus humanoid robot serving drinks, singing Happy Birthday: Watch viral videos Here's the 'big update' from Caroline Calloway, dubbed 'world’s worst influencer' 'Time has come ...': Farooq Abdullah's message for Kashmiri Pandits 3rd T20I Live: Samson steals the show with maiden 40-ball ton Why Mumbai shouldn’t celebrate this child rapist’s killing...not yet Sena vs Sena in Mumbai as Uddhav, CM Shinde hold Dusshera rallies 'No legal value': Bengal govt rejects mass resignation of docs amid RG Kar row 'Cong insulting voters': BJP attacks Kharge for 'party of terrorists' remark Why the time has come for a radical rethink on sarkari jobs Zerodha co-founder Nikhil Kamath: They can make us shut down ... UN force reports fifth peacekeeper wounded in Lebanon What Harshit's non-inclusion in final IND-BAN T20I means for KKR About us Create Your Own Ad Terms of Use and Grievance Redressal Policy Privacy policy Advertise with us RSS Newsletter Feedback ePaper Sitemap Archives FOLLOW US ON Other Times Group News Sites The Economic Times Hindi Economic Times Navbharat Times Maharashtra Times Vijaya Karnataka Telugu Samayam Tamil Samayam Malayalam Samayam I am Gujarat TimesPoints Indiatimes Brand Capital Education Times Times Food Mumbai Mirror Bangalore Mirror Hindi Podcast Popular Categories Headlines Sports News Business News India News World News Bollywood News Health+ Tips Indian TV Shows Celebrity Photos Technology News Hot on the Web Karwa Chauth Bigg Boss 18 Contestants List Dussehra 2024 Wishes Tadoba National Park Dussehra Messages Jigra Collection Vettaiyan Belly Fat Beetroot Benefits Optical illusion Top Trends IND vs BAN Live Score Russell Wilsons Virat Kohli Mickey Arthur Shantanu Naidu UGC NET Result Nobel Peace Prize Mahadev Betting App Amazon Layoffs Ratan Tata Dies CBSE Class 10 12 Practical Exam Popular Schools in Navi Mumbai Management Colleges of India Top Medical Colleges of India Top Engineering Colleges of India Top Pharmacy Colleges of India Live Cricket Score Trending Topics Diwali Wishes Dussehra 2024 Quotes Dussehra Wishes Vettaiyan OTT Release Vettaiyan Collection Vettaiyan Review Natasa Stankovic Devara Collection Bigg Boss 18 Deepika Padukone Shraddha Kapoor Ratan Tata Passed Away Jigra Movie Review Vettaiyan Movie Review Swatantrya Veer Savarkar Dussehra 2024 Elon Musk Dussehra Whatsapp Status Ultimate Football Codes October 2024 Wordle Answer Living and entertainment ETimes Travel Destinations Cricbuzz.com TV Lifestyle Newspaper Subscription Food News Times Prime Whats Hot Services CouponDunia TechGig TimesJobs Bollywood News Times Mobile Gadgets Careers Colombia Latest News Challenging Aspects in Astrology: What They Mean for You New Zealand pile pressure on India after routing Sri Lanka Infosys to no longer send job offer letters and attachments, the company will ... In the land of Ram, a Ramlila that unites Hindus and Muslims 'Singham Again' stars Ajay Devgn, Kareena Kapoor, Rohit Shetty spotted at airport as they jet off for Raavan Dahan in Delhi - Watch VIDEO Papankusha Ekadashi 2024: Date, Parana Time, Puja Rituals and Significance 'Bigg Boss OTT 3' contestant Ranvir Shorey admits lack of patience for 'Bigg Boss', enters the show unprepared 7 dead, 1 missing after car plunges into canal in Haryana ETimes Pic of the day: When Indrajith Sukumaran bumped into Mukesh Ambani at a traffic signal Did you know NTR is the only actor to play both Lord Rama and Ravana? TDB will go ahead with online darshan bookings at Sabarimala temple Who is judge Arun Subramanian? New Judge assigned to Sean 'Diddy' Combs sex-trafficking case Prasanth Varma shares his passion for superhero films inspired by mythology and magic 'Against anyone who ... ': Congress snubs Owaisi after 'take everyone along' remark Israel army warns south Lebanon residents 'not to return to homes' RSS' 100th Foundation Day: Full text of speech by Mohan Bhagwat Stunning Dresses for a Perfect Birthday Look Exclusive: Inside Taapsee Pannu’s house! I always wanted my house to look and feel very Indian says the actress Copyright © 2024 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication Service