Super Bowl LV relocated to Tampa; L.A. will host SB LVI Skip to main content Advertising Around the NFL Super Bowl LV relocated to Tampa; L.A. will host SB LVI Published: May 23, 2017 at 08:31 AM Austin Knoblauch Copied! The Super Bowl 's long-awaited return to Los Angeles will be delayed, but only for a year. Days after it was revealed the opening of the Rams and Chargers ' joint stadium would be delayed by a year , league owners voted unanimously Tuesday to relocate the site of Super Bowl LV in 2021 from L.A. to Tampa's Raymond James Stadium. As for L.A., owners at the Spring League Meeting in Chicago voted for the yet-to-be completed stadium to host Super Bowl LVI in 2022. "From our standpoint, we felt this was an appropriate thing to do," NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said Tuesday. "We were fortunate that Tampa had a very competitive presentation when they bid on the Super Bowl earlier [in 2016]. So this was a solution the membership got on very quickly." Goodell added that the league and team owners did not consider re-opening the bidding for Super Bowl LV since there was an urgency to make a decision given the "short timeframe" of the situation. Last year, the NFL awarded the Super Bowl to the yet-to-be built stadium in Inglewood, California. However, as NFL Network Insider Ian Rapoport reported, the league requires stadiums to be open for two seasons before they can host a Super Bowl . Owners would have needed to approve a waiver for L.A. to host the Big Game since it's now not scheduled to open until 2020 (it was originally slated for a 2019 opening). Record rainfall in Southern California caused construction delays the Inglewood stadium site earlier this year, prompting its scheduled opening to be pushed back. Water up to 15 feet deep flooded parts of the site during the excavation period, the Los Angeles Times reported last week. "The Tampa Bay area has enjoyed great success over the years hosting Super Bowl s and we look forward to working with our local leaders in the coming months to meet the requirements for hosting Super Bowl LV in 2021," Buccaneers co-chairman Bryan Glazer said in a statement released by the team. "Today's announcement offers us the opportunity to showcase Tampa Bay's unique ability to come together as a host for world-class events." Kevin Demoff, the Rams Chief Operating Officer, said the team supports the NFL's decision to move back their Super Bowl hosting date. "As work continues on the transformational sports and entertainment district being built at Hollywood Park, we are looking forward to moments such as a grand opening during the Summer of 2020 and the Super Bowl 's return to Los Angeles after nearly three decades," Demoff stated. "In the past week, we have worked with the NFL on the resolution that was presented today and are supportive of the NFL owners' decision to play Super Bowl LV in Tampa and to have Los Angeles host Super Bowl LVI in 2022. Over the next 90 days, we will continue to work with our partners across the Los Angeles region, including the Chargers , to deliver the elements promised in the bid that was approved last year." U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis will host Super Bowl LII in February and Atlanta's Mercedes-Benz Stadium is slated to host Super Bowl LIII in 2019. Hard Rock Stadium in South Florida will host Super Bowl LIV. This article has been reproduced in a new format and may be missing content or contain faulty links. Please use the Contact Us link in our site footer to report an issue. Related Content news Vikings signing LB Andrew Van Ginkel to one-year, $23 million extension The Minnesota Vikings have signed linebacker Andrew Van Ginkel to a one-year, $23 million contract extension, NFL Network Insiders Ian Rapoport and Tom Pelissero reported on Tuesday. news Jaguars part ways with assistant GM Ethan Waugh The Jacksonville Jaguars have parted ways with assistant general manager and former interim GM Ethan Waugh, NFL Network Insider Mike Garafolo reported Tuesday. news Confident J.J. McCarthy: 'I know I'm ready to start' at QB for Vikings Second-year Vikings QB J.J. McCarthy on Tuesday expressed confidence in his standing in Minnesota, telling reporters "I know I'm ready to start." news NFL news roundup: Chiefs exercising fifth-year options on DE George Karlaftis, CB Trent McDuffie NFL.com keeps you up to date with all of the latest league news from around the NFL. Visit NFL.com's transaction hub for a daily breakdown. news Chiefs personnel exec compares first-round OT Josh Simmons to Christian Darrisaw, Rashawn Slater The Chiefs might have plucked Patrick Mahomes' future blindside protector with the final pick of the first round, grabbing Ohio State product Josh Simmons. news Niners, TE George Kittle agree to 4-year, $76.4 million contract extension The San Francisco 49ers inked star tight end George Kittle to a $19.1 million extension, making him the highest paid TE in the NFL. news Seahawks' Mike Macdonald: Jalen Milroe is a QB, not Taysom Hill Jalen Milroe enters the NFL with dynamic dual-threat ability, but Seattle Seahawks coach Mike Macdonald shut down comparisons with how the New Orleans Saints use Taysom Hill. news Titans not naming No. 1 pick Cam Ward starter, didn't look to trade Will Levis during draft Tennessee Titans general manager Mike Borgonzi would not name No. 1 overall pick Cam Ward the starting QB on Monday. He also said the team wasn't trying to trade QB Will Levis during the draft. news Bills GM Brandon Beane bristles at criticisms of draft class: 'It sounds like 2018 all over with you guys' Bills general manager Brandon Beane has had enough of the criticism, speaking days after the draft concluded about issues others took with Buffalo neglecting to improve the wide receiver room. news NFL news roundup: Browns signing WR Diontae Johnson; Packers inking former first-round LB Isaiah Simmons NFL.com keeps you up to date with all of the latest league news from around the NFL. Visit NFL.com's transaction hub for a daily breakdown. news Saints QB Derek Carr confirms shoulder injury: 'I have an MRI report to prove it' Derek Carr confirmed his shoulder injury during a ChurchLV sermon on Sunday. The New Orleans Saints quarterback confirmed the injury, said nothing is nefarious, and that he and the club continue working through the issue. news Dolphins GM on not trading Jalen Ramsey during draft: 'We will make the deal at the appropriate time' Two weeks ago, Jalen Ramsey and the Dolphins mutually agreed to seek a trade. With none coming to fruition over the weekend, the sides will continue considering their futures. Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. Big left arrow icon Big right arrow icon Close icon Copy Url Three dots icon Down arrow icon Email icon Email icon Exit Fullscreen icon External link icon Facebook logo Football icon Facebook logo Instagram logo Snapchat logo YouTube logo TikTok logo Spotify logo LinkedIn logo Grid icon Key icon Left arrow icon Link icon Location icon Mail icon Menu icon Open icon Phone icon Play icon Radio icon Rewind icon Right arrow icon Search icon Select icon Selected icon TV icon Up arrow icon User icon Audio icon Add to calendar icon NFC icon AFC icon NFL icon Carousel Icon List View Website Instagram Twitter Facebook Snapchat Shop Icon Profile Overlay Avatar Add Airplay Arrow Left Arrow Right Arrow Up Arrow Down Audio Back 5s Back 10s Back 30s Calendar Chart Check Down Left Right Up Chromecast Off Chromecast On Close Closed Captions Bench Off Bench On Broad Off Broad On Vertical Off Vertical On Comment Dock Done Download Draft Fantasy Filter Forward 5s Forward 10s Forward 30s Full Screen Off Full Screen On Gamepass Games Insights Key Leave Live Combine Draft Fantasy Menu Games Menu Network Menu News Menu Playoffs Menu Pro Bowl Menu Shop Menu Standings Menu Stats Menu Super Bowl Menu Teams Menu Tickets Menu More Horizontal More Vertical My Location Network News Pause play Multiple Players Single Player Playlist Playoffs Pro Bowl Purge Refresh Remove Search Settings Share Android Share Copy URL Share Email Share Facebook Share Instagram Share iOS Share Snapchat Share Twitter Skip Next Skip Previous Standings Star Stats Swap Teams Tickets Video Visibility Off Visibility On Volume Hi Volume Low Volume Medium Volume Mute Warning Website Caret down Caret up At News Play Audio Gallery Promo Chevron right The browser you are using is no longer supported on this site. It is highly recommended that you use the latest versions of a supported browser in order to receive an optimal viewing experience. The following browsers are supported: Chrome, Edge (v80 and later), Firefox and Safari. Got it!