Bruce Gowers Dead: ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ Music Video Director Was 82 Skip to main content Open Mega Menu Got A Tip? deadline-logo-svg Deadline Follow Us: site categories TV Film Awards Awards Hub Digital Issues Box Office Biz International Politics Theater Reviews Obits Video Events Contenders Television: Docs+Unscripted+Variety Television Film: Nominees Film: Documentary Film: International Film: Los Angeles Film: London Sound & Screen Film Television Other For The Love Of Docs Visual Effects + Screen Festivals North America Sundance Toronto Telluride SXSW Tribeca Europe Cannes Zurich Venice Berlin/EFM Middle East Red Sea Asia Tokyo Insider News Alerts Menu deadline-logo-svg Deadline Read Next: Michael Fishman On ‘The Conners’ Series Finale Absence: “Thankful For The Gift Of Grief” Got A Tip? Tip Us Dismiss News Banner Breaking News Horror Is All The ROI Rage For Small & Midsize Movies In 2024’s Most Valuable Blockbuster Tournament Read the full story Home TV News Bruce Gowers Dies: Groundbreaking Music Video Director Of Queen’s “Bohemian Rhapsody” Was 82 By Greg Evans Greg Evans NY & Broadway Editor @GregEvans5 More Stories By Greg Broadway Box Office Settles At $47M After Record-Breaking Week; ‘Good Night, And Good Luck’ Top Earner At $3.9M Celia Keenan-Bolger To Receive 2025 Isabelle Stevenson Tony Award For Advocacy Work Broadway’s 2024-2025 Season: All Of Deadline’s Reviews View All January 17, 2023 3:30pm Services to share this page. Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Email Show more sharing options Share on LinkedIn Pin it Submit to Reddit Post to Tumblr Share on WhatsApp Print This Page Bruce Gowers, a still from the music video 'Bohemian Rhapsody' Jason Merritt/Getty Images/EMI Bruce Gowers, a prolific and groundbreaking director of music videos whose work included the groundbreaking, much-imitated 1975 video for Queen’s “ Bohemian Rhapsody ,” died Sunday in Santa Monica of an acute respiratory infection. He was 82. Winning multiple Emmy, Grammy, MTV and DGA Awards as a director and producer, Gowers’ credits include hundreds of major television events, episodes and award shows including The Primetime Emmy Awards, The Billboard Awards, The MTV Video Music Awards, and, for eight seasons, American Idol , for which he won the 2009 Emmy for Best Musical Variety Director. Related Stories Obituaries Hollywood & Media Deaths In 2023: Photo Gallery & Obituaries News Writers Guild Of America West Staff Union Wins Voluntarily Recognition, Moves To Negotiate First Contract Gowers video for “Bohemian Rhapsody”, in which the band members’ faces were shown against a dark background they sang four-part harmony, helped establish both the rock band as one of the biggest of the decade and music videos as a powerful promotional tool for the recording industry. Watch on Deadline Gowers would subsequently direct popular music videos for such music icons as Prince (“1999”), the Rolling Stones (“Hot Stuff”), Michael Jackson (“She’s Out Of My Life”), John Mellencamp (“Hurts So Good”) and Fleetwood Mac (“Landslide”), among many others. A co-creator of the long-running Kidsongs video series of children’s music, Gowers was born in New Kilbride, Scotland, graduated from The Latymer School, and went on to attend the BBC Training College. He started his career at the BBC, learning the business from the ground up as a cable puller, a cameraman, and production manager. Those positions were followed by Staff Producing/Directing positions at the Rediffusion and London Weekend Television networks. Gowers relocated to the United States in the 1970s. He met his wife of 23 years, the writer-producer Carol Rosenstein, on the music video shoot for Rod Stewart’s No. 1 smash “Tonight’s the Night.” Among his accolades, Gowers won a DGA Award in 2004 for the TV special Genius: A Night for Ray Charles , a Grammy for Huey Lewis and the News’ “Heart of Rock and Roll” and an MTV Video Music Award for “Bohemian Rhapsody” — Best Video from a Film for the song’s famous appearance in Wayne’s World. Among his many Emmy and DGA nomination was one for 1997’s Fleetwood Mac: The Dance . In addition to his wife, Gowers, a longtime resident of Malibu, is survived by daughter Katharine Polk, son Sean Gowers, and grandchildren Sean Jr, Robert, Charlotte, and Layla. He also is survived by his former wife Charlene and was predeceased by first wife Jacqueline. A memorial service is being planned. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made in Gowers’ name to World Central Kitchen and Southern California Bulldog Rescue. Must Read Stories Hide Articles Onyx Preps ‘Desperate Housewives’ Offshoot Via Kerry Washington & Natalie Chaidez Bleecker Street Media Founder & CEO Andrew Karpen Dies Of Cancer At 59 Donald Trump Tussles With Terry Moran During ABC News Interview ‘Thunderbolts*’ Looks To Fire Up The Summer With $175M Global Bow: Preview Read More About: Bohemian Rhapsody Breaking News Obituary Comments Subscribe to Deadline Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Sign Up No Comments JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Sidebar Trending on Deadline 1 "Frankly, I Never Heard Of You": A Testy Donald Trump Tussles With Terry Moran During Contentious ABC News Interview Marking POTUS' First 100 Days 2 Louis Theroux On Returning To The West Bank After 15 Years For BBC Doc 'The Settlers' & Being "Perpetrator Focused" -- Guest Column 3 Disney & Marvel Don't Want To Play Nicepool With Justin Baldoni Over 'Deadpool' In Blake Lively Battle 4 'Thunderbolts*' Looks To Create Lightning And Fire Up Summer Box Office With $175M Global Opening - Preview 5 Final Autopsy Reports Confirm Cause Of Death For Gene Hackman & His Wife Betsy Arakawa 6 CBS Pushes New Matthew Gray Gubler Series 'Einstein' To 2026-27 Season 7 'The King Of Kings' Surpasses 'Parasite' To Become Top-Grossing Korean Film In The U.S. 8 Smaller Movies, Big Profit: Horror Is All The ROI Rage In 2024's Most Valuable Blockbuster Tournament 9 'Desperate Housewives' Offshoot 'Wisteria Lane' In Works At Onyx From Kerry Washington & Natalie Chaidez 10 Michael Fishman On 'The Conners' Series Finale Absence: "Thankful For The Gift Of Grief" deadline-logo-svg Deadline Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Latest TV News Wow! Emmy-Winning World Of Wonder Founders Fenton Bailey And Randy Barbato To Be Guests Of Honor At Sheffield DocFest Michael Fishman On 'The Conners' Series Finale Absence: "Thankful For The Gift Of Grief" "Frankly, I Never Heard Of You": A Testy Donald Trump Tussles With Terry Moran During Contentious ABC News Interview Marking POTUS' First 100 Days CBS Pushes New Matthew Gray Gubler Series 'Einstein' To 2026-27 Season Marketplace Newswire Deadline About Us Advertise Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility AdChoices California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Sitemap TV Film Awards Box Office Business International Connect with Us Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks Have a Tip? We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Send Us a Tip Stay in the Know Sign up for our breaking news alerts Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. PMC Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Site Close the menu deadline-logo-svg TV Expand the sub-menu Castings Ratings Late-Night Primetime Pilot Panic Film Expand the sub-menu Festivals Reviews Castings Acquisitions Documentary Awards Expand the sub-menu Awards Hub Emmys Oscars Tonys Box Office Expand the sub-menu International B.O. Specialty B.O. Broadway B.O. Business Expand the sub-menu Politics Legal Executives Agencies International Expand the sub-menu Festivals Film TV International Insider Video Expand the sub-menu Trailers The Actor's Side Behind The Lens The Process More Expand the sub-menu Obituaries Theater Music Podcasts Insider Follow Us Alerts & Newsletters Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertise About Us Give us feedback Leave us a tip Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. ad