Google's Incredible YouTube Purchase 15 Years Later Skip to content News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Live Search Search Please fill out this field. Search Search Please fill out this field. News News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Investing Best Online Brokers Best Stock Screeners Best Robo Advisors Best Investment Apps Best Brokers for ETFs Best Crypto Exchanges Best Gold IRAs Best IRAs Best Bitcoin IRAs View All Banking Banking Best CD Rates Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best 1 Year CD Rates Best 6 Month CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Best 3 Month CD Rates Best 18 Month CD Rates Best Savings Account for Kids View All Personal Finance Personal Finance Best Savings Account Bonuses Best Bank Account Bonuses Best High Yield Checking Accounts Best Tax Relief Companies Best Debt Relief Companies Best Small Business Bank Accounts Best Cash Advance Apps Best Credit Repair Companies Best Credit Unions View All Loans Loans Best Mortgage Rates Best Auto Loan Rates Best Personal Loans Best Bad Credit Loans Best Emergency Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans With No Fees Best Auto Refinance Loans Best HELOC Loans View All Insurance Insurance Best Affordable Health Insurance Best Dental Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Small Business Insurance Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Best Universal Life Insurance Best Dental Insurance for Implants Best Health Insurance Companies Best Disability Insurance View All Simulator Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Follow Us Company News Tech Sector News Google's Incredible YouTube Purchase 15 Years Later By Lucas Downey Full Bio Lucas Downey is the co-founder of MAPsignals.com, and an Investopedia Academy instructor. Learn about our editorial policies Published September 02, 2021 03:54 PM EDT Close Nearly 15 years ago, Alphabet Inc.'s ( GOOGL , GOOG ) Google purchased YouTube for the hefty sum of $1.65 billion. The actual date the news hit was Oct. 9, 2006. That may seem like a small sum for the behemoth that YouTube is today. But back then, the video site had been around for less than two years—even if it was growing like a weed. Key Takeaways Google purchased YouTube for $1.65 billion nearly 15 years ago. It has been a tremendous success for parent company Alphabet, now contributing nearly 11% to overall revenue. Big Money keeps plowing into Alphabet shares. This is back when there wasn't any major video sites on the net. However, when YouTube came on the scene, it made big waves with users … and that growth hasn't stopped. According to Britannica, the number of videos available passed 25 million in March 2006. That's after the site went live in December 2005. Fast forward to today, and some estimate that there are tens of billions of videos on the platform! That's insane growth. But there's even more to the story because reports are now saying that YouTube's music service has recently passed 50 million paying subscribers. So, all of this YouTube growth got me thinking: how good of a purchase was this for Google? Logically it was a great investment … but how much so? To answer that, we'll look at two figures: YouTube's annual revenues and their revenue contribution to Alphabet's overall business. Then finally we'll do what we always do: glance over the Big Money picture of the stock to get some clues for what's ahead. Up first, let's dive into YouTube's yearly revenues. In 2020 alone, the video sharing-service raked in nearly $20 billion. Compare that to just over $8 billion in 2017: Statista So, nearly 15 years after Google purchased YouTube, Alphabet is doing nearly 11 times that figure in annual revenue. Talk about a great purchase! Now let's look at the revenue contribution to Alphabet. In 2017, Alphabet had revenues of nearly $137 billion, so YouTube's revenue was almost 6% of the whole pie. But get this: YouTube represented nearly 11% of Alphabet's $182 billion in revenue in 2020. YouTube has clearly been accelerating Alphabet's growth. Maybe this is one of the main reasons that shares of Alphabet have been on a tear recently. The stock has gained 259% since 2017. And this happened alongside a lot of Big Money rushing into the shares. I track Big Money ramping into the best quality stocks. And Alphabet has been an all-star. Companies that grow revenues and profits tend to attract smart investors. Unsurprisingly, GOOGL shares have the qualities that attract that activity. To show you what I mean, here's a chart depicting a few of those times when the stock ramped in price on outsized volumes: TradingView.com The Bottom Line So there you have it: YouTube has been a tremendous success for Alphabet. It now represents nearly 11% of Alphabet's overall revenues. Odds are that its contribution will continue to grow. The stock has been a one-way train higher for years. Companies that make attractive purchases tend to reward shareholders. And that's the case for Alphabet. The Big Money trend hasn't slowed, indicating that shares could break the elusive $3,000 level soon. Disclosure: The author holds long positions in GOOG, GOOGL in personal and managed accounts at the time of publication. Do you have a news tip for Investopedia reporters? Please email us at tips@investopedia.com Take the Next Step to Invest Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Partner Links Related Articles Intel Stock Jumps as Chipmaker Reportedly Plans To Cut Over 20% of Staff Intel, TSMC Set To Form Chipmaking Joint Venture in the US, Report Says Apple Leads Magnificent 7 Stocks Lower as 'Higher Than Expected' Trump Tariffs Land United Microelectronics Stock Pops on Report of Possible GlobalFoundries Deal OpenAI Closes Up to $40B Funding Round, Valuing ChatGPT Maker at $300B Meta Signs on to Be UFC's First 'Fan Technology Partner' Meta Seeks White House Assistance in Handling EU Regulations, Report Says Beijing's Enforcement of Energy Rules Could Hit Nvidia's China Sales, Report Says Nvidia Considers Massive US Supply Chain Expansion, Report Says Watch Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang Live Today Here Google-Wiz Deal Talks Are Back On, WSJ Report Says Nvidia Says It Will Make AI Supercomputers in US, With $500B Commitment to AI Infrastructure Nvidia, xAI to Join BlackRock and Microsoft's $30 Billion AI Infrastructure Fund Comcast Stock Drops as Broadband, Cable Subscribers Decline Amazon, Google, Meta Among Companies Backing Effort to Triple Nuclear Production What Analysts Think of Google Parent Alphabet's Stock Ahead of Earnings About Us Terms of Service Dictionary Editorial Policy Advertise News Privacy Policy Contact Us Careers Your Privacy Choices # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Investopedia is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies