WhatsApp: Facebook acquires messaging service in $19bn deal | Facebook | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us UK US politics World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Football Newsletters Business Environment UK politics Science Tech Global development Obituaries The Facebook and WhatsApp app icons are displayed on an iPhone. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images View image in fullscreen The Facebook and WhatsApp app icons are displayed on an iPhone. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images Facebook This article is more than 11 years old WhatsApp: Facebook acquires messaging service in $19bn deal This article is more than 11 years old Massive purchase is Facebook’s largest ever and comes after Google reportedly made $1bn offer for the company last year WhatsApp: profile of the fast-growing messaging service Dominic Rushe in New York Thu 20 Feb 2014 02.40 EST First published on Wed 19 Feb 2014 17.38 EST Share Facebook announced the purchase of the mobile messaging service WhatsApp on Wednesday, in a $19bn deal that represents the social media company’s biggest acquisition yet. Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, described five-year-old WhatsApp as an “incredibly valuable” service that was well on its way to connecting 1 billion people around the world. The deal is a big bet for Facebook, which has until recently struggled to convince investors of its strategy for mobile. WhatsApp has more than 400m users around the world and claims it is adding more than 1 million new registered users a day. It allows unlimited free text-messaging and picture sending between users and is among the world’s most downloaded mobile apps. Facebook’s successful bid comes after Google reportedly made a $1bn offer for the company last year. “WhatsApp is on a path to connect 1 billion people. The services that reach that milestone are all incredibly valuable,” said Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook founder and CEO. “I’ve known Jan [Koum founder and CEO] for a long time and I’m excited to partner with him and his team to make the world more open and connected.” Koum said: “WhatsApp’s extremely high user engagement and rapid growth are driven by the simple, powerful and instantaneous messaging capabilities we provide. We’re excited and honoured to partner with Mark and Facebook as we continue to bring our product to more people around the world.” Facebook is making the purchase in a mix of cash and stock. WhatsApp will receive $12bn in Facebook shares $4bn in cash and an additional $3bn in restricted shares that will be paid out to executives at a later date. The company will operate as an autonomous unit. The company’s ownership structure has not been disclosed but one Silicon Valley source said he believed WhatsApp employed fewer than 100 people. “Probably five people are going to be rich beyond belief, the rest are going to be rich and there’s an admin assistant who right now is picking out the colour of her Lamborghini,” he said. The massive acquisition - Facebook’s largest ever - comes as tech firms are fighting to build their mobile businesses. WhatsApp is particularly big in Europe and Latin America where its market penetration is thought to top 80% in countries including Brazil, Germany, Portugal and Spain. Last year Facebook made an unsuccessful $3bn bid for SnapChat, a service that sends messages that erase themselves after a short period. The social media firm is making the move as WeChat, owned by China’s Tencent, is rapidly building its service in the west. “This is the new generation of messaging services,” said Marcos Sanchez, vice president of App Annie, an analyst specialising in mobile technology. “Facebook understands there is a generational shift in the way people connect.” Facebook faltered after its share sale in May 2012 as analysts worried the company was losing out as its users moved to mobile. It has since recovered and has concentrating on building up its mobile business. But the company has also warned that teenagers are cooling on its service. Sanchez said that the “social messaging” services like WhatsApp, WeChat and Snapchat were attracting a younger audience. In China the services have even been linked to bank accounts and can be used to make purchases at stores and restaurants including McDonalds. “Younger users seem to prefer something more ephemeral, something that changes moment by moment,” he said. “WhatsApp gives Facebook a major player in that space.” The WhatsApp purchase price marks a new height in an increasingly frenzied technology scene. On Tuesday King, maker of the phenomenally popular Candy Crush Saga mobile game, announced a stock market floatation that would value the firm at more than $5.5bn. Last month Google paid $3.2bn for Nest, maker of “smart” home appliances like thermostats and burglar alarms. Koum and his co-founder Brian Acton met while at Yahoo in 1997 and launched the service in 2009. By 2011 users were sending more than a billion essages a day on the service. “ Doctors in India are using WhatsApp to instantly send electrocardiogram pictures of patients who’ve suffered heart attacks, saving valuable time and potentially lives,” Koum wrote on the company blog last year. “ In the mountains of Madrid , rescuers used WhatsApp to locate and save lost hikers. And today, as I follow the unfolding political crisis in Ukraine, the place where I was born and lived until the age of sixteen, I can’t help but hope that the next great WhatsApp story will be about people using the service to speak their mind and stand up for their basic rights.” 10 key numbers $19bn - Price being paid by Facebook 55 - number of WhatsApp founders and employees 450m - number of people using the service each month 70% - proportion of those users active on a given day 1m - new registered users per day 1bn - WhatsApp’s target for number of users 19bn - messages sent via WhatsApp each day 34bn - messages received via WhatsApp each day $1.82 - the amount by whicvh Facebook shares fell after the deal $2bn - the ‘break fee’ Facebook will pay to WhatsApp if the deal fails to go through 2009 - year WhatsApp was founded $1bn - value of Facebook’s previous biggest deal, Instagram Explore more on these topics Facebook Apps Telecoms Mergers, acquisitions and funding Social media Digital media Chat and messaging apps news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Mark Zuckerberg goes to Barcelona to make mobile friends 23 Feb 2014 … … comments Why I've been using WhatsApp for years 20 Feb 2014 … … comments Why is WhatsApp worth up to $19bn to Facebook? 20 Feb 2014 WhatsApp: Facebook stock slides then recovers after news of $19bn deal 21 Feb 2014 … … comments Mark Zuckerberg's full statement on Facebook buying WhatsApp 20 Feb 2014 Facebook turned down WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton for job in 2009 20 Feb 2014 … … comments What is WhatsApp? What has Facebook got for $19bn? 20 Feb 2014 … … comments UK should expect first interest rate rise in spring 2015, BoE policymaker warns - as it happened 20 Feb 2014 … … comments Could even Facebook become a convert to privacy? 24 Feb 2014 … … comments Comments (…) Sign in or create your Guardian account to join the discussion Most viewed Most viewed UK US politics World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Football Newsletters Business Environment UK politics Science Tech Global development Obituaries News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)