List of winners for the 90th Academy Awards – The Mercury News Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 57°F Friday, April 25th 2025 Today's e-Edition Home Page News News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety California News National News World News Politics Education Environment Science Health Mr. Roadshow Transportation Weather Local Bay Area San Jose Santa Clara County Peninsula San Mateo County Alameda County Santa Cruz County Sal Pizarro Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters to the Editor Commentary Cartoons Election Endorsements Sports Sports San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Raiders Athletics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes Bay FC College Sports Wilner Hotline High School Sports Other Sports Sports Columnists Sports Blogs Golden State Valkyries Things To Do Entertainment Things To Do Restaurants, Food and Drink Celebrities TV Streaming Movies Music Theater Lifestyle Cannabis Advice Travel Pets and Animals Comics Puzzles and Games Horoscopes Event Calendar Business Business Housing Economy Technology Best Reviews SiliconValley.com Marketplace Branded Content Partner Content BayArea.com Real Estate Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Advertise Log In Logout Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Entertainment | List of winners for the 90th Academy Awards Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Log In Search 57°F Friday, April 25th 2025 Today's e-Edition Entertainment Things To Do Food & Drink Celebrities TV Movies Music Advice Travel Pets & Animals Event Calendar Trending: Jimmy Butler injury San Jose’s festival season Cal Fire’s Hercules Phish’s 2nd SF show Oakland FBI raids Condo fraud scheme Breaking News FBI director says a judge accused of helping someone evade immigration agents has been arrested Things To Do Entertainment List of winners for the 90th Academy Awards Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) HOLLYWOOD, CA - MARCH 04:  Actor Sam Rockwell accepts Best Suppoorting Actor for 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri' onstage at the 90th Annual Academy Awards at the Dolby Theatre at Hollywood & Highland Center on March 4, 2018 in Hollywood, California.  (Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty Images) HOLLYWOOD, CA - MARCH 04:  Actor Sam Rockwell (L), winner of the Best Supporting Actor award for 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri,' and actor Viola Davis pose in the press room during the 90th Annual Academy Awards at Hollywood & Highland Center on March 4, 2018 in Hollywood, California.  (Photo by Frazer Harrison/Getty Images) Presenter Laura Dern, center, poses with Dan Cogan, left, and Bryan Fogel, winners of the award for best documentary feature for "Icarus," in the press room at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP) Margot Robbie, left, reacts as Allison Janney wins the award for best performance by an actress in a supporting role for "I, Tonya" at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Allison Janney accepts the award for best performance by an actress in a supporting role for "I, Tonya" at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Kobe Bryant, left, and Glen Keane accept the award for best animated short for "Dear Basketball" at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Kobe Bryant, left, and Glen Keane accept the award for best animated short for "Dear Basketball" at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. BB-8 appears on right. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Darla K. Anderson, center, and from back left, Adrian Molina, Anthony Gonzalez, Gael Garcia Bernal, Benjamin Bratt, and Lee Unkrich accept the award for best animated feature film for "Coco" at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Adrian Molina, from left, Lee Unkrich, and Darla K. Anderson accept the award for best animated feature film for "Coco" at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) HOLLYWOOD, CA - MARCH 04:  Screenwriter James Ivory accepts Best Adapted Screenplay for 'Call Me by Your Name' onstage during the 90th Annual Academy Awards at the Dolby Theatre at Hollywood & Highland Center on March 4, 2018 in Hollywood, California.  (Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty Images) Kristen Anderson-Lopez, left, and Robert Lopez accept the award for best original song for "Remember Me" from "Coco" at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Nicole Kidman, left, presents Jordan Peele with the award for best original screenplay for "Get Out" at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Jordan Peele accepts the award for best original screenplay for "Get Out" at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Gisele Schmidt, left, kisses husband Gary Oldman, winner of the award for best performance by an actor in a leading role for "Darkest Hour" at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Gary Oldman accepts the award for best performance by an actor in a leading role for "Darkest Hour" at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Frances McDormand accepts the award for best performance by an actress in a leading role for "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Frances McDormand accepts the award for best performance by an actress in a leading role for "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Guillermo del Toro and the cast and crew of "The Shape of Water" accept the award for best picture at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Guillermo del Toro and the cast and crew of "The Shape of Water" accept the award for best picture at the Oscars on Sunday, March 4, 2018, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Show Caption 1 of 19 HOLLYWOOD, CA - MARCH 04:  Actor Sam Rockwell accepts Best Suppoorting Actor for 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri' onstage at the 90th Annual Academy Awards at the Dolby Theatre at Hollywood & Highland Center on March 4, 2018 in Hollywood, California.  (Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty Images) Expand By Associated Press | ap@dfmdev.com UPDATED: March 5, 2018 at 4:06 AM PST By The Associated Press List of winners for the 90th Academy Awards presented Sunday by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences: Best Picture: “The Shape of Water.” Actor: Gary Oldman, “Darkest Hour.” Actress: Frances McDormand, “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.” Supporting Actor: Sam Rockwell, “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.” Supporting Actress: Allison Janney, “I, Tonya.” Directing: “The Shape of Water,” Guillermo del Toro. Foreign Language Film: “A Fantastic Woman,” Chile. Adapted Screenplay: “Call Me by Your Name.” Original Screenplay: “Get Out.” Production Design: “The Shape of Water.” Cinematography: “Blade Runner 2049.” Sound Mixing: “Dunkirk.” Sound Editing: “Dunkirk.” Original Score: “The Shape of Water,” Alexandre Desplat. Original Song: “Remember Me” from “Coco.” Documentary Feature: “Icarus.” Documentary (short subject): “Heaven Is a Traffic Jam on the 405.” Related Articles Conan O’Brien will return as Oscars host in 2026 Adrien Brody’s reputation wasn’t ‘the greatest’ ahead of ‘abominable’ Oscars speech: experts Why Gene Hackman, but not Michelle Trachtenberg, made cut for Oscars In Memoriam Oscars 2025: Top moments from the night according to social media What people were Googling during the Oscars Film Editing: “Dunkirk.” Makeup and Hairstyling: “Darkest Hour.” Animated Short Film: “Dear Basketball.” Live Action Short Film: “The Silent Child.” Animated Feature Film: “Coco.” Visual Effects: “Blade Runner 2049.” Costume Design: Mark Bridges, “Phantom Thread.” ___ For full coverage of the awards season, visit: https://apnews.com/tag/AwardsSeason Originally Published: March 4, 2018 at 8:53 PM PST Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Report an error Policies and Standards Contact Us Most Popular Most Popular Asking Eric: I’m past 60 and my biological clock is ticking. What’s my next step? Asking Eric: I'm past 60 and my biological clock is ticking. What's my next step? Review: Phish accomplishes something so impressive in San Francisco Review: Phish accomplishes something so impressive in San Francisco Jimmy Butler injury update: Warriors forward “in serious jeopardy” for Game 3, per report Jimmy Butler injury update: Warriors forward "in serious jeopardy" for Game 3, per report Dear Abby: Her air freshener habit has led to an unexpected problem Dear Abby: Her air freshener habit has led to an unexpected problem Asking Eric: My crush on the supermarket guy has upended my life Asking Eric: My crush on the supermarket guy has upended my life Festival season gets underway this weekend in San Jose Festival season gets underway this weekend in San Jose Asking Eric: The mother was flustered by a seemingly simple question Asking Eric: The mother was flustered by a seemingly simple question California economy is now the world’s 4th-largest. But other measures are grim. California economy is now the world's 4th-largest. But other measures are grim. Prospects dim for investors in San Jose, Fremont projects tied to alleged fraud Prospects dim for investors in San Jose, Fremont projects tied to alleged fraud Builder Barry Swenson believed in struggling San Jose, Santa Cruz downtowns Builder Barry Swenson believed in struggling San Jose, Santa Cruz downtowns More in Entertainment Actor Jon Voight to present Donald Trump with plan to fix Hollywood How a surprising Shakespeare discovery was found in a letter used as scrap paper Festival season gets underway this weekend in San Jose Bay Area throwing a huge, free celebration for dance lovers 2018 March 4 News Alerts Email Newsletters Today’s e-Edition Mobile Apps Site Map Marketplace Place an Obituary Place a Real Estate Ad Lottery Contact Us Digital Access FAQ Join our Team Special Sections Sponsor a Group Get Sponsored Access Privacy Policy Accessibility Advertise With Us Network Advertising Daily Ads Place a Legal Notice Public Notices Monster.com Subscribe Member Services Manage Subscriptions The Mercury News Store Archive Search Reprints Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright © 2025 MediaNews Group BAY AREA'S HOME PAGE Close