Nestlé’s New GoodNes Skill for Amazon Alexa Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website. Skip to main content Change location You are currently on the Nestlé USA website Global www.nestle.com Africa & Middle East Central-West Africa East & Southern Africa Region Iran Israel (Osem) Middle East & North Africa AR Middle East & North Africa EN Türkiye Americas Argentina Bolivia Brazil Canada EN Canada FR Caribbean Central America Chile Colombia Dominican Republic Ecuador Mexico Paraguay Peru United States Uruguay Venezuela Asia & Oceania Australia Bangladesh China Mainland, Greater China Hong Kong SAR, Greater China EN Hong Kong SAR, Greater China ZH India Indonesia Japan Korea Malaysia New Zealand Pakistan Philippines Singapore Sri Lanka Taiwan, Greater China Thailand EN Thailand TH Vietnam Europe Austria Belgium FR Belgium NL Bosnia & Herzegovina Bulgaria Croatia Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Hungary Ireland Italy Latvia Lithuania Macedonia Malta Moldova RO Moldova RU Netherlands Norway Poland Portugal Romania Russia Serbia Slovakia Slovenia Spain ES Spain CA Sweden Switzerland DE Switzerland FR Türkiye UK Ukraine Dark mode i Dark mode info You are in Nestlé USA Contact us Contribute to a more sustainable experience by switching to dark mode. Find out more . Sort by Most Relevant Last Updated Search Search Main navigation Home Back Go to Home About us Back Nestlé in the U.S. consists of four main businesses: Nestlé USA, Nespresso, Nestlé Health Science, and Nestlé Purina PetCare Company. Go to About us How We Work Back Go to How We Work Parental Leave Back Go to Parental Leave Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Back Go to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Nestlé Needs YOU Back Go to Nestlé Needs YOU Report your concerns Back Go to Report your concerns Header persistent submenu Contact Us Speak Up Our Stories Back Go to Our Stories Sustainability Back Our 2030 Ambition: Strive for zero environmental impact in our operations. Go to Sustainability Header persistent submenu Contact Us Speak Up Innovation Back Everything we do starts with you. Wherever you choose to shop, our goal is to delight and surprise you with products you’ll love – from reimagined classics to brand new product innovations. Go to Innovation Communities Back Supporting Access to Opportunity, Nutrition, and a Healthy Planet Go to Communities Header persistent submenu Contact Us Speak Up Brands Back Explore brands from Nestle in the United States, from DiGiorno Pizza to Nespresso Coffee, Stouffer's meals to Purina Beyond petfood, and Gerber baby foods to San Pellegrino water. Go to Brands Baking Back Go to Baking Coffee Back Go to Coffee Culinary, Chilled & Frozen Food Back Go to Culinary, Chilled & Frozen Food Drinks Back Go to Drinks Food Service Back Go to Food Service Health Science Back Go to Health Science Infant Nutrition Back Go to Infant Nutrition International Products Back Go to International Products Pet Care Back Go to Pet Care Premium Waters Back Go to Premium Waters Header persistent submenu Contact Us Speak Up Ask Nestlé Back Frequently Asked Questions about topics such as climate, nutrition, community service, animal welfare, and careers at Nestle in the United States Go to Ask Nestlé Header persistent submenu Contact Us Speak Up Secondary menu Careers Back Go to Careers Media Back Explore our latest news, find press releases and visual assets, or reach out to our media contacts. Go to Media Press Releases Back Go to Press Releases Media Contacts Back Go to Media Contacts Header persistent submenu Contact Us Speak Up Sort by Most Relevant Last Updated Search Search Header persistent submenu Contact Us Speak Up Home Media Latest News Nestlé’s New GoodNes Skill for Amazon Alexa Nestlé’s New GoodNes Skill for Amazon Alexa Share this page May 16, 2017 Launch marks the beginning of Nestlé’s efforts to enrich the kitchen experience using voice-assistant technologies Nestlé’s New GoodNes Skill for Amazon Alexa Launch marks the beginning of Nestlé’s efforts to enrich the kitchen experience using voice-assistant technologies Back to Press releases San Francisco, Calif. Nestlé is bringing Amazon Alexa customers a unique “visual voice browsing” experience for the kitchen with the debut of the GoodNes skill for Amazon Alexa. Alexa device customers can now enhance their cooking experience with voice instructions, and a visual guide that allows users to hear and see recipe steps in their paired web browser, along with access to nutritional information, ingredients, fun facts and how-to videos designed to help consumers learn new cooking techniques. The GoodNes skill for Amazon Alexa, available now in the Alexa Skills Store, allows users to activate top recipes from GoodNes.com, Nestlé USA’s resource to help consumers transform simple ingredients into delicious meals, snacks and drinks for all occasions. Customers can open the skill by saying, “Alexa, open GoodNes.” From there, they can ask further questions like “Alexa, what are the ingredients ,” “Alexa, tell me about nutritional information ” and “Alexa, what utensils will I need? ” and access interactive, voice-assisted visual guides and content to enjoy a richer cooking experience. The skill was developed by Nestlé’s Silicon Valley Innovation Outpost (SVIO) in San Francisco, and marks the beginning of their efforts to build new consumer experiences that elevate time spent in the kitchen. “We developed the GoodNes skill for Amazon Alexa to help digitally-enabled consumers looking for simpler, more convenient, and more inspirational meal solutions and guidance,” said Josh Baillon, Digital Innovation Manager. “This cooking skill is just one of many exciting innovations we are working on here at the SVIO.” “Customers love asking Alexa for help in the kitchen, so we’re thrilled that GoodNes is taking the cooking experience to the next level,” said Rob Pulciani, Director Amazon Alexa. “With the GoodNes skill, not only can customers easily ask Alexa for recipes and guidance, but they’ll also receive helpful on-screen guides and cues within a web browser on their laptop or tablet. We’re excited for customers to begin using this new functionality within the GoodNes skill for Amazon Alexa.” The GoodNes voice-assisted cooking skill for Amazon Alexa can be found in the Alexa store. Once the skill is enabled, users can link their account with their email to receive a link to their unique visual guide. The GoodNes visual guide is compatible with Chrome and Safari web browsers on tablets, laptops and desktop computers. For a look at how the GoodNes skill can assist your culinary experiences, take a look at this video . About Nestlé in the United States Nestlé in the United States is committed to being a trusted leader in nutrition, health and wellness. Our 51,000 employees in the United States are committed to enhancing quality of life, contributing to a healthier future for individuals and families, our communities and the planet. Nestlé in the United States offers a wide and varied portfolio of food and beverage products for people and their pets throughout their lives. Nestlé in the United States consists of eight main businesses: Nestlé USA, Nestlé Waters North America, Nestlé Nutrition, Nestlé Professional, Nespresso, Nestlé Health Science, Nestlé Skin Health and Nestlé Purina PetCare Company. The United States is Nestlé S.A.’s largest market with combined product sales in the United States totaling more than $27 billion in 2016. Media Contacts: Nestle USA, Inc. Edie Burge +1 818 551 3284 [email protected] . Share this page To The Top Mini Footer Compliance Concerns Let us know your concerns Speak Up Contact us Across the globe, Nestlé is here to help answer your queries Contact Us Nestlé We unlock the power of food to enhance quality of life for everyone, today and for generations to come nest-logo About Us About Nestlé in the U.S Innovation Our Stories Ask Nestlé CA Transparency in Supply Chains Act About Us About Nestlé in the U.S Innovation Our Stories Ask Nestlé CA Transparency in Supply Chains Act Nestlé in Society Sustainability Communities Brands Baking Coffee Drinks Chilled & Frozen International Products Premium Waters Careers The Future of Work Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Parental Leave Search Careers Media Information Press Releases Media Contacts Videos Contact Us Contact Online Contact by Phone SHARE INFORMATION Share Price follow us on Nestlé USA Nestlé USA Nestlé USA Nestlé USA Nestlé USA Sub Footer Menu Contact us Careers Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Notice at Collection Terms & Conditions Coupon Redemption Policy Carbon efficiency Site map