The Last of Us Part II Remastered | The Last of Us Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In The Last of Us Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts The World Characters Ellie Williams Joel Miller Abby Anderson Tommy Miller Tess Servopoulos Marlene Dina Maria Miller Lev more... Groups FEDRA Fireflies Infected Washington Liberation Front Seraphites Jackson community Cannibals Hunters Rattlers more... Locations Austin Boston Lincoln Pittsburgh Jackson Silver Lake Salt Lake City Seattle more... Collectibles Artifacts Firefly pendants Comics Training manuals Trading cards Coins Tools Workbench Optional conversations Cordyceps brain infection Outbreak Day Timeline Main series The Last of Us Part I Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies DLC Transcripts The Last of Us Part II Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies Transcripts American Dreams Characters Groups Weapons Locations Issues Left Behind Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies Transcripts One Night Live Escape the Dark More... The Last of Us (2013) The Last of Us Remastered The Last of Us Part II Remastered The Official Podcast Halloween Horror Nights The Last of Us Complete The Last of Us Online The Board Game Cancelled film Merchandise HBO series Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Episodes Season 1 Season 2 Characters Joel Miller Ellie Williams Marlene Tommy Miller Tess Sarah Miller Bill Frank Riley more... Groups FEDRA Fireflies Infected Survivors Hunters Cannibals Jackson community Washington Liberation Front Seraphites more... Locations Austin Boston Kansas City Jackson Seattle more... More... Timeline Cordyceps brain infection Outbreak Day Transcripts HBO's Podcast Community About the wiki Administration Policies and guidelines Blocking guidelines Blogging policy Categorizing policy Deletion policy Discussions policy File policy Manual of style Spoiler policy User treatment policy more... Discord server Wiki Twitter In other languages Deutsch Español Français Italiano Polski Português do Brasil Русский External links Official website Naughty Dog's website The Last of Us subreddit Factions subreddit Uncharted Wiki Bandipedia, the Crash Bandicoot Wiki Jak and Daxter Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content The Last of Us Wiki 1,243 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts The World Characters Ellie Williams Joel Miller Abby Anderson Tommy Miller Tess Servopoulos Marlene Dina Maria Miller Lev more... Groups FEDRA Fireflies Infected Washington Liberation Front Seraphites Jackson community Cannibals Hunters Rattlers more... Locations Austin Boston Lincoln Pittsburgh Jackson Silver Lake Salt Lake City Seattle more... Collectibles Artifacts Firefly pendants Comics Training manuals Trading cards Coins Tools Workbench Optional conversations Cordyceps brain infection Outbreak Day Timeline Main series The Last of Us Part I Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies DLC Transcripts The Last of Us Part II Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies Transcripts American Dreams Characters Groups Weapons Locations Issues Left Behind Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies Transcripts One Night Live Escape the Dark More... The Last of Us (2013) The Last of Us Remastered The Last of Us Part II Remastered The Official Podcast Halloween Horror Nights The Last of Us Complete The Last of Us Online The Board Game Cancelled film Merchandise HBO series Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Episodes Season 1 Season 2 Characters Joel Miller Ellie Williams Marlene Tommy Miller Tess Sarah Miller Bill Frank Riley more... Groups FEDRA Fireflies Infected Survivors Hunters Cannibals Jackson community Washington Liberation Front Seraphites more... Locations Austin Boston Kansas City Jackson Seattle more... More... Timeline Cordyceps brain infection Outbreak Day Transcripts HBO's Podcast Community About the wiki Administration Policies and guidelines Blocking guidelines Blogging policy Categorizing policy Deletion policy Discussions policy File policy Manual of style Spoiler policy User treatment policy more... Discord server Wiki Twitter In other languages Deutsch Español Français Italiano Polski Português do Brasil Русский External links Official website Naughty Dog's website The Last of Us subreddit Factions subreddit Uncharted Wiki Bandipedia, the Crash Bandicoot Wiki Jak and Daxter Wiki in: Games English Español The Last of Us Part II Remastered Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) This article is about the remastered version of The Last of Us Part II . For other pages that may have a similar name, see The Last of Us (disambiguation) . The Last of Us Part II Remastered Developer(s) Naughty Dog Publisher(s) Sony Interactive Entertainment Designer(s) Anthony Newman (game director) Kurt Margenau (game director) Neil Druckmann (creative director) Writer(s) Neil Druckmann Halley Gross Artist(s) Erick Pangilinan Nate Wells Kenneth Sisno Composer(s) Gustavo Santaolalla Mac Quayle (additional music) Series The Last of Us Platforms PlayStation 5 Microsoft Windows [ 1 ] Release date(s) January 19, 2024 (PS5) April 3, 2025 (Microsoft Windows) Genre(s) Action-adventure, survival horror Mode(s) Single-player Rating(s) ESRB: M PEGI: 18 CERO: Z Media Blu-ray disc, digital download (via PSN) Input methods DualSense The Last of Us Part II Remastered is a third-person action-adventure survival horror video game developed by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment . It is a remastered version of the 2020 game The Last of Us Part II , featuring visual and technological improvements, new modes and content, scrapped levels, developer commentaries, expanded accessibility options, and more. It was released on January 19, 2024, for PlayStation 5 [ 2 ] and for Microsoft Windows on April 3, 2025. [ 1 ] Contents 1 Plot 2 Gameplay 3 Development 4 Release 4.1 Announcement 5 Reception 6 External links 7 Gallery 7.1 Promotional 7.2 Screenshots 7.3 Videos 8 References Plot [ ] Main article: The Last of Us Part II#Plot Gameplay [ ] Similar to the original game on PlayStation 4 , The Last of Us Part II Remastered is an action-adventure game with survival horror elements played from a third-person perspective. The remastered version features improved graphics, including native 4K output in Fidelity Mode and 1440p upscaled to 4K in Performance Mode for compatible displays, an unlocked framerate option for displays that support VRR, increased texture resolution, increased level of detail distances, improved shadow quality, animation sampling rate, and more. Leveraging the hardware of the PlayStation 5, the game also includes improved loading times and incorporates haptic feedback and adaptive triggers integration with the DualSense wireless controller. Accessibility options were also expanded, including descriptive audio and a speech to vibration feature, using the DualSense controller to indicate character speech and cadence. The game introduces a number of new modes, including No Return , a roguelike survival gamemode featuring randomized encounters that allow players to experience The Last of Us Part II ' s combat in new ways. The mode includes a variety of playable characters (some of which are playable for the first time in The Last of Us franchise) who each come with their own traits to suit different playstyles. Players chart their own course on each run, choosing between various stealth and combat encounters against a range of enemies and bosses, and offers them a chance to decide what rewards they get after each encounter, how they upgrade their character, and more. Playable characters, along with their own skins , are unlocked as the player progresses through the mode. Players can also compete on a global leader board as part of a daily run. A second new mode, Guitar Free Play , is a standalone version of The Last of Us Part II ' s guitar minigame that was occasionally played throughout the story. It allows the player to freely play the minigame across a host of unlockable instruments, including audio FX pedals to modulate their performances. Additionally, players can play as different characters and customize the backdrop with several in-game locations from the story. Also included is a mode known as Lost Levels , which allows players to check out three unfinished playable sequences previously cut from early development of the original game. Each level includes embedded developer commentary to give them richer context. Several new features were adopted from the release of The Last of Us Part I , including an unlockable Speedrun Mode that allows players to record and post their best times. New unlockable bonus skins for Ellie, Abby, and their weapons were also added. Photo Mode also received additions, including dynamic lighting, frame forward, and gaze direction, as well as new frame and logo options. Additionally, the game includes newly-recorded director's commentary across the story's cinematics featuring director Neil Druckmann , narrative lead Halley Gross , and actors Troy Baker ( Joel Miller ), Ashley Johnson ( Ellie Williams ), and Laura Bailey ( Abby Anderson ). [ 2 ] Development [ ] Release [ ] Announcement [ ] On November 17, 2023, Naughty Dog announced The Last of Us Part II Remastered as an exclusive title for the PlayStation 5 with a set release date of January 19, 2024. Pre-orders were also announced, with availability beginning on December 5, that includes two retail editions: a Standard Edition with the base game and a W.L.F. Edition that includes a SteelBook display case, four enamel pins, a Washington Liberation Front patch, and a set of 47 Society of Champions trading cards , including eight limited edition holographic cards. Naughty Dog also revealed that players with the original PS4 version of The Last of Us Part II need to only pay $10 USD to digitally download the game on a PS5, with their save files importable onto the remastered version as well. However, owners of Part II ' s physical copy must own a PS5 with an optical drive for it to work, and must ensure they input their PS4 disc into their PS5 every time in order to download or play the remastered version. [ 2 ] Reception [ ] Metacritic summarised that The Last of Us Part II Remastered received universal acclaim from critics and players alike. [ 3 ] According to OpenCritic , 89% of critics recommended the game. [ 4 ] External links [ ] The Last of Us Part II Remastered on Steam Gallery [ ] Promotional [ ] Horizontal logo Vertical logo Promotional wallpaper WLF Edition graphic Upgrade path graphic Screenshots [ ] A close-up of Ellie Abby encounters the rat king Abby looking down on Seattle from the Seraphites ' bridge Younger Abby and Owen talking in the aquarium Abby and Owen overlooking Jackson Ellie anesthetized on an operating table at the Fireflies ' lab The Seraphite village of Haven engulfed in flames Dina comforting a distraught Ellie Joel playing the guitar in the Guitar Free Play mode Ellie overlooking Seattle Lev fighting off infected in the No Return mode A close-up of Joel Abby outside of the Lakehill Seattle Hospital Abby and Lev walking through Seattle Joel being restrained by the Salt Lake crew Abby fighting infected on horseback Abby, Lev, and Yara escaping from the Seraphites Jesse and Ellie in a truck crashing into a lake Abby and her father Jerry walking through a Salt Lake park Abby following Lev and Yara through a forest Ellie and Dina arriving to Seattle on horseback Abby walking through Seattle Videos [ ] The Last of Us Part II Remastered - Announce Trailer - PS5 Games References [ ] ↑ 1.0 1.1 Dornbush, Jonathon (December 12, 2024). "The Last of Us Part II Remastered Comes to PC April 3, 2025" . Naughty Dog . Retrieved December 12, 2024. ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 Dornbush, Jonathon (November 17, 2023). "The Last of Us Part II Remastered Coming to PS5 on January 19, 2024" . Naughty Dog . Retrieved November 17, 2023. ↑ TLOU Part II Remastered, Metacritic reviews , (Accessed February 28, 2024). ↑ The Last of Us Part II Remastered, OpenCritic , (Accessed February 28, 2024). v · d · e Real world subjects Video games The Last of Us ( Factions MP · Remastered · Part I ) · The Last of Us: Left Behind · The Last of Us Part II ( Remastered ) · The Last of Us Online (cancelled) Compilations The Last of Us Complete Books and comics The Last of Us: American Dreams ( Issue 1 · Issue 2 · Issue 3 · Issue 4 ) · The Last of Us Strategy Guide ( Remastered ) · The Art of The Last of Us · The Last of Us: The Poster Collection · The Art of The Last of Us Part II Screen adaptations HBO's The Last of Us ( Season 1 · Season 2 · Season 3 ) · The Last of Us film (cancelled) · The Last of Us animated short film (cancelled) Stage adaptations The Last of Us: One Night Live Tabletop games The Last of Us: Escape the Dark · The Last of Us: The Board Game (cancelled) Podcast series The Official The Last of Us Podcast · HBO's The Last of Us Podcast ( Season 1 · Season 2 ) Web series The Last of Us Development Series · Grounded: Making The Last of Us · From Dreams: The Making of The Last of Us: Left Behind · The Last of Us: The Definitive Playthrough · Inside The Last of Us Part II · The Last of Us Revisited · The Last of Us: Inside the Episode · Building The Last of Us · Grounded II: Making The Last of Us Part II · The Last of Us: Game Nights Location-based entertainment Halloween Horror Nights · Future Immersive Entertainment Concept Music The Last of Us Original Soundtrack · The Last of Us Part II Original Soundtrack · The Last of Us Part II: Covers and Rarities · The Last of Us: Season 1 Soundtrack · The Sounds of the Fireflies Miscellaneous The Last of Us Official Map App · The Last of Us Stickers · Merchandise Events Firefly Pendant Contests · The Last of Us Day ( 2019 · 2020 · 2021 · 2022 · 2023 · 2024 ) · The Last of Us Design Contest · Photo Mode Contest · Play Like Ellie · The Last of Us Lock-in · Through the Valley Cover Challenge · PlayStation 4 Photo & Movie Share Contest Companies Naughty Dog · HBO Categories Categories : Games Languages Español Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Horror The Last of Us Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. The Last of Us Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab