Serena Williams encouraged by her Wimbledon performance despite defeat | Wimbledon 2018 | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Serena Williams congratulates Angelique Kerber after losing 3-6, 3-6 to the German in the Wimbledon final. Photograph: Oli Scarff/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Serena Williams congratulates Angelique Kerber after losing 3-6, 3-6 to the German in the Wimbledon final. Photograph: Oli Scarff/AFP/Getty Images Wimbledon 2018 This article is more than 6 years old Serena Williams encouraged by her Wimbledon performance despite defeat This article is more than 6 years old American lost to Angelique Kerber but going ‘in right direction’ Delay because of men’s semi-final had no impact, says Williams Sean Ingle at Wimbledon Sat 14 Jul 2018 14.16 EDT Last modified on Sat 14 Jul 2018 17.04 EDT Share Serena Williams described the two‑hour delay in the Wimbledon women’s singles final as a “necessary evil” but insisted it had no impact on her surprise defeat against Angelique Kerber. The women’s final eventually got under way at 4.16pm, the delay caused by the men’s semi-final between Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal running deep into the fifth set, having resumed at 1pm. But when questioned whether the late start was disrespectful to the women’s game, Williams shook her head. “It definitely didn’t have any impact on me,” the American said. “It was a necessary evil. Angelique Kerber wins Wimbledon title after victory over Serena Williams Read more “I don’t think they could put the men’s semi-final behind the women because they have to come back the next day. They didn’t finish their match. They had to finish. It had to be completed.” Williams was far from her best in her 3-6, 3-6 defeat, but said she was encouraged by her performances at Wimbledon , which was her fourth tournament back after the birth of her daughter Alexis Olympia in September. “These two weeks were so mental for me,” she said. “I won matches. I was really mentally fighting for literally every match. I did the best that I could every match that I played. I feel like I’m taking the steps in the right direction. I took a giant step at Wimbledon. “This is literally just the beginning. My journey has just begun, but I think these two weeks have really showed me that I can compete – and that I can come out and be a contender to win grand slams.” Williams vowed to come back even stronger at the US Open next month, telling reporters: “I’m already deciphering what I need to improve on, what I need to do, what I did wrong, why I did it wrong, how I can do better – that whole madness that goes on in my mind. Then I’m saying, OK, I do improve with losses. We’ll see how it goes.” When the American was asked what she would tell her daughter about the time she played tennis in front of the Duchesses of Cambridge and Sussex, and make it a happy story, she smiled. “Well, I think it was a happy story,” Williams said. “But I’ll probably change the ending.” Meanwhile, Kerber, who lost against Williams two years ago, said she was delighted with securing her first Wimbledon title. “It is just a dream come true,” the German said. “I knew I had to play my best tennis against a champion like Serena.” This is the archive of The Observer up until 21/04/2025. The Observer is now owned and operated by Tortoise Media. Explore more on these topics Wimbledon 2018 The Observer Wimbledon Tennis US sports Serena Williams news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)