Avengers: The Kang Dynasty Loses Director Destin Daniel Cretton × Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage Read Next: ‘The Narrow Road to the Deep North’ Producers On Bringing Richard Flanagan’s Epic Book to the Screen: “A Really Important Australian Story” Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up Heat Vision Home Movies Movie News ‘Avengers: The Kang Dynasty’ Loses Director Destin Daniel Cretton The 'Shang-Chi' filmmaker remains in the Marvel fold for its TV series 'Wonder Man.' By Aaron Couch , Borys Kit November 15, 2023 11:54am Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Destin Daniel Cretton will no longer direct 'Avengers: The Kang Dynasty.' Matt Winkelmeyer/Getty Images Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Logo text Destin Daniel Cretton is no longer taking a trip to the multiverse as director of Avengers: The Kang Dynasty , The Hollywood Reporter has confirmed. Cretton had been attached since last year, with the news announced on the heels of San Diego Comic-Con. Jeff Loveness, who wrote the Kang-centric feature Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania , penned a draft of the movie, though it is unclear if another scribe will take a stab now that the writers strike has ended. Jonathan Majors is due to play Kang, a time-traveling villain with many variants across the multiverse, although the actor’s legal troubles remain among the question marks bedeviling the project. A version of Kang first appeared in the season one finale of Loki , with another serving as the antagonist of Quantumania . The final moments of the film revealed an entire Council of Kangs, featuring dozens of iterations of the villain played by Majors, who was central to Loki season two, though his future with Marvel has been subject of speculation as he awaits trial in New York on assault and harassment charges. Related Stories Movies 'Avengers: The Kang Dynasty' Enlists 'Loki' Creator Michael Waldron Movies 'Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania' Writer Jeff Loveness Talks Deleted Hope Story, Jennifer Coolidge's Potential Role and 'Avengers: The Kang Dynasty' One issue that factored into Cretton departing is the shifting release date for Kang Dynasty . The feature project was initially slated to open in May 2025 but has been pushed back to May 2026. Cretton, who directed Marvel’s Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings , will focus on developing a sequel for that film. He is also in business with Marvel as a director and executive producer on its TV series Wonder Man , which was shut down by the strikes but will continue filming in the coming weeks. Kang Dynasty is due out May 1, 2026. Marvel’s follow-up, Avengers: Secret Wars , arrives a year later. Like Kang , is does not have a director attached. Read More About: Avengers: The Kang Dynasty THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe Sign Up More from The Hollywood Reporter The Weeknd Jenna Ortega Has Plans to Direct a Script She’s Worked on for 10 Years Rob Reiner Why Kathy Bates Was “Crushed” ‘Misery’ Director Cut Gruesome Detail From Stephen King’s Novel Heat Vision Box Office: ‘Thunderbolts*’ to Kick Off Summer Season in Pivotal Moment for Marvel Studios Heat Vision ‘Thunderbolts*’: Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Geraldine Viswanathan Pitch a Hugh Jackman Run-In and Talk “Silly” ‘Seinfeld’ Curse Now You See Me Jesse Eisenberg Recruits New Magicians in ‘Now You See Me: Now You Don’t’ Trailer Terrence Howard Terrence Howard Turned Down Marvin Gaye Biopic Because He Didn’t Want to Kiss a Man: “I Would Cut My Lips Off” Logo text WEEKLY NEWSLETTER Get the scoops first! Breaking news and interviews on comics, sci-fi, horror and more Email Address Subscribe Today Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Essential Reads Box Office: 'Thunderbolts*' to Kick Off Summer Season in Pivotal Moment for Marvel Studios By Pamela McClintock 'Thunderbolts*': Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Geraldine Viswanathan Pitch a Hugh Jackman Run-In and Talk "Silly" 'Seinfeld' Curse By Brian Davids 'Andor' Creator Explains Why There Isn't More K-2SO in Season 2 By James Hibberd Mamoru Hosoda’s Anime Princess Film ‘Scarlet’ Lands December 2025 Release By Pamela McClintock The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up PMC Logo Most Popular Bath & Body Works' Hand Soaps Just Hit Their Lowest Price of the Season — Stock Up for $3 Each Mary J. Blige Sued By Her Former Stylist, Misa Hylton, For $5 Million NFL Rookie Signing Bonuses Jump Record 26% for 2025 Draft 'Flattering' Portrait that Putin Gifted to Trump Last Month Finally Unveiled You may also like The Best Yoga Mats for Any Practice, According to Instructors 1 year ago 181 Fremont’s Grand Penthouse Redefines Urban Luxury 1 hour ago Michelle Obama Says Trump Administration’s Immigration Policies “Keep Her Up At Night” 60 mins ago Xavi se convierte en el compositor del año más joven en los Premios ASCAP 2025 2 hours ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues E-edition Access The Hollywood Reporter About Us Media Kit Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage News Expand news menu Latest News Culture & Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Reviews Ratings Live Feed Heat Vision The Fien Print Music Expand music menu Grammys K-Corner Awards Expand awards menu News Awards Chatter Podcast Feinberg Forecast Behind The Screen The Race THR Presents Oscar Season Hub Lifestyle Expand lifestyle menu Person of Interest News Style Shopping Arts Real Estate Rambling Reporter Business Expand business menu THR, Esq Report Features Unions / Labor Film / TV Tax Credits Signings / Representation THR Charts Expand thr-charts menu Streaming Ratings Broadcast Ratings Weekend Box Office Chart More Essentials Expand more-essentials menu International News Video THR Podcasts Featured Voices Follow Us Follow THR on Facebook Follow THR on Instagram Follow THR on X Follow THR on YouTube Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Advertise Careers Contact Us Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. ad