Wimbledon 2019: Women's Final Winner, Score and Twitter Reaction Bleacher Report NFL Draft NFL NBA NHL CFB Shop Play Betting B/R Sports on Max 04:50 Featured Video NBA Comps for Top Bigs 👥 Romania's Simona Halep holds her trophy after defeating United States' Serena Williams in the women's singles final match on day twelve of the Wimbledon Tennis Championships in London, Saturday, July 13, 2019. (AP Photo/Tim Ireland) Tim Ireland/Associated Press Tennis Wimbledon 2019: Women's Final Winner, Score and Twitter Reaction Rob Blanchette Jul 13, 2019 Simona Halep defeated Serena Williams in the 2019 Wimbledon final on Saturday. The Romanian produced a world-class performance to win 6-2, 6-2 on Centre Court. Halep flew out of the blocks to claim the first set in just 26 minutes, and the No. 7 seed completed a famous victory by dominating the second. TOP NEWS NFL Power Rankings for Every Team After the 2025 NFL Draft Bleacher Report 14h 7 2025 NFL Draft Picks We Wish We Would Have Seen Bleacher Report 14h 2025 NBA Mock Draft with Lottery Simulation Sending Cooper Flagg to Eastern Conference Bleacher Report 14h Williams was strangely subdued during the match, but Halep's quality was at its maximum level throughout. Halep displayed no signs of nerves in the early stages, and the 27-year-old raced to a 3-0 lead in the opening set. Williams dropped her first two service games in the face of extreme pressure. The anticipation around Centre Court was palpable. The buzz from the crowd seemed to acknowledge a new champion was about to be crowned. Williams appeared stunned as she sat in her chair after losing the first set, and the seven-time Wimbledon champion briefly raised her level at the start of the second. However, Halep didn't miss a beat and she continued to lash her backhand into court with incredible accuracy. BBC Sport's Dan Walker was impressed by Halep's standard: Williams struggled to maintain her serve, winning just 59 per cent of points on her first serve compared to Halep's mark of 83 per cent. Halep also made just three unforced errors during the contest, while Williams' total of 26 was out of character. In the end, the Romanian was not intimidated by her illustrious opponent, and her mental strength, focus and physicality was clear for everyone to see. Halep's mobility was superior, with Williams unable to dominate on her serve as she usually does. While Williams was out of breath during the longer rallies, Halep appeared fresh throughout the final. Sports reporter Lindsay Gibbs hailed the new champion: It was the perfect display from the 2018 French Open winner, and Halep thanked her family after lifting the trophy. Williams was gracious as she congratulated Halep on her 56-minute victory, and she'll have to wait a little longer to equal Margaret Court's record of 24 Grand Slam titles. 04:50 NBA Comps for Top Bigs 👥 TOP NEWS Post-Draft NFL Power Rankings Bleacher Report 14h NFL Draft Picks We Wanted to See 👀 Bleacher Report 14h Latest Projections and Pro Comps ✍️ Bleacher Report 14h Ranking Top 10 Free Agents Post-Draft Bleacher Report 14h Way-Too-Early 2026 Mock Draft Bleacher Report 1d TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 10h Russini Says She Never Got Intel Browns Ranked Shedeur Sanders High on Draft Board Bleacher Report • 1d WWE Raw Results, Winners, Live Grades, Reaction, Highlights from April 28 ⚔️ Jey, Logan Paul on collision course  🍿 Ripley and Perez put on a show 📲 Tap for full results and analysis Bleacher Report • 11h Shedeur Sanders Reportedly Was Top QB on Giants' Board After Cam Ward Ahead of Draft Bleacher Report • 1d 1 Trade Every NBA Playoff Team Wishes It Could Make Right Now Bleacher Report • 7h Michael Porter Jr. Not Suspended for Leaving Bench During Nuggets-Clippers Skirmish Michael Porter Jr. not suspended Game 5 for leaving bench during skirmish TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 10h Russini Says She Never Got Intel Browns Ranked Shedeur Sanders High on Draft Board Bleacher Report • 1d WWE Raw Results, Winners, Live Grades, Reaction, Highlights from April 28 ⚔️ Jey, Logan Paul on collision course  🍿 Ripley and Perez put on a show 📲 Tap for full results and analysis Bleacher Report • 11h Shedeur Sanders Reportedly Was Top QB on Giants' Board After Cam Ward Ahead of Draft Bleacher Report • 1d 1 Trade Every NBA Playoff Team Wishes It Could Make Right Now Bleacher Report • 7h Michael Porter Jr. Not Suspended for Leaving Bench During Nuggets-Clippers Skirmish Michael Porter Jr. not suspended Game 5 for leaving bench during skirmish Bleacher Report About Advertise Contact Us Get Help Careers Sitemap Community Guidelines Privacy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Terms Of Use AdChoices B/R Sports on MAX B/R Creators Program Copyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.