How to Watch the 2020 Golden Globes on TV and Online – NBC10 Philadelphia Skip to content Main Navigation Search Search for: Weather Local Sports NBC10 Responds Entertainment Investigators Videos Newsletters Watch 24/7 Create profile / Log in Dashboard Email preferences Sign out Trending Submit a News Tip Eagles 🏈 Find It on 10 Philadelphia Phillies ⚾ The Death of Pope Francis Real ID Guide Immigration Battleground Politics The Trump Administration Stream NBC10 24/7 📲 Expand Golden Globes How to Watch the 2020 Golden Globes on TV and Online Published December 27, 2019 • Updated on January 8, 2020 at 12:03 am BOOKMARKER Getty Images The 2020 Golden Globes is upon us. Now in its 77th year, the annual ceremony honors achievement in both film and television and serves as the official kickoff to award season. Can you believe it's already here?! So ahead of the Sunday, Jan. 5, 2020, telecast we're breaking down everything you need to know to guarantee the ultimate Golden Globes viewing experience. Who is hosting the Golden Globes? Ricky Gervais has signed on to emcee the star-studded affair for a record-breaking fifth time. When are the 2020 Golden Globes and what time do they start? Take notes, pop culture fanatics. Starting at 4:00 p.m. EST / 1:00 p.m. PST, E! hosts, experts and special guests will get the party started with E! Countdown to the Red Carpet: The 2020 Golden Globe Awards. Then directly after 6:00 p.m. EST / 3:00 p.m. PST, hosts Ryan Seacrest and Giuliana Rancic will bring the red carpet straight to you with exclusive celebrity interviews and more during E! Live From the Red Carpet. The 2020 Golden Globe Awards begins promptly at 8 p.m. EST / 5 p.m. PST on NBC. And yes, it's live. You can also watch online here . Golden Globe Nominations 2020: Movie Snubs and Surprises Where are the Golden Globes held? As is tradition, the event will take place at The Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, Calif. How do you watch the Golden Globes? In addition to NBC and its accompanying app, the ceremony is expected to air on plenty of streaming platforms like YouTube TV, Hulu Live, DirecTV Now, PlayStation Vue, Sling TV, and Fubo TV. Who are the Golden Globes nominees? Netflix drama "Marriage Story" leads the Golden Globes nominations with six, with Adam Driver, Scarlett Johansson and Laura Dern all up for acting accolades. Other notable nominees in the TV categories include Netflix's "Unbelievable," Amazon Prime's "Fleabag," HBO's "Big Little Lies" and Apple+'s "The Morning Show." On the film side, "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood," "The Irishman" and "The Two Popes" are all top contenders. Check out the complete list here . Who votes for the Golden Globes? Nominees and winners are voted on by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, a non-profit organization comprised of almost 90 journalists from around the world. Who is going to win at the Golden Globes? You'll have to tune in to find out, but Ellen DeGeneres is being honored with Carol Burnett Award and Tom Hanks is accepting the Cecil B. deMille Award . Anything else we should be on the lookout for? The 2020 Golden Globes is poised to make history several times over. For example, Billy Porter could become the first openly gay African-American to take home Best Actor for his performance in FX's "Pose," Meryl Streep (who has already broken her own record with 34 nominations) might earn her 10th Globes victory if she wins for "Big Little Lies." Critically-acclaimed film "Parasite" is poised to become the first foreign film to win both Best Screenplay and Best Foreign Language Film. Golden Globes Dec 10, 2019 Golden Snubs and Surprises, Including Little ‘Cats' Love Golden Globes Jan 5, 2020 Here Are All of Your 2020 Golden Globe Winners and Nominees Golden Globes Dec 9, 2019 Nominees Revealed for the 2020 Golden Globes Awards Copyright E! Online This article tagged under: Golden Globes on now 12AM: NBC10 Late News Trending Stories Philadelphia Eagles Which Eagles players did not attend the White House ceremony? Delaware Man struck and killed outside Newark high school; 18-year-old driver injured Cumberland County Air bags deploy as driver crashes stolen car, brings down tree along NJ road Pennsylvania Video: Pa. man attacks mother of his unborn child, officials say Delaware UD student killed, 8 hurt after overdue U-Haul flees police, crashes near campus Weather Forecast Facebook Instagram About NBC10 Philadelphia Our News Standards Share a News Tip or Feedback Share a Tip for the NBC10 Investigators Newsletters Connect With Us About the Comcast Center Campus NBC Sports Philadelphia Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more WCAU Public Inspection File WCAU Accessibility WCAU Employment Information Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices FCC Applications Terms of Service Advertise with us Send Feedback CA Notice Ad Choices Copyright © 2025 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Newsletters Local U.S. and World Politics Weather Weather Alerts School Closings See It, Share It Sports Phillies Eagles Sixers Flyers NBC Sports Philadelphia Investigators NBC10 Responds Submit a tip Watch The Lineup Philly Live Entertainment About NBC10 Philadelphia Our News Standards Share a News Tip or Feedback Share a Consumer Complaint Share Photos and Video Watch Live TV Community NBC Sports Philadelphia TV Schedule Our Apps Newsletters Contests Cozi TV Follow Us Facebook Instagram Contact Us