Elon Musk's biggest controversies | The Week The Week US Edition US UK SUBSCRIBE & SAVE Less than $3 per week × Search Sign in View Profile Sign out The Explainer Talking Points The Week Recommends Newsletters Cartoons From the Magazine The Week Junior More Politics World News Business Health Science Food & Drink Travel Culture History Personal Finance Puzzles Photos The Blend All Categories Newsletter sign up Newsletter Home Tech in depth A running list of Elon Musk's biggest controversies The head of DOGE has nearly unprecedented access to the White House Newsletter sign up Newsletter (Image credit: Illustration by Julia Wytrazek / Getty Images) By Justin Klawans, The Week US last updated 11 February 2025 Tesla founder Elon Musk has been embroiled in many controversies. These have only increased since President Donald Trump retook office, and Musk's closeness with Trump has generated mixed feelings across the country. Trump and DOGE Musk has generated significant controversy for his closeness to President Donald Trump. Musk contributed a quarter of a billion dollars to help Trump get elected in 2024, according to FEC filings , and has referred to himself as the president's "first buddy." Despite reports that Trump may be growing tired of Musk's continual presence, the world's richest man has become one of Trump's closest allies and "was by Trump's side on election night at Mar-a-Lago," said Business Insider . Musk has been appointed by Trump to helm the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), a federal commission. Subscribe to The Week Escape your echo chamber. Get the facts behind the news, plus analysis from multiple perspectives. SUBSCRIBE & SAVE Sign up for The Week's Free Newsletters From our morning news briefing to a weekly Good News Newsletter, get the best of The Week delivered directly to your inbox. From our morning news briefing to a weekly Good News Newsletter, get the best of The Week delivered directly to your inbox. Sign up Controversies surrounding DOGE began almost immediately. The commission "appears to be focusing on technology and personnel in its stated goal to cut government spending," said NPR . This includes major cuts to USAID and an overhaul of the U.S. Treasury Department, which included a DOGE staffer being "put in charge of the Treasury Department's system that processes trillions of dollars in payments every year." Musk has also pledged to overhaul systems at the FAA following a pair of deadly plane crashes. It appears that many Americans feel Musk has vast control over portions of the government — even though they don't want him to; 51% of Americans think he has significant influence over Trump, but only 13% think this is a good thing, according to a YouGov survey. Musk "spent $280 million to buy an election for Donald Trump," Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) said at a press conference . Now he is "here to collect on his investment. He is here to seize power for himself." Apparent Nazi salute At an event celebrating Trump's inauguration, Musk raised an outstretched arm to the crowd in a manner reminiscent of a Nazi salute, while saying his "heart goes out" to them. Social media disagreed on whether or not Musk actually intended to give a Nazi salute; the historic salute "consists of raising an outstretched right arm with the palm down," said the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), which is indeed the gesture that Musk made. While many people online accused Musk of making the Nazi salute, others weren't so sure — including the ADL itself. Musk "made an awkward gesture in a moment of enthusiasm, not a Nazi salute," the organization said on X . However, the ADL later criticized Musk more harshly after he appeared to mock the controversy online. This was "not the first time that Trump or someone close to him has been accused of sending fascist messages, even if they denied doing so," Matthew Kriner, a former director at Middlebury College's Center on Terrorism, Extremism, and Counterterrorism, said at The Conversation . Influence in geopolitics Outside of the United States, Musk has also begun to play a role in influencing politics in the European Union. While not directly involved in policy making, Musk is "throwing grenades into Europe's political mainstream over issues ranging from immigration to free speech, creating a dilemma for governments," said The Wall Street Journal . This includes weighing in on the debate over immigration in the United Kingdom and France, as well as calling for the U.K.'s King Charles III to dissolve Parliament. Musk also made controversial waves with his alleged support of AfD , a far right party in Germany accused of Nazi sympathies and labeled by Germany's intelligence domestic agency to be extremist. What is "much more worrying" is that "Musk is supporting a party like the AfD, which is in parts right wing and extremist," said Germany Chancellor Olaf Scholz. How Elon Musk is transforming American government Penny-pinching: Elon Musk looks at the cent to cut costs Jeff Bezos, Elon Musk and the billionaire space race When it comes to EU leadership, many have "urged Brussels to deploy its full legal might to reign in the billionaire tech magnate," said Politico , including further regulation of Musk's X. This may come to fruition sooner rather than later if the EU plays hardball, as Europe's Digital Services Act "threatens eyewatering fines of up to 6% of global turnover, or even temporary blocks, in case of a breach." Purchasing Twitter Musk controversially acquired Twitter for $44 billion in October 2022, handing him control of one of the world's largest social media brands. Immediately after his purchase, there were major concerns over a few changes he made to the platform, which he rebranded as X. Antisemitic and racist tweets spiked after Musk's acquisition; in the first 24 hours after his purchase, more than "1200 tweets and retweets" had spread antisemitism, the Anti-Defamation League said. Hateful rhetoric towards Black people also increased, with The Washington Post finding a 500% increase in the use of the N-word on X just half a day after Musk's purchase. Musk himself also used the platform to spread hate, onlookers have alleged, and tweeted a link to an article spreading conspiracy theories about the 2022 attack on Paul Pelosi , husband of former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. While Musk deleted the tweet hours later, his message "echoed a wider effort by far-right influencers and some conservatives to downplay and spread baseless theories about the attack," Insider said. 'Funding secured' post Aside from X, Musk has faced legal battles surrounding the company that put him on the map: Tesla. One of the most notable involves a 2018 tweet in which Musk wrote that he had "funding secured" to take the company private at $420 per share. Shareholders sued, however, when it was discovered that Musk had not secured the necessary financial backing at the time of this post. A U.S. District Judge said "there was nothing concrete" in Musk's tweet, per Reuters , and Musk had "[acted] recklessly" in posting about the funding. Tesla investors "lost $12 billion over 10 days as a result" of Musk's tweet, according to witness testimony from the trial obtained by Bloomberg . Musk was eventually found not liable for any losses experienced by the shareholders. Mocking pronouns Musk has made his opinions on self-selected gender pronouns clear on multiple occasions. This includes posting that he was not a fan of self-identifying pronouns "when someone is giving every possible visual cue for he or she, but then still insists on telling you exactly what you expect." Another notable instance occurred when he mocked the situation by posting , "My pronouns are Prosecute/Fauci," a jab at the nation's top infectious disease expert, Anthony Fauci , who has been targeted by conservatives for his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Both of these tweets generated significant backlash. Musk shouldn't "mock and promote hate toward already marginalized and at-risk-of-violence members of the LGBTQ+ community," said retired astronaut and Arizona Sen. Mark Kelly . Dr. Fauci is a "dedicated public servant whose sole motivation was saving lives." Explore More Tesla Elon Musk In depth Donald Trump Sign up for Today's Best Articles in your inbox A free daily email with the biggest news stories of the day – and the best features from TheWeek.com Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Justin Klawans, The Week US Social Links Navigation Justin Klawans has worked as a staff writer at The Week since 2022. He began his career covering local news before joining Newsweek as a breaking news reporter, where he wrote about politics, national and global affairs, business, crime, sports, film, television and other news. Justin has also freelanced for outlets including Collider and United Press International. Latest 'Cordial Conversation' cocktail recipe The Week Recommends This multi-layered cocktail features an appealing combination of flavours including jasmine tea and watermelon syrup By Rebekah Evans, The Week UK Published 8 April 25 Europe's most beautiful campsites The Week Recommends From wild camping to luxury glamping, these magnificent spots are the perfect setting for a nature-filled break By Irenie Forshaw, The Week UK Published 8 April 25 The UK's first baby born to woman with womb transplant The Explainer 'Astonishing' medical breakthrough, the culmination of 25 years of research, could pave the way for more procedures to combat uterine infertility By Harriet Marsden, The Week UK Published 8 April 25 You might also like OpenAI's new model is 'really good' at creative writing Under the Radar CEO Sam Altman says he is impressed. But is this merely an attempt to sell more subscriptions? By Theara Coleman, The Week US Published 18 March 25 Musk vs. Altman: The fight over OpenAI Feature Elon Musk has launched a $97.4 billion takeover bid for OpenAI By The Week US Published 27 February 25 Apple pledges $500B in US spending over 4 years Speed Read This is a win for Trump, who has pushed to move manufacturing back to the US By Rafi Schwartz, The Week US Published 25 February 25 Elon Musk's DOGE website has gotten off to a bad start In the Spotlight The site was reportedly able to be edited by anyone when it first came online By Justin Klawans, The Week US Published 18 February 25 Romance scammers are taking advantage of Americans Under the Radar The FBI and tech companies have warned against these scams By Justin Klawans, The Week US Published 14 February 25 What is living intelligence, the new frontier in AI? The Explainer Business leaders must prepare themselves for the next wave in tech, which will take AI to another level By Theara Coleman, The Week US Published 11 February 25 Chinese AI company DeepSeek rocks the tech world In the spotlight America's hold on artificial intelligence is on shaky ground By Theara Coleman, The Week US Published 29 January 25 What Trump's 'tech bros' want The Explainer Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos had 'prime seats' at the president's inauguration. What are they looking to gain from Trump 2.0? By Chas Newkey-Burden, The Week UK Published 24 January 25 View More ▸ TheWeek About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Advertise With Us The Week is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036.