Study Says Athens Olympics Loses the Race for Environmental Excellence | Trellis Skip to content Topics Events In-person Events View All Circularity Trellis Impact 25 VERGE Bloom GreenFin GreenBiz Webinars Network Job Board About Subscribe Don’t Miss: Watch Circularity Keynote Livestream & interviews 4/29-30 Article Top Ad Uncategorized Study Says Athens Olympics Loses the Race for Environmental Excellence The 2004 Olympic Games in Athens won’t win a gold medal for its environmental friendliness, according to a new report from Greenpeace. Read More By GreenBiz Editors August 4, 2004 The 2004 Olympic Games in Athens won’t win a gold medal for its environmental friendliness, according to a new report from Greenpeace. The report, How Green the Games? examines how environmentally friendly the Athens Olympics will be. “Athens is very far from learning the lessons from Sydney. Greece has acted as if there was no past from which to learn,” said Nikos Charalambides of Greenpeace Greece. “Despite the good intentions expressed by the Athens 2004 Organising Committee, there is very little evidence that Athens has applied any learning thus leaving a huge gap in the ongoing process of moving toward sustainable development for all Olympic Games.” The report points out that when Athens was still a candidate city, the official position of the Greek authorities was clear and straightforward: “The Olympic Games are a challenge as well as an opportunity for the broad implementation of programs and actions which are environmentally friendly and in accordance to the principles of sustainable development…Projects will be realized with the use of environmentally friendly technologies and materials, and this will be a prerequisite in all relevant tenders.” With the exception of the means of public transport, which have shown impressive improvements due to the Olympics, and the decision of some prior and current sponsors of the Games (Coca Cola, McDonald’s, Unilever) to commit to the use of cooling equipment that uses natural refrigerants and does not destroy the earth’s climate, the environmental record of the Athens Olympic Games is very poor, says Greenpeace. Green energy is the sector of the most striking failure for the Athens Olympics. It was the intention of ATHOC that all electricity used by related premises and users during the Olympics in 2004 should be generated by renewables. The green energy produced for and distributed at the premises of the Games is close to zero. With regard to solar energy, photovoltaic cells (PV) have been excluded from the Olympic Village and other Olympic venues. The same is true for solar thermal systems, both for hot water supply as well as for solar cooling. “This list of failures in the environmental performance of the Athens 2004 Olympic Games shows that when there is no strong political will, failures will override wins. Athens is well behind Sydney regarding the environmental performance of the Games. The distance from environmental excellence and sustainability is that big that Athens is disqualified from this race”, added Charalambides. The International Olympics Committee (IOC) has the responsibility to ensure the Olympic Games have a minimum impact on the environment and leave a positive legacy for those hosting the Games. The ATHENS 2004 Organizing Committee avoided any dispute with the government and public authorities on environmental issues. According to Greenpeace, “The Greek Government had the power, money and time to set the standards and ensure that hat Green Olympics become a reality. However, they have proven themselves short-sighted and have aimed for the absolute minimum. Public authorities have shown a high level of indifference, incompetence and lack of action.” “The IOC needs to secure the appropriate resources and show real interest that will make sure clear environmental guidelines are set for each candidate city – beforehand – and are well respected. If not willing to do so, it should simply stop claiming that the environment is the third pillar of the Olympics because it sounds like a bad joke,” concluded Charalambides Subscribe to Trellis Briefing Get real case studies, expert action steps and the latest sustainability trends in a concise morning email. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email address * utmCampaignLast utmMediumLast utmSourceLast Subscribe GreenBiz Editors Green business news and tools for aligning sustainability with business success. Resources for successful green strategies, covering operations, marketing, energy, product design and more. Featured Reports How to Set Sustainability Strategy in 2025 The State of Biodiversity and Business 2024 Sponsored CSRD Success: From Double Materiality to Climate Transition Plan and Reporting The State of the Sustainability Profession 2024 25 Climate Tech Startups to Watch in 2024 Sponsored The Ultimate Guide to Fleet Electrification The GreenBiz 30 Under 30: Meet the rising stars of sustainability The story of McDonald’s 10-year quest for sustainable beef Sponsored Managing Your Risk: How to Measure and Mitigate the Costs of Climate Change 35 Climate Tech Startups to Watch State of the Profession 2022 Report Coming up Coming up May 6 EU PPWR Unpacked: What It Means for Your Business Webinar • 11:00 am (ET) May 15 How to build resilient sustainability strategies under a shifting regulatory landscape Webinar • 12:00 pm (ET) May 22 Driving the Future: How Rivian Uses LCA for Experts for Sustainability Webinar • 12:00 pm (ET) October 28 - 30 Where Biodiversity Meets the Bottom Line Hosted at Trellis Impact 25 San Jose Convention Center — San Jose, California See all events Article Sidebar 1 Ad Recommended What to look out for at Circularity 25 this week by Elsa Wenzel Climate Policy Outlook: 4 stories to follow this week by Leah Garden Watch the Circularity 25 keynotes live today by Trellis Staff 3 strategies for 2 crises: Tackling carbon emissions and packaging waste together by Olga Kachook The state of fleet electrification: Why 87% of companies plan to add EVs in the next five years by Michael Kodransky Article Sidebar 2 Ad Explore Resources Articles Webinars Events Circularity Trellis Impact 25 VERGE Bloom GreenFin GreenBiz Products Trellis Network Trellis Briefing Events Media Kit Job Board About Company Careers Editorial Guidelines Contact Us Follow Us Cookies Privacy Policy Cookie Preferences © 2025 Trellis Group Inc. Get real case studies and takeaways straight to your inbox. Learn more Stay informed Subscribe to Trellis Briefing to receive the latest sustainability news & trends directly in your inbox. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email address * utmCampaignLast utmMediumLast utmSourceLast Subscribe