How to watch Google's Pixel 6 event | Mashable Tech Science Life Social Good Entertainment Deals Shopping Games Search Cancel Tech Apps & Software Artificial Intelligence Cybersecurity Cryptocurrency Mobile Smart Home Social Media Tech Industry Transportation All Tech Science Space Climate Change Environment All Science Life Digital Culture Family & Parenting Health & Wellness Sex, Dating & Relationships Sleep Careers Mental Health All Life Social Good Activism Gender LGBTQ Racial Justice Sustainability Politics All Social Good Entertainment Games Movies Podcasts TV Shows Watch Guides All Entertainment SHOP THE BEST Laptops Budget Laptops Dating Apps Sexting Apps Hookup Apps VPNs Robot Vaccuums Robot Vaccum & Mop Headphones Speakers Kindles Gift Guides Mashable Choice Mashable Selects All Sex, Dating & Relationships All Laptops All Headphones All Robot Vacuums All VPN All Shopping Games Product Reviews Adult Friend Finder Bumble Premium Tinder Platinum Kindle Paperwhite PS5 vs PS5 Slim All Reviews All Shopping Deals Newsletters VIDEOS Mashable Shows All Videos Home > Tech > Mobile How to watch Google's Pixel 6 event The Pixel 6 is officially making its debut. By Jennimai Nguyen Jennimai Nguyen Jennimai is a tech reporter at Mashable covering digital culture, social media, and how we interact with our everyday tech. She also hosts Mashable’s Snapchat Discover channel and TikTok , so she naturally spends way too much time scrolling the FYP and thinking about iPhones. Read Full Bio on October 15, 2021 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Flipboard Feels like all the details have already been leaked, but let's watch the event anyways. Credit: Anadolu Agency via Getty Images After plenty of leaks and rumors, Google has confirmed its Pixel Fall Launch event. This Tweet is currently unavailable. It might be loading or has been removed. Viewers hoping to see the latest Google phone unveiling can tune in on Oct. 19 at 10 a.m. PT/1 p.m. ET. While the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro are guaranteed an appearance, it's possible that Google may also reveal a Pixel Watch, Pixel Fold, and a new Pixel Pass service . Mashable Light Speed Want more out-of-this world tech, space and science stories? Sign up for Mashable's weekly Light Speed newsletter. Loading... Sign Me Up By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Thanks for signing up! To watch live, head on over to Google's Pixel event website or its YouTube channel . And if you want to decide whether you want the Pixel 6 before it's officially released, peruse through the leaks as prep – there's no shortage of them! Topics Google Jennimai Nguyen Jennimai is a tech reporter at Mashable covering digital culture, social media, and how we interact with our everyday tech. She also hosts Mashable’s Snapchat Discover channel and TikTok , so she naturally spends way too much time scrolling the FYP and thinking about iPhones. Recommended For You Amazon deal of the day: Upgrade to the Google Pixel 9 Pro and save $250 You can also slash up to 33% off the Sony ULT Field 1, Fire HD 10 Kids, Google Pixel tablet, and Fire TV Stick 4K Max. 03/19/2025 By Christina Buff Google Pixel 9a vs Pixel 9: What are the differences? Which should you buy? 03/19/2025 By Matt Binder Google Pixel 9a announced: Specs, price, release date, preorder details A brand new "budget" Pixel phone is here. And it's packed with power. 03/19/2025 By Matt Binder Google's Pixel 9a finally gets a release date Pixel users don't have to wait much longer for the Pixel 9a. 03/28/2025 By Matt Binder The Google Pixel 9 just dropped to under $600 for a limited time $599 for Google’s latest AI-powered phone? That’s a tough deal to pass up. 03/03/2025 By Christian Wait More in Tech Chop, blend, and mix all in one device with Ninja. And did we mention it's on sale? Saving you time — and kitchen space. 14 hours ago By Samantha Mangino It's official: Prime Day returns in July 2025, tariffs and all We don't have specific dates yet, though we wouldn't be surprised if Prime Day is longer this year. 14 hours ago By Leah Stodart Our favorite Dyson Airwrap dupe is on sale for 20% off Your at-home blowouts are about to get a whole lot easier. 15 hours ago By Samantha Mangino Save on beatuy tech, skincare, and more during Amazon's Summer Beauty Event Save on everything from dermatologist-approved sunscreens to celebrity-loved concealers. 04/28/2025 By Tabitha Britt Walmart+ members get ready — Walmart+ Week is live through May 4 Get extra savings on your everyday purchases. 04/28/2025 By Samantha Mangino Trending on Mashable NYT Connections hints today: Clues, answers for April 29, 2025 Everything you need to solve 'Connections' #688 20 hours ago By Mashable Team NYT Connections hints today: Clues, answers for April 30, 2025 Everything you need to solve 'Connections' #689 3 hours ago By Mashable Team NYT Strands hints, answers for April 29 Every hint, nudge and outright answer you need to complete today's NYT Strands puzzle. 20 hours ago By Mashable Team Wordle today: Answer, hints for April 30, 2025 Here are some tips and tricks to help you find the answer to "Wordle" #1410. 3 hours ago By Mashable Team Wordle today: Answer, hints for April 29, 2025 Here are some tips and tricks to help you find the answer to "Wordle" #1409. 20 hours ago By Mashable Team The biggest stories of the day delivered to your inbox. Loading... Subscribe These newsletters may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. By clicking Subscribe, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Thanks for signing up. See you at your inbox! TECH Android Antivirus Apple Artificial Intelligence Cameras Creative Software Cryptocurrency Desktops Gaming Consoles Headphones Laptops Microsoft Mobile Productivity Smart Home Social Media Speakers Tablets Tech Industry TikTok Transportation TVs VPN Wifi/Routers SCIENCE Animals Climate Change Environment NASA Rocket Launches Space GAMES Arcade Card Casino Connections Daily Puzzles Strands Word Wordle SOCIAL GOOD DEALS How we Select Deals ENTERTAINMENT DC Comics Disney HBO Hulu Marvel Movies Music Peacock Pixar Podcasts Streaming TV Shows True Crime LIFE Careers Digital Culture Education Family & Parenting Health & Wellness House & Home Mental Health Sex, Dating & Relationships Sleep SHOP THE BEST All Beauty All Earbuds All Kitchen All Robot Vacuums Bluetooth Speakers Budget Laptops Dating Apps E-Readers Gift Guides Headphones Hookup Apps iPads Kindles Laptops Mashable Choice Mashable Selects Speakers Sexting Apps Macbooks Robot Vaccuums Robot Vaccum & Mop VPNs Windows Laptops REVIEWS Adult Friend Finder Bumble Premium Kindle Paperwhite PS5 vs PS5 Slim Tinder Platinum EVENTS Black Friday CES Cyber Monday Prime Day Samsung Galaxy Unpacked WWDC VIDEOS About Mashable Editorial Standards Contact Us We're Hiring Newsletters Sitemap ©2005–2025 Mashable, Inc., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. Mashable is a registered trademark of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without express written permission. About Ziff Davis Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise Accessibility Do Not Sell My Personal Information AdChoices