Heisman Candidates 2012: Case for and Against Each Finalist Bleacher Report NFL Draft NFL NBA NHL CFB Shop Play Betting B/R Sports on Max 34:58 Featured Video CFB DAILY W/ UNCLE LOU:  NFL DRAFT RECAP, PORTAL WINNERS AND LOSERS College Basketball Heisman Candidates 2012: Case for and Against Each Finalist Ryan Rudnansky Jun 2, 2018 Well, the 2012 Heisman Trophy finalists have been announced and Texas A&M's Johnny Manziel, Notre Dame's Manti Te'o and Kansas State's Collin Klein will be competing for the coveted award on Saturday, Dec. 8. Each player is deserving to make the final list and each player has had his ups and downs throughout the season. Who should ultimately win the award? TOP NEWS Deion Sanders, Colorado Land FSU WR Hykeem Williams in CFB Transfer Portal Bleacher Report 4h UNC Reportedly Concerned About Jordon Hudson's Influence on HC Bill Belichick Bleacher Report 23h College Football Players Poised for Bounce-Back Years in 2025 Bleacher Report 14h Well, hopefully the cases for and against each finalist will lead you to your decision. Note: All stats via CFBStats.com Johnny Manziel, QB, Texas A&M For Manziel became the fifth player in FBS history to pass for at least 3,000 yards and rush for at least 1,000 yards this season. He became the first freshman and the first SEC player to accomplish the feat. He also led the Aggies to a 10-2 record and a spot in the Cotton Bowl. His performance in the 29-24 upset of Alabama on Nov. 10 was outstanding. He went 24-of-31 for 253 yards and two touchdowns while rushing for 92 yards against the sterling Crimson Tide defense. Against While Manziel led the Aggies to 10 wins, they also lost two games against Florida and LSU. He averaged 5.8 yards per pass attempt with no touchdowns against Florida and tossed three interceptions against LSU. Manziel had a fantastic season, but it wasn't without its speed bumps and both Te'o and Klein led their respective teams to better records and a better BCS ranking. Manti Te'o, LB, Notre Dame For Te'o led a defense that allowed 10.3 points per game during the season, tops in the nation. He also helped the Fighting Irish to a 12-0 record as the No. 1 team in the country gets set to face Alabama in the BCS National Championship Game. To give you an idea of how important Te'o was for the Irish, he had a team-high 103 tackles while Bennett Jackson and Zeke Motta came in second with 61 tackles. The senior also notched seven interceptions, tied for second in the nation and first among linebackers. He led a Notre Dame squad that allowed 3.16 yards per carry (11th in the nation) and two rushing touchdowns (first), but he also displayed an all-around game. Against You could make the argument that, while Te'o was outstanding this season, he may have not even been the best defensive player in the country. South Carolina's Jadeveon Clowney, Georgia's Jarvis Jones and Texas A&M's Damontre Moore all had outstanding seasons and they each had more tackles for loss and sacks than Te'o. Manziel and Klein also may have an edge over Te'o given they excelled at the most important position in football. Collin Klein, QB, Kansas State For If you're into yards per pass attempt (which is a fairly accurate determinant of a quarterback's value, in my opinion), then Klein may have a case over Manziel. The senior averaged 9.2 yards per attempt (sixth in the nation), while Manziel averaged 8.5 yards per attempt (tied for 15th in the country). Also, given Klein was generally regarded as the Heisman favorite even after Manziel's performance against Alabama, you could make the case that one bad performance (against Baylor) shouldn't vault Klein down the rankings. Klein also had a better quarterback rating than Manziel, although it was a minimal difference. Against Manziel played in a tougher conference than Klein and Klein had his off game against a Baylor pass defense that was certainly beatable. Also, Klein didn't make the same impact on the ground as Manziel did. More importantly, his touchdown-to-interception ratio (15-to-7) was worse than Manziel's (24-to-8). Yards per pass attempt may be a nice indicator of a quarterback's value, but touchdown-to-interception ratio may be even more indicative. The general theory is that a quarterback should have at least a two-to-one touchdown-to-interception ratio and, while Klein barely passed that threshold, Manziel blasted through it. 34:58 CFB DAILY W/ UNCLE LOU:  NFL DRAFT RECAP, PORTAL WINNERS AND LOSERS TOP NEWS Colorado Lands FSU Transfer WR Bleacher Report 4h UNC Concerned About Belichick's GF Bleacher Report 23h Players Poised to Bounce Back 📈 Bleacher Report 14h Manning May Not Enter 2026 Draft Bleacher Report 1d Belichick Maintains Kraft Did Not Fire Him Bleacher Report 2d TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 10h Dylan Raiola Lands Adidas Contract, Joins Patrick Mahomes on Brand's Football Roster Bleacher Report • 1d Texas' Sarkisian Says Arch Manning Declined College Football 26 Video Game Cover Shoot Sark says he and Manning did not attend photo shoot at Rose Bowl in March (On3) Bleacher Report • 3d NFL Power Rankings for Every Team After the 2025 NFL Draft Steelers land at No. 17 Bleacher Report • 14h 7 2025 NFL Draft Picks We Wish We Would Have Seen Selections we wish would have happened in this year's draft Bleacher Report • 14h 2025 NBA Mock Draft with Lottery Simulation Sending Cooper Flagg to Eastern Conference TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 10h Dylan Raiola Lands Adidas Contract, Joins Patrick Mahomes on Brand's Football Roster Bleacher Report • 1d Texas' Sarkisian Says Arch Manning Declined College Football 26 Video Game Cover Shoot Sark says he and Manning did not attend photo shoot at Rose Bowl in March (On3) Bleacher Report • 3d NFL Power Rankings for Every Team After the 2025 NFL Draft Steelers land at No. 17 Bleacher Report • 14h 7 2025 NFL Draft Picks We Wish We Would Have Seen Selections we wish would have happened in this year's draft Bleacher Report • 14h 2025 NBA Mock Draft with Lottery Simulation Sending Cooper Flagg to Eastern Conference Bleacher Report About Advertise Contact Us Get Help Careers Sitemap Community Guidelines Privacy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Terms Of Use AdChoices B/R Sports on MAX B/R Creators Program Copyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.