Trump's drumbeat of lies about the 2020 election keeps getting louder. Here are the facts | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Trump and Zelenskyy among dignitaries converging on Rome for funeral of Pope Francis Pope Francis bestowed a special nickname on AP's Vatican reporter for her often-tough questions Trump says 'Crimea will stay with Russia' as he seeks end to war in Ukraine Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES How the public's shift on immigration paved the way for Trump's crackdown Fears of racial profiling swirl over registration policy for immigrants in the US illegally Forecasters warn of fire risk amid low humidity, wind gusts as Pine Barrens fire burns Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Trump says 'Crimea will stay with Russia' as he seeks end to war in Ukraine How the public's shift on immigration paved the way for Trump's crackdown Immigration is Trump's strongest issue, but many say he's gone too far, a new AP-NORC poll finds Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Cam Ward goes No. 1, Travis Hunter 2nd and Shedeur Sanders not picked in 1st round of NFL draft Shedeur Sanders snubbed in NFL draft's Round 1 but leads list of top available players for Day 2 A stunner in Jacksonville: Jaguars trade up to land 2-way star Travis Hunter in the NFL draft Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES Billy Idol on his first album in over a decade, surviving addiction, the Rock Hall and more So you saw 'Conclave' the movie. Here's what it got right – and wrong – about real-life conclaves Coco Jones is fearless on debut album 'Why Not More?' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Wall Street's rally fades as more CEOs talk about uncertainty because of Trump's trade war Most Americans expect higher prices as a result of Trump's tariffs, a new AP-NORC poll finds Automakers focus on the global market, chide the US over tariffs at Shanghai's auto show Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Bonobos in Congo form girl groups to fend off male aggression, study says NASA's Lucy spacecraft beams back pictures of an asteroid shaped like a lumpy bowling pin Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs FACT FOCUS:  Trump misrepresents facts about coal as he signs executive orders to boost its use Oddities TOP STORIES Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 April showers bring 'dirty rain' to New England after storm absorbs desert dust 2,000 miles away Photos: Contestants haul heavy sacks of coal in unusual Yorkshire tradition Kings serenaded by another national anthem by harmonica chorus from Koreatown senior citizen center Humanoid robots run a Chinese half-marathon alongside flesh-and-blood competitors Sweets from the sky! A helicopter marshmallow drop thrills kids in suburban Detroit Be Well TOP STORIES Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Sleep training is no longer just for babies. Some schools are teaching teens how to sleep Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES AP PHOTOS: 2 girls survived Nepal's 2015 earthquake. Each lost a leg but found a friendship AP PHOTOS: The changing faces of Vietnam War landmarks Photos of the faithful joining the line to pay their final respects to Pope Francis Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change $50 million prize funded by Musk foundation goes to carbon-removal company that helps Indian farmers 84% of the world's coral reefs hit by worst bleaching event on record Health TOP STORIES USDA withdraws a plan to limit salmonella levels in raw poultry Whooping cough cases are rising again in the US Novavax says its COVID-19 shot is on track for full FDA approval after delay Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Trump science cuts target bird feeder research, AI literacy work and more Nintendo Switch 2 preorders see 'overwhelming' demand, frustrations for hopeful buyers One Tech Tip: Thinking of buying a secondhand phone? Some tips on what to look for Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES Canadians put off by Trump's bluster and border arrests are booking far fewer US visits Thousands gather in New Mexico for the largest powwow in North America At shops around the Vatican, Pope Francis was a regular customer and a friend Religion TOP STORIES So you saw 'Conclave' the movie. Here's what it got right – and wrong – about real-life conclaves At shops around the Vatican, Pope Francis was a regular customer and a friend Catholics remember Pope Francis as a friend of Africa, with some setting theology aside Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES Trump y Zelenskyy, entre los dignatarios que acudirán a Roma para el funeral de Francisco Trump dice que ' Crimea se quedará con Rusia' mientras busca poner fin a la guerra en Ucrania Aumentan las denuncias de abusos en centro de detención migratorio de EEUU Fallece un general ruso en un atentado con coche bomba a las afueras de Moscú Más allá de la teología, los católicos recuerdan al papa como un amigo de África Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Trump and Zelenskyy among dignitaries converging on Rome for funeral of Pope Francis Pope Francis bestowed a special nickname on AP's Vatican reporter for her often-tough questions Trump says 'Crimea will stay with Russia' as he seeks end to war in Ukraine Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES How the public's shift on immigration paved the way for Trump's crackdown Fears of racial profiling swirl over registration policy for immigrants in the US illegally Forecasters warn of fire risk amid low humidity, wind gusts as Pine Barrens fire burns Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Trump says 'Crimea will stay with Russia' as he seeks end to war in Ukraine How the public's shift on immigration paved the way for Trump's crackdown Immigration is Trump's strongest issue, but many say he's gone too far, a new AP-NORC poll finds Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Cam Ward goes No. 1, Travis Hunter 2nd and Shedeur Sanders not picked in 1st round of NFL draft Shedeur Sanders snubbed in NFL draft's Round 1 but leads list of top available players for Day 2 A stunner in Jacksonville: Jaguars trade up to land 2-way star Travis Hunter in the NFL draft Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES Billy Idol on his first album in over a decade, surviving addiction, the Rock Hall and more So you saw 'Conclave' the movie. Here's what it got right – and wrong – about real-life conclaves Coco Jones is fearless on debut album 'Why Not More?' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Wall Street's rally fades as more CEOs talk about uncertainty because of Trump's trade war Most Americans expect higher prices as a result of Trump's tariffs, a new AP-NORC poll finds Automakers focus on the global market, chide the US over tariffs at Shanghai's auto show Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Bonobos in Congo form girl groups to fend off male aggression, study says NASA's Lucy spacecraft beams back pictures of an asteroid shaped like a lumpy bowling pin Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs FACT FOCUS:  Trump misrepresents facts about coal as he signs executive orders to boost its use Oddities TOP STORIES Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 April showers bring 'dirty rain' to New England after storm absorbs desert dust 2,000 miles away Photos: Contestants haul heavy sacks of coal in unusual Yorkshire tradition Kings serenaded by another national anthem by harmonica chorus from Koreatown senior citizen center Humanoid robots run a Chinese half-marathon alongside flesh-and-blood competitors Sweets from the sky! A helicopter marshmallow drop thrills kids in suburban Detroit Be Well TOP STORIES Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Sleep training is no longer just for babies. Some schools are teaching teens how to sleep Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES AP PHOTOS: 2 girls survived Nepal's 2015 earthquake. Each lost a leg but found a friendship AP PHOTOS: The changing faces of Vietnam War landmarks Photos of the faithful joining the line to pay their final respects to Pope Francis Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change $50 million prize funded by Musk foundation goes to carbon-removal company that helps Indian farmers 84% of the world's coral reefs hit by worst bleaching event on record Health TOP STORIES USDA withdraws a plan to limit salmonella levels in raw poultry Whooping cough cases are rising again in the US Novavax says its COVID-19 shot is on track for full FDA approval after delay Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Trump science cuts target bird feeder research, AI literacy work and more Nintendo Switch 2 preorders see 'overwhelming' demand, frustrations for hopeful buyers One Tech Tip: Thinking of buying a secondhand phone? Some tips on what to look for Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES Canadians put off by Trump's bluster and border arrests are booking far fewer US visits Thousands gather in New Mexico for the largest powwow in North America At shops around the Vatican, Pope Francis was a regular customer and a friend Religion TOP STORIES So you saw 'Conclave' the movie. Here's what it got right – and wrong – about real-life conclaves At shops around the Vatican, Pope Francis was a regular customer and a friend Catholics remember Pope Francis as a friend of Africa, with some setting theology aside Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES Trump y Zelenskyy, entre los dignatarios que acudirán a Roma para el funeral de Francisco Trump dice que ' Crimea se quedará con Rusia' mientras busca poner fin a la guerra en Ucrania Aumentan las denuncias de abusos en centro de detención migratorio de EEUU Fallece un general ruso en un atentado con coche bomba a las afueras de Moscú Más allá de la teología, los católicos recuerdan al papa como un amigo de África Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Trump and Zelenskyy among dignitaries converging on Rome for funeral of Pope Francis Pope Francis bestowed a special nickname on AP's Vatican reporter for her often-tough questions Trump says 'Crimea will stay with Russia' as he seeks end to war in Ukraine Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES How the public's shift on immigration paved the way for Trump's crackdown Fears of racial profiling swirl over registration policy for immigrants in the US illegally Forecasters warn of fire risk amid low humidity, wind gusts as Pine Barrens fire burns Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Trump says 'Crimea will stay with Russia' as he seeks end to war in Ukraine How the public's shift on immigration paved the way for Trump's crackdown Immigration is Trump's strongest issue, but many say he's gone too far, a new AP-NORC poll finds Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Cam Ward goes No. 1, Travis Hunter 2nd and Shedeur Sanders not picked in 1st round of NFL draft Shedeur Sanders snubbed in NFL draft's Round 1 but leads list of top available players for Day 2 A stunner in Jacksonville: Jaguars trade up to land 2-way star Travis Hunter in the NFL draft Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES Billy Idol on his first album in over a decade, surviving addiction, the Rock Hall and more So you saw 'Conclave' the movie. Here's what it got right – and wrong – about real-life conclaves Coco Jones is fearless on debut album 'Why Not More?' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Wall Street's rally fades as more CEOs talk about uncertainty because of Trump's trade war Most Americans expect higher prices as a result of Trump's tariffs, a new AP-NORC poll finds Automakers focus on the global market, chide the US over tariffs at Shanghai's auto show Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Bonobos in Congo form girl groups to fend off male aggression, study says NASA's Lucy spacecraft beams back pictures of an asteroid shaped like a lumpy bowling pin Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs FACT FOCUS:  Trump misrepresents facts about coal as he signs executive orders to boost its use Oddities TOP STORIES Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 April showers bring 'dirty rain' to New England after storm absorbs desert dust 2,000 miles away Photos: Contestants haul heavy sacks of coal in unusual Yorkshire tradition Kings serenaded by another national anthem by harmonica chorus from Koreatown senior citizen center Humanoid robots run a Chinese half-marathon alongside flesh-and-blood competitors Sweets from the sky! A helicopter marshmallow drop thrills kids in suburban Detroit Be Well TOP STORIES Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Sleep training is no longer just for babies. Some schools are teaching teens how to sleep Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES AP PHOTOS: 2 girls survived Nepal's 2015 earthquake. Each lost a leg but found a friendship AP PHOTOS: The changing faces of Vietnam War landmarks Photos of the faithful joining the line to pay their final respects to Pope Francis Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change $50 million prize funded by Musk foundation goes to carbon-removal company that helps Indian farmers 84% of the world's coral reefs hit by worst bleaching event on record Health TOP STORIES USDA withdraws a plan to limit salmonella levels in raw poultry Whooping cough cases are rising again in the US Novavax says its COVID-19 shot is on track for full FDA approval after delay Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Trump science cuts target bird feeder research, AI literacy work and more Nintendo Switch 2 preorders see 'overwhelming' demand, frustrations for hopeful buyers One Tech Tip: Thinking of buying a secondhand phone? Some tips on what to look for Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES Canadians put off by Trump's bluster and border arrests are booking far fewer US visits Thousands gather in New Mexico for the largest powwow in North America At shops around the Vatican, Pope Francis was a regular customer and a friend Religion TOP STORIES So you saw 'Conclave' the movie. Here's what it got right – and wrong – about real-life conclaves At shops around the Vatican, Pope Francis was a regular customer and a friend Catholics remember Pope Francis as a friend of Africa, with some setting theology aside Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES Trump y Zelenskyy, entre los dignatarios que acudirán a Roma para el funeral de Francisco Trump dice que ' Crimea se quedará con Rusia' mientras busca poner fin a la guerra en Ucrania Aumentan las denuncias de abusos en centro de detención migratorio de EEUU Fallece un general ruso en un atentado con coche bomba a las afueras de Moscú Más allá de la teología, los católicos recuerdan al papa como un amigo de África Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Trump and Zelenskyy among dignitaries converging on Rome for funeral of Pope Francis Pope Francis bestowed a special nickname on AP's Vatican reporter for her often-tough questions Trump says 'Crimea will stay with Russia' as he seeks end to war in Ukraine Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES How the public's shift on immigration paved the way for Trump's crackdown Fears of racial profiling swirl over registration policy for immigrants in the US illegally Forecasters warn of fire risk amid low humidity, wind gusts as Pine Barrens fire burns Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Trump says 'Crimea will stay with Russia' as he seeks end to war in Ukraine How the public's shift on immigration paved the way for Trump's crackdown Immigration is Trump's strongest issue, but many say he's gone too far, a new AP-NORC poll finds Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Cam Ward goes No. 1, Travis Hunter 2nd and Shedeur Sanders not picked in 1st round of NFL draft Shedeur Sanders snubbed in NFL draft's Round 1 but leads list of top available players for Day 2 A stunner in Jacksonville: Jaguars trade up to land 2-way star Travis Hunter in the NFL draft Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES Billy Idol on his first album in over a decade, surviving addiction, the Rock Hall and more So you saw 'Conclave' the movie. Here's what it got right – and wrong – about real-life conclaves Coco Jones is fearless on debut album 'Why Not More?' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Wall Street's rally fades as more CEOs talk about uncertainty because of Trump's trade war Most Americans expect higher prices as a result of Trump's tariffs, a new AP-NORC poll finds Automakers focus on the global market, chide the US over tariffs at Shanghai's auto show Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Bonobos in Congo form girl groups to fend off male aggression, study says NASA's Lucy spacecraft beams back pictures of an asteroid shaped like a lumpy bowling pin Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs FACT FOCUS:  Trump misrepresents facts about coal as he signs executive orders to boost its use Oddities TOP STORIES Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 April showers bring 'dirty rain' to New England after storm absorbs desert dust 2,000 miles away Photos: Contestants haul heavy sacks of coal in unusual Yorkshire tradition Kings serenaded by another national anthem by harmonica chorus from Koreatown senior citizen center Humanoid robots run a Chinese half-marathon alongside flesh-and-blood competitors Sweets from the sky! A helicopter marshmallow drop thrills kids in suburban Detroit Be Well TOP STORIES Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Sleep training is no longer just for babies. Some schools are teaching teens how to sleep Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES AP PHOTOS: 2 girls survived Nepal's 2015 earthquake. Each lost a leg but found a friendship AP PHOTOS: The changing faces of Vietnam War landmarks Photos of the faithful joining the line to pay their final respects to Pope Francis Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change $50 million prize funded by Musk foundation goes to carbon-removal company that helps Indian farmers 84% of the world's coral reefs hit by worst bleaching event on record Health TOP STORIES USDA withdraws a plan to limit salmonella levels in raw poultry Whooping cough cases are rising again in the US Novavax says its COVID-19 shot is on track for full FDA approval after delay Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Trump science cuts target bird feeder research, AI literacy work and more Nintendo Switch 2 preorders see 'overwhelming' demand, frustrations for hopeful buyers One Tech Tip: Thinking of buying a secondhand phone? Some tips on what to look for Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES Canadians put off by Trump's bluster and border arrests are booking far fewer US visits Thousands gather in New Mexico for the largest powwow in North America At shops around the Vatican, Pope Francis was a regular customer and a friend Religion TOP STORIES So you saw 'Conclave' the movie. Here's what it got right – and wrong – about real-life conclaves At shops around the Vatican, Pope Francis was a regular customer and a friend Catholics remember Pope Francis as a friend of Africa, with some setting theology aside Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES Trump y Zelenskyy, entre los dignatarios que acudirán a Roma para el funeral de Francisco Trump dice que ' Crimea se quedará con Rusia' mientras busca poner fin a la guerra en Ucrania Aumentan las denuncias de abusos en centro de detención migratorio de EEUU Fallece un general ruso en un atentado con coche bomba a las afueras de Moscú Más allá de la teología, los católicos recuerdan al papa como un amigo de África Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Politics Trump’s drumbeat of lies about the 2020 election keeps getting louder. Here are the facts Trump’s drumbeat of lies about the 2020 election keeps getting louder. Here are the facts 1 of 5 | Former President Donald Trump called the case against him a “travesty of justice,” moments after he surrendered to the Fulton County jail in Atlanta on charges he illegally schemed to overturn the 2020 election in Georgia. (Aug. 24) Read More 2 of 5 | FILE - Former President Donald Trump speaks with reporters before departure from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, Thursday, Aug. 24, 2023, in Atlanta. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon, File) Read More 3 of 5 | FILE - Maricopa County ballots cast in the 2020 general election are examined and recounted by contractors working for Florida-based company, Cyber Ninjas at Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Phoenix, May 6, 2021. (AP Photo/Matt York, Pool, File) Read More 4 of 5 | FILE - Recount observers check ballots during a Milwaukee hand recount of presidential votes at the Wisconsin Center, in Milwaukee, Wis., Nov. 20, 2020. (AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh, File) Read More 5 of 5 | FIE - A man watches results come in on a screen set up at an election night gathering at Independence Mall, Nov. 3, 2020, in Philadelphia. (AP Photo/Michael Perez, File) Read More By ROBERT YOON Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit WASHINGTON (AP) — With Donald Trump facing felony charges over his attempts to overturn the 2020 election , the former president is flooding the airwaves and his social media platform with distortions, misinformation and unfounded conspiracy theories about his defeat . It’s part of a multiyear effort to undermine public confidence in the American electoral process as he seeks to chart a return to the White House in 2024. There is evidence that his lies are resonating: New polling from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research shows that 57% of Republicans believe Democrat Joe Biden was not legitimately elected as president . Here are the facts about Trump’s loss in the last presidential election: REVIEWS AND RECOUNTS CONFIRM BIDEN’S VICTORY Biden’s victory over Trump in 2020 was not particularly close. He won the Electoral College with 306 votes to Trump’s 232, and the popular vote by more than 7 million ballots. Because the Electoral College ultimately determines the presidency, the race was decided by a few battleground states. Many of those states conducted recounts or thorough reviews of the results, all of which confirmed Biden’s victory. More coverage Trump campaign reports raising more than $7 million after Georgia booking One image, one face, one American moment: The Donald Trump mug shot How Trump’s attacks on prosecutors build on history of using racist language and stereotypes In Arizona, a six-month review of ballots in the state’s largest county , Maricopa, that was commissioned by Republican state legislators not only affirmed Biden’s victory but determined that he should have won by 306 more votes than the officially certified statewide margin of 10,457. In Georgia, where Trump was recently indicted for his efforts to overturn the 2020 result there, state officials led by both a Republican governor and secretary of state recertified Biden’s win after conducting three statewide counts . The final official recount narrowed Biden’s victory in the state from just shy of 13,000 votes to just shy of 12,000 votes. In Michigan, a committee led by Republican state senators concluded there was no widespread or systematic fraud in the state in 2020 after conducting a monthslong investigation. Michigan, where Biden defeated Trump by almost 155,000 votes, or 2.8 percentage points, was less competitive compared with other battleground states, although the result in Wayne County, home of Detroit, was targeted by Trump and his supporters with unfounded voter fraud claims , as were key urban jurisdictions across the country. In Nevada, the then-secretary of state, Republican Barbara Cegavske, and her office reviewed tens of thousands of allegations of possible voter fraud identified by the Nevada Republican Party but found that almost all were based on incomplete information and a lack of understanding of the state’s voting and registration procedures. For example, Cegavske’s investigation found that of 1,506 alleged instances of ballots being cast in the name of deceased individuals, only 10 warranted further investigation by law enforcement. Similarly, 10 out of 1,778 allegations of double-voting called for further investigation. Biden won Nevada by 33,596 votes, or 2.4 percentage points. In Pennsylvania, the final certified results had Biden with an 80,555-vote margin over Trump, or 1.2 percentage points. Efforts to overturn Pennsylvania’s election failed in state and federal courts, while no prosecutor, judge or election official in Pennsylvania has raised a concern about widespread fraud. State Republicans continue to attempt their own review of the 2020 results, but that effort has been tied up in the courts and Democrats have called it a “partisan fishing expedition.” In Wisconsin, a recount slightly improved Biden’s victory over Trump by 87 votes, increasing Biden’s statewide lead to 20,682, or 0.6 percentage points. A nonpartisan audit that concluded a year after the election made recommendations on how to improve future elections in Wisconsin but did not uncover evidence of widespread voter fraud in the state, leading the Republican co-chair of the audit committee to declare that “the election was largely safe and secure.” The state’s Assembly speaker, a Republican, ordered a separate review, which a state judge said found “absolutely no evidence of election fraud.” AP INVESTIGATION FINDS MINIMAL VOTER FRAUD IN SWING STATES An exhaustive AP investigation in 2021 found fewer than 475 instances of confirmed voter fraud across six battleground states — nowhere near the magnitude required to sway the outcome of the presidential election. The review of ballots and records from more than 300 local elections offices found that almost every instance of voter fraud was committed by individuals acting alone and not the result of a massive, coordinated conspiracy to rig the election. The cases involved both registered Democrats and Republicans, and the culprits were almost always caught before the fraudulent ballot was counted. Some of the cases appeared to be intentional attempts to commit fraud, while others seemed to involve either administrative error or voter confusion, including the case of one Wisconsin man who cast a ballot for Trump but said he was unaware that he was ineligible to vote because he was on parole for a felony conviction. The AP review also produced no evidence to support Trump’s claims that states tabulated more votes than there are registered voters. Biden won Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin and their 79 Electoral College votes by a combined 311,257 votes out of 25.5 million ballots cast. The disputed ballots represent just 0.15% of his victory margin in those states. TRUMP’S OWN ADMINISTRATION FOUND NO WIDESPREAD FRAUD Trump was repeatedly advised by members of his own administration that there was no evidence of widespread fraud. Nine days after the 2020 election, the federal Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency issued a statement saying, “The November 3rd election was the most secure in American history.” The statement was co-written by the groups representing the top elections officials in every state. Less than three weeks later, then-Attorney General William Barr declared that a Justice Department investigation had not uncovered evidence of the widespread voter fraud that Trump had claimed was at the center of a massive conspiracy to steal the election. Barr, who had directed U.S. attorneys and FBI agents across the country to pursue “substantial allegations” of voting irregularities, said, “To date, we have not seen fraud on a scale that could have effected a different outcome in the election.” The Jan. 6 House committee report details additional instances where administration officials and White House staff refuted Trump’s various allegations of voter fraud. COURTS HEARD TRUMP’S LEGAL CHALLENGES AND REJECTED THEM The Trump campaign and its backers pursued numerous legal challenges to the election in court and alleged a variety of voter fraud and misconduct. The cases were heard and roundly rejected by dozens of courts at both state and federal levels, including by judges whom Trump appointed. One of them, U.S. Circuit Judge Stephanos Bibas, was on a federal panel that declined a request to stop Pennsylvania from certifying its results, saying, “Voters, not lawyers, choose the president. Ballots, not briefs, decide elections.” The U.S. Supreme Court also rejected several efforts in the weeks after Election Day to overturn the election results in various battleground states that Biden won. CONSPIRACY THEORIES ABOUT VOTING MACHINES WERE UNFOUNDED Many of the claims Trump and his team advanced about a stolen election dealt with the equipment voters used to cast their ballots. At various times, Trump and his legal team falsely alleged that voting machines were built in Venezuela at the direction of President Hugo Chavez, who died in 2013; that machines were designed to delete or flip votes cast for Trump; and that the U.S. Army had seized a computer server in Germany that held secrets to U.S. voting irregularities. None of those claims was ever substantiated or corroborated . CISA’s joint statement released after the election said, “There is no evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes or was in any way compromised.” Nonetheless, many of these and other unfounded claims were repeated on Fox News, both by members of the Trump team as well as by some of the network’s on-air personalities. Dominion Voting Systems sued the network for $1.6 billion, claiming the outlet’s airing of these allegations amounted to defamation. Records of internal communications at Fox News unearthed in the case showed that the network aired the claims even though its biggest stars, including Sean Hannity and Tucker Carlson , as well as the company’s chairman, Rupert Murdoch , did not believe they were true. Dominion and Fox News settled out of court for $787.5 million . CLAIMS INVOLVING SUITCASES AND BALLOT MULES ARE DEBUNKED Trump and his supporters also have claimed that a number of other factors contributed to a broader effort to steal the presidential election. One theory advanced by both Trump and one of his lawyers, Rudy Giuliani, is that “suitcases” full of fraudulent ballots in Georgia cost Trump the election there. Then-Deputy Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen told the Jan. 6 House committee that he personally reviewed the video purported to show the fraud allegation in question. He recounted telling Trump: “It wasn’t a suitcase. It was a bin. That’s what they use when they’re counting ballots. It’s benign.” State and county officials also had confirmed the containers were regular ballot containers on wheels, which are used in normal ballot processing. But a week later, Trump publicly repeated the suitcase theory, saying, “There is even security camera footage from Georgia that shows officials telling poll watchers to leave the room before pulling suitcases of ballots out from under the tables and continuing to count for hours.” Richard Donoghue, the former acting deputy attorney general, told the Jan. 6 committee that, days later, he told Trump that “these allegations about ballots being smuggled in in a suitcase and run through the machine several times, it was not true. … We looked at the video, we interviewed the witnesses.” But Trump continued to repeat the false claim. Another debunked claim spinning a tale of 2,000 so-called ballot mules was featured in a film that ran in hundreds of theaters last spring. The film alleges that Democrat-aligned individuals were paid to illegally collect and drop ballots in Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin. But the AP determined that the allegations were based on flawed analysis of cellphone location data and drop box surveillance footage. ___ Associated Press writers Scott Bauer and Todd Richmond in Madison, Wisconsin; Christina A. Cassidy in Atlanta; Marc Levy in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; and Ali Swenson in New York contributed to this report. ROBERT YOON Yoon is an elections and democracy reporter for The Associated Press, with a focus on analyzing vote and demographic data and explaining the intricacies of the electoral process. He is now covering his seventh presidential campaign cycle. facebook mailto Most read In rare rebuke of Putin, Trump urges Russia to ‘STOP!’ after deadly attack on Kyiv Hegseth had an unsecured internet line set up in his office to connect to Signal, AP sources say Judge halts parts of Trump’s overhaul of US elections, including proof-of-citizenship requirement Trump pardons Nevada politician who paid for cosmetic surgery with funds to honor a slain officer Largest federal employee union, a leading Trump opponent, to lay off more than half of staff The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook