'The Crown' Season 4: All the Details (So Far) Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage Read Next: ‘North of North’ Renewed for Second Season at Netflix Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up Live Feed Home TV TV News ‘The Crown’ Season 4: All the Details (So Far) Production on season four of the royal drama began before Netflix released season three. By Jean Bentley Plus Icon Jean Bentley More Stories by Jean Bentley On the Set of ‘The Masked Singer’: How the Team Produced the Show Safely During the Pandemic ‘This Is Us’ Star Sterling K. Brown and Writer-Director Kay Oyegun on Crafting an Emotional Story About Randall’s Birth Mom ‘The Crown’: All the Details About Its Final Three Seasons View All November 26, 2019 7:00am Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Sophie Mutevelian/Netflix Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Logo text [This story contains spoilers from the season three finale of Netflix’s The Crown .] From the beginning, Netflix’s royal drama The Crown was always meant to run for multiple seasons, with different casts taking over the roles during three separate periods in Queen Elizabeth II’s life. Creator Peter Morgan told The Hollywood Reporter that while initially he thought of his series as a three-season story taking place over 60 years, with a new cast dramatizing a different period in the British monarch’s life each year, he quickly realized that compressing 20 years of British history into a single season of television would be too large an undertaking. “I don’t want you to think that I was audacious enough to go somewhere and ask for a six-season pitch,” he told TV’s Top 5 podcast hosts Daniel Fienberg and Lesley Goldberg during a November interview mere days after season three launched. “I really never imagined that, and barely imagined it getting recommissioned to even do the middle-aged, as it were, part. But it just seems to have worked out.” Related Stories Related Story 'TV's Top 5': Peter Morgan on Rebooting 'The Crown' and Its Future Netflix renewed The Crown for two seasons back in 2017, and when the third season premiered Nov. 17, the fourth was already in production in the U.K. The Hollywood Reporter has gathered everything to know about the upcoming fourth season, along with what Morgan has said about the royal drama’s future. Bookmark this page as The Hollywood Reporter will continue to update as more details become official. The Time Period The first two seasons, which starred Claire Foy as Queen Elizabeth II, covered around the first two decades of the titular monarch’s reign, beginning with her ascension to the throne in 1952 and ending shortly after the birth of her fourth child, Prince Edward, in the mid 1960s. Season three introduced Olivia Colman as Elizabeth, Helena Bonham Carter as her younger sister Princess Margaret (originated by Vanessa Kirby) and Tobias Menzies as Prince Philip (originated by Matt Smith). The 10 episodes focused on the 1964-70 and 1974-76 terms of Prime Minister Howard Wilson, ending with the Winter of Discontent in the late 1970s, right when Princess Margaret’s marriage was crumbling. Related Stories Related Story "Monarchy" vs. "Toxicity": How 'The Crown' Dressed the New Queen Elizabeth and Princess Margaret Season four will take place during the 1980s, and will introduce two important historical figures: Princess Diana and Margaret Thatcher. One important historical event that took place during the era, which coincided with the term of Britain’s first female Prime Minister (from 1979 to 1990), is Charles and Diana’s wedding. Future Seasons While The Crown has not been officially renewed for fifth and sixth seasons, Morgan said Netflix is “interested.” And he is right, per what Netflix content chief Ted Sarandos said in 2016: “This is going to take Queen Elizabeth from age 29 to, presumably, the current day. We’ll see it lay out over decades. The idea is to do this over six decades in six seasons presumably, and make the whole show [run] over eight to 10 years.” Morgan told THR that when planning each season, he maps out the timeline first and then narrows down the events he wants to cover. “The first knee-jerk ideas you have when you think of a decade are shaped by all the reductive nonsense that we do when we reduce a decade to its barest, least interesting components and then we pack it up and wrap it up and call it history,” he said — but then he goes back and takes a deeper look at what happened during the time period he’s covering. (Listen to Morgan’s full interview with TV’s Top 5 above, starting at the 32:16 mark.) Related Stories Related Story How 'The Crown' Historical Consultant Weighed Fact vs. Fiction: "The History and the Past Are Different Things" “You have to then go look at others. At the same time, you do still need that decade to be recognizable as that decade by not going too obscure. And so that’s what I try and do. I try and find both a handful of these [well-known events]…and then hopefully [find] a whole lot of things that have been forgotten by history.” One thing he has found: an end point for the series — and it’s something that has already happened. “You need at least a decade, in my view, to separate yourself from the events that you’re writing about,” he said. “Something has already happened that I think is the end, but you can’t ever say what the end is because things change and the minute things change historically you begin to have to respond in some shape or form, even in your thinking. So I have an idea — but it’s only an idea.” Related Stories Related Story 'The Crown' Star Helena Bonham Carter Shares the Truth Behind the Season 3 Finale Returning Cast: Season 4 Colman, Bonham Carter and Menzies are set to return as the royal trio in season four, as will Josh O’Connor as Prince Charles and Erin Doherty as Princess Anne. Also returning: Marion Bailey as the Queen Mother and Killing Eve season two showrunner Emerald Fennell as Camilla Parker Bowles. New Cast: Season 4 Emma Corrin as Princess Diana Newcomer Corrin, who made her feature film debut in 2019 historical drama Misbehaviour and her series regular TV debut in Epix’s Batman prequel Pennyworth , will play the future Princess of Wales. “Emma is a brilliant talent who immediately captivated us when she came in for the part of Diana Spencer. As well as having the innocence and beauty of a young Diana, she also has, in abundance, the range and complexity to portray an extraordinary woman who went from anonymous teenager to becoming the most iconic woman of her generation,” Morgan said in a statement announcing her casting. Read her first interview about the role here . Gillian Anderson as Margaret Thatcher While initial reports presumed Anderson would take on her latest high-profile role in season three, the Iron Lady will not be introduced until season four debuts on Netflix. The X-Files alum Anderson — who has been dating creator Morgan since 2016 — will take on the part. “I am so excited to be joining the cast and crew of The Crown and to have the opportunity to portray such a complicated and controversial woman,” Anderson said in a statement when her casting was announced. “Thatcher was undoubtedly formidable but I am relishing exploring beneath the surface and, dare I say, falling in love with the icon who, whether loved or despised, defined an era.” Related Stories Related Story 'The Crown' Casts Its Princess Diana (Exclusive) New Cast: Season 5 Despite the fact that seasons five and six have not been officially ordered, Morgan has begun thinking about who he’d want to play the Queen. “You can’t go to the actor’s agents and say, ‘We want to approach such and such’ because I haven’t had a green light yet. But at the same time…I think Netflix are interested and…we did start with this idea of all three, so of course the hope is that there will be a final installment.” At the time he spoke with THR , he hadn’t been able to approach anyone for the role because he didn’t want to approach seasoned actors without a firm offer — and that can’t be done until Netflix officially renews it. “I think if they were young, untried and untested actors you probably could start that process on a speculative basis, but you can’t with serious professionals of experience,” he said. “And their agents are ferocious and wouldn’t let you. So right now it’s a blank sheet.” However, Imelda Staunton is in talks to take over the role of Queen Elizabeth from Colman. Netflix downplayed the report as technically seasons five and six have yet to be formally announced. This post will be updated when any casting news is official. Related Stories Related Story 'The Crown' Reveals How Real-Life Aberfan Mining Tragedy Impacted the Queen Return Date Production on season four began before season three premiered, which means it’s likely to follow the same release pattern as seasons one and two. Season one aired in November 2016 followed by season two in December 2017; with season three’s release in November 2019 , season four should arrive in late 2020. A formal return date or window has not yet been determined. Bookmark this page as THR will continue to update it as more information, including a return date, becomes available. Read More About: Peter Morgan The Crown THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe Sign Up More from The Hollywood Reporter The Narrow Road to the Deep North ‘The Narrow Road to the Deep North’ Producers On Bringing Richard Flanagan’s Epic Book to the Screen: “A Really Important Australian Story” Live Feed CBS Pushes ‘Einstein’ Drama Back a Year to 2026-27 Live Feed ‘North of North’ Renewed for Second Season at Netflix The Remarkable Life of Ibelin Emmys: Netflix Doc ‘The Remarkable Life of Ibelin’ Submitted for Exceptional Merit Award (Exclusive) Live Feed How Josh Charles Found His Quiet Rage for ‘The Handmaid’s Tale’ Matt Rogers Bowen Yang and Matt Rogers’ Las Culturistas Culture Awards to Air on Bravo Logo text WEEKLY NEWSLETTER Inside the business of TV with breaking news, expert analysis and showrunner interviews Email Address Subscribe Today Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Essential Reads TV Premiere Dates 2025: The Complete Guide By Rick Porter ‘The Office’ Turns 20: An Oral History of Season 1 From the Writers Who Shaped It By Rick Porter The 10 Best Medical Shows of All Time, Ranked By Daniel Fienberg The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up PMC Logo Most Popular Bath & Body Works' Hand Soaps Just Hit Their Lowest Price of the Season — Stock Up for $3 Each Mary J. Blige Sued By Her Former Stylist, Misa Hylton, For $5 Million NFL Rookie Signing Bonuses Jump Record 26% for 2025 Draft 'Flattering' Portrait that Putin Gifted to Trump Last Month Finally Unveiled You may also like The Best Yoga Mats for Any Practice, According to Instructors 1 year ago 181 Fremont’s Grand Penthouse Redefines Urban Luxury 1 hour ago Michelle Obama Says Trump Administration’s Immigration Policies “Keep Her Up At Night” 54 mins ago Xavi se convierte en el compositor del año más joven en los Premios ASCAP 2025 2 hours ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues E-edition Access The Hollywood Reporter About Us Media Kit Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage News Expand news menu Latest News Culture & Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Reviews Ratings Live Feed Heat Vision The Fien Print Music Expand music menu Grammys K-Corner Awards Expand awards menu News Awards Chatter Podcast Feinberg Forecast Behind The Screen The Race THR Presents Oscar Season Hub Lifestyle Expand lifestyle menu Person of Interest News Style Shopping Arts Real Estate Rambling Reporter Business Expand business menu THR, Esq Report Features Unions / Labor Film / TV Tax Credits Signings / Representation THR Charts Expand thr-charts menu Streaming Ratings Broadcast Ratings Weekend Box Office Chart More Essentials Expand more-essentials menu International News Video THR Podcasts Featured Voices Follow Us Follow THR on Facebook Follow THR on Instagram Follow THR on X Follow THR on YouTube Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Advertise Careers Contact Us Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. ad