Apple iPhone 11 announcement event live blog | The Verge Skip to main content The Verge The Verge logo. Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health COVID-19 Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters Command Line Installer Notepad Verge Deals Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Apple iPhone 11 announcement event live blog Comments Drawer Tech Apple iPhone 11 announcement event live blog ‘By innovation only’ by Dieter Bohn Sep 10, 2019, 4:01 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Link Facebook Threads It’s iPhone 11 announce day! Today, the main things we are expecting are three models of iPhones. Their precise names are still up in the air, but iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro, and iPhone 11 Pro Max all seem like the most likely candidates. Their most important new feature will probably be their camera system. Beyond that, the Apple Watch seems likely, we might get those Apple Tag location trackers, and maybe even a revision of the Apple TV hardware. Who knows, there could be more, but the stuff we’ve already mentioned is more than enough for one event. It all kicks off at 10AM PT / 1PM ET, and we hope you’ll follow the event with us in the live blog. Related iPhone 11 Pro and 11 Pro Max: Hands on with Apple’s new flagship phones Related iPhone 11: a first look at Apple’s new default iPhone Apple iPhone 11 event live blog Watch the most important announcements in 11 minutes You can also follow the latest news in our Apple hub . See More : Apple Apple Rumors iPhone News Smartwatch Tech Wearable More in this stream See all Here’s where you can buy the iPhone 11, 11 Pro, and 11 Pro Max Cameron Faulkner Sep 20, 2019 Comments Comment Icon Bubble How to rearrange and delete your apps in iOS 13 Jay Peters Sep 19, 2019 Comments Comment Icon Bubble iOS 13 review: join the dark side Chaim Gartenberg Sep 19, 2019 Comments Comment Icon Bubble More in Tech OpenAI undoes its glaze-heavy ChatGPT update Snapchat scraps ‘simple’ redesign as it loses users in North America Apple launches a new celebrity hub that’s all about Apple Natasha Lyonne to direct and star in a new sci-fi film created with generative AI 0 Apple’s latest AirPods Pro are down to their best price of the year OnePlus won’t sell the 13T in the US or Europe OpenAI undoes its glaze-heavy ChatGPT update Jay Peters Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Snapchat scraps ‘simple’ redesign as it loses users in North America Emma Roth Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Apple launches a new celebrity hub that’s all about Apple Umar Shakir Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Natasha Lyonne to direct and star in a new sci-fi film created with generative AI Charles Pulliam-Moore Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble 0 Apple’s latest AirPods Pro are down to their best price of the year Sheena Vasani Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble OnePlus won’t sell the 13T in the US or Europe Allison Johnson Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Apr 29 Whatever happened to the Kids Online Safety Act? Apr 29 MAGA’s next wave of influencers saved TikTok Apr 29 Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Apr 29 Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck Apr 29 Starlink’s got company — and orbital overcrowding is a disaster waiting to happen Apr 29 Meta’s ChatGPT competitor shows how your friends use AI The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved