Assassin's Creed - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Development history Toggle Development history subsection 1.1 Period one 1.2 Period two 1.3 Period three 2 Gameplay 3 Storyline Toggle Storyline subsection 3.1 Premise 3.2 Story arcs 4 Release history Toggle Release history subsection 4.1 Main series 4.1.1 Assassin's Creed 4.1.2 Assassin's Creed II 4.1.3 Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood 4.1.4 Assassin's Creed Revelations 4.1.5 Assassin's Creed III 4.1.6 Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag 4.1.7 Assassin's Creed Rogue 4.1.8 Assassin's Creed Unity 4.1.9 Assassin's Creed Syndicate 4.1.10 Assassin's Creed Origins 4.1.11 Assassin's Creed Odyssey 4.1.12 Assassin's Creed Valhalla 4.1.13 Assassin's Creed Mirage 4.1.14 Assassin's Creed Shadows 4.2 Spin-offs 4.2.1 Assassin's Creed III: Liberation 4.2.2 Assassin's Creed: Freedom Cry 4.2.3 Assassin's Creed Chronicles 4.2.4 Assassin's Creed Nexus VR 4.3 Handheld and mobile games 4.3.1 Assassin's Creed: Altaïr's Chronicles 4.3.2 Assassin's Creed: Bloodlines 4.3.3 Assassin's Creed II: Discovery 4.3.4 Assassin's Creed: Multiplayer Rearmed 4.3.5 Assassin's Creed: Recollection 4.3.6 Assassin's Creed: Pirates 4.3.7 Assassin's Creed: Memories 4.3.8 Assassin's Creed Unity: Arno's Chronicles 4.3.9 Assassin's Creed Rebellion 4.4 Cancelled and defunct games 4.4.1 Assassin's Creed: Project Legacy 4.4.2 Assassin's Creed: Utopia 4.4.3 Assassin's Creed: Initiates 4.4.4 Assassin's Creed Identity 4.5 Re-release compilations and collections 4.6 Future games 4.6.1 Assassin's Creed Jade 4.6.2 Assassin's Creed: Codename Hexe 5 Animus Hub 6 Other media Toggle Other media subsection 6.1 Television 6.2 Film 6.2.1 Theatrical 6.2.2 Live-action short film 6.2.3 Animated short films 6.3 Print publications 6.4 Audio drama 6.5 Board games 6.6 Concert 7 Reception 8 Cultural impact 9 See also 10 References 11 External links Toggle the table of contents Assassin's Creed 46 languages العربية Aragonés Azərbaycanca বাংলা Català Čeština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Euskara فارسی Français 한국어 Hausa Հայերեն Igbo Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית ქართული Lietuvių Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча Polski Português Română Русский Scots Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina کوردی Српски / srpski Suomi Svenska ไทย Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 粵語 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote Wikivoyage Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Video game series This article is about the franchise. For its first game, see Assassin's Creed (video game) . For the book series, see Assassin's Creed (book series) . For the 2016 film adaptation, see Assassin's Creed (film) . Video game series Assassin's Creed Genre(s) Action-adventure Action role-playing Stealth Developer(s) Ubisoft Montreal Ubisoft Sofia Ubisoft Blue Byte Ubisoft Quebec Ubisoft Bordeaux Gameloft Griptonite Games Red Storm Entertainment Publisher(s) Ubisoft Creator(s) Patrice Désilets Jade Raymond Corey May First release Assassin's Creed November 13, 2007 Latest release Assassin's Creed Shadows March 20, 2025 Assassin's Creed is a historical action-adventure video game series and media franchise published by Ubisoft and developed mainly by its studio Ubisoft Montreal using the game engine Anvil and its more advanced derivatives. Created by Patrice Désilets , Jade Raymond , and Corey May , the Assassin's Creed video game series depicts a fictional millennia-old struggle between the Order of Assassins , who fight for peace and free will, and the Knights Templar , who desire peace through order and control. The series features historical fiction , science fiction , and fictional characters intertwined with real-world historical events and historical figures . In most games, players control a historical Assassin while also playing as an Assassin Initiate or someone caught in the Assassin–Templar conflict in the present-day framing story . Considered a spiritual successor to the Prince of Persia series, Assassin's Creed took inspiration from the novel Alamut by the Slovenian writer Vladimir Bartol , based on the historical Hashashin sect of the medieval Iran (Persia). The first Assassin's Creed game was released in 2007, and the series has featured fourteen main installments in total, the most recent being Assassin's Creed Shadows in 2025. Main games in the Assassin's Creed series are set in an open world and played from the third-person view . Gameplay revolves around combat, stealth, and exploration, including the use of parkour to navigate the environment. The games feature both main and side missions, and some titles also include competitive and cooperative multiplayer game modes. A new story and occasionally new time periods are introduced in each entry, with the gameplay elements also evolving. There are three overarching story arcs in the series. The first five main games follow Desmond Miles , a descendant of several important Assassins throughout history, who uses a machine called the Animus to relive his ancestors' memories and find powerful artifacts called Pieces of Eden in an attempt to prevent a catastrophic event, referencing the 2012 phenomenon . From Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag to Assassin's Creed Syndicate , Assassin initiates and employees of Abstergo Industries (a company used as a front by the modern-day Templars) record genetic memories using the Helix software, helping the Templars and Assassins find new Pieces of Eden in the modern world. The next three games, Assassin's Creed Origins , Odyssey , and Valhalla , follow ex-Abstergo employee Layla Hassan on her own quest to save humanity from another disaster. The main games in the Assassin's Creed franchise have received generally positive reviews for their ambition in visuals, game design, and narratives, with criticism for the yearly release cycle and frequent bugs, as well as the prioritising of role-playing mechanics in later titles. The series has received multiple awards and nominations, including multiple Game of the Year awards. It is commercially successful, selling over 200 million copies as of September 2022 [update] , becoming Ubisoft's best-selling franchise and one of the best-selling video game franchises of all time. While main titles are produced for major consoles and desktop platforms, multiple spin-off games have been released for consoles, mobiles, and handheld platforms. A series of art books, encyclopedias, comics, and novels have also been published. A live-action film adaptation of the series was released in 2016. Development history While the games in the series have had several narrative arcs, Ubisoft views the series as currently having three periods of development and design philosophy. Until 2015's Assassin's Creed Syndicate , the franchise was structured around single-player content, and while centering on open world spaces and incorporating several role-playing elements, were more action-adventure and stealth-oriented. Period two, covering from Assassin's Creed Origins to Assassin's Creed Mirage , brought in more role-playing elements and live-service features to increase player engagement. Period three launched with Assassin's Creed Shadows , using lessons from the second period of development to make engrossing single-player games similar to the original titles but with features to allow players to share achievements and content with others through a new Animus Hub system that will be integrated with all future and some earlier games. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Period one The first Assassin's Creed game originated out of ideas for a sequel for Ubisoft's video game Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time , aiming for the seventh generation of video game consoles . The Ubisoft Montreal team decided to take the gameplay from The Sands of Time into an open-world approach, taking advantage of the improved processing power to render larger spaces and crowds. Narratively, the team wanted to move away from the Prince being someone next in line for the throne but to have to work for it; combined with research into secret societies led them to focus on the Order of Assassins , based upon the historical Hashashin sect of Ismaili , who were followers of Shia Islam , heavily borrowing from the novel Alamut . [ 3 ] [ 4 ] Ubisoft developed a narrative where the player would control an Assassin escorting a non-playable Prince, leading them to call this game Prince of Persia: Assassin , [ 5 ] or Prince of Persia: Assassins . [ 6 ] Ubisoft was apprehensive to a Prince of Persia game without the Prince as the playable character, but this led the marketing division to suggest the name Assassin's Creed , playing off the creed of the Assassins, "nothing is true; everything is permitted". Ubisoft Montreal ran with this in creating a new intellectual property , eliminating the Prince, and basing it around the Assassins and the Knights Templar in the Holy Land during the 12th century. Additionally, in postulating what other assassinations they could account for throughout history, they came onto the idea of genetic memory and created the Animus device and modern storyline elements. This further allowed them to explain certain facets of gameplay, such as accounting for when the player character is killed, similar to The Sands of Time . [ 6 ] After Assassin's Creed was released in 2007, Ubisoft Montreal said they looked to "rework the global structure" in developing the sequel, Assassin's Creed II . They felt that parkour was underutilized in the first game and designed the world in the sequel to feature freerun highways to make it easier to enter into parkour moves, for example using rooftops to escape pursuits. [ 7 ] The change in setting meant that the game would feature a new cast of characters, including a new protagonist, Ezio Auditore da Firenze . Assassin's Creed II also brought in more use of crowds to hide in plain sight that the developers had seen used in Hitman: Blood Money , adding more to the concept of social stealth as a gameplay option. [ 7 ] Finally, Ubisoft Montreal completely reworked the repetitive mission structure from the first game through numerous side activities, collectibles, and secrets. These additions became a central part of the series going forward as well as other Ubisoft games like Watch Dogs , Far Cry , and Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon . [ 7 ] Assassin's Creed II was followed by two sequels, Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood and Assassin's Creed: Revelations , which also featured Ezio as the main protagonist and introduced the ability for players to recruit NPCs as Assassins and manage them in missions. [ 7 ] Assassin's Creed III originated from both Ubisoft Montreal, who wanted to progress the series' narrative forward in time, and to an unattached project that had been developed at Ubisoft Singapore and featured naval ship combat. As the main team had settled into the American Revolution period for the game, they found the ship-to-ship combat system fitted with the story and redesigned the setting to incorporate it further. Another major change in Assassin's Creed III was transitioning the parkour and freerun systems to work in the natural woodlands of 18th-century Massachusetts and New York . This further allowed the adding of trees and other vegetation within the city areas themselves, not just as part of the parkour systems, but to add more varied environments, which would continue as part of the series' ongoing design. [ 7 ] For Assassin's Creed III ' s sequel, Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag , the Ubisoft team built upon the foundation of its predecessor, particularly with regards to the naval gameplay, merging it seamlessly with the land-based gameplay. [ 7 ] The team also used the game as a chance to address aspects of the series' storyline. Choosing to focus on an outsider's perspective to the Assassin–Templar conflict, they set the game around the Golden Age of Piracy , with the protagonist, Edward Kenway , starting out as a pirate who initially becomes involved in the conflict with the prospect of wealth. Similarly, after the conclusion of Desmond Miles ' story arc in Assassin's Creed III , the modern-day segments put players in the role of a nameless individual controlled from a first-person perspective . The team chose this approach because they believed it allowed players to more easily identify themselves in their character. [ 7 ] This trend would continue in the series until Assassin's Creed Syndicate . [ 7 ] Development of Assassin's Creed Unity began shortly after the completion of Brotherhood in 2010, [ 8 ] with the core development team splitting off during the early stages of development on Assassin's Creed III . [ 9 ] As the first game in the series to be released exclusively for the eighth generation of video game consoles , Unity featured a graphical and gameplay overhaul. The setting chosen for the game was Paris during the early years of the French Revolution , with players taking control of a new Assassin named Arno Dorian . [ 8 ] [ 9 ] After Unity , Ubisoft released Assassin's Creed Syndicate in 2015. [ 7 ] Period two Following Syndicate ' s release, Ubisoft decided that the series needed a major reinvention across both gameplay and narrative. It was decided to make the next game, Assassin's Creed Origins , closer to a role-playing video game than a stealth-action game , which would also bring a game with many more hours of play than previous titles. Some long-standing features of the series were eliminated for this purpose, such as the social stealth mechanic. This changed how missions were presented — rather than being linearly directed through the Animus, the player character could meet various quest givers in the game's world to receive missions. [ 7 ] From the narrative side, Ubisoft placed the game before the formation of the Assassin Brotherhood in Ancient Egypt to make the player character, Bayek of Siwa , a medjay that people would respect and seek the help of. [ 7 ] The modern-day storyline also shifted back to a single character, Layla Hassan . The developers limited the number of playable sequences for her character compared to previous games but gave them more meaning, such as allowing the player to explore Layla's laptop with background information on the game's universe. [ 7 ] Origins was followed in 2018 by Assassin's Creed Odyssey , which shifted the setting to Classical Greece and followed a similar approach to its predecessor but with more emphasis on the role-playing elements. [ 7 ] 2020's Assassin's Creed Valhalla , set in medieval England and Norway during the Viking Age , continued the same style as Origins and Odyssey . The developers recognized feedback from the previous two games and brought back the social stealth elements, as well as the concept of a customizable home base that was first introduced in Assassin's Creed II . [ 7 ] In 2023, Ubisoft released Assassin's Creed Mirage , a smaller title which sought to pay tribute to the franchise's earlier installments by focusing on stealth and assassinations over its predecessors' role-playing elements. The game started development as an expansion for Valhalla before being turned into a standalone release, and was set in 9th-century Baghdad during the Islamic Golden Age , a decade before the events of Valhalla , to which it served as a prequel. [ 10 ] [ 11 ] Period three In 2022, Ubisoft announced several additional games for the series, including Assassin's Creed Shadows , set in Japan during the Sengoku period , [ 10 ] [ 12 ] and Assassin's Creed: Codename Hexe , rumoured to be set in Central Europe during the 16th century . [ 13 ] Alongside the release of Assassin's Creed Shadows , Ubisoft introduced the Animus Hub , intended to serve as a centralized hub for the Assassin's Creed games from Shadows onward. Originally teased as Assassin's Creed Infinity , the Animus Hub was described by its executive producer, Marc-Alexis Côté, as a "new design philosophy" for the series, [ 1 ] [ 14 ] as well as a hub that would provide the releases of future games. [ 15 ] According to Côté in 2024, the modern-day narrative of the series had become haphazard after the death of Desmond Miles in Assassin's Creed III through the introduction of Layla Hassan in Assassin's Creed Origins due to the lack of a main character and the number of studios involved, and Infinity aimed to re-establish the modern-day side of the series. [ 16 ] The Animus Hub is not a launcher , but instead a feature integrated into Shadows , future games, and select games from period two, which incorporates the modern-day storyline of the series. [ 2 ] Gameplay An Assassin's Creed III demo showing the parkour gameplay The Assassin's Creed games are centered around one or more fictional members of the Order of the Assassins. Their memories are experienced by an in-game character in the modern-day period through a device called the Animus and its derivations. The Animus allows the user to explore these memories passed down via genetics. Within the context of the game, this provides a diegetic interface to the real-world player of the game, showing them elements like health bars, a mini-map, and target objectives as if presented by the Animus. Additionally, should the player cause the historical character to die or fail a mission, this is rectified as desynchronization of the genetic memory, allowing the player to try the mission again. Through the Animus interface, the player can retry any past mission already completed; for example, in Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood , the player achieves better synchronization results by performing the mission in a specific manner, such as by only killing the mission's target. The Animus also imparts special abilities to the modern-day character that helps them to see their target in a crowd or other unique points of interest. [ 17 ] [ 18 ] While playing as the Assassin characters, the games are generally presented from a third-person view in an open world environment, focusing on stealth and parkour . The games use a mission structure to follow the main story, assigning the player to complete an assassination of public figureheads or a covert mission. Alternatively, several side missions are available, such as mapping out the expansive cities from a high perch followed by performing a leap of faith into a haystack below, collecting treasures hidden across the cities, exploring ruins for relics, building a brotherhood of assassins to perform other tasks, or funding the rebuilding of a city through purchasing and upgrading of shops and other features. At times, the player is in direct control of the modern-day character who, by nature of the Animus use, has learned Assassin techniques through the bleeding effect, as well as their genetic ability of Eagle Vision, which separates friend, foe, and assassination targets by illuminating people in different colors. [ 19 ] [ 20 ] The games use the concept of active versus passive moves, with active moves, such as running, climbing the sides of buildings, or jumping between rooftops, more likely to alert the attention of nearby guards. When the guards become alerted, the player must either fight them or break their line of sight and locate a hiding place, such as a haystack or a well, and wait until the guards' alert is reduced. The combat system allows for a number of unique weapons, armor, and moves, including the use of a hidden blade set in a bracer attached at the Assassin's wrist with a blade ejected via-spring mechanism, which can be used to perform surreptitious assassinations. [ 21 ] Storyline The logo of the fictional Abstergo Industries, whose slogan is "We change the world. Every day, in a hundred different ways." Premise The Assassin's Creed games primarily revolve around the rivalry and conflict between two ancient secret societies: the Order of Assassins , who represent freedom, and the Knights Templar , who represent order. Versions of these societies have existed for centuries, with the Assassins seeking to stop the Templars from gaining control of the Pieces of Eden, artifacts that can override free will to control people's minds. [ 22 ] These artifacts are remnants of an ancient species pre-dating humanity called the Isu, or Precursors, which created humanity to live in peace alongside them. The Isu ensured humans could not rise against them by creating the Pieces of Eden to control them. When the first hybrid Isu-human beings emerged, named Adam and Eve , they were immune to the effects of the Pieces of Eden. They stole the Pieces of Eden, which led to a great war that ended when a massive solar flare devastated the surface of the Earth. The surviving Isu subsequently died out while humanity thrived. All that remained of the Isu were traces of their memories in the world's mythologies and religions, while the Pieces of Eden became lost to time, many of them hidden within underground vaults known as Temples. [ 22 ] Before their demise, three Isu— Minerva , Juno , and Jupiter —attempted to prepare humanity for another solar flare they knew would come millennia later. Using a device called the Eye, which allowed them to see into possible futures, Minerva and Jupiter left behind messages to guide humanity to the Grand Temple, which housed the global aurora borealis device that could activate a protective shield around the Earth. However, Juno saw humanity as a threat and attempted to sabotage Minerva and Jupiter's plan. Minerva and Jupiter were forced to destroy Juno and trapped her consciousness within the Grand Temple, unaware that Juno had modified the global aurora borealis device to release her consciousness upon activation. [ 22 ] The series itself takes place in the modern era, in which the Templars have established the mega-corporation Abstergo Industries. Abstergo has developed a device, the Animus, whose users can relive the memories of their ancestors through their genetic material. Abstergo has kidnapped people who are descendants of past Assassins to locate the missing Pieces of Eden via the Animus. [ 22 ] A user of the Animus can move about in simulated memories as their ancestor, but performing actions outside the bounds of what their ancestor did can lead to desynchronization of the memory. [ 17 ] [ 18 ] Extended use of the Animus creates a "bleeding effect" that gives users some of the skills and capabilities they experienced with their ancestor, but also affects their mental well-being, as the user begins to confuse their ancestor's memories with their own. [ 23 ] Story arcs Narrative chronology of the Assassin's Creed games [ 22 ] Game Historical character Period/era Present-day character Assassin's Creed Altaïr Ibn-LaʼAhad Third Crusade Desmond Miles Assassin's Creed II Ezio Auditore da Firenze Italian Renaissance Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood Assassin's Creed Revelations Ezio Auditore da Firenze Ottoman Civil War Altaïr Ibn-LaʼAhad Third Crusade & Mongol invasion of the Levant Assassin's Creed III Haytham Kenway French and Indian War Ratonhnhaké:ton / Connor American Revolution Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Edward Kenway Golden Age of Piracy "Noob" / Abstergo researcher Assassin's Creed Rogue Shay Patrick Cormac French and Indian War "Numbskull" / Helix researcher Assassin's Creed Unity Arno Dorian French Revolution "The Initiate" / Helix player Assassin's Creed Syndicate Jacob and Evie Frye Victorian England Lydia Frye World War I Assassin's Creed Origins Bayek and Aya Ptolemaic Egypt Layla Hassan Assassin's Creed Odyssey Alexios / Kassandra Peloponnesian War Assassin's Creed Valhalla Eivor Varinsdottir Viking invasion of England Odin / Havi Isu Era Layla Hassan Basim Ibn Ishaq Assassin's Creed Mirage Basim Ibn Ishaq Islamic Golden Age — Assassin's Creed Shadows Fujibayashi Naoe and Yasuke Sengoku period — The first five main games in the series focus on Desmond Miles , a bartender and former Assassin who learns he is a descendant of several important Assassins throughout history, including Altaïr Ibn-LaʼAhad from the Middle East during the Third Crusade ; Ezio Auditore da Firenze from the Italian Renaissance ; and Ratonhnhaké:ton (commonly known as Connor), a half- Mohawk , half- British Assassin during the American Revolution . Desmond is used by Abstergo to find Pieces of Eden but is rescued by Lucy Stillman, an undercover agent for the Assassins. With the help of two other Assassins, Shaun Hastings and Rebecca Crane, and later William Miles, Desmond's father and the leader of the modern-day Assassins, the group continue to explore Desmond's memories in the hopes of locating the Pieces of Eden before Abstergo. In the process, they learn about the Isu and come into contact with Juno, who kills Lucy, revealed to be a double agent for the Templars. The group ultimately finds the Grand Temple, and Desmond activates the global aurora borealis device in time to block the solar flare, at the cost of his own life. [ 22 ] Starting with Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag , Abstergo has refined the Animus technology to allow anyone to experience memories from the genetic material of another person, allowing the Templars to continue their search for Pieces of Eden under the guise of creating entertainment products. In Black Flag , players assume the role of an unnamed Abstergo employee tasked with researching the memories of Edward Kenway , a pirate-turned-Assassin and Connor's grandfather. During their work, the player is blackmailed by a fellow employee, John Standish, into acquiring and delivering sensitive information on Abstergo's activities to the Assassins. John is later revealed to be a Sage, a human reincarnation of Juno's husband Aita , who is trying to resurrect her, though he is killed by Abstergo before he can succeed. [ 22 ] By the time of Assassin's Creed Unity , Abstergo has begun distributing the Animus technology via a video game console called the Helix, tapping into an extensive, unaware player base to help them locate the remains of various Sages as part of the Phoenix Project, an attempt to recreate the genetic structure of the Isu. The player character is recruited into the Assassins and tasked with exploring the memories of Arno Dorian , an Assassin during the French Revolution , so that the modern-day Assassins can retrieve the body of a Sage and hide it from Abstergo. [ 22 ] Despite the Assassins' efforts, by the start of Assassin's Creed Syndicate , Abstergo has collected enough DNA samples from other Sages to move forward with the Phoenix Project. The player character is again contacted by the Assassins and relives the memories of Jacob and Evie Frye , twin Assassins from Victorian England , to find a Piece of Eden that Abstergo requires for the next phase of the Phoenix Project. Although the Assassins beat the Templars to it, the latter manage to steal the Piece of Eden and escape with it, whereupon it is revealed that Juno is manipulating various Abstergo employees to further her plans of being resurrected. [ 22 ] A new storyline is introduced in Assassin's Creed Origins focusing on Abstergo researcher Layla Hassan. While on an assignment to recover an artifact from Egypt , Layla stumbles upon the remains of the Medjay Bayek and his wife Aya, co-founders of the Hidden Ones, the Assassins' precursors. Against Abstergo's orders, Layla uses her personal Animus to relive Bayek's and Aya's memories, causing the Templars to mark her for death. She is rescued by William Miles, who then invites her to join the Assassins for her own protection. [ 22 ] In Assassin's Creed Odyssey , Layla recovers the Spear of Leonidas , from which she extracts the DNA of Leonidas' grandchildren, Alexios and Kassandra . Through their memories, Layla locates the Staff of Hermes Trismegistus , another Piece of Eden, which is guarded by one of the siblings ( canonically Kassandra), still alive due to being sustained by the Staff. Kassandra relinquishes the Staff to Layla, who is prophesied to one day restore balance to the world, and passes away. [ 22 ] In Assassin's Creed Valhalla , Earth is facing yet another disaster, as its magnetic field has been continually strengthening since Desmond's activation of the global aurora borealis device eight years prior. Layla exhumes the remains of Eivor Varinsdottir, a 9th-century Viking , and from her memories, she learns of an Isu temple in Norway . Layla travels to the temple and enters the Grey, a virtual world created by the Isu, where she meets both the Reader (implied to be Desmond's preserved consciousness) and Basim Ibn Ishaq , a Hidden One and the reincarnation of the Isu Loki , who was trapped in the Grey by Eivor. Basim helps Layla stop the disaster but then abandons her in the Grey and escapes back to the real world, where he joins the modern-day Assassins. [ 24 ] In Assassin's Creed Mirage , the Assassins use a sample of Basim's DNA to relive his memories of his time as a Hidden One during the Islamic Golden Age , in order to learn more about his nature as a reborn Isu. Release history The following table lists the main and spin-off games of the franchise, along with their release years and the respective platform(s) they released on: Main series Title Released Platform Period One Assassin's Creed 2007 Microsoft Windows , Xbox 360 , PlayStation 3 Assassin's Creed II 2009 Windows, Xbox 360, Xbox One , PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4 , OS X , Nintendo Switch Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood 2010 Windows, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, OS X, Nintendo Switch Assassin's Creed Revelations 2011 Windows, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch Assassin's Creed III 2012 Windows, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Wii U , Nintendo Switch, Stadia Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag 2013 Windows, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Wii U, Nintendo Switch, Stadia Assassin's Creed Rogue 2014 Windows, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, Stadia Assassin's Creed Unity Windows, Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Stadia Assassin's Creed Syndicate 2015 Windows, Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Stadia Period Two Assassin's Creed Origins 2017 Windows, Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Stadia Assassin's Creed Odyssey 2018 Windows, Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Stadia Assassin's Creed Valhalla 2020 Windows, Xbox One , Xbox Series X/S , PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 , Stadia Assassin's Creed Mirage 2023 Windows, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, iOS Period Three Assassin's Creed Shadows 2025 Windows, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 5, macOS Spin-offs Title Released Platform Assassin's Creed: Altaïr's Chronicles 2008 Android , Symbian , iOS , webOS , Windows Phone , Nintendo DS Assassin's Creed: Bloodlines 2009 PlayStation Portable Assassin's Creed II: Discovery iOS, Nintendo DS Assassin's Creed: Project Legacy 2010 Browser Assassin's Creed: Multiplayer Rearmed 2011 iPad , iPhone , iPod Touch Assassin's Creed: Recollection iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch Assassin's Creed III: Liberation a 2012 Windows, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita , Nintendo Switch, Stadia Assassin's Creed: Pirates 2013 Android, iOS Assassin's Creed Freedom Cry b 2014 Windows, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch Assassin's Creed: Memories iOS Assassin's Creed Chronicles: China c 2015 Windows, Xbox One, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita d Assassin's Creed Chronicles: India 2016 Windows, Xbox One, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita d Assassin's Creed Chronicles: Russia Windows, Xbox One, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita d Assassin's Creed Identity Android, iOS Assassin's Creed Unity: Arno's Chronicles 2017 Android e Assassin's Creed Rebellion 2018 Android, iOS Assassin's Creed Nexus VR 2023 Meta Quest 2 , Meta Quest 3, Meta Quest Pro [ 25 ] ^a Released under the title Assassin's Creed: Liberation HD for Windows, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in 2014. ^b Originally released as DLC for all versions of Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag in 2013. ^c Originally announced as part of the season pass for Assassin's Creed Unity . ^d Released as a compilation titled Assassin's Creed Chronicles Trilogy Pack . ^e Released exclusively for the Honor 9 smartphone. [ 26 ] Main series Assassin's Creed Main article: Assassin's Creed (video game) Assassin's Creed logo The first game in the series was released in November 2007 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 , and in April 2008 for Microsoft Windows . It features a historical recreation of the Holy Land (primarily the cities of Masyaf , Jerusalem , Acre , and Damascus ) in the late 12th century. Its narrative includes real historical figures and events from that time period. The storyline consists of two portions: one set during the modern-day, which follows Desmond Miles ; and one set in 1191, which follows Desmond's ancestor, Altaïr Ibn-LaʼAhad , a member of the Assassin Order during the time of the Third Crusade . Desmond's story begins with his abduction by pharmaceutical company Abstergo Industries, whose lead scientist, Dr. Warren Vidic, forces him to explore Altaïr's memories through a machine called the Animus that allows him to connect with his ancestors' DNA. In doing so, Abstergo hopes to find powerful artifacts called Pieces of Eden, which the Assassins and their rivals, the Knights Templar , have fought over for centuries. Altaïr's story begins with his demotion to the rank of Novice Assassin after he botches an attempt by the Assassins to recover a Piece of Eden, the Apple of Eden, from the Templars. To redeem himself, Altaïr is tasked with assassinating nine Templar targets across the Holy Land. Assassin's Creed introduced core elements that remained in the rest of the series. Players can freely explore the game's open world , making use of Altaïr's parkour and climbing skills to navigate the environment. The game also features refined hack-and-slash combat, with players able to block and counter-attacks, and stealth mechanics, such as hiding in crowds of people, which allow players to avoid detection by enemies or lose pursuing foes. Although players can choose the order in which they kill their main targets, the mission design was seen as linear and repetitive because players had to complete several side quests before each assassination. The side quest prerequisite was one of the most criticized aspects of the game, so it was abandoned in future games. Assassin's Creed II Main article: Assassin's Creed II Assassin's Creed II logo Assassin's Creed II is a direct sequel to the first game and was released in November 2009 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, in March 2010 for Windows, and in October 2010 for OS X . The modern-day narrative again follows Desmond, who escapes from Abstergo (revealed at the end of the previous game as a front for the modern-day Templars) with the aid of Assassin mole Lucy Stillman and is taken to her team's hideout. Hoping to train Desmond as an Assassin, they put him in the Animus 2.0, where he begins to suffer from the bleeding effect; this allows Desmond to gain his ancestors' skills, but it also damages his mind, as he begins to involuntarily experience flashes of his ancestors' memories outside of the Animus. Meanwhile, the main narrative takes place at the height of the Italian Renaissance in the late 15th century and follows Desmond's Italian ancestor Ezio Auditore da Firenze , a young nobleman from Florence who is forced to become an Assassin after his father and brothers are killed by the Templars. During his journey to avenge their deaths, Ezio makes allies such as Leonardo da Vinci and Caterina Sforza and combats enemies such as the Pazzi and Barbarigo families and Rodrigo Borgia . Ezio also comes into contact with technology left behind by the First Civilization, a race that created humanity and the Pieces of Eden and who were wiped out by a catastrophic event. Similar to the first game, Assassin's Creed II incorporates historical events into its narrative and features recreations of several cities from the time period it is set in (in this case, Florence, Venice , Forlì , San Gimignano , and Monteriggioni ). Missions are divided into main story missions, themselves into memory sequences reflecting points in Ezio's life, and side missions that can be accomplished at any time; this approach to mission structure remains consistent in the other games in the series. The Villa Auditore in Monteriggioni, which acts as the Assassins' headquarters for most of the game, provides several functions that can be expanded on by paying for upgrades of surrounding buildings, or by purchasing artwork, weapons, and armor for the villa; in turn, the villa will generate wealth for the player at a rate influenced by the upgrades and acquisition of these items. Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood Main article: Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood logo Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood is the sequel to Assassin's Creed II , and was released in November 2010 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, in March 2011 for Windows, and in May 2011 for OS X. The game begins immediately after the events of its predecessor, at the end of which Desmond was warned by Minerva, a member of the First Civilization, about a solar flare that will hit the Earth and kill most of humanity in a few months. Desmond and his team travel to Monteriggioni, where they set up a new base and use the Animus to find the Temple of Juno, another First Civilization member, which houses Ezio's own Apple of Eden and the key to stopping the solar flare. The main narrative continues the story of Ezio, who travels to Rome , the center of Templar power in Italy, to re-establish the Assassin Brotherhood there and defeat the Borgias , who have attacked Monteriggioni and stolen the Apple of Eden. Brotherhood shares many of the same features as the previous game though it takes place primarily in one city: Rome. Like the Villa Auditore, the player can spend money to buy and upgrade shops and other facilities throughout the city to increase the revenue they can collect from it; however, the player will be required to destroy Borgia towers that control various sections of the city before they can do so. The Brotherhood of Assassins is introduced, by which, after saving citizens from certain events, the player can recruit these citizens as Assassins; they can then be dispatched to remote locations across Europe to gain experience and money or can be called in to help the player directly in a mission. For the first time in the series, the game features online multiplayer , in which players assume the role of Abstergo employees who, through the use of the Animus, relive the genetic memories of Renaissance Templars in various game modes. [ 27 ] It was the last game to feature Assassin's Creed creator Patrice Désilets , as the creative director of the series. [ 28 ] [ 29 ] Assassin's Creed Revelations Main article: Assassin's Creed Revelations Assassin's Creed Revelations logo Assassin's Creed Revelations is the final installment of the Ezio Trilogy and was released in November 2011 for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Windows. Following the events of Brotherhood , where he was possessed by Juno and forced to kill Lucy (who, unbeknownst to him, was a Templar double agent ), Desmond has fallen into a coma and was put back into the Animus to save his mind. Within the computerized core of the Animus, Desmond meets the preserved consciousness of Abstergo's previous Animus test subject, Clay Kaczmarek , who explains that Demond's mind must achieve full synchronization with Altaïr and Ezio, or else he will fall into dementia . Desmond continues exploring the memories of Ezio, who, a few years after the events of Brotherhood , travels to Constantinople to find five keys needed to open a library built by Altaïr, which is said to contain the power to end the Assassin–Templar conflict. In Constantinople, Ezio becomes caught in a war of succession between Sultan Bayezid II 's sons, Selim and Ahmet , and must confront a conspiracy masterminded by the Byzantine Templars, who are taking advantage of the chaos to try and reclaim the city, as well as open Altaïr's library themselves. Originally Revelations was announced as Assassin's Creed: Lost Legacy , and conceptualized as a Nintendo 3DS title focusing on Ezio traveling to Masyaf to explore Altaïr's legacy and uncover the origins of the Assassin Brotherhood. [ 30 ] [ 31 ] Lost Legacy was later announced as cancelled on July 15, 2011, after Ubisoft decided to expand the idea further, cancel the 3DS development and shift all development duties towards PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and PC to release the game as a full-fledged main installment of the franchise. The original premise remained and evolved into the plot seen in the final game. [ 32 ] Included were many new systems and additional weapons such as bomb-crafting and an expanded Assassin recruitment system. The multiplayer mode returns in Revelations , with more characters, modes, and maps; players once again assume the role of Templars in training and as they level up and rise in the ranks, they are told more about Abstergo's history. Assassin's Creed III Main article: Assassin's Creed III Assassin's Creed III logo Assassin's Creed III was released in October 2012 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 and in November 2012 for Wii U and Windows. A remastered version of the game with enhanced visuals was released for Windows, PlayStation 4 , and Xbox One in March 2019 and for Nintendo Switch in May 2019. This is the final game in the series to follow Desmond, who travels to the First Civilization's Grand Temple in New York with his friends and father to use the technology inside to prevent the solar flare set to hit the Earth in several weeks' time. To access this technology, Desmond must undertake missions across the globe to retrieve 'batteries' to power the Temple, as well as an ancient key to the Temple's inner chambers. To find the latter, Desmond uses the Animus to relive the memories of two of his ancestors who were in possession of the key at various points in time: Haytham Kenway , a British Templar from the 18th century who travels to the American colonies to establish a strong Templar presence on the continent and find the Grand Temple; and Ratonhnhaké:ton (later known as Connor), Haytham's half- Mohawk son, who becomes an Assassin to exact revenge on the Templars, whom he blames for the destruction of his village and the death of his mother in his youth. To this end, Connor later becomes involved in the American Revolution , helping the Patriot cause in exchange for their help in hunting down Haytham's faction of Templars, who hope to use the Revolution to further their own goals. Assassin's Creed III is structured similarly to the previous games, with missions taking place in an open-world map based on Colonial Boston and New York . The game offers a large wilderness area in the form of the Frontier and the Davenport Homestead, where the player can hunt animals for materials, which subsequently can be used to construct goods to be traded and sold throughout the colonies. Naval battles also debut in the series, wherein the player must steer a warship named the Aquila in dangerous waters and perform ship-to-ship combat with cannons and mounted guns. The multiplayer mode from the previous two games returns in Assassin's Creed III with new game modes, characters, and maps inspired by Colonial America, but this time no major narrative elements are included. Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Main article: Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag logo Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag was released in October 2013 for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Wii U and in November 2013 for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Windows. Following the events of Assassin's Creed III , at the end of which Desmond sacrificed himself to save the Earth, Abstergo retrieved samples from his body to continue exploring the memories of his ancestors. The player character is an unnamed Abstergo employee tasked with analyzing the memories of Edward Kenway , an 18th-century pirate and Connor's grandfather, ostensibly to gather material for an Animus-powered interactive feature film; in reality, Abstergo are searching for the Observatory, a First Civilization structure that allows the user to see through the eyes of a subject to find them anywhere on the planet. As Edward, the player must unravel a conspiracy between high-ranking Templars to manipulate the British and Spanish empires into locating the Sage—later identified as Bartholomew Roberts —who is the only man that can lead them to the Observatory. Black Flag retains many gameplay mechanics from Assassin's Creed III , including the ship-based exploration and combat. For the first time in the series, naval exploration is a major part of the game; players can captain Edward's ship, the Jackdaw , and battle rival ships or hunt sea animals . The game includes a large open world spanning the West Indies , with players able to explore the cities of Havana , Nassau , and Kingston , as well as numerous islands, forts, and sunken ships. A multiplayer mode is once again included, although it is entirely land-based. Assassin's Creed Rogue Main article: Assassin's Creed Rogue Assassin's Creed Rogue logo Assassin's Creed Rogue is the final game in the series to be developed for the seventh generation of consoles , being released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in November 2014, [ 33 ] and for Windows in March 2015. [ 34 ] A remastered version of the game was released for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in March 2018. In the present day, players again take on the role of an unnamed Abstergo employee, tasked with researching the memories of Shay Patrick Cormac , an 18th-century Assassin who, for reasons unknown to Abstergo, defected to the Templars. During their investigation, the player accidentally trips a hidden memory file that infects the Animus servers. They must complete Shay's memories to clean the servers while Abstergo is put under lockdown. The main narrative takes place during the Seven Years' War , [ 33 ] and follows Shay, who starts out as a talented, but insubordinate Assassin trainee. After witnessing the Assassins' hypocrisy and willingness to sacrifice civilians in their blind pursuit of the Pieces of Eden, Shay betrays them and joins the Templars, helping his newfound allies hunt down members of his former Brotherhood to prevent them from endangering more innocent lives. Shay's story is set between the events of Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag and Assassin's Creed III , and is meant to fill the gaps between their respective narratives, while also having "a crucial link to the Kenway saga" according to Ubisoft, as well as to Assassin's Creed Unity . [ 35 ] Several major characters from Assassin's Creed III and Black Flag make appearances in the game, such as Haytham Kenway, Achilles Davenport, and Adéwalé . [ 36 ] In March 2014, a new Assassin's Creed game code-named Comet was revealed to be in development for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, set to release later that year alongside Unity . [ 37 ] By the end of the month, additional reports indicated that Comet would be set around 1758 New York City , and would feature sailing on the Atlantic Ocean . The game would be a direct sequel to Black Flag , and would be the first to feature a Templar as the main protagonist. In May 2014, Guillemot stated that, "for the foreseeable future", Assassin's Creed games would continue releasing on the last generation PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, despite the franchise moving to the current generation PlayStation 4 and Xbox One with Unity . [ 38 ] On August 5, Ubisoft officially announced the game as Assassin's Creed Rogue . While the game reuses many assets from Black Flag , a number of new systems and weapons were included, such as an air rifle and refined naval combat, and the multiplayer aspect has been removed. Assassin's Creed Unity Main article: Assassin's Creed Unity Assassin's Creed Unity logo Assassin's Creed Unity was released concurrently with Rogue in November 2014 for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Windows, [ 39 ] and in December 2020 for Google Stadia . In the present-day, the player character is a player of Helix, an Animus-powered gaming device produced by Abstergo, who hope to use their unaware player base to locate more Pieces of Eden. While playing, the player is contacted by the modern-day Assassins and invited to join them as an Initiate and help them locate the body of an 18th-century Sage. The main story is set in Paris during the French Revolution , and follows Assassin Arno Dorian as he embarks on a quest for redemption after his foster father's death, which leads him to discover an internal conflict between the Templars as a result of the Revolution. [ 40 ] On March 19, 2014, images leaked for the next Assassin's Creed game, titled or code-named Unity , showing a new assassin in Paris. [ 37 ] On March 21, Ubisoft confirmed the game's existence, having been in development for more than three years, by releasing pre-alpha game footage. [ 41 ] The game features enhanced visuals compared to its predecessors, and several new gameplay mechanics, including a four player co-op mode, a first for the series. [ 42 ] Assassin's Creed Syndicate Main article: Assassin's Creed Syndicate Assassin's Creed Syndicate logo Assassin's Creed Syndicate was released in October 2015 for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, in November 2015 for Windows, [ 43 ] and in December 2020 for the Stadia. In the present-day, players control the same unnamed Assassin Initiate from Assassin's Creed Unity , who this time must help the Assassins find a powerful artifact, the Shroud of Eden, hidden in London . The main story is set in Victorian era London and follows twin Assassins Jacob and Evie Frye , as they navigate the corridors of organized crime to take back the city from Templar control and prevent them from finding the Shroud. The narrative also includes segments set in war-torn London during World War I , which follow Jacob's granddaughter, Lydia Frye, as she battles German soldiers and Templar spies and searches for a Sage. In December 2014, images and information leaked for a new Assassin's Creed game, titled or code-named Victory , which was later confirmed by Ubisoft. [ 44 ] In May 2015, Kotaku leaked that Victory had been renamed Syndicate . [ 45 ] On May 12, 2015, the game was officially announced by Ubisoft. [ 46 ] The game retains most gameplay elements from Unity , while introducing new travelling systems, such as carriages and a grappling hook , and refined combat mechanics. It is the first game in the series to feature multiple playable protagonists, whom the player can switch between both during and outside missions. Assassin's Creed Origins Main article: Assassin's Creed Origins Assassin's Creed Origins logo Assassin's Creed Origins is a soft reboot of the franchise, and was released in October 2017 for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Windows, [ 47 ] and in December 2020 for the Stadia. The game introduces a new protagonist in the modern-day, Layla Hassan, and explores the origins of the Assassin Brotherhood and their conflict with the Templar Order. The story is set in Ancient Egypt , near the end of the Ptolemaic period , and follows a Medjay named Bayek and his wife Aya, whose fight to protect their people from the Order of the Ancients—forerunners to the Templar Order—leads them to create the Hidden Ones—forerunners to the Assassin Brotherhood. Unlike previous installments in the series, which were structured like action-adventure games , Origins is an action role-playing game and introduces many new features to the series, including an overhauled hitbox-based combat system. In February 2016, Ubisoft announced they would not be releasing a new game in 2016 in order to step "back and [re-examine] the Assassin's Creed franchise ... [and take the] year to evolve the game mechanics and to make sure we're delivering on the promise of Assassin's Creed offering unique and memorable gameplay experiences." [ 48 ] On the decision, Guillemot said that "Ubisoft started to question the annualized franchise with the release of Assassin's Creed Unity , and the fact that Assassin's Creed Syndicate had "a slower launch than expected". Guillemot added that "by moving away from the annual iterations of the franchise, it will give the Assassin's Creed teams more time to take advantage of new engines and technology." [ 49 ] Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag ' s director Ashraf Ismail, commented on an interview that he and the team would be interested in doing an Assassin's Creed game in an Ancient Egyptian setting, along with reiterating an earlier statement that a female leading character was not an impossibility for the series. [ 50 ] In May 2017, Ubisoft confirmed the development of Assassin's Creed Origins ; one month later, the setting was confirmed to be Ptolemaic Egypt. Assassin's Creed Odyssey Main article: Assassin's Creed Odyssey Assassin's Creed Odyssey logo Assassin's Creed Odyssey was released in October 2018 for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Windows, and Nintendo Switch , [ 51 ] [ 52 ] and in November 2019 for the Stadia. The modern-day narrative continues from the events of Origins , as Layla, after being recruited to the Assassins, searches for Atlantis , which is rumored to house a powerful artifact: the Staff of Hermes Trismegistus . The main story is set during the Peloponnesian War between Athens and Sparta , at the height of Classical Greece . Players choose between two playable protagonists, Alexios and Kassandra , and embark on a quest to discover mysteries surrounding their family, as well as undermine a proto-Templar organization: the Cult of Kosmos, which is responsible for orchestrating the war. Odyssey was leaked in May 2018 by a picture posted by the French website Jeuxvideo; it was officially announced at E3 2018, with a release date of October 2018. Similarly to Origins , the game places more emphasis on role-playing elements than previous entries in the series and introduces dialogue options and branching quests, which can result in different endings. Assassin's Creed Valhalla Main article: Assassin's Creed Valhalla Assassin's Creed Valhalla logo Assassin's Creed Valhalla was released in November 2020 for the PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 , Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S , Windows and Stadia. The game concludes the modern-day story arc focusing on Layla, who must find a First Civilization temple in Norway to restore the Earth's magnetic field to its proper strength since Desmond's sacrifice in Assassin's Creed III only delayed the apocalypse. The main narrative takes place in the late 9th century, during the Viking expansions into the British Isles . Players control a customizable Viking raider, Eivor Varinsdottir , who becomes embroiled in the conflict between the Hidden Ones and the Order of the Ancients while attempting to establish a new Viking clan in England. Valhalla was officially announced in April 2020. Ubisoft Montreal led its development along with fourteen other Ubisoft studios. [ 53 ] The title had been leaked earlier in April 2019 under the name Assassin's Creed Kingdom . [ 54 ] [ 55 ] [ 56 ] Like its predecessors, Valhalla is an action role-playing game focused on combat and exploration, although it brings back several elements that were absent in Origins and Odyssey , such as social stealth and a customizable settlement. Assassin's Creed Mirage Main article: Assassin's Creed Mirage Assassin's Creed Mirage logo Assassin's Creed Mirage was released in October 2023 for Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. Set in Baghdad during the Islamic Golden Age —primarily during the Anarchy at Samarra —it follows Basim Ibn Ishaq , a character introduced in Assassin's Creed Valhalla , and his transition from street thief to Hidden One, a decade before the events of Valhalla . The design philosophy behind the game intended it to be a return to the series' roots by focusing on stealth, parkour, and assassinations over the role-playing elements featured heavily in recent installments. In early 2022, it was reported that a new Assassin's Creed game, titled or code-named Rift , was in development and expected to release in late 2022 or early 2023. According to various leaks and reports, the game started out as an expansion for Valhalla and was intended to be more akin to older games in the series, featuring a smaller setting and a bigger focus on stealth gameplay. [ 57 ] [ 58 ] The game was officially confirmed by Ubisoft as Assassin's Creed Mirage on September 1, 2022, [ 59 ] followed by a full announcement during the Ubisoft Forward online event on September 10. [ 11 ] At the PlayStation Showcase event in May 2023, a new trailer for the game was shown, which revealed the release date to be October 12; [ 60 ] however, it was later changed to October 5. [ 61 ] Assassin's Creed Shadows Main article: Assassin's Creed Shadows Assassin's Creed Shadows logo Assassin's Creed Shadows was released in March 2025 for the PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox Series X/S, and macOS . Set in Japan towards the end of the Sengoku period , the game follows two distinct protagonists: Fujibayashi Naoe, a kunoichi and Assassin, and Yasuke, an African samurai based on the historical figure of the same name . Developed by Ubisoft Quebec, [ 10 ] the game is an action role-playing title similar to Odyssey , with an emphasis on each of its two playable characters' set of unique skills. [ 62 ] It is also the first installment in the series to include the Animus Hub , formerly known as Assassin's Creed Infinity . [ 10 ] [ 2 ] Shadows was first announced at Ubisoft Forward in September 2022 under the working title Assassin's Creed: Codename Red , [ 63 ] [ 64 ] [ 65 ] as the next major Assassin's Creed game, to take place during the Feudal Japan period. Few details were revealed initially, although Marc-Alexis Côté, the Vice President Executive Producer for the Assassin's Creed franchise, said that the game would let players live out a "very powerful shinobi fantasy". [ 10 ] On May 15, 2024, the first trailer for the game was released, which revealed its official title and a release date of November 15, 2024. [ 12 ] [ 66 ] [ 67 ] In September, Ubisoft announced that Shadows had been delayed to February 14, 2025, [ 68 ] and in January, the game was again delayed to March 20, 2025. [ 69 ] Spin-offs Assassin's Creed III: Liberation Main article: Assassin's Creed III: Liberation Assassin's Creed: Liberation logo Assassin's Creed III: Liberation is a spin-off to Assassin's Creed III , originally released for the PlayStation Vita in October 2012. The story takes place before and during the events of Assassin's Creed III , and follows Aveline de Grandpré , a Louisiana Creole woman from New Orleans , the daughter of a French merchant father and an African mother. [ 70 ] Aveline is recruited into the Assassin Brotherhood by a former slave and fights against slavery as well as the Templars, who plot to take over Louisiana after the end of the Seven Years' War . Aveline uses a variety of new weapons in combat, including a machete and a blowpipe for ranged attacks, and can disguise herself to deceive enemies, although certain disguises limit her movement and abilities. The entire game is presented as a product developed by the in-universe company Abstergo Entertainment, who have done a heavy amount of censoring in regards to the Assassin–Templar conflict. At various points during their playthrough, the player is contacted by the hacking collective Erudito, who helps them uncensor the game to learn the true nature of the events depicted. An original Assassin's Creed title for the PlayStation Vita was announced to be in development during Gamescom 2011 and would feature a new story with new characters; on June 4, 2012, at E3, Liberation was officially announced. [ 71 ] On September 10, 2013, it was announced that the game would be re-released as Assassin's Creed: Liberation HD for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Microsoft Windows via the PlayStation Network , Xbox Live Arcade , and Steam , respectively. [ 72 ] In March 2019, it was announced that a remastered version of Liberation would be bundled with Assassin's Creed III Remastered for Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and, later, for the Nintendo Switch. Ubisoft officially decommissioned Assassin's Creed: Liberation HD on October 1, 2022, with no additional copies being sold outside of the bundled Assassin's Creed III Remastered version. [ 73 ] Assassin's Creed: Freedom Cry Main article: Assassin's Creed Freedom Cry Assassin's Creed: Freedom Cry logo Assassin's Creed Freedom Cry was originally released as downloadable content (DLC) for most versions of Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag in December 2013. A standalone version was released in February 2014 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and PlayStation 4. [ 74 ] Set thirteen years after the ending of Black Flag , the game follows Adéwalé , a major supporting character from Black Flag , who served as the quartermaster to protagonist Edward Kenway before joining the Assassin Brotherhood towards the end of the main story. During the events of Freedom Cry , Adéwalé finds himself shipwrecked in the French colony of Saint-Domingue (present-day Haiti ), where he encounters some of the most brutal slavery practices in the West Indies . Being a former slave, Adéwalé temporarily abandons his fight against the Templars and joins a Maroon rebellion to help them rescue oppressed slaves. Being originally released as DLC for Black Flag , Freedom Cry's gameplay is virtually identical, though it does feature several new additions. Most notably, Adéwalé has the option to rescue slaves by raiding plantations, attacking slave ships, or simply killing their masters, with each freed slave serving as a resource for the player to accumulate to unlock upgrades for Adéwalé. Furthermore, some freed slaves join the Maroon rebellion and can become crew members aboard Adéwalé's ship, the Experto Crede , or help the player fight enemies. Assassin's Creed Chronicles Main article: Assassin's Creed Chronicles Assassin's Creed Chronicles logo Assassin's Creed Chronicles is sub-series of three 2.5D action and stealth games released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and Xbox One. [ 75 ] The first game, Assassin's Creed Chronicles: China , was originally released as part of Assassin's Creed Unity ' s season pass on April 21, 2015, but it was later made available for purchase separately. Set after the short film Assassin's Creed: Embers , the game follows Shao Jun in Imperial China from 1526 to 1532, as she battles the Templar group Eight Tigers and attempts to rebuild the Chinese Assassin Brotherhood. [ 76 ] The second game, Assassin's Creed Chronicles: India , was released on January 12, 2016. It is set in British India in 1841, two years after the events of the graphic novel Assassin's Creed: Brahman . The game follows Arbaaz Mir, who, while attempting to recover a Precursor artifact from the Templars, becomes caught in a war between the Sikh Empire and the East India Company and must protect his friends and lover. [ 77 ] The last game, Assassin's Creed Chronicles: Russia , was released on February 9, 2016. It is set in Soviet Russia in 1918, in the aftermath of the October Revolution , and bridges the gap between the comic book Assassin's Creed: The Fall and its graphic novel sequel, Assassin's Creed: The Chain . The game follows Nikolai Orelov as he attempts to protect a Precursor artifact and Grand Duchess Anastasia from the Templars and the Bolsheviks after witnessing the execution of the Romanov family . [ 78 ] Assassin's Creed Nexus VR Main article: Assassin's Creed Nexus VR Assassin's Creed Nexus VR logo Assassin's Creed Nexus VR is a virtual reality game developed by Ubisoft's subsidiary studio, Red Storm Entertainment , and released for the Meta Quest 2 on November 16, 2023. In the game, players take on the role of an Assassin hacker who infiltrates Abstergo and relives the memories of three of the series' protagonists— Ezio Auditore , Kassandra , and Ratonhnhaké:ton / Connor —to sabotage the Templars' latest project, called "Nexus Eye". [ 79 ] In September 2020, at the digital event of Facebook Connect , Red Storm Entertainment's VP of Product Development, Elizabeth Loverso, revealed several AAA game franchises coming to virtual reality format to the public. Two of the projects announced were an untitled Assassin's Creed game and an untitled installment from the Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell series (also developed by Ubisoft), with both titles set to release exclusively for Oculus platforms. [ 80 ] This would not be the first Assassin's Creed title to come to VR, but would be the first to be publicly available; the Splinter Cell VR game was cancelled on July 21, 2022. [ 81 ] In June 2023, at a Meta Quest Gaming Showcase event, the updated title for the game, Assassin's Creed Nexus VR , was announced along with a release window of late 2023. [ 82 ] Handheld and mobile games Assassin's Creed: Altaïr's Chronicles Main article: Assassin's Creed: Altaïr's Chronicles Assassin's Creed: Altaïr's Chronicles is a spin-off for the Nintendo DS , Windows Phone , Android , iOS , webOS , Symbian , and Java ME , originally released in February 2008. The game is a prequel to the first Assassin's Creed , taking place in the year 1190, and follows Altaïr as he attempts to retrieve an artifact called the Chalice from the Templars. Assassin's Creed: Bloodlines Main article: Assassin's Creed: Bloodlines Assassin's Creed: Bloodlines is the second spin-off title following Altaïr. It was released as a PlayStation Portable exclusive in November 2009 (concurrently with Assassin's Creed II ) and acts as a direct sequel to the original game. Following the events of Assassin's Creed , Altaïr travels to the island nation of Cyprus to eliminate the last remnants of the Templar Order. [ 83 ] Here, he again runs into Maria Thorpe, a Templar agent whose life he spared in the first game, and they team up to eliminate the Templar presence on the island and learn more about the Apple of Eden and the mysterious Templar Archive, where more Pieces of Eden are believed to be hidden. [ 84 ] Despite the technical limitations of the PlayStation Portable, the game features most gameplay mechanics of the console and PC titles, and even a few exclusive elements. [ 85 ] Assassin's Creed II: Discovery Main article: Assassin's Creed II: Discovery Assassin's Creed II: Discovery is a spin-off to Assassin's Creed II and was released alongside it in November 2009 for the Nintendo DS; it was later re-released for iOS in January 2010. The game is a 2.5D side-scroller , and takes place during the events of Assassin's Creed II , between Sequences 12 and 13 when Ezio is searching for the Apple of Eden after losing it to Girolamo Savonarola . During his search, Ezio travels to Spain to rescue members of the Spanish Assassin Brotherhood who have been arrested on the orders of Tomás de Torquemada , the Grand Inquisitor of the Spanish Inquisition , and allies with several historical figures, such as Luis de Santángel and Christopher Columbus . Assassin's Creed: Multiplayer Rearmed Assassin's Creed: Multiplayer Rearmed is a multiplayer video game designed for iOS , [ 86 ] and released for the iPad , iPhone , and iPod Touch in October 2011. [ 87 ] It is the only Assassin's Creed multiplayer game driven by an in-game economy. [ 88 ] The aim of the game is to assassinate the assigned targets while avoiding being killed by a hunter. [ 89 ] The player can purchase additional items, characters and abilities as well as compete with friends and foes from around the globe in a four player real-time online multiplayer mode. [ 90 ] Players can connect via Game Center . [ 91 ] It is also possible to play against someone in the immediate area via Bluetooth . [ 92 ] Available map locations include Jerusalem , San Donato , Venice and Alhambra . [ 93 ] Assassin's Creed: Recollection Assassin's Creed: Recollection is a real-time board game designed for iOS. It was initially released for the iPad in December 2011, and later for the iPhone and iPod Touch in March 2012. In the game, players go head-to-head in real-time political battles with different characters from the main games of the series across over 280 memories. The single-player campaign is estimated to provide over ten hours of gameplay, with 20 missions from Barcelona to Constantinople and 10 bonus challenge missions. The game also features a Versus Mode, in which players can challenge their friends and other people worldwide, as well as a collection of various artwork from the franchise. [ 94 ] [ better source needed ] Assassin's Creed: Pirates Main article: Assassin's Creed: Pirates Assassin's Creed: Pirates is a mobile game released on iOS and Android devices on December 5, 2013. [ 95 ] Developed by Ubisoft Paris , [ 96 ] the game follows Captain Alonzo Batilla, who is neither Assassin nor Templar, as he commands a ship and crew, while crossing paths with the Assassins and Templars. [ 97 ] Gameplay focuses on real-time battles between ships. The title is rendered in 3D and features both wind and weather that will affect how players proceed. [ 98 ] Assassin's Creed: Memories Main article: Assassin's Creed: Memories Assassin's Creed: Memories is a mobile game that was released on iOS devices on August 20, 2014. [ 99 ] Developed along with PlayNext and Gree, the game combines card collection and battling, target chasing, and strategy elements, along with the option of competitive multiplayer. [ 100 ] Additional multiplayer options include allowing players to join a guild and engage in 20 vs. 20 guild combat scenarios. Memories features different historical eras, including the Third Crusade, the Golden Age of Piracy, feudal Japan and the Mongolian Empire. [ 101 ] Assassin's Creed Unity: Arno's Chronicles Assassin's Creed Unity: Arno's Chronicles is a side-scrolling mobile game released for the Huawei Honor smartphone series in June 2017. It features a similar gameplay style to the Assassin's Creed Chronicles games, and roughly adapts the events of Assassin's Creed Unity ' s main storyline. [ 102 ] Assassin's Creed Rebellion Assassin's Creed Rebellion is a free-to-play , strategy role-playing game for iOS and Android devices that was released worldwide on November 21, 2018. [ 103 ] [ better source needed ] Set during the Spanish Inquisition in the late 15th century, it follows the Spanish Assassins under Aguilar de Nerha as they attempt to build their own Brotherhood to overthrow the Spanish Templars. [ 104 ] The game features a large cast of characters from the entire Assassin's Creed franchise, as well as thirty new characters created exclusively for Rebellion . [ 105 ] [ better source needed ] Cancelled and defunct games Assassin's Creed: Project Legacy Assassin's Creed: Project Legacy logo Assassin's Creed: Project Legacy was a single-player browser-based , role-playing video game Facebook application designed as a promotion and tie-in for Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood . The game is mostly text-based but includes graphics and sound as well as some video. The game was put on indefinite hold in 2011 and was later removed by Facebook on 15 May 2013. [ 106 ] [ 107 ] Assassin's Creed: Utopia Assassin's Creed: Utopia is a cancelled mobile game that was planned to be available on Android and iOS devices. [ 108 ] [ 109 ] The game's story would have led into Assassin's Creed III , though there would have been no links in terms of gameplay. [ 110 ] Utopia would have taken place in the 17th century, at the beginning of the colonization of North America . [ 111 ] Gameplay would have spanned 150 years of history to help players, in the words of Tom Phillips from Eurogamer , "discover how the Assassins influenced history and helped shape the nation's original thirteen colonies". [ 112 ] The gameplay involved building a colonial city, and was planned to have more of a social slant than any of the earlier games. [ 113 ] The Assassins of each colony would have taken on their enemies in limited-time epic battles, and players would have been able to pit their strength against friends in asynchronous 3D brawls. [ 114 ] Assassin's Creed: Initiates Assassin's Creed: Initiates was a community-oriented project launched on 1 September 2012 which concerned the universe of the franchise, its database, plot elements and dossiers of the characters. It was shut down on 24 December 2014. [ 115 ] Offline maintenance continued until February 2015, [ 116 ] and the platform was retired on 4 December 2015. [ 117 ] Assassin's Creed Identity Main article: Assassin's Creed Identity Assassin's Creed Identity logo Assassin's Creed Identity was a third-person role-playing video game for iOS and Android devices that was released worldwide on February 25, 2016, [ 118 ] following a soft-launch in Australia and New Zealand in 2014. [ 119 ] It was the first mobile game in the series to feature a fully explorable 3D environment, and took place alongside the events of Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood . In Identity , players created their own custom Assassin and completed missions for the Brotherhood in Italy, while interacting with various characters from the mainline games, like Ezio Auditore and Niccolò Machiavelli . [ 120 ] The game's servers were shut down in October 2021, and it is no longer playable. Re-release compilations and collections Assassin's Creed: Ezio Trilogy : Compilation of Assassin's Creed II , Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood , and Assassin's Creed: Revelations . It was released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on November 13, 2012. [ 121 ] Assassin's Creed: Heritage Collection : Compilation of the first five games of the main series into one collection, featuring Assassin's Creed , Assassin's Creed II , Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood , Assassin's Creed: Revelations , and Assassin's Creed III . It was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 on November 8, 2013. [ 122 ] Assassin's Creed: The Americas Collection (American title) / Assassin's Creed: Birth of a New World – The American Saga (European title): Developed by Ubisoft Montreal, features Assassin's Creed III , Assassin's Creed: Liberation HD and Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag . It was released for Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 on October 3, 2014, in Europe and October 28, 2014, in North America. The Windows version is exclusive to Europe. [ 123 ] Assassin's Creed: The Ezio Collection : Developed by Virtuos and Ubisoft Montreal, features remastered versions of Assassin's Creed II , Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood , and Assassin's Creed: Revelations for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. The games feature improved graphics, lighting, effects, and textures, and also include all previously released downloadable content for the single-player. In addition, the bundle features the short films Assassin's Creed: Embers and Assassin's Creed: Lineage . The collection was released on November 15, 2016, to mixed reviews, [ 124 ] [ 125 ] being generally criticized for its minimal graphical enhancements, the gameplay for feeling dated, and the capped 30 frames per second. [ 126 ] [ 127 ] A Nintendo Switch version was released in February 2022. [ 128 ] Assassin's Creed: The Rebel Collection : Contains Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag and the remastered version of Assassin's Creed Rogue , along with all previously released downloadable content. It was released on December 6, 2019, for the Nintendo Switch. [ 129 ] Future games Asked about the future of the series in 2009, Sébastien Puel from Ubisoft said that "we could do 35 of these [ Assassin's Creed games]", [ 130 ] while Laurent Detoc later said "we hope to reach Assassin's Creed 10 ." [ 131 ] In November 2011, a Ubisoft survey was sent out, asking participants which locations and time periods they would like to see in the "next Assassin's Creed games". These settings were Medieval China , Victorian England , Ancient Egypt , the Portuguese and Spanish colonizations of the Americas , the American Revolution , the Russian Revolution , Feudal Japan , and Ancient Rome . [ 132 ] Alex Hutchinson, creative director of Assassin's Creed III , suggested the most requested Assassin's Creed settings, World War II , Feudal Japan and Ancient Egypt, are "the three worst settings for an Assassin's Creed game". [ 133 ] Hutchinson also stated both he and Corey May were open to the idea of a future entry set during the time of the British Raj , [ 134 ] which now consists of the modern states of Bangladesh , Pakistan , Myanmar , and India . Victorian England, the American Revolution, Medieval China, parts of the British Raj, the Russian Revolution, Ancient Egypt, and Feudal Japan were eventually used for Assassin's Creed Syndicate , Assassin's Creed III , Assassin's Creed Chronicles , Assassin's Creed Origins , and Assassin's Creed Shadows , respectively. World War I appeared briefly as a section of Syndicate , while World War II was used for a single mission in Assassin's Creed Unity . On June 28, 2024, Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot confirmed the future development of remakes of some of the older Assassin's Creed titles, which would reportedly "allow [Ubisoft] to revisit some of the games we've created in the past and modernize them". Guillemot stated that this decision stemmed from the fact that "There are worlds in some of our older Assassin's Creed games that are still extremely rich". [ 135 ] Assassin's Creed Jade Assassin's Creed Jade is an upcoming title for Android and iOS devices. Set in Ancient China during the Qin dynasty in the 3rd century BC, the game will allow players to create their own custom character and will feature the same style of gameplay as the main console and PC releases. [ 136 ] The game was first leaked as Project Jade on September 6, 2022, and reported by Try Hard Guides . [ 137 ] A teaser trailer was showcased at Ubisoft Forward on September 10, which revealed the game's working title of Assassin's Creed: Codename Jade . In July 2023, a closed beta test for the game was announced, which required players to sign up between August 3 and 11 to participate. [ 138 ] At Gamescom 2023, a gameplay trailer was shown and the game's official title was revealed to be Assassin's Creed Jade . [ 139 ] Assassin's Creed: Codename Hexe Assassin's Creed: Codename Hexe was announced at Ubisoft Forward in September 2022 as the next flagship title in the series, following Shadows . Development is being led by Clint Hocking at Ubisoft Montreal. Marc-Alexis Côté described the title as "a very different type of Assassin's Creed game". [ 13 ] While little on its setting was shown in its initial trailer, Bloomberg News reported that the game is set in Central Europe during the 16th century, at the height of the Holy Roman Empire , and will focus on witch hunts and other paranormal fears. [ 140 ] Animus Hub The Animus Hub is a feature which made its debut in Assassin's Creed Shadows , intended to connect multiple installments of the Assassin's Creed franchise. Initially announced as a standalone launcher under the name Assassin's Creed Infinity , [ 141 ] Ubisoft revealed more details about the Animus Hub in January 2025, ahead of Shadows ' release, including the fact that it would be a component present in all upcoming Assassin's Creed titles, meant to help immerse players in the games' fictional universe. From the Animus Hub , players can launch all Assassin's Creed games installed on their system, complete "Projects" to earn in-game rewards, and access an extensive database called "the Vault", which also contains elements related to the overarching modern-day narrative. At launch, the only games to be included in the Animus Hub were Origins , Odyssey , Valhalla , Mirage , and Shadows , with more titles set to be added over time. [ 2 ] The Animus Hub was first announced as a new live-service title codenamed Assassin's Creed Infinity in April 2021. Following another round of sexual misconduct allegations and internal investigations across Ubisoft in 2020 and 2021, which saw the departure of many top-level executives as well as attrition from its studios, Ubisoft opted to merge operations of the Montreal and Quebec studios under one administrative body, with Quebec taking the lead on the Assassin's Creed series. This led to a collaboration to develop the "most ambitious game" in the series to date: Assassin's Creed Infinity . [ 141 ] Infinity was initially envisioned to be similar to Fortnite and Grand Theft Auto Online , in that it would be more of a service , rather than a game, intended to be an entry point for future Assassin's Creed titles for players as well as to simplify the development of these games across Ubisoft's studios. [ 142 ] [ 141 ] [ 143 ] Marc-Alexis Côté, from Ubisoft Quebec, was announced to serve as Infinity 's executive producer. [ 144 ] According to Côté, Infinity would be used to present the modern-day setting of the Assassin's Creed games involving the Animus, while each game would be focused on the historical setting. [ 145 ] Clint Hocking and Jonathan Dumont serve as the creative directors, leading the Montreal and Quebec divisions, respectively. [ 144 ] Étienne Allonier and Julien Laferrière, both from Montreal, serve as brand director and senior producer, respectively. [ 144 ] In September 2022, more details about Assassin's Creed Infinity were revealed, including the fact that the first two games to be included in Infinity would be the then-upcoming Assassin's Creed: Codename Red (later renamed to Assassin's Creed Shadows ) [ 10 ] and Assassin's Creed: Codename Hexe . [ 13 ] In January 2025, Ubisoft officially announced Infinity ' s rebranding to the Animus Hub and that it would no longer be a standalone title, but rather a feature present in all upcoming Assassin's Creed games. [ 2 ] Other media Television In November 2016, it was announced that Ubisoft and Netflix started talks regarding how to develop an Assassin's Creed series. [ 146 ] In July 2017, Adi Shankar revealed he would be creating the series, which would be in the anime format. [ 147 ] The series, which will feature an original story from Shankar, will share the same universe as the other media of the franchise. [ 148 ] A live-action series, an animated series, and an anime series were announced in October 2020 for Netflix. The live-action series would be produced by Ubisoft Film & Television for the streaming service, with Jason Altman and Danielle Kreinik as executive producers and Jeb Stuart as the writer. [ 149 ] [ 150 ] In January 2023, Collider reported that Stuart was no longer involved with the series. [ 151 ] Elements from Assassin's Creed appear as part of the 2023 animated series Captain Laserhawk: A Blood Dragon Remix . One of the primary protagonists, the anthropomorphic frog Bullfrog, is depicted as a member of the Order of Assassins, while the antagonistic megacorporation Eden is said to be descended from the Templar Order. [ 152 ] Film Theatrical A live-action film, Assassin's Creed , set in the same universe as the video games and other media, [ 153 ] was released on December 21, 2016. [ 154 ] Development for the film began in October 2011, when Sony Pictures entered final negotiations with Ubisoft Motion Pictures to make the film. [ 155 ] In July 2012, Michael Fassbender was announced to star in the film, as well as co-produce the film. [ 156 ] His role was revealed in August 2015 as Callum Lynch, whose ancestor Aguilar, is an Assassin from 15th-century Spain. [ 157 ] In October 2012, Ubisoft revealed the film would no longer be produced by Sony Pictures, instead co-produced with New Regency and distributed by 20th Century Fox . [ 158 ] In January 2013, Michael Lesslie was hired to write the film, [ 159 ] with Scott Frank , Adam Cooper and Bill Collage performing rewrites to the script. [ 160 ] [ 161 ] By the end of April 2014, Justin Kurzel was in talks to direct. [ 162 ] Principal photography began on August 31, 2015, [ 157 ] [ 163 ] [ 164 ] and ended on January 15, 2016. [ 165 ] The film was poorly received by critics and performed poorly at the box office, losing an estimated $75 to $100 million and becoming one of the biggest box office bombs of 2016. [ 166 ] [ 167 ] [ 168 ] Live-action short film Assassin's Creed: Lineage is a 36-minute film made to promote Assassin's Creed II . [ 169 ] The film, released in three parts on YouTube across 2009, was the first step by Ubisoft into the film industry. [ 170 ] Lineage serves as a prequel to Assassin's Creed II , exploring the life of Ezio's father Giovanni Auditore and his career as an Assassin in 15th-century Italy. Following the mysterious assassination of Duke of Milan , Galeazzo Maria Sforza , in 1476, Giovanni sets out to find those responsible, leading him to uncover a larger conspiracy masterminded by the Templars and their Grand Master, Rodrigo Borgia . [ 171 ] Animated short films Originally named Secret Project Number Three , [ 172 ] Assassin's Creed: Ascendance is an animated short by UbiWorkshop and Ubisoft Montreal, which bridges the gap between Assassin's Creed II and Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood . [ 173 ] It revolves around Cesare Borgia 's backstory and rise to power in Italy. Assassin's Creed: Embers is a 21-minute animated film included in the Signature and Collector's Editions of Assassin's Creed Revelations ; it was later re-released on the PlayStation Store in April 2015. The film serves as an epilogue to Ezio's story, depicting the final days of his life after he retired from the Assassin Brotherhood and started a family. When a mysterious Chinese Assassin named Shao Jun arrives to seek his help and guidance, Ezio must fight to protect his loved ones one last time. Print publications Main articles: Assassin's Creed (book series) and Assassin's Creed publications The Assassin's Creed series has a collection of print publications by various authors, including Christie Golden , Oliver Bowden , Gordon Doherty and Matthew J. Kirby . Set within the fictional universe of the video game franchise, it includes collections such as novels , comic books , and encyclopedias . British publishing house Penguin Books was responsible for most of the publications until 2020. [ 174 ] [ 175 ] Audio drama Assassin's Creed Gold is an Audible audio drama by Anthony del Col, released on February 27, 2020. The four-hour drama follows a card shark and hustler called Ailyah Khan (Tamara Lawrence), who is enlisted by Gavin Banks (John Chancer) to relive the memories of 17th century Assassin Omar Khaled ( Riz Ahmed ). The production also features the voices of Anthony Head , as Isaac Newton , and Danny Wallace, who reprises his series role as Shaun Hastings. [ 176 ] Board games A board game , Assassin's Creed: Arena , was launched on February 26, 2014. [ 177 ] Inspired by Assassin's Creed: Revelations , it features many characters from the game, including Shahkulu , Anacletos, Odai Dunqas and Oksana Razin, as well as original characters. [ 178 ] On September 17, 2018, Triton Noir announced a new board game called Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood of Venice . [ 179 ] Set in 1509, between the events of Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood and Revelations , it includes characters from the video games like Ezio Auditore da Firenze , Leonardo da Vinci , and Lucrezia Borgia , as well as new characters like Alessandra d'Avanzago. [ 180 ] It was developed by Thibaud de la Touanne, [ 181 ] and was estimated to provide more than 20 hours of play. [ 182 ] The game was set to release in November 2018, [ 183 ] but was delayed and eventually released in August 2021. [ 184 ] In March 2023, an expansion, titled Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood of Venice – Apocalypse and set in the jungles of the Khmer Empire (modern-day Cambodia ) during the 16th century, was announced. [ 185 ] Concert Assassin's Creed Symphony is a tour across North America and Europe featuring composers who worked on the soundtracks of each game in the series, including Jesper Kyd , Lorne Balfe , Brian Tyler , Austin Wintory , Sarah Schachner , Winifred Phillips , Elitsa Alexandrova, Chris Tilton , Ryan Amon, and The Flight . [ 186 ] It was scheduled to begin in the summer of 2019, [ 187 ] and expected to feature holographic characters from the series. [ 188 ] The 2019–2020 tour was canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic . [ 189 ] [ 190 ] [ 191 ] The concert Assassin's Creed Symphonic Adventure , developed by Overlook Events , was presented in a world premiere in Paris on October 29, 2022, at the Le Grand Rex . The world premiere celebrated the 15th anniversary of the video game series. An international world tour is scheduled to begin in 2023. The concert is a two-hour performance with a full symphonic orchestra, also featuring a choir and soloists . [ 192 ] Reception Aggregate review scores Game Metacritic Assassin's Creed (PC) 79 [ 193 ] (PS3) 81 [ 194 ] (X360) 81 [ 195 ] Assassin's Creed: Altaïr's Chronicles (NDS) 58 [ 196 ] Assassin's Creed: Bloodlines (PSP) 63 [ 197 ] Assassin's Creed II (PC) 86 [ 198 ] (PS3) 91 [ 199 ] (X360) 90 [ 200 ] Assassin's Creed II: Discovery (NDS) 69 [ 201 ] Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood (PC) 88 [ 202 ] (PS3) 90 [ 203 ] (X360) 89 [ 204 ] Assassin's Creed Rearmed (iOS) 60 [ 205 ] Assassin's Creed: Revelations (PC) 80 [ 206 ] (PS3) 80 [ 207 ] (X360) 80 [ 208 ] Assassin's Creed Recollection (iOS) 75 [ 209 ] Assassin's Creed III (PC) 80 [ 210 ] (PS3) 85 [ 211 ] (WIIU) 85 [ 212 ] (X360) 84 [ 213 ] Assassin's Creed III: Liberation (PC) 66 [ 214 ] (PS3) 64 [ 215 ] (Vita) 70 [ 216 ] (X360) 62 [ 217 ] Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag (PC) 84 [ 218 ] (PS3) 88 [ 219 ] (PS4) 83 [ 220 ] (WIIU) 86 [ 221 ] (X360) 86 [ 222 ] Assassin's Creed: Pirates (iOS) 67 [ 223 ] Assassin's Creed Memories (iOS) 48 [ 224 ] Assassin's Creed Rogue (PC) 74 [ 225 ] (PS3) 72 [ 226 ] (X360) 72 [ 227 ] Assassin's Creed Identity (iOS) 69 [ 228 ] Assassin's Creed Unity (PC) 70 [ 229 ] (PS4) 70 [ 230 ] (XONE) 72 [ 231 ] Assassin's Creed Syndicate (PC) 74 [ 232 ] (PS4) 76 [ 233 ] (XONE) 78 [ 234 ] Assassin's Creed Chronicles (Vita) 70 [ 235 ] Assassin's Creed Origins (PC) 84 [ 236 ] (PS4) 81 [ 237 ] (XONE) 85 [ 238 ] Assassin's Creed Odyssey (PC) 86 [ 239 ] (PS4) 83 [ 240 ] (XONE) 87 [ 241 ] Assassin's Creed Valhalla (PC) 85 [ 242 ] (PS4) 81 [ 243 ] (XONE) 82 [ 244 ] (XSX) 85 [ 245 ] Assassin's Creed Mirage (PC) 77/100 [ 246 ] (PS5) 77/100 [ 247 ] (XSX) 78/100 [ 248 ] Assassin's Creed Shadows (PC) 78/100 [ 249 ] (PS5) 81/100 [ 250 ] (XSX) 85/100 [ 251 ] The Assassin's Creed series has received mainly positive reviews from critics, with Blast Magazine calling it "the standout series on [the seventh generation] of consoles". [ 252 ] It has been praised for its ambitious game design, visuals, and narratives but criticized for its technical issues and annual releases of almost every installment; [ 253 ] [ 254 ] [ 255 ] the series' shift, which started in Origins , [ 256 ] towards prioritising role-playing mechanics over stealth in several games has been considered polarizing. [ 257 ] [ 258 ] [ 259 ] As of September 2019 [update] , the series had sold over 140 million copies with over 95 million players, becoming Ubisoft's best selling franchise and one of the highest selling video game franchises of all time. [ 260 ] [ 261 ] [ 262 ] By September 2022, total sales of the series had reached 200 million. [ 263 ] The franchise reportedly generated around €4 billion in the decade leading up to 2024. [ 264 ] Cultural impact Elements of Assassin's Creed have been introduced as content into other Ubisoft games and those from third parties. The macOS and Microsoft Windows versions of Team Fortress 2 (2007) features two cosmetic items for the Spy class that were added to promote Assassin's Creed: Revelations ; the first is the series' signature Hidden Blade, while the second is a hood based on the one Ezio wears in the game. [ 265 ] Sackboy , the player character from LittleBigPlanet and LittleBigPlanet 2 , can be equipped with a skin resembling Ezio's outfit. [ 266 ] In Prince of Persia (2008), Altaïr's costume can be unlocked with a code obtained by pre-ordering the game. [ 267 ] In 2010's Prince of Persia: The Forgotten Sands , there is an outfit resembling Ezio's robes in Assassin's Creed II , which is unlockable through Uplay . [ 268 ] Final Fantasy XIII-2 (2011) includes a costume based on Ezio's outfit from Assassin's Creed: Revelations as an optional costume option as downloadable content. [ 269 ] In Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots (2008), Altaïr's outfit is an unlockable cosmetic option for Solid Snake ; it was originally announced as an April Fools joke by game director Hideo Kojima . [ 270 ] Kojima later returned the favor by allowing Ubisoft to include a Raiden outfit in Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood . [ 271 ] In Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker (2010), the player can jump into a bale of hay from a rooftop, which includes the Eagle sound effect used in the Assassin's Creed games, and use it to attract and subdue enemies. The Assassin Order is referenced by a character. [ 272 ] In the 2009 Wii game Academy of Champions: Soccer , Altaïr appears as a playable character along with other Ubisoft characters. [ 273 ] In the 2012 game Soulcalibur V , Ezio appears as a playable fighter and is featured on the box art. [ 274 ] In July 2022, both Ezio and Eivor were added as playable fighters in Brawlhalla (2017). [ 275 ] Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag (2013) introduces the character of Olivier Garneau, the CEO of video game company Abstergo Entertainment, who helps Ubisoft to develop the Assassin's Creed video games within the franchise's fictional universe. During the events of the game, Garneau goes to Chicago , the setting of Ubisoft's 2014 video game Watch Dogs . In the latter game, Garneau is the subject of a side mission that sees the playable protagonist Aiden Pearce saving him from being kidnapped; it is implied this was done by the Assassin Brotherhood. Additionally, two characters in the game are seen playing Assassin's Creed II . Ubisoft has described those appearances as small Easter eggs, and has neither confirmed nor denied a shared continuity between both franchises. [ 276 ] Assassin's Creed Origins (2017) mentions the news about Garneau's incident in Chicago, along with a picture of Aiden Pearce killing Garneau. [ 277 ] In downloadable contents (DLC), Ubisoft collaborated with Square Enix to hold a limited-time Assassin's Creed -themed festival event crossover in Final Fantasy XV (2016) on consoles under the title Assassin's Festival , which lasted from August 31, 2017, to January 31, 2018. The DLC featured gameplay elements from the Assassin's Creed game series, new additional quests, mini-games, and exclusive Assassin's Creed -themed items. [ 278 ] In January 2020, Nintendo released a Mii Fighter costume based on Altaïr as downloadable content in the crossover fighting game Super Smash Bros. Ultimate (2018). [ 279 ] In August 2021, Ubisoft released a free update for their 2020 game Watch Dogs: Legion that featured a non-canonical crossover with the Assassin's Creed series. The update introduced optional story content, which sees DedSec crossing paths with and subsequently helping Darcy Clarkson, a member of the modern-day Assassin Brotherhood and a descendant of Jacob and Evie Frye . Darcy is also included as a playable character and features a unique Assassin-themed playstyle. [ 280 ] The opening ceremony of the 2024 Summer Olympics featured a masked torchbearer wearing a hooded outfit and performing parkour across Paris ' rooftops. This drew many comparisons to the main characters of the Assassin's Creed series, especially Arno Dorian , the protagonist of Assassin's Creed Unity (2014), which is also set in Paris. [ 281 ] This similarity was acknowledged, and implied to be intentional, by Ubisoft in a response to a tweet by the official Olympics Twitter account posted during the opening ceremonies. [ 282 ] In an update for Astro Bot , a cameo bot was added in who is based on Ezio Auditore da Firenze and the prop is of a tower with a pile of haystack at the bottom, interpreted as a reference to the "leap of faith" and landing in haystack, the franchise's well-known recurring elements. See also List of best-selling video game franchises References ^ a b Batchelor, James (September 13, 2022). "Infinity and beyond: The future of Assassin's Creed" . GamesIndustry.biz . Archived from the original on September 13, 2022 . Retrieved September 13, 2022 . ^ a b c d e Castle, Katharine (January 23, 2025). "Animus Hub revealed: Ubisoft's new Assassin's Creed start screen and modern day story wrapper that's definitely not just another launcher" . Eurogamer . Retrieved January 23, 2025 . ^ "Interview: Assassin's Creed" . CVG. Archived from the original on October 25, 2012 . Retrieved September 2, 2012 . ^ "Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot Discusses Company's Past, Present, & Next-Gen Future – IGN Unfiltered #41" . IGN . April 9, 2019. Archived from the original on December 21, 2021 . Retrieved April 10, 2019 – via YouTube. ^ "The Making Of: Assassin's Creed" . Edge . August 27, 2012. Archived from the original on December 28, 2013 . Retrieved March 3, 2013 . ^ a b Moss, Richard (October 3, 2018). "Assassin's Creed: An oral history" . Polygon . Archived from the original on January 4, 2019 . Retrieved October 3, 2018 . ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n Purslow, Matt (July 9, 2020). "The Evolution of Assassin's Creed: From the Holy Land to Valhalla" . IGN . Archived from the original on July 13, 2020 . Retrieved July 13, 2020 . ^ a b Miller, Matt (June 11, 2014). "Ten Things You Need To Know About Assassin's Creed Unity" . Game Informer . GameStop. Archived from the original on June 14, 2017 . Retrieved June 12, 2014 . ^ a b Cork, Jeff (August 22, 2014). "Assassin's Creed's Tech Master Leads Us Through The Series' History" . Game Informer . GameStop. Archived from the original on October 26, 2020 . Retrieved August 22, 2014 . ^ a b c d e f Smith, Ed (September 10, 2022). "Assassin's Creed new game Codename: Red finally delivers fans' dreams" . PCGamesN . Archived from the original on September 10, 2022 . Retrieved September 10, 2022 . ^ a b Purslow, Matt (September 11, 2022). "Assassin's Creed Mirage Revealed at Ubisoft Forward" . IGN . Archived from the original on September 23, 2022 . Retrieved September 11, 2022 . ^ a b Lyons, Ben (May 13, 2024). "Assassin's Creed Codename Red to officially go by Assassin's Creed Shadows" . Gamereactor UK . Archived from the original on May 13, 2024 . Retrieved May 13, 2024 . ^ a b c West, Josh (September 10, 2022). "Assassin's Creed Hexe – Everything we know about the new flagship AC game" . GamesRadar . Archived from the original on September 10, 2022 . Retrieved September 10, 2022 . ^ Batchelor, James (September 13, 2022). "Infinity and beyond: The future of Assassin's Creed" . GamesIndustry.biz . Archived from the original on October 28, 2022 . Retrieved December 5, 2022 . ^ Lynch, Gerald (August 22, 2022). "Assassin's Creed Infinity: everything we know so far" . Tech Radar . Archived from the original on September 3, 2022 . Retrieved September 3, 2022 . ^ Phillips, Tom (November 3, 2024). "Assassin's Creed boss reflects on series' "struggle" to tell consistent modern day story after Desmond" . Eurogamer . Retrieved November 4, 2024 . ^ a b Alvarado, Sebastian (April 11, 2012). "The Science Fact Animating Assassin's Creed's Animus" . Kotaku . Archived from the original on April 14, 2019 . Retrieved December 27, 2022 . ^ a b Lizardi, Ryan (2022). Existential Science Fiction (hardcover ed.). Lexington Books. pp. xii, 111, 115– 127. ISBN 978-1-7936-4735-1 . Archived from the original on March 21, 2023 . Retrieved December 27, 2022 . ^ Walton, Jarred (June 2, 2008). "Assassin's Creed PC" . AnandTech . Archived from the original on December 6, 2022 . Retrieved December 27, 2022 . ^ "Eagle Vision" . Giant Bomb . November 14, 2018. Archived from the original on December 27, 2022 . Retrieved December 27, 2022 . ^ Llewellyn, Michael (January 4, 2021). "10 Assassin's Creed Game's Combat Systems Ranked" . The Gamer . Archived from the original on December 27, 2022 . Retrieved December 27, 2022 . ^ a b c d e f g h i j k Espineli, Matt (October 9, 2018). "Assassin's Creed Odyssey Story Recap: Everything That's Happened So Far And What To Know" . GameSpot . Archived from the original on June 1, 2020 . Retrieved June 2, 2020 . ^ Kelly, Zachariah (June 19, 2019). "The Video Game Skills You Can Use In Real Life" . Junkee . Archived from the original on December 27, 2022 . Retrieved December 27, 2022 . ^ Gibson, Alex (November 19, 2020). "Assassin's Creed Valhalla: Story Summary" . Twinfinite . Archived from the original on June 24, 2021 . Retrieved December 27, 2022 . ^ "Assassin's Creed® Nexus VR on Meta Quest | Quest VR Games" . www.meta.com . Meta . Retrieved November 26, 2023 . ^ "Assassin's Creed: Unity Arno's Chronicles Coming Soon For Mobile & PC" . Android Dump . March 14, 2018. Archived from the original on October 30, 2020 . Retrieved December 18, 2020 . ^ Fahey, Mike (May 5, 2010). "GameStop Placeholder Art Names Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood – Update" . Kotaku . Archived from the original on August 29, 2014 . Retrieved October 21, 2010 . ^ Bertz, Matt (July 20, 2015). "Assassin's Creed Creator Talks Life After Ubisoft, Again" . GameInformer . Archived from the original on August 22, 2017 . Retrieved November 29, 2017 . ^ McNamara, Andy (June 11, 2010). "Update: Patrice Désilets Walks Away From Ubisoft And Assassin's Creed" . GameInformer . Archived from the original on December 1, 2017 . Retrieved November 29, 2017 . ^ "Assassin's Creed: Lost Legacy for 3DS - GameFAQs" . Archived from the original on December 14, 2018 . Retrieved December 11, 2018 . ^ "Assassin's Creed: Lost Legacy for 3DS Ended up Being AC: Revelations" . Game Informer . Archived from the original on December 14, 2018 . Retrieved December 11, 2018 . ^ Philips, Tom (July 15, 2011). "Assassin's Creed: Lost Legacy canned" . Eurogamer . Archived from the original on July 18, 2011. ^ a b McWhertor, Michael (August 5, 2014). "Assassin's Creed Rogue confirmed by Ubisoft – here's the first trailer" . Polygon . Archived from the original on August 6, 2014 . Retrieved August 5, 2014 . ^ Futter, Mike (October 13, 2014). "Assassin's Creed Rogue Coming To PC In 2015" . Game Informer . GameStop. Archived from the original on October 14, 2014 . Retrieved October 13, 2014 . ^ Wallace, Kimberly (August 5, 2014). "September Cover Revealed – Assassin's Creed Rogue And Unity" . Game Informer . GameStop. Archived from the original on August 5, 2014 . Retrieved August 5, 2014 . ^ Schreier, Jason (March 27, 2014). "Sources: Assassin's Creed Comet Will Let You Play As A Templar" . Kotaku. Archived from the original on March 28, 2014 . Retrieved March 27, 2014 . ^ a b Schreier, Jason (March 19, 2014). "Leaked Images Reveal One Of This Fall's Two Assassin's Creed Games" . Kotaku. Archived from the original on March 19, 2014 . Retrieved March 19, 2014 . ^ Watts, Steve (May 15, 2014). "Assassin's Creed Games Coming To PS3, Xbox 360 For 'Foreseeable Future' " . IGN . Archived from the original on May 16, 2014 . Retrieved May 16, 2014 . ^ Karmali, Luke (August 28, 2014). "Assassin's Creed Unity Release Date Delayed To November" . IGN . Archived from the original on August 30, 2014 . Retrieved August 28, 2014 . ^ Lien, Tracey (June 9, 2014). "Assassin's Creed Unity hits Oct. 28, pre-orders live" . Polygon . Archived from the original on June 13, 2014 . Retrieved June 9, 2014 . ^ Karmali, Luke (March 21, 2014). "Ubisoft Confirms Assassin's Creed: Unity, Release Date Teased" . IGN . Archived from the original on March 22, 2014 . Retrieved March 21, 2014 . ^ Jackson, Leah B. (June 9, 2014). "E3 2014: Assassin's Creed Unity Co-Op Revealed" . IGN . Archived from the original on June 10, 2014 . Retrieved June 9, 2014 . ^ Phillips, Tom (May 12, 2015). "Assassin's Creed: Syndicate launches 23rd October on PS4, Xbox One" . Eurogamer . Archived from the original on May 14, 2015 . Retrieved May 13, 2015 . ^ Schreier, Jason (December 1, 2014). "Next Year's Big Assassin's Creed Is Set in Victorian London [UPDATE]" . Kotaku . Archived from the original on December 3, 2014 . Retrieved December 4, 2014 . ^ Schreier, Jason (May 7, 2015). "Next Assassin's Creed To Be Announced Next Week; Now Called Syndicate" . Archived from the original on May 8, 2015 . Retrieved May 7, 2015 . ^ Sarker, Samit (May 12, 2015). "Assassin's Creed Syndicate announced, set in Victorian London" . Polygon . Archived from the original on March 21, 2023 . Retrieved May 12, 2015 . ^ Phillips, Tom (May 16, 2017). "Ubisoft confirms Far Cry 5 and The Crew 2" . Eurogamer . Gamer Network. Archived from the original on May 21, 2017 . Retrieved May 22, 2017 . ^ "A Message From the Assassin's Creed Team" . Ubiblog - Ubisoft . Ubisoft. February 11, 2016. Archived from the original on August 15, 2017 . Retrieved February 11, 2016 . ^ Macy, Seth G. (February 11, 2016). "Ubisoft Confirms No Assassin's Creed This Year" . IGN . Archived from the original on August 15, 2017 . Retrieved February 11, 2016 . ^ Dyer, Mitch (October 10, 2013). "Assassin's Creed 4 Director on Egypt Setting, Future of Franchise" . IGN . Archived from the original on March 21, 2023 . Retrieved October 10, 2013 . ^ Lawler, Richard (June 1, 2018). " 'Assassin's Creed: Odyssey' takes the series to ancient Greece" . Engadget . Oath Tech Network AOL Tech . Archived from the original on June 12, 2018 . Retrieved June 2, 2018 . ^ Kim, Matt (May 31, 2018). "Assassin's Creed Odyssey Set in Ancient Greece Confirmed for E3" . US Gamer . Gamer Network . Archived from the original on June 12, 2018 . Retrieved June 2, 2018 . ^ Makuch, Eddie (April 29, 2020). "Assassin's Creed: Valhalla -- 15 Studios Are Working On The Game" . GameSpot . Archived from the original on April 30, 2020 . Retrieved April 29, 2020 . ^ Plant, Mike (April 11, 2019). "Assassin's Creed Kingdom rumours and gaming marathons – Gamer's Podcast Episode 19" . Guinness World Records . Archived from the original on September 27, 2020 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ Arif, Shabana (April 6, 2019). "Report: The next Assassin's Creed game is codenamed Kingdom and will feature vikings" . vg247 . Gamer Network . Archived from the original on May 24, 2020 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ Schreier, Jason (May 4, 2019). "Odd Tease in the Division 2 Spills The Beans on the Next Assassin's Creed" . Kotaku . Gizmodo Media Group . Archived from the original on June 24, 2021 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ "Ubisoft Plans New Assassin's Creed Game to Help Fill Its Schedule" . Bloomberg News . February 9, 2022. Archived from the original on February 9, 2022 . Retrieved May 8, 2022 . ^ "Ubisoft reportedly has a smaller, stealth-focused Assassin's Creed game in the works" . Eurogamer . February 9, 2022. Archived from the original on May 8, 2022 . Retrieved May 8, 2022 . ^ Good, Owen S. (September 1, 2022). "Ubisoft confirms Assassin's Creed Mirage after multiple leaks" . Eurogamer.net . Archived from the original on September 1, 2022 . Retrieved September 1, 2022 . ^ Tran, Edmond (May 25, 2023). " Assassin's Creed Mirage : Everything you need to know" . GamesHub . Retrieved May 25, 2023 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Mirage release date change announced by Ubisoft" . GAMINGbible . August 14, 2023 . Retrieved August 14, 2023 . ^ Purslow, Matthew (May 15, 2024). "Assassin's Creed Shadows: 50 Details You Need To Know" . IGN . Archived from the original on May 16, 2024 . Retrieved May 16, 2024 . ^ Lyons, Ben (May 13, 2024). "Assassin's Creed Codename Red to officially go by Assassin's Creed Shadows" . Gamereactor UK . Retrieved May 13, 2024 . ^ Lyles, Taylor (May 13, 2024). "Assassin's Creed Red Title Confirmed to be Assassin's Creed Shadows Ahead of Wednesday Trailer Release" . IGN . Retrieved May 13, 2024 . ^ West, Josh; Gould-Wilson, Jasmine; Wald, Heather (November 7, 2022). "Assassin's Creed Red: Everything we know so far about Assassin's Creed Shadows" . gamesradar . Retrieved May 13, 2024 . ^ Lyles, Taylor (May 13, 2024). "Assassin's Creed Red Title Confirmed to be Assassin's Creed Shadows Ahead of Wednesday Trailer Release" . IGN . Archived from the original on May 17, 2024 . Retrieved May 13, 2024 . ^ West, Josh; Gould-Wilson, Jasmine; Wald, Heather (November 7, 2022). "Assassin's Creed Red: Everything we know so far about Assassin's Creed Shadows" . GamesRadar+ . Archived from the original on March 21, 2023 . Retrieved May 13, 2024 . ^ Chalk, Andy (September 25, 2024). "Assassin's Creed Shadows is delayed into 2025, will launch on Steam on day one" . PC Gamer . Archived from the original on September 25, 2024 . Retrieved September 25, 2024 . ^ Phillips, Tom (January 9, 2025). "Assassin's Creed Shadows delayed again as Ubisoft explores company sale options" . Eurogamer . Retrieved January 9, 2025 . ^ "Gamescom: Assassin's Creed, Rayman on Vita – PSP News at IGN" . Psp.ign.com. August 16, 2011. Archived from the original on March 5, 2012 . Retrieved August 15, 2012 . ^ "Sony announces white PS Vita bundle with Assassin's Creed III: Liberation" . Engadget. June 5, 2012. Archived from the original on August 15, 2012 . Retrieved August 15, 2012 . ^ Lewis, Anne (October 24, 2013). "ASSASSIN'S CREED LIBERATION HD – RELEASE DATE AND PRE-ORDER BONUSES" . UbiBlog . Ubisoft. Archived from the original on October 27, 2013 . Retrieved October 24, 2013 . ^ "Decommissioning of online services for several AC games (October 2022)" . Ubisoft.com. August 30, 2022. Archived from the original on September 2, 2022 . Retrieved September 1, 2022 . ^ Karmali, Luke (February 5, 2014). "Assassin's Creed 4: Freedom Cry Releasing as Standalone Title" . IGN . Ziff Davis . Archived from the original on March 21, 2023 . Retrieved February 5, 2014 . ^ Phillips, Tom (March 31, 2015). "Assassin's Creed Chronicles now a three-part series set in China, India, Russia" . Eurogamer . Gamer Network. Archived from the original on February 28, 2019 . Retrieved February 28, 2019 . ^ Marchiafavra, Jeff (September 22, 2014). "Assassin's Creed Unity Season Pass Includes Newly Announced 2.5D Downloadable Title" . Game Informer . GameStop. Archived from the original on September 24, 2014 . Retrieved September 22, 2014 . ^ "Two hours of Assassin's Creed Chronicles: India" . Game Reactor . Gamez Publishing. January 12, 2016. Archived from the original on February 28, 2019 . Retrieved February 28, 2019 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Chronicles Trilogy Announced" . IGN . March 31, 2014. Archived from the original on March 31, 2015 . Retrieved March 31, 2014 . ^ "First Look: Assassin's Creed Nexus VR Coming to Meta Quest 3 + 2 This Holiday" . Meta Quest Blog . June 12, 2023 . Retrieved August 24, 2023 . ^ O Connor, Daniel (September 17, 2020). "Assassin's Creed and Splinter Cell coming to Oculus VR" . Ubisoft . Archived from the original on September 21, 2020 . Retrieved September 20, 2020 . ^ Wales, Matt (July 21, 2022). "Splinter Cell VR and Ghost Recon Frontline cancelled" . Eurogamer . Gamer Network . Archived from the original on July 27, 2022 . Retrieved July 21, 2022 . ^ Bonthuys, Darryn (June 1, 2023). "Assassin's Creed Nexus Confirmed For Release Later In 2023" . GameSpot . Retrieved June 4, 2023 . ^ Nash, Todd (December 8, 2009). "Assassin's Creed: Bloodlines" . The Guardian . Guardian News & Media Limited . Archived from the original on April 12, 2019 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ Reed, Ashley; Blain, Louise; Loveridge, Sam (September 24, 2015). "The best Assassin's Creed games, ranked" . Games Radar . Future US, Inc. Archived from the original on March 29, 2020 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ Crecente, Brian (July 16, 2009). "PSP's Assassin's Creed Will Have Free Running, Open World and PS3 Connectivity" . Kotaku . Gizmodo Media Group . Archived from the original on April 12, 2019 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ Forsans, Emmanuel (June 14, 2016). "Ubisoft : les chiffres clés et les studios" . Agence Française pour le Jeu Vidéo (in French). Archived from the original on April 12, 2019 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ Davis, Justin (October 20, 2011). "Assassin's Creed Rearmed Hits iOS" . IGN . Archived from the original on October 23, 2011 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ Hinkle, David (February 9, 2010). "Ubisoft details first quarter 2010 releases; reveals Anno for iPhone" . Joystiq . AOL Inc. Archived from the original on January 28, 2015 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ Naitmazi, Medhi (October 28, 2011). "Assassin's Creed Rearmed : un multi gratuit !" . iPhoneSoft (in French). Archived from the original on April 12, 2019 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ Winberg, Ryan (October 28, 2011). "Assassinate Your Friends in Assassin's Creed Rearmed" . AppAdvice . Archived from the original on April 12, 2019 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ Escandell, Daniel (October 28, 2011). "Assassin's Creed: Rearmed, ya en la App Store" . Vandal (in Spanish). El Español . Archived from the original on April 12, 2019 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ Fletcher, JC (October 21, 2011). "New multiplayer Assassin's Creed launching on iOS" . Engadget . Verizon Media . Archived from the original on April 12, 2019 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Rearmed for iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPhone 4S, iPod Touch (2nd generation), iPod Touch (3rd generation), iPod Touch (4th generation) and iPad on the iTunes App Store" . iTunes . May 3, 2012. Archived from the original on August 15, 2012 . Retrieved August 15, 2012 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Recollection for iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPhone 4S, iPhone 5, iPod Touch (2nd generation), iPod Touch (3rd generation), iPod Touch (4th generation), iPod Touch (5th generation), and iPad on the iTunes App Store" . iTunes . August 18, 2012. Archived from the original on July 2, 2013 . Retrieved November 30, 2012 . ^ Goldfarb, Andrew (November 25, 2013). "Assassin's Creed Pirates Release Date, Price Announced" . IGN . Archived from the original on November 25, 2013 . Retrieved November 26, 2013 . ^ Goldfarb, Andrew (September 10, 2013). "Assassin's Creed Liberation HD, Pirates Announced" . IGN . Archived from the original on September 13, 2013 . Retrieved September 10, 2013 . ^ Makuch, Eddie (December 5, 2013). "Mobile game Assassin's Creed Pirates out today" . GameSpot . CBS Interactive Inc. Archived from the original on February 28, 2019 . Retrieved February 28, 2019 . ^ Futter, Mike (September 10, 2013). "Assassin's Creed: Pirates Brings The High Seas To Small Devices" . Game Informer . GameStop. Archived from the original on September 13, 2013 . Retrieved September 10, 2013 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Memories now available on iOS devices" . GameCrate . Newegg Inc. August 22, 2014. Archived from the original on February 28, 2019 . Retrieved February 28, 2019 . ^ Sage, Simon (August 21, 2014). "Assassin's Creed Memories offers stabby guild-based card battling" . iMore . Mobile Nations. Archived from the original on February 28, 2019 . Retrieved February 28, 2019 . ^ Miller, Matt (August 21, 2014). "Assassin's Creed Memories Launches On iOS" . Game Informer . GameStop. Archived from the original on August 22, 2014 . Retrieved August 22, 2014 . ^ "Ranking the Assassin's Creed Games from Worst to Best" . May 5, 2022. Archived from the original on January 6, 2023 . Retrieved January 6, 2023 . ^ Reparaz, Mikel (October 11, 2018). "Assassin's Creed Rebellion Launches November 21 on Mobile" . Ubisoft News . Archived from the original on February 28, 2019 . Retrieved February 28, 2019 . ^ Nelson, Jared (October 11, 2018). " 'Assassin's Creed Rebellion' Launching November 21st, Pre-Registration Now Live" . TouchArcade . Archived from the original on April 22, 2022 . Retrieved February 28, 2019 . ^ Reparaz, Mikel (November 20, 2018). "Assassin's Creed Rebellion Now Available on Mobile" . Ubisoft News . Archived from the original on March 21, 2023 . Retrieved November 19, 2019 . ^ Makuch, Eddie (September 30, 2010). "Assassin's Creed Project Legacy stalking Facebook" . GameSpot . Retrieved July 28, 2023 . ^ Aziz, Hamza (September 30, 2010). "Assassin's Creed Facebook game interacts with Brotherhood" . Destructoid . Retrieved July 28, 2023 . ^ "Assassin's Creed: Utopia geannuleerd" . Gamer.nl . Archived from the original on October 6, 2014 . Retrieved October 6, 2014 . ^ "GREE: GREE and Ubisoft® Team Up to Deliver New Assassin's Creed Mobile Game " . Archived from the original on October 6, 2014 . Retrieved October 6, 2014 . ^ "Eurogamer: Assassin's Creed: Utopia won't link with AC3 beyond story " . Eurogamer.net . June 21, 2012. Archived from the original on October 6, 2014 . Retrieved October 6, 2014 . ^ Corriea, Alexa Ray (June 22, 2012). " 'Assassin's Creed: Utopia' coming to mobile devices via GREE" . Polygon . Vox Media, Inc. Archived from the original on April 12, 2019 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ "Eurogamer: Assassin's Creed Utopia is a city-building battler " . Eurogamer . September 6, 2012. Archived from the original on October 6, 2014 . Retrieved October 6, 2014 . ^ Lemon, Marshall (September 7, 2012). "Assassin's Creed: Utopia Is a City Building Sim" . Escapist Magazine . Enthusiast Gaming LLC . Archived from the original on November 16, 2018 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ Ashcraft, Brian (September 6, 2012). "In This Assassin's Creed, You Build Cities and Then FIGHT" . Kotaku . Gizmodo Media Group . Archived from the original on April 12, 2019 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ "[IMPORTANT] AC Initiates Status" . Ubisoft.com . Archived from the original on November 12, 2020 . Retrieved October 10, 2024 . ^ McWhertor, Michael (February 18, 2015). "Assassin's Creed Unity patch unlocks content blocked by its mobile app, Initiates site" . Polygon.com . Retrieved April 20, 2022 . ^ "Retiring the Initiates Website" . Ubisoft.com . Archived from the original on November 12, 2020 . Retrieved October 10, 2024 . ^ Lemne, Bengt (February 19, 2016). "Assassin's Creed: Identity launches on February 25" . Gamereactor . Gamez Publishing. Archived from the original on February 28, 2019 . Retrieved February 28, 2019 . ^ Sinha, Robin (October 1, 2014). "Ubisoft Unveils Assassin's Creed Identity for IPhone and IPad" . NDTV Gadgets . NDTV Convergence Limited. Archived from the original on October 23, 2014 . Retrieved October 16, 2014 . ^ Callaham, John (February 1, 2016). "Assassin's Creed Identity for iPhone and iPad finally launching worldwide on Feb. 25" . iMore . Mobile Nations. Archived from the original on February 28, 2019 . Retrieved February 28, 2019 . ^ Hinkle, David (September 26, 2012). "Assassin's Creed 'Ezio Trilogy' exclusive to PS3, launches November 14" . Joystiq . Archived from the original on September 28, 2012 . Retrieved July 31, 2023 . ^ Karmali, Luke (October 4, 2013). "Assassin's Creed Heritage Collection announced for Europe" . IGN . Archived from the original on March 21, 2023 . Retrieved November 30, 2017 . ^ Crossley, Rob (September 12, 2014). "Assassin's Creed: The Americas Collection Won't Ship on PC in the US, Ubisoft Clarifies" . Archived from the original on February 13, 2019 . Retrieved February 12, 2019 . ^ Driver, Ben. "Assassin's Creed: The Ezio Collection for PlayStation 4 Reviews" . Metacritic . CBS Interactive. Archived from the original on November 25, 2016 . Retrieved January 2, 2017 . ^ Driver, Ben. "Assassin's Creed: The Ezio Collection for Xbox One Reviews" . Metacritic . CBS Interactive. Archived from the original on December 31, 2016 . Retrieved January 2, 2017 . ^ "Assassin's Creed: The Ezio Collection Review" . IGN . Archived from the original on December 1, 2016 . Retrieved January 2, 2017 . ^ "Assassin's Creed: The Ezio Collection review – Italian job" . Metro . GameCentral for Metro.co.uk. November 28, 2016. Archived from the original on January 3, 2017 . Retrieved January 2, 2017 . ^ McWhertor, Michael (January 11, 2022). "The Assassin's Creed Ezio trilogy is coming to Switch" . Polygon . Archived from the original on January 11, 2022 . Retrieved January 12, 2022 . ^ Locke, Jennifer (September 5, 2019). "Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag and Rogue are coming to Nintendo Switch" . iMore . Archived from the original on January 13, 2022 . Retrieved January 12, 2022 . ^ Bramwell, Tom (October 14, 2009). "Ubi: We could do 35 Assassin's Creeds" . Eurogamer . Archived from the original on October 1, 2012 . Retrieved August 15, 2012 . ^ Ivan, Tom (June 11, 2012). "News: Ubisoft 'hopes to reach Assassin's Creed 10' " . ComputerAndVideoGames.com. Archived from the original on August 15, 2012 . Retrieved August 15, 2012 . ^ "AC:3 Possible Locations Named In Survey" . CVG. November 29, 2011. Archived from the original on November 30, 2011 . Retrieved November 30, 2011 . ^ Dutton, Fred (April 4, 2012). "Ubisoft: WW2, Japan and Egypt would make dismal Assassin's Creed locations" . Eurogamer.net. Archived from the original on July 9, 2012 . Retrieved August 15, 2012 . ^ Makuch, Eddie. "India-set Assassin's Creed on Ubisoft's radar" . GameSpot . Archived from the original on October 20, 2012. ^ Redden, Angharad (June 28, 2024). "Assassin's Creed remakes officially confirmed by Ubisoft" . Gamingbible . Retrieved June 29, 2024 . ^ Bailey, Dustin (September 10, 2022). "Assassin's Creed Codename Jade takes the series to China for an open-world game on mobile" . GamesRadar . Archived from the original on September 10, 2022 . Retrieved September 10, 2022 . ^ Henderson, Tom (September 6, 2022). "Ubisoft to Reveal Several New Assassin's Creed Titles at Ubisoft Forward" . Try Hard Guides . Archived from the original on September 6, 2022 . Retrieved September 7, 2022 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Codename Jade - Closed Beta Test Announcement" . Ubisoft. July 17, 2023. Archived from the original on July 18, 2023 . Retrieved July 18, 2023 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Codename Jade | Now on Gamescom!" . Gamescom. August 23, 2023. Archived from the original on August 23, 2023 . Retrieved August 24, 2023 . ^ Schreier, Jason (September 6, 2022). "Ubisoft Set to Announce Several New Assassin's Creed Games" . Bloomberg News . Archived from the original on September 6, 2022 . Retrieved September 10, 2022 . ^ a b c Schreier, Jason (July 7, 2021). "Ubisoft Plans Assassin's Creed Live Online Game Service" . Bloomberg News . Archived from the original on July 7, 2021 . Retrieved July 7, 2021 . ^ West, Josh (September 10, 2022). "Assassin's Creed Infinity: Everything we know so far" . GamesRadar . Archived from the original on September 10, 2022 . Retrieved September 10, 2022 . ^ Bouchard, Nathalie; Derennes, Christophe (July 7, 2021). "An Update on Assassin's Creed Infinity and the Future of the Assassin's Creed Franchise" . Ubisoft News . Ubisoft . Archived from the original on July 7, 2021 . Retrieved January 2, 2020 . ^ a b c Saed, Sherif (July 7, 2021). "Assassin's Creed Infinity is an evolving live service game with multiple historical settings – report [Update]" . VG247 . Gamer Network . Archived from the original on July 8, 2021 . Retrieved July 8, 2021 . ^ Purslow, Matt (September 10, 2022). "Assassin's Creed's Modern-Day Story Will Now Be Told Through Infinity" . IGN . Archived from the original on September 10, 2022 . Retrieved September 10, 2022 . ^ Monica M. (November 14, 2016). "Netflix And Ubisoft in Talks To Make 'Assassin's Creed', 'Watch Dogs', And 'Tom Clancy' TV Series" . Jobs n Hire. Archived from the original on May 10, 2017. ^ Plunkett, Luke (May 7, 2017). "Assassin's Creed Is Getting An 'Anime Series' " . Kotaku . Gizmodo Media Group . Archived from the original on November 5, 2018 . Retrieved September 29, 2018 . ^ Skrebels, Joe (July 5, 2017). "Assassin's Creed Anime Announced by Castlevania Netflix Producer" . IGN . Archived from the original on July 5, 2017 . Retrieved July 5, 2017 . ^ Andreeva, Nellie (October 27, 2020). " 'Assassin's Creed' Live-Action TV Series In Works At Netflix As Part Of Content Deal With Ubisoft" . Deadline Hollywood . Archived from the original on March 30, 2021 . Retrieved October 27, 2020 . ^ Otterson, Joe (June 14, 2021). " 'Assassin's Creed' Live-Action Netflix Series Taps 'Die Hard's' Jeb Stuart to Write (Exclusive)" . Variety . Archived from the original on June 14, 2021 . Retrieved June 15, 2021 . ^ Villei, Matt (January 2, 2023). " 'Assassin's Creed' Series Loses Showrunner Jeb Stuart [Exclusive]" . Collider . Archived from the original on January 2, 2023 . Retrieved January 3, 2023 . ^ Nguyen, John (June 22, 2023). "Adi Shankar on Metal Gear, Assassin's Creed, Gaming Influences in Netflix's Captain Laserhawk: A Blood Dragon Remix" . Nerd Reactor . Retrieved June 22, 2023 . ^ Osborn, Alex (August 28, 2015). "Assassin's Creed Movie Features Shared Universe with Games" . IGN . Archived from the original on August 29, 2015 . Retrieved August 28, 2015 . ^ Phillips, Tom (January 6, 2015). "Assassin's Creed film now due Christmas 2016" . Eurogamer . Archived from the original on January 6, 2015 . Retrieved January 6, 2015 . ^ Graser, Marc (October 20, 2011). "Sony breeds 'Creed' " . Variety . Archived from the original on August 10, 2014 . Retrieved August 10, 2014 . ^ Wigler, Josh (July 9, 2012). "Michael Fassbender To Star In 'Assassin's Creed' " . MTV. Archived from the original on August 12, 2014 . Retrieved August 10, 2014 . ^ a b Doty, Meriah (August 27, 2015). " 'Assassin's Creed' First Look: Here's Michael Fassbender as Brand New Character (Exclusive)" . Yahoo. Archived from the original on September 2, 2015 . Retrieved August 27, 2015 . ^ Graser, Marc (October 22, 2012). "New Regency, Fox partner on Ubisoft's 'Assassin's Creed' " . Variety . Archived from the original on July 22, 2014 . Retrieved August 10, 2014 . ^ Siegel, Tatiana (January 14, 2013). "New Regency and Ubisoft Tap Brit Writer for 'Assassin's Creed' Film (Exclusive)" . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on November 23, 2014 . Retrieved August 10, 2014 . ^ Vejvoda, Jim (August 16, 2013). "Scott Frank Rewriting Assassin's Creed Movie" . IGN . Archived from the original on August 19, 2013 . Retrieved August 16, 2013 . ^ Fleming, Mike Jr. (April 7, 2014). " 'Exodus' Scribes Adam Cooper & Bill Collage Take 'Assassin's Creed' " . Deadline Hollywood .com . Archived from the original on April 10, 2014 . Retrieved April 7, 2014 . ^ Fleming, Mike Jr. (April 29, 2014). "Michael Fassbender Poised To Re-Team With 'Macbeth' Helmer On 'Assassin's Creed' " . Deadline Hollywood .com . Archived from the original on April 29, 2014 . Retrieved April 29, 2014 . ^ "Big screen adaptation of Assassin's Creed starts shooting in Malta" . timesofmalta.com . September 3, 2015. Archived from the original on September 5, 2015 . Retrieved September 4, 2015 . ^ Lee, Chris (December 9, 2015). "Michael Fassbender was playing the hero in Assassin's Creed when he nabbed a SAG Award nomination" . Entertainment Weekly . Archived from the original on December 12, 2015 . Retrieved December 10, 2015 . ^ Jayson, Jay (January 15, 2016). "Assassin's Creed Movie Starring Michael Fassbender Wraps Filming" . Comic Book. Archived from the original on January 16, 2016. ^ Robinson, Will (December 20, 2016). "Assassin's Creed reviews: Michael Fassbender's movie panned" . Ew.com. Archived from the original on May 10, 2017 . Retrieved March 31, 2017 . ^ Blain, Louise (December 22, 2016). "The Assassin's Creed movie is getting bad reviews, but does it matter if you love the games?" . Games Radar . Future US, Inc. Archived from the original on April 12, 2019 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ " 'Gods of Egypt' - 'Ben Hur' to 'BFG': Hollywood's Biggest Box-Office Bombs of 2016" . The Hollywood Reporter . December 29, 2016. Archived from the original on July 13, 2018 . Retrieved August 27, 2019 . ^ Manco, Emanuele (2012). "Assassin's Creed, cronologia del successso" . In Guadalupi, Marco (ed.). Effemme 2 (in Italian). Delos Digital srl. p. 132. ISBN 9788867750184 . Archived from the original on December 14, 2017. ^ McElroy, Griffin (October 27, 2009). "First Assassin's Creed: Lineage episode is surprisingly great" . Engadget . Oath Tech Network AOL Tech . Archived from the original on September 29, 2018 . Retrieved September 9, 2018 . ^ Fahey, Mike (October 19, 2009). "A Fresh Look at Assassin's Creed: Lineage" . Kotaku . Gizmodo Media Group . Archived from the original on September 29, 2018 . Retrieved September 29, 2018 . ^ Fahey, Mike (October 11, 2010). "What Is Assassin's Creed Ascendance?" . Kotaku . Gizmodo Media Group . Archived from the original on September 29, 2018 . Retrieved September 29, 2018 . ^ Dutton, Fred (November 12, 2010). "Assassin's Creed: Ascendance explained" . Eurogamer . Gamer Network . Archived from the original on September 29, 2018 . Retrieved September 29, 2018 . ^ "Assassin's Creed" . Penguin Books . Retrieved October 10, 2024 . ^ "More Than Games" . Ubisoft.com . Retrieved October 10, 2024 . ^ Sheridan, Connor (February 27, 2020). "Assassin's Creed: Gold takes the historical fiction to a new setting: audio drama" . GamesRadar . Archived from the original on February 29, 2020 . Retrieved February 27, 2020 . ^ Makuch, Eddie (February 14, 2014). "Now there's an Assassin's Creed board game" . GameSpot . Archived from the original on December 10, 2017 . Retrieved December 10, 2017 . ^ Delgado, Jesús (February 16, 2014). "Assassin's Creed Arena, el nuevo juego de tablero de AC" . Hobby Consolas (in Spanish). Archived from the original on December 10, 2017 . Retrieved December 10, 2017 . ^ Mastrangeli, Tony (September 17, 2018). "Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood of Venice Coming to Kickstarter" . Board Games Quest . Archived from the original on October 30, 2018 . Retrieved October 29, 2018 . ^ Vincent, Brittany (September 17, 2018). "New 'Assassin's Creed' Board Game Features New Story With Familiar Character Cameos" . Variety . Penske Business Media, LLC. Archived from the original on October 30, 2018 . Retrieved October 29, 2018 . ^ "Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood of Venice is the next stealth board game from V-Commandos creators" . Table Top Gaming . Warners Group Publications Plc. September 17, 2018. Archived from the original on October 30, 2018 . Retrieved October 29, 2018 . ^ Hall, Charlie (September 17, 2018). "Assassin's Creed board game coming to Kickstarter in November" . Polygon . Archived from the original on October 30, 2018 . Retrieved October 29, 2018 . ^ Plunkett, Luke (September 17, 2018). "New Assassin's Creed Board Game Has Miniatures, A Campaign and an Ezio Cameo" . Kotaku . Gizmodo Media Group . Archived from the original on October 30, 2018 . Retrieved October 29, 2018 . ^ Plunkett, Luke (August 10, 2021). "Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood Of Venice: The Kotaku Review" . Kotaku . Archived from the original on January 12, 2022 . Retrieved January 12, 2022 . ^ Jarvis, Matt (March 14, 2023). "Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood Of Venice: The Kotaku Review" . Dicebreaker . Retrieved June 7, 2023 . ^ Maguid, Youssef (December 3, 2018). "Assassin's Creed Symphony Tour Begins 2019" . Ubisoft News . Archived from the original on April 12, 2019 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ Fisher, Christine (April 9, 2019). " 'Assassin's Creed Symphony' concerts will also feature holograms" . Engadget . Verizon Media . Archived from the original on April 12, 2019 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ Fogel, Stefaniel (April 9, 2019). " 'Assassin's Creed' Symphony Trailer Highlights Holographic Characters" . Variety . Penske Business Media, LLC. Archived from the original on April 10, 2019 . Retrieved April 12, 2019 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Symphony – Cancelled Due to COVID-19 | Meridian Hall, 1 Front St. E., Toronto" . To Do Canada . Archived from the original on January 23, 2022 . Retrieved January 23, 2022 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Symphony" . The Bridgewater Hall . Archived from the original on January 23, 2022 . Retrieved January 23, 2022 . ^ Breslin, Richard Lee (December 22, 2021). "Assassin's Creed Symphony Concert Is Coming Back, Tour Begins 2022" . PushStartPlay . Archived from the original on January 23, 2022 . Retrieved January 23, 2022 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Symphonic Adventure The Immersive Concert" . Ubisoft.com . Archived from the original on January 23, 2022 . Retrieved January 23, 2022 . ^ " Assassin's Creed: Director's Cut Edition Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on July 11, 2018 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on July 11, 2018 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on May 24, 2018 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed: Altaïr's Chronicles Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on February 28, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed: Bloodlines Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on March 10, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed II Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on September 29, 2011 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed II Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on February 11, 2011 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed II Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on August 29, 2011 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed II: Discovery Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on February 28, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on February 21, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on April 18, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on June 13, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Rearmed Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on March 30, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed: Revelations Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on February 21, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed: Revelations Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on February 5, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed: Revelations Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on December 19, 2018 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Recollection Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on April 21, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed III Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on November 10, 2012 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed III Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on November 9, 2012 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed III Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on December 4, 2012 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed III Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on December 27, 2012 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Liberation HD Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on February 21, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Liberation HD Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on February 1, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed III: Liberation Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on March 10, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Liberation HD Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on April 22, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on January 19, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on November 28, 2018 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on April 21, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on February 12, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on December 21, 2018 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed: Pirates Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on January 28, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Memories Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on March 30, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Rogue Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on November 16, 2014 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Rogue Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on November 19, 2014 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Rogue Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on November 15, 2014 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Identity Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on January 28, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Unity Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on April 18, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Unity Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on May 6, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Unity Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on April 23, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Syndicate Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on April 17, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Syndicate Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on April 24, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Syndicate Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on April 18, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Chronicles Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on March 11, 2019 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Origins Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on October 28, 2017 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Origins Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on November 1, 2017 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Origins Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on November 1, 2017 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Odyssey Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on November 18, 2020 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Odyssey Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on November 27, 2018 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ " Assassin's Creed Odyssey Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on October 11, 2018 . Retrieved March 23, 2019 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Valhalla Reviews for PC" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on June 21, 2021 . Retrieved November 9, 2020 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Valhalla Reviews for PlayStation 4" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on May 3, 2021 . Retrieved November 10, 2020 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Valhalla Reviews for Xbox One" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on May 11, 2021 . Retrieved November 9, 2020 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Valhalla Reviews for Xbox Series X" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on July 10, 2021 . Retrieved November 9, 2020 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Mirage for PC Reviews" . Metacritic . Retrieved October 5, 2023 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Mirage for PlayStation 5 Reviews" . Metacritic . Retrieved October 5, 2023 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Mirage for Xbox Series X Reviews" . Metacritic . Retrieved October 5, 2023 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Shadows for PC Reviews" . Metacritic . Retrieved March 22, 2025 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Shadows for PlayStation 5 Reviews" . Metacritic . Retrieved March 22, 2025 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Shadows for Xbox Series X Reviews" . Metacritic . Retrieved March 22, 2025 . ^ "Assassin's creed 3 Review" . Blast. November 10, 2012. Archived from the original on November 13, 2012 . Retrieved November 11, 2012 . ^ Tassi, Paul. " 'Assassin's Creed' Needs To Slow Down And Refocus, Or Risk Total Derailment" . Forbes . Archived from the original on May 29, 2018 . Retrieved May 29, 2018 . ^ Tassi, Paul. " 'Assassin's Creed' Isn't, And Can Never Be 'Call of Duty' " . Forbes . Archived from the original on May 29, 2018 . Retrieved May 29, 2018 . ^ Hillier, Brenna (February 15, 2016). "Ubisoft has lost control of Assassin's Creed" . VG247 . Archived from the original on September 1, 2018 . Retrieved May 29, 2018 . ^ "Why some fans are made about the Assassin's Creed Viking livestream reveal" . Inverse . April 29, 2020. Archived from the original on October 29, 2020 . Retrieved January 23, 2021 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Has Forgotten Its Roots" . Comic Book Resources . May 6, 2020. Archived from the original on August 27, 2021 . Retrieved January 23, 2021 . ^ "I Miss Assassin's Creed Being A Stealth Game" . The Gamer . October 16, 2020. Archived from the original on August 27, 2021 . Retrieved January 23, 2021 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Odyssey is the series' latest step in a different direction, for the better" . Polygon . September 10, 2018. Archived from the original on November 9, 2020 . Retrieved January 23, 2021 . ^ Reparaz, Mikel (September 13, 2016). "Assassin's Creed the Ezio Collection Announced for Ps4, Xbox One" . Ubisoft Blog. Archived from the original on March 23, 2017 . Retrieved March 22, 2017 . ^ Jones, Ali (September 27, 2019). "Assassin's Creed all-time sales top 140 million" . PCGamesN . Archived from the original on September 27, 2019 . Retrieved September 27, 2019 . ^ "Ubisoft Facts and Figures" (PDF) . Ubistatic-a.akamaihd.net . Archived (PDF) from the original on September 27, 2019 . Retrieved March 7, 2022 . ^ Jaisrani, Avinash (September 10, 2022). "Assassin's Creed Franchise Has Sold Over 200 Million Games Worldwide" . Tech4Gamers . Archived from the original on September 10, 2022 . Retrieved September 10, 2022 . ^ "Ubisoft Reports First-Half 2024-25 Earnings Figures" (PDF) . Ubisoft . October 30, 2024. p. 1. Archived (PDF) from the original on November 28, 2024 . Retrieved December 4, 2024 . ^ Kluz, Arron (June 30, 2022). "Ezio Auditore Guide" . RPG Informer . Archived from the original on December 27, 2022 . Retrieved December 27, 2022 . ^ "Assassin's Creed® II Costume – LittleBigPlanet™" . LittleBigPlanet.com . Archived from the original on August 31, 2012 . Retrieved August 15, 2012 . ^ "Unlockable Altair skin for Prince of Persia" . Videogamer . November 21, 2008. Archived from the original on December 27, 2022 . Retrieved December 27, 2022 . ^ "Uplay – Prince of Persia: The Forgotten Sands" . Archived from the original on December 3, 2012 . Retrieved September 21, 2012 . ^ Honorof, Marshall (November 30, 2011). "The Escapist : News : Assassin's Creed's Ezio Joins the Party in Final Fantasy XIII-2" . Escapist . Archived from the original on May 22, 2013 . Retrieved August 15, 2012 . ^ Sliwinski, Alexander (May 13, 2008). "Kojima: Altair costume unlockable in MGS4" . Engadget . Archived from the original on December 27, 2022 . Retrieved December 27, 2022 . ^ "Assassin's Creed Brotherhood Gets Raiden" . PlayStation LifeStyle . November 3, 2010. Archived from the original on December 24, 2017 . Retrieved May 8, 2018 . ^ "Peace Walker gets Assassin's Creed, Monster Hunter tie-ins" . GameSpot . Archived from the original on December 22, 2017 . Retrieved November 25, 2016 . ^ Rositano, Joseph (September 22, 2009). "Academy of Champions Soccer Review" . PALGN . Archived from the original on January 16, 2014. ^ Plunkett, Luke (October 21, 2011). "Yup, Ezio is in Soulcalibur V" . Kotaku. Archived from the original on October 21, 2011. ^ Ingram, Michael Brandon (July 27, 2022). "Brawlhalla Update is Adding 2 Assassin's Creed Characters to the Roster" . Game Rant . Archived from the original on July 27, 2022 . Retrieved July 27, 2022 . ^ Phillips, Tom (June 2, 2014). "Assassin's Creed 4 character crosses over to Watch Dogs" . Eurogamer . Archived from the original on August 28, 2016 . Retrieved August 26, 2016 . ^ Totilo, Stephen (October 28, 2017). "More Evidence That Assassin's Creed And Watch Dogs Are Set in the Same Universe" . Kotaku . Archived from the original on January 24, 2018 . Retrieved May 8, 2018 . ^ "Final Fantasy XV – Assassin's Festival" . Final Fantasy XV . Archived from the original on August 25, 2017 . Retrieved August 24, 2017 . ^ Craddock, Ryan (January 16, 2020). "Cuphead, Rabbids And Assassin's Creed's Altair Join Smash Bros. Ultimate As Mii Costumes" . Nintendo Life . Archived from the original on December 27, 2022 . Retrieved December 27, 2022 . ^ Rahul Majumdar (August 23, 2021). "Everything You Need to Know About Watch Dogs Legion's Assassin's Creed Crossover" . IGN . Archived from the original on October 11, 2021 . Retrieved October 10, 2021 . ^ "Assassins Creed? Who was the masked torchbearer at the 2024 Paris Olympics Opening Ceremony?" . WMAQ-TV . July 26, 2024. Archived from the original on July 27, 2024 . Retrieved July 27, 2024 . ^ @assassinscreed (July 26, 2024). "He looks familiar" ( Tweet ) – via Twitter . External links Wikimedia Commons has media related to Assassin's Creed . Wikiquote has quotations related to Assassin's Creed (video game series) . Wikiquote has quotations related to Last words in Assassin's Creed series games . Wikivoyage has a travel guide for Assassin's Creed Tour . Official website The Assassin's Creed Wiki v t e Assassin's Creed Ubisoft Video games Main series Assassin's Creed II Brotherhood Revelations III The Tyranny of King Washington IV: Black Flag Freedom Cry Rogue Unity Syndicate Jack the Ripper Origins Odyssey Legacy of the First Blade Valhalla Mirage Shadows Other games Altaïr's Chronicles Bloodlines II: Discovery III: Liberation Pirates Memories Identity Chronicles Nexus VR Other media Print Novels Comics The Fall The Chain Brahman Assassin's Creed Blade of Shao Jun Forgotten Temple Film Short films Lineage Ascendance Embers Assassin's Creed Music Assassin's Creed (soundtrack) " Mirage " Characters Ezio Auditore da Firenze Ratonhnhaké꞉ton / Connor Aveline de Grandpré Edward Kenway Arno Dorian Frye twins Bayek of Siwa Alexios and Kassandra Yasuke Related Alamut Prince of Persia Watch Dogs Soulcalibur V Brawlhalla Captain Laserhawk: A Blood Dragon Remix Category v t e Ubisoft Games 1986–1999 2000–2009 2010–2019 2020–present Franchises Anno Assassin's Creed Brothers in Arms Chessmaster The Crew Driver Far Cry Hasbro Family Game Night Imagine Just Dance Might and Magic Petz Prince of Persia Rabbids Rayman Red Steel The Settlers Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Rainbow Six Splinter Cell TrackMania Trials Watch Dogs Your Shape Subsidiaries Blue Byte Film & Television Ketchapp Kolibri Games Massive Entertainment Montpellier Montreal games Nadeo Quebec Red Storm Entertainment Reflections Singapore Toronto Technology UbiArt Framework Ubisoft Anvil Ubisoft Connect Snowdrop Ubisoft+ People Yves Guillemot Locations Peck Building Related Frag Dolls 2020 sexual misconduct litigation and accusations Category Authority control databases International VIAF National Czech Republic Artists MusicBrainz Other MusicBrainz series Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Assassin%27s_Creed&oldid=1284105736 " Categories : Assassin's Creed Ubisoft franchises Fiction set in 2012 Fiction set in 2013 Fiction set in 2014 Fiction set in 2015 Fiction set in 2016 Fiction set in 2017 Fiction set in 2018 Fiction set in 2019 Fiction set in 2020 Action-adventure games Alternate history video games Video games about ancient astronauts Fiction about artificial intelligence Open-world video games Panhistorical video games Parkour video games Science fiction video games Stealth video games Video game franchises introduced in 2007 Video games about virtual reality Fiction about assassinations Video games with historical settings Mass media franchises Video games adapted into comics Video games adapted into films Video games adapted into novels Video games adapted into television shows Gnosticism in popular culture Hidden categories: CS1 French-language sources (fr) CS1 Spanish-language sources (es) CS1 Italian-language sources (it) Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Wikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalism Use mdy dates from December 2022 Articles containing potentially dated statements from September 2022 All articles containing potentially dated statements All articles lacking reliable references Articles lacking reliable references from July 2020 Articles containing potentially dated statements from September 2019 Commons category link from Wikidata Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia This page was last edited on 5 April 2025, at 16:28 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Assassin's Creed 46 languages Add topic