Oscars 2017: Why Emma Stone will win Best Actress (but why Natalie Portman should) News Sports Entertainment Lifestyle Opinion Advertise Obituaries eNewspaper Legals LOCAL Oscars 2017: Why Emma Stone will win Best Actress (but why Natalie Portman should) Staff Writer Akron Beacon Journal The 89th Academy Awards are almost here, and we are breaking down the major categories. Let us know who you think should take home the top prizes. Today, a look at: Best Actress Isabelle Huppert, Elle Ruth Negga, Loving Natalie Portman, Jackie Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Emma Stone, La La Land Meryl Streep, Florence Foster Jenkins Lowdown: Elle , Loving and Jackie do not quite have the juice to propel their stars into the winner’s circle. Streep, of course, is in a universe unto herself. This is her 20th Oscar nomination — 20! She has lapped Katharine Hepburn and Jack Nicholson (who are next in line with 12 nominations each). But this time, her role as the off-key, off-kilter Jenkins, while impressive, is not really Oscar-worthy. Should win: Portman. She delivers a rapturously compelling performance as Jackie Kennedy in the emotionally fraught hours, and days, just after her husband’s assassination in 1963. Portman’s close-ups are a master class in acting range — from sly and subtle looks, to put-on polite, to manipulative-controlling, to utterly shattered, lost and confused. Will win: Stone. She’s lovable, adorable and has been a shining presence in films from Superbad and Easy A to The Help and Birdman . Plus, she has already gobbled up just about every statue on planet Earth for playing Mia, the struggling actress at the center of La La Land . Bonus points: She also sings and dances. Coming up Friday: Best Picture and Best Director. The 89th Academy Awards, with host Jimmy Kimmel, air Sunday night at 8:30 on ABC (WEWS Channel 5). Follow @ClintOMovies on Twitter for more commentary during the show. Clint O’Connor can be reached at 330-996-3582 or coconnor@thebeaconjournal.com . Careers Staff Directory Accessibility Sitemap Legals Our Ethical Principles USA TODAY Network Style Guide Responsible Disclosure Subscription Terms & Conditions Advertiser Acceptance Policy Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Contact Us Support Local Business Advertise Your Business Buy and Sell Licensing & Reprints Help Center Subscriber Guide Manage Account Give Feedback Subscribe Today Newsletters Facebook X Instagram eNewspaper NIE Archives Akron Classifieds Kent Classifieds Jobs Cars Homes Shopping 10BEST LocaliQ Digital Marketing Solutions © 2025 www.beaconjournal.com. All rights reserved.