September 5 - Golden Globes The Show Awards Database 2025 Nominations Winners/Nominees Carol Burnett Award Cecil B. DeMille Award History Golden Globes History About Award Rules and Entry Forms Media Info Publicist Info Voter Application Voter Biographies Membership Board of Directors Golden Globes Leadership Team Contact Us FAQs News Latest News Video Gallery Skip to content 82nd Annual Golden Globes® LIVE COVERAGE . Awards Database 1 Nomination 0 Wins September 5 “September 5” (2024), directed by Tim Fehlbaum, is a gripping historical thriller that delves into the ethical complexities faced by journalists during the 1972 Munich Olympics hostage crisis. The film centers on an American sports broadcasting crew, led by executive Roone Arledge (Peter Sarsgaard), as they navigate the unprecedented decision to broadcast the unfolding hostage situation involving Israeli athletes. This real-time coverage raises profound questions about the responsibilities and moral boundaries of the media in the face of live tragedy. Critics have lauded the film for its intense narrative and compelling performances, particularly Sarsgaard’s portrayal of Arledge. “September 5” premiered at the Venice International Film Festival. Role Credit Cast: Peter Sarsgaard Golden Globe Awards 2025 Nominee Best Motion Picture - Drama September 5 Subscribe to Newsletter Email address Submit GG will store your name and email address and use them to send the Weekly Globe newsletter. Withdraw consent by clicking on the link in an issue. Read our Privacy Policy . Something went wrong! Please try again. Thank you for your submission! Tabulation proudly provided by KPMG LLP (US) The Show Awards Database 2025 Nominations Winners/Nominees Carol Burnett Award Cecil B. DeMille Award History Golden Globes History About Award Rules and Entry Forms Media Info Publicist Info Voter Application Voter Biographies Membership Board of Directors Golden Globes Leadership Team Contact Us FAQs News Latest News Video Gallery Golden Globe(s)®, Cecil B. Demille® and Golden Globes® Statuette design mark are the registered trademarks and service marks and the Golden Globe® statuette the copyrighted property, of Golden Globes, LLC. Copyright © Golden Globes, LLC. Hollywood Foreign Press Association® is a registered trademark of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. All rights reserved. Accessibility Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Adchoices Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices Dismiss Disclaimer Your Privacy Rights Golden Globes, LLC (“Golden Globes”) uses first and third-party technologies to enable PMC and third-parties to collect information about you and your interactions with our sites and services (including clicks, cursor movements and screen recordings). Learn more HERE . By continuing to use our sites or services, you agree to our Terms of Use (including the class action waiver and arbitration provisions) and Privacy Policy , which have recently changed. Search Search