Diablo 3: Reaper of Souls Releasing on March 25th for PC and Mac News Reviews Opinions Platforms PS5 PS4 PS3 PSP Xbox Series X | S Xbox One Xbox 360 DS Switch 3DS Wii MAC, Linux, Mobile And More PC Wii U PS Vita Trending Games Atomfall Monster Hunter Wilds South of Midnight Split Fiction The First Berserker: Khazan Guides Videos Interviews Graphics Comparisons News Diablo 3: Reaper of Souls Releasing on March 25th for PC and Mac Now available for pre-purchase on Battle.net. Posted By Ravi Sinha | On 19th, Dec. 2013 Facebook Twitter Reddit Blizzard Entertainment has announced that the first major expansion pack for Diablo 3, Reaper of Souls, will be releasing on March 25th 2014 for PC and Mac. The expansion pack will also arrive for the PS4 in the form of Diablo 3: Ultimate Evil Edition along with the original game but no set release date has been announced for this yet. Reaper of Souls will feature a ton of new campaign content, including the new Crusader character, a brand new Act to partake in, new loot rewards, brand new skills and abilities, Mystic and Adventure Mode, Bounties, Nephalem Rifts and much much more. It will also continue the story of Diablo 3, so players can pretty much carry on with their original characters should they so please. Diablo 3: Reaper of Souls will be available in two forms: the Digital Standard Edition which will be downloadable for $40 or the Digital Deluxe Edition available for $59.99. Both versions are available for pre-purchase – head here for more details. Follow us: Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Tagged With: Blizzard Entertainment , Diablo 3: Reaper Of Souls , Mac , pc Games You May Like Diablo 3 Publisher: Blizzard Entertainment Developer: Blizzard Entertainment Platforms: PC, MAC, PS4, Xbox One, PS3, Xbox 360 View More Atomfall Publisher: Rebellion Developments Developer: Rebellion Developments Platforms: PS5, Xbox Series X, PS4, Xbox One, PC View More Monster Hunter Wilds Publisher: Capcom Developer: Capcom Platforms: PS5, Xbox Series X, PC View More Amazing Articles You Might Want To Check Out! Keep On Reading! The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion Remastered Revamps Enemy Scaling, Encumbrance, and More On top of 4K resolution and 60 FPS support, the Unreal Engine 5 remaster also revamps the HUD, UI, non-combat ... Madden NFL 26 is Set for August 14 Release – Rumour According to reports, EA is expected to officially unveil the next game in its Madden NFL franchise some time ... The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion Remastered Announced, Out Now for $49.99 The remaster is playable on Xbox Series X/S, PS5, and PC, and sports a complete visual overhaul and various im... PlayStation 5 Console Rentals Are Succeeding in Japan While Game Rentals Are Declining Japanese retailer GEO had started offering PS5 consoles for rent back when hardware shortages were affecting s... Marathon Developer Says Price is “Definitely Going to be a Conversation” The studio has previously mentioned that Marathon will not be a full-priced game. Rumours indicate pricing sim... Wuthering Waves x Cyberpunk: Edgerunners Collaboration Announced for 2026 This marks the action RPG's first collaboration and Edgerunners' second after Guilty Gear Strive adds Lucy to ... View More Terms of Use Privacy Policy Reviews Policy Community Policy Contact Us About Us Staff Advertise With Us Follow us: Copyright © 2009-2025 GamingBolt.com. All Rights Reserved.