How to watch the 2020 Golden Globes on TV and online IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content NBC News Logo Politics U.S. News Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut World Business Sports Editors' picks Shopping Tipline Health Science Culture & Trends Share & Save — My News Manage Profile Email Preferences Sign Out Search Search Profile My News Sign Out Sign In Create your free profile Sections U.S. News Decision 2024 Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech & Media Weather Video Features Photos NBC Select NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News MSNBC Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now More From NBC CNBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Print Whatsapp Reddit Pocket Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Business Sports Editors' picks Shopping Tipline Health Science Culture & Trends Awards How to watch the 2020 Golden Globes on TV and online Here are all the ways to watch or stream the Golden Globe Awards so you don't miss Ricky Gervais, the Red Carpet, or a single award. Host Ricky Gervais speaks onstage during the 73rd Annual Golden Globe Awards at The Beverly Hilton Hotel on Jan. 10, 2016 in Beverly Hills, Calif. Paul Drinkwater / Getty Images file By Olivia Roos This Sunday, a new decade of awards ceremonies kicks off with the 77th Annual Golden Globes, hosted by veteran emcee Ricky Gervais, back for his fifth time . Who will be the best dressed? Whose speech will run the longest? Which male director will win? Follow our guide for how to watch the Golden Globes so you don’t miss a single moment. Watch on TV The ceremony will be aired on NBC on Sunday, Jan. 5, at 8 p.m. EST/5 p.m. PST. What TV channel is the Golden Globes on? The ceremony will be aired on NBC . What time do the Golden Globes start? The ceremony will begin at 8 p.m. EST/5 p.m. PST. How to stream the Golden Globes Besides watching on TV, viewers can tune into the Golden Globes via NBC live by entering their TV providers information on the NBC website or app to live stream the event. Viewers only need a Wifi connection to get started. For those who don’t have a cable or satellite subscription, fear not. Paid subscription services Fubo TV, Sling TV, Hulu with Live TV, YoutubeTV and AT&T TV Now, will allow also allow cord cutters to watch the ceremony live. But in the case that you don’t subscribe to any of these streaming options, many of the paid subscriptions offer seven-day free trials that you could take advantage of for Globes streaming access. Golden Globes Pre-Show If you’re favorite part of the awards ceremony is admiring (or hate-watching) all the outfits, make sure to catch the red carpet via E! Live From the Red Carpet: The 2020 Golden Globe Awards , with hosts Ryan Seacrest and Giuliana Rancic. Red Carpet Live with E! will start at 6 p.m. EST/3 p.m. PST and the NBC Golden Globes Arrivals special will begin at 7 p.m. EST/4 p.m. PST. Stream Golden Globes Red Carpet You can catch all the Red Carpet coverage from any of the streaming and viewing options above starting at 6 p.m. EST/3 p.m. PST. Viewers without access to these options can also catch the Red Carpet Live via the Golden Globes Facebook page Golden Globes Order of Awards Best actress in a limited series or television movie Best supporting actor in any motion picture Best actress in a TV series - musical/comedy Best actress in a TV series - drama Best actor in a TV series - drama Best TV series - drama Best supporting actor in a series, limited series or TV film Best original score Best original song Best actor - comedy/musical Best supporting actress in a series, limited series or TV film Best animated film Best supporting actress in any motion picture Best screenplay Best foreign film Best actor in a miniseries or TV movie Best TV series - comedy Best actor in a TV series - musical/comedy Best film director Best miniseries or TV movie Best actress in a film - comedy/musical Best film - comedy/musical Best actor - drama Best actress - drama Best film - drama The TV Races to Watch With four nominations each, Netflix's drama series The Crown and Netflix’s limited series Unbelievable are neck-and-neck for the most nominations in the television category. The Golden Globes will likely follow the 2019 Emmy’s example and give the award for Best Television Series for a Musical or Comedy to Fleabag, whose star and creator, Phoebe Waller-Bridge will likely also win for Best Actress for the series. Without Game of Thrones in the running, The Crown , Succession , Big Little Lies , Killing Eve , or Apple TV Plus’s The Morning Show could all easily win for Best Television Series in the Drama category. Big Film Races to See Netflix dominated the film category this year with Marriage Story receiving six nominations and The Irishman (which had a limited release in theaters before being released on Netflix) receiving five. Either The Irishman or Marriage Story could win for Best Motion Picture in a Drama, while Knives Out and Once Upon a Time in Hollywood are likely frontrunners for Best Motion Picture Comedy or Musical. Eddie Murphy, who recently returned to SNL to host the Holiday episode, is predicted to wine Best Actor in a Comedy or Musical for Dolemite is My Name . Meanwhile in the Foreign Language Film category, the indie hit from South Korea, Parasite , is slotted to take home the gold. Look For Tom Hanks and Ellen DeGeneres Tom Hanks will receive the Cecil B. DeMille Award, while Ellen DeGeneres will receive the Carol Burnett Award. How to Live Tweet the Event For the Red Carpet Live with E! Use the hashtag #ERedCarpet and for the ceremony itself use the hashtag #GoldenGlobes. Olivia Roos Olivia Roos is a member of the NBC News Digital staff. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service (Updated JULY 7, 2023) NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Advertise Select Shopping © 2025 NBCUniversal Media, LLC NBC News Logo MSNBC Logo Today Logo