November 2020 Station 19 and Grey's Anatomy crossover event - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Plot Toggle Plot subsection 1.1 Part 1: "Nothing Seems the Same" 1.2 Part 2: "All Tomorrow's Parties" 1.3 Part 3: "The Center Won't Hold" 2 Production 3 Cast and characters Toggle Cast and characters subsection 3.1 Main 3.2 Notable guests 4 Release 5 Reception 6 References Toggle the table of contents November 2020 Station 19 and Grey's Anatomy crossover event Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Fictional crossover in television franchise November 2020 Station 19 and Grey's Anatomy crossover event Station 19 and Grey's Anatomy crossover event Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ) and Derek Shepherd ( Patrick Dempsey ) in a promotional image for the event Original air date November 12, 2020 ( 2020-11-12 ) Part 1: Station 19 Episode title "Nothing Seems the Same" Episode no. Season 4 Episode 1 Directed by Paris Barclay Written by Kiley Donovan Episode chronology ← Previous " Louder Than a Bomb " Next → " Wild World " List of Station 19 episodes Part 2: Grey's Anatomy Episode title "All Tomorrow's Parties" Episode no. Season 17 Episode 1 Directed by Debbie Allen Written by Andy Reaser Lynee E. Litt Episode chronology ← Previous " Put on a Happy Face " Next → " The Center Won't Hold " Grey's Anatomy season 17 List of Grey's Anatomy episodes Part 3: Grey's Anatomy Episode title "The Center Won't Hold" Episode no. Season 17 Episode 2 Directed by Debbie Allen Written by Andy Reaser Jase Miles-Perez Episode chronology ← Previous " All Tomorrow's Parties " Next → " My Happy Ending " Grey's Anatomy season 17 List of Grey's Anatomy episodes Crossover chronology Preceded by January 2020 Station 19 and Grey's Anatomy crossover event Followed by December 2020 Station 19 and Grey's Anatomy crossover event The November 2020 Station 19 and Grey's Anatomy crossover event was a three-part fictional crossover between Station 19 and Grey's Anatomy aired consecutively on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) in a three-hour timeslot on November 12, 2020. The event began with "Nothing Seems the Same" from Station 19 , followed by "All Tomorrow's Parties" and "The Center Won't Hold" from Grey's Anatomy . The crossover served as the season premieres of Station 19 's fourth season and Grey's Anatomy's seventeenth season , with the latter continuing into its second episode. The storyline follows the rescue and treatment of children involved in a car accident, spanning all three episodes. Paris Barclay directed the first part, written by Kiley Donovan, while Debbie Allen directed the Grey's Anatomy episodes. Andy Reaser co-wrote both Grey's Anatomy episodes, with Lynee E. Litt and Jase Miles-Perez contributing to the writing. Although the event is fictionally set in Seattle , Washington , filming occurred in Los Angeles , California . It also marked the surprise return of Patrick Dempsey as Derek Shepherd to Grey's Anatomy , reprising his role after his last appearance in 2015. Upon its initial broadcast, "Nothing Seems the Same" from Station 19 was watched by 6.59 million viewers in the United States. It was followed by Grey's Anatomy's "All Tomorrow's Parties" and "The Center Won't Hold," which were watched by 5.92 million viewers. The crossover event received mixed reviews from critics, with praise for its unified storyline and Dempsey's surprise return, but criticism for its writing and execution. Plot [ edit ] Part 1: "Nothing Seems the Same" [ edit ] Station 19 tackles the effects of COVID-19 while the aid car responds to a car accident involving children returning from a party. As the car catches fire, it spreads into a small forest fire . Robert Sullivan ( Boris Kodjoe ) struggles to adjust after being fired from the Seattle Fire Department , while Andy Herrera ( Jaina Lee Ortiz ) processes the revelation that her mother is alive and grieves her father's death. Part 2: "All Tomorrow's Parties" [ edit ] The episode opens with a voice-over narration from Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ) reflecting on how disasters reveal our true selves, showing that preparation can only go so far when facing a crisis. At Grey-Sloan Memorial in April 2020, the hospital is deeply impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic . Richard Webber ( James Pickens Jr. ) returns and adjusts to new safety protocols, helping Miranda Bailey ( Chandra Wilson ) implement a UV light to disinfect PPE . Meredith struggles emotionally as she watches patients die alone, while Owen Hunt ( Kevin McKidd ) and Jackson Avery ( Jesse Williams ) treat teenagers brought in from a wildfire. Jo Wilson ( Camilla Luddington ) tries to move on from Alex Karev ( Justin Chambers ) but realizes she isn't ready. Teddy Altman ( Kim Raver ) faces lingering tension with Owen, and Andrew DeLuca ( Giacomo Gianniotti ) returns to Grey-Sloan after an intervention to help a frustrated Meredith. Maggie Pierce ( Kelly McCreary ) navigates her long-distance relationship with Winston Ndugu (Anthony Hill), while Levi Schmitt ( Jake Borelli ) confides in Nico Kim ( Alex Landi ) about the toll of the pandemic. A fight between parents of the injured teens injures Bailey. Part 3: "The Center Won't Hold" [ edit ] The episode opens with a voice-over narration from Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ) highlighting the role of stitches in surgery, noting that while precision is crucial, true healing relies on the body's natural processes. At the hospital, the parents of the children injured in the accident are treated, and Bailey deals with her injuries. Catherine Avery ( Debbie Allen ) navigates financial challenges caused by the pandemic, and Tom Koracick ( Greg Germann ) is demoted after mistakenly ordering the wrong PPE. He later tests positive for COVID-19. Richard and Catherine rekindle their relationship, while Teddy tries to reconcile with Owen, who remains distant. Meredith collapses in the parking garage and, in a hallucination , sees her late husband, Derek Shepherd ( Patrick Dempsey ), on a beach. Production [ edit ] Filming for Station 19 began in the first week of September 2020, while production on Grey's Anatomy resumed on September 8, 2020, following a shortened previous season due to the COVID-19 pandemic . [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Cast and crew from both shows were required to wear personal protective equipment on set and undergo regular COVID testing. [ 3 ] All three episodes in the crossover heavily incorporated real-world events, particularly the COVID-19 pandemic. [ 4 ] The third episode of the crossover featured the surprising and unpublicized return of former series regular Patrick Dempsey as Derek Shepherd , who last appeared in the Season 11 episode " How to Save a Life ". [ 5 ] [ 6 ] The idea to bring Dempsey back was attributed to series star Ellen Pompeo ( Meredith Grey ). [ 7 ] Krista Vernoff , the Grey's Anatomy showrunner , revealed the difficulties of keeping Dempsey's return a secret: I have to say that it was an epic feat, the keeping of this secret. I didn't send cuts to the studio and network that included that last scene. I didn't have writers' assistants in the writers' room for the last couple of months. There were writers who didn't know we were doing this on that staff. Most of the actors didn't know we were doing this. The crew didn't know we were doing this when they showed up on the day. I put the name "Ellis Grey" in the script that we read at the table, and I had Meredith say "Mom" at the table, so we got there on the day, and no one had been told what was happening. [ 8 ] Dempsey shared that he enjoyed filming the reunion scene and is expected to return for future episodes. [ 9 ] Former head makeup designer Norman T. Leavitt also returned to work on the scene. [ 9 ] On September 17, 2020, it was announced that both Station 19 and Grey's Anatomy would premiere on November 12 in a two-part crossover event . [ 10 ] Cast and characters [ edit ] Main [ edit ] Actor Character Episode Station 19 Grey's Anatomy (episode 1) Grey's Anatomy (episode 2) Jaina Lee Ortiz Andy Herrera Main Does not appear Jason George Ben Warren Main Guest Does not appear Boris Kodjoe Robert Sullivan Main Does not appear Grey Damon Jack Gibson Main Guest Does not appear Barrett Doss Victoria Hughes Main Guest Does not appear Jay Hayden Travis Montgomery Main Guest Does not appear Okieriete Onaodowan Dean Miller Main Guest Does not appear Danielle Savre Maya Bishop Main Guest Does not appear Stefania Spampinato Carina DeLuca Main Guest Does not appear Ellen Pompeo Meredith Grey Does not appear Main Chandra Wilson Miranda Bailey Guest Main James Pickens Jr. Richard Webber Does not appear Main Kevin McKidd Owen Hunt Guest Main Kim Raver Teddy Altman Does not appear Main Jesse Williams Jackson Avery Does not appear Main Camilla Luddington Jo Karev Does not appear Main Caterina Scorsone Amelia Shepherd Does not appear Main Kelly McCreary Maggie Pierce Does not appear Main Giacomo Gianniotti Andrew DeLuca Does not appear Main Chris Carmack Atticus "Link" Lincoln Does not appear Main Jake Borelli Levi Schmitt Does not appear Main Greg Germann Tom Koracick Does not appear Main Richard Flood Cormac Hayes Does not appear Main Anthony Hill Winston Ndugu Does not appear Main Notable guests [ edit ] Actor Character Episode Station 19 Grey's Anatomy (episode 1) Grey's Anatomy (episode 2) Noah Alexander Gerry Joey Guest Does not appear Justin Ellings Frankie Morris Guest Does not appear Guest BJ Tanner Tuck Jones Guest Does not appear V. Vieux Rosalind Guest Does not appear Jaicy Elliot Taryn Helm Does not appear Guest Does not appear Zaiver Sinnett Zander Perez Does not appear Guest Louis Ozawa Steve Lee Does not appear Guest Linda Park Deborah Lee Does not appear Guest TJ Thyne Aaron Morris Does not appear Guest Debbie Allen Catherine Fox Does not appear Guest Alex Landi Nico Kim Does not appear Guest Patrick Dempsey Derek Shepherd Does not appear Guest Release [ edit ] "Nothing Seems the Same" of Station 19 was originally broadcast live on November 12, 2020, in the United States on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC), and was watched by 6.59 million viewers. This was followed by "All Tomorrow's Parties" and "The Center Won't Hold" of Grey's Anatomy , which aired in the following two-hour timeslot, and were watched live by 5.92 million viewers. [ 11 ] Reception [ edit ] The crossover event received mixed reviews from critics, with praise directed towards its unified storyline and the surprise return of Patrick Dempsey ( Derek Shepherd ), but criticism was directed towards its writing and execution. Jessica Lerner from TV Fanatic reviewed the first part of the crossover, stating the episode "was mostly positive" but criticized the main storyline, noting that "while it was clear the show was trying to send the message that we should be adhering to social distancing guidelines and wearing masks, it felt heavy-handed" and "more like a public service announcement," detracting from the episode's flow. [ 12 ] Jasmine Blu, also from TV Fanatic , reviewed the second and third parts, expressing that the multiple storylines created "a mishmash of confusion and too much crammed into the premiere," but praised the ending for delivering "the shock of a lifetime with a fallen Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ) and a Derek sighting!" [ 13 ] Lincee Ray from Entertainment Weekly highlighted the packed content, remarking that "the amount of content the Grey's Anatomy showrunners stuffed into two hours proves that they made good use of their time during lockdown." [ 14 ] Maggie Fremont from Vulture noted that the crossover "pretty much caught us up, even if very quickly, on where every character's drama from last season stands." [ 15 ] References [ edit ] ^ "Station 19 season 4 filming underway; go behind the scenes" . CarterMatt . September 7, 2020 . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . ^ Ng, Philiana (September 8, 2018). " 'Grey's Anatomy' Begins Filming Season 17: See Ellen Pompeo's First On-Set Photo" . ET Online . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . ^ Bucksbaum, Sydney (September 8, 2020). "Grey's Anatomy resumes filming as Ellen Pompeo shares first photo from set" . Entertainment Weekly . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . ^ Craig, David (November 13, 2020). "Grey's Anatomy boss talks surprise return for major character" . Radio Times . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . ^ VanHoose, Benjamin (November 13, 2020). "Patrick Dempsey on His Surprise Grey's Anatomy Return: It Was 'Lovely and Inspiring to Go Back' " . People Magazine . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . ^ Roberto, Melissa (November 13, 2020). " 'Grey's Anatomy' fans stunned by Patrick Dempsey's return in Season 17 premiere: 'I cried so much' " . Fox News . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . ^ Oliver, David (November 13, 2020). " 'Grey's Anatomy' premiere shocker: (SPOILER) returns for the first time in years" . USA Today . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . ^ Piester, Lauren (November 12, 2020). "How Grey's Anatomy Pulled Off Patrick Dempsey's Surprise Return" . E! Online . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . ^ a b Andreeva, Nellie (November 12, 2020). " 'Grey's Anatomy' Shocker: Krista Vernoff, Ellen Pompeo & Patrick Dempsey On Season 17 Premiere's Dream Reunion & More" . Deadline Hollywood . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . ^ Highfill, Samantha (September 17, 2020). "Grey's Anatomy to return with supersize premiere, Station 19 crossover" . Entertainment Weekly . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . ^ Metcalf, Mitch (November 13, 2020). "UPDATED: SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Thursday Cable Originals & Network Finals: 11.12.2020" . ShowBuzzDaily . Archived from the original on November 13, 2020 . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . ^ Lerner, Jessica (November 12, 2020). "Station 19 Season 4 Episode 1 Review: Nothing Seems the Same" . TVFanatic . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . ^ Blu, Jasmine (November 13, 2020). "Grey's Anatomy Season Premiere Review: OMG! Did *Spoiler* Return?!" . TV Fanatic . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . ^ Ray, Lincee (November 13, 2020). "Grey's Anatomy premiere recap: Coping with COVID" . Entertainment Weekly . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . ^ Fremont, Maggie (November 13, 2020). "Grey's Anatomy Season-Premiere Recap: To the Limit" . Vulture . Retrieved November 13, 2020 . v t e Grey's Anatomy franchise Grey's Anatomy Episodes Season 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 Characters Meredith Grey Cristina Yang Izzie Stevens Alex Karev George O'Malley Miranda Bailey Richard Webber Preston Burke Derek Shepherd Addison Montgomery Callie Torres Mark Sloan Lexie Grey Erica Hahn Owen Hunt Sadie Harris Arizona Robbins Teddy Altman Jackson Avery April Kepner Amelia Shepherd Jo Wilson Stephanie Edwards Maggie Pierce Nathan Riggs Andrew DeLuca Levi Schmitt Adaptations A Corazón Abierto (Mexican telenovela) A Corazón Abierto (Colombian telenovela) Other Cast members Awards and nominations Soundtrack Video game Private Practice Episodes Season 1 2 3 4 " Did You Hear What Happened to Charlotte King? " 5 6 Characters Addison Montgomery Pete Wilder Naomi Bennett Cooper Freedman Charlotte King Dell Parker Sheldon Wallace Amelia Shepherd Sam Bennett Violet Turner Adaptations Merhaba Hayat (Turkish series) Station 19 Episodes Season 1 2 3 4 " Nothing Seems the Same " 5 6 7 Related " Gay's Anatomy " Shondaland Grey's Anatomy Episodes Category v t e Grey's Anatomy episodes Season 1 " A Hard Day's Night " " If Tomorrow Never Comes " Season 2 " Into You Like a Train " " It's the End of the World " " As We Know It " " Losing My Religion " Season 3 " Time Has Come Today " " I Am a Tree " " Great Expectations " " Wishin' and Hopin' " " Didn't We Almost Have It All? " Season 4 " A Change Is Gonna Come " Season 5 " Stand by Me " " Elevator Love Letter " " What a Difference a Day Makes " " Now or Never " Season 6 " Good Mourning " " Goodbye " " I Always Feel Like Somebody's Watchin' Me " " Tainted Obligation " " Invasion " " I Saw What I Saw " " Give Peace a Chance " " Invest in Love " " I Like You So Much Better When You're Naked " " Shiny Happy People " " Sanctuary " " Death and All His Friends " Season 7 " Song Beneath the Song " Season 8 " Flight " Season 9 " Going, Going, Gone " " Beautiful Doom " " Perfect Storm " Season 10 " Fear (Of the Unknown) " Season 11 " I Must Have Lost it on the Wind " " Puzzle with a Piece Missing " " Got to Be Real " " Only Mama Knows " " Bend & Break " " Don't Let's Start " " One Flight Down " " How to Save a Life " " She's Leaving Home " " Time Stops " " You're My Home " Season 12 " Sledgehammer " " I Choose You " " Guess Who's Coming to Dinner " " Something Against You " " Things We Lost in the Fire " " The Sound of Silence " " Family Affair " Season 13 " True Colors " Season 14 " Danger Zone " " Personal Jesus " " All of Me " Season 15 " Flowers Grow Out of My Grave " " We Didn't Start the Fire " Season 16 " Leave a Light On " Season 17 " All Tomorrow's Parties " " The Center Won't Hold " Other seasons Season 18 Season 19 Season 20 Season 21 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=November_2020_Station_19_and_Grey%27s_Anatomy_crossover_event&oldid=1269778973 " Categories : 2020 American television episodes Grey's Anatomy season 17 episodes Television crossover episodes Television episodes about the COVID-19 pandemic Television episodes directed by Paris Barclay Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use American English from January 2025 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from January 2025 This page was last edited on 16 January 2025, at 10:15 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents November 2020 Station 19 and Grey's Anatomy crossover event Add languages Add topic