Ash Barty defeats Karolína Plíšková in three-set Wimbledon women's final - ABC News Skip to main content ABC News Just In Australia Votes For You Politics World Business Analysis Sport Lifestyle Entertainment More Search the news, stories & people Log in News Home Just In Australia Votes For You Analysis Rural Watch Live Health Indigenous Politics Science Elections World Environment Investigations Business Fact Check Local news Sport AFL NRL Football Tennis Cricket Netball Lifestyle Wellbeing Relationships & Family Food & Recipes Personal Finance Home & Garden Entertainment TV & Movies Books Music Pop Culture Arts Your ABC Account Personalise the news and stay in the know Log in to personalise Facebook YouTube Instagram Twitter Emergency Backstory Newsletters 中文新闻 BERITA BAHASA INDONESIA TOK PISIN ABC ABC iView ABC Listen Triple J ABC Kids ABC News ABC News News Home Sport Ash Barty defeats Karolína Plíšková in three-set Wimbledon women's final Share Ash Barty defeats Karolína Plíšková in three-set Wimbledon women's final By Paul Johnson Topic: Tennis Sat 10 Jul 2021 Saturday 10 July 2021 Sat 10 Jul 2021 at 3:04pm Ash Barty savours the sweet taste of Wimbledon victory. ( Simon Bruty - Pool/Getty Images ) abc.net.au/news/ash-barty-karolina-pliskova-wimbledon-womens-final-wrap/100283404 Link copied Share Share article The childhood dream has come true for Australia's Ash Barty, who claimed her maiden Wimbledon ladies' singles title with a 6-3, 6-7 (7/4), 6-3 victory over eighth-seeded Czech Karolína Plíšková. Key points: Ash Barty is now a two-time grand slam singles champion, having also won the French Open in 2019 Barty is the first Australian woman to win the Wimbledon ladies' single title since Evonne Goolagong Cawley in 1980 Her opponent, Karolina Pliskova, has now lost both grand slam singles finals she has played in, both in three sets The 25-year-old world number one became the first Australian woman to lift the Venus Rosewater dish since fellow Indigenous tennis star Evonne Goolagong Cawley in 1980. When asked about her relationship with Goolagong Cawley , Barty, holding the trophy was on the verge of tears. "I just hope I made Evonne proud," Barty said. Not only was that almost a certainty but Barty did her country proud as she showed tenacity to clinch the win. Her steeliness similar to that of Lleyton Hewitt 19 years earlier when he became the last Australian to win the gentlemen's singles title in 2002. "This is incredible," Barty said of her victory. "'Kyah,' [Plíšková] congratulations on a fantastic tournament, I love testing myself against you and I'm sure we will play many, many more matches. "'Kyah' is an incredible competitor, she brought out the very best in me today. It was an exceptional match right from the start." Plíšková, who had been cheered heavily by the crowd during the match, also felt the emotion of the moment, after once again losing a grand slam final — the other the 2016 US Open, also in three sets to Angelique Kerber. "Thank you so much, I enjoy every minute to play on this court," said Plíšková as tears welled in her eyes. "I never cry, never," she added, before congratulating Barty. " I think Ash played an incredible tournament and an incredible match today. " For Karolína Plíšková, her Wimbledon final loss brought out what she said were rare tears. ( Ben Solomon - Pool/Getty Images ) For Barty, her second grand slam title arrived a little over two years after her first, when she triumphed at the French Open. And while she won that final in a 6-1, 6-3 romp over another Czech, Marketa Vondrousova, this one was not so easy despite how it started out. 14 straight points to start Barty raced to a lead unlike many seen in a grand slam final as she took the first 14 points over a clearly tense Plíšková. The Czech, despite a wealth of big match experience, could barely seem to lift her arm to serve, almost as if she was paralysed with fear, and her usually free-swinging groundstrokes were anything but, her arms stiff and her shots lacking pace as Barty raced to a 4-0 lead. Read the full play by play from our match blog It was one she would not give up, despite giving back one break to Plíšková, who was starting to find her range, but Barty held on to take the set 6-3. If that was a great omen, so was the fact that no women's player had come from a set down to win a final at The All England Club since Amelie Mauresmo did so in 2006. When Barty broke Plíšková again, this time to love to take a 2-1 lead in the second set, it seemed that the Barty party was getting set to really kick off. Plíšková though, would not go away. She hit Barty with a dose of her own medicine to break to love and level the second set at three games all. Massive momentum swings late in match While the serve of both players had been anything but dominant till that stage, it suddenly was and Plíšková had a 40-0 lead while serving to go up 6-5. A second set tie-break was looking likely until Barty rattled off five straight points and broke to serve for the match. She got tight though and unforced errors flowed as Plíšková sent the second set into a tie-break she would win 7-4 with two net cords gifting her two points. The momentum of the match had shifted yet again and heading into the third set it seemed Plíšková might end Barty's hopes of following in Goolagong Cawley's footsteps. But 'Aussie Ash' was not to be denied and started the set by holding serve then breaking Plíšková with ease — before long it was 3-0 Barty. Service holds were then traded and twice the Australian got within two points of the match before Plíšková held to make it 5-3 to the Aussie. Serving it out again proved difficult as Plíšková got a break back point but she pushed a backhand wide before Barty steeled herself and served her way to her first Wimbledon title. And when Plíšková hit a backhand into the net, emotion overcame the usually unflappable Australian. Barty is overcome with emotion after clinching victory over Karolina Pliskova. ( Reuters: Toby Melville ) Asked whether she ever wavered in the face of the Plíšková onslaught, Barty said she had no option but to keep fighting and was especially proud she was able to do so against the Czech powerhouse, who despite her sluggish start still hit 27 winners to Barty's 30 and only made three more unforced errors. "I knew I had to bring my very best level and I was really proud of myself the way I was able to reset and just keep going, keep chipping away at the start of that third set and held my nerve there in the end," Barty said, before adding she could not really remember championship point. The Centre Court crowd rises for Ash Barty's Wimbledon triumph. ( Reuters: Paul Childs ) There will be plenty of time to watch the replay though, which included a Pat Cash-esque climb into the stands to celebrate with her team as her long-held dream came true. "It took me a long time to verbalise the fact that I wanted to dare to dream and say I wanted to win this incredible tournament," Barty said. "And being able to live out my dream right now with everyone here, this has made it better than I could have imagined. "My team is incredible, they are with me every single step of the way. I can't thank them enough for sacrificing their time and energy into my career and into my dreams." As for when the actual Barty Party would take place, the Queenslander said there would likely be one when she gets home to Australia to see her family. "I know they're at home watching," she said. "I miss them and I love them. "I'm so glad that they were able to at least watch and share this with me, but I can't wait to get home to them in a few month's time and really celebrate." Posted Sat 10 Jul 2021 at 3:04pm Saturday 10 Jul 2021 at 3:04pm Sat 10 Jul 2021 at 3:04pm , updated Sun 11 Jul 2021 at 12:01am Sunday 11 Jul 2021 at 12:01am Sun 11 Jul 2021 at 12:01am Share options Copy link Facebook X (formerly Twitter) Sport How Les Kiss went from rugby league winger to the Wallabies' next coach Analysis by Luke Pentony Photo shows Les Kiss holding a rugby ball at Sydney Football Stadium. NSW betting the house on Jesse Southwell in Origin I Topic: NRL Photo shows A woman poses ahead of a State of Origin match De Minaur powers through at Madrid as Djokovic pulls out of Italian Open Topic: Tennis Photo shows GettyImages-2212561236 Carlton's season is alive again, and an unheralded hero has resuscitated it C Analysis by Chris De Silva Photo shows George Hewett is hugged by Patrick Cripps and teammates Kiss to succeed Schmidt as Wallabies coach in 2026 Topic: Rugby Union Photo shows Less Kiss smiles ahead of a 2025 Super Rugby Pacific match. Top Stories Australian dollar bounces higher after inflation figures announced LIVE Photo shows Finances generic Headline inflation stable at 2.4pc while RBA's preferred measure drops within target BREAKING Photo shows Cash money in a purse with a calculator, tea towel, list of bills on a notepad and a pen Australia faces 'lonelier' world with rules-based order crumbling Topic: National Security Photo shows Two men wearing glasses and suits behind the backdrop of the world map. There's a reason Dutton can't resort to a scare campaign with older Australians A Analysis by Annabel Crabb Photo shows Peter Dutton Holmes à Court fuels movement that denies he will have seat at table Topic: Political Parties and Movements Photo shows shac teal Related stories Barty wins first Wimbledon title in three sets against Plíšková Topic: Tennis Photo shows A composite image showing Ash Barty playing a forehand and Karolína Plíšková celebrating a win Dylan Alcott wins second Wimbledon singles title to keep 'golden slam' hopes alive Topic: Tennis Photo shows Dylan Alcott kisses the Wimbledon trophy The pleasing symmetry to Ash Barty's run to tonight's Wimbledon final Topic: Tennis Photo shows Ash Barty puts a hand to her face as the crowd applauds her win at Wimbledon Related topics England Sport Tennis Top Stories Australian dollar bounces higher after inflation figures announced Topic: Stock Market Photo shows Finances generic Breaking: Headline inflation stable at 2.4pc while RBA's preferred measure drops within target Topic: Inflation Australia faces 'lonelier' world with rules-based order crumbling Topic: National Security There's a reason Dutton can't resort to a scare campaign with older Australians A Analysis by Annabel Crabb Holmes à Court fuels movement that denies he will have seat at table Topic: Political Parties and Movements Just In Jury hears opening submissions in mushroom murder trial of Erin Patterson Topic: Courts 8m ago 8 minutes ago Wed 30 Apr 2025 at 2:16am Paramedic 'frustrated' at being forced to stay outside of Bondi stabbing scene Topic: Crime 26m ago 26 minutes ago Wed 30 Apr 2025 at 1:58am Trump dismisses 'fake' approval rating as Americans voice tariff fears Topic: World Politics 49m ago 49 minutes ago Wed 30 Apr 2025 at 1:35am Headline inflation stable at 2.4pc while RBA's preferred measure drops within target BREAKING 34m ago 34 minutes ago Wed 30 Apr 2025 at 1:50am More Just In Back to top Footer ABC News homepage More From ABC NEWS We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we live, learn, and work. Sections ABC NEWS Just In Watch Live Politics World Business Analysis Sport Science Health Entertainment Lifestyle Fact Check Other News in language 中文 Berita Bahasa Indonesia Tok Pisin Connect with ABC News Facebook Instagram YouTube Apple News X (formerly Twitter) More from ABC News Contact ABC NEWS This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time) Editorial Policies Accessibility Help Contact Us About the ABC Privacy Policy Terms of Use © 2025 ABC