Slovenia's Tadej Pogačar is the winner of this year's Tour de France : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu Newsletters NPR Shop Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Fresh Air Up First Featured Embedded The NPR Politics Podcast Throughline Trump's Terms More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Slovenia's Tadej Pogačar is the winner of this year's Tour de France Pogačar also won the sport’s other major race, the Giro D’Italia, earlier this year, making him the first man to win both majors in a season since 1998. Sports Slovenia's Tadej Pogačar outraced his top rivals to win the Tour de France July 22, 2024 7:12 AM ET By Willem Marx , Ayana Archie Slovenia's Tadej Pogacar celebrates Sunday as he crosses the finish line to win the twenty-first stage of the Tour de France cycling race, an individual time trial over 33.7 kilometers (20.9 miles) that started in Monaco and finished in Nice, France. Daniel Cole/AP hide caption toggle caption Daniel Cole/AP Tadej Pogačar of Slovenia has won this year’s Tour de France, making it his third championship title. He beat Denmark’s Jonas Vingegaard by 1 minute and 3 seconds during a 21-mile time trial that finished in Nice, France, on Sunday. Pogačar and Vingegaard have developed a rivalry over the years after Pogacar won the Tour de France back-to-back in 2020 and 2021, while Vingegaard won back-to-back in 2022 and 2023. Belgium’s Remco Evenepoel, the reigning world champion in time trials and another of Pogačar’s rivals, finished third. Sponsor Message 2024 Paris Olympics Facing scandal and condemnation, Russia fields tiny Olympic team in Paris “I must say how happy I am to win this Tour de France and how crazy the journey was, how crazy the battles we had with Jonas here and Remco,” Pogačar said during the podium ceremony. “It was one of the craziest tours, I think, in the history. The championship is typically held in the Paris area, but was moved as the city prepares for the Olympics there, which begin Friday. Pogačar's title was his sixth daily win in the three weeks of the Tour. He also won the sport’s other major race, the Giro D’Italia, earlier this year, making him the first man to win both in a season since the turn of the century. Correction July 22, 2024 An earlier version of this story mistakenly said that Jonas Vingegaard achieved six daily wins at the Tour de France and also won this year's Giro D’Italia. Those victories were in fact accomplished by Slovenia's Tadej Pogačar. Tour de France Cycling Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor