ATP Rankings 2019: Rafael Nadal No.1 men's player after overtaking Novak Djokovic | London Evening Standard | The Standard The Standard Sign in News Sport Business Lifestyle Culture Going Out Homes & Property Comment Sport | Tennis ATP Rankings 2019: Rafael Nadal No.1 men's player after overtaking Novak Djokovic Back on top: Rafael Nadal is once again the top-ranked men's player in the world. AFP via Getty Images Joe Krishnan 5 November 2019 Rafael Nadal has replaced Novak Djokovic as the world number one in the latest men's singles ATP Rankings . The 33-year-old has dethroned the Serbian after reaching the semi-final at the Paris Masters, despite withdrawing from his match against Denis Shapovalov citing an abdominal injury. Djokovic went on to triumph in Paris to win the 77th title of his career, but Nadal's run to the semis was enough to seal his place at the summit of the men's game. By doing so, the 19-time Grand Slam winner becomes the second-oldest player to top the rankings after Roger Federer achieved the feat aged 36 in 2018. "I'm super happy with my season," Nadal said. ATP Men's Singles Rankings (November 4, 2019) Rank Move Player Points 1 +1 Rafael Nadal 9585 2 -1 Novak Djokovic 8945 3 - Roger Federer 6190 4 - Daniil Medvedev 5705 5 - Dominic Thiem 5025 6 +1 Stefanos Tsitsipas 4000 7 -1 Alexander Zverev 2945 8 +1 Matteo Berrettini 2670 9 +1 Roberto Bautista Agut 2540 10 +3 Gael Monfils 2530 "It was a tough beginning but then I was able to find a way to be back playing at a very high level of tennis and be in the situation that I am today. Read More Putintseva's US Open meltdown: Seven times when players and ball kids have clashed Furious Djokovic laments 'worst tennis' after shock early US Open exit When is Jack Draper playing? Start time and how to watch US Open tie Sponsored Meet The Dandy, an intriguing new perfume from Penhaligon’s "I'm very proud about the year that I am having." Nadal won two Grand Slams this year — the French Open and the US Open — to move within one of Federer's record of 20 titles. But injuries have curtailed the Spaniard's season and the ATP Finals in London, which begins on November 10, will be his last chance to end the year as number one for the fifth time in his career. Additional reporting from Reuters. MORE ABOUT Rafael Nadal Novak Djokovic ATP Rankings Have your say... VIEW COMMENTS Most Read 1 Showbiz Peppa Pig fans finally discover gender of Mummy Pig's baby in big reveal Peppa Pig fans finally discover gender of Mummy Pig's baby 2 World Putin defence general killed in car bomb explosion in Moscow as Trump envoy meets Russian President Russian general killed in Moscow car bomb as Trump envoy meets Putin 3 London London crime hotspots revealed as capital faces ‘tidal wave’ of offending with 1,700 Met police officers and staff axed London crime hotspots revealed as city faces ‘tidal wave’ of offending 4 Comment Donald Trump's all American nightmare is a death-knell for Trumpism Donald Trump's all American nightmare is a death-knell for Trumpism 5 Boxing Eubank vs Benn: Date, fight time, undercard, prediction, ring walks and odds Eubank vs Benn: Date, fight time, undercard, prediction, odds and more The Standard News Sport Business Lifestyle Culture Going Out Homes & Property Comment The London Standard Archive All Topics All Authors Newsletters Terms of use Contact Us Modern Slavery Act Syndication Privacy Notice Privacy Options Cookie Policy Code of conduct and complaints Advertisers Promotion Rules Contributors London Live The Independent The Independent US indy100