Ashleigh Barty has 'no regrets' after crashing out of Wimbledon to Riske | Wimbledon 2019 | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf This video has been removed. This could be because it launched early, our rights have expired, there was a legal issue, or for another reason. 'Today wasn't my day': Ashleigh Barty shrugs off shock Wimbledon defeat – video Wimbledon 2019 This article is more than 5 years old Ashleigh Barty has 'no regrets' after crashing out of Wimbledon to Riske This article is more than 5 years old Top seed Barty beaten 3–6, 6–2, 6–3 by world No 55 Riske Riske will play Serena Williams in the quarter-finals Williams defeated Carla Suárez Navarro 6–2, 6–2 Gerard Meagher at Wimbledon Mon 8 Jul 2019 08.19 EDT Last modified on Wed 10 Jul 2019 12.00 EDT Share Ashleigh Barty had no complaints after the curse of the women’s seeding struck again in her three-set defeat by Alison Riske. Not with the result, nor the fact she was again out on No 2 Court rather than on one of the show courts her ranking might have warranted. Wimbledon diary: Rebel Wilson rejects Ashleigh Barty’s second billing Read more The No 1 seed was in philosophical mood after her winning run of 15 consecutive matches, during which she ascended to the top of the rankings and clinched the French Open title, was ended by the gutsy Riske, whose reward is a quarter-final against Serena Williams . The 37-year-old seven-times champion took only an hour and four minutes to dispatch Carla Suárez Navarro 6-2, 6-2 on Centre Court – no doubt buoyed by the news she would not have to face Barty in the last eight. Williams also remains the only woman in the last 12 years to win the women’s title when seeded No 1. Sign up to The Recap, our weekly email of editors’ picks. Barty began with a bang, firing down four consecutive aces in her first service game to take the first set 6-3 but the 23-year-old Australian’s serve badly let her down in the second. That may do a disservice to Riske, whose gutsy showing won her plenty of admirers on the way to a first grand slam quarter-final but Barty will expect far better than a first-serve percentage of 40% in that set. It proved a rut she was unable to get out of, Riske going on to take the decider 6-3. “Absolutely no regrets,” said Barty, who opted for diplomacy when asked whether she ought to have been playing on Centre Court or No 1 Court. “We’ve planned our days and prepared as best that we can. Today wasn’t my day. I didn’t win a tennis match. It’s not the end of the world. It’s a game. I love playing the game. I do everything in my power to try to win every single match. But that’s not the case. Today, it’s disappointing right now. Give me an hour or so, we’ll be all good. The sun’s still going to come up tomorrow.” Quick Guide Serena Williams fined £8,000 for damaging grass court Show Serena Williams has been fined $10,000 (£8,000) for an incident on the eve of the tournament at Wimbledon, when she threw a racket and damaged one of the outside courts where players are allowed to practice. The American has won about 40 times that amount so far, by reaching the quarter-finals of the singles and the second round of the mixed doubles with Andy Murray, but it is an embarrassment for her in the middle of what has been a successful tournament and one full of promise. Other fines handed out included $3,000 to Fabio Fognini, for saying during his third-round defeat that he wished a bomb would hit Wimbledon. In 2014, the Italian was fined $27,500 for a series of acts, including damaging a court. Nick Kyrgios has been fined a total of $8,000 for incidents in his first‑ and second-round matches. Photograph: Tom Jenkins Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback. Riske is relishing her first meeting with Williams. She showed her form by coming from a set down to dispose of the 13th seed, Belinda Bencic, in the last 32 and she has another scalp to show for her efforts against Barty. “Honestly, the biggest key for me has just been to battle from start to finish of every match that I’ve been a part of,” she said. “Judging by the scoreline, they haven’t all gone perfect. Again, I’m ready for a war. [Serena is] the greatest athlete I think that’s ever been on the women’s side. It’s going to be a huge challenge but I’m really looking forward to it.” Coffee and burritos in Paradise as Gauffs watch Coco come of age Read more While Barty was among the players to turn down Andy Murray’s request for a mixed doubles partner, Williams, we hardly need reminding, did not. She is seeded 11th and the odds of her adding title No 8 have shortened considerably, not least with the third seed Karolina Pliskova also crashing out on Monday. Adding the mixed doubles title as one half of either “Ser Andy” or “Murena” – depending on whose nickname you prefer – is also far from out of the question. “He did tweet Ser Andy, I was like: ‘I like Murena.’ My vote is still for Murena,” said Williams, who at one stage against Navarro was called up for reaching over the net. “I definitely didn’t realise it was a rule. But I absolutely did have my hand over, so she definitely made the right call. I feel like I may have done that before in doubles, so I’m glad, because I don’t want to make that mistake in our Murena doubles match.” Barbora Strycova faces Johanna Konta after recovering from a set down to defeat the 21st seed Elise Mertens, coming through 4-6, 7-5, 6-2, while China’s Shuai Zhang also needed three sets to beat Dayana Yastremska to book a quarter-final against Simona Halep. Karolina Muchova’s reward for beating Pliskova is a last-eight match against the eighth seed Elina Svitolina. Muchova won 4-6, 7-5, 13-11, just avoiding going into a first final-set tie-break at Wimbledon , under the new rule regarding matches that reach 12-12. Explore more on these topics Wimbledon 2019 Ash Barty Serena Williams Wimbledon Tennis match reports Share Reuse this content Comments (…) Sign in or create your Guardian account to join the discussion Most viewed Most viewed Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)