Meet the Experts: Juliana Urtubey | NEA Skip Navigation Menu Close Student Success Your Rights & Workplace Professional Excellence Just & Equitable Schools Student Engagement Tools & Tips The School Me Podcast Classroom Management Trauma-Informed Schools Whole Student Education Read Across America Professional Learning Leadership Development Conferences & Events Advocating for Change Join Our Movement Take Action Search nea.org … Search Close Search Suggested Results See All Search About NEA NEA Affiliates Media Center NEA Member Benefits Resource Library NEA Today More NEA Sites EdVotes EdCommunities NEA Foundation Contact Us Great Public Schools Engaged Families & Communities School Health & Safety Recruit & Retain Educators Teacher Quality Student Assessments Fair Pay & Benefits Union & Educator Voice Student Debt Support Inclusive Workplaces Resource Library Just & Equitable Schools Student Engagement Professional Learning Leadership Development Conferences & Events Action Center Protect Public Schools Racial & Social Justice Funding for Students & Schools Educator Pay & Benefits New From NEA Become A Member Become a Community Ally Connect with Us Join a Campaign Donate Our Mission, Vision, & Values Our Leaders Our Members Governance & Policies Partnerships Contact Us Grants & Funding Press Releases All News & Articles Topics NEA Today Magazines Home Professional Excellence Student Engagement Tools & Tips Advice Meet the Experts: Juliana Urtubey Juliana Urtubey, the 2021 National Teacher of the Year and Nevada's 2021 Teacher of the Year, discusses the challenges and opportunities of teaching during the COVID-19 pandemic, offers ideas for engaging multilingual families from a distance, and shares her personal story about coming from Colombia as a child to the U.S. By: NEA + Colorín Colorado Published: August 2021 A Partnership of NEA + WETA Share Juliana Urtubey is the 2021 National Teacher of the Year and Nevada's 2021 Teacher of the Year. She is a bilingual hybrid teacher and special education instructional strategist in Las Vegas, Nevada. Below, she discusses the challenges and opportunities of teaching during the COVID-19 pandemic, offers some ideas for engaging multilingual families from a distance, and shares her own personal story about coming from Colombia as a child to the U.S. More from Juliana Urtubey The Value of Family Engagement Immigrant Family Engagement During COVID-19 Teaching During COVID-19 Reference s See More See Less Suggested Further Reading Meet Juliana Urtubey Colorín Colorado Are you an affiliate? Jump to updates, opportunities, and resources for NEA state and local affiliates. Grants and funding Tools and trainings New from NEA Education News Relevant to You We're here to help you succeed in your career, advocate for public school students, and stay up to date on the latest education news and trends. Browse stories by topic, access the latest issue of NEA Today magazine, and celebrate educators and public schools. Read the latest Stay Informed We'll come to you We're here to help you succeed in your career, advocate for public school students, and stay up to date on the latest education news. Sign up to stay informed Great public schools for every student The National Education Association (NEA), the nation's largest       professional employee organization, is committed to advancing the cause of       public education. NEA's 3 million members work at every level of       education—from pre-school to university graduate programs. NEA has       affiliate organizations in every state and in more than 14,000 communities       across the United States. About us Partner with us Advertise with us National Education Association 1201 16th Street, NW Washington, DC 20036-3290 Careers Contact Us NEA State Affiliates NEA Councils & Other Organizations Governance & Policies Research & Publications Legal Guidance Resource Library Privacy Policy Terms of Use © Copyright 2025 National Education Association