Switzerland takes down European champion Spain – The Mercury News Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 64°F Tuesday, April 29th 2025 Today's e-Edition Home Page News News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety California News National News World News Politics Education Environment Science Health Mr. Roadshow Transportation Weather Local Bay Area San Jose Santa Clara County Peninsula San Mateo County Alameda County Santa Cruz County Sal Pizarro Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters to the Editor Commentary Cartoons Election Endorsements Sports Sports San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Raiders Athletics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes Bay FC College Sports Wilner Hotline High School Sports Other Sports Sports Columnists Sports Blogs Golden State Valkyries Things To Do Entertainment Things To Do Restaurants, Food and Drink Celebrities TV Streaming Movies Music Theater Lifestyle Cannabis Advice Travel Pets and Animals Comics Puzzles and Games Horoscopes Event Calendar Business Business Housing Economy Technology Best Reviews SiliconValley.com Marketplace Branded Content Partner Content BayArea.com Real Estate Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Advertise Log In Logout Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Switzerland takes down European champion Spain Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Log In Search 64°F Tuesday, April 29th 2025 Today's e-Edition News Local Sports Obituaries Things to Do Business Real Estate Opinion Marketplace e-Edition Trending: Kittle’s new contract Hot housing market Valero refinery’s future? Is it for the birds? Alcario Castellano remembered Bryan Adams coming to SJ News Switzerland takes down European champion Spain Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) By Mercury News | themerc@bayareanewsgroup.com PUBLISHED: June 16, 2010 at 5:28 PM PDT DURBAN, South Africa — Switzerland pulled off a shocking upset at the World Cup on Wednesday, beating European champion Spain 1-0 on Gelson Fernandes’ second-half goal. Fernandes clipped the ball into the net in the 52nd minute, ending Spain’s run of 12 straight wins and handing the Spanish team its second loss in 50 games. Spain’s only other loss during the stretch was to the United States, at the Confederations Cup in South Africa last year. Spain outshot the Swiss 24-8 and held the ball 63 percent of the time, but could find no way through Switzerland’s determined defense. It was Switzerland’s first win over Spain. Eren Derdiyok created Switzerland’s goal by surging through the center of Spain’s defense and rounding Iker Casillas on one of Switzerland’s rare attacks. Gerard Pique’s desperate tackle stopped Derdiyok, but Fernandes was on hand to pounce on the loose ball and score. At the final whistle, Fernandes fell to his knees and raised both arms to the sky. The entire team then went to the small section of Swiss fans in the Moses Mabhida Stadium and saluted them as they cheered and rang alpine cow bells. Chile 1, Honduras 0 NELSPRUIT, South Africa — Jean Beausejour scored the only goal and Chile beat Honduras for its first World Cup victory in exactly 48 years. In a free-flowing match, Chile won the opening game of Group H after Beausejour tapped in a cross from Mauricio Isla in the 34th minute. Chile came close to doubling its lead on several occasions. In the 62nd minute, Alexis Sanchez sent a clear-cut chance wide after he was put in free by ever-dangerous playmaker Jorge Valdivia. In the 64th minute, defender Waldo Ponce saw his close-range header saved brilliantly by goalkeeper Noel Valladares. Chile’s last victory during the finals was on June 16, 1962, when it came in third as host of the World Cup by beating Yugoslavia. This is Chile’s first World Cup since 1998, when three draws sent it into the second round. Uruguay 3, South Africa 0 PRETORIA, South Africa — Diego Forlan scored two goals, helping Uruguay to a victory that pushed South Africa closer to being the first host nation to go out in the opening round of a World Cup. Forlan scored on a deflected 25-yard shot in the 24th minute and converted a penalty kick in the 80th to give Uruguay its first World Cup victory since a group game at the 1990 competition. Alvaro Pereira added the third score in injury time. Uruguay has four points from two games in Group A, while South Africa has one and needs to beat France on Tuesday to have any chance to stay in the competition. South Africa goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune was sent off for giving away the penalty. Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Report an error Policies and Standards Contact Us Most Popular Most Popular Dear Abby: I don’t want to report them, but their house is too foul for kids Dear Abby: I don't want to report them, but their house is too foul for kids California DMV advises some people to hold off getting Real ID California DMV advises some people to hold off getting Real ID Miss Manners: I’ve done this for years as a teacher, but maybe it’s an absurd tradition? Miss Manners: I've done this for years as a teacher, but maybe it's an absurd tradition? Dear Abby: Grandfather will boycott kid’s graduation unless he gets VIP treatment Dear Abby: Grandfather will boycott kid's graduation unless he gets VIP treatment Asking Eric: We think the grandparents should know about their son’s secret child Asking Eric: We think the grandparents should know about their son's secret child Asking Eric: Years later, there’s fallout from the drama of my missionary days Asking Eric: Years later, there's fallout from the drama of my missionary days Am I helping birds by putting out dryer lint? Yarn? Dog hair? Am I helping birds by putting out dryer lint? Yarn? Dog hair? Miss Manners: I hate their dinnertime conversation but I can’t just find new friends Miss Manners: I hate their dinnertime conversation but I can't just find new friends Asking Eric: My mother seems jealous of the attention to my injured son Asking Eric: My mother seems jealous of the attention to my injured son Harriette Cole: I feel violated even though technically nothing happened Harriette Cole: I feel violated even though technically nothing happened More in News Pacifica police seek help in identifying indecent exposure suspect Man killed in South San Francisco police shooting is identified Sale closed in Fremont: $1.8 million for a three-bedroom home Knife store owner sues Dublin police for alleged illegal searches, seizing of 300-plus weapons 2010 June 16 News Alerts Email Newsletters Today’s e-Edition Mobile Apps Site Map Marketplace Place an Obituary Place a Real Estate Ad Lottery Contact Us Digital Access FAQ Join our Team Special Sections Sponsor a Group Get Sponsored Access Privacy Policy Accessibility Advertise With Us Network Advertising Daily Ads Place a Legal Notice Public Notices Monster.com Subscribe Member Services Manage Subscriptions The Mercury News Store Archive Search Reprints Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright © 2025 MediaNews Group BAY AREA'S HOME PAGE Close