Shazam (Billy Batson) | DC Database | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In DC Database Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts DC Comics Comics Current Series Recently Finished Older Series Heroes Aquaman Batman The Flash Green Lantern Martian Manhunter Superman Wonder Woman Villains The Batman Who Laughs Catwoman Darkseid Deathstroke The Joker Harley Quinn Lex Luthor Teams Birds of Prey Green Lantern Corps Justice League Justice Society Legion of Super-Heroes Suicide Squad Teen Titans Events Crisis on Infinite Earths Infinite Crisis Flashpoint The New 52 DC Rebirth Dawn of DC All In TV and Movies Current shows Batman: Caped Crusader Batwheels Creature Commandos DC Heroes United Harley Quinn Kite Man: Hell Yeah! My Adventures with Superman Peacemaker The Sandman Teen Titans Go! Arrowverse Arrow Batwoman Black Lightning The Flash Legends of Tomorrow Stargirl Supergirl Superman & Lois DC Movies James Gunn's DCU (2024-Present) The Batman Saga by Matt Reeves (2022-Present) DC Extended Universe (2013-2023) Christopher Nolan's Dark Knight Trilogy (2005-2012) Batman by Tim Burton and Joel Schumacher (1989-1997) Christopher Reeve's Superman (1978-1987) DC Universe Animated Original Movies (2007-Present) Other Batman '66 DC Animated Universe Doom Patrol Gotham Lucifer Smallville Super Friends Teen Titans Wonder Woman Community Administrators Manual of Style Recommended Reading Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content DC Database 130,904 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts DC Comics Comics Current Series Recently Finished Older Series Heroes Aquaman Batman The Flash Green Lantern Martian Manhunter Superman Wonder Woman Villains The Batman Who Laughs Catwoman Darkseid Deathstroke The Joker Harley Quinn Lex Luthor Teams Birds of Prey Green Lantern Corps Justice League Justice Society Legion of Super-Heroes Suicide Squad Teen Titans Events Crisis on Infinite Earths Infinite Crisis Flashpoint The New 52 DC Rebirth Dawn of DC All In TV and Movies Current shows Batman: Caped Crusader Batwheels Creature Commandos DC Heroes United Harley Quinn Kite Man: Hell Yeah! My Adventures with Superman Peacemaker The Sandman Teen Titans Go! Arrowverse Arrow Batwoman Black Lightning The Flash Legends of Tomorrow Stargirl Supergirl Superman & Lois DC Movies James Gunn's DCU (2024-Present) The Batman Saga by Matt Reeves (2022-Present) DC Extended Universe (2013-2023) Christopher Nolan's Dark Knight Trilogy (2005-2012) Batman by Tim Burton and Joel Schumacher (1989-1997) Christopher Reeve's Superman (1978-1987) DC Universe Animated Original Movies (2007-Present) Other Batman '66 DC Animated Universe Doom Patrol Gotham Lucifer Smallville Super Friends Teen Titans Wonder Woman Community Administrators Manual of Style Recommended Reading in: Good Characters , Secret Identity , Americans , and 62 more Single Characters Male Characters Height Height 5' Height 5' 4" Weight Blue Eyes Black Hair Prime Earth Characters Bill Parker/Creator C.C. Beck/Creator 2012 Character Debuts New 52 Characters Characters Divine Empowerment Reality Alteration Transformation Enhanced Intellect Multilingualism Superhuman Strength Superhuman Stamina Self-Sustenance Invulnerability Interstellar Travel Electrokinesis Electro-Blast Healing Magic Power Distribution Energy Negation Size Alteration Summoning Thermal-Blast Dimensional Travel Illusion Casting Indomitable Will Superhuman Speed Flight Superhuman Reflexes Superhuman Agility Super-Leaping Pyrokinesis Clairvoyance Divine Grace Eidetic Memory Tactical Analysis Immortality Accelerated Healing Teleportation Occultism Charisma Hand-to-Hand Combat (Basic) Justice League of America members Marvel Family members Secret Six members Teen Titans members Students Vigilantes Justice League International members Titans Academy students New Gods Justice League Unlimited members English Español Português do Brasil Shazam (Billy Batson) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (23) Looking for a different version of this character? As a result of the New 52 in 2011, the entire line of DC characters was relaunched, incorporating properties belonging to the company's imprints: Wildstorm , Milestone , and Vertigo . As such, elements of this character's history have been altered in some way from the previous incarnation . For a complete list of all versions of this character, see our disambiguation page . Shazam Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name William "Billy" Batson Main Alias Shazam Other Aliases Captain Marvel [ 1 ] [ 2 ] , Robin , King Shazam , The Captain [ 1 ] , Earth's Mightiest Mortal Relatives C.C. Batson (father), Marilyn Batson (mother), Unnamed maternal grandfather Unnamed stepfather, Unnamed half-brother Affiliation Shazam Family , Justice League Unlimited · Formerly Maxwell Lord's Justice League , Robins · Secret Six · Teen Titans Teen Titans Academy Base Of Operations Philadelphia , Rock of Eternity · Formerly Roy Harper Titans Academy , Titans Tower , New York City Status Alignment Good Identity Secret Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Single Occupation Student · Vigilante · Champion of Magic Characteristics Gender Male Height 5' 4" 6'2", (in adult form) Weight 125 lbs (57 kg) 215lbs, (in adult form) Eyes Blue Hair Black Skin White (King Shazam) Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Bill Parker · C.C. Beck First Appearance Justice League Vol 2  #7 ( May, 2012 ) Billy Batson is Shazam , a young hero empowered with the gifts of ancient gods and mythological figures by the Wizard . He later changed his name to the Captain after he found out he could no longer say his magic word without transforming. Contents 1 History 1.1 Origin and Early Adventures 1.1.1 New 52 Origin 1.1.2 Current Origin and Early Career 1.2 New 52 1.2.1 Trinity War 1.2.2 Justice League and the Darkseid War 1.3 Rebirth 1.3.1 Doomsday Clock 1.3.2 The Seven Magiclands 1.3.3 Secret Six 1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Titans Academy 1.4.2 Lazarus Planet 2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities 2.3 Weaknesses 3 Notes 4 Trivia 5 Recommended Reading 6 Related 6.1 Footnotes History Origin and Early Adventures New 52 Origin Billy Batson became an orphan at a young age after his parents, C.C. and Marilyn Batson , died. After the death of his parents, Billy became cold and cruel to most people. Growing selfish and heartless, he went from foster home to foster home until he landed in an orphanage in Philadelphia . At the age of fifteen Billy was placed in the care of Victor and Rosa Vasquez , both former foster children themselves, who had already adopted a number of children. Billy moved into the Vazquezes' home where he met his new foster-siblings Mary , Freddy , Eugene , Pedro , and Darla . Billy refused to connect to the other children and rejected their attempts to get close to him. The following day, however, Billy stepped in to defend his siblings from bullies who were picking on them at school. That night, he snuck out of the house and was followed by Freddy, and the boys decided to hijack the bullies' father's car. Billy was caught and escaped on an underground train at the metro station. The train transformed into a gateway to the Rock of Eternity , where Billy met the Wizard . The Wizard searched the boy's soul and saw that he was not perfectly good. When he told him so, Billy was instantly enraged at him for believing that any person is purely good and without flaws. The Wizard accepted Billy's point and looked deeper into his soul. After witnessing all the good Billy had done in his life, the Wizard bestowed his power upon him. With a word, he could transform into the champion, Shazam, and wield the Living Lightning. After granting Billy all of his power, the Wizard died. At the same time, the ancient champion Black Adam was freed from his prison by Doctor Sivana who, through an accident, gained the ability to see magic with his injured eye. Sivana showed Black Adam the modern world, which Adam was not satisfied with. He started his plans to change the world and, to do that, he left to find the Rock of Eternity. There, he discovered that there was a new champion who Adam was determined to find. Meanwhile, Billy met up with Freddy. After convincing his foster brother about his newfound superpowers, the duo went out for a night of shenanigans. The two seemed to run into all sorts of trouble, all of which Shazam resolved. He helped a woman when she was being mugged, stopped a bank robbery, and punched out a man who wanted to rob a store. All the while, they tried to use Billy's adult appearance to achieve goals such as getting money to drink beer. A spirit called Francesca appeared in a mirror to warn Shazam of the emergence of Black Adam, but Billy believed he was just hallucinating. Eventually, Billy got into a fight with Freddy after he told him he didn't want to go home or change back into his teenage form, and the two split up. Shazam faces Black Adam When he was alone, Shazam was finally found by Black Adam, who attacked him. Billy managed to escape by changing back into his mortal form and hid in the zoo with a tiger he regularly visited called Tawny . Freddy told his foster-siblings what had happened, and they found Billy and convinced him to turn back into Shazam to stop Black Adam. They traveled to the metro station to try to return to the Rock of Eternity. There, Francesca showed Billy visions of a boy and his family who were enslaved in ancient Kahndaq . The two tried to escape, but in the process, they were found by the Council of Wizards. There, the Wizard decided to grant his power to the boy and give him a connection to the Living Lightning, but he refused and wanted to share it with his injured and dying uncle to save him; a wish the Wizard granted. Seeing this, Billy thought that Black Adam was the boy, Aman.  Not listening to Francesca's pleas, Billy ran out to meet Black Adam, revealing his mortal form. In an attempt to talk Adam down, Billy tried to appeal to Adam's emotions but was rebuffed. There, Adam revealed that he was not in fact the boy, but the uncle. He killed his nephew when he learned that he did not want to use his powers for revenge. The Shazam Family Billy was horrified by this and was saved by his foster family when they drove a car into Black Adam, giving Billy enough time to transform into Shazam. Billy faced his nemesis only to find that Adam had caught his foster siblings. Black Adam ordered Shazam to give him all of his power or he would kill his siblings. Billy remembered a piece of advice the Wizard had told him in his final moments, "Family is what it can be, not what it should be." Shazam realized that this was the secret spell, and he granted all of his siblings the ability to wield the Living Lightning. They all tried to overpower Black Adam together but were forced to split up when the Seven Deadly Sins , whom Sivana gathered together, were unleashed upon the city. They summoned a demon which started to destroy the city. Shazam and Adam continued their battle while the other Vasquez children fought off the demon and rescued civilians. Shazam and Black Adam arrived at the zoo where Tawny tried to help Billy and attack Adam. Fearing for the tiger's life, Shazam enchanted him, but the spell backfired and broke the balance of his existing enchantments and his siblings instantly started to feel a loss of power. Knowing that physically he was no match for Black Adam, Billy turned back into his mortal form and started goading Adam to do the same. The old champion did so in rage, unwillingly killing himself. Because he had not changed back in centuries, his mortal form aged hundreds of years in a single moment, causing his body to turn to dust. The Seven Deadly Sins retreated, and the city was saved. In the aftermath, Billy grew closer with his new family. Following the cosmic upheavals of the Rebirth period, this character's history was revised.  While some version of this encounter may have occurred, it may have been altered. Current Origin and Early Career As a young child, Billy Batson was living in Fawcett , a borough of Philadelphia.  Orphaned, he spent time on the streets and in and out of the foster system.  One day, early in the modern age of heroes, [ 3 ] he fell asleep on a subway, and awoke to find himself in the Rock of Eternity .  There, he encountered the uncountably ancient wizard Shazam , who had been seeking somebody pure of heart to pass along his great power to.  Deeming Billy worthy, he chose him, entrusting him to be his champion. [ 1 ] In turn, Billy was empowered by the Wizard with the ability to transform into a powerful champion with the utterance of a single word- Shazam! . Though able to transform into the mighty champion Captain Marvel, [ 1 ] he appeared to operate in relative obscurity; Felix Faust, a skilled and knowledgeable sorcerer, would later be hired to attack him as part of a distraction for a larger plot, and despite his knowledge failed to make the connection between being paid to ensure that Billy was unable to speak, the existence of the Fawcett's local hero, and the Wizard Shazam despite knowing that Billy was somehow connected to the Wizard. During this attack, Faust pulled Billy, Superman , and Batman into Hell . [ 3 ] Though they escaped, and the heroes resolved to bring Batson to safety, the Devil Nezha was able to speak through him to threaten Batman and Superman. [ 4 ] Later, he and the Green Lantern attempted to join their fellow heroes in battle with the android NewMazo , but were called off by Batman to keep their opponent from replicating their powers. [ 5 ] This would not be Billy's last experience in this vein; during his adventures, Billy had several encounters with demons and the underworld, referring to the number of times he had visited as 'too many', citing experience with Satanus , Blaze , and Neron , the last of whom made at least one attempt to claim Billy's soul. [ 6 ] Though orphaned, Billy's family grew over time.  Encounters with Mary Bromfield and Freddy Freeman resulted in their transformations into heroes in their own right, sharing in the power of SHAZAM! [ 1 ] Eventually, the three joined a larger foster family, consisting of Eugene , Pedro , and Darla , plus parents Victor and Rosa Vasquez . Batson was also a founding member of Maxwell Lord's Justice League . [ 7 ] Billy eventually stopped using the Captain Marvel name, instead going by Shazam . New 52 Trinity War Main article: Trinity War Constantine steals the power of Shazam After the defeat of Black Adam, Billy gathered his ashes and kept them in a jar. Understanding his enemy and even growing to respect him, Billy decided to honor him by burying his remains in Kahndaq. Unfortunately, the country was a war zone and no intruders were allowed, and, by deciding to go there, Shazam unwittingly sparked the existing tension between the Justice League, Justice League Dark and Justice League of America . With all three Leagues in a fight and Shazam without a team, John Constantine lured Billy away from the battle with the promise of knowledge of his real family. Constantine, though, successfully managed to steal Shazam's powers to fight a demon, leaving Billy powerless. Together though, Billy and Constantine managed to kill the demon, and Shazam's powers were returned to him - not without hard feelings though. Deciding to rejoin the battle for Pandora's Box , Shazam touched the Box himself and was corrupted by the evils within. The Box was wrestled from his hands by the other Leaguers, and Billy was returned to normal. Concluding the battle, the Box was revealed to open a portal to Earth 3 , allowing the Crime Syndicate to enter their world and trap Shazam, as well as most of the other heroes present, inside the Firestorm Matrix as they prepared to dominate the world. A few days later, Shazam was released from the Firestorm Matrix after the Crime Syndicate were defeated by Lex Luthor and his Injustice League . Justice League and the Darkseid War Following the defeat of the Crime Syndicate, Lex Luthor took it upon himself to rebuild the Justice League Watchtower and turn a new leaf, becoming a hero and inviting himself to join the Justice League. Billy Batson and Shazam In addition to adding himself to the roster, Luthor invited Shazam to join as well, and the two were eventually approved. As a Justice League member, Shazam helped the team fight and recruit the newest Power Ring as well as handle the outbreak of the Amazo Virus . [ 8 ] When Grail brought a war between her father Darkseid and the Anti-Monitor to Earth that resulted in her father's death, the effects caused a shockwave in the gods throughout the universe. Billy was then summoned to the center of his powers and learned that he was in fact the God of Gods. The Wizard that originally gave Billy his powers informed him that, because of Darkseid's death, the connection to the gods inside of him was severed. In response, the Wizard replaced the gods inside of Billy with new gods to derive his powers from: S'ivaa , H'ronmeer , Anapel , Zonuz , Atë , Mamaragan. The Justice League, with Shazam among them, managed to fend off the war on their world after the Anti-Monitor was killed as well. [ 9 ] With the world back to normal, Shazam decided to leave the Justice League. Rebirth Doomsday Clock In the wake of the chaos caused by the Superman Theory , the bulk of the superhero community traveled to Mars to confront Doctor Manhattan . Billy and the rest of the Shazam Family were amongst these heroes. The combined efforts of Earth's heroes were no match for Manhattan, and they were quickly wiped out. [ 10 ] The Seven Magiclands Shazam and Lady Shazam on the Funlands After stopping a robbery at the Museum of the American Revolution, Billy and his Family went to the Rock of Eternity where they found The Station with a map that showed the Magiclands . [ 11 ] The Family entered a train and traveled to the Funlands with Billy hoping to discover more about why they have their powers, instead, they met King Kid , the ruler of the Funlands who claimed to be the Missing Seventh Champion of the Family. [ 12 ] King Kid explains some of the other lands and how they were nearly destroyed by Mister Mind years ago, Billy told King Kid that he can't choose him as a champion until he really feels it in his heart. [ 13 ] After they mentioned returning home, King Kid had his clowns captured the Family and sent some of them to other lands while both Billy and Mary were taken to The Below to work as slaves of the Funlands. [ 14 ] Billy tried to reason with King Kid, but after he refused Billy freed Mary and took away the gag they put in her mouth to prevent her front saying the magic word, once transformed, they both fought against King Kid and his army. [ 15 ] Billy and Mary later attempted to go to the other lands in order to rescue their brothers but due to the battle between Black Adam and Doctor Sivana on the Rock of Eternity they instead got transported back to their foster home, there he finds out that his biological father has come back for him. His father explains why he didn't come back for him earlier while Mary reveals to their foster parents that they're the Shazam Family. [ 16 ] In an attempt to rescue his brothers, Billy goes to the Rock of Eternity but ends up being sent to the Darklands where he was briefly reunited with The Wizard who had been resurrected, the wizard tells him that here is an impostor afoot and that he needs to reunite his family. [ 17 ] Billy reunites with his dad In the Darklands he meets the ghost of champions, who patrols around the Darklands for anyone who doesn't belong there to send them back to their home before anything happens to them, he tries to ask a favor from Billy but the rest of the Ghost Family stop him and tell Billy that near the Bell Tower, there's a way home, in the tower he finds Freddy and Darla along with a humanoid tiger and they all go back their foster home. Once Billy finds out his father is being attacked by the Seven Deadly Sins and Black Adam he transfers his powers to him making him the seventh champion. [ 18 ] Billy and his father fight the Deadly Sins and Black Adam before they are joined by Mary, when their powers start to fail the Wizard sends the three to the Wozenderlands . There the wizard brings the other members of the Shazam Family and tells Billy that because his heart is torn on who are his real family, the connection that makes him share his powers is not working. Billy doesn't want to choose and claims that because he is the champion he can decide how the spell works, so he manages to share the powers of Shazam through all other six members, something that the Wizard thought it was impossible. [ 19 ] When Doctor Sivana allows King Kid and the Funlands access to Philadelphia while they unlock the Monsterlands, the Shazam Family goes and stops King Kid's army. [ 20 ] Billy later witnesses the Wizard attacking his father which infuriates him making him turn into Shazam to attack the Wizard, he's soon helped by the rest of his family before sending him back to the Rock of Eternity. When his father is attacked by Black Adam, his father uses a spell to separate Adam's soul from his body, realizing that his father can't possibly know a spell like that, Billy deduces that Mister Mind isn't on Sivana but in his father's body since he arrived, Mister Mind then realizes the Monster Society from the Magiclands on the Earthland. [ 21 ] Shazam and Black Adam fight Superboy-Prime After Mister Mind reveals to Billy that his father wasn't looking for him, but was rather a street pickpocket thief, he forces Billy to read a spell that unites all the seven lands, Billy also casts a spell to make himself smaller and fight Mister Mind inside his father's head. [ 22 ] He beats Mind and, in the process, knocks out all the other enemies except for Superboy-Prime , who was trapped in the Monsterlands and was freed after Billy's spell that united the other lands. Prime stops Billy from casting a spell to separate all the other lands, he beats all the other members from the Shazam family but is later punched by Black Adam, both Billy and Adam team up and they manage to take down Prime by summoning both of their lightnings by saying the magic word. He then separates the lands once again, lets his father go after finding out the truth, and takes Superboy to the Justice League. Billy also spares Adam and makes him a new member of the Shazam Family. [ 23 ] Secret Six King Shazam fights Batman and Superman Sometime later, Billy was confronted by the Batman Who Laughs , an evil version of Batman from a dark and twisted universe . The One Who Laughs used a special batarang on Billy, which infected him, turning Billy into a Joker -like version of himself. The Batman Who Laughs tasked Billy with infecting Superman using one of these special batarangs. [ 24 ] Billy made his way to the Batman Who Laughs's Batcave and awaited the arrival of Superman. Eventually, Superman arrived to the scene with Batman, prompting Billy to immediately transform and attack them. [ 25 ] Although Shazam was more than a match for the pair when they fought one-on-one, he was eventually overwhelmed and forced to retreat without completing his objective. [ 24 ] In his foster home, the infected Billy rudely began to insult his foster family. After getting into an argument with the Vasquezs, Billy was confronted by Mary who tried to get him to open up to her, but Billy didn't listen, he transformed and flew away, although not before telling Mary that none of them were worthy of being his family. Billy found the Titan Atlas and attacked him in order to test his new limits, leaving the Titan badly beaten. After meeting multiple gods, King Shazam was intercepted by Mary as Lady Shazam in the middle of his battle with the Greek God of War Ares . Billy fought his foster sister and even got Mary to lower her guard by playing innocent, only so he could punch her in the gut and infect her with the same corruption that was affecting him. [ 26 ] Billy was returned back to normal along with the other heroes thanks to Lex Luthor cutting off the source of the Dark Metal that infected him. [ 27 ] Infinite Frontier Titans Academy Shazam travels to Hell Billy eventually became a student at the Titans Academy , there he met Miguel Montez and the two became roommates. [ 28 ] Billy was also experiencing some problems with his powers, as the Rock of Eternity had moved from his usual place and The Wizard was nowhere to be found. During an incident he lost his powers mid-flight and had to be saved by Superman , revealing his identity to everyone at the academy. Billy later got visited by Mary , who told him that Freddy 's condition was getting worse, as he had a debilitating neurological disorder and the Shazam Family lost his powers too. After overhearing from a secret meeting between the Titans and Doctor Fate that the Rock of Eternity was on the Underrealm , Billy decided to go there and was accompanied by Dane . [ 29 ] They went to the Casino de Dante Carlo and the two separated, Billy later met Amoreena while asking for the location of the Rock of Eternity. Billy and Dane both went into conflict with Sulibak and his gang after Dane cheated on an already-rigged game. While escaping, Billy received help from Amoreena, who revealed she was Sulibak's daughter. He also managed to find the Rock of Eternity; with the source of his powers closer to him, he managed to transform once again and fight Sulibak until his powers started to fail again, though he was saved by Dane. [ 6 ] While the two tried to escape they found Neron , who guided them back to the location of the Rock of Eternity, when Neron tried to betray them, Billy and Dane were saved by Raven . [ 30 ] Shazam decided to enter the Rock of Eternity alone while Raven took Dane back to the Academy, where he met Black Adam, Jr. who talked to him about a potential future where Billy was responsible for the apocalypse. Adam also told Billy that the wizard fell as they ran from Pride , who escaped his containment in the Rock of Eternity. Teth later gave Billy all the surge of power he had and that the wizard wanted to give him, which reinvigorated Shazam's powers, making them stable again. After defeating Pride, Billy and Adam prepared to contain the four riders of the apocalypse to prevent the birth of the Unkindness in a possible future, and that meant for Billy to stay in his Shazam form forever. [ 31 ] Lazarus Planet Shazam's power is absorbed by the Wizard Many people were affected by the Lazarus Resin storm, and Billy was among them. [ 32 ] Mary Marvel and Malik White freed him at the Rock of Eternity. [ 33 ] . The Wizard was infected by the resin as well and worked with Hera to wreak havoc on Earth, so Shazam and Wonder Girl confronted them in Washington, D.C. . [ 34 ] [ 35 ] The Wizard drained and absorbed Billy's powers and imprisoned him, but he escaped captivity with the heroes. [ 36 ] The heroes and the Greek Gods fought and Wonder Woman defeated Hera by absorbing Mary Marvel's power. The Wizard reverted back to normal and restored Billy's powers. [ 37 ] . Powers and Abilities Powers Rock of Eternity Empowerment : Due to the events of Lazarus Planet , circumstances forced Billy to inherit the Wizard Shazam's position as Keeper of the Rock of Eternity, binding him to the magic contain within it, granting him a higher level of magic normally possessed by Mamaragan. He has since used it's powers to make it connected to him. [ 33 ] Reality Alteration : His empowerment of it allows him to manipulate reality. Through force of will, he managed to bind the Rock of Eternity to his being in miniature form instead of the Rock binding him to it. [ 33 ] Conduit of the Living Lightning : Billy was granted the power of the Living Lightning by the Wizard, Mamaragan, containing the distilled aspects of powers bestowed to him by six divine entities from deals brokered by the Wizard himself; these powers are activated by saying the magical word "SHAZAM", in which each letter is the first letter of each god's name combined: Solomon , Hercules , Atlas , Zeus , Achilles and Mercury . Additionally, he is empowered as a Champion of Magic . [ 38 ] Transformation : The Living Lightning transforms Billy Batson into an adult form at his physical and mental peak by verbally saying "SHAZAM". [ 38 ] While transformed, he possesses powers from his benefactors: Wisdom of Solomon : Due to Solomon's blessings, Shazam has instant access to a vast level of scholarly knowledge. Billy describes this ability as a feeling and a moral compass. [ 21 ] Previously, the Wisdom of Solomon manifested through an entity calling themselves "Francesca", in which can directly advise Billy. [ 39 ] Billy's wisdom in his super-powered form was later heightened by Solomon himself, making him vastly more intelligent than before at a cost. [ 40 ] Multilingualism : Through Solomon's wisdom, Shazam can speak any language when transformed. [ 41 ] He has been shown to speak decent Arabic and Japanese. [ 42 ] [ 41 ] Strength of Hercules : Through the blessings of Hercules , Billy is granted superhuman strength comparable to that of a demigod. [ 43 ] His level of strength is comparable to that of Wonder Woman , Superman , and Black Adam . He was able to stop the moon's rapid spinning when it was struck by a Warp Drive. Stamina of Atlas : With the blessings of Atlas, Billy can endure great physical exertion without tiring while in his empowered form. Self-Sustenance : Because of Atlas' blessings, Shazam is able to survive without food, water, or any other sort of sustenance while in his empowered form. Invulnerability : He withstood a punch from an enraged Superman without any noticeable pain and injury afterward [ 44 ] and has clashed with Superboy-Prime without any major damage. [ 23 ] Interstellar Travel : Shazam is immune to the nature of space and is not inhibited by its lack of gravity. He can travel the reaches of space where no human body could possibly survive without the aid of technology or protection. [ 29 ] Power of Zeus : Zeus's power fuels the mystical thunderbolt and grants him numerous abilities. Electrokinesis : Shazam is able to generate and manipulate the "living lightning", which is the magical lightning that transforms him into Shazam. He can project the energy from his fingertips and even use the lightning bolt as a weapon by dodging it and allowing it to strike an opponent or other target. Electro-Blast : Shazam can discharge powerful blasts and arcs of electricity from his hands or his entire body, and attack foes with it. Healing : He displayed the ability to use the transformative lightning to heal others or himself instantly from wounds inflicted on his mortal form Magic : Zeus's power allows him the potential weave and cast spells at will. [ 43 ] As a Champion of Magic, he can also alter the conditions of certain spells at will. [ 21 ] Much of his magical abilities are derived from a variant of magic from the Book of Champions . [ 22 ] Power Distribution : Known as the "Sharing Spell", Billy can share a portion of his magical powers to those whom he considers truly family, in which their powers may take a different form due to an affinity from whichever aspects best fits them. [ 45 ] Billy later altered the spell's nature in order to facilitate allowing him to grant power to others if it begets a level of internal conflict. [ 21 ] Living Lightning Negation : Like the Wizard, Billy can also negate the Living Lightning from others whom are empowered through a sharing spell from a Chosen Champion, depowering them in the process. [ 46 ] Size Alteration : Shazam has used a spell to shrink down to the size of Mister Mind . [ 22 ] Summoning : By saying "Ala-Ka-Zamm!" Shazam was able to summon a ping-pong table into the Justice League Headquarters. [ 47 ] Thermal-Blast : Through a spell, Shazam was able to ignite a blast of Superboy-Prime 's ice breath into flames and redirect the blast at him. [ 23 ] Dimensional Travel : Shazam can access the Rock of Eternity whenever he wants, which sits at the center of the Multiverse. Shazam was also able to forcibly transport the Wizard to the Rock of Eternity through a bolt of his lightning. [ 21 ] Illusion Casting : Billy can cast various illusions of himself in which are intangible but can project magic. [ 33 ] Courage of Achilles : A psychological-based power that grants Billy a powerful form of inner willpower. This allowed him to withstand the effects of Scarecrow's Fear Toxin while in his adult transformed state by accepting his fears and conquering them through courage and willpower. [ 48 ] Speed of Mercury : Through the blessing of Mercury, Billy possesses superhuman speeds apt enough to be comparable to bolts of lightning, making him capable of running a third of the speed of light. He was also once considered to be faster than Kid Flash . [ 49 ] Flight : Presumably through Mercury, Billy's speed includes making him capable of flight. Superhuman Reflexes : Shazam's reflexes are heightened to superhuman levels. He has even reacted to the likes of Superman in battle. [ 44 ] [ 50 ] Superhuman Agility :  Shazam's agility, balance, and bodily coordination are enhanced to superhuman levels. This allows him to easily make sharp turns and maneuver while flying and moving at superhuman speed. Former Powers Divine Empowerment : As a result of Darkseid's death, his connection to the previous gods that granted Billy his powers was lost which removed all of his original powers, and new gods were contracted by the wizard to take their place so as to not leave Billy powerless. [ 51 ] The abilities included power drawn from the S'ivaa (Strength), H'ronmeer (Fires), Anapel (Compassion), Zonuz /Yuga Khan (Source Manipulation), Atë (Boldness), and the Wizard Mamaragan (Lightning). [ 52 ] Strength of S'ivaa : With the might of the Old World Elemental, Billy's physical strength reaches well beyond the physical scale. S'ivaa has stated that the strength of Hercules was nothing compared to his, making Billy even more powerful as Superman , a foe he once went toe-to-toe with. Justice League: The Darkseid War: Shazam! #1 Super-Leaping : Using the shadow element's blessing, Billy is able to use his strong leg muscles to leap far distances in a single bound. [ 52 ] The Fires of H'ronmeer : The blessings of H'ronmeer the Martian God of Fire grant him the power over fire, death, and recreation. [ 53 ] Thermal-Blast : Billy was capable of breathing out a large blast of flames. [ 53 ] Compassion of Anapel : With empathy from the Siberian goddess Anapel, Shazam has instant access to a vast level of scholarly knowledge. Clairvoyance : The blessing of Anapel gives Billy clairvoyance and provides him with counsel and advice in times of need. Divine Grace : The Compassion of Anapel allows perfect and godlike finesse in actions and dealings with others. Eidetic Memory : Batson is capable of memorizing anything he sees. Tactics of War : Through Anapel's blessings, Billy is an accomplished social intuit. Source Manipulation of Zonuz : Replacing the lost power of Zeus during the Darkseid War, Billy was partitioned the almighty energy of the Old God of Evil; Zonuz or, as he would later go by, Yuga Khan of the Third World. His power is used to back and embolden the powers of Billy's six gods by drawing upon the energies from the Source itself. Dimensional Travel : Shazam can access the Rock of Eternity whenever he wants, which sits at the center of the multiverse. Through this, he can also enter and exit The Source of all things, where all gods go after they've passed. [ 52 ] Boldness of Atë : Atë's blessing gives Billy superhuman amounts of inner strength to draw off from, while also making him indestructible to harm. He is able to withstand the Antimatter Blasts of Mobius's Shadow Demons . Only the most powerful of superhumans or most ancient of magical powers can topple him. [ 53 ] Indomitable Will : Because of Atë's blessing, Shazam is very strong-willed in his actions. Immortality : As long as he remains in his empowered form he doesn't age. Superhuman Reflexes : Shazam's reflexes are heightened to superhuman levels. He is able to move, think, and react fast enough to dodge the blade of Yuga Khan in pitched battle. [ 52 ] Mystic Lightning of Mamaragan : Through the power of the Wizard and aboriginal deity known as Mamaragan, Billy retains the magical power of his patron namesake. Not only does the lightning enable him to transform and enhance his other physical abilities, but it also allows for inter-dimensional travel and the casting of various mystical spells. Accelerated Healing : He displayed the ability to use the transformative lightning to heal others or himself instantly from wounds inflicted on his mortal form. Divine Distribution : As Shazam, Batson can share a portion of his magical powers with anyone akin to a family that he so chooses, giving both similar and different powers of their own based on their personalities. [ 45 ] Electrokinesis : Shazam has the ability to control electricity like Mamaragan himself. Electro-Blast : He can discharge a powerful blast of electricity from his body and attack foes with it. Teleportation : Shazam showcased this when rushing to a battle from S.T.A.R. Labs to Metropolis . [ 54 ] Abilities Occultism : Overtime, Billy has memorized some spells from the Book of Champions . [ 22 ] He has also been mentored by both the Wizard Shazam [ 54 ] and Raven in the mystic arts. [ 55 ] Charisma : Billy has enough charisma to host a YouTube channel of his own with over 2,000 subscribers. [ 56 ] Hand-to-Hand Combatant Weaknesses Inexperience : Despite possessing incredible abilities in his superpowered form, Billy still lacks skill and experience as a crime fighter. He also doesn't really understand the true extent of his mystical abilities. Both of these factors often render him overwhelmed when faced with stronger and more experienced opponents. [ 45 ] Vocal reliance : The spell that allows Billy to transform into Shazam is purely vocal. Therefore, if he is prevented from speaking, such as being gagged, he will not be able to transform. Cost of Magic : Solomon 's heightening of his wisdom powers further the division between his super-powered and human self already manifested within Billy's mind, creating unknown dangers to his transformations. [ 40 ] Notes Billy Batson was created by Bill Parker and C.C. Beck , first appearing  in Whiz Comics #2 . However, in the Prime Earth continuity, Billy Batson first appeared as part of the New 52 DC Universe in Justice League (Volume 2) #7 by Geoff Johns and Gary Frank . Shazam (Billy Batson) appears as Shazam (Prime) a playable character in the Infinite Crisis video game. Originally, Billy's origin took place concurrently with the then-ongoing Justice League title; however, following the various cosmic upheavals that ended in Death Metal , references to pre-Flashpoint events that he participated in would seem to make that impossible. Trivia Originally, Billy's ability to transform happened when he mentally intended to do so rather than simply saying the word. [ 43 ] Due to Nezha's interference with magic during the events of Lazarus Planet, Billy's transformation happens upon saying the word regardless of circumstances. [ 1 ] Billy views his Shazam form as a separate entity rather than an extension of himself. [ 40 ] Billy bears a striking resemblance to Black Adam 's deceased nephew, Aman. [ 57 ] As of DC Rebirth , Billy commented to being 15 years old. [ 58 ] As a content creator (Not Shazam) on YouTube, Billy's page has over 2.71K subscribers. He hosts a fan casts which chronicles his adventures as a superhero under the guise of a fan of the Captain in hopes of inspiring others towards kindness. [ 56 ] Billy dislikes the term "content provider". [ 59 ] Recommended Reading Justice League (Volume  2) Shazam! (Volume  3) The Infected: King Shazam #1 Shazam! (Volume  4) Shazam! (Volume  5) Related 255 Appearances of Shazam (Billy Batson) 231 Images featuring Shazam (Billy Batson) 19 Quotations by or about Shazam (Billy Batson) Character Gallery: Shazam (Billy Batson) Footnotes ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 Shazam! (Volume 5) #1 ↑ Teen Titans Academy #11 ↑ 3.0 3.1 Batman/Superman: World's Finest #2 ↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #3 ↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #17 ↑ 6.0 6.1 Shazam! (Volume 4) #2 ↑ Blue & Gold #4 ↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #35 - 39 ↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #50 ↑ Doomsday Clock #9 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #1 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #2 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #3 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #4 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #5 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #6 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #7 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #8 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #9 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #10 ↑ 21.0 21.1 21.2 21.3 21.4 Shazam! (Volume 3) #11 ↑ 22.0 22.1 22.2 22.3 Shazam! (Volume 3) #13 ↑ 23.0 23.1 23.2 Shazam! (Volume 3) #14 ↑ 24.0 24.1 Batman/Superman (Volume 2) #2 ↑ Batman/Superman (Volume 2) #1 ↑ The Infected: King Shazam #1 ↑ Year of the Villain: Hell Arisen #4 ↑ Teen Titans Academy #1 ↑ 29.0 29.1 Shazam! (Volume 4) #1 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 4) #3 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 4) #4 ↑ Lazarus Planet: Alpha #1 ↑ 33.0 33.1 33.2 33.3 Lazarus Planet: We Once Were Gods #1 ↑ Lazarus Planet: Revenge of the Gods #1 ↑ Lazarus Planet: Revenge of the Gods #2 ↑ Lazarus Planet: Revenge of the Gods #3 ↑ Lazarus Planet: Revenge of the Gods #4 ↑ 38.0 38.1 DC Comics Encyclopedia: New Edition ↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #15 ↑ 40.0 40.1 40.2 Shazam! (Volume 5) #6 ↑ 41.0 41.1 Shazam! (Volume 3) #15 ↑ Black Adam: Year of the Villain #1 ↑ 43.0 43.1 43.2 Justice League (Volume 2) #0 ↑ 44.0 44.1 Justice League (Volume 2) #7 ↑ 45.0 45.1 45.2 Justice League (Volume 2) #21 ↑ Strange Love Adventures #1 ↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #31 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #12 ↑ DC Nation (Volume 2) #2 ↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #22 ↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #44 ↑ 52.0 52.1 52.2 52.3 Justice League: The Darkseid War: Shazam! #1 ↑ 53.0 53.1 53.2 Justice League Darkseid War Shazam #1 ↑ 54.0 54.1 Justice League (Volume 2) #34 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 4) #1 ↑ 56.0 56.1 Shazam! (Volume 5) #1 ↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #20 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #3 ↑ Shazam! (Volume 5) #9 Captain Marvel Supporting Beautia Sivana • Black Adam • Black Marvel Family • Bulletman • Captain Marvel, Jr. • C.C. Batson • Darla Dudley • Ebenezer Batson • Eugene Choi • Fat Marvel • Freckles Marvel • Gods of Olympus • Hill Marvel • Hoppy the Marvel Bunny • Isis • Kid Eternity • Lords of Magic • Marilyn Batson • Mary Marvel • Minute-Man • Nick Bromfield • Nora Bromfield • Osiris • Pedro Peña • Shazam ( Jebediah of Canaan • Mamaragan ) • Sinclair Batson • Spy Smasher • Steamboat • Sterling Morris • Mr. Tawky Tawny • Tall Marvel • Tanist • Uncle Marvel Villains Arson Fiend • Aunt Minerva • Baron Blitzkrieg • Black Adam • Blaze • Captain Nazi • Captain Nippon • Chain Lightning • Crocodile Man • Darkling • Doctor Allirog • Doctor Sivana • Ibac • King Kull • Madame Libertine • Mister Atom ( Charles Langley ) • Mister Banjo • Mister Finish • Mister Mind • Monster Society of Evil • Muscles McGinnis • Oom the Mighty • Sabbac • Sabina • Seven Deadly Sins • Three Faces of Evil Miscellaneous Origins • Publication History • Recommended Reading • Earth-S • Earth-5 • Earth 5 • Eternity Subway Car • Fawcett City • Rock of Eternity • WHIZ Radio Comics America's Greatest Comics (Volume  1) • Billy Batson and the Magic of Shazam! (Volume  1) • Captain Marvel Adventures (Volume  1) • Day of Vengeance (Volume  1) • Marvel Family (Volume  1) • Master Comics (Volume  1) • The Power of Shazam! (Volume  1) • Shazam!: The Monster Society of Evil (Volume  1) • Shazam! (Volume  1) • Shazam! (Volume  2) • Shazam! (Volume  3) • Shazam!: The New Beginning (Volume  1) • Superman/Shazam!: First Thunder (Volume  1) • The Trials of Shazam! (Volume  1) • Whiz Comics (Volume  1) • World's Finest (Volume  1) • Wow Comics (Volume  1) Justice League member This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category. Marvel Family member This character is or was a member of the Marvel Family in any of its various incarnations, and an ally of Captain Marvel and the Wizard Shazam . This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Marvel Family members ." Teen Titans member This character is or was primarily a member of the younger superhero team known as the Teen Titans , in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Teen Titans members " category. Categories Categories : Good Characters Secret Identity Americans Single Characters Male Characters Height Height 5' Height 5' 4" Weight Blue Eyes Black Hair Prime Earth Characters Bill Parker/Creator C.C. Beck/Creator 2012 Character Debuts New 52 Characters Characters Divine Empowerment Reality Alteration Transformation Enhanced Intellect Multilingualism Superhuman Strength Superhuman Stamina Self-Sustenance Invulnerability Interstellar Travel Electrokinesis Electro-Blast Healing Magic Power Distribution Energy Negation Size Alteration Summoning Thermal-Blast Dimensional Travel Illusion Casting Indomitable Will Superhuman Speed Flight Superhuman Reflexes Superhuman Agility Super-Leaping Pyrokinesis Clairvoyance Divine Grace Eidetic Memory Tactical Analysis Immortality Accelerated Healing Teleportation Occultism Charisma Hand-to-Hand Combat (Basic) Justice League of America members Marvel Family members Secret Six members Teen Titans members Students Vigilantes Justice League International members Titans Academy students New Gods Justice League Unlimited members Languages Español Português do Brasil Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Horror Sci-fi DC Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. DC Database is a FANDOM Comics Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab