Facebook, Instagram will now let you hide ‘like’ counts Skip to content Expert Advice Advertise With Us News Weather Sports Send Us Your News Tip Watch Live Homepage Election Results Presidential Election Map Texas Interactive Results Oklahoma Interactive Results Advertise With Us Livestream News Texas Oklahoma Regional International National Fire Accidents Crime Education Send us YOUR news tips! Weather Weather Cams Fish and Game Forecast Outdoors Sports Friday Night Blitz | High School A Plus Athlete Scoreboard Play of the Week Dallas Mavericks Schedule Where to Watch the Texas Rangers TMC Medical Minutes Community COVID-19 Map News 12 AM Road Conditions Recipes Meet the Team Contact Us KXII Careers Schedule Viewing Guide Live Events Expert Advice Submit Photos and Videos NextGen TV Zeam - News Streams Newsletter Poll Where to Watch Us Circle Country Gray DC Bureau PowerNation InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet Digital Marketing 20 weather alerts in effect Dismiss Weather Alerts Alerts Bar Facebook, Instagram will now let you hide ‘like’ counts FILE - In this April 14, 2020 file photo, the thumbs up Like logo is shown on a sign at Facebook headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif. (AP Photo/Jeff Chiu, File) By The Associated Press Updated : May. 26, 2021 at 8:46 AM CDT Email This Link Share on Facebook Share on X (formerly Twitter) Share on Pinterest Share on LinkedIn (AP) - If you post a photo to social media and you don’t know how many people liked it, did you really post it? Instagram and Facebook users can now find out. Beginning Wednesday, those on both services will be able to hide the numbers that show how many people liked their posts and photos. Instagram began hiding likes in 2019 as part of an effort to make people’s time on the app less stressful and depressing. While many users welcomed the feature, others, including some influencers, worried it might take away from the social media experience. At the time, the platform didn’t give users a choice to hide or unhide the like counts, which didn’t sit well with some users. Now, after a test the company announced last month, users will be able to flip a switch that hides public like counts. Instead of a number telling you how many people liked your latest puppy photo, you’ll see “liked by Beyoncé and others” (if Beyoncé and others did, in fact, like your photo). To hide like counts on Instagram, you can go to your settings and click on the “posts” section. If you choose to turn off like counts here, it will apply to all your posts. In addition, you will also be able to hide the counts for individual posts before you share them. You can also choose to hide like counts before sharing a post. You can turn this setting on or off, even after it goes live. The feature will be available to Instagram users beginning on Wednesday and to Facebook users in the coming weeks. Copyright 2021 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. Most Read Texas EquuSearch ends search operations for Clara Robinson Man arrested after father finds him naked in 13-year-old girl’s bedroom, sheriff says Fieszel steps down as Gunter head football coach Garvin County woman arrested, accused of trafficking fentanyl SERIOUS Flood Threat, Severe Storms Possible Too One dead after weekend crash in Pushmataha County Ada police seek woman wanted for murder Atoka County Sheriff’s Office responds to shots fired call, suspect arrested Latest News Trump offers automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Howe announces two new chains at business summit Denison Citizen’s Fire Academy running trial for it’s big launch Denison Citizen’s Fire Academy running trial for it’s big launch The US government has a new policy for terminating international students’ legal status Warrant issued for Kingston man accused of stealing woman’s veterans benefits Charlie Watson, founder of Watson’s Drive In, dies at 95 Choctaw Nation celebrates ribbon cutting of health clinic in Antlers News Video News 12 AM Those Who Inspire Programming Election Results Weather Sports Friday Night Blitz | High School A Plus Athlete Send us YOUR news tips! TMC Medical Minutes Outdoors Community Fishing Recipes Schedule Covid 19 Map Fish & Game Forecast KXII Careers KXII 4201 Texoma Pkwy Sherman, TX 75090 (903) 892-8123 Public Inspection File publicfile@kxii.com - (903) 891-1208 FCC Applications Terms of Service Privacy Policy EEO Statement Advertising Digital Marketing Closed Captioning/Audio Description Cookie Settings At Gray, our journalists report, write, edit and produce the news content that informs the communities we serve. Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2025