The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Master Quest | Nintendo | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Nintendo Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Consoles Switch Switch games Lite Online Wii & Wii U Wii games Wii accessories Wii U games Wii U GamePad Virtual Console GameCube GameCube games Controller Memory Card Nintendo 64 N64 games Cartridge Accessories N64DD SNES SNES games Controller Accessories SNES CD-ROM NES NES games Famicom Disk System Controller Diskun Handhelds List of handhelds Nintendo 3DS Nintendo DS Game Boy Game & Watch Games List of games Genres Role-playing games Sports games Fighting games Platformer games Simulation games Puzzle games Music games Franchises Mario Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Pokémon Metroid Star Fox Yoshi Devs & Publishers Nintendo Sega Sony Square Enix Capcom Hudson Soft Nintendo Co. Company Page history People Divisions Community Help and Rules General Editing Information List of editing guides Stub Templates Image Template Editor's Portal Blog Recent Blog Posts Create a Blog Post Forum Forum Index General Discussion Wiki Discussions Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS Wiki Projects Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Nintendo Wiki 40,789 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Consoles Switch Switch games Lite Online Wii & Wii U Wii games Wii accessories Wii U games Wii U GamePad Virtual Console GameCube GameCube games Controller Memory Card Nintendo 64 N64 games Cartridge Accessories N64DD SNES SNES games Controller Accessories SNES CD-ROM NES NES games Famicom Disk System Controller Diskun Handhelds List of handhelds Nintendo 3DS Nintendo DS Game Boy Game & Watch Games List of games Genres Role-playing games Sports games Fighting games Platformer games Simulation games Puzzle games Music games Franchises Mario Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Pokémon Metroid Star Fox Yoshi Devs & Publishers Nintendo Sega Sony Square Enix Capcom Hudson Soft Nintendo Co. Company Page history People Divisions Community Help and Rules General Editing Information List of editing guides Stub Templates Image Template Editor's Portal Blog Recent Blog Posts Create a Blog Post Forum Forum Index General Discussion Wiki Discussions Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS Wiki Projects in: Rated Everyone by ESRB , Rated General by ACB , Rated 6 by USK , and 17 more Rated All by GRAC The Legend of Zelda games Nintendo GameCube stubs Stubs Major Nintendo games 2002 video games 2003 video games Nintendo GameCube games Nintendo games Nintendo EAD games Games developed by Nintendo Games published by Nintendo Action games Adventure games Open world games Video game compilations Remakes The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Master Quest View source History Purge Talk (0) Game C The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Master Quest [ Edit ] [ Talk ] The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Master Quest North American box art. Developer(s) Nintendo Publisher(s) Nintendo Release Date(s) Nintendo GameCube NA: February 28, 2003 JP: November 28, 2002 EU: May 2, 2003 AU: May 9, 2003 KO: 2003 Platform(s) Genre(s) Open world action adventure Rating(s) ESRB ACB 04 01 USK GRAC 02 01 Credits • Gallery • Cheats • Videos Soundtrack • Scripts The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Master Quest ( JP Japanese: ゼルダの伝説 時のオカリナ GC裏 Romaji : Zeruda no Densetsu: Toki no Okarina GC Ura ) is a remake of Ocarina of Time , originally scheduled for release as an expansion for Ocarina of Time for the Nintendo 64DD . Due to the failure of the Disk Drive, the expansion was never released on it. The game was turned into a standalone game and released on February 2003 on the same disc as an enhanced emulated port of Ocarina of Time . As the Master Quest is a remake of Ocarina of Time , many of the dungeons were redesigned to add difficulty to the game. It is considered to be the version of Ocarina of Time for those who have already completed the original game. While the port of the original game remains almost unchanged, a few alterations were made to accommodate for the GameCube Controller . The most notable is the buttons upon pausing. On the menu, the start, A, and B buttons are displayed. The start button returns to the game, the A button selects what is highlighted, and the B button saves the game. Originally, the start button was red, but was changed to the GameCube's grey in the port. The B button was originally blue, but was changed to the GameCube's red in the port. The shapes have also been changed to accommodate for the controller. The Master Quest is also included in The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D . However, unlike the GameCube version, the 3DS Master Quest is mirrored and all the enemies deal double damage. External links The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Master Quest at GameFAQs The Legend of Zelda series Console games Legend of Zelda ( NES Classics ) • Zelda II ( NES Classics ) • A Link to the Past ( Barcode Battler II • Triforce of the Gods ) • Ocarina of Time ( Master Quest ) • Majora's Mask • Collector's Edition • The Wind Waker ( HD ) • Four Swords Adventures • Twilight Princess ( HD ) • Skyward Sword ( HD ) • Breath of the Wild • Tears of the Kingdom • Echoes of Wisdom Handheld games Links Awakening ( DX / Switch ) • Oracle of Ages / Seasons • A Link to the Past & Four Swords • The Minish Cap • Twilight Princess Preview Trailer • Phantom Hourglass • Spirit Tracks • Ocarina of Time 3D • A Link Between Worlds • Majora's Mask 3D • Tri Force Heroes Hyrule Warriors series Hyrule Warriors ( Legends • Definitive Edition ) • Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity • Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment Tingle series Freshly-Picked Tingle's Rosy Rupeeland • Tingle's Balloon Fight DS • Ripened Tingle's Balloon Trip of Love Other Spin-offs Zelda (G&W) • The Wand of Gamelon • The Faces of Evil • Zelda's Adventure • Link's Crossbow Training • Cadence of Hyrule People Eiji Aonuma • Hidemaro Fujibayashi • Yoshiaki Koizumi • Koji Kondo • Yōichi Kotabe • Toru Minegishi • Shigeru Miyamoto Tadashi Sugiyama • Kensuke Tanabe • Takashi Tezuka • Yasuhisa Yamamura This Nintendo GameCube -related article is a stub. Please help by expanding it . Categories Categories : Rated Everyone by ESRB Rated General by ACB Rated 6 by USK Rated All by GRAC The Legend of Zelda games Nintendo GameCube stubs Stubs Major Nintendo games 2002 video games 2003 video games Nintendo GameCube games Nintendo games Nintendo EAD games Games developed by Nintendo Games published by Nintendo Action games Adventure games Open world games Video game compilations Remakes Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Nintendo is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab