Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/realmadrid A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to realmadrid r/realmadrid r/realmadrid La 15th! Subreddit for Real Madrid, the 15-time European Champions. Members Online • ChampagneInferno Top 1% Commenter What a World Cup trophy would mean for Luka's Legacy Discussion Look I'm gonna be honest with you guys, of course I don't want Messi to win the World Cup, he's after all our Nemesis' greatest ever player. But maybe it's just me, but I want to see Luka winning it more than I want to see Messi losing it. He's the best midfielder in Madrid history, I'm not saying that he's better than Zidane, but Luka have achieved much more with us, than Zidane did. Winning a World Cup with a nation with 3,9 million inhabitants would be one of the biggest achievements in all sports history. I know that many of you is familiar with his background, but for those who isn't, Luka's childhood was at the time with the Croatian war of independence. The man lived as a refugee in his own country for 7 years. Playing football, was an escape from reality of the war, with bombs falling on his city. He went from this horrifying experience, to play for the biggest club on earth, taking his country to a Final in the World Cup, and winning the Ballon d'Or. But could you imagine if him and Croatia actually goes on and defeat Argentina in the semis and defeat  France/Morocco in the final... People like to say that he doesn't sit on the same table with Zizou, Xavi and Iniesta (which is total BS) Xavi and Iniesta played for maybe the best international team of all time, of course they have their WC medals, but I'm willing to bet my left testicle that neither Iniesta and/Or Xavi could lead that Croatia side ( which was good, but not as good as that Spain side)  to a final in the World Cup, like Luka did in 2018. Luka Have gone through some horrifying experiences in his youth, he worked hard and got his Madrid move. Have won the UCL 5 times, have a Ballon d'Or after taking his Croatia to the World Cup final. But could you guys imagine, if he actually fucking win this World Cup... The only one that would sit on that Table with Zizou would be Luka. Maybe it's just me, but instead of focusing on Messi not winning it, I'm more focused and I hope with all my heart that Luka and this Croatia side, win this damn thing... Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size La 15th! Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 13, 2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2022 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics