Oscars: 9 Animated Films Nominated for Best Screenplay   - GoldDerby × Which 9 animated films were nominated for Best Screenplay? In the nearly 90 years of the Oscars, only nine animated films have been nominated for Best Original or Adapted Screenplay. Eight were Disney/Pixar films, while the other was DreamWorks' "Shrek." Click the right-hand arrow above to see all nine films, including the most recent addition "Inside Out." Photo Credit: DAVID BUCHAN/REX Shutterstock ‘Toy Story’ (1995) Before there was a category for Best Animated Feature, "Toy Story" earned Oscar nominations for Best Song and Best Score and won a special award for Pixar executive John Lasseter. The film's scribes were Joss Whedon, Andrew Stanton, Joel Cohen, Alec Sokolow, Pete Docter, Joe Ranft and Lasseter. Best Original Screenplay Nominees: "Braveheart" "Mighty Aphrodite" "Nixon" "Toy Story" "The Usual Suspects" — winner Photo Credit: Moviestore Collection/REX Shutterstock ‘Shrek’ (2001) DreamWorks' "Shrek" won the Oscars' very first Best Animated Feature prize in 2001. Ted Elliott, Terry Rossio, Joe Stillman and Roger S. H. Schulman were nominated for the film's screenplay, which was adapted from "Shrek!" by William Steig. Best Adapted Screenplay Nominees: "A Beautiful Mind" — winner "Ghost World" "In the Bedroom" "The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring" "Shrek" Photo Credit: Moviestore Collection/REX Shutterstock ‘Finding Nemo’ (2003) Pixar's "Finding Nemo" won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature in 2003. Andrew Stanton, Bob Peterson and David Reynolds were nominated for writing the film's original script. Best Original Screenplay Nominees: "The Barbarian Invasions" "Dirty Pretty Things" "Finding Nemo" "In America" "Lost in Translation" — winner Photo Credit: Moviestore Collection/REX Shutterstock ‘The Incredibles’ (2004) Pixar's "The Incredibles" won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature in 2004. Brad Bird was the film's sole screenwriter. Best Original Screenplay Nominees: "The Aviator" "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" — winner "Hotel Rwanda" "The Incredibles" "Vera Drake" Photo Credit: Moviestore/REX Shutterstock ‘Ratatouille’ (2007) Pixar's "Ratatouille" won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature in 2007. Brad Bird (screenplay and story), Jan Pinkava and Jim Capobianco (story) were the scribe nominees. Best Original Screenplay Nominees: "Juno" — winner "Lars and the Real Girl" "Michael Clayton" "Ratatouille" "The Savages" Photo Credit: Moviestore Collection/REX Shutterstock ‘WALL-E’ (2008) Pixar's "WALL-E" won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature in 2008. The film's screenplay nominees were Andrew Stanton (story and screenplay), Jim Reardon (screenplay) and Pete Docter (story). Best Original Screenplay Nominees: "Frozen River" "Happy-Go-Lucky" "In Bruges" "Milk" — winner "WALL-E" Photo Credit: Disney/Pixar ‘Up’ (2009) Pixar's "Up" won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature in 2009. Tom McCarthy, Bob Peterson and Pete Docter were nominated for writing the script. "Up" was also nominated for Best Picture where it lost to "The Hurt Locker." Best Original Screenplay Nominees: "The Hurt Locker" — winner "Inglourious Basterds" "The Messenger" "A Serious Man" "Up" Photo Credit: Disney/Pixar ‘Toy Story 3’ (2010) Pixar's "Toy Story 3" won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature in 2010.  Michael Arndt, John Lasseter, Andrew Stanton and Lee Unkrich were nominated for penning this third movie in the franchise. "Toy Story 3" was also nominated for Best Picture where it lost to "The King's Speech." Best Adapted Screenplay Nominees: "127 Hours" "The Social Network" — winner "Toy Story 3" "True Grit" "Winter's Bone" Photo Credit: Moviestore Collection/REX Shutterstock ‘Inside Out’ (2015) Pixar's "Inside Out" is the most recent film to join the list of animated movies that were nominated for Best Screenplay. Will Pete Docter, Meg LeFauve, Josh Cooley and Ronnie del Carmen be the first animation scribes to prevail? Best Original Screenplay Nominees: "Bridge of Spies" "Ex Machina" "Inside Out" "Spotlight" "Straight Outta Compton" Photo Credit: Disney/Pixar ad