'The Crown' Season 3 Red Carpet Premiere Photos Search Subscribe Sign Up for Gems of Wisdom T&C Snob's Guide to Travel T&C Guide to College Admission My Bookmarks Society The Scene Style Leisure Follow Newsletter Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content Luxury Style Travel Leisure Society Subscribe sign in Leisure Arts & Culture Inside the World Premiere of the Third Season of The Crown Inside the World Premiere of the Third Season of The Crown Stars Olivia Colman, Helena Bonham Carter, and Erin Doherty just arrived on the red carpet. By Caroline Hallemann Published: Nov 13, 2019 2:37 PM EST Save Article Ian West - PA Images // Getty Images After nearly two years of waiting, the third season of The Crown is almost finally here, and tonight, members of the cast are celebrating at the premiere in London. Read on to see every photo from on the red carpet, and inside the party, then, click here for everything you need to know about the 10 episodes ahead , which officially drop on Netflix November 17. Josh O'Connor Mike Marsland // Getty Images Wearing a modern black suit adorned with an oversized boutonnière, the show's young Prince Charles just arrived on the red carpet. Jason Watkins and Clara Francis Dave J Hogan // Getty Images Jason Watkins, who will play the British Prime Minister Harold Wilson in the show's next chapter brought his wife, jewelry designer Clara Francis to the premiere this evening. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Erin Doherty Dave J Hogan // Getty Images A relative newcomer, Doherty makes an impression both in the upcoming season as a confident Princess Anne, and at tonight's event in a bright red dress. Olivia Colman, Tobias Menzies Ian West - PA Images // Getty Images Colman, who will take over from Claire Foy as Queen Elizabeth in season three , poses with her on-screen husband, Tobias Menzies, who is following in Matt Smith's shoes as Prince Philip . Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Harry Treadaway Ian West - PA Images // Getty Images Treadaway, who will play Princess Margaret's boyfriend Roddy Llewellyn in the upcoming season , arrived on the red carpet in a blue checkered suit. Helena Bonham Carter Mike Marsland // Getty Images Helena Bonham Carter never disappoints on the red carpet, and this evening is no exception. She paired a feathered black gown with jeweled black heels, befitting her role as Princess Margaret in the royal drama. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Helena Bonham Carter John Phillips // Getty Images Several of the stars, including Helena Bonham Carter, were generous with their fans, signing autographs and posing for selfies along the red carpet. Tobias Menzies, Olivia Colman, Helena Bonham Carter David M. Benett // Getty Images Three of the show's stars share a laugh in front of the show's logo. Suzanne Mackie John Phillips // Getty Images Executive producer Suzanne Mackie wore a chic black dress to tonight's premiere. Olivia Colman Mike Marsland // Getty Images The show's leading lady gives a wave to the cameras. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Peter Morgan and Gillian Anderson Dave J Hogan // Getty Images Showrunner Peter Morgan shares a moment with Gillian Anderson, who will portray Britain's first woman Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in season four of the series, which is currently filming. Caroline Hallemann Digital Director Caroline Hallemann is the Digital Director at Town & Country, where she covers culture, society, and entertainment, as well as the British royal family, among a variety of other topics. Prior to leading the digital team at T&C, she served as the brand's Senior News Editor and Digital News Director, and has previously held positions at Travel + Leisure, DailyCandy, and Parenting Magazine. Caroline is also currently writing a book about the Kennedy family and the British royals, and she lives in Nashville, Tennessee with her husband and their son, Tommy. You can find her on Instagram at the handle @challemann and on TikTok at @carolinehallemann. Watch Next Advertisement - Continue Reading Below The Crown The Crown Stars Join Netflix's Pride & Prejudice Imelda Staunton Is Now a Dame King Charles & Princess Anne Through the Years King Charles III's Life in Photos Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Dior’s Sporty Spring 2025 Runway Inside Princess Diana’s Love Affair with NYC Dominic West Brings out the Velvet at The Emmys Meet Elizabeth Debicki's Boyfriend Kristian Elizabeth Debicki Misses Playing Princess Diana Queen Camilla's Life in Photos 'The Crown' Creator Reveals His Next Project William & Kate Were Roommates at St Andrews Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Newsletter Contact Us Subscribe Other Hearst Subscriptions Advertise Online About Us Press Room Customer Service A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads