xenoblade chronicles 2 - How do you release a Blade? - Arqade Skip to main content Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 183 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Loading… Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company, and our products current community Arqade help chat Arqade Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Log in Sign up Home Questions Unanswered Tags Chat Users Teams Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams. Try Teams for free Explore Teams Teams Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams. Explore Teams Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more about Teams How do you release a Blade? Ask Question Asked 7 years, 5 months ago Modified 7 years, 4 months ago Viewed 7k times 2 I've seen on some sites that mention you can release a Blade to gain materials that make creating new rare blades much easier. I can't seem to find any options for it yet. Is there a specific npc I have to talk to or is it unlocked via story, or something else? xenoblade-chronicles-2 Share Improve this question Follow asked Dec 3, 2017 at 2:01 Seiyria Seiyria 9,862 20 20 gold badges 58 58 silver badges 98 98 bronze badges Add a comment | 1 Answer 1 Sorted by: Reset to default Highest score (default) Date modified (newest first) Date created (oldest first) 2 Go to the menu screen, select ‘Blades’ and then ‘Manage Blades’. Press X to release a Blade. Doing so has the chance to net you a Booster. You can’t delete Blades that are assigned to a character. (You also can’t delete blades that you’ve overdriven onto another character and I’d love to know how to fix that...) Share Improve this answer Follow answered Dec 3, 2017 at 4:13 Praius Praius 36 1 1 bronze badge 1 Thanks. I don't know how I missed that, and the overdrive thing sounds like a bug. Yikes! Too bad I wasted me overdrives on a garbage blade. – Seiyria Commented Dec 3, 2017 at 4:38 Add a comment | Your Answer Reminder: Answers generated by AI tools must be referenced due to Arqade's artificial intelligence policy Thanks for contributing an answer to Arqade! Please be sure to answer the question . Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers . Draft saved Draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Email and Password Submit Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy . Start asking to get answers Find the answer to your question by asking. Ask question Explore related questions xenoblade-chronicles-2 See similar questions with these tags. Screenshot of the Week Nothing like finding a star with your exact duplicate in Super Mario Galaxy by Alex Submit your photo Hall of fame Featured on Meta Updates to advertising guidelines Evolving comments: An experiment to encourage engagement and follow-up questions Do we need a fifth custom off-topic close reason? Screenshot of the Week #140 | Submissions Closed, Vote Now! Related 4 How does Overdrive impact Affinity Chart of Blade? 6 Is third Blade slot restricted by plot? 1 How do you speak to a Blade in an inn? 2 How to start rare blade Dagas side quest Lost Kingdom? 0 What happens with Trust Blade gets on Trust level A? 1 Is there a way to get clues about each blade favorite items? 2 Is there a way to skip the cinematic when resonating with a blade? 2 What is a Blade Combo finisher? 2 How does recalling a blade from a mission work? 3 What determines the booster types received when releasing a blade? Hot Network Questions I worry that my advice to female academics will sound like platitudes Why did Germany allow and help introduce the Deutsche Mark to Montenegro? How can I fill a 4 inch gap between carpet and vinyl flooring? Protecting Secrets in Lost F/A-18 Super Hornet Idiomatic way of generating a unique filename? What is the spell attack modifier for this casterless Bigby's Hand spell from the Waterdeep: Dungeon of the Mad Mage published adventure? OTA took our money but won't give confirmation for my flight until 24 hrs before Annotating intentional infinite loop to satisfy "-fanalyzer" Slow SQL query with nested subquery How to convincingly erase a population's memory? What is the difference between a minority government and a coalition government? Are FPV drones responsible for 75% of casualties on Russian side in Russia-Ukraine war? Move tabular environments using Tikz How to find and replace single characters on either side a pair of variable numbers in Notepad++? Function to measure consonance and dissonance in musical tones Does Logan age four years (or more), or do they adjust his life clock? Why is the を particle used instead of the から particle? Why Linux read() avoids using full 2 GiB in one call Are Catholics prohibited from receiving communion at a Lutheran church? Could OLS miss statistically significant coefficient because it's too small? Using standard AC fixtures for DC applications What does trespass mean here? Physics equations with universal meaning possible? Is it normal that my phd supervisor raises new questions for me to revise every time after reviewing my manuscript? more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. Arqade Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Company Stack Overflow Teams Advertising Talent About Press Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Your Privacy Choices Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under CC BY-SA . rev 2025.4.29.25785