Raiders' Morgan is NFL's first Black female team president | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals fall short of a majority in Parliament, and Conservative leader loses his own seat Takeaways from Canada's election: America's northern ally rejects Trump after he dominates race Vietnam marks 50 years since war’s end and focuses on reconciliation during a period of new tensions Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Harvard pledges reforms following internal reports on antisemitism and anti-Arab bias For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Trump greets Whitmer with a hug and gives her a win — new jets for Michigan airbase Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Prank calls to other players unrelated to the one received by Shedeur Sanders, AP source says George Kittle agrees to an extension with the 49ers that makes him the highest-paid tight end ever Spurs' Castle wins rookie of the year, joining Wembanyama as back-to-back San Antonio winners Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Movie Review: 'Thunderbolts' is Marvel, and Florence Pugh, in high gear Judge orders Trump administration to restore $12 million for pro-democracy Radio Free Europe Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plummets to Covid-era low as trade war stokes anxiety 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Runaway kangaroo on the loose named Sheila shuts down Alabama interstate Why a New York zoo is feeding a baby vulture with a hand puppet Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Take It Down Act, addressing nonconsensual deepfakes and 'revenge porn,' passes. What is it? Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: Israel frees a Gaza medic detained since troops killed 15 rescue workers Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES La electricidad vuelve a España y Portugal. La causa del apagón es un misterio El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa El rey danés visita Groenlandia mientras Trump muestra interés en la estratégica isla ártica Juez duda de argumento del gobierno de EEUU de que tribunal no puede revisar declaración fronteriza El Partido Liberal del primer ministro de Canadá no alcanza la mayoría en el Parlamento Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals fall short of a majority in Parliament, and Conservative leader loses his own seat Takeaways from Canada's election: America's northern ally rejects Trump after he dominates race Vietnam marks 50 years since war’s end and focuses on reconciliation during a period of new tensions Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Harvard pledges reforms following internal reports on antisemitism and anti-Arab bias For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Trump greets Whitmer with a hug and gives her a win — new jets for Michigan airbase Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Prank calls to other players unrelated to the one received by Shedeur Sanders, AP source says George Kittle agrees to an extension with the 49ers that makes him the highest-paid tight end ever Spurs' Castle wins rookie of the year, joining Wembanyama as back-to-back San Antonio winners Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Movie Review: 'Thunderbolts' is Marvel, and Florence Pugh, in high gear Judge orders Trump administration to restore $12 million for pro-democracy Radio Free Europe Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plummets to Covid-era low as trade war stokes anxiety 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Runaway kangaroo on the loose named Sheila shuts down Alabama interstate Why a New York zoo is feeding a baby vulture with a hand puppet Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Take It Down Act, addressing nonconsensual deepfakes and 'revenge porn,' passes. What is it? Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: Israel frees a Gaza medic detained since troops killed 15 rescue workers Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES La electricidad vuelve a España y Portugal. La causa del apagón es un misterio El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa El rey danés visita Groenlandia mientras Trump muestra interés en la estratégica isla ártica Juez duda de argumento del gobierno de EEUU de que tribunal no puede revisar declaración fronteriza El Partido Liberal del primer ministro de Canadá no alcanza la mayoría en el Parlamento Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals fall short of a majority in Parliament, and Conservative leader loses his own seat Takeaways from Canada's election: America's northern ally rejects Trump after he dominates race Vietnam marks 50 years since war’s end and focuses on reconciliation during a period of new tensions Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Harvard pledges reforms following internal reports on antisemitism and anti-Arab bias For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Trump greets Whitmer with a hug and gives her a win — new jets for Michigan airbase Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Prank calls to other players unrelated to the one received by Shedeur Sanders, AP source says George Kittle agrees to an extension with the 49ers that makes him the highest-paid tight end ever Spurs' Castle wins rookie of the year, joining Wembanyama as back-to-back San Antonio winners Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Movie Review: 'Thunderbolts' is Marvel, and Florence Pugh, in high gear Judge orders Trump administration to restore $12 million for pro-democracy Radio Free Europe Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plummets to Covid-era low as trade war stokes anxiety 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Runaway kangaroo on the loose named Sheila shuts down Alabama interstate Why a New York zoo is feeding a baby vulture with a hand puppet Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Take It Down Act, addressing nonconsensual deepfakes and 'revenge porn,' passes. What is it? Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: Israel frees a Gaza medic detained since troops killed 15 rescue workers Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES La electricidad vuelve a España y Portugal. La causa del apagón es un misterio El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa El rey danés visita Groenlandia mientras Trump muestra interés en la estratégica isla ártica Juez duda de argumento del gobierno de EEUU de que tribunal no puede revisar declaración fronteriza El Partido Liberal del primer ministro de Canadá no alcanza la mayoría en el Parlamento Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals fall short of a majority in Parliament, and Conservative leader loses his own seat Takeaways from Canada's election: America's northern ally rejects Trump after he dominates race Vietnam marks 50 years since war’s end and focuses on reconciliation during a period of new tensions Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Harvard pledges reforms following internal reports on antisemitism and anti-Arab bias For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Trump greets Whitmer with a hug and gives her a win — new jets for Michigan airbase Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Prank calls to other players unrelated to the one received by Shedeur Sanders, AP source says George Kittle agrees to an extension with the 49ers that makes him the highest-paid tight end ever Spurs' Castle wins rookie of the year, joining Wembanyama as back-to-back San Antonio winners Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Movie Review: 'Thunderbolts' is Marvel, and Florence Pugh, in high gear Judge orders Trump administration to restore $12 million for pro-democracy Radio Free Europe Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plummets to Covid-era low as trade war stokes anxiety 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Runaway kangaroo on the loose named Sheila shuts down Alabama interstate Why a New York zoo is feeding a baby vulture with a hand puppet Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Take It Down Act, addressing nonconsensual deepfakes and 'revenge porn,' passes. What is it? Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: Israel frees a Gaza medic detained since troops killed 15 rescue workers Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES La electricidad vuelve a España y Portugal. La causa del apagón es un misterio El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa El rey danés visita Groenlandia mientras Trump muestra interés en la estratégica isla ártica Juez duda de argumento del gobierno de EEUU de que tribunal no puede revisar declaración fronteriza El Partido Liberal del primer ministro de Canadá no alcanza la mayoría en el Parlamento Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Raiders’ Morgan is NFL’s first Black female team president Raiders’ Morgan is NFL’s first Black female team president 1 of 6 | Sandra Douglass Morgan speaks during a news conference announcing her as the new president of the Las Vegas Raiders NFL football team Thursday, July 7, 2022, in Las Vegas. (AP Photo/John Locher) Read More 2 of 6 | Sandra Douglass Morgan speaks during a news conference announcing her as the new president of the Las Vegas Raiders NFL football team Thursday, July 7, 2022, in Las Vegas. (AP Photo/John Locher) Read More 3 of 6 | Sandra Douglass Morgan, left, speaks beside Las Vegas Raiders owner Mark Davis during a news conference announcing Morgan as the new president of the Raiders NFL football team Thursday, July 7, 2022, in Las Vegas. (AP Photo/John Locher) Read More 4 of 6 | Sandra Douglass Morgan, left, poses beside Las Vegas Raiders defensive end Maxx Crosby during a news conference announcing Morgan as the new president of the Raiders NFL football team Thursday, July 7, 2022, in Las Vegas. (AP Photo/John Locher) Read More 5 of 6 | Sandra Douglass Morgan, left, smiles with Las Vegas Raiders owner Mark Davis during a news conference announcing Morgan as the new president of the Raiders NFL football team Thursday, July 7, 2022, in Las Vegas. (AP Photo/John Locher) Read More 6 of 6 | Sandra Douglass Morgan, left, poses with Las Vegas Raiders owner Mark Davis during a news conference announcing Morgan as the new president of the Raiders NFL football team Thursday, July 7, 2022, in Las Vegas. (AP Photo/John Locher) Read More By W.G. RAMIREZ Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit LAS VEGAS (AP) — The Las Vegas Raiders introduced a former Nevada gambling regulator Thursday as the franchise’s new president, the first Black woman to hold the title with an NFL team. Team owner Mark Davis said Sandra Douglass Morgan topped his list every time after he spoke to candidates. “Her experience, integrity and passion for this community will be invaluable to our organization,” Davis said. “From the moment I met Sandra, I knew she was a force to be reckoned with. We are extremely lucky to have her at the helm.” Morgan, the former chairwoman of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, is the third woman and third African-American to become president of an NFL team. She is also the latest Raiders hire to break barriers. Former Raiders coach Tom Flores was the first Hispanic head coach to win a Super Bowl title and former coach Art Shell was the first Black head coach of the NFL’s Super Bowl era. Morgan, who spent eight years with the city of North Las Vegas, was also the first Black city attorney in the state of Nevada when she served in that role from 2013 to 2016. “I definitely never want to be the last,” Morgan said, “and I want to get to a point where there is no more firsts.” Morgan emphasized leadership and full transparency during her introductory press conference at Allegiant Stadium. “We have so much more to do, and I’m excited to be at the helm of that growth and look forward to ushering in the new chapter for the Raiders,” said Morgan. “The fact is I have accepted this role because I believe in the promise of the Raiders, I believe in the future of the Raiders, and I believe in this organization’s tenets of community, integrity, and most of all, commitment to excellence.” She takes over a team that has endured tumultuous times in its front office, with two presidents and several longtime executives leaving the organization in less than a year. After Marc Badain resigned as president last summer, Dan Ventrelle took over in July 2021 on an interim basis and was promoted to the full-time role in January. But Ventrelle was gone less than a year after joining the organization. In a statement to the Las Vegas Review-Journal, Ventrelle said he was fired in retaliation for bringing concerns from multiple employees to the NFL about a “hostile work environment.” “It’s no secret that this organization has faced some recent challenges, but I want to be clear, I am not here to sweep anything under the rug or avoid problems or concerns that need to be addressed,” said Morgan. “It is not lost on me that this is a critical and defining moment in the NFL. It’s important to me and it is my intention to make a meaningful contribution well beyond the Raiders family.” Star defensive end Maxx Crosby, who attended Morgan’s introduction, said Raiders players are excited to start a new chapter. “It’s incredible,” Crosby said. “First off, just breaking barriers and Mark has done an incredible job and it started with his father. You know, just being transparent and giving everyone an equal opportunity. She’s honestly the best for the job and it’s going to be awesome, we’re excited for the future.” Coach Josh McDaniels and general manager Dave Ziegler welcomed Morgan in a prepared statement. “We congratulate Sandra Douglass Morgan on her historic hiring as team president and are excited to welcome her into the Raiders family. Sandra brings impressive leadership experience to the organization and we are thrilled to work with her as we continue to build a championship-caliber culture and team,” the statement said. Morgan’s husband, Don, played with the Minnesota Vikings and the Arizona Cardinals between 1999 and 2002 ___ AP freelance writer Poppy Cartledge contributed to this story. ___ More AP NFL coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/nfl and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL Most read Trump says Columbus Day will now just be Columbus Day Carney wins Canadian election, while Conservative leader loses his seat in Parliament Massive power outage in Spain and Portugal leaves thousands stranded and millions without light The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook