How to Start a Local or Online Multiplayer Game (Splatoon 2) | Support | Nintendo UK Overview Orders Address book Nintendo Account details {{pageTitle}} , {{gameSystem}} Starting from: {{regularPrice}} {{lowestPrice}} Search Wish List Sign In × Close How about... All Nintendo Switch games All Nintendo Switch games on sale All Nintendo 3DS games All Super Mario games All The Legend of Zelda games All Pokémon games × Visit us on Facebook Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem X @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons YouTube NintendoUK Instagram NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope Twitch NintendoUK LinkedIn Visit us on LinkedIn Games Previous Games Overview Nintendo Switch 2 games Nintendo Switch games Recent releases Upcoming games Demos Free-to-start games DLC Smart device games Nintendo 3DS games Wii U games Characters hub Hardware Previous Hardware Nintendo Switch 2 Overview Features GameChat GameShare Nintendo Switch 2 games Nintendo Switch 2 accessories Nintendo Switch 2 bundles Transferring from Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Family Overview Nintendo Switch – OLED Model Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Lite Which Nintendo Switch is right for you? Nintendo Sound Clock: Alarmo Game & Watch: The Legend of Zelda amiibo Nintendo 3DS Family Nintendo History Nintendo Switch Online Previous Nintendo Switch Online Overview What's included? Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack Classic games Exclusive benefits Nintendo Music Nintendo eShop My Nintendo Store Support News Previous News Overview Nintendo Direct Indie World Ask the Developer Creator's Voice Tips and tricks Events Stay in touch ... Misc. Previous Misc. My Nintendo Career Sitemap Welcome to Nintendo Support Get support for your Nintendo systems, software and services How to Start a Local or Online Multiplayer Game (Splatoon 2) Description: Instructions on setting up a multiplayer game in Splatoon 2. Additional Information: The multiplayer modes in Splatoon 2 require that each player have their own Nintendo Switch console and copy of the game. The Splatoon 2 Online Lounge feature of the Nintendo Switch Online app was discontinued on 29 July 2021. Which game mode do you want to play? (Steps will unfold below the table.) Mode Players League Battle : Players ranked B- or higher can play for keeps with your Squid Squad. 2-4 Players (Online Multiplayer) Ranked Battle : Players level 10+ can face off in a ranked battle. 8 Players (Online Multiplayer) Regular Battle : Play Turf War with players from all over the world. 8 Players (Online Multiplayer) Friends : Join a friend in an online battle. 2 Players (Online Multiplayer) Private Battle (Online) : Set the mode, stage & teams in an online battle with friends. 2-10 Players (Online Multiplayer) Private Battle (Local) : Set the mode, stage & teams in a local multiplayer battle with friends. 2-8 Players (Local Multi-Card Play) Salmon Run : Team up for co-op fun and defeat waves of enemy Salmonids. 2-4 Players (Local Multi-Card Play) Online Lounge : Play and voice chat with friends. 2-8 Players (Online Multiplayer) LAN Play : Players can play a local Private Battle or Salmon Run game together via LAN connection. 2-10 Players (Online LAN Multiplayer) Complete These Steps: From Inkopolis Square, press the X Button to bring up the menu, then select “The Lobby” in the Map section. Select “League Battle”. (This is only available to players ranked B- or higher). Select “Yeah!” Choose the battle mode you want to play. Follow the onscreen instructions to begin the battle. Complete These Steps: From Inkopolis Square, press the X Button to bring up the menu, then select “The Lobby” in the Map section. Select “Ranked Battle”. (This is only available to players ranked 10+). Select “Yeah!” Choose the battle mode you want to play. The console will search for other players. Once 8 players have joined, the battle will begin! Complete These Steps: From Inkopolis Square, press the X Button to bring up the menu, then select “The Lobby” in the Map section. Select “Regular Battle”. Select “Yeah!” The console will search for other players. Once 8 players have joined, the battle will begin! Complete These Steps: From Inkopolis Square, press the X Button to bring up the menu, then select “The Lobby” in the Map section. Select “Friends”. A list of your Friends will appear. Friends that you can join will say “Joinable” by their name. Friends not currently online will be greyed out and can’t be selected. If you see the message “You can't join that friend”, it means they are not currently participating in a battle that you can join. Select a “Joinable” friend, then select “Yeah!” The console will search for other players. Once 8 players have joined, the battle will begin! Complete These Steps: From Inkopolis Square, press the X Button to bring up the menu, then select “The Lobby” in the Map section. Select “Private Battle”. One player ( player 1 ) needs to create the room . Have player 1 press the Y Button (“Create a Room”). Choose “Yeah!” to continue without a password, or press the Y Button to set a password for the room. (The password option requires you create and share a 3-digit PIN with anyone who wants to join the room.) Use the options on the left side of the Lobby screen to adjust the stage and mode as desired. Once the room is created, all other players need to join the room . Player 1’s name should now say “Joinable” in the Private Battle screen. Select the name. If player 1 has set a PIN to join, enter the 3-digit code when prompted. Select “Yeah!” to enter player 1’s room. When all players are in the room, have player 1 select “Ready”. Have player 1 select a team for each character, then select “Looks good!”. Have each player select “Ready” again to begin the match. Complete These Steps: From Inkopolis Square, press the X Button to bring up the menu, then select “The Shoal” in the Map section. One player (player 1) needs to create the Lobby . Have player 1 select “Host a Private Battle”. Choose “Yeah!” to continue without a password, or press the Y Button to set a password for the room. (The password option requires you create and share a 3-digit PIN with anyone who wants to join the Lobby.) Use the options on the left side of the Lobby screen to adjust the stage and mode as desired. Once the Lobby is created, all other players need to join the Lobby . Have all participating players select “Find a room”. Player 1’s name should appear on the screen. Select the name. If player 1 has set a PIN to join, enter the 3-digit code when prompted. Select “Yeah!” to enter player 1’s Lobby. When all players are in the Lobby, have player 1 select “Ready”. Have player 1 select a team for each character, then select “Looks good!”. Have each player select “Ready” again to begin the match. Complete These Steps: From Inkopolis Square, press the X Button to bring up the menu, then select “The Shoal” in the Map section. One player (player 1) needs to create the Lobby . Have player 1 select “Host a Salmon Run”. Choose “Yeah!” to continue without a password, or press the Y Button to set a password for the room. (The password option requires you create and share a 3-digit PIN with anyone who wants to join the Lobby.) Use the options on the left side of the Lobby screen to adjust the stage and mode as desired. Once the Lobby is created, all other players need to join the Lobby . Have all participating players select “Find a room”. Player 1’s name should appear on the screen. Select the name. If player 1 has set a PIN to join, enter the 3-digit code when prompted. Select “Yeah!” to enter player 1’s Lobby. When all Players are in the Lobby, have player 1 select “Crew set!” Have each player select “Ready” to begin the match. Complete These Steps: For help setting up the Online Lounge (voice chat), click here . Complete These Steps: For help setting up a LAN mode multiplayer game, click here Search Support Search UK & Ireland Change country België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera UK & Ireland South Africa See all regions België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera South Africa UK & Ireland See all regions Parents & Parental Controls Support Company Information Career Website Privacy Policy Cookie settings Legal information Service Termination CSR Modern Slavery Transparency Statement Contact © Nintendo. 2025 × Change country België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera UK & Ireland South Africa × Attention! You are about to leave the Nintendo of Europe site. Nintendo of Europe is not responsible for the content or security of the site you are about to visit. Cancel Continue × Survey Dear visitor, Thank you for visiting the Nintendo website! You have been randomly chosen to take part in a brief survey. By taking a few minutes to share your thoughts and opinions, you will be helping us to improve our website. Naturally, any information provided by you in this survey will be treated in confidence. Your Nintendo of Europe Team Decline invitation Take the survey × Facebook Visit us on Facebook: Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem × X @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons × YouTube NintendoUK × Instagram Join us on Instagram: NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope × Twitch Visit us on Twitch: NintendoUK × LinkedIn Visit us on LinkedIn ×