Fictional universe of Avatar - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Astronomy and geology Toggle Astronomy and geology subsection 1.1 Pandora 2 Na'vi 3 Human interest Toggle Human interest subsection 3.1 Technology 4 Reception 5 Notes 6 References 7 External links Toggle the table of contents Fictional universe of Avatar 7 languages Español Français Italiano Polski Simple English Türkçe 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Universe of the Avatar science fiction films This article is about the James Cameron film series. For the animated Nickelodeon series, see World of Avatar: The Last Airbender . This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these messages ) This  article describes a work or element of fiction in a primarily in-universe style . Please help rewrite it to explain the fiction more clearly and provide non-fictional perspective . ( February 2023 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Fictional universe of Avatar" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( February 2023 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) In the 2009 science-fiction film Avatar , director James Cameron conceived a fictional universe in which humans seek to mine unobtanium on the fictional habitable moon Pandora. The Earth-like moon is inhabited by a sapient indigenous humanoid species called the Na'vi , as well as varied fauna and flora. Resources Development Administration (RDA―which, despite the name, is a public company which evolved from a Silicon Valley startup ) scientists, administrators, recruits, support, and security personnel travel to Pandora in the 22nd century to discover this beautiful, lush world, which is inhabited by many lifeforms including the human-like Na'vi. The clan with which the humans have contact in the film lives "in a giant tree that sits on a vast store of a mineral called unobtainium, which humans want as an energy supply." [ 1 ] Cameron has described Avatar as more " science fantasy " than true science fiction and has said that he would explain in the novel for the film why in the fictional universe the Na'vi look like humans. [ 2 ] Astronomy and geology [ edit ] Size comparison between Polyphemus and Jupiter using the exoplanet comparison scheme . In the film, Pandora is depicted as being located in the Alpha Centauri A system, 4.37 ly from Earth. It is one of the many natural satellites orbiting the gas giant Polyphemus, [ 3 ] named for the Polyphemus of Greek mythology . Pandora's atmosphere is a mix of nitrogen , oxygen , carbon dioxide , xenon , methane , ammonia and hydrogen sulfide , the latter three of which are unbreathable for humans, who wear Exo-Packs when outside their buildings or vehicles. The atmosphere of Pandora does have enough oxygen for humans (21–22 %), but too much carbon dioxide (16–18 %). The Na'vi have special organs (similar to kidneys) called wichow that take advantage of this atmosphere to extract greater amounts of oxygen for their bloodstream. These organs use carbon dioxide and water in their bodies and convert them into methane and oxygen. The methane is exhaled back into the atmosphere. The extra oxygen is added to the Na'vi bloodstream to help power their extra-large bodies and powerful muscles. This process accounts for the small amount of methane in the Pandoran atmosphere. At rest or when the Na'vi are dormant, those same organs can convert some small amounts of methane back into carbon dioxide and water to replenish their water supply if needed. This is why humans can survive with just a filtration system (exo-packs), but the Na'vi need higher amounts of carbon dioxide to function. The high level of carbon dioxide and other gases such as hydrogen sulfide keep Na'vi blood pH at 5.25–5.75, which is more acidic than human blood (7.35–7.45). Pandora [ edit ] Much of the fiction takes place on the world of Pandora, which has a biodiversity of bioluminescent species ranging from six-legged animals to other types of exotic fauna and flora . The Pandoran ecology forms a vast biological neural network spanning the entire lunar surface into which the Na'vi and other creatures can connect. The strength of this collective consciousness is powerfully illustrated when the human invaders are defeated in battle by the Pandora ecology after the resolute Na'vi were nearly defeated. Cameron used a team of expert advisors in order to make the various examples of fauna and flora as scientifically feasible as possible. [ 4 ] Cameron hopes to explore the other moons in future sequels, books, and spin-offs. [ 1 ] [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] James Cameron's core idea for the Avatar ' s fictional creatures was for them to be "superslick and aerodynamic, and be like a race car with racing stripes". [ 8 ] Neville Page worked on Avatar as the lead creature designer. He, Wayne Barlowe (author, artist, and initial lead creature designer), and Yuri Bartoli (concept designer and supervising virtual art director) adapted Cameron's conceptions of the fauna into a design that served three purposes: to appear expressive, to function with animation technology, and to seem realistic. [ 9 ] He and creature designer Wayne Barlowe sought to base the design of Pandora's creatures on race cars, but they struggled to adapt the concept. Page drew on his education in automotive design, recognizing the irony that race cars were based on real-life animals in having "bone lines". Existing automotive designs drew from seashells, turtle shells, and insects, so the designers returned the design to the fictional creatures. They found that the prime challenge in designing most creatures was to give them organic appearances, including skin texture. Some creatures were also designed to have special breathing holes located in the trachea , copying how cars have intakes . [ 8 ] Na'vi [ edit ] Main article: Naʼvi language The Na'vi are humanoid creatures that inhabit Pandora along with other creatures. They use animals ranging from direhorses to viperwolves. According to Entertainment Weekly , "The Na'vi can commune with animals on their planet by literally plugging their braid into the creatures' nerve systems. To become a warrior, a Na'vi must tame and ride a flying creature known as Ikran." [ 10 ] The Na'vi also use this neural bonding system, called "tsaheylu", to mate with a "life partner", a bond that, when made, cannot be broken in the Na'vi's lifetime. This is akin to human marriage. [ 11 ] Human visitors see the Na'vi as possessing a religion, whose chief and possibly sole deity is a benevolent goddess known as Eywa. The Na'vi are able to physically connect to Eywa when they use their braids to connect to the Tree of Souls and other similar flora which function as the global brain's interfaces. Eywa is said to have a connection to all things Pandoran. [ 12 ] Human interest [ edit ] Of interest to the humans is Pandora's reserves of unobtanium , a valuable room-temperature superconductor mineral valued at 20 million dollars per kilogram. The name is a reference to mythical materials used in engineering which have better properties than real materials. In the Avatar universe (set in the year 2154), humans have achieved a very technologically advanced, post-industrial society ruled/dominated by powerful corporations and industries. One of Earth's most powerful corporations is the globally integrated Resources Development Administration (RDA), a public company which evolved from a Silicon Valley startup , that owns all resources off Earth. The Interplanetary Commerce Administration granted these sole rights to the RDA under the stipulation that the use of weapons of mass destruction is prohibited. [ 13 ] Known RDA personnel on Pandora include head administrator Parker Selfridge, Colonel Miles Quaritch, Private Sean Fike, Corporal Lyle Wainfleet, Dr. Max Patel, Dr. Grace Augustine, Dr. Norm Spellman, Samson 16 pilot Trudy Chacon, and many others. Although Earth is never seen in the film, other than in the extended collector's edition, Cameron developed the future Earth of Avatar as a dystopian , overpopulated , over polluted, global urban slum wrecked by corrupt, nature-destroying industrialism ; the movie's background cyberpunk theme is a regular feature of his work. According to Jake, one of the main characters, the Earth is a "dying world" where humans have "killed their mother ", suggesting that there is very little, if any, functioning natural ecosystem left. By the film's 22nd century timeframe, Earth faces a worldwide economic/energy crisis due to the depletion of natural resources. Earth is also apparently so politically unstable that the services of private security contractors and the militaries of Earth's nations are in high demand; Colonel Miles Quaritch boasts about serving three combat tours of duty in Nigeria before coming to Pandora and notes that Jake is a veteran of a military operation in Venezuela . The planet has also suffered serious natural and man-made disasters, such as an intra-continental conflict and tsunamis hitting the east and west coasts of the United States. Technology [ edit ] One of the futuristic computer screens, used for the AVATAR program, which employs 3D graphics and touchscreen interface. Technologically, humans have achieved monumental advancements by 2154: interplanetary and interstellar space travel and colonization ; virtual 3D printing and holography mapping; and advanced methods of cryonics and psionics (via synthetic telepathy interface ) are employed. Using their capability of advanced genetic engineering , humans develop "Avatar" hybrid bodies from genetically distinct modified human DNA and Na'vi alien genetic material. Through psionics , genetically matched humans are then mind-linked to these "Avatars" for remote control operation. In the area of medicine, humans have developed advanced stem cell neuroregeneration technology that can cure Jake's paralysis. However, in 2154, it is still extremely expensive and is not covered by Veterans Affairs benefits. Thus, RDA is initially able to use Jake's desire to regain the use of his legs as leverage against him. As with many science fiction films, many space vehicles, aircraft, ground vehicles, weapons, and technologies were created to fit the story. Many were patterned after historical or contemporary technologies to give the film a sense of futuristic realism. [ 14 ] Concept artist Ryan Church based many drawings on aerodynamic research from previously classified NASA and DARPA technical papers. Unlike the movie Aliens which employed one drop ship from de-orbit to ground combat, several vehicles cover specific roles of utility transport, gunship, and base resupply. This is similar to the specialization of aircraft and helicopters in the United States military since the Vietnam war. Reception [ edit ] Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly writes, "Cameron turns Pandora into a vertiginously suspended forest landscape ... Jake and the sexy tribal princess Neytiri (Zoë Saldana) wow us with their fluid, prancing movements, but there's no subtext to their smoothly virtual faces." [ 15 ] Carol Kaesuk Yoon of the New York Times wrote that Avatar "has recreated what is the heart of biology : the naked, heart-stopping wonder of really seeing the living world". [ 16 ] CNN reported that the film's universe has had a profound effect on the audience over their perception of Earth, and life on it, in reality. Avatar Forums posted a topic thread entitled "Ways to cope with the depression of the dream of Pandora being intangible" which received "1,000 posts from people experiencing depression and fans trying to help them cope" (a second thread was posted for more room). Philippe Baghdassarian, the site administrator, commented "I wasn't depressed myself. In fact, the movie made me happy, but I can understand why it made people depressed. The movie was so beautiful and it showed something we don't have here on Earth. I think people saw we could be living in a completely different world and that caused them to be depressed." Many have confessed to falling to depression and harboring suicidal thoughts, while others have expressed disgust towards humanity and "disengagement with reality." Psychiatrist Stephan Quentzel added that "Virtual life is not real life and it never will be, but this is the pinnacle of what we can build in a virtual presentation so far." [ 17 ] In February 2010, CNN published an article exploring the "Avatar science" (the technology linking the human mind to a remotely controlled body). Elizabeth Landau wrote, "Scientists say we are many decades, even centuries, away from making this kind of sophisticated interaction possible, if it can be done at all." A neuroscientist at the University of Pittsburgh , Andrew Schwartz, further commented that it "shouldn't be taken as anything but fantasy." [ 18 ] Notes [ edit ] ^ a b Rottenberg, Josh (December 18, 2009). "James Cameron Talks Avatar : Brave Blue World". Entertainment Weekly . No. 1081. p. 51. ^ Germain, David (December 21, 2009). " 'Avatar' creator Cameron shares alien shop talk" . Associated Press via Google News . Archived from the original on December 24, 2009 . Retrieved December 27, 2009 . ^ Although not mentioned in the movie, Polyphemus was discussed in the book James Cameron's Avatar: An Activist Survival Guide by Maria Wilhelm & Dirk Mathison. ISBN 978-0-06-189675-0 . ^ Kozlowski, Lori (January 2, 2010). "Inventing the plants of "Avatar" " . Los Angeles Times . Retrieved January 3, 2010 . ^ Carroll, Larry (June 29, 2006). " 'Titanic' Mastermind James Cameron's King-Size Comeback: Two Sci-Fi Trilogies" . MTV . Archived from the original on July 5, 2006 . Retrieved October 18, 2006 . ^ Murphy, Mekado (December 21, 2009). "A Few Questions for James Cameron" . The New York Times . ^ Eric Ditzian (December 21, 2009). "James Cameron Talks 'Avatar' Sequel Plans" . MTV . Archived from the original on January 14, 2010 . Retrieved January 2, 2010 . ^ a b Anders, Charlie Jane (December 9, 2009). "Pandora's Creatures Were Partly Based on Cars" . Gizmodo . Archived from the original on December 4, 2021 . Retrieved December 3, 2021 . ^ Cohen, David S (December 27, 2009). " 'Avatar' unleashes a new kind of creative" . Variety . Archived from the original on December 4, 2021 . Retrieved December 3, 2021 . ^ Rottenberg, Josh (December 18, 2009). "James Cameron Talks Avatar : Brave Blue World". Entertainment Weekly . No. 1081. pp. 48– 51. ^ Staff (January 4, 2010). "Avatar fans promised alien sex scene on DVD" . The Daily Telegraph . Archived from the original on January 6, 2010 . Retrieved January 7, 2010 . ^ Mckeown, Matt (December 27, 2023). "Avatar: What Is Eywa?" . TheGamer . Retrieved July 21, 2024 . ^ Wilhelm, Maria; Dirk Mathison (November 2009). James Cameron's Avatar: A Confidential Report on the Biological and Social History of Pandora . HarperCollins . p. 147 . ISBN 978-0-06-189675-0 . ^ "Avatar's hardware was all based on real-life stuff" . io9 . ^ Gleiberman, Owen (December 25, 2009). "But What About Avatar ? James Cameron's 3-D epic didn't make our top 10 lists. But critic Owen Gleiberman praises its visual artistry". Entertainment Weekly . No. 1082/1083. p. 84. ^ Kaesuk Yoon, Carol (January 19, 2010). "Luminous 3-D Jungle Is a Biologist's Dream" . The New York Times . p. D-1. ^ Piazza, Jo (January 11, 2010). "Audiences experience 'Avatar' blues" . CNN . Retrieved February 19, 2010 . ^ Landau, Elizabeth (February 3, 2010). "Is the 'Avatar' concept really possible?" . CNN . Retrieved February 9, 2010 . References [ edit ] Fitzgerald, Lisa (2009). The Art of Avatar: James Cameron's Epic Adventure . Abrams. ISBN 978-0-8109-8286-4 . Wilhelm, Maria; Mathison, Dirk (2009). Avatar: A Confidential Report on the Biological and Social History of Pandora . It Books. ISBN 978-0-06-189675-0 . Wilhelm, Maria; Mathison, Dirk (2009). James Cameron's Avatar: The Movie Scrapbook . HarperFestival. ISBN 978-0-06-180124-2 . External links [ edit ] Wikinews has related news: Elvish, Klingon and Na'vi: Constructed languages gain foothold in film "The Complete History Of Pandora, According To Avatar's Designers" at io9.com "The Tet Zoo guide to the creatures of Avatar " at Tetrapod Zoology Is the 'Avatar' Concept Really Possible? by CNN v t e Avatar Films Avatar (2009) accolades box office records The Way of Water (2022) accolades Fire and Ash (2025) Avatar 4 (2029) Characters Jake Sully Miles Quaritch Neytiri Concepts Fictional universe Naʼvi language Naʼvi grammar Resources Development Administration (RDA) unobtainium Themes Soundtracks Avatar " I See You " The Way of Water " Nothing Is Lost (You Give Me Strength) " Video games The Game (2009) Frontiers of Pandora (2023) Other media The Art of Avatar Lego Avatar Toruk – The First Flight Pandora – The World of Avatar Avatar Flight of Passage Na'vi River Journey Related " Dances with Smurfs " This Ain't Avatar Aliens vs. Avatars Arctesthes avatar Edgar Rice Burroughs's Barsoom Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fictional_universe_of_Avatar&oldid=1285733696 " Categories : Avatar (franchise) Fiction about gas giants Fictional elements introduced in 2009 Fictional universes Overpopulation fiction Works set on fictional moons Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles that need to differentiate between fact and fiction from February 2023 All articles that need to differentiate between fact and fiction Articles needing additional references from February 2023 All articles needing additional references Articles with multiple maintenance issues Use American English from January 2022 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from September 2024 This page was last edited on 15 April 2025, at 13:02 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Fictional universe of Avatar 7 languages Add topic