Jon Fosse – Facts – 2023 - NobelPrize.org Skip to content Open the search menu Close the search menu Close Mobile Menu Toggle Mobile Menu Nobel Prizes & laureates All Nobel Prizes All Nobel Prizes 2024 Physics prize Chemistry prize Medicine prize Literature prize Peace prize Prize in economic sciences About About the prize Alfred Nobel Award ceremonies Nomination Organisation Stories Educational Events & museums Open the search menu Close the search menu Header Search Submit a search term Enhanced Page Navigation Jon Fosse – Facts – 2023 Nobel Prize in Literature 2023 Summary Laureates Jon Fosse Facts Nobel Lecture Prize presentation Banquet speech Podcast Interview Prose Nobel diploma Photo gallery Other resources Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech Share this Facebook X LinkedIn Email this page Jon Fosse Facts Navigate to: Summary -- Facts -- Nobel Lecture -- Prize presentation -- Banquet speech -- Podcast -- Interview -- Prose -- Nobel diploma -- Photo gallery -- Other resources Prize announcement Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony video Award ceremony speech © Nobel Prize Outreach. Photo: Clément Morin Jon Fosse Nobel Prize in Literature 2023 Born:		29 September 1959, Haugesund, Norway Residence at the time of the award: 					Norway; Austria Prize motivation: 					“for his innovative plays and prose which give voice to the unsayable” Language: 					Norwegian Nynorsk Prize share: 				1/1 Work Jon Fosse's immense œuvre written in Nynorsk consists of a wealth of plays, novels, poetry collections, essays, children’s books and translations. In his radical reduction of language and dramatic action, he expresses the most powerful human emotions of anxiety and powerlessness in the simplest everyday terms. It is through this ability to evoke man’s loss of orientation, that he is a major innovator in contemporary theatre. Despite Fosse's negative outlook, there is great warmth and humour in his work, and a naïve vulnerability to his stark images of human experience. To cite this section MLA style: Jon Fosse – Facts – 2023. NobelPrize.org. Nobel Prize Outreach 2025. Wed. 30 Apr 2025. <https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/literature/2023/fosse/facts/> Back to top Back To Top Takes users back to the top of the page Book tips Nobel Prize in Literature 2023 What to read? Want to get started with 2023 literature laureate Jon Fosse, but don’t know which book to pick up first? Here, Anders Olsson, Chairman of the The Nobel Committee for Literature gives his recommendations. Photo: Claire Eriksson. © Nobel Prize Outreach Nobel Prizes and laureates Nobel Prizes 2024 Six prizes were awarded for achievements that have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind. The 12 laureates' work and discoveries range from proteins' structures and machine learning to fighting for a world free of nuclear weapons. See them all presented here. Explore prizes and laureates Look for popular awards and laureates in different fields, and discover the history of the Nobel Prize. Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Decrease the year by one - Choose a year you would like to search in Increase the year by one + Explore About the Nobel Prize organisation The Nobel Foundation Tasked with a mission to manage Alfred Nobel's fortune and has ultimate responsibility for fulfilling the intentions of Nobel's will. The prize-awarding institutions For more than a century, these academic institutions have worked independently to select Nobel Prize laureates. Outreach organisations Several outreach organisations and activities have been developed to inspire generations and disseminate knowledge about the Nobel Prize. Press Contact FAQ Privacy policy Terms of use For developers Media player Careers Join us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Nobel Prize Copyright © Nobel Prize Outreach 2025 Scroll to top