The Guardian view on Nobel winner Olga Tokarczuk: light amid the dark | Editorial | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons ‘Tokarczuk’s Nobel lecture bears witness to her belief in the power of literature in a world of information overload.’ Photograph: Tt News Agency/Reuters View image in fullscreen ‘Tokarczuk’s Nobel lecture bears witness to her belief in the power of literature in a world of information overload.’ Photograph: Tt News Agency/Reuters Opinion Nobel prize in literature This article is more than 5 years old The Guardian view on Nobel winner Olga Tokarczuk: light amid the dark This article is more than 5 years old Editorial The 2019 prize for literature has been mired in controversy. But that should not take away from the humanity and hope offered by the 2018 winner Fri 13 Dec 2019 12.31 EST Last modified on Sun 15 Dec 2019 11.56 EST Share A crimony has engulfed the Nobel literature prize over its latest winner’s support for Slobodan Milošević’s genocidal Serbian regime. The ambassadors of Turkey, Albania and Kosovo boycotted Tuesday’s prize ceremony and correspondents who reported on the Balkans conflict, from the BBC’s Jeremy Bowen to CNN’s Christiane Amanpour, have joined the protests. The 2019 Nobel should never have been awarded to Peter Handke . The rightful anger has overshadowed the deserving winner of the 2018 prize – honoured simultaneously because last year’s announcement was delayed by the sexual assault scandal that overtook the Swedish Academy. She is the Polish novelist Olga Tokarczuk , best known in English for Flights and Drive Your Plow Over the Bones of the Dead. The former is a poetic meditation on travel; the latter a genre-defying, William Blake-infused story set amid an isolated community on the Czech border, which might be described as a poetic eco-thriller. Tokarczuk’s Nobel lecture bears witness to her belief in the power of literature in a world of information overload and fissiparous, divisive narratives. She uses a particularly striking image: “The world is a fabric we weave daily on the great looms of information, discussions, films books, gossip, little anecdotes. Today the purview of these looms is enormous – thanks to the internet, almost everyone can take part in the process, taking responsibility and not, lovingly and hatefully, for better and for worse”. She recalls, as a child, having an instinctive understanding through fairytales and myth of the connectedness of things, the fact that all of us – humans, animals, plants, objects, landscapes – are bound together. As she grew older, she lost that sense of deep interdependence. It is what, as a writer, she has yearned to rediscover through her imaginative life, recognising that creativity is not abstract and removed from the world, but a continuation of it. At the moment, humans are not doing well in this shared project of existence; our greed, failure to respect nature, selfishness and other shortcomings have reduced the world to the status of an object that can be destroyed, she writes. Her lecture is a call to action: “I must tell stories as if the world were a living, single entity, constantly forming before our eyes, and as if we were a small and at the same time powerful part in it.” Her words offer a warning, but also a shard of optimism, of possibility despite the darkness. Explore more on these topics Nobel prize in literature Opinion Olga Tokarczuk Awards and prizes Peter Handke editorials Share Reuse this content Comments (…) Sign in or create your Guardian account to join the discussion Most viewed Most viewed The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)