Xenoblade Chronicles 2 | Xenoblade Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Xenoblade Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio WiseAdventurer NDS123 Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Xenoblade Wiki 24,638 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio WiseAdventurer NDS123 Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki in: Games , Xenoblade Chronicles 2 , Xenoblade Chronicles series English Deutsch Español Français Türkçe 中文 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Developer Monolith Soft Publisher Nintendo Composers Yasunori Mitsuda Manami Kiyota ACE Arrangers Jen Bird Genre Action-Role Playing Game modes Single-player Platform(s) Nintendo Switch Game file size 13.2 GB Languages American English, British English, Canadian French, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Latin American Spanish, European Spanish Rating CERO : C (15+) PEGI : 12 ACB : M ESRB : T Release date December 1, 2017 December 1, 2017 December 1, 2017 December 1, 2017 December 1, 2017 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 , known in Japan as Xenoblade 2 (Japanese: ゼノブレイド2 , Zenobureido Tsū ), is a role-playing video game published by Nintendo and developed by Monolith Soft for the Nintendo Switch. The game was announced during the Nintendo Switch Presentation on January 12, 2017. The game was released on December 1, 2017 in Japan, North America, Europe, China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. Voice Over is available in English on International cartridges and Japanese on Asian cartridges and free downloadable content for International cartridges, while text is offered in English, French, Spanish, German and Italian on International cartridges, Korean as free downloadable content for International cartridges; and Japanese, Simplified Chinese and Traditional Chinese on Asian cartridges. It is the second main entry in the Xenoblade Chronicles trilogy . Contents 1 Categories 2 Gameplay 3 Story 4 Characters 5 Downloadable content 5.1 Updates 5.1.1 Version 1.1.0 5.1.2 Version 1.1.1 5.1.3 Version 1.2.0 5.1.4 Version 1.3.0 5.1.5 Version 1.3.1 5.1.6 Version 1.4.0 5.1.7 Version 1.4.1 5.1.8 Version 1.5.0 5.1.9 Version 1.5.1 5.1.10 Version 1.5.2 5.1.11 Version 2.0.0 5.1.12 Version 2.0.1 5.1.13 Version 2.0.2 5.1.14 Version 2.1.0 5.2 Japanese-voice Pack Free DLC 5.3 Expansion Pass 5.3.1 Helpful Items Pack 1 5.3.2 Helpful Items Pack 2 5.3.3 Helpful Items Pack 3 5.3.4 New Quests Pack 1 5.3.5 Helpful Items Pack 4 5.3.6 New Quests Pack 2 5.3.7 New Rare Blade Pack 5.3.8 New Quests Pack 3 5.3.9 Challenge Battle Mode Pack 5.3.10 New Quests Pack 4 5.3.11 New Rare Blade Pack 2 5.3.12 Helpful New Features 5.3.13 New Rare Blade Pack 3 5.3.14 New Challenge Battle Mode Features 5.3.15 Final Item Distribution List 5.3.16 Torna ~ The Golden Country 6 Merchandise 6.1 Nintendo Switch Online Icon Elements 6.1.1 List of Icon Elements 7 Games Collaboration 8 Event 9 Gallery 9.1 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 9.2 Torna ~ The Golden Country 10 Videos 11 Reception 12 External links 12.1 Nintendo Japan 12.2 Nintendo of America 12.3 Nintendo UK 12.4 Other links 13 References Categories [ ] Characters Quests Enemies NPCs Places Items Drivers Blades Accessories Aux Cores Gameplay [ ] Xenoblade Chronicles 2 uses a similar approach to gameplay mechanics as Xenoblade Chronicles and Xenoblade Chronicles X , such as the freedom to explore the world of Alrest , the ability to run to virtually anywhere seen in the distance, and the return of a Arts battle system which involves both auto-attacks and a cooldown timer for each Art. In this installment, playable characters are called Drivers , and they are supported by weaponized lifeforms called Blades , which determines their currently wielded weapon and available arts. Blades appear as characters on the field, although they cannot be controlled directly, and establish a tether to their Driver while supporting them during combat. Unlike in the previous games, Arts must be built up over time through auto-attacks. Arts are divided into Driver Arts and Blade Arts . Executing Arts, in turn, will fill up the Special gauge. These Specials deliver a powerful attack and feature four levels of intensity (from I to IV). Instead of an Art palette, Arts are assigned to the face buttons of the controller. A Driver can have up to three Blades equipped and may switch between them in battle as the situation warrants. The game introduces the new Driver , Blade and Fusion Combos battle mechanics. A mechanic called Blade Resonance allows Drivers to resonate with Core Crystals to awaken new Blades, with some being rarer than others, and increase their possibilities. The Blades created cannot be anticipated, however, the Rare Blades are unique while the Common Blades are randomly determined. Each Blade is associated with a type of weapon and element affinity. It is possible to switch Blades in order to obtain more combinations allowing more playstyles. A Driver can bond with multiple Blades, enabling flexibility for encountering enemies while on the field. Party Gauge : A three-bar gauge filled as the party characters fight together. The energy gathered in a full bar is necessary to revive an incapacitated member, and the full gauge is necessary to initiate a Chain Attack , where each member attacks in succession with one of their Blades. Party : Names, levels , and HP of the Drivers in the party. Blades : The Blades currently driven and mapped to the corresponding buttons of the controller. Arts Palette : The Arts the Driver controlled accessible from the current Blade, each one mapped to the corresponding button of the right controller. Special Art Effect : The duration effect of the Special Art inflicted to the enemy. During this time, other Special Arts can be used for Blade Combos. Blade Combo Tree : The Special Arts available to be chained together to continue the Blade Combo. Enemy Info : The enemy's level, name, HP bar, and elemental weakness. Available Elemental Arts : Icons displaying another Driver using a Blade, here Nia driving her Water Blade Dromarch, who can continue the Blade Combo with "Venom Water". When this move is charged and available, a controller button will appear inside the icon. Story [ ] Main article: Xenoblade Chronicles 2 (plot) Characters [ ] Main Characters Rex Pyra Mythra Nia Dromarch Tora Poppi Vandham Roc Zeke Pandoria Mòrag Brighid Azurda Rare Blades Adenine Agate Azami Boreas Corvin Crossette Dagas Dahlia Electra Elma Finch Fiora Floren Godfrey Gorg Herald Kasandra Kora KOS-MOS Newt Nim Perceval Perun Poppibuster Praxis Sheba Shulk T-elos Theory Ursula Vale Vess Wulfric Zenobia Downloadable content [ ] Updates [ ] For the full patch notes, see [ How to update Xenoblade Chronicles 2 ]. Several free updates have been released for the game on Switch. These are downloaded automatically when the game is launched if the console has a working internet connection. Each update can expand the game content or fix bugs and glitches. Version 1.1.0 [ ] The version 1.1.0 update was released on December 1st, 2017. It included the following changes: " Events Theater " function to watch cutscenes "Expansion Pass" function added to the main menu. Game balance adjusted Various fixes to improve gameplay Version 1.1.1 [ ] The version 1.1.1 update was released on December 22nd, 2017. It included the following changes: Bug fixes Easy mode for Tiger! Tiger! By pressing the X Button, the Skip Travel screen will open the map to the current location. This will make it easier to spot Skip Travel locations and Salvage Points on the map. An additional 1:1 zoom on the mini map will be displayed by pressing the L Stick. This will allow improved visibility of your surroundings and make it easier to check quest locations. Version 1.2.0 [ ] The version 1.2.0 update was released on January 18th, 2018. It included the following changes: Bug fixes "New Quests Pack 1" and "Helpful Items Pack 3" added for purchasers of the Expansion Pass Voiced segments in menus can be skipped Although not mentioned in the official update notes, this update changes some of the battle dialog of Ardainian Soldiers : "Think you can take me?" becomes "Take this!" "Don't forget me!" becomes "Don't forget!" Version 1.3.0 [ ] The version 1.3.0 update was released on March 2nd, 2018. It included the following changes: "Helpful Items Pack 4" added for purchasers of the Expansion Pass. Bug fix on Chapter 7 brought by Patch (Ver.1.2.0) concerning a Blade not displayed on list afterwards. Five updates can be applied to first playthrough or second one, the New Game Plus : A locking mechanism to lock certain Blades in the party from the menu so that they cannot be released, and to make them more visible. This feature will be useful in a variety of situations, such as if a 4-star Common Blade is obtained. The option to skip the Blade resonating scene. While expanded, the mini-map can display the same icons set up on the Skip Travel screen. The "Easy Mode" is added to the game difficulty. The original game difficulty level is "Normal Mode". The difficulty level can be changed at any time with the in-game options. New sorting options for Accessories , Aux Cores , and Blade lists. The second playthrough New Game Plus elements: Many elements carried over to New Game Plus such as Driver levels, awakened Blades, Driver and Blade equipment and Affinity Charts, acquired items and Gold, Development Level status and Merc Group level, status of Events Theater and defeated unique monsters, and play time. While Quests, Merc Missions, Heart-to-Hearts, and Skip Travel points are all be reset. Saving after beginning a New Game Plus playthrough overwrites the save data in which the game was initially cleared. All Blades can be dispatched on Merc Missions . This means that Blades like Pyra, Mythra or Dromarch that could not be disengaged from the party during an initial playthrough can now be dispatched. Level 4 Specials of certain Blades can be unlocked. New Drivers' Skills by adding further growth factors to unlock in the hidden Drivers' Affinities, such as Zeke's "Eye of Shining Justice" skills. Drivers' level can be decreased at inns, and will likewise gain bonus experience according to their decreased level. This bonus experience can be exchanged for special items, including an item that increases the number of Accessory slots available to a Driver, obtainable by trading with the bards who appear on each Titan. Ability to recruit Blades from Torna . Version 1.3.1 [ ] The version 1.3.1 update was released on March 30th, 2018.  It included the following changes: "New Quests Pack 2" added for purchasers of the Expansion Pass. Fixes the bug that was introduced in Ver.1.3.0, in particular, some Common Blade disappearance during New Game Plus. Many remaining issues fixed. The new DLC NPC, Momoni has been added to chapter 1 of New Game Plus, to restore the money one time. He will help when the party is unable to buy an Abyss Vest or unable to send funds due to lack of money on-hand. The difficulty is adjusted of some of the Boss battles in Chapter 10 of New Game Plus reflecting Rex's level. The currently held and maximum number of accessories, Aux Cores, and Poppi parts in menus and shops are now displayed. The notification page containing information about the Expansion Pass is added to the menu. If the Expansion Pass is removed or deleted from the console, "Continue" can no longer be selected to resume Expansion Pass save data. "Continue" can be selected again once the Expansion Pass is downloaded. Version 1.4.0 [ ] The version 1.4.0 update was released on April 27th, 2018. It included the following changes: "New Rare Blade Pack" added for purchasers of the Expansion Pass. Poppibuster can be obtained after completing the new Blade Quest Shiny New Power . Several issues fixed A new blade, T-elos , is available. After having cleared the game's main story, once a star appears next to the current money in the menu, T-elos can be obtained from Core Crystals at random. Numerous Traveling Bards have been added that will exchange bonus EXP for Poppi's rare Parts when playing New Game Plus. Added the sorting categories "Driver", "Trust", and "Field Skill" to the Blade List. Added the sorting category "Type" to the list of Accessories. Version 1.4.1 [ ] The version 1.4.1 update was released on May 24th, 2018. It included the following changes: "New Quests Pack 3" added for purchasers of the Expansion Pass. Several issues fixed. Version 1.5.0 [ ] The version 1.5.0 patch was released on June 14th, 2018. It included the following changes: Some issues fixed. "Challenge Battle Mode Pack" added for purchasers of the Expansion Pass Shulk and Fiora from Xenoblade Chronicles join the fight as Blades. Version 1.5.1 [ ] The version 1.5.1 patch was released on July 27, 2018. It included the following changes: New Shackle Blade Resist Skill RAMs. Changes made to Challenge Battle Mode. Some issues fixed. New items available from Nopon Archsage . "New Quests Pack 4" added for purchasers of the Expansion Pass. "New Rare Blade Pack" added for purchasers of the Expansion Pass. Crossette can be obtained New difficulty levels added. Version 1.5.2 [ ] The version 1.5.2 update was released on August 24, 2018. It included the following changes: Changes made to Challenge Battle Mode. New challenge battles available from Nopon Archsage. Elma from Xenoblade Chronicles X can be obtained as a usable blade if she is beaten in the challenge battle Otherworldly Fighter . New items available from Nopon Archsage. "New Rare Blade Pack" added for purchasers of the Expansion Pass. Corvin can be obtained Version 2.0.0 [ ] The version 2.0.0 update was released on September 14, 2018. It included the following changes: Fixed a bug which could prevent completion of quests in certain cases. Main title screen updated to add Torna ~ The Golden Country for purchasers of the Expansion Pass. " Final Item Distribution List " added for purchasers of the Expansion Pass. Elma’s Overdrive ability can now be used if switching from auto-battle to manual controls during battle. Elma can join your party as a Blade during the Challenge Battle "Nopondemonium" in the Expansion Pass. Version 2.0.1 [ ] The version 2.0.1 update was released on October 18, 2018. It included the following changes: Bug fixes Version 2.0.2 [ ] The version 2.0.2 update was released on December 2, 2018. It included the following changes: Added the ability to receive the new Massive Melee Mythra Aux Core, which changes the appearance of Mythra in both Xenoblade Chronicles 2 and Torna ~ The Golden Country . It can be received in Xenoblade Chronicles 2 by speaking to Brobro near the Salvage Deck in the Argentum Trade Guild anytime after Chapter 3 has been completed. It can be received in Torna ~ The Golden Country by speaking to the Nameless Wanderpon in the Feltley Village in the Kingdom of Torna . Version 2.1.0 [ ] The version 2.1.0 update was released on September 2nd, 2020. It included the following changes: Korean text is now supported. The text can be changed to Korean by setting the Nintendo Switch language setting to Korean. (Korean voices are not supported). Japanese-voice Pack Free DLC [ ] December 1st, 2017: A free day-one DLC adds the Japanese-voice Pack. Exclusive to International cartridges. Expansion Pass [ ] An Expansion Pass was made available upon the release of the game. Currently, it requires 600MB of space. Helpful Items Pack 1 [ ] December 1st, 2017: A series of adventure support items: War Chest Contribution from Bana: 50,000 G Super-Useful Pouch items Sample: 3 x Cream Orange Parathas Gift from Mr. Rurui: 10 x Silver Cylinders Newbie Driver's Core Crystal Set: 5 x Common Core Crystals Helpful Items Pack 2 [ ] December 22nd, 2017: A series of adventure support items: Driver Essentials Set: 10 x Rare Core Crystal, 1 x Legendary Core Crystal, 3 x Overdrive Protocol Upgrade Parts for Poppi: 30,000 ether Pyra's Favourite Things: 5 x Jenerossi Tea Nia's Favourite Things: 5 x Ardainian Bear Carving Helpful Items Pack 3 [ ] January 18th, 2018: A series of adventure support items: Driver Essentials Set 2: Rare Core Crystal x 10 Legendary Core Crystal x 1 Overdrive Protocol x 1 Tora's Favorite Thing: Juicy Samod x 3 Poppi α's Favorite Thing: Fizz Juice x 3 Charming Driver Gear: Auto-Balancer x 1 New Quests Pack 1 [ ] January 18th, 2018: A series of additional quests for the main game: Passion of the Artisan (available from chapter 2) M.I.A. Nopon (available from chapter 3) Industrial Sort of Tour (available from chapter 5) Midnight Feasting (available from chapter 7) The Lone Watchman (available from chapter 10) Helpful Items Pack 4 [ ] March 2nd, 2018: An incoming series of adventure support items. Upgrade Parts for Poppi QT : 30,000 Ether Driver Essentials Set 3: Legendary Core Crystal x 8 Overdrive Protocol x 3 New Quests Pack 2 [ ] March 30th, 2018: A series of additional quests for the main game: Nopon of Good Tastes (available from chapter 2) Cleared of All Charges (available from chapter 5; Rare Blades Perun, Godfrey and Perceval required) Beneath the Aurora (available from chapter 6) Upgrades and Tinkering (available from chapter 8) Most Awful News?! (available from chapter 10; Rare Blade Finch required) New Rare Blade Pack [ ] April 27th, 2018: An incoming additional Rare Blade for the main game: A Blade called Poppibuster appears in the game. The rare Blade Quest Shiny New Power must be completed to a certain point before Poppibuster can be engaged. New Quests Pack 3 [ ] May 24th, 2018: A series of additional quests for the main game: A Smith's Pastime A Hat Fit for a Lady (available from chapter 5) Making Love Source (available from chapter 7; Poppi QT required) A Mercenary's Honor (available from chapter 10, after completing "Beneath the Aurora") Merclibay's Mightiest (available from chapter 10; Rare Blades Electra, Zenobia and Herald required) Challenge Battle Mode Pack [ ] 5:00, June 15th, 2018 (UTC): An incoming new challenge battle mode against powerful enemies. Nopon Summons New Challenge Battle Mode gives players many chances to test their skills, plenty of loot to earn, and some minor story elements that show the characters in a new light. Battle hordes of enemies in Waves to complete each challenge. Shulk and Fiora from Xenoblade Chronicles join the fight as Blades! Extra Game Options New Quests Pack 4 [ ] July 27th, 2018: A series of additional quests for the main game: Sunken Boosters The Trendy Patissier (available from chapter 8; Rare Blades Gorg and Boreas required; after completing "Follow Your Passion") Artisanal Accessories (available from chapter 7) Hot Spring Bonanza (available from chapter 10; Rare Blades Sheba, Kora and Kasandra required) Mystery Launch Codes (available from chapter 10; Rare Blades Adenine and KOS-MOS required) New Rare Blade Pack 2 [ ] July 27th, 2018: An incoming additional Rare Blade for the main game: A Blade called Crossette appears in the game. The Key Item A Firecracker of a Gal must be obtained to receive a Core Crystal guaranteed to awaken Crossette. Helpful New Features [ ] July 27th, 2018: Adds two difficulty levels, "Bringer of Chaos" and "Custom". New Difficulty Levels Nopon Invitation New Rare Blade Pack 3 [ ] August 24th, 2018: An incoming additional Rare Blade for the main game: A Blade called Corvin appears in the game. The Key Item A Boy of Two Swords must be obtained to receive a Core Crystal guaranteed to awaken Corvin. New Challenge Battle Mode Features [ ] August 24th, 2018: Adds two new challenge battles, "Otherworldly Fighter and "Poisoned Paradise." Nopon Summons, Pt. 2 Nopon Invitation, Pt. 2 Final Item Distribution List [ ] September 14, 2018: The final set of adventure support items: Legendary Core Crystal ×15 Overdrive Protocol ×3 Love Source ×10 Torna ~ The Golden Country [ ] Main article: Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna ~ The Golden Country September 14th, 2018: Torna ~ The Golden Country : An incoming brand-new story and adventure about the past of the Kingdom of Torna . A physical version will be available on September 21st. " Guide a group of legendary warriors on a journey through the tragic history that doomed a kingdom and drove a hero down a dark path 500 years before the events of Xenoblade Chronicles 2 . Defend yourself from Malos and his forces using all the fury of this refined battle system, allowing you to fight as both the artificial lifeforms known as Blades and their masters, the Drivers. Available September 21st! " — Torna ~ The Golden Country announcement Expansion Pass in Europe Expansion Pass in Europe Expansion Pass in North America Expansion Pass in North America Merchandise [ ] Several tie-in products have been or will be released. These include: A limited special/collector edition of the game with the following extras: The Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Collected Works , an artbook containing concept art and game illustrations. A Steelbook(TM)/Special Metal Game Case. The Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Sound Selection CD A special Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Nintendo Switch Pro Controller. A limited time X-shaped pin like the one in the chest of Rex. A 1/7 scale Pyra figure made by Good Smile Company and based on a concept art designed by Masatsugu Saito . A 1/7 scale Mythra figure made by Good Smile Company and based on a concept art designed by Masatsugu Saito. A 1/7 scale Siren figure made by Kotobukiya. A 1/7 Nia figure made by Good Smile Company and based on her blade form. Three versions of the Xenoblade 2 Original Soundtrack on May 23, 2018: Standard Edition, a 5 discs pack containing the 105 tracks. Deluxe Edition, a 6 discs pack containing the 105 tracks plus 21 extras, with limited copies. USB Deluxe Edition, a Core Crystal-shaped USB stick containing the 105 tracks and 21 extras; limited to 2,000 copies. The Special Edition in North America The Collector's Edition in Europe The special Switch Pro Controller The 1/7 scale Pyra figure The 1/7 scale Mythra figure The 1/7 scale Siren figure USB Deluxe Edition of the Xenoblade 2 Original Soundtrack The 1/7 Scale Nia Figure Nintendo Switch Online Icon Elements [ ] From June 9th, 2023 to June 16th, 2023, Nintendo Switch Online Icon Elements of characters from Xenoblade Chronicles 2 and Torna ~ The Golden Country were made available, as part of the elements based on the Xenoblade Chronicles series. List of Icon Elements [ ] Rex Pyra Mythra Nia (Driver) Dromarch Tora Poppi α Poppi QT Poppi QTπ Mòrag Brighid Zeke Pandoria Vandham Roc Jin (Masked) Malos Akhos Patroka Mikhail Pneuma Nia (Blade) Lora Jin (Unmasked) Addam Hugo Shulk Fiora Games Collaboration [ ] Xenoblade Chronicles 2 side quest triggered A DLC for The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild bringing Rex's costume to Link was released on November 9th, 2017. It offers the new side quest [Xenoblade Chronicles 2] where Link has to discover three red treasures across Hyrule , containing the Salvager Headwear , Vest and Trousers . These three pieces of Rex's costume, when worn together, grant Link the bonus effect Swim Speed Up. Event [ ] Monolith Soft announced on April 27th, 2018 an Illustration Contest in Japan in which artists could submit their own artwork up until June 22nd. On October 22nd, 2018 the winners were published in Monolith Soft's website (the artworks may contain spoilers). Gallery [ ] Xenoblade Chronicles 2 [ ] American box art Art on the inside of the case Aegis Art Artwork featured on Xenoblade 2 Original Soundtrack Rex and Pyra Azurda housing Rex on his back Overview from the Gormott's back Overview of Uraya's forest Rex and Pyra observing the World-Tree by night Rex and Floren looking at the Kingdom of Uraya 's luminescent forest Rex and Pyra looking at Gormott's head Rex and Azurda An Artifice Rex's appearance evolution between two early build versions Title screen of the Japanese version New Game Title Screen Chapter 1 Title Screen Chapter 2 Title Screen Chapter 3 Title Screen Chapter 4 Title Screen Three Driver/Blade duos Characters selection Pyra Mythra Finch preparing an attack Promotional picture published by Nintendo of Europe Title screen on a Japanese Switch shown by the plushy Tatsu , Riki and Monopon Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Launch Artwork from Masatsugu Saito Xenoblade Chronicles 2 1st Anniversary Celebration Official Artwork from Masatsugu Saito Xenoblade Chronicles 2 5th Anniversary Celebration Wallpaper Xenoblade Chronicles 2 5th Anniversary Celebration Wallpaper Xenoblade Chronicles 2 5th Anniversary Celebration Official Artwork from Masatsugu Saito Xenoblade Chronicles 2 6th Anniversary Celebration Official Artwork from Masatsugu Saito Xenoblade Chronicles 2 7th Anniversary Celebration Official Artwork from Masatsugu Saito Torna ~ The Golden Country [ ] Videos [ ] Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Expansion Pass - Elma Trailer - Nintendo Switch Expansion Pass Elma trailer Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Expansion Pass - The Adventure Continues Trailer - Nintendo Switch Expansion Pass trailer Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Torna ~ The Golden Country - Nintendo Treehouse Live E3 2018 Torna ~ The Golden Country during the third Nintendo Treehouse Live at E3 2018 Xenoblade Chronocles 2 Challenge Battle Mode Gameplay - Nintendo Treehouse Live E3 2018 Challenge Battle Mode Gameplay during the second Nintendo Treehouse Live at E3 2018 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Torna ~ The Golden Country - Announcement Trailer - Nintendo E3 2018 Torna ~ The Golden Country Announcement at E3 2018 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 – Helpful Hints for Beginners (Nintendo Switch) Helpful Hints for Beginners by Nintendo Australia Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - Accolades Trailer - Nintendo Switch Accolades Trailer Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - Launch Trailer (Nintendo Switch) Launch Trailer Xenoblade Chronicles 2 – Nintendo UK Play – Uraya and Mor Ardain (Nintendo Switch) Nintendo UK Play – Uraya and Mor Ardain Xenoblade Chronicles 2 – Nintendo UK Play – Gormott (Nintendo Switch) Nintendo UK Play – Gormott ゼノブレイド2 トレーラー ストーリー編 Japanese Story Trailer Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - Story Trailer - Nintendo Switch Story Trailer with English Subtitles Xenoblade Chronicles 2 – Characters Trailer (Nintendo Switch) Characters Trailer with English voice acting 「ゼノブレイド2」より Shadow of the Lowlands "Shadow of the Lowlands" single Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - In search of Elysium (Nintendo Switch) Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - "In search of Elysium" trailer 【ゼノブレイド2】プロダクションノート「キャラクターデザインについて（その1）」 Production Note "About Character Design (Part 1)" Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - Let's go to Elysium (Nintendo Switch) Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - "Let's go to Elysium" trailer ゼノブレイド2 紹介映像 Introduction video of Xenoblade 2 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 “Close Call” - Nintendo Switch "Close Call" commercial in North America ゼノブレイド2 TVCM A series of three official commercials in Japan We Play Xenoblade Chronicles 2 w Nintendo Treehouse (50 Minutes of Gameplay!) Xenoblade Chronicles 2 w/ Nintendo Treehouse (50 Minutes of Gameplay) by GameXplain and Nintendo of America Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Gameplay Exploring, Fighting, Shopping, and Blade Bonding Gameplay Demo by IGN 30 Minutes Of Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - Gameplay Demo Gameplay Demo by Gamespot Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Direct 11.7.2017 Nintendo Direct 11.7.2017 part 2 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - Character Trailer - Nintendo Switch Character Trailer Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Direct 11.7.2017-0 Nintendo Direct 11.7.2017 part 1 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 – Blades (Nintendo Switch) Blades in battle Xenoblade Chronicles 2 – Driver Arts (Nintendo Switch) Driver Arts mechanism Xenoblade Chronicles 2 – Switching Blades (Nintendo Switch) Switching Blades during a battle Xenoblade Chronicles 2 – Specials (Nintendo Switch) Specials mechanism Xenoblade Chronicles 2, Skyrim & Fire Emblem Warriors - 'Close Call' - Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch advertising featuring Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - Nintendo Switch - Nintendo Direct 9.13.2017 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - Nintendo Switch - Nintendo Direct 9.13.2017 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 gameplay - gamescom 2017 (Nintendo Switch) Xenoblade Chronicles 2 gameplay - gamescom 2017 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - Nintendo Treehouse Live @ E3 2017 - first footage Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - Nintendo Treehouse: Live @ E3 2017 - First Footage Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - E3 2017 Trailer (Nintendo Switch) Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - E3 2017 Trailer (Nintendo Switch) Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - Nintendo Switch Presentation 2017 Trailer Xenoblade Chronicles 2 - Nintendo Switch Presentation 2017 Trailer Reception [ ] Xenoblade Chronicles 2 received an aggregate score of 83/100 based on 92 critic reviews on Metacritic. [ 1 ] External links [ ] Nintendo Japan [ ] Official Xenoblade 2 website Torna ~ The Golden Country Production notes: Upcoming updates by Tetsuya Takahashi Pyra figure announcement Theory and Praxis designs by Mr. Kohichi Muya (CHOCO) Ver.1.2.0 bug to be fixed in Ver.1.3.0 by Tetsuya Takahashi Ver.1.3.0 update by Tetsuya Takahashi Xenoblade 2 Original Soundtrack by Yasunori Mitsuda Kunihiko Tanaka's design work on KOS-MOS and Finch Ver.1.3.0 bug Mythra figure announcement by Takahashi Sokantoku Ver.1.4.0 update and "New Rare Blade Pack" by Tetsuya Takahashi Ver.1.5.0 update and "Challenge Battle Mode" Q&A Note about the Ver.1.3.1 update and future "Expansion Pass" contents Nintendo of America [ ] Official Xenoblade Chronicles 2 website Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Expansion Pass How to Update Xenoblade Chronicles 2 (includes details of what's in each update) Behind the story development by Yuichiro Takeda Message from Director Takahashi Director Takahashi on the first post-launch update Nintendo UK [ ] Official Xenoblade Chronicles 2 website Expansion Pass Masatsugu Saito discusses main character design – part one Masatsugu Saito discusses main character design – part two An introduction to Xenoblade Chronicles 2 from director Tetsuya Takahashi Upcoming updates by Tetsuya Takahashi Tetsuya Takahashi reveals new update information Note about the Ver.1.3.0 defect which is fixed in Ver.1.3.1 Tetsuya Takahashi interview revealing more on Torna ~ The Golden Country Other links [ ] 4Gamer interview of Tetsuya Takahashi (Japanese) Xenoblade 2 Soundtrack official website Tetsuya Takahashi and Katsura Hashino interview by Den-fami Nico Gamer Partial translation about the development by Siliconera Illustration Contest announced by Monolith Soft in order to design and release a new Rare Blade Nintendo Switch Presentation 2017 Xenoblade Chronicles 2 article on Wikipedia Xenoblade Chronicles 2 on FrontierNav mapping website. References [ ] ↑ Metascore for Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Metacritic , Retrieved March 11, 2020 Categories Categories : Games Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Xenoblade Chronicles series Languages Deutsch Español Français Türkçe 中文 Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Sci-fi Xenoblade Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Xenoblade Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab