The Last of Us Part II - PS4 Games | PlayStation (US) Overview Accessibility Merch Buy now The Last of Us Part II Sony Interactive Entertainment Available on PS4 Released 06/19/2020 Buy now 1 player Blood and Gore, Intense Violence, Nudity, Sexual Content, Strong Language, Use of Drugs Game overview Confront the devastating physical and emotional repercussions of Ellie's actions. Five years after their dangerous journey across the post-pandemic United States, Ellie and Joel have settled down in Jackson, Wyoming. Living amongst a thriving community of survivors has allowed them peace and stability, despite the constant threat of the infected and other, more desperate survivors. When a violent event disrupts that peace, Ellie embarks on a relentless journey to carry out justice and find closure. As she hunts those responsible one by one, she is confronted with the devastating physical and emotional repercussions of her actions. A ground-breaking experience A complex and emotional story Experience the escalating moral conflicts created by Ellie’s relentless pursuit of vengeance. The cycle of violence left in her wake will challenge your notions of right versus wrong, good versus evil, and hero versus villain. Tense action-survival gameplay New and evolved gameplay systems deliver upon the life-or-death stakes of Ellie’s journey through the hostile world. Feel her desperate struggle for survival through improved features such as high-intensity melee combat, fluid movement, and dynamic stealth. A broad variety of weapons, crafting items, skills, and upgrades allows you to personalize Ellie’s capabilities to your play style. A beautiful yet dangerous world Set out on Ellie’s journey, taking her from the peaceful mountains and forests of Jackson to the lush, overgrown ruins of greater Seattle. Encounter new survivor groups, unfamiliar and treacherous environments, and terrifying evolutions of the infected. Brought to life by the latest iteration of the Naughty Dog engine, the deadly characters and world are more realistic and meticulously detailed than ever before. PS5 enhanced performance patch The free* PS5 enhanced performance patch is available now! Once players install Patch 1.08 for The Last of Us Part II, they will find a toggle in the display options that allows them to choose between a framerate target of 30 fps or 60 fps. This allows players to choose their preferred framerate to complement the enhancements that are part of the PlayStation 5’s backward compatibility with PlayStation 4’s games such as enhanced resolution, faster load times, and more. *Internet connection required. Learn more about PS5 The Last of Us Revisited Check out our interviews with special guests to see what The Last of Us meant to them and hear why they're excited for The Last of Us Part II. The Last of Us Revisited with Hannah Hart | PS4 The Last of Us Revisited with Chandler Riggs | PS4 Inside The Last of Us Part II Dive deeper into the story, gameplay, world and development of The Last of Us Part II with the developers at Naughty Dog. EPS. 1 - INSIDE THE STORY EPS. 2 - INSIDE THE GAMEPLAY EPS. 3 - INSIDE THE DETAILS EPS. 4 - INSIDE THE WORLD The Official The Last of Us Podcast The official podcast takes listeners through the groundbreaking journey of The Last of Us and the making of the highly anticipated Part II. Host Christian Spicer talks to Writer and Creative Director Neil Druckmann, stars Troy Baker and Ashley Johnson, and other talents and visionaries who brought the games to life. Listen now The Last of Us Part II videos & screenshots Videos Screenshots Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Open gallery Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. Sensitive Content This media may show violent or graphic content, click/tap here to verify your age. More from The Last of Us series Go deeper into the world of The Last of Us on the official site, including character profiles, news, and information on other titles in the series. Explore series Stay up to date Latest news on The Last of Us Part II Share of the Week: The Last of Us Complete Last week, we asked you embark on Joel, Ellie, and Abby’s full journey in The Last of Us Complete using #PSshare #PSBlog. Here are this week’s highlights: Wulfsychic shares Joel walking away from the guitar, in focus in the foreground FranTGP shares a detailed shot of Ellie’s iconic tshirt PattyGnand shares Ellie making funny […] Kristen Zitani (she/her) Manager, Content Communications, Sony Interactive Entertainment Apr 18, 2025 Share of the Week: The Last of Us Part II Remastered – New Skins Last week, we asked you to share new skins unlocked in The Last of Us Part II Remastered’s No Return mode using #PSshare #PSBlog. Here are this week’s highlights: RevolutionAndre shares Ellie facing forward in the Astronaut skin secondcapture shares Abby looking up through aviator sunglasses in the Bomber skin W3bmast3r_vp shares Ellie with her […] Kristen Zitani (she/her) Manager, Content Communications, Sony Interactive Entertainment Feb 02, 2024 Share of the Week: The Last of Us Part II Remastered Last week, we put the spotlight on The Last of Us Part II Remastered using #PSshare #PSBlog. Here are this week’s highlights: RevolutionAndre shares Abby gritting her teeth surrounded by fire ChosenVoid shares Joel aiming his shotgun Mr_GBM shares Ellie’s tattooed arm hanging down near overgrown ferns sirevanztheduke shares Dina leaning against the horse stables […] Kristen Zitani (she/her) Manager, Content Communications, Sony Interactive Entertainment Jan 26, 2024 Share of the Week: Joel and Ellie Last week, we continued celebrating ten years of The Last of Us by asking for memorable moments with Joel and Ellie using #PSshare #PSBlog. Here are this week’s #TLOU10 highlights: Photoingame shares Joel and Ellie posing in a field. RevolutionAndre shares Joel and Ellie laughing around a campfire. MSTakesPictures shares Joel and Ellie running from […] Kristen Zitani (she/her) Manager, Content Communications, Sony Interactive Entertainment Jun 30, 2023 Fine-tuning The Last of Us Part II’s interactive guitar Music has always been a cornerstone of Naughty Dog titles, but with The Last of Us: Part II we knew we wanted to take things a step further, and put the music directly into players’ hands. The idea sprung first from a narrative angle: between our first internal story pitch and our first external trailer, […] Grant Hoechst Game Designer, Naughty Dog Nov 26, 2021 PlayStation Now games October 2021: The Last of Us Part II, Fallout 76, Desperados III PlayStation Now’s October lineup is so massive, you may struggle to utter their names aloud in a single breath. But let’s try: The Last of Us Part II. Fallout 76, Desperados III. Amnesia: Collection, Final Fantasy VIII Remastered, Yet Another Zombie Defense, Victor Vran: Overkill Edition. *Phew*. These seven titles will all launch tomorrow, Tuesday […] Adam Michel Director, Game Services – Content, Sony Interactive Entertainment Oct 04, 2021 The Last of Us Day 2021: A Community Celebration Hi, everyone! It’s been over a year since we released The Last of Us Part II, a major chapter in the growing The Last of Us universe. It’s that same world that we’ve been privileged to celebrate with the incredibly passionate and ever-growing fanbase for eight years! When we planned this year’s event, we aimed […] Rochelle Snyder Sr. Manager Communications, Naughty Dog Sep 26, 2021 The Last of Us Day is upon us: Celebrate with new wearables and more at the PlayStation Gear Store Hey everyone! It’s been a while since you last heard from us regarding new merch, and we have been hard at work doing just that. While The Last of Us Day — our annual community celebration — isn’t until September 26, we wanted to kick off the weekend with a couple products we think you’ll […] Joshua Bradley Designer of Communications, Naughty Dog Sep 23, 2021 Share of the Week: The Last of Us Part II – One Year Anniversary This past week marked the one year anniversary of The Last of Us Part II. To celebrate, we asked you to share unforgettable moments alongside Ellie and Abby using #PSshare #PSBlog. Here are this week’s highlights: Photoingame shares Ellie basking in the sun. Emilli96 shares Abby wearing her emotions on her sleeve. BiggestInsanity shares a […] Kristen Zitani (she/her) Manager, Content Communications, Sony Interactive Entertainment Jun 25, 2021 Celebrate The Last of Us Part II’s first anniversary with new official merchandise It’s hard to believe that just one year ago, The Last of Us Part II launched globally, and fans around the world experienced Ellie and Abby’s emotional journeys. To celebrate the one year anniversary of the launch, we collaborated with PlayStation and several amazing partners to introduce a brand-new lineup of The Last of Us […] Joshua Bradley Designer of Communications, Naughty Dog Jun 18, 2021 Accessibility options for The Last of Us Part II Find out more about how Naughty Dog is ensuring that The Last of Us Part II can be enjoyed by as many players as possible. Learn more More games from the creators of The Last of Us Part II Explore more great titles from Naughty Dog, the critically acclaimed studio recognized for its cutting-edge technology and evocative, character-driven storytelling. Related games UNCHARTED: Legacy of Thieves Collection The Last Of Us™ Remastered UNCHARTED 4: A Thief's End UNCHARTED: The Lost Legacy Jak and Daxter Bundle UNCHARTED™ The Nathan Drake Collection Discover more games Devil May Cry 5 Special Edition Monster Hunter Rise Rating and Reviews Global player ratings ★★★★★ ★★★★ ★★★ ★★ ★ Editions Filter By Sort by: Sign In to Rate Only owners of this game can rate it. Rate Your Rating Change Rating No ratings and reviews. Be the first to rate! Be the first to add a rating and review Your review Share your thoughts and help other players in the community. Delete Spoiler Platform: PS4 Release: 6/19/2020 Publisher: Sony Interactive Entertainment Genres: Action, Adventure Voice: English, French (France), Portuguese (Brazil), Spanish (Mexico) Screen Languages: English, French (France), Portuguese (Brazil), Spanish (Mexico) To play this game on PS5, your system may need to be updated to the latest system software. Although this game is playable on PS5, some features available on PS4 may be absent. See PlayStation.com/bc for more details. Online features require an account and are subject to terms of service and applicable privacy policy (playstationnetwork.com/terms-of-service & playstationnetwork.com/privacy-policy). Software subject to license (us.playstation.com/softwarelicense). One-time license fee for play on account’s designated primary PS4™ system and other PS4™ systems when signed in with that account. ©2019 Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC. The Last of Us is a registered trademark or trademark of Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC. Created and developed by Naughty Dog LLC. Home Games The Last of Us Part II - PS4 Games | PlayStation About About SIE Careers PlayStation Studios PlayStation Productions Corporate History of PlayStation Products PS5 PS4 PS VR2 PS Plus Accessories Games Values Environment Accessibility Online safety Diversity, equity & inclusion Support Support hub PlayStation Safety PSN Status PlayStation Repairs Password reset Manuals Resources PSN terms of service PS Store cancellation policy Age ratings Health warning Developers Glossary Connect iOS app Android APP Join our playtesting program © 2025 Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC All content, games titles, trade names and/or trade dress, trademarks, artwork and associated imagery are trademarks and/or copyright material of their respective owners. All rights reserved. More info United States Legal Privacy policy Website terms of use Site map Do not share my personal information