God of War Ragnarök - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Gameplay 2 Synopsis Toggle Synopsis subsection 2.1 Setting 2.2 Characters 2.3 Plot 2.3.1 Valhalla 3 Development Toggle Development subsection 3.1 Casting 3.2 Pre-release fan backlash 3.3 Soundtrack 4 Release 5 Reception Toggle Reception subsection 5.1 Sales 5.2 Awards 6 Future 7 Notes 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents God of War Ragnarök 30 languages العربية Català Cebuano Čeština Deutsch Ελληνικά Español فارسی Français 한국어 Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Ladin Magyar مصرى Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча Português Русский Simple English Српски / srpski Suomi Svenska Türkçe Українська 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikiquote Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 2022 video game 2022 video game God of War Ragnarök Developer(s) Santa Monica Studio [ a ] Publisher(s) Sony Interactive Entertainment Director(s) Eric Williams Cory Barlog Producer(s) Chad Cox Designer(s) Jason McDonald Programmer(s) Josh Hobson Artist(s) Rafael Grassetti Writer(s) Matt Sophos Richard Zangrande Gaubert Composer(s) Bear McCreary Series God of War Platform(s) PlayStation 4 PlayStation 5 Windows Release PS4 , PS5 November 9, 2022 Windows September 19, 2024 Genre(s) Action-adventure , hack and slash Mode(s) Single-player God of War Ragnarök is a 2022 action-adventure game developed by Santa Monica Studio and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment . It was released worldwide on November 9, 2022, for both the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5 , marking the first cross-generation release in the God of War series , and was released for Windows on September 19, 2024. It is the ninth installment in the series, the ninth chronologically, and the sequel to 2018's God of War . Loosely based on Norse mythology , the game is set in ancient Scandinavia and features series protagonist, Kratos , and his now teenage son, Atreus . Concluding the Norse era of the series, the story follows Kratos and Atreus' efforts to prevent the nine realms from being destroyed by Ragnarök , the eschatological event which is central to Norse mythology and was foretold to happen in the previous game after Kratos killed the Aesir god Baldur . The gameplay is similar to the previous 2018 installment. It features combo-based combat, as well as puzzle and role-playing elements. Improvements and additions include Kratos's main weapons: a magical battle axe and his double-chained blades , and a new magical spear ; his shield has become more versatile, with different types of shields that have differing offensive and defensive abilities. His son Atreus, as well as some other characters, provide assistance in combat and can be passively controlled, though as a new feature in the series, Atreus is fully controllable in specific story segments. Originally slated for a 2021 release, the game was delayed in part due to Kratos actor Christopher Judge 's health problems in August 2019, and later, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on development. A free downloadable content pack titled Valhalla was released on December 12, 2023. Serving as an epilogue to Ragnarök , it follows Kratos as he participates in a series of trials within Valhalla , where he must come to terms with his past life in Greece . Ragnarök has received critical acclaim, with critics praising its storytelling, characters, visuals, level design, and quality of life improvements over its predecessor. Minor criticism focused on some gameplay mechanics, as well as the excessive hints during puzzles. The game sold 5.1 million units in its first week, making it the fastest-selling first-party launch week in PlayStation history, with over 15 million units sold by November 2023. At the Game Awards 2022 , Ragnarök received a leading 11 nominations, including Game of the Year , winning six. It received a leading 12 nominations at the 26th Annual D.I.C.E. Awards , ultimately winning seven awards including Adventure Game of the Year . It also received a leading 15 nominations at the 19th British Academy Games Awards , the most nominations for any game in the history of the ceremony, from which it won six awards, including the EE Game of the Year Award . Gameplay [ edit ] Further information: God of War (2018 video game) § Gameplay An example of gameplay in God of War Ragnarök . The HUD is shown at the bottom left, indicating Kratos's health, rage meter, and equipped abilities. The bottom right shows similar info for the companion character (e.g., Atreus ). God of War Ragnarök is a third-person action-adventure game . It features an over-the-shoulder player-controlled camera , and the game is presented with no camera cuts or loading screens . The gameplay is similar to the previous installment, God of War (2018), including being single-player -only. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] Throughout the game, players battle Norse mythological foes, with more enemy types than in the prior entry, including newer enemies, such as einherjar , wyverns , stalkers ( centaur -like creatures with antlers), phantoms , human raiders, and nøkkens , among many others. [ 4 ] The developers also added more mini-bosses to give the game more variety. [ 3 ] The player primarily controls the character Kratos in combo-based combat and puzzle game elements. Kratos's main weapons are a magical battle axe called the Leviathan Axe, and his signature double-chained blades , the Blades of Chaos. He also dons his original Guardian Shield, and utilizes hand-to-hand combat. The Leviathan Axe is infused with ice elemental magic . It can be thrown at enemies and magically summoned back to his hand, similar to Thor 's hammer Mjölnir . The weapon can be thrown at environmental objects to trigger a damaging explosion, and freeze objects and some enemies in place for puzzle-solving until resummoned. The Blades of Chaos, infused with fire elemental magic, are a pair of blades attached to chains that can be swung around in various maneuvers. A new mechanic for Ragnarök is that the blades can be used like a grappling hook to traverse over chasms, and pick up objects to hurl at enemies. [ 2 ] [ 5 ] Kratos also obtains a new weapon called the Draupnir Spear, a close- and long-range attack spear that is infused with wind elemental magic and can make copies of itself; Kratos can throw multiple spears at an enemy then have them all explode at once. The spear is also used to traverse or unblock certain pathways. [ 6 ] Each weapon has standard light and heavy attacks. They can be upgraded with runes to allow for magical runic attacks, with slots for a light and heavy magical attack, providing a variety of play style options. [ 2 ] [ 5 ] Additionally, a "Weapon Signature Move" ability was added, which unleashes a powerful magical attack for the equipped weapon. [ 7 ] Another added mechanic is that if on a higher ledge, the player can leap down to perform a powerful weapon attack on enemies below. [ 3 ] The developers also revamped the shield for versatility beyond a minor parry ; different shields can be obtained and used offensively or defensively depending on which is equipped. Smaller shields are more for parrying and can stun enemies while larger ones are more defensive and can create a large wave of energy to knock enemies back. [ 7 ] Kratos's Spartan Rage ability was also updated to three variants: Fury, Valor, and Wrath. Fury is the standard mode for Spartan Rage and is identical to the previous game in which Kratos uses bare handed attacks to greatly damage enemies. Valor consumes rage energy to restore health and can also be used as a parry if activated precisely, while Wrath unleashes a powerful weapon attack for the equipped weapon. [ 8 ] The character Atreus provides assistance through artificial intelligence (AI), helping in combat, traversal, find treasures, exploration, and puzzle-solving. The player can passively control Atreus by dictating where he fires his arrows with his bow, either in combat or for puzzle-solving, as well as what magical spectral animals he can summon to further assist with combat. [ 2 ] Additionally, Atreus's combat was updated to reflect his character's growth. He has longer chained combos, may initiate a fight before Kratos, and his magical abilities were expanded. [ 9 ] There are also points in the game where another character will accompany Kratos instead of Atreus and they too can be passively controlled. [ 6 ] For the first time in the God of War series , the player can play entirely as a character other than Kratos (not including Ascension ' s multiplayer). This only occurs during some story missions when Atreus goes off on his own without Kratos and the player takes full control of Atreus. His gameplay is similar to Kratos in that he has close range combat by hitting enemies with his bow, and he has long range attacks by using his bow to shoot arrows. Additionally, he has special magical arrows, can create a shield from magic, and can summon magical spectral animals to assist in combat. Atreus also has his own rage ability in which he transforms into a wolf (and later, a bear) to deal greater damage. During these missions, Atreus typically has another character accompanying him and the player can passively control this character just as they do with Atreus when playing as Kratos. For some missions, Atreus has a magical floating sword called Ingrid that replaces the accompanying character. [ 6 ] [ 10 ] The game retains the role-playing video game (RPG) elements of the 2018 installment. This includes the crafting system with many of the same resources to create new armor or upgrade existing armor and weapons with better perks . There are also many side quests found outside the game's core narrative. [ 2 ] [ 9 ] Ragnarök also adds armor transmogrification (transmog), which allows the player to change the appearance of their equipped armor to any other acquired armor without losing any of the equipped armor's stats . [ 11 ] [ 12 ] Ragnarök has over 70 accessibility options. The game's user interface (UI) system was redesigned "to allow for more flexibility and readability", and more customization options for combat and interaction systems were also added. All accessibility features from the 2018 installment were retained but also expanded upon to allow players to adjust the gameplay to suit their own play style and needs. [ 13 ] [ 14 ] The downloadable content (DLC) pack Valhalla , released on December 12, 2023, uses elements of the roguelite genre. Players play solely as Kratos through a series of trials in random procedurally generated levels , selecting what relic, shield, and rage ability to use throughout a trial run. At the end of each challenge within a trial, players are allowed to select an upgrade to either a weapon, relic, or stats, such as strength or defense, but these upgrades only last for the duration of that trial run. Each run-through and the completion of specific gameplay challenges unlocks further rewards that are permanently unlocked. Death resets the player back to the start of the trial. The DLC also added new enemies, as well as returning ones from the Greek era games, such as cyclopes and minotaurs . A new variant of the rage ability was added called Legacy which lets the player wield the Blade of Olympus, like the rage ability from God of War III (2010); this ability can be used in New Game Plus (NG+) of Ragnarök . New cosmetic armor appearances were also added, including Kratos's appearance from the original God of War (2005); these can also be applied in NG+. [ 15 ] Synopsis [ edit ] Setting [ edit ] Ragnarök is set in the world of Norse mythology, taking place three years after the previous game. Unlike that prior entry, all nine realms of Norse mythology are visited as part of the story. Midgard is the primary realm which has become a frigid wasteland, dramatically changed by Fimbulwinter , a three-year long winter that began upon the conclusion of the previous game. The Lake of the Nine, previously navigable by means of a boat, is now frozen over, with Kratos making use of a sleigh and two pet wolves to navigate around the area. The other returning realms include Alfheim , the mystical home of the dark and light Elves ; Helheim , the icy land of the dead; Jötunheim , land of the Giants ; the fiery realm Muspelheim , and fog realm Niflheim , now covered with ice and snow—the latter two were previously optional to explore. The three new realms for Ragnarök include Svartalfheim , the industrial abode of the Dwarves ; Vanaheim , the lush home of the Vanir gods as well as the giant wolves Sköll and Hati ; and Asgard , the humble home of the Aesir gods that is only visited as part of the story and cannot be accessed after its conclusion. The DLC pack Valhalla adds Valhalla , a remaining area within Asgard where warriors go after death. Within Valhalla are small recreations of the previous realms based on Kratos's memories, as well as areas from his homeland of Greece . Characters [ edit ] See also: Characters of God of War Christopher Judge (pictured in 2015) portrayed Kratos , reprising the role from the 2018 installment . The main protagonists are Kratos (played by Christopher Judge ) and his teenage son, Atreus ( Sunny Suljic ). Kratos is the former Greek God of War, while Atreus is half Giant, one-quarter god, and one-quarter mortal and is also referred to by his Giant name, Loki . Since the conclusion of the previous game, Kratos and Atreus have been in hiding at their home in the realm of Midgard, training for the inevitable battle ahead of them. They are often accompanied by the head of Mímir ( Alastair Duncan ), who claims to be the smartest man alive and is a loyal companion who provides knowledge and counsel. Other major returning characters include Freya ( Danielle Bisutti ), a Vanir goddess, former Queen of the Valkyries , and Odin's ex-wife, also known as Frigg , who seeks revenge against Kratos and Atreus for the death of her son, Baldur ; and the Huldra Brothers, Brok (Robert Craighead) and Sindri ( Adam Harrington ), a pair of dwarven blacksmiths who assist Kratos and Atreus by forging new gear and also found a way to travel to other realms without using the realm travel table in Týr's Temple. A new character is Angrboda (Laya DeLeon Hayes), one of the last remaining Giants hiding in Jötunheim in a secluded forest called the Ironwood, protecting its animals. Other allies include Ratatoskr ( SungWon Cho ), the squirrel guardian of the World Tree; Lúnda ( Milana Vayntrub ), a dwarven blacksmith who is part of Freyr 's resistance army; and Skjöldr ( A.J. LoCascio ), a Midgardian refugee who has settled in Asgard. The game's primary antagonist is the Aesir god Odin ( Richard Schiff ), the king of Asgard and Allfather of the Nine Realms. An unseen character in the previous game, he is a pathological liar and manipulator obsessed with preventing his death at Ragnarök and will take any means to stop it. He lost an eye while looking into a rift between worlds in hopes of finding answers to prevent the catastrophic event. His ravens, including Huginn and Muninn , allow him and the Aesir to travel freely to any realm, and they are his watchful eyes over them. Thor ( Ryan Hurst ), the Aesir God of Thunder and eldest son of Odin, serves as a secondary antagonist; he is the half-brother of Baldur and father of Modi and Magni , all of whom Kratos and Atreus killed in the previous game. He wields the hammer Mjölnir with which he slays Giants, despite being part-Giant himself, and does the bidding of his father although constantly belittled by him. Another antagonist is the Aesir god Heimdall ( Scott Porter ), another son of Odin and half-brother to Thor who has a superiority complex and believes himself untouchable due to his foresight ability. Known as the "Herald of Ragnarök", he watches over Asgard for threats, rides atop a graðungr, a large, horned, lion like beast, named Gulltoppr , and possesses the magical horn Gjallarhorn that signals the start of Ragnarök and opens simultaneous realm travel to Asgard. Other characters include Freyr ( Brett Dalton ), Freya's Vanir twin brother who has been leading a resistance against Odin and the Aesir in Vanaheim; Týr (Ben Prendergast), the Norse God of War but a peaceful one who was thought to have been killed by Odin prior to the events of the previous game; Sif ( Emily Rose ), Thor's golden-haired Aesir wife who wants Thor to stand up to Odin; Thrúd ( Mina Sundwall ), the daughter of Thor and Sif who dreams of becoming a Valkyrie and is unaware of Odin's true nature; and Surtr ( Chris Browning ), a fire Giant who lives in Muspelheim. The three Norns also appear, who are the Fates of Norse mythology— Urð ( Kate Miller ), the Norn associated with the past, Verðandi ( Emily O'Brien ), the Norn associated with the present, and Skuld ( Shelby Young ), the Norn associated with the future. Kratos's second wife—Atreus's mother— Laufey ( Deborah Ann Woll ), a Giantess who goes by Faye for short and had died shortly before the start of the previous game, appears in flashbacks to Kratos, preparing him for her death and her final wish, which was the basis of the previous game. The DLC expansion Valhalla sees the return of the Greek Sun god Helios ( Crispin Freeman ), who appears as an illusory head during Kratos and Mímir's journey in Valhalla, briefly taking Mímir's place; Helios mocks and taunts Kratos about his past and his desire for redemption. The Valkyries Sigrun ( Misty Lee ), Gunnr (Anna Campbell), and Eir ( Sarah Sokolovic ), who had minor roles in Ragnarök , act as guides for Kratos and Mímir in Valhalla . Plot [ edit ] Near the end of Fimbulwinter, Kratos and Atreus return home—fending off an ambush from a vengeful Freya—to find their wolf Fenrir as he dies. Atreus's grief briefly transforms him into a bear and he battles Kratos before returning to his senses. Thor arrives with Odin, who proposes leaving them alone if Atreus abandons searching for Týr. Kratos refuses and duels Thor to a stalemate. Odin tells Atreus he will leave Kratos alone if the former comes to Asgard. Kratos, Atreus, and Mímir take refuge at Sindri's home on a branch of Yggdrasil , and rescue a pacifistic Týr in Svartalfheim. At Gróa 's shrine in Alfheim, they learn only Asgard is fated for destruction while other realms survive under a new champion, implied to be Atreus as Loki. Kratos and Atreus argue over the latter's supposed destiny. Atreus is transported to Jötunheim. He meets Angrboda, who shows him a mural [ b ] seemingly foretelling Kratos's death in Ragnarök and Atreus serving Odin. Atreus is entrusted with spiritual stones containing Giants' souls, putting one into a snake's body. Atreus returns to Midgard where Freya attacks but relents, agreeing to spare Kratos if he helps break the curse binding her to Midgard, which she temporarily circumvents by transforming into a falcon. In Vanaheim, Kratos opens up to Freya about his family's deaths in Greece, his vengeance against Olympus , and the emptiness of revenge. After breaking the curse, Freya and Kratos make amends. Atreus's deceitful behavior prompts an argument with Kratos, causing Atreus to flee to Asgard to attempt to prevent Kratos's death. He works with Thor and Thrúd to prevent Ragnarök by reassembling an ancient mask for Odin that supposedly grants infinite knowledge. Kratos, Freya, and Mímir visit the Norns who say Heimdall is destined to kill Atreus. Kratos and Brok forge the Draupnir ring into a spear capable of harming Heimdall. In Helheim, Atreus releases the soulless giant wolf Garm , who tears holes between realms. Reunited with Kratos, Atreus resurrects Fenrir by transferring his soul into Garm, and Kratos and Atreus reconcile. In Vanaheim, Kratos is forced to kill Heimdall and claims Gjallarhorn, setting Ragnarök in motion. Atreus returns to Asgard and assembles the mask before escaping with it. Týr agrees to fight and asks for the mask; suspicious of Týr's sudden change of heart, Brok realizes he is calling Atreus "Loki", like Asgardians. Týr fatally stabs Brok, revealing himself as Odin in disguise. He is driven away but a grief-stricken Sindri blames Atreus for Brok's death and abandons the group. Atreus and Kratos commit to Ragnarök, entering Muspelheim to help Surtr achieve a destined primordial form to destroy Asgard. The realms' united forces gather under Kratos's leadership; he sounds Gjallarhorn to begin the siege of Asgard. It begins poorly, but the tides turn when Angrboda arrives with Fenrir and the snake Atreus saved, now grown into Jörmungandr , who battles Thor while Sindri destroys Asgard's wall. Thrúd and Sif defect after discovering Odin used Midgardian refugees as shields. Thor knocks Jörmungandr back in time and battles Kratos, but is convinced to stand down to help his family, only to be killed by Odin for disobeying. Kratos, Atreus, and Freya fight Odin, who encourages Atreus to use the mask; Atreus shatters it. An infuriated Odin attacks again but is eventually defeated. Atreus traps Odin's soul in a spiritual stone, which Sindri smashes, finally killing the mad tyrant. Surtr, now Ragnarök, destroys Asgard as the group escapes to Midgard whilst Freyr sacrifices himself to buy time for them to escape. Angrboda shows Kratos and Atreus a mural Faye had destroyed so they could determine their own fate. Atreus resolves to find surviving Giants and bids farewell to Kratos, who then discovers a mural depicting himself as a beloved god of peace and justice. Overcome with emotion and finally hopeful about his future, Kratos recruits Freya and Mímir to restore peace. Asgard's Einherjar are cleared out, Freya kills the vengeful Valkyrie Queen Gná and reclaims her mantle, the Aesir relocate to Vanaheim and achieve peace with the Vanir, Thrúd wields Mjölnir to honor Thor, and the real Týr is found and freed in Niflheim. In the secret ending, Kratos, Freya, Mímir, and an unforgiving Sindri attend Brok's funeral in Svartalfheim. Valhalla [ edit ] Sometime after the events of Ragnarök , Kratos receives an anonymous invitation to Valhalla. He and Mímir travel to the last remnant of Asgard and force their way through Valhalla's entrance. Kratos's equipment and magical powers are suddenly stripped away and he is defeated in combat. Waking up on the shores outside the entrance, they are confronted by Freya and the Valkyrie Sigrun, who berate Kratos and Mímir for breaking into Valhalla without informing them, but allow him entrance. Prior to coming to Valhalla, Freya, now Queen of the Realms, invited Kratos to join her council as the new Norse God of War, but he refused, reluctant to wield such power again after abusing it during his time in Greece. After fighting his way through Valhalla, Kratos is approached by Týr, who is revealed to have sent the invitation. While the two spar, Týr coaxes Kratos to open up and face his past, but Kratos's anguish prevents him from doing so. Týr reveals that Kratos must use Valhalla to master himself and come to terms with who he used to be. Kratos then proceeds through more trials within Valhalla, facing manifestations of past foes, such as Modi and Magni. He also deals with appearances from the illusory head of Helios, while Mímir is transported to a forest. One attempt goes wrong, and Sigrun violates Valhalla's rules to save Kratos and Mímir from a definitive death, thus weakening her connection to the land. After several more sparring sessions with various weapons from around the world such as a macuahuitl , a pair of khopeshes and an ōdachi , Týr helps Kratos confront a manifestation of his younger self in order to overcome his fears and self-loathing. Kratos concludes that although his younger self was spiteful and cruel, he also sacrificed himself in order to release the power of hope back to humanity, [ c ] proving there was always good in him. Realizing the difference between serving others and being of service, Kratos makes peace with himself and agrees to join Freya's council as a god of hope. Through more trials in Valhalla, Mímir reveals the history and depth of his romantic feelings for Sigrun. In the secret ending, Sigrun decides not to go through the trials to restore her connection to Valhalla, instead choosing to leave her post as a Valkyrie and travel the world alone to find her own purpose. Kratos, Mímir, Freya, and the Valkyries, Gunnr and Eir, see her off, with Sigrun promising to eventually return to Mímir. Development [ edit ] During the development of God of War (2018), that game's director, Cory Barlog , confirmed that the 2018 installment would not be Kratos's last game, [ 16 ] and that future games would continue to be set in the Norse environment and include Atreus. [ 17 ] A sequel was then teased at the end of that game; it ended with Ragnarök looming, as well as a secret ending that showed a vision of Thor confronting Kratos and Atreus at the end of Fimbulwinter. [ 18 ] Following this saw various pre-release marketing materials that included the hidden phrase "Ragnarök is coming". [ 19 ] [ 20 ] [ 21 ] During the PlayStation 5 (PS5) Showcase event on September 16, 2020, a new God of War was officially announced for a 2021 release on the newer console. [ 22 ] After Sony Interactive Entertainment revealed their plans to support their previous console until at least 2022, it was later confirmed that the game would also release on the PlayStation 4 (PS4), [ 23 ] in turn marking the first cross-gen release in the series. [ 24 ] [ 25 ] The game's title was confirmed to be God of War Ragnarök during the following year's showcase event, [ 26 ] although earlier that year, the title had accidentally been leaked. [ 27 ] [ 28 ] [ 29 ] Development of the game was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic . In June 2021, head of PlayStation Studios , Hermen Hulst, confirmed that the game had been delayed, partly due to the pandemic, [ 30 ] as he stated that there were issues getting access to performance capture and talent. [ 23 ] Santa Monica Studio issued a statement regarding the delay, which said that while they were focused on delivering a top-quality game, they also wanted to maintain the safety of those involved with the development. [ 31 ] Cory Barlog (pictured in 2019) and Eric Williams served as the creative director and game director, respectively. The delay brought a unique issue with Atreus actor Sunny Suljic, who was going through puberty during the time of production. Due to the change in his voice, supervising dialogue designer Jodie Kupsco said "We had to go in and even out that performance so [that in the game] it sounds like it took place over a short period of time". Senior producer Ariel Angelotti noted there were no changes to cinematics as a result of the delay, but they had to get creative in how they made the content. In following pandemic guidelines, they had actors "stand in" for background characters in some scenes "to avoid a situation where too many people were on-set". [ 32 ] In a series of tweets posted by Kratos actor Christopher Judge in late September 2021, he said that he was the reason that the game was delayed due to surgery he needed in August 2019, and that Santa Monica allowed him time to recover and rehabilitate before continuing production. [ 33 ] During the 2021 PlayStation Showcase event, Eric Williams, who worked on every previous installment, was confirmed as the game's director, continuing the previous era's tradition of having a different director for each game—Barlog served as a producer and creative director. It was also revealed that Ragnarök would conclude the Norse era of the series. [ 34 ] The main reason Santa Monica decided to end the Norse era with Ragnarök was due to the game's size and scale. The 2018 installment and Ragnarök each respectively took about five years to develop, and they did not want to take another five years, totaling nearly 15 years, to tell one story. [ 35 ] Lead writer Rich Gaubert said there were pros and cons to doing a trilogy or ending the Norse era at two games. The developers debated this and said that Ragnarök could have been split into two games, as it was much larger in scope than they had originally planned. They also had worry if Ragnarök would do the apocalyptic concept justice in just one game. [ 36 ] This caused some of the team to have concern if the game would be good as they originally thought that the Norse era would be a trilogy with Ragnarök split into two games. [ 37 ] The decision to end the Norse era with Ragnarök was ultimately left to Barlog, [ 36 ] and Williams stated that although they had to make adjustments for pacing, the story was not scaled back. [ 37 ] Barlog told Williams that with the second game concluding the Norse saga, the three important plot aspects of the story that had to be retained were that Ragnarök would happen, Atreus would depart from Kratos in the game's conclusion, and Brok would be killed off, which was a decision Barlog had made during the development of the 2018 installment, as Brok was described as the "family dog". Thematically, the game explores what kind of man Kratos would be without his son, and what kind of god would Atreus be without his father. [ 38 ] Narrative director Matt Sophos revealed that during early development, there was an idea pitched in which Kratos died during his first battle with Thor and then there would have been a 20-year time jump where Atreus would rescue him from Helheim. This was rejected as Williams did not like it, but he also did not want to repeat a plot sequence that had been done during the Greek games. The emotion and main hook of Ragnarök ' s actual story were also missing in this proposed idea, and the actual ending worked better for what they wanted to do, which was to say that prophecy and fate are not predetermined. [ 39 ] On July 6, 2022, a new cinematic trailer was unveiled, which confirmed a worldwide release date of November 9, 2022. [ 40 ] Another trailer was shown during Sony's 2022 State of Play event on September 13, and it was confirmed that just like the 2018 installment, Ragnarök was done in one shot . [ 41 ] Additionally, the game supports options for players to run the game in either higher resolution or better performance, including 4K resolution at 30 frames per second (fps), 1080p resolution at 60fps, a high frame resolution mode in 4K at 40fps, and a high frame performance mode that syncs to 120 hertz . The latter two high frame options are only available for the PS5 version and require monitors with HDMI 2.1 . [ 42 ] Animation director Bruno Velazquez stated that Santa Monica wanted to ensure that Ragnarök was fully optimized for the PS4, and as such, it does not utilize all of the capabilities of the PS5. Velazquez said that the PS4 version is a visual improvement over the 2018 installment and noted that all of the studio's design goals were achieved on the PS4 version, so the PS5 version "is essentially an enhancement of what's already possible [on the PS4]". The game does, however, include several features exclusive to the PS5 hardware, such as 3D audio , haptic feedback , higher frame rate, and overall better graphics. In terms of design, Velazquez said there were no compromises for the PS4 version and that the game would essentially be the same experience on both consoles. [ 43 ] Santa Monica also confirmed that the game would have a photo mode , but it would be added in a post-launch update. [ 44 ] On October 7, 2022, Santa Monica announced that the game had gone gold . Additionally, it was revealed that eight other studios contributed to the development of Ragnarök , including PlayStation Studios Creative Arts, Valkyrie Entertainment, Bluepoint Games , Red Hot, SuperAlloy Interactive, Jetpack Interactive, Super Genius, and Original Force. The exact contribution from each studio was not detailed, except SuperAlloy, which worked on motion capture. [ 1 ] SuperAlloy specifically assisted with combat choreography, and the studio provided stunt coordination and stunt work for the game and key characters. Eric Jacobus also revealed that he again did the combat motion capture for Kratos, just as he did in the 2018 installment, as well as for some other characters. [ 45 ] Casting [ edit ] During the 2021 PlayStation Showcase event, game director Eric Williams revealed that Richard Schiff would portray Odin. Other casting announcements included Ryan Hurst as Thor, Ben Prendergast as Týr, Laya DeLeon Hayes as Angrboda, and Usman Ally as a dwarf named Durlin . In addition to Christopher Judge and Sunny Suljic returning as Kratos and Atreus, respectively, it was confirmed that Danielle Bisutti and Alastair Duncan would be reprising their respective roles as Freya and Mímir, and that Robert Craighead and Adam J. Harrington would reprise their respective roles as the Huldra Brothers, Brok and Sindri. [ 46 ] After Judge found out that Williams would be directing the game, he briefly quit as he was uncertain about Williams; however, Barlog was able to convince Judge that Williams was fully capable of directing the sequel, which Judge affirmed after working with him. [ 33 ] SungWon Cho also announced that he would be providing the voice and motion capture for the squirrel Ratatoskr , and worked directly with the writers to write his scenes. [ 47 ] A day before release, Scott Porter revealed that he played Heimdall, [ 48 ] and the game's music composer, Bear McCreary , was also confirmed to play a Dwarf musician named Ræb. [ 49 ] Unlike the popular portrayal of Thor by Chris Hemsworth in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), the Thor in Ragnarök looks closer to his depiction in Norse mythological literature, having a hefty build with long red hair and beard. [ 50 ] [ 51 ] This type of portrayal was similarly done for the other Norse gods such as Odin himself, shown as a softly spoken and somewhat friendly middle aged man, as in the literature, the Norse gods were not as extravagant as the Greek gods were. In portraying Thor, Hurst took inspiration from another Marvel Comics character, Hulk , citing his rage and power. He also took inspiration from Tommy Lee Jones ' character in No Country for Old Men (2007), Sheriff Ed Tom Bell, noting how he was a powerful character that harbored regret. [ 52 ] Pre-release fan backlash [ edit ] Following the announcement that Ragnarök had been delayed to 2022, Santa Monica's developers received harassment from some fans, including threatening messages. The delay was announced shortly after Alanah Pearce revealed her involvement on Ragnarök . Fans blamed Pearce for the delay and she received threatening messages of sexual harassment. Barlog came to her defense—and all of Santa Monica's developers—stating that he made the call to delay the game and that it had nothing to do with lower-level staff. [ 53 ] Furthermore, after a rumor circulated that Santa Monica would reveal the release date towards the end of June 2022, and that date passed, some developers received explicit images from angry fans in an attempt to get them to reveal the release date. [ 54 ] Additionally, the reveal that Angrboda would be black was met with backlash from some fans. They claimed that since the game is based on mythology originating from North Germanic peoples, she should have been white . Furthermore, the fans accused the developers of cultural appropriation and claimed they used race-swap to score political points. The developers, however, defended the decision due to the diversity of the Dwarves in the game, among other changes such as Mímir having a Scottish accent, and the fact that Angrboda is of a mythological race with a power of transformation. [ 55 ] There was also some backlash to the reveal that Ragnarök would be released on both the PS4 and PS5 due to concerns that the PS4 version would hold back the PS5 version. Barlog compared the situation to 2007's God of War II , which released exclusively on the PlayStation 2 despite the PlayStation 3 's launch some months earlier, noting that it still worked out well for that game. [ 24 ] Soundtrack [ edit ] God of War Ragnarök (Original Soundtrack) Soundtrack album by Bear McCreary Released November 9, 2022 ( 2022-11-09 ) Genre Contemporary classical music Length 1 : 59 : 00 Label Sony Classical Records Bear McCreary (pictured in 2010) returned to compose the score for Ragnarök . God of War Ragnarök (Original Soundtrack) was released on November 9, 2022, by Sony Classical Records and was also included in the game's special editions. It was composed by Bear McCreary, returning from the previous game. The soundtrack features Faroese singer Eivør on the tracks "God of War Ragnarök", "Holding On", "Svartalfheim", "Pull of the Light", and "Remembering Faye". [ 56 ] McCreary had previously featured Eivør on the 2018 installment's soundtrack. [ 57 ] Irish folk artist Hozier is featured on the track "Blood Upon the Snow", which was Hozier's first contribution to a video game soundtrack. Hozier was particularly interested in working on the song as he was a fan of the series and also interested in the maturing medium of digital arts. He was also familiar with McCreary's other works. Due to Hozier being signed with Sony's Columbia Records in the United States, he was approached by Sony to contribute to Ragnarök . To help in composing the song, the game's director Eric Williams talked Hozier through the character arcs of Kratos and Atreus. Hozier was also inspired by nature and the natural world. In working with McCreary, Hozier said they were able to find a balance so that the song was "not too elegiac, not too much of an elegy, not too sweet, not too lullaby-esque, not too outrageously doom and gloom, and not too absolutely metal". Paolo Ragusa of Consequence described the song as "a daring, cinematic number that hits at all the thematic notes of God of War: Ragnarök , and finds Hozier using his signature velvety tone to evoke both tenderness and awe". [ 58 ] Hozier and McCreary performed the song live at the Game Awards on December 8, 2022. [ 59 ] For the Valhalla DLC, McCreary composed five new tracks, which included contributions from Sam Ewing and Omer Ben-Zvi from McCreary's record label, Sparks & Shadows. Two of the tracks, "Master Thyself " and "The Path", make use of themes from the Greek era of the franchise that were originally composed by Gerard Marino . [ 60 ] Release [ edit ] God of War Ragnarök was released worldwide on November 9, 2022, for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5. [ 40 ] Players who purchase the PS4 version can upgrade to the PS5 version for US$10. In addition to the standard base game (physical and digital), there were three special editions: the Jötnar Edition, the Collector's Edition, and the Digital Deluxe Edition. Early copies of the base game were also marketed as a Launch Edition and included the Risen Snow Armor and Tunic skins for Kratos and Atreus, respectively, which were also included with the three special editions. Pre-orders for all versions opened on July 15, 2022. [ 61 ] The items in both the Jötnar Edition and the Collector's Edition were housed within a box called the Knowledge Keeper's Shrine (a shrine featured in the game). Both editions included a SteelBook game case; however, they did not include a physical copy of the game, only digital versions for both platforms. The centerpiece of both editions was a 16-inch replica of Thor's hammer Mjölnir, and both also included 2-inch carvings of the Vanir twins (Freya and Freyr). Physical items exclusive to the Jötnar Edition included a 7-inch vinyl record of music by Bear McCreary, a pin set of a Falcon, Bear, and Wolf (representing Faye, Kratos, and Atreus, respectively), a replica Draupnir ring, Brok's dice set, and a Yggdrasil cloth map which showed each of the nine realms. Instead of Brok's dice set, the Collector's Edition had a Dwarven dice set. The Digital Deluxe Edition includes the Darkdale armor and weapon skins for Kratos and Atreus, the official God of War Ragnarök soundtrack, a mini art book by Dark Horse Comics , a PlayStation Network avatar set, and a PS4 background theme; all of this DLC was also included with both physical special editions. [ 61 ] Available separately was a limited edition Ragnarök themed DualSense controller for the PS5. [ 62 ] Additionally, two PS5 bundles were available the same day as the game's release. One bundle was for the disc version of the console while the other was for the digital version, with both including a regular DualSense controller and a voucher code to download the standard version of the game. [ 63 ] Furthermore, an official art book from Dark Horse Comics titled The Art of God of War Ragnarök , in both a standard and deluxe edition, was released on November 29, 2022. [ 64 ] Since launch, Santa Monica has supported the game with patch updates to address software bugs . As well, the developers have added new features along with these free updates. A photo mode, which was revealed prior to launch, was added as part of update patch 3.00 on December 5, 2022. It allows players to take customized in-game screenshots adjusting, among other things, the field of view, depth of view, filters, and the visibility and facial expressions of most major characters. [ 65 ] A New Game Plus (NG+) mode was added in update patch 4.00 on April 5, 2023. Players must have completed the game on any difficulty before they can access the mode. Experience levels and previously acquired gear carry over into NG+ (with a couple of game-progression related exceptions), which increases the level cap and adds new gear and resources to be acquired, as well as enemy adjustments to make them more challenging. The option to skip cutscenes was also added. [ 66 ] Update patch 6.00 released on November 7, 2024, and added a setting for the PS4 and PS5 versions to reduce hints during puzzles. Also as part of the update, the PS5 version received an enhancement patch for the PlayStation 5 Pro , an updated version of the PS5 that released the same day. The patch adds a favor quality setting that targets 60fps, a High Frame Rate mode that unlocks the game's framerate up to 120fps when running on variable refresh rate -capable displays, and players can also opt between PlayStation Spectral Super Resolution and the prior Temporal Anti-Aliasing technique for resolution upscaling. [ 67 ] Shortly after Ragnarök ' s release, game director Eric Williams said there would likely not be a story-based expansion pack post-launch. [ 68 ] However, during the Game Awards 2023 on December 7, a free DLC pack titled God of War Ragnarök: Valhalla was announced and released on December 12, 2023, as an epilogue to Ragnarök . Although it is an epilogue, Valhalla can be played without completing Ragnarök , but the developers recommended its completion to avoid spoilers of the base game. [ 69 ] In May 2024 during the State of Play event, Sony announced that Ragnarök would be released for Windows (PC) on September 19, 2024, and would also include the Valhalla DLC. The PC port supports unlimited framerate, UltraWide support, and support for Nvidia DLSS 3.7/ AMD FSR 3.1/ Intel XeSS 1.3. It also supports PlayStation Trophies , which are shared between the PC and console versions of the game. [ 70 ] [ 71 ] The PC version originally required a PlayStation Network account, which made it unavailable for purchase in many countries, but this requirement was removed on January 30, 2025. [ 72 ] As part of the God of War franchise's 20th anniversary celebration, Santa Monica released a free DLC pack for Ragnarök on March 20, 2025, titled the "Dark Odyssey Collection". The name of the DLC is a reference to the original God of War as "Dark Odyssey" was the working title for that game, while the DLC itself includes a skin for Kratos inspired by the one unlocked from beating God of War II ' s God Mode difficulty. The skin changes the color of Kratos's skin and tattoo to black and gold, respectively, while also giving him solid white eyes. There are also Dark Odyssey armor sets for Kratos, Atreus, and Freya, as well as Dark Odyssey versions of Kratos's weapons and shield. [ 73 ] The DLC pack was released as part of update patch 6.02, which also added an Edit Appearance option for Kratos's weapons and shield, enabling transmog on these items; transmog was previously only available for Kratos's armor. [ 74 ] Reception [ edit ] Reception Aggregate score Aggregator Score Metacritic 94/100 (PS5) [ 75 ] 90/100 (PC) [ 76 ] N/A (PS4) [ 77 ] Review scores Publication Score Destructoid 9/10 [ 83 ] Electronic Gaming Monthly 5/5 [ 88 ] Eurogamer Recommended [ 79 ] Famitsu 36/40 [ 92 ] Game Informer 9.5/10 [ 81 ] GameSpot 9/10 [ 82 ] GamesRadar+ 4.5/5 [ 80 ] IGN 10/10 [ 78 ] PCMag 4.5/5 [ 87 ] Push Square 10/10 [ 86 ] Shacknews 9/10 [ 84 ] The Telegraph 5/5 [ 91 ] Video Games Chronicle 5/5 [ 90 ] VG247 5/5 [ 85 ] VideoGamer.com 10/10 [ 89 ] God of War Ragnarök on PS5 received "universal acclaim" from critics, according to review aggregator Metacritic , garnering a score of 94/100. [ 75 ] This ties it with both the original 2005 installment and the 2018 installment for the highest Metacritic score in the series. [ 93 ] [ 94 ] Writing for IGN , Simon Cardy said that Ragnarök provided fresh interpretations of well-known Norse mythological characters, and the actors gave them a unique take that was different from their popular MCU counterparts. [ 78 ] Tamoor Hussain of GameSpot opined that out of all the many different takes on Norse mythology, Ragnarök ' s is "easily one of the most memorable", as it takes the mythology, deconstructs it, and rebuilds it as an epic story about families. [ 82 ] Eurogamer ' s Chris Tapsell, however, felt that because Ragnarök tried to include as much of the series history as possible, the game can feel "both bloated and crowded", but positively noted that due to its length, it meant that there was more of the game to play. [ 79 ] Kyle Hilliard at Game Informer wrote that although Ragnarök did not have the same unique impact that the 2018 installment had, everything that worked well in that prior game is present. [ 81 ] In terms of gameplay, Ragnarök does not make any drastic changes over the 2018 installment, but there are some new additions to the existing mechanics. Hussain said that while the core gameplay is fundamentally the same, this is in Ragnarök ' s favor, as it made it easy to begin playing. [ 82 ] Tapsell, however, was somewhat critical of the combat, stating that he would have liked a more systematic approach, and although there is synergy across the weapons' skills, there is practically no room for expression. [ 79 ] Cardy was positive on the combat, saying that being able to perform a weapon attack when leaping off a ledge added another layer to battles. He also said the combat harkens back to the series roots, noting that the Blades of Chaos have a more similar feel to how they performed in the Greek games, but still also felt modern. [ 78 ] The update to the shield was also praised, with Hussain stating that it "enhances the offensive feel of combat". [ 82 ] Cardy similarly felt the shield was more of an offensive tool, and that parrying is a skill players would want to perfect. [ 78 ] The variety of enemies and bosses were also praised among the reviewers. [ 79 ] [ 81 ] [ 82 ] [ 78 ] [ 87 ] Hilliard opined that the only negative thing about the gameplay was that it was not much different from the previous game. [ 81 ] Hussain did have criticism over some gameplay mechanics, stating that in more challenging scenarios, "the mechanics can struggle under the pressure of the increased speed and aggression". [ 82 ] Tapsell had similar comments and stated this can be a hindrance in battle. [ 79 ] One common criticism among reviewers was the excessive hints in solving puzzles, as the accompanying character offers these hints too soon and too frequently, barely giving the player any time to think about a solution. [ 79 ] [ 78 ] Although the role-playing (RPG) elements were praised for giving players a variety of play styles, reviewers felt the system was not innovative. [ 82 ] Writing for PCMag , Clay Halton stated it was the game's "most tedious aspect", as it can be difficult to determine which weapon or armor piece needs upgraded. He also noted this was an issue in the prior game, but it was more complicated in the sequel. [ 87 ] Tapsell noted that although there were some new ideas, nothing was really memorable or expressive like in other RPGs, and players could get by without engaging much with it. [ 79 ] Cardy, however, said the system was more streamlined and felt it encouraged players to make their own custom builds, praising it as accessible and not overwhelming. [ 78 ] The environments were also well-praised for their sense of scale and the changes to returning locations. Hussain praised the changes as not only did they show the effects of Fimbulwinter, but they provided new areas to explore. [ 82 ] Tapsell shared similar sentiments and said that the realms were more varied and more inviting, and also said that the sense of scale that was missing in the 2018 installment was resolved in Ragnarök . [ 79 ] Halton said that although there is not a noticeable difference from the prior game, largely due to Ragnarök releasing on both the PS4 and PS5, the game is still beautiful, saying that each realm and their respective environments are "thoughtfully crafted". [ 87 ] Sales [ edit ] Ragnarök became the fastest-selling first-party game in PlayStation history, selling 5.1 million units in its first week. [ 95 ] By February 2023, the game had sold 11 million units worldwide, [ 96 ] which increased to over 15 million units by November 19, 2023. [ 97 ] In Japan, the PlayStation 5 version of God of War Ragnarök sold 29,377 physical units, making it the third best-selling retail game during its first week of release in the country. The PlayStation 4 version sold 11,260 physical units, making it the sixth best-selling retail game in the country throughout the same week. [ 98 ] In the United Kingdom, although the exact sales numbers were not revealed, it was reported that Ragnarök sold more physical units on its first day than any previous God of War title did in their first week, with 82% of the total sold on PS5 and 18% on PS4. Of the PS5 sales, 12% came from the PS5 bundles. Additionally, it sold 51% more in its first week than the 2018 installment did. [ 99 ] This made Ragnarök the biggest launch in the series in the UK, which was largely due to it being the first cross-gen release in the series. [ 100 ] In terms of physical units, it was the country's second biggest launch of the year, behind FIFA 23 , and it had a bigger launch than Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II , Elden Ring , and Pokémon Legends: Arceus . [ 99 ] By the end of 2022, 670,617 units of the game had been sold in the UK, making it the sixth best-selling game of the year in the country. [ 101 ] In Germany, the game had sold over 200,000 units by the end of December 2022. [ 102 ] Awards [ edit ] At the 2020 Golden Joystick Awards , the game received the award for Most Wanted Game. [ 103 ] [ 104 ] That same year, it also received the award for PlayStation.Blog 's Most Anticipated Game. [ 105 ] It was also a nominee for Most Anticipated Game at the Game Awards in both 2020 [ 106 ] [ 107 ] and 2021 . [ 108 ] Various media outlets also included the sequel on their respective lists for most anticipated games of 2021, prior to the game's delay to the following year. [ 109 ] [ 110 ] [ 111 ] [ 112 ] [ 113 ] It was a nominee for Ultimate Game of the Year at the 2022 Golden Joystick Awards, [ 114 ] and was named as Time magazine's #1 game of the year. [ 115 ] At the Game Awards 2022 , Ragnarök won six of its 11 nominations, which was both the most nominations and most awards won at the event. It was nominated for Game of the Year and won Best Narrative and Innovation in Accessibility. Christopher Judge also won Best Performance with Sunny Suljic a nominee for the same award. [ 116 ] The game won Game of the Year at the 2022 Titanium Awards . [ 117 ] It won all 14 of its nominations at the Game Audio Network Guild Awards , representing more than half of the overall winners. [ 118 ] It also received a leading 15 nominations at the 19th British Academy Games Awards , the most nominations for any game in the history of the ceremony, which is hosted by the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA). [ 119 ] It won six of its 15 nominations, which was the most awards won at the event, including the EE Game of the Year Award . [ 120 ] During the AIAS ' 26th Annual D.I.C.E. Awards , Ragnarök received the most nominations (12), as well as the most awards (7), of the ceremony. [ 121 ] [ 122 ] Year Award Category Result Ref. 2020 Golden Joystick Awards Most Wanted Game Won [ 103 ] The Game Awards 2020 Most Anticipated Game Nominated [ 106 ] 2021 Golden Joystick Awards Most Wanted Game Nominated [ 123 ] [ 124 ] The Game Awards 2021 Most Anticipated Game Nominated [ 108 ] 2022 20th Game Audio Network Guild Awards Best Game Trailer Audio Won [ 125 ] 13th Hollywood Music in Media Awards Original Score — Video Game ( Bear McCreary ) Nominated [ 126 ] Original Song — Video Game ("Blood Upon The Snow") Won Titanium Awards Game of the Year Won [ 117 ] [ 127 ] Best Narrative Design Won Best Game Design Nominated Best Art Direction Nominated Best Sound Direction Nominated Golden Joystick Awards Ultimate Game of the Year Nominated [ 114 ] [ 128 ] Best Performer ( Christopher Judge ) Nominated The Game Awards 2022 Game of the Year Nominated [ 116 ] Best Game Direction Nominated Best Narrative Won Best Art Direction Nominated Best Score and Music ( Bear McCreary ) Won Best Audio Design Won Best Performance ( Christopher Judge ) Won Best Performance ( Sunny Suljic ) Nominated Best Action/Adventure Won Innovation in Accessibility [ 129 ] Won Players' Voice Nominated 2023 New York Game Awards Big Apple Award for Game of the Year Nominated [ 130 ] Herman Melville Award for Best Writing in a Game Won Statue of Liberty Award for Best World Nominated Tin Pan Alley Award for Best Music in a Game Nominated Great White Way Award for Best Acting in a Game ( Christopher Judge ) Nominated 21st Visual Effects Society Awards Outstanding Visual Effects in a Real-Time Project Nominated [ 131 ] 26th Annual D.I.C.E. Awards Game of the Year Nominated [ 132 ] Adventure Game of the Year Won Outstanding Achievement in Animation Won Outstanding Achievement in Art Direction Won Outstanding Achievement in Audio Design Won Outstanding Achievement in Character ( Atreus ) Nominated Outstanding Achievement in Character ( Kratos ) Won Outstanding Achievement in Game Design Nominated Outstanding Achievement in Game Direction Nominated Outstanding Achievement in Original Music Composition Won Outstanding Achievement in Story Won Outstanding Technical Achievement Nominated 50th Annie Awards Best Character Animation – Video Game Nominated [ 133 ] 70th Golden Reel Awards Outstanding Achievement in Sound Editing – Game Dialogue / ADR Nominated [ 134 ] Outstanding Achievement in Music Editing – Game Music Won Outstanding Achievement in Sound Editing – Game Effects / Foley Won 23rd Game Developers Choice Awards Game of the Year Nominated [ 135 ] [ 136 ] Best Audio Won Best Design Honorable mention Innovation Award Honorable mention Best Narrative Nominated Social Impact Award Honorable mention Best Technology Won Best Visual Art Nominated Audience Award Won 21st Annual Game Audio Network Guild Awards Audio of the Year Won [ 118 ] Best Audio Mix Won Best Cinematic & Cutscene Audio Won Best Game Foley Won Best Game Trailer Audio Won Best Main Theme Won [ d ] Best Original Song Won Best Original Soundtrack Album Won Best UI, Reward, or Objective Sound Design Won Creative and Technical Achievement in Music Won Creative and Technical Achievement in Sound Design Won Dialogue of the Year Won Music of the Year Won Sound Design of the Year Won 19th British Academy Games Awards Best Game Nominated [ 120 ] Animation Won Artistic Achievement Nominated Audio Achievement Won Game Design Nominated Music Won Narrative Nominated Performer in a Leading Role ( Christopher Judge as Kratos ) Won Performer in a Leading Role ( Sunny Suljic as Atreus ) Nominated Performer in a Supporting Role ( Adam J. Harrington as Sindri) Nominated Performer in a Supporting Role ( Danielle Bisutti as Freya ) Nominated Performer in a Supporting Role (Laya DeLeon Hayes as Angrboða ) Won Performer in a Supporting Role ( Ryan Hurst as Thor ) Nominated Technical Achievement Nominated EE Game of the Year Won Japan Game Awards Award for Excellence Won [ 137 ] 2024 66th Annual Grammy Awards Best Score Soundtrack for Video Games and Other Interactive Media Nominated [ 138 ] Best Immersive Audio Album Nominated The Steam Awards Best Game on Steam Deck Won [ 139 ] 2025 67th Annual Grammy Awards Best Score Soundtrack for Video Games and Other Interactive Media ( Valhalla ) Nominated [ 140 ] [ 141 ] Future [ edit ] Prior to the release of the 2018 installment, Cory Barlog said that after the Norse era of God of War , future games could see the series tackling either Egyptian or Maya mythology . [ 142 ] He said that the game alluded to other mythologies co-existing in the world, including Celtic , Japanese , and Irish mythology . [ 143 ] Ragnarök would subsequently also have similar references. [ 144 ] Notes [ edit ] ^ Additional work by PlayStation Studios Creative Arts, Valkyrie Entertainment, Bluepoint Games , Red Hot, Super Alloy, Jetpack Interactive, Super Genius, and Original Force. [ 1 ] Windows version developed by Jetpack Interactive. ^ As depicted in the previous game 's ending ^ As depicted in the ending of God of War III ^ Tied with "Haiyue Theme" from Honor of Kings [ 118 ] References [ edit ] ^ a b Makuch, Eddie (October 7, 2022). "God Of War Ragnarok Goes Gold, As Sony Confirms 8 Other Studios Contributed" . GameSpot . Fandom, Inc. Archived from the original on October 25, 2022 . Retrieved October 12, 2022 . ^ a b c d e Park, Gene (October 21, 2022). " 'Ragnarok's' opening hours point to a safe God of War sequel" . The Washington Post . Fred Ryan . Archived from the original on October 21, 2022 . Retrieved October 24, 2022 . ^ a b c Barbosa, Alessandro (October 25, 2022). "God Of War: Ragnarok Trailer Highlights Improvements To Combat And Enemies" . GameSpot . Fandom, Inc. Archived from the original on October 26, 2022 . Retrieved October 26, 2022 . ^ Archavia (November 8, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok Bestiary: All Monsters & Enemies" . PowerPyx.com . Archived from the original on November 15, 2022 . Retrieved November 14, 2022 . ^ a b Barrier, Ronny (September 27, 2022). "10 Major Gameplay Changes In God of War Ragnarok (Pre-release)" . IGN Africa . Ziff Davis . Archived from the original on October 25, 2022 . Retrieved October 24, 2022 . ^ a b c Tassi, Paul (November 12, 2022). "God Of War Ragnarok: What I Couldn't Talk About In My Review" . Forbes . Integrated Whale Media Investments. Archived from the original on March 22, 2023 . Retrieved November 12, 2022 . ^ a b Guisao, Jason (August 30, 2022). "God of War Ragnarök's Combat Lets You 'Play With Your Food' " . Game Informer . GameStop . Archived from the original on March 22, 2023 . Retrieved October 25, 2022 . ^ Barker, Sammy (November 8, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok: All Spartan Rages Locations and Upgrades" . Push Square . Gamer Network . Archived from the original on March 22, 2023 . Retrieved November 14, 2022 . ^ a b Legarie, Destin (October 24, 2022) [October 21, 2022]. "God of War Ragnarok: The Final Preview" . IGN . Ziff Davis . Archived from the original on October 24, 2022 . Retrieved October 24, 2022 . ^ Durrani, Huzaifah (November 14, 2022). "God Of War Ragnarok: Best Atreus Skills" . eXputer . Redlumb . Retrieved November 14, 2022 . ^ Lara, James (October 30, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok Will Feature a Transmog Armor System" . MP1st . Archived from the original on October 31, 2022 . Retrieved October 31, 2022 . ^ Orr, Jessica (November 10, 2022). "How to transmog armor in God of War Ragnarök" . Eurogamer . Gamer Network . Archived from the original on November 16, 2022 . Retrieved November 15, 2022 . ^ Pavlin, Mila (May 18, 2022). "Santa Monica Studio highlights a selection of the game's 60-plus accessibility options designed to suit players' needs" . PlayStation.Blog . Sony Interactive Entertainment . Archived from the original on May 19, 2022 . Retrieved May 20, 2022 . ^ Leblanc, Wesley (November 4, 2022). "Santa Monica Studio Reveals More Than 70 Accessibility Features In God Of War Ragnarök" . Game Informer . GameStop . Archived from the original on November 4, 2022 . Retrieved November 4, 2022 . ^ Franzese, Tomas (December 14, 2023). "God of War Ragnarok: Valhalla review: the epilogue this series deserves" . Digital Trends . Digital Trends Media Group . Retrieved December 16, 2023 . ^ Paget, Mat (June 21, 2016). "God of War PS4 Doesn't Include Multiplayer, Won't Be Kratos's Last Game" . GameSpot . CBS Interactive . Archived from the original on April 13, 2018 . Retrieved June 21, 2016 . ^ Stead, Chris (April 8, 2018). "Sony confirms God of War 5 will also be set in Norse mythology" . Finder. Archived from the original on November 9, 2020 . Retrieved April 9, 2018 . ^ Hurley, Leon (November 20, 2020). "God of War ending - what does it mean? Spoiler Warning!" . GamesRadar+ . Future US . Archived from the original on October 24, 2020 . Retrieved February 5, 2021 . ^ Avard, Alex (April 16, 2019). " "Ragnarok is coming": New God of War PS4 theme might be secretly teasing a sequel" . GamesRadar+ . Future US . Archived from the original on September 12, 2020 . Retrieved September 20, 2020 . ^ Barlog, Cory [@corybarlog] (April 21, 2019). "Reminiscing about how crazy the last 6 yrs has been so I thought I would create a GOW BTS THREAD of photos + thoughts. Buckle up, gonna' be long.😁 It all started out as scribbles and notes on a board and a stack of note cards. Big board image is an early breakdown of the story" ( Tweet ) . Retrieved April 27, 2021 – via Twitter . ^ Bankhurst, Adam (June 9, 2019). "God of War Fans May Have Found Another 'Ragnarok Is Coming' Tease" . IGN . Ziff Davis . Archived from the original on November 7, 2020 . Retrieved April 28, 2021 . ^ Kim, Matt T. M. (September 16, 2020). "God of War Ragnarok Announced for PS5" . IGN . Ziff Davis . Archived from the original on September 17, 2020 . Retrieved September 16, 2020 . ^ a b Shuman, Sid (June 2, 2021). "Hermen Hulst Q&A: What's Next for PlayStation Studios" . PlayStation.Blog . Sony Interactive Entertainment . Archived from the original on June 3, 2021 . Retrieved June 2, 2021 . ^ a b Young, Rory (June 5, 2021). "God of War Director Makes Great Point About Ragnarok's Cross-Gen Support" . Game Rant . Archived from the original on November 7, 2022 . Retrieved November 7, 2022 . ^ Moore, Logan (November 13, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok Reportedly Sets New Franchise Record" . ComicBook.com . Paramount Global . Archived from the original on November 15, 2022 . Retrieved November 15, 2022 . ^ Lima, Diego (September 9, 2021). "God of War Ragnarok: Primeiro trailer confirma título" [God of War Ragnarok: First trailer confirms title]. The Enemy (in Brazilian Portuguese). Archived from the original on September 9, 2021 . Retrieved September 9, 2021 . ^ Grubb, Josh (May 26, 2021). "God of War: Ragnarok looks like the official name for God of War: Ragnarok" . VentureBeat . Archived from the original on May 26, 2021 . Retrieved May 26, 2021 . ^ Bayliss, Ben (May 27, 2021). "God of War: Ragnarok image removed from Sony's financial presentation" . GamesRadar+ . Future US . Archived from the original on May 27, 2021 . Retrieved May 27, 2021 . ^ Ramsey, Robert (May 27, 2021). "Sony Uses Fan-Made God of War Ragnarok Logo in Official Presentation, Fools Us All" . Push Square . Gamer Network . Archived from the original on May 27, 2021 . Retrieved May 27, 2021 . ^ Weber, Rachel. "God of War 2: Everything we know so far about Ragnarok on PS5" . GamesRadar+ . Future US . Archived from the original on June 2, 2021 . Retrieved June 1, 2021 . ^ McWhertor, Michael (June 2, 2021). "Sony delays new God of War to 2022" . Polygon . Vox Media . Archived from the original on June 2, 2021 . Retrieved June 5, 2021 . ^ Wood, Austin (October 18, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok recording went so long that Atreus had to be edited after his teenage actor's voice dropped" . GamesRadar+ . Future US . Archived from the original on October 18, 2022 . Retrieved October 19, 2022 . ^ a b Bankhurst, Adam (September 30, 2021). "Kratos Voice Actor Christopher Judge Says He Is the Reason God of War: Ragnarok Was Delayed" . IGN . Ziff Davis . Archived from the original on October 9, 2021 . Retrieved October 9, 2021 . ^ Good, Owen S.; Carpenter, Nicole (September 9, 2021). "God of War Ragnarok is the finale in the Norse saga" . Polygon . Vox Media . Archived from the original on September 9, 2021 . Retrieved September 9, 2021 . ^ Makuch, Eddie (September 16, 2021). "God Of War Ragnarok Ending The Norse Saga After Two Games Is Like The Lord Of The Rings Box Set, Barlog Says" . GameSpot . Red Ventures . Archived from the original on December 14, 2021 . Retrieved December 13, 2021 . ^ a b Wright, Steven T. (October 19, 2022). "God Of War Developers Often Debated Splitting Ragnarok Into Two Games" . GameSpot . Fandom, Inc. Archived from the original on October 21, 2022 . Retrieved October 21, 2022 . ^ a b Bankhurst, Adam (November 8, 2022). "Three Months Ago, God of War Ragnarok Devs Said, 'Holy Crap, The Game's Not Good. What Are We Going to Do?' " . IGN . Ziff Davis . Archived from the original on November 8, 2022 . Retrieved November 8, 2022 . ^ Hussain, Tamoor; James, Lucy; Li, Richard; Seipke, Jean-Luc (November 21, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok Director Breaks Down Biggest Moments" . GameSpot After Dark Podcast (Podcast). GameSpot . Archived from the original on November 24, 2022 . Retrieved November 26, 2022 . ^ Zwiezen, Zack (February 14, 2023). "Early Plans For God of War Ragnarök Involved A Big Death And A Wild Twist" . Kotaku . G/O Media . Archived from the original on February 14, 2023 . Retrieved February 14, 2023 . ^ a b Orlady, Grace (July 6, 2022). "God of War Ragnarök launches November 9, new CG trailer revealed" . PlayStation.Blog . Sony Interactive Entertainment . Archived from the original on July 6, 2022 . Retrieved July 6, 2022 . ^ Gach, Ethan; Colbert, Isaiah (September 13, 2022). "God Of War Ragnarök Gets Moody New Story Trailer" . Kotaku . G/O Media . Archived from the original on September 14, 2022 . Retrieved September 16, 2022 . ^ Plant, Logan (October 21, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok Has a 120hz Performance Mode on PS5" . IGN . Ziff Davis . Archived from the original on October 23, 2022 . Retrieved October 24, 2022 . ^ Bari, Muhammad Ali (November 1, 2022). "Dev Confirms God Of War Ragnarok Is Unable To Fully Utilize PS5 Capabilities" . Twisted Voxel . Archived from the original on November 2, 2022 . Retrieved November 2, 2022 . ^ Marshall, Cass (October 26, 2022). "God of War Ragnarök won't have a photo mode at launch" . Polygon . Vox Media . Archived from the original on November 2, 2022 . Retrieved November 2, 2022 . ^ "God of War Ragnarök" . Eric Jacobus . September 16, 2021. Archived from the original on October 13, 2022 . Retrieved October 12, 2022 . ^ "First look at 'God of War Ragnarök' shows a war with Asgard" . Engadget . September 9, 2021. Archived from the original on September 9, 2021 . Retrieved September 9, 2021 . ^ Cho, SungWon [@ProZD] (September 9, 2021). "I voice and provide the motion capture for Ratatoskr in GOD OF WAR RAGNAROK, and in addition, I was also hired by @SonySantaMonica to work directly with the writers to help write his scenes, thank you to everyone there for the opportunity" ( Tweet ) . Retrieved September 10, 2021 – via Twitter . ^ Porter, Scott [@ScottPorter] (November 8, 2022). "Well, looks like the Bifrost is out of the bag... I am Heimdall in #GodOfWarRagnarock. Even he couldn't see the spoilers coming... #GodOfWar @SonySantaMonica #Heimdall #DreamJob #BucketList" ( Tweet ) . Retrieved November 8, 2022 – via Twitter . ^ Santa Monica Studio [@SonySantaMonica] (November 8, 2022). "#GodofWarRagnarok composer @bearmccreary adds a new credit to his name. Tomorrow, on November 9th, you'll not only be able to hear Bear's incredible score throughout your adventure – you'll also be able to meet him in-game! Introducing Ræb 🎵" ( Tweet ) . Retrieved November 9, 2022 – via Twitter . ^ Yin-Poole, Wesley (September 10, 2021). "In defence of God of War's Thor" . Eurogamer . Archived from the original on September 11, 2021 . Retrieved September 11, 2021 . ^ Frost, Amber (December 24, 2022). "10 Ways God Of War's Thor Is A Great Take On The Norse God" . Comic Book Resources . Valnet Inc. Archived from the original on January 2, 2023 . Retrieved January 1, 2023 . ^ Yang, George (September 11, 2022). "How 'God of War Ragnarök's' Thor Was Inspired by The Hulk" . Variety . Penske Media Corporation . Archived from the original on November 16, 2022 . Retrieved November 16, 2022 . ^ Harris, Olivia (June 5, 2021). "God Of War Developer Receives Abusive Messages Following Delay" . Screen Rant . Valnet Inc. Archived from the original on October 25, 2022 . Retrieved October 25, 2022 . ^ Anderson, Julia (June 30, 2022). "God of War Fans are Sexually Harassing Dev Team Over an Announcement Delay" . Comic Book Resources . Valnet Inc. Archived from the original on October 25, 2022 . Retrieved October 25, 2022 . ^ Duckworth, Joshua (September 19, 2021). "God of War: Ragnarok's Angrboda 'Controversy' Explained" . Game Rant . Archived from the original on October 25, 2022 . Retrieved October 25, 2022 . ^ "God of War Ragnarök Soundtrack (2022)" . Soundtrack.Net . Autotelics, LLC. November 9, 2022. Archived from the original on November 10, 2022 . Retrieved November 9, 2022 . ^ McCreary, Bear (June 27, 2016). "God of War at E3" . BearMcCreary.com . Retrieved September 2, 2023 . ^ Ragusa, Paolo (November 8, 2022). "Hozier on His New Song for God of War: Ragnarök, "Blood Upon the Snow": Exclusive" . Consequence . Consequence Media. Archived from the original on November 8, 2022 . Retrieved November 9, 2022 . ^ Robertson, Joshua (November 29, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok Song Blood Upon The Snow To Be Performed At The Game Awards" . The Gamer . Archived from the original on December 7, 2022 . Retrieved December 8, 2022 . ^ "God of War Ragnarök: Valhalla (Original Soundtrack)" . VGMdb . Retrieved December 15, 2023 . ^ a b Orlady, Grace (July 6, 2022). "God of War Ragnarök Collector's Edition unboxing" . PlayStation.Blog . Sony Interactive Entertainment . Archived from the original on July 6, 2022 . Retrieved July 6, 2022 . ^ Onder, Cade (September 13, 2022). "PlayStation Reveals New God of War Ragnarok PS5 Controller" . ComicBook.com . Paramount Global . Archived from the original on September 14, 2022 . Retrieved September 16, 2022 . ^ Good, Owen S. (October 13, 2022). "God of War Ragnarök gets a PS5 bundle in latest hype trailer" . Polygon . Vox Media . Archived from the original on October 13, 2022 . Retrieved October 13, 2022 . ^ Schedeen, Jesse (November 25, 2022) [July 25, 2022]. "The Art of God of War Ragnarok: Exclusive Preview of the Stunning New Art Book" . IGN . Ziff Davis . Archived from the original on December 26, 2022 . Retrieved December 26, 2022 . ^ Moore, Logan (December 5, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok Update Adds Highly-Requested Feature, Patch Notes Revealed" . ComicBook.com . Paramount Global . Archived from the original on December 5, 2022 . Retrieved December 6, 2022 . ^ Falconer, Daniel (April 5, 2023). "God of War Ragnarok 4.00 Update Patch Notes: New Game Plus, Increased Level Cap" . GameRevolution . Mandatory . Archived from the original on April 5, 2023 . Retrieved April 5, 2023 . ^ Bhatnagar, Viraaj (November 7, 2024). "God of War Ragnarok Details PS5 Pro Upgrades" . Game Rant . Retrieved November 8, 2024 . ^ Ramsey, Robert (November 22, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok Director on DLC: 'I Wouldn't Count on It' " . Push Square . Gamer Network . Archived from the original on November 22, 2022 . Retrieved November 22, 2022 . ^ Cripe, Michael (December 7, 2023). "God of War Ragnarok Valhalla Is Free Roguelike DLC That Launches Next Week | Game Awards 2023" . IGN . Ziff Davis . Retrieved December 7, 2023 . ^ Bailey, Kat (May 30, 224). "God of War: Ragnarok Announced for PC, PSN Login Requirement Confirmed - State of Play 2024" . IGN . Ziff Davis . Archived from the original on May 31, 2024 . Retrieved May 31, 2024 . ^ Battaglia, Alex; Judd, Will (September 21, 2024). "How God of War Ragnarök was ported to PC" . Eurogamer . Gamer Network . Retrieved September 23, 2024 . ^ Cripe, Michael (January 29, 2025). "Sony Says You Won't Have to Link a PSN Account to Play Some of Its PC Games Anymore" . IGN . Ziff Davis . Retrieved January 30, 2025 . ^ Dedmon, Tanner (March 14, 2025). "Surprise God of War Ragnarok Update Adds New Content Next Week" . ComicBook.com . Paramount Global . Retrieved March 14, 2025 . ^ Cripe, Michael (March 20, 2025). "God of War Ragnarok 20th Anniversary Update 06.02 Patch Notes Detail Dark Odyssey Collection Contents" . IGN . Ziff Davis . Retrieved March 20, 2025 . ^ a b "God of War: Ragnarok for PlayStation 5 Reviews" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on November 17, 2022 . Retrieved November 3, 2022 . ^ "God of War: Ragnarok (PC)" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on December 19, 2024 . Retrieved December 19, 2024 . ^ "God of War: Ragnarok (PS4)" . Metacritic . Archived from the original on January 13, 2023 . Retrieved February 20, 2023 . ^ a b c d e f g Cardy, Simon (November 3, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok Review" . IGN . Archived from the original on January 16, 2023 . Retrieved November 3, 2022 . ^ a b c d e f g h Tapsell, Chris (November 3, 2022). "God of War: Ragnarök review - glorious excess makes a triumphant return" . Eurogamer . Archived from the original on November 14, 2022 . Retrieved November 3, 2022 . ^ Hurley, Leon (November 3, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok review: "For the most part this is exceptional" " . GamesRadar+ . Archived from the original on November 16, 2022 . Retrieved November 3, 2022 . ^ a b c d Hilliard, Kyle. "God of War Ragnarök Review - Next To Godliness" . Game Informer . Archived from the original on November 16, 2022 . Retrieved November 3, 2022 . ^ a b c d e f g h Hussain, Tamoor. "God Of War Ragnarok Review - Blood, Sweat, And Tyrs" . GameSpot . Archived from the original on November 14, 2022 . Retrieved November 3, 2022 . ^ Carter, Chris (November 3, 2022). "Review: God of War Ragnarok" . Destructoid . Archived from the original on November 15, 2022 . Retrieved November 3, 2022 . ^ Chandler, Sam (November 3, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok review: Fit for Folkvangr" . Shacknews . Archived from the original on November 10, 2022 . Retrieved November 3, 2022 . ^ Billcliffe, James (November 3, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok review: Unmatched action" . VG247 . Archived from the original on November 9, 2022 . Retrieved November 3, 2022 . ^ Ramsey, Robert (November 3, 2022). "Review: God of War Ragnarok (PS5) - A Dazzling Crown Jewel in Sony's Catalogue" . Push Square . Archived from the original on November 15, 2022 . Retrieved November 3, 2022 . ^ a b c d Halton, Clay (November 3, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok (for PlayStation 5) Review" . PCMag . Archived from the original on November 14, 2022 . Retrieved November 3, 2022 . ^ Harmon, Josh (November 3, 2022). "God of War Ragnarök review" . Electronic Gaming Monthly . Archived from the original on November 14, 2022 . Retrieved November 3, 2022 . ^ Bardwell, Tom (November 3, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok Review" . VideoGamer.com . Archived from the original on November 3, 2022 . Retrieved November 3, 2022 . ^ Middler, Jordan (November 3, 2022). "Review: God of War Ragnarök is one of the best PlayStation games ever" . Video Games Chronicle . Archived from the original on November 3, 2022 . Retrieved November 3, 2022 . ^ Hoggins, Tom (November 4, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok review: a thrilling but heartfelt blockbuster triumph" . The Telegraph . ISSN 0307-1235 . Archived from the original on November 4, 2022 . Retrieved November 4, 2022 . ^ Romano, Sal (November 9, 2022). "Famitsu Review Scores: Issue 1771" . Gematsu . Archived from the original on November 9, 2022 . Retrieved November 11, 2022 . ^ "God of War (ps2: 2005)" . Metacritic . CBS Interactive . Archived from the original on February 15, 2010 . Retrieved July 4, 2012 . ^ "God of War for Playstation 4 Reviews – Metacritic" . Metacritic . CBS Interactive . Archived from the original on April 13, 2018 . Retrieved April 12, 2018 . ^ Romano, Sal (November 23, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok sold 5.1 million units in first week, becomes fastest-selling first-party launch game in PlayStation history" . Gematsu . Archived from the original on November 23, 2022 . Retrieved November 23, 2022 . ^ Ramsey, Robert (February 1, 2023). "God of War Ragnarok Smashes Through a Staggering 11 Million Sales" . Push Square . Gamer Network . Archived from the original on February 1, 2023 . Retrieved February 1, 2023 . ^ Orlady, Grace (December 7, 2023). "God of War Ragnarök: Valhalla DLC revealed, coming December 12" . PlayStation.Blog . Sony Interactive Entertainment . Retrieved December 7, 2023 . As of November 19, God of War Ragnarök has sold through more than 15 million units worldwide across PS4 and PS5. ^ Romano, Sal (November 17, 2022). "Famitsu Sales: 11/7/22 – 11/13/22" . Gematsu. Archived from the original on March 7, 2023 . Retrieved November 17, 2022 . ^ a b Dring, Christopher (November 15, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok launch was bigger than Call of Duty, Elden Ring and Pokémon" . Gameindustry.biz . Gamer Network . Archived from the original on November 18, 2022 . Retrieved November 17, 2022 . ^ Dring, Christopher (November 11, 2022). "God of War Ragnarok is already the biggest launch in the franchise's history" . Gameindustry.biz . Gamer Network . Archived from the original on November 16, 2022 . Retrieved November 17, 2022 . ^ Dring, Christopher (March 7, 2023). "Average selling price of games rose nearly 7% in the UK last year" . GamesIndustry.biz . Archived from the original on March 8, 2023 . Retrieved March 8, 2022 . ^ "game Sales Awards Dezember 2022" [game Sales Awards December 2022] (in German). January 19, 2023. Archived from the original on January 20, 2023 . Retrieved January 20, 2023 . ^ a b Tyrer, Ben (November 24, 2020). "Every winner at the Golden Joystick Awards 2020" . GamesRadar+ . Future US . Archived from the original on November 24, 2020 . Retrieved November 26, 2020 . ^ Jones, Ali (November 24, 2020). "God of War: Ragnarok is the Most Wanted Game at the Golden Joystick Awards" . GamesRadar+ . Future US . Archived from the original on November 24, 2020 . Retrieved November 26, 2020 . ^ Massongill, Justin (December 18, 2020). "PlayStation.Blog 2020 Game of the Year: The winners" . PlayStation.Blog . Sony Interactive Entertainment . Archived from the original on December 18, 2020 . Retrieved December 18, 2020 . ^ a b The Game Awards [@thegameawards] (November 18, 2020). "The voting for Most Anticipated Game is open! Click the image below to vote now!" ( Tweet ) . Retrieved December 4, 2020 – via Twitter . ^ Stedman, Alex (December 10, 2020). "The Game Awards 2020: Complete Winners List" . Variety . Penske Media Corporation . Archived from the original on December 11, 2020 . Retrieved December 13, 2020 . ^ a b "The Game Awards Nominees: 'Deathloop,' 'Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart' Lead 2021 List" . Deadline . November 16, 2021. Archived from the original on December 18, 2021 . Retrieved November 16, 2021 . ^ GameSpot (December 28, 2020). 8 Most Anticipated Games of 2021 . YouTube . Archived from the original on January 1, 2021 . Retrieved January 1, 2021 . ^ Washington Post Staff (December 29, 2020). "The most anticipated games of 2021" . The Washington Post . Fred Ryan . Archived from the original on December 30, 2020 . Retrieved January 1, 2021 . ^ Beresford, Trilby (December 29, 2020). "10 of the Most Anticipated Video Games of 2021" . The Hollywood Reporter . Lynne Segall. Archived from the original on December 29, 2020 . Retrieved January 1, 2021 . ^ Jones, Camden (December 28, 2020). "The Most Anticipated Games Of 2021" . Screen Rant . Valnet, Inc. Archived from the original on December 28, 2020 . Retrieved January 1, 2021 . ^ Casey, Henry T. (December 31, 2020). "The most anticipated games of 2021: PS5, Xbox Series X, PC and more" . Tom's Guide . Future US . Archived from the original on December 31, 2020 . Retrieved January 1, 2021 . ^ a b Croft, Liam (November 10, 2022). "Three Sony Games Nominated for Ultimate Game of the Year Award at the Golden Joysticks" . Push Square . Archived from the original on November 16, 2022 . Retrieved November 16, 2022 . ^ Newby, Richard (November 27, 2022). "The 10 Best Video Games of 2022" . Time . Archived from the original on November 27, 2022 . Retrieved November 28, 2022 . ^ a b "The Full List of the 2022 Game Awards Nominees" . Game Informer . November 14, 2022. Archived from the original on November 14, 2022 . Retrieved November 14, 2022 . ^ a b Varela, Miguel (November 19, 2022). "God of War: Ragnarök se lleva el GOTY 2022 en los Premios Titanium de la Big Conference" . Areajugones (in Spanish). Archived from the original on November 19, 2022 . Retrieved November 19, 2022 . ^ a b c Flam, Charna (March 23, 2023). " 'God of War Ragnarök' Leads Game Audio Network Guild Awards With 14 Wins (EXCLUSIVE)" . Variety . Archived from the original on March 24, 2023 . Retrieved March 24, 2023 . ^ Wood, Anthony (March 2, 2023). "BAFTA Games Awards 2023 Nominations Announced" . IGN . Archived from the original on March 3, 2023 . Retrieved March 2, 2023 . ^ a b "2023 BAFTA Games Awards: The Winners" . www.bafta.org . March 2, 2023. Archived from the original on April 2, 2023 . Retrieved March 31, 2023 . ^ Benfell, Grace (January 12, 2023). "God of War Ragnarok Leads Pack in Nominations for the 2023 DICE Awards" . GameSpot . Retrieved October 25, 2023 . ^ Bankhurst, Adam (February 23, 2023). "DICE Awards 2023 Winners: The Full List" . IGN . Retrieved October 25, 2023 . ^ Moyse, Chris (October 22, 2021). "Golden Joystick 2021 nominees include Deathloop, Resident Evil, Returnal, and more" . Destructoid . Archived from the original on November 16, 2022 . Retrieved November 16, 2022 . ^ Tyrer, Ben (November 23, 2021). "Here are all the Golden Joystick Awards 2021 winners" . GamesRadar+ . Archived from the original on November 24, 2021 . Retrieved November 16, 2022 . ^ Burton, Carson (May 25, 2022). " 'Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart' Dominates Game Audio Network Guild Awards (EXCLUSIVE)" . Variety . Archived from the original on October 31, 2022 . Retrieved November 16, 2022 . ^ Anderson, Erik (November 17, 2022). "Rihanna, Billy Eichner, Elvis , Guillermo del Toro's Pinocchio top Hollywood Music in Media Awards (HMMA) winners" . AwardsWatch . Archived from the original on November 18, 2022 . Retrieved January 18, 2023 . ^ "Titanium Awards 2022" . Bilbao International Games Conference . November 8, 2022. Archived from the original on November 20, 2022 . Retrieved November 19, 2022 . ^ Loveridge, Sam (November 22, 2022). "Here are all the Golden Joystick Awards 2022 winners" . GamesRadar+ . Archived from the original on November 22, 2022 . Retrieved November 27, 2022 . ^ Henry, Alan (December 14, 2022). "Wired Games Newsletter" . Wired . Archived from the original on December 15, 2022 . Retrieved December 14, 2022 . ^ Bankhurst, Adam (January 17, 2023). "New York Game Awards 2023: Elden Ring Wins Two Awards as Phil Spencer Is Honored" . IGN . Archived from the original on January 20, 2023 . Retrieved January 21, 2023 . ^ Giardina, Carolyn (February 16, 2023). " Avatar 2 Sweeps Visual Effects Society Awards Feature Competition" . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on February 16, 2023 . Retrieved February 16, 2023 . ^ Bankhurst, Adam (February 23, 2023). "DICE Awards 2023 Winners: The Full List" . IGN . Archived from the original on February 24, 2023 . Retrieved February 24, 2023 . ^ Pedersen, Erik (January 17, 2023). "Annie Awards Nominations: Guillermo del Toro's Pinocchio & Marcel The Shell Lead Field" . Deadline Hollywood . Archived from the original on January 17, 2023 . Retrieved January 17, 2023 . ^ Tangcay, Jazz (February 27, 2023). " 'Top Gun: Maverick, 'Elvis' and 'Banshees of Inisherin' Among Golden Reel Award Winners" . Variety . Archived from the original on March 21, 2023 . Retrieved March 31, 2023 . ^ Ivan, Tom (March 23, 2023). "Elden Ring named Game of the Year at the Game Developers Choice Awards" . Video Games Chronicle . Archived from the original on March 23, 2023 . Retrieved March 24, 2023 . ^ Mejia, Ozzie (January 26, 2023). "Elden Ring & Stray lead Game Developers Choice Awards 2023 nominees" . Shacknews . Archived from the original on January 27, 2023 . Retrieved January 27, 2023 . ^ Robinson, Andy (September 21, 2023). "Monster Hunter Rise: Sunbreak named 2023's best game at Japan Game Awards" . Video Games Chronicle . Archived from the original on September 21, 2023 . Retrieved September 23, 2023 . ^ Minsker, Evan (November 10, 2023). "Grammy Nominations 2024: See the Full List Here" . Pitchfork . Retrieved November 10, 2023 . ^ Geikhman, Yuliya (December 31, 2024). "The 2024 Steam Awards Winners Have Been Revealed, Includes A Much-Deserved GOTY Win And Some More Surprising Picks" . ScreenRant . Retrieved January 18, 2025 . ^ Tolentino, Daysia (November 8, 2024). "Grammy Awards 2025: List of nominees" . NBC News . Retrieved November 8, 2024 . ^ "2025 Grammys: See the Full Winners & Nominees List" . grammy.com . The Recording Academy . Retrieved February 3, 2025 . ^ Juba, Joe (February 2018). "Worshipping at New Altars: How Sony is Reinventing God of War". Game Informer . No. 298. Minneapolis , Minnesota : GameStop . p. 45. ^ Barlog, Cory ; Studstill, Shannon (January 9, 2018). Norse and Beyond: Expanding God of War's History ( YouTube ). Game Informer , GameStop . Archived from the original on May 18, 2019 . Retrieved February 1, 2018 . ^ Chrysostomou, George (January 31, 2023). "10 Details You Totally Missed In God Of War: Ragnarök" . Screen Rant . Valnet Inc. Archived from the original on May 4, 2023 . Retrieved May 4, 2023 . External links [ edit ] Official website God of War Ragnarök at IMDb God of War Ragnarök at MobyGames God of War Ragnarök at Metacritic v t e God of War Main Greek era God of War (2005) II (2007) Betrayal (2007) Chains of Olympus (2008) III (2010) Ghost of Sparta (2010) Ascension (2013) Norse era God of War (2018) God of War Ragnarök (2022) Universe Characters Kratos 2010–11 comic series Collections Related Everybody's Golf 5 Soulcalibur: Broken Destiny Mortal Kombat (2011) PlayStation All-Stars Battle Royale Shovel Knight Secret Level Category v t e Santa Monica Studio Video games God of War God of War II III Ascension God of War (2018) Ragnarök Other games Kinetica People Cory Barlog David Jaffe Stig Asmussen Related PlayStation Studios Sony Interactive Entertainment Category Portals : Mythology Speculative fiction Video games Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=God_of_War_Ragnarök&oldid=1287506512 " Categories : 2022 video games Action-adventure games BAFTA winners (video games) Fiction about father–son relationships The Game Awards winners Game Developers Choice Award winners God of War (franchise) Golden Joystick Award winners Hack and slash games Japan Game Award winners New York Game Award winners PlayStation 4 games PlayStation 4 Pro enhanced games PlayStation 5 games PlayStation 5 Pro enhanced games Santa Monica Studio games Single-player video games Sony Interactive Entertainment games Video game sequels Video games based on Norse mythology Video games developed in the United States Video games postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic Video games set in Norway Video games set in the Viking Age Windows games Hidden categories: CS1 Brazilian Portuguese-language sources (pt-br) CS1 German-language sources (de) CS1 Spanish-language sources (es) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use American English from September 2020 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Good articles Use mdy dates from November 2024 Articles using Infobox video game using locally defined parameters Articles using Wikidata infoboxes with locally defined images Articles with hAudio microformats Album articles lacking alt text for covers Articles using Video game reviews template in single platform mode Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia This page was last edited on 26 April 2025, at 18:13 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents God of War Ragnarök 30 languages Add topic