Unique. Colorful. Innovative. Check out our PDP brand today. SHOP NOW Esports Performance, Fighting Game Dominance - Shop VICTRIX Now! Free Shipping on Qualifying Orders Over $49 Login Click the button to redirect to the login page and we'll send you a login code, no password needed. Login Blog / upcoming games / Super Mario Odyssey 2: Release Date News, Switch Leaks and Confirmed Nintendo Updates Mario Nintendo Super Mario Odyssey Turtle Beach August 18, 2022 Super Mario Odyssey 2: Release Date News, Switch Leaks and Confirmed Nintendo Updates Upcoming Games SUPER MARIO ODYSSEY 2: RELEASE DATE NEWS, SWITCH LEAKS AND CONFIRMED NINTENDO UPDATES August 18, 2022 Will there be a Super Mario Odyssey 2? Given that Super Mario Odyssey is one of the best-selling Nintendo Switch games of all time, with over 21 million sales as of September 2021 (thanks, Nintendolife ) we think there’s a pretty good chance. Whether a second game would be a direct sequel is up for debate, but we imagine Nintendo will look to build on the success of Odyssey. In the past, we’ve normally seen Nintendo release just one entry per console, with the only notable exception being Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario Galaxy 2 on the Nintendo Wii. However, with the unprecedented success of the Nintendo Switch, we can envisage Nintendo releasing Super Mario Odyssey 2 at some stage in the not too distant future. With that in mind, here’s everything we know about the game so far. 18 Aug Update - Checked for the latest Super Mario Odyssey 2 news. All the most recent updates are found just below. Latest News June 8 - Nintendo Direct next week? Super Mario Odyssey 2 Leaks Is Nintendo making a Super Mario Odyssey 2? We believe so, although if Nintendo is working on the game they’re keeping really tight-lipped on the state of the game. Our biggest clue that a sequel is on the cards comes via a Nintendo job ad from back in 2019. The role in question was for a Level Designer to work on a “New 3D Action Game” within Tokyo. For those who don’t know, this would have more than likely been for Nintendo’s EPD Production Group No. 8, also known as Nintendo EPD Tokyo. This developer has notably worked on several 3D Super Mario Series, including most recently, Super Mario Odyssey. Make of that what you will. Super Mario Odyssey 2 Release Date When will Super Mario Odyssey 2 come out? For the time being, that’s anyone’s guess since at the time of writing Nintendo has not confirmed that they’re even working on Super Mario Odyssey 2. Whilst it seems likely (we’ve explained why), officially Nintendo hasn’t confirmed so much of a title card, which makes us think that even if the game is in development, it won’t release for quite some time. It’s also heavily rumoured that Nintendo EPD Tokyo is working on a new Donkey Kong game. Nintendo Life was previously told by “an independent (and very trusted) source” that Nintendo EPD is developing a 2D/2.5D Donkey Kong game. If we had to make a complete guess, we’d say that we’ll likely be waiting until 2024 at the very earliest for a new Super Mario Odyssey game – possibly on the next generation of Nintendo Switch hardware. Mario 5 Nintendo 34 Super Mario Odyssey 4 Back Latest News Oblivion Remastered April 29, 2025 Oblivion Remastered: How To Level Up Oblivion Remastered has been something rumoured in the gaming space for quite some time, and after the recent leaks, it's all but confirmed. Now, players who missed the original 2006 release are diving in, and we'll run through how players will be able to level up once it's time. Here's what you ... Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 April 29, 2025 Clair Obscur: Expedition 33: How Long Does It Take To Complete? Answered Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 is going to be the first major JRPG to release in 2025, and after a phenomenal year of JRPGs in 2024, players are amped. While there are a ton of expectations pertaining to the game, one aspect that we're going to touch on today, is how long it'll take to complete the ... 000 Space Marine 2 Elden Ring Nightreign April 29, 2025 Elden Ring Nightreign: All Classes Elden Ring is back, and they're going to be releasing a brand new stand alone title in the form of Nightreign. This brand new game is going to introduce four brand new classes to the Elden Ring universe and we're going to run over all of them below. Here's what we know. Elden Ring Nightreign: All... Join Our Community Giveaways, gaming gear, our discord channel and more: Giveaways, gaming gear, our discord channel and more: Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information © 2025 Turtle Beach. All rights reserved. Site Map