World Cup 2022: Awarding Qatar the tournament was a mistake, says former Fifa president Sepp Blatter - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Athletics Cycling More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Olympic Sports Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Winter Sports Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs FIFA World Cup Groups & Schedule Scores & Fixtures Tables Top Scorers World Cup 2022: Awarding Qatar the tournament was a mistake, says former Fifa president Sepp Blatter Published 8 November 2022 Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Media caption, World Cup 'should not' have gone to Qatar - Sepp Blatter Former Fifa president Sepp Blatter says the decision to award the 2022 World Cup to Qatar was a "mistake". Blatter, 86, was president of world football's governing body when Qatar was awarded the tournament in 2010. The Gulf state has been criticised for its stance on same-sex relationships, human rights record and treatment of migrant workers. Blatter said he was "right" to have said at the time that the tournament "should not go" to Qatar for 2022. The Swiss was speaking on upcoming BBC Radio 5 Live podcast series Power Play - The House of Sepp Blatter about the decision to award Qatar the World Cup. Qatar ambassador comments on homosexuality 'harmful and unacceptable' Why are people protesting about the World Cup host? In an interview with Swiss newspaper Tages Anzeiger, , external Blatter added Qatar is "too small of a country" to host the tournament and that "football and the World Cup are too big for it". The Qatar World Cup, the first to be hosted in the Middle East in the tournament's 92-year-history and the first during the Northern Hemisphere winter, takes place from 20 November to 18 December. Fifa's executive committee voted 14-8 for Qatar to host the tournament ahead of the United States 12 years ago, at the same time Russia was awarded the 2018 event. Blatter says he voted for the United States and blames then-Uefa president Michel Platini for swinging the vote in Qatar's favour. "It was a bad choice and I was responsible for that as president at the time," he said. "Thanks to the four votes of Platini and his [Uefa] team, the World Cup went to Qatar rather than the United States. It's the truth." Blatter also said Fifa had adjusted the criteria used to select host countries in 2012 after concerns were raised about the treatment of migrant workers building World Cup stadiums in Qatar. "Since then, social considerations and human rights are taken into account," he added. Wubben-Moy will not watch Qatar World Cup England forward Beth Mead says holding World Cup in Qatar is 'disappointing' Blatter spent 17 years as Fifa president but was forced to step down in 2015 over allegations he unlawfully arranged a transfer of two million Swiss francs ($2.19m; £1.6m) to Platini, who was also forced to resign from his position at Fifa. He was originally banned from football by Fifa for eight years, later reduced to six, over the Platini payment. In March 2021 he then received an additional ban until 2028 for "various violations" of Fifa's code of ethics. Blatter and Platini were charged with fraud last November but were found not guilty at a trial in Switzerland in July. The decision to award the 2018 and 2022 World Cups to Russia and Qatar respectively has been dogged by accusations of widespread corruption, with two investigations launched by Swiss prosecutors and the US Department of Justice in 2015. Qatar and Russia have always denied any wrongdoing, and both were effectively cleared by Fifa's own investigation in 2017. How to follow the Fifa World Cup on the BBC Fifa recently wrote to competing nations asking them to "now focus on the football" instead of the competition's controversial build-up. The Fifa letter was criticised by Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International and LGBTQ+ campaigners in England and Wales, while 10 European football associations - including those of England and Wales - said "human rights are universal and apply everywhere". There is concern about how LGBTQ+ people are treated in Qatar, where same-sex relationships and the promotion of same-sex relationships are criminalised, with punishments ranging from fines to the death sentence. Amnesty International says that since 2010, hundreds of thousands of migrant workers , external have faced human rights abuses while employed to build wider infrastructure necessary to host the tournament. Peaceful protests have been planned by some players, while England's Harry Kane and nine other captains of European teams will be wearing 'One Love' armbands . to promote diversity and inclusion. Denmark will wear "toned-down" shirts to protest against Qatar, with kit provider Hummel saying it "does not wish to be visible" in a tournament it claims "has cost thousands of lives", while Australia's squad have released a video urging Qatar to abolish its laws on same-sex relationships. BBC Sport has contacted Fifa and the World Cup organising committee for comment. Power Play - The House of Sepp Blatter will be available on BBC Sounds from 15 November. Related topics Football FIFA World Cup Top stories PSG pass masters make Rice and Arsenal's fears come true Published 5 hours ago We have to do something special in Paris - Arteta Published 5 hours ago Rudiger given six-game ban for throwing object at referee Published 6 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC On the frontline with the London Ambulance Service Yinka Bokinni explores the life of Sean 'Diddy' Combs Detectives recount cases which shaped their careers Join the hunt for Scotland's perfect pads Elsewhere in Sport 'Why hit a single when you can hit six?' - the making of a teen IPL star 'One of football's greatest thinkers' - how Guardiola inspired Champions League trio Sciver-Brunt replaces Knight as England captain Will Ferrari turn their season around? The runner who went viral and sparked a campaign for change for women 'Liverpool still need new blood' - where will Slot strengthen? Who are the big winners & losers from the NFL Draft? 'How are we still here?' - Class of 92 graduates still going strong 'PSG worry me more than Real Madrid' Video 'PSG worry me more than Real Madrid' A mole, a Lion and a confession - Premiership Rugby talking points Could Wrexham really reach the Premier League? Meet the heavyweight who teaches in sign language The contenders to derail England's home World Cup Eubank narrowly beats Benn - extended highlights. Video Eubank narrowly beats Benn - extended highlights Soap opera twists and fatherly love - but what next for Eubank and Benn? Man City beat Forest to reach FA Cup final. Video Man City beat Forest to reach FA Cup final Who has made Troy's Premier League team of the week? London Marathon breaks world record for most finishers 'Twenty times' - but now Man Utd must exit 'Ice Age' Resilient England finally get test they needed Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.