Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/Xenoblade_Chronicles A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to Xenoblade_Chronicles r/Xenoblade_Chronicles r/Xenoblade_Chronicles This community is for fans of the Xenoblade Chronicles JRPG game series, as well as other 'Xeno' games by Monolith Soft. (Xenoblade, Xenosaga, and Xenogears.) Members Online • Ynikoma Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Pre-Release Megathread Hello everyone! This thread is for all the news and information about the soon to be released Xenoblade Chronicles 2. You can use it for general discussion about the game as well. I’ll add more stuff here as we get more information about the game. If you have something in mind that should be in this list, tell it in the comments or send me a PM. As a side note, I made the Xenoblade X Info Compendium sticky thread into a wiki page . From now on you will find it in the sidebar, below the help. Xenoblade Chronicles 2 General info Platform: Nintendo Switch Release Date: December 1st, 2017 (worldwide) Genre(s): Adventure, RPG Game Modes: Single player Developer: Monolith Soft Publisher: Nintendo Required Space: 13GB Special edition ( US ) / Collector's Edition ( EU / AUS ) contains a 220 page hardbound art book (US) or a 220 page non hardbound art book (EU/AUS), special metal game case + game and a sound selection CD, and a poster (AUS). Xenoblade Chronicles 2 themed Pro Controller Expansion pass ($29.99 / £26.99 / €29.99) for DLC will be available on November 7th. DLC will include: Support items for your journey - starting December 2017 New quests for the main game - starting January 2018 New rare blade - Spring 2018 New challenge battle mode - Summer 2018 A brand-new story and adventure - Autumn 2018 A free Japanese voiceover DLC will be available on Day-One Overview Lead Rex, Pyra, and the world to refuge. As the giant beasts march toward death, the last hope is a scavenger named Rex—and Pyra, a living weapon known as a Blade. Can you find the fabled paradise she calls home? Command a group of Blades and lead them to countless strategic victories before the world ends. Each Titan hosts its own distinct cultures, wildlife, and diverse regions to explore. Search the vast open areas and labyrinthine corridors for treasure, secret paths, and creatures to battle and index. During these escapades you'll get to know a large cast of eclectic characters, including the weaponized life forms known as Blades. Gather these allies, bond with them to increase their power, and utilize their special ARTS to devastate enemies. But to save the world of Alrest, you must first demystify its cloudy past. A new story in the Xenoblade Chronicles series The next adventure is on the Nintendo Switch console—set on the backs of colossal, living Titans Discover each Titan’s diverse regions, culture, wildlife, equipment, and hidden secrets Find, bond with, and command weaponized life forms known as Blades to earn abilities and enhance them Uncover the history of Alrest and the mystery of its endless ocean of clouds Previews RPG Site's written preview GameXplain's video preview Nintendo World Report's video preview & a written one Gamespace's video preview DualShocker's mini video preview & a written one Nintendo Town's video preview NintendoLife's written preview God Is A Geek's written preview Raging Gazebo's written preview Gaming Boulevard's written preview ShackNews's written preview Attack of the Fanboy's written preview UsGamer's written preview The Sixth Axis' written preview IGN's written preview Eurogamer's written preview My Nintendo News' written preview Info FAQ Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Direct - Spoiler free after 4:28 mark. Battle explanation - Nintendo Treehouse’s great blog post about the game’s combat system and mechanics. Trailers Reveal trailer E3 2017 trailer The World of Alrest trailer Character trailer Story trailer Gameplay videos E3 2017 gameplay demonstration Nintendo Direct 9.13.2017 info Gameplay from Gamescom 2017 Compilation of short gameplay bits from the Japanese site #1 - Direct feed Gameplay from Milan Games Week - Italian commentary GameXplain’s gameplay from Nintendo’s holiday preview event #1 - Direct feed GameXplain’s gameplay from Nintendo’s holiday preview event #2 - Direct feed Roder’s Base’s gameplay from Nintendo’s holiday preview event #1 - Direct feed Roder’s Base’s gameplay from Nintendo’s holiday preview event #2 - Direct feed Luis Alamilla’s gameplay from Nintendo’s holiday preview event Gameplay from Paris Games week - French commentary Compilation of short gameplay bits from the Japanese site #2 - Direct feed GameXplain's gameplay w/ Nintendo Treehouse IGN's gameplay w/ Nintendo Treehouse Gamespot's gameplay w/ Nintendo Treehouse All footage used in the previews - The footage that the video previews used are all found in this full video that Nintendo provided to the preview sites. Interviews & messages 6.13.2017 a message from Tetsuya Takahashi 6.15.2017 a message from Tetsuya Takahashi 6.23.2017 Gamespot’s interview with Tetsuya Takahashi 7.7.2017 TIME’s interview with Tetsuya Takahashi 7.8.2017 Gamekult’s interview with Tetsuya Takahashi , translation 9.17.2017 a message from Tetsuya Takahashi 11.7.2017 Gameinformer's interview with Tetsuya Takahashi - Article has other info as well. Here is a summary of only the interview parts of the article. Useful links Xenoblade Japanese Twitter - Posts regular updates about the game. Twitter & official site translations - Gessenkou’s translations of the offical site’s information and twitter posts. Official US site Official EU site Official Japanese site Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of October 24, 2017 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of October 2017 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2017 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics