Everything We Know About "The Crown" Season 3: News, Cast, Release Date, and Teaser | Vogue Skip to main content Search Search Fashion Beauty Culture Living Weddings Runway Shopping Chevron Video Vogue Club PhotoVogue Met Gala Fashion Beauty Culture Living Weddings Runway More Chevron Open Navigation Menu Menu TV & Movies Everything We Know About Season 3 of The Crown By Emma Specter September 20, 2019 Photo: Courtesy of Netflix/ Sophie Mutevelian Save this story Save Save this story Save Devoted Olivia Colman fans are undoubtedly counting down the days until the Oscar-winning English actor will take over Claire Foy’s role as Queen Elizabeth II on Netflix’s The Crown . Luckily, they don’t have long to wait, as we’re just a few months away from the royal drama’s season three premiere; here, we’ve rounded up everything we know so far about the return of the series. Is there a teaser? Actually, there are two. Here's the first, which was cruelly brief: And a second teaser dropped on September 20, featuring the Queen being shown the postage stamp bearing her likeness. Check it out below: Who’s in the cast? Tobias Menzies will take over the role of Prince Philip from Matt Smith, and Helena Bonham Carter will step into Vanessa Kirby’s role as Princess Margaret. We'll also get our first glimpse of Emerald Fennell as Camilla Parker Bowles, the current Duchess of Cornwall. Instagram content This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. As far as season four goes, we have Gillian Anderson to look forward to as Margaret Thatcher, not to mention Emma Corrin as Princess Diana. What time period will it cover? The Crown’ s third season will reportedly span between 1964 and 1977, beginning to explore Princess Margaret’s divorce and setting the stage for season four to delve into the era of Diana. When will it premiere? Season three of The Crown will hit Netflix on Sunday, November 17, so prepare to call in sick that Monday after a night of frantic binge-watching. If you burn through it too quickly, don't worry; season four was shot back-to-back with season three, so hopefully it will be making its royal debut before too long. Any behind-the-scenes facts? The show reportedly gave brown-eyed Colman blue contact lenses to match the eye color of her predecessor Claire Foy, but director Ben Caron told the Guardian that the contacts made it look like Colman was “acting behind a mask.” Mustn’t have that! Emma Specter is the Culture Writer at Vogue , where she covers film, TV, books, politics, news and (almost) anything queer. She has previously worked at GARAGE and LAist and has freelanced for outlets including The Hairpin, Bon Appetit, them, the Hollywood Reporter and more. Her first book, More Please: On ... Read more Read More Beauty When To Eat Dried Fruits and Nuts to Maximize Health Benefits By Faye Remedios Nails Clean Girl Nails Are Trending: Here Are 13 Minimalist Manicures to Try Now By Hannah Coates Celebrity Style Gigi Hadid and Bradley Cooper Celebrate Her 30th Birthday in Coordinating Leathers By Anna Cafolla Weddings The Bride Wore a 13-Foot Floral Veil for Her All-Night Wedding at a Provence Chateau By Elise Taylor Magazine “You Make Clothes for Them? They Will Do Anything For You”: Tina Knowles Remembers Beyoncé and Solange’s Beloved Uncle Johnny By Tina Knowles Wellness Colon Cancer Is on the Rise: This Vitamin Deficiency May Be Why By Margaux Anbouba The latest fashion news, beauty coverage, celebrity style, fashion week updates, culture reviews, and videos on Vogue.com. Facebook X Pinterest Instagram Tiktok More from Vogue Newsletter Manage Account Verify Subscription Contact us About Vogue Careers Projects Vogue Archive Forces of Fashion Vogue College of Fashion See More Stories Fashion Beauty Culture Living Runway Shopping Magazine Gift Guides Best of Sale User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Accessibility Help Masthead Visual Stories © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty Select international site United States LargeChevron Adria Arabia Australia Brasil Britain China Czechoslovakia España France Germany Greece Hong Kong India Italia Japan Korea México Nederland Philippines Polska Portugal Scandinavia Singapore Taiwan Thailand Türkiye Ukraine