Local teacher named 2020 Ohio Teacher of the Year Skip to content NOWCAST WLWT News 5 at 11:00 Watch on Demand Menu Search Homepage Local News National News Weather Radar Politics Alerts Map Room Forecasting Our Future Editorials Get the Facts Traffic Sports High School Sports Bengals Reds FC Cincinnati Ruth Lyons Matter of Fact Very Local Investigate Health Very Cincinnati State of Addiction Entertainment Money Monday Let's Talk Cincy News We Love Upload ulocal Project CommUNITY Home Furnishings Mental Health Resources Pre-Owned Autos News Team Titan TV Guide Contact Advertise with WLWT MeTV Privacy Notice Terms of Use SUBSCRIBE TO EMAIL Weather Search Press enter to search Type to Search Search location by ZIP code ZIP Advertisement Local teacher named 2020 Ohio Teacher of the Year Share Copy Link Copy {copyShortcut} to copy Updated: 4:53 PM EDT Oct 4, 2019 WLWT Digital Staff WLWT Digital Staff Advertisement Local teacher named 2020 Ohio Teacher of the Year Share Copy Link Copy {copyShortcut} to copy Updated: 4:53 PM EDT Oct 4, 2019 WLWT Digital Staff WLWT Digital Staff A local teacher has been selected as the 2020 Ohio Teacher of the Year.State Superintendent of Public Instruction Paolo DeMaria surprised students and staff at Norwood Middle School this week by announcing that Leila Kubesch was selected as Ohio's 2020 teacher of the year.Kubesch teaches Spanish and English as a second language at Norwood Middle School. "Leila Kubesch taps into her students’ interests and passions and enables them to reach their full potential,” said DeMaria. “She fundamentally believes that every child can succeed – and she holds herself and her students to high expectations to achieve that success.” School officials at the middle school said Kubesch is "constantly praised for her resourceful and creative approach to lessons." School officials also said Kubesch encourages students to participate in service learning projects to build confidence and grow their desire to learn. For example, students have worked for a local cable television station to create a talk show involving community members who discuss various topics with the students. Kubesch and her students were awarded the Ohio Education Association Media Award for Public Service for that project. They also received a grant to expand their studio.During the application process, Katherine Sabo, superintendent of Norwood City School District, highlighted Kubesch's ability to connect with students who are facing challenges."Leila is a force in bringing our students and community together in the act of learning,” said Sabo. “She regularly visits the homes of her students to cultivate mutual trust and respect and to make sure parents stay involved in the education of their children.” NORWOOD, Ohio — A local teacher has been selected as the 2020 Ohio Teacher of the Year. State Superintendent of Public Instruction Paolo DeMaria surprised students and staff at Norwood Middle School this week by announcing that Leila Kubesch was selected as Ohio's 2020 teacher of the year. Advertisement Kubesch teaches Spanish and English as a second language at Norwood Middle School. "Leila Kubesch taps into her students’ interests and passions and enables them to reach their full potential,” said DeMaria. “She fundamentally believes that every child can succeed – and she holds herself and her students to high expectations to achieve that success.” School officials at the middle school said Kubesch is "constantly praised for her resourceful and creative approach to lessons." School officials also said Kubesch encourages students to participate in service learning projects to build confidence and grow their desire to learn. For example, students have worked for a local cable television station to create a talk show involving community members who discuss various topics with the students. Kubesch and her students were awarded the Ohio Education Association Media Award for Public Service for that project. They also received a grant to expand their studio. During the application process, Katherine Sabo, superintendent of Norwood City School District, highlighted Kubesch's ability to connect with students who are facing challenges. "Leila is a force in bringing our students and community together in the act of learning,” said Sabo. “She regularly visits the homes of her students to cultivate mutual trust and respect and to make sure parents stay involved in the education of their children.” Top Picks DOGE, tariffs and executive orders: A look at President Trump's first 100 days Trump's first 100 days: Promises kept, broken, and in progress Wayfair's Way Day 2025 quietly extended — These 36 editor-vetted deals live up to the hype Major retailer extends biggest sale of the year. Here's how to maximize savings Advertisement Advertisement Loading more articles... WLWT CINCINNATI Contact Us News Team Apps & Social Email Alerts Careers Internships Advertise Digital Advertising Terms & Conditions Broadcast Terms & Conditions RSS EEO Reports Captioning Contacts Public Inspection File Public File Assistance FCC Applications News Policy Statements Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2025, Hearst Television Inc. on behalf of WLWT-TV. Privacy Notice DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices/(Opt-Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)