Panasonic unveils its Tesla 4680 battery cell, production to start next year | Electrek Skip to main content Toggle main menu Electrek Logo Go to the Electrek home page Switch site 9to5Mac Logo 9to5Mac 9to5Google Logo 9to5Google 9to5Toys Drone DJ Logo DroneDJ Space Explored About Privacy Toggle social menu Toggle dark mode Search for: Submit Toggle search form Exclusives Autos Electric Vehicle Price Guide – best prices for dealers in the US Tesla Ford GM BMW Jaguar VW Daimler/Mercedes Hyundai Nissan Toyota Alt. Transport Ebikes Electric Motorcycles Bus Hyperloop Autonomy Tesla Autopilot Cruise Automation Uber Waymo Energy Green Energy Climate Tesla Shop Store Toggle dark mode Tesla Panasonic Tesla 4680 Cell Panasonic unveils its Tesla 4680 battery cell, production to start next year Fred Lambert | Oct 25 2021 - 3:05 am PT 0 Comments Panasonic has today unveiled its new 4680 battery cell built for Tesla and it plans to start “test production” early next year. Last year, Tesla unveiled its plan to produce its own new tabless battery cell in a bigger format with a new chemistry . The automaker claims to have solved some major issues that were preventing the industry from producing bigger cylindrical Li-ion cells in a new format called 4680. Tesla’s new 4680 battery cells have the potential to be cheaper, more efficient, and therefore enable a longer range or smaller battery packs. Advertisement - scroll for more content The automaker had to develop new manufacturing processes in order to make the battery cell, and it plans to deploy those at scale in its own new battery factories being built near Berlin, Shanghai, and Austin. On top of that, Tesla is also partnering with current battery suppliers to deploy their own production of the new 4680 cell. Panasonic, Tesla’s oldest battery partner, has tentatively announced that it would be deploying a prototype production line for the new battery cell . Later, Panasonic’s new CEO, Yuki Kusumi, said that it is prepared to make a “large investment” in producing Tesla’s new battery cell if test production proves successful. Today, Panasonic unveiled the Tesla 4680 cell for the same time at a media roundtable (via the Wall Street Journal ): The head of Panasonic’s battery unit, Kazuo Tadanobu, said the new cell has five times the capacity of smaller previous models. He said the battery was developed in line with Tesla’s needs and Panasonic planned to supply it to Tesla, but he declined to give details. Tadanobu added that Panasonic is currently aiming to start “test production” of those new 4680 cells at a plant in Japan in March 2022. Tesla recently confirmed that it plans to deliver the first vehicles with its new 4680 battery cells next year. The automaker said that production at its own pilot production line in Fremont would supply early cells for those first vehicles, but it would quickly need partners, like Panasonic, and its own new production facilities in Berlin and Texas to support larger volumes. Other battery manufacturers, like LG, Samsung, and CATL, have all also indicated that they aim to produce 4680 cells for Tesla. Add Electrek to your Google News feed. FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More. Stay up to date with the latest content by subscribing to Electrek on Google News .  You’re reading Electrek— experts who break news about Tesla , electric vehicles, and green energy , day after day. Be sure to check out our homepage for all the latest news, and follow Electrek on Twitter , Facebook , and LinkedIn to stay in the loop. Don’t know where to start? Check out our YouTube channel for the latest reviews. Featured from Electrek Electrek Logo Tesla insider buys stock for the first time in years and it’s hilarious Fred Lambert Apr 29 2025 Here are the cheapest EVs we could find for lease at under $300/month right now [Updated] Peter Johnson Apr 29 2025 The first giant 15 MW turbine is up at Germany’s largest offshore wind farm Michelle Lewis Apr 28 2025 Tesla gives update on Tesla Semi factory, says on track for volume production in 2026 Fred Lambert Apr 28 2025 Subscribe to Electrek on YouTube for exclusive videos and subscribe to the podcast . Comments Expand Close comments Guides Tesla Tesla is a transportation and energy company. It… Panasonic Tesla 4680 Cell Author Fred Lambert fredericlambert Fred is the Editor in Chief and Main Writer at Electrek. You can send tips on Twitter (DMs open) or via email: fred@9to5mac.com Through Zalkon.com, you can check out Fred’s portfolio and get monthly green stock investment ideas. Fred Lambert's favorite gear Combat Edge Get an edge on MMA with the best stats EnergySage EnergySage helps you get the best price possible on a home solar installation for free and without hassel.