35th Academy Awards - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Ceremony 2 Awards Toggle Awards subsection 2.1 Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award 3 Presenters and performers Toggle Presenters and performers subsection 3.1 Presenters 3.2 Performers 4 Multiple nominations and awards 5 Notes 6 See also 7 References 8 External links Toggle the table of contents 35th Academy Awards 32 languages Afrikaans العربية Asturianu Български Català Dansk Deutsch Ελληνικά Español Euskara فارسی Français Galego 한국어 Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ქართული Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Plattdüütsch Polski Português Русский کوردی Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska ไทย Türkçe 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Award ceremony for films of 1962 This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "35th Academy Awards" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( May 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) 35th Academy Awards Date April 8, 1963 Site Santa Monica Civic Auditorium Hosted by Frank Sinatra Produced by Arthur Freed Directed by Richard Dunlap Highlights Best Picture Lawrence of Arabia Most awards Lawrence of Arabia (7) Most nominations Lawrence of Arabia (10) TV in the United States Network ABC ← 34th Academy Awards 36th → The 35th Academy Awards , honoring the best in film for 1962 , were held on April 8, 1963, at the Santa Monica Civic Auditorium in Santa Monica, California , hosted by Frank Sinatra . The year's most successful film was David Lean 's Lawrence of Arabia , with 10 nominations and 7 wins, including Best Picture and Lean's second win for Best Director . For his role as T. E. Lawrence , Peter O'Toole received his first of eight career nominations for Best Actor , all unsuccessful; as of the 94th Academy Awards , O'Toole and Glenn Close share the record for the most acting nominations with no wins. To date, Lawrence of Arabia is the only Best Picture winner with no female speaking roles. Although there were bets made on Omar Sharif , and Angela Lansbury receiving awards in the supporting categories, their wins failed to materialize. [ 1 ] Arthur Penn 's The Miracle Worker earned the rare distinction of winning two acting Oscars ( Best Actress for Anne Bancroft and Best Supporting Actress for Patty Duke ) without a nomination for Best Picture. The only other film to do this to date was Hud , the following year . Ceremony [ edit ] The Best Actress Oscar occasioned the last act of the long-running feud between Joan Crawford and Bette Davis . They had starred together for the first time in What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? , a surprise hit the previous summer. Davis was nominated for her role as the title character, a faded child star who humiliates the wheelchair-using sister who eclipsed her fame in adulthood, while Crawford was not. [ 2 ] Crawford told the other nominated actresses that, as a courtesy, she would accept their awards for them should they be unavailable on the night of the ceremony. Davis did not object as her rival had often done this, but, on the night of the ceremony, she was livid when Crawford took the stage, wearing what was described as a "radiant smile", [ 1 ] to cheerfully accept the award on behalf of Anne Bancroft , who had a Broadway commitment. Davis believed that Crawford had told other Oscar voters to vote for The Miracle Worker star in order to upstage her. The rekindled animosity between the two resulted in Crawford leaving the cast of Hush...Hush, Sweet Charlotte , a planned follow-up to Baby Jane that began filming the next summer, early in production. [ 2 ] Awards [ edit ] David Lean , Best Director winner Gregory Peck , Best Actor winner Anne Bancroft , Best Actress winner Ed Begley , Best Supporting Actor winner Patty Duke , Best Supporting Actress winner, youngest person to receive an Oscar in a competitive category at the time [ 3 ] Pietro Germi , Best Story and Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen co-winner Henry Mancini , Best Song co-winner Johnny Mercer , Best Song co-winner Nominations announced on February 25, 1963. Winners in each category are listed first and highlighted with boldface text . [ 4 ] Best Picture Best Directing Lawrence of Arabia – Sam Spiegel , producer The Longest Day – Darryl F. Zanuck , producer The Music Man – Morton DaCosta , producer Mutiny on the Bounty – Aaron Rosenberg , producer To Kill a Mockingbird – Alan J. Pakula , producer David Lean – Lawrence of Arabia Frank Perry – David and Lisa Pietro Germi – Divorce Italian Style Arthur Penn – The Miracle Worker Robert Mulligan – To Kill a Mockingbird Best Actor Best Actress Gregory Peck – To Kill a Mockingbird as Atticus Finch Burt Lancaster – Birdman of Alcatraz as Robert Stroud Jack Lemmon – Days of Wine and Roses as Joe Clay Marcello Mastroianni – Divorce Italian Style as Ferdinando Cefalù Peter O'Toole – Lawrence of Arabia as T. E. Lawrence Anne Bancroft – The Miracle Worker as Anne Sullivan Bette Davis – What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? as Jane Hudson Katharine Hepburn – Long Day's Journey into Night as Mary Tyrone Geraldine Page – Sweet Bird of Youth as Alexandra Del Lago Lee Remick – Days of Wine and Roses as Kirsten Arnesen-Clay Best Actor in a Supporting Role Best Actress in a Supporting Role Ed Begley – Sweet Bird of Youth as Tom Boss Finley Victor Buono – What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? as Edwin Flagg Telly Savalas – Birdman of Alcatraz as Feto Gomez Omar Sharif – Lawrence of Arabia as Sherif Ali Terence Stamp – Billy Budd as Billy Budd Patty Duke – The Miracle Worker as Helen Keller Mary Badham – To Kill a Mockingbird as Scout Shirley Knight – Sweet Bird of Youth as Heavenly Finley Angela Lansbury – The Manchurian Candidate as Mrs. Eleanor Iselin Thelma Ritter – Birdman of Alcatraz as Elizabeth McCartney Stroud Best Writing (Story and Screenplay -- Written Directly for the Screen) Best Writing (Screenplay -- Based on Material from Another Medium) Divorce Italian Style – Ennio De Concini , Alfredo Giannetti and Pietro Germi Freud: The Secret Passion – Story by Charles Kaufman ; Screenplay by Charles Kaufman and Wolfgang Reinhardt Last Year at Marienbad – Alain Robbe-Grillet That Touch of Mink – Stanley Shapiro and Nate Monaster Through a Glass Darkly – Ingmar Bergman To Kill a Mockingbird – Horton Foote David and Lisa – Eleanor Perry Lawrence of Arabia – Robert Bolt and Michael Wilson [A] Lolita – Vladimir Nabokov The Miracle Worker – William Gibson Best Foreign Language Film Best Documentary (Feature) Sundays and Cybele ( France ) Electra ( Greece ) The Four Days of Naples ( Italy ) Keeper of Promises (The Given Word) ( Brazil ) Tlayucan ( Mexico ) Black Fox Alvorada Best Documentary (Short Subject) Best Short Subject (Live Action) Dylan Thomas The John Glenn Story The Road to the Wall Heureux Anniversaire Big City Blues The Cadillac The Cliff Dwellers Pan Best Short Subject (Cartoon) Best Music (Music Score -- Substantially Original) The Hole Icarus Montgolfier Wright Now Hear This Self Defense ... for Cowards A Symposium on Popular Songs Lawrence of Arabia – Maurice Jarre Freud – Jerry Goldsmith Mutiny on the Bounty – Bronisław Kaper Taras Bulba – Franz Waxman To Kill a Mockingbird – Elmer Bernstein Best Music (Scoring of Music -- Adaptation or Treatment) Best Music (Song) The Music Man – Ray Heindorf Billy Rose's Jumbo – Georgie Stoll Gigot – Michel Magne Gypsy – Frank Perkins The Wonderful World of the Brothers Grimm – Leigh Harline " Days of Wine and Roses " from Days of Wine and Roses – Music by Henry Mancini ; Lyric by Johnny Mercer "Love Song From Mutiny on the Bounty (Follow Me)" from Mutiny on the Bounty – Music by Bronisław Kaper ; Lyric by Paul Francis Webster "Song From Two for the Seesaw (Second Chance)" from Two for the Seesaw – Music by André Previn ; Lyric by Dory Langdon "Tender Is the Night" from Tender Is the Night – Music by Sammy Fain ; Lyric by Paul Francis Webster " Walk on the Wild Side " from Walk on the Wild Side – Music by Elmer Bernstein ; Lyric by Mack David Best Sound Best Art Direction (Black-and-White) Lawrence of Arabia – John Cox Bon Voyage! – Robert O. Cook The Music Man – George R. Groves That Touch of Mink – Waldon O. Watson What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? – Joseph D. Kelly To Kill a Mockingbird – Art Direction: Alexander Golitzen and Henry Bumstead ; Set Decoration: Oliver Emert Days of Wine and Roses – Art Direction: Joseph C. Wright ; Set Decoration: George James Hopkins The Longest Day – Art Direction: Ted Haworth , Léon Barsacq and Vincent Korda ; Set Decoration: Gabriel Béchir Period of Adjustment – Art Direction: George Davis and Edward Carfagno ; Set Decoration: Henry Grace and Richard Pefferle The Pigeon That Took Rome – Art Direction: Hal Pereira and Roland Anderson ; Set Decoration: Samuel M. Comer and Frank R. McKelvy Best Art Direction (Color) Best Cinematography (Black-and-White) Lawrence of Arabia – Art Direction: John Box and John Stoll ; Set Decoration: Dario Simoni The Music Man – Art Direction: Paul Groesse ; Set Decoration: George James Hopkins Mutiny on the Bounty – Art Direction: George Davis and Joseph McMillan Johnson ; Set Decoration: Henry Grace and Hugh Hunt That Touch of Mink – Art Direction: Alexander Golitzen and Robert Clatworthy ; Set Decoration: George Milo The Wonderful World of the Brothers Grimm – Art Direction: George Davis and Edward Carfagno ; Set Decoration: Henry Grace and Richard Pefferle The Longest Day – Jean Bourgoin and Walter Wottitz Birdman of Alcatraz – Burnett Guffey To Kill a Mockingbird – Russell Harlan Two for the Seesaw – Ted D. McCord What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? – Ernest Haller Best Cinematography (Color) Best Costume Design (Black-and-White) Lawrence of Arabia – Freddie Young Gypsy – Harry Stradling Hatari! – Russell Harlan Mutiny on the Bounty – Robert Surtees The Wonderful World of the Brothers Grimm – Paul C. Vogel What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? – Norma Koch Days of Wine and Roses – Don Feld The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance – Edith Head The Miracle Worker – Ruth Morley Phaedra – Denny Vachlioti Best Costume Design (Color) Best Film Editing The Wonderful World of the Brothers Grimm – Mary Wills Bon Voyage! – Bill Thomas Gypsy – Orry-Kelly The Music Man – Dorothy Jeakins My Geisha – Edith Head Lawrence of Arabia – Anne V. Coates The Longest Day – Samuel E. Beetley The Manchurian Candidate – Ferris Webster The Music Man – William H. Ziegler Mutiny on the Bounty – John McSweeney Jr. Best Special Effects The Longest Day – Visual Effects by Robert MacDonald ; Audible Effects by Jacques Maumont Mutiny on the Bounty – Visual Effects by A. Arnold Gillespie ; Audible Effects by Milo B. Lory Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award [ edit ] Steve Broidy Presenters and performers [ edit ] This section needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. ( September 2015 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Presenters [ edit ] George Chakiris (Presenter: Best Supporting Actress) Wendell Corey (Presenter: Best Foreign Language Film) Joan Crawford (Presenter: Best Director) Bette Davis (Presenter: Writing Awards) Olivia de Havilland (Presenter: Best Picture) Van Heflin (Presenter: Short Subjects Awards) Audrey Hepburn and Eva Marie Saint (Presenter: Best Costume Design) Gene Kelly (Presenter: Best Art Direction) Sophia Loren (Presenter: Best Actor) Karl Malden (Presenter: Best Film Editing) Rita Moreno (Presenter: Best Supporting Actor) Donna Reed (Presenter: Best Cinematography) Ginger Rogers (Presenter: Best Original Score) Maximilian Schell (Presenter: Best Actress) Frank Sinatra (Presenter: Best Original Song) Miyoshi Umeki (Presenter: Documentary Awards) Shelley Winters (Presenter: Best Sound Recording and Best Special Effects) Performers [ edit ] Alfred Newman (musical director) Robert Goulet (" Days of Wine and Roses " from Days of Wine and Roses , "Love Song from Mutiny on the Bounty (Follow Me)" from Mutiny on the Bounty , "Song from Two for the Seesaw (Second Chance)" from Two for the Seesaw , "Tender Is the Night" from Tender Is the Night and " Walk on the Wild Side " from Walk on the Wild Side ) Multiple nominations and awards [ edit ] The following nineteen films received multiple nominations: 10 nominations: Lawrence of Arabia 8 nominations: To Kill a Mockingbird 7 nominations: Mutiny on the Bounty 6 nominations: The Music Man 5 nominations: Days of Wine and Roses , The Longest Day , The Miracle Worker , and What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? 4 nominations: Birdman of Alcatraz and The Wonderful World of the Brothers Grimm 3 nominations: Divorce Italian Style , Gypsy , Sweet Bird of Youth , and That Touch of Mink 2 nominations: Bon Voyage! , David and Lisa , Freud: The Secret Passion , The Manchurian Candidate , and Two for the Seesaw The following four films received multiple awards: 7 awards: Lawrence of Arabia 3 awards: To Kill a Mockingbird 2 awards: The Longest Day and The Miracle Worker Notes [ edit ] A ^ : During pre-production on Lawrence of Arabia , producer Sam Spiegel and director David Lean were unhappy with Michael Wilson 's original screenplay, so Spiegel asked playwright Robert Bolt to rewrite the script, as Spiegel wanted to get the film rights of Bolt's play A Man for All Seasons . Bolt found the script lacking in good dialogue and also character depth. He essentially wrote the whole script, using T. E. Lawrence 's book, The Seven Pillars of Wisdom , as his starting point. While Bolt rewrote the whole script, he still retained the characterization of all of the characters found in Wilson's original script. It was decided that Bolt would be credited as the sole writer of Lawrence of Arabia and not Wilson, because he was blacklisted at the time. The nomination for Wilson was granted on September 26, 1995, by the Academy Board of Directors, after research at the WGA found that the then-blacklisted writer shared the screenwriting credit with Bolt. See also [ edit ] 5th Grammy Awards 14th Primetime Emmy Awards 15th Primetime Emmy Awards 16th British Academy Film Awards 16th Tony Awards 20th Golden Globe Awards 1962 in film References [ edit ] ^ a b Wallechinsky, David; Wallace, Irving (1975). The People's Almanac . Garden City, New York: Doubleday & Company, Inc. p. 842. ISBN 0-385-04060-1 . ^ a b Longworth, Karina (March 10, 2017). "Did Bette and Joan Really Have a Feud ?" . Slate . Archived from the original on April 1, 2017 . Retrieved April 27, 2017 . ^ "Oscar-winning former child star Patty Duke dies, age 69" . USA TODAY . Retrieved March 30, 2016 . ^ "The 35th Academy Awards (1963) Nominees and Winners" . oscars.org . October 5, 2014. Archived from the original on April 26, 2016 . Retrieved May 12, 2016 . External links [ edit ] The 35th Annual Academy Awards at IMDb v t e Academy Awards Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) Records most wins per ceremony Oscar season Oscar speech Oscar bait Governors Awards Nicholl Fellowships in Screenwriting Pre-show Awards of Merit Picture Director Actor Actress Supporting Actor Supporting Actress Adapted Screenplay Original Screenplay Animated Feature Documentary Feature Film International Feature Film Animated Short Film Documentary Short Film Live Action Short Film Cinematography Costume Design Film Editing Makeup and Hairstyling Original Score Original Song Production Design Sound Visual Effects Proposed awards Popular Film Special awards Governors Awards Academy Honorary Award Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award Special Achievement Academy Award Academy Scientific and Technical Awards Academy Award of Merit (non-competitive) Scientific and Engineering Award Technical Achievement Award John A. Bonner Medal of Commendation Gordon E. Sawyer Award Student Awards Student Academy Award Former awards Merit Awards Assistant Director Dance Direction Sound Editing Story Special Awards Academy Juvenile Award Ceremonies (years of film release) 1927/28 1928/29 1929/30 1930/31 1931/32 1932/33 1934 1935 1936 1937 1938 1939 1940 1941 1942 1943 1944 1945 1946 1947 1948 1949 1950 1951 1952 1953 1954 1955 1956 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966 1967 1968 1969 1970 1971 1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020/21 2021 2022 2023 2024 Category v t e Academy Awards lists Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) Records Most awards per ceremony Combined major Academy Awards Superlatives Big Five All four acting categories Acting All nominees Best Actor Best Actress Best Supporting Actor Best Supporting Actress Non-English acting noms Actor multi-nom years Multi-win actors Multi-nom actors "Oscar love curse" Directing Best Director Film Winning films Multi-noms in same category Two acting awards for same film Foreign-language wins Foreign-language noms in other categories International Feature nominees International Feature: count by country Best Animated Feature submissions Best Documentary Feature submissions Best Animated Short submissions Best Documentary Short submissions Animated feature noms in other categories Countries of the nominees Africa Argentina Australia Austria Baltic Belarus Belgium Brazil Bulgaria Canada Chile Colombia Cuba Czech Republic Europe France Germany Greece Hungary India Iran Ireland Israel Italy Japan (South) Korea Latin America Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Nordic Pakistan Philippines Poland Puerto Rico Romania Russia Spain Switzerland United Kingdom Nominees demographics Asian Black Hispanic Indigenous Jewish Muslim Other Ceremonies Families False names Multi-win years Awards for Walt Disney Posthumous wins and noms Best Picture presenters Trophies on public display Oldest and youngest LGBTQ Women in non-gendered categories Combined major awards EGOT Triple Crown of Acting Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=35th_Academy_Awards&oldid=1279115792 " Categories : 1962 film awards 1962 awards in the United States 1963 in California Academy Awards ceremonies 1963 in American cinema April 1963 in the United States 20th century in Santa Monica, California Events in Santa Monica, California Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use mdy dates from July 2022 Articles needing additional references from May 2018 All articles needing additional references Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images Articles needing additional references from September 2015 This page was last edited on 6 March 2025, at 17:15 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents 35th Academy Awards 32 languages Add topic