Christophe Gans | Silent Hill Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Silent Hill Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Games Main Series Silent Hill Silent Hill 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill 4: The Room Silent Hill: Origins Silent Hill: Homecoming Silent Hill: Shattered Memories Silent Hill: Downpour Silent Hill 2 (2024) Short-Form Titles Silent Hills: Playable Teaser Silent Hill: The Short Message Spin-offs Play Novel: Silent Hill Silent Hill: The Arcade Silent Hill: Book of Memories Crossovers Dead by Daylight: Chapter XVI - Silent Hill Dark Deception: Monsters & Mortals - Silent Hill Mobile Games Silent Hill Mobile DX Silent Hill: Orphan Silent Hill: Orphan 2 Silent Hill: Mobile 3 Silent Hill: The Escape Cancelled Upcoming Silent Hill ƒ Silent Hill: Townfall Adaptations Films Silent Hill Silent Hill: Revelation Return to Silent Hill Television Silent Hill: Ascension Comics Cage of Cradle Double under Dusk Sinner's Reward Past Life Anne's Story Literature Series content Locations Silent Hill Silent Hill 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill 4: The Room Silent Hill: Origins Silent Hill: Homecoming Silent Hill: Downpour Silent Hill: The Short Message Characters Silent Hill Silent Hill 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill 4: The Room Silent Hill: Origins Silent Hill: Homecoming Silent Hill: Downpour Silent Hill: The Short Message Monsters Silent Hill Silent Hill 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill 4: The Room Silent Hill: Origins Silent Hill: Homecoming Silent Hill: Downpour Cut Content Lore Memos Mythology Items Silent Hill Silent Hill 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill 4: The Room Silent Hill: Origins Silent Hill: Homecoming Silent Hill: Downpour Puzzles Silent Hill Silent Hill 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill 4: The Room Silent Hill: Origins Silent Hill: Homecoming Silent Hill: Shattered Memories Silent Hill: Downpour Secrets Silent Hill Silent Hill 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill 4: The Room Silent Hill: Origins Silent Hill: Homecoming Silent Hill: Shattered Memories Silent Hill: Downpour Behind the scenes Staff Team Silent Climax Studios Double Helix Games Vatra Games WayForward Technologies Hijinx Studios HexaDrive Bloober Team NeoBards Entertainment Annapurna Interactive Music Musicians Silent Hill Soundtrack Silent Hill 2 Soundtrack Silent Hill 3 Soundtrack Silent Hill 4 Soundtrack Origins Soundtrack Homecoming Soundtrack Shattered Memories Soundtrack Downpour Soundtrack Silent Hill Sounds Box Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Fear of blood tends to create fear for the flesh. 2,827 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Games Main Series Silent Hill Silent Hill 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill 4: The Room Silent Hill: Origins Silent Hill: Homecoming Silent Hill: Shattered Memories Silent Hill: Downpour Silent Hill 2 (2024) Short-Form Titles Silent Hills: Playable Teaser Silent Hill: The Short Message Spin-offs Play Novel: Silent Hill Silent Hill: The Arcade Silent Hill: Book of Memories Crossovers Dead by Daylight: Chapter XVI - Silent Hill Dark Deception: Monsters & Mortals - Silent Hill Mobile Games Silent Hill Mobile DX Silent Hill: Orphan Silent Hill: Orphan 2 Silent Hill: Mobile 3 Silent Hill: The Escape Cancelled Upcoming Silent Hill ƒ Silent Hill: Townfall Adaptations Films Silent Hill Silent Hill: Revelation Return to Silent Hill Television Silent Hill: Ascension Comics Cage of Cradle Double under Dusk Sinner's Reward Past Life Anne's Story Literature Series content Locations Silent Hill Silent Hill 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill 4: The Room Silent Hill: Origins Silent Hill: Homecoming Silent Hill: Downpour Silent Hill: The Short Message Characters Silent Hill Silent Hill 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill 4: The Room Silent Hill: Origins Silent Hill: Homecoming Silent Hill: Downpour Silent Hill: The Short Message Monsters Silent Hill Silent Hill 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill 4: The Room Silent Hill: Origins Silent Hill: Homecoming Silent Hill: Downpour Cut Content Lore Memos Mythology Items Silent Hill Silent Hill 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill 4: The Room Silent Hill: Origins Silent Hill: Homecoming Silent Hill: Downpour Puzzles Silent Hill Silent Hill 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill 4: The Room Silent Hill: Origins Silent Hill: Homecoming Silent Hill: Shattered Memories Silent Hill: Downpour Secrets Silent Hill Silent Hill 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill 4: The Room Silent Hill: Origins Silent Hill: Homecoming Silent Hill: Shattered Memories Silent Hill: Downpour Behind the scenes Staff Team Silent Climax Studios Double Helix Games Vatra Games WayForward Technologies Hijinx Studios HexaDrive Bloober Team NeoBards Entertainment Annapurna Interactive Music Musicians Silent Hill Soundtrack Silent Hill 2 Soundtrack Silent Hill 3 Soundtrack Silent Hill 4 Soundtrack Origins Soundtrack Homecoming Soundtrack Shattered Memories Soundtrack Downpour Soundtrack Silent Hill Sounds Box in: Corporate , The Real World , Writers , and 3 more Staff Silent Hill Movie People Return to Silent Hill People Christophe Gans Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) Christophe Gans Christophe G.png Christophe on the set of the Silent Hill movie. Birth date March 11 1960 ( 1960-03-11 ) (age 65) Death date NA Silent Hill films Silent Hill Return to Silent Hill Role Director Writer (uncredited) Christophe Gans is a French writer and director, who directed and co-wrote Silent Hill and Return to Silent Hill . Contents 1 Background 2 Silent Hill 3 Silent Hill: Revelation 4 Return to Silent Hill 5 Trivia 6 Gallery Background [ ] Christophe first showed passion for filmmaking as a child, by making kung-fu movies with his friends. He later went on to direct films such as Necronomicon , Crying Freeman , Brotherhood of the Wolf , and Saint Ange . Brotherhood of the Wolf is the second highest-grossing French film in the U.S. After Silent Hill , Gans directed a live-action version of Beauty and the Beast . Silent Hill [ ] In interviews, Christophe has stated that his love for the Silent Hill series began when he first played Silent Hill . Christophe contacted producer Samuel Hadida and asked for his aid in creating a theatrical version of Silent Hill , which Hadida agreed to. Despite Hadida's influence as a producer, Konami refused to grant Christophe the rights to produce the film. For five years, Christophe sent letter after letter, and was finally able to convince the corporation of his ability to create a faithful film adaptation when he sent them a version of Silent Hill he had filmed on his own budget. Konami was impressed, and Christophe was hired on as director for the upcoming film adaptation. Christophe teamed with writer Nicolas Boukhrief to write an initial treatment for the film. After completion of the treatment, writer Roger Avary was hired to finalize the story, and was granted sole writing credit for reasons unknown. The script was completed in 2005, just before filming began. Christophe directed Silent Hill on a $50 million budget, which completed filming in mid-2005. On April 21, 2006, Silent Hill opened across the world to a $100 million box office. Christophe would later promise the release of a collector's edition outside of France; however, there is no time frame on when this will happen. Silent Hill: Revelation [ ] Initially, Christophe announced he would return for the Silent Hill sequel . In interviews, he stated that he wished to make an adaptation of Silent Hill 3 , centering around an older version of Sharon Da Silva . In 2007, producer Don Carmody stated that Gans would not be returning due to his involvement with Onimusha . Onimusha was later stalled indefinitely; however, Christophe still remained absent from the sequel. After being hired to write and direct Silent Hill: Revelation , M.J. Bassett spoke with Christophe briefly about the new film's plot. Return to Silent Hill [ ] In 2022, Gans announced a reboot titled Return to Silent Hill , which will be an evolved take on the mythos inspired by the story of Silent Hill 2 . Trivia [ ] Christopher Da Silva was named after Christophe. Christophe did not get along with lead actress Radha Mitchell , as he felt she did not care about the film as much as she should. Christophe's favorite character in the Silent Hill series is James Sunderland . He even cast actor Sean Bean specifically because of his physical resemblance to the character. [ citation needed ] Gallery [ ] Christophe with Don Carmody and Andrew Mason . Christophe and Radha. Christophe at the Silent Hill premiere with actress Radha Mitchell. v · e · d Silent Hill Cast and Crew Actors Major Actors Radha Mitchell - Sean Bean - Laurie Holden - Deborah Kara Unger - Kim Coates - Tanya Allen - Alice Krige - Jodelle Ferland Other Actors Eve Crawford - Nicky Guadagni - Chris Britton - Roberto Campanella - Michael Cota - Yvonne Ng - Lorry Ayers - Emily Lineham Direction Christophe Gans Production Samuel Hadida - Don Carmody - Victor Hadida - Nicolas Boukhrief - Deb LeFaive - Andrew Mason - Akira Yamaoka Writing Christophe Gans - Nicolas Boukhrief - Roger Avary Music Jeff Danna - Akira Yamaoka Notable Crew Dan Laustsen - Carol Spier - Wendy Partridge - Patrick Tatopoulos - Paul Jones Categories Categories : Corporate The Real World Writers Staff Silent Hill Movie People Return to Silent Hill People Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Horror Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Silent Hill Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab