AI Assistant - Amazon Q Pricing - AWS Skip to main content Click here to return to Amazon Web Services homepage About AWS Contact Us Support English My Account Sign In Create an AWS Account Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. Login Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. View profile Log out Amazon Q Products Solutions Pricing Documentation Learn Partner Network AWS Marketplace Customer Enablement Events Explore More Close عربي Bahasa Indonesia Deutsch English Español Français Italiano Português Tiếng Việt Türkçe Ρусский ไทย 日本語 한국어 中文 (简体) 中文 (繁體) Close My Profile Sign out of AWS Builder ID AWS Management Console Account Settings Billing & Cost Management Security Credentials AWS Personal Health Dashboard Close Support Center Expert Help Knowledge Center AWS Support Overview AWS re:Post Click here to return to Amazon Web Services homepage Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. Login Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. View profile Log out Close Profile Your profile helps improve your interactions with select AWS experiences. View profile Log out Get Started for Free Contact Us Products Solutions Pricing Introduction to AWS Getting Started Documentation Training and Certification Developer Center Customer Success Partner Network AWS Marketplace Support AWS re:Post Log into Console Download the Mobile App Amazon Q Overview Products Pricing For ISVs Close Amazon Q Business Amazon Q Developer Generative AI › Amazon Q › Pricing Amazon Q pricing plans Amazon Q Services Amazon Q Business With Amazon Q Business, you pay for user subscriptions and index capacity. Amazon Q Business pricing offers two subscription models—Amazon Q Business Lite and Amazon Q Business Pro—so you can choose the right plan for everyone in your company. The Amazon Q Business Lite subscription of $3 per user/month provides users access to basic functionality such as asking questions and receiving permission-aware responses. The Amazon Q Business Pro subscription of $20 per user/month provides users access to the full suite of Amazon Q Business capabilities, including access to Amazon Q Apps, and Amazon Q in QuickSight (Reader Pro). Explore Amazon Q Business pricing Amazon Q Developer Amazon Q Developer reimagines the experience across the entire software development lifecycle, making it faster and easier to build, secure, manage, and optimize applications on or off of AWS. The Amazon Q Developer Free Tier lets users code faster with code suggestions in the IDE and CLI and review code licenses with reference tracking, as well as free public CLI completions and limited access to advanced features. The Amazon Q Developer Pro Tier offers all that as well as the ability to manage users and policies with enterprise access controls; customize Amazon Q to your code base to get even better suggestions; and high limits of advanced features. Explore Amazon Q Developer pricing Amazon Q in services Amazon Q in QuickSight Amazon Q in QuickSight has Author and Reader pricing plans. For $24 per user/month, Authors in QuickSight can connect to data, create dashboards and reports, share content with other users, and use Q&A capabilities of Amazon Q in QuickSight for natural language queries on your data. For $50 per user/month Author Pro offers that plus generative BI capabilities, including building dashboards with natural language, creating Amazon Q Topics, and more. For $3 per user/month, Readers can explore interactive dashboards, receive pixel-perfect reports, download data and create personalized data alerts. For $20 per user/month, Reader Pro offers that plus generative BI capabilities. Explore Amazon Q in Quicksight pricing Amazon Q in Connect Amazon Connect is a pay-as-you-go cloud contact center. For $40 per agent/per month, your contact center agents can receive suggested solutions or search across connected knowledge sources. For $0.0015 per chat message of $0.0080 per voice minute, end-customers can converse with Amazon Q in Connect to self-serve quickly. Explore Amazon Q in Connect pricing Learn more about Amazon Q features Features page Find out more about Amazon Q Developer features Explore the features Features page Find out more about Amazon Q Business features Explore the features Sign In to the Console Learn About AWS What Is AWS? What Is Cloud Computing? AWS Accessibility What Is DevOps? What Is a Container? What Is a Data Lake? What is Artificial Intelligence (AI)? What is Generative AI? What is Machine Learning (ML)? AWS Cloud Security What's New Blogs Press Releases Resources for AWS Getting Started Training and Certification AWS Trust Center AWS Solutions Library Architecture Center Product and Technical FAQs Analyst Reports AWS Partners Developers on AWS Developer Center SDKs & Tools .NET on AWS Python on AWS Java on AWS PHP on AWS JavaScript on AWS Help Contact Us Get Expert Help File a Support Ticket AWS re:Post Knowledge Center AWS Support Overview Legal AWS Careers Create an AWS Account Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age. Language عربي Bahasa Indonesia Deutsch English Español Français Italiano Português Tiếng Việt Türkçe Ρусский ไทย 日本語 한국어 中文 (简体) 中文 (繁體) Privacy | Accessibility | Site Terms | Cookie Preferences | © 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Ending Support for Internet Explorer Got it AWS support for Internet Explorer ends on 07/31/2022. Supported browsers are Chrome, Firefox, Edge, and Safari. Learn more » Got it