Tim Cook: Apple's Tim Cook is nearing retirement age, but who will succeed him? - The Economic Times Benchmarks Nifty 22,399.15 -136.7 FEATURED FUNDS ★★★ ★★ Canara Robeco ELSS Tax Saver Regular - Growth 5Y Return 21.45 % Invest Now FEATURED FUNDS ★★★ ★★ HSBC Large Cap Fund Direct-Growth 5Y Return 20.43 % Invest Now Enter search text: News English Edition English Edition हिन्दी ગુજરાતી मराठी বাংলা ಕನ್ನಡ മലയാളം தமிழ் తెలుగు | Today's ePaper My Watchlist Subscribe Sign In Home ETPrime Markets Market Data News Industry SME Politics Wealth MF Tech AI Careers Opinion NRI Panache Videos More Menu India IPL 2025 IPL Schedule Points Table Web Stories Economy Agriculture Finance Foreign Trade Indicators Infrastructure Policy Politics Newsblogs Elections Assembly Elections Delhi Defence National International Industry International Trump Action Tracker Global Trends New Zealand Canada News UK News US News UAE Saudi Arabia Business World News More ET Explains Science Sports Company Corporate Trends Industry Entertainment Decoded Morning Brief Podcast ET Evoke Environment Videos Latest News Most Read Most Shared Most Commented Business News › News › International › Business › Apple's Tim Cook is nearing retirement age, but who will succeed him? The Economic Times daily newspaper is available online now. Read Today's Paper Apple's Tim Cook is nearing retirement age, but who will succeed him? SECTIONS Apple's Tim Cook is nearing retirement age, but who will succeed him? By David Gura, David Fox and Thomas Lu , Bloomberg Last Updated: May 09, 2024, 11:53:00 AM IST Rate Story Follow us Share Font Size Abc Small Abc Medium Abc Large Save Print Comment Synopsis Speculation mounts over Tim Cook's successor as Apple CEO amid nearing retirement age. Candidates include COO Jeff Williams and hardware chief John Ternus. Cook's tenure marked by product expansion and financial success, but finding a visionary successor poses challenges for the tech giant. Reuters Apple CEO Tim Cook in Jakarta. Tim Cook picked up the mantle from Steve Jobs as CEO of Apple over a decade ago and grew it into a multi-trillion dollar company. Now, as Cook nears traditional retirement age, speculation abounds about who will succeed him. Bloomberg’s Mark Gurman joins host David Gura to discuss the challenges of replacing Cook, his potential successors and how that decision will impact one of the best-known brands in the world. Here is a lightly edited transcript of the conversation: David Gura: Every year, the top executives at Apple – of course, one of the largest and most influential companies in the world – are whisked away to an idyllic retreat usually in Carmel Valley. That’s about 90 miles south of the company’s headquarters, in Cupertino, California. So, many of these execs travel by bus. Live Events Mark Gurman: They can't bring their family, they can't bring their assistants. These are the 100 most important people at Apple. Gura: Bloomberg’s Mark Gurman has covered Apple for almost 15 years, and he says this annual meeting is one of the most important dates on the company’s calendar. It’s something Steve Jobs started. Gurman: They sit in auditoriums, different rooms of this beautiful resort in Northern California. They are taught and shown all of the goodness that's to come from Apple in the years to come. Gura: It was at this retreat that Apple’s so-called “Top 100” got a first look at the original iPad, Mark says. They saw the MacBook Air and the Apple Watch. And got updates on the Apple Car project, which the company just scrapped. Gurman: This is where you go to learn about Apple's future. Gura: And while most of the focus is on product presentations – and prototypes, Apple’s senior leaders are also taking note of who among them has been picked to make these presentations. Gurman: I think the people at that event are probably always naturally trying to figure out who's next in line. Who's in charge? Gura: That is … who will eventually replace Tim Cook. Jobs’ hand-picked successor has been the CEO of Apple for nearly thirteen years. He was Jobs’ deputy before that. Gura: At Apple, succession planning is the elephant in the room, and even though Cook hasn’t indicated he plans to leave the company anytime soon, Mark says there is growing speculation about when that’ll happen who will be its next chief executive – and whether that person is in this group of Apple’s most important people. Gurman: We’re nearing sort of the end of Cook’s tenure at Apple, probably, right? He's going to turn 65 next year. He's older than most CEOs in the S&P 500. He's been at Apple for 25 years and Apple's at a precarious position because the executive team where they likely would choose their next CEO from most of the people on that executive team are all about 60 years old, or would probably be in their mid to late sixties by the time Tim Cook retires, leaving the company with very few reasonable options. Gura: Today on the show: The challenges of finding someone who could do one of the most demanding jobs in business. Who’s in the running, and how that decision will impact a $2.8 trillion company, and one of the best-known brands in the world. I’m David Gura, and this is The Big Take, from Bloomberg News . Gura: Tim Cook has been the CEO of Apple for more than a decade. And part of his job involves planning for who will succeed him. Bloomberg’s Mark Gurman says it's not the easiest job to fill. Gura: Is that job description really well fleshed out? In other words, what does an Apple CEO need to be able to do? Gurman: An Apple CEO needs to either be the visionary to bring new products to market. Or needs to be able to find who the visionary is and partner with that visionary to bring those new products to market. Gura: It’s a challenge that wasn’t lost on Steve Jobs when he tapped Cook for the job. Gurman: You know, the thing about Cook is that it is all consuming, and I think one of the reasons that Jobs made him the CEO, other than the fact that he was the most qualified, probably by a long shot, amongst the executive team at the time, is that Jobs knew how all consuming the next era of Apple would be, right? And Tim's entire life for the most part, based on everyone who knows him and everyone you speak to about him is Apple. Gura: Cook became Apple’s CEO in 2011, under intense scrutiny. He took over for Jobs, the company’s founder, who was battling pancreatic cancer. And in October of that year, Cook stepped into the spotlight, to unveil a new version of the iPhone: Tim Cook: Good morning. This is my first product launch since being named CEO. I'm sure you didn't know that. Gura: You can hear him cracking a joke to acknowledge what a big moment this was. He was under immense pressure – following in Jobs’ footsteps. Cook: I Love Apple. And I consider it the privilege of a lifetime to have worked here for almost 14 years. Gura: As Apple’s chief operating officer, Cook worked side-by-side with Jobs, during a period when Apple grew at breakneck speed. When it became much more than a computer company. Cook: Just ten years ago, we launched the original iPod here, and it went on to revolutionize the way we listen to music. Gura: Mark, you covered that transition in 2011. What can you tell us about the relationship between Steve Jobs and Tim Cook? Gurman: They were close. I wouldn't say that they were best friends. Uh, I would say in many ways they were, uh, partners. Steve Jobs was the design mind. He was the person dreaming up these new products, and Tim Cook was the execution guy. He was the person for all intents and purposes, who was able to bring these products to market, get them manufactured, get them into retail stores, and so forth. And then when Steve Jobs stepped down and then ultimately passed away, what Apple lost was sort of that visionary to dream up new types of product categories, new designs, new user experiences Gura: Jobs died on October 5th, 2011 – one day after Cook unveiled that new iPhone. And in the years that followed, Cook made sure Apple continued to build on the runaway success of that device. Gurman: The Apple watch for all intents and purposes is an accessory or an extension of the iPhone. Airpods are an extension to the iPhone, an accessory to the iPhone. What Tim Cook has done, he's taken the product lines that Steve Jobs created and envisioned, and supercharged them. When Steve Jobs passed, there was only one iPad model, the iPad 2. Today, there are five, or even more iPad models available right now. The iPhone went from one or two different models to several different models. So what Tim Cook has been able to do is squeeze so much juice out of the lemons that are those original Apple form factors. Gura: Under his leadership, Apple added products and services, along with new accessories. The company branched into movies and TV. It introduced an Apple credit card. Gurman: At its core, I think Apple is still very much a technology company, but they like to position themselves as well as a lifestyle company. Gura: Now, more than a decade into his tenure, do you see this company as Tim Cook's Apple, or is it still Steve Jobs’ Apple that, that Tim Cook is the steward of? Gurman: I think it's actually a mix of both. At its very core, Steve Jobs left Apple with something, you know, more than pretty good in the iPhone. And Tim Cook, I would say, has probably made the most of what he was left with. I don't think anyone could have done a better job following in the footsteps as legendary as someone like Steve Jobs. Gura: People worried Steve Jobs would be irreplaceable, but now, there’s a sense Tim Cook’s shoes will be hard to fill. Gurman: So The question is Apple moving forward, who was that new person to lead Apple into a new era with a new vision, with new types of products. And that's really what Apple needs to come up with to create its next 15 years. Gura: There are a handful of names that come up in conversations about CEO succession at Apple. But over the years, as Mark has reported on this, there’s been a clear frontrunner. Gurman: He can own the stage. He can talk the talk with government officials from China to Europe to the US. If something happened unexpectedly to Cook, I don't think Apple would miss a beat. Gura: So, who is Apple’s heir apparent? And who else is waiting in the wings, vying for the top job? That’s after the break. Gura: Before Tim Cook became Apple’s CEO, he was the chief operating officer under Steve Jobs. And when it comes to who will replace Cook, his current COO could easily be next in line: Cook: And to tell us about some progress in this area, I'd like to invite up Jeff Williams . Jeff? Gura: That’s Cook introducing Jeff Williams at a product launch in 2016: Williams: Last year, we introduced Research Kit. And our goal was to use technology to solve some of the biggest problems Gura: Williams has been C-O-O for almost a decade now. He joined the company in 1998. Gurman: Right now, he runs Apple's entire operations. He's in charge of the Apple supply chain. He's in charge of Apple's health care efforts. He's in charge of Apple watch hardware and software engineering. He was in charge of the Apple car. He's involved with the Apple vision pro headset, and he's in charge of Apple's hardware and software design organization. So he has so much in his portfolio already, and he would be able to be a shoo-in pretty easily for Cook if something were to happen. A lot of people have called him Tim Cook's Tim Cook. Gura: And like Cook, Williams grew up in the South, he got an MBA from Duke , and had a stint at IBM before joining Apple. But there’s something else these two have in common. They’re both in their early sixties. Gurman: He’s only two years younger than Cook. Gura: And that could make William’s path to succeeding Cook complicated. Gurman: If Cook retires in three to five years, you can't name a 66 year old Jeff Williams as CEO of Apple. Right? The Street, the market, the employees, the board, probably wouldn't be terribly fond of that idea. You can't set up someone for a two to five year tenure as a new CEO of a company as big and as important as Apple. Gura: This is not just an issue with Williams, though. When you go down the list of other potential candidates among Apple’s top management, a trend emerges. Mark says many members of the company’s leadership team are also hovering around retirement age. And turnover at the executive level is pretty rare. Gurman: When you're a Senior Vice President at Apple, you're essentially the CEO of a major division, right? You're at one of the most successful companies in the world. You're also getting paid $25 million per year as an Apple Senior Vice President. So from a financial standpoint, it's very worthwhile to stay around. But I think the people in Apple's executive team, they're motivated by more than money. I think there's a sense that a lot of these folks are very much motivated by the power that comes with being in that role. And so power is sometimes hard to give up. Gura: Mark says, if it’s not Williams, there are a few other candidates who are likely in the running. They’re all currently on the Apple payroll. Tim Cook himself has said he hopes the board taps someone from within the company. And they have their own trade-offs. Finding a single person who can do everything that an Apple CEO needs to do is a real challenge. One potential candidate is on his second stint at Apple: Gurman: Craig Federighi , who's in charge of software engineering. Gura: But, Mark says? Gurman: Federighi probably doesn't have the business acumen to run the whole company. Gura: There’s also Deirdre O'Brien , who oversees Apple’s sprawling retail operation worldwide. Gurman: And before that, Uh, she was one of the company's top executives on operations and sales. Gura: But according to Mark? ... Gurman: Apple probably wants to try something new for a new era and not go with another operations or an HR person. Gura: But Mark has identified another candidate. Who, with his age and experience, is a strong contender. Gurman: Everything that I have learned while reporting the story points to a guy named John Ternus . He is not even 50 years old. He's Apple's senior vice president of Hardware Engineering. He joined Apple's executive team in 2021. He has quickly risen through the ranks. He used to be a VP in charge of Mac computer engineering. He eventually added the iPad, added AirPods. More recently, he added the iPhone and the Apple watch. And now he's in charge of basically all of the money making hardware for Apple. And he's become an increasingly important face at the company. He's been increasingly promoted in their marketing. He's dealing with regulators in terms of right to repair laws. So he's becoming a bigger part of the Apple story. Gura: Mark says Ternus had a marquee role this year, at that annual executive conference in Northern California. And just this week, Apple unveiled some new tech, and Cook called on Ternus at that event to introduce those new products to the public. Tim Cook: So here's John to tell you more. … John Ternus: Let's kick things off with iPad Air. Gura: Mark says Ternus’ prospects of becoming Apple’s next CEO get better the longer Cook sticks around. And there is no indication he plans to retire anytime soon. Executives are not under the same pressure they used to be, to retire in their mid-Sixties. Gura: Mark, I wonder if you could situate this conversation in kind of a broader cultural sea change we're seeing. Bob Iger back at Disney in his 70s. That must in some way sort of liberate Tim Cook to look perhaps at a longer tenure at Apple. Gurman: Yeah, that's a very good point. Certainly the next U. S. president is going to be in their 80s during their tenure. You have Pat Gelsinger, who's the CEO of Intel . He was named to that role three years ago when he was about 60. So certainly you do have some older statesmen there with Tim Cook, you know, one of the, the, the older ones and Apple appreciates, as some people tell me, the people with gray hair there, that means they have experience and wisdom, and they've been around the block a few times. There is nothing that Tim Cook hasn't seen, and wisdom goes a long way for being an Apple executive. Gura: For his part, Cook has a lot of unfinished business he’s attending to right now: Apple’s seen a slowdown in sales, the company is taking hits from regulators – in the US and the European Union, and after Apple’s adventure in automobile manufacturing came to a screeching halt, it’s under pressure to deliver something new. All of that, and more, is on Cook’s plate, and Mark says no one is pushing him to step aside. Gurman: There's no mandatory retirement age. And I would say that even if there was, uh, they'd rip that up or shred it or light it on fire to let Cook stay around as long as he wants to. Because he's been effective, Wall Street loves him. The stock price has surely been positively reflected by Cook's tenure. And so I think Tim Cook is going to be the CEO of Apple as long as he wants to be the CEO of Apple and he won't step down a day before that. (You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel ) Read More News on Tim Cook Tim Cook Apple executives successor CEO Steve Jobs succession planning Jeff Williams Craig Federighi Deirdre O'Brien (Catch all the Business News , Breaking News , Budget 2025 Events and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times .) Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online. ... more less (You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel ) Read More News on Tim Cook Tim Cook Apple executives successor CEO Steve Jobs succession planning Jeff Williams Craig Federighi Deirdre O'Brien (Catch all the Business News , Breaking News , Budget 2025 Events and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times .) Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online. ... more less Prime Exclusives Investment Ideas Stock Report Plus ePaper Wealth Edition No past precedence: Why stock valuation needs a new rulebook in the times of Trump flip-flops How February sales figures created a credibility crisis for Ola Electric Trust is the killer app for the Indian internet economy Delhi’s draft EV policy: End of the road for CNG autos; a green mobility script for India RBI says uncertainty is anyway uncertain; let’s get growth AI Diffusion Rule is yet another headache coming soon from the US 1 2 3 View all Stories Videos EU pauses countermeasures after Trump's tariff reprieve Tariff truce triggers rally, Wall St. titans urge caution 'Facebook compromised US citizens' data…' China's strong warning to Trump over 125% tariffs Israel envoy backs Tahawwur Rana's extradition 'Zuckerberg betrayed America to woo China': Sarah Williams TCS Q4 Results: PAT dips 2% YoY to Rs 12,224 cr Why Pakistan less affected by Trump’s tariff explained '90-day tariff pause is part of Trump's negotiating strategy' Trump explains 90-day tariff pause 1 2 3 Latest from ET US & China headed for 'monumental' split, rattling world economy Trump paused tariffs. What should investors do? Has China begun to blink in Trump tariff face-off? Trending World News April Fool Day Memes Easter 2025 CoreWeave’s $23 billion IPO Social Security Benefits MS-13 leader arrested in Virginia Ben Affleck Jennifer Lopez Divorce US Gas Prices Drop angel numbers Pete Hegseth NYT Mini Crossword today NYT Strands puzzle answers Wordle March 12 answer Recession in 2025 Sudiksha Konanki Crypto Summit US stock market today zodiac signs NYT Strands Gold price today March 07 Nvidia stock down Donald Trump signs Popular in International $100,000,000,000 loss in four months! World's wealthiest man Elon Musk becomes sixth-largest richest loser How Jeff Bezos-Trump dinner at Mar-a-Lago helped Melania secure $40 million Amazon documentary deal Trump announces 90-day 'pause' on reciprocal tariffs for all but China, raises tariff on China to 125% Tim Walz calls out former running mate Kamala Harris over her 'I Told You So' comments, says he doesn’t appreciate the finger-pointing 'Great time to buy!': How Trump's 'buy' tip on social media before his 90-day tariffs pause made money for investors Enter search text: Hot on Web MORE TCS Q4 Results NSE Holidays 2025 Weather Today Dow Jones Today Live TCS Q4 Results FY 25 Preview GST on Hotel Dining FD Interest Rates RBI MPC Repo Rate Cut Stocks in News PUC 2nd Result Live Titan Share Price MI vs RCB Pitch Report Gold Price in Chennai Tata Steel Share Price KSEAB 2nd PUC Result 2025 SBI PO Result 2025 PBKS vs RR Live Streaming In Case you missed it MORE Bank Holiday 2025 Shower Freedom Weather Today PUC Result Live Updates Gold Price Today Crypto Crash PSEB Class 8 Result OUT Manoj Kumar Actor Manoj Kumar Death Top Gun Val Kilmer Easter 2025 Date Time RR vs CSK Playing 11 RR vs CSK Live telecast IPL 2025 SRH vs DCHead to Head SRH vs DC WeatherPitch Report SRH vs DC Live Streaming Ugadi 2025 Quotes MORE Top Searched Companies IRFC share price Suzlon share price IREDA share price TATA Motors share price Yes bank share price HDFC Bank share price NHPC share price RVNL share price SBI share price Tata power share price Tata steel share price Adani power share price Paytm share price PNB share price Zomato share price BEL share price BHEL share price Infosys share price IRCTC share price ITC share price JIO finance share price LIC share price Reliance share price HAL share price JP Power share price NBCC share price TCS share price Vedanta share price Wipro share price IOC share price Ircon share price SAIL share price SJVN share price GAIL share price HUDCO share price REC share price Reliance Power share price Tata Technologies share price Vodafone idea share price Adani Enterprises share price Adani Green share price Adani Port share price Ashok Leyland share price Bank of Baroda share price BSE share price Canara Bank share price CDSL share price Coal India share price HFCL share price IDFC First Bank share price Top Calculators MORE Standard Deviation Calculator Income Tax Calculator Age Calculator SIP Calculator Time Calculator BMI Calculator GPA Calculator Statistics Calculator Fraction Calculator Diabetes Risk Calculator Date Calculator Log Calculator MORE Top Definitions Stocks Marketing Depreciation Gross Domestic Product Bank Reconciliation MORE Most Searched IFSC Codes Bank Of India Canara Bank Axis Bank India Post Payment Bank Post Office Savings Bank All India Single Ifsc Delhi Delhi IPOS0000DOP Bank Of Baroda Uttar Pradesh MORE Top Story Listing Aadhaar Card Dow Jones Twitter Down Snapchat Update Gmail Down MORE Top Prime Articles 5 Weekend Must Reads Featuring India Taking On The Us In Automobile Reliability In 4 Stories Cognizants Tumultuous Journey Amazons Aim To Rule Air Cargo Just Got Wings In India Why This Is Only The Start Of A Long Haul Silent Epidemic The Health Catastrophe India Is Not Talking About And Why That Should Change The Worlds Most Important Box In 3 Stories Why A Minority Investor Wants To Stall The Long Pending Indiabulls Real Estate Embassy Group Merger Dragons Prying Eye In The Sky Why Balloon Gate Should Be On Top Of Indias List Of Worries How Banks Ceded The Upi Space And Control To Phonepe And Google Pay Macquaries Double Upgrade Has Sparked Some Interest In Paytm Stock Should You Buy Future Locked In A Crypt Understanding The Crackdown On Crypto Amid A Hope For A Global Framework MORE Top Slideshow Budget 2023 Tweaked The New Income Tax Slabs Packaged Fruit Juice Gujarat Ambuja Exports Packaged Fruit Juice Budget 2023 Tweaked The New Income Tax Slabs Rajratan Global Wire Gujarat Ambuja Exports Peaking Out Peaking Out Rajratan Global Wire MORE Private Companies Bl Financial Services Private Limited Shreyash Retail Private Limited Global India Services Private Limited Statestreet Hcl Services India Private Limited Renatus Wellness Private Limited Latest News Billionaire Trump backer Bill Ackman gets mocked after defending President’s tariff strategy; here's how people roasted him Your Android phone might be hacked without you knowing. Update now to fix these critical security issues Trump's latest tariff hike brings additional China rate to 145% The Last of Us Season 2: Premiere date, global release timings, release schedule and where to watch Andhra govt clears Rs 31,167 cr investments, eyes 32,000 jobs across sectors Oil falls 3% as investors reassess Trump's tariff flip 'Trump should deport Xi's daughter': As US-China trade war escalates, MAGA calls for crackdown on Chinese students Micromoon to delight stargazers this weekend: Here’s how to watch the April Pink Moon Yellen says bond sell-off raised instability threat, influencing Trump tariff U-turn Will Trump's tariff reversal spark a global trade war or help foster negotiations? Two Trades for Today: A PSU power major for 7.5% gain, a large-cap FMCG stock for 5% rise 25 killed in lightning strikes, hailstorms in several districts of Bihar India contributed just 3.5% of global plastic waste in 2022: Analysis Isha Ambani joins FIVB Board of Administration Has China begun to blink in Trump tariff face-off? Follow us on: Download ET App: subscribe to our newsletter Copyright © 2025 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication Service Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Name Reason for reporting: Foul language Slanderous Inciting hatred against a certain community Others Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. X To post this comment you must Log In/Connect with: The Economic Times or Fill in your details: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Share this Comment: Post to Twitter Continue reading with one of these options: Limited Access Free Login to get access to some exclusive stories & personalised newsletters Login Now Unlimited Access Starting @ Rs120/month Get access to exclusive stories, expert opinions & in-depth stock reports Subscribe Now ET Uh-oh! This is an exclusive story available for selected readers only. Worry not. You’re just a step away. Sign In to Read for Free Prime Account Detected! It seems like you're already an ETPrime member with Login using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits Log out of your current logged-in account and log in again using your ET Prime credentials  to enjoy all member benefits. Sign in & Access ET Prime Already a  Member? Sign In now Subscribe Now Already a  Member? Sign In now Offer Exclusively For You Save up to Rs. 700/- ON ET PRIME MEMBERSHIP Avail Offer Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Avail Offer Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Avail Offer Offer Exclusively For You Get Flat 40% Off Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year Avail Offer Offer Exclusively For You ET Prime at ₹ 49 for 1 month Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year Avail Offer Special Offer Get flat 40% off on ETPrime Avail Offer Avail Offer Continue with Email Continue with Mobile No. 90 Days Prime access worth Rs999 unlocked for you Claim Now Already a  Member? Sign In now Why ? Stories you might be interested in Subscribe to our ET Investment Opportunities SUBMIT