Oscar Predictions 2020: A Breakdown Of All 24 Academy Awards | Hollywood, CA Patch Skip to main content Hollywood, CA Subscribe News Feed Events Local Businesses Classifieds Post Advertise Nearby West Hollywood News Studio City News Echo Park-Silver Lake News Beverly Hills News North Hollywood-Toluca Lake News Los Angeles News CA News Westwood-Century City News Sherman Oaks News Eagle Rock News Local News Community Corner Crime & Safety Politics & Government Schools Traffic & Transit Obituaries Personal Finance Neighbor News Best Of Seasonal & Holidays Weather Arts & Entertainment Business & Tech Health & Wellness Home & Garden Sports Travel Kids & Family Pets Restaurants & Bars Events Local Businesses Classifieds Real Estate See all communities Advertise Nearby Communities West Hollywood, CA Studio City, CA Echo Park-Silver Lake, CA Beverly Hills, CA North Hollywood-Toluca Lake, CA Los Angeles, CA Across California Westwood-Century City, CA Sherman Oaks, CA Eagle Rock, CA State Edition California National Edition Top National News See All Communities Arts & Entertainment Oscar Predictions 2020: A Breakdown Of All 24 Academy Awards Will Joaquin Phoenix finally win an Oscar? Will "1917" win the night's top honors? Check out Patch's predictions in all 24 categories. Beau Behan , Patch Staff Posted Fri, Feb  7, 2020 at 9:29 am PT | Updated Fri, Feb  7, 2020 at 11:44 am PT George MacKay in "1917" (Universal Pictures) The 92nd Academy Awards will take place Sunday to honor the best movies of 2019 , capping off an extremely feverish awards season. Will Joaquin Phoenix, Renée Zellweger, Brad Pitt and Laura Dern win the night’s top acting prizes? Will “Joker” prevail with its 11 nominations? Or will foreign-language film “Parasite” steal the show to win Best Picture? We can hardly wait to find out. In the meantime, we’ve compiled a breakdown of our own predictions. Take a look at Patch's Oscar winner predictions in all 24 categories: Related: Oscars 2020: Time, Date, Nominees And More Find out what's happening in Hollywood for free with the latest updates from Patch. Subscribe 2020 Oscar Winner Predictions Best Picture Find out what's happening in Hollywood for free with the latest updates from Patch. Subscribe Universal Pictures Predicted Winner: "1917" The Best Picture race has become quite a showdown between World War I epic “1917” and South Korean noir dramedy “Parasite,” given that the war drama won Best Picture at the Producers Guild Awards (PGA) and the noir film won Best Ensemble at the Screen Actors Guild (SAG) Awards. However, considering that PGA’s Best Picture award has predicted this Oscars category in all but two of the past 11 years, “1917” has an edge over “Parasite.” Best Director Universal Pictures Predicted Winner: Sam Mendes, “1917” This award is Sam Mendes' to lose, having won Best Director at the Directors Guild Awards (DGA). For the past 71 years, except in seven occasions, DGA’s top prize winner has gone on to win the Oscars’ Best Director award. Best Actor Warner Bros. Predicted Winner: Joaquin Phoenix, “Joker” It’s been a long time coming for the four-time Oscar-nominated Joaquin Phoenix to win an Academy Award. Having swept the best acting prize for an actor in a leading role across awards season — from the Golden Globes to the British Film Academy Awards (BAFTA) — Phoenix is heavily favored to win for his blistering performance as the titular antihero. Best Actress Roadside Attractions Predicted Winner: Renée Zellweger, “Judy” Having won the best acting prize for an actress in a leading role across awards season, from the Golden Globes to the BAFTAs, Renée Zellweger is expected to score her second Oscar win for her compelling portrait of a fragile-yet-ferocious cinema icon — 16 years after her Best Supporting Actress win for “Cold Mountain.” Best Supporting Actor Sony Pictures Entertainment Predicted Winner: Brad Pitt, “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood” This year, Brad Pitt has won Best Supporting Actor at the Golden Globes, SAG Awards and BAFTAs, so his fourth-time acting Oscar nomination is ripe for a charming win. Best Supporting Actress Netflix Predicted Winner: Laura Dern, “Marriage Story” For her magnificent portrayal of a fierce divorce lawyer in “Marriage Story,” Laura Dern is heavily favored to take home the Oscar after winning all precursor best supporting female lead prizes, including Golden Globes, Critics’ Choice, SAGs and BAFTAs. However, double-nominee Scarlett Johansson can still be a threat to win this category for her role of a caring mother in “Jojo Rabbit.” Best Adapted Screenplay 20th Century Fox Predicted Winner: Taika Waititi, “Jojo Rabbit” This category is a showdown between Taika Waititi’s film adaptation of Christine Leunens’ 2004 novel, “Caging Skies,” and Greta Gerwig’s film adaptation of Louisa May Alcott’s classic, “Little Women.” However, Waititi’s BAFTA win for this category should seal his Oscar victory. Best Original Screenplay Neon Predicted Winner: Bong Joon Ho, “Parasite” Bong Joon Ho’s class satire is the absolute epitome of “Original” in this category. However, Quentin Tarantino’s “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood” is not far behind. Best Animated Feature Disney Pictures Predicted Winner: “Toy Story 4” Since Disney’s “Frozen 2” was snubbed in this race, we will have to go with the studio’s fourth film in the “Toy Story” franchise, which has scored respective wins at the PGAs and Critics’ Choice Awards. Best Documentary Feature Netflix Predicted Winner: “American Factory” Having won top accolades at the Gotham Awards, DGAs and L.A. Film Critics, Netflix’s film about American-Chinese worker relations is heavily favored to take home the Oscar for this category. Best International Feature Neon Predicted Winner: “Parasite” Should we dare say more? After winning SAG’s Best Ensemble, “Parasite” has the edge over other nominees in this category. Best Cinematography Universal Pictures Predicted Winner: “1917” All the writing is on the wall for cinematographer Roger Deakins to win his second Oscar, three years after his Best Cinematography win for “Blade Runner 2049.” Best Costume Design Sony Pictures Entertainment Predicted Winner: “Little Women” Like the Oscars’ previous winners in this category, the style of the costumes in “Little Women” simply radiates an aura of distinctiveness that deliciously resonates with movie fans. Just check out those gorgeous dresses. Best Film Editing 20th Century Fox Predicted Winner: “Ford v Ferrari” The high-octane film has a resilient heart that beats as fast as 200 mph and an unshakable soul that revs up 7,000 rpms of pure entertainment delight. Best Makeup and Hairstyling Lionsgate Predicted Winner: “Bombshell” “Bombshell” has an ace in this category — makeup artist Kazuhiro Tsuji, who won this category for “Darkest Hour” in 2018. Check out his masterful makeup transformation of Charlize Theron into Megyn Kelly. It’s absolutely stunning beyond belief. Best Original Score Warner Bros. Predicted Winner: “Joker” Film composer Hildur Guðnadóttir’s respective wins at the BAFTAs, Golden Globes and Critics’ Choice should seal her first-ever Oscar win. Best Original Song Paramount Pictures Predicted Winner: “(I’m Gonna) Love Me Again,” “Rocketman” Simply put: Elton John and Bernie Taupin, the songwriters of the song from “Rocketman,” are legendary in the music world. “Best Production Design” Universal Pictures Predicted Winner: “1917” “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood” had most of 1969 era re-created; “Parasite” had a sleek modern Seoul home practically built from scratch; and “1917” had the spellbinding war trenches. This is a tough one to call, but in the end, we’ll have to go with our Best Picture pick “1917.” Best Sound Editing Universal Pictures Predicted Winner: “1917” Of all the nominated films in this category, including “Ford v Ferrari” and “Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker," the sonic effects of “1917” upped the ante the most for this coveted prize. Best Sound Mixing Universal Pictures Predicted Winner: “1917” The winner of “Best Sound Editing” usually wins “Best Sound Mixing,” so we’ll go with our Best Sound Editing pick “1917.” Best Visual Effects Universal Pictures Predicted Winner: “1917” This is a three-prong race: the de-aging technology employed in “The Irishman” versus the mesmerizing, single-shot take on “1917” versus the computer-generated imaging in “Lion King.” The Best Picture winner usually wins Best Visual Effects, so we’ll go with our Best Picture pick “1917.” Best Animated Short Sony Pictures Entertainment Predicted Winner: Hair Love Featuring the voice of Issa Rae, the animated short is spellbinding from beginning to end. Best Documentary Short A&E Predicted Winner: “Learning How to Skateboard in a Warzone” This is a touching story of Afghan girls trying to cope with their lives in the war-torn city of Kabul. Skateboarding gives them hope, courage and solace to deal with their pain and suffering. Best Live-Action Short Courtesy of Tribeca Film Festival Predicted Winner: “The Neighbors’ Window” Surprises abound in this short film about a middle-age woman whose life turns upside down when two free-spirited millennials move in across the street from her house. Planning to host your very own Oscars viewing party? Check out these glamorous Hollywood party essentials: Hollywood Red Carpet Floor Runner Award Statue Cookie Cutters Twinkle Star LED String Lights Movie Night Cupcake Toppers Gold Foil Stars Napkins Other Entertainment News: What's New On Netflix: February 2020 Reviews of 'The Rhythm Section,' 'The Assistant' And 'Gretel & Hansel' Golden Globes 2020: Best Moments Of The Awards Show (Photos) Grammy Awards 2020: The Complete List Of Winners Reviews of 'The Gentlemen' And 'The Turning' Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts. Share More from Hollywood Crime & Safety | 5h Police Release Video Of Man Suspected Of Metro Bus Sex Assault Politics & Government | 6h Council Seeks To Aid Film Industry Amid Economic Struggles Neighbor News | 1d FIFA Club World Cup 2025: Fans Gather for Swag Giveaway in Carson Featured Events Apr 29, 2025 The Breakthrough That Solved My Child’s Reading Struggles – And Can Do the Same for Yours! Apr 29, 2025 Leighton's Laugh Lounge Live in Hollywood! + Add your event Featured Classifieds + Add your classified Latest News Nearby Hollywood, CA News Police Release Video Of Man Suspected Of Metro Bus Sex Assault Hollywood, CA News Council Seeks To Aid Film Industry Amid Economic Struggles Redondo Beach, CA News Curing The 'Male Loneliness Epidemic' One Walk At A Time Los Angeles, CA News LA County Approves $4 Billion Payout To Sexual Abuse Victims Los Angeles, CA News Striking LA County Workers March in Downtown LA, Several Arrested Best of Hollywood Hollywood | Community Corner Hollywood Sign At 100: A History Of The Icon's First Century Find out what’s happening in your community on the Patch app Corporate Info About Patch Careers Partnerships Advertise on Patch Support FAQs Contact Patch Community Guidelines Posting Instructions Terms of Use Privacy Policy © 2025 Patch Media. All Rights Reserved.