Alexa Connected Devices Development Resources {"settingsUrl":"https://ds6yc8t7pnx74.cloudfront.net/devportal-digital-assets/cf/developer-portal/getDeXSearchData"} Sign In Documentation Stack Overflow Contact Us Alexa Developer Home Alexa Developer Console Alexa Voice Service Alexa Certification Console Alexa Connect Kit Skill Builders Alexa Skills Kit Feature Updates Documentation Grow Your Business Developer Console Tech Talks Device Makers Alexa Built-in Devices Develop Alexa built-in devices with Alexa Voice Service Overview Connected Devices Connect your smart devices to Alexa Overview Development Resources Business Resources What's New Consoles Tech Talks Solution Providers Skill Agencies Alexa Connect Kit Alexa Smart Properties Tech Talks Alexa AI Products Alexa Skills Kit Alexa Routines Kit Radio Skills Kit Alexa Built-In Alexa Smart Home Dash Services Alexa Auto SDK Alexa Smart Properties Alexa Smart Properties Hospitality Senior Living Healthcare Programs Alexa Startups Alexa Fund Pitch Us Tell us about your company Portfolio Alexa Fund Portfolio companies Alexa Next Stage Online program for late-stage startups Alexa Fellowship Program for university students Alexa Prize Alexa Science Alexa Champions Voice Interoperability Initiative Office Hours Branding Alexa Branding Echo Branding Learn Alexa Learning Lab How to Videos GitHub Code Samples Docs Build Skills for Alexa Alexa Skills Kit Smart Home Skills ASK CLI and SMAPI Connect Your Device to Alexa Alexa Connect Kit Smart Home Skills Alexa Smart Properties Hospitality Residential Senior Living Healthcare Alexa Trainings and Workshops Blog Alexa Skills Kit Device Makers Alexa Auto Alexa Science Alexa Insider Alexa Connected Devices Development Resources Business Resources What's New Consoles Alexa Connected Devices Development Resources Business Resources What's New Consoles Previous Next Create an Amazon developer account . Registration is easy and free. Take the first step to growing your business with Amazon Alexa. Device Makers > Alexa Connected Devices > Development Resources Build Your Alexa Connected Device Customers can use their voice to control your Alexa connected devices from Echo and Alexa Built-in devices. You can connect your devices to Alexa with a range of software and hardware solutions, such as in the cloud, locally, or directly on your hardware. On this page: Development Features | On the Cloud | On the Device | Local Connection | Echo Paired | Consoles | More Resources Development Features Choose from a variety of development options depending on your device type, development preference, and the customer experience you want to enable. No matter which option you choose, you can take advantage of our documentation, tools, and developer forums to help you on the way. Overview On the Cloud On Device Module Local Connection Alexa Built-in Connectivity Type Connect your cloud to Alexa's cloud with Alexa skills Add an on-device hardware module Connect via local connectivity protocols No additional integration required; use your existing AVS client Technology Smart Home Skill API, Custom Skill API, Multi-Capability Skills Alexa Connect Kit (ACK) Zigbee, Bluetooth, Z-Wave and other local connectivity protocols Alexa Voice Service (AVS) API Key Consideration Requires your own device cloud Managed service: No need to create a skill or manage cloud service Zigbee or Z-Wave certified Must have a microphone and meet AVS development requirements. Supported Devices Any smart device with Wi-Fi Any device with a microcontroller: coffee makers, ovens, microwaves Zigbee or Z-Wave certified lights, locks, plugs, sensors Any device with Alexa Built-in Voice User Interface Pre-built (Amazon-defined) or custom built Pre-built (Amazon-defined) Pre-built (Amazon-defined) Pre-built (Amazon-defined) Certification Eligibility Works with Alexa Works with Alexa Works with Alexa Alexa Built-In Development Information Smart Home Skill API Alexa Connect Kit Local Connection Smart Home for AVS On the Cloud: Smart Home Skill API You can build a smart home skills with the Alexa Skills Kit (ASK), which provides self-service APIs and tools to build skills that enable customers to control your cloud-connected devices and appliances using Alexa. Smart Home Skill API Tools and Resources Automate Testing Use the Smart Home Tests tool to reduce the time and cost to certify your device by quickly testing your smart home skill’s functionality. See Documentation Debug Device State Use the Debugger Tool tool to debug your device’s state reporting and other events as you build. See Documentation Manage Operational Metrics Track and manage your device’s operational metrics like latency and success rates in the ASK console. See Documentation Tutorials Build a Smart Home Skill Learn how to build a Smart Home Skill in the developer console, create an AWS Lambda function to handle the skill's logic, and test your skill. Start Tutorial On the Device: Alexa Connect Kit (ACK) You can use Alexa Connect Kit (ACK) to connect virtually any device with power to Alexa without managing cloud services or creating a skill. You integrate Amazon-managed ACK hardware module directly into your device and then a pay separate low, upfront fee that covers your ongoing use of the ACK cloud service for the device. Alexa Connect Kit Tools and Resources Prototype with ACK Development Kits Use the ACK development kits to accelerate your product development process with ACK. Learn More >> Review the ACK SDK options Review the SDK documentation to understand how to integrate ACK into your device. Learn More >> Create a Virtual Product Reduce the time needed to prototype your product's Alexa experience to just hours by creating a virtual product. Learn More >> Tutorials View the ACK Step-by-Step Guide View the step-by-step guide to prototype an Alexa Connect Kit (ACK) product prototype. Start Tutorial >> Local Connection You can connect your Zigbee-based smart devices, like lights, locks, plugs, switches, and sensors, to Alexa using the Zigbee hub built into the new Echo Show and Echo Plus, or through other Zigbee Certified hubs. Zigbee Tools and Resources Echo Plus Zigbee Support The Amazon Echo Plus has a built-in smart home hub that seamlessly connects and controls Zigbee smart devices. See Documentation Implement Works with All Hubs (WWAHu) Cluster Works with All Hubs (WWAHu) is a custom Zigbee cluster that standardizes best practices to improve security, reliability, and interoperability for Zigbee devices. See Documentation Enable Zigbee Simple Setup Enable Frustration-Free Setup (FSS) for Zigbee devices so a customer’s Zigbee hub will automatically and securely setup their device to their Zigbee network. See Documentation Consoles You can create, manage, test, and certify your Alexa-connected devices using our developer consoles. Consoles More Resources Documentation Reference documentation and technical requirements to build your own. See Documentation Slack Join the Alexa community on Slack to meet other Alexa developers and share learnings and best practices. Join the Slack Community Dev Forums Engage with other developers and get questions answered by Amazon experts. Visit Forum Looking for What’s New? Keep up with the latest feature updates, events, and news See What’s New Back To Top Alexa Skills Kit Alexa Skills Kit Get Started Get Deeper Grow Your Business What's New ASK Resources Tutorials & Code Samples Documentation Skill-Building Agencies Device Makers Overview Alexa Built-in Devices Overview Business Resources Alexa Connected Devices Overview Development Resources Business Resources What's New Solution Providers Overview Agreements Agreements and Terms Program Materials License Agreement Amazon Developers Services Portal Terms of Use Community Alexa on Slack Blogs Alexa Skills Kit Blog Device Makers Blog Alexa Auto Alexa Science AWS Blog Support Amazon Developer Support Contact Us Stack Overflow Follow Us: English (US) English (ANZ) English (UK) English (India) Japanese (日本語) French (Français) Italian (Italiano) German (Deutsch) Spanish (España) Spanish (México) Portuguese (Brasil) Arabic (العربية) © 2010 - 2025, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved. Terms Docs Stack Overflow Blog Alexa Developer Home Terms Docs Stack Overflow Blog Alexa Developer Home