Time Has Come Today (Grey's Anatomy) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Plot 2 Production 3 Release 4 Reception 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents Time Has Come Today ( Grey's Anatomy ) Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 1st episode of the 3rd season of Grey's Anatomy " Time Has Come Today " Grey's Anatomy episode An episodic screenshot displaying Derek Shepherd interacting with Meredith Grey for the first time. The scene was part of a series of flashbacks presented during the episode. Episode no. Season 3 Episode 1 Directed by Daniel Minahan Written by Shonda Rhimes Featured music " Lullaby " " Take Me Anywhere " " Quicksand " " Nothing Brings Me Down " " Gone Daddy Gone " " Under the Milky Way " " All I Need " Original air date September 21, 2006 ( 2006-09-21 ) Running time 45 minutes Guest appearances Chris O'Donnell as Finn Dandrige Loretta Devine as Adele Webber Sarah Utterback as Olivia Harper Kate Burton as Dr. Ellis Grey Steven W. Bailey as Joe Elizabeth Goldstein as Giselle Toussant Episode chronology ← Previous " Losing My Religion " Next → " I Am a Tree " Grey's Anatomy season 3 List of episodes " Time Has Come Today " is the first episode and the season premiere of the third season of the American television medical drama Grey's Anatomy , and the show's 37th episode overall. Written by Shonda Rhimes and directed by Daniel Minahan , the episode aired on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) in the United States on September 21, 2006. The episode primarily focuses on Izzie Stevens ( Katherine Heigl ) coping with the unexpected death of her fiancé, Denny Duquette ( Jeffrey Dean Morgan ), while dealing with the decision to quit the internship program. Further storylines include Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) facing the repercussions of his being shot, and Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ) dealing with the aftermath of her affair with Derek Shepherd ( Patrick Dempsey ), which puts a strain in his already troubled marriage to Addison Montgomery ( Kate Walsh ). Although the episode was fictionally set in Seattle , Washington , filming occurred in Los Angeles , California . The recurring characters of Adele Webber ( Loretta Devine ), Finn Dandrige ( Chris O'Donnell ), Ellis Grey ( Kate Burton ) and Olivia Harper ( Sarah Utterback ) were portrayed with guest star billing. The title of the episode refers to the song, " Time Has Come Today ", by the soul music band, The Chambers Brothers . [ 1 ] The episode was viewed by 25.41 million Americans in the United States upon its original airing, ranked first in weekly viewership and garnered a 9.0 Nielsen rating in the 18–49 demographic . [ 2 ] It received mixed-to-positive reviews from television critics upon telecast, with Heigl's performance receiving high praise. Plot [ edit ] The episode opens with a voice-over narration from Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ) about the rapid passing of time. Izzie Stevens ( Katherine Heigl ) has a mental collapse after the loss of her fiancé, Denny Duquette ( Jeffrey Dean Morgan ), as she refuses to deal with the repercussions of her decision to leave the internship program , by lying on the bathroom floor. Cristina Yang ( Sandra Oh ), Alex Karev ( Justin Chambers ) and George O'Malley ( T. R. Knight ) support Izzie during her grieving, becoming influential in her recovering. Addison Montgomery ( Kate Walsh ) finds Meredith's underwear in Derek Shepherd 's ( Patrick Dempsey ) shirt, and finds difficulty in conceiving a future for their already troubled marriage. Meredith unwillingly finds herself in a love triangle involving Derek and Finn Dandridge ( Chris O'Donnell ). Richard Webber 's ( James Pickens Jr. ) wife, Adele Webber ( Loretta Devine ), gives him an ultimatum after spending the night in his office, giving him a choice between his career as a surgeon and his marriage to her. Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) faces the aftermath of being shot, which leads to him experiencing hand tremors that could lead to his giving up cardiothoracic surgery . An infant with a severe heart condition is admitted in neonatology , and is revealed to have been abandoned in a schoolyard by his biological mother, whose identity lies between four pre-adolescents. Addison quickly becomes emotionally involved in the case, reliving the feelings she went through after aborting the child conceived with Mark Sloan ( Eric Dane ). Derek and O'Malley get quarantined after an outbreak at the hospital, due to a patient suspected of having the plague . Their incapacity to leave the hospital leads to numerous confessions between the two, including Derek's reveal of his desire to divorce his wife and reconcile with Meredith. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) takes a leave of absence from the hospital, in a continuous attempt to bond with the grieving interns, who do not approve of her relationship with O'Malley. When a patient, Giselle Toussant (Elizabeth Goldstein), is admitted to the hospital, and ultimately dies in Miranda Bailey ( Chandra Wilson )'s care, she begins to question her abilities as a surgeon, due to the guilt over the death of both Giselle and Denny, whom she also performed surgery on. At the conclusion of the episode, Izzie overcomes her grief and gets off the floor, which metaphorically expresses her desire to move on. Production [ edit ] Sara Ramirez ( pictured ) was upgraded to series regular status in the episode. "Time Has Come Today" was written by showrunner and executive producer Shonda Rhimes and directed by filmmaker Daniel Minahan . [ 3 ] Sara Ramirez (who plays Callie Torres ) received star billing beginning with this season's premiere, after making multiple appearances towards the end of the second season. [ 4 ] Although the episode is set in Seattle , Washington , filming took place in Los Angeles , California . The Fisher Plaza, home to Fisher Communications and its affiliated KOMO radio and television stations in Seattle, was used for exterior shots of Seattle Grace Mercy West Hospital. This location also provides iconic views of the Space Needle and other Seattle landmarks. However, most exterior and many interior shots were filmed at the VA Sepulveda Ambulatory Care Center in North Hills , Los Angeles, California. [ 5 ] Interior hospital scenes were primarily shot at The Prospect Studios in Los Feliz, Los Angeles , occupying two sound stages, with outdoor scenes filmed at Warren G. Magnuson Park in Seattle. [ 5 ] The episode's soundtrack featured music by notable artists, including The Dixie Chicks ("Lullaby"), Tegan and Sara ("Take Me Anywhere"), Sleeping at Last ("Quicksand"), Emilíana Torrini ("Nothing Brings Me Down"), Gnarls Barkley ("Gone Daddy Gone"), Grant-Lee Phillips ("Under the Milky Way"), and Mat Kearney ("All I Need"). Showrunner Rhimes shared that the concept of the episode was to take the story in unexpected directions to keep the series fresh for the new season. [ 6 ] Initially, Rhimes planned to set the timeline three months after the previous season 's finale but ultimately chose to continue immediately from where it left off, believing that viewers deserved to see the aftermath of the dramatic events. [ 6 ] Rhimes also emphasized the role of Meredith Grey 's underwear in the episode, symbolizing her character's emotional state and unresolved relationship issues, noting that it became a key element in developing her storyline. [ 6 ] Prior to the episode’s broadcast, Rhimes remarked on how it balanced addressing the aftermath of significant recent events while delving deeper into the characters' pasts. She described the episode as the beginning of a new chapter, allowing the show to bid farewell to Denny Duquette ( Jeffrey Dean Morgan ) while also advancing the ongoing Meredith- Derek - Addison -Finn love rectangle. Rhimes stressed that, in keeping with the show’s realistic approach, no storyline would be tied up neatly, reflecting the complexities of life. [ 6 ] Release [ edit ] "Time Has Come Today" was originally broadcast on September 21, 2006, at 9:00 PM ET, and averaged 25.41 million viewers, according to Nielsen ratings . This episode marked the show's third most-watched installment of the season, airing during the first week of the seasonal prime-time schedule . It ranked first in weekly viewership with a 9.0 rating and attracted approximately 2.91 million more viewers than the previous season finale , which garnered 22.50 million viewers and an 8.0 rating. In addition, it led the time slot against CBS 's juggernaut CSI: Crime Scene Investigation , which ranked third for the week with an 8.0 rating and 22.57 million viewers. [ 2 ] Reception [ edit ] Katherine Heigl 's performance as Izzie Stevens in the episode received high critical acclaim. "Time Has Come Today" received mixed-to-positive reviews from television critics upon telecast, with Katherine Heigl ( Izzie Stevens )'s performance receiving high praise. Oscar Dahl of BuddyTV praised the show's dialogue and character interactions but was critical of its emotional excess. While Dahl noted that some scenes were overly dramatic and not reflective of real-life subtlety, he commended the cast's performances, especially calling the dialogue "smartly written" and effective for character development. Dahl did find the heavy focus on emotions to be "off-putting" at times, but he highlighted Heigl and Ellen Pompeo 's ( Meredith Grey ) performances as standouts. [ 7 ] Robert Rorke of the New York Post was more critical of Meredith's storyline, stating that her character had lost some of her charm, becoming "dopey" due to her romantic entanglements. In contrast, Rorke praised Izzie Stevens' character, describing her as the "heart and soul" of the series, due to the episode mostly focusing on the events that come to define her as a person. He noted that Izzie's storyline provided emotional depth and continuity, especially in the wake of her fiancé Denny Duquette's ( Jeffrey Dean Morgan ) death, making her more prominent than the series' titular character. [ 8 ] Abigail Chao of Television Without Pity provided a more positive take, particularly enjoying the flashback sequences and the character interactions that highlighted the deep bond among the interns. Chao also found Addison Montgomery 's ( Kate Walsh ) reaction to Meredith's misplaced underwear hilarious and described Miranda Bailey 's ( Chandra Wilson ) encounter with a quarantined patient as emotionally resonant. However, Chao echoed criticisms of Meredith's love rectangle, considering it unrealistic but still appreciating the "lovely" interactions between the four characters involved. [ 9 ] References [ edit ] ^ Covel, Bonnie. " 'Grey's Anatomy' Songs - Episode Titles Season 3" . About.com . The New York Times Company . Archived from the original on April 2, 2013 . Retrieved July 8, 2012 . ^ a b "Weekly Program Rankings" . Medianet . American Broadcasting Company . September 26, 2006. Archived from the original on March 29, 2012 . Retrieved July 4, 2012 . ^ "Time Has Come Today". Grey's Anatomy . Season 3. Episode 1. February 1, 2007. ABC. ^ Gans, Andrew (November 16, 2005). "Spamalot's Ramirez Lands Role on TV's "Grey's Anatomy" " . Playbill. Archived from the original on September 4, 2012 . Retrieved June 18, 2012 . ^ a b Grey's Anatomy Season One DVD: Commentary Feature . Buena Vista, ABC. 2005. ^ a b c d Rhimes, Shonda (September 19, 2006). "Shonda Rhimes on Time Has Come Today and other things…" . Grey Matter . American Broadcasting Company. Archived from the original on July 1, 2013 . Retrieved July 4, 2012 . ^ Dahl, Oscar (September 22, 2006). "My First Grey's Anatomy: Season 3 Premiere Review" . BuddyTV . Retrieved July 4, 2012 . ^ Rorke, Robert (November 12, 2006). "Heart throb - Grey's Anatomy's Katherine Heigl on sex, love and cupcakes" . New York Post . News Corporation . Retrieved May 19, 2012 . ^ Chao, Abigail (September 21, 2006). "Time Has Come Today" . Television Without Pity . Archived from the original on October 31, 2012 . Retrieved July 4, 2012 . External links [ edit ] "Time Has Come Today" at ABC.com "Time Has Come Today" at IMDb.com v t e Grey's Anatomy episodes Season 1 " A Hard Day's Night " " If Tomorrow Never Comes " Season 2 " Into You Like a Train " " It's the End of the World " " As We Know It " " Losing My Religion " Season 3 " Time Has Come Today " " I Am a Tree " " Great Expectations " " Wishin' and Hopin' " " Didn't We Almost Have It All? " Season 4 " A Change Is Gonna Come " Season 5 " Stand by Me " " Elevator Love Letter " " What a Difference a Day Makes " " Now or Never " Season 6 " Good Mourning " " Goodbye " " I Always Feel Like Somebody's Watchin' Me " " Tainted Obligation " " Invasion " " I Saw What I Saw " " Give Peace a Chance " " Invest in Love " " I Like You So Much Better When You're Naked " " Shiny Happy People " " Sanctuary " " Death and All His Friends " Season 7 " Song Beneath the Song " Season 8 " Flight " Season 9 " Going, Going, Gone " " Beautiful Doom " " Perfect Storm " Season 10 " Fear (Of the Unknown) " Season 11 " I Must Have Lost it on the Wind " " Puzzle with a Piece Missing " " Got to Be Real " " Only Mama Knows " " Bend & Break " " Don't Let's Start " " One Flight Down " " How to Save a Life " " She's Leaving Home " " Time Stops " " You're My Home " Season 12 " Sledgehammer " " I Choose You " " Guess Who's Coming to Dinner " " Something Against You " " Things We Lost in the Fire " " The Sound of Silence " " Family Affair " Season 13 " True Colors " Season 14 " Danger Zone " " Personal Jesus " " All of Me " Season 15 " Flowers Grow Out of My Grave " " We Didn't Start the Fire " Season 16 " Leave a Light On " Season 17 " All Tomorrow's Parties " " The Center Won't Hold " Other seasons Season 18 Season 19 Season 20 Season 21 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Time_Has_Come_Today_(Grey%27s_Anatomy)&oldid=1267431138 " Categories : 2006 American television episodes Grey's Anatomy season 3 episodes Television episodes directed by Daniel Minahan Hidden categories: Use American English from January 2025 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from January 2025 Good articles Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Television episode articles with short description for single episodes Television episode articles with short description and disambiguated page names Pages using infobox television episode with unnecessary list markup This page was last edited on 5 January 2025, at 02:18 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Time Has Come Today ( Grey's Anatomy ) Add languages Add topic