Nutmeg wins 2019 Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Award - CUInsight Skip to main content Open sub menu Partners Press Jobs Events The place for all things credit union™ Log in Subscribe Submit search Topics Industry news Leadership Technology Strategy Payments Advocacy Marketing Member experience Financial wellness Lending View all topics Explore CUInsight Partners Press releases Jobs board Events Podcasts About us Contributor community Vendor directory CUInsight Mini-Con series Contact us My Account My feed Saved articles Following Account settings Sign in Stay Up To Date Our daily newsletter Stay informed on the latest in credit union news and community. Follow Us December 12, 2019 Nutmeg wins 2019 Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Award Credit union awarded third consecutive award for community excellence Share Save Close tooltip Sign in to save articles for later and to follow authors and companies. More Copy Link Print Share Share Nutmeg State Financial Credit Union was presented the Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Community Service Award following its extensive collaboration with Channel 3 Kids Camp, an organization dedicated to providing educational camp programs to children across the state. This is the credit union’s third consecutive year as the winner after their previous work with the March of Dimes charity organization. Each year, the Dora Maxwell award recognizes a Connecticut credit union that demonstrates a high commitment to community and social organizations. Nutmeg’s work with Channel 3 Kids Camp spans a ten-year partnership that has resulted in impactful events like the Hartford Holiday Light Fantasia, Channel 3 Telethon Fundraiser and Golf Tournament at Mohegan Sun. In 2018 alone, the credit union helped raise over $100,000 across all community events to benefit Channel 3 Kids Camp. “We are honored to accept the Dora Maxwell award for a third year,” said Nutmeg President and CEO John Holt. “Working with Channel 3 Kids Camp has become so much more than just a partnership over the years. It’s an important community tradition that we intend to continue into the future.” The credit union will now move on as a finalist in the running for a national-level award, which will be presented at the 2020 Governmental Affairs Conference (GAC) in Washington, DC. To learn more about Nutmeg State Financial Credit Union’s latest offers and promotions, visit www.nutmegstatefcu.org or call 860.513.5000. From left: Bruce Adams, President & CEO of the Credit Union League of Connecticut, presents the Dora Maxwell Social Responsibility Community Service Award to Nutmeg State Financial Credit Union; John Holt, President & CEO, Lisa Asadourian, SVP/Chief Engagement Officer, and Cory LaBreck, Community and Employee Development Manager. Nutmeg State Financial Credit Union (NSFCU) Nutmeg State Financial Credit Union (NSFCU) Established in 1936, Nutmeg State Financial Credit Union is a member-owned, not-for-profit financial cooperative headquartered in Rocky Hill, Connecticut. Embracing our roots as a steward of the financial cooperative movement, we’re a values-driven collective committed to intentional actions and investments to “be the change” in our community. We believe prosperity for all people is possible through meaningful social and economic relationships and ensuring inclusive and equitable access to resources. Our mission is to create multi-generational prosperity throughout the community we serve through education, collaboration, and the support of local commerce. Nutmeg State Financial Credit Union has assets of approximately $565 million and currently serves approximately 43,000 members. Please visit nutmegstatefcu.org for more information. Contact Greg Angelillo 860.513.5097 gangelillo@nutmegstatefcu.org Share Save Close tooltip Sign in to save articles for later and to follow authors and companies. More Copy Link Print Share Share Our daily newsletter Stay informed on the latest in credit union news and community. Recommended for you Press Release Today Michigan Credit Unions celebrate Financial Literacy Month: 17K children’s books donated Michigan Credit Union Foundation Saved Remove Press Release Today Backbase launches world’s first AI-powered banking platform, putting banks back in growth mode Backbase Saved Remove Press Release Today Educational Systems Federal Credit Union celebrates 70 years of serving the education community Educational Systems Federal Credit Union Saved Remove Press Release Today EMERGE 2025 concludes with record attendance and practical AI solutions for community financial institutions Eltropy Saved Remove Press Release Today Zest AI’s Credit Decisioning and Fraud Detection now seamlessly integrated with Temenos Loan Origination Solution Zest AI‍ Saved Remove Press Release Today BECU’s 2024 annual report: Growing its commitment to serving members and communities BECU Saved Remove Today Kitsap Credit Union welcomes Matthew Wech Vice President of Sales Kitsap Credit Union Today 10 Smart Start Scholarships awarded to 10 outstanding students Clark County Credit Union Today RCU celebrates small business growth—in May and every day Redwood Credit Union Today AUX welcomes new team member in Q1 2025 Aux The place for all things credit union™ Our daily newsletter Stay informed on the latest in credit union news and community. Follow Us About Advertise Contact Terms of service Copyright & use © 2025 CUInsight. All Rights Reserved.