Nintendo Of America President Doug Bowser Says 'Stay Tuned' When Asked About New Mainline Mario Game - Game Informer Skip to main content Twitter Facebook Instagram Twitch YouTube TikTok Main navigation News Reviews Previews Features Videos 2025 Release List SUBSCRIBE Search: Type: - Any - Product Preview Review Items per page: 10 20 50 100 Sort by: Most Relevant Oldest first Newest first Get the Newsletter My Account Log Out Get the Newsletter Join Sign In Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Twitch YouTube Tiktok Get the Newsletter Account Log Out Join Sign In We're Back. We hope you'll join us. Learn more Share Follow Us Share Close Post Tweet Email https://www.gameinformer.com/2025/04/21/nintendo-of-america-president-doug-bowser-says-stay-tuned-when-asked-about-new-mainline Copy Link Follow Us Close Twitter Facebook Instagram Twitch YouTube News Nintendo Of America President Doug Bowser Says 'Stay Tuned' When Asked About New Mainline Mario Game by Brian Shea on Apr 21, 2025 at 04:47 PM Share Facebook Post Twitter Tweet Email Email Comment Comment When Nintendo held its Nintendo Direct to showcase the Nintendo Switch 2 earlier this month, many assumed a mainline Super Mario Bros. game was a given. After all, the last time we received a full 3D Mario game was with 2017's Super Mario Odyssey. Even if you want to include Bowser's Fury, which launched as a side game to the Switch re-release of Super Mario 3D World, as the most recent 3D Mario game, that title came out nearly four years ago. Though Donkey Kong Bananza looks to fill the 3D platformer space in Nintendo's launch-window lineup for Switch 2, and Nintendo's primary mascot and his friends will be well-represented through Mario Kart World , the absence of the Super Mario Bros. franchise was surprising. Speaking with CNN earlier this month, Nintendo of America President Doug Bowser didn't reveal much when asked about Mario's absence, but he did deliver what could be perceived as a tease. "Stay tuned," Bowser told CNN . "You know, we have a long, long catalog, and a long list of (intellectual property) that I'm sure will make its way to the platform." Obviously, it would be absurd to imagine a world where Switch 2 never gets its own Mario game, so you could interpret Bowser's potential tease as simply stating the obvious. Looking at the calendars in past years, Nintendo has traditionally delivered a Nintendo Direct detailing the games of the second half of the year in late June, then another in the fall/holiday time frame. With Nintendo Switch 2 launching June 5, it's possible Nintendo wanted to use the Switch 2 reveal Direct focus on the near-term titles like Mario Kart World (launching June 5) and Donkey Kong Bananza (launching July 17), in addition to previously announced titles like Pokémon Legends: Z-A and Metroid Prime 4: Beyond , while saving new announcements for this holiday season for a later presentation. Super Mario Odyssey arrived the same year as the original Nintendo Switch, while Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury came to Switch in 2021. In the meantime, we received an all-new 2D adventure in 2023 in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. Still, many fans are curious about the future of the 3D side of the Super Mario series. Perhaps we'll learn more in the coming months if Bowser is in fact teasing this. [ via IGN ] Were you surprised we didn't get a 3D Mario game during the Nintendo Switch 2 Direct? Do you anticipated we'll learn about one before the end of 2025? Do you think it'll be more like Super Mario Odyssey or Bowser's Fury? On On Off Off Products In This Article Nintendo Switch 2 Release Date: June 5, 2025 More Info Brian Shea Executive Editor Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo. Email Ready Up Be among the first to get details on the new magazine and membership. Plus , unlock early benefits: Access to the Magazine Archive Exclusive Newsletter Dark Mode Founder Perks & Pricing Create account Popular Content Feature The Big List Of Upcoming Video Game Remakes Tips & Tricks Spoiler-Free Tips And Story Primer To Help You Play Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 Feature Top 10 Cozy Games To Play Right Now reader discussion Reader Discussion: Were You Able To Pre-Order A Nintendo Switch 2? preview Wartorn Is Trying To Combine Classic Warcraft/StarCraft RTS Gameplay With A Roguelike Structure News Split Fiction Is Becoming A Movie, Starring Sydney Sweeney News Kirby And The Forgotten Land, Super Mario Party Jamboree Switch 2 Upgrades Cost $20 Review Bionic Bay Review – Physics Trap News Frostpunk 1886, A Remake Of The Original, Is Coming In 2027 Preview Towerborne Preview – From Tactics To Brawling – The Banner Saga Developers’ Big Multiplayer Swing View the discussion thread. Game Informer Twitter Facebook Instagram Twitch YouTube TikTok Footer menu Subscribe Staff Help & Customer Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Terms and Conditions Code of Conduct Advertising © 1991 to Game Informer. All Rights Reserved. 0159y61