Event: Tour de France off-roadshows, France | INEOS Grenadier ZA Skip to main content SIGN up / log in Test Drive Find Your Retailer Order your Grenadier The Vehicle Buying Servicing & Maintenance Explore News & Events Films & Images SIGN up / log in Test Drive Find Your Retailer Order your Grenadier The Vehicle Buying Servicing & Maintenance Explore News & Events Films & Images Home News Event: Grenadier France Roadshow - Summer of Cycling Back Event: Grenadier France Roadshow - Summer of Cycling 29 June 2021 There’s no need to register for this event, just come along and enjoy the day with us. Come and see the Grenadier prototype vehicle up close and personal. Find out more about the INEOS Grenadiers cycling team, the Grenadier vehicle and our partnership with The HALO Trust – the world’s largest landmine clearance charity. Get your bike looked at by experts at our pop-up bike clinic before you take on the toughest climbs on the 2021 Tour de France route. Compete in the power to weight challenge to see how you compare with INEOS Grenadiers rider, Filippo Ganna on our Wahoo Kickr training bike competition. Weekend winners can expect a signed jersey. Dates: 7th July – Magasin France Bike Rental, 57 Route du Mont Ventoux 15th July – Hotel le Chalet, Quartier de, Cayres de By, 65710 Campan We are constantly reviewing government guidelines in light of the evolving situation around COVID-19 and we’ll be adjusting our on-site processes as required. Discover Explore Press News Partner Portal Order Your Grenadier The Vehicle Useful Links Careers Contact Us FAQs Documentation Legal Cookies Policy Legal Notice Privacy Notice Warranty Website Acceptable Usage Policy country selector, preselected option Legal ​ country selector, preselected option United Kingdom ​ Can't see your country? Try here © 2025 INEOS Automotive. All rights reserved. Principal Partner Proudly Working With INEOS.COM Ineos Consumer Brands Ineos Sports Copyright © 2025. All rights reserved. This website is published by INEOS on behalf of its businesses Headquarters: 38 Hans Crescent. Knightsbridge. London SW1X 0LZ. UK. INEOS is a Registered Trademark, the property of INEOS Capital Limited. The development of the Grenadier has not been finalised, as such written and visual depictions (including photographs and colours) of the vehicle may vary from production models and are subject to change without notice. INEOS reserves the right to make updates to the product offering including specifications, options and accessories. As such, the quoted prices and specifications in the (Price List/Brochure/Website/Configurator) are indicative and may not reflect current offering and availability. Pricing and details provided do not constitute an offer for the sale of any particular vehicle at any particular price or specification. The aniline saddle leather is untreated and is subject to staining and discolouration as it absorbs moisture and oils and will fade and/or discolour when exposed to the sun. Due to the nature of the material, we are unable to include the Saddle Leather Driver’s Pack within our full vehicle warranty and cannot accept responsibility for any staining, fading, discolouration or any other defects typical of this leather type caused by natural wear or otherwise. By selecting the Saddle Leather Drivers Pack you acknowledge acceptance of the above information. Please refer to the Warranty T&Cs for more detail. The Utility Belt option has restricted usage on-road, dependant on local laws. Note that some standard features may be replaced when specifying a vehicle or selecting trim levels. Please contact your local Retail Partner for more details or configure your vehicle online. Warranty periods offered by INEOS on certain features may be limited and differ in duration. Please refer to the INEOS Automotive Manufacturers Warranty Terms and Conditions for details of variations and exceptions. Only use in-car features when safe to do so. Driving while distracted can result in loss of vehicle control, damage to property, injury or death. Always obey local laws and speed limits. Additional options offered for the vehicle may affect performance, emissions, exterior dimensions and off-/on-road geometry. Loading equipment on the roof may change the vehicle’s handling characteristics and users should not load the vehicle, any options or accessories (or any part of them) beyond their intended capacities. Additional accessories used on the vehicle may affect performance, emissions, exterior dimensions and off-/on-road geometry.  Fitment of certain accessories and their use on-road may be restricted and/or illegal, dependant on local laws. It is the user’s responsibility to ensure full compliance with local laws. Do not load vehicle or any accessories (or any part of them) beyond their intended capacities or capability. Note: care should be taken when loading equipment on the roof, Full-length Roof Rack or Roof Cross-bars as this may change the vehicle’s handling characteristics. Off-road driving and use of related equipment (including options and accessories) requires advanced training and experience. Improper use of the vehicle or other equipment may be unsafe and could result in property damage and/or injury to users and/or other parties. It is the user’s responsibility to check the vehicle, equipment, route and conditions ahead before proceeding. Consult the Owner’s Manual, applicable accessories manual/instructions or your closest Retail Partner for more detail. It is the user’s responsibility to check the vehicle, equipment, and conditions before towing or winching. Improper use of the vehicle or other equipment may be unsafe and could result in property damage and/or injury to users and/or other parties. Consult the Owner’s Manual, applicable accessories manual/instructions or your closest Retail Partner for more detail. VAT Number: England, Scotland, Wales - GB299786802, Northern Ireland - XI299786802 Disclaimer: INEOS Automotive Limited is an appointed representative of ITC Compliance Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (their registration number is 313486). Permitted activities include advising on and arranging general insurance contracts and acting as a credit broker not a lender. We can introduce you to a limited number of finance providers. We do not charge fees for our Consumer Credit services. We may receive a payment(s) or other benefits from finance providers should you decide to enter into an agreement with them, typically either a fixed fee or a fixed percentage of the amount you borrow. The payment we receive may vary between finance providers and product types. The payment received does not impact the finance rate offered. All finance applications are subject to status, terms and conditions apply, UK residents only, 18’s or over, Guarantees may be required.