Best Buy announces Super Mario Odyssey launch plans – Nintendo Wire – Nintendo Wire – Nintendo Wire Home Amiibo News News When is the next Nintendo Direct? Features Guides Reviews About Games Mobile Switch Wii U Contact – Nintendo Wire Home Amiibo News News When is the next Nintendo Direct? Features Guides Reviews About Games Mobile Switch Wii U Contact  Leave a Comment / September 29th, 2017 / Jennifer Burch Best Buy announces Super Mario Odyssey launch plans News , Switch Recent Articles Grant Kirkhope offers explanation for why Nintendo never credited him in the Super Mario Bros. Movie Fans of the Donkey Kong franchise are likely aware of the infamous “DK Rap” from Donkey Kong 64. Conceived as something of a goof to start off DK’s first 3D outing, the theme was written and composed by legendary composer Grant Kirkhope after being implored by designer George Andreas from… Read More April 29th, 2025 Rumor – Switch 2 dashboard will receive themes in future update Another day, another rumor about the Switch 2. While we at least know the console is releasing very soon and that Nintendo is gearing up for a pretty big launch, there are still some things about the console that remain uncertain. One such question is whether or not the Nintendo… Read More April 29th, 2025 A new issue of the official Nintendo Magazine focused on the Switch 2 has been released With the release of the Nintendo Switch 2 a little over a month away now, anticipation among Nintendo fans continues to build. While many already have their sights set on the system, others are still on the fence and looking for more information before they decide. Fortunately, the latest issue… Read More April 28th, 2025 Content Continues Below Surprise! Hot off the heels of the SNES Classic’s release, Best Buy has revealed its plans for Super Mario Odyssey’s launch. Receiving its own hub page , one very interesting detail is posted at the top: “Select stores open at 9 p.m. PT Thursday, October 26 (12:01 a.m. ET Friday, October 27). Be one of the first to pick up your copy of this Nintendo Switch game.” A full list of participating retailers hasn’t been provided yet. A good rule of thumb to follow is that if your local Best Buy normally does midnight releases and/or took part in Switchmas 2017 when it was 12:01 a.m. on March 3rd, then you’ll want to plan accordingly. There’s something else to curb your wait for the game! Already spotted at one store, “most locations” will have a Super Mario Odyssey demo available. Ken, the Best Buy representative who issued the response to a picture of the unit on Twitter, highly recommends calling your local store before going on an odyssey to play the Odyssey! Greetings, Most locations should have the demo. I advise to contact your local store for details. ^Ken — Best Buy Support (@BestBuySupport) September 29, 2017 If you haven’t already pre-ordered your copy of Super Mario Odyssey, it’s looking like Best Buy is the place to do so. Midnight launch, in store demo available, a bonus Cappy coin and $10 in GCU rewards if you’re part of the Gamers Club Unlocked. It sounds so crazy that it must be Crazy Cap good! Leave a Comment Written by Jennifer Burch Illustrator, designer, writer and big Nintendo geek, you can find Jennifer with an N3DS within reach 24/7. As the oldest of three, she has survived many Mario Party, Super Smash Bros. and Mario Kart sessions intact in addition to getting her brothers hooked on some really weird games. (Cubivore anyone?) – Nintendo Wire The views expressed on Nintendo Wire are our own. They are in no way affiliated with Nintendo. View Privacy Policy Manage Cookie Settings Home Amiibo News News When is the next Nintendo Direct? Features Guides Reviews About Games Mobile Switch Wii U Contact