Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag | Assassin's Creed Wiki | Fandom Assassin's Creed Wiki Welcome to Assassin's Creed Wiki! Log in and join the community. READ MORE Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Assassin's Creed Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Content Database‎ Animals‎ Assassin Intel‎ Collectibles‎ History‎ Documents‎ Events‎ Items‎ Landmarks‎ Locations‎ People‎ Individuals‎ By ethnicity By nationality By occupation By organization By place of residence By title‎ By traits By year Unidentified individuals‎ Locations‎ Cities‎ Colonies‎ Geographical features Landmarks‎ Locations by country Structures‎ Organizations‎ Assassin Brotherhood‎ Cults‎ Families‎ Militaries Ship crews Templar Order Memories‎ By Animus‎ By individual‎ Skills‎ Assassin skills‎ Genetic skills‎ Templar skills‎ Weapons‎ Personal weapons‎ Weapons by century‎ Weapons by type‎ Games Assassin's Creed Ezio Trilogy Assassin's Creed II Brotherhood Revelations Kenway Saga Assassin's Creed III Liberation Black Flag Freedom Cry Rogue Initiate Duology Unity Syndicate Layla Saga Origins Odyssey Valhalla Mirage Upcoming games Shadows Jade Codename Hexe Other games Altaïr's Chronicles Bloodlines Discovery Project Legacy Initiates Pirates Chronicles Identity Rebellion Nexus VR Other Media Comics UbiWorkshop comics The Fall The Chain Brahman Titan Comics Assassin's Creed Templars Last Descendants – Locus Uprising Reflections Origins Dark Horse Comics Valhalla – Song of Glory Valhalla – Forgotten Myths Mirage – A Soar of Eagles French graphic novels The Ankh of Isis Trilogy The Hawk Trilogy Conspiracies Bloodstone Valhalla – The Hidden Codex Manga and manhua Awakening Blade of Shao Jun Dynasty Valhalla – Blood Brothers Shadows – Iga no Monogatari Korean webtoons Forgotten Temple Novels Novelizations The Secret Crusade Renaissance Brotherhood Revelations Forsaken Black Flag Unity The Movie Odyssey Underworld Ubisoft Publishing novels Heresy Origins – Desert Oath Valhalla – Geirmund's Saga Aconyte Books novels Valhalla – Sword of the White Horse The Golden City Mirage – Daughter of No One Engine of History – The Magus Conspiracy Engine of History – The Resurrection Plot Young adult novels Last Descendants Last Descendants – Tomb of the Khan Last Descendants – Fate of the Gods Fragments – The Blade of Aizu Fragments – The Highlands Children Fragments – The Witches of the Moors Other books Prophecy of the Emperor The Silk Road Escape Room Puzzle Book Films and TV series Lineage Ascendance Embers The Movie Live action series Animated series Anime series Audiobooks Gold Board games Brotherhood of Venice Roleplaying Game Community Staff Administrators Cristophorus35 Lady Kyashira Sol Pacificus Soranin Moderators Ahmairah Lacrossedeamon Sadelyrate Xangr8 Zero-ELEC Policies Manual of Style Community Guidelines Moderation Images Images Licensing Sourcing Licensing Guidelines Be Bold Achievements Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Assassin's Creed Wiki 25,266 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Content Database‎ Animals‎ Assassin Intel‎ Collectibles‎ History‎ Documents‎ Events‎ Items‎ Landmarks‎ Locations‎ People‎ Individuals‎ By ethnicity By nationality By occupation By organization By place of residence By title‎ By traits By year Unidentified individuals‎ Locations‎ Cities‎ Colonies‎ Geographical features Landmarks‎ Locations by country Structures‎ Organizations‎ Assassin Brotherhood‎ Cults‎ Families‎ Militaries Ship crews Templar Order Memories‎ By Animus‎ By individual‎ Skills‎ Assassin skills‎ Genetic skills‎ Templar skills‎ Weapons‎ Personal weapons‎ Weapons by century‎ Weapons by type‎ Games Assassin's Creed Ezio Trilogy Assassin's Creed II Brotherhood Revelations Kenway Saga Assassin's Creed III Liberation Black Flag Freedom Cry Rogue Initiate Duology Unity Syndicate Layla Saga Origins Odyssey Valhalla Mirage Upcoming games Shadows Jade Codename Hexe Other games Altaïr's Chronicles Bloodlines Discovery Project Legacy Initiates Pirates Chronicles Identity Rebellion Nexus VR Other Media Comics UbiWorkshop comics The Fall The Chain Brahman Titan Comics Assassin's Creed Templars Last Descendants – Locus Uprising Reflections Origins Dark Horse Comics Valhalla – Song of Glory Valhalla – Forgotten Myths Mirage – A Soar of Eagles French graphic novels The Ankh of Isis Trilogy The Hawk Trilogy Conspiracies Bloodstone Valhalla – The Hidden Codex Manga and manhua Awakening Blade of Shao Jun Dynasty Valhalla – Blood Brothers Shadows – Iga no Monogatari Korean webtoons Forgotten Temple Novels Novelizations The Secret Crusade Renaissance Brotherhood Revelations Forsaken Black Flag Unity The Movie Odyssey Underworld Ubisoft Publishing novels Heresy Origins – Desert Oath Valhalla – Geirmund's Saga Aconyte Books novels Valhalla – Sword of the White Horse The Golden City Mirage – Daughter of No One Engine of History – The Magus Conspiracy Engine of History – The Resurrection Plot Young adult novels Last Descendants Last Descendants – Tomb of the Khan Last Descendants – Fate of the Gods Fragments – The Blade of Aizu Fragments – The Highlands Children Fragments – The Witches of the Moors Other books Prophecy of the Emperor The Silk Road Escape Room Puzzle Book Films and TV series Lineage Ascendance Embers The Movie Live action series Animated series Anime series Audiobooks Gold Board games Brotherhood of Venice Roleplaying Game Community Staff Administrators Cristophorus35 Lady Kyashira Sol Pacificus Soranin Moderators Ahmairah Lacrossedeamon Sadelyrate Xangr8 Zero-ELEC Policies Manual of Style Community Guidelines Moderation Images Images Licensing Sourcing Licensing Guidelines Be Bold Achievements in: Articles needing images from Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag , Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag , Real world video games , Assassin's Creed series English العربية Deutsch Español Français עברית Magyar Italiano 日本語 한국어 Lietuvių Nederlands Polski Português do Brasil Русский Українська 中文 Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag View source History Purge Talk (152) Where are the paintings? This article is in need of more images and/or better quality pictures from Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag in order to achieve a higher status. You can help the Assassin's Creed Wiki by uploading better images on this page. This article is about the video game . You may be looking for the novel . "I once sailed for a king. I obeyed men of privilege and wealth. Now, I bend my knee to no man. My only oath is to my crew and together, we will take back what is rightfully ours. With blood and steel, we shall stand up to the powerful." ―Edward Kenway, "Under The Black Flag" Trailer. Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Developer Ubisoft Montreal Publisher Ubisoft Engine AnvilNext Composer Brian Tyler The Flight Release date PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 October 29, 2013 Wii U October 29, 2013 ( NA ) November 21, 2013 ( AU ) November 22, 2013 ( EU ) PlayStation 4 November 15, 2013 (NA) November 29, 2013 (AU) November 22, 2013 (EU) Microsoft Windows November 19, 2013 (NA) [ 1 ] November 21, 2013 (AU) November 22, 2013 (EU) Xbox One November 22, 2013 Nintendo Switch December 6, 2019 Genre Historic Action-Adventure Game modes Single-player, Multi-player ESRB rating M (Mature) Platform(s) PlayStation 3 Xbox 360 Wii U PlayStation 4 Microsoft Windows Xbox One Nintendo Switch Website Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag is a 2013 action-adventure game, and the sixth main installment in the Assassin's Creed series . A sequel to 2012's Assassin's Creed III , the game has the player take on the role of an Abstergo Entertainment research analyst as they explore the story of Edward Kenway —father to Haytham Kenway , grandfather to Ratonhnhaké:ton , and an ancestor of Desmond Miles . Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag is set primarily on and around the islands in the Caribbean Sea during the Golden Age of Piracy in the early 18th century, with the three major cities consisting of Havana , Nassau , and Kingston . On September 4, 2019, it was announced that Black Flag , along with Rogue would be released together on the Nintendo Switch as a compilation known as Assassin's Creed: The Rebel Collection . [ 2 ] [ 3 ] Contents 1 Gameplay 1.1 Locations and navigation 1.2 Combat 1.3 Naval combat 1.4 Upgrades 1.5 Memories 1.6 Other 1.7 Multiplayer 2 Synopsis 2.1 Plot 3 Development 4 Music 5 Controversy 6 Release 6.1 Marketing 6.2 Editions 7 Gallery 8 Credits 9 References Gameplay Locations and navigation About 60% of the game takes place on land; players can explore 50 locations ranging from fisherman villages, plantations, jungles, forts , islands, Templar hideouts, Maya ruins and exotic Coconut Islands. Furthermore, there are around 75 beaches and sandbanks, which can hold various treasures and marooned sailors to add to Edward's crew. Other activities include hunting , harpooning, and exploring underwater environments. The game aims to blend between its land and aquatic experiences seamlessly, to the point where players can simply dive off Edward's ship, swim to the shore and explore the land, as well as dive under the surface to loot underwater ship wrecks. Viewpoints are also in Black Flag . As in the previous games, viewpoints have to be synchronized so as to reveal information about an area and its surroundings. Furthermore, they now also serve the function of fast-travel locations. Synchronizing with a viewpoint unlocks more loot and area of "interest" to Edward and can also be used as a faster way of locating a specific target. Combat Black Flag ' s combat has been upgraded to include free aiming. While previous installments relied on the game's built-in auto aim, in Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag , players are able to just aim and fire, similar to third-person shooters. Dual-wielding weapons has also been implemented, with Edward being able to carry four flintlock pistols and be able to use them all together, chaining up to four gunshots into a combo of attacks to take down more enemies. Aside from the pistols and his Hidden Blades , Edward can equip dual cutlass swords and chain their attacks together. Other weapons include a blowpipe with multiple effected projectiles and rope darts . Accompanying this, the stealth system has been remade and is encouraged in-game. Combo attacks are achieved through chaining multiple attacks in a row while uninterrupted. The game includes many different ways of combo moves, with some available through running towards an enemy or jumping onto an enemy from the high ground. Naval combat The game also includes naval combat, with 40% of the story taking place on the water, which includes numerous side missions. After checking out a ship with Edward's spyglass from the Jackdaw ' s crow's nest and evaluating the information and statistics, players can launch an attack using various scenarios; one can simply shoot the opposing captain, board the ship by leaping from mast-to-mast and performing an air assassination, or charge into the fray to cut down foes using Edward's swords. Once the objectives for each boarding process, all of which include killing a certain amount of soldiers, are completed, the player has three options - reduce the Jackdaw ' s notoriety, send the ship to Edward's fleet , or salvage the ship to repair the Jackdaw . Players are also able to exploit weather patterns, luring the opposition into less than ideal conditions, such as rogue waves, to their advantage. Naval combat also features a trajectory-based aiming system that requires knowledge of distance and the speed of an enemy. Upgrades Players are also able to upgrade Edward Kenway's Jackdaw through pillaging, taking over enemy ships, and completing missions, granting the Jackdaw new weapons and abilities. Of these, weapon upgrades include round shot, heavy shot, chain shot, fire barrels, mortars, swivel guns, and a ram. Edward can recruit crew members for the Jackdaw via side missions that include bar fights and battle missions. It is also possible to simply rescue them while just sailing across the map. However, the crew members are also expected to die in the game while braving storms and boarding enemy ships, forcing Edward to continuously recruit more members. The game also has six different enemy archetypes at sea that all behave in vastly different ways and require the player to have different upgrades to deal with them. Memories Instead of Desmond Miles, the modern day portion is centered around the players themselves, who act as Abstergo Entertainment research analysts that are reliving the memories of Edward Kenway. The Animus no longer constrains the players with its barriers whenever they attempt to interact with an environment the ancestor has not; instead tougher enemy ships will block the way, with the only way around them being to actually explore the world, and finding things that can go towards upgrading the Jackdaw . In addition, players are able to connect with other players in the modern day, which will allow them to interact and share information with each other. Other Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag includes many historical figures such as Benjamin Hornigold , Jack Rackham , Anne Bonny , Charles Vane , and Edward Thatch . The notoriety system featured in previous Assassin's Creed games was remade in Black Flag , as a "worldwide alert" for a pirate sailing between islands was deemed illogical. In its place, a system of pirate hunters were introduced, with four tiers of increasingly difficult ships appearing to attack the Jackdaw depending on how many robberies Edward has committed. The new "Horizon" open-world system dynamically creates side missions, such as merchant ships to rob, whales to hunt, or pirates to rescue, dependent on an individual's playing style. Edward will put his hood on when in a restricted zone or in a city, and take it off when on the open seas or as soon as he is incognito. Multiplayer The multiplayer aspect of Black Flag includes cooperative and competitive multiplayer modes, some of which that are reused from previous games, along with all new maps and new characters. To date, the characters are as follows: Adventurer Blackbeard Buccaneer Cutthroat Dandy Duellist Firebrand Huntsman Jaguar Lady Black Mercenary Navigator Night Stalker Orchid Physician Puppeteer Rebel Shaman Siren Stowaway Wayfarer Adding to this, the locations are: Havana Saba Island Santa Lucia Saint Pierre Portobelo Prison Palenque Tampa Bay Virginian Plantation Fort St-Mathieu Charlestown Kingston Furthermore, players can create custom game modes alongside default and Game Lab modes and share it to their friends. Synopsis Plot Using the DNA collected from Desmond Miles’s corpse, Abstergo Entertainment developed an initiative called the Sample 17 Project to explore the genetic memories of Desmond’s ancestors to gather material for the production of various Animus Omega products and feature films. The project was started with the ulterior motive of locating various Precursor sites and Pieces of Eden . In 2013, the company hired a research analyst for scouting the memories of one of Desmond’s ancestors, Edward Kenway , a British privateer-turned pirate who later went on to become an Assassin . After an attack on the ship he was aboard, Edward found himself stranded on a deserted island with an Assassin. The man ran off into the jungle, after which Kenway chased him down and killed him. Among his possessions, he found a letter addressed to Duncan Walpole , from the Governor of Cuba, Laureano de Torres y Ayala , promising him a reward for some maps he was carrying. Edward donned Walpole's robes, heard shots in the distance, and proceeded to investigate, leading him to a ship with its crew being held by British soldiers. Edward killed the soldiers and rescued a merchant named Stede Bonnet , later accompanying him to Havana . Having arrived in Havana, Edward, still posing as Walpole, met with Governor Torres and his associates, hoping to claim his reward. Edward learned of the existence of the Templar Order and a Precursor site known as the Observatory , with the power of locate and monitor every person on Earth with a vial of blood. According to the old tales, the blood of a Sage is required to enter the Observatory. Afterwards, Edward was inducted in the Templar Order. Edward met with the Templars at the docks in the next morning to meet a Sage named Bartholomew Roberts and escort him to the governor's mansion. During the journey to Torres' mansion, the group was attacked by Assassins, allowing the Sage to escape. Edward fought the Assassins and managed to capture the Sage. He later claimed his promised reward, but was unhappy with its quantity. Edward decided to free the Sage and find out more about the Observatory, hoping to make more money. However, as he snuck into Torres' mansion, he found his cell empty and scattered with dead bodies. While investigating the area, Edward was knocked out and identified as an imposter by the Templars. He was taken prisoner and locked up on one of the ships of the Spanish Treasure Fleet . Edward awoke to find himself in leg irons together with a fellow prisoner, Adéwalé . After freeing themselves, the men rescued the fleet's prisoners and stole a brig, which Edward decided to keep afterwards. He named his new ship the Jackdaw and made Adéwalé his quartermaster. Following this, the pirate set course for Nassau . After assembling a crew, he met with Edward Thatch and Benjamin Hornigold , who took Edward out to sea to teach him how to plunder ships. He then met with James Kidd , and devised a plan to rob a plantation. Edward and Thatch set out to acquire a galleon for Nassau's defense. The pirate assassinated its captain, the Templar Julien du Casse , and claimed his vessel for Nassau's defense and his island for himself. While exploring Edward’s memories, the analyst was enlisted by IT head John Standish to hack computers, Animi, security cameras, and servers around Abstergo Entertainment's Montreal facility in order to obtain information on Abstergo's actions for the Assassins, and pass it on to Rebecca Crane and Shaun Hastings , who routinely collected it at Shaun's coffee stand in the building's lobby, though the analyst wasn’t originally aware of this. A few weeks later, Edward set course for Tulum , looking for Kidd, who was expecting him in the Assassin hideout. Upon Mentor Ah Tabai ’s behest, Edward navigated a Mayan ruin to identify the return of a Sage. Upon confirming Roberts’ identity, Edward and Kidd exited the Mayan ruin to discover both the Assassins and the Jackdaw's crew held hostage by slave traders. Edward freed the Assassins and his crew members. Ah Tabai absolved Edward of the deaths of his fellow Assassins in Havana, but exiled him from Tulum. Edward devised a plan to find Roberts and earn some money by using Torres as bait. He set out to Kingston , where he planned to tail Torres and Laurens Prins , hoping to find the Sage. He found Kidd trying to assassinate both men and stopped him, allowing them to escape. Edward then prepared to assassinate Prins after having promised Kidd he would do so. Suddenly, Kidd removed his bandana and reddened his lips with his blood, revealing himself to be a woman named Mary Read . Edward found Prins and assassinated him, but Roberts appeared, holding Mary hostage. The Sage managed to escape once again. While staying in Nassau, Edward witnessed the arrival of the Royal Navy and Woodes Rogers , who came to offer the King's pardon to all pirates, and Hornigold and his men decided to accept it. They also lifted a naval block around Nassau, preventing the pirates from leaving. After learning that Commodore Peter Chamberlaine planned to destroy all the pirate ships in Nassau's harbor, Edward assassinated him and escaped Nassau with Charles Vane . Edward sailed north to meet with Thatch. During a confront with the Royal Navy, Thatch was killed, and Edward barely managed to escape. He also learned of a ship called the Princess , aboard which he could find the Sage. Edward and Vane went after a slave ship to find information about the Princess, but due to Jack Rackham 's mutiny, they were stranded on Isla Providencia . Edward was forced to deal with an insane Charles Vane, and managed to leave the island on a ship that had arrived. After retrieving his ship and crew from Rackham, Edward traveled to Kingston to learn more about the Sage's location. Edward located Hornigold and Rogers, who met with Torres. Through them, Edward learned that Bartholomew Roberts could be found on the island of Príncipe . He traveled to Príncipe, in order to find Roberts. During his search, Edward assassinated Josiah Burgess and John Cockram , freeing pirates from a Portuguese camp along the way. With that, Edward finally gained the trust of Roberts, who in turn requested his aid. Edward met with Roberts to claim a set of vials from a Portuguese fleet. They managed to acquire the blood vials, and Edward was promised a chance to enter the Observatory. When meeting up with Roberts again, Edward was directed to assassinate Hornigold, who had tailed him. Edward informed Adéwalé of his plan of selling the Observatory for the highest price. Adéwalé suggested inform the Assassins instead, so they could protect it, but Edward refused. Edward arrived at the Observatory, but was betrayed by Roberts and imprisoned in Port Royal. Eventually, the hacking activity was discovered at the same time that the company's Chief Creative Officer, Olivier Garneau , went missing. In response, Olivier's stand-in, Melanie Lemay , reluctantly imprisoned the analyst and several other employees in bunkers in the basement, where they would continue their work until the hacker could be identified.  Subsequently, John raised the analyst's security clearance so that they could leave their bunker, and instructed them to hack the main server in order to cover their tracks. Unbeknownst to the analyst, following John's instructions activated a program designed to transfer Juno 's consciousness into another body; unfortunately, Juno was not yet strong enough to maintain a physical form, and this aspect of the plan failed, much to John’s rage. The analyst then resumed exploring Edward’s memories. Edward was led into the trial of Mary Read and Anne Bonny . They warn that they’re pregnant, so their executions are postponed. Four months after the trial, Edward was locked in one of Port Royal 's gibbets. Ah Tabai freed Edward, returned his weapons and requested his aid to free Mary and Anne. Along the way, Edward found Jack Rackham's skeletal corpse in a gibbet and a delirious Charles Vane in a cell. In a nearby cell, Anne shouted for help from the guards, because Mary’s gotten ill after childbirth. Edward helped Mary to reach outside, but she passed away. After suffering the loss of Mary, Edward tried to drown his sorrows, which resulted in a disturbing dream. Adéwalé woke Edward up on the beach afterwards. Edward then set sail for Tulum to meet with the Assassins and make amends. After aiding the Assassins with a Spanish invasion, Edward earned their trust. Edward, now allied with the Assassins, set out to Kingston to assassinate Rogers. Then Edward sailed to Principe to kill Roberts. He attempted to assassinate Torres in Havana, but found his victim to be a decoy, El Tiburón . He killed him and set out for the Observatory, where Torres would be. Edward began to make his way towards the Observatory, freeing its guardians as he came across them and killing the Spanish soldiers. Edward found and assassinated Torres, returned the Observatory to its dormant state, and received a letter, learned of his wife 's passing. John then entered the analyst's bunker while they were using the Animus and revealed himself to be a Sage, a reincarnation of Aita . He attempted to poison the analyst, weakening them enough that their body could host Juno. However, he was shortly caught and killed by Abstergo's security guards. The analyst later woke in Melanie's office, where she apologized for imprisoning them. She claimed that while she originally believed them to be the hacker, information recovered from John's computer proved that he was responsible. After Melanie revealed the completed trailer for Devils of the Caribbean as a token of good will, the analyst was allowed to return to work. Edward met with Ah Tabai and Adéwalé at Great Inagua, awaiting the arrival of his daughter. He passed on his manor on Great Inagua to the Assassins for their new base, and met his daughter, Jennifer Scott , for the first time. Edward then sailed to England with Jennifer. Sometime later, Edward remarried and conceived a son, Haytham Kenway . The post-credits scene shows Edward, Jennifer and Haytham attending The Beggar's Opera at the Theatre Royal. Development Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag producer Martin Schelling and Mission Director Ashraf Ismail both stated that they began the project in the summer of 2011, with a pirate game as their focus. [ 4 ] Ismail also stressed that they aimed towards a more historically accurate take on the era, including staying away from the stereotypical image associated with pirates, such as parrots, Krakens, and plank-walking. [ 5 ] The pair also explained that because the game was so radically different from its predecessor and that the scope and open-world gameplay was so different from the previous game, they opted for the project to be a numbered sequel as opposed to a spin-off that followed in the footsteps of the last numbered game, Assassin's Creed III . [ 4 ] Ubisoft 's Montreal-based team, in conjunction with 7 other studios from Singapore, Sofia, Annecy, Kiev, Quebec City, Bucharest and Montpellier—accompanied by a band of developers of Far Cry 3 —contributed to the completion of the game, with each studio focusing on different elements. [ 5 ] Writer Darby McDevitt began writing the game soon after completing Assassin's Creed: Revelations , after being suggested to do a game expanding the "Kenway family saga", instead of Connor's life story as they did with Ezio Auditore . He considered beginning the story with Edward as a boy during William Kidd and Henry Morgan 's era of piracy, but decided he felt skeptical as to whether Assassin's Creed II convincingly portrayed a similar span of time, and so opted to simply focus on the Blackbeard era towards the end of the Golden Age of Piracy. [ 6 ] McDevitt stated the game's primary history resources were Captain Charles Johnson 's A General History of the Pyrates (1724) and Colin Woodard 's The Republic of Pirates (2008). As a homage to the former book, the game's subtitles rendered each noun with capital letters, while Woodard was invited to consult on the game. [ 7 ] Music Lorne Balfe , who was the sole composer for Assassin's Creed III and a secondary composer for both Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood and Assassin's Creed: Revelations , did not return to score the soundtrack for Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag . The score was instead composed by Brian Tyler , the composer of Far Cry 3 . Additional composers included; Sarah Schachner , Omar Fadel, Steve Davis, Mike Kramer, Jeremy Lamb, Matthew Llewellyn, and Robert Lydecker. [ 8 ] Controversy Edward aboard the Jackdaw as a whale breaches the water ahead After a screenshot (right) was released showing Edward Kenway watching a whale from the Jackdaw ' s rigging, PETA issued a statement condemning Black Flag as "disgraceful" because it "glorified" whaling. [ 9 ] In response, a Ubisoft spokesperson provided a statement to IGN : History is our playground in Assassin's Creed. Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag is a work of fiction that depicts the real events during the Golden Era of Pirates. We do not condone illegal whaling, just as we don't condone a pirate lifestyle of poor hygiene, plundering, hijacking ships, and over the legal limit drunken debauchery. [ 10 ] Ubisoft later established Susan Drayton , a character in Assassin's Creed: Initiates , as being anti-whaling. Release Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag was released on PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Wii U on 29 October 2013, in North America, and later in November for other regions. The game also launched on PlayStation 4 and Microsoft Windows on 15 November and 19 November 2013, respectively, in North America, with subsequent releases in other regions. Additionally, the Xbox One version became available on 22 November 2013. [ 1 ] An exclusive downloadable content set of playable memories , set around Aveline de Grandpré , the protagonist of Assassin's Creed III: Liberation , was made available from launch for only PlayStation players, a Windows release was made available as a free update in 2023. Similiar to the exclusive memories in Assassin's Creed III . [ 11 ] The singleplayer expansion, Freedom Cry , released on 17 December 2013, acts as an epilogue to the base game, and follows Adéwalé after the events of Black Flag . [ 12 ] Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag was later included in Assassin's Creed: The Americas Collection (known as Birth of a New World: The American Saga in PAL regions), alongside the compiled Assassin's Creed III , and Assassin's Creed: Liberation HD , and was released for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Microsoft Windows on 28 October 2014. [ 13 ] A Nintendo Switch port was released on 6 December 2019, in Assassin's Creed: The Rebel Collection bundled together with Assassin's Creed: Rogue , it include all singleplayer DLC. [ 14 ] Marketing During the 2013 San Diego Comic-Con, Ubisoft hired the Star of India to stand in for the Jackdaw . [ 15 ] McFarlane Toys ' action figures of characters from Black Flag and Assassin's Creed III come with unique codes to unlock in-game weapons, outfits, and sails for the Jackdaw . A companion app was developed for the game, though it was ultimately rendered unnecessary. [ 16 ] [ 17 ] A Japanese manga adaptation of the game titled Assassin's Creed: Awakening , written by Takashi Yano and illustrated by Kendi Oiwa, began serialization in Shueisha's Jump X magazine on 10 August 2013. [ 18 ] However, it contradicts many points of the game's actual storyline in both the modern times and the 18th century. Editions Ubisoft announced several collector's editions of Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag . Black Chest Edition Buccaneer Edition Skull Edition Special Edition Gamestop Edition A retail copy of Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag A collector's box A steelbook case A copy of the world map An artbook A copy of the official soundtrack Two exclusive lithographs Two canvas prints A black flag A 55 centimeter Captain Edward Kenway diorama Three exclusive single player locations, Black Island , Mystery Island , and Sacrifice Island Access to all pre-order packs A retail copy of Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag A collector's box An artbook A copy of the official soundtrack Two exclusive lithographs A 46 centimeter Captain Edward Kenway figurine Three exclusive single player locations, Black Island, Mystery Island and Sacrifice Island Pre-order pack: Captain Kenway's Legacy A retail copy of Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag A jumbo steel case Two exclusive lithographs An artbook. A copy of the official soundtrack Two exclusive single player locations, Mystery Island and Sacrifice Island Pre-order pack: Captain Kenway's Legacy A retail copy of Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag An exclusive single player location, Sacrifice Island Pre-order pack: Includes Captain Francis Drake 's outfit , swords, and flintlocks Pre-order pack: Captain Kenway's Legacy. Includes dual golden swords and the Treasure Hunter costume for the Navigator multiplayer character A retail copy of Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag An exclusive single player location, Black Island Access to the Black Ship sails, wheel and figurine Captain Henry Morgan 's outfit , silver flintlocks, and swords for single player, and additional Captain Morgan items for use in multiplayer Todd MacFarlane poster Limited Edition Lethal Pirate Edition Jackdaw Edition (PS4, Xbox One and PC only) 18-inch statue of Edward Kenway Pirate flag measuring 28 inches by 48 inches, embroidered with the Assassins' crest Art book Steel game case Original soundtrack A retail copy of Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Black Bart action figure by McFarlane Toys Digital wallpaper by Todd McFarlane The Royal Fortune ' s sails, wheel and figurine Mystery Island location Stede Bonnet 's sails, wheel and figurine The Jackdaw Edition is practically the Game of the Year Edition of Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag . It includes all available downloadable content released so far for Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag . They are mentioned below: A retail copy of Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Freedom Cry single player missions Aveline single-player missions (PS4 and PC only) Death Vessel sails, wheel and figurine Ezio 's sails and figurine Altaïr 's sails and figurine Kraken sails, wheel and figurine Illustrious Pirates Pack Captain Kenway's Legacy Pack Multiplayer Characters Pack Gallery Videos Promotional media Concept artwork Companion App Trailer - Assassin's Creed 4 Black Flag -UK- Gameplay Reveal Trailer Assassin's Creed 4 Black Flag North America The Official World Premiere Trailer - Assassin's Creed 4 Black Flag Edward Kenway, A Pirate Trained By Assassins - Assassin's Creed 4 Black Flag SCAN Assassin's Creed IV Black Flag - The Watch Official Trailer True Golden Age of Pirates Assassin's Creed 4 Black Flag North America Under the Black Flag Assassin's Creed 4 Black Flag North America Assassin's Creed 4 Gameplay Demo - E3 2013 E3 Cinematic Trailer Assassin's Creed 4 Black Flag North America 2013 Pirate Gameplay Experience Video Naval Exploration Assassin's Creed 4 Black Flag North America A Pirate's Life on High Seas Assassin's Creed 4 Black Flag UK 13 Minutes of Caribbean Open-World Gameplay Assassin's Creed 4 Black Flag North America Assassins Creed IV Stealth Experience Walkthrough Assassins Creed 4 -- Gamescom 2013 Trailer Infamous Pirates Video Assassin's Creed 4 Black Flag UK Assassin's Creed IV Black Flag -- Tattoo TV Spot UK Pirate Heist Trailer Assassin's Creed IV Black Flag North America DEFY - Official Live Action Trailer Assassin's Creed 4 Black Flag UK Assassin's Creed IV Black Flag - Defy History ACIV- Black Flag 10th Anniversary - Lead Writer Dev Commentary E3 2013 promotional banner Credits By type Cast Crew Cast Matt Ryan as Edward Kenway Olivia Morgan as James Kidd/Mary Read Ralph Ineson as Charles Vane Mark Bonnar as Edward “Blackbeard” Thatch Tristan D. Lalla as Adéwalé Luisa Guerreiro as Caroline Scott Sarah Greene as Anne Bonny James Bachman as Stede Bonnet Cristina Rosato as Melanie Lemay Vincent Hoss-Desmarais as Olivier Garneau Danny Wallace as Shaun Hastings Eliza Jane Schneider as Rebecca Crane O. T. Fagbenle as Jack Rackham Oliver Milburn as Bartholomew Roberts , John Standish Milton Lopes as Ah Tabai Christian Rodska as Laurens Prins Alex Ivanovici as Julien du Casse Ed Stoppard as Benjamin Hornigold Shaun Dingwall as Woodes Rogers Conrad Pla as Laureano de Torres y Ayala References ↑ 1.0 1.1 Dyer, Mitch (30 September, 2013). Assassin's Creed 4 PC Release Date Revealed, Wii U Version Delayed . IGN . Archived from the original on 3 October 2013. Retrieved on 19 April 2019. ↑ Assassin's Creed (@assassinscreed) on Twitter "Two epic games, one compilation. Assassin’s Creed Black Flag and Rogue coming to Nintendo Switch!" ( screenshot ) ↑ Assassin's Creed: The Rebel Collection: Switch Announce Trailer | Ubisoft [NA] on the Ubisoft North America YouTube channel ↑ 4.0 4.1 Cooper, Hollander (4 March 2013). Harpooning whales with Blackbeard - Assassin's Creed IV interview . GamesRadar+ . Archived from the original on 8 March 2013. Retrieved on 4 March 2013. ↑ 5.0 5.1 George, Richard (4 March 2013). The Dawn of Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag . IGN . Archived from the original on 4 December 2023. Retrieved on 4 March 2013. ↑ King, Ryan (28 August 2013). Assassin's Creed 4: Lead Writer On Why It's 'The Best Pirate Game Ever' . Now Gamer. Archived from the original on 28 August 2013. Retrieved on 30 August 2013. ↑ Watters, Chris (8 April 2013). Mantling the Challenges of Writing Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag . ' GameSpot ' . Archived from the original on 21 January 2014. Retrieved on 25 April 2013. ↑ Assassin's Creed 4: Black Flag (Original Game Soundtrack) on Amazon.com ( backup link ) ↑ Grubb, Jeff (4 March 2013). PETA: It's 'disgraceful' for Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag to 'glorify' whaling . VentureBeat . Archived from the original on 2 August 2023. Retrieved on 7 March 2013. ↑ Reilly, Luke (6 March 2013). PETA Condemns Assassin's Creed 4's Whaling as "Disgraceful" . IGN . Archived from the original on 14 January 2024. Retrieved on 7 March 2013. ↑ Harrold, Kate (19 July 2023). Assassin's Creed Black Flag update gives players free DLC expansion . Gaming Bible . LADbible. Archived from the original on 18 January 2024. Retrieved on 14 May 2024. ↑ Karmali, Luke (5 February 2014). Assassin's Creed 4: Freedom Cry Releasing as Standalone Title . IGN . Archived from the original on 17 April 2023. Retrieved on 14 May 2024. ↑ Suszek, Mike (8 September 2014). Assassin's Creed bundles up its American saga for October . Joystiq. Archived from the original on 28 December 2014. Retrieved on 14 May 2024. ↑ McFerran, Damien (5 September 2019). Assassin's Creed: The Rebel Collection Is A Nintendo Switch Exclusive . Nintendo Life. Archived from the original on 2 December 2019. Retrieved on 14 May 2024. ↑ Ash (23 July 2013). Comic-Con 2013: On the Deck of the Jackdaw – Black Flags in the Sunset . Nerd Appropriate. Archived from the original on 21 September 2023. Retrieved on 14 May 2024. ↑ Bob, Vampire Horde, Samuel Claiborn, +45.0k more. Companion App - Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Guide . IGN . Archived from the original on 5 December 2023. Retrieved on 4 January 2024. ↑ Zak, Robert (9 July 2022). Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Had The Best Companion App . DualShockers. Archived from the original on 5 July 2023. Retrieved on 14 May 2024. ↑ Hodgkins, Crystalyn (9 July 2013). Welcome to the N.H.K.'s Oiwa Draws Assassin's Creed 4 Manga . Anime News Network . Archived from the original on 20 January 2024. Retrieved on 9 July 2013. Assassin's Creed series Main games Assassin's Creed • Assassin's Creed II ( Battle of Forlì • Bonfire of the Vanities ) • Brotherhood ( Copernicus Conspiracy • The Da Vinci Disappearance ) • Revelations ( The Lost Archive ) • Assassin's Creed III ( Benedict Arnold • The Tyranny of King Washington ) • Liberation • Black Flag ( Freedom Cry • Aveline ) • Rogue • Unity ( Dead Kings ) • Syndicate ( Jack the Ripper • The Last Maharaja • The Dreadful Crimes ) • Origins ( The Hidden Ones • The Curse of the Pharaohs ) • Odyssey ( Legacy of the First Blade • The Fate of Atlantis ) • Valhalla ( Wrath of the Druids • The Siege of Paris • Dawn of Ragnarök ) • Mirage Animus Hub Shadows ( Claws of Awaji ) • Hexe • Invictus Spin-off games Altaïr's Chronicles • Bloodlines • Discovery • Multiplayer • Project Legacy • Multiplayer Rearmed • Recollection • Pirates • Memories • Chronicles ( China | India | Russia ) • Identity • Arno's Chronicles • Rebellion • Freerunners • Jade • Assassin's Creed Netflix mobile game Virtual Reality The VR Experience • Escape the Lost Pyramid • The Temple of Anubis • Beyond Medusa's Gate • Nexus VR Table Top Arena • Monopoly • Vendetta • Top Trumps • Risk • Brotherhood of Venice ( Roma • Tokyo XXI • Creed vs Crows • Apocalypse ) • The Last Quest of Leonardo da Vinci • Universes Beyond • Roleplaying Game Compilations Ezio Trilogy • Anthology • Heritage Collection • The Americas Collection • The Ezio Collection • The Rebel Collection Novels Renaissance • Brotherhood • The Secret Crusade • Revelations • Forsaken • Black Flag • Unity • Underworld • Last Descendants series ( Last Descendants | Tomb of the Khan | Fate of the Gods ) • Heresy • The Official Movie Novelization • Desert Oath • Odyssey • The Ming Storm series ( The Ming Storm • The Desert Threat ) • Geirmund's Saga • Fragments ( The Blade of Aizu | The Highlands Children | The Witches of the Moors ) • The Silk Road • The Imperial Jade Seal ( Chang'an Wang ) • Sword of the White Horse • The Engine of History ( The Magus Conspiracy • The Resurrection Plot ) • Escape Room Puzzle Book • The Golden City • Daughter of No One • Dynasty Audio Renaissance • Brotherhood • The Secret Crusade • Revelations • Forsaken • Black Flag • Underworld • Last Descendants series ( Last Descendants | Tomb of the Khan | Fate of the Gods ) • The Official Film Tie-In • Desert Oath • Odyssey • Gold • Geirmund's Saga • The Ming Storm series ( The Ming Storm • The Desert Threat ) • Turbulence in the Ming Dynasty • Sword of the White Horse • The Engine of History ( The Magus Conspiracy • The Resurrection Plot ) Comics Assassin's Creed • The Fall • The Chain • Awakening • Brahman • Assassins • Templars • Last Descendants – Locus • Conspiracies • Uprising • Reflections • Origins • Bloodstone • Blade of Shao Jun • Dynasty • Song of Glory • Blood Brothers • Valhalla webcomic • Forgotten Myths • The Hidden Codex • Forgotten Temple • Visionaries • A Soar of Eagles • Iga no Monogatari Non-fiction Assassin's Creed guide / artbook / CE artbook • Assassin's Creed II guide / artbook / CE artbook • Brotherhood guide / artbook • Revelations guide / artbook • Encyclopedia • Assassin's Creed III guide / artbook • Black Flag guide / artbook / CE artbook • Rogue guide / artbook • Unity guide / artbook / CE artbook • The Complete Visual History • Syndicate guide / artbook / CE artbook • A Walk Through History • The Official Coloring Book • The Essential Guide • Movie Posters • Into the Animus • Incredibuilds • The Official Collection • Origins guide / artbook / CE artbook • Infographics • The Culinary Codex • Odyssey guide / artbook / CE artbook • Complete Character Guide • 2500 Years of History • Atlas • Discovery Books ( Ancient Egypt | Ancient Greece | Viking Age | In the Heart of Baghdad | The Japan of the Samurai ) • Where's the Assassin? • Valhalla artbook • Mirage artbook / CE artbook • Shadows artbook / CE artbook Film & Television Lineage • Ascendance • Embers • French Revolution • The Syndicate • Assassin's Creed • Live-action TV series • Animated TV series • Anime series Websites Abstergo.com • Animus Next • Council • Crack The Code • Discover Your Legacy • Initiates • Project Legacy • Project Widow • Pirates Demo • Question the Creed • The Twelve Trials • Unlock the Animus • Who's In Your Blood? • Your Blood Is Not Your Own • XIXth Century Search Engine Cancelled media The Invisible Imam • The Eye of Heaven • Lost Legacy • Utopia • Bloodsail • Alliance • Covers Collection Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Characters Assassins Rebecca Crane • Shaun Hastings | Patience Gibbs • Aveline de Grandpré | Adéwalé • Ah Tabai • Antó • Opía Apito • Rhona Dinsmore • Edward Kenway • Mary Read • Upton Travers • Vance Travers • Duncan Walpole | Bahlam Templars Laetitia England | Edmund Judge | Kenneth Abraham • Josiah Burgess • Julien du Casse • John Cockram • Hilary Flint • Benjamin Hornigold • Jing Lang • Lucia Márquez • Woodes Rogers • Laureano de Torres y Ayala Isu Juno • Aita Others Noob • Olivier Garneau • Melanie Lemay • John Standish | Stede Bonnet • Anne Bonny • Peter Chamberlaine • Haytham Kenway • Laurens Prins • Jack Rackham • Bartholomew Roberts • Jennifer Scott • Caroline Scott-Kenway • Edward Thatch • El Tiburón • Charles Vane • Milo van der Graaff | Peter Beckford • Thomas Kavanagh, Jr. Animi Avatars Adventurer • Blackbeard • Buccaneer • Cutthroat • Dandy • Duellist • Firebrand • Huntsman • Jaguar • Lady Black • Mercenary • Navigator • Night Stalker • Orchid • Physician • Puppeteer • Rebel • Shaman • Siren • Stowaway • Wayfarer Vessels Benjamin • El Arca del Maestro • El Impoluto • Hercules (brig) • Hercules (frigate) • HMS Courage • HMS Defiance • HMS Fearless • HMS Intrigue • HMS Prince • Hollander • Jackdaw • Jacobite • La Dama Negra • Ranger • Revenge • Royal Fortune • Royal Phoenix • Royal Sovereign • San Ignacio • San Lorenzo • Princess • Queen Anne's Revenge Factions Assassins ( West Indies Brotherhood ) • Templars ( Abstergo Industries • Abstergo Entertainment | West Indies Rite ) • Instruments of the First Will | British Empire ( British Army • British Navy ) • Pirate hunters • Portuguese Empire ( Portuguese Navy ) • Republic of Pirates • Spanish Empire ( Spanish Army • Spanish Navy ) Locations Montreal | Africa ( Príncipe ) • The Bahamas ( Abaco Island • Andreas Island • Cat Island • Crooked Island • Great Inagua • Mariguana Island • Nassau ) • Black Island • Caribbean Sea • Corozal • Cayman Islands ( Cayman Sound • Grand Cayman ) • Cayo Island • Cuba ( Arroyos • Cape Bonavista • Cumberland Bay • Havana • Matanzas • Pinos Isle ) • Florida • Forts ( Cabo de Cruz • Castillo de Jagua • Charlotte • Chinchorro • Conttoyor • Dry Tortuga • Eleuthera • Gibara • Navassa • Punta Guarico • Serranilla ) • Haiti ( Île à Vache • Tortuga ) • Isla Providencia • Jamaica ( Long Bay • Kingston • Observatory • Port Royal ) • Misteriosa • Mystery Island • New Bone • North Carolina ( Charles-Towne ) • Ocracoke • Sacrifice Island • Salt Key Bank • Salt Lagoon • Santanillas • Shipwreck sites ( Antocha wreck • The Black Trench • The Blue Hole • Devil's Eye Caverns • Kabah Ruins • La Concepcion wreck • San Ignacio wreck ) • Smuggler dens ( Ambergris Key • Anotto Bay • Jiguey • Petite Caverne • San Juan ) • Tulum Events War of the Spanish Succession • Golden Age of Piracy ( Sinking of the Treasure Fleet • Attacks on Tulum • Siege of Charles-Towne • Blockade of Nassau • Attack on Ocracoke ) Terms and concepts Abstergo Data • Achievements • Animus data fragments • Blood vials • Challenges • Crafting • Customization • Dual-wielding • Eagle Vision • Eavesdropping • Leap of Faith • Memories • Multiplayer • Outfits • Pieces of Eden ( Crystal Skulls ) • Ships ( Gunboat • Schooner • Brig • Frigate • Man O' War ) • Swimming • Treasure chests • Viewpoints Weapons and tools Bayonet • Blowpipe • Cannon • Firearm • Hidden Blade • Rope dart • Smoke bomb • Sword • Throwing knife DLC Aveline • Blackbeard's Wrath • Crusader & Florentine Pack • Death Vessel Pack • Freedom Cry • Guild of Rogues • Illustrious Pirates Pack • Kraken Ship Pack Categories Categories : Articles needing images from Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Real world video games Assassin's Creed series Languages العربية Deutsch Español Français עברית Magyar Italiano 日本語 한국어 Lietuvių Nederlands Polski Português do Brasil Русский Українська 中文 Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Horror Assassin's Creed Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Assassin's Creed Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab