Local teacher among finalists for 2020 National Teacher of the Year Skip to content NOWCAST WLWT News 5 at 11:00 Watch on Demand Menu Search Homepage Local News National News Weather Radar Politics Alerts Map Room Forecasting Our Future Editorials Get the Facts Traffic Sports High School Sports Bengals Reds FC Cincinnati Ruth Lyons Matter of Fact Very Local Investigate Health Very Cincinnati State of Addiction Entertainment Money Monday Let's Talk Cincy News We Love Upload ulocal Project CommUNITY Home Furnishings Mental Health Resources Pre-Owned Autos News Team Titan TV Guide Contact Advertise with WLWT MeTV Privacy Notice Terms of Use SUBSCRIBE TO EMAIL Weather Search Press enter to search Type to Search Search location by ZIP code ZIP Advertisement Local teacher among finalists for 2020 National Teacher of the Year Share Copy Link Copy {copyShortcut} to copy Updated: 10:38 AM EST Jan 21, 2020 WLWT Digital Staff WLWT Digital Staff Advertisement Local teacher among finalists for 2020 National Teacher of the Year Share Copy Link Copy {copyShortcut} to copy Updated: 10:38 AM EST Jan 21, 2020 WLWT Digital Staff WLWT Digital Staff A teacher at Norwood Middle School has been named one of the four finalists for the 2020 National Teacher of the Year.Leila Kubesch, who was named the 2020 Ohio Teacher of the Year, teaches Spanish and English as a second language at Norwood Middle School.The Council of Chief State School Officers announced the finalists last week, the three other teachers are from Montana, Louisiana and Kansas.Kubesch has developed community partnerships and encouraged student advocacy while also serving as an advocate for emancipated foster youth, officials with the Ohio Department of Education said. Having committed to teaching in a high-needs school, she became resourceful in securing unique opportunities for her students.Kubesch teaching method uses large-scale service-learning projects that stem from youth initiatives. The work of Kubesch’s students has landed in museums around the country and won national recognition. Kubesch has also served as an advocate for emancipated foster youth in Ohio by raising awareness of the obstacles they encounter.She has advocated in front of many audiences including politicians. NORWOOD, Ohio — A teacher at Norwood Middle School has been named one of the four finalists for the 2020 National Teacher of the Year. Leila Kubesch, who was named the 2020 Ohio Teacher of the Year, teaches Spanish and English as a second language at Norwood Middle School. Advertisement The Council of Chief State School Officers announced the finalists last week, the three other teachers are from Montana, Louisiana and Kansas. Kubesch has developed community partnerships and encouraged student advocacy while also serving as an advocate for emancipated foster youth, officials with the Ohio Department of Education said. Having committed to teaching in a high-needs school, she became resourceful in securing unique opportunities for her students. Kubesch teaching method uses large-scale service-learning projects that stem from youth initiatives. The work of Kubesch’s students has landed in museums around the country and won national recognition. Kubesch has also served as an advocate for emancipated foster youth in Ohio by raising awareness of the obstacles they encounter. She has advocated in front of many audiences including politicians. Top Picks DOGE, tariffs and executive orders: A look at President Trump's first 100 days Trump's first 100 days: Promises kept, broken, and in progress Wayfair's Way Day 2025 quietly extended — These 36 editor-vetted deals live up to the hype Major retailer extends biggest sale of the year. Here's how to maximize savings Advertisement Advertisement Loading more articles... WLWT CINCINNATI Contact Us News Team Apps & Social Email Alerts Careers Internships Advertise Digital Advertising Terms & Conditions Broadcast Terms & Conditions RSS EEO Reports Captioning Contacts Public Inspection File Public File Assistance FCC Applications News Policy Statements Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2025, Hearst Television Inc. on behalf of WLWT-TV. Privacy Notice DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices/(Opt-Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)