Godfather fans can stay in the Peachtree City, Georgia hotel where Director Francis Ford Coppola slept Log In Log In Log In ePaper Newsletters AJC  Events Help Center News Metro Atlanta Georgia News Legislature National & World News Business Quick Links ePaper Newsletters AJC Events Help Center News Metro Atlanta Georgia News National & World News Black History Month Education Inspire Atlanta Partner Content Traffic Weather Politics Politically Georgia The First 100 Days Legislature Legislative Navigator The Trump Investigations Elections Patricia Murphy Jamie Dupree Business Georgia Companies Growth & Development Jobs Climate Entertainment Industry Tech Atlanta Airport AJC Her+Story Sports Braves UGA Falcons Georgia Tech United Hawks Dream High School Sports State Sports Report AJC Super 11 Lifestyle Arts & Entertainment Food & Dining Dining Guides Wellness Things to Do Access Atlanta AJC Peachtree Road Race UATL News Entertainment Fashion Food UATL 404ward The LineUp Opinion Readers Write AJC Columnists Mike Luckovich Get Schooled Real Life with Nedra Rhone Torpy at Large Contact the AJC Editorial Board Investigations Data Journalism Dangerous Dwellings: An AJC investigation Unprotected: Senior Care Breakdown Podcasts Breakdown Politically Georgia More Daily Savings Classifieds Jobs Obituaries Politically Georgia Newsletter Photo Galleries Pulse Videos About Help Center About the Atlanta Journal-Constitution Newsroom Ethics Code Careers Archive Contact Us Contact Us Send a News Tip Advertise AJC Newsroom Our Products ePaper Newsletters All AJC Podcasts AJC Events Download iOS App Download Android App Subscription Digital Subscription Print Subscription Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Subscription Terms NIE/Newspapers in Education Follow Us © 2025 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution . All Rights Reserved. By using this website, you accept the terms of our Terms of Use , Privacy Policy , CCPA , and understand your options regarding Ad Choices . Learn about Careers at Cox Enterprises . Business Business ‘Godfather’ director Francis Ford Coppola has opened a hotel in Georgia Guests can stay where the filmmaker lived and completed the final edit of his latest film “Megalopolis” Credit: Natrice Miller/AJC Credit: Natrice Miller/AJC Views of the exterior of director Francis Ford Coppola’s All-Movie Hotel in Peachtree City shown on Thursday, July 11, 2024. (Natrice Miller/ Natrice.miller@ajc.com) By Savannah Sicurella July 11, 2024 Hollywood has come a-knocking on an old Days Inn motel in Peachtree City. Francis Ford Coppola, the prolific director behind “The Godfather” and “Apocalypse Now,” has spent the last year-and-a-half renovating the former economy lodger into a hybrid resort and post-production facility. It’s where he stayed during the filming of his latest work “Megalopolis,” his $120 million self-funded passion project that recently debuted at the Cannes Film Festival. Later this month, the rooms will be made available to the public — with a few limitations. The All-Movie Hotel, as Coppola has named it, offers 27 luxury rooms designed by the filmmaker, starting at $170 per night. Larger suites, including the one he occupied during the “Megalopolis” shoot, are $460 per night, according to a spokesperson with Coppola’s hospitality group. But the All-Movie isn’t just a hotel. It also serves as a post-production facility. The hotel offers two edit suites with laser projection and high-quality audio monitoring, two edit bays, offices, recording rooms for Automated Dialogue Replacement (ADR) and a conference room. Explore Francis Ford Coppola’s ‘Megalopolis’ with Adam Driver was shot in Georgia There is also a screening room for private viewings, reviewing dailies, editing or sound mixing, as well as a green room with a full kitchen and a wardrobe fitting room. And, well, other typical hotel amenities: a swimming pool and a gym. Georgia has become a top filming destination in the U.S., spurred by its long-running, generous and transferable tax credit that has become the state’s largest corporate incentive. Nearby Trilith Studios and other filming campuses have sprung out of the Georgia clay over the years to provide space for Hollywood productions, and a number of production-adjacent businesses have since planted roots here. But the All-Movie Hotel might be among the more unique. The All-Movie is the latest addition to the portfolio of hotels under Coppola’s hospitality group. It is also the only one in the U.S. The group maintains locations in Belize, Guatemala, Argentina and Italy. An LLC affiliated with Coppola bought the motel for $4.3 million in August 2022, according to Fayette County property deeds. The following month, the group began submitting permits to the city for renovations to the interior. Coppola concurrently worked on the renovations as he filmed “Megalopolis,” the director explains in a 10-minute long video announcing the hotel. Coppola spent decades developing the film, and sold a considerable stake in his successful wine business to use as collateral for a line of credit to finance the project. All of the film’s post-production was completed at the hotel. “When I didn’t want to think about the movie, I would think about the hotel. When I didn’t want to think about the hotel, I would think about the movie,” Coppola said during the video. Explore Trilith studios south of Atlanta engaging partners for its new live entertainment facility The hotel is on Crosstown Drive about 10 miles northeast of Trilith Studios, where much of the film was shot between November 2022 and March 2023. A Marriott-branded hotel called the Trilith Guesthouse opened at the film campus earlier this year. The All-Movie has come a long way from its humble beginnings as an economy motel. Some of the suites in the All-Movie were designed to accommodate top actors, and have the high-end furnishings to prove it. Think: vaulted ceilings, furnishings from Restoration Hardware, a kitchenette with a full-sized refrigerator, an induction stovetop and dishwasher and personal vanity spaces. There are also more economical options for the casual guest, rooms with bunk beds for families, ADA-accessible rooms and a suite celebrating Japanese filmmaking history. Guests can stay at the All-Movie if it is booked with a film crew, but this is subject to availability based on the business needs of the group. “Megalopolis” will hit theaters on Sept. 27 , having secured a distribution deal with Lionsgate months after its Cannes premiere. The film follows a visionary architect, played by Adam Driver, clashing with a corrupt mayor, played by Giancarlo Esposito, as he seeks to rebuild a futuristic metropolis after a disaster. Interested guests can contact the Family Coppola Hideaways to inquire about booking a room. The hotel will open July 25. Credit: Natrice Miller/AJC Credit: Natrice Miller/AJC About the Author Savannah Sicurella Savannah Sicurella is an entertainment business reporter with The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. More Stories Keep Reading Credit: Handout Upcoming 2025 Atlanta Film Festival has more local creative content than ever The Atlanta Film Festival from April 24 to May 4 will feature 150 films including many produced and created by Georgians, including rapper 2 Chainz. Nina and Rafi closes, Rreal Tacos owner purchases space The popular pizza restaurant Nina and Rafi will close after selling its space on the Atlanta Beltline's Eastside Trail. Summer Movie Guide 2025: Here’s what’s coming to theaters and streaming from May to August The Latest Credit: Jenni Girtman Delta moves forward with pay raises despite trade uncertainty Coca-Cola CEO says trade war dynamics ‘manageable.’ Here’s why UPS to cut 20K jobs as Amazon deal shrinks; customers face ‘uncertainty’ Featured Credit: Miguel Martinez-Jimenez/AJC After protests, lawsuits, and millions spent, Atlanta training center opens today The state-of-the-art center became a flashpoint for activists, who formed a movement called “Stop Cop City.” One protester was shot by police and dozens more face charges. A beloved Southern condiment is sandwiched between regions Ownership of Duke’s Real Mayonnaise hasn’t been so stable lately. The most recent sale was in February to Northern-based private equity firm Advent International. Antisemitic party invite raises uproar at Savannah college Jewish students at the Savannah College of Art and Design were shocked when they saw what appeared to be an antisemitic party invitation on social media. Cookie Settings