Mixed Reality – Services and Devices | Microsoft Azure Trace Id is missing Skip to main content Microsoft Azure Azure Azure Home Explore Products Popular Popular View all products (200+) Azure Virtual Machines Azure Virtual Desktop Azure DevOps Azure SQL Azure AI Services Azure AI Foundry Azure AI Content Safety Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Azure Arc​ Azure Local AI + machine learning AI + machine learning Azure Machine Learning Azure AI Services Azure AI Model Catalog Azure OpenAI Service Azure AI Language Azure AI Foundry Azure AI Vision Azure AI Search Azure Databricks Microsoft Copilot in Azure Compute Compute Azure Virtual Machines Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Linux virtual machines in Azure SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines Windows Server Azure Functions Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets Azure Spot Virtual Machines Azure Container Apps Azure Compute Fleet Containers Containers Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Azure App Service Azure Functions Azure Container Instances​ Azure Spring Apps Azure Red Hat OpenShift Azure Kubernetes Fleet Manager Azure Container Apps Azure Container Registry App Configuration Hybrid + multicloud Hybrid + multicloud Azure DevOps Azure SQL Azure Arc​ Azure Local Azure Database for PostgreSQL Microsoft Defender for Cloud Azure IoT Edge Azure Monitor Microsoft Sentinel Analytics Analytics Azure Synapse Analytics Azure Databricks Microsoft Purview Azure Data Factory Azure Machine Learning Microsoft Fabric HDInsight Azure Data Explorer Azure Data Lake Storage Azure Operator Insights Solutions Featured Featured View all solutions (40+) Azure AI Migrate to innovate in the era of AI Build and modernize intelligent apps Data analytics for AI Azure AI Infrastructure Adaptive cloud Azure networking and network security SAP on the Microsoft Cloud AI AI Azure AI Responsible AI with Azure Azure AI Infrastructure Build and modernize intelligent apps Knowledge mining Hugging Face on Azure Azure confidential computing Application development Application development Build and modernize intelligent apps Development and testing DevOps DevSecOps Serverless computing Application and Data Modernization Low-code application development on Azure Cloud migration and modernization Cloud migration and modernization Migration and modernization center Migrate to innovate in the era of AI Build and modernize intelligent apps​ .NET apps migration Development and testing SQL Server migration Windows Server on Azure Linux on Azure SAP on the Microsoft Cloud Oracle on Azure Hybrid Cloud and infrastructure Hybrid Cloud and infrastructure Hybrid and multicloud solutions Backup and disaster recovery Windows Server on Azure High-performance computing (HPC) Business-critical applications Quantum computing 5G and Space Resources Resources Reference architectures Resources for accelerating growth Azure Marketplace Azure Essentials Browse the Microsoft Business Solutions Hub Pricing How to buy How to buy Azure pricing Free Azure services Azure account Flexible purchase options Azure benefits and incentives Pricing tools and resources Pricing tools and resources Pricing calculator TCO calculator Optimize your costs FinOps on Azure Partners Find a partner Find a partner Azure Marketplace Find a partner Become a partner Become a partner Azure for Partners Azure for ISVs Join ISV Success Resources Learning Learning Get started with Azure Training and certifications Customer stories Analyst reports, white papers, and e-books Videos Learn more about cloud computing Technical resources Technical resources Documentation Get the Azure mobile app Developer resources Quickstart templates Resources for startups Community Community Developer community Students Developer stories What's new What's new Blog Events and Webinars Learn Support Contact Sales Get started with Azure Sign in More All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Teams Copilot Windows Surface Xbox Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps AI Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Skype PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop Xbox Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment Xbox Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass Xbox games PC and Windows games Movies & TV Business Business Microsoft Cloud Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Microsoft Industry Small Business Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Azure Marketplace AppSource Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Show search input No results Cancel Azure mixed reality Mixed reality for every developer and every business. Mixed reality home Mixed reality services Remote Rendering Mixed reality hardware Microsoft HoloLens 2 Mixed reality home Mixed reality services Remote Rendering Mixed reality hardware Microsoft HoloLens 2 Free account Demystifying mixed reality Mixed reality is a blend of the physical world and digital world. In mixed reality, digital information is represented by holograms—objects made of light and sound—that appear in the space around you. Through artificial intelligence, these holograms respond to commands and interact with real-world surfaces in real time for a more natural and intuitive experience. In short, mixed reality helps you bring your work and data to life when you need it, where you need it. Start building secure, collaborative mixed reality solutions today using intelligent services, best-in-class hardware, and cross-platform tools. Intelligent services Make the world your app canvas. Build applications with spatial awareness to enable 3D training, predictive equipment maintenance, design review, and more in the context of your users’ environments. Best-in-class hardware With HoloLens 2 and Azure Kinect DK, our best depth sensors and computer vision are at your fingertips, so you can build for your most critical scenarios and focus on what matters: code. Cross-platform support Engage larger audiences with documentation and support for mobile and HoloLens devices. With development tools for a broad range of platforms, you’re empowered to build your way. Trusted cloud security Step confidently into mixed reality with enterprise-grade privacy and compliance at your back. Easily spot and close down threats or gaps with built-in security tools and intelligence. "The 2D screen cannot convey a problem that's so complicated. You add augmented reality to that, and you can understand what's really happening." Paul Mihalic, Distinguished Software Architect, Bentley Systems Video container Create more helpful, relevant experiences using intelligent services Unlock what every human is an expert at—the three-dimensional, physical world around us—with Azure mixed reality services. Help people create, learn, and collaborate more effectively by capturing and surfacing digital information within the context of their work and world. Bring 3D to mobile devices, headsets, and other untethered devices. Using Azure, help ensure that your most sensitive information is protected. Experience 3D without compromise using Remote Rendering. Learn more about Remote Rendering Gain deeper spatial understanding through best-in-class hardware Gather rich data about physical environments—and the people and things in them—with advanced sensor technology. Or, put your workforce at the center of an immersive business solution with the ultimate mixed reality device. Collaborate around interactive holograms with an untethered mixed reality headset and suite of solutions built for your business. Learn more about HoloLens 2 Build for your widest audience with cross-platform support Deliver the value of mixed reality across mobile devices, headsets, PCs, and augmented reality (AR) platforms. Deliver secure, multi-user mixed reality experiences on a trusted cloud Give employees at your company direct access to mixed reality data with Azure Active Directory (AAD) . Protect data while it’s in use with Azure confidential computing . Monitor workloads and find and fix vulnerabilities with Azure Security Center . Safeguard data against ransomware with Azure Backup . Join other industry leaders in mixed reality Related products and services Experience 3D without compromise using Remote Rendering Microsoft HoloLens 2 Additional resources What is mixed reality? Documentation for mixed reality Explore the future of cloud computing Explore Azure What is Azure? Get started with Azure Global infrastructure Datacenter regions Trust your cloud Azure Essentials Customer stories Products and pricing Products Azure pricing Free Azure services Flexible purchase options FinOps on Azure Optimize your costs Solutions and support Solutions Resources for accelerating growth Solution architectures Support Azure demo and live Q&A Partners Azure Marketplace Find a partner Join ISV Success Resources Training and certifications Documentation Blog Developer resources Students Events and Webinars Analyst reports, white papers, and e-books Videos Cloud computing What is cloud computing? What is multicloud? What is machine learning? What is deep learning? What is AIaaS? What are LLMs? What are SLMs? What is RAG? English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2025 AI-powered assistant AI-powered assistant