The 93rd Academy Awards makes history | student-led since 1957 Main Menu Skip to content Front Page News Sports Art & Entertainment Opinion Ask The Diamond The 93rd Academy Awards makes history May 7, 2021 · by The Diamond Editor · in Art , Entertainment , News , Spring 2021 . · Daniel Ketchelos— Staff Writer A night surrounded by A-list actors, renowned filmmakers, and the prestigious golden Oscar filled the 93rd Academy Awards. The Academy Awards focus on honoring high-achieving filmmakers and actors for their unique performances. A total of 22 Oscars were awarded on April 25 to those who have captured the attention of those in the academy. Most notably, Nomadland received three Oscars: Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Lead Actress. The Father, Judas and the Black Messiah, Mank, Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom, and Sound of Metal all received two Academy Awards each. Best Director, awarded to Chloé Zhao for her work on Nomadland, marks a historic moment for the Academy Awards. Zhao is the second woman and first woman of color to receive an Oscar for Best Director. Zhao shares the Oscar for Best Picture with others involved in Nomadland. Also awarded to Nomadland is the Oscar for Best Lead Actress for the performance by Frances McDormand. This is her third award in that category, following her work in Fargo (1996) and Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri (2017). McDormand also shares the Best Picture award with others involved in Nomadland. There were many other notable awards presented at the 93rd Academy Awards. 83-year-old Anthony Hopkins received Best Actor for his role as Anthony in The Father. Hopkins is now the oldest person to receive an Oscar. Daniel Kaluuya received Best Supporting Actor for his role as Fred Hampton in Judas and the Black Messiah. Yuh-Jung Youn received the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for her role in Minari, becoming the first Korean woman to win the award. Many Academy Awards were also presented to the technical side of filmmaking. The Oscar for Best Original Screenplay was awarded to Emerald Fennel for Promising Young Woman, and Best Adapted Screenplay went to Christopher Hampton and Florian Zeller for The Father.  Disney Pixar’s Soul received two Oscars, one for Best Animated Feature and for Best Music Score, that were awarded to Trent Reznor, Atticus Ross, and Jon Batiste. Despite Mank being the most nominated film for the Oscars with 10 nominations, it only received Academy Awards for Cinematography and Production Design.  The Oscar for Best Film Editing went to Mikkel E.G. Nielsen for his work on Sound of Metal, which also received an Oscar for Best Sound Design. The Academy Award for Makeup and Hairstyling and Costume Design was awarded to Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom. Tenet received an Oscar for Best Visual Effects. Other Academy Awards presented include Best Song to Fight for You (Judas and the Black Messiah), Best Documentary Feature went to Netflix Original My Octopus Teacher, International Feature went to Denmark’s Another Round, Best Animated Short, was awarded to If Anything Happens I Love You, Best Documentary Short went to Colette, and Best Live-Action Short went to Two Distant Strangers. In recent years, the academy has been more accepting of unconventional films released through Netflix. The Square became the first Netflix original to be nominated back in 2013. For the 93rd Academy Awards, Netflix received 36 Nominations—ten of which are for Mank—and was awarded seven Oscars in 2021. This quantity of nominations has placed Netflix at the top with the most nominations for the 93rd Academy Awards. This year’s Academy Award ceremony also took a different approach to the traditional event. Many international filmmakers were not able to attend the event at Union Station in Los Angeles, so screening rooms were assembled for them in their home countries. The atmosphere of the 93rd Academy Awards strayed away from the typical glamour of a large venue in favor of a small white tablecloth setup. Select nominees could access the event hall. Overall, this leads to a much smaller and united feel to the largest event for the Motion Picture industry. For the third year, the Oscars did not have a dedicated host. Instead, an assortment of previous Academy Award winners and nominees, including Harrison Ford, Brad Pitt, Joaquin Phoenix, Laura Dern, and Angela Bassett, presented awards to nominees. A shift in presentation style also changed the atmosphere of the Academy Awards. Typical cut-and-dry broadcast television became replaced with a more stylized broadcast with a creamy film look to the entire event. This shift brought a more creative and cinematic feel to the Oscars. The 93rd Academy Awards has shifted immensely over the last few years, and hopefully, they will continually strive to create a unified event to celebrate the highest-achieving films of the past year. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Tumblr Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Like Loading... Related Post navigation ← Dordt pitcher breaks new record for single-season strikeout Shifting gears with The Falcon and The Winter Soldier → Leave a Comment or Reply Cancel reply Δ Issue Archive ’09-’10 Fall 2009 Spring 2010 ’10-’11 Fall 2010 Spring 2011 ’11-’12 Fall 2011 Spring 2012 ’12-’13 Fall 2012 Spring 2013 ’13-’14 Fall 2013 Spring 2014 ’14-’15 Fall 2014 Spring 2015 ’15-’16 Fall 2015 Spring 2016 ’16-’17 Fall 2016 Spring 2017 ’17-’18 Fall 2017 Spring 2018 ’18-’19 Fall 2018 Spring 2019 ’19-’20 Fall 2019 Spring 2020 ’20-’21 Fall 2020 Spring 2021 ’21-’22 Fall 2021 Spring 2022 Advertising Information About Us Contact Us The student-run newspaper of the Dordt University community. A bi-weekly publication founded in 1957 Follow Blog via Email Email Address: Follow Join 1,173 other subscribers Search Search Recent Posts A Closer Look at the Removal of Dordt’s Ash Trees Women’s Basketball Wins Back-to-Back National Titles New Canadian Prime Minister Faith CRC Hosts Community Worship Night Dordt and Northwestern Social Work Clubs Support Sioux Center Families in Need The Diamond Facebook The Diamond Facebook Follow me on Twitter My Tweets Blog at WordPress.com. Comment Reblog Subscribe Subscribed dordtdiamond.com Join 257 other subscribers Sign me up Already have a WordPress.com account? Log in now. dordtdiamond.com Subscribe Subscribed Sign up Log in Copy shortlink Report this content View post in Reader Manage subscriptions Collapse this bar Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website %d