Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers FAQ | Support | Nintendo UK Overview Orders Address book Nintendo Account details {{pageTitle}} , {{gameSystem}} Starting from: {{regularPrice}} {{lowestPrice}} Search Wish List Sign In × Close How about... All Nintendo Switch games All Nintendo Switch games on sale All Nintendo 3DS games All Super Mario games All The Legend of Zelda games All Pokémon games × Visit us on Facebook Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem X @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons YouTube NintendoUK Instagram NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope Twitch NintendoUK LinkedIn Visit us on LinkedIn Games Previous Games Overview Nintendo Switch 2 games Nintendo Switch games Recent releases Upcoming games Demos Free-to-start games DLC Smart device games Nintendo 3DS games Wii U games Characters hub Hardware Previous Hardware Nintendo Switch 2 Overview Features GameChat GameShare Nintendo Switch 2 games Nintendo Switch 2 accessories Nintendo Switch 2 bundles Transferring from Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Family Overview Nintendo Switch – OLED Model Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Lite Which Nintendo Switch is right for you? Nintendo Sound Clock: Alarmo Game & Watch: The Legend of Zelda amiibo Nintendo 3DS Family Nintendo History Nintendo Switch Online Previous Nintendo Switch Online Overview What's included? Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack Classic games Exclusive benefits Nintendo Music Nintendo eShop My Nintendo Store Support News Previous News Overview Nintendo Direct Indie World Ask the Developer Creator's Voice Tips and tricks Events Stay in touch ... Misc. Previous Misc. My Nintendo Career Sitemap Welcome to Nintendo Support Get support for your Nintendo systems, software and services Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers FAQ General Information What are Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers? Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers are a special offer available to Nintendo Switch Online members that can be purchased in a set of two. Each individual voucher can be redeemed for a selected Nintendo Switch digital software title, presenting the opportunity to save on two games. Click here to view current and future eligible titles. Who is eligible to purchase and redeem Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers? Users with an active, paid Nintendo Switch Online membership (individual or family) are eligible to purchase and redeem vouchers. If your Nintendo Switch Online membership ends before you redeem a voucher, you will still be able to use the voucher as long as you begin a new membership before the voucher expires. What does a set of Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers cost? Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers are sold in sets of two vouchers. Current prices can be checked via the Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers section of your Nintendo Account page, under Online Services. Which countries are eligible for this offer? The offer is available in the following countries: Austria Belgium Bulgaria Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Germany Denmark Estonia Spain Finland France Greece Hungary Ireland Italy Lithuania Luxembourg Latvia Malta Norway Poland Portugal Romania Sweden Switzerland Slovenia Slovakia South Africa The Netherlands UK Vouchers can only be redeemed for titles in the same region that they were purchased in. Is there a limit to the number of Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers I can purchase? Yes. You cannot have more than eight active vouchers at a time. If you currently have eight active vouchers, you'll be able to purchase another set after using two vouchers. Do Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers expire? Unused vouchers expire one year (365 days) after the date of purchase. Please redeem your vouchers before they expire. How can I check how many vouchers I have remaining and what their expiry dates are? You can see your available, unused Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers in the Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers section of your Nintendo Account page, under Online Services, where each individual voucher will be listed along with its expiry date. How to check voucher status on Nintendo Switch Your vouchers and their expiry dates can also be found using your Nintendo Switch console: Launch Nintendo eShop from the HOME Menu with the Nintendo Account that was used to purchase the vouchers. Select your u ser icon in the top-right corner. Select Nintendo Switch Online in the left-hand menu. Scroll down to the Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers section. Each individual voucher will be listed along with its expiry date. How can I check my Nintendo Switch Game Voucher purchase and redemption history? You can see the voucher sets you have purchased and how your vouchers have been redeemed from the Purchase History menu on accounts.nintendo.com. Are Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers purchased before 25 March 2025 eligible for My Nintendo Gold Points? Yes. If you purchased a set of Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers before 25 March 2025, you received Gold Points for the purchase. You will not receive additional Gold Points when you redeem a voucher for a game. When you redeem vouchers, you may be eligible for My Nintendo promotions. Review the promotion details for more information. Can I get a refund for a Nintendo Switch Game Voucher? Except as authorised by Nintendo or as required by applicable law, vouchers cannot be refunded or exchanged for any other item, including after they have expired. Purchasing Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers When did Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers become available for purchase? Sets of two Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers became available for purchase starting on 16 May 2019. They can be redeemed within a year from the date of purchase. How do I purchase Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers? Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers can be purchased in sets of two in Nintendo eShop for Nintendo Switch or on the official Nintendo website . For more information, please read How to Purchase Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers . Can I give Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers to a friend? No. Vouchers can only be redeemed by the same Nintendo Account that was used to purchase them. Redeeming Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers Regarding Nintendo Switch 2 exclusive games Please note that Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers cannot be redeemed for Nintendo Switch 2 exclusive games. Do I need a Nintendo Switch Online membership to redeem a Nintendo Switch Game Voucher? Yes. You must be part of an active, paid individual or family membership to redeem a voucher. If your membership ends while you have an unused voucher, you can still use the voucher after you begin a new Nintendo Switch Online membership and before the voucher expires. The voucher expiry date will not be extended for the time you do not have an active membership. Any game redeemed with a voucher will be available to the Nintendo Account that redeemed the voucher regardless of the user's Nintendo Switch Online membership status. How do I redeem a Nintendo Switch Game Voucher? Vouchers can be redeemed in Nintendo eShop for Nintendo Switch or through the Nintendo website. For detailed steps, please read How to Redeem a Nintendo Switch Game Voucher . Which games are eligible to purchase with a Nintendo Switch Game Voucher? You can view the list of current and future games available to be redeemed with a voucher either in Nintendo eShop using your Nintendo Switch console or by visiting the appropriate page on the Nintendo website. How to check eligible titles on Nintendo Switch Launch Nintendo eShop from the HOME Menu. Select Nintendo Switch Online in the left-hand menu. Scroll down and select Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers . Select View List of Software Available via Voucher to view the list of current and future eligible games. A future eligible title can be redeemed with a voucher after it is made available for pre-order. How to check eligible titles online Click here to view current eligible titles. Can I redeem a Nintendo Switch Game Voucher for an unreleased (pre-order) title? Eligible upcoming titles can be pre-ordered using a voucher. You can view the current list of eligible titles on Nintendo eShop. Note: A voucher cannot be used for a pre-order if it expires before the release date for the product. Will there be more games added to the list of eligible titles that can be redeemed with a Nintendo Switch Game Voucher? Yes. As new eligible games are released or made available for pre-order, they will be added to the list of games available to be redeemed with a voucher. Games that will be eligible to redeem with a voucher at a later date will also be presented in this list. Do I need to redeem both Nintendo Switch Game Vouchers in a set at the same time? No. Each voucher can be redeemed independently for a single game title. Search Support Search UK & Ireland Change country België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera UK & Ireland South Africa See all regions België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera South Africa UK & Ireland See all regions Parents & Parental Controls Support Company Information Career Website Privacy Policy Cookie settings Legal information Service Termination CSR Modern Slavery Transparency Statement Contact © Nintendo. 2025 × Change country België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera UK & Ireland South Africa × Attention! You are about to leave the Nintendo of Europe site. Nintendo of Europe is not responsible for the content or security of the site you are about to visit. Cancel Continue × Survey Dear visitor, Thank you for visiting the Nintendo website! You have been randomly chosen to take part in a brief survey. By taking a few minutes to share your thoughts and opinions, you will be helping us to improve our website. Naturally, any information provided by you in this survey will be treated in confidence. Your Nintendo of Europe Team Decline invitation Take the survey × Facebook Visit us on Facebook: Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem × X @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons × YouTube NintendoUK × Instagram Join us on Instagram: NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope × Twitch Visit us on Twitch: NintendoUK × LinkedIn Visit us on LinkedIn ×