Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/patientgamers A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to patientgamers r/patientgamers r/patientgamers A gaming sub free from the news, hype and drama that surround current releases, catering instead to gamers who wait at least 12 months after release to play a game. Whether it's price, waiting for bugs/issues to be patched, DLC to be released, don't meet the system requirements, or just haven't had the time to keep up with the latest releases. Members Online • IAmThePonch Ocarina of time master quest was an interesting experience Unlike other hero modes in recent Zelda games where you simply take more damage, master quest in oot actually changes the levels. You progress through dungeons largely the same way, as in the structure will take you to the same spots, but the rooms often feature new challenges, often times hidden ones that left me scratching my head. I love how it made the dungeons of oot, I game I’ve beaten 7 or 8 times, feel fresh and new again. I suddenly had to be super observant in places I took for granted before. The mirrored over world, while hardly as impactful, still at least made me stop and thinking about the direction I was going during the early parts of the game. To the best of my knowledge the only other game that has a true hard mode that remixes levels is the first game and while I did enjoy the hell out of this OOT run, I will say that the developers fell back on old NES tropes of making things difficult to figure out without help. For instance, the game loves throwing switches hidden behind walls that you need to use the spin attack for, or making seemingly normal looking wall textures something you need to slingshot in order to progress. It wasn’t often these obtuse solutions required themsleves but the times it did did live me a bit soured. There’s a fine line between challenging and frustrating and sometimes master quest was a bit too obscure for my tastes. Still, ocarina of time is a classic and the master quest mode is a fantastic way to experience it if you know the normal mode like the back of your hand. I really wish modern games would remix their levels but I also know that that would be difficult to develop in todays day and age. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 25, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics