The Biggest Winners and Losers From the 2019 Tour de France Search Subscribe My Bookmarks Tour de France Shop Bikes and Gear Mountain Bikes Culture Training Skills and Tips Health and Nutrition News Racing Repair Rides Newsletter Follow Other Editions Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content Master the Century Bikes - Gear Health - Nutrition Training Member-Only Stories Subscribe sign in Search Prep for a Century Ride How to Warm Up Ride Strong at 50+ Best Bike Computers Best Commuter Bikes Tour de France 2024 Tour de France The Biggest Winners and Losers From the 2019 Tour de France The Biggest Winners and Losers From the 2019 Tour de France The riders and teams who had the best—and worst—showings this year. By Whit Yost Published: Jul 30, 2019 8:51 AM EDT Save Article Pool // Getty Images On Sunday, Team Ineos’s Egan Bernal became the third-youngest rider in history, and the first Colombian, to win the Tour de France. But the 22-year-old wasn’t the only one to have a fantastic Tour. With the 2019 race in the books, we’re going to channel our inner Burt Reynolds and play a version of the popular late-’80s game show Win, Lose, or Draw. Here, we’ll give kudos to those riders and teams who stood out from the field—and try to figure out what kept some of the Tour’s bigger names from making a dent in 2019. Winners Colombia After decades of trying, a Colombian has finally won the Tour de France, giving this long-starved cycling powerhouse its first victory in the world’s most prestigious bike race. Yes, it came in a Tour without Chris Froome and Tom Dumoulin, two pre-race favorites who didn’t participate because of prior crashes, but that doesn’t matter in the history books. Picking up the baton from riders like Lucho Herrera, Nairo Quintana, and Rigoberto Urán, Bernal is now a national hero after claiming the yellow jersey . And at only 22, he looks capable of winning several more. Related Stories 13 Amazing Moments of the 2019 Tour de France Tour de France 2019: Jersey Winners Julian Alaphilippe In addition to Bernal, the 2019 Tour produced another national hero: Deceuninck–Quick Step’s Julian Alaphilippe. Even in defeat, the Frenchman dominated this year’s Tour, animating the race from start to finish by winning two stages and wearing yellow for 14 days total before finally cracking in the Alps . His aggression, perseverance, and panache (in true French fashion) will never be forgotten. He’s probably the rider non-Colombians will remember most when they think of the 2019 Tour de France. View full post on Instagram Dave Brailsford He’s the man many love to hate as general manager of Ineos ( formerly Team Sky ), but in winning seven of the last eight Tours de France—with four different riders—Brailsford has pulled off quite an amazing achievement. Especially impressive is the way he’s managed competing ambitions during those years when the team entered the race with two overall contenders: Bradley Wiggins and Chris Froome in 2012, Froome and Geraint Thomas in 2018, and Thomas and Bernal this year. But his toughest challenge may still come yet. With Bernal, Froome, and Thomas all under contract for 2020, Brailsford will have his hands full balancing the hopes of three Tour champions next year. Jumbo–Visma Jumbo had a fantastic Tour, winning four stages and putting Steven Kruijswijk on the final podium in third place. The Dutch outfit got off to a fantastic start, with Mike Teunissen winning Stage 1 and the team taking Stage 2’s TTT, which it won comfortably over Ineos. Dylan Groenewegen and Wout van Aert each won stages before the first rest day, at which point the focus switched to Kruijswijk’s overall ambitions. Here’s where the team really turned heads, with George Bennett and Laurens De Plus leading Kruijswijk through the mountains in a way we’re only used to seeing from Ineos. No other team put in a more well-rounded performance. And if its rumored signing of Tom Dumoulin comes true, we might be looking at the squad capable of de-throning Ineos in 2020. Tim de Waele // Getty Images Jumbo–Visma controlled much of the race, setting the pace, winning stages, and eventually putting Steven Kruijswijk on the podium. Mitchelton–Scott Good teams know when and how to change course when things don’t go as hoped. Take Mitchelton–Scott. The Australian outfit wanted to put Adam Yates on the podium in Paris, but those plans went up in smoke when the Briton lost two minutes during Stage 13’s ITT and another six on the Col du Tourmalet the next day. So the team shifted focus, giving everyone the green light to hunt for stage wins. As a result, it added three more to its résumé, starting with Daryl Impey on Stage 9. Simon Yates (Adam’s twin brother) won stages 12 and 15, and Matteo Trentin won another in Gap on Stage 17. Four victories is a nice tally for any team, especially one that came to the Tour with different goals. Lotto–Soudal Belgium’s Lotto–Soudal also took four stages, thanks mostly to Caleb Ewan wining three times, including on the final stage on the Champs-Élysées . Frustrated after Mitchelton–Scott passed him over for its Tour squad last year, Ewan transferred to Lotto with the promise of headlining at the race. And with more stage wins than any other rider this year, he justified that investment. (At only 25 years old, the Australian also looks to be the foundation of the team’s Tour plans for years to come.) Besides Ewan, Thomas de Gendt won Stage 8 in dramatic fashion, and Tim Wellens wore the polka dot jersey for 15 stages. In a Tour where its Belgian rival Deceuninck–Quick Step threatened to overshadow the team, Lotto–Soudal more than held its own. View full post on Instagram Peter Sagan And of course, BORA-hansgrohe’s Peter Sagan quietly won his seventh green jersey in eight Tours raced, a new record. In all, the Slovak scored nine top-five stage finishes, including his victory on Stage 5 in Colmar . At only 29 years old, he’ll still have many more chances to put his new record well out of the reach of any potential challengers. Losers Geraint Thomas and Chris Froome You can imagine how Thomas and Froome felt watching Bernal win, given how easily Ineos will jettison the chances of a defending Tour champion in favor of the team’s hottest hand. Bradley Wiggins won the Tour in 2012, but wasn’t even selected to return and defend his title in 2013. Froome won it four times, yet still found himself co-leading with Thomas in 2018. And Thomas, the 2018 champ, shared team leadership with Bernal this year. Thomas and Froome will be 34 and 35 at the start of the next year’s race, well past the age at which most Tours are won. Will someone as savvy as Brailsford spend two roster spots on these aging stars in 2020? It’s hard to believe. View full post on Instagram Thibaut Pinot For the second time in two years, Pinot went from the verge of Grand Tour podium finish to an early departure. After winning Stage 14 atop the Tourmalet and finishing second one day later on the Prat d’Albis, the Frenchman looked like the strongest rider in the race and the man most likely to win his country its first Tour since 1985. But then came his sudden abandonment on Stage 19 , which caught everyone except his teammates and staff completely by surprise. Pinot has always been a fragile rider, with a career where every highlight is balanced out by an equally impressive collapse. After coming so close to glory only to end the Tour weeping in his team car, we wonder the extent to which he’ll manage to recover. Egan Bernal's Stage 19 Gear Lightweight Meilenstein Obermayer Schwarz Wheelset For when price doesn't matter and performance is all that counts. Buy Now Courtesy of R&A Cycles Dura-Ace FC-9100 Power Meter Team Ineos trusts Shimano power meters to measure their marginal gains. Buy Now Courtesy of Competitive Cyclist Oakley Sutro For when you want a lens the size of a windshield. Buy Now Trevor Raab Kask Valegro Helmet For maximum ventilation on long mountain stages. Buy Now Courtesy of Competitive Cyclist UAE Team Emirates and Katusha–Alpecin These teams have two of the largest budgets in cycling, so to come away without a stage win or high overall finish is quite a disappointment. UAE entered the Tour with Alexander Kristoff, Dan Martin, Fabio Aru, and Rui Costa, men who have collectively won nine stages throughout their careers. Yet all four looked a step below what we’ve seen from them in the past. (In fairness, this was Aru’s first Grand Tour since having surgery in his leg this spring.) Just prior to the Tour, Katusha had an awkward split with sprinter Marcel Kittel and spent more time answering questions about its future than scoring high finishes. Some say Ineos has an unfair advantage due to the size of its budget. That may be true, but these two teams are proof that money isn’t always everything. Richie Porte The Australian crashed out of both the 2017 and 2018 Tours, making him one of the unluckiest overall contenders. The good news is that he made it through this year’s event; the bad news is that he wasn’t much of a contender. Porte finished 11th overall, with only one top-10 stage finish. He’ll be 35 next year, well past his Tour prime, meaning it’s time for him to consider turning his focus away from three-week races and toward week-long competitions like Paris–Nice, a race he’s won in the past. Team Cofidis Egan Bernal was 11 years old the last time Cofidis won a stage at the Tour de France. We’ll leave it at that. Tim de Waele // Getty Images Tim Wellens, in polka dots, on Stage 18, just before he lost the climber’s jersey to Romain Bardet. The King of the Mountains Competition We don’t know how to fix it, but something needs to change about the Tour’s King of the Mountains classification. This year’s contest felt like an afterthought, with Tim Wellens spending 15 days in polka dots despite never contending for a stage win and getting dropped on all the major summits. Bardet, who spent much of the Tour off the back, took the jersey after one good day in the mountains (Stage 18), then barely defended it on stages 19 and 20. He’s lucky both days were shortened, or he would have certainly lost the jersey to someone else. What can be done? Cutting the number of lesser categorized climbs and upping the points offered on higher passes and summit finishes is a good place to start. Here’s hoping the Tour can figure out a way to return this competition to its former glory. Related Stories 13 Amazing Moments of the 2019 Tour de France Egan Bernal Wins the 2019 Tour de France The Fastest Bikes of the Tour de France We’ll Call It a Draw Christian Prudhomme After 18 stages, it looked as though Tour director Christian Prudhomme (and head course designer Thierry Gouvenou) had created a race for the ages, with a course that produced a French revelation, a tightly packed group of overall contenders, and exciting stages almost every day.  But then came Stage 19 , which started with Pinot quitting the Tour, followed by Alaphilippe losing the yellow jersey and then the awkward cancellation of the rest of the stage, just as things appeared ready to ignite. The next stage was shortened as well , effectively strangling the finale of one of the closest and most wide-open Tours we’ve seen in years. Prudhomme can’t be blamed for what happened; he had nothing to do with Pinot’s problems and certainly can’t change the weather. But he will forever rue the missed opportunity the 2019 Tour provided. Watch Next Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 2024 Tour de France How Long Is the Tour de France Femmes? How Long Is the Tour de France? Here's Who's Going to Win the 2022 Tour de France Here's Who's Going to Win the 2021 Tour de France Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 7 North American Riders Take on the Tour de France What We Love About This Year’s Epic Route A Look at the 2020 Tour de France Route What’s It Like to Shoot a Grand Tour? Tour de France: Stage 21 Preview Tour de France: Stage 20 Preview Tour de France: Stage 15 Preview Tour de France: Stage 14 Preview Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Bicycling Membership Perks Newsletter Press Room About Bicycling Subscribe Writer Guidelines Customer Service Community Guidelines Advertise Online Other Hearst Subscriptions A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Magazines Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads