Apple Confirms Date For Biggest Event Of 2019: The iPhone 11 Launch Subscribe To Newsletters Trump Tracker Billionaires Billionaires View All Billionaires World's Billionaires Forbes 400 America's Richest Self-Made Women China's Richest India's Richest Indonesia's Richest Korea's Richest Thailand's Richest Japan's Richest Australia's Richest Taiwan's Richest Singapore's Richest Philippines' Richest Hong Kong's Richest Malaysia's Richest Money & Politics 2024 Election Innovation Innovation View All Innovation AI Big Data Cloud Cloud 100 Consumer Tech Creator Economy Cybersecurity Digital Transformation Enterprise Commerce Enterprise Security and Protection Enterprise Tech Enterprise Growth Strategy Future Of Work Gaming Healthcare Innovation Rules Retail Industry SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Science Social Media Sustainability & Climate Transportation Venture Capital Technology VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program TikTok BrandVoice | Paid Program Leadership Leadership View All Leadership C-Suite CEO Network CFO Network CHRO Network CIO Network CMO Network Leadership Strategies Careers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Education Forbes EQ | Paid Program ForbesBLK ForbesWomen Under 30 Working Remote Over 50 Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Money Money View All Money Banking & Insurance ETFs & Mutual Funds Fintech Hedge Funds & Private Equity Investing Investor Hub Markets Personal Finance Retirement Taxes Top Advisor | SHOOK Wealth Management Forbes Digital Assets Forbes Digital Assets Home Web3 Community News Crypto Prices NFT Prices Research Learn Crypto Basics BTC DeFi Web3 Education NFTs Crypto Investments Events Crypto Portfolios Business Business View All Business Aerospace & Defense Energy Food & Drink Hollywood & Entertainment Law Manufacturing Media Policy Retail SportsMoney Entertainment Digest Small Business Small Business View All Small Business Entrepreneurs Franchises Small Business Strategy Lifestyle Lifestyle View All Lifestyle Arts Boats & Planes Cars & Bikes Dining ForbesLife Forbes Travel Guide Spirits Style & Beauty Travel Vices Watches Real Estate Real Estate View All Real Estate Commercial Real Estate Forbes Global Properties Residential Real Estate Forbes Vetted Forbes Vetted View All Forbes Vetted Mattress & Sleep Bed Frames Mattresses Mattress Toppers Pillows Sheets & Bedding Sleep Products Home Bathroom Cleaning & Laundry Decor Furniture Heating & Cooling Hobbies Home Office Kitchen & Dining Outdoor Pets Storage & Organization Tools Wine & Bar Fashion Accessories Clothing Eyewear Footwear Jewelry Handbags & Purses Lingerie & Sleepwear Outdoor & Fitness Apparel Outerwear Watches Kids & Baby Gear Baby Gear Kids Clothes & Accessories Nursery Pregnancy & Postpartum Toys & Books Gear Apparel & Accessories Bikes Camping & Hiking Climbing Fishing & Hunting Fitness Golf Running Tennis & Racket Sports Tools & Tech Training & Recovery Water Sports Wellness Winter Sports Beauty & Grooming Haircare Makeup Nailcare Shaving Skincare Personal Products Wellness & Self Care Tech & Electronics Audio Cameras Computers, Tablets & Accessories Gaming Home Office Online Tools Smart Home Devices Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories Streaming TVs Travel Cruises Hotels & Lodging Luggage Travel Products Gifts Father's Day Holiday Mother's Day Valentine's Day Wedding Deals Black Friday Cyber Monday Amazon Prime Day Beauty & Grooming Big Sales Fashion Gear Home Tech & Electronics Travel Deals Mattress & Sleep Forbes 101 Advisor Advisor Best Credit Cards Of 2025 Compare Credit Cards Balance Transfer Credit Cards Cash Back Credit Cards Travel Credit Cards Business Credit Cards Mortgages & Loans Best Mortgage Lenders Today's Mortgage Rates Today's Refinance Rates Best Personal Loans Loans For Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Student Loan Lenders Best Student Loan Refinance Lenders Business Loans Banking Best Online Banks CD Rates High-Yield Savings Accounts Money Market Account Life Insurance Cheap Life Insurance No Exam Life Insurance Travel Insurance Covid-19 Travel Insurance Cheap Travel Insurance Companies Best Car Insurance Compare Car Insurance Quotes Cost Of Car Insurance Cheap Car Insurance Pet Insurance How Much Is Pet Insurance? Cheap Pet Insurance Business Services Best LLC Services Best Registered Agent Services How To Set Up An LLC How To Start A Business Cost To Start An LLC Best Payroll Services Best HR Software Best HRIS Systems Best PEO Services Best Applicant Tracking Systems Best Website Builders Best Web Hosting Services Best Domain Registrar Best Ecommerce Platform Best Landing Page Builder Best VoIP Service What Is VoIP? Best Answering Services Best Call Center Software Best Cloud Phone System Best Project Management Software Free Project Management Software Best Task Management Software Free Task Management Software Best Gantt Chart Software Best VPN Best Free VPN Best Cheap VPN Best Antivirus Software Best Password Managers Home Services Best Moving Companies Best Long Distance Moving Companies Best Car Shipping Companies Best Interstate Moving Companies How Much Do Movers Cost? Best Home Warranty Companies Cheapest Home Warranty Companies Are Home Warranties Worth It? Home Warranty Cost Best Home Appliance Insurance Best Solar Companies Best Solar Panels Cost Of Solar Panels Solar Tax Credit By State Are Solar Panels Worth It? Best Pest Control Companies Best Termite Control Companies Best Mosquito Control Companies Pest Control Cost How Much Do Exterminators Cost? Best Home Security Companies Best Home Security Systems Home Security System Cost Cheapest Home Security Systems Best Wireless Home Security Systems Best Internet Providers Cheapest Internet Plans Fastest High Speed Internet Providers Best Internet Only Plans Best Fiber Internet Providers Forbes Advisor UK Health Health Healthy Aging Best Medical Alert Systems Medicare Medicare Advantage Plans Medicare Supplement Plans Medicare Advantage By State Health Insurance Hearing Aids Best Hearing Aids Senior Living Mind Best Online Therapy Best CBD Gummies Best CBD Oil Best Protein Powders Lists Video Newsletters Newsletters Crypto Confidential Editorial Newsletters Forbes Games Forbes Games View All Forbes Games Frase by Forbes Pinpoint by LinkedIn Queens by LinkedIn Crossclimb by LinkedIn Forbes Magazine Forbes Magazine Forbes Asia Free Issue of Forbes Latest Latest Coronavirus Coverage Daily Cover Stories Dark Capital Editors' Picks Breaking News Featured Featured 2025 Best-In-State Wealth Advisors List 2025 America's Top Women Wealth Advisors AI’s Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It DNA of Success Embracing And Bracing For AI Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program Your Four-Part Blueprint To Unlock AI Value In 2025 | Paid Program Diners Club International Celebrates 75 Years | Paid Program Leadership Lessons: Small Business Playbook Potential Has No Age Summit | Paid Program Celebrating The Power Of Partnership: Why Teamwork Is Key In the Fight Against Cancer | Paid Program Protecting What Matters Most: How Gerber Life Insurance Offers Affordable Coverage For Your Whole Family | Paid Program Presented by EY - Beyond The Blueprint: How These Four CEOs Built Billion-Dollar Businesses | Paid Program 2/3 By 2030: Philip Morris International Marks A Milestone  And Aims For A Smoke-Free Future | Paid Program 2025 America's Top Wealth Advisors Forbes Insights: Your Guide To Marketing In The Era Of AI | Paid Program The Undergrad's New Journey To Real-World Ready | Paid Program Forbes Insights: Your Five-Step Strategy To Unleash AI’s Value In Marketing | Paid Program Forbes Video Series: AI 50 AI 50 List By The Numbers: Meet The Forbes 30 Under 30 Europe Class Of 2025 United To End Blood Cancer: Meet The Leaders Turning Passion Into Progress | Paid Program Advertise with Forbes Report a Security Issue Editorial Values and Standards Site Feedback Contact Us Careers at Forbes Tips Corrections Privacy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms AdChoices Reprints & Permissions © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. Subscribe To Newsletters Apple Confirms Date For Biggest Event Of 2019: The iPhone 11 Launch By David Phelan Follow Author Share Save Innovation Consumer Tech Apple Confirms Date For Biggest Event Of 2019: The iPhone 11 Launch By David Phelan , Senior Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. I write about lifestyle tech Follow Author Aug 29, 2019, 12:05pm EDT Share Save This article is more than 5 years old. Apple has just confirmed that it will hold a keynote event on Tuesday, September 10 – the date predicted here on Forbes . The invitation to Apple's September 10 event. Apple This is Apple’s biggest event of the year by some distance, with numerous announcements expected. Three iPhones, for sure, but also a new Apple Watch. Some have suggested that the Watch to be revealed will be a newly finished Series 4 as revealed in upcoming iPhone software . You can read an analysis of whether that’s true or false, here . Forbes Will Apple Release An Apple Watch Series 5 This Year? Here's The Answer By David Phelan So, what do we know, what do we expect and, oh yes, what does that mysterious invite import? Date, time and place Tuesday, September 10 MORE FOR YOU NYT ‘Strands’ Today: Hints, Spangram And Answers For Wednesday, April 30th Microsoft Confirms $1.50 Windows Security Update Hotpatch Fee Starts July 1 Microsoft Confirms Password Spraying Attack — What You Need To Know Apple slightly prefers a Wednesday launch to a Tuesday, historically, but has always been scrupulous at avoiding September 11 to avoid clashing with the memorial events taking place that day. 10AM Pacific No surprise there – Apple routinely begins its keynotes at 10AM local time, whether it’s in California, New York or Chicago, for instance. Steve Jobs Theater When you have one of the most beautifully designed theaters in the world (and I’ve been to a few, I can tell you) why wouldn’t you use it? After all, it was custom-built for the company and is both spectacular and intimate – the furthest seat in the 1,000 seater is not more than 95 feet from the onstage presenter. Forbes Apple Reveals 20 Of 59 Great New Emoji Including One You're Going To Use Non-Stop By David Phelan Why announce now? Conventionally, Apple announces its September shindig at the exact moment that the big electronics show IFA is about to open in Berlin. That’s not until the end of next week, so today’s announcement has taken some Apple-watchers by surprise. In fact, the answer is straightforward: there’s usually a week’s gap between IFA and the Apple event, so today’s invites have gone out 12 days before the event. Last year’s went out 11 days before, Apple is completely on its usual timetable, it turns out. What does the invite tell us? The Apple invite for September 2017 that led to the iPhone X reveal Apple Apple invites usually drop a clue or two – often so subtle that it’s when you look back after the event that you see what they were hinting at. Two years ago, this meant an invite suggesting, "Let's meet at our place" referring to the fact that it was the first keynote held at the brand-new Steve Jobs Theater. Note also that the coloring exactly matches one of the wallpapers that Apple introduced on the iPhone X. The 2018 invite in fetching gold. Apple Last year’s exhortation to “Gather round” was less clear except, look closely and you’ll see an elegant gold color infuses the invite. Right before the golden-colored iPhone XS and Apple Watch were revealed! This year's invite is intriguing. Note that the green at the top of the logo is not the color found in the classic Apple logo. There are rumors of a matte green iPhone. Maybe this is it. And the base of the logo looks like lavender - another color rumored to be coming and not seen on the classic Apple logo. Lavender has never been in the Apple logo. Purple, yes, but this is different. What are we expecting? Quite a lot, actually, so the keynote may be as long as it was at this year's WWDC – two hours plus. There’ll be a recap of the new features coming in iOS 13, likely to be released in the day or so following the keynote. There’ll be the updates for watchOS, tied to the new hardware. And there’ll be more detail on the upcoming macOS Catalina software. I’m not expecting any mention of the rumored MacBook Pro 16in, though, that will come later. The big event, as always, will be the new iPhones, with two successors to the iPhone XS and XS Max, possibly called iPhone Pro and iPhone Pro Max. There may be a number eleven in there, too. Plus, a replacement for the iPhone XR, perhaps simply called iPhone 11 (or XI, at a push, though I don’t think so). And don’t rule out the possibility of new AirPods. I know, the last model only appeared in March this year but it was held back, I think, because of the AirPower charging pad. When that was canceled, the AirPods appeared. So it may be that a sooner-than-expected update could be announced. Not long to wait now. __________ Follow me on Instagram by clicking here: davidphelantech and Twitter: @davidphelan2009 More on Forbes Will Apple Release An Apple Watch Series 5 This Year? Here's The Answer Apple Releases iOS 12.4.1, To Address Shock Security Flaw: Here’s All You Need To Know The Best Cameraphone Of 2019: 7 Contenders, From Apple iPhone XS To OnePlus 7 Pro, 1 Winner Apple Accidentally Reveals Stunning Apple Watch Series 5 Upgrade iPhone 11: Things Nobody Has Told You About When Apple Will Reveal Its 2019 iPhones Apple Confirms Striking New iPads Due This Fall Apple Unveils 20 Of 59 New Emoji For World Emoji Day, Including One You’re Going To Use Non-Stop Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn . Editorial Standards Forbes Accolades LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Digital Terms of Sale Terms of Service Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Reprints & Permissions Forbes Press Room Advertise