YouTube Ad Revenue Climbs 10%, Helping Alphabet Q1 Results Beat Wall Street Estimates Skip to main content Open Mega Menu Got A Tip? deadline-logo-svg Deadline Follow Us: site categories TV Film Awards Awards Hub Digital Issues Box Office Biz International Politics Theater Reviews Obits Video Events Contenders Television Film: Nominees Film: Documentary Film: International Film: Los Angeles Film: London Sound & Screen Film Television Other For The Love Of Docs Visual Effects + Screen Festivals North America Sundance Toronto Telluride SXSW Tribeca Europe Cannes Zurich Venice Berlin/EFM Middle East Red Sea Asia Tokyo Insider News Alerts Menu deadline-logo-svg Deadline Read Next: Casting Society Warns Actors & Fellow Casting Pros About Online Scams That Offer Auditions In Exchange For Money Got A Tip? Tip Us Home Business News YouTube Ad Revenue Climbs 10%, Helping Alphabet Q1 Results Beat Wall Street Estimates By Dade Hayes Dade Hayes Business Editor @dadehayes More Stories By Dade Donald Trump’s “Strong Stand” With Tariffs Draws Praise From Charter CEO Chris Winfrey: “Trade Imbalances Are By Definition Unfair” Netflix Tweaks Subtitles For Its Originals, Adding Option Of Dialogue Text Only Without Other Audio Cues YouTube Ad Revenue Climbs 10%, Helping Alphabet Q1 Results Beat Wall Street Estimates View All April 24, 2025 1:16pm 1 Comments Services to share this page. Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Email Show more sharing options Share on LinkedIn Pin it Submit to Reddit Post to Tumblr Share on WhatsApp Print This Page The Google campus in Mountain View, CA. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images Alphabet handily beat Wall Street analysts’ estimates for earnings per share in the first quarter and also topped revenue expectations thanks in part to YouTube advertising. The tech giant reported total revenue of $90.2 billion, up 12% from the year-ago period, with earnings per share of $2.81. Analysts had expected revenue of $89.15 billion and earnings per share of $2.01. Shares in Alphabet surged 5% in after-hours trading on the quarterly numbers, after an increase of 2% during the regular trading day. Related Stories Executives "Not Yet Any Impact" From Trump Tariffs, Comcast Says; Theme Park Bookings Steady Ahead Of Epic Universe Debut News Comcast Blunt On Steep Broadband Losses; Brian Roberts Says "Customer Pain Points" Being Addressed But Will Take Several Quarters YouTube ad revenue climbed 10% to $8.9 billion. The video giant has been gaining as cord-cutting erodes traditional linear networks. With its YouTube TV service now one of the top pay-TV operators in the U.S. and increasing numbers of podcasts and other programming being viewed on TV sets instead of mobile, YouTube is throwing significant weight around as an ad seller. The company will convene its annual Brandcast event for advertisers on May 14 in New York, having graduated a few years ago from the digital NewFronts arena to the front-line broadcast/streaming upfronts. In the earnings release for the quarter ended March 31, Alphabet reported “robust momentum” across the company. Along with YouTube ads, double-digit revenue growth was recorded by the Google Search & Other; Google Subscriptions, Platforms, and Devices; and Google Cloud businesses. Watch on Deadline CEO Sundar Pichai said YouTube and the Google One bundle propelled the number of total subscriptions across the company to 270 million. The earnings report came amid a noisy period for the tech sector, and for Alphabet in particular. A federal judge earlier this month ruled that Google’s ad tech business operated as an illegal monopoly. The remedy that will follow the decision could break up the company, or at least separate its Chrome web browser business from the rest of the portfolio. YouTube this week celebrated its 20th anniversary, announcing that 20 billion videos have been uploaded to the platform since the beginning. MORE to come … Must Read Stories Hide Articles Jesse Plemons To Play Plutarch Heavensbee In ‘Hunger Games: Sunrise On The Reaping’ ‘Revenge Of The Sith’ Rerelease Snags $3M+, ‘Accountant 2’ Counts $2.5M Tom Hanks & Apple’s ‘Greyhound’ Sequel To Begin Filming Early 2026 Casting Society Warns About Online Scams That Offer Auditions For Money Read More About: Alphabet Earnings First Quarter Earnings Google YouTube 1 Comments Subscribe to Deadline Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Sign Up 1 Comment JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Sidebar Trending on Deadline 1 "The Hitler Thing": Bill Maher Lashes Out At Larry David's Mocking Of 'Real Time' Host's Trump Dinner 2 'Hunger Games: Sunrise On The Reaping' Movie Taps Jesse Plemons To Play Plutarch Heavensbee In Lionsgate Adaptation 3 'Revenge Of The Sith' $3M+ Thursday Strong With The Force, 'Accountant 2' Counts $2.5M From Previews 4 'The Conners' Series Finale: How Laurie Metcalf's Unexpected Burst Of Emotion Impacted The Final, Bittersweet Moment 5 Michael B. Jordan's 'Thomas Crown Affair' From Amazon MGM Studios Gets Early 2027 Release 6 Marvel Comics & Marvel Studios Team On MCU Movie Comic With 'Fantastic Four: First Steps' 7 'The Bachelor' Star Litia Garr Signs With Smith&Saint 8 Jennifer Lawrence & Robert Pattinson Cannes Competition Film 'Die, My Love' Boarded By Patrick Wachsberger's 193 For International Sales 9 Norman Reedus Joins Joseph Gordon-Levitt & Phoebe Dynevor In Darren Aronofsky-Produced ‘Pendulum’, Filming Underway 10 Sean "Diddy" Combs Fails To Have Cassie Ventura 2016 Hotel Beating Footage Excluded From Sex Trafficking Trial; Rejected Plea Deal Revealed deadline-logo-svg Deadline Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Latest Business News Ex-Congressman George Santos Sentenced To 7+ Years In Prison After Fraud Conviction - Update Brillstein Signs Brandon Berman & Harrison Forman, Creators Of Live Dating & Comedy Show 'UpDating' 'The Bachelor' Star Litia Garr Signs With Smith&Saint Casting Society Warns Actors & Fellow Casting Pros About Online Scams That Offer Auditions In Exchange For Money Marketplace Newswire Deadline About Us Advertise Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility AdChoices California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Sitemap TV Film Awards Box Office Business International Connect with Us Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks Have a Tip? We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Send Us a Tip Stay in the Know Sign up for our breaking news alerts Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. PMC Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Site Close the menu deadline-logo-svg TV Expand the sub-menu Castings Ratings Late-Night Primetime Pilot Panic Film Expand the sub-menu Festivals Reviews Castings Acquisitions Documentary Awards Expand the sub-menu Awards Hub Emmys Oscars Tonys Box Office Expand the sub-menu International B.O. Specialty B.O. Broadway B.O. Business Expand the sub-menu Politics Legal Executives Agencies International Expand the sub-menu Festivals Film TV International Insider Video Expand the sub-menu Trailers The Actor's Side Behind The Lens The Process More Expand the sub-menu Obituaries Theater Music Podcasts Insider Follow Us Alerts & Newsletters Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertise About Us Give us feedback Leave us a tip Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. ad