Amazon Alexa | Features, History, & Facts | Britannica Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Login https://premium.britannica.com/premium-membership/?utm_source=premium&utm_medium=nav-login-box&utm_campaign=evergreen SUBSCRIBE Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos Amazon Alexa Table of Contents Introduction Overview History Evolution of Alexa References & Edit History Images Discover How Many Countries Are There in the World? Did Duchess Anastasia Survive Her Family’s Execution? The World’s 5 Most Commonly Used Writing Systems Is Australia an Island? 7 of the World’s Most Dangerous Lizards and Turtles Where Is “Old Zealand”? Which Religion Is the Oldest? Contents Technology Computers A young boy interacts with a smart speaker Alexa, though useful, alarms privacy advocates with its “always listening” feature. (more) Amazon Alexa virtual assistant Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite verified Cite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. 			Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/technology/Amazon-Alexa Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites Ask the Chatbot a Question Also known as: Alexa Written by Adam Volle Adam Volle is a freelance writer and editor based in Atlanta, Georgia. Adam Volle Fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Mar 30, 2025 • Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Amazon Alexa ,  virtual assistant program developed and sold by the e-commerce company Amazon . Users can interact with Alexa by speaking to any device programmed to include it. The program is most commonly found on smart speakers (e.g., the Amazon Echo), smart displays, television sets, and glasses but is also available for smartphones , car systems, and headphones . Additionally, users can utilize Alexa smart home features with smart plugs, lights, sensors, and other such devices. Alexa’s primary competitors are Google Assistant, Apple ’s Siri, and Bixby by Samsung . Overview Users can activate the program by simply stating the name “Alexa,” though it is possible to change the wake word to “Amazon,” “Echo,” “computer,” or “Ziggy.” “Alexa” was chosen by Amazon because it contains the uncommon “x” sound, which minimizes the chance that users accidentally awaken the device. According to Amazon employees, the name is also a reference to the Library of Alexandria , which supposedly held all of the world’s knowledge. After a user speaks the wake word, an Alexa-equipped smart device uses its microphone to transmit the user’s questions or commands to Alexa Voice Service (AVS), a cloud -based voice recognition and natural language understanding service. AVS converts the user’s words into text format by analyzing characteristics of their speech such as frequency and pitch . The resulting text is then matched with one of Alexa’s “skills”—tasks which AVS is capable of performing (e.g., playing music on the Spotify application). As of 2023 Alexa has more than 130,000 skills. History Amazon Lab126, a subsidiary responsible for much of Amazon’s research and development , secretly began development of a voice-controlled computer in 2011 under the code name Doppler. In order to obtain the data necessary to complete the project, the company acquired several small start-ups. One such company was the Polish start-up Ivona, which Amazon bought for $30 million in 2012 (a fact that the Amazon waited a year to announce). Ivona’s speech-synthesizing program Spiker became the basis for Alexa. Originally, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos wanted a voice-controlled computer to feature dozens of voices, with each one linked to a different set of tasks, but this ambition was not realized in the final version of Alexa. Instead, the team focused on developing just one voice, which they selected by writing out a list of desirable qualities, such as trustworthiness and warmth. Research suggested that such traits were most commonly associated with female voices, which is where the team focused its efforts. The voice eventually chosen is believed to belong to Nina Rolle, a voice actor and singer based in Boulder , Colorado, but neither Amazon nor Rolle have ever confirmed this. Once the voice actor was selected, her voice was recorded by an Atlanta-based voice-over studio called GM Voices, which had previously worked with Apple to create the voice of Siri, Apple’s virtual assistant. Giving Alexa a voice was in many ways an easier task for Alexa’s creators; it was more challenging to enable Alexa (or rather, AVS) to listen. Teaching Alexa to recognize questions and commands required training the program on a large number of voice samples. To obtain this data , Amazon hired the Australian data collection firm Appen, which rented homes and apartments in which temp workers read canned lines and verbally responded to open-ended prompts such as, “Ask to play your favorite song.” Amazon's Echo Dot Although the cheaper Echo Dot has a less powerful speaker, Alexa can still perform the same functions as it would on a traditional Echo. (more) Amazon cautiously debuted the Amazon Echo in November 2014, initially offering only 80,000 devices—and selling them only to customers who had signed up to purchase an Echo in advance (roughly 109,000 did). The company’s wariness proved unnecessary as the Echo was an instant success. By the end of 2016 Amazon had sold more than eight million Echoes and Echo Dots (a smaller, cheaper version of the Echo); by 2019 the company had sold more than 100 million Alexa devices. At that point, Alexa was the top selling speaker company in the world. Are you a student? Get a special academic rate on Britannica Premium. Subscribe Evolution of Alexa In addition to Echoes and Echo Dots, Amazon has introduced a variety of other Alexa-enabled devices, including the Echo Show and Echo Auto; the technology has been added to preexisting products like Amazon’s Fire TV as well. Amazon now allows manufacturers to bring Alexa’s capabilities to their own connected devices. Alexa’s popularity led Amazon to possess an approximately 70 percent share of the U.S. market for virtual assistant programs in 2019 (its closest competitor, Google, owned just over 30 percent). Additionally, celebrity voices such as Samuel L. Jackson and Melissa McCarthy had been added to Alexa devices for an extra charge, but the feature was removed in 2023. In September 2023 Amazon’s senior vice president of devices and services, Dave Limp, revealed during a Bloomberg TV interview that Amazon would begin using its own large language model (LLM) to improve Alexa, called AlexaLLM. Limp stated that the artificial intelligence program would improve Alexa’s understanding of speech over time by listening in to user conversations. He also added that Alexa would be able to interpret body language (if its device included a camera) and vocal intonation in order to determine when it is being addressed, even if the user does not use a wake word. Alexa’s own intonations would also change based on the context of the conversation. Alexa’s ubiquity has deeply alarmed privacy advocates who criticize its ability to record conversations occurring in its proximity and Amazon’s hunger for additional data. Amazon gives users the ability to delete voice recordings and to disable future recordings but gives notice that user experience may be less optimal. In 2015 the nonprofit Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) called on the U.S. government to investigate “always-on” devices such as Alexa. In her 2018 book The Age of Surveillance Capitalism , Shoshana Zuboff grimly describes Alexa’s arrival as a “threshold event” in the evolution of “One Voice”: the surveillance ecosystem that enables its operator “to anticipate and monetize all the moments of all the people during all the days.” Adam Volle