US Open Tennis 2019 Results: Final Look at Women's Bracket and Prize Money Bleacher Report NFL Draft NFL NBA NHL CFB Shop Play Betting B/R Sports on Max 04:50 Featured Video NBA Comps for Top Bigs 👥 Bianca Andreescu, of Canada, holds up the championship trophy after defeating Serena Williams, of the United States, in the women's singles final of the U.S. Open tennis championships Saturday, Sept. 7, 2019, in New York. (AP Photo/Charles Krupa) Charles Krupa/Associated Press Tennis US Open Tennis 2019 Results: Final Look at Women's Bracket and Prize Money Gianni Verschueren Sep 8, 2019 Bianca Andreescu joined the ranks of Grand Slam winners on Saturday, beating Serena Williams 6-3, 7-5 in a strong showing in the US Open final. The 19-year-old grabbed early breaks in each set and fought off a late comeback from the six-time champion. For her efforts, she'll take home $3,850,000 of the $42,860,000 total prize money allotted to the women's tournament. Williams will earn $1,900,000 as the runner-up. For a look at the final bracket, click here . TOP NEWS NFL Power Rankings for Every Team After the 2025 NFL Draft Bleacher Report 14h 7 2025 NFL Draft Picks We Wish We Would Have Seen Bleacher Report 14h 2025 NBA Mock Draft with Lottery Simulation Sending Cooper Flagg to Eastern Conference Bleacher Report 14h Here are the highlights of the final: Andreescu is having a breakthrough 2019 campaign, having previously won the Indian Wells tournament and the Rogers Cup. She will be entering the WTA Top 10 for the first time in her young career after the win: While she started the final as the underdog, Andreescu was rarely troubled. A break in the very first game and an early 2-0 lead in the second set gave her all the momentum she needed, and while Williams fought back from a 5-1 deficit and a match point in the second, she always seemed a step slow in the rallies. Both players relied heavily on big winners, and it was Andreescu who was better at limiting unforced errors, committing just 17 compared to the 37-year-old's 33. Williams had 33 winners, but also committed eight double faults and converted just 30 percent of her second serve into points. Charles Krupa/Associated Press Williams remains one of the sport's very best, even at the age of 37, but has now lost four major finals in the last two years. Andreescu is the second consecutive winner of the US Open to enjoy a major breakthrough at Flushing Meadows―Naomi Osaka was the defending champion―and with 15-year-old Coco Gauff also making waves, a new generation of superstars appears to be on the rise. Andreescu was apologetic after the win, per sports writer Devin Heroux: Williams said she was glad her loss came to Andreescu and not someone else, per sportswriter Caroline Cameron: The next major engagement on the WTA calendar is the Zhengzhou Open, starting on September 9. 04:50 NBA Comps for Top Bigs 👥 TOP NEWS Post-Draft NFL Power Rankings Bleacher Report 14h NFL Draft Picks We Wanted to See 👀 Bleacher Report 14h Latest Projections and Pro Comps ✍️ Bleacher Report 14h Ranking Top 10 Free Agents Post-Draft Bleacher Report 14h Way-Too-Early 2026 Mock Draft Bleacher Report 1d TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 10h Russini Says She Never Got Intel Browns Ranked Shedeur Sanders High on Draft Board Bleacher Report • 1d WWE Raw Results, Winners, Live Grades, Reaction, Highlights from April 28 ⚔️ Jey, Logan Paul on collision course  🍿 Ripley and Perez put on a show 📲 Tap for full results and analysis Bleacher Report • 11h Shedeur Sanders Reportedly Was Top QB on Giants' Board After Cam Ward Ahead of Draft Bleacher Report • 1d 1 Trade Every NBA Playoff Team Wishes It Could Make Right Now Bleacher Report • 7h Michael Porter Jr. Not Suspended for Leaving Bench During Nuggets-Clippers Skirmish Michael Porter Jr. not suspended Game 5 for leaving bench during skirmish TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 10h Russini Says She Never Got Intel Browns Ranked Shedeur Sanders High on Draft Board Bleacher Report • 1d WWE Raw Results, Winners, Live Grades, Reaction, Highlights from April 28 ⚔️ Jey, Logan Paul on collision course  🍿 Ripley and Perez put on a show 📲 Tap for full results and analysis Bleacher Report • 11h Shedeur Sanders Reportedly Was Top QB on Giants' Board After Cam Ward Ahead of Draft Bleacher Report • 1d 1 Trade Every NBA Playoff Team Wishes It Could Make Right Now Bleacher Report • 7h Michael Porter Jr. Not Suspended for Leaving Bench During Nuggets-Clippers Skirmish Michael Porter Jr. not suspended Game 5 for leaving bench during skirmish Bleacher Report About Advertise Contact Us Get Help Careers Sitemap Community Guidelines Privacy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Terms Of Use AdChoices B/R Sports on MAX B/R Creators Program Copyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.