Musk complains about handouts when Tesla was only profitable due to credits Skip to main content Toggle main menu Electrek Logo Go to the Electrek home page Switch site 9to5Mac Logo 9to5Mac 9to5Google Logo 9to5Google 9to5Toys Drone DJ Logo DroneDJ Space Explored About Privacy Toggle social menu Toggle dark mode Search for: Submit Toggle search form Exclusives Autos Electric Vehicle Price Guide – best prices for dealers in the US Tesla Ford GM BMW Jaguar VW Daimler/Mercedes Hyundai Nissan Toyota Alt. Transport Ebikes Electric Motorcycles Bus Hyperloop Autonomy Tesla Autopilot Cruise Automation Uber Waymo Energy Green Energy Climate Tesla Shop Store Toggle dark mode Tesla Elon Musk Musk complains about handouts when Tesla was only profitable due to credits Jameson Dow | Apr 22 2025 - 6:09 pm PT 201 Comments Tesla’s earnings report dropped today, and news isn’t great . But instead of recognizing his failures that have led to Tesla’s downturn, CEO Elon Musk lashed out with conspiracy theories while also hypocritically failing to acknowledge that his company was only profitable this quarter due to regulatory credits. The numbers are in on Tesla’s dismal quarter, with sales, profits and margins tanking significantly for the company despite a rising global EV market . You’d expect a drop in car sales to be top of mind for a car company, but instead of talking about this, CEO Elon Musk opened the call by talking about his ineffective advisory role to a former reality TV host. Musk is heading up the self-styled “Department of Government Efficiency,” an advisory group that is focused on reducing redundancy in government. The office is not an actual government department and has a redundant mission to the Government Accountability Office, which is an actual government department focused on reducing government waste. Advertisement - scroll for more content Musk originally claimed that the department would be able to save $2 trillion for the US government, which is actually impossible because federal discretionary spending is $1.7 trillion , which is a (gets out abacus) smaller number than $2 trillion. He has, of course, failed at this task that anyone with any level of competence would have known was impossible before setting it out for themselves, and now projects that the department will save $150 billion next year, less than a tenth of his original estimate. But even that projection is likely an overstatement, given that most of the supposed savings that DOGE has found are not actual savings at all. On top of this, the US government’s deficit has grown to the second-highest level on record – with the first happening in 2020, the last time Mr. Trump squatted in the White House. Which means the government isn’t saving money, it is in fact borrowing and spending more of it than ever before. So, Musk’s tenure in the advisory board has been an unmitigated failure by any realistic account. But if you listened to Tesla’s call, you wouldn’t have known this, as Musk was quite boastful of his efforts – starting a Tesla conference call with an irrelevant rant about his fake government department, instead of with Tesla business. He claimed that he has made “a lot of progress in addressing waste and fraud” and that the job is “mostly done,” which is not correct by his own metrics. Musk stated that his purpose is “trying to bring in the insane deficit that is leading our country, the United States, to destruction,” and as we covered above, that deficit has only increased. But he also went on to spew some rather insane conspiracy theories about the reasons behind his company’s recent failures, all of which of course put the blame on someone else, rather than himself. The buck stops anywhere but here, I guess. His primary assertion was that the “blowback from the time I’ve been spending in government” (which, again, is an advisory role, not an actual government position) has come mainly from protesters that were “receiving fraudulent money” and are now angry that the government money spigot has been turned off. Which, of course, he’s provided no evidence for… and he’s provided no evidence for it because it’s false. Besides, that’s not how protests work. But incorrect claims that protests do work that way are often used by opponents of free speech, with the motivation of putting a chilling effect public participation. Fitting behavior for an enemy of the First Amendment like Elon Musk . Meanwhile, this assertion also comes from a person who tried and failed to bribe voters to win an election. Perhaps his admiration of Tesla protesters is aspirational – he wishes his ideas were good enough to inspire that sort of grassroots political effort that money, demonstrably , cannot buy. But this hypocrisy extends beyond Musk’s hatred of free expression, and strikes at the heart of the business he is the titular leader of, Tesla, the organization that has made him into the richest man in the world. Because not only is it not true that Tesla protests are caused by people losing money from his ineffective government actions (they are, in fact, driven by him doing Nazi stuff all the time ), it’s also objectively true that Musk’s companies are a large recipient of government money. And that’s particularly relevant today, to the very earnings call where Musk made his ridiculous assertion, because in Q1 2025, Tesla only turned a profit due to government credits. Without them, it would have lost money. Tesla only profitable in Q1 due to regulatory credits Per today’s earnings report , Tesla earned $595 million in regulatory credits in Q1. But its total net income for the quarter was $409 million. This means that without those regulatory credits, Tesla would have posted a -$189 million loss in Q1. It was saved not just by credit sales, but credit sales which increased year over year – in the year-ago quarter, Tesla made $442 million in regulatory credits, despite having higher sales in Q1 2024 than in Q1 2025. So not only were credits higher, but credits per vehicle were higher. This is a common feature of Tesla earnings, and we even said in our earnings preview that we expected it . While Tesla had a bad quarter, nobody expected it to become actually unprofitable, because there was always the possibility of increasing regulatory credit sales to eke out a profitable quarter. And this has been the case many times in Tesla’s past, as well. In earlier times, Tesla’s first few profitable quarters were decried by the company’s opponents as an accounting trick, suggesting that regulatory credit sales weren’t “real” profits, and that the cars should have to stand on their own. This is a silly thing to say – businesses do business in the environment that exists, and every business has an incentive structure that includes subsidies and externalities. If we were to selectively write off certain profits for certain businesses, we could make a tortured case that any business isn’t profitable. Plus, these opponents didn’t extend the same treatment to the oil industry, which is subsidized to the tune of $760 billion per year in the US alone in unpriced externalities, yet that is somehow never mentioned during their earnings calls. Top comment by Spec9 Liked by 41 people Correct me if I am wrong but the main regulatory credits that Tesla makes money on are the EU carbon credits and the California CARB ZEV credits.   So the only reason Tesla was still profitable was because of the generosity of two entities that Elon now hates: The EU and California. View all comments Musk has even claimed , probably correctly, that if all subsidies were eliminated both for EVs and for oil & gas, that EVs would come out ahead compared to the status quo (more recently, Musk has become one of the biggest funders of anti-EV forces , allying himself with a bought-and-paid oil stooge who is giving even more preferential treatment to the oil industry ). But, setting aside the debate over whether credits are valid profits (they are), for years now we’ve been well beyond Tesla’s reliance on credits. The company has produced significant profits, regardless of credit sales, for some time now. At least, until today. That’s no longer true – Tesla did rely on credits to become profitable in Q1. And Musk starting the call with a ridiculous rant about government handouts not only shows his hypocrisy and projection on this matter, but his detachment from reality itself. He is, truly, too stuck in the impenetrable echo chamber of his self-congratulating twitter feed to realize what an embarrassment he’s being in public – to the point of inventing shadow enemies to explain the very real, very simple explanation that people aren’t buying his company’s cars because he sucks so much . Charge your electric vehicle at home using rooftop solar panels. Find a reliable and competitively priced solar installer near you on EnergySage , for free. They have pre-vetted installers competing for your business, ensuring high-quality solutions and 20-30% savings. It’s free, with no sales calls until you choose an installer. Compare personalized solar quotes online and receive guidance from unbiased Energy Advisers. Get started here . – ad* Add Electrek to your Google News feed. FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More. Stay up to date with the latest content by subscribing to Electrek on Google News .  You’re reading Electrek— experts who break news about Tesla , electric vehicles, and green energy , day after day. Be sure to check out our homepage for all the latest news, and follow Electrek on Twitter , Facebook , and LinkedIn to stay in the loop. Don’t know where to start? Check out our YouTube channel for the latest reviews. Featured from Electrek Electrek Logo Tesla insider buys stock for the first time in years and it’s hilarious Fred Lambert Apr 29 2025 Here are the cheapest EVs we could find for lease at under $300/month right now [Updated] Peter Johnson Apr 29 2025 The first giant 15 MW turbine is up at Germany’s largest offshore wind farm Michelle Lewis Apr 28 2025 Tesla gives update on Tesla Semi factory, says on track for volume production in 2026 Fred Lambert Apr 28 2025 Subscribe to Electrek on YouTube for exclusive videos and subscribe to the podcast . Comments Expand Close comments Expand Close comments Guides Tesla Tesla is a transportation and energy company. It… Elon Musk Author Jameson Dow Jameson has been driving electric cars since 2009, and covering EVs, sustainability and policy for Electrek since 2016. You can reach him at jamie@electrek.co. Jameson Dow's favorite gear Aptera Referral Code Use our Aptera Referral Code for $30 off a reservation for the upcoming Aptera solar electric vehicle. EnergySage Find a reliable home solar/battery installer and save 20-30% compared to going it alone.