Tim Buckley sends shockwaves by retiring as Vanguard CEO after adding $750 billion per year during his stay in the executive suite | RIABiz News, Vision & Voice for the Advisory Community About Us Archive Whitepapers Directory Subscribe Advertise Tim Buckley sends shockwaves by retiring as Vanguard CEO after adding $750 billion per year during his stay in the executive suite The 54 year-old lasted just over six years in the job, delivered on targets, but he also made head-scratching decisions and never solved its technology woes Author Brooke Southall March 1, 2024 at 3:35 AM 3 Comments Tim Buckley: It’s time for others now. Keith Girard contributed to the editing of this article. People Moves Bill McNabb | Tim Buckley The Vanguard Group | VPAS | Greg Davis ( 3 ) Comments Leonardo March 1, 2024 — 12:21 PM Being an investor with Vanguard for 30 plus years I hope that the new CEO will manage  Vanguard in the vein of Jack Bogle and represent small investors on which the firm was founded.. I cringle when I see ads for Vanguard that claim that it is owned by the investors since no disclosures have been made to the owners for many years. Hopefully the new external CEO will right the Vanguard Ship in the style of Jack Bogle. steve March 1, 2024 — 9:04 PM Amen to Leonardo's comment. How we all yearn for a return to Jack Bogle's vision and style of leadership. Hank March 3, 2024 — 12:30 AM Good! Post a comment Related Moves Jason Wenk raises $50 million from Vanguard Group and others, and Altruist may soon overtake Pershing's No. 3 RIA custodian spot,  the Altruist founder asserts The Los Angeles founder's disruption blitz involves a mobile-first Robinhood feel and a plug-and-play outsourcing one-stop-shop -- a sweet combination, except that it may not lure many big RIAs, analysts say. May 20, 2021 at 3:22 AM Vanguard's deal with Blackstone follows its bleak, almost black, market prognosis • SSGA launches another 'Apollo' product, sans Apollo brand •  SEC OKs 'green' exchange • Senators call out Trump 'fraud' in letter to new SEC chair Recession signals grow • Confirmed as chair, SEC's Atkins faces Trump decision • InvestCloud nabs ex-Envestnet COO • Tibergien protégé lands at RIA • RIAs still see direct-indexing as a solution hunting for a problem • Software companies hire & launch. April 18, 2025 at 2:26 AM 2025 will be the year of 'Under New Management' in RIA business, after 2024 brought profusion of CEO-level fires, hires and deals First seven CEOs were replaced, then myriad big HR dominoes fell as Vanguard, Schwab, Envestnet, InvestCloud, LPL, Cetera  and Orion all switched out CEOs and presidents January 2, 2025 at 10:49 PM The upper RIA echelon mass-exit is now at  25 execs and counting -- for 25 'reasons' -- but it's hardly a coincidence, analysts say Burnout and EBITDA weigh on CEO-types as never-ending exits claim Ron Carson, Aaron Klein, Bernie Clark, Rudy Adolf, Bill Crager and Tim Buckley. June 7, 2024 at 11:17 PM See more related moves RIABiz Directory The Industry Sourcebook for RIAs | LISTING Add Your Listing RIABiz Directory sponsored by: White Paper Postings Special Sections Common Tags Recent Articles Popular Writers RIABiz About Us Contact Subscribe Advertise Directory Archives 401(k) Stories Breakaway Stories Conferences ETFs Hybrid RIA RIA Compliance RIA Custodians Robo-Advisors TAMPs Women of Wealth Management People Moves Technology Connect RIABiz, Mill Valley, California Copyright © 2009- 2025 RIABiz Inc. All rights reserved.