Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition | Nintendo Switch games | Games | Nintendo UK Overview Orders Address book Nintendo Account details {{pageTitle}} , {{gameSystem}} Starting from: {{regularPrice}} {{lowestPrice}} Search Wish List Sign In See purchase options × Close How about... All Nintendo Switch games All Nintendo Switch games on sale All Nintendo 3DS games All Super Mario games All The Legend of Zelda games All Pokémon games × Visit us on Facebook Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem X @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons YouTube NintendoUK Instagram NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope Twitch NintendoUK LinkedIn Visit us on LinkedIn Games Previous Games Overview Nintendo Switch 2 games Nintendo Switch games Recent releases Upcoming games Demos Free-to-start games DLC Smart device games Nintendo 3DS games Wii U games Characters hub Hardware Previous Hardware Nintendo Switch 2 Overview Features GameChat GameShare Nintendo Switch 2 games Nintendo Switch 2 accessories Nintendo Switch 2 bundles Transferring from Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Family Overview Nintendo Switch – OLED Model Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Lite Which Nintendo Switch is right for you? Nintendo Sound Clock: Alarmo Game & Watch: The Legend of Zelda amiibo Nintendo 3DS Family Nintendo History Nintendo Switch Online Previous Nintendo Switch Online Overview What's included? Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack Classic games Exclusive benefits Nintendo Music Nintendo eShop My Nintendo Store Support News Previous News Overview Nintendo Direct Indie World Ask the Developer Creator's Voice Tips and tricks Events Stay in touch ... Misc. Previous Misc. My Nintendo Career Sitemap PEGI 12 Nintendo Switch Online features supported Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition System: Nintendo Switch Release date: 20/03/2025 Explore beyond limits. Fight for humanity. Fight for survival while exploring the vast expanses of an alien world in Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition for Nintendo Switch . This visually enhanced version of the epic sci-fi RPG features additional content – including new story elements and more! This is where we build our future The year is 2054. Earth has been destroyed by an intergalactic war between two alien races, and humanity is on the brink of annihilation. A small number of survivors, aboard the USS White Whale, crash land on the vast and untamed planet Mira – and now it falls to you, as a member of BLADE, to help bring humanity back from the edge of extinction. Subscribe to on YouTube Into the unknown... Mira is a sprawling alien world filled with vast oceans, expansive grassy plains, towering mountain ranges, exotic jungles and more, each with their own secrets to discover and threats to face. During your travels, you’ll move seamlessly around the surface of the planet and explore many huge areas, watch their ecosystems come to life and encounter a range of unfamiliar, gargantuan beasts which can be battled to gain valuable resources. By installing data-gather probes across each continent, you’ll help to expand the FrontierNav system, revealing more information on the world map. Different types of data probes offer a range of benefits, such as increasing your combat power, so experiment to find the types that’ll help you out the most. Once you’ve proven yourself to BLADE, you’ll earn the right to pilot and personalise your very own Skell – a powerful machine that can fly, transform into a vehicle for fast overland travel, and wield immense strength in combat. Build your community Join forces with allies to better your chances of survival in the wilds of Mira. By taking the time to get to know your fellow teammates, their support in battles will increase and you’ll unlock quests for rare gear, too. You Yes, you! At the start of your adventure, use the vast range of customisable settings to create a character that you identify with and begin your exploration of Mira… Elma A team leader within BLADE. Elma is calm, collected and well-respected. Back on Earth, she was a colonel in a team known as “the Skelleton Crew”. Lin Lee Koo A mechanic for BLADE. Despite her youth, she has lots of experience with machines, and is involved with the development of Skells. Tatsu A Nopon that you’ll encounter on Mira. Though he comes across as naive and pure-minded, he does sometimes make some rather superior-sounding declarations. Lao A leader of the Pathfinders, a division of BLADE tasked with exploring the planet. Despite his cold demeanour, Lao’s combat and leadership skills are praised by his peers. Liesel A former fighter pilot on Earth, Liesel now works as a test pilot for an arms manufacturer developing a new experimental Skell: “Hraesvelg”. Neilnail A Qlurian archaeologist who studies alien civilisations and has a keen interest in the culture and customs of people from Earth. Recruits There are a whole host of mercenaries across Mira who’ll answer the call to arms. Recruit them and they’ll bring their own unique moves and combat styles into battles. Unidentified lifeforms approaching! Some of Mira’s fauna won’t take kindly to trespassers exploring their domain, so you and your comrades better be prepared to put up a fight. Draw your weapon to start a battle, strategically position your teammates around their target, and choose from a variety of special attacks and skills known as Arts to and best those beasties. Watch this video for a deep dive into all things combat! Subscribe to on YouTube Increase your odds of survival with these tips! Read here Explore in style! Need some protection? Maybe a bigger gun? Bolster your party’s abilities and appearance by equipping different weapons and armour. If you equip gear from certain arms manufacturers, they might reward you for advertising their wares by giving you access to previously unavailable items. Your Skell can also be customised too. Decorate it with different decals and colourways to make your exoskeleton truly your own. Strength in numbers Subscribe to on YouTube With a Nintendo Switch Online membership, you can join a squad – an online group for up to 32 players – and work together to complete objectives in return for some useful loot and experience. Up to four squad members can also team up to eliminate enemies, gather up items or up the ante in Global Nemesis Battles that’ll task your squad with toppling a colossal creature. Your first squad tasks are on us! This game comes with a free 7-day trial for Nintendo Switch Online so you can try joining a squad and connecting with other players online. What’s new? Additional story content Improved visuals New unlockable Skell: Hraesvelg Quality of life improvements to exploration and battles And more! Two games for £84 / €99! Nintendo Switch Online members can buy a pair of game vouchers and redeem each one for a select digital Nintendo Switch game, including Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition, Donkey Kong Country Returns HD, Mario & Luigi: Brothership, and more. Find out more Discover the epic saga Visit the Xenoblade Chronicles series hub This description was provided by the publisher. What you need to know This content is sold by Nintendo of Europe SE. The payment will be made with Nintendo eShop funds usable through the Nintendo Account used to complete the purchase. This content is sold by Nintendo of Europe SE, payable with Nintendo eShop funds usable through your Nintendo Account. The Nintendo Account Agreement applies to the purchase of this content. This content may be purchased by users who have registered a Nintendo Account and accepted the respective legal terms. This content may be purchased by users who have registered a Nintendo Account and accepted the respective legal terms. The details of this offer apply to users who sign in with a Nintendo Account with the country setting corresponding to the country setting of this website. If the country setting of a Nintendo Account is different, the details of this offer may be adjusted (for example, the price will be displayed in the respective local currency). After your payment has been processed, the content will be downloaded to the applicable system linked to your Nintendo Account. This system must be updated to the latest system software and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. Depending on the hardware model you own and your use of it, an additional storage device may be required to download content from Nintendo eShop. Please visit our Support section for more information. In the case of games that use cloud streaming technology, a free launcher application or demo can be downloaded. Please make sure you have enough storage to complete the download. After your payment has been processed, the content will be downloaded to the applicable system linked to your Nintendo Account. This system must be updated to the latest system software and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. Depending on the hardware model you own and your use of it, an additional storage device may be required to download content from Nintendo eShop. Please visit our Support section for more information. In the case of games that use cloud streaming technology, a free launcher application or demo can be downloaded. Please make sure you have enough storage to complete the download. The details of the offer are displayed based on the country settings of your Nintendo Account. The Nintendo Account Agreement applies to the purchase of this content. About pre-ordering The use of an unauthorised device or software that enables technical modification of the Nintendo console or software may render this game unplayable. This product contains technological protection measures. Content not playable before the release date: {{releaseDate}} . For pre-orders, payments will be taken automatically starting from 7 days before the release date. If you pre-order less than 7 days before the release date, payment will be taken immediately upon purchase. To be able to purchase download games or download demos and free software from Nintendo eShop on the official website, you'll need to have a Nintendo Account which is linked to your Nintendo Switch console. You'll need to have your console registered as the active console for downloads for your Nintendo Account by visiting Nintendo eShop on the device you wish to download on at least once. For automatic download, your system must be updated and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. To find out more, visit our Support section . Purchases made or demo downloads activated through the Nintendo website are processed via Nintendo eShop. This software includes modes or features for which an internet connection and a paid membership to Nintendo Switch Online are required. Any online play modes require a paid membership to Nintendo Switch Online. To use online services, you must create a Nintendo Account and accept the related agreement. The Nintendo Account Privacy Policy applies. Some online services may not be available in all countries. Find out more about paid Nintendo Switch Online memberships . Multiplayer requires one compatible controller per player. Additional controllers (sold separately) may be required. © Nintendo / MONOLITHSOFT Categories RPG Players Single System (1), Online (1-32) Publisher Nintendo Features Handheld mode , Tabletop mode , TV mode Nintendo Switch Online features Play online, enjoy a growing library of classic NES & Super NES games, and more with a Nintendo Switch Online membership. Find out more . Online play , Save Data Cloud Age rating PEGI 12 Bad Language Sex Violence Download version (Nintendo Switch) System Nintendo Switch Release date 20/03/2025 Age rating PEGI 12 Compatible controllers Nintendo Switch Pro Controller Languages Japanese, English, Spanish, French, German, Italian, Korean, Chinese Download size 15000.00 MB (estimated) Nintendo Switch Game Card System Nintendo Switch Release date 20/03/2025 Age rating PEGI 12 Compatible controllers Nintendo Switch Pro Controller Languages Japanese, English, Spanish, French, German, Italian, Korean, Chinese From our shop See more You might also like... See more UK & Ireland Change country België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera UK & Ireland South Africa See all regions België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera South Africa UK & Ireland See all regions Parents & Parental Controls Support Company Information Career Website Privacy Policy Cookie settings Legal information Service Termination CSR Modern Slavery Transparency Statement Contact © Nintendo. 2025 × Change country België Belgique Deutschland España France Italia Nederland Österreich Portugal Schweiz Suisse Svizzera UK & Ireland South Africa × Attention! You are about to leave the Nintendo of Europe site. Nintendo of Europe is not responsible for the content or security of the site you are about to visit. Cancel Continue × Survey Dear visitor, Thank you for visiting the Nintendo website! You have been randomly chosen to take part in a brief survey. By taking a few minutes to share your thoughts and opinions, you will be helping us to improve our website. Naturally, any information provided by you in this survey will be treated in confidence. Your Nintendo of Europe Team Decline invitation Take the survey × Facebook Visit us on Facebook: Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem × X @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons × YouTube NintendoUK × Instagram Join us on Instagram: NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope × Twitch Visit us on Twitch: NintendoUK × LinkedIn Visit us on LinkedIn ×