Nintendo: Animal Crossing delay means avoiding crunch | GamesIndustry.biz Skip to main content Nintendo Switch 2 Financials Jobs roundup Layoffs Navigation Features News Academy Events Newsletters Video Games Jobs Go Support us Sign in / Create account If you click on a link and make a purchase we may receive a small commission. Read our editorial policy . Home News Nintendo: Animal Crossing delay means avoiding crunch Doug Bowser says Nintendo will delay games to ensure "employees have good work-life balance" News by Matthew Handrahan Editor-in-Chief Published on June 12, 2019 2 comments Follow Nintendo The delay to Animal Crossing: New Horizons is in keeping with Nintendo's stance on crunch, Nintendo of America president Doug Bowser has said. The new Animal Crossing game has been delayed until March 2020, despite the company telling investors and gamers that it would launch in 2019. The news was announced during the company's E3 Nintendo Direct yesterday, but Nintendo of America president Doug Bowser offered some clarity on the reason why in a subsequent interview with IGN . "For us, one of our key tenets is that we bring smiles to people's faces, and we talk about that all the time," he said. "For us, that applies to our own employees. We need to make sure that our employees have good work-life balance. "One of those examples is, we will not bring a game to market before it's ready. We just talked about one example [in Animal Crossing's delay]. It's really important that we have that balance in our world. It's actually something we're proud of." While crunch is now a widely derided practice in the industry, the importance of delaying a key product to a publicly traded company cannot be underestimated. Along with Pokémon Sword and Shield, Animal Crossing: New Horizons was one of NIntendo's key releases of this fiscal year. The new March 20, 2020 launch date will give it less than two weeks to contribute to the company's full-year results. Read this next 2.2 million people applied to pre-order a Switch 2 in Japan alone, says Nintendo Venture fund Blue Ocean Games launches with $30m investment for indie developers Japanese modder handed suspended prison sentence for modding Nintendo Switch consoles Matthew Handrahan joined GamesIndustry in 2011, bringing long-form feature-writing experience to the team as well as a deep understanding of the video game development business. He previously spent more than five years at award-winning magazine gamesTM. View comments (2) Related topics Development E3 2019 Nintendo Publishing Newsletters Subscribe to our newsletters and stay ahead of the curve All the biggest stories, expert analysis and data, straight to your inbox. GI Daily GI Market Report Partner Emails Sign up Latest News EA cuts another 200 jobs "in service of driving future growth", bringing total job losses to around 300 Krafton posts "record-high quarterly sales performance" in Q1 2025 Respawn cancels two "early-stage" projects and cuts Apex Legends, Star Wars: Jedi teams, resulting in 100 layoffs US teenager sues Roblox and Discord for allegedly "facilitating the sexual exploitation" of a minor Unity announces winners for its 2025 Humanity Grant Elden Ring tops 30 million sales worldwide | News-in-brief Russian government seizes former Wargaming studio Lesta for supporting Ukraine © 2025 GamesIndustry.biz, an IGN Entertainment Inc. brand. 18 Mansell Street Level 3, London, E1 8AA, United Kingdom. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission. GAMESINDUSTRY.BIZ is a registered trademark of Gamer Network Limited, an affiliate of IGN Entertainment Inc. Theme Auto Light Dark Helpful Links About Us Advertise with us Archive Authors Contact Us Corporate Site Pitching Guidelines RSS Feeds Send Us News Policies Accessibility Policy AdChoices Code of Conduct Cookie Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Review Policy Terms & Conditions Gamer Network Dicebreaker Digital Foundry Eurogamer Nintendo Life Pure Xbox Push Square Rock Paper Shotgun Time Extension VG247