Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/TrueFilm A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to TrueFilm r/TrueFilm r/TrueFilm An in-depth discussion of film Members Online • _OnlyNiceThings The Beautifully Overlooked Cinematography of Cristophe Gans' SILENT HILL Since Shout Factory released a collector’s edition of what is widely considered the best video game movie adaption, I decided to rewatch/review the film and see if it still held up. In additional to some great set pieces and otherworldly creature costumes, I noticed that this movie is just really beautiful to look at despite it being “based off a video game”. I think because of this last statement, many people often view the film as something that only caters to the fans, but I suggest you take a look because director Christophe Gans is also a really interesting film maker who keeps your eye constantly engaged with the screen. The film is filed with crane shots that are always voyeuristically looking down on the characters as if to give a sense of personal concern. Sometime we begin on standard eye level but then suddenly we’re raised up high above to be given a literally different perspective. Yes, this could be chalked up to the fact that they’re video game camera angles, but I saw it more like he wanted the viewer to feel afraid for these characters as we look down on them and they’re powerless to do anything in their situation. The camera is also constantly trucking in to the scenes or panning around and it gives a strange feeling of uneasiness as the main character searches the foggy town for her lost daughter. My inner film maker got extremely excited as I love camera moves that drive a scene and help to build tension rather than move the frame for no particular reason. The film is pretty divisive with the fan base because of its story adaptation and use of elements from the sequel games, but I think it should be praised for its unique horror presence and visually compelling atmosphere. If you’re interested I have an overall video review of the film HERE . Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 13, 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2019 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics