OpenAI debuts its GPT-4.1 flagship AI model | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI More Expand The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Menu Expand Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health COVID-19 Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters Command Line Installer Notepad Verge Deals Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. OpenAI debuts its GPT-4.1 flagship AI model Comments Drawer News OpenAI debuts its GPT-4.1 flagship AI model ﻿ChatGPT’s latest multimodal AI model comes as OpenAI kicks GPT-5 launch down the road. ﻿ChatGPT’s latest multimodal AI model comes as OpenAI kicks GPT-5 launch down the road. by Jess Weatherbed and Emma Roth Updated Apr 14, 2025, 5:42 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads OpenAI has introduced GPT-4.1, a successor to the GPT-4o multimodal AI model launched by the company last year. During a livestream on Monday , OpenAI said GPT-4.1 has an even larger context window and is better than GPT-4o in “just about every dimension,” with big improvements to coding and instruction following. GPT-4.1 is now available to developers, along with two smaller model versions. That includes GPT-4.1 Mini, which, like its predecessor, is more affordable for developers to tinker with, and GPT-4.1 Nano, an even more lightweight model that OpenAI says is its “smallest, fastest, and cheapest” one yet. All three models can process up to one million tokens of context — the text, images, or videos included in a prompt. That’s far more than GPT-4o’s 128,000-token limit. “We trained GPT‑4.1 to reliably attend to information across the full 1 million context length,” OpenAI says in a post announcing the models. “We’ve also trained it to be far more reliable than GPT‑4o at noticing relevant text, and ignoring distractors across long and short context lengths.” GPT 4.1 is also 26 percent cheaper than GPT-4o, a metric that has become more important following the debut of DeepSeek’s ultra-efficient AI model . GPT‑4.1 was able to complete 54.6% of tasks in SWE-Bench. Image: OpenAI The launch comes as OpenAI plans to phase out its two-year-old GPT-4 model from ChatGPT on April 30th, announcing in a changelog that recent upgrades to GPT‑4o make it a “natural successor” to replace it. OpenAI also plans to deprectate the GPT-4.5 preview in the API on July 14th, as “GPT‑4.1 offers improved or similar performance on many key capabilities at much lower cost and latency. ” GPT-4o, the current default model in ChatGPT, was updated last month to bring new image-generation capabilities to the chatbot, which proved so popular that OpenAI had to limit requests and put access to free ChatGPT accounts on hold to prevent its GPUs from “melting.” The GPT-4.1 reveal confirms our report from last week about OpenAI preparing to launch new models, and marks a pivot in the company’s release schedule. On April 4th, CEO Sam Altman announced on X that the GPT-5 launch was being pushed back and should now arrive “in a few months,” later than the May deadline that was previously expected . Altman says that the delay is partly because OpenAI “found it harder than we thought it was going to be to smoothly integrate everything.” OpenAI is also set to debut the full version of its o3 reasoning model and an o4 mini reasoning model any day now, with references having already been spotted in the latest ChatGPT web release by AI engineer Tibor Blaho . See More : AI News OpenAI Tech More in this stream See all OpenAI tells judge it would buy Chrome from Google Jay Peters Apr 22 Comments Comment Icon Bubble OpenAI names new nonprofit ‘advisors’ Emma Roth Apr 15 Comments Comment Icon Bubble OpenAI is building a social network Kylie Robison and Alex Heath Apr 15 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Most Popular Most Popular Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Duolingo will replace contract workers with AI New Starlink subscription drops hardware price to $0 Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck The DJI Phantom is no more Installer A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in News Netflix is streaming a showcase of Hitchcock’s greatest films this June The EPA says it still cares about forever chemicals, but health advocates are wary OpenAI undoes its glaze-heavy ChatGPT update Snapchat scraps ‘simple’ redesign as it loses users in North America Apple launches a new celebrity hub that’s all about Apple Natasha Lyonne to direct and star in a new sci-fi film created with generative AI Netflix is streaming a showcase of Hitchcock’s greatest films this June Charles Pulliam-Moore Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble The EPA says it still cares about forever chemicals, but health advocates are wary Justine Calma Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble OpenAI undoes its glaze-heavy ChatGPT update Jay Peters Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Snapchat scraps ‘simple’ redesign as it loses users in North America Emma Roth Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Apple launches a new celebrity hub that’s all about Apple Umar Shakir Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Natasha Lyonne to direct and star in a new sci-fi film created with generative AI Charles Pulliam-Moore Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Apr 29 Whatever happened to the Kids Online Safety Act? Apr 29 MAGA’s next wave of influencers saved TikTok Apr 29 Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Apr 29 Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck Apr 29 Starlink’s got company — and orbital overcrowding is a disaster waiting to happen Apr 29 Meta’s ChatGPT competitor shows how your friends use AI The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved