Eagles quarterback Jalen Hurts skips visit with Donald Trump at White House commemorating Super Bowl title - Yahoo Sports Search query Search News Finance Sports More Manage your account Help Add or switch accounts Sign out NFL Featured NFL NBA MLB NHL Golf WNBA NCAAF NCAAB Daily Draw Fantasy Sports More NCAAW Soccer Racing Collectibles Women's Sports Combat MMA Boxing Wrestling Tennis College Sports Horse Racing UFL Cycling Sportsbook Olympics Cricket Rivals What & How To Watch Yahoo Sports AM Newsletters GameChannel Videos RSS Jobs Help More News Yahoo! Sports Network Draft Grades Draft Guide Free Agency News Scores/Schedule Standings Stats Teams Players Odds Football 301 McCoy & Van Noy Inside Coverage GameChannel Playoff Bracket Injuries ... Fantasy Watch Network Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement TRENDING NFL Power Rankings Warriors win intense Game 4 Cavs sweep Heat Dame's injury casts wide ripple Full NFL Draft grades Eagles quarterback Jalen Hurts skips visit with Donald Trump at White House commemorating Super Bowl title Jason Owens Staff writer April 28, 2025 at 9:35 PM UTC · 4 min read Super Bowl MVP quarterback Jalen Hurts did not visit the White House with his teammates on Monday as the Philadelphia Eagles celebrated their Super Bowl championship with President Donald Trump. Hurts, who helped lead Philadelphia's win over the Kansas City Chiefs, did not address why he opted out of the ceremony. White House officials cited "scheduling conflicts" when asked about Hurts' absence. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement The Eagles are the third championship team to visit the White House in recent weeks, following the World Series champion Los Angeles Dodgers and the Ohio State football team , which won the CFP national championship. The visits mark a return to tradition from Trump's first term, in which several otherwise routine championship visits to the White House didn't take place due to refused or rescinded invitations and athletes not wanting to be associated with the Trump administration and its policies. President Donald Trump is flanked by members of the Philadelphia Eagles while celebrating the team's Super Bowl championship. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) (ASSOCIATED PRESS) Eagles visit Trump after not attending in his first term The Eagles were among the teams that did not visit Trump's White House during his first term following the franchise's Super Bowl championship after the 2017 season. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Several Eagles players from that team reportedly opted not to attend amid Trump's criticism of NFL players' protests for social justice reform during pregame renditions of the national anthem. Trump had suggested in a 2017 speech that players who protested during the anthem should be "fired" while suggesting an NFL team owner should "get that son of a b**** off the field right now" if a player "disrespects our flag." The Eagles made plans to send a reduced contingent of players amid the opt-outs. Following the news of that plan, Trump rescinded the team's invitation . Eagles owner: Attendance was 'optional' During a news conference on April 1, Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie addressed why his team was visiting Trump's White House on Monday in the context of 2018's canceled visit “To be celebrated at the White House is a good thing,” Lurie told reporters . “There were special circumstances back then that were very different, and so this was kind of an obvious choice and look forward to it. "When you grow up and you hear about, ‘Oh, the championship team got to go to the White House,’ that’s what this is. And so we didn’t have that opportunity and now we do. I think we’re all looking forward to it.” Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement He also told reporters that attendance by players was optional. “Our culture is that these are optional things,” Lurie said . “If you want to enjoy this, come along and we’ll have a great time and if you don’t, it is totally an optional thing.” The Eagles released a statement after the visit noting the "long-standing tradition of visiting the White House." Hurts didn't want to talk about White House visit Hurts, meanwhile, declined to answer last week when asked if he would or would not attend. Hurts isn't the first Super Bowl-winning quarterback to miss a White House visit. Tom Brady missed multiple trips to the White House after winning Super Bowls with the New England Patriots. Brady did not attend New England's visit to the Trump White House after the Patriots won the Super Bowl following the 2016 season. Several of Brady's Patriots teammates also skipped that trip. The Patriots didn't visit the White House after winning the Super Bowl following the 2018 season. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Brady also missed a White House visit in 2015 when Barack Obama was president, citing a scheduling conflict with "something I’d been planning for months." Brady attended previous Patriots White House celebrations when George W. Bush was president and celebrated Michigan's 1997 national championship at the White House with President Bill Clinton. He also visited the White House and President Joe Biden after leading the Tampa Bay Buccaneers to the Super Bowl title after the 2021 season. Saquon Barkley attends, plays golf with Trump Star running back Saquon Barkley did attend the ceremony and spent the Sunday before the celebration playing golf with Trump. Barkley drew criticism for the golf outing , to which he responded Monday on social media, citing his "respect" for the office as his reason to do so. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Barkley stood near the presidential podium during Monday's ceremony and shared a handshake with Trump as Trump spoke glowingly about the Eagles running back and his 2024 season that earned NFL Offensive Player of the Year honors . More than 40 members of the team including Lane Johnson, Cooper DeJean, Lurie and head coach Nick Sirianni flanked Trump during the ceremony. Trump did not mention Hurts' absence during his speech, but did note Hurts' signature goal-line play, the tush push . Johnson, Sirianni and Lurie each spoke briefly at the podium after being invited by Trump, with each declaring "go birds." The Eagles then presented Trump with an autographed helmet. Advertisement Advertisement About Our Ads Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Recommended Stories Eagles set to visit White House on Monday to celebrate Super Bowl LIX championship Promptly after winning Super Bowl LIX, the Eagles said they would be honored to visit the White House. An invitation was officially announced in March. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-27T15:26:51Z Emmitt Smith admits Eagles fans are making Cowboys' Super Bowl drought feel worse: 'I'm sick of it' It has been three decades since the Cowboys even reached an NFC championship game. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-16T02:44:14Z Mookie Betts to visit White House with Dodgers after skipping it in President Trump's first term Betts also visited Joe Biden at the White House after the Dodgers' title in 2020. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-05T02:15:38Z Dodgers White House visit: Clayton Kershaw presents President Donald Trump with No. 47 jersey at team celebration The Dodgers celebrated their 2024 World Series title at the White House on Monday. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-07T16:49:13Z Chiefs smart to become NFL's annual Christmas team, like Lions and Cowboys on Thanksgiving The Chiefs are making an important move for their brand. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-02T18:01:39Z NFL Power Rankings: Who had the best and worst offseasons? Ranking them 1-32 Which teams added the most talent this offseason? Yahoo Sports 2025-04-29T13:00:40Z 5 NFL teams with big questions coming out of the draft Among those teams: the Cowboys. While pundits praised their draft (especially for strengthening the offensive line), there are reasons to be concerned about the running back and wide receiver rooms. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-30T03:42:30Z Bucks coach Doc Rivers says Damian Lillard determined he’s ‘not going out this way’ after Achilles injury Damian Lillard tore his left Achilles during Game 4 of the Bucks’ playoff series with the Pacers on Sunday. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-30T01:04:46Z NBA playoffs: Tyrese Haliburton's OT game-winner finishes off Bucks' collapse as Pacers advance What a comeback for the Pacers. What a collapse by the Bucks, playing without Damian Lillard. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-30T03:17:03Z Lakers star Luka Dončić donates $5,000 to help repair vandalized Kobe Bryant mural in downtown Los Angeles "Kobe is L.A," Doncic said of the donation. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-29T20:11:13Z Stephon Castle named NBA Rookie of the Year as second straight Spurs player wins the award The Spurs now have back-to-back Rookie of the Year winners in Stephon Castle and Victor Wembanyama. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-29T23:28:54Z NBA Hall of Famer Steve Nash joins Amazon Prime's NBA broadcast team alongside Dirk Nowitzki, Blake Griffin: Report Hall of Fame point guard Steve Nash will take on a new role in media as he joins Amazon Prime's NBA broadcast team next season. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-29T20:01:52Z Minnesota Vikings sign linebacker Andrew Van Ginkel to 1-year, $23 million extension: Reports The Minnesota Vikings and linebacker Andrew Van Ginkel agreed to extend his tenure with the team for another year. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-29T21:56:07Z After rough first month with the Yankees, reliever Devin Williams takes a step forward Williams, who was removed from the closer role over the weekend, pitched a clean eighth inning on Monday. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-29T19:08:20Z 2025 Fantasy Football Rankings: Quarterbacks The Yahoo Fantasy Football crew reveals their quarterback draft rankings for the 2025 season. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-29T14:20:44Z With NCAA-House settlement hanging in balance, a new roster limit proposal has emerged A plan is emerging to permit schools to voluntarily grandfather-in roster spots, sources tell Yahoo Sports. But questions loom on a move that would potentially impact budgets, Title IX and more. Will the plan be enough for the judge to approve the settlement? Yahoo Sports 2025-04-29T15:15:55Z NBA considering replacing All-Star Game with international competition: 'U.S. versus rest of the world' Adam Silver is looking to tweak the NBA All-Star Game once again. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-29T15:49:33Z Heat need more than culture to get out of basketball purgatory The Miami Heat don't believe in tanking. But maybe they should. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-29T16:22:28Z Shedeur Sanders taken off at least 3 NFL Draft boards due to 'entitled' attitude, Boomer Esiason claims Some NFL teams were reportedly willing to let Shedeur Sanders go undrafted. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-29T13:18:22Z Bills GM Brandon Beane expresses frustration on radio after being criticized for not drafting a receiver Brandon Beane is sick of hearing about the Bills' wide receivers. Yahoo Sports 2025-04-28T19:57:03Z Advertisement Advertisement NFL NBA MLB NHL Golf WNBA NCAAF NCAAB Daily Draw Fantasy Sports NCAAW Soccer Racing Collectibles Women's Sports Combat MMA Boxing Wrestling Tennis College Sports Horse Racing UFL Cycling Sportsbook Olympics Cricket Rivals What & How To Watch Yahoo Sports AM Newsletters GameChannel Videos RSS Jobs Help More News Help Share Your Feedback About Us About Our Ads Follow us on Download our app © 2025 Yahoo. All rights reserved.