Trump's Inaugural Approval Rating Is Historically Low Again Notice: JavaScript is not enabled. Please Enable JavaScript Safely . skip to main content About Us Careers Contact Us Subscribe Workplace Advisory Our Expertise Employee Engagement & Experience Organizational Culture Leadership Development 2 Talent Identification & Hiring Customer Centricity Wellbeing 3 CliftonStrengths for Organizations AI Adoption Science of Teams View More Our Platform Gallup Access Platform Q12 Survey Employee Surveys CliftonStrengths About CliftonStrengths How Does CliftonStrengths Work? What Are the 34 Themes? What Are the 4 Domains? View More Reports Find the Right Report CliftonStrengths 34 CliftonStrengths Top 5 CliftonStrengths for Students View All Reports Coaching How to Become a Coach Courses for Coaches Find a Coach Quick Links Articles, Videos & More CliftonStrengths Insights Newsletter Podcast Leading With Strengths Research & Polling How We Help Clients Custom Survey Research Global Research U.S. Research Strategic Communications View More Our Research State of the Global Workplace Global Emotions World Happiness Global Leadership Global Safety Custom Research Partnerships Products & Insights Gallup Analytics Platform Gallup U.S. Pulse Public Data Sets Global Indicators Quick Links Latest News & Articles Polling Trends A-Z Our Research Impact Our Methodologies Federal Government Solutions Education Solutions Courses & Events Courses Gallup Global Strengths Coach Gallup Manager Program Engagement Champions View More Learning by Role Leaders & Managers HR Professionals Coaches Certification & Credits Gallup-Certified Strengths Coach Professional Credit Hours Quick Links Webinars & Events News & Insights 1 Gallup News Key findings and trends from 90+ years of public opinion polling. Workplace Insights Our latest analytics and advice on the key issues facing leaders. Global Indicators Employee Engagement Employee Retention & Attraction Leadership & Management Life Evaluation Index View More Newsletters Front Page CliftonStrengths Insights View More Quick Links Latest Reports & Perspectives Polling Trends A-Z Shop About Us Careers Contact Us Subscribe Gallup Workplace Advisory Our Expertise Employee Engagement & Experience Organizational Culture Leadership Development 2 Talent Identification & Hiring Customer Centricity Wellbeing 3 CliftonStrengths for Organizations AI Adoption Science of Teams View More Our Platform Gallup Access Platform Q12 Survey Employee Surveys CliftonStrengths About CliftonStrengths How Does CliftonStrengths Work? What Are the 34 Themes? What Are the 4 Domains? View More Reports Find the Right Report CliftonStrengths 34 CliftonStrengths Top 5 CliftonStrengths for Students View All Reports Coaching How to Become a Coach Courses for Coaches Find a Coach Quick Links Articles, Videos & More CliftonStrengths Insights Newsletter Podcast Leading With Strengths Research & Polling How We Help Clients Custom Survey Research Global Research U.S. Research Strategic Communications View More Our Research State of the Global Workplace Global Emotions World Happiness Global Leadership Global Safety Custom Research Partnerships Products & Insights Gallup Analytics Platform Gallup U.S. Pulse Public Data Sets Global Indicators Quick Links Latest News & Articles Polling Trends A-Z Our Research Impact Our Methodologies Federal Government Solutions Education Solutions Courses & Events Courses Gallup Global Strengths Coach Gallup Manager Program Engagement Champions View More Learning by Role Leaders & Managers HR Professionals Coaches Certification & Credits Gallup-Certified Strengths Coach Professional Credit Hours Quick Links Webinars & Events News & Insights 1 Gallup News Key findings and trends from 90+ years of public opinion polling. Workplace Insights Our latest analytics and advice on the key issues facing leaders. Global Indicators Employee Engagement Employee Retention & Attraction Leadership & Management Life Evaluation Index View More Newsletters Front Page CliftonStrengths Insights View More Quick Links Latest Reports & Perspectives Polling Trends A-Z Shop Search Toggle navigation Overview Politics Election 2024 Presidential Job Approval The Presidency Government Foreign Affairs View All Politics Economy Business Entrepreneurship Personal Finance Retirement Small Business View All Economy World Americas Asia Pacific Europe Middle East & North Africa Sub-Saharan Africa View All World Key Topics All Trends Abortion Alcohol & Drugs Education Guns Immigration LGBTQ+ Race Relations Religion Wellbeing Women & Gender Blogs & Opinion Polling Matters The Gallup Blog Chairman's Blog Gallup Vault Methodology Blog Media Resources Media Center Media Inquiries Methodology Center Center on Black Voices Gallup Reports Subscribe About Gallup and Our Services Access Log In Politics Trump's Inaugural Approval Rating Is Historically Low Again Share on LinkedIn Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Share via Email Print Share on LinkedIn Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Share via Email Print Politics January 29, 2025 Trump's Inaugural Approval Rating Is Historically Low Again Americans divided over whether Trump's pace in addressing major U.S. problems is about right or too fast by Megan Brenan WASHINGTON, D.C. -- At 47%, President Donald Trump's initial job approval rating for his second term is similar to the inaugural 45% reading during his first term, again placing him below all other elected presidents dating back to 1953. Trump remains the only elected president with sub-50% initial approval ratings, and his latest disapproval rating (48%) is three percentage points higher than in 2017, marking a new high for inaugural ratings. ###Embeddable### Trump’s current job approval rating, from Gallup’s Jan. 21-27 poll, is not significantly different from the 51% readings earned by George H.W. Bush and Ronald Reagan in the early days of their presidencies. However, initial evaluations of Trump differ in that Americans are much more likely to disapprove of his performance rather than have no opinion, as was the case for the elder Bush and Reagan. John Kennedy had the highest inaugural approval rating, at 72%, followed closely by Dwight Eisenhower and Barack Obama, who both had strong starts with 68% readings. Jimmy Carter received a 66% approval rating, while Richard Nixon, Bill Clinton, Joe Biden and George W. Bush had ratings between 57% and 59%. Although Trump’s latest rating is weak compared with past presidents’ initial readings, it is among the best he has received as president. His personal high point during his first term was 49%, which he earned on several occasions in 2020. Trump averaged 41% approval in his first term and is the only president not to receive a job rating of 50% or higher at any point in his presidency. He left office in January 2021 with the lowest rating of his presidency , 34%, after the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol. Trump’s Approval Rating Remains Politically Polarized As was the case during his first term, Trump’s current job rating is sharply polarized, with 91% of Republicans approving, compared with just 6% of Democrats and 46% of independents. This 85-point gap between Republicans and Democrats is similar to the average 81-point gap throughout his first term. It is also close to Biden’s 87-point gap at the beginning of his term in 2021. At the start of Trump’s first term, partisans’ approval ratings were separated by 76 points (90% of Republicans vs. 14% of Democrats) -- whereas prior to that, the gaps in partisans’ initial approval ratings of new presidents ranged from 24 to 56 points. ###Embeddable### Americans Split Over Trump’s Speed in Addressing Major U.S. Problems Trump began his second presidential term by signing a record number of executive actions targeting a wide range of policy areas, including immigration, defense and the military, foreign policy, the environment, and government efficiency. The poll was completed before the Trump administration initiated a pause on trillions of dollars of grants, loans and other federal financial assistance, which was later temporarily blocked by a federal judge and then rescinded by Trump. At the time of the poll, Americans were divided in their views of Trump’s pace in addressing the major problems facing the country today, with 40% saying it is “about right,” 37% saying it is “too fast” and 14% saying it is “not fast enough.” The broad majority of Republicans (83%) think his pace is about right, while 61% of Democrats think he is moving too fast. Independents’ views are similar to the national average. ###Embeddable### Although Trump has signed more executive actions this year than he did in the first 100 days of his first term, Americans were more inclined in 2017 than they are now to say he was moving too fast (47%). Republicans are now seven points more likely than they were in 2017 to say Trump’s actions are about right. Democrats are now less likely to say Trump is moving too fast (-12 points) and more likely to think he is not moving fast enough (+11 points). Gallup asked this question about just one other president’s pace -- Obama in 2009. At that time, a majority of Americans, 63%, said it was about right. The rest were more likely to say Obama was acting too fast (22%) than not fast enough (10%). Bottom Line Most presidents have experienced a “honeymoon period,” with strong job approval ratings in the initial months of their presidencies that then fade as time passes. Trump did not enjoy such a traditional honeymoon period in his first term, as the 45% of Americans who expressed approval of him in the initial reading in 2017 was not much higher than his 41% term average. Initial approval ratings for all elected presidents since Eisenhower, not including Trump, averaged 61%. Trump is starting his second term just like the first, with Americans evenly divided over how well he is doing his job. Slightly more now have an opinion one way or the other -- but his current 47% approval rating is still lower than initial readings for all other modern presidents, aside from his first rating in 2017. Trump’s fellow Republicans overwhelmingly approve of the job he is doing so far and think his speed in addressing major problems in the U.S. has been about right. His support from Republicans and independents is slightly higher than what it was in 2017, while Democrats’ support is even lower. While there is no single way to define a presidential honeymoon, Trump’s approval ratings in the coming months will test one common standard -- if his ratings go down for a sustained period, his initial ratings will look elevated by comparison. Presidential honeymoons are often defined retrospectively in this way. To stay up to date with the latest Gallup News insights and updates, follow us on X @Gallup . Explore President Trump’s approval ratings and compare them with those of past presidents in the Gallup Presidential Job Approval Center . Learn more about how the Gallup Poll Social Series works. View complete question responses and trends (PDF download). ###Embeddable### Survey Methods Results for this Gallup poll are based on telephone interviews conducted by ReconMR Jan. 21-27, 2025, with a random sample of 1,001 adults, aged 18 and older, living in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia. For results based on the total sample of national adults, the margin of sampling error is ±4 percentage points at the 95% confidence level. All reported margins of sampling error include computed design effects for weighting. Each sample of national adults includes a minimum quota of 80% cellphone respondents and 20% landline respondents, with additional minimum quotas by time zone within region. Landline and cellular telephone numbers are selected using random-digit-dial methods. In addition to sampling error, question wording and practical difficulties in conducting surveys can introduce error or bias into the findings of public opinion polls. Subscribe to the Front Page newsletter for weekly insights on the world's most pressing topics. ( * ) Required * Email Address * Country or Region Select One United States of America Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia (Plurinational State of) Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory (the) Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands (the) Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands (the) Colombia Comoros Congo (Kinshasa) Congo Brazzaville Cook Islands (the) Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic People's Republic of Korea Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (the) [Malvinas] Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories (the) Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See Honduras Hong Kong S.A.R. of China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao S.A.R. of China Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands (Kingdom of the) New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Macedonia Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territories Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan (Province of China) Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Türkiye Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe * This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Related Topics Include: USA All Gallup Headlines Government Political Parties Politics Presidential Job Approval The Presidency Access Crucial Data for Your Research Search, examine, compare and export nearly a century of primary data. Learn More about Access Crucial Data for Your Research Recommended Politics Dec 27, 2024 Trump Transition Ratings Better the Second Time Around A slim majority of U.S. adults approve of the way Donald Trump is handling his presidential transition, but more rate his Cabinet picks negatively than positively. Politics Jan 16, 2025 GOP Holds Edge in Party Affiliation for Third Straight Year Americans' political party preferences remain closely divided, with Republicans having a slight edge in party ID and leaning for the third consecutive year. Politics Jan 17, 2025 Biden Job Approval Second Lowest Among Post-WWII Presidents Joe Biden's last job approval rating as president is 40%. His 42.2% average for his term is the second lowest in Gallup records. Politics Jan 2, 2025 Highest Hopes for Trump on Immigration; Lowest, on Unity Of 17 policy goals, Americans are most optimistic about Donald Trump's ability to control immigration and most pessimistic about his ability to heal political divisions in the U.S. January 29, 2025 Gallup  https://news.gallup.com/poll/655955/trump-inaugural-approval-rating-historically-low-again.aspx Gallup World Headquarters, 901 F Street, Washington, D.C., 20001, U.S.A +1 202.715.3030 Gallup LinkedIn Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Methodology Center Senior Scientists Trends A-Z George Gallup About Us Careers Locations News Store Media Center Gallup Speakers Customer Support Contact Us Subscribe to Our Latest Insights Sign Up Copyright © 2025 Gallup, Inc. All rights reserved. Cookie Preferences Privacy Statement Legal Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information California Collection Notice