Marvel's Spider-Man 2 - PS5 Exclusive | PlayStation (US) Overview Story recap Gameplay What's new in Marvel's Spider-Man 2? PC FAQs Marvel's Spider-Man 2 Sony Interactive Entertainment Available on PS5 $69.99 Game Trial Subscribe to PlayStation Plus Premium to play a 2-hour full game trial Add to Cart Add to Wishlist Add to Cart Add to Wishlist Released 10/20/2023 1 player PS5 Version Vibration function and trigger effect supported (DualSense wireless controller) PS5 Pro Enhanced Game Help supported PS5 game streaming supported only with Premium subscription Blood, Drug Reference, Mild Language, Violence In-Game Purchases Game overview BE GREATER. TOGETHER. Spider-Men, Peter Parker and Miles Morales, return for an exciting new adventure in the critically acclaimed Marvel’s Spider-Man franchise for PS5. Swing, jump and utilize the new Web Wings to travel across Marvel’s New York, quickly switching between Peter Parker and Miles Morales to experience different stories and epic new powers, as the iconic villain Venom threatens to destroy their lives, their city and the ones they love. MARVEL'S SPIDER-MAN 2 KEY FEATURES An evolution of the Spider-Man story The incredible power of the symbiote forces Peter and Miles to face the ultimate test of strength, both inside and outside the mask, as they balance their lives, friendships and their duty to protect those in need. Experience two playable Spider-Men Quickly swap between both Spider-Men as you explore an expanded Marvel’s New York. Battle iconic Marvel Super Villains Fight against a variety of new and iconic villains, including an original take on the monstrous Venom, the ruthless Kraven the Hunter, the volatile Lizard and many more! Visit an expanded Marvel’s New York Explore a larger Marvel’s New York than ever before, featuring two new boroughs – Brooklyn and Queens – as well as locations like Coney Island and more. MARVEL'S SPIDER-MAN 2 KEY FEATURES An evolution of the Spider-Man story The incredible power of the symbiote forces Peter and Miles to face the ultimate test of strength, both inside and outside the mask, as they balance their lives, friendships and their duty to protect those in need. Experience two playable Spider-Men Quickly swap between both Spider-Men as you explore an expanded Marvel’s New York. Battle iconic Marvel Super Villains Fight against a variety of new and iconic villains, including an original take on the monstrous Venom, the ruthless Kraven the Hunter, the volatile Lizard and many more! Visit an expanded Marvel’s New York Explore a larger Marvel’s New York than ever before, featuring two new boroughs – Brooklyn and Queens – as well as locations like Coney Island and more. AVAILABLE ON PLAYSTATION STORE Editions: Standard Edition Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 $69.99 Add to Cart Add to Wishlist Add to Cart Add to Wishlist Digital Deluxe Edition Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Five unique suits for Peter. Five unique suits for Miles. Additional Photo Mode items. 5 Skill Points. Early Unlock Suits and Gadget $79.99 Add to Cart Add to Wishlist Add to Cart Add to Wishlist Buy Marvel's Spider-Man 2 on Blu-ray disc Marvel's Spider-Man 2 Launch Edition for PS5 Buy now Marvel's Spider-Man 2 Collector's Edition for PS5 Buy now Lightning fast switching Seamlessly switch between Peter and Miles. Web Wings Feel a breathtaking sense of speed like never before. Dynamic wind tunnels Look out for these tunnels to get an epic boost of height and speed. THE ULTIMATE VILLAIN. UNLEASHED. Master the dual force of both Spider-Men to destroy him in an epic battle for the ages. Characters CALL ON OLD FRIENDS... Peter and Miles still have their ride-or-dies close at hand... Rio Morales Some know her as Miles’ cool mom, but most know City Councilwoman Rio Morales for her tireless work to make Marvel's New York a better and safer place. MJ Watson She isn’t just a reporter for the Bugle, she’s also an integral member of the Spider-team, showing that heroes don’t need superhuman abilities. Ganke Lee Miles' best friend, confidant, and partner in heroism. Ganke was the second person Miles told about the whole Spider-Man thing. Norman Osborn Harry’s dad, co-founder of the world’s biggest tech company, and disgraced former mayor of Marvel's New York. He’s a pathological liar but he would do anything to help Harry. Harry Osborn Norman Osborn’s son. He has been away for the last few years dealing with the same disease that killed his mom, but he's back with a new lease on life. Hailey Cooper Community activist, street artist and one of Miles’ closest friends. She's creative, funny, intelligent, and compassionate – especially if you ask Miles. ...TO HELP FIGHT NEW FOES Will their bonds be strong enough to resist the force of fierce new villains? Venom This hulking, powerful beast has arrived in Marvel's New York like a twisted natural disaster. The city has seen a lot over the years, but nothing quite like this. Kraven A mysterious force of nature, it’s unclear yet who this “Kraven” is. He’s clearly here with a purpose. The Spider-Men just need to stop him before they find out what that is. Dr. Curt Connors (The Lizard) Pete met the 10-foot-tall, out-of-control "Lizard" in college. Nowadays, Dr. Connors has moved on from his past and is Harry Osborn’s personal doctor. EXPLORE BOTH SIDES OF THE RIVER Dive into the bustling underbelly of Marvel’s biggest ever playable New York City as Miles and Peter span across Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens. Click and drag the image to explore. Click on the icons to learn more. Marvel's New York Spider-Man 2 PS5 features FEEL CLOSER TO THE ACTION Stunning visuals Explore beautiful and vibrant new environments, like the boroughs of Queens and Brooklyn, as Marvel’s New York is brought to life in spectacular fashion. Haptic feedback Feel the power of Spider-Man! The responsive vibrations of the DualSense™ wireless controller bring Peter Parker’s symbiote abilities and Miles Morales’ bio-electric skills to your fingertips. Adaptive triggers Master acrobatic moves, execute thrilling combos and experience the breathtaking excitement of web-swinging traversal through the DualSense wireless controller’s adaptive triggers. Ultra high-speed SSD Experience the power of the PS5 console with lightning-fast load times for near-instant character switching across different parts of the city, fast travel and new Web Wing traversal for quicker exploration of Marvel’s New York than ever before. Tempest 3D AudioTech Become immersed in Marvel’s New York as 3D spatial audio creates unique soundscapes all around you. Pinpoint the sounds of webs, bio-electric powers, bustling traffic, responsive New Yorkers and dangerous enemy attacks. 1 Learn more about PS5 GALLERY Check out screenshots from Marvel's Spider-Man 2. Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Limited Editions Discover the range of Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Limited Edition PS5® products with a symbiote takeover design inspired by the game. Find out more PLAYSTATION 5 CONSOLE – MARVEL'S SPIDER-MAN 2 BUNDLE Experience Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 with PS5 innovations. Feel the force of web-swinging with adaptive triggers, while haptic feedback responds to Peter Parker’s new symbiote abilities and Miles Morales’ evolved bio-electric skills. Buy now © 2023 MARVEL © 2023 Sony Interactive Entertainment Inc. All rights reserved. Design and specifications are subject to change without notice. MARVEL'S SPIDER-MAN 2 FAQs Where does this game exist in the Marvel’s Spider-Man timeline, and do I need to play other games in the franchise first? Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 takes place roughly nine months after the events of Marvel’s Spider-Man: Miles Morales – which is set a year after the Marvel’s Spider-Man story. You can enjoy Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 without prior story or character knowledge, but we recommend you explore previous titles to fully experience the emerging narrative. Marvel’s Spider-Man , and Marvel’s Spider-Man: Miles Morales are available to buy at PlayStation™Store and direct from PlayStation. Is Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 connected to the stories in the Spider-Verse movies? Well not directly, but if you keep your eyes peeled you may spot some very cool Insomniac Games Easter eggs in Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. Go see the movie, it’s brilliant. Which Super Villains can I fight? Spider-sense tingling? Mask-up and swing into action against a true rogue’s gallery of the biggest Super Villains in Marvel’s bustling roster of bad guys. Take on brutal world-famous explorer, Kraven the Hunter; vicious reptilian creature, Lizard; a symbiote-infused Venom unlike anything you’ve ever seen before, and many more to be discovered. Is this a multiplayer game, with players controlling one of the Spider-Men each? Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 is a single player game. But you can play as both Peter Parker and Miles Morales, switching between the heroic Spider-Men on your crime-fighting adventures to experience their individual gameplay abilities and story elements. What other Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 accessories are available? Don’t miss out on the Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 themed limited edition DualSense™ wireless controller, PS5® console covers, and the PlayStation®5 console + game bundle. Available direct from PlayStation in select regions and while supplies last. Is there a Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Collector’s Edition? There absolutely is! Available while supplies last – this bumper box includes a 19-inch statue of both Spider-Men taking on Venom, a game voucher code and SteelBook® display case. It also comes with extra suits, early unlock bonus items, extra skill points, and Photo Mode items. Buy it now direct from PlayStation. Previous titles TIME TO CATCH UP Marvel's Spider-Man Remastered Remastered and enhanced for PS5™ console – experience the complete award-winning adventure with updated visuals and immersive new features. Find out more Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales Experience the rise of Miles Morales as the new hero masters incredible, explosive new powers to become his own Spider-Man. Find out more Explore the Marvel's Spider-Man franchise Rating and Reviews Global player ratings ★★★★★ ★★★★ ★★★ ★★ ★ Editions Filter By Sort by: Sign In to Rate Only owners of this game can rate it. Rate Your Rating Change Rating No ratings and reviews. Be the first to rate! Be the first to add a rating and review Your review Share your thoughts and help other players in the community. Delete Spoiler Platform: PS5 Release: 10/20/2023 Publisher: Sony Interactive Entertainment Genres: Action Voice: English, French (France), Portuguese (Brazil), Spanish (Mexico) Screen Languages: English, French (France), Portuguese (Brazil), Spanish (Mexico) The standard price of this product is $69.99 Online features require an account and are subject to terms of service and applicable privacy policy (playstationnetwork.com/terms-of-service & playstationnetwork.com/privacy-policy). Software subject to license (us.playstation.com/softwarelicense). You can download and play this content on the main PS5 console associated with your account (through the “Console Sharing and Offline Play” setting) and on any other PS5 consoles when you login with your same account. ©2024 MARVEL. ©2024 Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC. Developed by Insomniac Games, Inc. Home Games Marvel's Spider-Man 2 About About SIE Careers PlayStation Studios PlayStation Productions Corporate History of PlayStation Products PS5 PS4 PS VR2 PS Plus Accessories Games Values Environment Accessibility Online safety Diversity, equity & inclusion Support Support hub PlayStation Safety PSN Status PlayStation Repairs Password reset Manuals Resources PSN terms of service PS Store cancellation policy Age ratings Health warning Developers Glossary Connect iOS app Android APP Join our playtesting program © 2025 Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC All content, games titles, trade names and/or trade dress, trademarks, artwork and associated imagery are trademarks and/or copyright material of their respective owners. All rights reserved. More info United States Legal Privacy policy Website terms of use Site map Do not share my personal information