Stop reverting back to Diablo 3 - PC General Discussion - Diablo IV Forums Diablo IV Forums Stop reverting back to Diablo 3 PC General Discussion Melkor-1258 September 5, 2024,  6:59am 1 Don’t throw away the hard work you’ve done to make Diablo 4 better.  In defense of your new systems being similar to Diablo 3 you recently said in your campfire chat something like “If Diablo 3 did it right we might borrow that.” I’m here to remind you that Diablo 3 did ALMOST NOTHING RIGHT!  That is why people only played for 2 days every 3 months after a new season came out.  The torment system sucked.  Itemisation sucked (looking at you World of Warcraft item power system.  Yes, it’s still a problem in D4 that’s why you had to change how resists worked and item bases are almost meaningless.  That’s also why you have to do a number crunch and many, many other problems if you stop and think about it.)  Greater rifts sucked and were exceptionally boring.  Stacking main stat sucked and is lazy game design.  Level 60 (then 70) max level sucked.  Being one shot by white mobs if you didn’t dedicate every single item slot to damage reduction sucked.  Being one shot if your 3 second buff of %5000000 damage reduction fell off sucked.  I could go on for days. That is why we begged you to not do these things in Diablo 4 during it’s development.  Diablo 4 wasn’t great at launch but you have done a ton of work to make it better and S4 and S5 are the best it’s been.  Thank you for that. NEWS FLASH: The Pit is NOT why the game is better.  Stop pissing on us and telling us it’s raining, it’s insulting.  The Pit is just Greater Rifts renamed and is the worst system in the game.  Why you aren’t replacing it with Infernal Hordes is unfathomable.  Now you are forcing us in there again by attaching Glyph XP to it.  Why?  We have tolerated The Pit because we hoped it would be temporary until you could make a better endgame system. Paragon boards are capped at 5 now.  This might work, it might not. I fail to see how more glyph levels and clicking on more stat squares will make the game better.  You want us to click on the Rare nodes or legendary powers?  Make them more interesting and compelling.  Some of the legendary nodes are either useless or so far out of the way it’s not worth it.  Rare nodes are boring.  What do we get if we meet some Dex or Int requirement on a Druid?  Literally %10 more of the same exact stat.  At the very least you could make it a different stat or something like AOE, dodge, resource related etc. Take a damn risk!  Literally almost everytime you have taken risks in D4 they have payed off! Please keep moving forwards not backwards. 15 Likes BaalMelqart-1113 September 5, 2024,  7:05am 2 Melkor: Don’t throw away the hard work you’ve done to make Diablo 4 better. In defense of your new systems being similar to Diablo 3 you recently said in your campfire chat something like “If Diablo 3 did it right we might borrow that.” Thanks for your thoughts, they were interesting to me. -I was around for them but did not play Diablo entries at the time. I was annoyed by the idea and wanted them to focus on warcraft, starcraft games. This is the first Diablo game I played. I feel a bit caught up now after 5 seasons but… I do not have the experience of earlier Diablo entries. -I don’t know that I agree with the rest of your thoughts though. I currently plan on giving the changes a try and THEN seeing how I feel. Strider-22835 September 5, 2024,  8:27am 3 I have never played D3, so I am fine with D4 becoming D3. SCRSCRSCR-2415 September 5, 2024,  8:33am 4 Melkor: Please keep moving forwards not backwards Basically agree with everything, tho i kinda liked new paragon. it could be good. Game become absolute trash with all this D3 changes, tbh game was D3 and now imho they just stop hiding it. Melkor: In defense of your new systems being similar to Diablo 3 you recently said in your campfire chat something like “If Diablo 3 did it right we might borrow that.” This was kinda ridiculous cuz D3 basically  did nothing right except QoL stuff, which somehow they forget to add in D4. 1 Like TerrAWerrA-6467 September 5, 2024, 10:20am 5 Melkor: The Pit is just Greater Rifts renamed and is the worst system in the game. Precisely the reason why I stopped playing Diablo 3 after Malthael’s expansion and introduction of these Greater Rifts. I actually liked the Vanilla game up until update 1.6 (which then was Tomb Runs with Skorn barb or firebat voodoo guy). I loved perma-archon and initial inferno levels (prior to the torment system). The cessation of the auction house also put me off to some degree but I persisted with the game until finally realising this is not for me. Fear this game is heading down a similar path with lack of ingenuity and funds to sustain a proper lasting title. pprandom-1480 September 5, 2024,  4:17pm 6 I think the problem is the lack of a central game mechanic, instead you have several isolated things to do. Rifts to improve equipment ranks, bosses to get mythics, levels to get skills, then paragon to get boards, dungeons to get glyphs, etc. So it s a bunch of ideas sawn together and balancing like a circus act. Part of the problem is the boring static way items work, wich means you can t have a complex itemization system like in D2 or PoE and to compensate they just separate progression into different gimmicks. 1 Like Kaelos-21487 September 5, 2024,  4:23pm 7 Strider: I have never played D3, so I am fine with D4 becoming D3. D3 allowed PoE to take over hack n slash genre. Despite selling well because of title alone it’s a massive fail in the long run. 1 Like fmlannes-1179 September 5, 2024,  4:31pm 8 If it wasn’t already apparent to you over the past year, the developers have no vision of what they want their game to be. they tried in the beginning, but as we all saw it didn’t turn out so well and lost the vast majority of their playerbase. So to their credit, after some resistance, they somewhat humbled themselves and started to just listen to whatever the players were telling them to do and be led around any direction by the player base. Every once in a while,they tried to come up with their own ideas which again almost always proved terrible and they’d revert back to listening to the players. Now, after over 1 year since release, i think they realized they really can’t keep going the way its been going and since they cannot come up with original ideas that actually make the game fun and listening to the million directions the players are telling them to go, they finally decided to just say f**** it, we’ll just go back to D3. Alot of D3’s features have already been implemented into the game since the very start anyway, so why not just go all out and just copy it entirely. Its better than having no direction at all or having a bunch of players who have no idea of the internal workings telling them what to do. KidIcarus45s-1588 September 5, 2024,  4:38pm 9 Too late, myself and many alike have left this game.  It is trash, far, too easy, nothing really to grind for.  Yeah, a Blind Monkey with one hand can max out a character in a day, what challenge is this.  Hence, I put down D3 due to after one week playing, not dying ONCE and having the world full of rainbows, yeah I put it down. This game is a dark masked over version of D3, sad but true.  Gone is the beauty the magic that was games like Diablo 2, in part due to greed and Micro Transactions and Battle Passes added, for simply generating revenue.  Gone is the fact, it was a challenge to UNLOCK an area, or a this or that. Greed is enter and taken over the video game empire. Diablo Immortal success, this is like the red headed step child, DO THEY REALLY, REALLY CARE?  I do not think so, I think if you go back and watch over videos.  You will see CONTANT changes, you will also see blatant disregard to us, the fans of the franchise.  Yes, old head here, and yes, I have moved on…    Sad… I miss playing Madden, I miss playing Call of Duty, I miss playing NBA Sim Basketball Games, I miss true ARPG… ALL such titles have been ruined… and turned into Gaming Casinos… THIS IS NOT DIABLO… THIS IS ROB FERGUSON… Dressed up in his suit of CEO Greed and manipulation. And evidence by the vast majority lacking free will, strength fall back.  Hence 2k just came out and so many streamers who vowed to quit due to greed last year in the 2k game, well, they all coming back, forgetting last year. Sad but true and I will be attacked, so be it…   Folks soft in here. 2 Likes FroZen-1796 September 5, 2024,  5:37pm 10 Sadly, its to late, its slowly progressing to systems that are in D3. Character creation screen is the nearly the same now. We have torment difficulties which in beta, I had a feeling that this game would eventually go the route of Torment +. The game struggles to find what it wants to be… 1 Like Ichewith-1598 September 5, 2024,  5:41pm 11 The torment change is about the only thing I do like, don’t have to worry about everything being nerfed into the ground because most people are bad at the game, now you can stay in the lower ranks while real gamers get a challenge also. Never played d3 and don’t want to, Paragon change was probably the dumbest change to date might as well get rid of them and just give us the stats as we level FroZen-1796 September 5, 2024,  5:49pm 12 Diablo 3 never had Torment when it came out. It had inferno, which eventually got changed / renamed to Torment. However with paragon in that game it was practically infinite so players were steam rolling torment levels and thus they had to keep introducing them. I’d say if you’d never played it, you are kind of right now just missing diablo in demon stilettos. Most of the end game systems are in D4 right now. Glyphs are just like the gems leveled in D3 Rift aka D4 Pits now. Both have RNG to fail the higher level they are for the upgrade chances. Sure D3 had greater rifts, but that was just difficulty / timer like the Pit it was just combined for D4 into 1 system. BehindTimes-1460 September 5, 2024,  5:53pm 13 Nothing should ever be locked.  You want to play T4 at Level 1?  You should be able to.  It’s just that you’re going to die. Would some builds be able to take T4 earlier than others?  Of course.  But there shouldn’t be a penalty for being good. (If they want to penalize something like power leveling though, that’s different.  That’s not leveling up through skill.  There’s a difference between leveling up quickly through skill vs leveling up through exploiting game mechanics.) 1 Like Ichewith-1598 September 5, 2024,  5:54pm 14 Yea I agree there, they shouldn’t be locked behind the boring pit, the difficulty change is what I like about it, honestly could make torment 4 a lil harder imo OliveShark-3410 September 6, 2024, 12:08am 15 The main problem is what ever different content you do in the game, you will see the similar type of mobs or the reskinned version . That’s how the game start become boring. 1 Like Home Categories Guidelines Terms of Service Privacy Policy Powered by Discourse , best viewed with JavaScript enabled