Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/WonderWoman A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to WonderWoman r/WonderWoman r/WonderWoman ★READ THE RULES BEFORE POSTING★  — — — A place to discuss and share all things Wonder Woman including comics, characters, movies, TV, video games, fan art, merchandise, etc. Members Online • [deleted] In Defense Of Wonder Woman 1984 false Disclaimer: I can understand why some people did not like the movie but I'm simply here to talk about why I enjoyed it and why I think the widespread hate for it online is rather unfair Well, I went into this movie with absolutely zero expectations. In fact, I wasn't even planning in watching it because the trailer made me cringe a bit with Barbara saying, "I want to be an Apex Predator." But I decided to tag along with the rest of the family to watch the movie,  and I came back rather entertained. I quite liked it, and I thought it was a step in the right direction for both Female Led Superhero movies and the DCEU in general. I've been routinely disappointed by Female Led Superhero movies of late be it Captain Marvel or even the first Wonder Woman movie which I thought was just okay. This is owing to the rather weak characterization and a lack of compelling character dynamics or character exploration. The first Wonder Woman movie for me was rather generic to me with a vaguely explored  world threatening villain and some stock characters in the form of the pretty love interest (Steve Trevor), the bumbling sidekick that makes the hero look good (Etta Candy), the evil villain who wants to destroy the world (Ares), like it was probably good and leaps and bounds better than Captain Marvel but not really all that memorable to me. But It was a decent film. This movie's opening had me a bit skeptical because the continuity error about Diana's training, but nonetheless, I loved the fact that she lost and the Queen did not engage in any nepotism. And how Antiope tells Diana that life isn't about winning and that it's about being honest and fair. Which is sort of the overarching theme of the entire movie. And we have this wonderful montage with Wonder Woman stopping a robbery and saving some kids. Which is something I enjoy watching in superhero movies where They're just doing their job and helping  the community. And What I loved about Diana's Characterization is how much she has grown since we last saw her, she so much more wise, mature and seasoned as a person, and I love how men just shamelesslt ask her out whenever they see her and she just politely declines really sort of highlighting most men's behaviour towards women in that era, where women were seen as people that you could potentially date rather than people you could potentially platonically befriend. And I love how the Barbara character stands as a sort of anti-thesis to Wonder Woman, Diana is confident whereas Barbara is shy, Men constantly flirt with Diana, but ignore Barbara, Diana is charming and sociable, whereas Barabara is insecure and socially awkward. Diana chose solittude,  whereas Barbara struggles with loneliness . It sort of highlights how isolation is not really specific to men and there are women out there who feel that societal isolation as well.  What I didn't like was that they didn't make her look believable because she looked just as pretty before her "transformation" as compared to after. I would have preferred it if she was skinny/chubby and had acne. So it would make more sense and also sort of bring about more representation of diverse bodytypes in mainstream film. She and Diana seemed to have every compelling buddy dynamic that could have been explored a bit more but they did a mostly fine job with the time they had. I really liked the movie also exploring how much women face the danger of sexual assault while being out after dark and made me think about  how there might not always be a Wonder Woman to save you in real life and how much of a problem that is. And I also wanted to talk about the relic in the movie, and how I liked how he writers used it and showed us it's effects as compared to how relics usually operate in movies, there's always a world ending device in Superhero  movies and I was wondering how they would use this one. And They did a surprisingly good job with it. I love the fact that it takes away that which is most important to someone after it grants their wish. And actually explores the idea that, that what we most desire and that what we need aren't always one and the same. And I loved Diana losing her powers because it actually gave some weight and raised the stakes of the action, speaking of which I've read complaints about the physics of the action sequences are off, and all I have to say is, I watch superhero movies for how they entertainingly bend the laws of physics to give us intriguing and creative  action sequences, and I thoroughly enjoyed the tank chase sequence, the white house fight scene and the opening scene with the bank robbers. If John Wick can force a pencil all the way through someone's body like it's made of paper, Diana can rescue some children without her arms cracking from the tremendous pressure of swinging from her Lasso. The consequences of the relic are tangible, terrible things that could very well happen in real life. Death, ethnic discrimination and genocide, being on the brink of nuclear Armageddon, are much more easier to imagine than half the population disappearing due to the snap of a finger. Speaking of which I absolutely loved Pedro Pascal as Maxwell Lord in this film, a sneaky, manipulative, convining, charismatic and dishonest oil baron whose lies are catching up to him and he desperately needs to get ahead. And I loved the relationship he had with his son and how it humanizes him, you really feel for him and understand who he truly is when he desperately tries to convince his son that he is not a loser. You understand that he cares about things like commercial success and public approval and that he believes that the only way people will respect and approve of him is, if he is rich and powerful. And he further chases that power and influence to the point where it literally and figuratively starts destroying him. I personally loved how it ended because, she is given the choice of killing Lord and Just keeping her wishes, keeping Steve, but she knows that the rest of the world is in turmoil over their wishes, I mean that was the reason why that ancient civilization collapsed, they couldn't let go of their personal desires for the greater good and they all died along with their rest of the people. And I think her using her words to reach out to Maxwell rather than trying to kill him and convincing him of the humanity that he was letting go of chasing wealth and power. And them sort of giving you a glimpse if why he is the way he is  through that montage where they show that he had an abusive father, he was bullied because of his race and his economic status and really exposing that void of pain and lack of self acceptance that really sort of is the root cause of all his ill advised actions. And he sees his son as a way he can redeem himself and be a better father than his own. Which really sort of echoes the theme of the movie about how public approval and power and commercial success does not guarantee self satisfaction. And What better time to explore that than the decade of commercial success and decadence, far away from the impending economic recession? I also loved the introduction of the Invisible jet and that scene where Diana learns to harness the winds and fly was incredibly beautiful. Overall, Wonder Woman 1984 was a well written film, full of heart and human themes and characters and had a bit of camp to it but I I'll take camp over cringey, melancholy edgelordism any day. I'll give it an 8/10. I loved this movie and I'm not ashamed that I do. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 8, 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2021 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics