Rami Malek reflects on Bohemian Rhapsody's filming issues Search Latest News TV Reality TV US TV Movies Soaps Showbiz Tech Digital Spy 25th Anniversary Digital Spy Holidays Features All Videos Newsletter Forums Follow About Us Write For Us Cookies Policy Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content TV Movies Soaps Tech News Forums Newsletter Havoc ending Buy new DS magazine Alison Hammond outfits You season 5 review Hollyoaks' shock comeback Movies Latest News Rami Malek reflects on Bohemian Rhapsody's filming issues Rami Malek reflects on Bohemian Rhapsody's filming issues "Something extraordinary happened." By Tasha Hegarty Published: 08 November 2020 It's been well documented that Queen biopic Bohemian Rhapsody didn't have the easiest path to the big screen after numerous behind-the-scenes issues. Initially, Sacha Baron Cohen was set to star as lead singer Freddie Mercury, before pulling out due to creative differences with Queen. Rami Malek was then cast in the role with Bryan Singer on board to direct, however Singer was fired partway through filming after he failed to return after Thanksgiving break, while there were rumours of clashes with Malek on set. What to Read Next According to the actor in an interview with GQ Magazine , the tense atmosphere on set actually brought the cast closer together. 20th Century Studios "Something extraordinary happened, where we all rose to the occasion," Malek said. "We developed a natural dependency on one another to make something great and look after each other. I forged friendships that I know I will have for the rest of my life. Full stop." Malek then managed to persuade Eddie the Eagle 's Dexter Fletcher to come on board as director to finish the movie – with quite a pitch. Fletcher said: "He said to me at one point, quite passionately, 'Look, you could shit in the middle of the set and everybody would still think you're great.' It was a funny but bold statement to make it. "It just let me know how passionate and committed he was and how bad he felt things were going." 20th Century Studios Related: Queen star explains why Bohemian Rhapsody sequel isn't happening right now When he arrived on set, Fletcher noticed that the cast and crew seemed to look up to Malek as a leader. "It was his compassion and caring, that inclusive, supportive nature, that meant the rest of the gang entrusted him with that position as their mouthpiece." After all the drama behind the scenes, Bohemian Rhapsody became one of the most successful rock biopics of all time and broke box office records set by Marvel , as well as winning four Academy Awards. Digital Spy has launched its first-ever digital magazine with exclusive features, interviews, and videos. Access the latest edition with a 1-month free trial, only on Apple News+ . Interested in Digital Spy's weekly newsletter? Sign up to get it sent straight to your inbox  – and don't forget to join our Watch This Facebook Group for daily TV recommendations and discussions with other readers. Tasha Hegarty Tasha is a freelance writer for with a particular interest in the representation of women in film and TV. After graduating with a Literature degree then journalism qualifications with News Associates a few years further back than she’d like to admit, Tasha began her freelance career.  She’s worked as a writer, editor and commissioning editor for a number of publications including Digital Spy . She is also a theatre critic. LinkedIn Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Latest News Hollyoaks stars on Lucas's future after diagnosis Hollyoaks airs car crash as storylines collide Corrie to reveal suspect for Lauren blackmail Anticipated horror movie gets first trailer Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Corrie to air major change in Dee-Dee baby plot EastEnders reveals heartbreak as The Vic reopens Our Yorkshire Farm star on "scary" family decision Emmerdale rebound fling ahead for Ross Barton Death in Paradise shares big new-season update Corrie villain to return despite death plot Perfect series finally added to free UK streaming David Arquette breaks silence on Scream 7 return Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Features Exclusives US TV Reality TV Soaps Spoilers Coronation Street EastEnders Emmerdale Home and Away Hollyoaks Casualty Neighbours Waterloo Road Doctors Black Friday Gaming Showbiz LGBTQ+ Spy Star Wars Marvel Anime Doctor Who WWE Netflix Disney+ Apple TV+ Prime Video NOW DIGITAL SPY, PART OF THE HEARST UK ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2025 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved. RSS About & Contact Details Terms &amp; Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Complaints Sitemap Advertising Cookies Choices