Ashleigh Barty Wins the Wimbledon Women’s Singles Final | Vogue Skip to main content Search Search Fashion Beauty Culture Living Weddings Runway Shopping Chevron Video Vogue Club PhotoVogue Met Gala Fashion Beauty Culture Living Weddings Runway More Chevron Open Navigation Menu Menu Sports Ashleigh Barty Wins the Wimbledon Women’s Singles Final By Liam Hess July 10, 2021 Photo: Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Earlier today on Centre Court at London’s All England Club, the Australian world number one Ashleigh Barty triumphed over the Czech player Karolína Plíšková in this year’s Wimbledon Championships , receiving the women’s singles trophy after a thrilling match that saw both players at the height of their powers. While Barty managed to take an early lead in all three games, the rollercoaster came as Plíšková mustered up a few sets into both the first and second games to fiercely fight back, even taking the second game in a nail-biting tiebreak. (The final score was 6-3, 6-7 (4), 6-3.) Photo: Getty Images It marks Barty’s second career Grand Slam title after she won the French Open in 2019. But alongside the prize money of just under $2.4 million, the victory carried a more personal significance, too. The player has previously remarked that winning Wimbledon was a childhood dream of hers, and one that looked in jeopardy after she was forced to retire from the French Open last month due to a hip injury incurred during a second-round match. There was, it’s safe to say, little evidence of any ongoing troubles, with Barty in fighting form all throughout the tournament. The Duchess of Cambridge presents Barty with the Wimbledon trophy. Photo: Getty Images “This is incredible,” said Barty following the match, before thanking her competitor Plíšková in a speech that saw her visibly emotional. “I have to start with Kara. Congratulations to you on a fantastic tournament, and to your team. I love testing myself against you, and I’m sure we’ll play in many, many more matches. I genuinely have to thank every single person in this stadium, you have made my dream so special, so thank you so much.” It may have been Barty’s first victory at Wimbledon, but after her powerhouse performance today, you can be sure it won’t be the last. Liam Hess is American Vogue ’s senior lifestyle editor, overseeing coverage of homes, travel, food, design, parties, and weddings remotely from London. Between editing stories, he can also be found writing about music, film, books, and reviewing fashion collections in London for Vogue Runway. Previously, he has worked at Dazed, i-D, ... Read more Living Editor Topics Wimbledon Tennis Read More Celebrity Style Wake Up—Coco Gauff Just Debuted a Designer Collaboration By Nick Remsen Celebrity Style Blake Lively Brings Prom Night to the Red Carpet By Anna Cafolla Shopping You’re Going to Love-Love These Tennis Bracelets By Vogue Music Happy Birthday, Celine Dion! 20 Vintage Images of the Canadian Chanteuse By Emma Specter Royals Beatrice Borromeo Pays Homage to Grace Kelly in Dior Couture at the Monaco Rose Ball By Giacomo Aricò Celebrity Style The Real March Madness Winners? These NCAA Women’s Basketball Coaches By Hannah Jackson The latest fashion news, beauty coverage, celebrity style, fashion week updates, culture reviews, and videos on Vogue.com. Facebook X Pinterest Instagram Tiktok More from Vogue Newsletter Manage Account Verify Subscription Contact us About Vogue Careers Projects Vogue Archive Forces of Fashion Vogue College of Fashion See More Stories Fashion Beauty Culture Living Runway Shopping Magazine Gift Guides Best of Sale User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Accessibility Help Masthead Visual Stories © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty Select international site United States LargeChevron Adria Arabia Australia Brasil Britain China Czechoslovakia España France Germany Greece Hong Kong India Italia Japan Korea México Nederland Philippines Polska Portugal Scandinavia Singapore Taiwan Thailand Türkiye Ukraine