how the DRAW is calculated? | Talk Tennis Forums New posts Search forums What's new Featured content New posts New profile posts Latest activity Members Current visitors New profile posts Search profile posts Equipment Men Women Improve Log in Register What's new Search Search Everywhere Threads This forum This thread Search titles only Note By: Search Advanced search… New posts Search forums Menu Log in Register Install the app Install Forums Competitive Tennis Talk General Pro Player Discussion JavaScript is disabled. For a better experience, please enable JavaScript in your browser before proceeding. You are using an out of date browser. It  may not display this or other websites correctly. You should upgrade or use an alternative browser . how the DRAW is calculated? Thread starter Thread starter VolklVenom Start date Start date Jun 19, 2005 V VolklVenom Semi-Pro Jun 19, 2005 #1 how is a tournament draw calculated? Is it a pure lottery (balls drawn out of a hat), or do they somehow calculate an even distribution of high seeded players between the 2 legs (or whatever they are called)? I would think that the organisers would try to spread the higher seeded players evenly between the 2 legs, otherwise the tournament would be skewed? V VolklVenom Semi-Pro Jun 19, 2005 #2 doesn't anybody know the answer to this? G GrassCourtFan Legend Jun 19, 2005 #3 Well, first they place the top seed in the top spot and then second seed directly opposite him. Then they take seeds 3 and 4 and randomly (balls out of a hat) place them into the two remaining "semifinal slots" so that if everyone wins as expected, 1 will play either 3 or 4 in the semifinal, and 2 will play the other one. Then, they take seeds 5-8 and randomly place them in the four remaining "quarterfinal slots," so that 1-4 play 5-8 in the quarterfinals, not necessarily evenly distributed. And so on - 9-16 are randomly picked to face 1-8 in the round of 16, and then if there are 32 seeds then 17-32 are randomly distributed so that they meet 1-16 in the 3rd round. Then the rest of the players (qualifiers, lucky losers, wildcards, direct acceptances) are randomly distributed among all of the other slots. There are generally public draw ceremonies, for the majors at least and probably for other tournaments too; I think it's ball-out-of-hat type thing. B barry Hall of Fame Jun 20, 2005 #4 VolklVenom The Wimbledon Committee selects the seeds. Hewitt is ranked 2 in the world, and has beeat Roddick this year, but the committee placed Roddick as the number 2 seed. Also the committee placed Hewitt in the same side of the draw as Federer and Safin. So I would say the draw is skewed, by committe. So much for random, I am sure the do the ball thing until they get the draw they want. High profile players sell more tickets, and advertising. America is the largest TV market, need I say more. Wimbledon should eliminate the committe and seed by ranking, all 128 players. G gully Professional Jun 20, 2005 #5 barry said: VolklVenom The Wimbledon Committee selects the seeds. Hewitt is ranked 2 in the world, and has beeat Roddick this year, but the committee placed Roddick as the number 2 seed. Also the committee placed Hewitt in the same side of the draw as Federer and Safin. So I would say the draw is skewed, by committe. So much for random, I am sure the do the ball thing until they get the draw they want. High profile players sell more tickets, and advertising. America is the largest TV market, need I say more. Wimbledon should eliminate the committe and seed by ranking, all 128 players. Click to expand... You're fudging again, Barry, like you do in almost every one of your posts on the subject. The "committee" does not place a number 3 seed in a particular half.  After 1 and 2, the seeds are placed AT RANDOM in the approrpriate positions: e.g. #3 in one half, #4 in the other.  The fact that you don't like it doesn't make it fixed.  Sure, Hewitt would have liked to have been in the half opposite from Fed; so would the other 62 players in Fed's half. VolklVenom asked a reaonable question and deserves a straight -- and FACTUAL -- answer, not your half-baked consipiracy theories and inaccuracies.  Wimbledon is the only ATP/ITF tourney to use a formula based on enrty rankings, rather than the actual rankings themselves, to determine seeds, and the placement of those seeds after 1 and 2 is ALWAYS drawn at random.  The formula, if you're interested, has been posted in other threads in this forum; it is the same formula as used last year. And, BTW: NO ONE agrees with your idea to seed all 128.  NO ONE.  It's a dumb idea, and it's not getting any less dumb with each of your 128 iterations of it. C Chadwixx Banned Jun 20, 2005 #6 hey gully u can be the first one to explain to me how "random" works.  if u think they still draw names out of a hat ur mistaken.  there have been ppl in the past telling me how the draws are random and in public, but im yet to see a link or any proof of it. barry's point gully is that every other activity that uses a tournament bracket (a draw) places seeds 1vs8 and so on.  tennis is the only sport (activity) that is using the tournament format in a way in wasnt intended.  it always seems to favor the marketable players.  to call that random is absurd. Fee Legend Jun 20, 2005 #7 Yes, the draws are random, and yes they are drawn out of a hat or whatever.  This is true for almost every tournament, and most of the draw ceremonies are public.  The only one that isn't done this way that I can think of is the Australian Open.  They use some computer program, but the ITF sanctioned it, so it must be relatively fair. As for a link, well your connection is faster than mine.  Check the sites for the fall tournaments in Europe, they are the only ones I can think of off the top of my head with photos of their draw ceremonies.  It was one of those tournaments that a friend of mine went to a few years back and was actually asked to draw one of the names.  They used a big silver bowl instead of a hat. G gully Professional Jun 20, 2005 #8 Chadwixx said: hey gully u can be the first one to explain to me how "random" works.  if u think they still draw names out of a hat ur mistaken.  there have been ppl in the past telling me how the draws are random and in public, but im yet to see a link or any proof of it. Click to expand... Well, what would constitute proof to you?  Shall I invite you to the PUBLIC DRAW CEREMONY for this year's US Open? Or ... will the fact that they have one, in public, with slots in the draw completed at random, every year, with officials, press, and various luminaries in attendance, with the time and place announced in the media in advance ... would THAT suffice? Or do you need links? Here are some photos of the 2004 US Open Ceremony, for instance: http://www.un.org/av/photo/unhq/tennisdraw250804.htm Search Google for tennis + draw + ceremony and you'll find dozens of links and explanations.  I don't know if every ITF/ATP event has one -- can't speak for Doha, for instance -- but they're commonly a perk for boxholders. Max's explanation was perfectly cogent.  Not to mention correct.  You can continue to believe what you wish, no matter how much clear logic and how many verifiable facts you encounter. G gully Professional Jun 20, 2005 #9 Chadwixx said: barry's point gully is that every other activity that uses a tournament bracket (a draw) places seeds 1vs8 and so on.  tennis is the only sport (activity) that is using the tournament format in a way in wasnt intended.  it always seems to favor the marketable players.  to call that random is absurd. Click to expand... Believe me, dude, I understand Barry's point completely.  And like the ATP, the ITF, and pretty much the rest of the world, I find it laughable.  Like I said earlier this year, you two need to take this up with the ATP.  And when you get a response, be sure to post it here for our amusement. T Tennis Ball Hitter Semi-Pro Jun 20, 2005 #10 Chadwixx said: barry's point gully is that every other activity that uses a tournament bracket (a draw) places seeds 1vs8 and so on.  tennis is the only sport (activity) that is using the tournament format in a way in wasnt intended. could someone please explain what this means. Click to expand... Click to expand... B barry Hall of Fame Jun 22, 2005 #11 gully Maybe you should read this article, it might help you understand. http://www.tsn.ca/tennis/news_story.asp?id=128500 G gully Professional Jun 22, 2005 #12 barry said: gully Maybe you should read this article, it might help you understand. http://www.tsn.ca/tennis/news_story.asp?id=128500 Click to expand... Thank you for the link.  I read it yesterday.  Too bad you were unable to refute my point or continue the argument, and instead reverted to your usual tactic: the non sequitor. OF COURSE Pat Cash doesn't like Hewitt's draw. (Since when has he not had an opinion?)  ANd who the ** is Judy Dalton?  What does it matter what she thinks?    Does the article prove your point -- that the seeding is stacked, the draws are rigged, and the "committee" is to blame?  NO.  It proves one thing, and one thing only: that Pat Cash is unhappy with the results of the draw. It also proves, I might add, your total and utter inability to make your poiint, proven here and elsewhere, and your tactic of pointing to random -- but wholly unauthoritative -- links on the topic rather than attempting to refute or respond to others' arguments is pathetic. B barry Hall of Fame Jun 22, 2005 #13 gully Obvious you can read but you cannot comprehend: "But while the other majors also decided to seed in line with the rankings, Wimbledon devised its own formula for selection, which factored in grasscourt results over the past couple of years as well as rankings." Second point Pat Cash comments: "I think it's a real slap in the face," the 1987 champion told BBC Sport.  "It's not fair that they are changing it around - the guys work all year to get rankings to win the Grand Slams ... He should have stayed No. 2.  He is a Wimbledon champion. He is the 2005 Australian Open finalist.  It has certainly given Roddick a boost that I don't think he deserves over Hewitt. The rankings are there for a reason.  They are fair." Third point, sound like we are moving into the right direction "Not so long ago, only 16 players were seeded at each of the majors, with the organizing committees of each one choosing how to seed them.  But when Alex Corretja missed out on a seeding at Wimbledon after reaching the final of the French Open in 2001, matters came to a head.  As a result the number of seeds in both men's and women's singles was doubled to 32." If you still do not understand, don't bother to respond, educating the ignorant is not my thing! Yours!05 Professional Jun 22, 2005 #14 Second point Pat Cash comments: Click to expand... That's enough on its own to sink any argument. Long since given up working out which axe Cash is grinding every time he opens his mouth. G gully Professional Jun 22, 2005 #15 barry said: gully Obvious you can read but you cannot comprehend: "But while the other majors also decided to seed in line with the rankings, Wimbledon devised its own formula for selection, which factored in grasscourt results over the past couple of years as well as rankings." Second point Pat Cash comments: "I think it's a real slap in the face," the 1987 champion told BBC Sport.  "It's not fair that they are changing it around - the guys work all year to get rankings to win the Grand Slams ... He should have stayed No. 2.  He is a Wimbledon champion. He is the 2005 Australian Open finalist.  It has certainly given Roddick a boost that I don't think he deserves over Hewitt. The rankings are there for a reason.  They are fair." Third point, sound like we are moving into the right direction "Not so long ago, only 16 players were seeded at each of the majors, with the organizing committees of each one choosing how to seed them.  But when Alex Corretja missed out on a seeding at Wimbledon after reaching the final of the French Open in 2001, matters came to a head.  As a result the number of seeds in both men's and women's singles was doubled to 32." If you still do not understand, don't bother to respond, educating the ignorant is not my thing! Click to expand... Barry, you know the one about the pot and kettle?  I don't post as many as most, but no one on this board has found me ignorant, and many have called you on it.  Quoting the article does not prove your point, and again -- for the umpteenth time -- Wimbledon is the ONLY ITF/ATP tourney to use a system other than the entry rankings to calculate seeds, and it does so with the application of a formula that weights grass courts more heavily.  The DRAW is done at random. The seeding formula is applied consistently to all top-32 players without prejudice.  Whether Hewitt or Roddick most deserves the #2 seed is debatable.  There are arguments for both.  That Cash thinks Hewitt deserves it means nothing, save for the fact that he happens to agree with you. Noelle Hall Of Fame Jun 22, 2005 #16 It might also bear mentioning that barry and Chadwixx have axes to grind, particularly against the #2 seed at Wimbledon. 'Nuff said. Hops Rookie Jun 22, 2005 #17 Max G. said: And so on - 9-16 are randomly picked to face 1-8 in the round of 16, and then if there are 32 seeds then 17-32 are randomly distributed so that they meet 1-16 in the 3rd round. Click to expand... not quite.  seeds 17-24 are drawn to face seeds 9-16; seeds 25-32 to face seeds 1-8. Fee Legend Jun 22, 2005 #18 Where was Pat Cash last year when the Wimbledon seeding formula benefitted Hewitt and moved him UP two places? C Chadwixx Banned Jun 22, 2005 #19 Noelle said: It might also bear mentioning that barry and Chadwixx have axes to grind, particularly against the #2 seed at Wimbledon. 'Nuff said. Click to expand... there is a little more to it than that noelle.  if it were one thing thats acceptable, but when four things happen that all play towards roddicks favor u gotta scratch ur head. 1.  hewitt was mis seeded. 2. they conviently did the 1vs3 2vs4 semi final pairings. 3. they seeded nadal (who has never won a grass court match) above safin. 4. they placed safin in the top half they mix up the seeds to where they want them until it comes time for hewit safin (#4 vs #5 =9 as it should for all quarter final matches).  all of these things play to roddicks favor on a grass court. G gully Professional Jun 22, 2005 #20 Chadwixx said: 1.  hewitt was mis seeded. Click to expand... Debatable.  He's a 2002 champion, but that was three years ago.  No tourney gives seeds based on three-year-old accomplishments.  Roddick's credentials are at least as strong.  The formula weights the last two years on grass, where Roddick is much better. Chadwixx said: 2. they conviently did the 1vs3 2vs4 semi final pairings. Click to expand... In random draw of seeds, this phenomenon will occur 50 percent of the time.  That it hasn't happened TO YOU doesn't mean too much. Chadwixx said: 3. they seeded nadal (who has never won a grass court match) above safin. Click to expand... So what?  Safin hasn't accomplished much on grass before now.  Again, they applied the formula equally to all players. Chadwixx said: 4. they placed safin in the top half Click to expand... Bad luck for Marat, but this was, again, a RANDOM DRAW, not a "placement." Chadwixx said: they mix up the seeds to where they want them until it comes time for hewit safin (#4 vs #5 =9 as it should for all quarter final matches).  all of these things play to roddicks favor on a grass court. Click to expand... And in your mind, that proves a conspiracy.  Well, at least you've got Barry on your side.  And Pat Cash.  And a 1968 women's finalist no one's ever heard of.  Good company. R rhubarb Hall of Fame Jun 22, 2005 #21 Nadal has won grass matches, at Wimbledon 2003.  He beat Mario Ancic, a British player, and then lost in the third round to Srichaphan.   Better than Safin's performance last year, that's for sure, when he tanked against Tursunov. Anyway, the gap between Nadal and Safin was too big to close with the formula.  That's why Nadal got seeded 4. Edit:  Roddick drew Henman for his quarter-final, against whom he has a losing record (he has a winning one against Safin).  Surely if they were trying to make it easier for Andy they would have put Davydenko "I've never won a match on grass" in that section, or even Canas. Fee Legend Jun 22, 2005 #22 Chadwixx, you know the Wimbledon draw was done in public right? Oh, why am I bothering... Hops Rookie Jun 22, 2005 #23 Chadwixx said: 1.  hewitt was mis seeded. 2. they conviently did the 1vs3 2vs4 semi final pairings. 3. they seeded nadal (who has never won a grass court match) above safin. 4. they placed safin in the top half Click to expand... you forgot 5.  Ballboys urinating into Lleyton's oncourt supply of Buxtons 6.  British royalty turning their backs whenever and whereever Hewitt enters 7.  Extra funds from AELTC used to buy off Roddick opponents 8.  Roddick receiving oral pleasure from pair of lovely Page 3 girls after each match G GrassCourtFan Legend Jun 22, 2005 #24 Hops said: not quite.  seeds 17-24 are drawn to face seeds 9-16; seeds 25-32 to face seeds 1-8. Click to expand... Oh, they do? I didn't know! Thanks! J jhhachamp Hall of Fame Jun 22, 2005 #25 barry, I seriously hope that you are not a lawyer... R Rob_C Hall of Fame Jun 22, 2005 #26 barry said: gully Obvious you can read but you cannot comprehend: "But while the other majors also decided to seed in line with the rankings, Wimbledon devised its own formula for selection, which factored in grasscourt results over the past couple of years as well as rankings." Second point Pat Cash comments: "I think it's a real slap in the face," the 1987 champion told BBC Sport.  "It's not fair that they are changing it around - the guys work all year to get rankings to win the Grand Slams ... He should have stayed No. 2.  He is a Wimbledon champion. He is the 2005 Australian Open finalist.  It has certainly given Roddick a boost that I don't think he deserves over Hewitt. The rankings are there for a reason.  They are fair." Third point, sound like we are moving into the right direction "Not so long ago, only 16 players were seeded at each of the majors, with the organizing committees of each one choosing how to seed them.  But when Alex Corretja missed out on a seeding at Wimbledon after reaching the final of the French Open in 2001, matters came to a head.  As a result the number of seeds in both men's and women's singles was doubled to 32." If you still do not understand, don't bother to respond, educating the ignorant is not my thing! Click to expand... Seeding is meant to convey the chances the tournament director(s) think a person has of winning the tournament, as stated by the USTA. If the ITF has a similar view, then its perfectly acceptable that Roddick was seeded higher than Hewitt. And, its only difference of one position, but its huge in that Hewitt now has to face Federer, possibly, in the semis instead of in the finals. Pete Sampras has been seeded No.1 at the French, when realistically he had very little chance of winning and he definitely has never been the favorite to win the French. You can definitely argue that Roddicks recent grass court results have been better than Hewitt's. Roddick made the finals at Wimby last year, and the semis the year b4 that. Roddick has won Queens the last 3 years, beating Hewitt in the semis last year. Hewitt lost in the qtrs last year, and 1st rd the year before that. I dont think it makes that much of a difference unless you're focusing on ranking pts and prize money. Theoretically, Hewitt will still have to beat Federer & Roddick to win Wimbledon, if the seedings hold up. If Hewitt was seeded 2nd, Roddick had a 50% chance of being in his half to meet in the semis, so the order would be reversed. C Chadwixx Banned Jun 22, 2005 #27 rob c, u have forgotten about safin.  he is the big variable in this.  the way they did it hewitt now has to defeat safin, federer, and roddick to win the title.  he would have to beat 3 top 5 players in consequtive matches.  odds arent good, while roddick plays the weakest (by far) of the top 5.  realistically roddick will have to beat 1 top 5 player and hewitt/safin would have to defeat 3, and fed would have to beat 2.  not exactly in balance is it? gully, when all the variables go roddicks way u gotta wonder dont u? safin is only 400 pts behind nadal, i would think his recent grass court sucess would have put him over the top.  seeing how its nadal and wimbledon does seed to predict who can go the furthest.  certainly on paper safin has a much greater chance than nadal.  he did just lose to the current best grass courter in a tough 3 set final. D devila Banned Jun 22, 2005 #28 If Safin and Hewitt had won several titles, they would have no trouble maintaining high rankings.  Oh well. G GrassCourtFan Legend Jun 22, 2005 #29 Chadwixx said: rob c, u have forgotten about safin.  he is the big variable in this.  the way they did it hewitt now has to defeat safin, federer, and roddick to win the title.  he would have to beat 3 top 5 players in consequtive matches.  odds arent good, while roddick plays the weakest (by far) of the top 5.  realistically roddick will have to beat 1 top 5 player and hewitt/safin would have to defeat 3, and fed would have to beat 2.  not exactly in balance is it? gully, when all the variables go roddicks way u gotta wonder dont u? Click to expand... Not really. Sometimes they go with him, sometimes they go against him - it's the way things work. When he had to face Henman in the first round and ljubicic in the second, it seemed everything was against him. When he was supposed to face Karlovic in the second round, it seemed like that was against him too - and then he lost, and suddenly it seems easy again. That's the way it goes. At one Australian Open last year, Roddick ended up having to face Safin in a quarterfinal when Safin was unseeded and could have been in the other half. This year at Wimbledon Safin is in the other half. What makes one of these tournament draws more significant than another? Federer has as easy of a draw as Roddick, BTW. safin is only 400 pts behind nadal, i would think his recent grass court sucess would have put him over the top. Click to expand... "Recent Grasscourt Success?" Safin got to the final of ONE grasscourt tournament. Heck, CORIA did that last year, should he have been bumped up in seeding? Wimbledon does factor in grasscourt success, as follows - for seeding, they use a player's entry ranking PLUS a BONUS of all of the grasscourt points earned over the past year, as well as 75% of the grasscourt points from the year before that. That wasn't enough to get Safin anywhere near Nadal. How would you rather have the formula modified? seeing how its nadal and wimbledon does seed to predict who can go the furthest.  certainly on paper safin has a much greater chance than nadal.  he did just lose to the current best grass courter in a tough 3 set final. Click to expand... I find it ironic that you advocate that Safin should have been pushed ahead of Nadal for a single tournament final but are so vehemently against seeding Roddick ahead of Hewitt even though over the past three years, he's WON THREE grasscourt tournaments (that's 3 more than Hewitt) and did better than Hewitt at Wimbledon for the past two years. BTW, Nadal got two rounds FURTHER than Safin at last year's Wimbledon. So that partially cancels out the difference from the one tournament that Safin got to the final in. D devila Banned Jun 22, 2005 #30 Hewitt has been a pro since he was 15 years old.  He has won no real clay titles vs. top 20 players. His hardcourt titles have only come when he played no top 5 player between 2004-2005. His last grass title was in 2002, when his Wimbledon draw had no top 10 player. Next year, Hewitt won't be winning too many matches after opponents choke. You must log in or register to reply here. Similar threads V How Good is the AO Draw for Tennis Development? Visionary Feb 8, 2021 General Pro Player Discussion Replies 5 Views 341 Feb 9, 2021 Visionary V "Weak Draws" (and the like) - What's Your Solution? RaulRamirez Jan 29, 2019 General Pro Player Discussion Replies 23 Views 1K Jan 29, 2019 Tennis_Hands T the WTA side of the draw...  HORRIBLE!!! Superman1272 Sep 4, 2009 General Pro Player Discussion Replies 2 Views 599 Sep 4, 2009 eeytennis What is the difference between an easy draw and a tough draw? BladeDaywalker Jan 19, 2020 General Pro Player Discussion Replies 18 Views 2K Jan 19, 2020 Lleytonstation Making the hardest possible draw USO 2018 TripleATeam Sep 6, 2018 General Pro Player Discussion Replies 16 Views 868 Sep 6, 2018 Bender Share: Facebook X Bluesky LinkedIn Reddit Pinterest Tumblr WhatsApp Email Share Link Forums Competitive Tennis Talk General Pro Player Discussion Contact us Terms and rules Privacy policy Help Home RSS Community platform by XenForo ® © 2010-2025 XenForo Ltd. Back Top