Angelique Kerber defeats Serena for 1st Wimbledon title Open in Our App Get the best experience and stay connected to your community with our Spectrum News app. Learn More Open in Spectrum News App Continue in Browser Toggle navigation Tampa EDIT Watch Live | Recent Activity LOG OUT Recent Activity LOG IN Latest News Spectrum News App Headlines Pope Francis Storm Recovery Lottery Results Seen on 9 Public Safety Bay Area Gas Prices State National Entertainment News Education Health Red Tide News Justice For All Space Business Recalls Technology Trending Strange Your Mental Health Exploring Your Health High School Scholars SN Challenge Your County Pinellas Hillsborough Pasco Polk Manatee Hernando Citrus Weather Klystron 9 Radar Neighborhood Radars Tropical Update 7-Day Forecast Today's Forecast Watches & Warnings Get Alerts On Your Phone Send Us Your Weather Photos Current Conditions Sky 9 Cameras Marine Weather Travel Weather Pollen Forecast Weather Experts Blog Weather Explained Project Weather Climate Change Storm Season Politics Political News Elections / Voter Guide Political Connections The Big Deal with Errol Louis Washington, D.C. Bureau In Focus Traffic Real Time Traffic Map Traffic News Traffic Inbox Getting There Traffic Cameras Gas Prices Airport Arrivals/Departures Sports Sports News Tampa Bay Rays Tampa Bay Buccaneers Tampa Bay Lightning Tampa Bay Rowdies USF Bulls Florida State Seminoles Florida Gators High School Sports Kentucky Derby Things to Do On The Town Attractions Insider Florida on a Tankful Chef's Kitchen Community Calendar Submit an Event Good News Good News Florida Inspires Everyday Heroes Everyday Heroes Viewers' Choice Award A+ Teachers Feel Good Friday Our Journalists ACCOUNT LOG OUT Recent Activity ACCOUNT LOG IN Recent Activity Latest News Spectrum News App Headlines Pope Francis Storm Recovery Lottery Results Seen on 9 Public Safety Bay Area Gas Prices State National Entertainment News Education Health Red Tide News Justice For All Space Business Recalls Technology Trending Strange Your Mental Health Exploring Your Health High School Scholars SN Challenge Your County Pinellas Hillsborough Pasco Polk Manatee Hernando Citrus Weather Klystron 9 Radar Neighborhood Radars Tropical Update 7-Day Forecast Today's Forecast Watches & Warnings Get Alerts On Your Phone Send Us Your Weather Photos Current Conditions Sky 9 Cameras Marine Weather Travel Weather Pollen Forecast Weather Experts Blog Weather Explained Project Weather Climate Change Storm Season Politics Political News Elections / Voter Guide Political Connections The Big Deal with Errol Louis Washington, D.C. Bureau In Focus Traffic Real Time Traffic Map Traffic News Traffic Inbox Getting There Traffic Cameras Gas Prices Airport Arrivals/Departures Sports Sports News Tampa Bay Rays Tampa Bay Buccaneers Tampa Bay Lightning Tampa Bay Rowdies USF Bulls Florida State Seminoles Florida Gators High School Sports Kentucky Derby Things to Do On The Town Attractions Insider Florida on a Tankful Chef's Kitchen Community Calendar Submit an Event Good News Good News Florida Inspires Everyday Heroes Everyday Heroes Viewers' Choice Award A+ Teachers Feel Good Friday Our Journalists × Set Weather Location Get hyperlocal forecasts, radar and weather alerts. Please enter a valid zipcode. Save Confirm Your Location We automatically picked a Spectrum News market that we believe is most relevant to you. Tampa News and information that matter to your community Local weather forecasts Confirm Change Location You can change your news source and language at any time. Choose News Source & Language Select your news source and language for local Florida news stories. Local news coverage, weather forecasts, and developing stories impacting the Tampa community. Continue You can change your news source and language at any time. Change Location You can change your news source or language here at any time Spectrum Noticias ya está disponible en tu zona. Selecciona tu fuente de noticias abajo Spectrum Noticias ofrece una cobertura equilibrada de las historias relevantes para nuestra comunidad de Florida y todo país. Ir a Spectrum Noticias WEATHER FORECAST Hot and dry Friday HEALTH Fed up, Tampa vet says he opted out of VA system PUBLIC SAFETY Crews monitoring 40-acre Pasco County brushfire, which is mostly contained NFL DRAFT Buccaneers select wide receiver Emeka Egbuka with No. 19 pick in NFL draft POPE'S FUNERAL How to watch the funeral of Pope Francis EPIC UNIVERSE GUIDE An 'epic' adventure: what to know about Universal Orlando's Epic Universe FLORIDA ON A TANKFUL Apopka’s Rock Springs Run takes you through breathtaking emerald colored water WEATHER ALERT View full list of active weather alerts Germany's Angelique Kerber kisses the trophy after winning the women's singles final at Wimbledon, defeating Serena Williams 6-3, 6-3. (AP Photo/Tim Ireland) Angelique Kerber defeats Serena for 1st Wimbledon title BY Associated Press Europe PUBLISHED 1:24 PM ET Jul. 14, 2018 PUBLISHED July 14, 2018 @1:24 PM SHARE Angelique Kerber was so steady, so patient, so accurate throughout the Wimbledon final. She never really gave Serena Williams much of a chance. Kerber won her first championship at the All England Club and third major overall by playing cleanly as can be and picking her spots for big shots, beating Williams 6-3, 6-3 on Saturday. “I knew that I had to play my best tennis against a champion like Serena,” said Kerber, the first German woman to win Wimbledon since Steffi Graff in 1996. She prevented Williams from claiming an eighth title at Wimbledon and 24th from all Grand Slam tournaments, which would have equaled Margaret Court’s record. Williams gave birth only 10½ months ago, then was treated for blood clots. She wore special compression leggings as a precaution during Wimbledon, just the fourth tournament of her comeback. After all the time away, Williams spoke about being impressed with herself for just reaching the final. She also wanted to win, of course. “To all the moms out there, I was playing for you today — and I tried,” said the 36-year-old American, her voice shaking during the trophy ceremony. “Angelique played really well,” Williams said. “She played out of her mind.” Kerber made only five unforced errors the entire match, 19 fewer than Williams. Perhaps more impressive was this: She broke Williams in 4 of 9 service games. The 30-year-old German lost to Williams in the 2016 Wimbledon final. She beat Williams in the Australian Open final that year, then won that year’s U.S. Open to briefly replace her at No. 1 in the rankings. Kerber addressed Williams during the on-court interviews, saying: “You’re such an inspiration for everybody, for all of us. I’m sure you will have your next Grand Slam title soon. I’m really, really sure.” The final started more than two hours late, because they had to wait for the end of Novak Djokovic’s five-set victory over Rafael Nadal in a men’s semifinal that was suspended the night before. Williams’ play was tight right from the outset. After taking the opening two points, she made four miscues in a row to get broken. That was part of a run in which she dropped 8 of 9 points. The American was mostly her own undoing, too: She was responsible for the final’s initial six unforced errors. By the time the first set was over, the disparity was 14-3. That’s not going to work against an opponent of Kerber’s quality. Trying to sneak a ball by Kerber is something akin to trying to put one past a brick wall. There are no holes. The left-hander scurried along the baseline, this way and that, using a combination of quickness and anticipation to track down what often appeared to be winners for Williams but were not enough to end a point. Kerber would bend real low, even putting a knee right on the grass to get a ball back. And when she swung her racket, the measure was almost always true. That’s not to say Kerber is only about defending. She has added a more aggressive element to her game in recent years. That was on display Saturday when she delivered a pair of down-the-line forehand passing winners to collect the last break she’d need, for a 4-2 edge in the second set. Soon enough, she was down on the grass, celebrating the moment and caking dirt on her white dress. “It was such an amazing tournament for me. I was really happy to get this far,” Williams said. “It’s obviously disappointing, but I can’t be disappointed. I have so much to look forward to. I’m literally just getting started.” LATEST NEWS Spectrum News CONTACT ABOUT RSS SITEMAP CAREERS TERMS Your Privacy Rights CERTIFICATIONS ADVERTISE WITH US California Consumer Privacy Rights California Consumer Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information/Opt-Out of Targeted Advertising Spectrum News App © 2024, Charter Communications, all rights reserved.