Vanguard’s New CEO Says Advisors’ Jobs Are in Jeopardy WealthManagement.com is part of the Informa Connect Division of Informa PLC INFORMA PLC | ABOUT US | INVESTOR RELATIONS | TALENT This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726. Podcasts & Videos CE Webinars Research Newsletters Subscribe Subscribe News Related Topics RIA IBD Wirehouse RPA Insights & Analysis Regulation & Compliance Career Moves Recent in News See all SEC seal Industry News & Trends Jury Delivers Split Decision in SEC Trial Against Massachusetts RIA Jury Delivers Split Decision in SEC Trial Against Massachusetts RIA by Patrick Donachie Apr 25, 2025 3 Min Read Duke Haley, Clinton Carrier and Jeff Beck RIA Cetera Adds Advisors from Cambridge, PNC and Merrill Cetera Adds Advisors from Cambridge, PNC and Merrill by Alex Ortolani Apr 25, 2025 2 Min Read Investment Related Topics Alternative Investments Digital Assets Equities ETFs Fixed Income Investing Strategies Mutual Funds Real Estate SMAs Recent in Investment See All Apollo global management Industry News & Trends Apollo Aims for Everyday Investors With ‘New Markets’ Group Apollo Aims for Everyday Investors With ‘New Markets’ Group by Laura Benitez Apr 25, 2025 2 Min Read Stock market traders tariffs ETFs ETFs Tariff Impact on Stock Dispersion Creates New Opportunities for ETF Investor, Issuers Tariff Impact on Stock Dispersion Creates New Opportunities for ETF Investor, Issuers by Aniket Ullal, CFRA Research Apr 24, 2025 5 Min Read Wealth Planning Related Topics Estate Planning Financial Planning High Net Worth Insurance Philanthropy Retirement Recent in Wealth Planning See All thumbnail Sponsored Content Mid-Year Developments in Estate Planning Mid-Year Developments in Estate Planning Apr 14, 2025 1 Hr View thumbnail Sponsored Content Ask the Experts: Grow Your Practice with Philanthropy: Comparing DAFs and Private Foundations Ask the Experts: Grow Your Practice with Philanthropy: Comparing DAFs and Private Foundations Apr 10, 2025 Business Planning Related Topics Client Relations Growth Strategies Professional Development Diversity & Inclusion Recent in Business Planning See All Couple with their investment agent in a meeting. Sponsored Content 4 Keys To Maximizing Your Lead Gen ROI 4 Keys To Maximizing Your Lead Gen ROI Mar 13, 2025 1 Hr View RIA Edge Podcast Mark DeLotto Simon Quick Advisors RIA Edge RIA Edge Podcast: Building Wealth Firms That Last with Mark DeLotto RIA Edge Podcast: Building Wealth Firms That Last with Mark DeLotto by David Armstrong Apr 25, 2025 WealthTech Related Topics Artificial Intelligence Cybersecurity Support Platforms Recent in WealthTech See All Digital transformation concept. Sponsored Content Data Modernization Benchmarking Survey: The Winning Strategies of Data-Minded Leaders Data Modernization Benchmarking Survey: The Winning Strategies of Data-Minded Leaders Apr 8, 2025 An analyst uses a computer and dashboard for data business analysis and Data Management System Sponsored Content The Hidden Power of Your Data: Creating Smarter Client Experiences The Hidden Power of Your Data: Creating Smarter Client Experiences Mar 26, 2025 1 Hr View RIA Edge Trusts & Estates Events & Awards Related Topics WM Industry Awards Industry Calendar See All Sponsored By ETFs Client Relations Vanguard’s New CEO Says Advisors’ Jobs Are in Jeopardy Vanguard’s New CEO Says Advisors’ Jobs Are in Jeopardy Vanguard’s New CEO Says Advisors’ Jobs Are in Jeopardy Tim Buckley kicked off the Inside ETFs conference this week with a dire warning for those in the audience—embrace the inevitable fee erosion around asset management, or face extinction. Dan Weil January 23, 2018 4 Min Read The new CEO of Vanguard continued his predecessor’s warning for advisors: Adapt to the technological changes and fee compression roiling the investment management industry, or get left behind. Like everyone, financial advisors embrace technology, except when it comes to their own businesses, said Mortimer “Tim” Buckley, the 46-year-old CEO of the low-cost money-management titan as he kicked off the Inside ETFs conference in Hollywood, Florida on Monday morning. The conference brought some 2,400 asset managers and advisors together to chart the landscape for exchange traded funds. When it comes to the their own industry, he said, advisors still too often see technology as a threat. And it is, at least for advisors who charge clients primarily for an asset allocation plan. Buckley’s keynote came just weeks after Vanguard’s own Private Advisor Services announced it topped $100 billion in assets, making it among the fastest growing of all the automatic investment platforms that have come into the market in recent years. More to the point for conference attendees, Vanguard’s PAS matches clients who meet a $50,000 asset threshold with a live financial advisor to field questions and give advice, a service that puts it in competition with many at the conference. Related: The Future of ETFs: Content Is King During a press briefing after the keynote, Buckley pointed out that more than 90 percent of the assets in PAS were not new investors, but converted from the firm’s current direct account holders. He suggested that the automation of investment management was so easy, he could foresee a time when a PAS-type service was the “default” for all of the firm’s direct investors. But Buckley said there’s still a future for advisors who “embrace the disruption” and understand that their value lies not in asset management or allocation plans, but in managing client behavior, moving away from commission-based business models and toward fee-based advice. Those are the advisors winning the battle for investors’ assets. “You have dealt for a decade with the rise of fee-based advice. You have fueled the rise of low-cost investing.” Advisors must understand that with mutual fund and ETF fees coming down, they are often now the single highest cost for their clients, Buckley said. The issue is particularly germane, given Vanguard’s expectations of paltry market returns. The firm estimates a balanced portfolio (60 percent stocks and 40 percent bonds) will return 4 to 4.5 percent over the next decade, far behind the historical return of 8-plus percent. Related: Vanguard's New CEO Doesn't Like Reading Good News About His Firm The growth of robo advising foreshadows a lot of the changes in the advice industry, he said. It doesn’t matter which firms among the current crop of robo advisors survives and which don’t, he said. The change toward auto-allocation is not going to reverse. Buckley cited a recent University of Oxford study showing that 58 percent of investment advisor jobs are subject to automation. “They’re talking about jobs in this room,” he said. In the future, “this conference will be able to take place in a smaller hotel.” Four years ago, Vanguard calculated that advisors’ performance of three basic tasks generated significant value for clients’ investment portfolios. Low-cost portfolio construction added 40 basis points, rebalancing added 30 to 40 bps and tax efficiency added 80 to 100 bps. The more complicated task of behavioral coaching—making sure clients don’t chase returns, load up on bitcoin, etc.—added 150 bps. But now the three basic tasks have been automated, Buckley explained. Vanguard’s PAS, for instance, charges 30 bps. Advisors would be wise not to fight this trend, he said. “Either code it [the basic tasks] yourselves or partner with people who want to do it for you at a cheap price.” Currently, advisors are spending a hefty 40 percent of their time on those three job functions, Buckley said. So then how should advisors spend their time? “We suggest you spend it on uniquely human tasks,” he said. “Behavioral coaching is difficult to code.” When volatility returns to financial markets, some advisors’ customers will panic and others won’t even pay attention, Buckley said. “The behavioral coaching depends on you.” Then there are custom solutions advisors who can offer in areas such as estate planning, long-term healthcare and retirement. “You don’t measure that in basis points, you measure it in less anxiety” for customers, Buckley said. “It’s tough to pull off. You must spend time to know clients better.” How do your clients want to spend their time during retirement? Most of the retirees Vanguard sees underspend in retirement, because they are concerned about medical expenses and being a burden on their children, Buckley said. “Imagine if you can allay those fears. They can live better in retirement.” Advisors should learn everything about their clients—their children, the family business, their passions, he said. If you know these areas, it’s easier to create a structure for the human tasks, Buckley said. “These things are tough to measure, but have value. Your clients want to trust you, and they want communication, price and performance.” Try to provide all of it, he said. “Give them that grand slam. You can embrace this as an opportunity to free up more time to create better solutions for your clients.” For more coverage live from Inside ETFs, visit our conference coverage page . About the Author Dan Weil Dan Weil is a freelance financial writer. His work has appeared in The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg, Institutional Investor, Bankrate.com , Slate magazine, Newsweek.com and Tennis magazine. He has also worked as a reporter at Bloomberg, Reuters and Dow Jones. Dan graduated from Cornell University with a bachelor’s degree in history. He enjoys listening to Bob Dylan and The Band playing together. See more from Dan Weil You May Also Like RIA Edge 100: Growing Rapidly but Responsibly View List View List Latest news Stock market traders tariffs ETFs ETFs Tariff Impact on Stock Dispersion Creates New Opportunities for ETF Investor, Issuers Tariff Impact on Stock Dispersion Creates New ETF Opportunities Apr 24, 2025 Cryptocurrency coins and financial graph ETFs 14 Investment Must Reads for This Week (April 22, 2025) 14 Investment Must Reads for This Week (April 22, 2025) Apr 22, 2025 State Street Tower ETFs State Street Private-Debt ETF Scores No New Flows in Weeks State Street Private-Debt ETF Scores No New Flows in Weeks Apr 18, 2025 Sign Up for Newsletters Sign up to receive the latest insights, trends, and analysis. Subscribe now CE Webinars Sponsored Content What truly sets peak performing retirement plans apart? May 21, 2025 | 2:00 pm EDT Sponsored Content Mid-Year Developments in Estate Planning Jun 10, 2025 | 2:00 pm EDT Sponsored Content GrowthTech Summit: AI, Tech Stacks & Growth Strategies for Future-Ready Advisory Firms May 8, 2025 | 2:00 pm EDT Sponsored Content Ask the Experts: Grow Your Practice with Philanthropy: Comparing DAFs and Private Foundations Jun 3, 2025 | 2:00 pm EDT View more Sponsored Content Featured WMIQ Research Active & Passive Investments in Portfolio Construction: What Advisors Are Doing Now See how advisors are combining active and passive strategies for optimal portfolio results. Read more Wealth Management Edge Jun 10 - Jun 12, 2025 Jun 10 - Jun 12, 2025 A must-attend event for advisors focused on tech, investments, and strategies to drive growth. Book with code: SAVE10WM and save 10%. Register Today Trusts & Estates Magazine Read More Latest Digital Edition Trusts & Estates: May 2025 Digital Edition Feature on International Practice Estate Planning Designing Trusts for Maximum Flexibility Estate Planning Mental Health Counseling Payments From Trust Companies and Individual Trustees Estate Planning French Tax Residency: The 183-Days Myth Estate Planning Fiduciary Law Trends Get to Know Us About Us Contact Reprints Partner With Us Advertise Marketing Solutions Research Services Trusts & Estates Issue Archive Subscriptions Contact T&E Join Us Subscribe Follow Us Copyright © 2025 Informa Connect Limited. Registered in England & Wales with number 01835199, registered office 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG. CCPA: Do not sell my personal info | Terms of Use | Code of conduct events | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy