Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/soccer A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to soccer r/soccer r/soccer The football subreddit.   News, results, and discussion about the beautiful game. Members Online • [deleted] Theory: The 2014 World Cup Draw was Fixed. I believe the 2014 World Cup Draw was likely rigged to benefit a specific few teams: Brazil, Argentina, and France. Below I want to provide the speculative evidence that I think fits my theory, since it will never be proven beyond a shadow of a doubt. The Three Central Points I want to cite are - Lumping in the strongest teams together in the same Groups. The venue locations of certain games to benefit some teams over others. The bizarre placement of Italy into the "Special Pot" of the Draw. PART I: We know the biggest names in national football are Brazil, Argentina, Germany, Italy, France, Spain, Netherlands, Portugal, Uruguay, Chile, and England (roughly). Of those 11 teams, how many of them were placed together in the same Groups? 8 . Eight of them were concentrated into 3 Groups. Spain, Chile, and Netherlands in Group B, Italy, England, and Uruguay in D, & Germany and Portugal in G. The 2 that were spared tougher routes to the knockout rounds were Brazil and Argentina - the host nation & their main rivals. I believe having lopsided Groups was done for the big teams to eliminate each other, tire each other out, and subsequently be knocked out by Brazil or Argentina later on. PART II: If you look at the scheduling of Group games in Groups B, D, & G - all of them were in particularly hostile and humid climates. Venues in Fortaleza, Natal, Manaus, and Recife were the destinations for several European sides not used to such conditions. In contrast, all of Argentina's games were played in the much cooler South of the country. What's more, these matches effectively served as home games, as the Brazil-Argentina border was just a couple hundred miles away. I believe this ties into Part I, in wanting to tire out Brazil & Argentina's main opponents . Both South American giants wouldn't have a truly difficult opponent until the Semifinals under this format. Sure, Argentina meet Belgium, while Brazil meet Colombia - but keep in mind both opponents were relatively young and inexperienced, and FIFA surely banked on them getting found out in the Quarterfinals. It's rather convenient for Brazil and Argentina to meet two dark horses in the last eight. FIFA wanted the best teams in the World to pick one another apart. PART III: This is where it gets weird.... Few months prior to the draw, FIFA announced that the lowest ranked European team in November 2013 would be drawn into a tougher Group with a strong European side. According to their own flawed rankings of November 2013, this meant France were to be the lowest seeded side for Brazil. But.... just before the draw took place , FIFA announced the implementation of a "Special Pot", where they would pick the unlucky European side through a random draw instead. As we know, Italy were selected and placed into a monstrous Group D, whereas France were spared a more difficult route. If you don't think the last minute change of rules was odd, consider this -- France was then sorted into Group E - long considered the weakest Group of the entire tournament [Switzerland, Honduras, Ecuador]. The Swiss were among the 8 seeded teams that year. Their seeding was considered highly controversial . Add on top to this fact, it was the second World Cup in a row that the French found themselves landed into a Group with the weakest of the 8 seeded sides. France was sorted with hosts South Africa in 2010, the team everyone wanted to get. There is a 1/8 chance a team will get the lowest seeded side in their Group....yet it happened to France twice . France wouldn't have a difficult opponent until at least the Quarterfinals. Why? Jerome Valcke, part of Sepp Blatter's corrupt FIFA at the time, and Michel Platini, a rather shady dude in UEFA are both Frenchman. They almost certainly had a role in it. In conclusion, I think FIFA wanted Brazil, Argentina, and France to get to the Semis. Now of course, both Argentina and Brazil were unconvincing in that tournament and made hard work of getting there - but FIFA isn't psychic and couldn't have known that in advance. The groundwork was still there, only to be foiled by Germany and the Netherlands. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 27, 2017 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 2017 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2017 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics