A Complete Unknown - Golden Globes The Show Awards Database 2025 Nominations Winners/Nominees Carol Burnett Award Cecil B. DeMille Award History Golden Globes History About Award Rules and Entry Forms Media Info Publicist Info Voter Application Voter Biographies Membership Board of Directors Golden Globes Leadership Team Contact Us FAQs News Latest News Video Gallery Skip to content 82nd Annual Golden Globes® LIVE COVERAGE . Awards Database 3 Nominations 0 Wins A Complete Unknown “A Complete Unknown” (2024), directed by James Mangold, is a biographical drama that delves into the transformative early years of Bob Dylan’s career. The film chronicles Dylan’s journey from his arrival in New York City in 1961 to his groundbreaking and controversial electric performance at the 1965 Newport Folk Festival. Timothée Chalamet delivers a compelling portrayal of Dylan, capturing his evolution from a burgeoning folk artist to a revolutionary musical icon. The narrative also explores Dylan’s interactions with key figures of the era, including Joan Baez (Monica Barbaro) and Pete Seeger ( Edward Norton ), shedding light on the personal and professional relationships that influenced his artistic development. “A Complete Unknown” offers an intimate glimpse into the complexities of Dylan’s ascent, highlighting the challenges and triumphs that defined his early career. Role Credit Cast: Timothée Chalamet , Edward Norton Golden Globe Awards 2025 Nominee Best Motion Picture - Drama A Complete Unknown 2025 Nominee Best Performance by a Male Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama A Complete Unknown Timothée Chalamet 2025 Nominee Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in any Motion Picture A Complete Unknown Edward Norton Subscribe to Newsletter Email address Submit GG will store your name and email address and use them to send the Weekly Globe newsletter. Withdraw consent by clicking on the link in an issue. Read our Privacy Policy . Something went wrong! Please try again. Thank you for your submission! Tabulation proudly provided by KPMG LLP (US) The Show Awards Database 2025 Nominations Winners/Nominees Carol Burnett Award Cecil B. DeMille Award History Golden Globes History About Award Rules and Entry Forms Media Info Publicist Info Voter Application Voter Biographies Membership Board of Directors Golden Globes Leadership Team Contact Us FAQs News Latest News Video Gallery Golden Globe(s)®, Cecil B. Demille® and Golden Globes® Statuette design mark are the registered trademarks and service marks and the Golden Globe® statuette the copyrighted property, of Golden Globes, LLC. Copyright © Golden Globes, LLC. Hollywood Foreign Press Association® is a registered trademark of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. All rights reserved. Accessibility Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Adchoices Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices Dismiss Disclaimer Your Privacy Rights Golden Globes, LLC (“Golden Globes”) uses first and third-party technologies to enable PMC and third-parties to collect information about you and your interactions with our sites and services (including clicks, cursor movements and screen recordings). Learn more HERE . By continuing to use our sites or services, you agree to our Terms of Use (including the class action waiver and arbitration provisions) and Privacy Policy , which have recently changed. Search Search