Elon Musk | SpaceX, Tesla, Twitter, X, Trump, DOGE, & Facts | Britannica Money
History & Society
Science & Tech
Biographies
Animals & Nature
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
ProCon
Games & Quizzes
Videos
On This Day
One Good Fact
Dictionary
Lifestyles & Social Issues
Philosophy & Religion
Politics, Law & Government
World History
Health & Medicine
Science
Technology
Browse Biographies
Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates
Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates
Environment
Fossils & Geologic Time
Mammals
Plants
Geography & Travel
Entertainment & Pop Culture
Literature
Sports & Recreation
Visual Arts
Companions
Demystified
Image Galleries
Infographics
Lists
Podcasts
Spotlight
Summaries
Top Questions
#WTFact
Britannica Kids
Household Finance
Investing
Trading
Retirement
Companies
Biographies
Finance & the Economy
Table of Contents
Introduction & Quick Facts
Early life
PayPal and SpaceX
Tesla
X (formerly Twitter)
Politics and DOGE
Read More
X
Tesla, Inc.
Peter Thiel
Table Of Contents
Biographies
Entrepreneurs
Elon Musk
American entrepreneur
Print
Cite
Share
Links
Written and fact-checked by
The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica
The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica
Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors.
Updated:
Mar. 15, 2025
Table of Contents
Introduction & Quick Facts
Early life
PayPal and SpaceX
Tesla
X (formerly Twitter)
Politics and DOGE
Read More
X
Tesla, Inc.
Peter Thiel
Table Of Contents
Open full sized image
Elon Musk visiting the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado, 2002.
Trevor Cokley—U.S. Air Force/U.S. Department of Defense
born:
June 28, 1971,
Pretoria
,
South Africa
(age 53)
Founder:
PayPal
Zip2
SpaceX
News
•
Voters flood town halls with fears of Social Security cuts, putting heat on GOP over Musk and DOGE
•
Mar. 15, 2025, 10:48 AM ET
(
AP
)
...
(Show more)
Top Questions
When was Elon Musk born?
Elon Musk was born on June 28, 1971, in Pretoria, South Africa.
Where did Elon Musk go to school?
Elon Musk went to
Queen’s University
in Kingston, Ontario, Canada, and then transferred to the
University of Pennsylvania
in Philadelphia, where he received bachelor’s degrees in physics and economics in 1997. He began graduate school in physics at
Stanford University
but left after several days to focus on being an entrepreneur.
What did Elon Musk accomplish?
Elon Musk cofounded the electronic payment firm
PayPal
, and in 2002 he founded
SpaceX
, a company that makes rockets and spacecraft. He was a major early funder of
Tesla
, which makes electric cars and batteries, and became its chief executive officer in 2008. He cofounded Neuralink, a neurotechnology company, in 2016. Musk purchased the social media service Twitter in 2022 and renamed it
X
in 2023.
Elon Musk
(born June 28, 1971,
Pretoria
, South Africa) is a
South African
-born American
entrepreneur
who cofounded the electronic-payment firm
PayPal
and formed
SpaceX
, maker of launch vehicles and
spacecraft
. He was also one of the first significant investors in, as well as
chief executive officer
of, the
electric car
manufacturer
Tesla
. In addition, Musk acquired
Twitter (later X)
in 2022. Musk leads the
Department of Government Efficiency
(DOGE) in U.S. Pres.
Donald Trump
’s
second administration
. Musk is the world’s richest person, with a net worth of $393 billion, as of 2025.
Early life
Musk was born to a South African father and a Canadian mother. He displayed an early talent for
computers
and entrepreneurship. At age 12 he created a
video game
and sold it to a computer magazine. In 1988, after obtaining a Canadian passport, Musk left South Africa because he was unwilling to support
apartheid
through
compulsory military service
and because he sought the greater economic opportunities available in the
United States
.
PayPal and SpaceX
Musk attended
Queen’s University
in Kingston, Ontario, and in 1992 he transferred to the
University of Pennsylvania
, Philadelphia, where he received bachelor’s degrees in
physics
and
economics
in 1997. He enrolled in graduate school in physics at
Stanford University
in
California
, but he left after only two days because he felt that the
Internet
had much more potential to change society than work in physics. In 1995 he founded
Zip2
, a company that provided maps and business directories to online newspapers. In 1999 Zip2 was bought by the computer manufacturer
Compaq
for $307 million, and Musk then founded an online financial services company, X.com, which later became PayPal, which specialized in transferring money online. The online auction
eBay
bought PayPal in 2002 for $1.5 billion.
What Do You Think?
Should Humans Colonize Space?
Explore the ProCon debate.
Musk was long convinced that for life to survive, humanity has to become a multiplanet species. However, he was dissatisfied with the great expense of
rocket
launchers. In 2002 he founded Space Exploration Technologies (SpaceX) to make more affordable rockets. Its first two rockets were the
Falcon
1 (first launched in 2006) and the larger Falcon 9 (first launched in 2010), which were designed to cost much less than competing rockets. A third rocket, the
Falcon Heavy
(first launched in 2018), was designed to carry 117,000 pounds (53,000 kg) to orbit, nearly twice as much as its largest competitor, the
Boeing Company
’s Delta IV Heavy, for one-third the cost. The Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy eventually dominated the
launch vehicle
market, and in 2024 more than half of the world’s orbital launches were done by SpaceX.
Video released by spacecraft maker SpaceX celebrating its Dragon capsule, which on May 25, 2012, became the first commercial spacecraft to dock with the International Space Station.
SpaceX (
A Britannica Publishing Partner
)
SpaceX has announced the successor to the Falcon 9 and the Falcon Heavy: the Super Heavy–Starship system. The Super Heavy first stage would be capable of lifting 100,000 kg (220,000 pounds) to
low Earth orbit
. The payload would be the Starship, a spacecraft designed for providing fast
transportation
between cities on Earth and building bases on the Moon and Mars.
SpaceX also developed the
Dragon
spacecraft, which carries supplies to the
International Space Station
(ISS). Dragon can carry as many as seven astronauts, and it had a crewed flight carrying astronauts Doug Hurley and Robert Behnken to the ISS in 2020. The first test flights of the Super Heavy–Starship system launched in 2020. In addition to being CEO of SpaceX, Musk was also chief designer in building the Falcon rockets, Dragon, and Starship. SpaceX is contracted to build the lander for the astronauts returning to the Moon by 2026 as part of
NASA
’s
Artemis
space program.
SpaceX has also developed the
Starlink
satellite network, which provides Internet service. As of 2025 there are about 7,000 working Starlink satellites, accounting for more than half of all active satellites. Starlink is a
megaconstellation
, or satellite Internet constellation, with more than three million subscribers as of 2024.
Tesla
Musk had long been interested in the possibilities of electric cars, and in 2004 he became one of the major funders of
Tesla Motors
(later renamed Tesla), an electric car company founded by entrepreneurs
Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning
. In 2006 Tesla introduced its first car, the
Roadster
, which could travel 245 miles (394 km) on a single charge. Unlike most previous electric vehicles, which Musk thought were stodgy and uninteresting, it was a sports car that could go from 0 to 60 miles (97 km) per hour in less than four seconds. In 2010 the company’s
initial public offering
raised about $226 million. Two years later Tesla introduced the Model S sedan, which was acclaimed by automotive critics for its performance and design. The company won further praise for its Model X luxury SUV, which went on the market in 2015. The Model 3, a less-expensive vehicle, went into production in 2017 and became the best-selling electric car of all time.
Open full sized image
Elon Musk, 2014.
Jerry Lampen—EPA/Shutterstock.com
Tesla announced several models to be released early in the 2020s, including a semitrailer truck (the Tesla Semi) and a pickup truck, the Cybertruck. Although the Cybertruck was slated for production in 2021, supply chain disruptions, design, and production issues pushed its rollout back two years. By the time Tesla began making Cybertruck deliveries in late 2023, it boasted a reservation backlog of two million vehicles, despite the boxy angular design that excited controversy when it was first unveiled.
Dissatisfied with the projected cost ($68 billion) of a
high-speed rail
system in California, Musk in 2013 proposed an alternate faster system, the
Hyperloop
, a pneumatic tube in which a pod carrying 28 passengers would travel the 350 miles (560 km) between
Los Angeles
and
San Francisco
in 35 minutes at a top speed of 760 miles (1,220 km) per hour, nearly the
speed of sound
. Musk claimed that the Hyperloop would cost only $6 billion and that, with the pods departing every two minutes on average, the system could accommodate the six million people who travel that route every year. However, he stated, between running SpaceX and Tesla, he could not devote time to the Hyperloop’s development.
X (formerly
Twitter
)
What do you think?
Does social media spur digital addiction and other ills?
Explore the ProCon debate
Musk joined the
social media
service
Twitter
in 2009, and, as @elonmusk, he became one of the most popular accounts on the site, with more than 85 million followers as of 2022. He expressed reservations about Tesla’s being publicly traded, and in August 2018 he made a series of tweets about taking the company private at a value of $420 per share, noting that he had “secured funding.” (The value of $420 was seen as a joking reference to April 20, a day celebrated by devotees of
cannabis
.) The following month the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) sued Musk for securities fraud, alleging that the tweets were “false and misleading.” Shortly thereafter Tesla’s board rejected the SEC’s proposed settlement, reportedly because Musk had threatened to resign. However, the news sent Tesla stock plummeting, and a harsher deal was ultimately accepted. Its terms included Musk’s stepping down as
chairman
for three years, though he was allowed to continue as CEO; his tweets were to be preapproved by Tesla lawyers, and fines of $20 million for both Tesla and Musk were levied.
Musk was critical of Twitter’s commitment to principles of
free speech
, in light of the company’s content-moderation policies. Early in April 2022, Twitter’s filings with the SEC disclosed that Musk had bought more than 9 percent of the company. Shortly thereafter Twitter announced that Musk would join the company’s board, but Musk decided against that and made a bid for the entire company, at a value of $54.20 a share, for $44 billion. Twitter’s board accepted the deal, which would make him sole owner of the company. Musk stated that his plans for the company included “enhancing the product with new features, making the algorithms
open source
to increase trust, defeating the spam bots, and authenticating all humans.” In July 2022 Musk announced that he was withdrawing his bid, stating that Twitter had not provided sufficient information about bot accounts and claiming that the company was in “material breach of multiple provisions” of the purchase agreement. Bret Taylor, the chair of Twitter’s board of directors, responded by saying that the company was “committed to closing the transaction on the price and terms agreed upon with Mr. Musk.” Twitter sued Musk to force him to buy the company. In September 2022 Twitter’s shareholders voted to accept Musk’s offer. Facing a legal battle, Musk ultimately proceeded with the deal, and it was completed in October.
Among Musk’s first acts as Twitter’s owner were to lay off about half the company and to allow users to purchase for $8 a month the blue check-mark verification, which had previously been bestowed by Twitter upon notable figures. In addition, he disbanded Twitter’s content-moderation body and reinstated many banned accounts, most notably that of former U.S. president
Donald Trump
, which had been suspended after the
U.S. Capitol attack on January 6, 2021
. Advertising revenue fell sharply as many companies withdrew their ads from the platform. Musk changed the name of the company from Twitter to X in July 2023. (Tweets became posts with the change.)
Politics and DOGE
Musk had described himself as a “moderate Democrat,” but his views became much more right-wing after his purchase of X. He publicly endorsed Republican presidential candidate
Donald Trump
after
an assassination attempt
on Trump in July 2024. Through his America
Political Action Committee
(PAC), he became the country’s largest political donor, giving $288 million to Trump and other Republican candidates.
Explore the individuals tapped for key government roles.
Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
Musk spoke at campaign rallies for Trump and through America PAC set up a sweepstakes in which he would pay $1 million a day through
election day
to one voter in a key swing state. The action prompted lawsuits alleging that it amounted to paying people to vote, which is illegal.
Trump promised during his campaign that Musk and entrepreneur
Vivek Ramaswamy
would lead a commission, the
Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE, a reference to the cryptocurrency memecoin Dogecoin), charged with making the government more efficient. Musk vowed that in that effort, he would “balance the budget immediately” by cutting $2 trillion in government spending, which would “involve some temporary hardship.”
Ramaswamy left DOGE hours after Trump’s inauguration on January 20, 2025. That same day Trump issued an
executive order
that set up DOGE inside the United States Digital Service, which was renamed the United States DOGE Service. The order also stated that each federal agency should have a team of at least four DOGE employees. Musk became a “special government employee,” a designation for someone who works for the government on a temporary basis. Many of those involved with DOGE are former or current employees of Musk’s companies.
DOGE immediately went to work. On the afternoon of January 20 a DOGE team took over the office of the director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), an agency that manages the federal
civil service
, and assumed control of key OPM databases. More than two million government employees were emailed a deferred resignation offer. It stated that they would not have to return to their offices if they resigned at the end of September 2025. (The subject line of the email, “Fork in the Road,” was the same as one used in an email Musk sent in 2022, offering resignation to Twitter employees shortly after he took over the service.) DOGE gained access to databases at the Treasury Department’s Bureau of the Fiscal Service, which disburses most of the government’s payments.
Musk announced on X that he and Trump would shut down the
U.S. Agency for International Development
(USAID), which administers
foreign aid
. Shortly thereafter USAID’s website was taken down, most of USAID’s 10,000 employees were placed on administrative leave, and programs around the world were suspended. The
National Institutes of Health
(NIH) announced that it would cut $4 billion of “indirect costs,” which support hospitals and universities of NIH grant recipients. The Institute of Education Sciences, the research division of the Department of Education, had most of its contracts canceled.
DOGE’s actions led to a flurry of lawsuits. Critics of DOGE said that it had precipitated a constitutional crisis, in which the
executive branch
was violating the
separation of powers
by not spending the money that Congress had appropriated for agencies such as USAID and NIH. However, Republicans, who controlled Congress, claimed there was nothing unusual in a new administration reviewing government spending.
The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica
This article was most recently revised and updated by
Mindy Johnston
.
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
©
2025
Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.