Shazam (DC Comics) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Publication history Toggle Publication history subsection 1.1 Development and inspirations 1.1.1 Introduction 1.1.2 Inspiration and success at Fawcett 1.2 Copyright infringement lawsuit and cancellation 1.3 Marvelman / Miracleman 1.4 M. F. Enterprises 1.5 Bill Black's attempted revival 1.6 C.C. Beck and Rocket's Blast Comicollector 1.7 DC Comics revival: Shazam! (1972–1978) 1.8 Captain Marvel in the late 1980s 1.9 The Power of Shazam! (1994; 1995–1999) 1.10 Kingdom Come and Shazam! Power of Hope 1.11 Early to mid-2000s: JSA and 52 1.12 The Trials of Shazam! (2006–2008) 1.13 The New 52 relaunch 1.14 DC Rebirth and beyond 2 Fictional character biography Toggle Fictional character biography subsection 2.1 Fawcett/Early DC origin 2.2 Later DC origins 2.2.1 New 52 onward 2.2.2 DC Rebirth 3 Characterization Toggle Characterization subsection 3.1 Description and themes 3.1.1 Identities and role 3.2 Familial connections 3.2.1 Biological family 3.2.2 Foster and adoptive family 3.2.3 Wizard Shazam 4 Powers and abilities Toggle Powers and abilities subsection 4.1 Magical abilities 4.1.1 Powers of Shazam 4.1.2 Living Lightning 4.1.3 Spell-casting & magic manipulation 4.2 Weaknesses 5 Other versions Toggle Other versions subsection 5.1 Alternate versions of Billy Batson 5.1.1 Captain Thunder (1974) 5.1.2 Captain Thunder (1982) 5.1.3 Superman: Distant Fires (1998) 5.1.4 The Dark Knight Strikes Again (2001–2002) 5.1.5 Kingdom Come 5.1.6 Earth-5 5.1.7 Shazam!: The Monster Society of Evil (2007) 5.1.8 Billy Batson and the Magic of Shazam! (2008–2010) 5.1.9 Injustice: Gods Among Us (2013–2016) 5.1.10 Future State (2021) 5.1.11 Shazam! Thundercrack 5.2 Other versions of Captain Marvel/Shazam 5.2.1 Captain Thunder (Flashpoint) 5.2.2 Captain Marvel (Elseworld's Finest) 5.2.3 Captain Marvel (Robert Rodgers) 5.2.4 Captain Marvel (Sahar Shazeen) 5.2.5 Mazahs 6 Supporting cast 7 Collected editions 8 In other media Toggle In other media subsection 8.1 Live-action films 8.2 Animated films 8.3 Television 8.3.1 1970s–1990s 8.3.2 2000s–present 8.4 Video games 8.5 Radio 8.6 Comic strips 9 Cultural impact and legacy Toggle Cultural impact and legacy subsection 9.1 Critical response 9.2 Captain Marvel vs. Superman in fiction 9.3 In popular culture 9.4 Accolades 10 References 11 Further reading 12 External links Toggle the table of contents Shazam (DC Comics) 36 languages العربية Català Deutsch Ελληνικά Español فارسی Français 한국어 हिन्दी Italiano עברית ქართული Қазақша Latina Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча Polski Português Română Русский Sardu Shqip Simple English کوردی Suomi Svenska Tagalog ไทย Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article is about the character formerly known as Captain Marvel. For the wizard character of the same name, see Wizard Shazam . "Captain Marvel (DC Comics)" redirects here. For the Marvel character of the same name, see Captain Marvel (Marvel Comics) . Comics character Shazam Captain Marvel Billy Batson in his normal and transformed state on the cover of Shazam! (2023) #5. Art by Dan Mora Publication information Publisher Fawcett Comics (1942–1953) DC Comics (1972–present) First appearance Whiz Comics #2 (February 1940) [ 1 ] Created by Bill Parker C. C. Beck In-story information Alter ego William Joseph "Billy" Batson Species Human Team affiliations Justice League Justice Society of America Justice League International Marvel / Shazam Family Squadron of Justice Teen Titans Partnerships Mary Marvel Captain Marvel Jr. Tawky Tawny The Wizard Notable aliases Captain Thunder World's Mightiest Mortal King Shazam Captain Shazam Lightning Guy Champion of Magic Abilities By shouting the name "SHAZAM!", Billy is bestowed the powers of divine origin, primarily of Greek-Roman origin. These powers typically include: Superhuman physical attributes: strength, speed, durability, etc. Enhanced intelligence and knowledge Physical and magical invulnerability Control over lightning and magic Skilled hand-to-hand combatant and natural charisma makes him an apt radio personality . Shazam  ( / ʃ ə ˈ z æ m / ) , also known as Captain Marvel , is a superhero in American comic books originally published by Fawcett Comics and currently published by DC Comics . Artist C. C. Beck and writer Bill Parker created the character in 1939. Shazam first appeared in Whiz Comics #2 ( cover-dated Feb. 1940), published by Fawcett Comics. Shazam is the alter-ego of William Joseph " Billy " Batson , a young boy who is granted magical powers by the Wizard by speaking the magic word "SHAZAM!", an acronym of six "immortal elders": Solomon , Hercules , Atlas , Zeus , Achilles , and Mercury , and transforms into a costumed adult superhero with various superpowers derived from specific attributes of the aforementioned elders. The character battles evil in the form of an extensive rogues' gallery, most of them working in tandem as the Monster Society of Evil , including primary archenemies Black Adam , Doctor Sivana and Mister Mind . Billy often shares his powers with other children, primarily his sister Mary Batson and their best friend/foster brother Freddy Freeman , who also transform into superheroes and fight crime with Billy as members of the Marvel Family (also known as the Shazam Family or Shazamily). The character also serves as a notable member of several teams, including the Justice League and various other derivatives, Justice Society of America , and the Teen Titans . Since the character's inception, Shazam was once the most popular superhero of the 1940s, outselling even Superman . [ 2 ] [ 3 ] Shazam was also the first comic book superhero to be adapted to film, in a 1941 Republic Pictures serial , Adventures of Shazam , with Tom Tyler as Shazam and Frank Coghlan, Jr. as Billy Batson. Fawcett ceased publishing Shazam-related comics in 1953, partly because of a copyright infringement suit from DC Comics alleging that the character was a copy of Superman. [ 4 ] In 1972, Fawcett licensed the character rights to DC, which by 1991 acquired all rights to the entire family of characters. DC has since integrated Captain Marvel and the Marvel Family into their DC Universe and has attempted to revive the property several times, with mixed success. Owing to trademark conflicts over other characters named "Captain Marvel" owned by Marvel Comics , [ 5 ] DC has branded and marketed the character using the trademark Shazam! since his 1972 reintroduction. [ 6 ] DC later renamed the mainline version of the character "Shazam" when relaunching its comic book properties in 2011, [ 7 ] and his associates became the "Shazam Family" at this time as well. [ 8 ] DC's revival of Shazam! has been adapted twice for television by Filmation : as a live-action 1970s series with Jackson Bostwick and John Davey as Captain Marvel and Michael Gray as Billy Batson, and as an animated 1980s series . The 2019 New Line Cinema / Warner Bros. film Shazam! , an entry in the DC Extended Universe , stars Zachary Levi as Shazam and Asher Angel as Billy Batson. Levi and Angel returned in the sequel, Shazam! Fury of the Gods . Publication history [ edit ] Development and inspirations [ edit ] Covers of the ashcan copies for Flash Comics #1 and Thrill Comics #1, published by Fawcett Comics in November 1939. Art by C. C. Beck Captain Marvel first appeared in Whiz Comics #2 (Feb. 1940). Art by C. C. Beck After the success of National Comics ' new superhero characters Superman and Batman , Fawcett Publications started its own comics division in 1939, recruiting staff writer Bill Parker to create several hero characters for the first title in their line, tentatively titled Flash Comics . Besides penning stories featuring his creations Ibis the Invincible , the Spy Smasher , the Golden Arrow , Lance O'Casey , Scoop Smith , and Dan Dare for the new book, Parker also wrote a story about a team of six superheroes. Each superhero in this team possessed a special power granted to them by a mythological figure. [ 9 ] Fawcett Comics' executive director Ralph Daigh decided it would be best to combine the team of six into one hero who would embody all six powers. Parker responded by creating a character he called "Captain Thunder". [ 9 ] Staff artist Charles Clarence "C. C." Beck was recruited to design and illustrate Parker's story, rendering it in a direct, somewhat cartoony style that became his trademark. "When Bill Parker and I went to work on Fawcett's first comic book in late 1939, we both saw how poorly written and illustrated the superhero comic books were," Beck told an interviewer. "We decided to give our reader a real comic book, drawn in comic-strip style and telling an imaginative story, based not on the hackneyed formulas of the pulp magazine , but going back to the old folk-tales and myths of classic times." [ 10 ] The first issue of the comic book, printed as both Flash Comics #1 and Thrill Comics #1, [ 11 ] had a low print run in the fall of 1939 as an ashcan copy created for advertising and trademark purposes. Shortly after its printing, however, Fawcett found it could not trademark "Captain Thunder", "Flash Comics", or "Thrill Comics", because all three names were already in use. Consequently, the book was renamed Whiz Comics , and Fawcett artist Pete Costanza suggested changing Captain Thunder's name to "Captain Marvelous", which the editors shortened to "Captain Marvel". The word balloons in the story were re-lettered to label the hero of the main story as "Captain Marvel". Introduction [ edit ] Further information: Captain Marvel Adventures Whiz Comics #2 ( cover-dated Feb. 1940) was published in late 1939. Captain Marvel, the comic's lead feature, introduced audiences to Billy Batson, an orphaned 12-year-old boy who, by speaking the name of the ancient wizard Shazam , is struck by a magic lightning bolt and transformed into the adult superhero Captain Marvel. Shazam's name was an acronym derived from the six immortal elders who grant Captain Marvel his superpowers: Solomon , Hercules , Atlas , Zeus , Achilles , and Mercury . In addition to introducing the main character, his alter ego, and his mentor, Captain Marvel's first adventure in Whiz Comics #2 also introduced his archenemy, the evil Doctor Sivana , and found Billy Batson talking his way into a job as an on-air radio reporter with station WHIZ. Captain Marvel was an instant success, with Whiz Comics #2 selling over 500,000 copies. [ 3 ] By 1941, he had his own solo series, Captain Marvel Adventures , the premiere issue of which (cover-dated March 1941) was written and drawn by Joe Simon and Jack Kirby . [ 12 ] Captain Marvel continued to appear in Whiz Comics , as well as periodic appearances in other Fawcett books, including Master Comics . Captain Marvel's first appearance, Whiz Comics #2, did not have any copyright registration or renewal. [ 1 ] Inspiration and success at Fawcett [ edit ] Whiz Comics #22 (Oct. 1941), featuring Captain Marvel and his young alter-ego, Billy Batson. Art by C. C. Beck Inspiration for Captain Marvel came from a number of sources. His visual appearance was modeled after that of Fred MacMurray , a popular American actor of the period, [ 13 ] though comparisons with both Cary Grant and Jack Oakie were made as well. [ 14 ] Fawcett Publications ' founder, Wilford H. Fawcett, was nicknamed "Captain Billy", which inspired the name "Billy Batson" as well as Marvel's title. [ 15 ] Fawcett's earliest magazine was titled Captain Billy's Whiz Bang , which inspired the title Whiz Comics . [ 16 ] In addition, Fawcett took several of the elements that had made Superman the first popular comic book superhero (super-strength and speed, science-fiction stories, a mild-mannered reporter alter ego) and incorporated them into Captain Marvel. Fawcett's circulation director Roscoe Kent Fawcett recalled telling the staff, "Give me a Superman, only have his other identity be a 10- or 12-year-old boy rather than a man." [ 17 ] Through much of the Golden Age of Comic Books , Captain Marvel proved to be the most popular superhero character of the medium, and his comics outsold all others. Captain Marvel Adventures sold fourteen million copies in 1944, [ 18 ] and was at one point being published bi-weekly with a circulation of 1.3 million copies an issue. Several issues of Captain Marvel Adventures included a blurb on their covers proclaiming the series the "Largest Circulation of Any Comic Magazine". [ 3 ] The franchise was expanded to introduce spin-off characters to Captain Marvel between 1941 and 1942. [ 19 ] Whiz Comics #21 (1941) introduced the Lieutenant Marvels : three other boys named "Billy Batson" who could also become adult superheroes. Captain Marvel Jr. , the alter-ego of disabled newsboy Freddy Freeman, debuted in Whiz Comics #25 (1941). Mary Marvel , alter-ego of Billy's twin sister Mary Batson, first appeared in Captain Marvel Adventures #18 (1942). In contrast to Captain Marvel and the Lieutenants, both Mary Marvel and Captain Marvel Jr. remained kids in superhero form, and were given their own eponymous books in addition to appearing as the lead features in Master Comics and Wow Comics , respectively. [ 19 ] Captain Marvel, Captain Marvel Jr., and Mary Marvel appeared together as a team in another Fawcett publication, The Marvel Family . [ 19 ] In addition, there was a talking animal spin-off character, Hoppy the Marvel Bunny , which was created in 1942 for Fawcett's Funny Animals comic book and later given an eponymous series as well. [ 19 ] With Bill Parker having been drafted into World War II , chief writing duties on the Captain Marvel-related comics stories went to Otto Binder by 1942. [ 20 ] C.C. Beck remained as lead artist, and he and Binder steered the Captain Marvel stories towards a whimsical tone that emphasized comedy and fantasy elements alongside the superhero action. Other artists associated with the Marvel Family at Fawcett included Pete Costanza , Mac Raboy , Marc Swayze , and Kurt Schaffenberger . [ 21 ] Otto Binder would write over 900 of the approximately 1,790 Captain Marvel-related stories published by Fawcett. [ 20 ] Several of Captain Marvel's enduring supporting characters and enemies—including the non-powered Uncle Marvel , Tawky Tawny the talking tiger, and the villains Mister Mind and Black Adam —were created by Binder during the mid-to-late 1940s. [ 22 ] Copyright infringement lawsuit and cancellation [ edit ] Captain Marvel co-creator C. C. Beck was the chief artist on the character throughout its Golden Age run at Fawcett, and illustrated stories for the first 10 issues of DC Comics' 1970s Shazam! revival series. See also: National Comics Publications, Inc. v. Fawcett Publications, Inc. Detective Comics (later known as National Comics Publications, National Periodical Publications, and today known as DC Comics ) sued both Fawcett Comics and Republic Pictures for copyright infringement in 1941, alleging that Captain Marvel was based on their character Superman. [ 23 ] After seven years of litigation, National Comics Publications, Inc. v. Fawcett Publications, Inc. went to trial in 1948. Although the presiding judge decided that Captain Marvel was an infringement, DC was found to be negligent in copyrighting several of their Superman daily newspaper strips , and it was decided that National had abandoned the Superman copyright. [ 24 ] As a result, the initial verdict, delivered in 1951, went in Fawcett's favor. National appealed this decision, and Judge Learned Hand declared in 1952 that National's Superman copyright was in fact valid. Judge Hand did not find that the character of Captain Marvel itself was an infringement, but rather that specific stories or super feats could be infringements, and this would have to be determined in a retrial . He therefore sent the matter back to the lower court for final determination. [ 24 ] Instead of retrying the case, however, Fawcett settled with National out of court. The National lawsuit was not the only problem Fawcett faced in regard to Captain Marvel. While Captain Marvel Adventures had been the top-selling comic series during World War II, it suffered declining sales every year after 1945, and, by 1949, it was selling only half its wartime rate. [ 25 ] Fawcett tried to revive the popularity of its Captain Marvel series in the early 1950s by introducing elements of the horror comics trend that had gained popularity at the time. [ 26 ] Feeling that this decline in the popularity of superhero comics meant that it was no longer worth continuing the fight, [ 27 ] Fawcett agreed on August 14, 1953, to permanently cease publication of comics with the Captain Marvel-related characters and to pay National $400,000 in damages. [ 4 ] [ 28 ] Fawcett shut down its comics division in the autumn of 1953 and fired its comic book staff. Otto Binder and Kurt Schaffenberger ended up at DC, becoming prominent members of the creative team for the Superman-related comics from 1954 through the 1960s. [ 29 ] Schaffenberger snuck an unauthorized cameo by Captain Marvel into a story in Superman's Girl Friend, Lois Lane #42 in 1963. [ 30 ] Whiz Comics had ended with issue #155 in June 1953, Captain Marvel Adventures was canceled with #150 in November 1953, and The Marvel Family ended its run with #89 in January 1954. Hoppy the Marvel Bunny was sold to Charlton Comics , where a few Fawcett-era stories from that strip were reprinted as Hoppy the Magic Bunny , with all references to "Captain Marvel" and "Shazam" removed. [ 19 ] Marvelman / Miracleman [ edit ] Main article: Marvelman In the 1950s, a small British publisher, L. Miller and Son , published a number of black-and-white reprints of American comic books, including the Captain Marvel series. With the outcome of the National v. Fawcett lawsuit, L. Miller and Son found their supply of Captain Marvel material abruptly cut off. They requested the help of a British comic writer, Mick Anglo , who created a thinly disguised version of the superhero called Marvelman . Captain Marvel Jr. was adapted to create Young Marvelman, while Mary Marvel had her sex changed to create the male Kid Marvelman. The magic word "Shazam!" was replaced with "Kimota" ("Atomik" spelled backwards). The new characters took over the numbering of the original Captain Marvel's United Kingdom series with issue number #25. Marvelman ceased publication in 1963, but the character was revived in 1982 by writer Alan Moore in the pages of Warrior Magazine . Beginning in 1985, Moore's black-and-white serialized adventures were reprinted in color by Eclipse Comics under the new title Miracleman (as Marvel Comics objected to the use of "Marvel" in the title), and continued publication in the United States after Warrior ' s demise. Within the metatextual story line of the comic series itself, it was noted that Marvelman's creation was based upon Captain Marvel comics, by both Moore and later Marvelman/Miracleman writer Neil Gaiman . In 2009, Marvel Comics obtained the rights to the original 1950s Marvelman characters and stories, and later purchased the rights to the 1980s version and those reprints in 2013. [ 31 ] [ 32 ] M. F. Enterprises [ edit ] Main article: Captain Marvel (M. F. Enterprises) In 1966, M. F. Enterprises produced their own Captain Marvel: an android superhero from another planet whose main characteristic was the ability to split his body into several parts, each of which could move on its own. He triggered the separation by shouting "Split!" and reassembled himself by shouting "Xam!" He had a young human ward named Billy Baxton. This short-lived Captain Marvel was credited in the comic as being "based on a character created by Carl Burgos ". [ 33 ] Marvel Comics subsequently created their own character named Captain Marvel in 1967, and Myron Fass sued Marvel for trademark infringement. Fass accepted a $4,500 settlement from Marvel, and Marvel secured the trademark of the name. [ 34 ] Bill Black's attempted revival [ edit ] Main article: Captain Paragon Bill Black attempted to revive Captain Marvel in 1969, but written and drawn in a more realistic Marvel Comics style for his fanzine Paragon Golden Age Greats, Vol. 1, #2 . However, on the legal advice of his friend and publishing mentor Martin L. Greim , he decided that rather than risk legal trouble with Fawcett Publications it would be better to destroy the entire print run except for two copies that he saved for his personal files. Black then rewrote the story using his own newly created hero Captain Paragon. [ 35 ] C.C. Beck and Rocket's Blast Comicollector [ edit ] In 1970, fanzine Rocket's Blast Comicollector (RBCC) staffed C.C. Beck , Don Newton , Robert Kline, and Gene Arnold for a special issue called The Rocket's Blast Special 8 . The comic book focuses on Captain Marvel's origins and creation through a series of columns by the group where they also discussed their history with Fawcett Publications. Along with new and exclusive art by Beck and Newton, the issue included an opinion piece by the staff strongly criticizing the copyright infringement lawsuit by Detective Comics. The opinion piece was titled THE DEMISE OF CAPTAIN MARVEL and is found on the very last page above where the staff still credits the copyright of Captain Marvel to Fawcett Publications. [ citation needed ] DC Comics revival: Shazam! (1972–1978) [ edit ] Shazam! Cover of Shazam! #1 (Feb. 1973), the first key appearance of Captain Marvel in a DC publication, and his first in 20 years following the cancellation of the Fawcett Comics line. Art by C. C. Beck with Nick Cardy and Murphy Anderson Publication information Publisher DC Comics Schedule List (vol. 1) Eight times a year: #1–11; Bimonthly: #12–21; 25–35 Quarterly: #22–24 (vol. 2) One-shot (vol. 3) Monthlyt (vol. 4) Monthly Format List (vol. 1) Ongoing (vol. 2) One-shot (vol. 3) Ongoing (vol. 4) Ongoing Genre List (vol. 1) Superhero /Humor (vol. 2) Superhero (vol. 3) Superhero Publication date List (vol. 1) February 1973 – May–June 1978 (vol. 2) March 2011 (vol. 3) December 2018 – September 2020 (vol. 4) May 2023-Present No. of issues List (vol. 1) 35 (vol. 2) 1 (vol. 3) 15 (vol. 4) 1 Main character(s) List (vol. 1) Captain Marvel Mary Marvel Captain Marvel Jr. Uncle Marvel Shazam Doctor Sivana Tawky Tawny Mister Mind (vol. 2) Shazam (Freddy Freeman) Mary Batson Billy Batson Blaze (vol. 3) Shazam (Billy Batson) Shazam Family (Mary, Freddy, Darla, Eugene, Pedro) Doctor Sivana Mister Mind Tawky Tawny C.C. Batson (vol. 4) The Captain (Billy Batson) Creative team Created by Bill Parker C.C. Beck Written by List (vol. 1) Dennis O'Neil Elliot S! Maggin E. Nelson Bridwell (vol. 2) Eric Wallace (vol. 3) Geoff Johns Jeff Loveness (vol. 4) Mark Waid Penciller(s) List (vol. 1) C.C. Beck Bob Oksner Kurt Schaffenberger Don Newton (vol. 2) Cliff Richards (vol. 3) Dale Eaglesham Mayo "SEN" Naito Marco Santucci Scott Kolins Brandon Peterson (vol. 4) Dan Mora Inker(s) List (vol. 1) C.C. Beck Bob Oksner Kurt Schaffenberger (vol. 2) Cliff Richards (vol. 3) Dale Eaglesham Mayo "SEN" Naito Marco Santucci Scott Kolins Brandon Peterson Colorist(s) List (vol. 4) Alejandro Sánchez When superhero comics became popular again in the mid-1960s in what is now called the " Silver Age of Comic Books ", Fawcett was unable to revive Captain Marvel, having agreed to never publish the character again as part of their 1953 settlement. Looking for new properties to introduce to the DC Comics line, at the urging of Jack Kirby who recently defected from Marvel Comics , [ 36 ] DC publisher Carmine Infantino decided to bring the Captain Marvel property back into print. On June 16, 1972, DC entered into an agreement with Fawcett to license the Captain Marvel and Marvel Family characters. [ 28 ] [ 37 ] Because Marvel Comics had by this time established Captain Marvel as a comic book trademark for their own character , created and first published in 1967, DC published their book under the name Shazam! . [ 5 ] Infantino attempted to give the Shazam! book the subtitle The Original Captain Marvel , but a cease and desist letter from Marvel Comics forced them to change the subtitle to The World's Mightiest Mortal , starting with Shazam! #15 (December 1974). [ 37 ] As all subsequent toys and other merchandise featuring the character have also been required to use the "Shazam!" label with little to no mention of the name "Captain Marvel", the title became so linked to Captain Marvel that many people took to identifying the character as "Shazam" instead of "Captain Marvel". [ 7 ] The Shazam! comic series began with Shazam! #1 (Feb. 1973). It contained both new stories and reprints from the 1940s and 1950s. Dennis O'Neil was the primary writer of the book. [ 38 ] His role was later taken over by writers Elliot S. Maggin and E. Nelson Bridwell . C. C. Beck drew stories for the first 10 issues of the book before quitting because of creative differences. Bob Oksner and Fawcett alumnus Kurt Schaffenberger were among the later artists of the title. As per DC's agreement with Fawcett, DC paid Fawcett—and after 1977, its successor CBS Publications —a licensing fee per issue, per page for each of the Fawcett characters who appeared, either in Shazam! or crossovers in other comic series. [ 39 ] With DC's Multiverse concept in effect during this time, the revived Marvel Family and related characters lived within the DC Universe on the parallel world of "Earth-S". [ 37 ] The Fawcett material was still considered canon , with the Marvel Family's 20-year layoff explained in the comic as time spent in suspended animation due to Doctor Sivana. [ 37 ] While the series began with a great deal of fanfare, the book had a lackluster reception. [ 37 ] The creators themselves had misgivings. Beck said, "As an illustrator, I could, in the old days, make a good story better by bringing it to life with drawings. But I couldn't bring the new [Captain Marvel] stories to life no matter how hard I tried". [ 40 ] Shazam! was heavily rewritten as of issue #34 (April 1978), and Bridwell provided more realistic stories, accompanied by similar art; the first issue was drawn by Alan Weiss and Joe Rubinstein , and thereafter by Don Newton , a longtime fan of the character, [ 41 ] and Schaffenberger. Nevertheless, the next issue was the last one, though the feature was kept alive in a back-up position in the Dollar Comics -formatted run of World's Finest Comics (from #253, October/November 1978, to #282, August 1982, skipping only #271, which featured a full-length origin of the Superman-Batman team story). [ 42 ] [ 43 ] Schaffenberger left the feature after #259, and the inking credit subsequently varied. When World's Finest Comics reverted to the standard 36 pages, leftover Shazam! material saw publication in Adventure Comics (#491–492, September–October 1982). The remaining 11 issues of that run contained reprints, with Shazam! represented by mostly Fawcett-era stories (left out of Adventure Comics #500 and the final #503, where two features were doubled up to complete their respective story arcs ). Outside of their regular series and features, the Marvel Family characters also appeared as guest stars in the Justice League of America series, in particular issues #135–137 (vol. 1) for the "Crisis on Earth-S" story arc in 1976. [ 44 ] Limited Collectors' Edition #C-58 (April 1978) featured a "Superman vs. Shazam!" story by writer Gerry Conway and artists Rich Buckler and Dick Giordano . [ 45 ] [ 46 ] Captain Marvel, and often the Marvel Family, also co-starred with Superman in several issues of DC Comics Presents written by Roy Thomas . [ 47 ] Roy Thomas, a veteran comic book writer and editor, had been lured from Marvel Comics to DC in 1981 with the specific contractual obligation that he would become the main writer of Shazam! and the Justice Society of America characters. [ 39 ] [ 47 ] The Marvels also guest-starred in several issues of All-Star Squadron , a series centered on the Justice Society and the other Earth-2 characters written by Roy Thomas and his wife Dann . As All-Star Squadron was set during World War II, several events of the comic fell concurrent with and referenced the events of the original early-1940s Fawcett stories. [ 48 ] With their 1985 Crisis on Infinite Earths miniseries , DC fully integrated the characters into the DC Universe . Captain Marvel in the late 1980s [ edit ] The first Post- Crisis appearance of Captain Marvel was in the 1986 Legends miniseries. In 1987, Captain Marvel appeared as a member of the Justice League in Keith Giffen 's and J. M. DeMatteis ' relaunch of that title. That same year (spinning off from Legends ), he was given his own miniseries titled Shazam!: The New Beginning . With this four-issue miniseries, writers Roy and Dann Thomas and artist Tom Mandrake attempted to re-launch the Captain Marvel mythos and bring the wizard Shazam, Dr. Sivana, Uncle Dudley, and Black Adam into the modern DC Universe with an altered origin story. The most notable change that the Thomases, Giffen, and DeMatteis introduced into the Captain Marvel mythos was that the personality of young Billy Batson is retained when he transforms into the Captain. This change would remain for most future uses of the character as justification for his sunny, Golden-Age personality in the darker modern-day comic book world, instead of the traditional depiction used prior to 1986, which tended to treat Captain Marvel and Billy as two separate personalities. [ 49 ] This revised version of Captain Marvel also appeared in one story arc featured in the short-lived anthology Action Comics Weekly #623–626 (October 25, 1988 – November 15, 1988), in which a Neo-Nazi version of Captain Marvel was introduced. [ 39 ] At the end of the arc, it was announced that this would lead to a new Shazam! ongoing series. [ 39 ] Though New Beginning had sold well and multiple artists were assigned to and worked on the book, it never saw publication owing to editorial disputes between DC Comics and Roy Thomas. [ 47 ] As a result, Thomas's intended revival of the Marvel Family with a new punk -styled Mary Bromfield/Mary Marvel (a.k.a. "Spike") who was not Billy's sister, and an African-American take on Freddy Freeman/Captain Marvel Jr., did not see print. [ 39 ] Thomas departed DC in 1989, not long after his removal from the Shazam! project. [ 39 ] Other attempts at reviving Shazam! were initiated over the next three years, including a reboot project by John Byrne , illustrator of Legends and writer/artist on the Superman reboot miniseries The Man of Steel (1986). [ 50 ] [ 51 ] None of these versions saw print, though Captain Marvel, the wizard Shazam, and Black Adam did appear in DC's War of the Gods miniseries in 1991. By this time, DC had ended the fee-per-use licensing agreement with CBS Publications and purchased the full rights to Captain Marvel and the other Fawcett Comics characters. [ 39 ] The Power of Shazam! (1994; 1995–1999) [ edit ] Main article: The Power of Shazam! In 1991, Jerry Ordway was given the Shazam! assignment, which he pitched as a painted graphic novel that would lead into a series, rather than starting the series outright. [ 39 ] Ordway both wrote and illustrated the graphic novel, titled The Power of Shazam! , which was released in 1994. Power of Shazam! retconned Captain Marvel again and gave him a revised origin, rendering Shazam! The New Beginning and the Action Comics Weekly story apocryphal while Marvel's appearances in Legends and Justice League still counted as part of the continuity. [ 52 ] Ordway's story more closely followed Captain Marvel's Fawcett origins, with only slight additions and changes. The graphic novel was a critically acclaimed success, leading to a Power of Shazam! ongoing series which ran from 1995 to 1999. [ 53 ] That series reintroduced the Marvel Family and many of their allies and enemies into the modern-day DC Universe. Kingdom Come and Shazam! Power of Hope [ edit ] Captain Marvel also appeared in Mark Waid and Alex Ross 's critically acclaimed 1996 alternate universe Elseworlds miniseries Kingdom Come . Set 20 years in the future, Kingdom Come features a brainwashed Captain Marvel playing a major role in the story as a mind-controlled pawn of an elderly Lex Luthor . In 2000, Captain Marvel starred in an oversized special graphic novel, Shazam! Power of Hope , written by Paul Dini and painted by Alex Ross . [ 54 ] Early to mid-2000s: JSA and 52 [ edit ] Since the cancellation of the Power of Shazam! title in 1999, the Marvel Family has made appearances in a number of other DC comic books. Black Adam became a main character in Geoff Johns ' and David S. Goyer 's JSA series, which depicted the latest adventures of the world's first superhero team, the Justice Society of America , with Captain Marvel also briefly joining the team to keep an eye on his old nemesis. Captain Marvel also appeared in Frank Miller 's graphic novel Batman: The Dark Knight Strikes Again , the sequel to Miller's highly acclaimed graphic novel The Dark Knight Returns , which culminated in his death. The Superman/Shazam: First Thunder miniseries, written by Judd Winick with art by Josh Middleton , and published between September 2005 and March 2006, depicted the first post- Crisis meeting between Superman and Captain Marvel. The Marvel Family played an integral part in DC's 2005/2006 Infinite Crisis crossover, which began DC's efforts to retool the Shazam! franchise. In the Day of Vengeance miniseries, which preceded the Infinite Crisis event, the wizard Shazam is killed by the Spectre , and Captain Marvel assumes the wizard's place in the Rock of Eternity . The Marvel Family made a handful of guest appearances in the year-long weekly maxi-series 52 , which featured Black Adam as one of its main characters. 52 introduced Adam's "Black Marvel Family," which included Adam's wife Isis , her brother Osiris , and Sobek . The series chronicled Adam's attempts to reform after falling in love with Isis, only to launch the DC universe into World War III after she and Osiris are killed. The Marvel Family appeared frequently in the 12-issue bimonthly painted Justice maxi-series by Alex Ross , Jim Krueger , and Doug Braithwaite , published from 2005 to 2007. The Trials of Shazam! (2006–2008) [ edit ] Main article: The Trials of Shazam! The Trials of Shazam! , a 12-issue maxiseries written by Judd Winick and illustrated by Howard Porter for the first eight issues, and by Mauro Cascioli for the remaining four, was published from 2006 to 2008. The series redefined the Shazam! property with a stronger focus on magic and mysticism. Trials of Shazam! featured Captain Marvel, now with a white costume and long white hair, taking over the role of the wizard Shazam under the name Marvel , while the former Captain Marvel Jr., Freddy Freeman, attempts to prove himself worthy to become Marvel's champion under the name Shazam . In the pages of the 2007–2008 Countdown to Final Crisis limited series, Black Adam gives the powerless Mary Batson his powers, turning her into a more aggressive super-powered figure, less upstanding than the old Mary Marvel. By the end of the series, as well as in DC's 2008–2009 Final Crisis limited series, the now black-costumed Mary Marvel, possessed by the evil New God DeSaad , becomes a villainess, joining forces with Superman villain Darkseid and fighting both Supergirl and Freddy Freeman/Shazam. A three-issue arc in Justice Society of America (vol. 3) undid many of the Trials of Shazam! changes. Issues #23-25 of Justice Society featured Black Adam and a resurrected Isis defeating Marvel and taking over the Rock of Eternity. Adam and Isis recruit the now-evil Mary Marvel to help them in the ensuing fight against a now-powerless Billy Batson and the Justice Society. Billy and Mary Batson made a brief appearance during DC's 2009–2010 Blackest Night saga in a one-shot special, The Power of Shazam! #48. [ 55 ] In 2011, DC published a one-shot Shazam! story written by Eric Wallace, in which the still-powerless Billy and Mary help Freddy/Shazam in a battle with the demoness Blaze . Freddy would eventually have his powers stolen by Osiris in Titans (vol. 2) #32 the same year. [ 56 ] The New 52 relaunch [ edit ] Alternate cover for Justice League (vol. 2) #0 (Nov. 2012). Clockwise from bottom/front: Shazam!, Eugene Choi, Darla Dudley, Pedro Peña, Freddy Freeman , Mary Bromfield , Tawny , Black Adam , and Doctor Sivana . Art by Ivan Reis In 2011, DC Comics relaunched their entire comic book lineup, creating The New 52 lineup of comics. The revamp began with a seven-issue miniseries , Flashpoint , which features an alternate timeline in which Billy Batson, Mary Batson, and Freddy Freeman are joined by three new kids, Eugene Choi, Pedro Peña, and Darla Dudley, as the "S! H! A! Z! A! M! Family." In this concept, all six kids say "Shazam!" in unison to become an alternate version of Captain Marvel named Captain Thunder. [ 57 ] While the continuity would be altered again by the conclusion of the story, creating the "New 52" multiverse, the three new Shazam! kids would be reintroduced for later appearances. [ 58 ] One of these relaunched series, Justice League (vol. 2), began featuring a Shazam! backup story with issue #7 in March 2012. [ 59 ] The feature, written by Geoff Johns and drawn by Gary Frank , introduces Billy Batson and his supporting cast into the new DC Universe. As part of the redesign, the character received a new costume designed by Frank with a long cloak and hood, and a metallic belt instead of a sash. His lightning bolt appears as an opening into his body with magical energy visibly inside of him. [ 60 ] Johns noted that the character's place in the world will be "far more rooted in fantasy and magic than it ever was before". [ 61 ] The character also was officially renamed "Shazam" at this time. [ 7 ] The Shazam! origin story, which included two full issues in Justice League (vol. 2) #0 (2012) and 21 (2013), reintroduced Billy Batson/Shazam, the Wizard, Black Adam, Tawny the tiger, and the Shazam Family (Freddy, Mary, Darla, Eugene, and Pedro) to continuity. The Shazam! feature concluded with Justice League (vol. 2) #21, preceding DC's crossover storyline " Trinity War " which heavily features the Shazam mythos. Johns and Frank's reboot was met with both acclaim and criticism, [ 62 ] [ 63 ] and the renaming of the hero as Shazam brought mixed reactions. [ 64 ] [ 65 ] Johns noted that the change was made "because that's what everyone thinks his name is anyway," owing to the inability to use the "Captain Marvel" moniker on comic book covers and merchandise. [ 7 ] In updating Shazam! , Johns and Frank skirted some controversy among long-time fans by introducing Billy Batson as a cynical foster child who comes to appreciate his potential as a hero and the concept of family, rather than starting him from that point as with earlier retellings. [ 66 ] [ 67 ] Following his appearances in the "Trinity War" and " Forever Evil " crossover storylines, Shazam appeared as a member of the Justice League from Justice League (vol. 2) #30–50 [ 68 ] from 2014 through 2016, and also in a one-shot spinoff titled Justice League: The Darkseid War - Shazam (cover-dated January 2016). [ 69 ] He also appeared as a supporting character in the Cyborg series as the friend of Victor Stone/Cyborg. New takes on the classic Fawcett versions of Shazam and the Marvel Family appeared in Grant Morrison 's 2014 miniseries The Multiversity (which takes place on the parallel world of Earth-5) [ 70 ] and in a 2015 spin-off to the Convergence crossover event, Convergence: Shazam! (which takes place on the parallel world of Earth-S). [ 71 ] DC Rebirth and beyond [ edit ] Following DC's 2016 DC Rebirth soft-relaunch event, the Shazam! characters were largely absent from new DC continuity, though Mary Marvel of Earth-5 appeared in Superman (vol. 4) #14–16 (2016), [ 72 ] and Black Adam appeared in Dark Nights: Metal #4–5 (2017) to battle Wonder Woman. [ 73 ] In late 2018, with the Shazam! movie in production at New Line Cinema, DC began publishing a new ongoing Shazam! series, written by Geoff Johns and illustrated by Dale Eaglesham , Marco Santucci, and Scott Kolins . [ 74 ] The series features an older and wiser Billy Batson and his foster siblings Mary, Freddy, Eugene, Pedro, and Darla exploring their powers as the Shazam Family. As the six kids venture beyond the nexus of the Rock of Eternity to explore the mysterious Seven Magic Realms, Doctor Sivana teams up with Mister Mind and a reluctant Black Adam to form the Monster Society of Evil , and Billy's long-missing father C.C. Batson returns to attempt to re-connect with his son. [ 75 ] The first issue, featuring a manga backup story focused on Mary and her pet rabbit Hoppy by Johns and Shazam! fan Mayo "SEN" Naito, was published on December 5, 2018. [ 74 ] [ 75 ] [ 76 ] Thirteen issues from Johns, Eaglesham, and others - along with two guest issues, #12 and 15, from writer Jeff Loveness and artist Brandon Peterson - were published between 2018 and 2020. [ 77 ] Despite initial positive reviews, the third volume of Shazam! fell victim to several publishing delays. [ 78 ] The book was cancelled with issue #15 (November 2020); Johns cited the COVID-19 pandemic and Eaglesham's desire to take a break as reasons for discontinuing the book. [ 79 ] In November 2022, it was announced that a new Shazam! ongoing would begin publication in May 2023, with Mark Waid writing and Dan Mora serving as artist. [ 80 ] During this series, Billy becomes known as " The Captain " and his foster siblings lose their powers. [ 81 ] Fictional character biography [ edit ] Fawcett/Early DC origin [ edit ] Captain Marvel, art by C.C. Beck and published by Fawcett Comics. Whiz Comics #2 (Feb. 1940) introduces William Joseph "Billy" Batson, [ 82 ] a homeless 12-year-old (later 14-year-old) newsboy [ 83 ] who sleeps in the subway station of his home city (originally New York City ; [ 84 ] later referred to in DC publications as Fawcett City [ 85 ] ). A mysterious man in a green cloak asks Billy to follow him into the subway station. A magic subway car painted in unusual shapes and colors escorts them to an underground throne room, which is inhabited by a very old man with a long beard and a white robe. As the man in green disappears, the old man on the throne explains to Billy that he is the wizard Shazam, and has used the powers of "the gods"— S olomon , H ercules , A tlas , Z eus , A chilles , and M ercury , hence the name "Shazam"—to fight evil for over 3,000 years. However, he has now grown too old to continue and is in need of a successor. The wizard explains that Billy was chosen because of his misfortune: he had been thrown out by a greedy uncle who stole his inheritance following the deaths of his parents (later retellings of the origin would also note that Billy was chosen for being "pure of heart"). [ 86 ] Ordered by the wizard to speak the name "Shazam," Billy is struck by a sudden bolt of lightning and transformed into a superpowered adult in a red costume with gold trim. [ 87 ] The wizard Shazam declares the new hero "Captain Marvel" and orders him to carry on his work, as a stone block suspended above his throne falls upon him, killing him as prophesied. [ 86 ] The wizard would return—in later retellings of the origin story, immediately—as a spirit to serve as a mentor to Billy and Captain Marvel, summoned by lighting a torch on the wall of his lair. [ 86 ] As a spirit, the wizard Shazam lives at the Rock of Eternity , a bicone -shaped rock formation situated at the nexus of time and space. [ 88 ] Later retellings of the Captain Marvel origin place Shazam's underground lair within the Rock. [ 89 ] Saying the word "Shazam" allows Billy to summon the magic lightning and become Captain Marvel, while Captain Marvel can say the magic word himself to become Billy again. [ 87 ] Captain Marvel's first battle was with the mad scientist Doctor Sivana , who becomes Captain Marvel's arch-enemy. [ 90 ] Billy Batson becomes a reporter and host for WHIZ Radio, his career allowing him to travel and investigate criminal activity. [ 91 ] An adult daughter of Sivana's, Beautia, becomes an unwitting love interest for the shy Captain Marvel, despite her wavering allegiance to her evil father. [ 92 ] While the majority of Billy's adventures feature him as a solo hero, he also fought evil on a regular basis accompanied by several other kids who share his powers to make up a superhero team called the Marvel Family (later referred to as the Shazam Family owing to the issues DC Comics faced over the "Marvel" and "Captain Marvel" trademarks). The first members of the family, introduced in Whiz Comics #21 (Sept. 1941) and used sparingly afterwards, were the Lieutenant Marvels : three other boys from various parts of the United States who are also named "Billy Batson" and discover that, if they all say "Shazam!" in unison, they can become adult superheroes as well. In Whiz Comics #25 (Dec. 1941), Captain Marvel saves Freddy Freeman, a boy who had been left for dead by the evil Captain Nazi , and does for Freddy what the wizard did for him. By speaking the name "Captain Marvel," Freddy can become the superpowered Captain Marvel Jr. Unlike Billy, Freddy retains his 14-year-old appearance as a superhero. [ 83 ] Captain Marvel Adventures #18 (Dec. 1942) introduced Billy and Freddy to Mary Bromfield, a rich girl who turns out to be Billy's long-lost twin sister. By saying the magic word "Shazam," Mary Bromfield becomes Mary Marvel . [ 93 ] [ 94 ] In the Fawcett and pre-1986 DC stories, Mary remained a teenager as Freddy did in Marvel form; Ordway's 1990s Power of Shazam! series made her superpowered form an adult like Billy's. [ 95 ] The Marvel Family also included non-powered honorary members such as Uncle Marvel , an old con man who pretended to be Mary's uncle, and Freckles Marvel, an honorary cousin. Later DC origins [ edit ] The basic elements of Billy Batson's and Captain Marvel's origin story remained more or less intact through 2012, with minor alterations over the years. Roy & Dann Thomas's 1987 miniseries Shazam! The New Beginning had a 15-year-old Billy being forced to move in with Doctor Sivana, who in this version is the cruel uncle who throws Billy out into the street. [ 82 ] Jerry Ordway's 1994 Power of Shazam! graphic novel, which became the character's definite origin through 2011, featured a ten-year-old Billy being chosen as the Wizard Shazam's champion, because of the influence of his archaeologist parents; the mysterious stranger from magic subway car is the ghost of Billy's father in this version. [ 85 ] Both the Thomases' and Ordway's retellings of the origin directly tie the need for the Wizard Shazam to draft a younger replacement to the coming re-emergence of Black Adam , the wizard's first champion from the days of ancient Egypt who became evil and was due to escape thousands of years of banishment. [ 85 ] [ 96 ] Ordway's origin added the extra element of Black Adam's alter ego/descendant Theo Adam being the murderer of Billy's parents. [ 85 ] The subsequent Power of Shazam! ongoing series features Billy, now 14, [ 97 ] meeting his long-lost sister Mary and best friend Freddy Freeman [ 98 ] and establishing the Marvel Family as in the Fawcett comics. [ 99 ] The Marvels' home base of Fawcett City is depicted as a city full of old-fashioned traditions and architecture, later establishing that the Wizard Shazam placed a spell on the city (broken in later issues) that slowed time to a crawl in 1955. [ 100 ] This phenomenon was used to explain the Marvel Family's sometimes anachronistic approaches to life and heroism compared to many of their contemporary heroes in the DC Universe. [ 101 ] New 52 onward [ edit ] In 2012, writer and then-DC Chief Creative Officer Geoff Johns revised Billy Batson's origin for DC's New 52 universe, also renaming the character's alter-ego as "Shazam" at this time. In his new origin story, Billy Batson is a moody and troubled 15-year-old foster child living in Philadelphia who has gone through several foster homes. At his newest foster home under Victor and Rosa Vázquez, Billy gains five foster siblings: "den mother" Mary Bromfield, trickster and pick-pocket Freddy Freeman, shy and quiet Pedro Peña, brainy Eugene Choi, and energetic Darla Dudley. When Dr. Sivana resurrects the ancient warrior Black Adam from his tomb, the dying Wizard Shazam selected several candidates to inherit his power, all unsuitable until his spell summons Billy to the Rock of Eternity. Although Billy's argues the wizard's prerequisite for good people with a pre heart doesn't exist, the ancient entity senses the potential of goodness in him and, with no other viable candidate, chooses him. Blessing him the Powers of Shazam, the wizard passes  away and transport Billy back to Earth. Billy reveals his powers to Freddy and scheme to make money and engage in juvenile fun but Billy finds himself acting as a hero and is attacked by Black Adam and the Seven Deadly Sins. A timely intervention from his foster siblings their empowerment from him tips the situation in his favor and Billy goads Adam into transforming into his human form, where he becomes dust due to being thousands of years old. Billy decides to stay with his new family, having learned to be a more positive and emotionally open. [ 102 ] During the " Trinity War " story line, Billy flies to Black Adam's home nation of Kahndaq to bury Adam's remains. Shazam's entry into the country is interpreted by the locals as illegal US entry into their territory. This leads to run-ins with both the independent Justice League and the US-sponsored Justice League of America (JLA), and a series of events that see the opening of Pandora's Box , a portal to Earth-3 which brings the evil Justice League analogues of the Crime Syndicate to Earth-0. [ 103 ] [ 104 ] Following the successful defeat of the Crime Syndicate, Shazam is inducted into the League. [ 105 ] While still a newcomer to the league, Billy has a number of new adventures while under the mentorship of Cyborg , who becomes one of his best friends. [ 106 ] DC Rebirth [ edit ] After a year of living in the Vázquez home, Billy and his foster siblings have taken to having fun fighting crime around Philadelphia as the Shazam Family. While exploring the Rock of Eternity, Eugene finds a formerly sealed-off area of the Rock: an abandoned train station leading to the seven realms of an unexplored world known as the Magic Lands. Characterization [ edit ] Description and themes [ edit ] The secret identity of the character is William "Billy" Batson, a young superhero whose blessed abilities includes him being able to transform into an appearance befitting an adult at will. The character's background differs depending on continuity; prior to Flashpoint, the character was an orphan who is granted the power due to his innocent nature despite his hardships. [ 107 ] More recent stories casts Billy as instead a more jaded and troubled youth abandoned by his parents to the foster care whom was chosen as a champion of the Wizard Shazam due to his potential for goodness. [ 102 ] During the character's publication history, various sources established the character's age: The character's origin and early adventures portray the character being ten or eleven years old. [ 85 ] [ 108 ] In Power of Shazam! , Billy notes he has been a hero for four years, making him either fourteen or fifteen. [ 82 ] During the character's appearances within the Justice Society of America , he is officially sixteen years old. [ 109 ] In 2011, the Shazam ! one-shot depicts Billy and Mary owning a apartment legitimately, implying the character of being eighteen. [ 110 ] After the New 52 reboot, Billy's age was first officially stated to be fifteen. [ 111 ] In the 2018 Shazam series, although Billy would be sixteen years old due to the series taking place a year after the events of Geoff John's Shazam! backup in Justice League , he was remarked to also be fifteen. [ 112 ] Identities and role [ edit ] Captain Marvel / Shazam: The character's primary identity and role. Within the DC Universe , Billy first served as a "champion" that battled evil with the support of the Wizard Shazam, a ancient entity that has battled evil for centuries. In earlier versions, the role of champion was a legacy role first held by the Wizard himself when he was younger and empowered by a different pantheon of god. He would select Black Adam as his initial successor but is forced to seal him away and eventually selects Billy as his successor, who then empowers his friends and family. [ 107 ] In his super-powered identity, he is considered among Earth's greatest and most powerful superheroes on par with the likes of Superman and Wonder Woman , respected among other heroes as a stalwart and virtuous character. [ 113 ] [ 111 ] Following the character's re-introduction in the New 52, a new creative direction for the character additionally empowers him as the Champion of Magic , a role that designates him as a mystic defender of all magic, specially overlooking the Rock of Eternity and the Seven Magiclands (which includes Earth). [ 114 ] [ 115 ] Marvel :  Following the Wizard Shazam's death during the " Day of Vengeance " storyline, Billy assumes his position as the caretaker of the Rock of Eternity to prevent its prisoners from escaping, gaining a new appearance and powers. In this role, Freddy Freeman served as the new "Captain Marvel" and Marvel being empowered by him similar to his prior arrangement. [ 116 ] This direction was undone following the New 52 reboot. Familial connections [ edit ] Biological family [ edit ] Billy's familial connections plays an important role in the character's background and has been subjected to changes throughout the character's publication history. Within Fawcett Comics , Billy's parents were originally Merril and Jocelyn Batson, with Mary Batson as his twin sister who was separated during birth from a nurse who sought to hide the Bromfield family's deceased child. Upon his parents' death due to a car accident, Billy's legal guardian was his paternal uncle, Ebenezer Batson, portrayed as a cruel and vain caretaker who abandons Billy upon being granted his trust fund, making him homeless . [ 83 ] In later stories within DC Comics, the dynamics of his lineage is similar although his parents are renamed Clarence Charles (C.C) Batson V and Marilyn Batson, archeologist killed by Theo Adam. [ 85 ] Nora and Nicholas Bromfield, Mary's adoptive parents, are revealed to be relatives' with Nora being Marilyn's cousin. Biily also had a cousin, Sinclair Batson, Ebenezer's affluent and businessman son who also held his cousins in low regard although he was revealed to be a animated creation made by Lady Blaze to fulfill Ebenezer's wish for a son in exchange for his soul. [ 117 ] In current continuity, C.C and Marilyn Batson remains his parents although his extensive side of his family and Mary Batson as his twin sister was omitted. C.C is characterized as a criminal whom, alongside Marilyn, gave up Billy to the foster care system, finding themselves unfit parents who soon split shortly and was then sentenced to prison. [ 115 ] Marilyn reappears in the 2024 Shazam! series, revealing to Billy a half-brother and intents to reclaim custody of him. [ 118 ] Foster and adoptive family [ edit ] In current continuities, the character's background and dynamics was altered, with Billy's abandonment to foster care a source of strife for the character. [ 119 ] The character is taken into a foster family household by Victor and Rosa Vasquez. Billy's relationship with them was depicted as difficult due to Billy's previous experiences with foster families. Alongside the married Vasquez couple, Billy's other foster siblings include: Mary Bromfield (his sister in past continuities, now older), Freddy Freeman (now both best friend and sibling), Eugene Choi, Pedro Peña, and Darla Dudley. Billy's relationship with his foster family eventually improves over time. [ 119 ] [ 115 ] Later, both Rosa and Victor officially adopted them all. [ 118 ] Wizard Shazam [ edit ] Due to Billy's evolving relationship with the Wizard Shazam, the character also serves in a parental role. During the character's depiction in the Power of Shazam! onward, the character would serve as Billy's legal guardian under the identity "Jebediah O'Keenan" (based upon his real name, Jebediah of Canaan), claiming to be his maternal grandfather. [ 117 ] In the character's portrayal as Mamaragan, Steve Orlando described their dynamic during the Darkseid War storyline, wherein the pair become more connected when he represents the "M" in the "SHAZAM" acronym and grants him a portion of his own power, as beginning as "somewhat antagonistic pairing" in earlier stories but evolved into a "pseudo father and son" relationship who has faith in Billy's capabilities. [ 120 ] Powers and abilities [ edit ] Magical abilities [ edit ] While possessing no special abilities as ordinary human Billy Batson, he is capable of endowing himself with a host of magical-based super powers by saying the magic word (:Shazam!") due to being empowered by the Wizard Shazam. The source of his power, although consistently derived from the Wizard Shazam, varies from continuity; earlier stories express the magical abilities Billy possessed were facilitated from the Wizard's general magical power while the New 52 onward instead attributes his power from a connection to the Living Lightning, the magical power and essence of the Wizard Shazam. [ 111 ] Powers of Shazam [ edit ] Traditional pantheon S Wisdom of S olomon The Wisdom of Solomon grants the individual with several abilities, including perfect memory, strategic combat skills, exceptional mathematical aptitude, charisma in interpersonal interactions, limited clairvoyance for acquiring arcane knowledge and intuitive insights, as well as a natural fluency in all languages. Unlike some other powers, this is considered an active one a champion must channel to activate. [ 121 ] In some stories, this power also gives him the ability to hypnotize people. [ 122 ] H Strength of H ercules This bestows Billy an exceptional level of superhuman strength. He gains the ability to exert immense physical power, surpassing the capabilities of ordinary individuals. With this heightened strength, they can effortlessly lift and manipulate objects of tremendous weight, overpower adversaries with ease, and deliver devastating blows in combat. [ 121 ] His strength is often compared to that of Superman . [ 123 ] Golden Age Captain Marvel's strength is deemed limitless, [ 124 ] [ 125 ] enabling him to move stars and planets with ease. [ 125 ] [ 126 ] [ 127 ] [ 128 ] A Stamina of A tlas The stamina attribute from Atlas enables Billy to maintain his empowered state for an extended period without any time limitations. Additionally, the empowerment provides Billy with substance, eliminating the need for eating, sleeping, and even breathing. As a result, Billy can operate at peak efficiency, unaffected by the physiological requirements that typically apply to ordinary individuals. This extraordinary stamina allows him to fully focus on his heroic duties without the distractions or limitations associated with physical sustenance. [ 121 ] Z Power of Z eus Zeus's "power" attribute facilitates the transformation that grants Billy access to the full range of his powers, including the ability to shoot bursts of electricity and lightning. He also possesses a limited gift of teleportation, allowing him to effortlessly travel to and from the Rock of Eternity with a single thought. Notably, the Power of Zeus empowers him with the potential to use magic and cast spells. This power is considered the most difficult, requiring the most study, focus, and discipline. [ 121 ] A Courage of A chilles The Courage of Achilles grants Billy peak physical defenses, rendering him nearly invulnerable. This heightened level of invulnerability provides significant protection against physical harm. Additionally, the empowerment grants Billy resistance to various elements, including heat, force, disease, and the effects of aging. This attribute allow him to withstand extreme conditions and maintain his health and vitality against formidable challenges. [ 121 ] In some stories, it also grants him fighting prowess. [ 129 ] M Speed of M ercury The Speed of Mercury grants Billy super speed, enhanced reflexes, motor skills, and flight, enabling him to move at incredible speeds, react swiftly, perform precise maneuvers, and soar through the air. [ 121 ] The pre-1985 stories also let him travel to the Rock of Eternity by flying faster than the speed of light. [ 130 ] Darkseid War pantheon S Strength of S 'ivaa Derived from an Old God, the Strength of S'ivaa grants powers comparable to the previous Strength of Hercules although it's been claimed to be at a higher level. [ 131 ] H Fires of H ’ronmeer Derived from a Martian god, the Fires of H'ronmeer grants pyrokientic abilities connected to a force known as the "Living Fire", a counterpart to the Living Lightning. [ 131 ] A Compassion of A napel Derived from the Koryak goddess, the Compassion of Anapel seemingly grants powers similar to the Wisdom of Solomon. [ 131 ] Z Power of Z onuz Derived from the Old God Yuga Khan (whose true name is Zonuz, father of the villain Darkseid ), the Power of Zonuz grants the power to draw energy from the Source , the energy field within all forms of life. [ 131 ] A Boldness of A te Derived from the Greek goddess of mischief among others, the Boldness of Ate's abilities remain unknown. M Living Lightning of M amaragan Fasciliates the power of the Living Lightning but also strengthens the link between Billy and the Wizard. [ 131 ] Living Lightning [ edit ] In the current continuity, the mystical abilities the character possess originates from the Living Lightning, a unique form of magic connected to the Wizard Shazam's being and lifeforce often in the form of lightning. The Living Lightning grants additional, separate powers of its own; it allows for lightning control, usage of certain spells in circumstances, and can enhance the power of magic spells, healing abilities, and strength. [ 132 ] This power is also among the only known supernatural forces capable of directly countering energies originating from the Great Darkness. [ 133 ] Spell-casting & magic manipulation [ edit ] Both aspects of the Powers of Shazam ("Power of Zeus") and the Living Lightning from the New 52 onward similarly grant Billy the power to cast spells and manipulate forms of magic. With the magical and spell-casting aspect requiring focus, discipline, and study to be used properly, this aspect is considered the most difficult to master and is remarked to not be the character's forte. [ 121 ] When the character adopted the "Marvel" codename and Wizard's magical power, while he no longer possessed the Powers of Shazam, he had the capacity to manipulate and command magical energies, transform between his mortal and older form at will, and possessed a deep understanding of the supernatural, particularly during a period of shifting magical rules. However, due to the immense accumulation of magic within the Rock of Eternity, he was required to remain within its confines to maintain control over the abundance of magic. Billy could only venture outside the Rock of Eternity for a maximum of 24 hours at a time. [ 116 ] After the character's re-introduction from New 52 onward, he displayed Latin -based spell-casting abilities that can achieved various effects such as fire manipulation and the ability to alter his size. [ 134 ] In the Lazarus Planet storyline, Billy becomes tethered to the Rock of Eternity, gaining access to its vast magical energies. Thus far, he has shown to generate duplicates of his empowered form, each possessing his abilities, and can summon Mamaragan, the ancient being associated with his powers, at his own volition. [ 135 ] [ 136 ] A future version of the character also showcases potential to utilize magical methods from others, such as Raven or Johnny Thunder's. [ 137 ] [ 138 ] Weaknesses [ edit ] In several stories, he is shown to be susceptible to high-powered magic, [ 139 ] which can weaken or de-power him, [ 139 ] and, in some older stories, to significantly high voltages of lightning or electricity, which would make him revert to Billy Batson form. [ 140 ] Despite possessing the courage of Achilles, the Fawcett version was extremely bashful and shy around attractive women, a weakness some villains came to exploit. [ 141 ] [ 142 ] In classic stories, simply saying the word "Shazam!" transformed Billy between his powered and human form; [ 143 ] this extended to accidental utterances, recorded playbacks, and so forth. [ 144 ] When he shared his powers with his Marvel Family teammates in 1990s and 2000s DC publications (from The Power of Shazam! in 1995 through 2011's Flashpoint ), the Shazam power was depicted as a finite source which would be divided into halves, thirds, or further depending upon how many Marvels were super-powered at one time, and weakening them accordingly. [ 145 ] The 2011 reboot changed the rules so that Shazam could speak the magic word "Shazam" without causing a transformation, necessitating an intent to transform for it to take place . [ 146 ] This lasted until the 2023 comic event Lazarus Planet , when the rule once again became that speaking the word in any fashion would trigger the lightning. [ 147 ] Other versions [ edit ] Alternate versions of Billy Batson [ edit ] Captain Thunder (1974) [ edit ] In "Make Way for Captain Thunder" from Superman #276 (June 1974), Superman found himself at odds with "Captain Thunder", a superhero displaced from another Earth and another time. [ 148 ] Thunder had been magically tricked by his archenemies in the Monster League of Evil into committing evil himself, which led to his doing battle with Superman. Captain Thunder, whose name was derived from Captain Marvel's original moniker, was a thinly veiled pastiche of Marvel—down to his similar costume, his young alter ego named "Willie Fawcett" (a reference to Fawcett Comics), and a magic word ("Thunder!"), which was an acronym for seven entities and their respective powers. He got his power from rubbing a magic belt buckle with a thunder symbol on it and saying "Thunder". His powers came from Tornado (power), Hare (speed), Uncas (bravery), Nature (wisdom), Diamond (toughness), Eagle (flight), and Ram (tenacity). Superman held him while he used his wisdom to escape the effects of the spell. "Make Way for Captain Thunder" was written by Elliot S! Maggin and illustrated by Curt Swan and Bob Oskner. At the time of its publication, DC had been printing Shazam! comics for 18 months, but had kept that universe separate from those of its other publications. The real Captain Marvel would finally meet Superman in Justice League of America #137, two years later (although he met Lex Luthor in Shazam! #15, November/December 1974). Captain Thunder (1982) [ edit ] In 1983, a proposal for an updated Captain Marvel was submitted to DC by Roy Thomas, Don Newton, and Jerry Ordway. [ 39 ] This version of the character, to be an inhabitant of DC's main Earth-One universe, rather than the Fawcett-based Earth-S universe, would have featured an African-American version of Billy Batson named "Willie Fawcett" (as in the 1974 story), who spoke the magic word "Shazam!" to become Captain Thunder, Earth-One's Mightiest Mortal. [ 39 ] This alternate version of the character was never used, and Roy and Dann Thomas used the name Captain Thunder for a creator-owned character in Captain Thunder and Blue Bolt , launched in 1987 by Hero Comics . Roy Thomas later explained that he disliked the idea of DC Comics acquiring the Captain Thunder trademark through the publication of just one story, and felt that taking the trademark from them was a sort of retribution for the Captain Marvel lawsuit against Fawcett Comics, commenting, "I just felt that it just wasn't right for DC to have the rights to the name Captain Thunder. They didn't deserve it. They couldn't use 'Captain Marvel'; they didn't deserve 'Captain Thunder'. ... And I loved the name 'Captain Thunder', so I just took it and made no apologies for it." [ 149 ] Superman: Distant Fires (1998) [ edit ] In the dark alternate future of the Elseworlds comic Superman: Distant Fires (1998) by Howard Chaykin , Gil Kane , Kevin Nowlan , and Matt Hollingsworth , most of humanity has been destroyed in nuclear war. An adult Billy Batson becomes obsessed with Wonder Woman when they become part of a small community of survivors of the holocaust, with most of the surviving superhumans having lost their powers or dealing with altered abilities. When the now-powerless Clark Kent joins their community, starting a relationship with Wonder Woman that includes them having a child together, Batson's resentment of Superman becomes insanity, as he provokes his transformation into Captain Marvel despite use of this power causing damage to Earth. The Dark Knight Strikes Again (2001–2002) [ edit ] In the dark alternate future shown in Frank Miller 's 2001–2002 comic miniseries The Dark Knight Strikes Again , Captain Marvel is visibly aged, with receding white hair and glasses. Lex Luthor, who has captured Mary Marvel, coerces him into working for him by threatening to kill her. During an alien attack on Metropolis , Marvel is trapped underneath a collapsing building with no way out, and admits that Billy Batson—here, clearly defined as a separate person from Marvel, rather than simply transforming into him—died eight years ago of unspecified health problems. As a result, when he next speaks his word, he will cease to exist like any dream when there is nobody left to remember it. His last words to Wonder Woman are to give everyone his best, noting that it was nice existing, before he calls down his lightning and destroys himself. Kingdom Come [ edit ] The 1996 miniseries Kingdom Come , written by Mark Waid with painted art by Alex Ross , depicts a possible future of the DC characters. In this version, Billy Batson is an adult who now matches the appearance of his superhero identity. The human hostility towards superheroes has made him uneasy, and he has not transformed into Captain Marvel for several years. Batson has become the brainwashed servant of Lex Luthor, who uses Mister Mind's mind-controlling worm offspring to keep him in check and bend him to his will. Nevertheless, Batson's potential as a being powerful enough to rival Superman causes many others to react in fear and unease when he mingles with them, believing it is a non-costumed Captain Marvel that serves Luthor. [ 150 ] Events finally cause him to transform into Captain Marvel, and he unleashes a force that could destroy the world. When the authorities try to stop it by dropping a nuclear bomb, Captain Marvel sacrifices himself to intercept it. The nuclear blast kills a large number of heroes, but cools the war-like attitudes of the survivors. Superman uses Marvel's cape as the symbol of a new world order in which humans and superhumans will now live in harmony. [ 151 ] Earth-5 [ edit ] In 52 #52 (May 2, 2007), a new Multiverse is revealed, originally consisting of 52 identical realities, one of which is designated Earth-5. As a result of Marvel Family foe Mister Mind "eating" aspects of this reality, it takes on visual aspects similar to the pre-Crisis Earth-S, including the Marvel Family characters. The Earth-5 Captain Marvel and Billy Batson appeared, assisting Superman, in the Final Crisis: Superman Beyond miniseries. [ 152 ] The miniseries established that these versions of Captain Marvel and Billy are separate beings, and that Billy is a reporter for WHIZ Media rather than a radio broadcaster. The Earth-5 Captain Marvel reappeared in Final Crisis #7, along with an army of Supermen from across the Multiverse to prevent its destruction by Darkseid. [ 153 ] Following The New 52 Multiverse reboot, Earth-5 remains a Fawcett Comics–inspired setting, and is spotlighted in the comic book The Multiversity : Thunderworld #1 (Feb 2015), a modernized take on the classic Fawcett Captain Marvel stories from writer Grant Morrison and artist Cameron Stewart . [ 154 ] [ 155 ] Shazam!: The Monster Society of Evil (2007) [ edit ] A Captain Marvel miniseries, Shazam!: The Monster Society of Evil , written and illustrated by Jeff Smith , was published in four 48-page installments between February and July 2007. Smith's Shazam! miniseries, in the works since 2003, is a more traditional take on the character, which updates and reimagines Captain Marvel's origin. [ 156 ] Smith's story features a younger-looking Billy Batson and Captain Marvel as separate personalities, as they were in the pre-1985 stories, and features a prepubescent Mary Marvel as Captain Marvel's sidekick, instead of the traditional teen-aged or adult versions. Dr. Sivana is Attorney General of the United States , and Mister Mind looks more like a snake than a caterpillar. Billy Batson and the Magic of Shazam! (2008–2010) [ edit ] An all-ages Captain Marvel comic, Billy Batson and the Magic of Shazam! , debuted in July 2008 under DC's Johnny DC youth-oriented imprint, and was published monthly through December 2010. Following the lead and continuity of Smith's Monster Society of Evil miniseries, it was initially written and drawn by Mike Kunkel , creator of Herobear . [ 157 ] Art Baltazar and Franco Aureliani , of Tiny Titans , took over as writers with issue #5, with Byron Vaughns as main artist until issue #13, when Mike Norton assumed his place for the remainder of the series. [ 158 ] Kunkel's version returns to the modern concept of having Captain Marvel retain Billy's personality, and also introduces new versions of Black Adam (whose alter ego, Theo Adam, is a child like Billy Batson in this version), King Kull , the Arson Fiend, and Freddy Freeman/Captain Marvel Jr. Injustice: Gods Among Us (2013–2016) [ edit ] In the prequel comic to the 2013 video game Injustice: Gods Among Us , Shazam joins Superman's Regime in establishing a new approach to ending crime. Similar to the Golden Age version, this Shazam is suggested to have two personalities: Billy Batson is a separate person from Shazam. In Year One he, like the Flash, is somewhat skeptical of Superman's intentions, as his actions are often immoral. Ultimately, Shazam decides to stay and support the Regime, devoted to its cause. He becomes the object of Harley Quinn's affection, being bound and gagged by her in Year Four. [ 159 ] He is freed by Ares to join the Regime in combating the Amazon army and Greek gods, but just when they seem to be winning Zeus strips him of his powers, reverting him to Billy permanently. [ 160 ] He, Harley (for trying to help him), and Wonder Woman's mother Hippolyta are sent to the abyss of Tartarus as punishment, though they escape and Billy is left out of the conflict without his powers. Eventually, Zeus is forced to return Billy's power after the Highfather of New Genesis intervenes in the conflict. In Year Five, Shazam's relationship with Harley is complicated when she confronts him about being in the Regime despite their growing tyranny. [ citation needed ] (See the video games section for the continuation of his story in this universe.) Future State (2021) [ edit ] A potential future incarnation of Billy Batson is introduced during the Future State event. This iteration of the character shares a similar background to their DC Rebirth counterpart, following a similar history until a point of divergence during their time as a student at the Teen Titans Academy in the Infinite Frontier era. In this version, the character demonstrates enhanced magical abilities, having acquired the sorcerous skills from tutelage under Raven. He also displayed the power to manipulate the powers other prominent mystics within the DC Universe such as Johnny and Jakeem Thunder. [ 137 ] [ 138 ] Billy is among the various heroes who assists the Titans in confronting Red X and the Four Horsemen of Apocalypse. Raven succeeds in absorbing the Horsemen but become corrupted under their influence. Shazam then uses his power to seal her in the Rock of Eternity at her behest to contain her power. Becoming known as the Unkindness, she uses her limited influence to create an alliance with Neron, who uses his power to split Shazam and Billy into independent beings. As Billy maintains his position, his innocence used to ward off demons on account the Rock of Eternity has been displaced within Hell, Shazam works to fight external threats. Shazam assumes the role of leader within the Justice League of America, based in Detroit. However, in the absence of Billy's inherent influence, Shazam's morality becomes increasingly corrupted. He engages in secret killings of both super-villains and heroes who oppose his views, including the Question, who is the successor to Renee Montoya and Vic Sage, known as Drake. Shazam is also responsible for the deaths of Jakeem Thunder, Johnny Thunder, and the Creeper. Eventually, the identity of the Question is revealed to be Deadman, who has taken possession of Drake's body and acted as another successor to the Question in the JLA. The Spectre intervenes upon discovering Shazam's actions. Though aware of Shazam's past heroism, the Spectre is shocked to learn that his recent behavior is partly influenced by events in Hell, of which the Spectre had no prior knowledge. In a surprising turn of events, Shazam strikes and kills the Spectre using the remaining material from the Spear of Destiny. Deadman, as the Question, reveals himself to Shazam and temporarily uses the magic word to strip him of his powers. This entire sequence of events is later uncovered as a ploy orchestrated by Raven and Neron, with the goal of redirecting Shazam's powers back to the Rock of Eternity, which Raven absorbs. Empowered by her natural abilities, the Powers of Shazam, and the Four Horsemen of Apocalypse, Raven confidently escapes her confinement, believing that with the Spectre's demise, there will be no one to oppose her. Meanwhile, Billy mysteriously disappears, and his fate remains unknown. [ 137 ] [ 138 ] Shazam! Thundercrack [ edit ] On May 27, 2021, it was announced that cartoonist Yehudi Mercado would write and draw a middle-grade graphic novel titled Shazam! Thundercrack , which will take place within the storyline of the 2019 Shazam! movie. It is set for both online and print release on June 7, 2022. [ 161 ] Other versions of Captain Marvel/Shazam [ edit ] Captain Thunder (Flashpoint) [ edit ] The 2011 Flashpoint comics miniseries, written by Geoff Johns with art by Andy Kubert , featured an alternate timeline accidentally created by the Flash , who then helped the heroes of this timeline to restore history. One of those heroes is Captain Thunder—an alternative version of Captain Marvel who has six alter-egos, rather than one, and a scarred face as the result of a fight with Wonder Woman , who in this timeline is a villain. The six children, collectively known as "S.H.A.Z.A.M.", each possess one of the six attributes of the power of Shazam, and must say the magic word together to become Captain Thunder. They are: Eugene Choi, who possesses the wisdom of Solomon; Pedro Peña, who possesses the strength of Hercules; Mary Batson, Freddy Freeman and Billy Batson, who possess the stamina of Atlas, the power of Zeus, and the courage of Achilles, respectively; and Darla Dudley who possesses the speed of Mercury. Pedro's pet tiger Tawny also transforms into a more powerful version of himself via the magic lightning. [ 162 ] The six children later transform into Captain Thunder to help Flash and his allies stop the war between Aquaman 's Atlantean army and Wonder Woman's Amazonian forces. Captain Thunder briefly fights Wonder Woman to a draw before being transformed back into the six children by Flash's accomplice Enchantress , who is revealed to be a traitor. Before the kids can re-form Captain Thunder, Billy is stabbed by the Amazon Penthesileia and killed. [ 163 ] After the conclusion of the miniseries, the three new children from the Flashpoint timeline—Eugene, Pedro, and Darla—were incorporated into the DC Universe via the Shazam! backup strip in Justice League , appearing as Billy, Mary, and Freddy's foster siblings. [ 58 ] Captain Marvel (Elseworld's Finest) [ edit ] In the alternate universe Elseworlds one-shot comic Elseworld's Finest: Supergirl & Batgirl (1998) by Tom Simmons, Matt Haley and Barbara Kesel, the current Captain Marvel is depicted as a bald African-American man. A flashback to the older Justice Society features the traditional Caucasian Captain Marvel, leading to the conclusion that there were two Captain Marvels. Captain Marvel (Robert Rodgers) [ edit ] A one-shot alternate take on Shazam! was published as part of the Just Imagine... comics line in 2001, which saw Marvel Comics legend Stan Lee reimagining various DC characters. Lee reimagined the original Shazam! premise by having the hero be a mild mannered Interpol agent, Robert Rogers. Teamed with the beautiful, and much tougher, fellow agent, Carla Noral, the two of them are in India searching for the megalomaniac master criminal Gunga Kahn. Rogers is given the ability to transform into a large, winged being by saying the magic word "Shazam!" This version is co-created with Gary Frank, and is based on the Bill Parker–C. C. Beck character. In a backup story plotted by Michael Uslan, scripted by Lee and Uslan, and drawn by Kano, an orphaned American boy in India at the same time as the adventures of Shazam heroically saves a village from starvation with the help of a local boy named Zubin Navotny. The boy's name is Billy Marvel, and he and Zubin are made honorary captains in the U.S. Peace Corps by an Ambassador named Batson, making the boy "Captain Marvel." Captain Marvel (Sahar Shazeen) [ edit ] A female version of Captain Marvel is shown as a member of an alternate-future Justice League in Justice League: Generation Lost , a 2010 comics maxiseries written by Judd Winick and Keith Giffen. Little is revealed about her, other than the fact that her civilian name is Sahar Shazeen, and she is shown wielding a pair of swords during battle. She and her teammates are ultimately killed by an army of OMACs . [ 164 ] Mazahs [ edit ] Mazahs is a corrupted alternate-universe version of Shazam, introduced in the 2013–14 Forever Evil DC Comics crossover event series written by Geoff Johns . He is the super-powered alter-ego of Alexander Luthor of Earth-3 . [ 165 ] In the story, the Crime Syndicate (evil Earth-3 analogues of the Justice League) have brought Alexander Luthor, their prisoner, with them to the Prime Earth where the Justice League and other heroes reside. Prime Earth's Lex Luthor and his team sneak in to the Justice League Watchtower where the Syndicate has Alexander hostage, and remove the duct tape over his mouth, allowing Alexander to speak the magic word "Mazahs!" and transform into his muscular, highly powerful alter-ego. While Prime Earth's Shazam is known for sharing his powers with others, Mazahs kills other superbeings and takes their powers for his own, as when he kills the Syndicate's speedster Johnny Quick . [ 166 ] It is implied that the power of Mazahs previously belonged to Earth-3's Will Batson, before he was killed by Alexander. In the final issue of the series, it is revealed that Earth-3's Wonder Woman analogue, Superwoman , is in a relationship with Alexander and tricked her teammates into bringing him with them. She also reveals she is carrying his child, who is prophesied to bring an end to the world. Exploiting his ability to use the powers of those he has killed, Mazahs easily takes down both the Syndicate and Luthor's team, but Prime Earth Lex Luthor (having the same voice as Mazahs) manages to call down the lightning, using a lightning-rod that Batman had retrieved to try and use against Johnny Quick based on his planned defense against the Flash, and transform Mazahs into his human form. Sealing Alexander's mouth, Lex stabs him with a knife, killing him. [ 167 ] Superwoman later gives birth to Mazahs's child in Justice League #50, and uses the baby's power-stealing abilities, inherited from his father and activated when she says the magic word, to remove abilities the members the Prime-Earth Justice League had inherited from their time on Apokolips after the death of Darkseid . The story ends with the orphaned baby having absorbed both the Omega Effect from Lex Luthor as well as the Anti-Life Equation from Justice League associate Steve Trevor , transforming him into a resurrected—yet still infantile—Darkseid. [ 168 ] Supporting cast [ edit ] See also: Marvel Family In the traditional Shazam! stories, Captain Marvel often fights evil as a member of a superhero team known as the Marvel Family, made up of himself and several other heroes empowered by the wizard Shazam . The main core of the Marvel Family were Captain Marvel's sister Mary Marvel , the alter-ego of Billy Batson's twin sister Mary Batson (adopted as Mary Bromfield), and Marvel's protégé, Captain Marvel Jr. , who was the alter-ego of Billy and Mary's best friend, the disabled newsboy Freddy Freeman. Before DC's Crisis on Infinite Earths comic book miniseries in 1985, the Marvel Family also included part-time members such as Mary's non-powered friend "Uncle" Dudley ( Uncle Marvel ) and three other protégés (all of whose alter egos are named "Billy Batson") known as the Lieutenant Marvels . A pink rabbit version of Captain Marvel, Hoppy the Marvel Bunny , appeared in his own stories. [ 169 ] Among the key supporting characters was Sterling Morris , president of Amalgamated Broadcasting, owners of Station WHIZ, the radio (and later TV) station for which Billy worked as a reporter. Billy also had his own love interest, Cissie Sommerly , who was also Sterling Morris' niece and had a recurring role in the comics. In the early Fawcett stories, Billy Batson and Captain Marvel had a sidekick named Steamboat , an African-American valet character who was removed from the comics by 1945 because of protests over racial stereotyping. [ 170 ] From 1947 forward, Billy/Marvel's sidekick was Mr. Tawky Tawny , an anthropomorphic talking tiger who works as a museum curator and seeks integration into human society. [ 171 ] JSA member Captain Marvel briefly dates Courtney Whitmore aka Stargirl , and both her and Billy Batson are the same age, [ 172 ] although she was attracted to Billy in his older form in the first place, without knowing his secret identity, and even kissed him. To outsiders, however, Captain Marvel is by all appearances a fully grown-up adult, and the relationship between Marvel and Stargirl draws criticism from Jakeem Thunder and Jay Garrick (despite these opposing views and even inappropriate ageist and neo-puritanical comments from fans and readers in real life, however, even if Billy was actually older in his original form like in his "Shazam" one, the relationship between the two would have been legally possible ). After Garrick confronts them, Marvel decides to leave the JSA and Courtney, instead of revealing his secret to the team. Marvel later returns to the JSA and explains that the Wisdom of Solomon prevents him from revealing his secret identity. The current-continuity version of Shazam has a Shazam Family made up of his five foster siblings, with whom he shares his powers: Mary Bromfield, Freddy Freeman, Pedro Peña, Eugene Choi, and Darla Dudley. [ 173 ] The latter three children were introduced in the Flashpoint miniseries as three of the six children sharing the powers of "Captain Thunder", and introduced into regular DC continuity with Justice League (vol. 2) #8 in 2012. Tawny was initially depicted as a magically-charged zoo tiger in the Justice League backup stories. In the 2018–present ongoing Shazam! series, a more traditional version of Tawny is a resident of The Wildlands, a magical realm inhabited by anthropomorphic animals. The Marvel Family's other non-powered allies have traditionally included Dr. Sivana's good-natured adult offspring, Beautia and Magnificus Sivana. The 1970s Shazam! series also included Sunny Sparkle, the "nicest boy in the world." Jerry Ordway's 1990s Power of Shazam! series also introduced Billy's school principal, Miss Wormwood, and Mary's adoptive parents, Nick and Nora Bromfield. The New 52 reboot of Shazam! introduced the Shazam kids' foster parents, Victor and Rosa Vázquez. [ 174 ] Collected editions [ edit ] Many of the character's appearances have been collected into several volumes : Collected editions Title Year of release Publisher ISBN Details Writers and artists Format Special Edition Series: Book 1 – Whiz Comics 1974 DynaPubs This softcover volume features Golden Age adventures of Captain Marvel from Whiz Comics #7–28 in black and white. Stories by Bill Parker , Ed Herron , and others Art by C. C. Beck , Pete Costanza , Marc Swayze , Mac Raboy , and others. 8 + 1 ⁄ 2 in. × 11 in., 208 pages Special Edition Series: Book 3 – Captain Marvel Jr. 1975 DynaPubs This softcover volume reprints Captain Marvel Jr. stories from Master Comics #27–42 in black & white. Four covers are featured in full color on the back cover. Stories by Ed Herron and others Art by C. C. Beck, Pete Costanza, Marc Swayze, Mac Raboy, and others 8 + 1 ⁄ 2 in. × 11 in., 208 pages Shazam! From the Forties to the Seventies 1977 Harmony Books ISBN 0-517-53127-5 Hardcover collection reprinting 37 Captain Marvel, Captain Marvel Jr., Mary Marvel, and Marvel Family stories from the original Fawcett comics and DC's 1970s Shazam! series in black and white, with some color pages. Stories by Bill Parker, Otto Binder , and others. Introduction by E. Nelson Bridwell Art by C. C. Beck, Pete Costanza, Marc Swayze, Mac Raboy, Kurt Schaffenberger , and others 352 pages The Monster Society of Evil: Deluxe Limited Collector's Edition 1989 American Nostalgia Library ISBN 0-948248-07-6 Compiled and designed by Mike Higgs . Reprints the entire "Monster Society of Evil" story arc from Captain Marvel Adventures #22–46 (1943–1945). This oversized, slipcased hardcover book was limited to 3,000 numbered copies. Stories by Otto Binder Art by C. C. Beck & Pete Costanza The Shazam! Archives Volume 1 1992 DC Comics ISBN 1-56389-053-4 Hardcover volume collecting Fawcett Captain Marvel stories from Whiz Comics #2 - 15 Stories by Bill Parker Art by C. C. Beck 120 pages The Shazam! Archives Volume 2 1998 DC Comics ISBN 1-56389-521-8 Hardcover volume collecting Fawcett Captain Marvel stories from Whiz Comics #16 - 20, plus Special Edition Comics #1 and Captain Marvel Adventures #1. Stories by Bill Parker, Ed Herron, and others Art by C. C. Beck, Pete Costanza, Mac Raboy, Joe Simon , Jack Kirby , George Tuska , and others 232 pages The Shazam! Archives Volume 3 2002 DC Comics ISBN 1-56389-832-2 Hardcover volume collecting Fawcett Captain Marvel stories from Whiz Comics #21 - 24, Captain Marvel Adventures #2-3, and America's Greatest Comics #1 Stories by Ed Herron and others Art by C. C. Beck, Pete Costanza, Mac Raboy, George Tuska, and others 216 pages Shazam! and the Shazam Family! Annual No. 1 2002 DC Comics ISBN 1-56389-832-2 An 80-Page Giant -style, square-bound paperback collection reprinting several Golden Age Marvel Family adventures from Captain Marvel Adventures #18, Captain Marvel, Jr. #12, and The Marvel Family #1, 10; including the first appearances of Mary Marvel and Black Adam. Stories by Otto Binder Art by C. C. Beck, Pete Costanza, Mac Raboy, Marc Swayze, Bud Thompson, and Jack Binder 216 pages The Shazam! Archives Volume 4 2005 DC Comics ISBN 1-4012-0160-1 Hardcover volume collecting Fawcett Captain Marvel stories from America's Greatest Comics #2, Captain Marvel Adventures #4-5; and the origins of Captain Marvel, Jr. and Captain Nazi from Master Comics #21-22 and Whiz Comics #25 Stories by Ed Herron and others Art by C. C. Beck, Pete Costanza, Mac Raboy, George Tuska, and others 216 pages DC's Greatest Imaginary Stories, Vol. 1 2005 DC Comics ISBN 978-1401205348 A showcase of alternate universe "imaginary stories" that depict a series of possible futures. Includes Captain Marvel Adventures #66, Batman #127, 151; Superman's Girl Friend, Lois Lane #19, 51; Superman #149, 162; Superman's Pal Jimmy Olsen #57, The Flash #128, and World's Finest Comics #173. Stories by various writers Art by various artists 192 pages The Shazam! Family Archives 2006 DC Comics ISBN 1-4012-0779-0 This spin-off volume features the adventures of Captain Marvel Jr., from Master Comics #23–32 and Captain Marvel, Jr. #1, as well as the origin of Mary Marvel from Captain Marvel Adventures #18. Stories by various writers Art by Mac Raboy, Al Carreno, Marc Swayze, and C. C. Beck 228 pages Showcase Presents: Shazam! 2006 DC Comics ISBN 1-4012-1089-9 A 500-page trade paperback featuring black-and-white reprints of stories from the 1970s Shazam! ongoing series, collecting only the new material that was published (and not the Golden Age reprints) in issues #1–33. Written by Dennis O'Neil , E. Nelson Bridwell, and Elliot S. Maggin Art by C. C. Beck, Kurt Schaffenberger, Dave Cockrum , Dick Giordano , and others 500 pages The Trials of Shazam!: The Complete Series 2007, 2008; 2019 DC Comics ISBN 1-4012-9229-1 Reprints The Trials of Shazam! #1–12 and a short story from DCU Brave New World #1. Originally released in two halves as Volume 1 (2007, ISBN 1-4012-1331-6 ) and Volume 2 (2008, ISBN 1-4012-1829-6 ); the single-volume version was released in 2019. Written by Judd Winick Art by Howard Porter and Mauro Cascioli 312 pages Shazam! The Greatest Stories Ever Told 2008 DC Comics ISBN 1-4012-1674-9 A compilation featuring Captain Marvel stories collected from the Fawcett publications Whiz Comics #2; Captain Marvel Adventures #1, 137, 148; The Marvel Family #21, 85; and the DC publications Shazam! #1, 14; DC Comics Presents Annual #3; Superman #276; L.E.G.I.O.N. '91 #31; The Power of Shazam! #33; and Adventures in the DC Universe . Various 224 pages DC Goes Ape 2008 DC Comics ISBN 978-1401219352 A compilation of various confrontations between superheroes and apes. Collects Superboy #76, Superman #138, The Flash #127 and (vol. 2) #151, Detective Comics #339 and 482, Hawkman #16, Wonder Woman #170, Strange Adventures #201, Shazam! #9, and Super Friends #30. Various 168 pages Justice League: The World's Greatest Superheroes 2010, 2017, 2018 DC Comics ISBN 978-1401202552 A compilation of picturesque graphic novels featuring DC heroes battling societal problems. Collects Superman: Peace on Earth , Batman: War on Crime , Shazam! Power of Hope , Wonder Woman: Spirit of Truth , JLA: Secret Origins , and JLA: Liberty and Justice . Stories by Paul Dini Art by Alex Ross 400 pages Superman vs. Shazam! 2013, 2021 DC Comics ISBN 1-4012-3821-1 A compilation featuring past team-ups and fights between The Man of Steel and the World's Mightiest Mortal in this collection also featuring Mr. Mxyzptlk , Mr. Mind, Captain Nazi, Black Adam, and more. Collects All-New Collector's Edition C-58; DC Comics Presents #33–34, 49; and DC Comics Presents Annual #3. The 2021 edition includes all of the issues from the previous collection plus Kingdom Come #1 and 4, The Power of Shazam! #46, and Superman (vol. 2) #216. ( ISBN 978-1779509093 ) Various 192 pages Shazam! Vol. 1 2013; 2019, 2020 DC Comics ISBN 978-1-4012-4244-2 Compiles the revised New 52 origins of Billy Batson and Shazam from backup features originally printed in Justice League (vol. 2) #0, 7–11, 14–16, 18–21. Re-released in 2019 as the Shazam! Origins trade paperback, with a photo cover from the New Line Cinema/Warner Bros. film Shazam! starring Zachary Levi ( ISBN 978-1401-28789-4 ). A hardcover Deluxe Edition ( ISBN 978-1779506849 , 208 pgs) was published in 2020. Story by Geoff Johns Art by Gary Frank 192 pages Shazam! A Celebration of 75 Years 2015 DC Comics ISBN 1-4012-5538-8 Expanded hardcover Shazam! anthology spanning the Fawcett and DC eras from 1939 to 2013, including essays on the history of the characters. Features stories from Fawcett publications such as Whiz Comics , Captain Marvel Adventures and The Marvel Family , as well as DC publications such as Shazam! , The Power of Shazam! , JSA , and more. [ 175 ] Various 400 pages Shazam! The World's Mightiest Mortal Volume 1 2019 DC Comics ISBN 1-4012-8839-1 Hardcover volume featuring color reprints of the new stories of issues #1-18 of the 1970s Shazam! ongoing series. Written by Dennis O'Neil, E. Nelson Bridwell, and Elliot S. Maggin Art by C. C. Beck, Kurt Schaffenberger, Dave Cockrum, and Dick Giordano 352 pages Shazam! The World's Mightiest Mortal Volume 2 2020 DC Comics ISBN 1-4012-8839-1 Hardcover volume featuring color reprints of the new stories of issues #19-35 of the 1970s Shazam! ongoing series; plus All-New Collector's Edition C-58 Written by Dennis O'Neil, E. Nelson Bridwell, and Elliot S. Maggin Art by Kurt Schaffenberger, Dave Cockrum, Dick Giordano, and Don Newton 328 pages The Power of Shazam! Book One: In The Beginning 2020 DC Comics ISBN 978-1401299415 Hardcover volume collecting the 1994 The Power of Shazam! graphic novel, issues #1-12 of the subsequent 1995 ongoing The Power of Shazam! series, plus a 1994 Shazam! story from Superman & Batman Magazine #4 Written by Jerry Ordway Art by Jerry Ordway, Peter Krause , Mike Manley , Curt Swan , and Rick Burchett 408 pages Shazam! and the Seven Magic Lands 2020 DC Comics ISBN 978-1779504593 Trade paperback collecting the main story from the 2018-2020 Shazam! series. Collects Shazam! (vol. 3) #1-11, 13-14. Written by Geoff Johns Art by Dale Eaglesham , Scott Kolins , Marco Santucci 344 pages Shazam: The World's Mightiest Mortal Volume 3 2021 DC Comics ISBN 978-1779509468 Hardcover volume featuring reprints of the Captain Marvel stories from World's Finest Comics #253-270, 272-282 and Adventure Comics #491-492 Written by E. Nelson Bridwell Art by Don Newton, Kurt Schaffenberger 336 pages The Power of Shazam Book 2: The Worm Turns 2023 DC Comics ISBN 978-1779504708 Hardcover volume collecting The Power of Shazam! #13-23, Annual 1; Superman: The Man of Tomorrow #4, Showcase ‘96 #7, Superboy Plus #1, and Supergirl Plus #1 Written by Jerry Ordway Art by various 424 pages In other media [ edit ] Live-action films [ edit ] Captain Marvel appears in Adventures of Captain Marvel , portrayed by Tom Tyler , while Billy Batson is portrayed by Junior Coghlan . [ 176 ] Captain Marvel appears in The Good Humor Man , which stars Jack Carson as an ice cream vendor and member of a Captain Marvel fan club. [ 177 ] [ 178 ] Shazam appears in films set in the DC Extended Universe (DCEU), portrayed by Zachary Levi , while Billy Batson is portrayed by Asher Angel . [ 179 ] [ 180 ] Animated films [ edit ] Captain Marvel makes a non-speaking cameo appearance in Justice League: The New Frontier . Captain Marvel appears in Superman/Batman: Public Enemies , voiced by Corey Burton , [ 181 ] while Billy Batson is voiced by an uncredited Rachael MacFarlane . Captain Super , an alternate universe version of Captain Marvel who is a member of the Crime Syndicate , appears in Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths , voiced by Jim Meskimen . [ 182 ] Captain Marvel appears in Superman/Shazam!: The Return of Black Adam , voiced again by Jerry O'Connell , while Billy Batson is voiced by Zach Callison . [ 183 ] [ 181 ] [ 184 ] The Flashpoint timeline counterparts of the Shazam family appears in Justice League: The Flashpoint Paradox , with Billy Batson voiced by Jennifer Hale , Pedro Peña by Candi Milo , and Captain Thunder by Steve Blum . Shazam appears in films set in the DC Animated Movie Universe (DCAMU), voiced by Sean Astin , while Billy Batson is voiced again by Zach Callison. [ 181 ] [ 184 ] The character is introduced in Justice League: War , where he becomes a founding member of the Justice League as they fight Darkseid. [ 185 ] Shazam appears in Justice League: Throne of Atlantis . [ 186 ] Shazam appears in Justice League Dark: Apokolips War . Here, he is revealed to have lost a leg during a battle on Apokolips, and replaced it with a magical one. He is later killed sacrificing himself to fend off a horde of Paradooms . Billy Batson appears in Lego DC Batman: Family Matters , voiced again by Zach Callison. [ 187 ] [ 184 ] Shazam appears in Lego DC: Shazam!: Magic and Monsters , voiced again by Sean Astin, while Billy Batson is voiced again by Zach Callison. [ 188 ] [ 181 ] [ 184 ] Shazam appears in Injustice , voiced by Yuri Lowenthal . [ 189 ] [ 181 ] Television [ edit ] Jackson Bostwick as Captain Marvel on CBS' Shazam! Saturday morning TV series 1970s–1990s [ edit ] Captain Marvel first came to television in 1974. Filmation produced Shazam! , a live-action series, which ran from 1974 to 1976 on CBS . [ 190 ] From 1975 until the end of its run, it aired as one-half of The Shazam!/Isis Hour alongside The Secrets of Isis . [ 190 ] [ 191 ] Instead of directly following the lead of the comics, Shazam! took a more indirect approach to the character: Billy Batson/Captain Marvel, accompanied by an older man known simply as Mentor ( Les Tremayne ), traveled in a motor home across the U.S., interacting with people in different towns in which they stopped to save the citizens from some form of danger or to help them combat some form of evil. [ 192 ] With the wizard Shazam absent from this series, Billy received his powers and counsel directly from the six "immortal elders" represented in the "Shazam" name, who were depicted via animation: Solomon, Hercules, Atlas, Zeus, Achilles, and Mercury. Shazam! starred Michael Gray as Billy Batson, with both Jackson Bostwick (season 1) and John Davey (seasons 2 and 3) as Captain Marvel. [ 193 ] An adapted version of Isis, the heroine of The Secrets of Isis , was introduced into DC Comics in 2006 as Black Adam's wife. Shortly after the Shazam! show ended its network run, Captain Marvel (played by Garrett Craig) appeared as a character in a pair of low-budget, live-action comedy specials, produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions under the name Legends of the Superheroes in 1979. [ 194 ] The specials also featured Howard Morris as Doctor Sivana, and Ruth Buzzi as Aunt Minerva, marking the first appearance of the characters in film or television. Although Captain Marvel did not appear in Hanna-Barbera's long-running concurrent Saturday morning cartoon series Super Friends (which featured many of the other DC superheroes), he did appear in some of the merchandise associated with the show. Filmation revisited the character three years later in The Kid Super Power Hour with Shazam! , which aired alongside Hero High . [ 195 ] Captain Marvel and Billy Batson were both voiced by Burr Middleton. [ 181 ] [ 184 ] The rest of the Marvel Family joined Captain Marvel on his adventures in this series, which were more similar to his comic-book adventures than the 1970s TV show. Dr. Sivana, Mr. Mind, Black Adam, and other familiar Captain Marvel foes appeared as enemies. [ 195 ] Captain Marvel or Billy Batson made brief "cameo" appearances in two 1990s TV series. An unnamed reporter resembling Billy appears in the Superman: The Animated Series episode "Obsession", while live actors portraying Captain Marvel make "cameo" appearances in both a dream-sequence within an episode of The Drew Carey Show , and in the Beastie Boys ' music video for "Alive". 2000s–present [ edit ] Captain Marvel fights Superman in the Justice League Unlimited episode "Clash". Because of licensing issues and the development of the Shazam! feature film at New Line Cinema, Captain Marvel and characters related to him could not appear in the DC Animated Universe . [ 196 ] A planned appearance in Superman: The Animated Series went unproduced, as did a proposed Shazam! series for Cartoon Network pitched by Paul Dini and Alex Ross around the same time. [ 197 ] [ 198 ] Captain Marvel appears in the Justice League Unlimited episode "Clash", voiced by Jerry O'Connell , while Billy Batson is voiced by Shane Haboucha. [ 181 ] [ 184 ] This version is initially a member of the Justice League, before leaving after his conflicting opinions with Superman cause them to fight and destroy Lex Luthor's Lexor City. At the end of the episode, it is revealed that the clash between the two superheroes was part of a plot organized by Lex Luthor and Amanda Waller to discredit Superman. [ 199 ] Captain Marvel appears in Batman: The Brave and the Bold , with Captain Marvel voiced by Jeff Bennett and Billy Batson by Tara Strong . [ 200 ] [ 184 ] [ 201 ] Captain Marvel appears in Young Justice , voiced by Rob Lowe [ 202 ] [ 181 ] and later by Chad Lowe , while Billy Batson is primarily voiced by Robert Ochoa, with Eric Lopez voicing him in the episode "Teg Ydaer!". [ 184 ] This version is a member of the Justice League who temporarily becomes the Team 's supervisor following Red Tornado 's disappearance. [ 203 ] At various times, he joins the Team on missions. [ 204 ] Captain Marvel appears in Mad . [ 205 ] Shazam appears in a self-titled series of DC Nation Shorts , voiced by David Kaye , while Billy Batson is voiced again by Tara Strong. [ 206 ] Shazam appears in Justice League Action , with Shazam and Billy Batson both voiced by Sean Astin. [ 181 ] [ 184 ] The series premiere, "Shazam Slam", sees Billy recruited by the Wizard and becoming Shazam to help him stop Black Adam. Subsequently, he appears throughout the series as a member of the Justice League. [ 207 ] [ 208 ] Shazam appears in Teen Titans Go! , voiced by John DiMaggio , [ 209 ] [ 181 ] with Tara Strong once again voicing Billy Batson. [ 184 ] The DC Extended Universe version of Shazam makes a non-speaking cameo appearance in the Titans episode "Dude, Where's My Gar?". [ 210 ] Video games [ edit ] Captain Marvel appears in Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe , voiced by Kevin Delaney . [ 181 ] Captain Marvel appears in DC Universe Online , voiced by Shannon McCormick . [ 181 ] Captain Marvel appears as an assist character in Batman: The Brave and the Bold – The Videogame , voiced again by Jeff Bennett . Captain Marvel appears as a playable character in LEGO Batman 2: DC Super Heroes , voiced by Travis Willingham . Captain Marvel appears as a playable character in Infinite Crisis , voiced again by Jerry O'Connell . [ 211 ] Shazam appears as a playable character in Injustice: Gods Among Us , voiced by Joey Naber. [ 212 ] An alternate universe version also appears, who is a member of Superman's Regime before being killed by him for questioning his plans. His death prompts the Flash to defect to the Insurgency, giving the heroes the information they need to stop the Regime. Shazam appears as a character summon in Scribblenauts Unmasked: A DC Comics Adventure . [ 213 ] Shazam appears as a playable character in LEGO Batman 3: Beyond Gotham , voiced by Josh Keaton . [ 181 ] Shazam appears as a playable character in DC Unchained . Shazam appears in Lego DC Super-Villains , voiced by Brandon Routh , while Billy Batson is voiced by Zach Callison. [ 181 ] His Earth-3 counterpart Mazahs is also a playable character as well, voiced by Lex Lang . The DC Extended Universe version of the character appears in DLC , with Zachary Levi reprising the role. [ 181 ] Shazam appears in DC Battle Arena , voiced by P. M. Seymour. [ 181 ] Radio [ edit ] In about 1943, a radio serial of Captain Marvel was briefly broadcast (possibly by either Mutual or NBC ) initially with Burt Boyar as Billy Batson. According to Boyar's faint memories in a 2011 interview, the show was initially produced in New York but after about a month relocated to Chicago; no further details about the show or transcripts of it survived. Existence of the show was confirmed by historian Jim Harmon via recollections of old-time radio fans who recalled hearing it during original broadcasts, plus locating period program listings. [ 214 ] Comic strips [ edit ] In 1943, C. C. Beck and writer Rod Reed prepared seven sample installments of a comic strip, but syndicates expressed no interest in it. Reed suspected that the DC lawsuit was the syndicates' reason, for fear of becoming parties in the ongoing litigation. [ 215 ] Cultural impact and legacy [ edit ] Critical response [ edit ] The character was ranked as the 55th-greatest comic book character of all time by Wizard magazine. [ 216 ] IGN also ranked Shazam as the 50th-greatest comic book hero of all time, stating that the character will always be an enduring reminder of a simpler time. [ 217 ] UGO Networks ranked him as one of the top heroes of entertainment, saying, "At his best, Shazam has always been compared to Superman with a sense of crazy, goofy fun." [ 218 ] Captain Marvel vs. Superman in fiction [ edit ] Captain Marvel vs. Superman on the cover of Superman Giant #4 (2018) Art by Andy Kubert Captain Marvel's adventures have contributed a number of elements to both comic book culture and pop culture in general. The most notable contribution is the regular use of Superman and Captain Marvel as adversaries in Modern Age comic book stories. The two are often portrayed as equally matched and, while Marvel does not possess Superman's heat vision , X-ray vision or superhuman breath powers, the magic-based nature of his own powers are a weakness for Superman. The National Comics/Fawcett Comics rivalry was parodied in " Superduperman ", [ 219 ] a satirical comic book story by Harvey Kurtzman and Wally Wood in the fourth issue of Mad (April/May 1953). Superduperman, endowed with muscles on muscles, does battle with Captain Marbles, a Captain Marvel caricature. Marbles' magic word is "SHAZOOM", which stands for S trength, H ealth, A ptitude, Z eal, O x (power of), O x (power of another), and M oney. In contrast to Captain Marvel's perceived innocence and goodness, Marbles is greedy and money-grubbing, and a master criminal. Superduperman defeats Marbles by tricking him into hitting himself. While publishing its Shazam! revival in the 1970s, DC Comics published a story in Superman #276 (June 1974) featuring a battle between the Man of Steel and a thinly disguised version of Captain Marvel called Captain Thunder, a reference to the character's original name. He apparently battles against a Monster League, who cast a spell to make him evil, but Superman helps him break free. [ 220 ] Two years later, Justice League of America #135–137 presented a story arc which featured the heroes of Earth-1, Earth-2, and Earth-S teaming together against their enemies. It is in this story that Superman and Captain Marvel first meet, albeit briefly. King Kull has caused Superman to go mad using red kryptonite , compelling Marvel to battle him at first and subsequently restore Superman's mind with the help of lightning. In Shazam! #30 (1977), Dr. Sivana creates several steel creatures to destroy Pittsburgh's steel mills, after getting the idea from reading an issue of Action Comics . He finally creates a Superman robot made of a super-steel to destroy Captain Marvel. They both hit each other at the same moment, and the robot is destroyed. Notable later Superman/Captain Marvel battles in DC Comics include All-New Collectors' Edition #C-58 (1978), All-Star Squadron #36–37 (1984), and Superman vol. 2 , #102 (1995). The Superman/Captain Marvel battle depicted in Kingdom Come #4 (1996) serves as the climax of that miniseries, with Marvel having been brainwashed by Lex Luthor and Mister Mind to turn against the other heroes. The "Clash" episode of Justice League Unlimited , which includes Captain Marvel as a guest character, features a Superman/Captain Marvel fight as its centerpiece, Lex Luthor manipulating events so that Captain Marvel will perceive Superman as being prejudiced against Luthor's criminal past and attacking him without provokation or evidence that Luthor has actually done anything wrong. By contrast, the depiction of the pair's first meeting in the Superman/Shazam!: First Thunder miniseries establishes them as firm friends and allies to the point of Superman volunteering to be Billy's mentor when he learns the boy's true age. [ 221 ] In popular culture [ edit ] The television character Gomer Pyle is known for uttering the catchphrase "Shazam!" on The Andy Griffith Show and Gomer Pyle, U.S.M.C. . [ 222 ] Al McCoy , longtime radio and TV voice of the NBA 's Phoenix Suns , would shout "Shazam!" every time the Suns made a three-point shot . [ 223 ] In Spider-Man (2002), Peter Parker yells "Shazam!" while trying to get his powers working. [ 224 ] In Dear Becky (2020), the Boys are depicted as kidnapping their universe 's version of Billy Batson/Shazam and cutting out his tongue to prevent him from ever using his powers again. [ 225 ] Accolades [ edit ] Shazam was included in CBR's "Top 50 DC Characters". [ 226 ] References [ edit ] ^ a b "Whiz Comics #2" . Grand Comics Database . ^ Tipton, Scott (April 1, 2003). "The World's Mightiest Mortal" . Comics 101 . Archived from the original on June 14, 2005 . Retrieved June 17, 2005 . I've always felt that it was this origin story and concept that made Shazam instantly popular, to the point that it was outselling every comic on the stands for several years throughout the '40s. ^ a b c "Comic Book Success Stories" . The Museum of Comic Book Advertising . Retrieved June 17, 2005 . By the middle of the decade, Captain Marvel had received a self-titled comic book, Captain Marvel's Adventures [sic], which had a circulation that reached 1.3 million copies per month. Shazam's circulation numbers exceeded National's Superman title and the rivalry between the companies led National to sue Fawcett for plagiarism. ^ a b "The World's Mightiest Mortal and Big Red Cheese" . The Museum of Comic Book Advertising . Retrieved June 17, 2005 . In 1953, the case was finally settled out of court when Fawcett agreed to quit using the Captain Marvel character(s) and pay DC the sum of $400,000. ^ a b Smith, Zack (December 30, 2010). "An Oral History of Captain Marvel: The Lost Years, pt. 3" . Newsarama . Retrieved September 11, 2014 . ^ Bricken, Rob (September 4, 2013). "The Captain Marvel/Ms. Marvel/Shazam Clusterf*ck Explained" . Retrieved December 5, 2017 . ^ a b c d "Exclusive: Geoff Johns Hopes Lightning Strikes SHAZAM!" . Newsarama.com. January 26, 2012 . Retrieved July 8, 2015 . . While the main "Earth-0" version of the character was re-introduced as "Shazam!", Within  DC Comics' " Multiverse ", two alternate forms of the character continue to be known as "Captain Marvel" in the alternate worlds of Earth-5 and Earth-S . ^ Cowsill, Alan; Irvine, Alex; Manning, Matthew K.; Wiacek, Stephen (2016). The DC Comics Encyclopedia: The Definitive Guide to the Characters of the DC Universe (first American ed.). New York. p. 272. ISBN 9781465453570 . OCLC 936192301 . {{ cite book }} :  CS1 maint: location missing publisher ( link ) ^ a b Hembeck, Fred (June 18, 2003). "Johnny Thunder and Shazam!" . The Hembeck Files . Retrieved June 22, 2005 . ^ Heintjes, Tom (July 4, 2015). "An Interview with C. C. Beck | Hogan's Alley" . Cartoonician.com. Archived from the original on July 10, 2015 . Retrieved July 8, 2015 . ^ "Thrill Comics [ashcan] #1" . Grand Comics Database . ^ "GCD :: Issue :: Captain Marvel Adventures #[1]" . www.comics.org . Retrieved September 15, 2018 . ^ Beck, C. C. (2001). Fawcett Companion: The Best of FCA (Fawcett Collectors of America) . Raleigh, NC: TwoMorrows Publishing. pp. 28– 29. ISBN 978-1-893905-10-8 . ^ "Marvel Family Inspiration" . MarvelFamily.com . Retrieved October 24, 2011 . ^ "Captain Marvel "Earth's Mightiest Mortal" " . JLA . Quirkybyte.com . Retrieved October 24, 2011 . ^ "Shazam Fun Facts" . Fun Facts . MarvelFamily.com . Retrieved October 24, 2011 . ^ Hamerlinck, P.C., ed. (2001). Fawcett Companion: The Best of FCA (Fawcett Collectors of America) . Raleigh, NC: TwoMorrows Publishing . ISBN 978-1-893905-10-8 . ^ Lavinie, Michael L. (Summer 1998). "Comic Books and Graphic Novels for Libraries: What to Buy" (PDF) . Serials Review . Vol. 2, no. 24. p. 34. Archived from the original (PDF) on October 2, 2005. In 1944, the best-selling comic book title ( Captain Marvel Adventures ) sold more than fourteen million copies for the year. ^ a b c d e Sergi, Joe (2015). The Law for Comic Book Creators: Essential Concepts and Applications . Jefferson, North Carolina: McFarland. pp. 44– 53. ISBN 978-1-4766-1733-6 . ^ a b Black, Louis (September 16, 2016). "Page Two: Otto Binder Had a Vision" . Austin Chronicle . Retrieved September 15, 2018 . ^ Voger, Mark (2003). Hero gets girl! : the life and art of Kurt Schaffenberger, illustrator of Lois Lane and Captain Marvel . Raleigh, N.C.: TwoMorrows Pub. pp. 21– 26, 122. ISBN 1893905292 . OCLC 54539249 . ^ Cereno, Benito (August 26, 2015). "Remembering Otto Binder, Comics' Forgotten Genius" . ComicsAlliance . Retrieved September 15, 2018 . ^ Hand, L. (Circuit Judge) (1951). "191 F.2d 594: National Comics Publications, Inc. v. Fawcett Publications, Inc. et al United States Court of Appeals Second Circuit. – 191 F.2d 594 Argued May 4, 1951 Decided August 30, 1951" . Justia US Law . Retrieved September 6, 2014 . ^ a b Ingersoll, Bob (May 31, 1985). "The Law is a Ass (Installment #66)" . Comics Buyer's Guide (602) . Retrieved June 19, 2005 . (Detailed summary of the cases and rulings related to National Comics Publications v. Fawcett Publishing .) ^ Wright, Bradford W. (2001). Comic Book Nation: The Transformation of Youth Culture in America . Baltimore: Johns Hopkins. p. 57. ISBN 0-8018-7450-5 . ^ Wright, p. 156. ^ Gore, Matthew H. "The Origins of Marvelman" . Retrieved August 12, 2016 . With avenues of appeal still open but their outcome obvious after the first court ruled for National Periodicals, Fawcett Publications settled out of court in late 1953. Fawcett agreed to cease publication of all Captain Marvel related titles. However, Fawcett's decision to give up the legal battle came when all of the company's superhero titles were reporting greatly diminished sales was no circumstance. ^ a b Eury, Michael (March 20, 2019). RetroFan #4 . TwoMorrows Publishing. ^ Voger, Mark; Voglesong, Kathy (2003). "Front Page Romance" . Hero Gets Girl!: The Life and Art Of Kurt Schaffenberger . Raleigh, North Carolina: TwoMorrows Publishing . pp. 43– 45. ISBN 1-893905-29-2 . ^ Voger p. 45: "'That was sort of an 'in' joke.' Kurt later told an interviewer. 'Mort [Weisinger] knew what I was doing. We both figured at that time that Captain Marvel was a thing of the past...He was colored differently – green instead of red, I think. But then when reprinted in a Lois Lane Annual [sic], they put the red union suit on him.'" ^ "NYCC: Marvel to Reprint Classic Alan Moore, Neil Gaiman 'Miracleman' " . The Hollywood Reporter . November 17, 2011 . Retrieved October 15, 2013 . ^ "NYCC: Cup O' Joe Announces Miracleman's Return" . Comic Book Resources . October 12, 2013 . Retrieved October 15, 2013 . ^ .php?ID=7827 Captain Marvel (M.F.) at the Comic Book DB (archived from .php?ID=7827 the original ) The book sold poorly, and M.F. only published four issues of Captain Marvel and two issues of Captain Marvel Presents the Terrible Five . ^ Tucker, Reed (2017). Slugfest : inside the epic fifty-year battle between Marvel and DC (first ed.). New York, NY: Da Capo Press. ISBN 978-0306825477 . OCLC 972386162 . ^ Paragon's 1969 Captain Marvel "Revival" , Alter Ego #150 (2018), TwoMorrows Publishing ^ Ross, Alex (June 20, 2019). "Why Shazam! Used to be Marvel | The History of Captain Marvel Explained by Alex Ross" . YouTube . Retrieved March 22, 2023 . ^ a b c d e Smith, Zack (December 31, 2010). "An Oral History of Captain Marvel: The Shazam Years Pt. 1" . Newsarama . Retrieved September 14, 2014 . ^ McAvennie, Michael (2010). "1970s". In Dolan, Hannah (ed.). DC Comics Year By Year A Visual Chronicle . Dorling Kindersley . p. 155. ISBN 978-0-7566-6742-9 . In 1972, DC acquired the rights to Captain Marvel and in 1973 they launched the series Shazam! , which re-established the Captain Marvel mythos...Responsible for resurrecting the lightning-charged champion, writer Denny O'Neil and original artist C. C. Beck together explained Cap's absence. ^ a b c d e f g h i j Thomas, Roy; Ordway, Jerry (July 2001). "Not Your Father's Captain Marvel! An Artist-by-Artist Account of a Doomed Quest for a 1980s Shazam! Series". Alter Ego . 3 (#9). Two Morrows Publishing: 9– 17. ^ Benton, Mike (1989). The Comic Book in America: An Illustrated History . Dallas: Taylor. p. 77. ISBN 0-87833-659-1 . ^ Wilson, Bill G. (1969). "Interview with Don Newton". The Collector (17). ^ "Please Reprint These! Pt 2: Specific Story Wishlist" . Newsarama . Retrieved September 22, 2018 . ^ "GCD :: Issue :: World's Finest Comics #253" . www.comics.org . Retrieved September 22, 2018 . ^ "GCD :: Issue :: Justice League of America #135" . www.comics.org . Retrieved September 22, 2018 . ^ Hamerlinck, P.C. (December 2012). "When Worlds Collide: The Colossal-Sized Confrontation Between Superman and Captain Marvel". Back Issue! (#61). TwoMorrows Publishing: 65– 68. ^ "GCD :: Issue :: All-New Collectors' Edition #C-58" . Comics.org . Retrieved July 8, 2015 . ^ a b c Thomas, Roy (2017). Shazam: A New Beginning 30th Anniversary Deluxe Edition [Introduction] . Burbank, CA: DC Comics, Inc. pp. 5– 6. ISBN 978-1401283124 . ^ Thomas, Roy (Spring 2001). "Hail, Hail, The Gang's All Here!" . Alter Ego . Vol. 3, no. 8 . Retrieved September 22, 2018 . ^ Smith, Zack (September 5, 2017). "An Oral History of DC's Captain Marvel/Shazam: The New Beginning Years" . Archived from the original on December 31, 2017 . Retrieved December 30, 2017 . ^ Sanderson, Peter (October 2005). "John Byrne's Shazam! " . Back Issue! (12). Raleigh, North Carolina: TwoMorrows Publishing: 57– 59. ^ Smith, Zack (February 25, 2011). "An Oral History of Captain Marvel: Secret Shazam" . Newsarama.com . Retrieved May 24, 2015 . ^ Cereno, Benito. "The Evolution Of Shazam: Best Captain Marvel Stories By Decade" . Comics Alliance . Archived from the original on September 5, 2015 . Retrieved August 28, 2015 . ^ Manning, Matthew K. "1990s" in Dolan, p. 269: "Writer Jerry Ordway chronicled the further adventures of Billy Batson, the World's Mightiest Mortal, in the new ongoing effort The Power of Shazam! , alongside artists Mike Manley and Peter Krause". ^ "An Oral History of DC's Captain Marvel/Shazam: The Modern Years Part 1" . Newsarama . Retrieved March 21, 2018 . ^ The Power of Shazam! #48 (Jan. 2010) ^ Titans (vol. 2) #32 (Feb. 2011) ^ Sims, Chris (May 17, 2011). " 'Flashpoint': Who's Who In The New DC Universe" . Comics Alliance . Retrieved January 13, 2018 . ^ a b "Review: "Shazam!" " . Comics Authority . October 9, 2013. Archived from the original on January 14, 2018 . Retrieved February 9, 2018 . ^ "Exclusive 1st Look: Johns & Frank CURSE OF SHAZAM Images" . Newsarama . Retrieved June 20, 2018 . ^ "Gary Frank (comics) (& Geoff Johns) Try to Lift 'The Curse of Shazam'!" . Newsarama.com. October 17, 2011 . Retrieved July 8, 2015 . ^ Kaplan, Don (March 5, 2012). "Shazam electrifies again" . New York Post . Retrieved July 8, 2015 . ^ "Review: "Shazam!" " . Comics Authority . October 9, 2013. Archived from the original on January 14, 2018 . Retrieved January 14, 2018 . ^ "過去の受賞作品｜ガイマン賞" . gaiman.jp . Archived from the original on December 22, 2017 . Retrieved January 14, 2018 . ^ Bricken, Rob (September 4, 2013). "The Captain Marvel/Ms. Marvel/Shazam Clusterf*ck Explained" . Retrieved January 13, 2018 . ^ Schleicher, Stephen (January 27, 2012). "DC Relaunch: Captain Marvel gets name change to Shazam! — Major Spoilers—Comic Book Reviews, News, Previews, and Podcasts" . Major Spoilers . Retrieved January 14, 2018 . ^ Hunsaker, Andy (December 12, 2017). " 'Shazam!' Director Reveals One Way Billy Won't Be like His New 52 Counterpart" . comicbook.com. Archived from the original on January 14, 2018 . Retrieved January 13, 2018 . ^ "Exclusive: Geoff Johns on Trinity War, Green Lantern, Shazam & More" . Crave Online. May 6, 2013 . Retrieved January 13, 2018 . ^ Ching, Albert (January 17, 2014). "Geoff Johns Employs Lex Luthor to Disrupt "Justice League" " . Retrieved January 5, 2018 . ^ Tylwalk, Nick (November 10, 2015). "Steve Orlando Talks Redesigning Shazam's Pantheon For His Justice League: Darkseid War One-Shot" . Archived from the original on January 14, 2018 . Retrieved January 5, 2018 . ^ Reese, Gregory (January 27, 2015). "The Return of the Big Red Cheese: "The Multiversity: Thunderworld Adventures #1" " . Retrieved January 13, 2018 . ^ "Covering Convergence: Shazam! Why Jeff Parker and Doc Shaner Love Classic Captain Marvel" . May 10, 2015 . Retrieved January 13, 2018 . ^ "Superman #14 Review" . Comic Book Revolution . January 5, 2017 . Retrieved June 26, 2018 . ^ "Anti-Hero No More? [Spoiler] Returns in Dark Nights: Metal" . CBR . December 22, 2017 . Retrieved June 26, 2018 . ^ a b "Johns' Shazam! Launches This November – With Dale Eaglesham" . Newsarama . Retrieved July 20, 2018 . ^ a b "DC Comics' Complete Solicitations for November 2018" . CBR . August 20, 2018 . Retrieved August 23, 2018 . ^ "Geoff Johns Describes His New Shazam Title" . Newsarama . Retrieved June 26, 2018 . ^ Arrant, Chris (June 12, 2020). "DC's Shazam title ending in September" . Newsarama . Retrieved September 25, 2020 . ^ Johnston, Rich (August 28, 2019). "Late: DC Comics Cancels Orders For Shazam! #9, #10 and #11" . bleedingcool.com . Retrieved September 25, 2020 . ^ Dialogos de Comic 53: Geoff Johns (con subs en español) (video interview). July 1, 2020. ^ " "Dawn of DC" Starts in January 2023" . DC . November 18, 2022 . Retrieved November 25, 2022 . ^ Waid, Mark (2023). Shazam #1 . DC Comics . ^ a b c Shazam! The New Beginning #1 (1987) ^ a b c Hamerlinck, P.C., ed. (2001). Fawcett Companion: The Best of FCA (Fawcett Collectors of America) . Raleigh, NC: TwoMorrows Publishing . pp. 28– 29. ISBN 1-893905-10-1 . ^ Shazam! #33 (1978) ^ a b c d e f Ordway, Jerry (1994). The Power of Shazam! . New York: DC Comics. ISBN 1-56389-153-0 . ^ a b c Shazam! #1 (1973) ^ a b Whiz Comics #2 (1940) ^ The Marvel Family #7 (1946) ^ The Power of Shazam! #5 (1995) ^ Whiz Comics #3–4 (1940) ^ Whiz Comics #3a (1940) ^ Whiz Comics #3b-10 (1940) – note that there are two issues of Whiz Comics numbered #3, as per The Shazam! Archives Vol. 1 , owing to a numbering error at Fawcett. ^ Captain Marvel Adventures #18 (1942) ^ Schelly, Bill (2016). Otto Binder: The Life and Work of a Comic Book and Science Fiction Visionary . Berkeley, CA: North Atlantic Books. pp. 89– 91. ISBN 978-1623170387 . ^ The Power of Shazam! #4 (1995) ^ Shazam! The New Beginning #1–2 (1987) ^ The Power of Shazam! #1 (March 1995) ^ The Power of Shazam! #3 (May 1995) ^ The Power of Shazam! #4–7 (1995) ^ The Power of Shazam! #11 (January 1996) ^ The Power of Shazam! #16 (June 1996), Formerly Known as the Justice League (2004) ^ a b Johns, Geoff (October 1, 2013). Shazam! Vol. 1 . DC Comics. ISBN 978-1-4012-4736-2 . ^ Justice League (vol. 2) #22–23 (2013) ^ Justice League of America (vol. 3) #6 (2013) ^ Justice League (vol. 2) #30 (2014) ^ Justice League (vol. 2) #31 (2014) ^ a b Beatty, Scott; Wallace, Daniel; Inc, DC Comics (2008). The DC Comics Encyclopedia: The Definitive Guide to the Characters of the DC Universe . Dorling Kindersley. ISBN 978-1-4053-2891-3 . {{ cite book }} : |last3= has generic name ( help ) ^ Winick, Judd (2025). Superman/Shazam!: First Thunder . DC Comics . ^ JLA/JSA: Secret Files and Origins #1 . DC Comics . 2003. ^ Wallace, Eric (December 7, 2011). Shazam! (2011-) #1 . DC Comics. ^ a b c "DC Infinite Encyclopedia: Shazam" . May 10, 2021. Archived from the original on May 10, 2021 . Retrieved January 21, 2025 . ^ Johns, Geoff (May 23, 2023). Shazam and the Seven Magic Lands . National Geographic Books. ISBN 978-1-77952-145-3 . ^ Beatty, Scott; Wallace, Daniel (2008). The DC Comics Encyclopedia: The Definitive Guide to the Characters of the DC Universe . DK Pub. ISBN 978-0-7566-4119-1 . ^ Wiacek, Stephen (November 30, 2021). The DC Book: A Vast and Vibrant Multiverse Simply Explained . Penguin. ISBN 978-0-7440-5856-7 . ^ a b c Johns, Geoff (December 8, 2020). Shazam and The Seven Magic Lands . DC Comics. ISBN 978-1-77951-159-1 . ^ a b Winick, Judd (2019). The trials of Shazam! : the complete series . Howard Porter, Mauro Cascioli, Rob Leigh, Travis Lanham. Burbank, CA. ISBN 978-1-4012-9229-4 . OCLC 1076504122 . {{ cite book }} :  CS1 maint: location missing publisher ( link ) ^ a b Ordway, Jerry; Stern, Roger; Marz, Ron; David, Peter (May 30, 2023). The Power of Shazam! Book 2: The Worm Turns . DC Comics. ISBN 978-1-77952-633-5 . ^ a b Waid, Mark (February 2025). Shazam! Vol. 2: Moving Day . DC Comics. ISBN 978-1-7995-0040-7 . ^ a b Johns, Geoff (October 1, 2013). Shazam! Vol. 1 . DC Comics. ISBN 978-1-4012-4736-2 . ^ "Steve Orlando Talks Justice League: Darkseid War Shazam #1" . July 27, 2020. Archived from the original on July 27, 2020 . Retrieved February 14, 2024 . ^ a b c d e f g Jaffe, Alex (October 5, 2021). "Shazam!: What's in a Name?" . DC Comics . Retrieved October 5, 2023 . ^ Whiz Comics #18 (1941) ^ Cimino, John (May 21, 2011). "Superman vs Captain Marvel – The Definitive Write Up on the Greatest Rivalry in Comics" . Blog Adventures . Hero-Envy.com . Retrieved October 21, 2011 . ^ Captain Marvel Adventures #139 (1952) ^ a b Captain Marvel Adventures #28 (1943) ^ Captain Marvel Adventures #95 (1943) ^ Captain Marvel Adventures #98 (1943) ^ Captain Marvel Adventures #138 (1952) ^ Captain Marvel Adventures #144 (1953) ^ The Marvel Family #7 (1947) ^ a b c d e Manapul, Francis; Tomasi, Peter J. (April 26, 2016). Justice League: Darkseid War - Power of the Gods . DC. ISBN 978-1-4012-6947-0 . ^ "DC Universe Infinite Encyclopedia: Shazam" . June 15, 2021. Archived from the original on June 15, 2021 . Retrieved February 9, 2024 . ^ Williamson, Joshua (May 28, 2024). Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths . DC Comics. ISBN 978-1-77952-518-5 . ^ Johns, Geoff (December 8, 2020). Shazam and The Seven Magic Lands . DC Comics. ISBN 978-1-77951-159-1 . ^ Waid, Mark; Maines, Nicole; Pacat, C. S.; Johnson, Phillip Kennedy (August 8, 2023). Lazarus Planet . DC Comics. ISBN 978-1-77952-395-2 . ^ Wilson, G. Willow (2023). Lazarus Planet - Revenge of the Gods . DC Comics. ISBN 978-1-77952-408-9 . ^ a b c Sheridan, Tim (January 19, 2021). Future State: Shazam! (2021-2021) #1 . DC Comics. ^ a b c Sheridan, Tim (January 19, 2021). Future State: Shazam! (2021-2021) #1 . DC Comics. ^ a b Day of Vengeance #6 (2005) ^ The Marvel Family #10 (1947) ^ Lupoff, Richard A. (1992). The Shazam! Archives (forward) . New York, N.Y.: DC Comics. ISBN 1563890534 . OCLC 29914254 . ^ Captain Marvel Adventures #150 (1953) ^ Whiz Comics #2 (Feb 1940) ^ Shazam! #4 (1973) ^ The Power of Shazam! #5, 7 (1995) ^ Justice League (vol. 2) #0 (Nov. 2012) ^ Shazam #1 (2023), DC Comics ^ Greenberger, Robert; Pasko, Martin (2010). The Essential Superman Encyclopedia . Del Rey. p. 50. ISBN 978-0-345-50108-0 . ^ Carter, R.J. (April 1, 2025). "Critical Blast Interviews Roy Thomas About the Captain Thunder & Blue Bolt Archive" . YouTube . Retrieved April 5, 2025 . Event occurs at 28:00-28:58. ^ Kingdom Come #3 (1996). DC Comics. ^ Kingdom Come #4 (1996). DC Comics. ^ Final Crisis: Superman Beyond #1 (August 2008) ^ Final Crisis #7 (March 2009) ^ Rogers, Vaneta (July 28, 2014). "Grant Morrison on Multiversity: It's Going to 'F' People Up" . Retrieved December 30, 2014 . ^ Rogers, Vaneta (December 18, 2014). "Cameron Stewart Brings Back Captain Marvel For The Multiversity: Thunderworld" . Retrieved December 30, 2014 . ^ Warmoth, Brian (February 7, 2007). "The Strategem of Smith (cached)" . Wizard . Archived from the original on February 10, 2007 . Retrieved March 4, 2007 . ^ Pumpelly, Danny (August 11, 2007). "WWC: DC New Worlds Order" . Comic Book Resources . Archived from the original on October 11, 2007 . Retrieved August 26, 2007 . ^ "Review: Billy Batson and the Magic of Shazam! #14" . Comic Book Resources . April 5, 2010 . Retrieved January 15, 2011 . ^ "Injustice: Gods Among Us: Year Five Chapter 21 Review" . Bam Smack Pow . May 13, 2016. Archived from the original on September 23, 2018 . Retrieved September 22, 2018 . ^ "The Many Deaths of Injustice: Gods Among Us" . Den of Geek . July 10, 2018 . Retrieved September 23, 2018 . ^ Liam, McGuire (May 27, 2021). "Zachary Levi's Shazam To Star in New 'Thundercrack' Graphic Novel" . ScreenRant . Archived from the original on May 27, 2021. ^ Flashpoint #1 (May 2011) ^ Flashpoint #4 (August 2011) ^ Justice League: Generation Lost #14. DC Comics. ^ Johns, Geoff ( w ), Finch, David ( p ), Friend, Richard ( i ), Oback, Sonia ( col ), Leigh, Rob ( let ). "Forever Evil Chapter Six: The Power of Mazahs!" Forever Evil , vol. 1, no. 6 (May 1, 2014). DC Comics . ^ Forever Evil #6. DC Comics. ^ Forever Evil #7. DC Comics. ^ Justice League (vol. 2) #50. DC Comics. ^ "DC's Marvel Family Just Got Its Weirdest Member Back" . CBR . December 7, 2018 . Retrieved December 8, 2018 . ^ "Comic Book Legends Revealed #467" . CBR . April 18, 2014 . Retrieved January 19, 2018 . ^ Sims, Chris (September 12, 2013). "Otto Binder And C.C. Beck's Mr. Tawny Captain Marvel Newspaper Strip Spinoff That Never Was" . ComicsAlliance . Archived from the original on September 17, 2013. What you might not know is that in 1953, Binder and Beck tried out a newspaper comic strip starring Tawny as a solo act, completely without his superheroic pal. ^ JSA #48. In this issue, Stargirl meets a temporarily powerless Billy Batson, and each learns that the other is sixteen years old. ^ Justice League (vol. 2) #21 (2013) ^ Justice League (vol. 2) #8 (April 2012) ^ Features stories from Whiz Comics #2, 21; Captain Marvel Adventures #18, 38-29, 137, 148; Captain Marvel, Jr. #12; The Marvel Family #1; Hoppy the Marvel Bunny #6; Superman #276, Shazam! #1, 29; World's Finest #275; DC Comics Presents #49; L.E.G.I.O.N. #31; The Power of Shazam! #1-2, 33; Action Comics #768; JSA #48; Shazam! The Monster Society of Evil #2; and Justice League (vol. 2) #21. ^ Witney, William (March 24, 2005). In a Door, Into a Fight, Out a Door, Into a Chase: Moviemaking Remembered by the Guy at the Door . McFarland & Company. ISBN 0-7864-2258-0 . ^ "Trying to Fly Without a Crimson Cape: The Beginning of the End" . Glass House Presents . February 8, 2009. Archived from the original on December 17, 2010 . Retrieved January 15, 2011 . ^ " Captain Marvel and the Good Humor Man " . Grand Comics Database . Retrieved January 15, 2011 . ^ Billington, Alex (February 28, 2008). "It's Official – New Line Cinema is Dead!" . FirstShowing.net. McNary, Dave (August 19, 2014). "Dwayne Johnson Says He'll Play Role in Shazam " . Variety . Archived from the original on July 9, 2015 . Retrieved August 20, 2014 . Hood, Cooper (July 21, 2017). "Dwayne Johnson Won't Be in Shazam , Confirms Geoff Johns" . Screenrant . Archived from the original on July 25, 2017 . Retrieved September 20, 2017 . N'Duka, Amanda (October 27, 2017). "Zachary Levi To Star In DC's Shazam! For New Line" . Deadline Hollywood . Retrieved December 30, 2017 . N'Duka, Amanda (November 6, 2017). "DC's Shazam! Taps Andi Mack Star Asher Angel To Play Billy Batson" . Deadline Hollywood . Retrieved December 30, 2017 . N'Duka, Amanda (December 6, 2017). " It Actor Jack Dylan Grazer Joins Shazam " . Deadline . Archived from the original on December 7, 2017 . Retrieved December 6, 2017 . "Geoff Johns to Expand Creative Role Becoming a Full-Time Writer/Producer for Film, Television and More; Exclusive to DC and Warner Bros" . Warner Bros. Entertainment . June 11, 2018. Archived from the original on June 14, 2018 . Retrieved June 12, 2018 . Bentley, Jean (March 6, 2019). "Surprise! Your Fav OC & Riverdale Alums Are In Shazam " . www.refinery29.com . Retrieved April 6, 2019 . Fuster, Jeremy (April 7, 2019). " Shazam! Surges to $53 Million Box Office Opening" . TheWrap . Retrieved April 20, 2019 . " Shazam! (2019)" . Box Office Mojo . Retrieved July 8, 2019 . ^ D'Alessandro, Anthony (April 8, 2019). " Shazam! Scribe Henry Gayden To Pen Sequel" . Deadline Hollywood . Retrieved July 12, 2019 . Dominguez, Noah (September 1, 2021). " Shazam! Fury of the Gods Wraps Filming" . CBR . Retrieved October 20, 2021 . Aquilina, Tyler (July 17, 2021). "Dwayne Johnson celebrates as Black Adam finally wraps filming: 'This has been one for the ages' " . EW.com . Retrieved October 20, 2021 . ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p "Captain Marvel / Shazam Voices (Captain Marvel / Shazam)" . Behind The Voice Actors . Retrieved April 3, 2024 . A green check mark indicates that a role has been confirmed using a screenshot (or collage of screenshots) of a title's list of voice actors and their respective characters found in its credits or other reliable sources of information. ^ "Captain Super Voice - Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths (Movie)" . Behind The Voice Actors . Retrieved April 3, 2024 . A green check mark indicates that a role has been confirmed using a screenshot (or collage of screenshots) of a title's list of voice actors and their respective characters found in its credits or other reliable sources of information. ^ "DC Showcase Animated Shorts" . Comics Continuum . July 10, 2010. Archived from the original on August 4, 2010 . Retrieved July 10, 2010 . Collura, Scott (July 25, 2010). "SDCC 10: DC Shorts Showcase" . IGN . Retrieved July 25, 2010 . Harvey, James (October 29, 2010). "Main Cast, Crew Details for Superman/Shazam: The Return of Black Adam " . Worlds Finest Online . Retrieved October 30, 2010 . ^ a b c d e f g h i j "Billy Batson Voices (Captain Marvel / Shazam)" . Behind The Voice Actors . Retrieved April 3, 2024 . A green check mark indicates that a role has been confirmed using a screenshot (or collage of screenshots) of a title's list of voice actors and their respective characters found in its credits or other reliable sources of information. ^ "Review: Justice League: War" . Nerdist . February 5, 2014. Archived from the original on March 22, 2018 . Retrieved March 21, 2018 . ^ "Justice League:Throne of Atlantis review" . Lyles Movie Files . January 29, 2015 . Retrieved March 21, 2018 . ^ Dar, Taimur (May 8, 2019). "LEGO BATMAN: FAMILY MATTERS Blu-ray Release Details Announced" . The Beat . Retrieved April 3, 2024 . ^ OIler, Jacob (April 2, 2020). "Embrace your inner child with this first look at LEGO DC: Shazam-Magic & Monsters" . SYFY Official Site . Retrieved April 3, 2024 . ^ Couch, Aaron (July 21, 2021). "DC's 'Injustice' Sets Cast for Animated Movie (Exclusive)" . The Hollywood Reporter . Retrieved July 21, 2021 . ^ a b McNeil, Alex (1996). Total television : the comprehensive guide to programming from 1948 to the present (4th ed.). New York: Penguin Books. p. 748. ISBN 0140249168 . OCLC 33898297 . ^ McNeil, Alex (1996). Total television : the comprehensive guide to programming from 1948 to the present (4th ed.). New York: Penguin Books. p. 413. ISBN 0140249168 . OCLC 33898297 . ^ Fuller, Devin (April 5, 2019). "Shazam Is Back. Wait, Who Is He Again?" . The New York Times . Retrieved April 30, 2019 . ^ Shazam! at IMDb ^ "A History of Batman on TV" . IGN . Retrieved August 15, 2010 . ^ a b McNeil, Alex (1996). Total television : the comprehensive guide to programming from 1948 to the present (4th ed.). New York: Penguin Books. p. 450. ISBN 0140249168 . OCLC 33898297 . ^ "Captain Marvel" . jl.toonzone.net . Archived from the original on September 7, 2016 . Retrieved March 21, 2018 . . Features quotes from interviews by Bruce Timm, Dwayne McDuffie , and others on using Captain Marvel in their series. ^ "The DC Animation Resource" . The World's Finest. ^ Ross, Alex (2005). Mythology: the DC Comics art of Alex Ross . New York: Pantheon Books. ISBN 0375714626 . OCLC 62321583 . ^ Sava, Oliver (May 12, 2014). "Justice League Unlimited: "Clash" " . The A.V. Club . Archived from the original on March 22, 2018 . Retrieved March 21, 2018 . ^ "Tara Strong on 'Batman', 'Chowder', 'Drawn Together' Movie" . Voiceactors.wordpress.com . July 14, 2009 . Retrieved January 15, 2011 . ^ Abrams, Simon (April 9, 2011). "Batman: The Brave And The Bold: "The Malicious Mr. Mind!" " . TV Club . Archived from the original on March 22, 2018 . Retrieved March 21, 2018 . ^ "CCI: Shazam! Rob Lowe to Voice Captain Marvel in Young Justice" . Comic Book Resources . July 22, 2010. Archived from the original on July 24, 2010 . Retrieved January 15, 2011 . ^ Collura, Scott (October 7, 2011). "Young Justice: "Alpha Male" Review" . IGN . Retrieved March 21, 2018 . ^ Collura, Scott (March 5, 2012). "Young Justice: "Misplaced" Review" . IGN . Retrieved March 21, 2018 . ^ "DC Nation Animated Short "MAD Presents Shazamwich" " . YouTube . March 15, 2012. Archived from the original on December 12, 2021. ^ Reyes, Free (September 3, 2014). "SHAZAM! 3 Short Films — Courage, Stamina, and Wisdom" . GeekTyrant . Retrieved February 1, 2015 . ^ Sava, Oliver (December 16, 2016). "Justice League Action does right by DC superheroes with a joyful premiere" . TV Club . Retrieved March 21, 2018 . ^ "December 15, 2016: New "Justice League Action" Clip – "Shazam Slam" " . Superman Homepage . December 15, 2016. ^ Dar, Taimur (February 27, 2019). "Shazam Embraces His Inner Elvis on Teen Titans Go!" . The Beat . ComicsBeat.com . Retrieved April 14, 2019 . ^ "Titans Cameo Proves DC Really Didn't Care About Shazam 2" . Screen Rant . ^ "Shazam" . Infinite Crisis. Archived from the original on June 20, 2013 . Retrieved June 29, 2013 . ^ "Shazam character art found on the Injustice: Gods Among Us website, Ed Boon confirms DLC characters on Twitter" . Eventhubs.com. February 5, 2013 . Retrieved June 29, 2013 . ^ Eisen, Andrew (October 4, 2013). "DC Characters and Objects - Scribblenauts Unmasked Guide" . IGN . Retrieved April 3, 2024 . ^ Hamerlinck, P.C. (June 2012) "The Boy Who Was Billy Batson: The Captain Marvel Radio Show Mystery". Alter Ego (TwoMorrows Publishing) (110): 75–79. ^ Beck, C. C. (2001). "The Captain Marvel Daily Newspaper Strip". In Hamerlinck, P.C. (ed.). The Fawcett Companion . TwoMorrows Publishing. pp. 46– 47. ^ "Wizard's Top 200 Characters" . Wizard . Archived from the original on June 8, 2011 . Retrieved May 18, 2011 . Note: External link consists of a forum site summing up the top 200 characters of Wizard Magazine since the real site that contains the list is broken. ^ "Captain Marvel is number 50" . IGN . Archived from the original on October 24, 2016 . Retrieved May 18, 2011 . ^ "Best Heroes of All Time" . UGO Networks . Archived from the original on January 10, 2013 . Retrieved August 13, 2014 . ^ Wright, p. 146. ^ Superman #276 (June 1974) ^ Cimino, John (August 2013). "Superman vs. Captain Marvel The Definitive Write-Up on the Greatest Rivalry in Comics". Back Issue! (66). TwoMorrows Publishing: 69– 77. ^ Breunig, John (April 7, 2019). "Shazam's origins rooted in Greenwich" . Greenwich Time . Hearst Corporation . Retrieved October 18, 2020 . ^ Scheessele, Keith M. (September 14, 2016). "Legendary Suns announcer Al McCoy explains where 'Shazam' originated" . Bright Side of the Sun . Vox Media, LLC . Retrieved October 18, 2020 . ^ "Sam Raimi's Spider-Man Had A Hilarious Shazam! Reference Back In 2002" . Screen Rant . March 31, 2019. ^ King, Alexander (August 24, 2022). " The Boys: Dear Becky Explores Why Billy Butcher Had to Kill Becky a Second Time" . Comic Book Resources . ^ Cronin, Brian (November 13, 2023). "Top DC Characters 20-16" . CBR . Retrieved November 20, 2023 . Further reading [ edit ] Beck, C. C. ; Parker, Bill ; Schaffenberger, Kurt ; et al. (2015). Wildman, Robin (ed.). Shazam!: A Celebration of 75 Years . New York: DC Comics. ISBN 978-1-4012-5538-1 . OCLC 889523096 . Carlinsky, Dan (January 7, 1973). "Return of the World's Mightiest Mortal". New York Sunday News pp. 10–11, 44. On DC's revival of Captain Marvel. Johns, Geoff ; Frank, Gary (2013). Shazam! Vol. 1 (The New 52) . New York: DC Comics. ISBN 978-1-4012-4699-0 . OCLC 834422607 . Kidd, Chip ; Spear, Geoff (2010). Shazam!: The Golden Age of the World's Mightiest Mortal . New York: Abrams ComicArts. ISBN 978-0-8109-9596-3 . OCLC 505419579 . Ordway, Jerry (1994). The Power of Shazam! . New York: DC Comics. ISBN 1-56389-153-0 . OCLC 30626559 . Smith, Jeff (2009). Shazam! The Monster Society of Evil . New York: DC Comics. ISBN 978-1-4012-0974-2 . OCLC 314839739 . Thomas, Roy ; Mandrake, Tom (2017). Shazam!: The New Beginning—30th Anniversary Deluxe Edition . New York: DC Comics. ISBN 978-1-4012-8312-4 . External links [ edit ] Captain Marvel at Don Markstein's Toonopedia Archived from the original on April 9, 2012. Captain Marvel on DC Database , a DC Comics wiki Captain Marvel on the DC Animated Universe Wiki,  an external wiki Captain Marvel (1941), the Republic Pictures serial v t e Captain Marvel / Shazam C. C. Beck Bill Parker Creators and key personnel Ed Herron Mac Raboy Otto Binder Marc Swayze Pete Costanza Kurt Schaffenberger Denny O'Neil E. Nelson Bridwell Don Newton Roy Thomas Jerry Ordway Alex Ross Jeff Smith Judd Winick Geoff Johns Marvel/Shazam Family Captain Marvel / Shazam (Billy Batson) Mary Marvel (Mary Batson/Bromfield) Captain Marvel, Jr. / Shazam Jr. (Freddy Freeman) Lieutenant Marvels Tawky Tawny The Wizard Shazam Steamboat Hoppy the Marvel Bunny Uncle Marvel (Uncle Dudley) Black Alice Kid Eternity Black Adam Isis Osiris Enemies Black Adam Blaze and Satanus Captain Nazi Doctor Sivana Ibac King Kull Mister Atom Mister Mind Monster Society of Evil Oggar Sabbac Seven Deadly Enemies of Man Superboy-Prime Publications and publishers Fawcett Comics Fawcett Publications Captain Marvel Adventures Hoppy the Marvel Bunny Master Comics Whiz Comics Wow Comics DC Comics Shazam!: The New Beginning The Power of Shazam! Shazam! Power of Hope Superman/Shazam: First Thunder 52 The Trials of Shazam! The New 52 DC Rebirth Billy Batson and the Magic of Shazam! Affiliated teams Justice League Justice Society of America Secret Society of Super Villains Squadron of Justice Locations Rock of Eternity In other media Adventures of Captain Marvel Legends of the Superheroes SheZow The Kid Super Power Hour with Shazam! Teen Titans Go! To the Movies The Shazam!/Isis Hour Shazam! (TV series) The Secrets of Isis DC Universe Animated Original Movies Justice League: The New Frontier Superman/Batman: Public Enemies Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths Superman/Shazam!: The Return of Black Adam Injustice DC Animated Movie Universe Justice League: The Flashpoint Paradox War Throne of Atlantis Apokolips War Lego DC Lego DC Batman: Family Matters Lego DC: Shazam!: Magic and Monsters DC Extended Universe Shazam! soundtrack Black Adam soundtrack Fury of the Gods soundtrack Miscellaneous National Comics Publications, Inc. v. Fawcett Publications, Inc. Bananaman Miracleman/Marvelman Man of Miracles Category v t e Otto Binder Archie / MLJ Hangman Comics Black Hood Comics DC Comics Beppo Bizarro Black Zero Brainiac Cosmic Boy Garth Ranzz Insect Queen Jax-Ur Krypto Legion of Super-Heroes ( 1958 ) Lucy Lane Merry Pemberton Mister Mind and the Monster Society of Evil Phantom Zone Sabbac Saturn Girl Space Cabbie Space Canine Patrol Agents Supergirl Superman's Pal Jimmy Olsen Thom Kallor Titano Zor-El Fawcett Comics Black Adam Captain Marvel Adventures Captain Marvel Jr. Captain Midnight Ibac King Kull The Marvel Family Mary Marvel Mister Atom Oggar Tawky Tawny Uncle Marvel Whiz Comics Wow Comics Gold Key Comics Mighty Samson Harvey Comics Bee-Man Lev Gleason Silver Streak Lightning Comics Fatman the Human Flying Saucer Marvel / Timely All Winners Comics Captain Wonder Miss America Patsy Walker Young Allies Quality Comics Kid Eternity Short stories and novels Adam Link - Robot I, Robot Lords of Creation Puzzle of the Space Pyramids Related articles Eando Binder Jack Binder v t e Justice League Gardner Fox Affiliated teams Extreme Justice Just'a Lotta Animals Justice Guild of America Justice League 3000 Justice League Dark Justice League Elite Justice League Europe Justice League International Justice League Queer Justice League Task Force Justice League United Justice Legion Alpha Justice Lords Super Buddies Super Jrs. Young Justice Publications Storylines " JLApe: Gorilla Warfare! " " World War III " " JLA: Tower of Babel " " JLA: Earth 2 " " Justice Leagues " " JLA: Pain of the Gods " " The Lightning Saga " " Blackest Night " " Justice League: Origin " " Throne of Atlantis " " Trinity War " " Darkseid War " " Endless Winter " Previous series Justice League International Justice League Europe Justice League Quarterly Justice League Task Force Extreme Justice JLA Justice League Dark Justice League United Justice League 3000 Justice League Odyssey Limited series DC Comics Two Thousand JLA: Act of God JLA: Age of Wonder JLA: Created Equal JLA: Destiny JLA: The Nail series JLA: Shogun of Steel Justice Justice League Elite Justice League: Cry for Justice Justice League: Generation Lost Justice Riders Identity Crisis DCeased Dark Knights of Steel The Jurassic League Crossovers JLA/Avengers JLA/The 99 Justice League/Mighty Morphin Power Rangers JLA/Cyberforce Related articles A.R.G.U.S. Bizarro League Snapper Carr JL8 Justice League ( Smallville ) Justice League in other media Justice Society of America List of Justice League members List of Justice League titles Rocket Red Brigade Squadron Supreme v t e Justice Society of America Gardner Fox Sheldon Mayer Initial members Atom (Al Pratt) Doctor Fate (Kent Nelson) Flash (Jay Garrick) Green Lantern (Alan Scott) Hawkman (Carter Hall) Hourman (Rex Tyler) Sandman (Wesley Dodds) Spectre Johnny Thunder and Thunderbolt Other members Amazing-Man (Markus Clay) Atom Smasher Batman Black Adam Black Canary Dinah Drake Dinah Laurel Lance Captain Marvel Citizen Steel Crimson Avenger Cyclone Damage Doctor Fate ( Hector Hall • Kent V. Nelson • Khalid Nassour ) Doctor Mid-Nite Charles McNider Beth Chapel Pieter Cross Dyna-Mite Hawkgirl Kendra Saunders Shiera Sanders Hall Hourman Matthew Tyler Rick Tyler Huntress (Helena Wayne) Jade Jakeem Thunder Jesse Quick/Liberty Belle Judomaster (Sonia Sato) King Chimera Liberty Belle Lightning Magog Manhunter (Kate Spencer) Miss America Mister America (Jeffrey Graves) Mister Terrific Michael Holt Terry Sloane Obsidian Power Girl Red Tornado John Smith Ma Hunkel Robin Sandman (Sandy Hawkins) Star-Spangled Kid (Sylvester Pemberton) Stargirl Starman Jack Knight Ted Knight Thom Kallor S.T.R.I.P.E. Superman Kal-El of Earth-22 Kal-L of Earth-2 Wildcat Ted Grant Yolanda Montez Tom Bronson Wonder Woman Diana of Earth-2 Hippolyta Enemies Golden Age Black Dragon Society Evil Star Injustice Society of the World Brain Wave Fiddler Gambler Harlequin Huntress Icicle Per Degaton Shade Solomon Grundy Sportsmaster Thinker Vandal Savage Wizard Psycho-Pirate Ultra-Humanite Wotan Silver and Bronze Ages Baron Blitzkrieg Darkseid Crime Syndicate of America Epoch Eclipso King Kull Kobra Kung Mordru Nebula Man Secret Society of Super Villains Spirit King Stalker T. O. Morrow Modern Age Anti-Monitor Atomic Skull Axis Amerika Black Adam Blackbriar Thorn Cheetah Crime Doctor Doctor Destiny Doctor Polaris Extant Felix Faust General Wade Eiling Gentleman Ghost Gog Hugo Danner Isis Kulak Major Force Mammoth Mekanique Mirror Master Roulette Sabbac Zoom Related teams All-Star Squadron Freedom Fighters Infinity, Inc. Justice League Seven Soldiers of Victory Squadron of Justice Young All-Stars Storylines America vs. the Justice Society The Justice Society Returns The Lightning Saga Brightest Day Publications All Star Comics America vs. the Justice Society Last Days of the Justice Society of America DC Comics Two Thousand Earth 2 The New Golden Age Related articles Earth-Two List of Justice Society titles In other media Justice League: The New Frontier Smallville Absolute Justice Young Justice Legends of Tomorrow Stargirl Justice Society: World War II Black Adam v t e Justice League International Keith Giffen J. M. DeMatteis Initial members Pre-Flashpoint Batman Black Canary/Dinah Laurel Lance Blue Beetle/Ted Kord Booster Gold Captain Marvel Doctor Fate Kent Nelson Linda Stauss Doctor Light/Kimiyo Hoshi Green Lantern/Guy Gardner Martian Manhunter Mister Miracle The New 52 August General in Iron Booster Gold Fire Godiva Green Lantern/Guy Gardner Ice Rocket Red/Gavril Ivanovich Vixen Supporting characters L-Ron Catherine Cobert Maxwell Lord Oberon Superman Enemies Antagonists Anti-Monitor Black Hand Darkseid Despero Doomsday Kite Man Lobo Magog Major Disaster Manga Khan Maxwell Lord Neron Queen Bee Signal Men Sinestro Starbreaker Weapons Master Weather Wizard Wizard Organizations Cadre Extremists Injustice League Royal Flush Gang Suicide Squad Publications and storylines Legends Formerly Known as the Justice League Justice League: Generation Lost Spinoff teams Extreme Justice Justice League America Justice League Europe Justice League Task Force v t e All-Star Squadron Roy Thomas Rich Buckler Jerry Ordway Members Air Wave Amazing-Man Aquaman Blackhawk Blue Beetle Captain Triumph Commander Steel Doctor Occult Firebrand Freedom Fighters Black Condor Doll Man Human Bomb Invisible Hood Jester Midnight Miss America Neon the Unknown Phantom Lady Plastic Man Ray Red Bee Red Torpedo Uncle Sam Guardian Hawkgirl Johnny Quick Judomaster Justice Society of America Atom Batman Doctor Fate Flash Green Lantern Hawkman Hourman Johnny Thunder and Thunderbolt Mister Terrific Robin Sandman Spectre Starman Superman Wildcat Wonder Woman Wonder Woman II King Standish Liberty Belle Manhunter Merlin the Magician Mister America Quicksilver Red Tornado Robotman Sandy the Golden Boy Sargon the Sorcerer Seven Soldiers of Victory Alias the Spider Crimson Avenger Green Arrow Shining Knight Speedy Star-Spangled Kid Stripesy Stuff the Chinatown Kid Vigilante Speed Saunders Squadron of Justice Bulletman and Bulletgirl Ibis the Invincible Minute-Man Mr. Scarlet Phantom Eagle Pinky the Whiz Kid Spy Smasher Tarantula TNT Whip Young All-Stars Fury Iron Munro Tigress Zatara Allies Arak Black Pirate Infinity, Inc. Brainwave Jr. Jade Northwind Nuklon Obsidian Silver Scarab Marvel Family Captain Marvel Captain Marvel Jr. Mary Marvel Newsboy Legion Silent Knight Super-Chief Trigger Twins Antagonists Baron Blitzkrieg Black Dragon Society Catwoman Crime Syndicate of America Johnny Quick Owlman Power Ring Superwoman Ultraman Cyclotron Deathbolt Hath-Set Ian Karkull Joker Alexei Luthor Monster Society of Evil Dummy Mister Mind Per Degaton Secret Society of Super Villains Brainwave Mist Psycho-Pirate Rag Doll Ultra-Humanite Solomon Grundy Wotan v t e Justice League characters Founding members Pre-New 52/ Rebirth Aquaman Batman Flash / Barry Allen Green Lantern / Hal Jordan Martian Manhunter Superman Wonder Woman Post-New 52/ Rebirth Aquaman Batman Cyborg Flash / Barry Allen Green Lantern / Hal Jordan Superman Wonder Woman Recurring members Adam Strange Agent Liberty Amazing-Man / Will Everett III Ambush Bug Animal Man Aqualad Atom Ray Palmer Ryan Choi Atom Smasher Aztek Batgirl/Oracle Batwing Batwoman Big Barda Black Adam Black Canary Black Condor Black Lightning Black Orchid Bloodwynd Booster Gold Blue Beetle Ted Kord Jaime Reyes Blue Devil Blue Jay Bulleteer Captain Atom Captain Marvel / Shazam Catwoman Commander Steel / Hank Heywood III Congorilla Crimson Fox Detective Chimp Doctor Fate Doctor Light Donna Troy Element Girl Elongated Man Etrigan the Demon Fire Firestorm The Flash Jay Garrick Wally West General Glory Geo-Force Godiva Green Arrow Green Lantern Guy Gardner Jade John Stewart Kyle Rayner Simon Baz Jessica Cruz Guardian Gypsy Harley Quinn Hawkman Carter Hall Katar Hol Hawkgirl and Hawkwoman Shiera Sanders Hall Shayera Hol Kendra Saunders Hourman Rick Tyler Matthew Tyler (android) Huntress Ice Glacier Jesse Quick John Constantine Kasumi Katana Lightray Lobo Madame Xanadu Manitou Dawn Manitou Raven Maxima Maya Mera Metamorpho Mister Miracle Mr Terrific Moon Maiden Mystek Naomi McDuffie Obsidian Orion Pandora Phantom Stranger Plastic Man Power Girl Question Raven Ray Red Arrow Red Tornado Robin/Nightwing Rocket Red Shade, the Changing Man Silver Sorceress Snapper Carr Starfire Stargirl Starman Mikaal Tomas Prince Gavyn Will Payton Jack Knight Steel Super-Chief Superboy Supergirl Swamp Thing Tasmanian Devil Tomorrow Woman Triumph Vibe Vixen Wonder Girl Zatanna Zauriel Other characters Supporting characters Alfred Pennyworth Arella A.R.G.U.S. Carol Ferris Highfather Iris West James Gordon Jimmy Olsen Lois Lane Lucius Fox Pariah Perry White Queen Hippolyta Steve Trevor Sue Dibny Vicki Vale Allies Amazonians Atlanteans Birds of Prey Doom Patrol GCPD Justice League Dark John Constantine Deadman Detective Chimp Etrigan the Demon Swamp Thing Zatanna Justice Society of America Lantern Corps Guardians of the Universe Zamarons Blue Lantern Corps Green Lantern Corps Indigo Tribe White Lantern Corps Legion of Super-Heroes Marvel/Shazam Family New Gods Outsiders S.T.A.R. Labs Teen Titans Robin Starfire Beast Boy Cyborg Raven Young Justice Neutral allies Amanda Waller Black Adam Captain Cold Frankenstein Jonah Hex Killer Frost Larfleeze Lobo Harley Quinn Poison Ivy Star Sapphire Suicide Squad Enemies Central rogues Amazo Anti-Monitor Black Adam Black Manta Brainiac Captain Cold Cheetah Darkseid Deathstroke Despero Doctor Destiny Doctor Light Doomsday Eclipso Felix Faust Gorilla Grodd Joker Kanjar Ro Lex Luthor Libra Mongul Nekron Neron Professor Ivo Prometheus Queen Bee Queen of Fables Sinestro Starro Steppenwolf T. O. Morrow Trigon Ultra-Humanite Vandal Savage Other supervillains Amos Fortune Black Hand Blockbuster Brain Storm Circe David Graves Doctor Polaris Doctor Sivana Epoch Funky Flashman Gamemnae General Wade Eiling Gentleman Ghost Gog Hyathis Imperiex Key King Kull Ma'alefa'ak Magog Manchester Black Manga Khan Manhunter Matter Master Maxwell Lord Merlyn Morgaine le Fey Nebula Man OMAC Paragon Per Degaton Ra's al Ghul Rama Khan Red King Reverse-Flash Shaggy Man Siren Solaris Solomon Grundy Sonar Starbreaker Weapons Master Weather Wizard Wizard Organizations Aryan Brigade Axis Amerika Brotherhood of Evil Cadre Crime Syndicate of America Darkseid's Elite Fearsome Five Female Furies Injustice League Kobra Lantern Corps Black Lantern Corps Orange Lantern Corps Red Lantern Corps Sinestro Corps League of Assassins Legion of Doom Manhunters Parademons Phantom Zone Villains Rogues Royal Flush Gang Secret Six Secret Society of Super Villains White Martians Alternative versions Alternate versions of the Justice League Extreme Justice Just'a Lotta Animals Justice Guild of America Justice League 3000 Justice League Dark Justice League Elite Justice League Europe Justice League International Justice League Queer Justice League Task Force Justice League United Justice Legion Alpha Justice Lords Super Buddies Super Jrs. Young Justice Others Superman Wonder Woman In other media DC Extended Universe Superman Batman Wonder Woman Flash Aquaman Category v t e Teen Titans Bob Haney Bruno Premiani Founding members Aqualad/Garth Kid Flash/Wally West Robin/Dick Grayson Speedy/Roy Harper Wonder Girl/Donna Troy Current members Teen Titans Bunker Crush Jakeem Thunder Kid Flash Ace West Red Arrow Emiko Queen Titans Arsenal Beast Boy Cyborg Nightwing Raven Starfire Swamp Thing Troia Tempest Past members Teen Titans Aqualad Jackson Hyde Arsenal Atom Ray Palmer Baby Wildebeest Blue Beetle (Jaime Reyes) Bumblebee Bushido Cyborg Danny Chase Mal Duncan Flash/Kid Flash/Wally West Gnarrk Green Lantern (Kyle Rayner) Hawk and Dove Impulse/Kid Flash (Bart Allen) Jericho Kid Flash Ace West Kole Miss Martian Nightwing Omen Pantha Raven Ravager (Rose Wilson) Red Arrow Emiko Queen Red Hood Red Star Robin Tim Drake Damian Wayne Shazam Starfire Static Steel (Natasha Irons) Superboy Kon-El Jon Kent Supergirl Kara Zor-El Tempest Terra Troia Wonder Girl (Cassie Sandsmark) Supporting characters Doom Patrol Dubbilex Justice League Sarah Simms Sarge Steel Silas Stone Thunder and Lightning Wendy, Marvin and Wonder Dog Young Justice Enemies Antagonists Blackfire Brain Brother Blood Cheshire Cinderblock Clock King Copperhead Deathstroke the Terminator Ding Dong Daddy Doctor Light Duela Dent Dreadbolt Gemini General Immortus Gizmo Gorilla Grodd H'San Natall Jericho Jinx Lady Vic Lord Chaos Mad Mod Madame Rouge Mammoth Mister Twister Mongul Monsieur Mallah Persuader Phobia Plasmus Psimon Ravager The Reach Shimmer Siren Superboy-Prime Terra Trident Trigon Vandal Savage Warp Wintergreen Zookeeper Organizations Brotherhood of Evil Dark Nemesis Fearsome Five H.I.V.E. Legion of Doom Terror Titans Titans of Myth Wildebeest Society Locations Titans Tower S.T.A.R. Labs Publications and storylines Team Titans Teen Titans: Earth One Teen Titans Go! Teen Titans: The Lost Annual Tiny Titans " Titans Tomorrow " Titans/Young Justice: Graduation Day The Uncanny X-Men and The New Teen Titans " Infinite Crisis " " The Lazarus Contract " " Super Sons of Tomorrow " " The Terminus Agenda " " Titans: Beast World " Affiliated teams Doom Patrol Legion of Super-Heroes Titans East Young Justice In other media Films Teen Titans Teen Titans: Trouble in Tokyo (2006) Teen Titans Go! vs. Teen Titans (2019) DCAMU Justice League vs. Teen Titans (2016) Teen Titans: The Judas Contract (2017) Teen Titans Go! Teen Titans Go! To the Movies (2018) Teen Titans Go! vs. Teen Titans (2019) Teen Titans Go! & DC Super Hero Girls: Mayhem in the Multiverse (2022) Television Teen Titans Episodes Season 1 2 3 4 5 Characters Cinderblock Teen Titans Go! Episodes Characters " The Night Begins to Shine " Titans Season 1 2 3 4 Characters Dick Grayson Video games Teen Titans (2005) Teen Titans (2006) Category v t e Golden Age of Comic Books Ace Comics Captain Courageous Doctor Nemesis The Flag Lash Lightning The Raven Unknown Soldier Vulcan All-American Publications The Atom Al Pratt Black Canary Dinah Drake Doctor Mid-Nite Charles McNider Doiby Dickles The Flash Jay Garrick The Gay Ghost Green Lantern Alan Scott Hawkgirl Shiera Sanders Hall Hawkman Carter Hall Hop Harrigan Johnny Thunder Justice Society of America The King Mister Terrific Terry Sloane Neptune Perkins Red Tornado Sargon the Sorcerer The Terrific Whatzit Thunderbolt Ultra-Man The Whip Wildcat Ted Grant Wonder Woman Diana Prince Centaur Comics Airman Amazing-Man The Arrow The Clock The Eye Fantom of the Fair Magician from Mars The Masked Marvel Minimidget Charlton Comics Atomic Mouse Captain Atom Nightshade Mr. Muscles Nature Boy Space Adventures Yellowjacket Dell Comics Doctor Hormone Flash Gordon The Owl Phantasmo Supermind's Son Zorro Fawcett Comics Bulletgirl Bulletman Captain Marvel Captain Marvel Jr. Captain Midnight Dan Dare Golden Arrow Hoppy the Marvel Bunny Ibis the Invincible Lieutenant Marvels Marvel Family Mary Marvel Master Man Minute-Man Mr. Scarlet Nyoka the Jungle Girl Phantom Eagle Pinky the Whiz Kid Scoop Smith Spy Smasher Squadron of Justice Uncle Marvel Fox Comics Black Fury Blue Beetle Dan Garret The Bouncer Bronze Man Dynamo The Flame Green Mask The Moth Samson Stardust the Super Wizard U.S. Jones Wonder Man Harvey Comics Black Cat Captain 3-D Captain Freedom Green Hornet Invisible Scarlet O'Neil Kato Shock Gibson Spirit of '76 Lev Gleason Publications Captain Battle Claw Crimebuster Daredevil Little Wise Guys Silver Streak MLJ Comics The Black Hood Bob Phantom Captain Flag The Comet The Firefly The Fox The Hangman Rang-a-Tang the Wonder Dog The Shield Super Duck The Web The Wizard National Allied Publications Ace the Bat-Hound Air Wave Aquaman Batman Batwoman Black Pirate Boy Commandos Captain Comet Chris KL-99 Congo Bill Crimson Avenger Lee Travis Dan the Dyna-Mite Dark Ranger Detective Chimp Doctor Fate Kent Nelson Doctor Occult Genius Jones Gimmick Girl Green Arrow Guardian Hourman Rex Tyler Johnny Chambers King Faraday The Knight Krypto Liberty Belle Manhunter Paul Kirk Martian Manhunter Miss X Mr. America Newsboy Legion Phantom Stranger Rex the Wonder Dog Robin Dick Grayson Robotman Rose Psychic Sandman Wesley Dodds Sandy the Golden Boy Seven Soldiers of Victory Shining Knight Sir Justin Slam Bradley The Spectre Jim Corrigan Speedy Roy Harper Squire Star-Spangled Kid Sylvester Pemberton Starman Ted Knight Stripesy Stuff the Chinatown Kid Superboy Kal-El Superman Superwoman Lois Lane Tarantula TNT Tommy Tomorrow Vigilante Greg Saunders Wonder Woman Zatara Nedor Comics American Crusader American Eagle Black Terror Captain Future Doc Strange Fighting Yank The Ghost Grim Reaper Judy of the Jungle Kara the Jungle Princess Lance Lewis, Space Detective Liberator The Magnet Miss Masque Princess Pantha Pyroman The Scarab The Woman in Red Novelty Press Blue Bolt Dick Cole The Target The Targeteers The Twister Prize Publications Atomic-Man Black Owl Fighting American Green Lama Yank & Doodle Quality Comics #711 The Black Condor Blackhawk Blue Tracer Bozo the Iron Man Captain Triumph Doll Girl Doll Man Firebrand The Human Bomb Invisible Hood The Jester Kid Eternity Lady Luck Madame Fatal Magno Manhunter Merlin the Magician Midnight Miss America Miss Fear Mouthpiece Neon the Unknown Phantom Lady Plastic Man Quicksilver The Ray Red Bee Red Torpedo The Spider Spider Widow Uncle Sam Wildfire Wonder Boy Woozy Winks Timely Comics All-Winners Squad American Ace The Angel Black Marvel Black Widow Claire Voyant Blazing Skull Blonde Phantom Blue Blade Blue Diamond Breeze Barton Bucky Bucky Barnes Captain America Captain Wonder The Challenger Citizen V The Destroyer Dynamic Man Father Time Ferret Fiery Mask The Fin Golden Girl Human Torch Jack Frost Laughing Mask Marvel Boy Mercury Miss America Miss Fury Mister E Namor Namora The Patriot Phantom Reporter Red Raven Rockman Silver Scorpion Sun Girl Super Rabbit Thin Man Thunderer Tim Mulrooney Toro Venus Vision Whizzer Robert Frank Witness Young Allies Misc. American Comics Group Superkatt Anglo-American Publishing Commander Steel Atlas Publications Captain Atom Bell Features The Brain Johnny Canuck Nelvana of the Northern Lights Cardal Publishing Streamline Columbia Comics The Face Skyman David McKay Publications Mandrake the Magician The Phantom DC Thomson The Amazing Mr X Jack Flash Dynamic Publications Dynamic Man Yankee Girl Eastern Color Printing Buck Rogers Hydroman Phantom Magician EC Comics Moon Girl Superduperman Elliot Publishing Company Kismet, Man of Fate Fiction House Fantomah Hillman Periodicals Airboy The Heap Holyoke Publishing Cat-Man Kitten Miss Victory L. Miller & Son, Ltd. Kid Marvelman Marvelman Young Marvelman Magazine Enterprises Funnyman Maple Leaf Publishing Brok Windsor Iron Man Rural Home Publications Green Turtle Street & Smith The Avenger Doc Savage The Shadow Supersnipe Portals : United States Television Animation Cartoon Film Comics Toys Speculative fiction 1950s 1960s 1980s 1990s Authority control databases International VIAF FAST WorldCat National United States Australia Israel Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Shazam_(DC_Comics)&oldid=1286579826 " Categories : Fawcett Comics superheroes Captain Marvel (DC Comics) American comics characters Characters created by Bill Parker (comics) Characters created by C. C. Beck Comics characters introduced in 1939 DC Comics adapted into films DC Comics superheroes DC Comics male superheroes DC Comics American superheroes DC Comics characters who use magic DC Comics shapeshifters DC Comics characters who can move at superhuman speeds DC Comics characters who can teleport DC Comics characters with accelerated healing DC Comics characters with superhuman durability or invulnerability DC Comics characters with superhuman senses DC Comics characters with superhuman strength DC Comics child superheroes DC Comics fantasy characters DC Comics film characters DC Comics orphans DC Comics titles Fictional characters with electric or magnetic abilities Fictional characters with precognition Fictional characters with eidetic memory Fictional characters who can manipulate time Fictional characters with dimensional travel abilities Fictional radio personalities Twin characters in comics Film serial characters Golden Age superheroes Male characters in film Marvel Family Fiction about rapid human age change Superheroes who are adopted Superheroes with alter egos Solomon Heracles in fiction Zeus Achilles Mercury (mythology) Hidden categories: CS1 maint: location missing publisher CS1 errors: generic name IMDb title ID different from Wikidata Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages Use mdy dates from May 2022 Use American English from May 2022 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Character pop Converted comics character infoboxes Converted category character infoboxes Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from March 2025 Title pop Comics related articles with secondary infobox Articles with unsourced statements from November 2018 This page was last edited on 20 April 2025, at 19:57 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Shazam (DC Comics) 36 languages Add topic