Chloé Zhao becomes first woman of colour to win best director Oscar  | Oscars 2021 | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Chloe Zhao arrives for the Oscars. Photograph: Chris Pizzello/Rex/Shutterstock View image in fullscreen Chloe Zhao arrives for the Oscars. Photograph: Chris Pizzello/Rex/Shutterstock Oscars 2021 This article is more than 4 years old Chloé Zhao becomes first woman of colour to win best director Oscar This article is more than 4 years old With victory for elegiac road movie Nomadland, Chinese-American film-maker becomes second ever woman to receive directing Academy Award Oscars 2021: the dresses, the winners, and the speeches – live! Oscar winners 2021: the full list – updating live! Oscars 2021 red carpet in pictures Catherine Shoard Sun 25 Apr 2021 20.59 EDT Last modified on Sun 25 Apr 2021 21.25 EDT Share Chloé Zhao has become the second woman in the history of the Oscars to be named best director at this year’s Academy Awards in Los Angeles. ‘I’ve always been an outsider’: Chloé Zhao’s roundabout route to the Oscars red carpet Read more Zhao, 39, consolidated her domination of the category this awards season, following victories at a slew of shows including the Golden Globes and the Baftas, by being named best director for Nomadland , her acclaimed road movie starring Frances McDormand. Born in Beijing, Zhao was educated in the UK and US as a teenager before moving permanently to America for college. Nomadland is her third film, following Songs My Brothers Taught Me (2015) and The Rider (2017). Out later this year will be Eternals, a Marvel superhero movie starring Angelina Jolie and Richard Madden. The prize was presented to her virtually from Seoul by last year’s winner, Parasite’s Bong Joon-ho. Receiving the award in Los Angeles, Zhao thanked the Academy, her fellow nominees, and her entire company on Nomadland . She said she had been thinking a lot recently about ways to keep going when life is hard and remembered a game she played growing up in China with her father, memorising classic poems. One phrase stuck with her in particular, she said: “People at birth are entirely good.” “Those six letters had such a big impact on me,” Zhao continued, “and I still truly believe them even if it might seem the opposite.” “This is for anyone who has the faith and courage to hold on to the goodness in themselves and in each other. This is for you; you inspire me to keep going.” Explore more on these topics Oscars 2021 Chloé Zhao Nomadland Oscars Awards and prizes news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)