Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Launches Worldwide November 10 If you're seeing this message, that means JavaScript has been disabled on your browser , please enable JS to make this app work. Arrow Left Black arrow pointing left 1156 / 2456 Arrow Right Black arrow pointing right Back Arrow Left Black arrow pointing left September 9 , 2020 1 Min Read assassins creed assassins creed valhalla Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Launches Worldwide November 10 ubisoft Assassin’s Creed Valhalla will be available on November 10 as a launch game for the Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S. It will also be available on Xbox One, PS4, PC (via Ubisoft or Epic Games stores), UPLAY +, and Stadia on the same day. The PlayStation 5 version will be available upon launch of that console. On all platforms, standard editions of the game will be available for purchase at $59.99. Assassin’s Creed Valhalla will take advantage of Xbox Series X functionality, enabling players to experience the game at 60 frames per second while seeing the intricately detailed landscapes of England’s Dark Ages at 4K. Additionally, the Xbox Series version of the game will include higher-resolution textures and clutter density, along with Direct Storage functionality that allows for faster load times. Finally, Assassin’s Creed Valhalla supports Smart Delivery, allowing players who purchase the game on Xbox One to upgrade to the Xbox Series X or Xbox Series S version for free. Players can also transfer saves between those platforms. For more information on the game, be sure to check out our previous coverage . Twitter Logo Facebook Logo Copy LinkedIn Logo Share: More From Ubisoft October 15 , 2024 6 Min Read Just Dance 2025 Edition & Just Dance VR: Welcome to Dancity Available Now Check out the full Just Dance 2025 song list and find out more about dancing in VR with Meta Quest headsets. Read More May 13 , 2024 6 Min Read How to Play the Assassin’s Creed Games In Order Whether you’re curious about how your favorite Assassin fits in or where to start unraveling the history-spanning storyline, here’s a quick rundown of the series so far. Read More October 3 , 2024 10 Min Read Prince of Persia 35th Anniversary - A Look Back at the Original Game Series creator Jordan Mechner and others share stories from the creation of 1989's Prince of Persia and what it means to them. Read More August 5 , 2024 3 Min Read Star Wars Outlaws™ Post-Launch Roadmap Revealed Learn more about the open-world Star Wars game’s Season Pass content, including two story packs, an exclusive mission, and cosmetic items. Read More