PHOTOS: Inside Amazon's Cambridge research lab — where there's a wall made out of Echoes (AMZN) | Business Insider Africa Markets Leaders Careers Lifestyle Markets Leaders Careers Lifestyle facebook twitter instagram linkedIn googleNews O World globe An icon of the world globe, indicating different international options." Business Insider Edition United States International Deutschland & Österreich España Japan México Nederland Polska ADVERTISEMENT BI Africa > Tech PHOTOS: Inside Amazon's Cambridge research lab — where there's a wall made out of Echoes (AMZN) pulse 14 November 2017 12:27 PM The Seattle-headquartered company said researchers in the office will work on its delivery drones and its AI assistant, Alexa. Amazon has opened a new research facility in the British university city of Cambridge with a wall made almost entirely out of Amazon Echo devices. ADVERTISEMENT The new "development centre" will be home to about 400 engineers who will work on Amazon's Alexa assistant and drone innovation. Doug Gurr, Amazon's UK country manager, in a statement: "The exciting and innovative new products and services developed here will benefit millions of customers around the world, complementing the work that goes on in our other development centres in London and Edinburgh." He added: "I hope this new building will contribute towards our global innovation story with voice recognition, streaming video, machine learning and drone technology all being developed right here in the UK." ADVERTISEMENT Amazon is intending to hire 5,000 people in the UK in 2017, which would bring its workforce up to 24,000 people. The office is well lit and full of quirky furniture and art. Staff in the office will work on Amazon devices like the Amazon Echo and the Amazon Cloud Cam indoor security camera. They'll also work on Amazon Alexa, which is the brain that sits inside a number of Amazon devices. The office lacks some of the weird and playful additions that can be found in other tech company offices. Google, for example, has a slide at its headquarters in Mountain View, California. "We want the serendipitous, come-and-have-a-cup-of-coffee-for-a-chat environment, so we have open staircases between floors," Gurr told The Guardian . "But we'll tend to focus on things that generate hard work and innovation rather than stuff that might be perceived as a bit more gimmicky." ADVERTISEMENT And they'll work on Prime Air, which is Amazon's ambitious drone delivery project. One of the walls in the new Amazon building has a significant number of Echo devices mounted into it. The Amazon Echo is a smart speaker that has an AI assistant called Alexa embedded into it. Here it is from a different angle. It looks as though these are the original Amazon Echo devices, which Amazon sells for £149 each. The three-storey office is located next to Cambridge train station. It's a short walk from an Apple research facility that's home to a number of engineers working on Siri — Apple's rival AI assistant. ADVERTISEMENT The office is scattered with art including this glowing "hello" sign. Here is some more Amazon-inspired art. This vegetated wall can be found in one of the main reception areas. As can this coat of arms. Amazon said the office will be home to machine learning scientists, knowledge engineers, data scientists, mathematical modellers, speech scientists, and software engineers. ADVERTISEMENT They'll get to use comfy chairs and sofas when they've had enough of their desk. The new building is part of Amazon's £6.4 billion investment into the UK since 2010. Amazon it will have 1,500 staff in "high-tech" roles across its UK development centres by the end of 2017. This is not the first office that Amazon has opened in Cambridge. Amazon also has an office in the Castle Park business estate. ADVERTISEMENT The company is located in the Evi Technologies building. Evi Technologies is a voice search startup that Amazon acquired i Here's Amazon's Castle Park office. The company also has a secret drone test site on a farm just outside Cambridge. This is what it looks like. pulse FOLLOW BUSINESS INSIDER AFRICA Our newsletter gives you access to a curated selection of the most important stories daily. SUBSCRIBE Thanks for signing up for our daily insight on the African economy. We bring you daily editor picks from the best Business Insider news content so you can stay updated on the latest topics and conversations on the African market, leaders, careers and lifestyle.  Also join us across all of our other channels - we love to be connected! Unblock notifications in browser settings. ADVERTISEMENT Recommended articles Afreximbank launches $3bn fund to boost refineries across Africa Junta-led Burkina Faso to nationalise more industrial mines America first vs Africa: What's at stake for AGOA trade deal 5 tips to start taking digital payments as a business in Africa Top 10 African countries with the lowest debt to the IMF in April 2025 Cabzero launches to transform corporate mobility with Nigeria’s leading all-electric fleet solution Three factors that position Africa for historic prosperity, if we get one thing right Ugandan president lauds his productive meeting with Starlink reps Top 10 countries with the highest number of people ready to enter the military in 2025 ADVERTISEMENT Home Markets Leaders Careers Lifestyle About us Advertise with us Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Social Facebook Twitter Instagram Google News Newsletter International Editions: INTL AS AT DE ES IN JP MX NL PL ZA © 2025 africa.businessinsider.com