List of Wonder Woman episodes - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Series overview 2 Episodes Toggle Episodes subsection 2.1 TV film pilot (1975) 2.2 Season 1 (1976–77) 2.3 Season 2 (1977–78) 2.4 Season 3 (1978–79) 3 References 4 External links Toggle the table of contents List of Wonder Woman episodes Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This is a list of episodes for the 1970s American television series Wonder Woman featuring Lynda Carter . Series overview [ edit ] All three seasons and the TV film pilot have been released on DVD by Warner Home Video , [ 1 ] including a complete series DVD set titled Wonder Woman: The Complete Collection on November 6, 2007. [ 1 ] Season Episodes Originally released First released Last released Network Television film pilot November 7, 1975 ABC 1 13 April 21, 1976 February 16, 1977 2 22 September 16, 1977 April 21, 1978 CBS 3 24 September 22, 1978 September 11, 1979 Episodes [ edit ] TV film pilot (1975) [ edit ] Title Directed by Written by Original release date The New Original Wonder Woman Leonard Horn Stanley Ralph Ross November 7, 1975 ( 1975-11-07 ) Princess Diana ( Lynda Carter ) volunteers to return Steve Trevor ( Lyle Waggoner ) to Washington, D.C., after he crashes his airplane on Paradise Island and remains in a coma. Upon arriving in Washington, D.C., she establishes the secret identity of Diana Prince and begins working for Steve Trevor. This film and the first season are set in World War II. Guest stars John Randolph , Red Buttons , Stella Stevens , Eric Braeden , Severn Darden , Fannie Flagg , Henry Gibson , Kenneth Mars and Cloris Leachman . Notes: Anne Ramsey and Ian Wolfe make an appearance. This 90-minute made-for-television movie together with the first two hour-long episodes constituted a "mini-season", but are generally referenced as part of Season 1. Season 1 (1976–77) [ edit ] No. overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original release date 1 1 "Wonder Woman Meets Baroness von Gunther" Barry Crane Margaret Armen April 21, 1976 ( 1976-04-21 ) The Baroness Paula von Gunther ( Christine Belford ), an imprisoned Nazi spy, and her crew are framing Steve Trevor, the war hero, for several incidents of sabotage to make him appear as a traitor, in an attempt to lower the Allies' morale. Trevor suspects the Baroness may be behind his framing. The prison warden's son Tommy, an avid fan of detective fiction, assists Wonder Woman. Having discovered the Baroness' hideout, Wonder Woman is surprised by the Baroness. She sprays Wonder Woman in the face with knock-out gas and Wonder Woman faints. Later, Wonder Woman recovers and after she and Steve Trevor have a fight against the Baroness and her crew, the Baroness is brought to justice. Also guest stars Ed Gilbert , Ed Griffith, Christian Juttner , and Bradford Dillman . Notes: This episode is based on the comic book story, "Wonder Woman Versus the Prison Spy Ring" originally published sans title in Wonder Woman #1, cover date Summer 1942. Written by William Moulton Marston and illustrated by H. G. Peter , the story was given a title in "Wonder Woman Archives Volume 1" published in 1998. 2 2 "Fausta, the Nazi Wonder Woman" Barry Crane Bruce Shelley & David Ketchum April 28, 1976 ( 1976-04-28 ) Fausta Grables ( Lynda Day George ) lures Wonder Woman into a trap. Wonder Woman falls through a false floor where one of Fausta's gang overpowers her with chloroform causing Wonder Woman to faint. The unconscious Wonder Woman is then kidnapped and taken to Germany for study. Steve launches a mission to rescue her but is captured himself shortly after Wonder Woman orchestrates her own escape. Wonder Woman returns to Germany to rescue Steve and convince Fausta to abandon the Nazi cause. Also guest stars Bo Brundin , Colby Chester, Jeff Cooper , Keene Curtis , Bill Fletcher and Christopher George . Notes: Fausta Grables first appeared in Comic Cavalcade #2 Spring 1943 issue in a story entitled "Wanted by Hitler, Dead or Alive". [ 2 ] This episode marks the re-introduction of the red-white-and-blue, star-spangled cape that Wonder Woman adopts throughout the series for formal occasions; it and the miniskirt had been seen when issued to her by Queen Hippolyta in the pilot film. This is also the only time Wonder Woman wears a mask which is golden. 3 3 "Beauty on Parade" Richard Kinon Ron Friedman October 13, 1976 ( 1976-10-13 ) Diana enters a beauty contest to expose a sabotage ring of radar scanning equipment, which is led by the pageant's musical director ( Bobby Van ). Also guest stars Anne Francis , Dick Van Patten and William Lanteau . Note: This episode introduces the famous "thunderbolt" sound and transformation sequence. 4 4 "The Feminum Mystique: Part 1" Herb Wallerstein S : Barbara Avedon & Barbara Corday T : Jimmy Sangster November 6, 1976 ( 1976-11-06 ) The United States Army is about to unveil its first jet fighter the XPJ-1 and the Nazis are determined to steal the plane and study it to build a jet fighter of their own. Meanwhile, Diana's younger sister Drusilla ( Debra Winger ) arrives from Paradise Island for a visit and gets caught up in the Nazis' plot. Kriegsmarine Captain Radl ( John Saxon ) also wants to find out the source of feminum, the metal used to make Wonder Woman's bracelets. He kidnaps General Blankenship, who is taking Drusilla for a drive in Washington. Drusilla discovers that she can spin into costume like her sister and turns into Wonder Girl . Wonder Girl tries to rescue the General but Captain Radl chloroforms her. Also guest stars Carolyn Jones , Charles Frank , Paul Shenar and Kurt Kreuger . Notes: This was one of Debra Winger's first acting roles. This was the only episode in the entire series that shows Wonder Woman changing back into Diana Prince, although the camera was on Drusilla's reaction rather than the transformation. Queen Hippolyta is never referred to by name. 5 5 "The Feminum Mystique: Part 2" Herb Wallerstein S : Barbara Avedon & Barbara Corday T : Jimmy Sangster November 8, 1976 ( 1976-11-08 ) Peter Knight, an engineer secretly working for the Nazis, gains Drusilla's trust and tricks her into revealing the location of Paradise Island. The Kriegsmarine U-boat's crew stage an invasion and force the Amazons to mine feminum ore. Queen Hippolyta commissions Princess Diana (dressed in her Wonder Woman regalia, but addressed by her proper name and royal title) to command the Amazons' militia. Wonder Girl escapes and, as Drusilla, exposes Peter as a Nazi spy. Learning Diana has returned home, Wonder Girl also returns home to Paradise Island whereupon the two princesses engineer the capture of all of the invading Germans; the Amazons' memory-wiping technology deletes the sailors' knowledge of the island's existence before they are set adrift. Wonder Woman and Wonder Girl then return to America to prevent the theft of the XPJ-1 jet. 6 6 "Wonder Woman vs. Gargantua!" Charles R. Rondeau David Ketchum & Tony DiMarco December 18, 1976 ( 1976-12-18 ) Erica Belgard ( Gretchen Corbett ), an animal behaviour specialist and Nazi agent, abducts a super-strong gorilla named Gargantua from his African jungle home in order to recapture a defecting Nazi agent ( John Hillerman ) who is in American custody. Erica decides to use the gorilla's strength to defeat and capture Wonder Woman. Also guest stars Robert Loggia and Tom Reese . Notes: Wonder Woman's similarly-named adversary, Giganta , was originally a super-evolved gorilla, in Wonder Woman #9 (Summer 1944). The map of Africa used at the beginning of the episode showed the " Republic of the Congo ", which was not established until 1960, 18 years after the events are supposed to have taken place; in 1942, the area shown was called the Belgian Congo , later renamed the Democratic Republic of the Congo . 7 7 "The Pluto File" Herb Wallerstein Herbert Bermann December 25, 1976 ( 1976-12-25 ) Irish terrorist "The Falcon" ( Robert Reed ) steals a formula designed to produce man-made earthquakes in order to level Washington, DC. Wonder Woman and the formula's inventor must work together to stop him. The Falcon is also carrying the bubonic plague and must be quarantined. Also guest stars Hayden Rorke and Albert Stratton. Note: Kenneth Tigar makes an appearance. 8 8 "Last of the $2 Bills" Stuart Margolin Paul Dubov & Gwen Bagni January 8, 1977 ( 1977-01-08 ) Diana and Steve investigate a Nazi plot to flood the American economy with counterfeit $2 bills in order to destabilize the American war effort. The Nazis hatch a long-range plot taking several months to implement, as plastic surgery and vocal training is used to transform two Nazi agents into the Bureau of Engraving and Printing chief ( David Cryer ) and his fiancée ( Barbara Anderson ) a waitress and restaurant owner. Also guest stars James Olson and John Howard . Notes: Within the series' universe, production of the $2 ceased in 1942. Major Trevor handed YN1 Prince the last note to be archived; in the real world, production continued until halted in 1966-1976. Fans of Batman immediately recognized the prominently featured façade of the BEP (Building 61 on the Warner Brothers backlot's Embassy Courtyard), having not been re-dressed since its use as Gotham City Police headquarters. 9 9 "Judgment from Outer Space: Part 1" Alan Crosland, Jr. Stephen Kandel January 15, 1977 ( 1977-01-15 ) An alien named Andros ( Tim O'Connor ) arrives on Earth to study it and to convince the intergalactic council that the planet should not be destroyed because of World War II. The American government first suspects Andros of being a Nazi spy and the Nazis want to use Andros's powers for world domination. Wonder Woman and Andros must work together to prove America's intentions are peaceful as he at first is not sure if either side is right (mentioning the internment of "Americans of Japanese descent" in reply to Wonder Woman's charges against the Nazi racial policies). While Andros is exploring the Library of Congress he is stripped of his powers and captured by the Nazis, Wonder Woman tries to save him, but passes out after being hit by gas. The intergalactic council decrees that if Andros is killed the Earth will be destroyed. Also guest stars Kurt Kasznar , Janet MacLachlan and Scott Hylands . Note: Arch Johnson and Vic Perrin make an appearance. 10 10 "Judgment from Outer Space: Part 2" Alan Crosland, Jr. Stephen Kandel January 17, 1977 ( 1977-01-17 ) Wonder Woman journeys to Germany to rescue Andros. After seeing that she is prepared to sacrifice her life to save him, and when Steve Trevor demonstrates that the Allied cause is just, the aliens relent on their threat to destroy the planet. Andros invites Wonder Woman to accompany him in space, but she replies that she is needed on Earth. Andros promises to return to see her in 50 years (in 1992). Also guest stars Christopher Cary. Note: Andros' son, also called Andros, is later revealed to have visited the following year, 1943, before returning in 1977. 11 11 "Formula 407" Herb Wallerstein Elroy Schwartz January 22, 1977 ( 1977-01-22 ) Diana and Steve head to Argentina to pick up a formula from a scientist ( Nehemiah Persoff ). The formula can make rubber tires as strong as steel. The Nazis want to steal the formula to use it on their truck tires. A Nazi agent (John Devlin) who is secretly involved with the scientist's assistant ( Marisa Pavan ) directs his henchmen to kidnap both the scientist's daughter (to obtain the formula) and Steve (to take him back to Germany for interrogation). Diana, witnessing the abduction, spins into costume and tries to intervene, only to be chloroformed by the Nazis. She awakens tied up in a room with Steve. Wonder Woman and Steve break free to find the girl before the agent takes the formula back to Germany. 12 12 "The Bushwhackers" Stuart Margolin Skip Webster January 29, 1977 ( 1977-01-29 ) Wonder Woman journeys to Texas where Nazi agents are rustling cattle being raised for the American government. Cattle rancher Hadley ( Roy Rogers ) and his several adopted war orphan kids try to assist Wonder Woman in her efforts to stop the Nazis. Wonder Woman's magic belt is stolen by the rustlers, who lock her in an abandoned jail cell, the war orphan kids retrieve her belt, then come to her rescue. Also guest stars Henry Darrow and Lance Kerwin . Notes: Kristoff St. John and James Coleman make an appearance. Wonder Woman adopts a modest new outfit for this episode only: a long-sleeved red shirt and white calf-length trousers, while retaining her boots, magic belt, golden lasso, tiara, and feminum bracelets. Hadley addresses BG Blankenship as "Phil", the same forename as his comic book counterpart, General Phil Darnell. The Flag of Texas is flown upside down at the ranch. 13 13 "Wonder Woman in Hollywood" Bruce Bilson Jimmy Sangster February 16, 1977 ( 1977-02-16 ) Wonder Woman and Wonder Girl ( Debra Winger ) work to stop a Nazi agent turned film producer ( Harris Yulin ) from taking Steve and several other soldiers back to Germany to put them in a propaganda film that will destroy America 's image as a peace-loving country. Also guest stars Robert Hays , Christopher Norris , Charles Cyphers , Alan Bergmann and Carolyn Jones . Notes: Barry Van Dyke and Danil Torppe make an appearance. This episode features the final appearances of Drusilla / Wonder Girl, General Phil Blankenship ( Richard Eastham ), and Private Etta Candy ( Beatrice Colen ) in the series. They are neither seen nor mentioned thereafter. Season 2 (1977–78) [ edit ] No. overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original release date 14 1 "The Return of Wonder Woman" Alan Crosland, Jr. Stephen Kandel September 16, 1977 ( 1977-09-16 ) More than 30 years after her adventures during World War II, Princess Diana resumes the mantle of Wonder Woman when a plane carrying Steve Trevor Jr. (son of her former associate) lands on Paradise Island. Wonder Woman and Steve must prevent a terrorist from stealing a nuclear power plant and destabilizing all of Latin America. Guest stars Jessica Walter , Fritz Weaver and Bettye Ackerman . Notes: This episode was 90 minutes in its original form but is usually edited to 60 minutes for syndication. The series moved from ABC to CBS and is now set in the 1970s where Steve Jr. and Diana are government agents at the hi-tech Inter-Agency Defense Command (IADC). Academy Award winner Beatrice Straight guest stars as Diana's mother, the Queen. This episode also introduces the character of Joe Atkinson ( Norman Burton ); like Wonder Woman / Diana, Atkinson had worked special operations during the Second World War but is not implied to have encountered her (nor Steve Sr.) in those earlier days. 15 2 "Anschluss '77" Alan Crosland, Jr. Dallas L. Barnes September 23, 1977 ( 1977-09-23 ) Wonder Woman must stop Nazi war criminals from establishing the Fourth Reich led by a clone of Adolf Hitler. Guest stars Mel Ferrer and Leon Charles. Notes: The Hitler clone is played by Barry Dennen , and Kurt Kreuger makes another appearance. 16 3 "The Man Who Could Move the World" Bob Kelljan Judy Burns September 30, 1977 ( 1977-09-30 ) A Japanese American man ( Yuki Shimoda ) who had been in an internment camp during World War II blames Wonder Woman for the death of his brother. He has developed telekinetic powers and uses them to try to exact revenge on Wonder Woman. Also guest stars Lew Ayres . Notes: James Hong makes an appearance. This is the only episode after the first season for which WWII-period scenes were filmed. In the WWII scenes, Wonder Woman is wearing her gold bracelets instead of her silver bracelets from season one. 17 4 "The Bermuda Triangle Crisis" Seymour Robbie Calvin Clements, Jr. October 7, 1977 ( 1977-10-07 ) Wonder Woman must decide between conflicting loyalties. If she does her duty as Diana Prince, she will put Paradise Island in danger of becoming a nuclear testing site. Guest stars Charles Cioffi and Beatrice Straight . Notes: The submarine footage used is of the USOS Seaview from Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea . Wonder Woman displays the tiara's communications capability for the first time, communicating with Paradise Island via the star ruby and a mirror (similar to the mental radio of the comics); this capability was referred to by her mother, Queen Hippolyta, when re-issuing the costume to Princess Diana in the season première. She also spins up an alternate costume, a long blue wetsuit including a hood with a tiara design, for the first time in this episode. This is the first episode with no direct references to events of World War II except for Steve Trevor Sr.'s plane crash. This is also the final appearance of Queen Hyppolyta in the series. 18 5 "Knockout" Seymour Robbie Mark Rodgers October 14, 1977 ( 1977-10-14 ) Steve gets abducted on his vacation to Los Angeles. After Diana frees him, they discover a vast terrorist plot against world leaders. Guest stars Jayne Kennedy , Burr DeBenning and Arch Johnson . Notes: Frank Marth and Ted Shackelford also guest star. Arch Johnson makes another guest appearance. 19 6 "The Pied Piper" Alan Crosland, Jr. T : Brian McKay S/T : David Ketchum & Tony DiMarco October 21, 1977 ( 1977-10-21 ) Rock star Hamlin Rule ( Martin Mull ) hypnotizes his groupies into robbing the box offices of his concerts. When he hypnotizes the daughter ( Eve Plumb ) of IADC's Joe Atkinson, Wonder Woman intervenes to free her. Also guest stars Denny Miller . Note: Bob Hastings makes an appearance. 20 7 "The Queen and the Thief" Jack Arnold Bruce Shelly October 28, 1977 ( 1977-10-28 ) Diana goes undercover at the Malakan embassy to protect the crown jewels from a notorious international jewel thief ( David Hedison ). The loss of the jewels would spell the end of the reign of the Queen ( Juliet Mills ) of Malakar. In a twist, the thief is not behind the theft of the jewels. Ambassador Orrick ( John Colicos ), consulate to the royal family, is actually behind the theft, intending to have the thief steal fakes in order to force the queen to abdicate. 21 8 "I Do, I Do" Herb Wallerstein Richard Carr November 11, 1977 ( 1977-11-11 ) Diana goes undercover with agent Christian Harrison ( John Getz ) as a married couple at a spa to investigate leaks of classified information. She discovers that an evil masseur ( Henry Darrow ) is using his skills to hypnotize the wives of government officials into revealing secrets. Also guest stars Academy Award winner Celeste Holm and Simon Scott . Notes : This episode marks two major changes in the appearance of Wonder Woman's alter ego, Diana Prince: the first time she removes her glasses in public and the first time she lets down her hair — in a ponytail. Henry Darrow makes another guest appearance. 22 9 "The Man Who Made Volcanoes" Alan Crosland, Jr. S : Wilton Denmark T : Brian McKay and Dan Ullman November 18, 1977 ( 1977-11-18 ) Diana races against teams of Soviet and Chinese agents to stop Arthur Chapman ( Roddy McDowall ), an evil scientist who has the ability to cause volcanoes to erupt. Also guest stars Roger Davis , Irene Tsu and Richard Narita. Notes: Another re-launch. With this episode, Bruce Lansbury becomes Supervising Producer. The animated opening credits are replaced with a more traditional montage of clips from the series; at the beginning of the episode, Steve Trevor is promoted to a desk job, becoming Diana's supervisor at the IADC, as a result of which his role gradually diminishes throughout the remainder of the series. This episode is the final appearance of Norman Burton as Joe Atkinson - his distinctive voice is then heard for several episodes as the voice of IRAC, before being replaced in "Diana's Disappearing Act". 23 10 "Mind Stealers from Outer Space: Part 1" Michael Caffey Stephen Kandel December 2, 1977 ( 1977-12-02 ) An alien race called the Skrill come to Earth to steal the minds of humans to be sold into slavery. Andros ( Dack Rambo ), son of the alien visitor from the 1940s, arrives with orders to capture the Skrill. If he fails, his people will use insanity-inducement procedures upon the Earth to prevent their escape. The Skrill find out Diana Prince is also Wonder Woman. They attack Diana and weaken her until she faints. Andros then saves her. Also guest stars Kristen Larkin and Vincent Van Patten , whose father Dick had appeared in a season one episode. Notes: Anne Ramsey makes another appearance. Earl Boen also appears. 24 11 "Mind Stealers from Outer Space: Part 2" Alan Crosland, Jr. Stephen Kandel December 9, 1977 ( 1977-12-09 ) Wonder Woman and Andros continue to battle the Skrill, who are even more dangerous now that they have deduced Wonder Woman's secret identity and have captured Andros' mind. Notes: IRAC likewise first implies its knowledge of Diana's alternate identity, saying as she departs, "Good night, Miss Prince ... ess". Wonder Woman delivers some opening narration which appears to have been rather hastily written, and which "reveals" that this Andros had worked with her in 1943, the year after his father had done so in "Judgement From Outer Space"; like his father, he had invited her to travel the stars with him. The way the episode was written, however, makes it clear that this is in fact meant to be the same Andros. At one point, he implies that the elder Steve Trevor had not yet been promoted at that time, mistakenly addressing the identical Steve Jr. as "Major". 25 12 "The Deadly Toys" Dick Moder S : Carey Wilber T : Anne Collins December 30, 1977 ( 1977-12-30 ) An android double of Wonder Woman is built by a toymaker ( Frank Gorshin ). When she investigates, Diana is injected by a toy butterfly and faints. Later she awakes, then transforms into Wonder Woman, but she is confronted by the android and is knocked unconscious. Also guest stars John Rubinstein and James A. Watson Jr. Notes: Despite her pagan beliefs, but in accordance with Lynda Carter's Christian faith, Wonder Woman scrawls a public, "Merry Christmas -- W.W." in spray paint or fake snow on a toy store window. IRAC all but admits its knowledge of Diana's secret identity to an oblivious Steve Trevor. 26 13 "Light-fingered Lady" Alan Crosland, Jr. Bruce Shelly January 6, 1978 ( 1978-01-06 ) Diana Prince goes undercover as a burglar to infiltrate a burglary ring. Guest stars Christopher Stone , Joseph R. Sicari, Bubba Smith , Gary Crosby , Titos Vandis and Greg Morris . Notes: Wonder Woman appears to display another new power, telepathic communication with animals, when she convinces the guard dogs to trip the alarms. Wonder Woman's wetsuit makes its second appearance. 27 14 "Screaming Javelin" Michael Caffey Brian McKay January 20, 1978 ( 1978-01-20 ) Ruler ( Henry Gibson ) of a micronation is kidnapping top athletes and then forces them to compete for his country at the Olympic Games . Also guest stars Robert Sampson , Melanie Chartoff , Rick Springfield and E. J. Peaker . Notes: IRAC hints to Diana that it is aware of her dual identity. This is Norman Burton's final episode as the voice of IRAC. Wonder Woman demonstrates skill on the uneven bars. Henry Gibson makes another appearance. 28 15 "Diana's Disappearing Act" Michael Caffey S.S. Schweitzer February 3, 1978 ( 1978-02-03 ) Wonder Woman goes after a magician ( Dick Gautier ) who has discovered a way to turn lead into gold. Also guest stars Ed Begley, Jr. , J. A. Preston , Allen Williams, Aharon Ipalé and Brenda Benet . Notes: The transformation sunburst and thunderclap are seen and heard without Diana / Wonder Woman herself, appearing outside of the crate in which she is trapped. Steve Trevor Jr. has a WWII-era picture of his identical father, Diana's former boss, on the window sill behind his desk. 29 16 "Death in Disguise" Alan Crosland Tom Sawyer February 10, 1978 ( 1978-02-10 ) Diana is assigned to protect an industrialist ( George Chakiris ) from an assassination attempt. Also guest stars Joel Fabiani , Jennifer Darling , Lee Bergere and Charles Pierce . Note: Wonder Woman displays superhuman hearing. Christopher Cary makes another appearance. Arthur Batanides also appears. 30 17 "IRAC Is Missing" Alexander Singer Anne Collins February 17, 1978 ( 1978-02-17 ) Wonder Woman takes on a man named Bernard Havitol ( Ross Martin ) who is looking to acquire the memories of the best computers in the world and is looking at IRAC for his next addition. Also guest stars Lee Paul and W.T. Zacha. Note: First appearance of Rover. IRAC witnesses Diana Prince changing into Wonder Woman. 31 18 "Flight to Oblivion" Alan Crosland, Jr. Patrick Mathews March 3, 1978 ( 1978-03-03 ) Diana poses as a photographer to protect an Air Force test flight from sabotage. Guest Stars Michael Shannon , Corinne Camacho, Alan Fudge , Mitch Vogel and John van Dreelen . Note: Diana appears in uniform for the first time since season 1, albeit posing as an Air Force staff sergeant , one grade lower than her assumed Naval rate of YN 1 more than 30 years earlier; among the ribbons that she wears on her disguise is the Air Force's version of Good Conduct Medal , the Naval version of which she legitimately earned during the war . 32 19 "Seance of Terror" Dick Moder Bruce Shelly March 10, 1978 ( 1978-03-10 ) A boy (Todd Lookinland) with astonishing psychic ability is being exploited by his aunt (Kres Mersky) and uncle ( Rick Jason ) who have been paid to extort world leaders into continuing a bloody war. Also guest stars John Fujioka , Adam Ageli, Jan Ivan Dorin and Hanna Hertelendy . Notes: IRAC and Rover confirm to each other and the audience that they know Diana is Wonder Woman; when Diana's access is suspended, IRAC nevertheless provides her the information she requests (albeit with a wink and a nod; e.g., "I am not authorized to tell Diana Prince that [ the requested data ]"), and notes to Rover after her departure that no one pulled Wonder Woman's clearance. 33 20 "The Man Who Wouldn't Tell" Alan Crosland, Jr. Anne Collins March 31, 1978 ( 1978-03-31 ) A janitor ( Gary Burghoff ) accidentally mixes cleaning supplies creating a powerful explosive. Wonder Woman must protect him from evil-doers who are after the secret formula. Also guest stars Jane Actman , Philip Michael Thomas , Michael Cole and Millie Slavin. Note: Joseph Ruskin makes an uncredited appearance. 34 21 "The Girl from Ilandia" Dick Moder Anne Collins April 7, 1978 ( 1978-04-07 ) A mysterious girl ( Julie Anne Haddock ) with super powers appears and Wonder Woman must not only find a way to get her home but also protect her from a villain ( Allan Arbus ) who lives at sea in a sub. Also guest stars Harry Guardino . 35 22 "The Murderous Missile" Dick Moder Dick Nelson April 21, 1978 ( 1978-04-21 ) Bad guys impersonate the entire populace of a small town as part of a plot to steal a missile that can be guided by thought. When Wonder Woman finds the gang, she is gassed and faints, being taken prisoner. Guest stars James Luisi , Mark Withers , Warren Stevens , Steve Inwood , Lucille Benson and Hal England . Notes: Wonder Woman spins up another alternate costume, a motocross outfit. It is largely the same as her wetsuit, with the addition of a gold star-spangled crash helmet and large black goggles. She displays advanced gymnastics skills by jumping into the rafters to swing as if on uneven bars to distract and defeat her opponents. Season 3 (1978–79) [ edit ] No. overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original release date 36 1 "My Teenage Idol Is Missing" Seymour Robbie Anne Collins September 22, 1978 ( 1978-09-22 ) A teenage boy who is a pop star is kidnapped and no one but Diana believes the only witness, a young fan ( Dawn Lyn ). The star's manager discovers and substitutes his long-lost identical twin brother to perform a concert and then Wonder Woman rescues the pop star. Guest stars Leif Garrett (in a dual role), Michael Lerner , Michael Baseleon and Albert Paulsen . Notes: Dawn Lyn and Leif Garrett are brother and sister in real life. Leif Garrett's 1978 single " I Was Made for Dancin' " was used in scenes. Wonder Woman's cape as well as her motocross helmet with goggles make an appearance. Lynda Carter recorded a commentary for this episode, included on the Season 3 DVD release. 37 2 "Hot Wheels" Dick Moder Dennis Landa September 29, 1978 ( 1978-09-29 ) In order to recover microfilm hidden in the hood ornament of a stolen car, Diana teams up with an agent ( Peter Brown ) from another law enforcement agency to hunt down the car thief ( Lance LeGault ), but she is soon captured, gagged and bound. Also guest stars John Durren and Don Mitchell . 38 3 "The Deadly Sting" Alan Crosland, Jr. Dick Nelson October 6, 1978 ( 1978-10-06 ) College football players are being manipulated into throwing their games and Wonder Woman must figure out who is behind the evil plot. Guest stars Ron Ely , Scott Marlowe , Danny Dayton , Marvin Miller , Harvey Jason , Roman Gabriel , Deacon Jones , Lawrence McCutcheon and Eddie Bell . Co-starring Gil Stratton , Bob Minor and Craig T. Nelson . Notes: Footage of a Notre Dame vs. Texas game and a Notre Dame vs. Southern California game were used in the episode. 39 4 "The Fine Art of Crime" Dick Moder Anne Collins October 13, 1978 ( 1978-10-13 ) Wonder Woman investigates a series of robberies that lead her to a faux artist ( Roddy McDowall ) who uses a device to turn people into living statues to help him commit his crimes. Wonder Woman falls into a trap, is turned into a statue and is exhibited at a museum. Also guest stars Ed Begley, Jr. Joe E. Tata , Michael McGuire , Gavin MacLeod and his wife actress Patti MacLeod. Notes: Joe Maross appears. Roddy McDowall and Ed Begley, Jr. make another guest appearance. 40 5 "Disco Devil" Leslie H. Martinson Alan Brennert October 20, 1978 ( 1978-10-20 ) A telepathic disco dancer ( Michael DeLano ) is using his powers to steal information from government scientists visiting a Washington, D.C., hot spot. Diana must enlist the aid of another telepath ( Paul Sand ) to foil the scheme. Also guest stars Ellen Weston , Kerry Sherman , Victor Mohica , Robert Hoy , Russell Johnson and Wolfman Jack as the disco's DJ. Note: Frank McRae makes an appearance. 41 6 "Formicida" Alan Crosland, Jr. Katharyn Michaelian Powers November 3, 1978 ( 1978-11-03 ) An environmentalist chemist ( Lorene Yarnell ) is determined to stop a pesticide manufacturer from marketing its latest formula. She creates a formula that gives her superhuman strength and the ability to control ants. Wonder Woman must stop her before she causes a disaster that will release clouds of toxic gas over the city. Also guest stars Robert Alda and Robert Shields . Notes: Lorene Yarnell and fellow guest star Robert Shields are the mime team Shields and Yarnell . This is the only episode without any on-screen transformations from Diana to Wonder Woman. The episode title, which is also the villain's name, is derived from Formicidae . 42 7 "Time Bomb" Seymour Robbie David Wise Kathleen Barnes November 10, 1978 ( 1978-11-10 ) An unethical scientist ( Joan Van Ark ) threatens to destroy history when she travels back in time from the 22nd century (November 10, 2155) with plans to accumulate great wealth in the 20th. Her fellow scientist ( Ted Shackelford ) teams with Wonder Woman to save the timeline. Also guest stars Allan Miller . Notes: Ted Shackelford makes another appearance. Joan Van Ark and Shackelford would later star together on Knots Landing . This episode establishes that Wonder Woman is still alive 200 years after the events of the show. This episode included special effects footage from the British science fiction series Space: 1999 . 43 8 "Skateboard Wiz" Leslie H. Martinson Alan Brennert November 24, 1978 ( 1978-11-24 ) A teenage skateboarding prodigy (Cindy Eilbacher) is manipulated into helping an extortionist ( Ron Masak ) win at illegal gambling. Also guest stars Eric Braeden , Grace Gaynor, Art Metrano , James Ray and John Reilly . Notes: Eric Braeden makes another appearance. Wonder Woman spins up an alternate costume, a skateboarding outfit complete with knee and elbow pads and a helmet with a tiara design. 44 9 "The Deadly Dolphin" Sigmund Neufeld Jr. Jackson Gillis December 1, 1978 ( 1978-12-01 ) Diana searches for a dolphin that has been kidnapped by a greedy land developer ( Nicolas Coster ) in a scheme to contaminate the California coast with oil. She tracks down the land developer and his cronies but is captured, bound and gagged and tossed aboard the land developer's yacht. Diana escapes her bonds and thwarts the land developer's plans. Also guest stars Britt Leach , Albert Popwell , Michael Stroka , Brian Tochi and Penelope Windust . Notes: Wonder Woman shows off her ability to communicate with animals and displays another new power, generating unknown energy bursts which she uses to scare off sharks. Wonder Woman's wet suit is used, and includes red swim fins. 45 10 "Stolen Faces" Leslie H. Martinson Richard Carr and Anne Collins December 15, 1978 ( 1978-12-15 ) A woman dressed as Wonder Woman ends up in the hospital after wearing her costume in public. After a failed attempt on the impostor's life, Diana beefs up security, which causes them to catch a friend (John O'Connell) who reveals that the fake Wonder Woman is a model. Her modeling agency is up to no good and hire yet another girl to be Wonder Woman. Diana must stop their plans to steal millions from the rich. Also guest stars Joseph Maher , Kenneth Tigar and Bob Seagren . Notes: Kenneth Tigar makes another appearance. 46 11 "Pot of Gold" Gordon Hessler Michael McGreevey December 22, 1978 ( 1978-12-22 ) Diana travels to England to try to intercept counterfeit printing plates for $100 bills but fails. Meanwhile, a small-time crook (Steve Allie Collura) is stealing gold to buy the plates and hits upon an unlikely source – a leprechaun 's pot of gold. Wonder Woman and Pat ( Dick O'Neill ) the leprechaun team up to track the plates and retrieve Pat's gold. Also guest stars Brian Davies and Arthur Batanides . Note: Arthur Batanides makes another appearance. 47 12 "Gault's Brain" Gordon Hessler S : John Gaynor T : Arthur Weingarten December 29, 1978 ( 1978-12-29 ) A billionaire ( John Carradine ) tries to regain his health and youth, keeping his brain alive after his death. Wonder Woman must prevent him from having his brain transplanted into the body of a young Olympic hopeful. Also guest stars Floyd Levine , Cathie Shirriff , Erik Stern and Peter Mark Richman . Note: Wonder Woman's blue wetsuit makes an appearance. 48 13 "Going, Going, Gone" Alan Crosland, Jr. S : Patrick Mathews T : Ann Collins and Patrick Mathews January 12, 1979 ( 1979-01-12 ) Diana infiltrates a criminal auction onboard an offshore submarine, putting her true identity at risk of discovery by the others in attendance. Guest stars Bo Brundin , Charlie Brill , Kaz Garas , Milton Selzer , Marc Lawrence , Mako and Hari Rhodes Notes: Bo Brundin and Jan Ivan Dorin make another appearance. The blue wetsuit is used. 49 14 "Spaced Out" Ivan Dixon Bill Taylor January 26, 1979 ( 1979-01-26 ) The race is on to find a hidden laser crystal at a science fiction convention. Guest stars René Auberjonois , Steven Anderson, George Cheung , Candy Brown and Paul L. Smith . Note: Robby the Robot makes an appearance. 50 15 "The Starships Are Coming" Alan Crosland, Jr. T : Anne Collins S/T : Rod Baker and Glen Olson February 2, 1979 ( 1979-02-02 ) Wonder Woman must find out the truth behind a supposed alien landing before serious consequences occur as a result. She finds the hideout of the people faking the alien invasion but is captured, bound and gagged. A time bomb is set to kill her, but she is saved by a young man searching for his camera. Diana exposes the fake alien invasion and saves the day. Guest stars Tim O'Connor , Jeffrey Byron , James Coleman, Frank Whiteman, David White and Andrew Duggan . Note: Tim O'Connor, who guest starred in two first season episodes as the extraterrestrial Andros, returns as an Air Force expert on UFOs. James Coleman makes another appearance. 51 16 "Amazon Hot Wax" Ray Austin Alan Brennert February 16, 1979 ( 1979-02-16 ) Going undercover to stop extortionists in the record industry has Diana showing off her singing abilities. Guest stars Curtis Credel, Robert Hoy , Sarah Purcell , Judge Reinhold , Martin Speer, Rick Springfield , Danil Torppe, Mike Botts and Katherine Woodville . Notes: Robert Hoy, Rick Springfield and Danil Torppe make another guest appearance. Lynda Carter performs songs from her debut album Portrait . 52 17 "The Richest Man in the World" Don McDougall Jackson Gillis and Anne Collins February 19, 1979 ( 1979-02-19 ) Diana must find a reclusive millionaire ( Jeremy Slate ) who's the only one who can help with a secret device that scrambles nuclear missile-guidance systems. Also guest stars Roger Perry , Del Monroe , Carmen Zapata , Barry Miller and Marlyn Mason . 53 18 "A Date with Doomsday" Curtis Harrington Roland Starke and Dennis Landa March 10, 1979 ( 1979-03-10 ) A computer-dating service is an unexpected place for a deadly virus vial that is stolen from a government lab. Diana goes undercover to infiltrate. Guest stars Donnelly Rhodes , Carol Vogel, Taaffe O'Connell , John O'Leary, Bob Hastings , Arthur Malet and Hermione Baddeley . Notes: Bob Hastings makes another appearance. Wonder Woman spins up an alternate costume, a blue jumpsuit and gold motorcycle helmet. 54 19 "The Girl with a Gift for Disaster" Alan Crosland, Jr. Alan Brennert March 17, 1979 ( 1979-03-17 ) A woman ( Jane Actman ) with the bizarre jinx -like power to cause accidents around her is exploited by her boyfriend ( James Sloyan ) to cover up his criminal activities. Also guest stars Ina Balin , Dick Butkus , Charles Haid and Raymond St. Jacques . Note: Jane Actman makes another guest appearance. 55 20 "The Boy Who Knew Her Secret: Part 1" Leslie H. Martinson Anne Collins May 28, 1979 ( 1979-05-28 ) Diana travels to a small town where hundreds of people have begun acting strangely under the apparent influence of pyramids from outer space. Skip ( Clark Brandon ), a boy trying to help Diana with her investigation, discovers that Diana Prince is Wonder Woman. Also guest stars Michael Shannon , John Milford , Tegan West , Lenora May and Bert Remsen . Note: Michael Shannon makes another guest appearance. 56 21 "The Boy Who Knew Her Secret: Part 2" Leslie H. Martinson Anne Collins May 29, 1979 ( 1979-05-29 ) A teenage boy has discovered Wonder Woman's secret identity after she has come to investigate strange happenings in his town. Things, however, are not what they appear as the aliens taking over the local citizens are actually hunting down a galactic terror, which leads to a confrontation between Wonder Woman and alien shapeshifter. Wonder Woman uses her magic lasso to make Skip forget her secret but he rediscovers the fact later when he listens to his recorded memos to himself. Notes: Dialogue in this episode sets up Diana's move to Los Angeles. For the first time, Wonder Woman does not smile at the end of the story, due to realizing that her attempt to make Skip forget her true identity was compromised. 57 22 "The Man Who Could Not Die" John Newland Anne Collins August 28, 1979 ( 1979-08-28 ) On her first day in Los Angeles, Diana encounters an indestructible chimpanzee. This leads her to a scientist (Brian Davies) who through a combination of chemicals and radiation has also made a man, Bryce Candall ( Bob Seagren ), indestructible. Bryce and Wonder Woman join forces to foil the scientist's plan to create an army of indestructible men to take over the world. Also guest stars Robert Sampson , John Durren, John Aprea , Hal Frederick and James Bond III. Notes: Wonder Woman again exhibits superhuman hearing. In this episode, the final one in production order, Diana Prince relocates permanently to Los Angeles. Steve Trevor does not appear, and would have been permanently written-out if the show had continued for a 4th season. This was the last episode to be produced for the series, but was shown out of sequence. Wonder Woman wears her red-white-and-blue, star-spangled cape. John Durren, Robert Sampson, Bob Seagren and Brian Davies make another guest appearance. Absent: Lyle Waggoner as Steve Trevor. 58 23 "Phantom of the Roller Coaster: Part 1" John Newland Anne Collins September 4, 1979 ( 1979-09-04 ) Searching for the leader ( Joseph Sirola ) of a foreign spy ring, Diana goes to a Washington amusement park where she encounters a disfigured veteran ( Jared Martin ) who lives under the roller coaster and "haunts" the park as its "phantom". Also guest stars Marc Alaimo , Ike Eisenmann , Fred Lerner and Craig Littler. Notes: This episode and its second part were aired out of sequence within the series and should have come before the preceding episode, "The Man Who Could Not Die", in which Diana had relocated to Los Angeles permanently. In this story, however, she is still working in Washington, D.C., with Steve Trevor. She also spins up an alternate costume, a blue jumpsuit and gold motorcycle helmet. 59 24 "Phantom of the Roller Coaster: Part 2" John Newland Anne Collins September 11, 1979 ( 1979-09-11 ) While searching for the leader ( Joseph Sirola ) of a foreign spy ring, Diana goes to a Washington amusement park where she encounters a disfigured veteran David Gurney who lives under the roller coaster and "haunts" the park as its "phantom", who is the twin brother of the amusement park's owner Leon Gurney ( Jared Martin in a dual role). References [ edit ] ^ a b DVD release info Archived 2012-09-01 at the Wayback Machine at TVShowsOnDVD.com ^ Schönfeld, Christiane (2007). Processes of Transposition: German Literature and Film . Rodopi. p. 36. ISBN 90-420-2284-1 . External links [ edit ] Wonder Woman at IMDb v t e Wonder Woman William Moulton Marston Elizabeth Holloway Marston Olive Byrne H. G. Peter Other contributors Characters Wonder Women Diana Prince Orana Artemis of Bana-Mighdall Hippolyta Nubia Wonder Girls Cassie Sandsmark Donna Troy Yara Flor Supporting characters Antiope Etta Candy Fury Hephaestus Heracles/Hercules Hermes I Ching Julia and Vanessa Kapatelis Justice League Mala Nemesis (Thomas Tresser) The Olympian Paula von Gunther Philippus Poseidon Queen Desira Helena Sandsmark Sarge Steel Steve Trevor Wonder Man Zeus Zola Enemies Ares Baron Blitzkrieg Baroness Paula von Gunther Blue Snowman Veronica Cale Cheetah Circe Dark Angel Decay Doctor Cyber Doctor Poison Doctor Psycho Duke of Deception Egg Fu Eviless First Born Genocide Giganta Hades Hypnota Kung Mask Maxwell Lord Medusa Minister Blizzard Osira Queen Clea Silver Swan Superwoman Tezcatlipoca Zara Factions Amazons of Themyscira Amazons of Bana-Mighdall Children of Ares Godwatch Olympian Gods THEM! Titans of Myth Villainy Inc. Locations Aeaea Themyscira (The Paradise Islands) Publications Absolute Wonder Woman All Star Comics Wonder Woman Amazonia Batman/Superman/Wonder Woman: Trinity Comic Cavalcade Crossover The Legend of Wonder Woman Sensation Comics Superman and Wonder Woman: The Hidden Killer Superman/Wonder Woman Wonder Woman '77 The Wonder Woman Chronicles Wonder Woman: Earth One Wonder Woman Historia: The Amazons The World's Greatest Superheroes Storylines “ Introducing Wonder Woman ” (1941) Gods and Mortals (1987) Challenge of the Gods (1987–88) War of the Gods (1991) The Contest (1994) The Challenge of Artemis (1995) Paradise Island Lost (2001) Our Worlds at War (2001) The Hiketeia (2002) Down to Earth (2003–04) Who Is Wonder Woman? (2006–07) Amazons Attack! (2007) The Circle (2008) Ends of the Earth (2008) Rise of the Olympian (2009) Flashpoint (2011) The Lies (2016) Year One (2016) The Truth (2017) Godwatch (2017) Trial of the Amazons (2022) Technology Golden Girdle of Gaea Lasso of Truth Wonder Woman's bracelets In other media Film 1974 film 2009 film Wonder Woman: Bloodlines DC Extended Universe Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice 2017 film soundtrack Justice League Zack Snyder's Justice League Wonder Woman 1984 soundtrack Peacemaker: It's Cow or Never Shazam! Fury of the Gods The Flash Television Wonder Woman episodes 2011 TV pilot Miscellaneous Alternative versions Earth-Two Bizarra Superwoman Cultural impact Professor Marston and the Wonder Women Literature Wonder Women! The Untold Story of American Superheroines Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_Wonder_Woman_episodes&oldid=1280605543 " Categories : Lists of American fantasy television series episodes Wonder Woman lists Wonder Woman in other media Lists of DC Comics television series episodes Lists of American action television series episodes Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use mdy dates from February 2025 This page was last edited on 15 March 2025, at 14:00 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents List of Wonder Woman episodes Add languages Add topic