Season 1 | The Blacklist Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In The Blacklist Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Cast Cast Characters Season 1 Characters FBI Agents Criminals Employed by Raymond Reddington Incarcerated Deceased Season 2 Characters Crew Writers Season 1 Crew Creators Executive Producers Directors Season 2 Crew Season 3 Crew Show Season 8 Season 9 Season 10 The Blacklist (Comic) The Blacklist: Conspiracy The Blacklist: Redemption Helping Out Policies Getting Started Wiki tutorial Help pages Orphaned pages Broken redirects Wanted pages Community Recent blog posts Forum Community News Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content The Blacklist Wiki 698 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Cast Cast Characters Season 1 Characters FBI Agents Criminals Employed by Raymond Reddington Incarcerated Deceased Season 2 Characters Crew Writers Season 1 Crew Creators Executive Producers Directors Season 2 Crew Season 3 Crew Show Season 8 Season 9 Season 10 The Blacklist (Comic) The Blacklist: Conspiracy The Blacklist: Redemption Helping Out Policies Getting Started Wiki tutorial Help pages Orphaned pages Broken redirects Wanted pages Community Recent blog posts Forum Community News in: Season 1 Episodes English Português do Brasil Season 1 Edit Edit source History Purge Talk (0) Season 1 Season Information Announced May 10, 2013 Episodes 22 Aired September 23, 2013 - May 12, 2014 Executive Producers Jon Bokenkamp John Davis John Eisendrath John Fox Joe Carnahan Michael Watkins Stars James Spader Megan Boone Diego Klattenhoff Ryan Eggold Parminder Nagra Harry Lennix Premiere “ Pilot ” Finale “ Berlin: Conclusion ” Season Chronology Previous N/A Next Season 2 NBC's The Blacklist ​​​​​​ was picked up for a first season on May 10, 2013. It premiered on September 23, 2013, and concluded on May 12, 2014. The season consisted of 22 episodes. Contents 1 Synopsis 2 Cast 2.1 Main star 2.2 Guest star 3 Episodes 4 Gallery 5 Videos 6 External Links Synopsis [ ] The season starts with Raymond Reddington surrendering to the FBI , establishing his bona fides by helping them to capture an international terrorist long thought to be dead. Red has special conditions for his help -- he has to remain apparently free so that his contacts will still communicate with him and he will only give information to rookie FBI profiler Elizabeth Keen . As the season progresses it becomes clear that Red has at least one hidden motive for turning himself in to the FBI. From using the FBI to expose breathtaking corruption in the field of international humanitarian work , to enabling those working with him to exorcise personal demons. Red also has an unknown adversary, and is he hiding behind the FBI, or using them to flush his enemy out and destroy their organization? Red also has an arrangement with Alan Fitch . The Cabal ordered an attack on the FBI black site, known as the Post Office , which was the command center of The Blacklist task force, as a demonstration of their power. Red knows the secrets of the Cabal, which he has arranged to be divulged should he die. It is eventually revealed that Red has a personal connection with Keen through her adoptive family. Keen is shown to have been a chess pawn and dupe as her husband, Tom Keen , is working for Milos Kirchoff ; the man who drove Red to surrender himself to the FBI for protection and is destroying Red's syndicate . Red's arrangement with Fitch is weakened in the wake of the Post Office attack as his blackmail evidence is viewed as a bluff. Red continues his battle with his unknown adversary, and eventually forces him to break cover in the season finale, where it is revealed that Elizabeth Keen's husband Tom Keen was spying on her for Red's adversary. Cast [ ] Main star [ ] James Spader as Raymond Reddington Megan Boone as Elizabeth Keen Diego Klattenhoff as Donald Ressler Ryan Eggold as Tom Keen Parminder Nagra as Meera Malik Harry Lennix as Harold Cooper Guest star [ ] Hisham Tawfiq as Dembe Zuma Amir Arison as Aram Mojtabai Deborah S Craig as Luli Zeng Rachel Brosnahan as Lucy Brooks Graeme Malcolm as Man with the Apple Alan Alda as Alan Fitch Charles Baker as Newton Phillips Susan Blommaert as Kathryn Nemec Peter Stormare as Milos Kirchoff Susan Kelechi Watson as Ellie Episodes [ ] Season One Episodes No. in Season No. in Series Title Directed by Written by Original air date 1 1 “ Pilot ” Joe Carnahan Jon Bokenkamp September 23, 2013 Synopsis: Ex-government agent and one of the FBI’s Most Wanted fugitives, Raymond "Red" Reddington mysteriously turns himself in to the FBI and offers to give up everyone he has ever worked with including a long-thought-dead terrorist but under one condition – he’ll only talk to newly-minted female FBI profiler, Elizabeth Keen with whom he seemingly has no connection. For Liz, it’s going to be one hell of a first day on the job and what follows is a twisting series of events as the race to stop a terrorist begins. 2 2 “ The Freelancer ” Jace Alexander Jon Bokenkamp September 30, 2013 Synopsis: Red predicts an impending catastrophe, rooted by the work of an assassin, called "The Freelancer." Together, Liz and Red go undercover to prevent from having his next target, Floriana Campo from being killed. Elsewhere, Ressler and newly re-hired CIA agent, Meera Malik , who’s been added to Red’s private security detail, keep an eye on them from a distance. Meanwhile, Liz considers what she should do next concerning Tom and the mysterious box she found hidden under the floorboards. 3 3 “ Wujing ” Michael Watkins Lukas Reiter October 7, 2013 Synopsis: The FBI is on the hunt for a high-ranking Chinese spy, Wujing which Red claims has hired him to help decode a classified CIA transmission. Liz , posing as an FBI cryptographer goes with Red to decode the message while protecting US government secrets. Meanwhile, Liz proactively investigates Tom. 4 4 “ The Stewmaker ” Vince Misiano Patrick Massett John Zinman October 14, 2013 Synopsis: While continuing her investigation into the truth about Tom, Liz testifies against drug lord, Hector Lorca . Later another witness is abducted when he is forced to testify against the dangerous drug trafficker. Red’s interest is peaked and he informs the team that the witness may have been taken by "The Stewmaker" a man responsible for hundreds of missing and presumed dead people. Meanwhile, in an unlikely twist of events, Red and Ressler must work together for the first time. 5 5 “ The Courier ” Nick Gomez John C. Kelley October 21, 2013 Synopsis: Red finds out that The Courier - a middle man that no one crosses - is delivering a package worth millions of dollars to an Iranian spy. Only the Courier is a ghost no one including Red, knows what he looks like. While racing to stop the mysterious criminal transaction, Liz , inadvertently finds herself thrust into a dangerous kidnapping plot. Meanwhile, Ressler must finally accept that Liz is a valuable asset to the team. 6 6 “ Gina Zanetakos ” Adam Arkin Wendy West October 28, 2013 Synopsis: After Tom confronts Liz about the box – he claims he’s innocent and insists that they turn it into the FBI so his name can be cleared. Elsewhere, Red informs Liz and the FBI that the next name on the Blacklist is beautiful and deadly corporate terrorist, Gina Zanetakos . 7 7 “ Frederick Barnes ” Michael Watkins J. R. Orci November 4, 2013 Synopsis: After a chemical attack on a subway, Liz and the FBI search for the man responsible. Liz reluctantly calls on Red for his help after she finds her search for the next person on The Blacklist , brilliant scientist Frederick Barnes, heading to a dead end. Meanwhile, Liz wants nothing to do with Red after he implicated Tom. 8 8 “ General Ludd ” Steven Surjik Amanda Kate Shuman November 11, 2013 Synopsis: Liz uncovers an elaborate plot to destroy the country’s financial system when a new name on the Blacklist is revealed by Red . Meanwhile Tom supports Liz when a family member falls ill. 9 9 “ Anslo Garrick ” Joe Carnahan Joe Carnahan (Story & Teleplay) Jason George (Story) November 25, 2013 Synopsis: THE FBI BLACK SITE COMES UNDER SIEGE - Donald Ressler attempts to protect Red from a possible assassination attempt but is misled. The newest member on the blacklist, Anslo Garrick , infiltrates the FBI black site and tries to capture Red. Meanwhile Liz gets caught in an elevator and tries to figure out what is going on. 10 10 “ Anslo Garrick: Conclusion ” Michael Watkins Lukas Reiter J. R. Orci December 2, 2013 Synopsis: A NEW ENEMY EMERGES – Liz infiltrates the blacksite and disarms the signal jammers to call in backup but runs into trouble along the way. The fate of Ressler hangs in the balance as Red tries to bargain with Anslo Garrick . Meanwhile, Tom becomes increasingly worried about Liz’s situation and the fate of Red is unknown. 11 11 “ The Good Samaritan ” Dan Lerner Brandon Margolis Brandon Sonnier Jan 13, 2014 Synopsis: WHO IS THE MOLE? - The entire FBI team is under investigation as internal affairs tries to find the mole. Elsewhere, Red is missing and conducts his own investigation into who betrayed him. Meanwhile, a serial killer from Liz ’s past, "The Good Samaritan" strikes again. Liz is allowed to join the hunt for the killer as Cooper knows Red will likely reach out to help knowing how much this unsolved case means to Liz. 12 12 “ The Alchemist ” Vince Misiano Anthony Sparks January 20, 2014 Synopsis: THE NEXT TARGET ON THE BLACKLIST IS A MAN WHO PROTECTS THE GUILTY BY PREYING ON THE INNOCENT – Red informs the team that "The Alchemist" - a man who relies upon science to transform a person’s DNA - has been contracted to protect a well-known mob informant and his wife. As the team goes undercover to catch him, Liz finds herself on the hunt for an unlikely couple. Meanwhile Liz and Tom find themselves at another bump in their relationship and Ressler debates whether or not he should give his ex-girlfriend his blessing. 13 13 “ The Cyprus Agency ” Michael Watkins Lukas Reiter January 27, 2014 Synopsis: BABY-SNATCHING FOR ILLEGAL ADOPTION HITS CLOSE TO HOME FOR LIZ – After a recent spate of abductions of babies from their mothers, Red informs Liz that the "Cyprus Agency" is the illegal adoption organization responsible. Coincidentally, Liz and Tom contemplate adoption of their own which fuels Liz to track down the organizations CEO, Owen Mallory. 14 14 “ Madeline Pratt ” Michael Zinberg Jim Campolongo February 24, 2014 Synopsis: AN ANCIENT ARTIFACT QUICKLY TURNS INTO AN ISSUE OF NATIONAL SECURITY– Liz helps Tom come to terms about their impending adoption while Red reveals that a woman from his past, Madeline Pratt is the next target on The Blacklist . Elsewhere, at an elaborate party at the Syrian Embassy, Red convinces Liz to pull off a covert heist. 15 15 “ The Judge ” Peter Werner Jonathan Shapiro Lukas Reiter March 3, 2014 Synopsis: AN EYE FOR AN EYE – When a prominent Prosecutor is found after being missing for 12 years Red believes that this is the work of Ruth Kipling also known as "The Judge." Only a myth, the Judge runs an underground criminal appeals process in which those who have wrongly imprisoned and punished others are judged and punished themselves. Meanwhile, Red investigates the woman who tempts Tom while in Orlando at a teacher’s conference. 16 16 “ Mako Tanida ” Michael Watkins Joe Carnahan (Story) John Eisendrath (Teleplay) Jon Bokenkamp (Teleplay) Patrick Massett (Teleplay) John Zinman (Teleplay) March 17, 2014 Synopsis: THE HUNTER BECOMES THE HUNTED – The next target on the Blacklist is one of Red ’s past associates, crime lord Mako Tanida. After Tanida escapes from prison he is out for revenge. Elsewhere, Tom confronts Jolene after interfering with his mission. 17 17 “ Ivan ” Randy Zisk J. R. Orci Amanda Kate Shuman March 24, 2014 Synopsis: A HIGH-TECH CYBER DEFENSE ASSET IS STOLEN BY A MYSTERIOUS ASSAILANT – When a new cyber defense asset gets stolen all roads lead to a Russian cyber terrorist known only as “Ivan”. With Red ’s assistance, Liz discovers a huge cover-up. Meanwhile, new evidence surrounding the disappearance of Jolene helps unravel some of the mystery behind Tom. 18 18 “ Milton Bobbit ” Steven A. Adelson Daniel Voll March 31, 2014 Synopsis: "THE UNDERTAKER" SELLS THE PERFECT MURDER – Red and the team are on the hunt for "The Undertaker" – a life insurance claim adjuster who convinces ordinary people to become contract killers. Meanwhile, Liz works with Red to uncover Tom's secrets. 19 19 “ The Pavlovich Brothers ” Paul Edwards Elizabeth Benjamin April 21, 2014 Synopsis: THE PAVLOVICH BROTHERS ARE BACK IN TOWN – The Pavlovich brothers specialize in abductions of high value targets and according to Red , they are planning their next hit. While the team tries to protect the next target, Red has a job of his own for the Pavlovich Brothers. Elsewhere, Liz patiently tries to uncover the truth about Tom. 20 20 “ The Kingmaker ” Karen Gaviola J. R. Orci Lukas Reiter April 28, 2014 Synopsis: THE NEXT TARGET ON THE BLACKLIST CAUSES RED CONCERN – After a Politician in Prague is framed for a murder, Red suspects it’s the work of The Kingmaker – a strategist behind the rise of some of the world’s most powerful politicians. While Red helps Liz and the FBI catch him, Liz uncovers a secret that Red’s been keeping from her. 21 21 “ Berlin ” Michael Zinberg John Eisendrath Jon Bokenkamp May 5, 2014 Synopsis: LIZ, AT THE END OF HER ROPE, REALIZES SHE CAN’T TRUST ANYONE – Liz refuses to work with Red after discovering the truth about the death of her father. Seeking to make amends and force Liz to see him, Red brings the FBI a case they can’t ignore. Meanwhile, Liz reveals what she knows about Tom's secret life to the FBI. 22 22 “ Berlin: Conclusion ” Michael Watkins Richard D'Ovidio (Story) John Eisendrath (Teleplay) Jon Bokenkamp (Teleplay) Lukas Reiter (Teleplay) J. R. Orci (Teleplay) May 12, 2014 Synopsis: EVERYONE ON THE TASKFORCE IS A TARGET – With the crashing of the mysterious prisoner transport plane, the city is on lock down as the authorities are on the hunt for all the escapees. Meanwhile, with Red in custody, Liz uses her power to get him out since he is their best chance at finding all the suspects. Elsewhere, their main objective is to track down Berlin , a prisoner on the plane who is somehow involved. Gallery [ ] Videos [ ] The Blacklist Season 1 Season 1 The Blacklist - Clip 1 The Blacklist - Clip 2 The Blacklist - Clip 3 The Blacklist - Clip 4 External Links [ ] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Blacklist_(TV_series) http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2741602/ http://www.nbc.com/the-blacklist/ http://www.thefutoncritic.com/showatch/blacklist/listings/ http://www.youtube.com/user/NBCBlacklist Season 1 Episodes · Pilot · The Freelancer · Wujing · The Stewmaker · The Courier · Gina Zanetakos · Frederick Barnes · General Ludd · Anslo Garrick · Anslo Garrick: Conclusion · The Good Samaritan · The Alchemist · The Cyprus Agency · Madeline Pratt · The Judge · Mako Tanida · Ivan · Milton Bobbit · The Pavlovich Brothers · The Kingmaker · Berlin · Berlin: Conclusion · Categories Categories : Season 1 Episodes Add category Cancel Save Languages Português do Brasil Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. The Blacklist Wiki is a FANDOM TV Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab