13th Nov 2019 - 'The Crown Season3' World Premiere — Premieres.co Home The Premieres Movie Premieres 2024-25 Movie Premieres 2023 Movie Premieres 2022 Movie Premieres 2021 Movie Premieres 2020 Movie Premieres 2019 Movie Premieres 2018 Movie Premieres 2017 Movie Premieres 2016 Movie Premieres 2015 Movie Premieres 2014 - pt2 Movie Premieres 2014 - pt1 Movie Premieres 2013 Movie Premieres 2012 Movie Premieres 2011 Movie Premieres 2010 Movie Premieres 2009 Movie Premieres 2008 The Archive of Premieres Awards (eg. Baftas, Bifas, GQs) Music Theatre and Fashion Other Events REDCARPETMONOCHROME Celebs Gallery Who Am I? Who I Am The Equipment FAQs Contact Me Take Action Premieres.co Home The Premieres Movie Premieres 2024-25 Movie Premieres 2023 Movie Premieres 2022 Movie Premieres 2021 Movie Premieres 2020 Movie Premieres 2019 Movie Premieres 2018 Movie Premieres 2017 Movie Premieres 2016 Movie Premieres 2015 Movie Premieres 2014 - pt2 Movie Premieres 2014 - pt1 Movie Premieres 2013 Movie Premieres 2012 Movie Premieres 2011 Movie Premieres 2010 Movie Premieres 2009 Movie Premieres 2008 The Archive of Premieres Awards (eg. Baftas, Bifas, GQs) Music Theatre and Fashion Other Events REDCARPETMONOCHROME Celebs Gallery Who Am I? Who I Am The Equipment FAQs Contact Me Take Action November 13, 2019 Bernd Talasch 13th Nov 2019 - 'The Crown Season3' World Premiere Bernd Talasch November 13, 2019 13th Nov 2019 - 'The Crown Season3' World Premiere Bernd Talasch November 13, 2019 November 13th, 2019. The past two (Season) World Premieres for ‘The Crown’ were both held in Leicester Square - here for the first , and here for the second - but this one was held in the smaller, more intimate, more packed environment of an over-designed Curzon Mayfair setup. The pens were smaller, thus more crowded, and the carpet itself was simply stacked with people and implements blocking many/most views. And all of that was a factor even BEFORE I decided not to bring my main camera to the premiere, owing to a subsequent ticketed event I was heading to immediately after this premiere ended. Here’s how it went down: Curzon Mayfair hosts the premiere for the third season of The Crown, a season that takes a time jump sufficient to involve a complete recast of the main actors (rather than wait a few decades for them to age, I guess). Still… a pity for any random Frenchmen who travelled all this way to creepily profess their ‘luff’ for Claire Foy. Again. It’s a rare double-sided posing board - one for the ‘standard’ paparazzi, and one for the ‘VIP’ paparazzi. It also means smaller pen sizes, and less views for fans. It’s almost like inviting the filthy unwashed public to royal events is Simply Not A Done Thing. “The stuffed corgi isn’t an eye-catching prop, it’s a political statement. For… uh….” In other, stranger, news: for the first time at a premiere I was asked to remove my beanie during the security bag-check. Apologies for anyone distressed on my behalf for such an affront to My Style. “He’s behind me, isn’t he? I think I heard somebody saying that he’s recently had the ends filed to an even sharper point than before”. All this, and we’re not even halfway through Movember. “My kingdom for a better tie. Or failing that, anyone else’s kingdom for a top hat to use as a distraction.” Josh O'Connor plays Prince Charles in Season 3. “I’m so embarrassed about the tie situation I’m almost ready to trade what I have for a red dress, honestly” - Josh O’Connor is joined by Erin Doherty, who plays Princess Anne in the series. “He’s made pretty good offer for the dress… just hold on giving me the contract while I’m still considering it.” Erin Doherty is previously best known for being in two episodes of the TV miniseries ‘Les Miserables’ and one episode of something called ‘Call the Midwife’. “Declined, with apologies. You wanna prorogue parliament to have another go, feel free” My ‘proroguing parliament’ jokes are probably barely a month out of date, but it’s a word that’s fun/tricky to type. “Don’t you dare hold up that Corgi - I know what it represents!” Meanwhile I got to see another man’s interpretation of what it’s possible to do with a cable tie holding up a cardboard poster, and don’t think for a moment I’m not still scarred by that experience. Also, this is Olivia Colman. Tobias Menzies and Olivia Colman respectively play Prince Philip and Queen Elizabeth II, characters previously played by Matt Smith and Claire Foy, and human beings currently played in real life by the Actual Prince Philip and Queen Elizabeth II. “Wait a minute, Liv. Somebody over there has something from Armageddon for me to sign…” ”But you weren’t in that movie. And don’t call me Liv” ”Yes, dear.” - Tobias Menzies was actually in a James Bond film - he played the role of Villiers in Casino Royale. “It’s nice to add another one to the list” Helena Bonham Carter plays Princess Margaret in the Series, but in terms of Royalty, she’s also previously played Queen Elizabeth (in The King’s Speech), Anne Boleyn (in the Henry VIII TV Movie), and I suppose technically The Red Queen (Alice in Wonderland / Alice Through The Looking Glass). “Ms Bonham Carter! I’ve rewritten all the Harry Potter books with Bellatrix Lestrange as the main character” ”Okay, but why?” Helena Bonham Carter played Bellatrix Lestrange across four Harry Potter films. “And if you never mention that I was in a Terminator movie, I’ll thank you for it…” Helena Bonham Carter was in Terminator Salvation, aka Terminator 4 (aka ‘Terminator Movie Rendered Obsolete By Not One But Two Subsequent Terminator Movies’) “Wait… wait.. I insist I be allowed to draw a moustache on Olivia Colman” “I wish I’d thought of that” I get the feeling that the feathers on Helena Bonham Carter’s dress would be quite good at keeping you warm on a chilly night such as this, but they’re wasted when externally mounted. “You liked ‘The Favourite’? Me too!!” Me three. Olivia Colman won both the Oscar and Bafta for Best Actress for ‘The Favourite’ . She’s a great actress, and great to photograph because she’s probably capable of more expression-changes in any given interval of time than almost any other actress I’ve photographed. “Legitimate Small Businessman, huh? Is that code for ‘Autograph Dealer’” ”Yes, Ma’am” - the pen we were in was originally a challenging-nay-difficult 50% autograph dealers by volume, but after security extracted the younger/betterlooking women for a separate pen next to the Paparazzi, it was closer to 80%, meaning dangerous-nay-impossible. Lady in Red Dress appears to be desperate to get into my premiere journal, but there is a black velvet talent moat and several mountain ranges between us. Curse her reluctance to come closer, and my reluctance to jump over an impassable low metal fence and risk being tackled to the ground by security…. Josh O'Connor, posing enigmatically as only Josh O’Connor can…. (… when in character as Josh O’Connor) “I’m pleased you guys noticed me, at least” Far from being merely a snappily attired man, Peter Morgan is the series creator of ‘The Crown' (… em… insofar as a human being who isn’t the parent of a person can be said to be the ‘creator’ of the story of that (real) person’s life, I mean) “I signed for you back in ‘06. Said I was only doing one per person EVER. You weren’t listening” Gillian Anderson, by the (overheard) lingo of a nearby autograph dealer, was apparently “clocking” certain dealers - which I take to mean “was identifying” rather than the more pleasing “using a right hook on” dealers. Peter Morgan. Similarly clocking, perhaps. One issue when using a prime lens with no scope for ‘zooming’ forward (blocked by barriers) or backwards (blocked by dealers) is that at times you can become trapped, as I was here, between simultaneously wanting to photograph the enigmatic face of one person (Gillian Anderson), and the stunning attire of another (the man in the background). I narrowly stand by my call here. I believe this may be the director of an episode, THE episode, SOME episode or perhaps even ALL episodes of The Crown Season 3. Wireimage didn’t deign to identify him, but the Dealers were biting at him, so to speak. Harry Treadaway. He’s not actually in this series, but he’s on the carpet anyway. Who am I to judge? (CORRECTION : with thanks to @frenchbarricade on twitter : “he plays Roddy Llewellyn, princess Margaret's lover :)” - I gotta not scroll through that imdb cast listing so quickly!) Harry Treadaway. Again. He’s best known for (apparently) being in the 2013 “Lone Ranger” movie, but he’s set to be in the upcoming Star Trek The Next Generation Follow-Up Series “Picard”. Late and random (?) arrival : rom-com writer Richard Curtis (best known for being the writer of such films as Four Weddings and a Funeral, Love Actually, and Notting Hill). So… for now… that’s that…. for now. Until next <yawn> ! Newer Post 14th Nov 2019 - The 'Blue Story' World Premiere Older Post 11th Nov 2019 - The 'Last Christmas' Premiere Back to Top GOT ANY QUESTIONS? COMMENTS? OFFERS TO SHOOT YOUR EVENT / WEDDING / MOTION PICTURE? LET ME KNOW... bernd.talasch@optusnet.com.au Powered by Squarespace