Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/NintendoSwitch A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to NintendoSwitch r/NintendoSwitch r/NintendoSwitch The central hub for all news, updates, rumors, and topics relating to the Nintendo Switch & Nintendo Switch 2. We are a fan-run community, not an official Nintendo forum. Members Online • grephantom Splatoon 2 local multiplayer first experience Discussion So I bought Splatoon 2 to play together with my niece! We both have a switch, and I thought it would be fun! It took a while for us to figure it out how to join a game together. I have a lot of gaming experience, and this was  not the way I expected. Okay so far. I joined her game and we played a fun match, as she teaches me the controls. We were winning but "a communication error has occurred" . Okay, it was funny, let's try again! So we tried! I couldn't join her this time because the party was full before me. A counter said I had to wait 3 minutes. Okay, I'll watch her playing to learn how she aims in portable mode. The battle finished! She won, Yay! Couldn't join her again, so I  start to predict a serious flaw with the game and start typing this post. Her match finishes once again and this time I'm able to join! YAY okay? Nope... We are enemies now. Fuck that, I just want to play. 30 seconds in and "a communication error has occurred." Now I'm back to my phone as she plays zelda. Seriously, WTF Nintendo? -- edit post scriptum -- I completely understand I cannot blame Nintendo for my connection issues. I'm not using dial-up, I have a modest 10mbps cable net and we were next to the router. I'll try some new configs another day, since she plays fine alone (so do I). But there seems to be some poor decisions by Nintendo, too. We cannot deny it. The game should change hosts if the host gets the error, since its P2P and not a dedicated server. It should have a reconnect ability too. The wireless hardware should be better. There should be a casual party mode available from the start, despite MM fairness. I join my friend and click play, as simple as that. AFAIK, it's a must in online multiplayer games nowadays. The game can simply match the same parties for both sides. Will you wait more? A price to pay, I guess? If you want MM fairness, don't use this mode. If you want to enjoy a first buy day with your niece you see twice a month and don't want to rank to B- or level 10 or whatever, or just play with your friends, use it. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 9, 2018 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 2018 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2018 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics