Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/NBA_Draft A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to NBA_Draft r/NBA_Draft r/NBA_Draft A hub for the hardcore NBA Draft enthusiast.  The home of hype and hope. Where logical evaluation and substance generate discussion, rather than conventional stereotypes and uninspiring cliches.    Analysis, articles, highlight videos, news & updates, information, rumors, interesting stats, podcasts, etc. Members Online • Nickname-CJ Top 1% Commenter How does the 2021 draft class look so far? I think the top 6 teams are Bally with their picks, magic are happy regardless if you switched their picks. Here’s my quick thoughts on some of the guys. Cade Cunningham- pistons organization and the fans are very happy with Cade. Despite his shooting woes, he provides a lot of everything else you want from the engine of a team. Looking to have a big 3rd year leap. Jalen Green- he’s making good progress and looks like a guy to ward off the #2 pick curse. Rockets are also happy to have their main piece of the future. Evan Mobley- been great in his role and still has elite upside. Feels weird that a guy who’s been so good at what he does is still a “high upside” player. Scottie Barnes- ROTY was a great case to start. Having a sophomore slump but despite overreaction from fans, still looks to have a great future and the raptors are clearly buying into it. Jalen Suggs- he’s been having a lot of issues with being consistently on the floor, so he’s never really gotten into any rhythm. I think the magic are still fine with this pick, especially since they still managed to get Franz at 8 who’s arguably been a top 3 guy from the class so far. Josh Giddey- I think Giddey’s improvement has flown under the radar of most people. His scoring and rebounding are up, his shooting splits are wayyy up from last year. His jumpshot looks a whole lot more comfortable and smoother. Overall he’s been making great strides in becoming a great well rounded player. Jonathan Kuminga- I think the warriors are regretting this pick, considering that Franz Wagner was right there. He doesn’t fit the timeline or the playstyle of the warriors right now and it’s been holding back his development. Franz Wagner- a top 3 guys in this class and possibly in contention for best player right now. He’s been an everything-man for the Magic and arguably their best player for most of the season. Davion Mitchell- got drafted to a pretty unfavorable team for him. In the time he’s played this year he’s been solid and provided good value in his minutes. Unfortunately other guys on the Kings have been so good it’s been cutting into his playtime. With guys like Chris Duarte and Trey Murphy III on the board I think the Kings might regret the pick a little bit. Zaire Williams- he’s had a lot of issues staying on the court. With guys like Duarte and Murphy on the board the Grizzlies might also be regretting their pick. James Bouknight- charlotte had a huge miss this with pick. Done practically nothing in the nba so far, he’s had some off court issues, and just been a big disappointment for the hornets. Josh Primo- flashiest player not in the league. Chris Duarte- injuries have really hurt his season this year. But based on last season, he was a good pick. Good 3&d guy who’s got solid shot creating ability. Pacers have like 40 shooting guards on the team this year tho. Depending on what they want to do with buddy hield, it’s gonna be weird for him for the next couple seasons. Moses Moody- same with Kuminga, he just doesn’t fit the timeline. If the warriors decided that Klay, Dray, and Steph were all starting to fizzle out, which it’s not looking like it, then I think they would’ve nailed this draft. However, because Moody and Kuminga were were some of the youngest players in their class, they’re still pretty behind developmentally in order to be serious rotation guys. Corey Kispert-kinda just been a whagever player. Wizards probably wish they could’ve got Murphy. Alperen Sengün- looks to be the big of the future for the rockets. Pretty versatile offensively. Jumpshot still not there but he provides a lot of value doing other things. Great pick for a guy who probably should’ve been lottery. Trey Murphy III- probably the best value guy in the draft so far. I think most teams would take him top 10 in a redraft and I think probably as high as 7. He’s been one of the best shooters in the nba while also being a pretty good defender. Pelicans nailed their draft picks. Tre Mann- he’s been a bit disappointing this season, but he’s also shown a lot of great moments. He needs to be more consistent and he needs more confidence in his jumper. I think the thunder are still happy with this pick at 18. Kai Jones- charlotte seems to have no idea what to do with young players. Kai Jones has absolutely torched the gleague every time he’s been assigned and has still been solid in the nba. Still great potential for him but he needs opportunities to play. Jalen Johnson- he’s been a solid defender but not much else. Fine pick for this range. Keon Johnson- considering he was traded midway through his rookie season I’d say this was a pretty bad pick. Hasn’t shown much promise either. Isaiah Jackson- solid pick for Indiana. Jalen smith has taken a lot of his minutes but he’s been solid whenever he’s on the floor. Usman Garuba- bit of a weird pick for the rockets. He’s a small ball big who defends pretty well but isn’t much of an offensive threat. We’ll see what he turns into. Josh Christopher-sucks that he’s on a team playing behind Jalen green who occupies a very similar role. He absolutely should be playing but not sure what’s goin on in Houston. Quentin Grimes- great pick for the Knicks. He’s their starting 2guard right now with a great chance to be a high end role player going forward. Bones Hyland- spark plug for the nuggets, elite shooter and a great shot creator. Great pick for this range. Cam Thomas- on a team stacked like the nets, it’s hard for him to get on the floor. As a guy who’s exclusively a shot hunter, he makes it hard for the coach to have to play him. Still has potential but he’s gotta get over himself. Jaden springer- has he even played in the nba? DayRon Sharp- been kinda whatever so far. Still could be a solid rotation big going forward for the nets. Santi Aldama- was a questionable pick at the time, but Santi has been great so far this season. He’s filled in nicely when JJJ has been out. He shoots well and plays his role. Still could get even better. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 4, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics