Google Pixel Fall Launch: Android 12, Pixel 6, Pixel 6 Pro and everything else that was just announced | ZDNET X Trending After years with Windows, I used the MacBook Air M4 for one week Finally, a Bluetooth speaker that rivals my Bose SoundLink Max I spent hours testing Samsung's new flagship soundbar This Linux distro has the most refreshing take on OS design This gadget gave my Android thermal vision superpowers Oura Ring 3 vs Oura Ring 4 Best CRM software of 2025 Best small business CRM software of 2025 Best free website builders of 2025 Best website builders of 2025 Best free web hosting services of 2025 Best malware removal software of 2025 Best remote access software of 2025 Best password managers for families in 2025 Best password managers for businesses of 2025 Best VPNs for school of 2025 Best business VoIP providers of 2025 Best data removal services: Delete yourself from the internet Best email hosting service Best VPS hosting service How to clear the cache on your Windows 11 PC Finally, a Windows 11 tablet I'd recommend to both business and professional users NEO QLED vs OLED: Which TV tech is right for you? ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending After years with Windows, I used the MacBook Air M4 for one week Finally, a Bluetooth speaker that rivals my Bose SoundLink Max I spent hours testing Samsung's new flagship soundbar This Linux distro has the most refreshing take on OS design This gadget gave my Android thermal vision superpowers Oura Ring 3 vs Oura Ring 4 Best CRM software of 2025 Best small business CRM software of 2025 Best free website builders of 2025 Best website builders of 2025 Best free web hosting services of 2025 Best malware removal software of 2025 Best remote access software of 2025 Best password managers for families in 2025 Best password managers for businesses of 2025 Best VPNs for school of 2025 Best business VoIP providers of 2025 Best data removal services: Delete yourself from the internet Best email hosting service Best VPS hosting service How to clear the cache on your Windows 11 PC Finally, a Windows 11 tablet I'd recommend to both business and professional users NEO QLED vs OLED: Which TV tech is right for you? ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Business Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing. When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.  Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers. ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors  thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form . Close Home Business Companies Google Google Pixel Fall Launch: Android 12, Pixel 6, Pixel 6 Pro and everything else that was just announced Judging by the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro, Google is taking its new hardware ambitions pretty seriously. Written by Jason Cipriani, Contributing Writer Oct. 19, 2021 at 2:08 p.m. PT Image: Google Google just finished its Pixel Fall Launch event where the company announced its latest pair of smartphones, the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro . The new phones come with Android 12 out of the box, use Google's new Tensor processor and have several camera upgrades. Google's Rick Osterloh, SVP of devices and services, was joined by other executives who walked viewers of the event through Google Tensor, Pixel 6 and the features users can expect. Here's everything Google announced on Tuesday. Android 12 is live Image: Google Google didn't announce it during the event, but instead used a blog post to announce that Android 12 is officially out and available for Pixel owners. Google's Android hardware partners will release the update on their own schedule, ranging anywhere from a few days after Google's official release to several months or longer. The update includes several new improvements including one of the biggest interface redesigns come to Android since its launch. In addition to a new look that changes based on your wallpaper, Android 12 has new privacy features. You can now see when an app has accessed your camera or microphone, as well as see a dashboard of all your private information and how often it's accessed by specific apps. If you have a Pixel phone, you can download the update right now. If you have a phone from a different company, like Samsung, you'll need to wait until your phone's maker has the update ready. Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro Image: Google Google -- finally -- announced the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro . The latest smartphones from the company have been the subject of thorough leaks and rumors that left almost nothing for Google to announce. Both phones use Google Tensor , run Android 12, have a unique design, and are available for preorders starting Oct. 19 . Deliveries begin Oct. 28. Pricing for the Pixel 6 is $599 , while the Pixel 6 Pro starts at $899 . Every Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro will receive 5 years of security updates, something that Google says is only possible because of Google Tensor and the Titan M2 security coprocessor. Pixel Pass Everything included with Google's new Pixel Pass service. Image: Google Google is also rolling out a complete subscription service for Pixel owners. Pixel Pass starts at $45 per month and includes a Pixel 6 ($55 for a Pro), and includes 2 years of preferred care, 200GB of Google One Storage, YouTube Premium (that also includes YouTube Music Premium), and Google Play Pass that gives you access to ad-free games and apps. Google Pixel Meet Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro: Preorders, specs, pricing, features Google Tensor: Everything you need to know about the Pixel 6 chip Pixel 6 will do something quite scary The best Android phones: Top expert picks Top 10 smartphones to buy now Meet Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro: Preorders, specs, pricing, features Google Tensor: Everything you need to know about the Pixel 6 chip Pixel 6 will do something quite scary The best Android phones: Top expert picks Top 10 smartphones to buy now Editorial standards Show Comments Log In to Comment Community Guidelines Related 6 hidden Android features every user should know - and how they make life easier I changed 10 settings on my Pixel phone to give it an instant performance boost The best Google Pixel phones to buy in 2025 ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Licensing Accessibility © 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use