Ubisoft is back to releasing games on Steam, including Assassin’s Creed Valhalla | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI More Expand The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Menu Expand Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health COVID-19 Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters Command Line Installer Notepad Verge Deals Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Ubisoft is back to releasing games on Steam, including Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Comments Drawer News Ubisoft is back to releasing games on Steam, including Assassin’s Creed Valhalla ‘We’re constantly evaluating how to bring our games to different audiences wherever they are,’ writes Ubisoft. ‘We’re constantly evaluating how to bring our games to different audiences wherever they are,’ writes Ubisoft. by Sean Hollister Nov 21, 2022, 7:52 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement. Key art for Assassin’s Creed Valhalla . Image: Ubisoft Sean Hollister is a senior editor and founding member of The Verge who covers gadgets, games, and toys. He spent 15 years editing the likes of CNET, Gizmodo, and Engadget. Ubisoft is bringing Assassin’s Creed Valhalla , Anno 1800, and Roller Champions to Steam, arguably its first major releases on Valve’s PC distribution platform since 2019. “We’re constantly evaluating how to bring our games to different audiences wherever they are, while providing a consistent player ecosystem through Ubisoft Connect,” reads part of a statement from Ubisoft spokesperson Jessica Roache to The Verge . Roache declined to say whether that means Ubisoft will now regularly bring games to Steam or if it’ll be on a case-by-case basis. It’s not clear why Ubisoft stopped putting its PC games on Steam or why it’s coming back now, but it appears to be picking up where it left off: Valhalla was the 2020 flagship game in the Assassin’s Creed series, with the next title, Assassin’s Creed Mirage , not due till 2023. Roller Champions came out this May. And Anno 1800 is actually coming back to Steam after previously having been removed — it’s from 2019. Ubisoft’s previous Steam releases largely ended in 2019. Screenshot by Sean Hollister / The Verge But it’s no secret that Ubisoft pulled games from Steam to make them exclusive to the Epic Games Store instead, which famously gave publishers millions to attract games to that rival platform. For example, the Steam store page for Anno 1800 currently still has this note: “Notice: Sales of Anno 1800 will be discontinued on Steam after April 16th due to a publisher decision to make the game exclusive to another PC store.” “Notice: Sales of Anno 1800 will be discontinued on Steam after April 16th due to a publisher decision to make the game exclusive to another PC store.” Screenshot by Sean Hollister / The Verge Epic paid $146 million to make 2K Games’ Borderlands 3 exclusive to that platform, and documents from the Epic Games v. Apple trial show that Ubisoft’s Watch Dogs: Legion was targeted as a must-have EGS exclusive at the time it was handing out that kind of money. Lists of Epic Games Store exclusive titles generally include a lot of big Ubisoft games. Roache says that Ubisoft “never stopped our relationship with Valve,” though, and it’s true that Ubisoft continued to release some DLC after its main games largely stopped appearing on Steam as well as letting gamers play Steam titles they already own — despite one brief scare this July when players noticed a poorly written message about how their titles would “not be accessible.” Ubisoft also removed other games from Steam at that time, including Anno 2070 , Assassin’s Creed Liberation HD , Silent Hunter 5: Battle of the Atlantic , and Space Junkies — but all of those save Space Junkies appear to be on sale now. Roache says that some of these games were temporarily removed because their online multiplayer services were being decommissioned, and Space Junkies is permanently gone because it was a multiplayer-only title. Ubisoft says it doesn’t have any updates on whether it’ll be working with Valve on verifying these games for the Steam Deck. Assassin’s Creed Valhalla will arrive on Steam on December 6th . Update, 4:17PM ET: Added context about why Space Junkies was permanently removed from Steam, and why some other Ubisoft games temporarily disappeared. See More : Entertainment Gaming News PC Gaming Tech More in this stream See all Bob Iger steps back in as Disney CEO, replacing Bob Chapek Richard Lawler Nov 21, 2022 Comments Comment Icon Bubble This is the Twitter account Elon Musk should be worried most about losing. Alex Heath Nov 21, 2022 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Elon Musk is laying off even more Twitter workers Emma Roth Nov 21, 2022 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Most Popular Most Popular Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now New Starlink subscription drops hardware price to $0 Duolingo will replace contract workers with AI Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck The DJI Phantom is no more Installer A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in News Netflix is streaming a showcase of Hitchcock’s greatest films this June The EPA says it still cares about forever chemicals, but health advocates are wary OpenAI undoes its glaze-heavy ChatGPT update Snapchat scraps ‘simple’ redesign as it loses users in North America Apple launches a new celebrity hub that’s all about Apple Natasha Lyonne to direct and star in a new sci-fi film created with generative AI Netflix is streaming a showcase of Hitchcock’s greatest films this June Charles Pulliam-Moore Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble The EPA says it still cares about forever chemicals, but health advocates are wary Justine Calma Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble OpenAI undoes its glaze-heavy ChatGPT update Jay Peters Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Snapchat scraps ‘simple’ redesign as it loses users in North America Emma Roth Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Apple launches a new celebrity hub that’s all about Apple Umar Shakir Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Natasha Lyonne to direct and star in a new sci-fi film created with generative AI Charles Pulliam-Moore Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Apr 29 Whatever happened to the Kids Online Safety Act? Apr 29 MAGA’s next wave of influencers saved TikTok Apr 29 Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Apr 29 Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck Apr 29 Starlink’s got company — and orbital overcrowding is a disaster waiting to happen Apr 29 Meta’s ChatGPT competitor shows how your friends use AI The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved