Pixel 6: Everything to know about Google's newest phone - CNET X Your Guide To a Better Future Trending AI Tech VPN Streaming Services Mobile Home Entertainment Computing Services & Software Gaming All Tech Money Banking Credit Cards Mortgages Home Equity Taxes All Money Home Energy Electric Vehicles Home Security Smart Home Kitchen & Household Yard & Outdoors All Home Wellness Sleep Nutrition Fitness Personal Care All Wellness Home Internet Broadband By Location Internet Routers All Home Internet Deals Tech Home Wellness Gift Guides All Deals Gift Guide Cover Stories More Video Price Finder Editors' Choice CNET Perspectives All More Back Today's Highlights 01 Tariff Pricing Tracker: We're Watching 11 Products You Might Need to Buy 02 At Just $169, Apple's AirPods Pro 2 Just Matched Their Lowest Price of the Year 03 This Modest Gadget Is the New Superhero of the Energy-Efficient Home 04 iPhone 16E vs. Pixel 9A: I Tested the Cameras and Was Surprised 05 Unlock Green Tea’s Hidden Benefits for Focus and Calm 06 Preparing for a Recession? 6 Financial Tips That Make Sense 07 Hybrid Meat Is All the Rage. Here's Why It's Worth Trying 08 Nintendo Switch 2 Preorder Guide 09 Tariffs Explained: What It All Means for You AI ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now Wellness 9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep 10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More 7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood Back Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it. Explore all Best VPN Deals Best Gifts Under $300 Apple Deals iPad MacBook AirPods iPhone TV & Audio Deals TV Roku Sonos Streaming Gaming Deals Xbox PS5 Nintendo Switch Gaming PCs Back Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank. Explore all Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals Best Amazon Deals Smart Home Deals Smart Home Home Security Robot Vacuum Smart Thermostat Equipment Deals Portable ACs Generators Electric Lawnmowers Air Purifiers Kitchen Deals Coffee Makers Keurig Air Fryers Back Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings. Explore all Best Mattress Deals Fitness Gifts Fitness Deals & Gifts Fitbit Garmin Meal Delivery Kit Glasses and Contacts Back Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion. Explore all 100 Days of Holiday DIY Father's Day Gifts Under $100 Under $50 Hottest Toys Online Flower Delivery Services Gaming Tweens Available on Amazon People Who Already Have It All Gift Baskets Back Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives. Explore all My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds How Good Are EVs in the Cold? I Drove in the Arctic to Find Out Meet the AI Fraud Fighters: A Deepfake Granny, Digital Bots and a YouTube Star Inside the Rise of 7,000 Starlink Satellites – and Their Inevitable Downfall Big TVs Are the Next Frontier, but It's a Complicated Picture Sleep Isn't Cheap. Still, You Don't Have to Break the Bank Back AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas. Explore all Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? ChatGPT Glossary: 42 AI Terms That Everyone Should Know AI News Samsung's Galaxy AI Update Google Gemini on the iPhone Hidden AI Features Available on Your iPhone Right Now Microsoft Is Testing an AI Chatbot for Xbox AI Products ChatGPT Google Gemini Microsoft Copilot Dall-E AI Guides Prompt Engineering What is an LLM? AI vs. AGI: What You Need to Know How to Get Started with ChatGPT Back Gift Guide Our gifting experts are obsessively searching for holiday gifts that are unique, thoughtful and suitable for any budget. Explore all Best Tech Gifts 30 of the Best Tech Gifts Under $100 for 2025 Best Gifts for Gamers in 2025 Best Travel Tech Gifts: Must-Haves for the Journey and the Destination Gifts For Kids Best Toys for Kids in 2025 34 Best Gifts for Teens in 2025 60+ Best Star Wars Gifts for 2025 Gifts for Everyone The 20 Best Gift Baskets of 2025: Find the Perfect Edible Gift Best Gifts Available on Amazon: From $10 to $250 32 Unique Gifts for People Who Have Everything Back VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy. Explore all Best VPN Best iPhone VPN Best Mac VPN Best VPNs Free Amazon Fire Stick Android Mobile Windows Streaming VPN Reviews ExpressVPN Surfshark NordVPN NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN Back Streaming Services News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming. Explore all Best Live Streaming Services Best Streaming Services Best Streaming Device Best Streaming Services Music Free TV Youtube TV vs. Hulu Live Anime 4K Netflix Alternatives Streaming Services for Kids Streaming Service Reviews YouTube TV Hulu Plus Live TV Netflix Max Back Mobile We deliver the best buying advice, news and how-to content on the coolest tech available. Explore all Best Phones Best Over Ear Headphones Best Phone Plans Best Phones iPhone Android Cheap Samsung Best Headphones Noise Cancelling Headphones Headphones Wireless Earbuds Budget Earbuds Best Phone Plans Family Prepaid Cheap Unlimited Data Back Home Entertainment We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies. Explore all Best TV Best Record Player Best Soundbar For Your Home Theater Home Theater Systems Projectors 4K Projectors AV Receiver Best of TVs 55-inch 65-inch 75-inch 85-Inch Budget Smart Best for Streaming Streaming Device Fire TV Stick Roku Back Computing What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it. Explore all Best Laptop Best Gaming PC Best Monitors Best Laptops Macbook Budget Chromebook HP Gaming 2-in-1 Windows Best Tablets Best Overall E-ink Tablet iPad Apple iPad 9th Gen Review Back Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day. Explore all Best Antivirus Best Password Manager Best Web Hosting Best Apps Language Learning Weather iPad Drawing Food Delivery Best Web Hosting Wordpress Cheap Minecraft Server VPS Software Reviews Hostinger Ionos GoDaddy A2 Software Downloads Download.com Back Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming. Explore all Best Quest 3 Games Best VR Headset Best Graphics Card Virtual Reality Best Meta Quest 2 Accessories Best Quest 2 Head Strap Meta Quest 2 Review The Best PSVR Games Console Gaming Best Nintendo Switch Multiplayer Games Best M2 SSD for PS5 Best PSVR 2 Games Steam Deck OLED Review Gaming Accessories Best Nintendo Switch Controller Best Meta Quest 2 Accessories Best Quest 2 Head Strap Best Gaming Chair Back Banking From high-yield savings accounts to no-fee checking accounts, CNET helps you get the most out of your bank accounts. Explore all Best Budgeting Apps Best 5% Savings Accounts CD & Saving Rates CD Rates Saving Accounts 5% Savings Accounts High-Yield Savings Accounts Budgeting Apps Budgeting Apps Rocket Money Pocketsmith YNAB Cleo Back Credit Cards From building your credit score to choosing the best credit card, CNET's experts are there every step of the way. Explore all Best Debit Cards for Kids and Teens Best Prepaid Debit Cards Reviews Prime Visa Chase Sapphire Preferred Chase Sapphire Reserve Chase Freedom Unlimited American Express Gold Blue Cash Everyday from Amex Reward Guides Chase Ultimate Rewards Guide Amex Points Guide How to Maximize Cash Back Back Mortgages From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about mortgages. Explore all Current Mortgage Rates Current Refinance Rates Mortgage Rates Compare Mortgage Rates 30-Year Rates FHA Mortgage Lenders Mortgage Rate Predictions Refinance Rates Compare Refinance Rates 15-Year 30-Year Refinancing Guide Back Home Equity From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about home equity. Explore all Best Home Equity Rates Best HELOC Rates Home Equity Lender Reviews Best Home Equity Loan Lenders LoanDepot Rocket Mortgage Figure Home Equity Bank Reviews Chase Bank of America U.S. Bank Citizens Home Equity Credit Union Reviews Golden 1 Credit Union Bethpage Federal Credit Union Credit Union of Texas Alliant Credit Union Back Mortgages & Home Equity From how much house you can afford to today's rates, CNET breaks down everything you need to know about mortgages. Explore all Current Mortgage Rates Current Refinance Rates Mortgage Rates Compare Mortgage Rates 30-Year Rates FHA Mortgage Lenders Mortgage Rate Predictions Refinance Rates Compare Refinance Rates 15-Year 30-Year Refinancing Guide Home Equity Home Equity Loan Rates HELOC Rates Home Equity Lenders HELOC Lenders Back Taxes Everything you need to navigate tax season and get your biggest refund. Explore all Best Tax Software How to File Your Taxes for Free Best Tax Software Online Tax Software Free Tax Filing Self-Employed Taxes Tax Software Reviews TurboTax H&R Block Cash App Taxes TaxSlayer FreeTaxUSA TaxAct Jackson Hewitt IRA Direct File Back Identity Theft Keep your identity and personal data safe with expert-vetted ID theft protection services. ID Theft Services ID Theft Protection Aura LifeLock IdentityForce Zander Identity Guard IDShield Identity IQ Experian Identity Back Broadband Our experts can help you get online fast with helpful advice and tested, frequently-updated reviews of routers and internet service providers. Explore all Best Internet Speed Tests How to Keep Your Internet During a Power Outage Best Internet Providers Best Overall High-Speed Satellite Fiber Best Internet Deals Internet Deals Overall Cheap Internet Providers Internet and TV Bundles Internet Deals For Seniors Internet Provider Reviews Starlink Verizon 5G Spectrum AT&T Air T-Mobile 5G Xfinity Back By Location These are our top internet picks based on where you are in the United States. Explore all Best Internet Providers in Your Area Low Cost Internet Guide for All 50 States East Region New York City, NY Charlotte, NC New Jersey Atlanta, GA Central Region Chicago, IL Dallas, TX St Louis, MO Houston, TX West Region Los Angeles, CA Seattle, WA San Francisco, CA Denver, CO Back Internet Routers CNET experts unpack everything you need to know about internet routers. Explore all How to Reset Your Router The 3 Questions to Ask Before Changing Your Router Our Top Picks for Routers Best Overall Mesh Wi-Fi Router Systems Gaming Routers Wi-Fi Extenders Mesh Wi-Fi Router Reviews Eero 6 Plus Nest Wifi Pro TP-Link Deco XE75 Netgear Orbi AX6000 Router Comparisons Nest Wifi vs Google Wifi Eero 6 Plus vs Eero Pro 6E Nest Wifi Pro vs Eero Pro 6E Nest Wifi vs Nest Wifi Pro Back Energy We help you balance cost savings and comfort at home 24/7. Explore all Best Portable Power Stations Best Solar Generators Best Alkaline Batteries Best in Solar Power Batteries Panels Inverters Portable Solar Panels Solar Equipment Reviews SolarEdge Battery Tesla Solar Roof Tesla Powerwall 3 Tesla Solar Panels Home Energy Systems Tank Water Heaters vs. Tankless Water Heaters Heat Pump vs. Furnace Heat Pump vs. Air Conditioner Battery vs. Generator Back Electric Vehicles Expert guidance on the future of transportation Explore all 2025 Audi Q6, SQ6 E-Tron: Audi's Newest EV Is Its Most Compelling The 2024 EV Tax Credit: Save Big on These Vehicles Best EVs Electric Cars Most Affordable Electric SUVs Plug-In Hybrids EV Charging Best EV Charger Home EV Charging Explained Free and Easy EV Charging Options News and Guides The 2024 EV Tax Credit Guide The Nicest Charging Station I've Visited States Banning Gas Powered Cars Are Electric Vehicles Good for Our Planet? Back Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure. Explore all Best Home Security Camera Best Video Doorbell Cameras Best Outdoor Home Security Cameras Best Security Systems Homes DIY Cheap Apartments Best Security Cameras Without a Subscription Indoor Security Cameras Wireless Solar-Powered Best Security Products Ring Video Doorbells Nanny Cams Smoke Detector Smart Locks Back Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you. Explore all Smart Thermostats Smart Plugs Best in Smart Home Outdoor Smart Plugs Smart Hubs & Displays Smart Devices Smart Lights Smart Speakers Back Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly. Explore all Best Cordless Vacuums Best Robot Vacuum Best Air Purifiers Best in Vacuums & Appliances Vacuum Cleaners Robot Vacuums Dishwashers Dehumidifiers Tower Fans Refrigerators Best in Office Needs Office Chairs Standing Desks Surge Protectors Best in Cooking Needs Air Fryers Toaster Ovens Bread Machines Microwaves Back Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp. Explore all Best Grills Best Fire Pits Best Patio Heaters Best Grills Portable Grills Gas Grills Pellet Grills Charcoal Grills Kamado Grills Grilling Tools & Accessories Best Equipment for Home Leaf Blowers Electric Lawn Mowers Pressure Washers Coolers Cordless Drill Back Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night. Explore all Best Mattress Best Firm Mattress Best Queen Size Mattress Mattress Reviews Purple Helix Layla Nectar Beautyrest Saatva DreamCloud Best Mattresses Memory Foam King-Size Hybrid Organic Soft Firm Adjustable Side Sleepers Hotel Best Sleep Products Earplugs for Sleeping Cooling Comforters Sleep Headphones Heated Blankets Back Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy. Explore all Best Meal Delivery Services Best Vitamins and Supplements Best Vitamins & Supplements Multivitamins Vitamins for Healthy Hair, Skin and Nails Vitamins for Energy Creatine Supplements Best Meal Kits Meat Keto Cheapest Healthy Vegan Meal Kit Reviews HelloFresh Hungryroot Grocery Fresh N Lean EveryPlate Back Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need. Explore all Best Treadmills Best Ellipticals Best Exercise Bikes Best Fitness Equipment Peloton Alternatives Rowing Machines Home Exercise Equipment Smart Home Gyms Best Fitness Accessories Massage Guns Smart Scale Chest Strap Heart-Rate Monitors Compression Socks Best Virtual Fitness Weightlifting Shoes YouTube Channels for Free Workouts Workout Apps for Women Fitness Apps Tonal Smart Home Gym Review Back Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean. Explore all Best Places to Buy Glasses Online Best Places to Buy Contact Lenses Online Best Electric Toothbrushes Best in Eyewear Places to Buy Replacement Prescription Lenses Online Reading Glasses Blue-Light-Blocking Glasses Prescription Sunglasses Best in Dental Care Invisible Braces Options Teeth-Whitening Strips Teeth Whitening Kits Best In Skincare Facial Sunscreens Vitamin C Serums Mineral Sunscreens Reef-Safe Sunscreens Brands You Should Try Back Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world. Explore all Back Price Finder CNET Shopping helps you get the best prices on your favorite products. Get promo codes and discounts with a single click. Explore all Back Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend. Explore all 2024 Winners Money & Health Tools AI, Smart Home & Future Tech Subscription Services EVs, Energy Tech & Solar Services Phones, Earbuds, Laptops, TVs & More Back CNET Perspectives CNET Perspectives is a select group of creators, experts and thought leaders sharing first-person perspectives about our changing world. Explore all Why You Can Trust CNET Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. How we test phones Tech Mobile Pixel 6: Everything to know about Google's newest phone Google launched its Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro on Tuesday. Here are all the details about its release date, price, Tensor chip, camera specs and more. Karisa Langlo Senior Editor Karisa Langlo has been writing and editing professionally for over 12 years, joining CNET with two writing degrees and bylines in Milwaukee Magazine, Louisville Magazine and The Masters Review. She started on CNET's mobile team before expanding to all tech and now works across categories to optimize the performance of all CNET advice and storytelling, from Wellness to Money, News and Culture. Karisa also manages strategy for CNET's Tips franchise. Expertise Culture, How-To, Tech, Home, Wellness, Money, News Credentials Over a decade of writing and editing experience See full bio Alexandra Garrett Associate Editor Alexandra is an associate editor on CNET's Performance Optimization team. She graduated from Marymount Manhattan College in New York City, and interned with CNET's Tech and News teams while in school. Prior to joining CNET full time, Alexandra was a breaking news fellow at Newsweek, where she covered current events and politics. Expertise Culture | How-To | Tech | Home | Wellness | Money | News See full bio Mike Sorrentino Senior Editor Mike Sorrentino is a Senior Editor for Mobile, covering phones, texting apps and smartwatches -- obsessing about how we can make the most of them. Mike also keeps an eye out on the movie and toy industry, and outside of work enjoys biking and pizza making. Expertise Phones |Texting apps | iOS | Android | Smartwatches | Fitness trackers | Mobile accessories | Gaming phones | Budget phones | Toys | Star Wars | Marvel | Power Rangers | DC | Mobile accessibility | iMessage | WhatsApp | Signal | RCS See full bio Karisa Langlo , Alexandra Garrett Mike Sorrentino Oct. 21, 2021  2:00 a.m. PT 8 min read Google's Pixel 6 phones. Google Google's new phones, the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro , made their debut on Tuesday at the company's recent launch event. (Here's everything Google announced including Pixel Pass , Android 12 and its in-house Tensor chip .) Google's first Pixel phone made a splash when it was unveiled almost five years ago, but since then, the search giant's foray into mobile devices has been inconsistent. Last year's Pixel 5 received high marks for its cameras, but the Pixel 5 lacked the premium features you'd expect from a flagship smartphone, especially for the price. CNET's Lynn La called it " hard to recommend ." Compared with the original Pixel phone ("pure Android at its absolute best" and "our favorite phone, bar none"), Google's phone trajectory looked rough . Read more: CNET's Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro reviews Now that Google took a larger creative leap with its Pixel line, the question remains whether the changes will help the company compete against the best phones from Apple and Samsung or continue to disappoint its one-time fans . Let's go over what we've learned about the devices, which are available for preorder . Here's everything you need to know about the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro and which rumors about the phone have been debunked or proven true. Watch this: Google's Pixel 6, Pixel 6 Pro features detailed 01:32 What are Google's new phones called? The Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro Unlike Apple and Samsung , Google has overall been consistent with its phone nomenclature. The original Pixel was followed by the Pixel 2 , then the Pixel 3 and so on. Google's 2021 phones are indeed called the Pixel 6 and -- instead of an XL model -- the Pixel 6 Pro. Google previously announced that both phones would have many of the same features: the new Tensor system-on-chip designed by Google , a camera bar that runs along the back of the phone, camera sensors that take in 150% more light than the Pixel 5's and an ultrawide lens. Software improvements also hit both models, including Android 12 's Material You design, along with speech recognition and photography improvements powered by the Tensor. Read more: Pixel 6 vs. Pixel 6 Pro and Pixel 6 vs. Pixel 5 Rumors about the now-confirmed Pixel 6 Pro began when leaker Jon Prosser shared renders depicting the "Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro" in May . Prosser's renders were purportedly based on actual images of the phones, but released as renders to protect his source's identity. The Pixel 6 phones come in black along with pastel shades of green and red. Google Release date: When will you be able to buy the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro? Google launched its new phones on Oct. 19, and the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro are both available for preorders now through Google's website . Google has unveiled a new Pixel phone in October every year since 2016, with the exception of last year's Pixel 5 , which was announced on Sept. 30 . But 2020 was an exceptional year for many reasons , including phone release schedules . Read more: Google's Pixel 6 may be more exciting than the iPhone 13 , but how does it compare to older Pixels? Google's Pixel release dates usually follow a similarly predictable pattern: The company usually makes its phones available for purchase within a week or two of being announced. The Pixel 6 will be released on Oct. 28, which is in line with these expectations. Price: How much do the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro cost? We now know that Google's Pixel 6 has a starting price of $599, and the Pixel 6 Pro will cost you a bit more with a $899 starting price. In his first look at the Pixel 6, CNET's Patrick Holland says the phone is "priced to compete with the iPhone 13 , the Samsung Galaxy S21 and other midtier Android phones such as the current Motorola Edge ." In comparison to older Pixel phones the Pixel 6 costs $100 less than the Pixel 5 did at launch. Last year's Pixel 5 made some compromises to get the launch price down to $699, making it more of a midrange phone than its predecessors, the Pixel 3 and Pixel 4 , which both launched at $799. This means rumors about the Pixel 6's steeper price tag from leaker Yogesh Brar have been debunked. The tipster previously speculated the Pixel 6 would have a $749 starting price, while the Pixel 6 Pro could have cost between $1,049 and $1,099. Although the Pixel 6 costs less than its predecessors, Rick Osterloh, senior vice president of Google's hardware division, described the line as a "premium-priced product" in an August interview with the Verge . Google's Pixel 6 is shown above in Kinda Coral. James Martin/CNET Design and colors: What does Google's new phone look like? Confirming Prosser's renders , the Pixel line has a new look for 2021. The Pixel 6 is available in three colors: Stormy Black, Kinda Coral and Sorta Seafoam. The official Pixel 6 Pro color options are Stormy Black, Cloudy White and Sorta Sunny. Moving to the front of the phone, the Pixel 6 Pro has a 6.7-inch LTPO OLED (3,120x1,440 pixel) display with a 120Hz refresh rate, while the Pixel 6 will have a 6.4-inch OLED (2,400x1,080) display with a 90Hz refresh rate. A hole-punch-style front-facing camera is centered up top, as opposed to on the left side of the screen as on the Pixel 5, and has 11 megapixels on the Pixel 6 Pro and 8 megapixels on the standard Pixel 6. Pixel 6 has a Tensor chip, but what can Google's first in-house processors do? Google's reveal of the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro put a particular spotlight on Google's new system-on-chip, named Tensor. Going in-house moves Google away from the Qualcomm chips that have powered its previous devices, and Google says the chip brings with it notable improvements to speech recognition and photography. "Part of the goal is to show the very best that Google can offer," Osterloh said in an interview with CNET's Rich Nieva . "There is a big segment of the market that wants the latest, and we love building technology. So we're going to try to appeal to that part of the market, too." Read more: Google Pixel 6's Tensor chip aims to make the Android 12 phone smarter and last longer The Tensor chip loads the Pixel with more power and abilities without sacrificing battery life. Thanks to Google's new in-house chip, the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro has features like real-time language translations, highly accurate voice transcription and new camera features like the ability to unblur the face of a person in motion. The new features come as Google promises 24 to 48 hours of battery life for its Pixel 6 line. The Google Tensor chip's unveiling is a prominent part of the first look at the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro. Google Camera specs and features: What's new on the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro? Along the phone's camera bar, the Pixel 6 Pro has three cameras: a 50-megapixel wide lens, 12-megapixel ultrawide lens and 48-megapixel telephoto lens. The standard Pixel 6 won't have the telephoto lens, but houses the 50-megapixel wide and 12-megapixel ultrawide lens. As for the selfie camera, Google's new phone has a hole-punch-style front-facing camera with 11 megapixels on the Pixel 6 Pro and 8 megapixels on the standard Pixel 6. The earliest rumors about the Pixel 6's camera setup included speculation that Google might upgrade to an under-display selfie camera , but that's not on the Pixel 6. Since this rumor is based on a patent filed by Google that appeared not to have a visible front camera, however, it's possible another phone will include it. Perhaps the Pixel 7? Read more: Google builds equity into the Pixel 6 with Real Tone photos and new voice features Google also designed the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro's cameras to be more accurate no matter your complexion with Real Tone . The feature comes after the company announced improvements to its software for " a more accurate and inclusive camera " that works better for a variety of skin tones, in May. Google's new Pixel phones also see other photography improvements thanks to the Tensor chip . A new feature called Face Unblur can put the face of a moving subject in focus, while keeping the blur around the rest of the body, and another camera feature called Motion Mode can add blur into still pictures. Do Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro support 5G? It's complicated. The Pixel 6 supports sub-6 5G. Some carrier versions of the Pixel 6 will also support mmWave, which is the fast version of 5G that's not widely available. Read more: Will Google's Pixel 6 and 6 Pro work with 5G? The answer is complicated What's in the box: Google's Pixel 6 won't ship with a charger Google's Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro won't ship with a charger in the box . The tech giant previously shared that tidbit about the new phone alongside the reveal of the Pixel 5A . Instead, the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro will ship with a USB-C to USB-C cable and a Quick Switch Adapter. Google's decision to ditch the accessory from its phone boxes follows both Apple and Samsung. Apple stopped including an AC adapter in the box of the iPhone 12 in 2020, and Samsung later did the same for the Galaxy S21 . Although Google's Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro won't have a charger in the box, the new phone supports 30-watt fast charging. This debunks earlier rumors about the smartphone from tipster Yogesh Brar and Android Police , which said that the Pixel 6 would support 33-watt and 23-watt fast charging , respectively. Google also released a new Pixel Stand for the Pixel 6. The stand is said to be an alternative to wired charging, and was leaked before the phone's launch by tipster Evan Blass . Images from leaker Evan Blass show off the second generation Pixel stand with 23-watt wireless charging. Evan Blass Do the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro have an under display fingerprint sensor? The Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro both have an under-display fingerprint reader. The feature was previously leaked by Android Senior Vice President Hiroshi Lockheimer, who shared two screenshots on Twitter showing an embedded fingerprint sensor within the Pixel's display. The tweet, which was originally posted to show off Android's new Material You design, has since been deleted from Lockheimer's account. Screenshots of the tweet were then later posted by leaker Mishaal Rahman . Pixel Pass: What is Google's new subscription service? The Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro launched alongside a new subscription option to bundle phone financing and services under one bill. The plan is called Pixel Pass , and is described as a "monthly subscription that addresses users' mobile needs end-to-end." The subscription bundles Pixel device financing, YouTube Premium, Google One storage, Play Pass, Google Fi, Google's preferred care and device protection. Read more: Pixel Pass: Google bundles the Pixel 6 and a bunch of its services for $45 a month Below are all of the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro specs. For more, here's how to decide between a Pixel 5, Pixel 4 and Pixel 4XL , the Pixel 5 versus the Pixel 4A 5G and the Pixel 5 versus the iPhone 11, Galaxy S20 FE and OnePlus 8 . Plus, six reasons to buy a Pixel and what we think of the Pixel Buds A-Series earbuds. Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro specs Google Pixel 6 Google Pixel 6 Pro Display size, resolution 6.4-inch OLED; 2,400x1,080 pixels; 60Hz or 90Hz 6.7-inch LTPO OLED; 3,120x1,440 pixels; 10-120Hz Pixel density 411 ppi 512 ppi Dimensions (inches) 6.2x2.9x0.4 in 6.5x3.0x0.4 in Dimensions (millimeters) 158.6x74.8x8.9mm 163.9x75.9x8.9mm Weight (ounces, grams) 7.3 oz; 207g 7.41 oz; 210g Mobile software Android 12 Android 12 Camera 50-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel ultrawide 50-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide), 48-megapixel (telephoto) Front-facing camera 8-megapixel 11-megapixel Video capture 4K 30, 60fps (rear), 1,080p 30fps (front) 4K 30, 60fps (rear), 4K 30fps (front) Processor Google Tensor Google Tensor Storage 128GB, 256GB 128GB, 256GB, 512GB RAM 8GB 12GB Expandable storage No No Battery 4,614 mAh 5,003 mAh Fingerprint sensor Under display Under display Connector USB-C USB-C Headphone jack No No Special features 5G sub 6 (some carrier models also have 5G mmWave) support, Wi-Fi 6E, 30W fast-charging, wireless charging, Magic Eraser, Motion mode, Real Tone, Face Unblur, Cinematic Pan, 5 years OS security updates, IP68 rating for dust and water resistance, Gorilla Glass Victus (front), Gorilla Glass 6 (back), dual-SIM capabilities (nano-SIM and e-SIM) 5G sub 6 and mmWave support, Wi-Fi 6E, Ultrawideband, 30W fast-charging, wireless charging, Magic Eraser, Motion mode, Real Tone, Face Unblur, Cinematic Pan, 5 years OS security updates, IP68 rating for dust- and water-resistance, Gorilla Glass Victus (front and back), dual-SIM capabilities (nano-SIM and e-SIM) Price off-contract (USD) $599 (128GB) $899 (128GB) Price (GBP) £599 (128GB) £849 (128GB) Price (AUD) Converts to AU$1,100 Converts to AU$1,570 Mobile Guides Phones Best iPhone Best Galaxy S24 Deals Best Phone Best iPhone Deals Samsung Galaxy S24 Review Best Android Phones Best Samsung Galaxy Phone Pixel 8 Pro Review iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review Best iPhone 15 Deals Foldable Phones Best Foldable Phones Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review OnePlus Open Review Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals Headphones Best Wireless Earbuds Best Noise Canceling Headphones Best Headphones Best Over Ear Headphones Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls Best Headphones for Work at Home Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds Best Wireless Headphones Mobile Accessories Best iPhone 15 Cases Best iPhone 14 Cases Best Power Bank for iPhone Best Airpods Pro Accessories Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories Best Speakerphone Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount Best iPhone Fast Charger Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android Smartwatches Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7 Best Apple Watch Bands Best Android Smartwatch Apple Watch Ultra Review Best Smartwatch Wireless Plans Best Prepaid Phone Plans Best Cheap Phone Plans Best Unlimited Data Plans Best Phone Plans Best Phone Plan Deals Best Senior Phone Plans Best Family Phone Plans Best Travel Phone Plans Best Verizon Plans Your guide to a better future Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Coupons Videos Software Downloads About CNET Press Room Newsletters Licensing Sitemap Careers Accessibility Cookie Settings Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information instagram youtube tiktok facebook x flipboard US France Germany Japan Korea © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company.   All rights reserved.