Where is the Super Bowl in 2021? Location, city, stadium for Super Bowl 55 and beyond | Sporting News Skip to main content Shop Tickets United States [English] Editions United States [English] Argentina Australia Brasil Canada India 日本 México 대한민국 España ไทย United Kingdom United States [Español] Việt Nam NFL NFL Home News Teams Scores Schedule Standings NFL Teams AFC East Buffalo Bills Miami Dolphins New England Patriots New York Jets AFC North Baltimore Ravens Cincinnati Bengals Cleveland Browns Pittsburgh Steelers AFC South Houston Texans Indianapolis Colts Jacksonville Jaguars Tennesse Titans AFC West Denver Broncos Kansas City Chiefs Las Vegas Raiders Los Angeles Chargers NFC East Dallas Cowboys New York Giants Philadelphia Eagles Washington Commanders NFC North Chicago Bears Detroit Lions Green Bay Packers Minnesota Vikings NFC South Atlanta Falcons Carolina Panthers New Orleans Saints Tampa Bay Buccaneers NFC West Arizona Cardinals Los Angeles Rams San Francisco 49ers Seattle Seahawks NBA NBA Home News Teams Playoffs Scores Schedule Standings NBA Teams Atlantic Boston Celtics Brooklyn Nets New York Knicks Philadelphia 76ers Toronto Raptors Central Chicago Bulls Cleveland Cavaliers Detroit Pistons Indiana Pacers Milwaukee Bucks Southeast Atlanta Hawks Charlotte Hornets Miami Heat Orlando Magic Washington Wizards Northwest Denver Nuggets Minnesota Timberwolves Oklahoma City Thunder Portland Trail Blazers Utah Jazz Pacific Golden State Warriors LA Clippers Los Angeles Lakers Phoenix Suns Sacramento Kings Southwest Dallas Mavericks Houston Rockets Memphis Grizzlies New Orleans Pelicans San Antonio Spurs MLB MLB Home News Teams Scores Schedule Standings Transactions MLB Teams AL East Baltimore Orioles Boston Red Sox New York Yankees Tampa Bay Rays Toronto Blue Jays AL Central Chicago White Sox Cleveland Guardians Detroit Tigers Kansas City Royals Minnesota Twins AL West Athletics Houston Astros Los Angeles Angels Seattle Mariners Texas Rangers NL East Atlanta Braves Miami Marlins New York Mets Philadelphia Phillies Washington Nationals NL Central Chicago Cubs Cincinnati Reds Milwaukee Brewers Pittsburgh Pirates St. Louis Cardinals NL West Arizona Diamondbacks Colorado Rockies Los Angeles Dodgers San Diego Padres San Francisco Giants NHL NHL News Playoffs Scores Schedule Standings ••• Explore More Soccer NCAAMB NCAAWB NCAAF WNBA Boxing MMA WWE F1 NASCAR Golf Tennis College High School Darts Horse Racing More Sports Fantasy Betting Watch Watch How to Watch Streaming Services fubo Sling Paramount+ Peacock ESPN+ Apple TV DAZN Best Streaming Services Best VPN Services Listen SiriusXM Lifestyle Lifestyle See More The Scene Entertainment Fashion Money Relationships Sneakers Trending Essentials Tickets Stadium Guides NFL News Teams Scores Schedule Standings ••• News Teams Scores Schedule Standings Featured NFL NBA MLB NHL Sports NFL NBA MLB NHL Soccer NCAAF NCAAMB NCAAWB WNBA Boxing MMA WWE F1 NASCAR Golf Tennis College High School Darts Horse Racing More Sports Explore More Fantasy Betting Watch The Scene Tickets Stadium Guides Editions United States [English] Argentina Australia Brasil Canada India 日本 México 대한민국 España ไทย United Kingdom United States [Español] Việt Nam About Us Careers Privacy Policy Privacy Preferences Where is the Super Bowl in 2021? Location, city, stadium for Super Bowl 55 and beyond Billy Heyen • • A number of factors go into the NFL's choices for hosting the Super Bowl. The host cities and host venues are frequently in warm-weather regions of the country, and the stadiums themselves often are new or have had recent renovations. The NFL heads to Tampa, Florida and Raymond James Stadium for Super Bowl 55 on Feb. 7, 2021. The home of the Buccaneers has hosted two previous Super Bowls, in 2000 and 2008, and it recently underwent some cosmetic and practical renovations that make it a logical site for the big game. In addition to Super Bowl 55 , the NFL has already determined the location of three of the next four league championship games. Below, you'll find more about the future of the Super Bowl's location. MORE: Ranking the NFL stadiums Where is the Super Bowl this year? Super Bowl 55 will be played at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa in 2021. The NFL had originally planned to hold Super Bowl 55 in Los Angeles at the new home of the Rams and Chargers, SoFi Stadium. But because of weather-related construction delays there, the league chose to push that venue's Super Bowl back a year. Overall, the Super Bowl has been played four times in Tampa, Florida, twice in the old Tampa Stadium and twice (2000, 2008) in Raymond James Stadium, home of the Buccaneers. The stadium usually seats 65,000, and it can expand to seat 75,000. The recent renovations at Raymond James Stadium include an advanced HD video system, with two large video boards (one at each end of the stadium) and four HD tower walls, ranking it as the third-largest video board system in the NFL. "The Tampa Bay area has enjoyed great success over the years hosting Super Bowls and we look forward to working with our local leaders in the coming months to meet the requirements for hosting Super Bowl LV in 2021," Buccaneers co-chairman Bryan Glazer said in a release at the time of the announcement. "Today's announcement offers us the opportunity to showcase Tampa Bay's unique ability to come together as a host for world-class events." Raymond James Stadium also has a new sound system, which features 400-plus speakers throughout the stadium, providing 750,000 watts of power. Future Super Bowl locations Year Super Bowl site 2021 Tampa, Raymond James Stadium, Super Bowl 55 2022 Los Angeles, SoFi Stadium, Super Bowl 56 2023 Glendale, State Farm Stadium, Super Bowl 57 2024 TBD 2025 New Orleans, Mercedes-Benz Superdome, Super Bowl 58 Super Bowl 2022: Los Angeles The new NFL stadium in Los Angeles, SoFi Stadium, was originally slated to host the Super Bowl in 2021. But NFL rules require a stadium to be open two full seasons prior to hosting a Super Bowl, so it had to be pushed back to 2022 in L.A. once the stadium was delayed opening until 2020. The Super Bowl has been in the Los Angeles area a total of seven times prior to SoFi Stadium's hosting, twice at the L.A. Memorial Coliseum and five times at the Rose Bowl. SoFi Stadium got a bizarre opening in the 2020 season due to COVID-19 fan restrictions which were at times especially tight in California. SoFi Stadium can seat 70,000 people and has the ability to expand and hold up to 100,000. It's also scheduled to host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2028 Summer Olympic Games. Super Bowl 2023: Glendale/Phoenix State Farm Stadium is a relatively new name to Glendale's football stadium, but it's actually the third time that building, opened in 2006, will host the Super Bowl. It's going to mark Arizona's fourth Super Bowl overall, since Sun Devil Stadium hosted the contest in 1996. The prior Super Bowls in State Farm Stadium were played in 2008 and 2015. Part of the pitch to bring the game back included upgrades around the cities of Glendale and Phoenix, including an up-to-date Phoenix airport for those traveling to the game. State Farm Stadium was the first stadium in North America to feature a retractable natural grass playing surface along with a completely retractable roof that opens at an incline. It can seat up to 73,000 peope. Super Bowl 2024: TBD The NFL had originally scheduled New Orleans to host the Super Bowl in 2024. Because of the league's planned expansion to a 17-game regular season schedule paired with a scheduling conflict with Mardi Gras, the next New Orleans Super Bowl has been pushed off an additional year. According to CNBC, the NFL will decide on the 2024 host during the next year. It'll look for what it does with all its hosts — the latest amenities and renovations, prime location for fans and the head honchos, along with pretty much always choosing a warm-weather spot (or if needed, a dome). Super Bowl 2025: New Orleans The 2025 Super Bowl will be the eighth time the building currently called the Mercedes-Benz Superdome hosts the big game. New Orleans also held the event three times prior at Tulane Stadium. The Superdome, one of the NFL's iconic venues, opened in 1975 and first hosted the Super Bowl in 1978. Despite its frequent hosting of the game, it's been more than a decade since the game was played in New Orleans. The last time the Super Bowl was in the Superdome, the Ravens beat the 49ers in 2013. That game may be more remembered for the lights going off in the third quarter. The Superdome has never hosted a Super Bowl with the Saints participating. How New Orleans chooses to replace franchise legend Drew Brees could go a long way toward determining if that changes in 2025. Billy Heyen Billy Heyen is a freelance writer with The Sporting News. He is a 2019 graduate of Syracuse University who has written about many sports and fantasy sports for The Sporting News. Sports reporting work has also appeared in a number of newspapers, including the Sandusky Register and Rochester Democrat & Chronicle Crafted for fans since 1886 Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Privacy Preferences Sporting News NFL Teams NBA Teams MLB Teams Soccer Teams F1 Teams Copyright @ 2025 Sporting News Holdings Images by Getty Images, Imagn and AP Images. All Rights Reserved.