Heisman Trophy 2012: Complete List of Finalists Announced Bleacher Report NFL Draft NFL NBA NHL CFB Shop Play Betting B/R Sports on Max 05:36 Featured Video NFL Draft Winners/Losers 📊 College Basketball Heisman Trophy 2012: Complete List of Finalists Announced Tim Keeney Jun 8, 2018 And then there were three. After a year-long debate about college football's best player that has gone from favoring Matt Barkley to Geno Smith to Collin Klein and now to Johnny Manziel, we can finally start narrowing the Heisman discussion down. On Monday afternoon, ESPN officially revealed the three players who will be heading to New York next week: TOP NEWS Top Future NFL Draft Prospects to Watch in 2025 College Football Season Bleacher Report 2d Colorado CFB Alum Says Retiring Shedeur, Hunter's Numbers Is 'Celebrating Mediocrity' Bleacher Report 1d Former 5-star Recruits with 1st-round Potential in 2026 NFL Draft Bleacher Report 3d Player Position School Year Johnny Manziel QB Texas A&M Freshman Manti Te'o LB Notre Dame Senior Collin Klein QB Kansas State Senior The three gentlemen, who make up a smaller final class than usual, will dress in their finest threads and be a part of the famous ceremony for the sport's most sought-after award, and as such, the decision will be much tougher to call. Manziel is the favorite . In arguably the most impressive freshman season in the history of college football, aptly named Johnny Football has run through and thrown over most opponents, leading his Texas A&M Aggies to a 10-2 record in their first year in the SEC. In his quest to be the first-ever freshman to win the Heisman award, it was Manziel's epic performance in TAMU's monumental upset win over then-No. 1 Alabama that likely sealed the deal. But while Manziel is the story of the year and represents something we probably won't see for a long time, don't go counting out Notre Dame's Manti Te'o or Kansas State's Collin Klein. Te'o, who is set to secure the highest Heisman finish for a pure defensive player in recent memory, has done it all for Notre Dame en route to leading the Irish to a 12-0 record, a No. 1 ranking and a No. 1 defense in terms of points per game allowed. Klein has slowly fallen off the radar, but it will be hard to dismiss his unbelievable dual-threat ability (as a quarterback, he's second in the nation in rushing touchdowns) and command of a team that was one upset-loss away from appearing in the BCS National Championship Game. The last two Heisman winners, Cam Newton and Robert Griffin III, have gone on to have immediate, positive impacts in the NFL. Come Dec. 8, we'll finally know which of these three men will have the task of following in their giant footsteps. Follow @t_keen 05:36 NFL Draft Winners/Losers 📊 TOP NEWS Top Future NFL Draft Prospects 👀 Bleacher Report 2d Colorado Alum Rips Jersey Retirement Bleacher Report 1d Arch Among 5‑Stars Poised for 2026 Rd 1 Bleacher Report 3d Arkansas Wants Transfer to Return $200K Bleacher Report 1d NFL Draft Night 1 Grades 🔠 Bleacher Report 18h TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 5h 2025 NFL Mock Draft: Day 2 Predictions from B/R NFL Scouting Dept. Where Shedeur and top talent remaining will land in Rounds 2 and 3 Bleacher Report • 5h NFL Draft 2025 Big Board of Best Remaining Players After Day 1 Bleacher Report • 5h Deion Sanders, Shilo React to Shedeur Sliding in 2025 NFL Draft Party Videos Bleacher Report • 17h NFL Draft 2025 Results and Live Tracking Every Pick for All Selections Bleacher Report • 17h B/R NFL Draft 2025 Big Board Live Updated Tracker During Round-by-Round Results TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 5h 2025 NFL Mock Draft: Day 2 Predictions from B/R NFL Scouting Dept. Where Shedeur and top talent remaining will land in Rounds 2 and 3 Bleacher Report • 5h NFL Draft 2025 Big Board of Best Remaining Players After Day 1 Bleacher Report • 5h Deion Sanders, Shilo React to Shedeur Sliding in 2025 NFL Draft Party Videos Bleacher Report • 17h NFL Draft 2025 Results and Live Tracking Every Pick for All Selections Bleacher Report • 17h B/R NFL Draft 2025 Big Board Live Updated Tracker During Round-by-Round Results Bleacher Report About Advertise Contact Us Get Help Careers Sitemap Community Guidelines Privacy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Terms Of Use AdChoices B/R Sports on MAX B/R Creators Program Copyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.