'The Crown' Season 5 Premiere: Imelda Staunton, Ted Sarandos Attend 'The Crown' Season 5 Premiere: Imelda Staunton, Ted Sarandos Attend Plus Icon Film Plus Icon TV Plus Icon What To Watch Plus Icon Music Plus Icon Docs Plus Icon Digital & Gaming Plus Icon Global Plus Icon Awards Circuit Plus Icon Video Plus Icon What To Hear VIP Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Got a Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Variety Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Variety Plus Icon Read Next: ‘St. Denis Medical’ Co-Creator Breaks Down Joyce’s Big Plan for the Hospital’s Future and Why the Show May Never Address Its Mockumentary Format Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Home TV Global Nov 8, 2022 4:02pm PT Ted Sarandos Calls ‘The Crown’ Netflix’s ‘Crown Jewel,’ Says It’s a Dramatization of the Royal Family at Season 5 Premiere By K.J. Yossman Plus Icon K.J. Yossman @KJYossman Latest ‘The Master and Margarita’ Heads to Court as Producers Block U.S. Release of Russian Blockbuster (EXCLUSIVE) 1 month ago Inside the Nightmare Production of Indie Film About Beatles Manager Brian Epstein: ‘I Wish I’d Never Heard the Words “Midas Man”‘ (EXCLUSIVE) 3 months ago ‘Extraordinary,’ ‘Shardlake’ Will Not Be Renewed for Further Seasons on Disney+ (EXCLUSIVE) 3 months ago See All Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images The cast and crew of “ The Crown ” were joined by Netflix boss Ted Sarandos in London for the show’s Season 5 premiere. Before the screening started, Sarandos took to the stage at the Theatre Royal Drury Lane in central London on Tuesday evening to introduce the new season. During his speech, Sarandos called the series the “crown jewel” in Netflix’s original series catalogue. “This really has been and continues to be the highlight of my personal and professional life,” Sarandos said of the show. “And I’m incredibly in awe with [Peter Morgan’s] vision and with his writing. And I am incredibly, incredibly grateful for your friendship. Peter, thank you so much.” Related Stories VIP+ How the ‘Sinners’ Financing Model Offers Salvation for All Producers 'Based on a True Story,' 'Mr. Throwback' Canceled at Peacock (EXCLUSIVE) Sarandos also took the opportunity to remind the audience the show is a “dramatization” of the Royal Family’s life. There has been much debate in the U.K. about how much of the show is fictionalized and whether it should carry a disclaimer so as not to confuse audiences, with actor Judi Dench even accusing the series of “crude sensationalism ” in an open letter to the Times. Popular on Variety Jonny Lee Miller, Imelda Staunton, Dominic West, Elizabeth Debicki, Jonathan Pryce and Lesley Manville (pictured above left to right) were also in attendance, joining Morgan on stage despite being right in the middle of filming the sixth (and supposedly final) season. “I’m leaving in five,” admitted Staunton, who plays Queen Elizabeth II. “I’m back to work tomorrow.” Morgan added: “We’re filming in the morning. We’ve been filming for 10 weeks I think. Another 30 to go.” For Pryce, who takes over the role of the Queen’s husband Prince Philip, the theater brought back memories of the West End premiere of “Miss Saigon,” which had opened at the Theatre Royal Drury Lane in 1989, with Pryce playing the Engineer. “It’s great being back in Drury Lane where I was 32 years ago for the opening of ‘Miss Saigon,'” he said, revealing that at the same time he had been performing on stage Miller had been working as a clerk in the same building. “In the auditorium, selling programs and ice cream, was Jonny Lee Miller,” Pryce said to cheers from the audience. Miller plays former British Prime Minister John Major in the latest season of the Netflix show, which launches on Nov. 9, while West plays Prince Charles, Debicki is Princess Diana and Manville plays the Queen’s sister Princess Margaret. Ted Sarandos (Joe Maher/Getty Images); Gillian Anderson (Joe Maher/Getty Images) They replace the previous cast — which included Olivia Colman as the Queen, Tobias Menzies as Prince Philip and Helena Bonham Carter as Princess Margaret — who played the characters for the previous two seasons. The current cast will remain with the show for its sixth season. Along with Sarandos, another red carpet surprise arrived in the form of Gillian Anderson (pictured above right), despite the fact she doesn’t appear in the current season. Anderson played former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in Season 4 and was previously reported to be in a relationship with “The Crown” showrunner Morgan. Also in attendance were Claudia Harrison, who plays Princess Anne; West’s son Senan, who plays Prince William; Salim Daw, who plays Mohamed Al-Fayed; Jude Akuwudike (pictured above left), who plays the Duke of Windsor’s valet Sydney Johnson; Olivia Williams, who plays Camilla Parker Bowles; James Murray, who plays Prince Andrew; Marcia Warren, who plays the Queen Mother (who arrived with a crown-shaped purse, pictured above, right); Prasanna Puwanarajah, who plays Martin Bashir; and Khalid Abdalla, who plays Dodi Al-Fayed (pictured above, center). Abdalla used his red carpet moment to highlight the case of British Egyptian writer Alaa Abd El-Fattah — who has been imprisoned in Egypt for almost a decade — by writing “Free Alaa” on his hand, which he held up to photographers. Once inside the theater (which makes a cameo in the new season of the show in a scene where a lonely Diana watches the ballet), the cast, crew, family, friends and journalists assembled to watch two episodes from the new season. “It is such a thrill for us to get to work with the greatest talent here, to explore British storytelling around the world to an audience that is hungry for it and that loves it,” Sarandos said before the top-billed cast walked on stage. “And there’s no better example of that than ‘The Crown.’ I remember almost 10 years ago, the first meeting, when Peter Morgan and [producer and director] Stephen Daldry had this incredible meeting, when they came and pitched the idea for ‘The Crown.’ Now, it was ambitious for sure, but it was perfectly clear. Peter pitched 10-episode seasons that would be a cinematic drama — the production design, casting, writing, more fitting of feature film — obviously where they were quite accomplished already. And the idea that we would re-cast every two seasons, these were all at the table 10 years ago, the ideas for the show, and it came in pretty much exactly as they hoped to do it.” Sarandos continued: “In the end, this is the story of Queen Elizabeth, this is the story of the Royal Family — told in dramatized stories. Some are very memorable, some forgotten, judging by the Google activity that happens every time we drop a new season. But these are the stories that shaped this country during Queen Elizabeth’s 70-year reign. There was so much talk about our giving a two-season order for ‘House of Cards’ back then. But it really set the stage beautifully for this six-season commitment to excellence that became ‘The Crown.’ So since ‘The Crown’ premiered back in 2016, it is — pun intended — the crown jewel at Netflix, and we’re incredibly, incredibly proud. I know that the last couple of weeks there has been a lot of talk about ‘The Crown.’ Tomorrow, when people get to see it, the talk is going to be about how magnificent this new season is.” Read More About: Netflix, Ted Sarandos, The Crown Jump to Comments More from Variety ‘Paddington in Peru’ and ‘Bridget Jones’ Boost Canal+ as Media Giant Reports Solid Q1 Growth Why the Theatrical Window Debate at CinemaCon Feels Hopeless The Ghibli-Style AI Wake-Up Call JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Most Popular ‘The Smashing Machine’ Trailer: Dwayne Johnson Is Unrecognizable as UFC Legend Mark Kerr in Benny Safdie’s Biopic From A24 ‘Thunderbolts*’ Review: That Mysterious Asterisk Masks the Real Reason to Watch These Six Marvel Rejects Beyoncé Set List: Every Song Played on ‘Cowboy Carter’ Tour Opener in Los Angeles Nathan Fielder Depicts Paramount+ as Nazis After Streamer Removed ‘Nathan for You’ Episode Due to ‘Sensitivities’ Around… John Lithgow Says He ‘Absolutely’ Didn’t Expect Any J.K. Rowling Backlash After Joining HBO’s ‘Harry Potter’ Series: ‘Why Is This a Factor… Pedro Almodóvar Slams Trump in Fiery Speech at Lincoln Center Honors: ‘You Will Go Down in History as a Catastrophe’ Ryan Coogler's 'Sinners' Is the First Oscar Movie of 2025 Bill Belichick CBS Interview Interrupted by Girlfriend Jordan Hudson After Relationship Question: ‘We’re Not Talking About This’ Terrence Howard Turned Down Marvin Gaye Biopic Because He Didn’t Want to Kiss a Man: ‘I Would Cut My Lips Off’ ‘Back to the Future’ Screenwriter Bob Gale Says There Will ‘Never’ Be Another Sequel, ‘Prequel’ or ‘Spinoff’: ‘It’s Just Fine the Way It Is… Must Read Legit ACTORS ON ACTORS BROADWAY | George Clooney and Patti LuPone Get Honest By Andrew Wallenstein 1 week TV Reeling From Bill Owens' Shock Exit, '60 Minutes' Staffers Warn Shari Redstone to Back Off Shopping Pete Davidson on Going Tattoo-Free and His Concern for Young Men and Social Media: ‘They Don’t Even Have a F—ing Shot’ Film Ryan Coogler Dissects ‘Sinners’: How the Blockbuster Filmmaker Reinvented the Vampire Movie on a Near-Impossible Timeline TV Bill Hader to Co-Write, Potentially Star in Jonestown Series in Development at HBO (EXCLUSIVE) Sign Up for Variety Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Variety Confidential A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast More From Our Brands Rolling Stone Trump Insists Clearly Edited Pic of Abrego Garcia’s Tats Is Real in Testy Interview Robb Report 181 Fremont’s Grand Penthouse Redefines Urban Luxury Sportico Baffert Returns to Churchill Downs and NBC’s Derby Coverage WWD Keira Knightley Is Ready to Pass the ‘Pride & Prejudice’ Baton to Emma Corrin TVLine Andor Creator Tony Gilroy Shrugs Off That Star Wars ‘First’ in Episode 6, Stands by ‘Tough’ Cinta Decision Variety About Us Newsletter Variety Events Luminate - Film & TV Advertise Media Kit Careers Customer Service Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Variety Magazine Subscribe Variety Digital Login Group Subscriptions Variety Archives Back Issues Help VIP+ Subscribe Login Learn More FAQ Connect Instagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Variety The Business of Entertainment Subscribe Today Have a News Tip? Let us know Variety Close the menu Expand the sub menu Film News Reviews Podcasts Box Office Events Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu TV News Reviews Podcasts Ratings Pilot Scorecard Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu What To Watch Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Music News Album Reviews Concert Reviews Hitmakers Music For Screens Grammys Expand the sub menu Docs Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Tech Features Global VIP+ Tech Expand the sub menu Global News Asia Markets & Festivals Features Expand the sub menu Awards Circuit News Film Predictions TV Predictions Video Artisans Columns Awards Circuit Podcast Expand the sub menu Video Popular Cover Shoots - Behind the Scenes Actors on Actors Power of Women Events Artisans Expand the sub menu What to Hear Lists & Features Expand the sub menu VIP+ Daily Commentary Special Reports Video Expand the sub menu More Coverage Obituaries - submit obituaries to obits@variety.com Photos Podcasts Scene Voices Theater Expand the sub menu More Variety Live Media Summits Vscore Luminate - Film & TV Variety Archives Variety500 Industry Executives Have a News Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Alerts and Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Follow Us Got a Tip? Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Advertise About Contact Us Variety is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Variety Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Icon Link Plus Icon ad