The Last of Us Season 2: Full Episode Release Schedule Search Subscribe Fashion Beauty Culture Horoscopes News & Politics In the Magazine Weddings Newsletter Follow Other Editions Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content Fashion Beauty Culture Horoscopes News & Politics In the Magazine Subscribe sign in Culture Movies & TV The Last of Us Season 2: Full Episode Release Schedule The Last of Us Season 2: Full Episode Release Schedule By Aimée Lutkin Published: Apr 12, 2025 4:20 PM EDT Save Article Every item on this page was chosen by an ELLE editor. We may earn commission on some of the items you choose to buy. More than two years after The Last of Us premiered, the fungal apocalypse show is back for season 2. Based on the video game of the same name, the series follows stars Pedro Pascal and Bella Ramsey, playing hardened survivor Joel and precocious teen Ellie. But Ellie is not just any teen. Due to the circumstances of her birth, she has immunity to the mushroom zombie spores that have taken over humanity, and that’s a quality a lot of people are looking for. Season 1 ended with Joel stopping rebel doctors from harvesting Ellie’s brain for a potential cure before lying to her about the circumstances of her rescue. Joel promised Ellie that there were other immune children who would step in to help, and they could return to the Jackson, Wyoming, commune to live lives as close to normal as possible. The season 2 logline gives a hint at where we are starting up with Joel and Ellie again, reading, “Five years after the events of the first season, Joel and Ellie are drawn into conflict with each other and a world even more dangerous and unpredictable than the one they left behind.” Here’s how to tune in to see how their story unfolds in season 2. How many episodes are in The Last of Us Season 3? Season 2 will consist of 7 episodes, which is two less than season 1. When do new episodes from season 2 drop? The first episode airs at 9 P.M. ET or 6 P.M. PT, and will continue to be released weekly at the same time on the same day. Here’s the full schedule: Episode 1, “Future Days”: Apr 13 Episode 2, Apr 20 Episode 3, Apr 27 Episode 4, May 4 Episode 5, May 11 Episode 6, May 18 Episode 7, May 25 How to watch The Last of Us season 2. If you don’t have cable with a subscription to HBO, the channel offers subscriptions to their streaming service Max for all of their shows. Ad-supported Max subscriptions start at $9.99 per month. Watch The Last of Us on Max Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Movies & TV The 30 Best Vampire Shows and Films Madeline Brewer on Sex Scenes With Penn Badgley Who Are the Seraphites in The Last of Us ? The Last of Us Season 2, Episode 3 Recap Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Why ’You’ Season 6 Isn't Going to Happen What We Know About the New ‘Hunger Games’ Movie Sinners and the Black Vampire Renaissance What Happens to Joe Goldberg‘s Son Henry? Why Penn Badgley Did Sex Scenes in 'You' Again How Étoile Jetéd Its Way to the Screen A Streaming Guide to On Swift Horses The Ending of You Season 5, Explained Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Newsletter Contact Us Media Kit Press Room Site Map Community Guidelines Advertise Online Customer Service Subscribe Events & Promotions Other Hearst Subscriptions Giveaways A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads