Jackson Among Walter Camp Semifinalists - University of Louisville Athletic Skip to main content University of Louisville Athletics Skip to main content Jackson Among Walter Camp Semifinalists November 15, 2017 | Football Share: The junior quarterback leads the nation in total offense at 417.9 yards per game. By: Rocco Gasparro LOUISVILLE, Ky. – University of Louisville quarterback Lamar Jackson is among the 15 semifinalists for the Walter Camp Award. The Walter Camp Award is given annually to the National Player of the Year. The Walter Camp Trophy is awarded to the outstanding player of the year who has exemplified the qualities of self-discipline, unselfish team play, desire to excel, mature judgement and respect for leadership. He must be a dedicated competitor who has made effective use of his athletic talent to enhance the great American game of college football. His standout performance on the playing field must be accompanied by an equally strong effort to contribute to the betterment of the life of all his fellow human beings. He must exhibit an awareness of the need to fulfill his role as a leader. He must espouse the ideals adhered to by Walter Camp, the "Father of American Football." Jackson, who won the award as a sophomore in 2016, became the first player in NCAA history to record 3,000 yards passing and 1,000 yards rushing in consecutive seasons, as the signal caller has thrown for 3,003 yards and 21 scores, while rushing for 1,176 yards and 15 touchdowns. Leading the nation in total offense, Jackson, who averages 417.9 yards per game, needs 37 yards to become the school's all-time leader in total offense, breaking Chris Redman's mark of 12,129 yards. The Pompano Beach, Fla., native leads the Atlantic Coast Conference is rushing and passing, and ranks eighth in NCAA history for career rushing yards with 3,707 and 47 touchdowns. He owns a school record 20 100-yard rushing games and has posted four-straight games over the century mark. As a passer, Jackson, who averages 300.3 yards per game, enters the game fifth on the school's passing list with 8,386 yards and 63 touchdowns. He has passed for over 300 yards in six games and has thrown a touchdown pass in all 10 games this year. The Cardinals host the Orange Saturday at 3:30 p.m. on ESPNU for Senior Day. © 2025 Louisville Cardinals Terms of Service Privacy Policy Accessibility Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Learfield Sidearm