Eagles accept Donald Trump’s invitation for White House visit to celebrate Super Bowl win - The Athletic NFL Teams Scores & Schedule Standings NFL Draft Scoop City Newsletter Podcasts Fantasy NFL Odds NFL Picks 'The Beast' Draft Guide Free Agency Tracker Eagles accept Donald Trump’s invitation for White House visit to celebrate Super Bowl win By Alex Andrejev March 11, 2025 Updated April 28, 2025 The Philadelphia Eagles are planning to visit the White House on April 28 to celebrate their Super Bowl LIX win, White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt announced Tuesday. “I know there was a lot of fake news about an invitation that wasn’t sent or was sent. We want to correct the record: We sent an invitation. They enthusiastically accepted, and you will see them here on April 28,” Leavitt said at the daily White House briefing . Advertisement President Donald Trump told reporters on Feb. 25 that an invitation to visit would be extended to the team, saying, “I thought it was a great performance by them.” “They deserve to be down here and we hope to see them,” Trump said. It marks a shift in tone from 2018, when the Eagles did not visit the White House after winning their first Super Bowl; Trump, then in his first term in office, canceled that visit, saying in a statement at the time that some team members disagreed with his view that they “proudly stand for the National Anthem, hand on heart.” The team, however, did not confirm that as a reason for the cancelation at the time, following reports that the Eagles planned to send only a small contingent for the visit. The topic of sports teams visiting the White House was often fraught during Trump’s first term. The Golden State Warriors decided not to visit the White House after winning the NBA championship in 2017 (Trump subsequently tweeted that the invitation was withdrawn ). The Warriors were also not invited for a visit when they won another championship in 2018, but they visited the White House to celebrate their 2022 championship during Joe Biden’s presidency. The Florida Panthers visited Trump at the White House in February to celebrate their 2024 Stanley Cup championship. Other teams also met with Trump at the White House for championship celebrations in prior years, including the New England Patriots, Boston Red Sox, Chicago Cubs, Washington Capitals, Pittsburgh Penguins and Clemson’s football team, among others. What you should read next Eagles 2025 NFL mock draft: Interior DT at No. 32, edge following Round 2 trade The Eagles are intent on adding the right pieces to secure their golden era. This year, Trump became the first sitting U.S. president to attend a Super Bowl — a 40-22 Eagles victory over the Chiefs to end Kansas City’s three-peat bid. In a pregame interview on Fox, Trump predicted the Chiefs would win the championship and praised quarterback Patrick Mahomes and his wife, Brittany Mahomes. In that interview, Trump also said the Eagles have a “great quarterback” and called 2024 Offensive Player of the Year Saquon Barkley “a great running back.” The Eagles’ Super Bowl LIX victory in February marked the franchise’s second-ever Super Bowl win in five total championship appearances. (Photo: Jamie Squire / Getty Images) Alex Andrejev is a senior editor on the news team. Before joining The Athletic, she covered NASCAR and Charlotte FC for The Charlotte Observer and was a reporting intern on the sports desk for The Washington Post. She grew up near Washington, D.C. National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Culture Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two LNH Memorabilia & Collectibles Men's College Basketball Men's World Cup Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News UK Women's Football WNBA Women's College Basketball Women's Euros Women's Hockey Women's World Cup The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Montréal (français) Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Support Sitemap