Breath of the Wild - Wild's floating island | ZD Forums - Zelda Dungeon Forums Home Forums New posts Search forums What's new New posts New profile posts Latest activity Members Registered members Current visitors New profile posts Search profile posts Rules Log in Register What's new Search Search Everywhere Threads This forum This thread Search titles only By: Search Advanced search… New posts Search forums Menu Log in Register Install the app Install Welcome to ZD Forums! You must create an account and log in to see and participate in the Shoutbox chat on this main index page. Home Forums Zelda Forums World of Zelda JavaScript is disabled. For a better experience, please enable JavaScript in your browser before proceeding. You are using an out of date browser. It  may not display this or other websites correctly. You should upgrade or use an alternative browser . Breath of the Wild Wild's floating island Thread starter Spirit Start date Sep 16, 2016 1 2 Next 1 of 2 Go to page Go Next Last ••• More options Who Replied? Spirit Joined Nov 29, 2011 Sep 16, 2016 #1 Breath of the Wild has a floating island, you may not even notice it unless youre looking for it. It moves, its huge and we dont know what or why its there. But do you have any theories? Is it Skyloft? City in the sky? Something else entirely? How do you get to it? An updraft from Death Mountain using the glider? Will it land? Will it orbit the entire map? Is it a giant floating dungeon? If it is, could it give an indication as to how big the dungeons could be? Reactions: Salem el :BeoWolf: When all else fails use fire Joined Feb 5, 2016 Gender Centaleon Sep 16, 2016 #2 It looks to me almost like an airship, but more likely it's probably some sort of floating city. I'm guessing it'll be a nearly abandoned city in the sky, and there will be a type of guardian there, or maybe the whole thing is a guardian. Those things on the bottom on either side almost look like some sort of weapon. Probably will have a few npc's and some enemies etc... I'm pretty sure though that it is a floating city, and there will be guardians. Reactions: Salem Spirit Joined Nov 29, 2011 Sep 16, 2016 #3 BlackWolf//WhiteAngel said: It looks to me almost like an airship, but more likely it's probably some sort of floating city. I'm guessing it'll be a nearly abandoned city in the sky, and there will be a type of guardian there, or maybe the whole thing is a guardian. Those things on the bottom on either side almost look like some sort of weapon. Probably will have a few npc's and some enemies etc... I'm pretty sure though that it is a floating city, and there will be guardians. Click to expand... Thats a scary notion for it to be a flying Guardian. Jeez. The thing crawling up and down Death Mountain is worrying me, this would be on another level entirely. Dio ~ It's me, Dio!~ Joined Jul 6, 2011 Location England Gender Absolute unit Sep 16, 2016 #4 Spirit said: Breath of the Wild has a floating island, you may not even notice it unless youre looking for it. It moves, its huge and we dont know what or why its there. But do you have any theories? Is it Skyloft? City in the sky? Something else entirely? How do you get to it? An updraft from Death Mountain using the glider? Will it land? Will it orbit the entire map? Is it a giant floating dungeon? If it is, could it give an indication as to how big the dungeons could be? Click to expand... I am for now thinking it will be City in the Sky or related to it. Aounuma has suggested a connection between this game and TP. One of the Easter eggs in TPHD was a carved part of Hyrule Castle towns wall depicting the Oocca which could suggest their reappearance in this game. This does not have to be a sequel or prequel to TP though for the connection to exist. That connection he meant could just include the Oocca themselves or their city rather than this having to be a direct prequel or sequel to TP. BotW can take place in any timeline and feature the Oocca and City in the Sky as their race and city are ancient and predate even OOT. Dio ~ It's me, Dio!~ Joined Jul 6, 2011 Location England Gender Absolute unit Sep 16, 2016 #5 Also you get there with a long seesaw and using magnesis to drop a huge weight on one end to propel you up. Reactions: Lozjam , DeactivatedUser2 , Azure Sage and 2 others CM30 Joined Jul 23, 2016 Location UK Gender ? Sep 16, 2016 #6 I'm going with a dungeon here, like City in the Sky. That seems the most logical bet, especially if they want to locate the main dungeons in more... interesting locations (with another one being in the Death Mountain crater or something). Azure Sage Join your hands... Staff member ZD Legend Comm. Coordinator Joined Jan 17, 2011 Location one step further than before. Sep 16, 2016 #7 It would be really interesting to see this be the ruins of Skyloft, but it'd be difficult to justify that. It may have just been a while since I've last seen it, but its silhouette reminds me of Skyloft. Obviously at some point everyone in Skyloft would have moved down to the land below, probably not all at once but eventually no one would be left up there, and it would become dilapidated over time. Maybe what we're seeing in that screenshot is what remained after everyone left. Maybe it became a dungeon. Or... Ok I have absolutely no basis for this but with the way things are looking in BotW it's hard to imagine a way for Link to get up there. Maybe there's a reason why it's hard to get to. Maybe... they put the Master Sword up there, pedestal and all, to keep it out of the reach of Ganon and his followers. I have nothing to back that up with whatsoever, but it's an interesting idea to play with. CM30 Joined Jul 23, 2016 Location UK Gender ? Sep 16, 2016 #8 Azure Sage said: It would be really interesting to see this be the ruins of Skyloft, but it'd be difficult to justify that. It may have just been a while since I've last seen it, but its silhouette reminds me of Skyloft. Obviously at some point everyone in Skyloft would have moved down to the land below, probably not all at once but eventually no one would be left up there, and it would become dilapidated over time. Maybe what we're seeing in that screenshot is what remained after everyone left. Maybe it became a dungeon. Or... Ok I have absolutely no basis for this but with the way things are looking in BotW it's hard to imagine a way for Link to get up there. Maybe there's a reason why it's hard to get to. Maybe... they put the Master Sword up there, pedestal and all, to keep it out of the reach of Ganon and his followers. I have nothing to back that up with whatsoever, but it's an interesting idea to play with. Click to expand... Well, the City in the Sky was also hard for Link to reach. He just needed one hell of a giant cannon to get there. Maybe that could work here too. Or maybe you could use a giant fire to generate an updraft that you could ride up with the Paraglider... Spirit Joined Nov 29, 2011 Sep 16, 2016 #9 CM30 said: Well, the City in the Sky was also hard for Link to reach. He just needed one hell of a giant cannon to get there. Maybe that could work here too. Or maybe you could use a giant fire to generate an updraft that you could ride up with the Paraglider... Click to expand... Giant fire = updraft from the erruption at Death Mountain. el :BeoWolf: When all else fails use fire Joined Feb 5, 2016 Gender Centaleon Sep 16, 2016 #10 Deus said: Also you get there with a long seesaw and using magnesis to drop a huge weight on one end to propel you up. Click to expand... Personally I think this is the best way to go about it Reactions: Dio and Azure Sage Lozjam A Cool, Cool Mountain Joined May 24, 2015 Sep 16, 2016 #11 Deus said: Also you get there with a long seesaw and using magnesis to drop a huge weight on one end to propel you up. Click to expand... CM30 said: Well, the City in the Sky was also hard for Link to reach. He just needed one hell of a giant cannon to get there. Maybe that could work here too. Or maybe you could use a giant fire to generate an updraft that you could ride up with the Paraglider... Click to expand... I'm thinking you could also use Stasis to gem up energy upwards, climb on the rock, and fly it like a rocket. Reactions: el :BeoWolf: and Dio Dio ~ It's me, Dio!~ Joined Jul 6, 2011 Location England Gender Absolute unit Sep 16, 2016 #12 Lozjam said: I'm thinking you could also use Stasis to gem up energy upwards, climb on the rock, and fly it like a rocket. Click to expand... I have an idea. Not just any rock. A sheikah stone would be perfect. Just like what happens when you bomb them in OOT or SS, fire shoots from the base and you are launched upwards to your destination. Reactions: Lozjam and el :BeoWolf: Spirit Joined Nov 29, 2011 Sep 16, 2016 #13 Lozjam said: I'm thinking you could also use Stasis to gem up energy upwards, climb on the rock, and fly it like a rocket. Click to expand... NintendoLife tried that. It doesnt work. You just take damage and the rock flies off. However theres nothing to say a later item/rune wouldnt let you. Reactions: Lozjam DuelMark Joined Feb 5, 2011 Sep 18, 2016 #14 Perhaps you find something that teleports you there. Maybe you glide off it to leave. It might be the location of a dungeon, or there are people who choose to reach it to escape Ganon. Right now I'm saying Skyloft, years have gone by so the magic that kept it afloat might be wearing off. ITheSuperior Joined Oct 2, 2016 Oct 2, 2016 #15 It would be really cool if it's a dungeon. Or even a "pre-dungeon" fortress (Like the pirate's fortress in MM) 1 2 Next 1 of 2 Go to page Go Next Last You must log in or register to reply here. Users who are viewing this thread Total: 2 (members: 0, guests: 2) Share: Reddit Pinterest Tumblr WhatsApp Email Share Link Home Forums Zelda Forums World of Zelda Shades of Blue English (US) Contact us Terms and rules Privacy policy Help Home RSS Community platform by XenForo ® © 2010-2022 XenForo Ltd. Top Bottom