2020 NBA Draft: Round 1 and 2 picks, grades, analysis, fits, trades - The Athletic NFL NBA MLB NHL NCAAF NCAAM NCAAW Tennis Premier League Golf WNBA Peak Global Sports MLS NWSL Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Football Soccer Formula 1 Olympics Sports Business Opinion Betting Memorabilia and Collectibles College Sports FIFA Club World Cup Culture Motorsports NASCAR Women's Hockey MMA Boxing The Pulse Newsletter Cities NBA Playoff Bracket Connections: Sports Edition Newsletters 2020 NBA Draft: Round 1 and 2 picks, grades, analysis, fits, trades Sam Vecenie and John Hollinger Nov. 19, 2020 The 2020 NBA Draft is done. NBA Draft analyst Sam Vecenie and The Athletic ’s front office insider John Hollinger were here for instant analysis as each pick was made — with instant grades, projections, trade analysis and more. Now Available : SamVecenie’s final Mock Draft Sam Vecenie’s 2020 NBA Draft Guide — Top 100 prospects, player tiers, evaluations and more — Downloadable for The Athletic subscribers LIVE DRAFT TRACKER TRADE: Pistons acquire No. 16 pick, Trevor Ariza From James Edwards III: Pistons are getting No. 16 in tonight and Ariza (counts as $7.1 million on books) from Houston in exchange for a future first. As I reported, the pick is top-16 protected for the next 4 years, top-10 protected the following two and then top-9 protected. After that, it becomes seconds. Advertisement TRADE: Presti, Thunder add Al Horford, more draft capital The Philadelphia 76ers agree to trade Al Horford to the Oklahoma City Thunder for Danny Green , a source told The Athletic , confirming ESPN’s initial report. Oklahoma City will also receive a first- and second-round pick for Green who was traded to the Thunder from the Los Angeles Lakers earlier this week. The Thunder will get the No. 34 overall pick in tonight’s draft. • Follow along as trades happen: Our updating NBA trade and free agency tracker . Round 1 Pick: 1 Team: Timberwolves | Player: Anthony Edwards | 6-5 guard | 225| 19, freshman | Georgia Vecenie’s scouting report: Edwards has every single physical attribute in order to become an All-Star. That translates into him being a high-level shot creator. But right now, he just doesn’t play winning basketball due to his shot decisions and poor defensive effort. Basically, Edwards’ future comes down to Edwards himself. If he wants to become an All-Star, he can do that. All it will take is hard work and an insatiable desire to be great. Ranking: No. 3 Hollinger’s team fit: A powerful shooting guard with upside, Edwards fits here better than LaMelo Ball or James Wiseman . Unfortunately, he also fits because he coasts along at about 35% effort on defense. At least one of those three will need to actually try on that end. I would have picked… Vecenie: Trade Down | Hollinger: LaMelo Ball Related Reading: Vecenie: 2020 NBA Draft College Coaches Poll: Varying opinions on Anthony Edwards | Ethan Strauss: Anthony Edwards, Isaac Okoro and more: NBA Draft talk with Evan Zamir, Part 2 Pick: 2 Team: Warriors | Player: James Wiseman | 7-1 center | 245 | 19, freshman | Memphis Vecenie’s scouting report: Wiseman profiles as one of the NBA ’s elite rim protectors. He’s also going to be an elite finisher and I’d buy into him as a shooter. The big question surrounds how good he can be as a defender away from the rim. If he can become a guy who doesn’t struggle away from the hoop when on an island with a guard, he has real all-star upside. If not, he’ll be more of a solid starter. Advertisement Ranking: No. 2 Hollinger’s team fit: I’m not a fan of drafting centers, especially this highly. Wiseman certainly fits the Warriors’ needs, however, as a big, rangy center who can run the floor and showed flashes of perimeter skill. With Golden State in win-now mode, his high trade value helps too. I would have picked… Vecenie: Wiseman | Hollinger: Onyeka Okongwu or trade down Related Reading: Ethan Strauss: 2020 NBA Draft: A word of warning on James Wiseman | Seth Davis: James Wiseman goes to the Warriors: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 3 Team: Hornets | Player: LaMelo Ball | 6-6 guard | 175 | 18 years old | Illawarra Hawks Vecenie’s scouting report: Ball should enter the NBA as one of the most creative passers in the league from Day One. He’ll make plays at a high level early because of his basketball IQ, his live dribble passing and his experience playing up in competition level from a young age. His ability to be an elite-level distributor and creator who can get separation from defenders and break down defenses at this age gives him a higher upside than anyone in the class. Ranking: No. 1 Hollinger’s team fit: Ball is the most talented player in the draft, and Charlotte needs an infusion of talent above all else. There are no sure things in this draft, but this is an absolute no-brainer of a pick that gives the Hornets a chance at a star. I would have picked… Vecenie: Sprint to podium for Ball| Hollinger: Ball Related Reading: Joe Vardon: Doing LaMelo things: What four wild months in Ohio taught us about Ball Pick: 4 Team: Bulls | Player: Patrick Williams | 6-8 forward/wing | 225 | 18, freshman | Florida State Vecenie’s scouting report: Williams has risen in the minds of teams throughout the draft process. He ticks the boxes of being a potential two-way forward in an NBA that continues to crave them. As long as Williams knocks down 3s at a 35 to 37 percent level off the catch, he’s going to be a really high-level player for a long time. There’s a somewhat low-likelihood outcome of star upside, too. But I think he probably settles in more as a starting caliber 4. Advertisement Ranking: No. 9 Hollinger’s team fit: I understand the lure – Williams is the youngest collegian in the draft and had an alluring combo of size and perimeter skill, and he fits the roster. But I see more of a role player than a star here. I had Williams 14th on my board. I would have picked… Vecenie: Isaac Okoro | Hollinger: Tyrese Haliburton Related Reading: NBA agent survey: 20 reps talk star trades, free agency, draft, bubble, best GMs Pick: 5 Team: Cavaliers | Player: Isaac Okoro | 6-6 wing | 225 | 19, freshman | Auburn Vecenie’s scouting report: Ultimately, everything hinges on the shot. If he shoots it at even a reasonable level, he’s a monstrous role player who helps you win as a secondary player. He does a lot of similar things to Andre Iguodala entering the NBA out of Arizona. His feel is off the charts, he defends multiple positions at a high level, and he can pass. If the jumper breaks right, he has real all-star upside. If it stays poor, he’s probably more just a rotation guy. Ranking: No. 5 Hollinger’s team fit: Okoro fills a need on a Cleveland team that has been pitiful defensively the past two seasons. He’s a strong, athletic wing who should be the Cavs’ stopper right away. His offensive limitations are a concern, however, especially the shooting. One wonders if Cleveland could have grabbed him further down. I would have picked… Vecenie: Isaac Okoro| Hollinger: Obi Toppin Related Reading: Kelsey Russo: Bruce Pearl on Auburn’s Isaac Okoro and his fit with the Cavs Pick: 6 Team: Hawks | Player: Onyeka Okongwu | 6-9 center | 245| 19, freshman | USC Vecenie’s scouting report: It’s hard to find centers who can close games because they can credibly protect the rim, rebound and also play switchable coverages on the perimeter. Okongwu can be that guy because he’s so strong and has such quick footspeed. Plus, he has a great motor. This skillset is in high demand across the NBA. Where the upside for Okongwu will be is if he can take any strides offensively as a playmaker and creator. If he does, he has some All-Star potential. Advertisement Ranking: No. 4 Hollinger’s team fit: Okongwu was the most talented player on my board, but this is a tough fit. The Hawks already have John Collins and Clint Capela in the frontcourt and need wing help in a major way. He’ll be a big plus defensively on a team that struggled to guard, but one also wonders if this portends another trade. I would have picked… Vecenie: Tyrese Haliburton| Hollinger: Tyrese Haliburton Related Reading: Ethan Strauss: Buying stock in USC big Onyeka Okongwu Pick: 7 Team: Pistons | Player: Killian Hayes | 6-5 guard | 215 | 18, freshman | Ulm Vecenie’s scouting report: There is a real world where Hayes can become a high-level on-ball creator in the NBA. His creativity, feel for the game and potential to make plays is high. But his athleticism and lack of right hand is a real concern for NBA teams. He needs to prove the ability to create separation against NBA caliber length and athleticism with consistency. If he does that, he can be a legitimate starting NBA point guard. Ranking: No. 10 Hollinger’s team fit: I like this pick a lot. Hayes is neither a great athlete nor a great shooter, but has a chance to be a really good perimeter creator for a Detroit team that struggles with shot creation. I had him number 3 on my board and this situation is pretty much tailor-made for his development. I would have picked… Vecenie: Tyrese Haliburton| Hollinger: Hayes Related Reading: Ethan Strauss: Dispatches from the Mystery NBA Draft: Talking with Killian Hayes’ trainer Pick: 8 Team: Knicks | Player: Obi Toppin | 6-9 forward/center | 230 | 22, sophomore | Dayton Vecenie’s scouting report: Toppin is a dominant offensive player. His role is tailor made for the modern NBA on offense as a pick-and-roll threat. He will score points and can even handle it and pass, too. But where you fall on Toppin ultimately comes down to how much you think his defensive game can improve. He’s a mismatch problem for his team on both ends. He’s one of the few guys in this class with legitimate 20-point-per-game upside, but he has to improve his defense in space to succeed. Advertisement Ranking: No. 8 Hollinger’s team fit: The Knicks just need talent and Toppin is a brilliant offensive player, one who can shoot 3s, run the floor, and score in the post. Defensively, he needs work, and a performance team that can loosen his hips and lower his high base. At 22, he’s an older player, but he’s also a late bloomer. I would have picked… Vecenie: Toppin or Haliburton| Hollinger: Toppin Related Reading: Brian Bennett: Obi Toppin goes to the Knicks: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 9 Team: Wizards | Player: Deni Avdija | 6-9 forward | 225 | 19 | Maccabi Tel-Aviv Vecenie’s scouting report: Avdija profiles as a high-level secondary creator on offense. He’s an extremely high-level passer, and a terrific ballhandler for his size. Having said that, everything comes down to how you evaluate the shot. If he’s not a shooter, things get a bit dicier. He’s definitely an NBA player because it’s hard to find guys who are this big and this skilled that have such high feel for the game. But if he shoots it, he’ll be a very high-level starter. Ranking: No. 6 Hollinger’s team fit: I wasn’t that high on Avdija – I had him 16th — but others gave him a lottery grade. The Wizards could definitely use this type of player, a combo forward who can grab-and-go and play on the ball. Can he shoot? Aye, there’s the rub. I’m also kind of amazed they didn’t take Haliburton. I would have picked… Vecenie: Tyrese Haliburton| Hollinger: Tyrese Haliburton Related Reading: Ethan Strauss: What am I missing about Deni Avdija? Pick: 10 Team: Suns | Player: Jalen Smith | 6-10 forward/center | 225 | 20, sophomore | Maryland Vecenie’s scouting report: Smith is the first player drafted that I had a second-round grade on. He’s a good shooter with terrific shot-blocking instincts. He is a pogo stick leaper who made All-Big Ten. Unfortunately, he’s also just very stiff and struggles to move laterally. The Suns will need to do some significant work with his flexibility in order for him to defend in space, which is a worry for a pick used in the top-10 on a big man. Advertisement Ranking: No. 32 Hollinger’s team fit: Any time you can use a lottery pick to get a backup-caliber player at the league’s least valuable position, you have to go ahead and do it. Smith can shoot and has some shot-blocking capability, but I had him 31st on my board. This is a head-scratching pick with so much perimeter talent available. I would have picked… Vecenie: Devin Vassell | Hollinger: Devin Vassell Related reading: Jalen Smith goes to the Suns: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 11 Team: Spurs | Player: Devin Vassell | 6-5 wing | 195 | 19, sophomore | Florida State Vecenie’s scouting report: Vassell is going to play in the NBA for a long time. His defensive aptitude is so strong. He’s incredibly active and intelligent both on and off the ball. There is a lot of Danny Green here from a skill perspective. I think I’d probably bet on him being a reasonable facsimile of Green as a 3-and-D guy, which is why I have him in Tier Three. But he does need to prove that he can make 3-pointers at a higher volume and quicken his release. Ranking: No. 11 Hollinger’s team fit: After the teams in front of them get silly, the Spurs just quietly swoop in and grab the most complete 3-and-D wing in the draft. Vassell can shoot, defend, and jump, and his high release that could be weaponized further. His game is the one missing ingredient in the Spurs’ young perimeter group they rebuild. I would have picked… Vecenie: Vassell | Hollinger: Vassell Related reading: Eamonn Brennan: Five sleepers I like in the NBA Draft Pick: 12 Team: Kings | Player: Tyrese Haliburton | 6-5 guard | 175 | 20, sophomore | Iowa State Vecenie’s scouting report: Haliburton is going to be a useful NBA player because few guys who think the game at the level he does while maintaining the ball skills he does at 6-foot-5 fail. I see him more as a secondary creator than a lead guard because I worry a bit about his scoring. However, Haliburton is the kind of player that I absolutely want on my team if my goal is to win basketball games. He’s smart, he’s a great teammate and he puts his teammates in better positions to succeed. Advertisement Ranking: No. 7 Hollinger’s team fit: Not even the Kangz could Kangz this one. Haliburton was far and away the most talented player left on the board, and I really don’t understand how he fell this far. A good shooter and passer, he can play backup point guard behind DeAaron Fox and then move to shooting guard when Fox is in the game. I would have picked… Vecenie: Haliburton | Hollinger: Haliburton Related reading: Vecenie: Insiders break down Iowa State PG Tyrese Haliburton; is he worth a top-10 pick in the 2020 NBA Draft? Pick: 13 Team: Pelicans | Player: Kira Lewis Jr. | 6-3 guard | 175 | 19, sophomore | Alabama Vecenie’s scouting report: I’m a bit higher on Lewis than the consensus. He’s going to be able to create separation at a high level in the NBA. I think he has a real chance to be a starting point guard in the NBA. How high he rises will depend on how good he gets as a finisher, and how much his frame develops over the next few years. If he can improve his ability to play through contact, and maintain the speed that makes him so effective, Lewis could legitimately be a top-half of the NBA starting guard. Ranking: No. 12 Hollinger’s team fit: Lewis joins an already crowded backcourt in New Orleans, but several are veterans who may be on the move. Lewis can shoot and has blazing speed, and should be able to play next to Lonzo Ball long-term given their complementary skill sets. An unusually young sophomore, he was my highest-rated remaining player. I would have picked… Vecenie: Lewis | Hollinger: Lewis Related reading: Vecenie: 2020 NBA Draft College Coaches Poll: Alabama’s Kira Lewis gets rave reviews Pick: 14 Team: Celtics (from MEM) | Player: Aaron Nesmith | 6-6 wing | 215 | 20, sophomore | Vanderbilt Vecenie’s scouting report: Nesmith is one of this draft’s best shooters, after hitting 52.5 percent from 3 at Vanderbilt this past season. He won’t hit that percentage in the NBA, but he’ll be good. The question is in regard to what else he does. He won’t kill you defensively, but he’s not great on that end. He isn’t really much of a passer, and doesn’t have a ton of athletic burst. He’s a pure shooter. That’s important in today’s league though, so he works as a first rounder. Advertisement Ranking: No. 17 Hollinger’s team fit: This will only fuel more rumors about Gordon Hayward ’s exodus. Nesmith is the best shooter in the draft and was my highest-rated remaining player. His game fits well next to Boston’s perimeter creators, but only if a spot opens up for him to play. There also were concerns about his broken foot. I would have picked… Vecenie: R.J. Hampton | Hollinger: Nesmith Related reading: Eamonn Brennan: Aaron Nesmith goes to the Celtics: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 15 Team: Magic | Player: Cole Anthony | 6-3 guard | 190 | 20, freshman | North Carolina Vecenie’s scouting report: Anthony has a terrific handle and can create separation from defenders. This year at North Carolina, he didn’t have much help around him, and the scheme really didn’t fit the way that he wants to play. His ability to get buckets is real, as he has a well-developed step-back game. He’s also more tenacious defensively than he gets credit for. The two big questions revolve around whether or not he can score at the rim, and whether or not he can get his teammates involved at a high enough level. Ranking: No. 23 Hollinger’s team fit: A player with short arms! On the Magic ! It’s a surprise, but the Magic certainly need to pipeline some young guards. Anthony struggled to score efficiently in his one season at North Carolina, but he profiles as a bucket-getting third guard in the NBA, which the offensively deficient Magic sorely need. I would have picked… Vecenie: R.J. Hampton| Hollinger: Saddiq Bey Related reading: Brendan Marks: Cole Anthony goes to the Orlando Magic: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 16 Team: Pistons (from HOU via POR) | Player: Isaiah Stewart | 6-9 center | 19 years old, freshman | Washington Vecenie’s scouting report: One of the toughest, most physical players in the draft. He’s 6-9, 250 pounds with a 7-foot-5 wingspan, and he plays to initiate contact inside. He profiles as a potentially good rim protector, and he’s an elite-level worker who also impressed in interviews with NBA teams. Another note: teams that went up to Washington to scout the Huskies this year came away thinking that Stewart will be able to stretch the floor beyond the 3-point line sooner rather than later. Advertisement Ranking: No. 24 Hollinger’s team fit: Stop drafting centers! Stewart is a high-character, long-armed player who impressed teams in interviews, but this feels like a reach. He hasn’t demonstrated a lot of perimeter talent at either end of the floor and profiles as a backup at the league’s least valuable position. I would have picked… Vecenie: Saddiq Bey if they’re re-signing Christian Wood , Aleksej Pokusevski if they’re not | Hollinger: Aleksej Pokusevski Related reading: Brian Hamilton: He’s powerful, versatile, head-strong and thoughtful, all of which is why Isaiah Stewart ended up at Washington Pick: 17 Team: Thunder (from MIN via BKN) | Player: Aleksej Pokusevski | 7-0 center | 200 | 18 years old | Olympicacos B Vecenie’s scouting report: Genuinely the most interesting player in this draft. Has skills that are honestly just totally elite and unlike anything in today’s NBA as a shooter. It is so incredibly easy to sell yourself on Pokusevski having more upside than almost any player in this class. But he also has flaws that could completely crater him as an NBA player if they don’t work themselves out. He doesn’t really have a defensive role at the moment. He can’t really play through contact on offense efficiently. So where does that leave him? Honestly, I have no idea. Ranking: No. 15 Hollinger’s team fit: Fit? Who the hell knows? Pokusevski is the biggest mystery meat in the draft, with plenty of cloak-and-dagger stuff going on behind the scenes all year from a small number of teams vying to pick him in this area of the draft. He’s a long-term project with a rare combo of size, skill … and frailty. I would have picked… Vecenie: Pokusevski| Hollinger: Pokusevski Pick: 18 Team: Mavericks | Player: Josh Green | 6-6 wing | 215 | 19, freshman | Arizona Vecenie’s scouting report: Green is a monster defender on the ball due to his athleticism and lateral quickness. He’s tenacious and switchable due to his 6-foot-6 frame and 6-10 wingspan. I love him on that end. Offensively, he can pass it and make decisions, but he’s not a ballhandler. It’ll all come down to where the jumper settles in. That remains unclear. If he’s a 36 percent shooter like he was this season, he’ll be a starter. Advertisement Ranking: No. 22 Hollinger’s team fit: Green feels like a bit of a reach here, a theoretical 3-and-D guy that hasn’t shown nearly enough of the “3” and has been inconsistent on the “D.” He has good size and quickness for a wing but needs to refine his dribble game and finishing. I thought there were better fits available here. I would have picked… Vecenie: Saddiq Bey| Hollinger: Saddiq Bey Related reading: Brian Hamilton: Josh Green goes to the Dallas Mavericks: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 19 Team: Pistons (from BKN via PHI) | Player: Saddiq Bey | 6-8 wing | 215 | 20, sophomore | Villanova Vecenie’s scouting report: Bey strikes me as a role player tailor made for this version of the NBA that is looking for low-usage floor-spacers who can do a little bit more than that. Hit 45 percent from 3 this year. He’s extremely reliable defensively, is comfortable handling the ball, and can make terrific passing reads. He doesn’t have enough burst to be a shot creator, but he’ll play in the league for a while. Ranking: No. 16 Hollinger’s team fit: Head still spinning after the Luke Kennard - Landry Shamet switcheroo, but Bey is a nice fit for Detroit between Killian Hayes and Isaiah Stewart. He doesn’t scream out ceiling, but his 3-and-D game should retain trade value and he won’t need the ball to be effective. I’m surprised he fell this far. I would have picked… Vecenie: Saddiq Bey| Hollinger: Saddiq Bey Related reading: C.J. Holmes: Saddiq Bey goes to the Detroit Pistons: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 20 Team: Heat | Player: Precious Achiuwa | 6-9 forward/center | 234 | 21, freshman | Memphis Vecenie’s scouting report: Well, this makes some sense for a Miami team that has valued bigs with mobility. Achiuwa is 6-9 with great potential to defend on the perimeter. The big question here is simply what role does he play on offense? He fashions himself as something of a forward who likes to stretch the floor, but doesn’t have the shooting to do so yet. He could be a garbage guy big because of his motor on the glass, but he doesn’t have great vertical pop. This was the best possible landing spot, though. Advertisement Ranking: No. 22 Hollinger’s team fit: I don’t understand why Achiuwa was regarded so much higher than DePaul’s Paul Reed , who was a better version of the same player and was the same age this year. Achiuwa was old for a freshman and extremely raw offensively, but he can run, rebound and defend. I would have picked… Vecenie: Tyrese Maxey | Hollinger: Paul Reed Related reading: John Martin: Precious Achiuwa goes to the Miami Heat: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 21 Team: 76ers (from OKC) | Player: Tyrese Maxey | 6-3 guard | 200 | 19, freshman | Kentucky Vecenie’s scouting report: The role where he’ll work best is as the nominal point guard, where he can defend at the point of attack and work to space the floor and create plays out of advantageous situations as a scorer. I don’t really think Maxey quite has the burst to consistently break down defenders in the way he needs to play as a primary. But he has real value if he can play off of someone. Ranking: No. 14 Hollinger’s team fit: I thought Maxey was a bit overrated at Kentucky, and contrary to recent belief not all Kentucky players blow up in the NBA. He’s a combo guard who needs to shoot better as a pro than he did in his one college season, especially on this team. He should be solid defensively, though. I would have picked… Vecenie: Maxey| Hollinger: Theo Maledon Related reading: Kyle Tucker: Tyrese Maxey goes to the Philadelphia 76ers: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 22 Team: Nuggets | Player: Zeke Nnaji | 6-10 forward/center | 245 | 19, freshman | Arizona Vecenie’s scouting report: I’m concerned Hollinger is going to have a heart attack with another big coming off of the board. Nnaji has great touch around the basket and good feet, but I’m pretty concerned about his lack of true defensive position. He’s not really a 4 who is comfortable defending the perimeter, and he’s not really a 5 because he isn’t much of a rim protector. Scouts do believe that he will shoot from distance at some point though. Advertisement Ranking: No. 34 Hollinger’s team fit: Denver picked an American! There had been a lot of chatter about Nnaji here, and it makes some sense with Mason Plumlee and Paul Millsap likely leaving as free agents. Nnaji can shoot and plays hard, but he’ll have to show he can play some 4 to have value because Nikola Jokic isn’t going anywhere. I had him rated as a 2nd-rounder. I would have picked… Vecenie: Desmond Bane | Hollinger: Paul Reed Related reading: Brian Hamilton: Zeke Nnaji goes to the Denver Nuggets: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 23 Team: Timberwolves (from NYK via UTA) | Player: Leandro Bolmaro | 6-8 forward | 200 | 19, international | Barcelona B Vecenie’s scouting report: Bolmaro is a really fun prospect. He’s a secondary ballhandler on the wing who has a ton of flair. He plays with real speed and gets downhill as a ballhandler. He’s an incredibly awkward cover because he seems to do everything in-between steps. The big question is what happens whenever he does separate from defenders. He’s not a great shooter, and while he can pass he also doesn’t really have much of a midrange game. He’ll be a stash this year. He’s a reasonable pick in this part of the draft. Ranking: No. 29 Hollinger’s team fit: Bolmaro will play overseas this year with FC Barcelona, and by “play” I mostly mean “watch.” He wasn’t even my favorite international and I think it was a reach to take him in the first round, but he excites some scouts with his combo of size and playmaking. Not sure why Wolves felt they had to trade up for this. I would have picked… Vecenie: R. J. Hampton| Hollinger: Paul Reed TRADE: New Orleans picking RJ Hampton at No. 24 and trading him to Denver. Future pick going to New Orleans, sources tell Shams Charania. Pick: 24 Team: Nuggets (from NO via MIL) | Player: R.J. Hampton | 6-5 guard | 185 | 19 years old | New Zealand Breakers Vecenie’s scouting report: Hampton is extremely athletic, fluid and explosive. He has good ballhandling ability and will be able to get real separation if he has the threat of the jumper. If things were to really, truly break right for Hampton, he could be the kind of lead creator for stretches in the backcourt that every team is looking for right now. But he needs the shooting to come along. He’s working on it, but we haven’t yet seen enough results in the NBA to feel confident it’ll happen. Advertisement Ranking: No. 29 Hollinger’s team fit: Hampton slid relative to some expectations, but he gives Denver a long-term play as a potential ballhandling guard. He won’t give the Nuggets immediate help, but they love to have long-term projects and their player development system has borne fruit with raw players just like Hampton. I don’t love the player but I like the fit a lot. I would have picked… Vecenie: Probably Desmond Bane. But Hampton is very Denver as they always shoot for upside| Hollinger: Desmond Bane Related Reading: Dana O’Neil: R.J. Hampton goes to the Denver Nuggets: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 25 Team: Thunder (from DEN) | Player: Immanuel Quickley | 6-2 guard | 185 | 20 years old, sophomore | Kentucky Vecenie’s scouting report: The skill here is that he’s an absolutely elite shooter. Knocked down 43 percent from 3 and 92 percent from the line despite being at the top of scouting reports by midseason. He’s also an absolutely elite character kid. The big concern here though is that he’s an undersized guy to play the 2 at the next level, and he’s not a monster athlete. He’s going to have to be absolutely elite at flying off of screens and firing with a quick release. I’d have gone a number of different directions here, as I did not have him in my top-40. Ranking: No. 46 Hollinger’s team fit: Quickley is an absolute shocker, a good shooter but undersized and not much of an athlete. I’m not sure anybody had him in their top 40, and one wonders if the Knicks overrated him based on the Kentucky connections in their front office. You can’t fault them, however, for flipping picks 27 and 38 into picks 25 and 33 in a matter of hours. I would have picked… Vecenie: Tre Jones | Hollinger: Elijah Hughes Related Reading: Kyle Tucker: Immanuel Quickley goes to the New York Knicks: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 26 Team: Celtics | Player: Payton Pritchard | 6-2 guard | 200 | 22 years old, senior | Oregon Vecenie’s scouting report: Man, I loved Payton in college last year. I voted him as a finalist for the Naismith Award, and he would have been No. 3 on my list. He’s fearless, tough, and I think he’ll be a really awesome backup point guard due to his ability to shoot and lead teams. I’m worried about his defense at the next level, though, and I think I would have gone with a number of different point guards ahead of him here, such as Tre Jones, Malachi Flynn , and Theo Maledon. He’s reasonable to take in this range, though, given that all the guards are so tightly bunched. Advertisement Ranking: No. 37 Hollinger’s team fit: I thought draftniks had undervalued Pritchard and that it was fair to pick him late in the first round like this, especially for a Boston team that could use another point guard. His improved shooting his senior year is a big plus. My only quibble is that I like Devon Dotson, Malachi Flynn and Theo Maledon slightly better in the backcourt. I would have picked… Vecenie: Tre Jones | Hollinger: Dotson Related Reading: Tyson Alger: Payton Pritchard goes to the Boston Celtics: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 27 Team: Jazz (from NY) | Player: Udoka Azubuike | 7-0  center | 260 | 21, senior | Kansas Vecenie’s scouting report: So yeah, I totally get what Utah is going for here, at least. Azubuike was the most impactful defensive player in college basketball last season because he was just absolutely enormous at 7-foot with a 7-7 wingspan. He also made a drastic improvement with his conditioning to be able to not be a liability on the perimeter, and he’s an elite finisher at the basket, holding the NCAA field goal percentage record. This is early for me, though. That ability to defend away from the basket might not hold up in the NBA, and he’s one of the worst free throw shooters to enter the draft in history. Ranking: No. 44 Hollinger’s team fit: Utah has done a great job developing oversized centers – just look at Rudy Gobert and Tony Bradley – and Azubuike is cut from the same cloth. But the game is tilting away from this type of player, and I was surprised to see a team that already has Gobert and Bradley choose another behemoth 5. The Jazz did trade Bradley today to clear room for this pick. I would have picked… Vecenie: Desmond Bane | Hollinger: Paul Reed Related Reading: CJ Moore: Udoka Azubuike goes to the Utah Jazz: Here’s what they’re getting TRADE: Oklahoma City via Lakers is selecting Jaden McDaniels with the No. 28 pick in the NBA Draft. Minnesota acquires Jaden McDaniels via No. 28, sources tell Shams Charania. Pick: 28 Team: Timberwolves (from OKC via LAL) | Player: Jaden McDaniels | 6-10 forward | 200 | 19, freshman | Washington Vecenie’s scouting report: I had McDaniels to the Timberwolves in my mock at 17, having learned over the last week that they were very interested. Instead, they move down to get him. He is a 6-foot-9 shot creator who can get to his step back at any time and has some real defensive tools, but he falls in love with it too often. He doesn’t really know what a good shot is yet, as he actually got pulled from Washington’s starting lineup last year becuase he was so ineffectual. I get the idea, but I’d have gone with others. Advertisement Ranking: No. 30 Hollinger’s team fit: Another divisive player. McDaniels lures with his long, slender body, but he was terrible at Washington last season – both on the court and off it. I don’t like his shot and question his skill and feel. At this point in the draft it’s worth a shot I guess, but I’m going to keep pushing Paul Reed (the 12th player on my board) as a better option. I would have picked… Vecenie: Desmond Bane | Hollinger: Paul Reed Related Reading: Brian Hamilton: Jaden McDaniels goes to the Timberwolves: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 29 Team: Raptors | Player: Malachi Flynn | 6-1 guard | 185 | 22, junior | San Diego State Vecenie’s scouting report: One of my favorite underrated players in this draft. Flynn was a first-team All-American and the Mountain West Player of the Year plus Defensive Player of the Year. He’s a maestro with ball screens, has a great pull-up game, and really has improved a lot as a distributor over his time in college. Plus, he’s known as an elite-level worker. I think he’s the closest thing to Fred VanVleet that I’ve evaluated since the man himself, so it’s no stunner that the Raptors went for him. Ranking: No. 26 Hollinger’s team fit: This pick might raise some eyebrows given Fred VanVleet’s impending free agency, but the Raptors typically take a longer view than this. Flynn was one of my sleepers, and while I rated Devon Dotson and Theo Maledon a bit higher in the backcourt, I have a hard time arguing with Toronto adding another high IQ, high feel player. I would have picked… Vecenie: Probably Tre Jones, but honestly I love this pick so much that I can’t complain | Hollinger: Flynn Related Reading: Brian Bennett: Malachi Flynn goes to the Toronto Raptors: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 30 Team: Grizzlies (from BOS via MIL) | Player: Desmond Bane | 6-5 guard | 22 years old, senior | TCU Vecenie’s scouting report: At the end of the day, Bane is just a really easy guy to bet on becoming a good rotation player. He’s an elite shooter who doesn’t mess around and make poor decisions out there. He’s a high-level passer who hits advanced reads out of ball-screens. He’s a versatile defender with strong team defensive aspects even if he’s not necessarily an All-Defense type guy. And, he’s a great character kid who you can trust is reliable. He won’t be a star, but he’ll stick for a while. Advertisement Ranking: No. 19 Hollinger’s team fit: Memphis had great success with a short-armed, powerful guard in Dillon Brooks , and goes back to the well again by taking Bane here. The Grizzlies also desperately need another shooter, and that is Bane’s best skill. Low upside, but he should be able to play immediately. I would have picked… Vecenie: Bane | Hollinger: Bane or Elijah Hughes Related Reading: CJ Moore: Desmond Bane goes to the Memphis Grizzlies: Here’s what they’re getting Round 2 Pick: 31 Team: Mavericks (from GSW) | Player: Tyrell Terry | 6-1 guard | 170 | 19, freshman | Stanford Vecenie’s scouting report: I really like Terry, and think he has a chance to be a major part of some winning teams. He’s a genuinely elite level shooter, a terrific decision-maker who processes the game at a really high level, and a very high-level competitor. I don’t think it’s an accident that Stanford got a lot better last year by essentially replacing 2019 No. 32 overall pick KZ Okpala with Terry. I’m just not necessarily convinced he’s going to be able to handle being a top offensive initiator in the NBA, which creates some questions at his size. Rank: No. 20 Hollinger’s team fit: The Mavs need shooting around Luka Doncic , so this pick is such a logical fit that I can ignore the fact that I had a few other players rated higher. Terry is limited, but he’s young and can really shoot. Playing next to Luka will subtract his worst weakness, playing on the ball. I would have picked… Vecenie: Terry | Hollinger: Terry Related Reading: Seth Davis Tyrell Terry goes to the Dallas Mavericks: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 32 Team: Hornets (from CLE) | Player: Vernon Carey Jr. | 6-10 center | 270 | 18, freshman | Duke Vecenie’s scouting report: I really want to try to be contrarian on Carey and like him. He’s a bit bouncier and quicker as a downhill athlete than he gets credit for. He has touch and some potential to shoot 3s. But I’m just skeptical that he can score more points than he gives back, as good as the offense is. He was atrocious in space defensively last season, and it’s tough for me to see how that changes. I had a two-way grae on him, good as the offense is. Advertisement Rank: No. 52 Hollinger’s team fit: A dinosaur big who was very productive offensively at Duke, I get some serious Caleb Swanigan vibes from Carey and think he’ll have a hard time keeping up defensively against pros. I would have picked… Vecenie: Tre Jones| Hollinger: Elijah Hughes Related Reading: Brendan Marks: Vernon Carey Jr. goes to the Charlotte Hornets: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 33 Team: Clippers (from NYK via MIN) | Player: Daniel Oturu | 6-10 center | 240 | 20 years old, sophomore | Minnesota Vecenie’s scouting report: Incredibly productive big man who has the potential to stretch the floor out beyond the NBA 3-point line. And at 6-10 with a 7-foot-3 wingspan, teams have some positive thoughts that he can be a rim protector. I hated his defense in space this year, though, and thought he was a significant pick-and-roll liability as an athlete who really has to load into exploding forward. Again though, it’s a reasonable gamble to take at 33. Rank: No. 39 Hollinger’s team fit: I can respect a gamble on Oturu at this point the draft, although the Clippers tried this same tune with Mfiondu Kabengele a year ago and it didn’t turn out so hot. Oturu is a raw center who needs to improve his skill level and feel, but he’s pretty mobile. I would have picked… Vecenie: Xavier Tillman | Hollinger: Paul Reed Pick: 34 Team: Thunder (from PHI via ATL) | Player: Theo Maledon | 6-4 guard | 185 | 19 years old | ASVEL Vecenie’s scouting report: French guard who has some upside as a playmaker and distributor. Very slippery as a pick-and-roll player, and clearly is a protege of his mentor, Tony Parker, as he loves the spin move into floater or spin move into pull-up. He has a chance, but I think he should have stayed overseas for another year and tried to declare then. He’s a long ways away still from making an impact. Advertisement Rank: No. 35 Hollinger’s team fit: I like Maledon and had him rated 19th on my board. The French combo guard isn’t great in any one area but is solid in several years, and goes to a great situation with a rebuilding OKC team that his time to give him minutes and develop him. I would have picked… Vecenie: Maledon is a good upside swing | Hollinger: Maledon Pick: 35 Team: Grizzlies (from SAC via DET) | Player: Xavier Tillman | 6-9 center | 265 | 21, junior | Michigan State Vecenie’s scouting report: Love it. One of my favorites in this class. A very good pick-and-roll defender in space, and a strong rim protector who can carve out space and go up vertically to make life difficult for opposing players. On top of it, he’s a great pick-and-roll diver toward the rim, with the ability to short roll to pass and some potential to pick-and-pop. I think he plays in the NBA for a while, and I had a first round grade on him. Rank: No. 27 Hollinger’s team fit: Tillman’s analytics were fantastic so it’s surprising to see a numbers-friendly Kings front office him to Memphis here. The Grizzlies could use another big and I had a late first-round grade on Tillman, plus he reunites with college teammate Jaren Jackson, Jr. I would have picked… Vecenie: Tillman | Hollinger: Paul Reed Related Reading: Brendan Quinn: Xavier Tillman goes to the Memphis Grizzlies: Here’s what they’re getting TRADE: Dallas is acquiring Philadelphia’s Josh Richardson and No. 36 pick for Seth Curry Pick: 36 Team: Mavericks (from PHI via NY) | Player: Tyler Bey | 6-7 wing | 210 | 22 | Colorado Vecenie’s scouting report: This will be fun, because Hollinger and I have very disparate views on Bey. He’s an elite level quick twitch athlete with great length. But I just don’t love anything else he does. I thought he was an overrated defender who got driven on-ball more often than you’d like to see for a guy whose whole skill package is defense. Offensively, he’s a poor decision-maker and can’t shoot. I had a two-way grade on him due to athleticism, but I don’t love the skills and feel. Advertisement Rank: No. 55 Hollinger’s team fit: Unlike Sam I had a late first-round grade on Bey, he’s a high-wire athlete who can defend multiple positions but needs to refine his shooting and make better decisions at both ends. I still think Paul Reed is better, but Bey has a chance to be an impact player off the bench I would have picked… Vecenie: Tre Jones, or 15 other guys | Hollinger: Paul Reed Related Reading: Brian Bennett: Tyler Bey goes to the Dallas Mavericks: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 37 Team: Thunder (from WAS via CHI) | Player: Vit Krejci | 6-9 forward | 20 | Plays for Zaragoza in Spain Vecenie’s scouting report: Woo hoo! The first player I did not have within my top-100. Krejci tore his ACL back in September and will be out for the year. He plays for Zaragoza over in Spain, and is a 6-9 stretch/playmaking-four type. He’s also 170 pounds, though, and I struggle to see how his frame is going to hold up in the NBA. He can really pass for his size. But yeah, I don’t get this one at all. Rank: Outside of top-100 Hollinger’s team fit: A Czech forward who plays, sometimes, for a low-level ACB team, this one feels like a serious reach. I didn’t have Krejci in my top 70 I would have picked… Vecenie: WTF | Hollinger: Literally anyone else TRADE: Report: Jazz deal Bradley 38th pick to Pistons: The Utah Jazz have agreed to trade C Tony Bradley and the 38th pick to the Detroit Pistons for future considerations, sources tell ESPN. Pistons will send cash to the Jazz as well. Pick: 38 Team: Pistons (from UTA via NY) | Player: Saben Lee | 6-2 guard | 185 | 21 | Vanderbilt Vecenie’s scouting report: The Pistons decided not to pick up the qualifying offer on their super athletic point guard out of the SEC who probably entered the draft a year too early in Jordan Bone, so they decided to draft another super-athletic point guard out of the SEC who probably entered the draft a year too early in Saben Lee. Freak show athlete, and the more I watched his ability to gain separation, the more I liked him. He needs to improve drastically as a passer and shooter, though. I had a two-way grade on him. Advertisement Rank: No. 61 Hollinger’s team fit: An athletic guard who struggles to shoot and isn’t much of a playmaker, Lee can uncork some tremendous dunks and definitely has the raw tools to be a player in a few years. I had him as a 2-way player but I can understand the dice roll by a rebuilding Detroit team … just maybe not this high. I would have picked… Vecenie: Tre Jones | Hollinger: Dotson Pick: 39 Team: Jazz (from NO via WAS) | Player: Elijah Hughes | 6-7 wing | 230 | 22 | Syracuse Vecenie’s scouting report: I like this pick quite a bit. Hughes works as a shot-making wing at 6-foot-6. Don’t let the 3-point percentage fool you, as Syracuse didn’t run anything for him and he had to create everything on his own. I think he’ll knock down shots, and he can handle the ball a bit and attack closeouts. The big questions come on defense because he played in the 2-3, so we’ll have to find out. But yeah, pretty clearly a guy worth a guaranteed contract. Rank: No. 31 Hollinger’s team fit: I’m a big fan here and had a first-round grade on Hughes. He has good size for a wing, a decent shot, and showed the ability to handle the ball and make plays for others. By far the best player left on the board. I would have picked… Vecenie: Probably Rob Woodard, but I’m good with Hughes | Hollinger: Hughes Related Reading: Matthew Gutierrez: Elijah Hughes goes to the Utah Jazz: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 40 Team: Kings (from MEM via PHO) | Player: Robert Woodard | 6-7 wing/forward | 230 | 20, sophomore | Mississippi State Vecenie’s scouting report: One of my favorite picks of the draft so far. I had Woodard as the second-best guy remaining. Elite physical tools, and elite-level character. Already a high-level, switchable defender. He needs to prove that his 42 percent mark from 3 this year wasn’t a mirage, but he’s the kind of kid I’d bet on continuing to improve. I would bet on him to stick in the NBA as a good role player at the combo forward Advertisement Rank: No. 21 Hollinger’s team fit: Woodard has a tremendous body and looks great in the layup line, but struggled to make his impact felt in the actual games. The hope is that he can be a 3-and-D player at the wings. Of players of this ilk, I liked Jordan Nwora better. I would have picked… Vecenie: Woodard | Hollinger: Nwora Related Reading: Seth Davis: Robert Woodard goes to the Sacramento Kings: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 41 Team: Spurs | Player: Tre Jones | 6-3 guard | 185 | 20 years old | Duke Vecenie’s scouting report: Another one of my favorite picks so far, that’s two in a row. I like Tre quite a bit and had a clear first round grade on him. He won the CC Player of the Year and the Defensive Player of the Year award. he’s a very high-level defender at the point of attack, and he knows how to get his teammates the ball in the spots they want. If he develops his pull-up jumper, I think he has a shot to be a low-level starter. Love this pick for San Antonio. Rank: No. 18 Hollinger’s team fit: Jones is a decent enough player and can probably stick in the league, but I get a lot more excited about Devin Dotson’s blow-by speed than Jones’s meh offensive arsenal. He can defend the position, but his shot is a question. I would have picked… Vecenie: Jones | Hollinger: Dotson Related Reading: Brendan Marks: Tre Jones goes to the San Antonio Spurs: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 42 Team: Hornets (from NO)| Player: Nick Richards | 7-0 center | 240 | 22, junior | Kentucky Vecenie’s scouting report: When will Hollinger have a total meltdown from teams drafting centers? I’m betting by pick 50. Yeah, I didn’t have Richards in my top-60. He has great tools and was good defensively last season at executing what Kentucky asked him to do, but I don’t see enough skill level here right now. I also don’t see the feel for the game that is necessary to reach the ever-higher standard of playing center in today’s NBA. I had a two-way grade on him. Advertisement Rank: No. 67 Hollinger’s team fit: I don’t get this at all. First, stop drafting centers people. Second, Nick Richards can’t play. He had zero steals and two assists in 18 SEC games last season. What is going on? I would have picked… Vecenie: Grant Riller | Hollinger: Paul Reed Related Reading: Kyle Tucker: Nick Richards goes to the Charlotte Hornets: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 43 Team: Kings | Player: Jahmi’us Ramsey | 6-4 guard | 19 years old, freshman | Texas Tech Vecenie’s scouting report: Ramsey isn’t really my kind of player. True scorer who doesn’t really bring anything else to the table and doesn’t have the athletic explosiveness to really be impactful as a driver. People will say he has tools to be good defensively, but he was an extremely poor defender this season who Texas Tech had to take off the floor late in games. The shooting sample is also a concern given that he had never been much of a shooter prior to this year, and his free throw percentage was poor. Yeah, I had a two-way grade on Ramsey. Rank: No. 53 Hollinger’s team fit: Ramsey was a “mock draft” guy for me, rated as a first-rounder for much of the season but I never really saw why. He has a strong frame but is undersized and struggled to finish at the rim. I also question how his shooting will hold up. I would have picked… Vecenie: Riller | Hollinger: Dotson, Reed, or Nwora Related Reading: CJ Moore: Jahmi’us Ramsey goes to Sacramento Kings: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 44 Team: Bulls (from MEM) | Player: Marko Simonovic | C | Mega | 6-11 center | 220 | 21| Montenegro Vecenie’s scouting report: We’re closing in on Hollinger meltdown area with another center. I like Simonovic a bit more than John, as I think he has potential to develop into a very legitimate spacing 5. He also has some real dexterity and ability to put the ball on the deck and attack closeouts. And yet still, despite his high-level production overseas and his potential to shoot, I still only have him at 68th on my board with a stash/two-way grade because I struggle to see how he defends. Advertisement Rank: No. 68 Hollinger’s team fit: Another international who didn’t crack my top 70, Simonovic was a serviceable starting center in Serbia as a 21-year-old and, yes, it’s another 5. Just shoot me. I would have picked… Vecenie: If it was purely a stash, Yam Madar | Hollinger: Reed Pick: 45 Team: Bucks (from ORL) | Player: Jordan Nwora | 6-7 wing/forward | 220 | 21 | Louisville Vecenie’s scouting report: I’d heard throughout the week that Milwaukee was looking into Nwora heavily if they kept No. 24, so for them to get him at 45 has to be exciting. Very high-level shooter at 6-foot-7 who hit 40 percent from 3 despite being at the top of scouting reports every night. He rebounds and has reasonable measurements, too. I’m not quite as bullish as John, but I think this is a perfect fit for Milwaukee and I love the pick for them despite the fact that I thought this was his range. If I was them, I would have had him much higher Rank: No. 42 Hollinger’s team fit: Rock and roll Milwaukee. The Bucks got a player who can actually help them this season with the 45th pick, getting a good shooter who rebounds at a high rate in Nwora. He needs to defend better and get in shape, but I love this pick. I would have picked… Vecenie: Nwora | Hollinger: Nwora Related Reading: Brian Bennett: Jordan Nwora goes to the Milwaukee Bucks: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 46 Team: Trail Blazers | Player: C.J. Elleby | 6-6 wing| 200 | 20| Washington St. Vecenie’s scouting report: Yeah I never have really gotten what the NBA’s appeal is with Elleby. He doesn’t really finish at the basket, he’s not an elite shooter, and he’s not a particularly good defender. He has shooting upside which is why I ranked him at No. 85, but I think what we’re seeing here is that teams are taking players who are agreeable to their terms only (such as two-way and contracts with long-term team control with only one guaranteed season), as opposed to the best players on the board. Advertisement Rank: No. 85 Hollinger’s team fit: I don’t really see it here but if the Blazers were hell-bent on taking a wing the ranks are pretty thin at this point. Elleby shot 33.1% on 2s in Pac-12 games — that’s not a typo — but he rebounds well for a guard. I would have picked… Vecenie: Riller | Hollinger: Dotson Pick: 47 Team: Celtics (from BKN) | Player: Yam Madar | 6-3 guard | 180 | 19 | Hapoel Tel Aviv Vecenie’s scouting report: Think Boston picked the best stash left on the board here with Madar, something that was essential for them given their roster situation. He’s hyper competitive and plays with a winner’s mentality while also having legit game off the bounce. Another guy who plays in-between steps, kind of, and can be very awkward to deal with. I think he has a shot to make the NBA as a backup point guard, but he’s going to have to shoot it. Rank: No. 56 Hollinger’s team fit: Sure. Boston basically needed to take a stash here if they couldn’t move the pick because the Celtics have no roster spots, so Madar and Abdoulaye N’Doye are the two obvious candidates. Of the two, Madar has more pizazz and upside and N’Doye more present value. I would have picked… Vecenie: Madar | Hollinger: N’Doye Pick: 48 Team: Warriors (from DAL) | Player: Nico Mannion | 6-3 guard | 190 |19, freshman | Arizona Vecenie’s scouting report: Yeah, tough fall for Mannion here, but it’s just about exactly where I had him on my board. He’s a smart player and has great feel for the game, the problem is just that he’s very skinny, doesn’t play with a ton of explosiveness or force, and also is a more inconsistent shooter than you’d think given his reputation. This is a great fit for him in Golden State though, because they’ll value what he does well. I had a borderline guarantee/two-way grade on him. Rank: No. 47 Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Why does everyone hate Devon Dotson? Anyway, Mannion was wildly overrated to start the season but I don’t think this is a bad spot for him. I’d expect the Warriors to roster him given their tax situation. He’s a good passer who will find the Warriors’ myriad shooters, and maybe he recovers some of his Hoop Summit mojo now that he’s left Arizona. I would have picked… Vecenie: Riller | Hollinger: Dotson Related Reading: Brian Hamilton: Nico Mannion goes to the Golden State Warriors: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 49 Team: 76ers | Player: Isaiah Joe | 6-5 wing | 170 | 21, sophomore | Arkansas Vecenie’s scouting report: THE GREAT ISAIAH JOE PROMISE OF 2020 FINALLY COMES THROUGH AT 49. He can shoot despite what the percentage says. That’s about it, though. He gets run over defensively because he’s so skinny, and he can’t really play through contact on the interior. Plus, like John said, there are injuries in the past. But the 76ers need shooting, so I dig this one even though it’s right around where I had him. He’d have been higher on my personal board for Philly. Rank: No. 49 Hollinger’s team fit: Philly snags one of the best shooters in the draft at 49, and I could easily see him being on their roster this season if his medical side checks out. Joe struggles to create inside the arc and defend, but on this team his plus skill will be valuable. I would have picked… Vecenie: Sam Merrill | Hollinger: Sam Merrill Related Reading: Brian Bennett: Isaiah Joe goes to the Philadelphia 76ers: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 50 Team: Hawks (from MIA) | Player: Skylar Mays | 6-4 guard | 204 | 22, senior | LSU Vecenie’s scouting report: This is a good one for Atlanta given their perpetual search for a backup point guard. Mays is as high-IQ as it gets on and off the floor, and he’s a well-rounded player who can step into both guard spots. He has a shot to stick. I’d have gone Riller or Winston or Merrill, but Mays can do a little bit of everything if the athleticism translates enough. Advertisement Rank: No. 45 Hollinger’s team fit: We’re at a point where the hit rate gets pretty low, but Mays has a chance to make it as a back-end rotation player because of his high basketball IQ and improved shooting as a senior. The Hawks need contributors at this spot pretty badly so he comes to a nice situation. I would have picked… Vecenie: Riller, Winston, Merrill | Hollinger: Sam Merrill Related Reading: CJ Moore: Skylar Mays goes to the Atlanta Hawks: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 51 Team: Warriors (from UTA) | Player: Justinian Jessup | 6-7 wing |200 | 22, senior | Boise State (stashed with Illawarra Hawks for 2020-21) Vecenie’s scouting report: One of the elite shooters of the 2020 NBA Draft. Hit well over 40 percent from 3 on a ton of attempts over his career at 6-foot-7. He took on tough defensive assignments at Boise, but he needs to prove that he can hold up in terms of strength at the NBA level. He probably doesn’t get drafted if Duncan Robinson didn’t become everyone’s favorite player in the bubble. But anyone who can shoot like this, I’m comfortable taking a shot on. Rank: No. 58 Hollinger’s team fit: I like this as a stealth stash pick for Golden St. Jessup is playing in Australia after a strong career at Boise State, and he has a combo of size and shooting ability that could make him a homeless man’s Duncan Robinson someday. Definitely worth a shot here. I would have picked… Vecenie: Riller | Hollinger: Jessup Pick: 52 Team: Rockets (from SAC) | Player: Kenyon Martin Jr. | 6-7 forward | 215 | 20, post-grad | IMG Academy Vecenie’s scouting report: The whole bet here is on athleticism. Martin is a wildly explosive athlete at 6-foot-6 who plays through contact with power. Teams that like him are interested in him being something of a small-ball 4/5 in a couple of years after developing him. Very interesting ambidexterity. Shoots right handed, and has improved a bit as a shooter (although there will need to be growth there). However, he goes up for every attempt at a blocked shot with his left hand. Indeed, his potential defensive versatility is where teams are intrigued. Can slide his feet on the perimeter, and also protect the rim. Advertisement Rank: No. 63 Hollinger’s team fit: Kenyon. Martin. JUNIOR?!?! I am so washed. I would have picked… Vecenie: I’m not sure how many times I can say Riller. Draft Grant Riller, somebody. | Hollinger: Reed Pick: 53 Team: Wizards (from OKC) | Player: Cassius Winston | 6-1 guard | 195 | 22, senior | Michigan State Vecenie’s scouting report: Winston was my second best player available. He’s an elite creator in pick-and-roll, who can make every read as a passer. He can also really pull-up and knock down shots. I was very close to the first round on him because of his offensive ability. I don’t think he can defend at all, but his offense is legitimate and he’ll be running the Thunder’s second unit this season at some point. Rank: No. 33 Hollinger’s team fit: I like Dotson and Riller better than Winston, but man this is a pretty good get this late in the draft. Winston needs to get in better shape and cut the turnovers down, but he can definitely run an offense and make an open shot. I would have picked… Vecenie: Winston | Hollinger: Dotson Related Reading: Brendan Quinn: Cassius Winston goes to the Washington Wizards: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 54 Team: Pacers | Player: Cassius Stanley | 6-6 wing | 200 | 20, freshman | Duke Vecenie’s scouting report: Is this the first time we’ve had back-to-back Cassius picks in the draft? Stanley is an elite, top-of-the chain athlete even by NBA standards. He just doesn’t do much else yet. I had him as around a two-way/guarantee grade, and this is right around the place to bet on these crazy athletes with great work ethics. Rank: No. 48 Hollinger’s team fit: I thought Stanley was wildly overrated for much of the season, but by this point in the draft it’s a decent gamble to roll the dice on his athleticism. He was an unusually old freshman and his defense wasn’t nearly as good as some made it out to be, but he has a chance. Advertisement I would have picked… Vecenie: Riller | Hollinger: Reed or Dotson. I’m a broken record. Related Reading: Brendan Marks: Cassius Stanley goes to the Indiana Pacers: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 55 Team: Clippers (from BKN via DEN) | Player: Jay Scrubb | 6-6 guard/wing | 20, sophomore | John A. Logan College Vecenie’s scouting report: The Blazers rumors seemingly fell through on Scrubb, huh John? He’s a live-wire athlete who can really create his own shot and finish above the rim, but he needs to learn what a good shot is, and needs to learn how to engage consistently on defense. Good two-way flier assuming that’s what this is late in the draft. Rank: No. 51 Hollinger’s team fit: A Juco player who was originally going to go to Louisville, Scrubb’s combine measurements are more alluring than his game production. The Clippers likely will put him on a 2-way and see what happens. I would have picked… Vecenie: Riller | Hollinger: Reed Pick: 56 Team: Hornets (BOS) | Player: Grant Riller | 6-3 guard | 23, senior | Charleston Vecenie’s scouting report: Our long national nightmare has ended, Grant Riller is off the board at 56. He’s an elite level creator and scorer. I had a first round grade here because the way that he sets up and then reacts off of defenders is extremely high-level. He was also one of the elite-level finishers in all of college basketball despite being 6-foot-3 and a guard. This is a no-brainer. That’s my last first rounder off the board, and I think he sticks in the NBA. Rank: No. 28 Hollinger’s team fit: A massively better player than their other second-round pick, Riller is going to have some work cut out for him getting minutes in a crowded Charlotte backcourt. I had him rated the highest of any non-Dotson, non-Reed player. I would have picked… Vecenie: Riller | Hollinger: Michael Jordan Related Reading: Matthew Gutierrez: Grant Riller goes to the Charlotte Hornets: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 57 Team: Nets (from LAC)| Player: Reggie Perry | 6-9 F/C | 250 | 20| Mississippi State Vecenie’s scouting report: An incredibly productive player who won co-SEC Player of the Year. I’m just not sure what position he plays in the NBA. He’s not quick enough defensively to play the 4, not good enough as a rim protector to play the 5. But he can handle the ball a bit away from the rim, and he can maybe shoot it at some point. This is right around where I had him, so I’m good with the pick, but I’d have gone with others. I’m just waiting for the Hollinger explosion over another big man being taken over Paul Reed in 5, 4, 3, 2, 1…. Advertisement Rank: No. 60 Hollinger’s team fit: I actually like this pick for the Clippers, because Perry maybe has enough versatility to play 4 and 5, and he was quietly really productive at Mississippi State. I still think Paul Reed is better, but I’m a broken record. Perry has a chance. I would have picked… Vecenie: Killian Tillie | Hollinger: Killian Tillie Related Reading: Seth Davis Reggie Perry goes to the Brooklyn Nets: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 58 Team: 76ers (from LAL) | Player: Paul Reed | 6-9 forward | 220 | 21, junior | DePaul Vecenie’s scouting report: Honestly, I’m just giving John the floor on this one. He deserves it. Rank: No. 41 Hollinger’s team fit: HAH!!!! He got picked after all!!! I’ve been a big Reed fan all year, an unusually young junior who was hugely productive on an awful DePaul team. He can guard 1 through 4 and probably will be able check 5s at some point, with quick, pesky hands, a knack for shot-blocking, and end to end speed. His defense is ahead of his offense, but there are flashes of Pascal Siakam in his game, and I hereby pronounce him the steal of the draft. I would have picked… Vecenie: Killian Tillie | Hollinger: Reed! Related Reading: Eamonn Brennan: Paul Reed goes to the Philadelphia 76ers: Here’s what they’re getting Pick: 59 Team: Raptors | Player: Jalen Harris | 6-4 guard | 195 | 22 | Nevada Vecenie’s scouting report: Harris set all sorts of marks at the combine as a high-level athlete, but he doesn’t quite play with that level of burst all the time. Having said that, he’s a high-level shot maker who just needs to keep improving from 3 and start caring at even a reasonable level defensively. I had a two-way grade, so this is reasonable. Rank: No. 70 Hollinger’s team fit: A herky-herky guard with some athleticism and scoring ability, Harris to me is the type of guy who averages 20 a game in the G-League but never really finds a niche at the pro level. He would be a good 2-way guy here though. I would have picked… Vecenie: Finally, I’m with John on the Devon Dotson train. | Hollinger: Dotson Pick: 60 Team: Bucks (from NO)| Player: Sam Merrill | 6-5 guard | 205 | 24, senior | Utah State Vecenie’s scouting report: One of the my favorite picks of the draft. Merrill is going to make the Bucks because he’s an absolutely perfect bench player for them this season. He’s already 24 and has a very mature game, and he’s the kind of elite shooter they should be looking for off the bench. I had a high second round grade on him, so to get him at No. 60 is a steal. Advertisement Rank: No. 36 Hollinger’s team fit: I’m a fan of Merrill and think he has a chance to make an impact because he’s a money shooter who shows kill as a secondary shot creator. He’s quite old for a rookie at 24 and he will struggle to defend, but skill wins in the current NBA. I think there’s a place for him. I would have picked… Vecenie: Merrill| Hollinger: Merrill Related Reading: Brian Bennett Sam Merrill goes to the Milwaukee Bucks: What they should expect ( Image: Wes McCabe / The Athletic ) National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Culture Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two LNH Memorabilia & Collectibles Men's College Basketball Men's World Cup Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News UK Women's Football WNBA Women's College Basketball Women's Euros Women's Hockey Women's World Cup The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Montréal (français) Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Support Sitemap