2020 NBA Draft Reportedly to Be Held on November 18 Bleacher Report NBA Home Scores Teams Rumors Highlights Draft B/R Sports on Max 01:04 Featured Video Rockets-Dubs Gets Chippy Again NBA Commissioner Adam Silver announces Vanderbilt's Darius Garland as the fifth pick overall by the Cleveland Cavaliers in the NBA basketball draft Thursday, June 20, 2019, in New York. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) Julio Cortez/Associated Press NBA 2020 NBA Draft Reportedly to Be Held on November 18 Rob Goldberg Sep 16, 2020 The 2020 NBA draft will reportedly take place on Nov. 18, according to ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski . The date is now "locked in" after the league initially considered it an option in a recent memo it sent to teams earlier this month. The draft was initially scheduled for June, but it was delayed along with the rest of the 2019-20 season due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It was tentatively rescheduled for Oct. 16 before being pushed back another month. TOP NEWS Giannis Says Actions of Tyrese Haliburton's Dad 'Unacceptable' After Pacers Beat Bucks Bleacher Report -2394s 2025 NBA Mock Draft with Lottery Simulation Sending Cooper Flagg to Eastern Conference Bleacher Report 18h Spurs' Stephon Castle Wins 2024-25 NBA Rookie of the Year over Risacher, Wells Bleacher Report 2h The 2020-21 season has also been pushed back from its suggested start date of Dec. 1. Shams Charania of Stadium and The Athletic reported next season won't begin before Christmas Day. The mid-November draft date provides limited time for rookies to get acclimated to their new teams before beginning their NBA careers. There's also been an extended gap from the last time most of the prospects took the floor. With the NCAA tournament canceled due to the pandemic, college players haven't played a competitive game since early March. Potential top pick LaMelo Ball last played in November before a foot injury ended his season in Australia. James Wiseman ended his season at Memphis on Nov. 12, meaning more than a full year will have spanned between his last game and when he's drafted. It's yet another way teams will be forced to adjust their plans in 2020. The Minnesota Timberwolves currently own the first pick of the draft, followed by the Golden State Warriors and then the Charlotte Hornets. 01:04 Rockets-Dubs Gets Chippy Again TOP NEWS John Haliburton Apologizes Bleacher Report -2394s Latest Projections and Pro Comps ✍️ Bleacher Report 18h 🚨 Stephon Castle Wins ROY Bleacher Report 2h Pacers Eliminate Bucks in OT Bleacher Report 23m Updated NBA Playoff Bracket Bleacher Report 29m TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 1d 1 Trade Every NBA Playoff Team Wishes It Could Make Right Now Bleacher Report • 14h Cooper Flagg, Dylan Harper, Full List of Early 2025 NBA Draft Declarations Announced Bleacher Report • 9h Lakers' Luka Doncic Gifts $5K to Restore Vandalized Kobe, Gigi Bryant Mural Dončić donates $5K to repair vandalized tribute of Kobe and Gigi (KTLA) Bleacher Report • 12h Michael Porter Jr. Not Suspended for Leaving Bench During Nuggets-Clippers Skirmish Michael Porter Jr. not suspended Game 5 for leaving bench during skirmish Bleacher Report • 3h Jalen Brunson, Knicks Fail to Close out Cade, Pistons in G5 Loss, Disappoint NBA Fans New York loses Game 5 at MSG, still ahead 3-2 in series 📲 TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 1d 1 Trade Every NBA Playoff Team Wishes It Could Make Right Now Bleacher Report • 14h Cooper Flagg, Dylan Harper, Full List of Early 2025 NBA Draft Declarations Announced Bleacher Report • 9h Lakers' Luka Doncic Gifts $5K to Restore Vandalized Kobe, Gigi Bryant Mural Dončić donates $5K to repair vandalized tribute of Kobe and Gigi (KTLA) Bleacher Report • 12h Michael Porter Jr. Not Suspended for Leaving Bench During Nuggets-Clippers Skirmish Michael Porter Jr. not suspended Game 5 for leaving bench during skirmish Bleacher Report • 3h Jalen Brunson, Knicks Fail to Close out Cade, Pistons in G5 Loss, Disappoint NBA Fans New York loses Game 5 at MSG, still ahead 3-2 in series 📲 Bleacher Report About Advertise Contact Us Get Help Careers Sitemap Community Guidelines Privacy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Terms Of Use AdChoices B/R Sports on MAX B/R Creators Program Copyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.