Statement from The R&A | The Open in 2020 to be Cancelled R&A TV Upcoming venues Skip to main content Tickets SPECTATOR INFO SHOP ONE CLUB ONE CLUB My Account My Account My One Club Sign out Sign in Haven't got an account? Register now Basket Open menu Close menu R&A TV Upcoming venues 153 rd Royal Portrush 154 th Royal Birkdale 155 th St Andrews Tickets SPECTATOR INFO SHOP ONE CLUB Getting There Previous Opens Open Venues Accessibility Qualification Online Entry Form Leaderboard Our patrons R&A TV Upcoming venues 153 rd Royal Portrush 154 th Royal Birkdale 155 th St Andrews Your Cookies Accepting all cookies will ensure you have the best experience possible when visiting TheOpen.com. Some of these cookies are necessary to make our site work, while others help us to improve your experience by providing insights into how the site is being used. Accept all cookies Manage your cookie settings Cookie Policy The 149th Open Royal St George's 06 April 2020 Share article To share article please enable Functional cookies Statement from The R&A / The Open in 2020 to be Cancelled The R&A has decided to cancel The Open in 2020 due to the current Covid-19 pandemic. The Championship will next be played at Royal St George’s in 2021. The Open was due to be played in Kent from 12-19 July but it has been necessary to cancel the Championship  based on guidance from the UK Government, the health authorities, public services and The R&A’s  advisers. This is the first time since the Second World War that golf’s original Championship, first played in 1860, has been cancelled. The 149th Open will be played at Royal St George’s from 11-18 July 2021. The 150th Open will be played at St Andrews from 10-17 July 2022 . “I can assure everyone that we have explored every option for playing The Open this year but it is not going to be possible.” Martin Slumbers, Chief Executive of The R&A The R&A will transfer over tickets and hospitality packages purchased for the Championship in 2020 to The Open in 2021. Purchasers who no longer wish to (or are no longer able to) attend in 2021 will receive a full refund. Further information on this process will be sent directly to ticket and hospitality purchasers in due course. Martin Slumbers, Chief Executive of The R&A, said, “Our absolute priority is to protect the health and safety of the fans, players, officials, volunteers and staff involved in The Open. We care deeply about this historic Championship and have made this decision with a heavy heart. We appreciate that this will be disappointing for a great many people around the world but we have to act responsibly during this pandemic and it is the right thing to do. “I can assure everyone that we have explored every option for playing The Open this year but it is not going to be possible. “There are many different considerations that go into organising a major sporting event of this scale. We rely on the support of the emergency services, local authorities and a range of other organisations to stage the Championship and it would be unreasonable to place any additional demands on them when they have far more urgent priorities to deal with. "In recent weeks we have been working closely with those organisations as well as Royal St George’s, St Andrews Links Trust and the other golf bodies to resolve the remaining external factors and have done so as soon as we possibly could. We are grateful to all of them for their assistance and co-operation throughout this process. “Most of all I would like to thank our fans around the world and all of our partners for their support and understanding. At a difficult time like this we have to recognise that sport must stand aside to let people focus on keeping themselves and their families healthy and safe. We are committed to supporting our community in the weeks and months ahead and will do everything in our power to help golf come through this crisis.” The R&A’s remaining professional and amateur championships scheduled this year are under review and we will continue to update on any further changes. Tags Royal St Georges The 149th Open St Andrews The 150th Open 2021 2020 related The 154th Open New experiences / The R&A unveils new ticket-inclusive experiences for The 154th Open The 153rd Open Record crowd for Portrush / 278,000 fans will attend The 153rd Open The 153rd Open All You Need to Know / The 153rd Open at Royal Portrush PATRONS Official Suppliers Contact Us Cookies Info Media Patrons & Suppliers Privacy Ticket & Hospitality T&Cs Modern Slavery Statement Website T&Cs Work at The Open facebook instagram linkedin tiktok twitter youtube © R&A Championships Limited, Company No. SC247047, R&A Rules Limited, Company No. SC247046 R&A Group Services Limited, Company No. SC247048, Beach House, Golf Place, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9JA