Becky G, Lupita Nyong'o & More: The Latino Gang Won Big at the Oscars ​ Skip to content People en Español Buscar Por favor llena esta casilla Boletines Search Por favor llena esta casilla Celebridades Celebridades Música People VIP Chica AfroLatinidad Ponte Bella Ponte Bella Flash en la alfombra El look del día Televisión Telenovelas Mamás y bebés Noticias Noticias Salud Estilo De Vida Deportes Horóscopo Recetas Boletines Síguenos Celebridades Música People VIP Chica AfroLatinidad Ponte Bella Flash en la alfombra El look del día Televisión Telenovelas Mamás y Bebés Noticias Salud Estilo De Vida Deportes Horóscopo Recetas Chica Becky G, Lupita Nyong'o and Encanto : The Latino Gang Showed Up at the 2022 Academy Awards Latinos and Hispanics showed their vibrant colors at the 2022 Oscars in full force. From top-tier nominations to outstanding performances, Latino talent blew away the crowd. Here are the best moments of the night. Por Karla Montalván Publicado en Marzo 28, 2022 07:17PM EDT CERRAR Foto: Myung Chun / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images 01 de 10 Lupita Nyong'o Photo by Lionel Hahn/Getty Images The Mexico City native of Kenyan descent appeared on the red carpet sporting a gold Prada dress—stealing fashion hearts everywhere. In addition to her jaw-dropping style, Nyong'o's reaction to Will Smith's altercation with Chris Rock during the award show has reached meme status. 02 de 10 Rita Moreno Photo by Emma McIntyre/Getty Images The 90-year-old West Side Story actress stunned, wearing a Carolina Herrera off-the-shoulder gown with a feathered hat "from France." 03 de 10 Sebastián Yatra The Colombian singer-songwriter and actor delighted the crowd with his performance of Encanto's hit song "Dos orugüitas," which was nominated for Best Original Song. 04 de 10 Ariana DeBose Photo by Lionel Hahn/Getty Images The golden girl of the award season was crowned once more with the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for her performance as Anita in Steven Spielberg's West Side Story. 05 de 10 Becky G Photo by Kevin Mazur/WireImage The singer joined the cast of Encanto to sing "We Don't Talk About Bruno," and sparkled in a nude-colored strapless dress on the red carpet. 06 de 10 "We Don't Talk About Bruno" Myung Chun / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images Luis Fonsi, Stephanie Beatriz, Diane Guerrero, Becky G, Meghan Thee Stallion and more performed the iconic song live on the Oscar stage. 07 de 10 Germaine Franco Photo by Kevin Mazur/WireImage The Mexican American composer, who is the first Latina and woman of color ever to be nominated for an Academy Award under Best Original Score, brought her charm to the red carpet in this custom-made dress from Lydia Lavín. 08 de 10 Eugenio Derbez Photo by Rich Fury/VF22/Getty Images for Vanity Fair The Mexican actor and comedian was part of the cast of CODA: Signs of the Heart , where he played "Mr. B." The movie home the Best Film award. 09 de 10 Rosie Perez The iconic actress returned to the Oscars after almost three decades in a stunning red gown. 10 de 10 Javier Bardem and Penélope Cruz The Spanish power couple supported each other as they were each nominated under Best Actress and Best Actor respectively. Artículos relacionados Ariana DeBose on Finding "Her Life and Strength in Art" After Historic Oscar Win Chicas at Coachella: Top Moments From Karol G, Anitta and Camila Cabello The Nuevo Generation: 6 Latinas Reshaping the Entertainment Industry Ariana DeBose on What the Greatest Gift Rita Moreno Has Given Her is And it's Importance From Best Actress to Best Picture, Hispanics And Latinos Have Taken Over Oscar Nominations The Best Dressed Latinas at the 2023 Oscars and Vanity Fair After Party Going For Gold: POC and Latino Talent Takes Over Oscar Nominations 5 Oscar-Nominated Films to Binge this New Year's Eve 8 Latinos Who Rocked the 2022 VMAs Red Carpet The Best Red Carpet Looks from the 2022 Billboard Latin Music Awards Sebastian Yatra on the One Thing He is Looking Forward to Achieving in the Future Selena Gomez, Romeo Santos and More: See Full List of Latin AMA Winners Wonderful World of Pisces: 11 Celebrities and Athletes Born Under this Sensitive and Creative Sign Becky G and Karol G Rise to Top of Billboard Latin Chart With Their Female Anthem "Mamiii" Red Carpet Recap: Emmys 2022 Brings the Heat The Best Moments at the 2019 Latin American Music Awards People en Español Boletines Síguenos Celebridades Ponte Bella Televisión Telenovelas Mamás y bebés Noticias Horóscopo Recetas Sobre People en Español Política editorial Política de privacidad Términos de servicio Anúnciate Carreras Contáctanos Sus Opciones De Privacidad People en Español es parte de la familia editorial de Dotdash Meredith . Suscríbete al boletín Suscríbete al boletín Al hacer clic en “Aceptar todas las cookies”, usted acepta que las cookies se guarden en su dispositivo para mejorar la navegación del sitio, analizar el uso del mismo, y colaborar con nuestros estudios para marketing. Configuración de cookies Aceptar todas las cookies