Assassin's Creed (film) | Assassin's Creed Wiki | Fandom Assassin's Creed Wiki Welcome to Assassin's Creed Wiki! Log in and join the community. READ MORE Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Assassin's Creed Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Content Database‎ Animals‎ Assassin Intel‎ Collectibles‎ History‎ Documents‎ Events‎ Items‎ Landmarks‎ Locations‎ People‎ Individuals‎ By ethnicity By nationality By occupation By organization By place of residence By title‎ By traits By year Unidentified individuals‎ Locations‎ Cities‎ Colonies‎ Geographical features Landmarks‎ Locations by country Structures‎ Organizations‎ Assassin Brotherhood‎ Cults‎ Families‎ Militaries Ship crews Templar Order Memories‎ By Animus‎ By individual‎ Skills‎ Assassin skills‎ Genetic skills‎ Templar skills‎ Weapons‎ Personal weapons‎ Weapons by century‎ Weapons by type‎ Games Assassin's Creed Ezio Trilogy Assassin's Creed II Brotherhood Revelations Kenway Saga Assassin's Creed III Liberation Black Flag Freedom Cry Rogue Initiate Duology Unity Syndicate Layla Saga Origins Odyssey Valhalla Mirage Upcoming games Shadows Jade Codename Hexe Other games Altaïr's Chronicles Bloodlines Discovery Project Legacy Initiates Pirates Chronicles Identity Rebellion Nexus VR Other Media Comics UbiWorkshop comics The Fall The Chain Brahman Titan Comics Assassin's Creed Templars Last Descendants – Locus Uprising Reflections Origins Dark Horse Comics Valhalla – Song of Glory Valhalla – Forgotten Myths Mirage – A Soar of Eagles French graphic novels The Ankh of Isis Trilogy The Hawk Trilogy Conspiracies Bloodstone Valhalla – The Hidden Codex Manga and manhua Awakening Blade of Shao Jun Dynasty Valhalla – Blood Brothers Shadows – Iga no Monogatari Korean webtoons Forgotten Temple Novels Novelizations The Secret Crusade Renaissance Brotherhood Revelations Forsaken Black Flag Unity The Movie Odyssey Underworld Ubisoft Publishing novels Heresy Origins – Desert Oath Valhalla – Geirmund's Saga Aconyte Books novels Valhalla – Sword of the White Horse The Golden City Mirage – Daughter of No One Engine of History – The Magus Conspiracy Engine of History – The Resurrection Plot Young adult novels Last Descendants Last Descendants – Tomb of the Khan Last Descendants – Fate of the Gods Fragments – The Blade of Aizu Fragments – The Highlands Children Fragments – The Witches of the Moors Other books Prophecy of the Emperor The Silk Road Escape Room Puzzle Book Films and TV series Lineage Ascendance Embers The Movie Live action series Animated series Anime series Audiobooks Gold Board games Brotherhood of Venice Roleplaying Game Community Staff Administrators Cristophorus35 Lady Kyashira Sol Pacificus Soranin Moderators Ahmairah Lacrossedeamon Sadelyrate Xangr8 Zero-ELEC Policies Manual of Style Community Guidelines Moderation Images Images Licensing Sourcing Licensing Guidelines Be Bold Achievements Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Assassin's Creed Wiki 25,236 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Content Database‎ Animals‎ Assassin Intel‎ Collectibles‎ History‎ Documents‎ Events‎ Items‎ Landmarks‎ Locations‎ People‎ Individuals‎ By ethnicity By nationality By occupation By organization By place of residence By title‎ By traits By year Unidentified individuals‎ Locations‎ Cities‎ Colonies‎ Geographical features Landmarks‎ Locations by country Structures‎ Organizations‎ Assassin Brotherhood‎ Cults‎ Families‎ Militaries Ship crews Templar Order Memories‎ By Animus‎ By individual‎ Skills‎ Assassin skills‎ Genetic skills‎ Templar skills‎ Weapons‎ Personal weapons‎ Weapons by century‎ Weapons by type‎ Games Assassin's Creed Ezio Trilogy Assassin's Creed II Brotherhood Revelations Kenway Saga Assassin's Creed III Liberation Black Flag Freedom Cry Rogue Initiate Duology Unity Syndicate Layla Saga Origins Odyssey Valhalla Mirage Upcoming games Shadows Jade Codename Hexe Other games Altaïr's Chronicles Bloodlines Discovery Project Legacy Initiates Pirates Chronicles Identity Rebellion Nexus VR Other Media Comics UbiWorkshop comics The Fall The Chain Brahman Titan Comics Assassin's Creed Templars Last Descendants – Locus Uprising Reflections Origins Dark Horse Comics Valhalla – Song of Glory Valhalla – Forgotten Myths Mirage – A Soar of Eagles French graphic novels The Ankh of Isis Trilogy The Hawk Trilogy Conspiracies Bloodstone Valhalla – The Hidden Codex Manga and manhua Awakening Blade of Shao Jun Dynasty Valhalla – Blood Brothers Shadows – Iga no Monogatari Korean webtoons Forgotten Temple Novels Novelizations The Secret Crusade Renaissance Brotherhood Revelations Forsaken Black Flag Unity The Movie Odyssey Underworld Ubisoft Publishing novels Heresy Origins – Desert Oath Valhalla – Geirmund's Saga Aconyte Books novels Valhalla – Sword of the White Horse The Golden City Mirage – Daughter of No One Engine of History – The Magus Conspiracy Engine of History – The Resurrection Plot Young adult novels Last Descendants Last Descendants – Tomb of the Khan Last Descendants – Fate of the Gods Fragments – The Blade of Aizu Fragments – The Highlands Children Fragments – The Witches of the Moors Other books Prophecy of the Emperor The Silk Road Escape Room Puzzle Book Films and TV series Lineage Ascendance Embers The Movie Live action series Animated series Anime series Audiobooks Gold Board games Brotherhood of Venice Roleplaying Game Community Staff Administrators Cristophorus35 Lady Kyashira Sol Pacificus Soranin Moderators Ahmairah Lacrossedeamon Sadelyrate Xangr8 Zero-ELEC Policies Manual of Style Community Guidelines Moderation Images Images Licensing Sourcing Licensing Guidelines Be Bold Achievements in: Assassin's Creed series , Real world films English Deutsch Español Français Magyar Italiano Nederlands Polski Português do Brasil Русский Українська 中文 Assassin's Creed (film) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (36) Assassin's Creed Director Justin Kurzel Producer Jean-Julien Baronnet Patrick Crowley Michael Fassbender Frank Marshall Conor McCaughan Arnon Milchan Writer Bill Collage Adam Cooper Michael Lesslie Starring Michael Fassbender Marion Cotillard Jeremy Irons Brendan Gleeson Michael K. Williams Music Jed Kurzel Cinematography Adam Arkapaw Editing Christopher Tellefsen Studio Ubisoft Motion Pictures DMC Film New Regency Ratpac-Dune Entermainment Alpha Pictures Distributor 20th Century Fox Released 21 December 2016 (North America) Runtime 1h55min Country France United States Language English Spanish Budget $125 million Gross $240,697,856 Assassin's Creed , marketed as Assassin's Creed: The Movie , is an action-adventure film based on the award-winning series of the same name. It is produced by and stars Michael Fassbender as the 15th century Spanish Assassin Aguilar de Nerha , and his present day descendant, Callum Lynch . Directed by Justin Kurzel and co-produced by Ubisoft Motion Pictures and Frank Marshall , [ 1 ] the film was distributed by 20th Century Fox and released 21 December 2016 to largely negative reviews. [ 2 ] Contents 1 Opening crawl 2 Synopsis 3 Plot 4 Cast 5 Production 5.1 Development 5.2 Pre-production 5.3 Filming 6 Marketing 7 Release 8 Cancelled sequels 9 Trivia 10 Gallery 11 References 12 External links Opening crawl [ ] For centuries, the Order of the Knights Templar have searched for the mythical Apple of Eden.  They believe it contains not only the seeds of man's first disobedience but the key to free will itself.  If they find the relic and decode its secrets, they will have the power to control all human thought.  Only a brotherhood called the Assassins stands in their way... Synopsis [ ] Callum Lynch discovers he is a descendant of the secret Assassins society through unlocked genetic memories that allow him to relive the adventures of his ancestor Aguilar in 15th century Spain . After gaining incredible knowledge and skills, he is poised to combat the oppressive Knights Templar in the present day. [ 3 ] The bulk of the film takes place in the present day (65% present, 35% past). [ 4 ] Plot [ ] In 1492 Andalusia , during the Granada War , Aguilar de Nerha is initiated into the Assassins. He is assigned to protect Prince Ahmed of Granada from the Knights Templar. In 1986, adolescent Callum "Cal" Lynch finds his mother Mary dead at the hand of his father Joseph , a modern-day Assassin. Gunmen led by Alan Rikkin, CEO of the Templars' Abstergo Foundation , arrive to capture Joseph, who convinces his son to escape. In 2016, Cal is sentenced to death for murdering a pimp, but his execution is faked by the Abstergo Foundation, which then takes him to their research facility in Madrid . He is told that the Templars are searching for the Apple of Eden in order to eliminate violence by using the relic 's code to control humanity 's free will. Sofia , Alan's daughter and the head scientist, reveals that Cal is a descendant of Aguilar, the last person confirmed to be in possession of the Apple . She puts Cal in the Animus , a machine which allows him to relive and the scientists to observe Aguilar's genetic memories, so that Abstergo Industries can learn what he did with the Apple. In 15th-century Spain, Aguilar and his partner María are deployed to rescue Ahmed, who has been kidnapped by Grand Inquisitor Tomás de Torquemada , secretly the Grand Master of the Spanish Templars , to coerce Ahmed's father Sultan Muhammad XII into surrendering both the city of Granada and the Apple. Aguilar and María intercept the Templars, but are overpowered and captured by Torquemada's enforcer, Ojeda . Cal is quickly pulled out of the Animus by Sofia. Cal encounters other Assassin descendants held captive at the facility, most of whom are suspicious of his motives, with the exception of Moussa , a key leader and the descendant of the 18th-century Haitian Assassin Baptiste . Cal begins experiencing hallucinations, dubbed "the Bleeding Effect", of both Aguilar and Joseph. Cal and Sofia build a rapport during their sessions; she confides that her mother was likewise murdered by an Assassin, sharing his hatred of the Brotherhood of which his father is a member. Back in the Animus, Aguilar and María are scheduled for execution by auto-da-fé but he manages to free them, leading to a rooftop chase in which they escape through an Assassin " Leap of Faith ". Cal's mind reacts violently to the session and he is temporarily paralyzed. When Cal learns that his father is also at the facility, he confronts Joseph over his mother's death. Joseph informs him that the Bleeding Effect will allow modern Cal to possess Aguilar's combat abilities. He also learns that his mother was an Assassin, and she chose to die by Joseph's hand rather than be forced into the Animus. Unconvinced, Cal vows to destroy the Assassins by finding the Apple. Meanwhile, Alan is pressured by the Templar Ellen Kaye from the Council of Elders , who orders him to shut down the multibillion-dollar Animus Project because the Council is convinced of their victory since "people no longer care about their civil liberties [and] they're content to follow", leading Sofia to question her father's true intentions. Reaffirmed by his encounter with his father, Cal willingly enters the Animus once again, whereupon Aguilar and María ambush a meeting between Muhammad and Torquemada. They succeed in killing the Templars and retrieving the Apple, though Ojeda captures María in order to force Aguilar to surrender it. Instead, María chooses death, and stabs herself on Ojeda's blade. Aguilar kills him and escapes through another Leap, the force of which causes the Animus to violently malfunction. Aguilar gives the Apple to Christoffa Corombo , who promises to take it to his grave. When Moussa and the modern Assassin prisoners start a riot in order to escape, Alan orders the facility purged. Abstergo security kills Joseph and most of the other prisoners. Cal stands in the Animus chamber and is met with the projections of a number of his Assassin ancestors, including Aguilar, the French Assassin Arno Dorian , Joseph, and his mother, while Sofia glimpses the projection of an Assassin identical in appearance to her. Persuaded by his mother, Cal embraces the Creed and, having fully assimilated Aguilar's memories and abilities, joins Moussa and two other surviving Assassins in escaping the facility. Having retrieved the Apple from Corombo's burial vault, Alan and his followers converge at a ceremony in Holborn Hall in London , England to celebrate their triumph. Inside the sanctuary, a disillusioned Sofia meets with Cal, who has come to take the Apple, and she reluctantly allows him to act. Cal retrieves the Apple, but kills Alan to do it. While Sofia vows revenge against Cal, the Assassins depart, vowing to once again protect the Apple from the Templars. Cast [ ] Michael Fassbender as Aguilar de Nerha / Callum Lynch Marion Cotillard as Sofia Rikkin Jeremy Irons as Alan Rikkin Charlotte Rampling as Ellen Kaye Brendan Gleeson as Joseph Lynch Brian Gleeson as young Joseph Lynch Essie Davis as Mary Lynch Michael K. Williams as Moussa / Baptiste Ariane Labed as María Matias Varela as Emir Carlos Bardem as Benedicto Denis Ménochet as McGowen Hovik Keuchkerian as Ojeda Javier Gutiérrez as Tomás de Torquemada Callum Turner as Nathan Michelle H. Lin as Lin Khalid Abdalla as Muhammad XII of Granada Thomas Camilleri as Ferdinand II of Aragon Marysia S. Peres as Isabella I of Castile Production [ ] Development [ ] Michael Fassbender as Aguilar Ubisoft began development of the film in May 2011, where it was confirmed for a 3D release. [ 5 ] Later that year, Ubisoft was reaching a deal with Sony Entertainment to distribute the film. The terms and conditions surrounding the agreement were described by Hollywood insiders as "unheard of", with Ubisoft getting the final say on the budget, principal cast, script, release date and more. [ 6 ] The level of control is afforded to Ubisoft divided critics of both games and films, with many noting that while Hollywood insiders considered Sony's move to have killed the film before it had even begun, gamers considered the move to be beneficial to the franchise's future, as in recent years, game adaptations had tended to be of poor quality. [ 6 ] Senior Vice President of International Marketing, Jean de Rivieres, echoed this sentiment, and claimed that the film will "reflect the brands accurately and consolidate our fan base." [ 5 ] Michael Fassbender came aboard to star and produce a year later. He explained, "I met up with the guys from Ubisoft and they told me the story behind it, and I thought it was very interesting—the idea of reliving memories." [ 7 ] On 22 October 2012, it was announced that Ubisoft Motion Pictures had chosen to develop the film in close collaboration with New Regency, because they were "a talent and filmmaker-driven company, with the same independent and creative mindset that we have at Ubisoft Motion Pictures." The development of a screenplay began immediately, and the project was fast-tracked, while still allowing Ubisoft to maintain control of key elements of the film's creative direction. [ 8 ] Ubisoft also changed their distributor from Sony Entertainment to 20th Century Fox, though the reason for this has not been made known. [ 9 ] It was decided that characters from the games would not be used, as the film was about "finding a character that was fresh." [ 4 ] Ubisoft hired English writer Michael Lesslie to pen the script for the movie, and Conor McCaughan to help Fassbender produce the film. [ 10 ] In 2013, screenwriter Scott Frank ( Minority Report , The Wolverine ) was rewriting the script. [ 11 ] Adam Cooper and Bill Collage , who wrote the original draft of Ridley Scott 's Exodus: Gods and Kings , were assigned to rewrite the script the following year. [ 12 ] In April 2014, it was reported Fassbender was looking to reteam with director Justin Kurzel , with whom he collaborated on the upcoming film version of Macbeth . [ 13 ] In August, Fassbender confirmed Kurzel was attached to the project, as was his cinematographer Adam Arkapaw . [ 14 ] Pre-production [ ] Promotional image In February 2015, it was announced that the film had entered production. [ 15 ] When interviewed, costume designer Sammy Sheldon Differ gave this statement: "I have much respect for the historical accuracy and vast characterization represented in each game. This has been a fantastic starting point to understand what is needed to be faithful to the artistic content and begin creating our film world. Bearing in mind this rich base, I have used our period of 15th century Spain, with its strong influences of Moorish deco, to give the Assassin's looks a nomadic warrior personification." [ 16 ] Filming [ ] Filming began on 31 August 2015 and took place in London, Spain and Malta. [ 16 ] The movie has also been confirmed to be set within the same universe as the franchise's other media. [ 17 ] Shooting wrapped on 15 January 2016. [ 18 ] The original ending of the film had Callum as the lone survivor. He would then go on in subsequent films attempting to escape the Templars. Test audiences did not react favorably to this ending, so it was changed prior to release. [ 19 ] Marketing [ ] On 21 December 2015, Ubisoft tweeted a photo of Abstergo Industries CEO Alan Rikkin's business card, [ 20 ] which had an email and phone numbers for Spain and the United States. [ 21 ] Fans who emailed the address received one [ 22 ] [ 23 ] of two automated replies, [ 24 ] , while those who called the numbers heard a voicemail response voiced by Jeremy Irons. [ 25 ] The voicemail changed later to a different message from Rikkin which was followed by an electronic "hacking" type sound and then Callum Lynch reciting the tenets of The Creed. [ 26 ] The phone number ceased working sometime after the movie's release. Devin Graham from the YouTube channel Devin Super Tramp worked previously with Ubisoft's support to make Assassin's Creed fan films. TeamSuperTramp was contacted to help with promotion of the film. After recording some of the creation of the film's principal production in Spain in December 2015, they returned the next month when filming was completed to film the promotion video Assassin's Creed Movie Meets Parkour in Real Life - Day in the Life of a Stunt Man with parkour stunts by Fassbender's stunt double, Damien Walters. This was in case Walters had an accident which would normally hold up production. The precaution became justified when Walters tore ligaments in his left ankle in a bad landing, but the rest of the recording was able to be completed by working around the injury. [ 27 ] A behind the scenes production book entitled Assassin's Creed: Into the Animus was released on 21 December 2016, alongside the movie. The book written by Ian Nathan with a foreword by Ubisoft's then-CEO Gérard Guillemot and features concept art for the movie as well as screengrabs from the movie and interviews. [ 28 ] Release [ ] Assassin's Creed was released on 21 December 2016, [ 2 ] exactly four years after the video game character Desmond Miles died to avert the in-universe Second Disaster . [ 29 ] . Originally announced in May 2013 to be released on 22 May 2015. [ 30 ] The release date was then changed to 19 June 2015, and in November 2013 it was postponed again until 7 August 2015. [ 31 ] In September 2014, the movie was postponed one last time to 21 December 2016. [ 32 ] After its theatrical release, Assassin's Creed was released onto Digital HD from Amazon Video and iTunes on 10 March 2017, followed by Blu-ray and DVD on 21 March. [ 33 ] Cancelled sequels [ ] By May 2016, work had begun on the movie's sequel and planned a third installment, [ 4 ] but following the acquisition of 21st Century Fox by Disney in August 2019, the film together with any other video game movies were cancelled. [ 34 ] Trivia [ ] In the deleted scenes, it was revealed that María had a descendant named Lara . Cameos from Baptiste, Shao Jun , Yusuf Tazim , and Duncan Walpole , were also filmed but cut. Lynch was going to briefly perceive his fellow Assassins as their respective ancestors as a manifestation of the Bleeding Effect. A poster for the movie can be seen in the 2016 video game Watch Dogs 2 , also developed by Ubisoft. Gallery [ ] Videos Promotional media Screenshots Assassin's Creed - Trailer World Premiere Assassin’s Creed Official Trailer 2 HD 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed Final Trailer HD 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed “It’s Time To Make History" TV Commercial 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed "We Work in the Dark" TV Commercial HD 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed "Destined for Great Things" TV Commercial HD 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed "You're An Assassin" TV Commercial HD 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed "You Belong to the Creed" TV Commercial 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed "It Felt Real" TV Commercial 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed "Celebrate the Creed" TV Commercial HD 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed "Enter the Animus" Clip 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed "Carriage Chase" Clip HD 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed "Cafeteria" Clip HD 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed "Leap of Faith" Clip HD 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed "Father's Blade" Clip HD 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed Cal's Story 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed Exclusive E3 Behind the Scenes 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed The Leap of Faith HD 20th Century FOX World of Assassin’s Creed HD 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed The Creed Mythology HD 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed The Science of the Animus 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed Sit-Down with Composer and Director HD 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed Secret Societies HD 20th Century FOX Assassin’s Creed Who's In Your Blood? 20th Century FOX Assassin's Creed movie official figurines and props -Ubisoft Store- Poster banner from the website Aguilar de Nerha and Maria watching Aguilar in combat Callum Lynch incarcerated Callum drawing in his cell Aguilar fighting some Templars Lynch's execution Aguilar, and Maria Dr. Rikkin and Lynch References [ ] ↑ Vejvoda, Jim (12 June 2013). Frank Marshall to produce Assassin's Creed Movie . IGN . Archived from the original on 21 February 2015. Retrieved on 28 August 2015. ↑ 2.0 2.1 Sneider, Jeff (5 January 2015). Channing Tatum's 'Gambit' Gets 2016 Release Date; 'Fantastic Four' Sequel Moves Up . TheWrap . Archived from the original on 15 January 2015. Retrieved on 7 January 2015. ↑ Doty, Meriah (27 August 2015). 'Assassin's Creed' First Look: Here's Michael Fassbender as Brand New Character (Exclusive) . Yahoo! Entertainment . Archived from the original on 18 December 2017. Retrieved on 28 August 2015. ↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 Makuch, Eddie (16 May 2016). Assassin's Creed Movie Producers Have Plans for Two Sequels . GameSpot . Archived from the original on 21 June 2016. Retrieved on 17 May 2016. ↑ 5.0 5.1 Bradford, Matt (17 May 2011). Ubisoft Motion Pictures prepping 3D Assassin's Creed, Splinter Cell, and Ghost Recon films . GamesRadar . Archived from the original on 6 February 2018. Retrieved on 28 August 2015. ↑ 6.0 6.1 Brodesser-Akner, Claude. Why a Killer Deal to Turn the Hit Video Game Assassin's Creed Into a Movie Has Shocked Hollywood . Vulture . Archived from the original on 21 February 2014. Retrieved on 28 August 2015. ↑ Stern, Marlow (16 October 2013). December years-a-slave-religion-and-assassins-creed Michael Fassbender Opens Up About '12 Years A Slave', Religion, and Assassin's Creed . The Daily Beast . Archived from December years-a-slave-religion-and-assassin-s-creed.html the original on 27 August 2019. Retrieved on 17 October 2013. ↑ Ubisoft and New Regency partner on Assassin's Creed film . Ubisoft Montreal (22 October 2012). Archived from the original on 4 February 2013. Retrieved on 22 October 2012. ↑ Graser, Marc (22 October 2012). New Regency, Fox partner on Ubisoft's Assassin's Creed . Variety . Archived from the original on 18 October 2019. Retrieved on 28 August 2015. ↑ Siegel, Tatiana (14 January 2013). New Regency and Ubisoft Tap Brit Writer for 'Assassin's Creed' Film (Exclusive) . The Hollywood Reporter . Archived from the original on 8 January 2020. Retrieved on 18 June 2013. ↑ McKittrick, Christopher (12 August 2013). Wolverine : Two Writers, One Character . Creative Screenwriting . Archived from the original on 3 October 2019. Retrieved on 16 August 2013. ↑ Fleming, Jr., Mike (7 April 2014). 'Exodus' Scribes Adam Cooper & Bill Collage Take 'Assassin's Creed' . Deadline Hollywood . Archived from the original on 21 November 2019. Retrieved on 8 April 2014. ↑ Fleming, Jr., Mike (29 April 2014). Michael Fassbender Poised To Re-Team With 'Macbeth' Helmer On Assassin’s Creed' . Deadline Hollywood . Archived from the original on 13 August 2019. Retrieved on 30 April 2014. ↑ Cornet, Roth (8 August 2014). Michael Fassbender Wants to Honor the Game & Bring in Original Elements on the Assassin's Creed Movie . IGN . Archived from the original on 27 March 2019. Retrieved on 10 August 2014. ↑ Makuch, Eddie (12 February 2015). Assassin's Creed Movie Officially Enters Production . GameSpot . Archived from the original on 16 February 2015. Retrieved on 15 February 2015. ↑ 16.0 16.1 Varanini, Giancarolo (27 August 2015). Meet Michael Fassbender as Aguilar in 'Assassin's Creed' Movie . UbiBlog . Archived from the original on 26 February 2016. Retrieved on 29 August 2015. ↑ Lovett, Jamie (28 August 2015). Assassin's Creed Movie Confirmed To Take Place In The Same Universe As The Games . ComicBook . Archived from the original on 4 June 2020. Retrieved on 30 August 2015. ↑ Azaïzia Aymar (@AymarMtl) on Twitter "It is my honor to announce that #assassinscreedmovie last shot was taken minutes ago! Congratulations guys!!! pic.twitter.com/UxsiUDIQQm " ( screenshot ) ↑ Gilyaov, Alex (14 March 2017). Assassin's Creed Movie's Original Ending Revealed . IGN . Archived from the original on 9 March 2018. ↑ Assassin's Creed (@AssassinsMovie) on Twitter "12.21.16 pic.twitter.com/ikNNeheWuk " ( screenshot ) ↑ AccessTheAnimus (@AccessTheAnimus) on Twitter "@DVCYuutaTogashi Spain and USA :)" ( screenshot ) ↑ Access the Animus (@AccessTheAnimus) on Facebook "Thank you for your email. Please note that I will be traveling for business until March 25, 2016 with limited access to email. I apologize for any delay in communication and will respond promptly upon my return to the office. For situations that require immediate assistance, please contact my assistant via phone (+34 911 98 0285 / 646-845-9162). Regards, Alan Rikkin CEO, Abstergo Industries" ( backup link ) ( screenshot ) ↑ Danny (@TheDannyDesigns) on Twitter "@AssassinsMovie @UbiCentral I sent an email to it and got this back. pic.twitter.com/MDzPfLHUqB " ( screenshot ) ↑ AccessTheAnimus (@AccessTheAnimus) on Twitter "If you send an email to Alan Rikkin’s address, you get this reply. #AssassinsCreedMovie pic.twitter.com/4gyTDPEqx9 " ( screenshot ) ↑ Alan Rikkin Voice mail on the Access The Animus YouTube channel ↑ Alan Rikkin Voice Mail - March 25th 2016 on the Access The Animus YouTube channel ↑ Assassin's Creed Hollywood Movie Behind The Scenes! with Damien Walters and Michael Fassbender on the TEAMSUPERTRAMP YouTube channel ↑ Assassin's Creed: Into the Animus on Amazon.com ( backup link ) ↑ Assassin's Creed III – Modern day ↑ Seeto, Damian Antony (17 May 2013). Assassin’s Creed Movie Has A Definite Release Date . Just Push Start . Archived from the original on 18 September 2013. Retrieved on 18 June 2013. ↑ Collura, Scott (12 November 2013). Fantastic Four Reboot, The Secret Service Release Date Changes . Archived from the original on 29 October 2019. ↑ Makuch, Eddie (19 September 2014). Assassin's Creed Movie Delayed to 2016 . GameSpot . Archived from the original on 11 January 2016. Retrieved on 4 June 2020. ↑ Assassin's Creed DVD Release Date . DVDs Release Dates. Retrieved on 4 June 2020. ↑ Gohra, Sam (11 August 2019). Disney Cancels Assassin's Creed Film Sequel, Mega Man and The Sims Movies . TechRaptor . Archived from the original on 20 August 2019. Retrieved on 27 August 2019. External links [ ] Abstergo.com (content now obsolete; archived from the original) Assassin's Creed (@assassinsmovie) on Twitter Assassin's Creed at the Internet Movie Database Assassin's Creed Film • Novelization Characters Assassins Callum Lynch • Joseph Lynch • Mary Lynch • Moussa • Nathan • Lin • Emir | Arno Dorian | Baptiste • Agaté • François Mackandal | Duncan Walpole • Phillip Randall | Shao Jun | Aguilar de Nerha • María • Benedicto | Yusuf Tazim Templars Alan Rikkin • Sofia Rikkin • McGowen • Ellen Kaye • Alex • Samia • Gilles | Henry Spencer | Tomás de Torquemada • Ojeda • Ramirez Others Bolin Chang • Raymond • Frank Kimmler • Cassiane Lacroix • Luther Wiley | Jeanne | Geoffrey | Empress Zhang • Zhengde Emperor | Diego • Ferdinand II • Isabella I • Sebastián de Olmedo • Muhammad XII • Ahmed • Christopher Columbus | Nalan Tazim • Bekir bin Salih • Davud bin Hassan • Selime Factions Assassins ( Spanish Brotherhood | Haitian Brotherhood | Ottoman Brotherhood | Chinese Brotherhood | British Brotherhood ) • Templars ( Abstergo Industries ( Abstergo Foundation Rehabilitation Center ) • Council of Elders | Spanish Rite ( Spanish Inquisition ) | British Rite ( East India Company ) ) Locations Mexico ( Baja California ) • United States ( Texas ) • Spain ( Madrid ) • United Kingdom ( London ) | Saint-Domingue | China ( Beijing ) | Spain ( Andalusia • Granada • Seville • Palos de la Frontera ) | Constantinople Events Reconquista ( Granada War ) | Haitian Revolution Terms and Concepts Animus • Bleeding Effect • Hidden Blade • Pieces of Eden ( Apple of Eden ) Assassin's Creed series Main games Assassin's Creed • Assassin's Creed II ( Battle of Forlì • Bonfire of the Vanities ) • Brotherhood ( Copernicus Conspiracy • The Da Vinci Disappearance ) • Revelations ( The Lost Archive ) • Assassin's Creed III ( Benedict Arnold • The Tyranny of King Washington ) • Liberation • Black Flag ( Freedom Cry • Aveline ) • Rogue • Unity ( Dead Kings ) • Syndicate ( Jack the Ripper • The Last Maharaja • The Dreadful Crimes ) • Origins ( The Hidden Ones • The Curse of the Pharaohs ) • Odyssey ( Legacy of the First Blade • The Fate of Atlantis ) • Valhalla ( Wrath of the Druids • The Siege of Paris • Dawn of Ragnarök ) • Mirage Animus Hub Shadows ( Claws of Awaji ) • Hexe • Invictus Spin-off games Altaïr's Chronicles • Bloodlines • Discovery • Multiplayer • Project Legacy • Multiplayer Rearmed • Recollection • Pirates • Memories • Chronicles ( China | India | Russia ) • Identity • Arno's Chronicles • Rebellion • Freerunners • Jade • Assassin's Creed Netflix mobile game Virtual Reality The VR Experience • Escape the Lost Pyramid • The Temple of Anubis • Beyond Medusa's Gate • Nexus VR Table Top Arena • Monopoly • Vendetta • Top Trumps • Risk • Brotherhood of Venice ( Roma • Tokyo XXI • Creed vs Crows • Apocalypse ) • The Last Quest of Leonardo da Vinci • Universes Beyond • Roleplaying Game Compilations Ezio Trilogy • Anthology • Heritage Collection • The Americas Collection • The Ezio Collection • The Rebel Collection Novels Renaissance • Brotherhood • The Secret Crusade • Revelations • Forsaken • Black Flag • Unity • Underworld • Last Descendants series ( Last Descendants | Tomb of the Khan | Fate of the Gods ) • Heresy • The Official Movie Novelization • Desert Oath • Odyssey • The Ming Storm series ( The Ming Storm • The Desert Threat ) • Geirmund's Saga • Fragments ( The Blade of Aizu | The Highlands Children | The Witches of the Moors ) • The Silk Road • The Imperial Jade Seal ( Chang'an Wang ) • Sword of the White Horse • The Engine of History ( The Magus Conspiracy • The Resurrection Plot ) • Escape Room Puzzle Book • The Golden City • Daughter of No One • Dynasty Audio Renaissance • Brotherhood • The Secret Crusade • Revelations • Forsaken • Black Flag • Underworld • Last Descendants series ( Last Descendants | Tomb of the Khan | Fate of the Gods ) • The Official Film Tie-In • Desert Oath • Odyssey • Gold • Geirmund's Saga • The Ming Storm series ( The Ming Storm • The Desert Threat ) • Turbulence in the Ming Dynasty • Sword of the White Horse • The Engine of History ( The Magus Conspiracy • The Resurrection Plot ) Comics Assassin's Creed • The Fall • The Chain • Awakening • Brahman • Assassins • Templars • Last Descendants – Locus • Conspiracies • Uprising • Reflections • Origins • Bloodstone • Blade of Shao Jun • Dynasty • Song of Glory • Blood Brothers • Valhalla webcomic • Forgotten Myths • The Hidden Codex • Forgotten Temple • Visionaries • A Soar of Eagles • Iga no Monogatari Non-fiction Assassin's Creed guide / artbook / CE artbook • Assassin's Creed II guide / artbook / CE artbook • Brotherhood guide / artbook • Revelations guide / artbook • Encyclopedia • Assassin's Creed III guide / artbook • Black Flag guide / artbook / CE artbook • Rogue guide / artbook • Unity guide / artbook / CE artbook • The Complete Visual History • Syndicate guide / artbook / CE artbook • A Walk Through History • The Official Coloring Book • The Essential Guide • Movie Posters • Into the Animus • Incredibuilds • The Official Collection • Origins guide / artbook / CE artbook • Infographics • The Culinary Codex • Odyssey guide / artbook / CE artbook • Complete Character Guide • 2500 Years of History • Atlas • Discovery Books ( Ancient Egypt | Ancient Greece | Viking Age | In the Heart of Baghdad | The Japan of the Samurai ) • Where's the Assassin? • Valhalla artbook • Mirage artbook / CE artbook • Shadows artbook / CE artbook Film & Television Lineage • Ascendance • Embers • French Revolution • The Syndicate • Assassin's Creed • Live-action TV series • Animated TV series • Anime series Websites Abstergo.com • Animus Next • Council • Crack The Code • Discover Your Legacy • Initiates • Project Legacy • Project Widow • Pirates Demo • Question the Creed • The Twelve Trials • Unlock the Animus • Who's In Your Blood? • Your Blood Is Not Your Own • XIXth Century Search Engine Cancelled media The Invisible Imam • The Eye of Heaven • Lost Legacy • Utopia • Bloodsail • Alliance • Covers Collection Categories Categories : Assassin's Creed series Real world films Languages Deutsch Español Français Magyar Italiano Nederlands Polski Português do Brasil Русский Українська 中文 Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Horror Assassin's Creed Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Assassin's Creed Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab