Apple introduces dual camera iPhone 11 - Apple (AU) Apple Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home Entertainment Accessories Support 0 + Newsroom Open Newsroom navigation Close Newsroom navigation Apple Services Apple Stories Search Newsroom Close PRESS RELEASE 11 September 2019 Apple introduces dual camera iPhone 11 Featuring the Fastest, Most Powerful Chip Ever in a Smartphone, Plus an All-New Dual-Camera System and Even Longer All-Day Battery Life iPhone 11 advances the most popular smartphone in the world with meaningful innovations that touch areas customers see and use every day. Cupertino, California — Apple today announced iPhone 11 , delivering innovations that make the world’s most popular smartphone even more powerful, improving the features people use the most throughout their day. 1 iPhone 11 introduces a powerful dual-camera system, offering an intuitive camera experience with the highest quality video in a smartphone and Night mode for photos. iPhone 11 is powered by the A13 Bionic chip to perform the most demanding tasks, while getting through an entire day on a single charge, and is designed to withstand the elements with improved water resistance. iPhone 11 comes in six new gorgeous colours, and will be available for pre-order beginning Friday, 13 September and in stores beginning Friday, 20 September, starting at just RRP A$1199 inc. GST . “iPhone 11 is the next generation of iPhone, packed with great new capabilities in an incredible design, including new Ultra Wide and Wide cameras for gorgeous videos and photos, the power and ease of use of iOS 13, and A13 Bionic — the fastest chip ever in a smartphone that quickly handles the tasks that matter most to people every day,” said Phil Schiller, Apple’s senior vice president of Worldwide Marketing. “With the tight integration between hardware, software and services, the advancements in iPhone 11 bring an unparalleled user experience at an affordable price to even more customers. We think people will love it.” The 6.1-inch Liquid Retina display’s true-to-life all-screen design makes everything look amazing. Precision Design and Display With a back design that is precision milled and sculpted from a single piece of glass, iPhone 11 features the toughest glass ever in a smartphone. It is rated IP68 for water resistance up to 2 meters for up to 30 minutes, and is protected against accidental spills from common liquids such as coffee and soft drinks. 2 iPhone 11 comes in six new stunning colours including purple, green, yellow, black, white and PRODUCT(RED). The beautiful 6.1-inch all-screen Liquid Retina display features wide colour support and True Tone for a more natural viewing experience. 3 Customers can interact with their favourite apps in a quick, seamless way with Haptic Touch deeply integrated across iOS 13 to provide app shortcuts for everyday tasks right from the Home screen, including taking a selfie in Camera, checking an appointment in Calendar or previewing email within Mail with just a simple press. iPhone 11 is water resistant and comes in six new stunning colours including PRODUCT(RED), black, white, yellow, green and purple. A13 Bionic — Fastest Chip in a Smartphone A13 Bionic, the fastest chip ever in a smartphone, provides unparalleled performance for every task iPhone 11 handles and features up to 20 percent faster CPU and GPU than A12. A13 Bionic is built for machine learning, with a faster Neural Engine for real-time photo and video analysis, and new Machine Learning Accelerators that allow the CPU to deliver more than 1 trillion operations per second. Together, A13 Bionic and iOS 13 make up the best machine learning platform in a smartphone. Built for efficiency, the A13 Bionic also enables great all-day battery life. iPhone 11 comes with A13 Bionic, the fastest chip in a smartphone, providing unparalleled performance for every task. All-New Dual-Camera System iPhone 11 introduces a dual-camera system with all-new Ultra Wide and Wide cameras that are deeply integrated into iOS 13, offering the highest quality video in a smartphone and major advancements in photography for the ultimate camera experience. iPhone 11 shoots beautifully sharp video, with both the Ultra Wide and Wide cameras supporting 4K video with extended dynamic range for more highlight detail and cinematic video stabilisation. With a wider field of view and large focal plane, users can shoot detailed action videos with the Ultra Wide camera. The dual-camera system lets users easily zoom between each camera while Audio Zoom matches the audio to the video framing for more dynamic sound. With iOS 13, powerful video editing tools are accessible to everyone with the ability to rotate, crop, increase exposure and apply filters to videos instantly all within the new, easy-to-use Camera interface. With iPhone 11, the all-new Ultra Wide camera fundamentally changes the photography experience by capturing four times more scene, and is great for taking landscape or architecture photos, tight shots and more. A new Wide sensor with 100 percent Focus Pixels enables Night mode, delivering huge improvements to photos captured in indoor and outdoor low-light environments, resulting in brighter images with natural colours and reduced noise. Both cameras work together to enable Portrait mode photos for people, pets, objects and more. The all-new Ultra Wide and Wide cameras offer major advancements in photography for the ultimate camera experience, including Night mode. The all-new Ultra Wide and Wide cameras offer major advancements in photography for the ultimate camera experience, including Night mode. The all-new Ultra Wide and Wide cameras offer major advancements in photography for the ultimate camera experience, including Night mode. previous next Next-generation Smart HDR uses advanced machine learning to capture more natural-looking images with beautiful highlight and shadow detail on the subject and in the background. Deep Fusion, coming later this spring, is a new image processing system enabled by the Neural Engine of A13 Bionic. Deep Fusion uses advanced machine learning to do pixel-by-pixel processing of photos, optimising for texture, details and noise in every part of the photo. Apple’s tight integration between hardware and software delivers a redesigned camera interface, providing a more immersive experience that works with the dual-camera system and all-screen display to let users see and capture the area outside of the frame. For the first time, users can easily record video without switching out of Photo mode with QuickTake by simply holding the shutter button to start recording. With QuickTake, hold the shutter button to easily start recording without switching out of Photo mode. The updated TrueDepth camera introduces a new 12MP camera with a wider field of view to capture more in selfies, and next-generation Smart HDR enables more natural-looking photos. Expressive selfie videos take on a whole new look on the TrueDepth camera, now recording 4K video at up to 60 fps and 120 fps slo-mo. Additional Features The new Apple-designed U1 chip uses Ultra Wideband technology, the first ever in a smartphone, for spatial awareness. With iOS 13.1 coming on 1 October, AirDrop gets even better with directionally aware suggestions. Face ID, the most secure facial authentication in a smartphone, gets up to 30 percent faster and easier to use with improved performance at varying distances and support for more angles. Spatial audio provides an immersive surround sound experience and Dolby Atmos delivers powerful, moving audio to iPhone 11. Gigabit-class LTE and Wi-Fi 6 allow for even faster download speeds 4 and Dual SIM with eSIM. 5 Featuring iOS 13 iOS 13 on iPhone 11 delivers a seamless experience with software and hardware integration unlike any other smartphone. iOS 13 introduces a dramatic new look with Dark Mode, a more private way to sign in to apps and websites with Sign In with Apple, and an all-new Maps experience. 6 With advanced Camera and Photos features, photo editing is more comprehensive and intuitive with powerful new tools that now extend to video editing. Portrait Lighting adjustments can be made right in the Camera app to adjust the intensity of light on a subject, and a new High-Key Mono effect creates a beautiful, monochromatic look for Portrait mode photos. The dual cameras in iPhone 11 work together to create stunning Portrait mode images of people, pets, objects and more. The dual cameras in iPhone 11 work together to create stunning Portrait mode images of people, pets, objects and more. The dual cameras in iPhone 11 work together to create stunning Portrait mode images of people, pets, objects and more. previous next Pricing and Availability iPhone 11 will be available in 64GB, 128GB and 256GB models in purple, green, yellow, black, white and PRODUCT(RED) starting at RRP A$1199 inc. GST . Customers can also get iPhone 11 from RRP A$849 inc. GST with trade-in 7 from apple.com/au , in the Apple Store app and Apple Stores. iPhone 11 is also available through Apple Authorised Resellers and select carriers (prices may vary). Customers in Australia and more than 30 other countries and regions will be able to pre-order iPhone 11 beginning at 10 p.m. AEST on Friday, 13 September with availability beginning Friday, 20 September. iOS 13 will be available on 20 September as a free software update for iPhone 6s and later. Additional software features will be available on 1 October with iOS 13.1. 8 Apple Arcade on the App Store will be available with iOS 13 as a subscription for A$7.99 inc. GST per month and is launching with a one-month free trial. 9 Users get unlimited access to the entire catalogue of over 100 new, exclusive games, all playable across iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Mac and Apple TV. Apple TV+ will be available on the Apple TV app on iPhone, iPad, Apple TV, iPod touch, Mac and other platforms, including online ( tv.apple.com ), for A$7.99 inc. GST per month with a seven-day free trial. Starting today, customers who purchase any iPhone can enjoy one year of Apple TV+ for free. 10 Apple Arcade on the App Store and Apple TV+ on the Apple TV app join Apple’s breakthrough services that include Apple Music, Apple News+, Apple Pay and iCloud. Every customer who buys iPhone 11 from Apple will be offered free Personal Setup in-store or online to help them customise their iPhone by helping transfer their data, wiping data from an old device, setting up email, highlighting new apps from the App Store and more. AppleCare+ provides additional hardware coverage and 24/7 priority access to technical support. Customers interested in learning more about iPhone 11 can join one of Apple’s new Today at Apple sessions, Quick Tips. Quick Tips are 15-minute drop-in sessions focused on some of the most popular features of iPhone, like photography. The new Quick Tip sessions begin Friday, 20 September. The back glass on iPhone 11 is precision milled from a single sheet of glass — the toughest glass ever in a smartphone. Images of iPhone 11 Download all images Apple revolutionised personal technology with the introduction of the Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple TV. Apple’s five software platforms — iOS, iPadOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s more than 100,000 employees are dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world better than we found it. 1 iPhone X R is the most popular smartphone in the world, according to Strategy Analytics. 2 iPhone 11 is splash-, water- and dust-resistant, and was tested under controlled laboratory conditions with a rating of IP68 under IEC standard 60529 (maximum depth of 2 meters up to 30 minutes). Splash, water and dust resistance are not permanent conditions, and resistance might decrease as a result of normal wear. Do not attempt to charge a wet iPhone; refer to the user guide for cleaning and drying instructions. Liquid damage not covered under warranty, but you might have rights under consumer law’ to reflect the local support pages on water resistance. 3 The iPhone 11 display has rounded corners that follow a beautiful curved design, and these corners are within a standard rectangle. When measured as a standard rectangular shape, the screen is 6.06 inches diagonally. Actual viewable area is less. 4 Speeds vary based on site conditions and carrier. For details on LTE support, contact your carrier and see apple.com/au/iphone/LTE . 5 Use of Dual SIM requires two wireless service plans (which may include restrictions on roaming). Certain restrictions apply to use. 6 The new map is available now in select cities and states, and will roll out across the US by the end of 2019 and to more countries in 2020. 7 Trade-in values vary. iPhone 11 promotional pricing is after trade-in of iPhone 8 Plus in good condition. Additional trade-in values require purchase of a new iPhone, subject to availability and limits. You must be 18 years old. Offer may not be available in all countries. In-store trade-in requires presentation of a valid, government-issued photo ID (local law may require saving this information). Additional terms from Apple or Apple’s trade-in partners may apply. 8 For more information, visit apple.com/au/ios/ios-13 . Some features may not be available in all regions or all languages. 9 A$7.99 inc. GST per month after free trial. No commitment. Plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled. 10 A$7.99 inc. GST per month after free trial. One subscription per Family Sharing group. Offer good for three months after eligible device activation, starting 1 November 2019. Plan automatically renews until cancelled. Restrictions and other terms apply. Press Contacts Apple Media Helpline media.australia@apple.com Latest News UPDATE Apple surpasses 60 per cent reduction in global greenhouse gas emissions 17 April 2025 UPDATE Get active with Apple Watch 14 April 2025 UPDATE WHAT THE CLASH? joins Apple Arcade in May, among five new games 09 April 2025 Apple Newsroom The latest news and updates, direct from Apple. Read more Stay up to date with the latest articles from Apple Newsroom. Dismiss Get Notifications Apple Footer  Apple Newsroom Apple introduces dual camera iPhone 11 Shop and Learn Shop and Learn Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home AirTag Accessories Gift Cards Apple Wallet Apple Wallet Wallet Apple Pay Account Account Manage Your Apple Account Apple Store Account iCloud.com Entertainment Entertainment Apple One Apple TV+ Apple Music Apple Arcade Apple Fitness+ Apple News+ Apple Podcasts Apple Books App Store Apple Store Apple Store Find a Store Genius Bar Today at Apple Group Reservations Apple Camp Apple Store App Certified Refurbished Apple Trade In Financing Carrier Deals at Apple Order Status Shopping Help Consumer Law For Business For Business Apple and Business Shop for Business For Education For Education Apple and Education Shop for K-12 Shop for University For Healthcare For Healthcare Apple in Healthcare Mac in Healthcare Apple Values Apple Values Accessibility Education Environment Privacy Racial Equity and Justice Supply Chain About Apple About Apple Newsroom Apple Leadership Career Opportunities Investors Ethics & Compliance Events Contact Apple More ways to shop: Find an Apple Store or other retailer near you. Or call 133-622. Australia Copyright © 				 				2025 				 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Legal Site Map