Bryan Singer Was Reportedly “Up to His Old Tricks” on Bohemian Rhapsody Set | Vanity Fair Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu Menu Search Search Politics Business Hollywood Style Culture Royals Celebrity Video Podcasts Archive VF Shop What Is Cinema? Archive Magazine the latest Bryan Singer Was Reportedly “Up to His Old Tricks” on Bohemian Rhapsody Set A new report sheds light on the alleged bad behavior that got Singer booted from the set of his Queen biopic—and the Twentieth Century Fox lot. By Yohana Desta October 31, 2018 Bryan Singer attends the premiere of X-Men: Apocalypse in London on May 9, 2016. By Daniel Leal-Olivas/AFP/Getty. Save this story Save Save this story Save Last December, Twentieth Century Fox fired Bryan Singer from the Queen biopic Bohemian Rhapsody, then shut down the offices for his production company Bad Hat Harry. It was a swift, all-encompassing breakup, wrapped up in rumors that Singer had been repeatedly absent from the set and gotten into an altercation of some sort with star Rami Malek. Singer denied the claims at the time, alleging that he left the set to to go aid an ailing parent, and that his fight with Malek was blown out of proportion. But now, on the eve of the film’s release, a new report is shedding light on what apparently happened behind the scenes. According to The Hollywood Reporter , Singer, who has developed a reputation for being a difficult director, was hired by Fox chairman Stacey Snider with a few simple caveats—including that Singer show up to work every day. It was instantly obvious, per T.H.R., that the director could not hold up his end of the bargain. “From the beginning, he was up to his old tricks,” an insider told the outlet. “He would shoot, he’d be exhausted, [cinematographer] Tom Sigel would shoot.” Sigel, T.H.R. notes, has taken over shooting duties for Singer on previous films. One insider told the trade that on the set of 2016’s X-Men: Apocalypse, Singer was “emotionally very frail” and would arrive to work late and unprepared. He would allegedly cry if his behavior was challenged. In addition, he had constant visitors, “people flying in and out of town, put up in hotels, all on his dime,” that insider continued. Given all that, “I was kind of shocked when they went forward with Rhapsody. How many at-bats do you get?” As Rhapsody ’s shoot wore on, T.H.R. writes, the cast and the crew would apparently find themselves waiting around for Singer whenever he was late or absent. Tom Hollander, who played Queen manager Jim Beach, was reportedly so frustrated that he quit the project for a time. The report repeats that Singer had an on-set altercation with Malek, which the actor allegedly complained about to Fox. The studio then sent execs to London, but the director’s behavior (including one report that he threw a piece of electrical equipment on the set, though not at anyone specific) was “deemed not actionable,” T.H.R. notes. “Any discussion about fights between myself and Rami Malek are simply an exaggeration of a few creative differences that were quickly resolved,” Singer said in a statement to the publication. “This is normal on a film set. And I think the work speaks for itself.” The trouble that led to his firing began around Thanksgiving, when Singer asked the studio to halt production for several weeks so that he could go home. Per T.H.R., Snider told him not to, but the director left anyway. “I put over a year and a half of my life and passion into the film Bohemian Rhapsody, ” Singer said in a statement to the outlet. “I’m also extremely proud of the finished product. There was a period at the end where I asked the studio to allow me to go home to deal with a parent who was sick. This was also affecting my own health. I felt we could finish up the few remaining days in January. The studio did not.” His decision to leave ultimately led to his firing—and though Singer retains his director’s credit on the film, he is no longer credited as a producer. In the meantime, Bohemian Rhapsody has been dragged by critics , though it’s expected to enjoy a solid weekend at the box office anyway, with a projected $35 million to $40 million opening. Singer, however, has remained on the offensive in the last few weeks—especially after rumors circulated that Esquire is planning to drop a piece about sexual misconduct allegations that have been made against him. He’s also plotting his next moves, reportedly in talks to helm an adaptation of Red Sonja for Millennium. Inside Unseen Icons by Phil Griffin: 25 Years in Film & Photography 1 / 14 Chevron Chevron Phil Griffin Amy Winehouse, London, September 2006 Yohana Desta Yohana Desta is a writer and filmmaker based in New York City. She joined Vanity Fair as a staff writer from 2016 to 2023, penning cover stories on high-profile stars like Chadwick Boseman , Kristen Stewart , and Issa Rae . As a seasoned moderator, she has led panels on behalf of A24, ... Read more Read More really? Less Than a Year After Rape Accusation, Bryan Singer Is Reportedly Charting a Big-Screen Comeback The director, who has been accused of raping a 17-year-old boy, is in talks to helm Millennium’s Red Sonja. By Yohana Desta IN CONVERSATION Rami Malek Is Laughing Over That Viral Fan Video The Bohemian Rhapsody star on his supremely uncomfortable encounter with fan Xan Black: “I finally brought myself to watch it. I thought, ‘Oh, that’s not that bad. I don’t find myself offensive.’” By Julie Miller BOHEMIAN RHAPSODY How Rami Malek Found His Inner Freddie Mercury The Emmy-winning Mr. Robot star portrays the late Queen front man in Bohemian Rhapsody, out in theaters November 2. By Julie Miller Hollywood Esther McGregor Can Do It All—but for Now, She’s Focused on Acting The musician, tattoo artist, and model can soon be seen leading the TV adaptation of We Were Liars, playing a character she found eerily similar to herself: “She’s this cheery sunshine girl who has this allure and charm because she’s a bit of a weirdo.” By Rebecca Ford Award Season Hannah Einbinder’s Hacks Character Has Grown Up, and So Has She “I have come into more confidence as a performer,” says the comedian, whose character, Ava, is now the head writer on Deborah Vance’s late-night show. By Rebecca Ford Politics White House Correspondents’ Dinner Will Toast the Press—as Trump Thoroughly Roasts It Even in these precarious times, journalists are set to don tuxes and gowns at the Washington Hilton— sans Trump—and swarm sundry parties and brunches. Perhaps gathering together is what’s needed in this second term because, as one reporter says, “the solidarity of the press corps is going to be really tested.” By Natalie Korach Movies Pedro Pascal Thinks J.K. Rowling Is a ‘Heinous Loser’ for Her Anti-Trans Rhetoric The Last of Us star called out the Harry Potter writer’s transphobia in an Instagram comment after Rowling celebrated a UK ruling, which found that transgender women should not be recognized as women. By Chris Murphy Royals A Close-Up Look at Some of the Most Spectacular Royal Fashion Plates From Princess Diana to Princess Grace to Marie Antoinette, certain royals have influenced fashion for the ages. By Hadley Hall Meares Television Watch: Danny McBride Takes a Righteous Gemstones Break to Lay Down the Law With Vanity Fair In the latest iteration of VF’s video series, the comedian weighs in on everything from roommate disputes to family matters. By Arimeta Diop Politics Pete Hegseth Priced Out a “$10-15k” Makeup Room for the Pentagon, But Settled For a Glam Countertop A Defense official told VF initial glow-up estimates were too high for Sec. Hegseth, who of course shouldn't unwittingly text sensitive military info to journalists on Signal without a full face. By Kase Wickman Movies The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping : Everything We Know Australian actor Joseph Zada has been tapped to play 16-year-old Haymitch Abernathy, portrayed in the original Hunger Games films by Woody Harrelson. Gossip Girl reboot star Whitney Peak has also been cast as Haymitch’s girlfriend, Lenore Dove Baird. By Chris Murphy Style Donald Trump Trots Out His Worst Manners for Funerals. What Can We Expect at the Pope’s? The president, an etiquette maverick, has a long history of rudeness at the most solemn moments, from Roy Cohn’s memorial to the death of John McCain. By Keziah Weir Facebook X Instagram Pinterest YouTube More from Vanity Fair Newsletters Subscribe Digital Edition Inside the Issue About Vanity Fair FAQ Contact Contact VF Manage Account Advertising Careers User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Condé Nast Store VF Media Kit Accessibility Help © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vanity Fair may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Entertainment Select international site United States LargeChevron Italy Spain France