Dick Clark Productions and Eldridge Acquire Golden Globes® - Golden Globes The Show Awards Database 2025 Nominations Winners/Nominees Carol Burnett Award Cecil B. DeMille Award History Golden Globes History About Award Rules and Entry Forms Media Info Publicist Info Voter Application Voter Biographies Membership Board of Directors Golden Globes Leadership Team Contact Us FAQs News Latest News Video Gallery Skip to content 82nd Annual Golden Globes® LIVE COVERAGE . Golden Globe Awards Dick Clark Productions and Eldridge Acquire Golden Globes® June 12, 2023 — Partnership Creates the Golden Globe Foundation, a California Nonprofit Public-Benefit Corporation Dick Clark Productions (DCP) and Eldridge have acquired all the Golden Globes’ assets, rights, and properties from the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA). The transaction will result in the winddown of the HFPA and its membership. The proceeds from the transaction, plus the existing resources of the HFPA, will transition into a newly formed Golden Globe Foundation which will continue the legacy HPFA’s history of entertainment-related charitable giving. As part of the transaction, DCP and its partners will plan, host, and produce the annual Golden Globe Awards® show and will pursue commercial opportunities for the Golden Globes across the globe. The 81 st Annual Golden Globe Awards will take place on Sunday, January 7, 2024, kicking off the entertainment industry’s highly anticipated awards season. “We are excited to close on this much anticipated member-approved transaction and transition from a member-led organization to a commercial enterprise,” said Helen Hoehne. “Today marks a significant milestone in the evolution of the Golden Globes,” said Todd Boehly, Chairman of Eldridge. “My partners at DCP and I are grateful to Helen and team for their commitment to the successful implementation of a robust approach to governance, the expansion of the diverse and international voting body, implementing a professional, safe, and accountable environment, and trusting new ownership with a new direction for the Globes.” “As stewards of the Golden Globe Awards, our mission is to continue creating the most dynamic awards ceremony on live television viewed across the world,” said Jay Penske, CEO, Chairman and Founder, Penske Media, and CEO of DCP. “We have a great team in place to grow this iconic brand and captivate new and existing audiences to celebrate the very best in television and motion pictures.” The Golden Globe Awards, viewed in more than 220 countries and territories worldwide, will be controlled by DCP, the world’s largest producer and proprietor of televised live event entertainment programming. Share this Prev Next Subscribe to Newsletter Email address Submit GG will store your name and email address and use them to send the Weekly Globe newsletter. Withdraw consent by clicking on the link in an issue. Read our Privacy Policy . Something went wrong! Please try again. Thank you for your submission! Tabulation proudly provided by KPMG LLP (US) The Show Awards Database 2025 Nominations Winners/Nominees Carol Burnett Award Cecil B. DeMille Award History Golden Globes History About Award Rules and Entry Forms Media Info Publicist Info Voter Application Voter Biographies Membership Board of Directors Golden Globes Leadership Team Contact Us FAQs News Latest News Video Gallery Golden Globe(s)®, Cecil B. Demille® and Golden Globes® Statuette design mark are the registered trademarks and service marks and the Golden Globe® statuette the copyrighted property, of Golden Globes, LLC. Copyright © Golden Globes, LLC. Hollywood Foreign Press Association® is a registered trademark of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. All rights reserved. Accessibility Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Adchoices Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices Dismiss Disclaimer Your Privacy Rights Golden Globes, LLC (“Golden Globes”) uses first and third-party technologies to enable PMC and third-parties to collect information about you and your interactions with our sites and services (including clicks, cursor movements and screen recordings). Learn more HERE . By continuing to use our sites or services, you agree to our Terms of Use (including the class action waiver and arbitration provisions) and Privacy Policy , which have recently changed. Search Search