The Tennis Recruiting Network - Junior Tournaments TennisRecruiting.net | Coaches | Register | Forgot Password? Member Name: Password: Search for Player | Team Home Boys' Lists Girls' Lists Men's Teams Women's Teams News Photos Contributors Links Help Sign-Up Online Store Latest News | Categories | Authors | News Archives Junior Tournaments My Players | My Lists | My School | My Notifications Team Home Tournament Feature Payne, Stoot, Kockinis, Latak Capture Easter Bowl Titles by Colette Lewis, 4 April 2025 It was a week to remember for Bella Payne, Nikolas Stoot, Armira Kockinis and Marcel Latak, who aren't likely to forget the heat, wind and poor air quality that accompanied their 16s and 18s titles at last week's 57th annual Easter Bowl. Full Article Tournament Feature Grueling Final Day for Easter Bowl 12 & 14 Champions by Colette Lewis, 2 April 2025 The desert heat and air quality made for challenging conditions at last week's FILA Easter Bowl, with 14s champions Arjun Krishnan and Daniela del Mastro earning their titles with two victories on the final day, while 12s top seeds Lucy Dupere and James Borchard both competed for over three hours to secure their singles gold balls, before returning for two more matches in doubles. Full Article Tournament Feature Penickova and Satterfield Claim San Diego J300 Titles by Rhiannon Potkey, 28 March 2025 Jack Satterfield won his first J300 title and Kristina Penickova swept the singles and doubles titles in the second year of the North American Regional Championships at the Barnes Tennis Center in San Diego. Full Article Tournament Feature US Juniors Dominate J300 FILA International Championships by Colette Lewis, 21 March 2025 Every finalist at the ITF J300 FILA International Championships in Indian Wells was from the United States, with top seed Jagger Leach sweeping the boys titles and Julieta Pareja claiming the girls singles championship in the event held during the second week of the BNP Paribas Open. Full Article 9-Jan-2025 Patel, Clarke Exceed Expecations with 18s Winter National Titles Shaan Patel and Chukwumelije Clarke weren't the favorites entering the USTA 18 Winter National Championships in Orlando. It didn't matter. Patel and Clarke captured their first gold balls by winning the singles titles at the USTA National Campus. 8-Jan-2025 Azam, Wygodzki Captures 16s Winter National Titles Safir Azam and Paige Wygodzki captured the 16s singles titles at the USTA Winter National Championships at the National Campus in Orlando, Florida. Azam was extended to three sets in the final, while Wygodzki secured another straight-set win. 7-Jan-2025 Kaminski and Evans Secure 14s Winter National Titles Top-seeded Eli Kaminski and 10th-seeded London Evans won the first gold balls of their careers by capturing the singles titles at the USTA 14 Winter National Championships in San Antonio, Texas. Both won in straight sets in the final. 6-Jan-2025 Smith and Nick Capture 12s Winter National Titles Jacqueline Nick and Max Smith captured their first gold balls by winning the 12s girls and boys singles titles, respectively, at the USTA Winter National Championships at the University of Texas at San Antonio Tennis Center. 20-Dec-2024 Santamarta, Krejcova Sustain Strong Runs at Orange Bowl Four days of strong winds at the ITF J500 Orange Bowl couldn't blow Andres Santamarta Roig and Tereza Krejcova off course, with both continuing the form they had shown the previous week in reaching the finals of the International Tennis Federation's J300 in Bradenton. 19-Dec-2024 Lee Doubles Up, China's Wang Makes History Jordan Lee and Xiaotong Wang traveled from the IMG Academy International Championships in Bradenton to the Orange Bowl in Plantation with completely different perspectives, but both emerged with the winner's crystal bowl of oranges last Saturday at the Veltri Tennis Center. 13-Dec-2024 Kostovic and Santamarta Roig Claim ITF J300 Bradenton Titles Serbia's Teodora Kostovic and Spain's Andres Santamarta captured the ITF J300 singles titles at the IMG Academy in Florida last week with straight set wins in the finals. 11-Dec-2024 Top Seeds Lee and Davletshina Earn IMG Academy Titles Top seeds Nikol Davletshina and Jordan Lee claimed the singles titles in the Girls 12s and Boys 16s divisions, respectively, at the IMG Academy International Tennis Championships last Saturday in Bradenton, Florida. 18-Oct-2024 Kennedy and Iyengar Claim ITF Pan American Regional Titles A warm and sunny week ended in Spring, Texas with four all-American finals at the International Tennis Federation's J300 Pan American Regional Championships, hosted by the Giammalva Racquet Club. Jack Kennedy and Maya Iyengar captured the singles titles. 13-Sep-2024 Improbable Runs Lead Jodar and Stojsavljevic to US Open Titles Rafael Jodar and Mika Stojsavljevic both emerged with their first junior slam titles after inspiring runs in the US Open Junior Championships at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center, with Jodar defeating top seed Nicolai Budkov Kjaer and Stojsavljevic downing No. 7 seed Wakana Sonobe in the singles finals. 28-Aug-2024 Jodar and Kostovic Capture College Park J300 Titles Spain's Rafael Jodar and Serbia's Teodora Kostovic warmed up for the US Open Junior Championships by capturing the singles titles at last week's International Federation J300 tournament in College Park, Maryland 16-Aug-2024 Jovic Sweeps Through 18s, Nets Two US Open Wild Cards Iva Jovic captured the Girls 18s singles and doubles title at the Billie Jean King National Championships in San Diego. The 16-year-old didn't drop a set while sweeping through singles, and teamed with Tyra Grant to continue their success in doubles. 16-Aug-2024 Forbes Finds Form in Capturing 18s Title in Kalamazoo Matthew Forbes arrived in Kalamazoo with an uninspiring recent match record and a lower seed. But the rising Michigan State freshman left with a gold ball, a US Open wild card and a Gatorade bath from his college teammates after winning the 18s singles title. 15-Aug-2024 Ashar's Dream Run Ends with Gold Ball, Junior US Open Berth Ishika Ashar spent the last year dreaming about playing in the Junior US Open. The blue chip rising junior made it a reality by capturing the Girls 16s singles title at the USTA Billie Jean King National Championship in San Diego. Ashar and singles finalist Nicole Weng both earned their first national balls. 15-Aug-2024 Grumet's Golden Summer Continues at Kalamazoo Gus Grumet won his first gold ball at the USTA National Clay Courts Championships in July. A second came in his very next tournament, with the No. 1 seed capturing the USTA Boys 16s National championship with a nerve-jangling comeback at Kalamazoo College's Stowe Stadium. 14-Aug-2024 Kockinis Beats the Heat, Opponents for Girls 14s Gold Armira Kockinis nearly bowed out in the quarterfinals when she was overcome by the heat. But the California native hung tough and won every match to capture the singles gold ball at the USTA Girls 14s Natiional Championships in Rome, Georgia 14-Aug-2024 Berezin Triumphs Over Adversity to Capture Gold Daniil Berezin overcame adversity to claim a major title. The Florida native captured the gold ball at the USTA Boys 14s National Championship in Alabama, defeating Tabb Tuck in straight sets in the final. 13-Aug-2024 Poznick Sweeps Girls 12 Titles to Prolong Golden Summer Nadia Poznick swept the singles and doubles titles at the USTA Girls 12s National Championships in Peachtree Corners, Georgia. Poznick also won the USTA Girls 12s Clay Court singles title last month. 13-Aug-2024 Marla, Seeded No. 15, Captures Boys 12s Singles Title No. 15-seed Ishaan Marla won the singles title of the USTA Boys 12s National Championships, while James Borchard and Nathan Lee were the doubles champions in Mobile, Alabama. 12-Aug-2024 Championship Week Rewind The USTA National Championships took place last week, with gold balls being awarded to all age divisions at sites across the country - from Georgia to California. All week long, TRN features champions from these tournaments in our Championship Week series. 2-Aug-2024 Svajda, Grumet Enter Kalamazoo as Top Seeds in 18s, 16s Although two-time defending champion Learner Tien will not be competing for an unprecedented third Kalamazoo 18s title this year, plenty of players with stellar Kalamazoo pedigrees are setting their sights on the US Open men's wild card awarded to the champion in the 81st edition of the USTA 18s and 16s National Championships at Kalamazoo College. 26-Jul-2024 Kosteva and Lee Treasure Wimbledon 14U Experience Wimbledon is the best possible place to receive an introduction to grass court tennis, and American juniors Jordan Lee and Raya Kotseva took full advantage of their opportunities at the third edition of the 14-and-under invitational. 23-Jul-2024 Historic Wimbledon Titles for Budkov Kjaer and Jamrichova After four frustrating days of rain to start the Junior Championships, six players, including three Americans, saw their patience rewarded with Wimbledon titles on Championship Sunday at the All England Lawn Tennis Club. 19-Jul-2024 Hill Stays Confident, Secures First Gold Ball at Girls 18s Clays Rising senior Claire Hill captured the first gold ball of her career by winning the singles title at the USTA Girls 18 National Clay Court Championships in Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina. Kady Tannenbaum and Linda Ziets-Segura won the doubles title. 19-Jul-2024 Long Goes the Distance for Gold Ball at Boys 18 Clays Dylan Long's first national ball was the gold variety after he captured the singles title with a three-set victory at the USTA Boys 18 Clay Court Nationals in Florida. Max Pettingell and Jack Satterfield won the doubles title. 18-Jul-2024 Traynor Wins First Ball, Captures Gold at USTA Girls 16 Clays Olivia Traynor overcame the steamy conditions in Huntsville, Alabama, to win the USTA National Girls 16 Clay Court singles title without losing a set. Reagan Levine and Addy Rogin won the doubles title. 18-Jul-2024 Grumet Nets First Gold Ball in Familiar Final at Clay Court 16s Gus Grumet captured his first gold ball by winning the singles title at the USTA Boys 16 National Clay Court Championships in Delray Beach, Florida. Grumet faced a familiar opponent in the final, having beaten Andrew Johnson in an ITF event earlier in the month as well. 17-Jul-2024 Wang Secures Another Gold Ball with Girls 14s Clay Title Allison Wang won her third gold ball by capturing the singles title at the USTA Girls 14s Clay Court Championships in Plantation, Florida. Reiley Rhodes and Emery June Martin were the doubles champions. 17-Jul-2024 Vaughan Claims Double Gold at Boys 14 Clay Courts Mason Vaughan captured his first-ever gold balls by winning the singles and doubles titles at the USTA Boys 14s Clay Court Championships in Dothan, Alabama. The third-seeded Vaughan won a three-set singles final and teamed with Dylan Meinke to win the doubles title. 16-Jul-2024 Poznick Pockets Gold Ball at USTA Girls 12 Clay Nationals Nadia Poznick won the singles title while Tara Guhan and Gwyneth Britton captured the doubles crown at the USTA Girls 12s Clay Court Championships in Greensboro, North Carolina. 16-Jul-2024 Double Gold for Gardality at USTA Boys 12 Clay Championships Daniel Gardality captured the singles and doubles titles at the USTA Boys 12 Clay Court National Championship at the USTA Campus in Orlando, Florida. Gardality won the singles title in straight sets and teamed with David Bender for a three-set win in the doubles final. 15-Jul-2024 Clay Court Championship Week The USTA Clay Court Championships wrapped up over the weekend. This week, TRN has wrap-up stories of all the action from across the country, from the Boys' 12s at the USTA National Tennis Center to the Girls' 18s in Mount Pleasant, S.C. Check out the latest gold ball winners of all ages during our coverage of Clay Court Championship Week. 3-Apr-2024 Manning, Wang, Goode, Payne Capture Easter Bowl Titles The 2024 FILA Easter Bowl USTA Spring National Championships 16s and 18s finals were scheduled over two days due to the forecast of rain in the normally arid Coachella Valley. But William Manning, Tianmei Wang, Bella Payne and Gavin Goode handled every challenge thrown their way to add their names to the long and prestigious list of Easter Bowl champions. 1-Apr-2024 Easter Bowl Sweeps for Kotseva, Johnson, Davletshina Familiar faces continued their success last week at the FILA Easter Bowl USTA Spring National Championships, with Andrew Johnson and Jiarui Zhang adding to their gold ball collections,, Raya Kotseva staying perfect in the desert and Nikol Davletshina claiming her first singles gold. 27-Mar-2024 Jovic, Kennedy Eye Summer Slams After J300 Titles Iva Jovic and Jack Kennedy are looking forward to competing at Roland Garros and Wimbledon for the first time in their careers after capturing the singles titles at the International Tennis Federation J300 North American Closed last Saturday at Barnes Tennis Center in San Diego. 22-Mar-2024 Quan, Glozman Burst Through for ITF Indian Wells Titles Rudy Quan and Valerie Glozman were able to celebrate another title in Indian Wells after capturing the singles crowns at the ITF J300. Quan and Glozman had previously won Easter Bowl titles in desert. 16-Feb-2024 Sevim's Match Tiebreaker Mastery Leads to First L2 Title Luca Sevim demonstrated his mastery in match tiebreakers throughout the USTA Boys 14s Level 2 in Grand Rapids, clinching the title with a 1-6, 6-3, 10-8 win over top seed Mason Vaughan, who recovered to win the doubles titles with partner Marko Mikic. 26-Jan-2024 Americans Sweep Junior Doubles Titles at Aussie Open American teams swept the junior doubles titles at the Australian Open on Friday in Melbourne. Tyra Caterina Grant and Iva Jovic won the girls title without dropping a set, while Max Exsted and Cooper Woestendick won the boys title as an unseeded tandem. 11-Jan-2024 Jayaraman, Nguyen Strike Gold for El Dorado Hills, JMG Saahith Jayaraman and Alexis Nguyen both live in El Dorado Hills, California and both train at JMG Academy. They share another thing in common after both captured the 18s singles titles at the USTA Winter National Championships. 10-Jan-2024 Spurling, Payne Capture 16s Singles Titles Nischal Spurling and Bella Payne emerged as 16-and-under singles champions as some of the nation's best young players rang in the New Year at the USTA Winter National Championships on the USTA National Campus in Orlando. 9-Jan-2024 Johnson Sweeps 14s Boys Titles, Vickneswaran Wins Girls Singles After winning the Junior Orange Bowl title, Andrew Johnson won both the Boys 14s singles and doubles titles at the USTA Winter National Championships at the University of Texas at San Antonio Tennis Center. Anjani Vickneswaran was victorious in the girls singles. 8-Jan-2024 Zhang, Del Mastro Capture 12s Singles Titles Jiarui Zhang and Daniela Del Mastro emerged as the Boys and Girls 12s singles champions at the USTA Winter National Championships at the University of Texas at San Antonio Tennis Center. 29-Dec-2023 Delayed Start, Fast Finish for Junior Orange Bowl Champions After a frustrating start to the 62nd Junior Orange Bowl International Championships, the prestigious tournament for 12s and 14s finished on time and under sunny skies at Salvadore Park and Biltmore Tennis Center last week. American Andrew Johnson, Jana Kovackova, Daniel Baranes and Jang Junseo  were crowned champions. 15-Dec-2023 Sun Shines on Orange Bowl Champions Klugman, Panarin A rare Orange Bowl without rain delays gave 14-year-old Hannah Klugman and 18-year-old Danil Panarin an opportunity to shine last week at the last ITF J500 event of the year, as Klugman made British tennis history and Panarin ended a long drought for collegians. 13-Dec-2023 New Yorkers Claim Orange Bowl 16s Championships Two 16-year-olds from New York claimed the Orange Bowl 16s singles titles last week. Brooklyn's Leena Friedman won the girls crown and Queens' Dominick Mosejczuk won the boys event at the Frank Veltri Tennis Center. 8-Dec-2023 Pacheco Mendez and Sonobe Claim Eddie Herr ITF Titles Rodrigo Pacheco Mendez of Mexico ended his junior career on a high note, while Japan's Wakana Sonobe can look forward to building on her success after the two left-handers claimed ITF J300 Eddie Herr International titles Sunday at the IMG Academy. 7-Dec-2023 Penickova and Antonius Make History at Eddie Herr Kristina Penickova and Michael Antonius are just getting started in their junior tennis careers, but they are already on a short list of players who have won two Eddie Herr singles championships after securing titles last week at the IMG Academy. 29-Nov-2023 Thanksgiving Champions Crowned at USTA National Indoors Some of the top junior players in the country took to the courts during the Thanksgiving holiday weekend to contend for titles at the USTA National Indoor Championships. Singles and doubles winners in four divisions were crowned in boys and girls. 29-Sep-2023 Frusina Wins at Home, Joint Sweeps Pan American Closed Titles With a new venue and an earlier date, the International Tennis Federation J300 Pan American Closed ventured into new territory last week in Houston. Yet when the hot and humid week drew to a close, the top two seeds in both boys and girls draws made the finals, with No. 1 seed Alex Frusina and No. 2 seed Maya Joint capturing the titles. 15-Sep-2023 Hui and Fonseca Overcome Elements to Earn US Open Titles American Katherine Hui and Brazil's Joao Fonseca navigated every obstacle and opponent to earn their first junior slam titles. Hui defeated Tereza Valentova of the Czech Republic 6-4, 6-4 in the girls final of the US Open Junior Championships, and Fonseca outlasted American Learner Tien 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 in the boys final. 30-Aug-2023 Jones, Radulov Capture ITF J300 College Park Titles With the top seeds at the International Tennis Federation's J300 in College Park, Maryland ousted earlier in the week by their American opponents in the finals, No. 2 seeds Emerson Jones of Australia and Iliyan Radulov of Bulgaria claimed the winner's trophies at the Junior Tennis Champions Center. 18-Aug-2023 Big Year Continues for Ngounoue with 18s Hard Courts Title Top-seeded Clervie Ngounoue continued her big summer by capturing the USTA Billie Jean King Girls 18 National Championship singles title to earn a wild card into the main draw of the US Open. Unseeded Kate Fakih and Olivia Center won the doubles title. 18-Aug-2023 Tien Claims Second Straight Kalamazoo 18s Title Learner Tien captured his second straight USTA Boys 18 National Championship singles title at Stowe Stadium in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Adhithya Ganesan and Alexander Frusina saved a match point to win the doubles title. 17-Aug-2023 Lyutova Fights Back to Win Another Girls 16s Title Christina Lyutova saved two match points to rally and win the USTA Billie Jean King Girls 16 National Championship singles title at Barnes Tennis Center in San Diego. The 13-year-old also won the 16s National Clay Court title last month. Leena Friedman and Vessa Turley won the doubles title in San Diego. 17-Aug-2023 Woestendick's Determination Leads to Kalamazoo 16s Title The third time was the charm for Cooper Woestendick. After two failed previous attempts, he captured the Boys 16s singles title at the USTA Hard Court National Championships in Kalamazoo. Nicholas Patrick and Maxim Kalinin won the doubles title. 16-Aug-2023 Middleton Sweeps Girls 14s Hardcourt Titles Lyla Middleton started slow but gained momentum as the tournament progressed to capture the singles title at the USTA Girls 14 National Championships in Rome, Georgia. Middleton teamed with Welles Newman to also win the doubles title. 16-Aug-2023 Konduri Sweeps 14 Hard Court Titles After Sweeping Clays After sweeping the titles at Clay Courts last month, Tanishk Konduri did the same at the USTA Boys 14 National Hard Court Championships in Alabama. He won the gold ball in singles without dropping a set and teamed with Colin McPeek to capture the doubles crown. 15-Aug-2023 Wang Adds Second Gold Ball With 12s Singles Title Top-seeded Allison Wang brought home her second USTA gold ball by winning the Girls 12s National Singles Championship in Peachtree Corners, Georgia. Sisters Daniela and Nikol Davletshina joined forces to win the doubles title. 15-Aug-2023 Ascenzo Stays Aggressive to Claim Boys 12 Title Second-seeded Tristan Ascenzo  picked up his first USTA gold ball by winning the Boys 12 National Singles Championship in Mobile, Alabama. Siddhant Dua and Smyan Vijay took out top seeds won the doubles title for their first gold balls. 14-Aug-2023 Championship Week Rewind The USTA National Championships have now concluded - and gold balls have been awarded to your latest national champions.  All week long, TRN celebrates these winners - from the East Coast to the West Coast - with coverage of the Nationals.  Enjoy the 2023 edition of Championship Week. 31-Jul-2023 College Players Have a Major Presence at Atlanta Open The Atlanta Open provided a strong showcase for the value of college tennis, with numerous former, current and committed players littering the draws. At least 30 players representing close to 20 college programs graced the courts at Atlantic Station. 28-Jul-2023 Ceban and Vujovic Earn Wimbledon 14 & Under Titles Great Britain's Mark Ceban and Serbia's Luna Vujovic had no problem making a quick transition from clay to grass with both capturing singles titles at the Wimbledon 14 & Under Championships 21-Jul-2023 McNeil Outlasts the Field to Capture Girls 18s Clay Title Christasha McNeil endured a handful of long matches in mostly steamy conditions in South Carolina to capture the singles title at the USTA Girls 18 National Clay Court Championship at LTP-Mount Pleasant. Piper Charney and Jessica Bernales won the doubles title. 21-Jul-2023 Preparation Leads to Ji's Gold Ball Breakthrough at 18 Clays Zhengqing “Jim” Ji did everything possible to prepare to go the distance at the USTA Boys 18 National Clay Court Championships in Delray Beach, Florida. It led to his first gold ball by winning the singles title. Stiles Brockett and Cassius Chinlund were the doubles winners. 20-Jul-2023 Lyutova Continues Her Mastery on Clay with 16s Title Christina Lyutova captured the USTA Girls 16 National Clay Court singles title in Huntsville, Alabama with a three-set win in the final. It was her second gold ball on clay this year. Reagan Mulberry and Carrington Brown won the doubles title. 20-Jul-2023 Satterfield Triumphs in Boys 16 Clays Without Dropping a Set Seventh-seeded Jack Satterfield, who grew up in California's Bay Area before relocating to Florida, captured the USTA Boys 16 National Clay Court Championships at the Delray Beach Tennis Center without dropping a set. Nicholas Patrick and Oliver Narbut won the doubles title. 19-Jul-2023 Preston's Aggressiveness Helps Net First Gold Ball at 14 Clays Janae Preston won the singles gold ball at the USTA Girls 14 Clay Court Championships, while top-seeds Sasha Miroshnichenko and Kennedy Drenser-Hagmann claimed the doubles title Frank Veltri Tennis Center in Plantation, Florida. 19-Jul-2023 Konduri Sweeps Titles at Boys 14 National Clay Courts Tanishk Konduri struck double gold at the USTA Boys 14s Clay Court Championships in Dothan, Alabama by winning the singles and doubles titles. Konduri teamed with Joseph Nau to capture the doubles crown. 18-Jul-2023 Davletshina Captures First Gold Ball at Girls 12s Clays Daniela Davletshina who won her first USTA gold ball by capturing the singles title at the USTA Girls 12 Clay Court National Championship at the Spencer Love Tennis Center in Greensboro, North Carolina. Zoe Young  andOlivia De Los Reyes won the doubles title. 18-Jul-2023 Meineke Sweeps Boys 12s Clay Titles Dylan Meineke captured gold balls in singles and doubles at the USTA Boys 12s Clay Court Championships at the USTA National Campus in Orlando, Florida. Meineke teamed with Adrian Sharma in the doubles win. 17-Jul-2023 Clay Court Championship Week The USTA Clay Court Championships wrapped up over the weekend. This week, TRN has wrap-up stories of all the action from across the country, from the Boys' 12s at the USTA National Tennis Center to the Girls' 18s in Mount Pleasant, S.C. Check out the latest gold ball winners of all ages during our coverage of Clay Court Championship Week. 10-Apr-2023 Chinlund, Bracks and An Win First Easter Bowl Titles; Glozman Repeats Valerie Glozman returned to the Indian Wells Tennis Garden and left with the Easter Bowl girls 18s title, while Cassius Chinlund, who had never played in a USTA Level 1 final, earned his first gold ball by claiming the boys 18s title. Ian Bracks and Claire An captured the 16s singles titles. 7-Apr-2023 Eigbedion, Kotseva, Santhosh and Lee Win Easter Bowl Titles Jason Eigbedion and Raya Kotseva swept the 12s gold balls at the Easter Bowl, while 14s champions Roshan Santhosh and Nancy Lee both earned their first Easter Bowl titles by coming back from a set down in singles at Indian Wells Tennis Garden. 31-Mar-2023 Ngounoue, Bigun Claim ITF J300 Titles in Rainy San Diego In a tournament besieged by rain during the first four days, Clervie Ngounoue and Kaylan Bigun emerged as singles champions at the International Tennis Federation's J300 at the Barnes Tennis Center in San Diego. Ngounoue parnterned with Qavia Lopez to claim the doubles title as well. 24-Mar-2023 Americans Win Inaugural FILA International Junior Titles For Cooper Woestendick, a title at the ITF J300 FILA International Junior Championships in Indian Wells proved a breakthrough, while fellow 16-year-old Clervie Ngounoue confirmed her position as one of the world's top juniors as she balances professional and junior competition. 20-Mar-2023 Kang Headlines SoCal Blue Chip Success in Bakersfield While most eyes in the tennis world focused on Indian Wells, several Southern California blue chip boys experienced success in another part of the state. Four players won at least one round at the ITF 25K event in Bakersfield, California. Stanford-bound Kyle Kang reached the final. 17-Feb-2023 McPeek and His One-Handed Backhand Secure USTA Title As the top seed, Colin McPeek was undoubtedly the favorite coming into Monday's USTA Boys 14s National Level 2 final at Grand Rapids Racquet and Fitness. But with his agressive style and one-handed backhand, McPeek was required to dig deep in the second set to secure the title. 10-Jan-2023 Tuck, Wang Capture First Gold Balls in 12s Winter Nationals Overcoming numerous rain delays in Tucson, Arizona, Tabb Tuck and Allison Wang won their first singles gold balls by capturing the singles titles at the USTA 14s Winter National Championships at the Reffkin Tennis Center. 9-Jan-2023 Reddy, Lee Capture Rain-Slogged Winter National 14s Titles After enduring numerous rain delays, Vihaan Reddy and Nancy Lee cruised to victories in their respective singles finals to capture the gold balls at the USTA 14s Winter National Championships at the Reffkin Tennis Center in Tucson, Arizona. 6-Jan-2023 Friedman, Dussault Are Good Sports, Winter National Champs Leena Friedman and Maximus Dussault not only won the 16s singles titles at the USTA Winter National Championships, they earned the sportsmanship awards for their exemplary behavior at the USTA National Campus in Orlando. 5-Jan-2023 Lian, Wang Go the Distance for 18s Winter National Titles James Lian and Tianmei Wang used the break before the third set in their respective finals to regroup and try to regain momentum. Their strategies worked as they completed their runs to the singles titles at the USTA 18s Winter National Championships on Tuesday at the USTA National Campus in Orlando. 23-Dec-2022 Lachinova, Ivanov Net Historic Titles at Junior Orange Bowl Latvia's Adelina Lachinova and Bulgaria's Ivan Ivanov celebrated historic victories at the Junior Orange Bowl in Coral Gables, Florida. Both champions in the 14s division earned their countries first titles at the tournament, which celebrated its 61st year in 2022. 16-Dec-2022 Historic Orange Bowl Titles for Crossley and Campana Lee Korea's Gerard Campana Lee and Japan's Mayu Crossley made history at the ITF Grade A Orange Bowl last week by becoming the first players from their countries to win the title in their respective singles divisions. Americans Iva Jovic and Tyra Grant captured the girls doubles title. 15-Dec-2022 Nguyen, Honda Capture 16s Titles at Orange Bowl Californian Alexis Nguyen and Japan's Naoya Honda captured the 16s singles titles at the Orange Bowl in Plantation, Florida. Nguyen was the fifth consecutive girls winner from the United States, and Honda became the first boy from his country to win. 9-Dec-2022 Crossley and Gea Claim Eddie Herr ITF Titles Unseeded Mayu Crossley of Japan and No. 10 seed Arthur Gea of France did not arrive at the IMG Academy as favorites for the International Tennis Federation Eddie Herr J1 titles, but they left with the winner's trophies after a week of excellent tennis. 8-Dec-2022 Antonius, Exsted Claim Singles Titles at Eddie Herr The original IMG Academy tennis complex, under construction during the 2021 Eddie Herr International Championships, welcomed the world's best junior players to an impressive new tennis stadium and indoor facility last week. 5-Dec-2022 Celebrating Thanksgiving with National Indoors Titles In lieu of the traditional Thanksgiving celebrations, many juniors and their families once again spent their holiday weekend competing for gold, silver and bronze balls at USTA National Indoors Championships across the country. 7-Sep-2022 Gold Balls Awarded at USTA National Doubles Championships Six teams captured gold balls at the USTA National Doubles Championships at the USTA National Campus in Lake Nona, Florida on August 26-28. Four of the teams were the No. 1 seeds in their division, including both 18s champions. 31-Aug-2022 Argentina's Midon, Japan's Saito Claim ITF College Park J1 Titles The International Tennis Federation Junior Circuit tournament last week in College Park, Maryland began with rain and ended in bright sunshine, with top seed Lautaro Midon and No. 5 seed Sara Saito adding to their Grade 1 title counts as the boys and girls champions, respectively. 19-Aug-2022 Yu Completes Golden Run with Girls 18s Title Eleana Yu overcame a second-set deficit and some blistering feet to capture the USTA Girls 18s National Championship singles title at Barnes Tennis Center in San Diego. The Ohio native defeated 15-year-old Valerie Glozman 6-3, 7-5 in the televised final. 19-Aug-2022 Tien Earns 18s Title By Seizing His Second Chance Learner Tien used his experience from saving match points earlier in the USTA Boys 18s National Championships to help him in the final. Tien overcame rain delays and match postponements to beat Ethan Quinn in four sets and capture the singles gold ball in Kalamazoo. 18-Aug-2022 Homecourt Advantage Helps Boost Ahn to Girls 16s Title San Diego native Alyssa Ahn felt right at home during the USTA Girls 16s National Championships. Ahn trains at Barnes Tennis Center, and the comfort level helped lead Ahn to the singles title. She defeated Christasha McNeil 6-2, 6-3 in the final. 18-Aug-2022 Rain Can't Halt Blanch's March to Boys 16s Title Darwin Blanch didn't let rain halt his march to the USTA Boys 16s National Championship singles title. Blanch outlasted Calvin Baierl 6-2, 3-6, 6-4 in the final match that was moved to the Markin Indoor Tennis Center at Kalamazoo College 17-Aug-2022 Payne Caps Dominant Run with Girls 14s Gold Ball Bella Payne completed a dominant surge to the USTA Girls' 14 National Championship singles title at Rome Tennis Center in Georgia by winning all 14 sets she played. No. 17 Payne defeated No. 5 Maria Aytoyan 6-3, 6-3 in the final. 17-Aug-2022 Bielen Finishes Strong To Capture Boys 14 Gold Ball Sebastian Bielen won three straight games to secure the Boys 14s singles title at the USTA National Championship. Bielen defeated Andre Alcantara 6-4, 2-6, 7-5 to complete a memorable week on hard courts in muggy Alabama. 16-Aug-2022 Sohns Nets First Gold Ball at Girls 12s Nationals Maggie Sohns captured the USTA Girls 12s National Championship in singles, while the team of Hannah Ayrault and Julia Seversen won the doubles title in Peachtree Corners, Georgia. 16-Aug-2022 Reddy Strikes Double Gold at Boys 12 Nationals Vihaan Reddy captured gold balls in both singles and doubles at the USTA Boys 12s National Championships in Mobile, Alabama. Reddy won both finals in straight sets, including the doubles title with Akshay Mirmira. 15-Aug-2022 Championship Week The USTA National Championships took place last week, with gold balls being awarded to all age divisions at sites across the country - from Georgia to California. All week long, TRN features champions from these tournaments in our Championship Week series. 5-Aug-2022 Top Talent Converges on Kalamazoo The depth of the USTA Boys 18s and 16s Nationals field can be measured several ways, but perhaps the most eye-popping method is the number of players boasting an ATP ranking. Twenty boys who begin competition this weekend in Kalamazoo have earned at least one ATP point. 29-Jul-2022 Wimbledon Begins New Tradition with First 14-and-Under Event As the All England Lawn Tennis Club celebrated 100 years of tennis at its location in Southwest London this year, the introduction of a 14-and-under tournament during the final weekend of the Championships established a new tradition. 22-Jul-2022 Stammel Nets First Singles Gold Ball with Girls 18s Clay Title Bridget Stammel added to the sports legacy of Highland Park High by capturing the USTA Girls 18 National Clay Court Championships. It was the first singles gold ball for the Vanderbilt-bound Stammel after winning a gold ball in doubles in 2019. 22-Jul-2022 Heng Finds Happier Ending, Secures 18s Clay Title Nicholas Heng waited out a lightning delay to put the finishing touches on his singles title at the USTA Boys 18 National Clay Court Championships in Delray Beach, Florida. The Auburn-bound Heng, who joins the Tigers this fall, lost in the final of last year's event. 21-Jul-2022 Rajaram Captures Gold in Clay Court National Debut Natasha Rajaram captured the first gold ball of her career by winning the singles title at the USTA Girls 16 Clay Court Nationals in Huntsville, Alabama. The blue chip rising junior from Northern California was making her debut in the national event. 21-Jul-2022 Brockett Conditioned To Win Boys 16s Clay Title Stiles Brockett used his strong conditioning to go 7-0 and capture the USTA Boys 16 National Clay Court Championships singles crown. He surged past fellow five-star prospect Mikel Anderson of Hillsboro Beach, Florida 6-1, 6-3 in the final to capture his first singles gold ball. 20-Jul-2022 Pareja Nets Third Gold Ball With Girls 14s Win Julieta Pareja won her third gold ball by rallying for a three set win in the final of the USTA Girls 14s Clay Courts Singles Championship in Plantation, Florida. Sara Shumate and Bella Payne formed a successful tandem to win the doubles gold ball. 20-Jul-2022 Kennedy Secures Two Gold Balls With Boys 14 Sweep Jack Kennedy won two gold balls at the USTA Boys 14s Clay Court Championships in Dothan, Alabama. The New York native won his first-ever gold ball in singles with a straight-set win before teaming with Sebastian Bielen to win the doubles crown. 19-Jul-2022 Ayrault Wins First Gold Ball By Capturing Girls 12s Title Seventh-seeded Hannah Ayrault secured her first gold ball by winning the singles title of the USTA Girls 12s Clay Court Championships in Boca Raton, Florida. Ayrault beat second-seeded Welles Newman 6-3, 6-3 in the final at the Polo Club of Boca Raton. 19-Jul-2022 Lee Captures Boys 12s Title on Home Courts Third-seeded Jordan Lee won the USTA Boys 12s Clay Court Singles Championship in his hometown and on his home court. Lee, who hails from Orlando, Florida, captured his first-ever gold ball at the USTA National Campus. 18-Jul-2022 Clay Court Championship Week The USTA Clay Court Championships wrapped up over the weekend. This week, TRN has wrap-up stories of all the action from across the country, from the Boys' 12s at the USTA National Tennis Center to the Girls' 18s in Mount Pleasant, S.C. Check out the latest gold ball winners of all ages during our coverage of Clay Court Championship Week. 15-Jul-2022 Sun Shines on American Wimbledon Junior Champions Americans blossomed in the abundant sun at the Wimbledon Junior Championships, with top seed Liv Hovde claiming the girls singles title, unseeded Michael Zheng dropping a close match to Croatia's Mili Poljicak in the boys singles final, and the unseeded team of Sebastian Gorzny and Alex Michelsen hoisting the boys doubles trophy. 11-Apr-2022 Breakthrough Champions in Easter Bowl 16s and ITF Singles Returning to the Coachella Valley for the first time since 2019, the Easter Bowl proved to be a breakthrough for the four champions of the 16s and ITF divisions, all of whom collected their first USTA gold balls in singles. 8-Apr-2022 Easter Bowl Returns to Indian Wells, Crowns 12s & 14s Champions After the cancellation of Easter Bowl 2020 and a relocation to San Diego last year, the prestigious USTA Spring Championships returned to the Coachella Valley. The 12s and 14s divisions crowned champions at Indian Wells Tennis Garden, the site of the recent ATP and WTA BNP Paribas Open. 1-Apr-2022 Hovde, Tien Claim Grade 1 Singles Titles in San Diego Liv Hovde and Learner Tien arrived at the ITF Grade 1 International Open of San Diego at different stages in their tennis careers. The top-seeded Hovde was taking aim on her third ITF title at that level, while Tien, seeded No. 12, had yet to reach a J1 final.  They both left as singles winners. 25-Mar-2022 Easter Bowl Returns to Indian Wells for 54th Edition The Easter Bowl is making a return to the Indian Wells Tennis Garden March 26-April 3 for the 54th edition of the event. The 18s division is an ITF Level JB1. Gold, silver and bronze balls will be handed out in the 18s, 16s, 14s and 12s for both boys and girls. 18-Mar-2022 ITF Grade 1 Returns to Barnes in San Diego Next Week A spring tradition in Southern California since 2005, the International Tennis Federation's Grade 1 tournament will begin Monday in San Diego, with the Barnes Tennis Center serving as host for the second consecutive year. 18-Feb-2022 Secord's Success Continues in 14s Division After having great success at the supernational level in Boys 12s, blue chip Jack Secord won his first title in the 14s division at the USTA Level 2 at the Grand Rapids Racquet and Fitness Club in Grand Rapids, Michigan. 11-Jan-2022 Sheng, Reddy Capture 12s Singles Titles in Arizona Vihan Reddy and Sephi Sheng captured the boys and girls 12s singles titles, respectively, at the USTA Winter National Championships in Tucson, Arizona. Izyan Ahmad and Tanishk Konduri won the boys doubles title and Carrie-Ann Hoo and Nancy Lee won the girls doubles title. 7-Jan-2022 Kotzen, Charney Sweep 18s Singles and Doubles Titles Nicolas Kotzen and Piper Charney swept the singles and doubles titles at the USTA 18s Winter National Championships at the USTA National Campus in Orlando, Florida. It was the first singles gold balls of their careers, and first of any kind for Kotzen. 6-Jan-2022 Goetz, Lee Win 16s Titles, Collect First Gold Balls Mitchell Lee and Taylor Goetz both captured the first USTA national balls of their careers by winning the 16s singles titles at the Winter National Championships in Orlando, Florida. Both prevailed in the final in straight sets amid cold and windy conditions on the clay courts of the USTA National Campus. 5-Jan-2022 Leach, Frosch Capture 14s Winter Nationals Titles Eighth-seeded Jagger Leach and top-seeded Laima Frosch captured the boys and girls 14s singles titles, respectively, at the USTA Winter National Championships in Tucson, Arizona. The singles gold balls were the first of their careers. 30-Dec-2021 Two Countries Added to Junior Orange Bowl List of Champions On the 60th anniversary of the international event in the Miami area, two more countries were added to the list of champions at the Junior Orange Bowl this year. Colombia's Alejandro Arcila won the Boys 14s title and Moldova's Lia Belibova won the Girls 12s title. 17-Dec-2021 Vallejo, Marcinko Make History with Orange Bowl Titles Adolfo Daniel Vallejo of Paraguay and Croatia's Petra Marcinko made history at the Orange Bowl ITF Grade A event in Plantation, Florida. Vallejo was the first player from his country to win the singles title and Marcinko was the first girl to sweep the singles and doubles titles. 16-Dec-2021 Americans Sweep Orange Bowl 16s Titles American players swept the Boys and Girls 16s singles and doubles titles at the Orange Bowl in Plantation, Florida. Kate Kim extended her Florida winning streak to 12 straight to capture the girls title and Quang Duong overcame a deficit to win the boys title. 10-Dec-2021 Americans Sweep Eddie Herr Singles Titles 12s and 16s In the midst of construction at the IMG Academy facility in Bradenton, Florida, four Americans were able to block out the distractions to capture the singles titles in the 12s and 16s events of the Eddie Herr International. 9-Dec-2021 Linda Fruhvirtova, Bielinskyi Collect Eddie Herr ITF Titles Linda Fruhvirtova defeated her younger sister, Brenda, after an injury retirement to capture the girls singles title at the ITF J1 Eddie Herr Championships at the IMG Academy, while Viacheslav Bielinskyi captured the boys singles title in a third-set tiebreak. 15-Oct-2021 Hovde and Anthrop Capture ITF Pan American Closed Titles Americans Liv Hovde and Jack Anthrop rebounded from slow starts against their Canadian opponents in the finals of last week's ITF JB1 Pan American Closed Championships in Nicholasville, Kentucky to capture the singles titles. 17-Sep-2021 Montgomery Stays Energized, Sweeps US Open Junior Titles American Robin Montgomery didn't let fatigue or exhaustion get in the way of sweeping the US Open Junior girls singles and doubles titles in New York. Spain's Daniel Rincon emerged as the singles champion in boys event. 1-Sep-2021 Lajal and Fruhvirtova Earn College Park J1 Titles Brenda Fruhvirtova of the Czech Republic and Mark Lajal of Estonia claimed titles at the International Tennis Federation's J1 tournament at the Junior Tennis Champions Center in College Park, Maryland. American Ozak Colak won the boys doubles title. 31-Aug-2021 Doubles Gets The Spotlight at USTA National Championships Gold balls were awarded to some of the best doubles teams in the country over the weekend at the USTA National Doubles Championships at the USTA National Tennis Center in Orlando. Champions were crowned for boys and girls in the 14s, 16s and 18s divisions. 20-Aug-2021 New York, New York: Krueger Secures Girls 18s Titles Ashlyn Krueger has never traveled to New York. Her first trip to the Big Apple will be to participate in the US Open. Krueger earned a wild card by capturing the USTA Billie Jean King Girls 18s National Championship singles and doubles titles in San Diego. 20-Aug-2021 Svajda Defends 18s Title, Remains Perfect in Kalamazoo Zachary Svajda became the first two-time Open Era 18s champion to go undefeated at the USTA National Championships, and the first to win the 18s title in non-consecutive years. Singles finalist Ben Shelton and Bruno Kuzuhara won the doubles title. 19-Aug-2021 Razeghi Clinches Boys 16s Title in Kalamazoo Debut Alexander Razeghi shook off all distractions and excuses to earn the USTA National Boys 16s singles championship last week in Kalamazoo, defeating fellow Texan Lucas Brown 6-2, 6-3 in the final. Brown and Nicholas Godsick captured the doubles crown. 18-Aug-2021 Jara Blocks Out Distractions to Capture Girls 14s Title Sydney Jara took away her own phone privileges to focus on her tennis at the USTA Girls 14s National Championships. The strategy worked as the blue chip rising eighth grader captured the singles title in Rome, Georgia. Katie Rolls and Riley Crowder won the doubles title. 18-Aug-2021 Olar Sweeps Boys 14s Titles in Mobile Jacob Olar collected his first two career gold balls by winning the singles and doubles titles of the USTA Boys 14 National Championships in Alabama. Olar teamed beat his doubles partner in the singles final before joining forces for another title. 17-Aug-2021 Secord Nets Second Straight 12s Gold Ball After winning the USTA Boys 12s Clay Court singles title last month, Jack Secord captured another gold ball on the hard courts with a win at USTA Nationals in Alabama. Joseph Nau and Ilias Bouzoubaa won the doubles title. 17-Aug-2021 Pareja Strikes Gold Twice by Sweeping Girls 12s Titles Julieta Pareja didn't have much experience at super national events, but it didn't show. The rising seventh grader from Carlsbad, California swept the singles and doubles titles at the USTA Girls 12s National Championships in Alpharetta, Georgia without losing a set. 16-Aug-2021 Championship Week The USTA National Championships have now concluded - and gold balls have been awarded to your latest national champions.  All week long, TRN celebrates these winners - from the East Coast to the West Coast - with coverage of the Nationals.  Enjoy the 2021 edition of Championship Week. 12-Aug-2021 Lessons Learned: Evans Captures Girls 16s Title Tatum Evans used her past experiences in big final matches to help capture the singles title at the USTA Billie Jean King Girls 16s National Championships in San Diego and earn a wild card into the US Open Juniors. Ava Bruno and Piper Charney won the doubles gold ball. 5-Aug-2021 USTA National Championships Begin Across the Country After an unexpected year off because of the pandemic, the USTA National Championships have returned this month. From California to Michigan to Georgia to Alabama, players will be chasing the prestigious hard court titles, gold balls and US Open wild cards. 23-Jul-2021 Honer Wins First Gold Ball By Securing Girls 18s Title Losing early in doubles at the USTA Clay Court National Championships had a silver lining for Amelia Honer. The UCSB-bound Pennsylvania native conserved her energy and walked away with a gold ball in the Girls 18s singles. 23-Jul-2021 Colby Makes Healthy Return to Win Boys 18s Title Ryan Colby thought he may never play competitive tennis again after leaving the USTA National Clay Court Championships with a serious elbow injury three years ago. That made capturing the Boys 18s singles title this year even sweeter. 22-Jul-2021 Quevedo Leaves Huntsville with Girls 16s Title, Gold Ball Kaitlin Quevedo didn't know anything about gold balls before playing the USTA Girls 16 National Clay Court Championships. She was handed the prize possession after winning the singles title in Alabama. Stephanie Yakoff and Natalia Perez won the doubles title. 22-Jul-2021 Pinzon Prevails to Claim Boys 16s Title Felipe Pinzon won four three-set matches on his way to capturing the USTA Boys 16 Clay Court National Championships singles title in Delray Beach, Florida. Caden Hasler and Dylan Tsoi won the doubles crown in their first tournament playing together. 21-Jul-2021 Wang Learns Helpful Lessons in Girls 14s Title Run Fourth-seeded Tianmei Wang learned a lot about herself en route to winning the singles title at the USTA Girls 14 National Clay Courts Championships in Plantation, Florida. Top seeds Claire An and Katie Rolls won the doubles title. 21-Jul-2021 Blanch Takes Boys 14s Singles Title in Miami In only his third USTA tournament played, Darwin Blanch captured the Boys 14 singles title at the USTA Clay Court National Championships in Miami Beach, Florida. Maximus Dussault and Maxwell Ested won the doubles title. 20-Jul-2021 Harding Ends Grueling Run with Girls 12s Title Ciara Harding was so exhausted after her singles title run at the USTA Girls 12s National Clay Court Championships that she had to see a doctor. She was fine, and the grind earned Harding a gold ball. Bela Martinez o Anita Tu won the doubles title. 20-Jul-2021 Top-Seeded Jack Secord Cruises to Boys 12s Title Top-seeded Jack Secord dropped only 25 games total in his run to the Boys 12s singles title at the USTA National Clay Court Championships at the USTA National Campus in Orlando, Florida. Ryan Cozad and Yannik Alvarez won the doubles title. 19-Jul-2021 Clay Court Championship Week The USTA Clay Court Championships have concluded around the country. This week, TRN has wrap-up stories of all the action, from the Boys' 12s to the Girls' 18s. Check out the latest gold ball winners of all ages during our coverage of Clay Court Championship Week. 16-Jul-2021 Banerjee Beats Lilov in All-American Wimbledon Boys Final Samir Banerjee beat Victor Lilov in straight sets to capture the Wimbledon boys singles title in an all-American final pairing. Ane Mintegi Del Olmo of Spain became the first girl from her country to capture the prestigious title. 10-May-2021 Perera Overcomes Wind, Torres To Claim Level 1 Boys 18s Title Masato Perera overcame weather challenges and numerous opponents over five days in Indianapolis to capture the USTA Level 1 Boys 18s title. Perera beat fellow Californian Ryan Torres in the final. 12-Apr-2021 Shang, Hovde, Razeghi, Rabman Capture Easter Bowl Titles The second week of the San Diego fortnight, which featured two of the biggest events on the US junior tennis calendar, concluded with the Easter Bowl ITF and 16s championships. Collecting the first gold balls awarded since the 2019 Winter Nationals were Juncheng “Jerry” Shang and Liv Hovde, who claimed the ITF championships, and Alexander Razeghi and Theadora Rabman, who took the 16s titles. 9-Apr-2021 Easter Bowl Crowns 12s and 14s Champions in New Location A last-minute location change made the 2021 Easter Bowl possible this year, with Iva Jovic and Cooper Woestendick winning the 14s titles and Shannon Lam and Sebastian Bielen taking the gold balls in the 12s division. 18-Dec-2020 Unseeded Champs: Krueger, Fils Win Grade A Orange Bowl Titles Ashlyn Krueger and Arthur Fils both were unseeded, but made runs through the draw to capture the Grade A Orange Bowl singles titles in Plantation, Florida. Krueger became the first player since Canadian Bianca Andreescu in 2014-2015 to win the Orange Bowl 16s and 18s titles back-to-back 17-Dec-2020 Americans Sweep Orange Bowl 16s Titles Americans swept the Orange Bowl 16s singles and doubles titles at the Veltri Tennis Center in Plantation, Florida. The event was staged amid the coronavirus pandemic, with entrants following proper protocols and performing in front of limited spectators. 24-Jul-2020 Juniors Sweep Grand Rapids ITA Summer Circuit Titles With few opportunities available in their USTA sections due to Covid-19 safety concerns, juniors have flocked to Intercollegiate Tennis Association Summer Circuit events. At the tournament in Grand Rapids, Michigan, the four top flight finalists were juniors. 14-Jul-2020 USTA Cancels 18s, 16s National Championships Given the increased cases of Covid-19 across the country, the USTA has canceled the Boys and Girls 18s and 16 National Hardcourts scheduled for August 7-15 in Florida, California, Alabama and Georgia. The 14s and 12s events were canceled last month. 15-Jun-2020 USTA 18s and 16s National Championships Remain On Schedule The 2020 USTA Boys and Girls 18s and 16s National Championships will be held as scheduled August 7-16, while the Boys and Girls 14s and 12s events have been canceled. The 16s events will be moved to another location to help with social distancing. 29-May-2020 ITA's Summer Circuit Stays On Schedule Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the ITA still plans to hold its Summer Circuit events in the coming months. Health and safety guidelines will be enforced and other changes will be made to help more matches get played. 9-Jan-2020 Zapp Plays Big Points Well, Captures Boys 18s Title Logan Zapp was prepared for a challenging final against a familiar opponent and came through when it mattered most. The UNC signee beat fellow Floridian Ben Shelton in three sets in the Boys 18s singles final at the USTA Winter Nationals to win his fourth career gold ball. 9-Jan-2020 Shelton Gains Confidence During 18s Title Run Emma Shelton wanted to get some match play under her belt and boost her confidence. The University of South Carolina freshman got just that during her run to the Girls 18 singles title at the USTA Winter National Championships in Lake Nona, Florida. Shelton beat future USC teammate Sarah Hamner in the final. 8-Jan-2020 Validating Performance for Codd in 16s Championship Run Katie Codd thought her hard work was paying off. But winning a gold ball in singles and a silver ball in doubles at the USTA Girls 16s Winter Nationals validated her feeling. The Carlsbad, California native had never won a ball before arriving in Lake Nona. 8-Jan-2020 Proof is in the Pudding: Quinn Captures Boys 16s Title Ethan Quinn ate bread pudding every night for dessert at the USTA Winter National Championships in Lake Nona, Florida. The sweet superstition worked as Quinn captured the Boys 16s singles title without losing a set. Lucas Brown and Aidan Kim won the doubles title. 7-Jan-2020 Warming Trend: Kong Breaks Through to Win Boys 14s Title Daniel Kong captured his first gold ball by winning the Boys 14s singles title at the USTA Winter National Championships. The New York native beat Humza Noor in three sets in the final. Carson Baker and Lucas Coriaty were the doubles champions. 7-Jan-2020 Maltby Captures Two Gold Balls at Girls 14s Winter Nationals Susanna Maltby captured the singles and doubles titles at the USTA Girls 14s Winter Nationals in Arizona. The blue chip from Illinois, seeded third, defeated No. 10 Ava Bruno in the singles final and teamed with Sage Loudon to capture the doubles crown. 6-Jan-2020 Zhao and Kelley Capture 12s Singles Titles, First Gold Balls The singles and doubles champions at the USTA Boys and Girls 12s Winter Nationals all captured the first gold balls of their careers. Elena Zhao won the girls singles title and Gray Kelley captured the boys singles title. 27-Dec-2019 Yakoff and Basavareddy Capture Junior Orange Bowl 14s Titles Overcoming rain and a compressed schedule, Americans Stephanie Yakoff and Nishesh Basavareddy took the 14s titles at the 58th edition of Junior Orange Bowl in Coral Gables, Florida. Mirra Andreeva of Russia and Benjamin Gusic Wan of Great Britain claimed the championships in the 12s division. 20-Dec-2019 Montgomery, Krueger Among Orange Bowl Singles Champions Robin Montgomery, Thiago Tirante, Ashlyn Krueger and Daniel Rincon overcame every challenge to capture singles titles at the 73rd edition of the Orange Bowl in Florida. Tirante's victory secured the year-end No. 1 ITF World Junior ranking. 13-Dec-2019 Argentina's Tirante, Germany's Lys Claim Eddie Herr ITF Titles The ITF Grade 1 Eddie Herr Championships at the IMG Academy produced expected and unexpected winners, with No. 2 seed Thiago Tirante of Argentina taking the boys title and qualifier Eva Lys of Germany earning the girls title. 12-Dec-2019 Americans Sweep Eddie Herr 16s Titles, Historic 12s India Win American players swept the 16s division titles at the Eddie Herr International Championships at IMG Academy, with the United States capturing all four championships in that age group. Manas Dhamne made history in the 12s, becoming the first player from India to win an Eddie Herr singles title. 27-Nov-2019 Keeping Up: Capital City Classic Debuts at Michigan State Michigan State saw the trend spreading around the country, so the Spartans decided to host the state's first men’s professional tournament since 1988. The $15,000 USTA Pro Circuit Capital City Tennis Classic debuted last week, providing Michigan State players an opportunity to sample professional tennis. 18-Oct-2019 Montgomery and Hotard Earn Pan American Closed Titles Robin Montgomery and Welsh Hotard put together impressive runs last week to win their first International Tennis Federation Grade 1 titles at the Pan American Closed in Nicholasville, Kentucky. Montgomery and Hotard secured their titles with straight-set victories in the final. 3-Oct-2019 Team USA Wins Unprecedented 3rd Straight Junior Fed Cup Title The United States won an unprecedented third straight Junior Fed Cup title, and was able to celebrate on home soil at the USTA's National Campus in Lake Nona, Florida. Japan captured the Junior Davis Cup title with a victory over the U.S. in the final. 13-Sep-2019 Osorio Serrano and Forejtek Capture U.S. Open Titles Colombia’s Maria Camila Osorio Serrano and Czech Republic’s Jonas Forejtek captured the U.S. Open Junior singles titles and took over the top spot in the ITF world junior rankings with victories over Americans in the finals. 28-Aug-2019 Latvians Sweep ITF International Hard Court Titles Amid heat and thunderstorms, Kamilla Bartone and Karlis Ozolins of Latvia captured the singles titles with three-set victories in the final of the International Tennis Federation Grade 1 tournament in College Park, Maryland. 26-Aug-2019 Gold Balls and New Cars Bring Joy to National Doubles Champs Partnerships took center stage on Sunday during the USTA National Doubles Championship at the USTA National Campus in Orlando. Many players captured their first gold ball, and Kelsey Mize will be receiving a new car after winning a longstanding bet with her father. 16-Aug-2019 Volynets Experiences 'Surge of Energy and Joy' After 18s Title Win Katie Volynets was filled with emotion after capturing the Girls 18s singles title at the USTA Billie Jean King National Championships in San Diego. The No. 2 seed defeated No. 3 Emma Navarro to secure a wild card into the U.S. Open women's singles main draw. Abigail Forbes and Alexa Noel secured the doubles title and a U.S. Open wild card in their debut as a team. 16-Aug-2019 Svajda Captures 18s Singles Title in Kalamazoo Debut Zachary Svajda was a quick study in his first appearance at the USTA Boys 18s and 16s National Championships in Kalamazoo, with the 16-year-old capturing his first gold ball and a U.S. Open main draw wild card with a 6-7(3) 7-5, 6-3, 6-1 victory over Govind Nanda in the 18s singles final. 15-Aug-2019 Brantmeier Breaks Through To Secure First Gold Ball Reese Brantmeier notched a decisive upset win over top-seeded Valencia Xu in the Girls 16s singles final at the USTA Billie Jean King National Championships to capture the first gold ball of her career. The 14-year-old became only the second player from Wisconsin to win the title in the event's history. 15-Aug-2019 Bernard Stages Comeback to Capture Boys 16s Title Top seeded Alex Bernard rallied from a 4-1 deficit in the third set and saved a match point to capture the Boys 16s singles title at the USTA National Championships with a 5-7, 6-1, 7-5 win over No. 4 Aidan Mayo at Kalamazoo College's Stowe Stadium. 14-Aug-2019 Rabman Overcomes Nerves to Secure Girls 14s Title Theadora Rabman overcame nerves to capture the USTA National Championships Girls 14s singles title with a 6-7(1), 6-1, 6-1 victory in the final over Brooklyn Olson in Rome, Georgia. 14-Aug-2019 Williams Goes The Distance To Win Boys 14s Title Cooper Williams won four three-set matches on his way to capturing the first USTA singles gold ball of his career. The fourth-seeded Williams defeated No. 3 Nicholas Godsick 6-1, 7-5 in the final of the Boys 14s National Championships in Mobile, Alabama. 13-Aug-2019 Consistency Is Key To Claire An Winning Girls 12s Title Claire An committed just nine unforced errors in winning the USTA National Championships Girls 12s singles title in Alpharetta, Georgia. The New York native defeated Bella Payne of Taylors, South Carolina, 6-2, 6-2 at the Windward Lake Club. 13-Aug-2019 Exsted Digs Deep in Final to Capture Gold in Boys 12s Max Exsted battled back from a large first-set deficit in the final to capture the singles title at the USTA Boys 12s National Championship in Mobile, Alabama. The No. 3 seed beat No. 2 Abhinav Chunduru 7-6 (5), 6-0 to capture his first singles gold ball. 12-Aug-2019 Championship Week The USTA National Championships have now concluded, and gold balls have been awarded to the latest national champions.  All week, TRN celebrates these winners - from the East Coast to the West Coast - with coverage of the Nationals.  Enjoy the 2019 edition of Championship Week. 2-Aug-2019 Nakashima, Damm, Bernard Head Kalamazoo Fields The top two 18s seeds for the 2019 USTA Boys National Championships have already experienced the satisfaction of addressing Kalamazoo’s Stowe Stadium crowd after claiming a winner’s trophy. Top seed Brandon Nakashima earned the 16s title in 2017 and No. 2 seed Martin Damm won it last year. 26-Jul-2019 Allen Finds His Footing to Win Boys 18s Gold Ball Despite spraining his ankle before the tournament, Leighton Allen lived up to his No. 1 seed billing by capturing the singles title at the USTA Boys 18 National Clay Court Championships in Delray Beach, Florida. Singles finalist Logan Zapp teamed with Aryan Chaudhary to win the doubles title. 26-Jul-2019 Price Secures Gold Ball, Junior U.S. Open Wild Card Gabriella Price needed match play after recovering from an ankle injury. She went the distance at the USTA Girls 18 National Clay Court Championshps, capturing the singles title and a Junior U.S. Open main draw wild card. Lauren Stein and Reilly Tran captured the doubles titles at the LTP Tennis Club. 25-Jul-2019 Nisbet Makes 'Totally Unexpected' Golden Run in Girls 16s Playing "up" a division proved beneficial for Aubrey Nisbet. The 14-year-old captured her first singles gold ball at the USTA Girls 16 National Clay Court Championships at the Athletic Club Alabama. Sonia Maheshwari and Lina Mohamed won the doubles title. 25-Jul-2019 Casper Digs Deep to Secure Another Gold Ball in Boys 16s Luke Casper saved seven championship points to outlast Samir Banerjee 3-6, 7-6(1), 7-6(6) and capture the singles gold ball at the USTA Boys 16 National Clay Court Championships in Delray Beach. Ben Shelton and Maxwell Smith also needed three close sets to win the doubles title. 24-Jul-2019 Smejkal Goes the Distance To Capture 14s Singles Gold Ball Lara Smejkal lost the second set in each of her final three matches at the USTA Girls 14s National Clay Court Championships, but still prevailed to win her first gold ball in singles. Alexis Blokhina and Natalia Perez won the doubles title in Plantation, Florida. 24-Jul-2019 Basavareddy Cruises to Boys 14s Clays Singles Title Unseeded Nishesh Basavareddy dropped only one game in the final to capture the Boys 14s singles title at the USTA National Clay Court Championships in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Nicholas Godsick won the gold ball in doubles with partner Joseph Phillips and the bronze ball in singles. 23-Jul-2019 Payne Captures First Gold Ball By Winning Girls 12s Bella Payne captured her first gold ball by winning the singles title at the USTA Girls 12 National Clay Court Championships in Boca Raton, Florida. Claire An and Caitlin Bui were the doubles champions at the Polo Club in Boca Raton. 23-Jul-2019 Boys 12s Winners Add to Their Gold Ball Collections Repeat gold ball winners were abundant in the USTA Boys 12s National Clay Court Championships at the USTA National Campus in Orlando. Abhishek Thorat captured the singles crown while Max Exsted and Cooper Woestendick were the doubles champions. 22-Jul-2019 Clay Court Championship Week The USTA Clay Court Championships have concluded around the country. This week, TRN has wrap-up stories of all the action, from the Boys' 12s to the Girls' 18s. Check out the latest gold ball winners of all ages during our coverage of Clay Court Championship Week. 19-Jul-2019 Mochizuki Makes History, Americans Win Doubles Title at Junior Wimbledon History was made during this year's Junior Wimbledon Championships when Shintaro Mochizuki became the first Japanese boy to win a junior slam singles title. Unseeded Daria Snigur captured the girls singles title, and Americans Abigail Forbes and Savannah Broadus won the girls doubles crown at the All England Lawn Tennis Club. 10-Jul-2019 USTA Pro Circuit Event Returns to Iowa The University of Iowa Hawkeye Tennis and Recreation Complex is hosting a United States Tennis Association Pro Circuit event on July 15th. The Old Capitol Tennis Championships, a men’s professional tournament, will return for a second consecutive year in Iowa City. 30-Apr-2019 Gupta Captures Prestigious Boys CIF Title at The Ojai Junior champions were crowned over the weekend at the prestigious 119th Ojai Tennis Tournament in Ojai, California. The winners and finalists will add their faces to the photo boards at Libbey Park that include many legends of the sport. 12-Apr-2019 Top Seeds Black, Draxl Earn ITF Grade 1 Titles Top seeds Hurricane Tyra Black and Liam Draxl both held off the challenges of young Californian wild cards to claim the singles crowns at the ITF Grade 1 International Spring Championships at the Dignity Health Sports Park in Carson, California. 11-Apr-2019 Chang and Woldeab Claim ISC 16s Titles in Carson Two unseeded 15-year-old Californians earned titles in the 16s division at the International Spring Championships, with Berkeley’s Alexander Chang and La Mesa’s Winta Woldeab claiming the crowns by identical 6-3, 6-4 scores in the finals. 3-Apr-2019 Hohmann and Navarro Crowned Easter Bowl ITF Champions Ron Hohmann and Emma Navarro captured the ITF Easter Bowl singles titles last week in Indian Wells. Hohmann became the first qualifier to win a title and Navarro was a repeat champion after capturing the 16s title in 2017. 2-Apr-2019 Banerjee, Ovrootsky Claim Easter Bowl 16s Titles Samir Banerjee and Vivian Ovrootsky recorded straight set victories in their respective finals to capture the boys and girls singles titles at the Easter Bowl National Championships in Indian Wells. 1-Apr-2019 Past Results Motivate Easter Bowl 12s and 14s Champions Three of the four champions in the 12s and 14s divisions at last week’s Easter Bowl Championships arrived in Indian Wells determined to improve on their previous appearances at the prestigious USTA Level 1 National event. 8-Mar-2019 Firecrackers and Patriots Capture USTA Spring Team Titles Dealing with a variance in weather and opponents, the Patriots and Firecrackers walked away with titles at the USTA National Spring Team Championships in Mobile, Alabama earlier this week. 10-Jan-2019 Ravichander Wins Boys 18s Title for Gold Ball Breakthrough With motivational words written on his arm, Ishaan Ravichander captured the first gold ball of his career by winning the Boys 18s singles title at the USTA Winter National Championships in Lake Nona, Florida. Jeremie Casabon and Henry Ruger won the doubles crown. 10-Jan-2019 Ma Joins Exclusive Company by Capturing Girls 18s Titles Connie Ma became only the third player in the event's history to capture the Girls 18s singles and doubles titles at the USTA Winter National Championships in Lake Nona, Florida. The 15-year-old blue chip paired with Anna Campana to take home the doubles crown. 9-Jan-2019 Maslova Rallies From a Set Down to Win Girls 16s Title Nadejda Maslova rallied to capture the Girls 16s singles title at the USTA Winter Nationals in Lake Nona, Florida with a three-set victory over Leyden Games. Top seeds Ava Catanzarite and Avery Durham were crowned the doubles champions. 9-Jan-2019 Ankle Injury Doesn't Slow Casper's Run to Boys 16s Title Luke Casper's ankle injury didn't hinder his performance at the USTA Winter National Championships in Florida. The blue chip sophomore captured his first career gold ball by winning the Boys 16s singles title. Samir Banerjee and Louis Cloud won the doubles crown. 8-Jan-2019 Bhakta Earns 14s Gold Ball for Birthday Celebration Ria Bhakta celebrated her 14th birthday by capturing the Girls 14s singles title at Winter Nationals in Tucson, Arizona. Bhakta didn't drop a game in the final, beating Kinaa Graham 6-0, 6-0. Tsehay Driscoll and Emma Roeck won the doubles crown. 8-Jan-2019 Gorzny Rallies in Final to Win Boys 14s Title Sebastian Gorzny of Irvine, California rallied from a set down in the final to capture the Boys 14s singles title at the Winter Nationals in Tucson, Arizona. Lucas Brown and Aidan Kim won the doubles crown. 7-Jan-2019 Nguyen, Yin Capture 12s Titles, First Gold Balls Mason Nguyen and Amber Yin captured their first gold balls by winning the Boys 12s and Girls 12s singles titles, respectively, at Winter Nationals in Tucson, Arizona. Yin also won the doubles title. 21-Dec-2018 Americans Sweep 12s Titles at Junior Orange Bowl The top seeds in the 12s divisions dominated the competition in the 57th edition of the Junior Orange Bowl, with Americans Clervie Ngounoue and Rudy Quan claiming titles. Coleman Wong of Hong Kong and Melisa Ercan of Turkey made history for their countries in the 14s. 14-Dec-2018 Gauff and Virtanen Claim ITF Orange Bowl Titles Americans Coco Gauff and Madison Sieg swept the girls singles titles at the Orange Bowl, and Otto Virtanen made history by becoming the first player from Finland to win a singles title at the prestigious event in Florida. 7-Dec-2018 2018 Eddie Herr Champions Are Crowned The United States had at least one finalist in six of the eight divisions in last week’s Eddie Herr International Tennis Championships, with two emerging as champions while local fans were treated to outstanding tennis in all eight finals. 21-Nov-2018 Defending Champ Andreev, World No. 1 Burel Return to Eddie Herr The ITF Grade 1 Eddie Herr Championships welcome back two of the top juniors in the ITF World Junior rankings, with 2017 boys champion Adrian Andreev of Bulgaria and 2017 girls finalist Clara Burel of France returning to the Har-Tru courts at the IMG Academy in Bradenton, Florida. 20-Nov-2018 Perez Takes Surgical Approach to Winning Title Fabiola Perez, an aspiring surgeon, won the Girls 18s singles title at the TennisRecruiting.net National Junior Level 7 tournament last week in Miami. Perez didn't drop a set in three matches. 19-Oct-2018 Nanda, Mandlik Earn First Grade 1 Titles In a tournament greatly marred by weather delays, Govind Nanda and Elli Mandlik survived to capture their first ITF Grade 1 singles titles by winning the Pan American Closed last week at the University of North Carolina-Charlotte. 14-Sep-2018 The Heat Was on Junior U.S. Open Champions Brazil’s Thiago Seyboth Wild and China’s Xiyu Wang earned their countries’ first boys and girls U.S. Open Junior Championship titles under the roof of the new Louis Armstrong Stadium at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center. Americans Caty McNally and Coco Gauff won the girls doubles title. 29-Aug-2018 Volynets and Klier Claim International Hard Court Titles American Katie Volynets and Brazilian Gilbert Soares Klier Junior both earned their second International Tennis Federation Grade 1 titles last Saturday in College Park, Maryland. However, their last steps on their paths to Prince George’s County International Hard Court titles diverged. 20-Aug-2018 Van Emburgh Beats Deadline, Opponents at ITA Championships Jake Van Emburgh barely beat the deadline to enter the Oracle ITA National Summer Championships. The Oklahoma rising sophomore ended up winning the whole event, not dropping a single set on his run to the men's singles title last week at TCU's Bayard Friedman Tennis Center. 17-Aug-2018 Brooksby Breezes to Kalamazoo 18s Title Jensen Brooksby made it 2 for 2 in winning prestigious junior tournament titles this year. A few months after winning Easter Bowl, the TCU commit captured the Boys 18s singles title at the USTA National Championships in Kalamazoo. 17-Aug-2018 Osuigwe Sweeps Girls 18s Titles, U.S. Open Wild Cards Whitney Osuigwe captured the Girls 18s singles and doubles titles at the USTA Billie Jean King National Hard Court Championships in San Diego. Fighting back from an early deficit in singles, Osuigwe received wild cards into the main draw of the U.S. Open women's singles and doubles. 16-Aug-2018 Damm Makes History with Kalamazoo 16s Title Martin Damm became the youngest Boys 16s singles champion at the USTA National Championships in Kalamazoo since the age divison changed from 15 to 16 in 1963. The 14-year-old wild card defeated Zane Khan in straight sets in the final. 16-Aug-2018 New Outfit, Lucky Penny Boost Crawley's Championship Outlook A new outfit and a lucky penny provided Fiona Crawley peace of mind before she took the court for the Girls 16s singles final at the USTA Billie Jean King Hard Court National Championships. The blue chip captured the title in straight sets to earn a gold ball and a wild card into the U.S. Open Junior Championships. 15-Aug-2018 Shang Powers Way to Boys 14s Title Juncheng Shang added to his collection of titles at the USTA Boys 14s National Hard Court Championships. The Beijing native and Florida resident won the gold ball with a straight set victory over Nicholas Heng in the final in Mobile, Alabama 15-Aug-2018 From Brink of Defeat to Girls 14s Champion, Yu Claws Back Feeling the pressure as the top seed, Eleana Yu went from the brink of elimination to winning the singles title at the USTA Girls 14s National Hard Court Championships in Rome, Georgia. It marked the second straight national hard court title for Yu after winning the Girls 12s event last year. 14-Aug-2018 Rudy Quan Continues To Roll in Alabama Top-seeded Rudy Quan won his fifth straight national singles title by defeating Dylan Charlap in straight sets at the USTA Boys 12s National Hard Court Championships in Mobile, Alabama. Quan has yet to lose a set in his five title runs. 14-Aug-2018 Puerto Rico's Perez Nets Two Gold Balls Puerto Rico's Natalia Perez captured two gold balls at the USTA Girls 12s National Hard Court Championships in Alpharetta, Georgia. Perez outlasted doubles partner Brooklyn Olson in three sets in the singles final. 13-Aug-2018 Championship Week The USTA National Championships have now concluded - and gold balls have been awarded to your latest national champions.  All week long, TRN celebrates these winners - from the East Coast to the West Coast - with coverage of the Nationals.  Enjoy the 2018 edition of Championship Week. 27-Jul-2018 Rajesh Showcases His Very Best In Boys 18s Title Run Neel Rajesh, a four-star rising senior, earned his first USTA gold ball in scintillating fashion. Seeded in the group from 33rd to 64th, he won all eight of his singles matches in Delray Beach, Florida, capped by a 4-6, 6-3, 7-6 upset of defending champion Axel Nefve in the championship match of the USTA Boys 18 National Clay Court Championships. 27-Jul-2018 Hometown Support Boosts Navarro to Girls 18s Titles Playing at her home club in front of family, friends and even her dog, Emma Navarro captured the singles and doubles titles at the USTA Girls 18s National Clay Court Championships. The blue chip rising junior provided a special ending for the event's debut at LTP Tennis Club in Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina. 26-Jul-2018 Present-Minded Approach Helps Zapp Win Boys 16s Titles Staying focused on the task at hand helped Logan Zapp capture the singles and doubles titles at the USTA Boys 16s National Clay Court Championships. The five-star recruit dropped only two games in the singles final in his home state of Florida. 26-Jul-2018 From Frazzled to Champion, Zamarripa Captures Girls 16s Title After misreading her match time early at the USTA Girls 16s National Clay Court Championships and taking the court unexpectedly, Allura Zamarripa managed to stay composed and walk away with her first gold ball in singles. The rising sophomore blue chip defeated No. 1 Valencia Xu in the final, while Xu teamed with Elise Wagle to win the doubles title in Memphis. 25-Jul-2018 Heng Rises to the Challenge to Capture Boys 14s Title Nicholas Heng used the experience gained in the last year to emerge as the champion of the USTA Boys 14s National Clay Court Championships. The blue chip rising eighth grader rallied to beat John Kim in three sets in the final. 25-Jul-2018 Ngounoue Caps Birthday Week With Girls 14s Title Clervie Ngounoue celebrated her 12th birthday week in style, capturing the singles title at the USTA Girls 14 National Clay Court Championships at Veltri Tennis Center in Plantation, Florida. The blue chip rising seventh grader defeated top-seeded Vivian Ovrootsky in the final in three sets. 24-Jul-2018 Boca Raton's Slama Wins Hometown Championship Blue Chip Mia Slama took the lessons learned from last year's USTA Girls 12 National Clay Court Championship to grow into this year's champion. The Boca Raton native defeated Alexia Harmon in three sets in the final last Saturday. 24-Jul-2018 Quan Prolongs Successful Run at Boys 12s Clays Rudy Quan continued his sensational play this year by capturing the singles and doubles title at the USTA Boys 12 National Clay Court Championships at the National Campus in Lake Nona, Florida. The blue chip rising eighth grader also won singles titles at Winter Nationals and Easter Bowl. 23-Jul-2018 Clay Court Championship Week The USTA Clay Court Championships have concluded around the country. This week, TRN has wrap-up stories of all the action, from the Boys' 12s to the Girls' 18s, from Tennessee to Florida. Meet the latest gold ball winners of all ages during our coverage of Clay Court Championship Week. 20-Jul-2018 Tseng, Swiatek Claim Wimbledon Junior Titles Taiwan’s Chun Hsin Tseng and Poland’s Iga Swiatek each dropped only one set on their way to capturing the singles titles at the Wimbledon Junior Championships. The only American represenation in the finals came in girls doubles, where Caty McNally and Whitney Osuigwe lost in straight sets. 19-Jul-2018 TCU Welcomes Chance to Host ITA National Summer Championships Texas Christian University is hosting the ITA National Summer Championships for the second straight year with hopes of becoming the permanent home. This year's event will feature $20,000 in prize money along with usual wildcards into the ITA All-American Championships. 29-Jun-2018 Zhang, Rabjohns Claim Midwest Closed Titles Top seed Andrew Zhang and No. 2 seed Kiley Rabjohns won their first Midwest Closed singles titles on Thursday at the Barbara Wynne Tennis Center at North Central High School in Indianapolis, taking the 18s championship matches in contrasting fashion. 25-May-2018 O’Dell and Benabraham Capture USTA Level 2 Titles Rain was no obstacle for Amber O’Dell and Daniella Benabraham. Despite having to move indoors to play, the two captured singles titles at the USTA Level 2 National tournament in Grand Rapids, Michigan with straight-set victories in the finals. 13-Apr-2018 Black, Nakashima Win ITF International Spring Championships Although their final steps were very different, Brandon Nakashima and Hurricane Tyra Black both captured their first ITF Grade 1 titles at the International Spring Championships last Sunday. Zachery Lim and Anne Lutkemeyer Obregon won the 16s titles. 8-Apr-2018 Brooksby and Volynets Capture Easter Bowl ITF Titles Northern Californian's Katie Volynets and Jenson Brooksby both rallied from a set down in their championship matches to defeat the top seeds on Easter Sunday and capture the Easter Bowl ITF singles titles at the Indian Wells Tennis Garden. 7-Apr-2018 Chopra and Lee Earn Easter Bowl 16s Titles Keshav Chopra and Anessa Lee started the 2018 Easter Bowl with contrasting expectations, and navigated different paths to the 16s singles finals. But they both ended the event with gold balls after capturing the titles at the Indian Wells Tennis Garden. 6-Apr-2018 Yu, Kuzuhara, Quan and Ngounoue Claim Easter Bowl Titles Rudy Quan and Clervie Ngounoue captured the 12s singles titles while Eleana Yu and Bruno Kuzuhara reigned victorious in 14s singles at the 51st edition of the Easter Bowl. Ngounoue teamed with singles final opponent, Stephanie Yakoff, to also win the doubles title. 10-Jan-2018 Chopra Celebrates Holidays By Winning Boys 16s Titles Keshav Chopra didn't spend much time celebrating the holidays. The blue chip sophomore was more focused on trying to win the first ball of his career. Chopra doubled his pleasure by capturing gold balls in the Boys 16s singles and doubles at the USTA Winter National Champioships in Florida. 10-Jan-2018 Pielet Lives Up To Top Billing By Winning Girls 16s Titles Top-seeded Gianna Pielet didn't cower amid high expectations at the USTA Winter National Championships in Florida. The El Paso, Texas resident swept the singles and doubles titles in the Girls 16s division two months after winning the National Indoors title in singles. BOAST This History of BOAST An animated history of the BOAST brand since its founding in 1973. BOAST is celebrating 40 years of irreverent style in sports and on the streets. RECENT COMMITMENTS 4/29 Ariel Avidan chooses Stetson 4/29 Paolo Estrada chooses Cedarville 4/29 Rika Ogiwara chooses Occidental 4/29 R. Senthil Kumar chooses Cornell 4/29 Isabella Tamburrino chooses Macalester 4/29 Dari Streater chooses Macalester 4/29 Heidi Cambron chooses Smith 4/29 Nele Herbst chooses D'Youville 4/29 Florentina Schmidt chooses D'Youville 4/29 Juan Kim chooses Chicago Full Listings: Boys' Commits & Girls' Commits RECENT HEADLINES More 4/28 Johnson Gives Back Through NIL College Tennis Deals 4/25 Seminoles Suit Blue Chip Kennedy 4/23 American Junior Teams Qualify for ITF World Final Events 4/22 Action Shots from ITF J300 in San Diego 4/21 UTEP Cuts Women's Tennis Program 4/18 Barton's Underwood Seeks Kidney Donor 4/16 Hot 100 List - April 2025 4/14 Alabama Captures ITA National Wheelchair Title ITA NEWS Follow college tennis with the ITA - the governing body that oversees all levels of men's and women's varsity collegiate tennis. ITA College Tennis Rankings National Tournament and Event Calendar 2/18 Barry University and Saint Leo to Meet In ITA DII Men’s National Team Indoor Championship Finals 2/18 Semifinalists Set At The ITA Division I Men's National Team Indoor Championship 2/17 Quarterfinalists Set At The ITA Division I Men's National Team Indoor Championship 2/17 ITA Indoor Team Championship Viewing Information - Quarterfinals, Division I Men's More THE LATEST FROM ZOOTENNIS 4/29 Wake Forest Men, Georgia Women Top Seeds with NCAA D-I Team Championships Brackets Released; More American Titles on ITF Junior Circuit Last Week 4/27 Clarke Sweeps Titles at ITF J100 in Delray Beach; Jovic, Akli and Grant Advance to USTA Pro Circuit Finals; Ohio State and UCLA Men Reach Big Ten… 4/27 Jovic Claims W100 Title in Charlottesville; UCLA Men and Ohio State Women Win 4-3 Thrillers to Earn Big 10 Titles; NCAA Selection Show Monday;… 4/26 My Article on JoAnna Kennedy's Commitment to Florida State; Jovic Sole Teen to Advance to Semis in USTA Pro Circuit Events; Michigan and Ohio… 4/24 Kennedy and Hance Reach Singles Quarterfinals, Doubles Semis at M15 in Vero Beach; Jovic Cruises into Quarterfinals at W100 Charlottesville; Exsted… Colette Lewis has covered topflight junior events as a freelance journalist for over a decade. Read her weekly column , follow her on Twitter , and   and find more of her daily commentary at ZooTennis . More TALK TENNIS Talk Tennis provides lively forums for the discussion of junior and college tennis. Here are the latest topics from the message boards. College Tennis Talk Recent College Players That Turned Pro 8 of the best US College players battling for wildcards tomorrow. There will be a livestream! Starts at 3pm tomorrow Current collegians with shadow ATP points College freshmen do well at LA Future Qualis Tennis Tips/Instruction Serve Pronation after contact, Murray vs others Great tip to test/improve serve flexibility Why do Juniors tend to have a one-dimensional game? thoughts on my serve (and the pain and delight of being a lefty) Page updated on Tuesday, April 29, 2025 at 1:04:46 AM Contact our web team with any corrections F.A.Q. | Contributors | Advertising | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Copyright © 2005-2025 Sirius Software, Inc. All rights reserved. Contact Us: TennisRecruiting.net 1366 Litte Willeo Rd. | Marietta, GA 30068 Phone: 770-993-5723