The Last of Us Part I | The Last of Us Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In The Last of Us Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts The World Characters Ellie Williams Joel Miller Abby Anderson Tommy Miller Tess Servopoulos Marlene Dina Maria Miller Lev more... Groups FEDRA Fireflies Infected Washington Liberation Front Seraphites Jackson community Cannibals Hunters Rattlers more... Locations Austin Boston Lincoln Pittsburgh Jackson Silver Lake Salt Lake City Seattle more... Collectibles Artifacts Firefly pendants Comics Training manuals Trading cards Coins Tools Workbench Optional conversations Cordyceps brain infection Outbreak Day Timeline Main series The Last of Us Part I Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies DLC Transcripts The Last of Us Part II Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies Transcripts American Dreams Characters Groups Weapons Locations Issues Left Behind Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies Transcripts One Night Live Escape the Dark More... The Last of Us (2013) The Last of Us Remastered The Last of Us Part II Remastered The Official Podcast Halloween Horror Nights The Last of Us Complete The Last of Us Online The Board Game Cancelled film Merchandise HBO series Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Episodes Season 1 Season 2 Characters Joel Miller Ellie Williams Marlene Tommy Miller Tess Sarah Miller Bill Frank Riley more... Groups FEDRA Fireflies Infected Survivors Hunters Cannibals Jackson community Washington Liberation Front Seraphites more... Locations Austin Boston Kansas City Jackson Seattle more... More... Timeline Cordyceps brain infection Outbreak Day Transcripts HBO's Podcast Community About the wiki Administration Policies and guidelines Blocking guidelines Blogging policy Categorizing policy Deletion policy Discussions policy File policy Manual of style Spoiler policy User treatment policy more... Discord server Wiki Twitter In other languages Deutsch Español Français Italiano Polski Português do Brasil Русский External links Official website Naughty Dog's website The Last of Us subreddit Factions subreddit Uncharted Wiki Bandipedia, the Crash Bandicoot Wiki Jak and Daxter Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content The Last of Us Wiki 1,251 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts The World Characters Ellie Williams Joel Miller Abby Anderson Tommy Miller Tess Servopoulos Marlene Dina Maria Miller Lev more... Groups FEDRA Fireflies Infected Washington Liberation Front Seraphites Jackson community Cannibals Hunters Rattlers more... Locations Austin Boston Lincoln Pittsburgh Jackson Silver Lake Salt Lake City Seattle more... Collectibles Artifacts Firefly pendants Comics Training manuals Trading cards Coins Tools Workbench Optional conversations Cordyceps brain infection Outbreak Day Timeline Main series The Last of Us Part I Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies DLC Transcripts The Last of Us Part II Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies Transcripts American Dreams Characters Groups Weapons Locations Issues Left Behind Characters Groups Chapters Weapons Items Collectibles Locations Trophies Transcripts One Night Live Escape the Dark More... The Last of Us (2013) The Last of Us Remastered The Last of Us Part II Remastered The Official Podcast Halloween Horror Nights The Last of Us Complete The Last of Us Online The Board Game Cancelled film Merchandise HBO series Seasons Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Episodes Season 1 Season 2 Characters Joel Miller Ellie Williams Marlene Tommy Miller Tess Sarah Miller Bill Frank Riley more... Groups FEDRA Fireflies Infected Survivors Hunters Cannibals Jackson community Washington Liberation Front Seraphites more... Locations Austin Boston Kansas City Jackson Seattle more... More... Timeline Cordyceps brain infection Outbreak Day Transcripts HBO's Podcast Community About the wiki Administration Policies and guidelines Blocking guidelines Blogging policy Categorizing policy Deletion policy Discussions policy File policy Manual of style Spoiler policy User treatment policy more... Discord server Wiki Twitter In other languages Deutsch Español Français Italiano Polski Português do Brasil Русский External links Official website Naughty Dog's website The Last of Us subreddit Factions subreddit Uncharted Wiki Bandipedia, the Crash Bandicoot Wiki Jak and Daxter Wiki in: Games , The Last of Us Part I English Español The Last of Us Part I Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) This article is about the remake of 2013's The Last of Us . For other pages that may have a similar name, see The Last of Us (disambiguation) . The Last of Us Part I Developer(s) Naughty Dog PlayStation Studios Publisher(s) Sony Computer Entertainment Designer(s) Matthew Gallant (game director) Shaun Escayg (creative director) Writer(s) Neil Druckmann Composer(s) Gustavo Santaolalla Series The Last of Us Platforms PlayStation 5 Microsoft Windows Release date(s) September 2, 2022 (PS5) March 28, 2023 (Microsoft Windows) [ 1 ] Genre(s) Action-adventure, survival horror Mode(s) Single-player Rating(s) ESRB: M PEGI: 18 CERO: Z “ Experience the emotional storytelling and unforgettable characters of Joel and Ellie in The Last of Us, winner of over 200 Game of the Year awards and now rebuilt for PlayStation 5. ―Game overview. ” The Last of Us Part I is an action-adventure survival horror video game developed by Naughty Dog and PlayStation Studios and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment . It is a remake of the 2013 game The Last of Us and its standalone expansion Left Behind . It was released on September 2, 2022, [ 2 ] for PlayStation 5 and was released for Microsoft Windows on March 28, 2023. [ 1 ] Contents 1 Plot 2 Gameplay 3 Development 4 Release and promotion 4.1 Announcement 4.2 Retail editions 5 Release and reception 6 Trophies 7 External links 8 Gallery 8.1 Logos 8.2 Trailer 8.3 Screenshots 8.4 Concept art 9 References Plot [ ] Main article: The Last of Us#Plot The plot of Part I is exactly the same as the original, with a new virus turning humans into hostile infected and being set 20 years after such. It follows a hardened survivor Joel and an immune teenager Ellie crossing across a post-apocalyptic United States in order to find a group called the Fireflies , who would be able to create a cure against the disease by studying Ellie's immunity. Gameplay [ ] Similar to the original game on PlayStation 3 (and remastered for the PS4 ), The Last of Us Part I is an action-adventure game with survival horror elements, played from the third-person perspective. The game was rebuilt from the ground up using Naughty Dog 's latest engine on the PS5, leveraging the leap in technology with its powerful hardware. The game implements modernized gameplay, improved controls and performance, and expanded accessibility options closer to that of 2020's The Last of Us Part II . Visual fidelity, effects, exploration, and combat have all been enhanced as well. The game also supports PS5 hardware features including 3D audio and the haptic feedback and adaptive triggers of the DualSense controller. [ 2 ] Development [ ] In April 2021, Jason Schreier of Bloomberg first reported that a remake of The Last of Us was being secretly developed by Naughty Dog for the PlayStation 5 . He noted that the project was originally being developed by the Sony 's Visual Arts Service Group studio, however, Sony grew dissatisfied with the studio's progress on the game. Sony reconfigured them into a support studio and tasked Naughty Dog with developing the project, partially due to their other planned titles being at various stages in pre-production and a lack of familiarity with the PS5's hardware. [ 3 ] The remake was helmed by game director Matthew Gallant and creative director Shaun Escayg. [ 2 ] Release and promotion [ ] Announcement [ ] The Last of Us Part I was officially announced by Sony at the Summer Games Fest on June 9, 2022. Just prior, a listing of the game was accidentally leaked on the PlayStation Direct website, revealing the game prematurely. [ 4 ] A trailer was released with the announcement and a release date was set for September 2, 2022, for PlayStation 5 and a later date for Microsoft Windows . They also announced three retail editions of the game available for pre-order: Standard, Digital Deluxe, and Firefly . [ 2 ] Retail editions [ ] The Last of Us Part I is available in three editions. The Standard Edition ($69.99 USD MSRP/ $89.99 CAD MSRP/ €79.99 EUR MSRP) includes just the base game as well as the standalone prequel chapter Left Behind . The Digital Deluxe Edition ($79.99 USD MSRP/ $99.99 CAD MSRP/ €89.99 EUR MSRP) allows the player to unlock several items and skill upgrades early, as well as a gameplay modifier , render mode , and six weapon skins . The Firefly Edition ($99.99 USD MSRP) includes all the aforementioned features plus a SteelBook display case and all four issues of The Last of Us: American Dreams , each with their own new cover variant. This edition is only available for order in the United States via the PlayStation Direct website. [ 2 ] Pre-ordering any edition grants the player with bonus supplements and parts to upgrade their skills and weapons , respectively. Features Standard Edition Digital Deluxe Edition Firefly Edition Game disc ✔ ✘ ✔ Early access to increased crafting speed skill ✘ ✔ ✔ Early access to increased healing speed skill ✘ ✔ ✔ Early access to 9mm pistol reload speed upgrade ✘ ✔ ✔ Early access to hunting rifle clip capacity upgrade ✘ ✔ ✔ Early access to explosive arrows gameplay modifier ✘ ✔ ✔ Early access to dither punk render mode ✘ ✔ ✔ Early access to Speedrun Mode ✘ ✔ ✔ Early access to six weapon skins ✘ ✔ ✔ SteelBook® case ✘ ✘ ✔ American Dreams issues 1–4 with new cover art ✘ ✘ ✔ Bonus supplements and parts Pre-order Pre-order Pre-order Release and reception [ ] Review scores [ 5 ] Publications Eurogamer 9/10 Game Informer 9/10 IGN 10/10 GameSpot 9/10 Aggregates Metacritic 89/100 Much like the original The Last of Us , Part I released to universal acclaim from numerous critics. Notably, the improved audio and visual quality received significant focus, with many viewing it a clear superior version of the original. [ 6 ] The imported accessibility features from Part II were also heralded as industry leading and an appreciated inclusion into the game as it makes the game easier to play for many players in a way the original was not. Visually, the character models and lighting were praised and interpreted as providing the game's setting with a greater sense of emotion and ambiance. [ 7 ] However, the gameplay did divide some critics. While enemy AI was viewed as much better, with the enemies now behaving more intelligently across all difficulties rather than solely on Grounded, the actual level design was viewed as rather dated, especially as the dodging and prone mechanics from Part II were not transferred over. [ 6 ] Further, beyond aesthetic inclusions regarding Joel and Ellie's new character skins, no notable new content was included and critics actually criticised the exclusion of a remake of Factions MP , the original game's multiplayer mode. Despite these criticisms, Part I is lauded as the definitive version of the game and a vast improvement on the original, especially for experiencing the game's story. [ 5 ] Regarding the story, while it is the exact same as the original, the improved presentation led critics to conclude it remained the standout tale for a PlayStation title, notably through its focus on character and using gameplay to build Joel and Ellie's relationship. [ 7 ] On a separate note, the game's price tag did receive some criticism. Despite some saying Part I is the definitive way to experience The Last of Us , many regarded the price tag as too expensive and viewed the Remastered version of PlayStation 4 as a much more affordable game and the preferred choice to play, especially given the quality improvement did not justify the high pricing. [ 5 ] Trophies [ ] Main article: The Last of Us Part I trophies External links [ ] The Last of Us Part I on Steam Gallery [ ] Logos [ ] Trailer [ ] The Last of Us Part I - Announce Trailer - PS5 Games Screenshots [ ] Joel and Ellie riding Callus . Ellie drawing her bow . Ellie holding a hunting rifle . Ellie and Joel driving to Pittsburgh . Ellie, Joel, and Tess crossing a roof in Boston . Riley and Ellie dancing. Joel, Ellie, and Tommy riding horses. Ellie aiming down her rifle. Concept art [ ] Wallpaper version of the game's cover art References [ ] ↑ 1.0 1.1 Naughty Dog (@Naughty_Dog). “The Last of Us Part I PC Will Now Be Released on March 28. an Update from Our Team: Pic.twitter.com/lvapdt71xj.” Twitter, 3 Feb. 2023, https://twitter.com/Naughty_Dog/status/1621539243402174470 . ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 Snyder, Rochelle (June 9, 2022). "The Growing Future of The Last Of Us" . Naughty Dog . Retrieved June 9, 2022. ↑ Schreier, Jason (April 9, 2021). Sony's Obsession With Blockbusters Is Stirring Unrest Within PlayStation Empire . Bloomberg . Retrieved June 9, 2022. ↑ Skrebels, Joe (June 9, 2022). The Last of Us Remake Officially Revealed: Arriving in September for PS5, PC Version on the Way . IGN . Retrieved June 9, 2022. ↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 The Last of Us Part I reviews , The Open Critic , (Accessed September 3, 2022) ↑ 6.0 6.1 Part I review , GameSpot , (Accessed September 3, 2022) ↑ 7.0 7.1 Part I review , IGN , (Accessed September 3, 2022) v · d · e Real world subjects Video games The Last of Us ( Factions MP · Remastered · Part I ) · The Last of Us: Left Behind · The Last of Us Part II ( Remastered ) · The Last of Us Online (cancelled) Compilations The Last of Us Complete Books and comics The Last of Us: American Dreams ( Issue 1 · Issue 2 · Issue 3 · Issue 4 ) · The Last of Us Strategy Guide ( Remastered ) · The Art of The Last of Us · The Last of Us: The Poster Collection · The Art of The Last of Us Part II Screen adaptations HBO's The Last of Us ( Season 1 · Season 2 · Season 3 ) · The Last of Us film (cancelled) · The Last of Us animated short film (cancelled) Stage adaptations The Last of Us: One Night Live Tabletop games The Last of Us: Escape the Dark · The Last of Us: The Board Game (cancelled) Podcast series The Official The Last of Us Podcast · HBO's The Last of Us Podcast ( Season 1 · Season 2 ) Web series The Last of Us Development Series · Grounded: Making The Last of Us · From Dreams: The Making of The Last of Us: Left Behind · The Last of Us: The Definitive Playthrough · Inside The Last of Us Part II · The Last of Us Revisited · The Last of Us: Inside the Episode · Building The Last of Us · Grounded II: Making The Last of Us Part II · The Last of Us: Game Nights Location-based entertainment Halloween Horror Nights · Future Immersive Entertainment Concept Music The Last of Us Original Soundtrack · The Last of Us Part II Original Soundtrack · The Last of Us Part II: Covers and Rarities · The Last of Us: Season 1 Soundtrack · The Sounds of the Fireflies Miscellaneous The Last of Us Official Map App · The Last of Us Stickers · Merchandise Events Firefly Pendant Contests · The Last of Us Day ( 2019 · 2020 · 2021 · 2022 · 2023 · 2024 ) · The Last of Us Design Contest · Photo Mode Contest · Play Like Ellie · The Last of Us Lock-in · Through the Valley Cover Challenge · PlayStation 4 Photo & Movie Share Contest Companies Naughty Dog · HBO Categories Categories : Games The Last of Us Part I Languages Español Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Horror The Last of Us Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. The Last of Us Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab