Read Sundar Pichai’s email to Google employees on extending work from home till September 2021 - Times of India Edition IN IN US Sign In TOI Tech Gadgets News AI New Bing Tech News Gadgets Reviews Top Gadgets Slideshows Videos How to Featured Web Stories Today's ePaper News Gadgets News Read Sundar Pichai’s email to Google employees on extending work from home till September 2021 Trending Garena Free Fire Max Codes Wordle Hamster Kombat Daily Cipher And Combo Code Apple iPhone 16 Apple iPhone 15 Plus Tapswap Daily Codes Pavel Durov Genshin Impact Codes Blade Ball Codes MemeFi Daily Codes Garena Free Fire Max Codes Wordle Hamster Kombat Daily Cipher And Combo Code Apple iPhone 16 Apple iPhone 15 Plus Tapswap Daily Codes Pavel Durov Genshin Impact Codes Blade Ball Codes MemeFi Daily Codes Garena Free Fire Max Codes Wordle Hamster Kombat Daily Cipher And Combo Code Apple iPhone 16 Apple iPhone 15 Plus Tapswap Daily Codes Pavel Durov Genshin Impact Codes Blade Ball Codes MemeFi Daily Codes This story is from December 15, 2020 Read Sundar Pichai’s email to Google employees on extending work from home till September 2021 TIMESOFINDIA.COM / Dec 15, 2020, 09:24 IST Share AA + Text Size Small Medium Large Follow us Sundar Pichai sent an email to Googlers on December 14 outlining the company’s plans about getting employees back in offices. Sundar Pichai sent an email to Googlers on December 14 outlining the company’s plans about getting employees back in offices. With news about Covid-19 vaccines pilfering from some parts of the world, a question that a lot of working professionals have on their mind is: when will they return to offices? Google CEO Sundar Pichai answered this question related to his employees in an email. According to a report by CNBC (via The New York Times), Pichai sent an email to Googlers on December 14 outlining the company’s plans about getting employees back in offices. “Our goal is to give Googlers everywhere the option to return as soon as local conditions allow, and it’s encouraging to see that in some parts of APAC and EMEA, Googlers are already returning to the office. Other regions are not as far along, so to help these Googlers deal with the uncertainty still ahead, we’ll be extending our voluntary work-from-home option to September 1,” Pichai wrote in his email. Do note that in September this year, Pichai had sent a similar email announcing that work-from-home had been extended till July 2021. Unlike certain companies like Twitter and Facebook that had given the employees work-from-home option “forever”, Pichai made it clear that Google has no such plans. “We believe that in-office collaboration will be just as important to Google’s future as it’s been to our past,” he said in the email. He said that the unpredictability due to the pandemic has created “some interesting challenges and opportunities for us as we start to bring Googlers back to the office. We’re going to lean into them and experiment with a series of pilots designs to improve productivity, collaboration, and overall well being.” He also revealed Google’s plans about how it will get employees back in work. According to Pichai’s email, the company is working on initiatives like flexible week pilot, where employees will have the option to work three days from office and two from home. Google is also working on creating flexible office designs as well. Here’s Pichai’s email in full, according to CNBC: Hi Googlers, When we closed most of our offices back in March, we didn’t know what course the pandemic would take. The last few months have been especially difficult with the virus surging in many parts of the world. I know some of us are experiencing personal hardships and missing loved ones who’d normally surround us at this time of year. And many of us are leaning on our fellow Googlers more than ever. The good news is that over the last nine months we’ve learned how to work better virtually. We’ve adapted. We’ve kept innovating. And with new vaccines on the horizon, thanks to the incredible ingenuity of our medical and scientific community, a return to normal is now in sight. So the question that I know is on your minds is: what’s next? First, we’ll continue to face variability in many areas of the world before life returns to normal. Our goal is to give Googlers everywhere the option to return as soon as local conditions allow, and it’s encouraging to see that in some parts of APAC and EMEA, Googlers are already returning to the office. Other regions are not as far along, so to help these Googlers deal with the uncertainty still ahead, we’ll be extending our voluntary work-from-home option to September 1. That means if your role allows you to work from home until July 2021, you can now do so until the beginning of September 2021. Second, we believe that in-office collaboration will be just as important to Google’s future as it’s been to our past. The unpredictability still ahead for many regions creates some interesting challenges and opportunities for us as we start to bring Googlers back to the office. We’re going to lean into them and experiment with a series of pilots designs to improve productivity, collaboration, and overall well being. Here’s what you can expect to see in 2021: Flexible work week pilot: To remove the friction of five-day-a-week commutes, we will pilot a hybrid model in which teams come together for “collaboration days” in the office and spend the other days doing focused work for home or the office. In sites that have reached Level 2 on the risk assessment curve, we’ll offer a 3/2 work week — a minimum of three days in the office and two at home (or wherever you work best). This pilot won’t make sense for every role or every team — particularly Googlers in customer-facing roles spending lots of time with clients, employees who need to be on-site in data centers or labs, or those who. Depend on specialized equipment to do their work — so please read the full FAQ and expect further guidance in 2021 from your product or function lead. Flexible office design: In offices that have reached levels 2, 3 and 4 on the risk assessment curves, you’ll see new options, such as bookable collaboration spaces for up to a dozen people and outdoor spaces for large team gatherings. We’ll also have reservable desks for Googlers who want to dod individual work in a quiet space (which, as we’ve learned, is not always possible at home). New collaboration technology: We’ll keep iterating on our tools and spaces to ensure collaboration equity between Googlers who are working from home and Googlers who are sitting together in the office. For example, we’re creating in-office presentation booths designed to send professional-quality broadcasts to large, distributed audiences. We’re also improving products like Meet and workspace to better bridge the gap between colleagues working from the office and those working from home. Ultimately, we are testing a hypothesis that a flexible work model will lead to greater productivity, collaboration and well being. Those goals have always been at the core of Google’s workplace philosophy and will stay front and center for us as we plan for the future. No company at our scale has ever created a fully hybrid workforce model — though a few are starting to test it — so it will be interesting to try. We’ll approach these pilots with a spirit of innovation and an open mind, and do rigorous measurement along the way to help us learn and adapt. I’m excited about the opportunity to reimagine our workplace together and am sure you’ll have many questions. We’ll continue the discussion in future forums and follow up in early 2021 with more detail. - Sundar End of Article FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA Hot Picks Hurricane Francine Alberto Fujimori Haitian Immigrants Stock Market Today Shimla Mosque Violence Ayushman Bharat Insurance Scheme MP Gang Rape TOP TRENDING Iphone 16 vs Iphone 15 Travis Head Largest Mammals in the World Sandip Ghosh Hamster Kombat Daily Cipher Codes Shimla Mosque Row WWE Wrestlers who Married other Wrestlers Garena Free Fire Max Codes King Charles Diljit Dosanjh Concert Tickets Online Trending Stories In Section Entire Website Diljit Dosanjh’s Dil-Luminati India Tour: Check dates, venue, how to book concert tickets online Vivo T3 Ultra with 1.5K AMOLED screen, Dimensity 9200+ SoC launched in India: Price, specs, and more WhatsApp may soon allow users to choose MetaAI voice: Report Apple AirPods 4 vs AirPods 3: Is it worth upgrading Apple Watch Series 10 vs Apple Watch Series 9: Should you upgrade to the new Apple Watch Viral video: Indian woman's dance on Shreya Ghoshal song in Denmark goes viral on Instagram, singer reacts Ola responds to arson incident at Karnataka showroom: Here’s what the company said Why and when a Google exec told colleague: We're both Goldman and NYSE, as per trial evidence Drama at Israeli startup valued at $1.5 billion, new CEO announced; old refuses to leave; read emails that the two CEOs sent to employees Pakistani man installs CCTV camera on daughter’s head, internet calls it ‘SheCTV’ Supreme Court pulls up Punjab & Haryana HC for sacking judicial officer over 'affair' Sensex surges over 1,400 points, ends just shy of 83,000; Nifty above 25,350 - top reasons Why India is now insisting on an immediate ceasefire in Gaza ACT Hockey: India stay unbeaten, beat Korea 3-1 'Unfair and imbalanced': Jaishankar on India's trade ties with China ‘Millennials in India top spenders on travel, beat Gen Z, Gen X, boomers’ By endorsing Kamala, Taylor Swift turns the tables on AI abusers What Airtel CEO Gopal Vittal wrote in letter to Jio, Vi, Tata Tele and BSNL CEOs Why are 'The Simpsons' and 'Santa’s Little Helper' trending? Pakistan: Bilawal cautions Shehbaz govt against political victimisation, points to Imran Khan's case About us Create Your Own Ad Terms of Use and Grievance Redressal Policy Privacy policy Advertise with us RSS Newsletter Feedback ePaper Sitemap Archives FOLLOW US ON Other Times Group News Sites The Economic Times Hindi Economic Times Navbharat Times Maharashtra Times Vijaya Karnataka Telugu Samayam Tamil Samayam Malayalam Samayam I am Gujarat TimesPoints Indiatimes Brand Capital Education Times Times Food Mumbai Mirror Bangalore Mirror MX Player Hindi Podcast Popular Categories Headlines Sports News Business News India News World News Bollywood News Health+ Tips Indian TV Shows Celebrity Photos Technology News Hot on the Web Kitchen Sponge Side Effects Malaika Arora Father Death News Live Update Stree 2 Collection Vitamin B 12 Weight Gain Vitamins Kanjeevaram Sari Nasa Sister Shivani Kaun Banega Crorepati 16 Top Trends Elon Musk Ayushman Bharat Scheme Kolkata Doctor Rape Case Stock Trading Scam US Presidential Debate Sunil Gavaskar Tech Layoffs India Team WTC India vs Korea Live IBPS Result Engineer Rashid Wolf Attack in Bahraich Rahul Gandhi Bangladesh Squad Jey USO Luxurious Lifestyle CJI Chandrachud Live Cricket Score Trending Topics Alia Bhatt Malaika Arora Father Death Arbaaz Khan Natasa Stankovic Mr Bachchan OTT Release National Parks In India Selena Gomez GOAT Collection Vikas Sethi Death Malayalam Producers India's Best Dancer 4 Simi Garewal Dilli Babu Indian National Parks Laung Benefits Vikas Sethi iPhone 16 Dubai Princess Sheikha Mahra MG Windsor Ev Wordle Answer Living and entertainment ETimes Travel Destinations Cricbuzz.com TV Lifestyle Newspaper Subscription Food News Times Prime Whats Hot Services CouponDunia TechGig TimesJobs Bollywood News Times Mobile Gadgets Careers Colombia Latest News Epilepsy medication shows promise of treating sleep apnoea symptoms: Study Digest this: Unhealthy gut may be linked to Parkinson’s disease 'Played a big role in turning the cricket around': Ricky Ponting applauds Virat Kohli’s brilliance as India’s former captain Exclusive- Saurabh Gumber reveals joining a new show during Ganeshotsav says, "I consider it as Bappa's small gift and believe he has great plans for me ahead" Pakistan: Bilawal cautions Shehbaz govt against political victimisation, points to Imran Khan's case Mahindra Thar Roxx with VIN 0001 to be auctiond for charity: How to register Vijay Sathya-starrer 'Dhil Raja' to release in September Harvard University Sees Drop in Black Freshman Enrollment Post-Supreme Court Ruling on Affirmative Action Trump's claim about sending Taliban leader Abdul his house photo fuels social media frenzy Finding divinity in a world addicted to noise Tovino Thomas praises Prithviraj Sukumaran as director: "One of the brilliant directors I have ever worked with" Border Gavaskar Trophy: When Sourav Ganguly's Brisbane heroics set the tone for an enlivening series NTR Jr’s Devara crosses US $1 million mark for its premiere shows in USA with 15 days to release 8 animals that reproduce without mating It will take time to get back to the top: Pakistan coach Zaman The Luckiest Zodiac Signs: Who's Got the Midas Touch? EXPLAINED: What India need to do in next 10 Tests to qualify for World Test Championship final Watch: Car stuck in massive crater as road caves in at Mumbai's Dadar Copyright © 2024 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication Service