Lions LB Jalen Reeves-Maybin elected NFLPA president Skip to main content Advertising Around the NFL Lions LB Jalen Reeves-Maybin elected NFLPA president Published: Mar 08, 2024 at 02:23 PM Nick Shook Around The NFL Writer Copied! The NFL Players Association has selected its next president. Lions linebacker Jalen Reeves-Maybin has been elected as the union's new leader, the NFLPA announced Friday. Related Links NFC free agency needs: Giants must prioritize offensive playmakers; 3 teams with big QB questions Top 101 NFL free agents of 2024 ranked by position: Which spots have most/least depth? 2024 NFL Draft: Spencer Rattler among 10 NFL Scouting Combine standouts to re-examine Congratulations to Jalen Reeves-Maybin on being elected as President by the Board of Player Representatives! Jalen is currently a linebacker for the @Lions and was a member of our Executive Committee for the past two seasons. pic.twitter.com/eZfcTj56L5 — NFLPA (@NFLPA) March 8, 2024 Reeves-Maybin ascends to the top chair of the NFLPA after spending the last two years on its executive committee, replacing former Packers and Browns center JC Tretter , who earned a second term in March 2022 despite concluding his playing career at the end of the 2021 season. Reeves-Maybin will take on the increased responsibilities of serving as the face of the league's players while working alongside executive director Lloyd Howell, who replaced DeMaurice Smith in June 2023 . Reeves-Maybin has flourished in the last 12 months, returning to the team that drafted him and earning his first Pro Bowl nod (and a second-team All-Pro selection) as a key special teamer for a Lions team that won its first division title in 30 years and reached the NFC Championship Game. His efforts earned him a contract extension through the 2025 season, which Reeves-Maybin signed last week. Now, he's blossoming into an even greater leader, an individual in whom the rest of the NFL's players have given their vote of confidence. Related Content news Vikings signing LB Andrew Van Ginkel to one-year, $23 million extension The Minnesota Vikings have signed linebacker Andrew Van Ginkel to a one-year, $23 million contract extension, NFL Network Insiders Ian Rapoport and Tom Pelissero reported on Tuesday. news Jaguars part ways with assistant GM Ethan Waugh The Jacksonville Jaguars have parted ways with assistant general manager and former interim GM Ethan Waugh, NFL Network Insider Mike Garafolo reported Tuesday. news Confident J.J. McCarthy: 'I know I'm ready to start' at QB for Vikings Second-year Vikings QB J.J. McCarthy on Tuesday expressed confidence in his standing in Minnesota, telling reporters "I know I'm ready to start." news NFL news roundup: Chiefs exercising fifth-year options on DE George Karlaftis, CB Trent McDuffie NFL.com keeps you up to date with all of the latest league news from around the NFL. Visit NFL.com's transaction hub for a daily breakdown. news Chiefs personnel exec compares first-round OT Josh Simmons to Christian Darrisaw, Rashawn Slater The Chiefs might have plucked Patrick Mahomes' future blindside protector with the final pick of the first round, grabbing Ohio State product Josh Simmons. news Niners, TE George Kittle agree to 4-year, $76.4 million contract extension The San Francisco 49ers inked star tight end George Kittle to a $19.1 million extension, making him the highest paid TE in the NFL. news Seahawks' Mike Macdonald: Jalen Milroe is a QB, not Taysom Hill Jalen Milroe enters the NFL with dynamic dual-threat ability, but Seattle Seahawks coach Mike Macdonald shut down comparisons with how the New Orleans Saints use Taysom Hill. news Titans not naming No. 1 pick Cam Ward starter, didn't look to trade Will Levis during draft Tennessee Titans general manager Mike Borgonzi would not name No. 1 overall pick Cam Ward the starting QB on Monday. He also said the team wasn't trying to trade QB Will Levis during the draft. news Bills GM Brandon Beane bristles at criticisms of draft class: 'It sounds like 2018 all over with you guys' Bills general manager Brandon Beane has had enough of the criticism, speaking days after the draft concluded about issues others took with Buffalo neglecting to improve the wide receiver room. news NFL news roundup: Browns signing WR Diontae Johnson; Packers inking former first-round LB Isaiah Simmons NFL.com keeps you up to date with all of the latest league news from around the NFL. Visit NFL.com's transaction hub for a daily breakdown. news Saints QB Derek Carr confirms shoulder injury: 'I have an MRI report to prove it' Derek Carr confirmed his shoulder injury during a ChurchLV sermon on Sunday. The New Orleans Saints quarterback confirmed the injury, said nothing is nefarious, and that he and the club continue working through the issue. news Dolphins GM on not trading Jalen Ramsey during draft: 'We will make the deal at the appropriate time' Two weeks ago, Jalen Ramsey and the Dolphins mutually agreed to seek a trade. With none coming to fruition over the weekend, the sides will continue considering their futures. Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. Big left arrow icon Big right arrow icon Close icon Copy Url Three dots icon Down arrow icon Email icon Email icon Exit Fullscreen icon External link icon Facebook logo Football icon Facebook logo Instagram logo Snapchat logo YouTube logo TikTok logo Spotify logo LinkedIn logo Grid icon Key icon Left arrow icon Link icon Location icon Mail icon Menu icon Open icon Phone icon Play icon Radio icon Rewind icon Right arrow icon Search icon Select icon Selected icon TV icon Up arrow icon User icon Audio icon Add to calendar icon NFC icon AFC icon NFL icon Carousel Icon List View Website Instagram Twitter Facebook Snapchat Shop Icon Profile Overlay Avatar Add Airplay Arrow Left Arrow Right Arrow Up Arrow Down Audio Back 5s Back 10s Back 30s Calendar Chart Check Down Left Right Up Chromecast Off Chromecast On Close Closed Captions Bench Off Bench On Broad Off Broad On Vertical Off Vertical On Comment Dock Done Download Draft Fantasy Filter Forward 5s Forward 10s Forward 30s Full Screen Off Full Screen On Gamepass Games Insights Key Leave Live Combine Draft Fantasy Menu Games Menu Network Menu News Menu Playoffs Menu Pro Bowl Menu Shop Menu Standings Menu Stats Menu Super Bowl Menu Teams Menu Tickets Menu More Horizontal More Vertical My Location Network News Pause play Multiple Players Single Player Playlist Playoffs Pro Bowl Purge Refresh Remove Search Settings Share Android Share Copy URL Share Email Share Facebook Share Instagram Share iOS Share Snapchat Share Twitter Skip Next Skip Previous Standings Star Stats Swap Teams Tickets Video Visibility Off Visibility On Volume Hi Volume Low Volume Medium Volume Mute Warning Website Caret down Caret up At News Play Audio Gallery Promo Chevron right The browser you are using is no longer supported on this site. It is highly recommended that you use the latest versions of a supported browser in order to receive an optimal viewing experience. The following browsers are supported: Chrome, Edge (v80 and later), Firefox and Safari. Got it!