Fidelity’s Abby Johnson Tightens Grip on Far-Flung Family Empire WealthManagement.com is part of the Informa Connect Division of Informa PLC INFORMA PLC | ABOUT US | INVESTOR RELATIONS | TALENT This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726. Podcasts & Videos CE Webinars Research Newsletters Subscribe Subscribe News Related Topics RIA IBD Wirehouse RPA Insights & Analysis Regulation & Compliance Career Moves Recent in News See all Sam Ogrizovich Modern Wealth RIA Deals & Moves: Modern Wealth Expands Into Chicago; EP Wealth Adds California RIA Deals & Moves: Modern Wealth Expands Into Chicago; EP Wealth Adds California RIA by Alex Ortolani Apr 29, 2025 2 Min Read Procyon Partners CEO and co-founder Phil Fiore RIA Procyon Readies New Deals Post-Constellation Minority Stake Procyon Readies New Deals Post-Constellation Minority Stake by Patrick Donachie Apr 29, 2025 4 Min Read Investment Related Topics Alternative Investments Digital Assets Equities ETFs Fixed Income Investing Strategies Mutual Funds Real Estate SMAs Recent in Investment See All Charles Schwab signage ETFs 12 Investment Must Reads for This Week (April 29, 2025) 12 Investment Must Reads for This Week (April 29, 2025) by WealthManagement.com Staff Apr 29, 2025 4 Min Read Edward Jones alternative investments Alternative Investments Edward Jones Adds Alts to its Private Client Service Edward Jones Adds Alts to its Private Client Service by David Bodamer Apr 29, 2025 3 Min Read Wealth Planning Related Topics Estate Planning Financial Planning High Net Worth Insurance Philanthropy Retirement Recent in Wealth Planning See All thumbnail Sponsored Content Mid-Year Developments in Estate Planning Mid-Year Developments in Estate Planning Apr 14, 2025 1 Hr View thumbnail Sponsored Content Ask the Experts: Grow Your Practice with Philanthropy: Comparing DAFs and Private Foundations Ask the Experts: Grow Your Practice with Philanthropy: Comparing DAFs and Private Foundations Apr 10, 2025 Business Planning Related Topics Client Relations Growth Strategies Professional Development Diversity & Inclusion Recent in Business Planning See All Couple with their investment agent in a meeting. Sponsored Content 4 Keys To Maximizing Your Lead Gen ROI 4 Keys To Maximizing Your Lead Gen ROI Mar 13, 2025 1 Hr View Procyon Partners CEO and co-founder Phil Fiore RIA Procyon Readies New Deals Post-Constellation Minority Stake Procyon Readies New Deals Post-Constellation Minority Stake by Patrick Donachie Apr 29, 2025 4 Min Read WealthTech Related Topics Artificial Intelligence Cybersecurity Support Platforms Recent in WealthTech See All Digital transformation concept. Sponsored Content Data Modernization Benchmarking Survey: The Winning Strategies of Data-Minded Leaders Data Modernization Benchmarking Survey: The Winning Strategies of Data-Minded Leaders Apr 8, 2025 An analyst uses a computer and dashboard for data business analysis and Data Management System Sponsored Content The Hidden Power of Your Data: Creating Smarter Client Experiences The Hidden Power of Your Data: Creating Smarter Client Experiences Mar 26, 2025 1 Hr View RIA Edge Trusts & Estates Events & Awards Related Topics WM Industry Awards Industry Calendar See All Sponsored By Investment Fidelity’s Abby Johnson Tightens Grip on Far-Flung Family Empire Fidelity’s Abby Johnson Tightens Grip on Far-Flung Family Empire Fidelity’s Abby Johnson Tightens Grip on Far-Flung Family Empire A decade into her reign, Johnson is reasserting control over the US fund giant’s London outpost. Heads are rolling. Loukia Gyftopoulou March 21, 2024 7 Min Read Abigail Johnson Loukia Gyftopoulou (Bloomberg) -- The news quickly spread through Fidelity in London: Abigail Johnson, heir to the US fund giant founded by her grandfather, was tightening the screws on the family empire. Anxious employees at Fidelity International, a globe-spanning business based in Bermuda and run out of London, began eying the door. Soon dozens were getting nudged out. Then the face of the operation, Chief Executive Officer Anne Richards, resigned. Finally, on March 6, the hammer fell: Fidelity International began culling 1,000 jobs, nearly one out of every 10 employees. The job cuts may only be the start. Johnson has started seeding Fidelity International with executives who are intimately familiar with how things work in the family’s Boston stronghold. The goal is to get the business back on track as costs and asset outflows have risen, people familiar with the matter say. The City of London is still catching its breath. To anyone wondering just who’s in charge now, consider: Fidelity International no longer has a CEO. It bestowed that title on Richards, Dame Commander of the British Empire and a media-savvy member of the Davos set (she’d previously held the rank of CEO at M&G Investments, which introduced mutual funds to the UK in 1931, before Fidelity was even founded). Her replacement, an American who spent 20 years at Fidelity in Boston, will hold a lesser title: president. Like his predecessor, he’ll report to Abby Johnson – chair of Fidelity International. Related: Fidelity Cuts About 700 Jobs, Its First Reduction Since 2017 Inside Fidelity Investments, a private US company with 75,000 employees, 50 million customers and $4.9 trillion of assets, the implications are clear. A decade into her reign atop the firm established by her grandfather Edward “Ned” Johnson II in 1946 – and built into a giant by her father Edward “Ned” Johnson III – Abby Johnson seems determined to shake up a few things, the people familiar say. Johnson, 62, CEO of FMR, parent of Fidelity Investments, is among the most influential women in finance today. Given her stature and wealth, few at Fidelity – or anywhere else in the industry – are willing to speak openly about her. But interviews with about a dozen current and former employees, including several familiar with Johnson’s thinking, paint a portrait of the $776 billion asset manager, Fidelity International. Executives elsewhere in the City of London and recruiters, who’ve been hearing from Fidelity employees, confirm what those insiders are saying. As CEO, Johnson has pushed Fidelity Investments far beyond its roots. She’s reduced the company’s reliance on old-fashioned mutual funds – ‘80s stock-picking stars like Peter Lynch, of Magellan Fund fame, have long since faded from the scene – and embraced low-cost index funds popularized by US rival Vanguard Group. Related: Fidelity Shuffles Senior Management, Reports 12% Revenue Boost In Boston, Johnson also has expanded into brokerage services, financial advice, cryptocurrencies and venture capital, at times with mixed success. In London, Fidelity International has been slower to change but has also pushed into retail brokerage and more recently into private markets. It doubled headcount in certain departments, but those moves have blown out costs, people familiar with the matter said. In Boston, she recently shuffled management at Fidelity Investments and cut 700 jobs (to put Fidelity’s size in context, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has 45,300 employees to Fidelity’s 75,000). Now London is coming in for a similar treatment. Johnson almost never speaks to the news media and declined to be interviewed for this story. Fidelity International did not make Richards, 59, who will become vice chair of the firm, available for an interview. In a statement, Fidelity International said of the developments and of Johnson: “Our senior management team and board collectively decides the strategy for the organization. Our chairman fulfils that role, as you would expect a chairman to do.” Fidelity Investments has legions of fans in the US. Fidelity International, by contrast, has mostly flown under the radar. It was set up in tax-friendly Bermuda with the aim of managing mutual funds specifically for non-US investors. London, initially home to a research arm, grew into a key base. Today the company has a presence in 25 or so other locations around the world, including Hong Kong, Tokyo and Mumbai. Established in 1969 as the overseas arm of the Johnsons and spun out as a separate company 11 years later, Fidelity International is now being pushed to fall in line. The Johnsons are said to control roughly 40% of the business, known internally as FIL (Fidelity declines to disclose the exact current stake). Fidelity International executives and other senior staff control the rest. Technically, FIL is an independent company with its own board. But people inside and close to the firm are under no illusions about who’s calling the shots. In UK corporate filings, Fidelity International characterizes Johnson as the only person “with significant influence or control.” She became chair of FIL in 2016, two years after succeeding her father as head of Fidelity Investments parent FMR (Ned Johnson, who also preceded her as FIL chair, died in 2022, at age 91.) From the start, Abby Johnson took a close interest in Fidelity International, former long-standing staff say. She’s maintained a strong relationship with many of its senior executives, including those on the investment side. But the message people at Fidelity International are hearing these days is a little less friendly: Get it together. Some funds have hemorrhaged assets, even as costs have climbed, people familiar with the operation say. The cuts announced internally in early March followed months of creeping dread. London executives had been warning that the pressure was building, according to employees. Insiders say dozens of people – from the investment, wealth and compliance teams, among others – were quietly shown the door in small, unofficial rounds of layoffs before the bigger, official one in March. In a statement, Fidelity International said cost pressure has challenged the industry and that the firm is continually looking at steps to right-size the business. A full picture of Fidelity International is difficult to piece together because of the company’s structure. But regulatory filings in the UK offer a glimpse. Over the past few years, the performance of the UK business – which handles about half of Fidelity International’s $776 billion in assets under management and accounts for roughly a third of its employees – has been mixed. In 2022, for instance, its assets fell 16%. Revenue rose 6% that year, but costs rose even more: 11%. Headcount jumped by 12%. The bigger picture isn’t great either. According to Morningstar Inc., $15 billion flowed out of Fidelity International’s actively managed funds in 2023. That’s only $3 billion less than all the money that flowed into them between 2018 and 2023. Those 700-or-so funds handle roughly half of its assets.  Over the past three years, overall costs have risen faster than revenue, according to UK regulatory filings and people familiar with the operation. The Johnsons have certainly kept tabs on their London outpost over the years. Like her father, Abigail Johnson tends to visit London several times a year (she sometimes makes the December holiday party). She usually works out of the offices of Fidelity International, near St. Paul’s Cathedral, rather than from Fidelity Investments, less than a mile away, former staff said. Once, employees could tell Ned Johnson was in town by the Wellington boots outside his door. A clue to Abby Johnson’s arrival: more flowers at the reception desk. When Richards arrived, she needed few introductions. She was made Dame in 2021 for her work in the City by Queen Elizabeth II. With a high public profile and penchant for courting the media, she stands in sharp relief to the press-shy Johnson. She was only the second outsider in FIL’s history to be appointed CEO without first having spent time at Fidelity International or FMR. In an interview with the Financial Times published in 2020 , a year into her tenure as CEO, Richards acknowledged that Fidelity International hadn’t shined as brightly as many might’ve hoped. She said her ambition was to turn Fidelity International into the asset manager everyone wanted to beat. That job now falls to her successor, Keith Metters, a Fidelity lifer who arrived in London four years ago. Meantime, Niamh Brodie-Machura, a 13-year veteran of Fidelity Investments, has been appointed co-chief investment officer, placing her next to Richards’ CIO, Andrew McCaffery. To contact the author of this story: Loukia Gyftopoulou in London at [email protected] About the Author Loukia Gyftopoulou See more from Loukia Gyftopoulou You May Also Like RIA Edge 100: Growing Rapidly but Responsibly View List View List Latest news Investment Zephyr's Adjusted for Risk on Location: Building a Strong Portfolio; ETFs, SMAs, and More Building a Strong Portfolio; ETFs, SMAs, and More Apr 23, 2025 Investment Zephyr's Adjusted for Risk on Location: Connecting Solutions to Plans with Horizon Investment's Clark Allen Connecting Solutions to Financial Plans Apr 18, 2025 Investment Zephyr's Adjusted for Risk: Re-evaluating Investment Risk in Today's Market: Perspectives with Joy Yang Investment Risk in Today's Market Apr 14, 2025 Sign Up for Newsletters Sign up to receive the latest insights, trends, and analysis. Subscribe now CE Webinars Sponsored Content What truly sets peak performing retirement plans apart? May 21, 2025 | 2:00 pm EDT Sponsored Content Mid-Year Developments in Estate Planning Jun 10, 2025 | 2:00 pm EDT Sponsored Content GrowthTech Summit: AI, Tech Stacks & Growth Strategies for Future-Ready Advisory Firms May 8, 2025 | 2:00 pm EDT Sponsored Content Ask the Experts: Grow Your Practice with Philanthropy: Comparing DAFs and Private Foundations Jun 3, 2025 | 2:00 pm EDT View more Sponsored Content Featured WMIQ Research Active & Passive Investments in Portfolio Construction: What Advisors Are Doing Now See how advisors are combining active and passive strategies for optimal portfolio results. Read more Wealth Management Edge Jun 10 - Jun 12, 2025 Jun 10 - Jun 12, 2025 A must-attend event for advisors focused on tech, investments, and strategies to drive growth. Book with code: SAVE10WM and save 10%. Register Today Trusts & Estates Magazine Read More Latest Digital Edition Trusts & Estates: May 2025 Digital Edition Feature on International Practice Get to Know Us About Us Contact Reprints Partner With Us Advertise Marketing Solutions Research Services Trusts & Estates Issue Archive Subscriptions Contact T&E Join Us Subscribe Follow Us Copyright © 2025 Informa Connect Limited. Registered in England & Wales with number 01835199, registered office 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG. CCPA: Do not sell my personal info | Terms of Use | Code of conduct events | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy