Important 2020 NBA Offseason Dates; When Is the NBA Draft? Free Agency? – NBC4 Washington Skip to content Main Navigation Search Search for: Local Weather U.S. & World The Scene Politics Consumer Investigations Sports Newsletters Watch 24/7 Create profile / Log in Dashboard Email preferences Sign out Trending Federal Worker Resources ✈️ Real ID 🤰🏾 Black Maternal Health 🌡️ Forecast 🏛 Trump Administration 📨 NBC4 Newsletters 📺 Watch 24/7 Our News Standards Expand Important 2020 NBA Offseason Dates; When Is the NBA Draft? Free Agency? By Chase Hughes • Published August 14, 2020 BOOKMARKER Whenever the NBA regular season ends, it marks a good time to take a look at the calendar to get an idea of what lies ahead in the offseason. This year, the calendar is been adjusted significantly due to the league's months-long hiaus due to the coronavirus. Now, the offseason begins for most teams in August and will center around the month of October when the draft and free agency are held. Here is a list of the key dates to keep in mind... August 17 - NBA playoffs begin; deadline for early entrants to declare for NBA Draft August 20 - NBA Draft lottery *The Wizards have the ninth-best lottery odds, which means a 4.5% chance at the No. 1 pick and a 20.2% chance of selecting in the top four. September 15 - Conference finals begin NBC Sports Maryland Apr 28 Maryland governor says he wants to revamp Northwest Stadium site with input from locals NFL Apr 27 Washington Commanders announcing deal for new stadium on RFK site Monday September 30 - NBA Finals begin October 6 - Deadline for early entrants to withdraw from NBA Draft (including international players) October 16 - 2020 NBA Draft October 17 - Deadline for player, team and early termination options; deadline for qualifying offers extended to restricted free agents *the Wizards do not have any player options or team options to consider this year and all of their free agents are unrestricted (via Spotrac) CLICK HERE TO SUBSCRIBE TO THE WIZARDS TALK PODCAST October 18 - NBA free agency negotiating period begins (4 p.m. ET) *The Wizards can officially start discussing terms with Davis Bertans, their No. 1 offseason priority. They can also begin negotiating with other players around the league October 19 - Official start of league year; restricted free agents can sign offer sheets; teams can sign rookies, league minimum and two-way deals; rookie options can be exercised October 23 - NBA free agency signing period begins (10 a.m. ET); teams can sign and extend players, plus complete trades; restricted free agent offer sheets can be matched *This will be the moment of truth for the Wizards and Bertans. Given he is one of the top-10 free agents available, he will likely sign fairly soon once the window opens. November 10 - Training camp opens December 1 - 2020-21 NBA season begins *This date, along with the beginning of training camp, are considered flexible at this point. Stay connected to the Wizards with the MyTeams app. Click here to download for comprehensive coverage of your teams. MORE WIZARDS NEWS: Giannis on Moe: Nothing against him Rising Tensions: Wizards in middle of it Finally: Wiz win Important 2020 NBA offseason dates; when is the NBA Draft? Free agency? originally appeared on NBC Sports Washington on now 1:30AM: News4 Late News Trending Stories Amazon White House blasts ‘hostile' Amazon over tariff cost report; retailer scraps idea Loudoun County Middle schooler records himself harassing 5-year-old with ethnic slurs National Museum of African American History and Culture (NMAAHC) Frustrations, fear of erasing history voiced after artifacts returned from African American history museum Road safety Maryland driver with $187K in unpaid tickets among 5 sued by DC Movies Why Jeremy Renner thinks he briefly died after horrific snowplow accident Weather Forecast Facebook Instagram TikTok About NBC4 Washington Our News Standards Submit Tips for Investigations Newsletters Connect With Us Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more WRC Public Inspection File WRC Accessibility WRC Employment Information Send Feedback FCC Applications Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Advertise with us CA Notice Ad Choices Copyright © 2025 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Newsletters Local Northern Virginia Prince George's County Federal Worker Resources Subscribe to The 4Front Storm Team4 Changing Climate See It, Share It Videos Investigations Consumer Money-Saving Tips Scam Alerts Recalls Submit a tip The Scene Subscribe to The Weekend Scene Sports Washington Commanders About NBC4 Washington Our news standards TV Schedule Our apps NBC4 TV Schedule Submit photos and video Submit a consumer complaint Take our daily flash survey Promotions Newsletters Cozi TV Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok Contact Us