A look back at the eight year wait for Cyberpunk 2077 | PC Gamer Skip to main content Open menu Close menu PC Gamer PC Gamer THE GLOBAL AUTHORITY ON PC GAMES Search Search PC Gamer Sign in View Profile Sign out Subscribe US Edition UK US Canada Australia Games Hardware News Reviews Guides Video Forum More PC Gaming Show Software Movies & TV Coupons Magazine Newsletter Community guidelines Affiliate links Meet the team About PC Gamer PC Gamer Magazine Subscription Why subscribe? Subscribe to the world's #1 PC gaming mag Try a single issue or save on a subscription Issues delivered straight to your door or device From $32.49 View Popular Oblivion Remastered Marathon Baldur's Gate 3 Schedule 1 Marvel Rivals Games RPG Cyberpunk 2077 A look back at the eight year wait for Cyberpunk 2077 Features By James Davenport published 30 November 2020 A timeline of announcements, trailers, controversies, and delays. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . (Image credit: CD Projekt) Jump to: 2012 2013 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Cyberpunk 2077 has been a long time coming, but we're finally nearing the end of the road. CD Projekt Red will follow up their 2015 smash hit The Witcher 3 with one of the most highly anticipated PC games ever made. We've been waiting to see what CD Projekt's been cooking up for eight years now, and in that time the Polish studio has gone from making meaty, albeit niche RPGs to putting out open world do-anything future fiction that looks like it could knock Grand Theft Auto down a peg or two. So before we dive into Night City ourselves on December 10, let's take a look back at how we got here, one trailer, tweet, and crunch controversy at a time. 2012 October You may like Silksong's weary hollows tossed another scrap of hope from Xbox on high, as a blog post namedrops it next to other 'upcoming games' Nightdive's spent 6 years on its update of System Shock 2, so it's now the '25th Anniversary Remaster' and will finally announce its release date on March 20 Development begins. CD Projekt Red announces Cyberpunk 2077 with an animated logo. Wearing 2020 goggles, it looks and sounds very dorky and dated already. 2013 January We get a CG teaser trailer in which armored police surround and shoot at a cyborg. It offers the early first look at the style and tone CD Projekt Red has in mind for Cyberpunk 2077. No release date is announced. 2015 (Image credit: CD Projekt Red) May The biggest gaming news, reviews and hardware deals Keep up to date with the most important stories and the best deals, as picked by the PC Gamer team. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. The Witcher 3 releases and CD Projekt Red shifts the majority of development to Cyberpunk 2077. CD Projekt SVP of business and publishing Michal Nowakowski tells GamesRadar , "There's a sizable team still working on [The Witcher 3: Blood and Wine], but an even more sizable team has actually been working on Cyberpunk for quite a while right now." 2016 (Image credit: CD Projekt) December CD Projekt Red receives $7 million (30 million PLN) in Polish government funding . It is the largest cut of Poland's National Center for Research and Development fund, to be used for the CDPR's four proposed focuses: city creation, seamless multiplayer, cinematic feel, and animation excellence. Multiplayer is news to everyone and speculation begins. Will Cyberpunk 2077 be an MMO? Will it feature a separate more traditional deathmatch mode? Or something else entirely? There is still no release date in sight. 2017 (Image credit: CD Projekt Red) June Someone gets their hands on some internal documents detailing the design of Cyberpunk 2077, and tries to extort money from CD Projekt Red for their precious intel. But CDPR comes out and says the documents are old and do not represent what Cyberpunk 2077 has become. A kind way to say 'get bent.' Nothing results from the threat, publicly at least. 2018 January The Cyberpunk 2077 Twitter account groans back into life after four years of silence with an innocuous *beep* . Thus would begin a long final stretch of delays, crunch controversies, and secretive demos. June The public gets a peek, finally. The first in-engine trailer debuts at the Xbox showcase, which cyberpunk genre grandpappy William Gibson wasn't impressed by . Meanwhile, cyberhunk Steven Messner sees Cyberpunk 2077 behind closed doors at E3, the first gameplay reveal, recounting his experience in a slurry of fragmented Slack messages. He's very impressed and surprised by what's revealed. There's wall-running, car chase shoot outs, and what we now tacitly and happily accept is revealed as surprising and controversial: Cyberpunk 2077 is a first person game . Gasp! But we gotta see that butt! Tons of new information drops, including the news that the multiplayer mode won't arrive at launch. Or ever, possibly. Quest designer Patrick Mills tells Eurogamer multiplayer is still in R&D (research and development). August CD Projekt Red dumps the gameplay demo in the lap of the public. As expected, PC Gamer inspects the trailer and makes a bunch of GIFs . Everyone warms to first-person perspective. Night City sure looks nice from behind the eyes. We're still waiting on release timing, but everyone now knows that Cyberpunk is a game that not only exists, but looks pretty close to completion. It can't be long now, right? October Oh yeah, remember that big Polish government grant for researching "seamless multiplayer" features? CD Projekt brings on development studio Digital Scapes for a "long-term strategic cooperation" on Cyberpunk 2077. CDPR won't outright say it's for multiplayer development, but Digital Scapes specializes in the stuff. 2019 January Cyberpunk head writer Sebastian Stepien leaves CD Projekt Red for Blizzard . Stepien doesn't comment on his departure, but chances are he's just wrapped the bulk of work on Cyberpunk 2077 and is looking for pastures green. June A new Cyberpunk 2077 trailer debuts at the Xbox E3 Showcase, revealing Keanu Reeves' role as Johnny Silverhand. The actual Keanu emerges from fog behind a secret door and a meme occurs . He points to the screen and says, "Check this out." Everyone checks it out. It's the initial Cyberpunk 2077 release date of April 16, 2020. Cute! Meanwhile. I, the author, am in an appointment to see a 45-minute gameplay demo behind—and journalists love to hear it—closed doors. I take notes on my laptop in complete darkness, the LCD clamshell resting on the back of my hands as I fart out messy descriptions of the hour-long demo. It's pretty cool. There's an ice bath, some net-running, choice and consequence. Cyberpunk 2077 sure looks like an RPG. An in-game ad spotted in the E3 demo depicts a hypersexualized transgender character, drawing strong criticism as a needlessly transphobic work. The artist that created the ad responds , saying it is meant to reflect the aggressive corporate exploitation present in the world of 2077. August The same demo is condensed into 15 minutes of new gameplay and released to the public. September Terrible news. CD Projekt Red confirms that, no, you can't make sweet cyberlove to Keanu . December At The Game Awards, CD Projekt Red reveals some of the artists contributing tunes to the Cyberpunk 2077 soundtrack, Grimes, Run the Jewels, and ASAP Rocky chief among them. Grimes performs a song as her in-game persona. 2020 (Image credit: CDPR) January CD Projekt Red announces the first in a slurry of delays, pushing Cyberpunk 2077 from April 16 to September 17 , citing the need for more time to "finish playtesting, fixing, and polishing." In a followup Q&A with investors, the studio says the multiplayer component has also been delayed, and likely won't be out until sometime after 2021 . March In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, CD Projekt Red switches to remote work across the company and says the change won't delay Cyberpunk . Well... June CD Projekt Red delays Cyberpunk from September 17 to November 19, citing the need for more playtesting and bug-squashing. To counter the bummer vibes, CD Projekt Red gives journalists some hands-on time. PC Gamer's Andy Kelly has a blast . With no in-person E3 happening due to the pandemic, CD Projekt Red hosts its own virtual series of announcements for Cyberpunk 2077 around the same time. We get a new in-engine trailer and some new gameplay, all covering the bits detailed in the hands-on preview. The most surprising news is the announcement of Cyberpunk: Edgerunners , a 10-episode anime series from Studio Trigger planned to debut on Netflix in 2022. A comic is on the way, too. Later that month, an interview with Gamereactor confirms that wall-running has been cut for design reasons. September Bloomberg reports studio-wide crunch at CD Projekt Red , with staff required to work six days a week. The report opposes CDPR co-founder Marcin Iwiński's 2019 statement that the studio would stick to a "non-obligatory crunch policy" in the late stages of Cyberpunk 2077 development. October Cyberpunk 2077 goes gold at the beginning of the month only for it to get delayed a few weeks later, this time from November 19 to December 10 . Another CD Projekt boss is quoted shortly after saying crunch at the studio is "not that bad—and never was." He quickly walks back the statement and apologizes. November With Cyberpunk 2077 nearly, finally, probably here, the media blitz and promotions truly begin. Adidas announces Cyberpunk 2077 sneakers and the sneakerheads are not impressed . The soundtrack listing reveals more collaborating musicians , including Sophie, The Armed, Converge, Health, and more. (The Armed are genuine punk, and great at that. Give 'em a listen .) Meanwhile, Andy Kelly spends two days playing Cyberpunk 2077 in secret for 15 hours. He enjoys being a kind samurai , and unearths the heart and oddball characters in Cyberpunk 2077 the edgy marketing fails to reveal. Someone manages to nab a PS4 copy of Cyberpunk 2077 and streams 20 minutes of it before, we presume, they are nuked from orbit. CDPR wraps November with a call to investors, reassuring them that Cyberpunk 2077 will not miss the December 10 release date . We are reassured, sort of, kind of, not really. December Now, after eight years, we look ahead with a bold prediction: Cyberpunk 2077 releases on December 10. James Davenport Social Links Navigation James is stuck in an endless loop, playing the Dark Souls games on repeat until Elden Ring and Silksong set him free. He's a truffle pig for indie horror and weird FPS games too, seeking out games that actively hurt to play. Otherwise he's wandering Austin, identifying mushrooms and doodling grackles. Read more Silksong's weary hollows tossed another scrap of hope from Xbox on high, as a blog post namedrops it next to other 'upcoming games' Nightdive's spent 6 years on its update of System Shock 2, so it's now the '25th Anniversary Remaster' and will finally announce its release date on March 20 Oh, you tease—we don't know when exactly GTA 6 is coming out because Take-Two's CEO wants 'to maintain the anticipation' After 6 years of hype, can Hollow Knight: Silksong really live up to the sky-high expectations? Fable is delayed until 2026: 'Not maybe the news people want to hear [but] it’s definitely worth the wait' 'WE WON!'—It was just 3 (technically 4) clips of Silksong news, but the community has fully lost it in joyous rapture Latest in RPG Oblivion Remastered got an update on PC Game Pass that broke upscaling just before the weekend Because of a Baldur's Gate 3 weapon's deceptive description, it took me nearly two years to realize it's a sleeper beast⁠—and I'm kicking myself because it works the exact same way in Baldur's Gate 2 Oblivion Remastered hit 4 million players in less than a week, with a big chunk of them buying the game on Steam Hexblade might the best 1-level dip in Baldur's Gate 3, but going the distance with a full 12 levels and their infinite necrotic ghost turrets has me fixing to finally beat the game without multiclassing Nexus Mods decides to allow an Oblivion Remastered mod that changes 'body type' options to male/female, declares it's not 'a battleground for broader cultural or political debates' Oblivion Remastered looks so good that I can't believe I'm saying this: I kinda hope Bethesda remasters Skyrim (again) too Latest in Features I miss old PopCap like you miss old BioWare Hexblade might the best 1-level dip in Baldur's Gate 3, but going the distance with a full 12 levels and their infinite necrotic ghost turrets has me fixing to finally beat the game without multiclassing Oblivion Remastered looks so good that I can't believe I'm saying this: I kinda hope Bethesda remasters Skyrim (again) too My favourite Elder Scrolls YouTuber returned after 2 years, and it's made me fall in love with ridiculous challenge runs all over again Oblivion struggling to nail 60 fps on my RTX 5090 was not on my 2025 bingo card, but without frame gen Oblivion Remastered's top settings bring the card to its knees RuneScape: Dragonwilds has finally made me realise that, actually, maybe the skill grind isn't so bad HARDWARE BUYING GUIDES LATEST GAME REVIEWS 1 Best Steam Deck accessories in Australia for 2025: Our favorite docks, powerbanks and gamepads 2 Best graphics card for laptops in 2025: the mobile GPUs I'd want in my next gaming laptop 3 Best mini PCs in 2025: The compact computers I love the most 4 Best 14-inch gaming laptop in 2025: The top compact gaming laptops I've held in these hands 5 Best Mini-ITX motherboards in 2025: My pick from all the mini mobo marvels I've tested 1 Crucial P310 1 TB (2280) review 2 WD Black SN7100 1 TB review 3 Crucial T705 1 TB review 4 Sennheiser HD 550 review 5 Framework 13 AMD AI 300-series review PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and conditions Privacy policy Cookies policy Advertise with us Accessibility Statement Careers © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up