Elon Musk blurs the line between his government and business roles | NPR & Houston Public Media Skip to content TV 8 | News 88.7 | Classical | The Vibe April 20, 2025 77 °F PBS Passport UH Search for: Search MENU CLOSE News & Information Features Hello Houston newsletter inDepth Topics Local News Harris County Fort Bend Texas Education News Politics Criminal Justice Energy & Environment Weather All Stories >>> Arts & Culture Arts & Culture Main Classical Music Music Opera & Musical Theater Dance Visual Art Literature Theatre & Film Voices and Verses: A Poem-A-Day Series Awareness Hispanic Heritage Pride Month: Better Together! Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Black History Women’s History Education Programs & Podcasts Local Programs Houston Matters with Craig Cohen Hello Houston Party Politics Texas Standard UH 100 Years of Houston Bauer Business Focus Briefcase Engines of Our Ingenuity Health Matters UH Moment Features Dead and Buried Career Frontier Podcasts Below the Waterlines: Houston After Hurricane Harvey Party Politics Skyline Sessions Encore Houston All Podcasts >> Support Membership Update Payment Method Upgrade Your Monthly Gift Give a Gift Membership Giving Programs Affinity Council Studio Society In Tempore Legacy Society Innovation Fund Volunteers Foundation Board Young Leaders Council Mission Ambassadors Donations TV Thank-You Gifts Vehicle Donation Giving Opportunities Employee Match Program More Ways to Give Partnerships Corporate Sponsorship Community Catalyst About About Us Meet the Team Join the Team Contact Us Digital Destiny Ethics and Standards Reports & Financials Press Room Request a Tour Listen Watch Donate Facebook Twitter/X Instagram Threads Linkedin Mastodon Politics | NPR Elon Musk blurs the line between his government and business roles The tech titan and President Trump say they will avoid any conflicts of interest, but it's difficult for the public to verify that. Tamara Keith | Posted on February 22, 2025, 6:00 AM Share Facebook Twitter/X LinkedIn Email Elon Musk holds a chainsaw that was gifted to him at the Conservative Political Action Conference at the Gaylord National Resort Hotel And Convention Center on Thursday in Oxon Hill, Md. (Andrew Harnik | Getty Images) President Trump was speaking at a Saudi investment conference in Miami on Wednesday when he gave a shout-out to billionaire tech titan Elon Musk, seated with other business leaders and dignitaries in the audience. "He's been making a bit of news lately, very positive news," Trump said, urging Musk to stand for applause. It wasn't clear whether Musk was there in his role as the leader of DOGE — a project to slash the federal government — or as the man behind X, SpaceX, xAI and Starlink. After Watergate, Congress curbed the presidency. Now, Trump is testing those limits President Trump's efforts to cut federal programs and fire watchdogs are drawing attention to 1970s-era government reforms. Musk is a "special government employee," a role created by Congress in the 1960s that allows parts of the federal government to bring someone on for a specific role, on a temporary basis. With this classification, Musk doesn't have to divest from his businesses, but he is supposed to follow conflict-of-interest laws and recuse himself when necessary. Ethics experts say that by continuing to run his businesses while also working for the government, Musk is blurring the lines between his roles in a way that could hurt the public trust. Musk and the White House say they will avoid conflicts of interest. World leaders meet with Musk As members of Musk's DOGE team are continuing their march through government agencies looking for waste, Musk himself seems to be everywhere, often at Trump's side but also making solo appearances, as he did Thursday at the Conservative Political Action Conference outside of Washington, D.C. Musk was a surprise guest on the main stage. And as part of his introduction, the president of Argentina, Javier Milei, presented him with a red and chrome chainsaw. "President Milei has a gift for me," Musk said as music pumped in the room. Then Musk waved the chainsaw around excitedly, shouting, "This is the chainsaw for bureaucracy!" Taking a chainsaw to bureaucracy is what Musk claims to be doing with his project known as the Department of Government Efficiency. Video posted on X shows Musk and Milei sitting in front of U.S. and Argentinian flags to pose for a more formal photo, suggesting they met before Musk went out on stage. DOGE released data about federal contract savings. It doesn't add up A new government tracker claims DOGE has saved billions from ending federal contracts. But an NPR analysis of the data finds the claimed savings don't add up. Last week, when Musk met with Narendra Modi, the prime minister of India, there were questions about whether he was there as a member of the Trump administration or as the CEO of Tesla, which is looking to expand into India. Musk brought three of his children to the meeting, which was attended by aides to the prime minister. The setup looked much like a bilateral meeting between leaders; there were U.S. and Indian flags set up behind them as Musk presented Modi with a gift. In India, news presenters excitedly speculated about the reasons for their meeting. Modi, asked about it later in a press conference at the White House, said he and Musk go way back. A White House official not authorized to speak about the matter publicly told NPR that Musk met with Modi in his personal capacity and not as a special government employee. Later, though, Musk was in the Oval Office for Trump's meeting with Modi. A press release from the prime minister's office highlighted Musk's roles as "head of the U.S. Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) and CEO of Tesla." "Prime Minister and Mr. Musk discussed strengthening collaboration between Indian and US entities in innovation, space exploration, artificial intelligence, and sustainable development. Their discussion also touched on opportunities to deepen cooperation in emerging technologies, entrepreneurship and good governance," read the press release. Changing hats "by the hour" In frequent posts on his social media site X, Musk ping-pongs between talking about his work slashing the government and promoting his business ventures, many of which have government contracts or are regulated by federal agencies. On Friday, Musk celebrated the Trump administration Department of Justice dropping a lawsuit against SpaceX. "He's basically a walking conflict of interest," said Richard Briffault, who specializes in government ethics at Columbia Law School. Elon Musk's DOGE takes aim at agency that had plans of regulating X Musk and other Silicon Valley executives have long railed against the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau for its work overseeing the tech industry. Now, Musk hopes to eliminate the agency. Briffault is not alone in raising alarms about Musk's large business holdings creating a conflict with his work in the government. "Musk seems to be in a position with the White House's consent that he can just change hats by the hour as it suits him," said Don Fox, who was the top lawyer at the Office of Government Ethics during the George W. Bush and Obama administrations. Fox said there's little indication the normal process to avoid conflicts is being followed. For high-level government employees, including those like Musk, that generally involves filing a financial disclosure report and coming to an ethics agreement with the Office of Government Ethics to identify potential conflicts and commit to a plan for avoiding them. The White House says Musk will file a confidential disclosure of his financial interests by the end of next month and has been briefed on ethics requirements. Typically those disclosures are required within 30 days of starting work. "The thing the public should be concerned about is, we don't know," said Fox. "Is he looking after our interests as taxpayers and citizens, or is he looking after his own business interests?" President Trump is joined by Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk, and his son, X Musk, during an executive order signing in the Oval Office at the White House on Feb. 11. (Andrew Harnik | Getty Images) In an interview with Sean Hannity that aired Tuesday on Fox News, Trump and Musk downplayed the risk. Musk said he had never asked Trump for anything "ever." Musk said if a conflict arose, he would recuse himself. Trump chimed in, "If there's a conflict, you won't be involved. I mean, I wouldn't want that. And he won't want it." The White House didn't provide any examples of Musk recusing himself thus far. All these questions about Musk come as Trump just fired the Biden-appointed and Senate-confirmed director of the office of Government Ethics, who was only a couple of months into a five-year term. Other watchdogs have also been fired across the government. "Whatever the guardrails are there in terms of preventing public officials from engaging in self-dealing, enforcement seems to be gone," said Briffault. The nature of his leadership With Musk's role, it's almost impossible for anyone on the outside to see what he's actually doing. Because Musk is working out of the Executive Office of the President, there are no requirements for public disclosure. Musk, however, insists his work is transparent, as he posts on social media regularly about contracts DOGE claims to have canceled. In a recent court filing challenging the project's work, the Justice Department claimed that Musk is not an employee of the U.S. DOGE Service and is not the U.S. DOGE Service administrator. Instead, it asserted that Musk is an employee in the White House office and functions as a senior adviser to the president. That description is at odds with the way both Trump and Musk have described his job and the work of DOGE. A federal judge has denied states' bid to halt DOGE and Musk's work A federal judge has denied a bid to temporarily halt DOGE from its controversial work at certain federal agencies. Meanwhile, the White House says Elon Musk is not technically DOGE's leader. John Yoo, a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley, said the idea of bringing in an outside expert or, say, a family member to advise the president has happened many times before. It was even litigated, back when then-first lady Hillary Clinton was leading health care reform efforts for her husband's administration. Conservatives sued to block that effort and ultimately failed, with the district court in D.C. determining that Clinton could proceed. "The real rule is to make sure that Hillary Clinton in 1993 or Elon Musk in 2025, all they're doing is giving advice," said Yoo of the ruling from the early 1990s. He was a clerk in the D.C. circuit court at the time and said he remembers it well. "As long as they have no power to order anyone to do anything, it stays on the legal side of the line." Yoo, who was a top Justice Department lawyer in the George W. Bush administration, said this is the legal line the White House is trying to walk with Musk, who to any outside observer presents as a powerful figure in Trump's administration. "And this is why the White House produced that funny declaration where they kind of said Elon Musk has no power," Yoo said. Who is part of Elon Musk's DOGE, and what are they doing? The scope of DOGE's work and the identities of the people carrying it out isn't fully clear — leaving agencies and government workers in chaos. This lack of clarity about Musk's authority makes the ethical waters particularly murky, according to Stephen Gillers, an emeritus professor of legal ethics at New York University. "The hole we're in is the product of two facts: We'll never know, probably never know ... exactly what he's up to," said Gillers. "[And] even if we knew everything he was up to, there's nothing we can do about it." The White House official dismissed the criticisms as partisan, saying there is no concern in the White House about whether Musk will follow strict ethics rules. Transcript: MICHEL MARTIN, HOST: Members of Elon Musk's DOGE team are continuing their march through government agencies on what they say is a mission to find fraud and wasteful spending. Musk himself is often seen at President Trump's side, who praises him frequently. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: And Elon Musk has done an amazing job. I have to tell you, his - him and his super geniuses, you know? These are seriously high-IQ people. MARTIN: Musk is classified as a special government employee. That's a role created by Congress in the 1960s that allows parts of the federal government to bring someone on for a specific role on a temporary basis. He is also a tech billionaire. And as NPR senior White House correspondent Tamara Keith reports, the line between those roles is blurry. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) ROB SCHMITT: We've got one more surprise, in case this wasn't enough. I'm going to let Elon do it. TAMARA KEITH, BYLINE: Elon Musk was a surprise guest at the Conservative Political Action Conference outside of Washington, D.C., yesterday. And as part of his introduction, the president of Argentina walked out on stage to give him a red and chrome chainsaw. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) ELON MUSK: President Milei has a gift for me. KEITH: Musk waived it excitedly. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) MUSK: This is the chainsaw for bureaucracy. Chainsaw. KEITH: Taking a chainsaw to bureaucracy is what Musk claims to be doing with his project known as the Department of Government Efficiency. But last week, when he met with Narendra Modi, the prime minister of India, it wasn't initially clear whether he was there as a member of the Trump administration or as the CEO of Tesla, which is looking to expand in India. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) GAURAV SAWANT: Breaking news coming in. You're getting a reaction from Prime Minister Narendra Modi after his meeting with Elon Musk. He's taken to social media platform X to say it was a delight to meet Elon Musk's family... KEITH: Presenters on India Today speculated about whether they had discussed Tesla or DOGE. A White House official says Musk met with Modi in his personal capacity. Later, though, he was in the Oval Office for Trump's meeting with Modi. In frequent posts on his social media site X, Musk pingpongs between talking about his work slashing government and promoting his business ventures, many of which have government contracts or are regulated by federal agencies. But Trump and Musk dismissed concerns about possible conflicts of interest in a Fox News interview with Sean Hannity. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) MUSK: I mean, I haven't asked the president for anything ever. TRUMP: It's true. SEAN HANNITY: And if it comes up, how will you handle it? MUSK: Well, if something... TRUMP: He won't be involved. MUSK: Yeah. HANNITY: He won't. MUSK: I'll recuse myself if it is a conflict. TRUMP: If there's a conflict, he won't be involved. MUSK: Yeah. TRUMP: I mean, I wouldn't want that, and he won't want it. KEITH: That did not assuage the concerns of Don Fox. He was the top lawyer at the Office of Government Ethics during the George W. Bush and Obama administrations. DON FOX: Musk seems to be in a position with the White House's consent that he can just change hats by the hour as it suits him. KEITH: The White House says Musk will file a confidential disclosure of his financial interests with the Office of Government Ethics by the end of next month and has been briefed on ethics requirements. As a special government employee - a temporary role - he doesn't have to divest from his businesses, but he is supposed to recuse himself when necessary. Fox says there's little indication the normal process to avoid conflicts is being followed. FOX: The thing that the public should be concerned about is, well, we don't know. Is he looking after our interests as taxpayers and citizens, or is he looking after his own business interests? KEITH: These questions about Musk come up as Trump just fired the director of the Office of Government Ethics, along with other watchdogs. Richard Briffault specializes in government ethics at Columbia Law School and describes Musk as basically a walking conflict of interest. RICHARD BRIFFAULT: Whatever the guardrails - and I guess that phrase, guardrails, is being used a lot - but whatever the guardrails are there in terms of preventing public officials from engaging in self-dealing, enforcement seems to be gone. KEITH: A White House official not authorized to speak about this publicly dismissed the criticisms as partisan, saying there is no concern in the White House about whether Musk will follow strict ethics rules. Tamara Keith, NPR News. Tags Politics News Home Page Top Stories Support Comes From Most Viewed University of Houston assistant professor preparing to leave country after ‘unexpected termination’ of visa Texas Senate approves bill that could reshape how history and race are taught in state universities What is the 50501 movement and why are they protesting in Houston, Galveston University of Houston-Victoria’s proposed transfer to Texas A&M system gets Senate’s approval Airbnb and Vrbo properties in Houston to face regulations as city council passes short-term rental ordinance Support Comes From Resources like these are made possible by the generosity of our community of donors, foundations, and corporate partners. Join others and make your gift to Houston Public Media today! DONATE Sign up for our daily weekday newsletter - Hello, Houston! SIGN UP NOW Features Hello Houston newsletter Coronavirus News and Resources News 88.7 inDepth Storm Ready Topic Local News Statewide News Business Energy & Environment Health & Science Immigration Art & Culture Arts & Culture Classical Music Opera & Musical Theater Dance Visual Art Voices and Verses: A Poem-A-Day Series Awareness Black History Month Pride Month: Better Together! Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Black History Women’s History Programs & podcasts Local Programs Houston Matters with Craig Cohen Hello Houston Party Politics UH 100 Years of Houston Bauer Business Focus Briefcase Engines of our Ingenuity Health Matters UH Moment Education Houston Public Media Kids PBS Kids for Parents PBS Learning Media Podcasts Below the Waterlines: Houston After Hurricane Harvey Party Politics Skyline Sessions Encore Houston Support Membership Update Payment Method Upgrade your Monthly Gift Give a Gift Membership Giving Programs Affinity Council Giving Societies In Tempore Legacy Society Innovation Fund Other Ways to Give Vehicle Donation Employee Match Program More Ways to Give Volunteers Foundation Board Young Leaders Council Mission Ambassadors Partnerships Corporate Partnership Community Catalyst CPB Compliance FCC Station Information FCC Applications KUHF Public File KUHT Public File Ethics and Standards Privacy Policy Additional Disclosures About Careers Commitment Contact Us TV Radio News Shows Houston Public Media is supported with your gifts to the Houston Public Media Foundation and is licensed to the University of Houston © 2025 Houston Public Media Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Mastodon Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies Now Playing: Nothing yet... Streams