Queen Film Bohemian Rhapsody Interviews on Bryan Singer Sexuality Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage Read Next: Way Day Gets Extended: The 25 Best Deals From Kelly Clarkson’s Wayfair Line to Shawn Johnson’s Nashville Home Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up Home News General News Why ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ Stars Weren’t Worried When Bryan Singer Was Fired Producer Graham King and the stars of 'Bohemian Rhapsody' talk about Bryan Singer being fired as director, their research and preparation to play Queen and the movie's portrayal of Freddie Mercury's sexuality and AIDS battle. By Hilary Lewis Plus Icon Hilary Lewis Deputy Editor, East Coast, THR.com hilarylewis Follow Sign Up More Stories by Hilary Terrence Howard Turned Down Marvin Gaye Biopic Because He Didn’t Want to Kiss a Man: “I Would Cut My Lips Off” Gotham TV Awards Nominations: ‘Adolescence’ Leads With Four Nods Tribeca Festival Sets ‘Casino,’ ‘Meet The Parents’ Reunions and Talks With Sean Penn, Ellen Pompeo and More View All November 3, 2018 7:03pm Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Courtesy of Twentieth Century Fox Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Queen biopic Bohemian Rhapsody was rocked with just two weeks left to shoot when director Bryan Singer was fired after a series of absences. But the stars of the film and producer Graham King told The Hollywood Reporter earlier this week that they weren’t worried about the fate of the movie when Singer left the project (Dexter Fletcher finished filming , but Singer remains credited as the sole director ), explaining that everyone was determined to keep on fighting ’til the end, as it were. “We always knew the film was going to get finished,” Gwilym Lee, who plays guitarist Brian May, said ahead of a special screening of Bohemian Rhapsody in New York. “We always knew it was going to be done. Because everyone was so invested in it. Everyone was very, very passionate about this film — cast and crew. So even on the toughest days, we all looked at each other and we knew we’d get each other through. In the face of adversity, there was an incredible bond between everybody on set. There was a certainty that it was going to get done, that it was going to get finished.” Joe Mazzello, who plays bassist John Deacon, added that he and the cast never felt concerned the pic wouldn’t get finished. “We felt like the producers cared so deeply about this; Rami [Malek], the other actors cared so deeply; the crew — if things would go wrong on set and they had to stay for three hours over, they would stay for the boys — talking about us. It was so moving, because everyone just felt like a family,” the actor told THR . “So when you feel that kind of respect and love for one another, you know the movie’s going to get finished and it’s going to get finished well.” Singer was fired in December 2017 after what studio 20th Century Fox said were unexplained absences following clashes between the director and Malek, who portrays Queen frontman Freddie Mercury. The helmer claimed that his exit was due to the studio refusing to let him care for “a gravely ill parent” and his own health. “I wanted nothing more than to be able to finish this project and help honor the legacy of Freddie Mercury and Queen,” Singer said in a statement shortly after his exit, “but Fox would not permit me to do so because I needed to temporarily put my health, and the health of my loved ones, first.” King, alluding to Singer’s explanation for his exit, told THR this week that he too wasn’t worried about what would happen to the movie: “I understood why Brian wanted to shut the film down for a while, to deal with his life, and I was there to finish the film, no matter what it took.” The actors had already done a lot of work to transform into Queen. “There’s no limit to the amount of research you can do with this band because there’s such a wealth of material on them,” Lee told THR , explaining of his own preparation. “It starts out with the internet and it starts out with YouTube and going down every single possible rabbit hole you can think of in terms of looking for interviews and live music gigs and everything. You do feel a responsibility to try to find out absolutely everything because you would feel like an idiot after the film if you found out a certain gesture that Brian does or a certain way that he plays a certain song that you didn’t know about. So that was the beginning, and then lots of guitar practice, which was a real challenge for me, because I played a little bit of guitar before but, you know, we had a short amount of time to reach rock-god status, which is tough. Then it was meeting Brian and spending time with him, and that was amazing. I’d always idolized the man and he was a hero of mine and I loved Queen and him in particular, so to spend time with him and to demystify him and see him as a human being and just get to know him on an individual basis — that was the best.” Added Mazzello, “It’s amazing the kinds of things we had to think about. I had to start with just holding my face the right way and then I had to move like [Deacon] onstage and figure that out and watch countless hours on YouTube of just John Deacon, cameras following him around. Then I had to actually learn how to play the bass. Then when I learned how to play the bass, I had to learn how to play it like John Deacon. Then I had to learn his dialect, because it’s a very specific, East Midlands accent. I haven’t even gotten to the acting yet. And these are all things that I had to already think about before even going into the job and bringing life to this character. So the amount of research I did was amazing. We actually did five weeks of rehearsal in England where they gave me a bass teacher. We were doing band rehearsals; they gave me a movement coach. And we were together, the four of us, day in and day out, throughout that rehearsal process and then every day on set, because the performances didn’t end there. We had to go throughout the entire six-month shoot.” After the bad buzz from Singer’s exit, Bohemian Rhapsody received negative feedback to its first trailer , with fans upset about how the movie seemingly approached Mercury’s sexuality and battle with AIDS. In response to those who are concerned about that, King said, “I think we made a two-hour-and-15-minute entertaining and crowd-pleasing film. I always, from day one, set out to celebrate their music — Queen and Freddie’s music. I think a story that delves more into the private life of Freddie is not as interesting to the fans and to the moviegoing public as well as our one is now. I think it’s a highly entertaining film. If we can make it feel like a concert, then I think we achieved what I set out to achieve.” Malek, meanwhile, alluded to the pressure of playing such a beloved figure when he said that the most difficult part of his transformation was letting go of the great expectations he faced. “I think trying to remove this kind of nagging idea that Freddie means everything to everyone — and he is an hero and icon for so many people and everyone appreciates him in their own unique way, their own personal way, that I could never be all of those things to everyone,” the actor told THR . “I had to bring some of my own humanity to this to attempt to blend with his.” Read More About: About Town Bohemian Rhapsody Bryan Singer Events Graham King Queen Rami Malek Red Carpet THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe Sign Up More from The Hollywood Reporter music DJ Khaled Launches Joint Ventures With Influence Media Partners Obituaries Mike Peters, Frontman of Welsh Band The Alarm, Dies of Cancer at 66 hollywood The Hollywood Reporter Names Ada Guerin as Creative Director and Tony Maglio as Television Editor kcon Seventeen’s Hoshi and Woozi, IVE and NMIXX Among First Wave of Artists on Lineup for KCON L.A. 2025 noah kahan Chappell Roan Signs Management Deal With Noah Kahan Manager Drew Simmons Penske Media Corporation Mike Van Named First-Ever CEO of Billboard Shopping With THR Way Day Gets Extended: The 25 Best Deals From Kelly Clarkson’s Wayfair Line to Shawn Johnson’s Nashville Home By Erin Lassner Hollywood’s Top 15 Clean Beauty Picks Discounted for Credo’s Annual Sale By Erin Lassner The Best Luxury Gifts for Mother’s Day, From ‘Designer Cookies’ Loved by Emmy-Winning Stars to Amanda Seyfried’s Expensive-Smelling Hand Soaps By Danielle Directo-Meston Dyson’s Newest Smart Hair Tools Are On Sale for $100 — Where to Score the One-Day Beauty Deal By Danielle Directo-Meston , Erin Lassner THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Email Address Subscribe Today Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Most Popular ‘Andor’ Creator Explains That Shocking Assault Scene: “We’re All the Product of Rape” By James Hibberd Nikki Glaser Says Timothée Chalamet Almost Skipped Golden Globes Monologue So He Wouldn’t “Have to Deal” With Being Roasted: “I Get It” By Lexi Carson Lux Pascal Is a Proud Sister: “Pedro’s Taught Me There’s No Reason to Hide Who I Am” By Lily Ford Lar Park Lincoln, Actress in ‘Knots Landing’ and ‘Friday the 13th Part VII,’ Dies at 63 By Mike Barnes Harvey Weinstein’s Life Behind Bars: “He’s Still Running Sh**” (Exclusive) By Phoebe Eaton Must Reads Tina Fey on Her New Netflix Series: “It Saved Me From Just Shrinking Up Like a Little Granny Apple Head” By Mikey O'Connell No. 1 on the Call Sheet: Bella Ramsey Takes Charge of ‘The Last of Us’ By James Hibberd Justin Bieber’s Crisis of Faith? By Shirley Halperin The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up PMC Logo Most Popular Bath & Body Works' Hand Soaps Just Hit Their Lowest Price of the Season — Stock Up for $3 Each Mary J. Blige Sued By Her Former Stylist, Misa Hylton, For $5 Million NFL Rookie Signing Bonuses Jump Record 26% for 2025 Draft 'Flattering' Portrait that Putin Gifted to Trump Last Month Finally Unveiled You may also like The Best Yoga Mats for Any Practice, According to Instructors 1 year ago Riva Residenze Just Unveiled Yacht-Inspired Apartments in Fort Lauderdale. Here’s a Look Inside. 1 day ago Michelle Obama Says Trump Administration’s Immigration Policies “Keep Her Up At Night” 1 hour ago Xavi se convierte en el compositor del año más joven en los Premios ASCAP 2025 4 hours ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues E-edition Access The Hollywood Reporter About Us Media Kit Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage News Expand news menu Latest News Culture & Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Reviews Ratings Live Feed Heat Vision The Fien Print Music Expand music menu Grammys K-Corner Awards Expand awards menu News Awards Chatter Podcast Feinberg Forecast Behind The Screen The Race THR Presents Oscar Season Hub Lifestyle Expand lifestyle menu Person of Interest News Style Shopping Arts Real Estate Rambling Reporter Business Expand business menu THR, Esq Report Features Unions / Labor Film / TV Tax Credits Signings / Representation THR Charts Expand thr-charts menu Streaming Ratings Broadcast Ratings Weekend Box Office Chart More Essentials Expand more-essentials menu International News Video THR Podcasts Featured Voices Follow Us Follow THR on Facebook Follow THR on Instagram Follow THR on X Follow THR on YouTube Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Advertise Careers Contact Us Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. ad