We Mapped DOGE’s Silicon Valley and Corporate Connections | WIRED Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu Menu We Mapped DOGE’s Silicon Valley and Corporate Connections Security Politics Gear The Big Story Business Science Culture Ideas Merch More Chevron Search Search Security Politics Gear The Big Story Business Science Culture Ideas Merch Podcasts Video Newsletters Magazine Travel Steven Levy's Plaintext Column WIRED Classics from the Archive Events WIRED Insider WIRED Consulting Coupons By Vittoria Elliott Politics Mar 28, 2025 7:00 AM We Mapped DOGE’s Silicon Valley and Corporate Connections If Elon Musk is America's CEO, DOGE is the Silicon Valley executive branch. Facebook X Email Save Story Photo-illustration: Jacqui VanLiew; Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Since the first days of the Trump administration, Elon Musk’s so-called Department of Government Efficiency ( DOGE ) has been everywhere in the federal government, moving fast and breaking things. In a matter of weeks, DOGE operatives have spread across dozens of government agencies as they have attempted to terminate tens of thousands of federal employees. With so much focus on where DOGE is going, WIRED wanted to take a beat to look at where they’ve come from and what that might tell us about how they’re thinking about reshaping the federal government. The big takeaway: Many on the DOGE team are from Musk’s world. If Musk is America’s CEO, then DOGE has become his Silicon Valley executive branch. We’ve mapped out a non-exhaustive list of people affiliated with DOGE, including creating a searchable table with each member, their corporate history, and the agencies they’ve been connected to. Readers can check that out, and click through it, below. We plan to keep updating this as we find more DOGE operatives or as known affiliates move to new agencies. We’re focused on the new people brought in under the second Trump administration or directly hired into agencies—as Special Government Employees (SGEs) or regular employees—who are operating as members of DOGE teams. This gets a little tricky because there are technically two DOGEs established under the president’s executive order. There’s the US DOGE Service (USDS), formerly the US Digital Service, that’s a permanent organization. Then there’s the temporary USDS organization, which wraps up on July 4, 2026, and through which SGEs can be hired. Here’s what we’ve learned: The DOGE world, as it stands, seems to break down into roughly three categories: former Trump officials, conservative lawyers, and imports from the Silicon Valley area (funders, founders, technologists, or people connected to them). In that first category we find people like DOGE spokesperson Katie Miller, the wife of White House deputy chief of staff for policy Stephen Miller. The two of them have been Musk’s guides to DC . In that second category are people like James Burnham and Austin Raynor, both former clerks for conservative Supreme Court justices Neil Gorsuch and Clarence Thomas, respectively. Jacob Altik, another conservative lawyer on the DOGE squad, has been selected to clerk for Gorsuch. Jeremy Lewin, who was part of DOGE’s dismantling of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), worked with Second Lady Usha Vance’s former law firm Munger, Tolles & Olson, a firm that has also represented Tesla . Then, the biggest throughline of all: Of those Silicon Valley imports, one of the most clear themes across DOGE’s ranks is fairly obvious: a connection to Elon Musk. Forty-nine people on our list have connections to Musk, his companies, or his greater network. This connection is most often through one of his allies or one of his companies. There are the obvious people like Steve Davis, president of Musk’s Boring Company, who have followed Musk across his various ventures. (Davis previously worked at SpaceX and assisted Musk in his overhaul of X, formerly Twitter.) Davis spearheaded the DOGE recruitment efforts before inauguration day and has continued to play a pivotal role in the organization. Similarly, SpaceX employee Brian Bjelde, who is now at the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), also helped Musk downsize Twitter’s staff in 2022. There are people like many of the young engineers WIRED first identified who were given the keys to different government agencies, like Marko Elez, Luke Farritor, and Edward Coristine, who were all interns or employees at one of Musk’s companies: SpaceX, Tesla, xAI, X, and Neuralink. (Musk has been involved in others, but these are the ones he controls.) A number of these DOGE operatives have spread from the Office of Personnel Management to the General Services Administration (GSA), USAID, the departments of the Treasury , Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Health and Human Services, and the Social Security Administration (SSA), just to name a few. More than any other company, SpaceX has significant representation in DOGE, with 16 of the 80 listed DOGE operatives having worked there in some capacity. SpaceX employees have appeared at the Federal Aviation Administration, which could present a worrisome conflict of interest , and have also appeared at SSA, OPM, and the Department of Energy. Then there are the second-degree connections to people in Musk’s network. Connections to billionaire and PayPal Mafia member Peter Thiel and to Palantir, the defense-focused tech company he cofounded, pop up frequently. Farritor, for instance, was a Thiel Fellow. Several other DOGE members have also worked for Palantir. (Even non-DOGE members who have found their way into the Chief Information Offices of several agencies similarly have these connections to Musk or Palantir .) Thiel was an early Trump supporter and helped bankroll the 2022 Senate campaign of Vice President JD Vance. He has also invested in several of Musk’s companies. Got a Tip? Are you a current or former government employee who wants to talk about what's happening? We'd like to hear from you. Using a nonwork phone or computer, contact the reporter securely on Signal at Vittoria89.82. The Musk connection reaches beyond the tech industry. DOGE also contains a cohort of people from the finance industry, including Michael Grimes and Anthony Armstrong, who both worked to help Musk structure the deal to buy Twitter while at Morgan Stanley (Armstrong has since left the firm). Antonio Gracias, CEO of Valor Equity Partners, was an early investor in Tesla (and a donor to Musk’s America PAC) and is also part of DOGE, along with two other people who have been employed there, Jon Koval and Payton Rehling. And then there are those with personal connections to the Musk network. Stephen Ehikian, DOGE’s lead at GSA, is married to Andrea Conway, who was a designer at X. Kathryn Armstrong Loving, who has appeared as part of DOGE at the Environmental Protection Agency, is the sister of Brian Armstrong, the CEO of the crypto company Coinbase. The relationship here comes through Marc Andreessen and the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, or a16z, which has invested in Coinbase as well as the defense startup Anduril. Before inauguration, there were reports that Andreessen was helping to interview DOGE candidates, and he jokingly described himself as an “unpaid intern” for DOGE. Ryan Wunderly, who is slated to be the new DOGE member at the Treasury, according to lawsuits , comes from Anduril . While there are people who don’t neatly fit in one of these categories, like Gavin Kliger, a young engineer who worked at Databricks and was one of the earliest members of DOGE, or Scott Langmack, an executive at the AI property tech company Kukun who is now part of DOGE’s incursion into HUD, the big takeaway remains the same: Silicon Valley experience is almost mandatory, and connections to Musk and his associates even more so. For many weeks, it was unclear who was even in charge of DOGE , and while Amy Gleason was announced as DOGE’s administrator, President Donald Trump has indicated that he put Musk in control . (Musk’s own lawyers have also stated in a court filing that because he is in charge of DOGE, it would be an undue burden for him to be deposed in an alleged wage-theft case filed against X Corp.) To make matters murkier, last week, Ehikian, the acting GSA administrator (who is himself heading the DOGE efforts at the agency), told staff in a meeting that “there is no DOGE team at GSA.” All to say, it’s more important than ever to understand who is actually a part of this strike team. Again and again members of the administration have asserted that there is no conflict of interest between members of DOGE or DOGE affiliates and their work in government. But that becomes harder to believe when people like Musk and others in government —who benefit from government contracts —continue to hold positions in the private sector. Particularly when those companies, not the government, could be their ultimate return destination. The Chatroom What do you think about DOGE and its seeming role as a parallel executive branch? Leave a comment on the site or send your thoughts to mail@wired.com . WIRED Reads Inside DOGE’s Plan to Invade the Treasury—and Throttle USAID : Court filings show that from the earliest days of the second Trump administration, Elon Musk’s DOGE had a plan to infiltrate US Treasury payment systems—and turn them against USAID. Trump Officials in Signal Fiasco Attended Secret Mar-a-Lago Dinner Shortly After Celebrating Bombing : Trump officials accidentally invited the editor in chief of The Atlantic to their Signal group chat. Hours after bombs dropped on Yemen, they partied at a $1-million-per-seat Mar-a-Lago dinner. Mike Waltz Left His Venmo Friends List Public : A WIRED review shows national security adviser Mike Waltz, White House chief of staff Susie Wiles, and other top officials left sensitive information exposed via Venmo—until WIRED asked about it. Want more? Subscribe now for unlimited access to WIRED. What Else We’re Reading 🔗 Private Data and Passwords of Senior US Security Officials Found Online : Donald Trump's most important security advisers used Signal to discuss an imminent military strike. Now, reporting by Der Spiegel has found that the contact data of some of those officials, including mobile phone numbers, is freely accessible on the internet. (Der Spiegel) 🔗 Rallying Anti-Musk Donors, Liberal Judge Raises $24 Million in Key Court Contest : With Elon Musk backing her conservative opponent, a Wisconsin judge seeking a seat on the state’s top court has amassed what is believed to be a record war chest for a judicial campaign. (The New York Times) 🔗 Musk’s X Suspends Opposition Accounts in Turkey Amid Civil Unrest : Suspensions affect accounts spreading information about the widespread demonstrations. (Politico) The Download Check out this week’s news episode on Uncanny Valley : Good Quests, Christianity & Caviar Bumps . WIRED’s Michael Calore, Lauren Goode, and Zoë Schiffer talked about Silicon Valley’s relationship with God. Listen now. Thanks again for subscribing. You can find me on Bluesky or on Signal at Vittoria89.82. This is an edition of the WIRED Politics Lab newsletter. Read previous newsletters here. Comments Back to Top Triangle You Might Also Like … In your inbox: Will Knight's AI Lab explores advances in AI The Trump tariffs are how everything works now Big Story: If Anthropic succeeds , a nation of benevolent AI geniuses could be born Scientists claim to have brought back the dire wolf Special Edition: The most dangerous hackers you’ve never heard of Vittoria Elliott is a reporter for WIRED, covering platforms and power. She was previously a reporter at Rest of World, where she covered disinformation and labor in markets outside the US and Western Europe. She has worked with The New Humanitarian, Al Jazeera, and ProPublica. She is a graduate of ... Read more Platforms and power reporter Topics WIRED Politics Lab Elon Musk DOGE government business Donald Trump Silicon Valley Read More The Trump Administration Is Turning Science Against Itself In addition to firing researchers and pulling funds, the Trump administration is also inverting science. Brian Barrett The Trump Tariffs Are How Everything Works Now The US is barreling toward a recession for no good reason, and dragging the world—and a few thousand penguins on remote Antarctic islands—down with it. Brian Barrett DOGE Is Just Getting Warmed Up DOGE has tapped into some of the most sensitive and valuable data in the world. Now it’s starting to put it to work. Brian Barrett Trump and DOGE Defund Program That Boosted American Manufacturing for Decades President Donald Trump says taxing imports will strengthen domestic manufacturing. Hours before announcing new tariffs, his administration cut support for centers that help US firms do just that. Louise Matsakis Inside DOGE’s Plan to Invade the Treasury—and Throttle USAID Court filings show that from the earliest days of the second Trump administration, Elon Musk’s DOGE had a plan to infiltrate US Treasury payment systems—and turn them against USAID. Vittoria Elliott FEMA Isn’t Ready for Disaster Season, Workers Say Instability, cuts, and a looming sense of dread have FEMA employees unsure the agency is ready for hurricanes, fires, and floods. “We are being set up for a really, really bad situation," says one. Molly Taft US DOGE Service Agreement With Department of Labor Shows $1.3 Million Fee—and Details Its Mission The unsigned agreement between the US DOGE Service and the Department of Labor provides significant insight into DOGE’s work with federal agencies. Tim Marchman DOGE Is Building a Master Database to Surveil and Track Immigrants DOGE is knitting together data from the Department of Homeland Security, Social Security Administration, and IRS that could create a surveillance tool of unprecedented scope. Vittoria Elliott DOGE Plans to Rebuild SSA Code Base in Months, Risking Benefits and System Collapse Social Security systems contain tens of millions of lines of code written in COBOL, an archaic programming language. Safely rewriting that code would take years—DOGE wants it done in months. Makena Kelly DOGE Has Access to Sensitive Labor Department Data on Immigrants and Farm Workers Three DOGE associates have been granted access to systems at the Department of Labor housing sensitive information on migrant farm workers, visa applicants, and more. Vittoria Elliott The Social Security Administration Is Gutting Regional Staff and Shifting All Public Communications to X The SSA’s shift to Elon Musk’s X comes as the agency plans to cut its regional office workforce by roughly 90 percent, WIRED has learned. Zoë Schiffer 'Wi-Fi Keeps Going Down': Donald Trump's Return-to-Office Mandate Is Going Terribly Dozens of federal employees tell WIRED the return-to-office order has resulted in widespread chaos, plummeting productivity, and significantly reduced services to the public. David Gilbert WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries. More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters FAQ WIRED Staff WIRED Education Editorial Standards Archive RSS Accessibility Help Reviews and Guides Reviews Buying Guides Mattresses Electric Bikes Soundbars Streaming Guides Wearables TVs Coupons Gift Guides Advertise Contact Us Manage Account Jobs Press Center Condé Nast Store User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok