Tesla Energy Generation And Storage Business: Q2 2020 Results Tesla Energy Generation And Storage Business: Q2 2020 Results News News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry All news Reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test All reviews Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 All Features Videos Podcasts Photos Newsletter SIGN UP FOR FREE Chime in with article commenting. Sign In Sign Up News News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry All news Reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test All reviews Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 All Features Videos Podcasts Photos Newsletter page ad skin Home Tesla News Tesla Energy Generation And Storage Business: Q2 2020 Results Tesla Energy was more or less flat year-over-year, but with Megapack and Solar Roof ramp-up, it should accelerate in H2 2020. Mark Kane By : Mark Kane Jul 23, 2020 at 8:39am ET Facebook X LinkedIn Flipboard Reddit WhatsApp E-Mail Share Comment Tesla 's energy business results in Q2 2020 improved compared to Q1 , but the full potential was hampered by the COVID-19 lockdown. Tesla Energy revenues amounted to $370 million (on par with Q2 2019), while the cost of revenues stands at $349 million . The difference is about $21 million, which translates to a gross margin of 5.7% . Last quarter, energy generation and storage accounted for 6.1% of total Tesla revenues. Related articles Tesla Q2 2020 Earnings Report: Profitable Yet Again Tesla energy storage deployed – Q2’2020 Total battery energy storage (Powerwall, Powerpack and Megapacks) deliveries in Q2 increased to 419 MWh ( up 1% year-over-year). Tesla noted that Megapack (3 MWh energy storage for utilities) for the first time generated profits. The company is also expanding its real-time energy trading platform - Autobidder. "Although recently launched and still ramping, Megapack generated a profit for the first time in Q2. Storage deployments increased sequentially to 419 MWh, driven by increases in both Powerwall and Megapack. Autobidder, a real-time energy trading platform that is designed to maximize energy revenue from our utility scale batteries, continues to be an important part of our storage strategy. We recently launched this platform in Europe and started trading on the European Power Exchange, in addition to exchanges in the U.S. and Australia." Tesla offers three types of ESS products: Powerwall for home installations (13.5 kWh usable / 7 kW peak / 5kW continuous per unit) Powerpack for commercial installations (Up to 232 kWh / Up to 130 kW per unit) Megapack (3 MWh units the largest project by utilities) Tesla Powerwall 2 Tesla Powerpack Tesla Megapack Tesla solar deployed – Q2’2020 The solar installations decreased by 7% year-over-year to 27 MW, its lowest result since the acquisition of SolarCity. During the quarter Tesla announced lower prices for its conventional solar solutions . "Recently, we made home retrofit solar even more affordable in the U.S., while also offering an increased efficiency panel. At $1.49 per watt, the average Tesla solar system is now one-third less expensive(1)than the industry.The average customer buying a large system in California will likely offset their system cost with a reduced electricity bill in approximately six years(2). We also introduced a lowest-cost guarantee and money-back guarantee. Our new pricing is made possible by several improvements, such as moving to recommending standard sizes that customers can order with one click online and the reduction of customer acquisition costs through the automation of processes." Tesla Solar Panels Tesla Solar Roof Solarglass Roof The positive news about solar is that Solar Roof installations tripled compared to Q1, which gives hope that finally, it will become a major product. "Solar Roof installations roughly tripled in Q2 compared to Q1. We continue to expand our installation team to increase the deployment rate." Solar Roof is produced at the Gigafactory 2 in New York. Share this Story Facebook X LinkedIn Flipboard Reddit WhatsApp E-Mail Got a tip for us? Email: tips@insideevs.com Join the conversation ( ) Trending The Telo MT1 May Be Tiny, But It's Still Built For Hard Work Foxconn's Model C Is Coming To The U.S.—But It Won't Wear A Foxconn Badge Slate Unveiled A Cheap EV. Tesla's Is Still A Mystery. Why The Slate Truck Doesn’t Use LFP Batteries latest articles Toyota And Google's Waymo May Build An Autonomous Car Platform Together 34m ago - Autonomous Vehicles - GM’s Orion Plant Was Supposed To Be All-EV. Now, Maybe Not 4h ago - News - How The Lucid Gravity Became A Fast-Charging Monster 6h ago - Charging - Nissan's Turnaround Plan Almost Convinced Me. Then The Bomb Dropped. 6h ago - Power Moves - I Bought A 'Unicorn' Volvo V90 PHEV. Here's How It's Going 7h ago - Ownership Experience - RECOMMENDED FOR YOU Tesla Ditches China's Biggest Auto Show While EV Rivals Shine Instead Toyota And Google's Waymo May Build An Autonomous Car Platform Together Trump To Reduce Automotive Tariffs Days Before Hike GM’s Orion Plant Was Supposed To Be All-EV. Now, Maybe Not The State Of New York Is Picking A Really Dumb Fight With Tesla How The Lucid Gravity Became A Fast-Charging Monster Tesla Might Be Tanking, But Its Cars Are Still Fast Subscribe to our Newsletter Receive exciting Automotive news, updates, and special offers straight to your inbox. Subscribe Follow Us Facebook X Flipboard Google News YouTube RSS About Us Advertising Contact insideEVs 650 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10022 USA Privacy policy Cookie policy Cookie Settings Terms of use © 2025 Motorsport Network. All rights reserved. Logotype News All news News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry Reviews All reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test Features All Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 Makes All Makes Abarth Acura Afeela Aptera Aston Martin Audi Automobili Pininfarina BMW Bollinger Buick BYD Byton Cadillac Chevrolet Chrysler Citroën Cupra Dacia Daimler Dodge DS Faraday Future Ferrari Fiat Fisker Ford GAC Geely General Motors Genesis GMC Honda Hyundai Infiniti Jaguar Jeep Karma Kia Koenigsegg Land Rover Lexus Lincoln Lordstown Motors Lotus Lucid Lynk & Co MAN Maserati Mazda Mercedes-AMG Mercedes-Benz MG Mini Mitsubishi NEVS Nikola Motor NIO Nissan Opel Peugeot Pininfarina Polestar Porsche Ram Renault Rimac Rivian Rolls-Royce Scout Motors SEAT Skoda Smart Stellantis Subaru Suzuki Telo Trucks Tesla TOGG Toyota Uaz VinFast Volkswagen Volvo Workhorse Xiaomi Xpeng Zeekr Models Tesla Model Y Hyundai Ioniq 5 Rivian R1S Toyota bZ4X Lucid Gravity Ram Ramcharger Body Style All Body Styles Sedan Coupe SUV/Crossover Hatchback Truck Convertible Videos Podcast Photos Edition USA / Global Switch Theme Light Dark Auto Current Edition USA / Global Edition: USA / Global Édition: France Edizione: Italia Edição: Brasil Ausgabe: Deutschland Edisyon: Türkiye Edition: Argentina Cancel SIGN UP FOR FREE Chime in with article commenting. Sign In Sign Up