Ubisoft will release Assassin's Creed Valhalla on Steam in December TechTarget and Informa Tech’s Digital Business Combine. TechTarget and Informa TechTarget and Informa Tech’s Digital Business Combine. Together, we power an unparalleled network of 220+ online properties covering 10,000+ granular topics, serving an audience of 50+ million professionals with original, objective content from trusted sources. We help you gain critical insights and make more informed decisions across your business priorities. Game Market Research GDC Vault GDC Advertise With Game Developer Stay Updated Stay Updated Trending Related Topics Nintendo Switch 2 Lawsuits & Legal News Remote Work & RTO Recent in Trending GDC 25 A player character in Avowed duel-wields pistols. Programming How Avowed's QA team stomped out bugs by working inside the design tools How Avowed's QA team stomped out bugs by working inside the design tools by Bryant Francis Apr 22, 2025 9 Min Read thumbnail Production Cronos: The New Dawn devs say remote work made its unique combat possible Cronos: The New Dawn devs say remote work made its unique combat possible by Bryant Francis Apr 17, 2025 5 Min Read News Deep Dives Mobile Game Design Programming Developer Blogs Related Topics Browse Latest Blogs Submit Your Blog Post Frequently Asked Questions Blogging Rules and Guidelines Recent in Developer Blogs Read Featured Blogs A character portrait next to a note and magnifying glass Design Is Blue Prince's success due to 'social play?' Is Blue Prince's success due to 'social play?' by Danielle Riendeau Apr 25, 2025 4 Min Read A trophy. Business It's time for gaming awards to rethink the strategy/sim category It's time for gaming awards to rethink the strategy/sim category by Greg Foertsch Apr 9, 2025 6 Min Read More Related Topics Interviews Q&As Deep Dives Postmortems Culture Unionization Business Marketing Design Programming Production Art Audio PC Steam Deck Console Mobile Extended Reality Recent in More Read More: Business A character portrait next to a note and magnifying glass Design Is Blue Prince's success due to 'social play?' Is Blue Prince's success due to 'social play?' by Danielle Riendeau Apr 25, 2025 4 Min Read A  graphic with the word "play" in the center Business The huge, hidden web game market no one talks about (and how to get in) The huge, hidden web game market no one talks about (and how to get in) by Dmitry Kachmar Apr 15, 2025 9 Min Read Sponsored By Game Platforms PC Ubisoft will release Assassin's Creed Valhalla on Steam in December Ubisoft will release Assassin's Creed Valhalla on Steam in December Ubisoft will release Assassin's Creed Valhalla on Steam in December Since Assassin's Creed Valhalla is winding down its lifecycle of content and expansions, now's the perfect time to come to Steam. Justin Carter , Contributing Editor November 21, 2022 2 Min Read Ubisoft is bringing its most recent Assassin's Creed entry over to Steam. Beginning December 6, 2020's Assassin's Creed Valhalla will be available for purchase on Valve's PC platform, marking one of the first Ubisoft games to arrive there in three years. Since its release over two years ago, Assassin's Creed Valhalla has received numerous expansions and free content updates. Its next free update, December 6th's The Last Chapter, will be its last, making it an opportune time for the action-RPG to come to a new marketplace. For Ubisoft, going back to Steam raises questions about how its upcoming Assassin's Creed Infinity will be handled for PC. Infinity is intended to be a launcher hub for the series going forward, and players would have to open it before properly booting up one of the games, such as the entries codenamed Assassin's Creed Red or Hexe . Speaking to Eurogamer , Ubisoft said that it's been "constantly evaluating how to bring our games to different audiences wherever they are, while providing a consistent player ecosystem through Ubisoft Connect." Whether this means that the publisher will release its games on the platform day-and-date is currently up in the air. In recent years, Ubisoft has launched the PC versions of its games on either the Epic Games Store or its own Ubisoft Connect platform. The previous Assassin's Creed titles have been available on Steam for some time, and the most recent game on the French publisher's Steam page is 2019's Trials Rising. Also coming to Steam, but currently undated, are the respective 2019 city builder Anno 1800 and 2022's free-to-play sports game Roller Champions. During the initial announcement of Infinity, Ubisoft said that new games in the series could be purchased through the platform. It's supposedly done to make the series more discoverable, but for PC players, it could just wind up being a store within a store. About the Author Justin Carter Contributing Editor, GameDeveloper.com A Kansas City, MO native, Justin Carter has written for numerous sites including IGN, Polygon, and SyFy Wire. In addition to Game Developer, his writing can be found at io9 over on Gizmodo. Don't ask him about how much gum he's had, because the answer will be more than he's willing to admit. See more from Justin Carter Daily news, dev blogs, and stories from Game Developer straight to your inbox Stay Updated You May Also Like New Switch 2 Info The Switch 2 on a yellow background Business Nintendo tells customers in Japan to expect Switch 2 hardware shortage at launch Nintendo tells customers in Japan to expect Switch 2 hardware shortage at launch by Chris Kerr Apr 23, 2025 2 Min Read A Nintendo Switch 2 with the Nintendo Switch 2 camera. Business Nintendo Switch 2 dodges tariff price increase, but accessories will experience 'price adjustments' Nintendo Switch 2 dodges tariff price increase, but accessories will experience 'price adjustments' by Bryant Francis Apr 18, 2025 3 Min Read Get daily news, dev blogs, and stories from Game Developer straight to your inbox Subscribe to Game Developer Newsletters to stay caught up with the latest news, design insights, marketing tips, and more Stay Updated Trending Stories Characters do battle in fantasy game Wartorn. PC Wartorn developer Stray Kite shows how small studios can chase big ideas in a turbulent 2025 Wartorn developer Stray Kite shows how small studios can chase big ideas in a turbulent 2025 by Bryant Francis Apr 24, 2025 7 Min Read A king, a noblewoman, and an assassin strike a pose in key art for Crusader Kings 3. Business Paradox Interactive's return-to-office policy may be driving employees away from the studio Paradox Interactive's return-to-office policy may be driving employees away from the studio by Bryant Francis Apr 24, 2025 11 Min Read A player character in Avowed duel-wields pistols. Programming How Avowed's QA team stomped out bugs by working inside the design tools How Avowed's QA team stomped out bugs by working inside the design tools by Bryant Francis Apr 22, 2025 9 Min Read Top GDC25 Reads A player character in Avowed duel-wields pistols. Programming How Avowed's QA team stomped out bugs by working inside the design tools How Avowed's QA team stomped out bugs by working inside the design tools Production Cronos: The New Dawn devs say remote work made its unique combat possible Cronos: The New Dawn devs say remote work made its unique combat possible A headshot of Piotr Babieno, Bloober CEO, against the backdrop of Cronos: The New Dawn Business Bloober CEO: creating a 'safe,' sustainable workplace takes priority in studio leadership Bloober CEO: creating a 'safe,' sustainable workplace takes priority in studio leadership First person screen of Alyx holding her hands up from Half Life Alyx Business Behind the headlines at Valve's rocky start Behind the headlines at Valve's rocky start A fishing boat at sunset in the creepy world of Dredge Design Dredge wasn't originally going to be a narrative game, but then it became one of 2023's best Dredge wasn't originally going to be a narrative game, but then it became one of 2023's best More from GD Blog with Game Developer Blogging Guidelines Game Developer Podcast Submit a Tip Connect About Us Advertise With Game Developer Contact Us Join Us Stay Updated Follow Us Copyright © 2025. This website is owned and operated by Informa TechTarget, part of a global network that informs, influences and connects the world’s technology buyers and sellers. All copyright resides with them. Informa PLC’s registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. TechTarget, Inc.’s registered office is 275 Grove St. Newton, MA 02466. Home | Cookie Policy | Privacy | Terms of Use