iOS 13 beta hints at an Apple iPhone 11 event on September 10th | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI More Expand The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Menu Expand Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health COVID-19 Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters Command Line Installer Notepad Verge Deals Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. iOS 13 beta hints at an Apple iPhone 11 event on September 10th Comments Drawer Tech iOS 13 beta hints at an Apple iPhone 11 event on September 10th An iPhone 11 Pro Max could be on the way An iPhone 11 Pro Max could be on the way by Tom Warren Aug 15, 2019, 7:51 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Photo by James Bareham / The Verge Tom Warren is a senior editor and author of Notepad , who has been covering all things Microsoft, PC, and tech for over 20 years. Apple just released iOS 13 beta 7 to developers today, and people are already digging through the software to find hints about the rumored iPhone 11. iHelp BR has discovered that the latest iOS 13 beta includes an asset that hints at an iPhone 11 event date of September 10th. An image, simply named “HoldForRelease,” includes the September 10th date on the calendar of the iOS 13 home screen. Apple uses this particular image for the out of box experience (OOBE) when you first set up a new iPhone. iOS 12 includes a similar image, with a September 12th date displayed on it, which is the date when Apple announced the iPhone XS. The presence of this image does hint that Apple could be preparing its iPhone 11 event for September 10th, and it’s a date that lines up with previous years. 9to5Mac notes that Apple generally holds its iPhone event on the second Tuesday or Wednesday of September. Apple has previously held iPhone events on these dates: Wednesday, September 12th, 2018 Tuesday, September 12th, 2017 Wednesday, September 7th, 2016 Wednesday, September 9th, 2015 iOS 13 beta image ihelpbr Apple is widely expected to launch three new iPhones during its 2019 event, with at least one sporting a triple-camera system. Rumors from earlier this year suggest that Apple will release successors to the iPhone XR, iPhone XS, and iPhone XS Max. Some reports claim that the successor to the iPhone XS will even have a slightly bigger 6.1-inch display and three cameras on the rear. Earlier reports suggested that the new camera array would be exclusive to the iPhone XS Max successor. Twitter user CoinX also hinted recently that Apple may opt for the iPhone 11 Pro naming this year. CoinX correctly revealed the iPhone XS a week before its debut last year. If the reports are accurate, then it means Apple could be planning an iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro, and iPhone 11 Pro Max. Apple already hit a dead end for iPhone names last year , and the iPhone 11 Pro Max name would certainly be stretching naming conventions way beyond the norm. See More : Apple News Tech More in this stream See all Here’s where you can buy the iPhone 11, 11 Pro, and 11 Pro Max Cameron Faulkner Sep 20, 2019 Comments Comment Icon Bubble How to rearrange and delete your apps in iOS 13 Jay Peters Sep 19, 2019 Comments Comment Icon Bubble iOS 13 review: join the dark side Chaim Gartenberg Sep 19, 2019 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Most Popular Most Popular Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now New Starlink subscription drops hardware price to $0 Duolingo will replace contract workers with AI Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck The DJI Phantom is no more Installer A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Tech OpenAI undoes its glaze-heavy ChatGPT update Snapchat scraps ‘simple’ redesign as it loses users in North America Apple launches a new celebrity hub that’s all about Apple Natasha Lyonne to direct and star in a new sci-fi film created with generative AI 0 Apple’s latest AirPods Pro are down to their best price of the year OnePlus won’t sell the 13T in the US or Europe OpenAI undoes its glaze-heavy ChatGPT update Jay Peters Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Snapchat scraps ‘simple’ redesign as it loses users in North America Emma Roth Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Apple launches a new celebrity hub that’s all about Apple Umar Shakir Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Natasha Lyonne to direct and star in a new sci-fi film created with generative AI Charles Pulliam-Moore Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble 0 Apple’s latest AirPods Pro are down to their best price of the year Sheena Vasani Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble OnePlus won’t sell the 13T in the US or Europe Allison Johnson Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Apr 29 Whatever happened to the Kids Online Safety Act? Apr 29 MAGA’s next wave of influencers saved TikTok Apr 29 Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Apr 29 Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck Apr 29 Starlink’s got company — and orbital overcrowding is a disaster waiting to happen Apr 29 Meta’s ChatGPT competitor shows how your friends use AI The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved