Tesla Delivers Record 184,800 Model 3, Y, S & X Globally In Q1 2021 Tesla Delivers Record 184,800 Model 3, Y, S & X Globally In Q1 2021 News News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry All news Reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test All reviews Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 All Features Videos Podcasts Photos Newsletter SIGN UP FOR FREE Chime in with article commenting. Sign In Sign Up News News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry All news Reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test All reviews Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 All Features Videos Podcasts Photos Newsletter page ad skin Home Tesla News Tesla Delivers Record 184,800 Model 3, Y, S & X Globally In Q1 2021 The numbers are in and deliveries exceeded expectations. Eric Loveday By : Eric Loveday Apr 2, 2021 at 8:45am ET Facebook X LinkedIn Flipboard Reddit WhatsApp E-Mail Share Comment Tesla has just released its Q1 2021 production and delivery report, so the numbers are now in. See how Tesla fared this quarter right here. At 184,800 global deliveries of the Model Y , Model 3 , Model S and Model X combined, Tesla beat expectations. The target numbers ranged from about 160,000 to 188,000, so Tesla came out on the high side of those expectations. Additionally, Tesla once again set an all-time record for deliveries by beating the previous high mark of 180,570 set in Q4 2020. Tesla has never posted a stronger Q1 than the previous Q4, so this was unexpected. Here's the graphic showing the figures: For Q1 2021, Tesla lists Model 3/Y deliveries at 182,780. Meanwhile, the combined Model S and Model X deliveries hit just 2,020. The production itself was 180,338 in total, but note that Tesla did not produce a single Model S or Model X in Q1 2021. It's readying the refreshed version of both cars for deliveries later this year. Hopefully, this will again lead to another profitable quarter for Tesla. Tesla adds: In the first quarter, we produced just over 180,000 vehicles and delivered nearly 185,000 vehicles. We are encouraged by the strong reception of the Model Y in China and are quickly progressing to full production capacity. The new Model S and Model X have also been exceptionally well received, with the new equipment installed and tested in Q1 and we are in the early stages of ramping production. And there's this additional note, as well as a disclaimer, which indicates the actual results may be a bit higher: Our net income and cash flow results will be announced along with the rest of our financial performance when we announce Q1 earnings. Our delivery count should be viewed as slightly conservative, as we only count a car as delivered if it is transferred to the customer and all paperwork is correct. Final numbers could vary by up to 0.5% or more. Tesla vehicle deliveries represent only one measure of the company’s financial performance and should not be relied on as an indicator of quarterly financial results, which depend on a variety of factors, including the cost of sales, foreign exchange movements and mix of directly leased vehicles. Share this Story Facebook X LinkedIn Flipboard Reddit WhatsApp E-Mail Got a tip for us? Email: tips@insideevs.com Join the conversation ( ) Trending The Telo MT1 May Be Tiny, But It's Still Built For Hard Work Foxconn's Model C Is Coming To The U.S.—But It Won't Wear A Foxconn Badge Slate Unveiled A Cheap EV. Tesla's Is Still A Mystery. Why The Slate Truck Doesn’t Use LFP Batteries latest articles Toyota And Google's Waymo May Build An Autonomous Car Platform Together 34m ago - Autonomous Vehicles - GM’s Orion Plant Was Supposed To Be All-EV. Now, Maybe Not 4h ago - News - How The Lucid Gravity Became A Fast-Charging Monster 6h ago - Charging - Nissan's Turnaround Plan Almost Convinced Me. Then The Bomb Dropped. 6h ago - Power Moves - I Bought A 'Unicorn' Volvo V90 PHEV. Here's How It's Going 7h ago - Ownership Experience - RECOMMENDED FOR YOU Tesla Ditches China's Biggest Auto Show While EV Rivals Shine Instead Toyota And Google's Waymo May Build An Autonomous Car Platform Together Trump To Reduce Automotive Tariffs Days Before Hike GM’s Orion Plant Was Supposed To Be All-EV. Now, Maybe Not The State Of New York Is Picking A Really Dumb Fight With Tesla How The Lucid Gravity Became A Fast-Charging Monster Tesla Might Be Tanking, But Its Cars Are Still Fast Subscribe to our Newsletter Receive exciting Automotive news, updates, and special offers straight to your inbox. Subscribe Follow Us Facebook X Flipboard Google News YouTube RSS About Us Advertising Contact insideEVs 650 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10022 USA Privacy policy Cookie policy Cookie Settings Terms of use © 2025 Motorsport Network. All rights reserved. Logotype News All news News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry Reviews All reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test Features All Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 Makes All Makes Abarth Acura Afeela Aptera Aston Martin Audi Automobili Pininfarina BMW Bollinger Buick BYD Byton Cadillac Chevrolet Chrysler Citroën Cupra Dacia Daimler Dodge DS Faraday Future Ferrari Fiat Fisker Ford GAC Geely General Motors Genesis GMC Honda Hyundai Infiniti Jaguar Jeep Karma Kia Koenigsegg Land Rover Lexus Lincoln Lordstown Motors Lotus Lucid Lynk & Co MAN Maserati Mazda Mercedes-AMG Mercedes-Benz MG Mini Mitsubishi NEVS Nikola Motor NIO Nissan Opel Peugeot Pininfarina Polestar Porsche Ram Renault Rimac Rivian Rolls-Royce Scout Motors SEAT Skoda Smart Stellantis Subaru Suzuki Telo Trucks Tesla TOGG Toyota Uaz VinFast Volkswagen Volvo Workhorse Xiaomi Xpeng Zeekr Models Tesla Model Y Hyundai Ioniq 5 Rivian R1S Toyota bZ4X Lucid Gravity Ram Ramcharger Body Style All Body Styles Sedan Coupe SUV/Crossover Hatchback Truck Convertible Videos Podcast Photos Edition USA / Global Switch Theme Light Dark Auto Current Edition USA / Global Edition: USA / Global Édition: France Edizione: Italia Edição: Brasil Ausgabe: Deutschland Edisyon: Türkiye Edition: Argentina Cancel SIGN UP FOR FREE Chime in with article commenting. Sign In Sign Up