The Blacklist to End with Season 10 Got a Tip? Newsletters Open Menu Close News Film TV Awards Video Search Icon Open Search Close Read Next: Ben Affleck Thinks the ‘Armageddon’ Commentary Track Is the ‘Best Work of My Career’ Newsletters Search Icon Close Open Menu Close Search Icon Open Search Search for: Search Icon Search for: Close Menu News Arrow Icon Breaking News General News Festivals Box Office Business Trailers Analysis Obituaries Features Arrow Icon Interviews Commentary The Craft Best Of Animation General Awards Arrow Icon Thompson on Hollywood Emmy Predictions Emmys Calendar Consider This Awards Spotlight Craft Considerations Deep Dive Industry Criticism Arrow Icon Movies Shows Podcasts Arrow Icon Screen Talk Filmmaker Toolkit About IndieWire Arrow Icon IndieWire Masthead Sign Up for IndieWire's Newsletters and Alerts How to Pitch IndieWire Follow Us Facebook X Instagram Pinterest YouTube Alerts & Newsletters Email address to subscribe to newsletter. Subscribe By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. About Advertise with IndieWire IndieWire Masthead Contact Us PMC Logo IndieWire is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 IndieWire Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Home Features General ‘The Blacklist’ to End with Season 10 The NBC series starring James Spader will debut its final season on February 26; its 200th episode airs next month. By Wilson Chapman Plus icon Wilson Chapman Michael Buckner Wilson Chapman More stories by Wilson The 25 Saddest TV Character Deaths of This Century Read more ‘Bet’ Trailer: Netflix Gambles on a Live-Action Manga Adaptation This Spring Read more Ramy Youssef and Pam Brady on Tackling the War on Terror with Comedy in ‘#1 Happy Family USA’ Read more February 1, 2023 2:00 pm "The Blacklist" Virginia Sherwood/NBC Share Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Share on LinkedIn Show more sharing options Submit to Reddit Pin it Post to Tumblr Email Print This Page Share on WhatsApp After a decade on the air, “ The Blacklist ,” NBC ‘s thriller series starring James Spader , is finally coming to an end. The show’s upcoming tenth season will be its last, the broadcast network said on Wednesday. The news comes weeks before Season 10’s premiere on February 26. The final run is expected to consist of 22 episodes; the show’s landmark 200th episode will premiere on March 19. “It isn’t often that a series resonates so deeply with an audience that it airs for 10 seasons, but ‘The Blacklist’ proved to a perfect combination of highly talented producers, stellar writing, a cast that never failed to deliver and a crew that always rose to the occasion,” NBCUniversal Scripted Content President Lisa Katz said in a statement. “A huge thank you to our partners at Sony, everyone from the past decade who made this show an integral part of NBC’s storied history and, of course, a special nod to James Spader, whose performance remains nothing short of spectacular.” Related Stories ‘The Americas’ Spent 5 Years Filming Wildlife — and Discovered New Species in the Process How ‘Grosse Pointe Garden Society’ Erewhon’d Its Garden and Everything Else Created by Jon Bokenkamp, “The Blacklist” stars Spader as Raymond “Red” Reddington, an ex-Navy officer turned criminal who turns himself into the FBI and offers his titular “blacklist” of the most dangerous criminals in the world in exchange for immunity. The show’s first eight seasons focused on Red’s relationship with Liz Keen (Megan Boone), a rookie FBI agent assigned to work for him; once Boone left the show, the series shifted to a more ensemble format. Other cast members aside from Spader include Diego Klattenhoff, Hisham Tawfiq, Anya Banerjee, and Harry Lennix. The tenth and final season of the series will focus on the fallout from Red’s deal with the FBI getting exposed. With the secret out, former Blacklisters unite against him, putting Reddington and his team at the FBI in jeopardy. “After 10 years, hundreds of ‘Blacklist’ cases and more than 200 episodes produced, we’re honored to reach our conclusion,” showrunner John Eisendrath said in a statement. “It’s been incredibly fun to create the strange, devious and delightful Blacklisters to challenge Raymond Reddington and our FBI Task Force each week. We would like to thank everyone at NBC and Sony, our extraordinary crew who make the impossible happen every day, our endlessly inventive writers and producers, and our remarkable cast who brought life to these characters. We appreciate our dedicated fanbase who came along for this wonderful ride and are excited to share this final season with them.” Spader executive produces “The Blacklist” with Eisendrath, Bokenkamp, Lukas Reiter, Laura A. Benson, Daniel Cerone, Sean Hennen, Allison Glock-Cooper, T Cooper, and John Davis and John Fox of Davis Entertainment. In addition to announcing the ending of the series, NBC also shared a trailer for the upcoming season of “The Blacklist.” Watch it below. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MSd90nIJ1QE&ab_channel=NBC Read More: James Spader NBC The Blacklist Daily Headlines Daily Headlines covering Film, TV and more. Subscribe More from IndieWire Getting Practical Getting Practical with Screenwriting: Lessons from Luca Guadagnino In Rep The Best Films Playing in New York and Los Angeles Repertory Theaters in May 2025 Features The 25 Saddest TV Character Deaths of This Century It Has the High Ground We’re Saying It: ‘Revenge of the Sith’ Is the Best ‘Star Wars’ Movie’ Interview Craig Mazin Says We ‘Overestimate’ the ‘Allegorical Connections’ Between TV Shows and Real News Opinion ‘Étoile’ and the Curious Case of Putting Performing Arts on Screen Daily Headlines Daily Headlines covering Film, TV and more. Email address to subscribe to newsletter. Subscribe By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Must Read Features IndieWire’s 52 Most Anticipated Movies of 2025 we <3 TV IndieWire’s 10 Most Anticipated TV Shows of 2025 Features The 25 Best Movies of 2024 More From IndieWire First Look After Years of Delays, Charlize Theron-Starring Netflix Action Sequel ‘The Old Guard 2’ Gets a Release Date News Bella Ramsey Insisted on a Green Rider to Make ‘The Last of Us’ Season 2 Shoot ‘Sustainability-Conscious’ PMC Logo Most Popular 1. Damon Wayans Is 'Walking Away With Deep Gratitude' After 'Poppa's House' Cancellation: 'This Show Gave Me More Than I Could've Ever Imagined' 2. 'Andor' Creator Explains That Shocking Assault Scene: "We're All the Product of Rape" 3. Bath & Body Works' Hand Soaps Just Hit Their Lowest Price of the Season — Stock Up for $3 Each 4. NFL Rookie Signing Bonuses Jump Record 26% for 2025 Draft You may also like ‘The Smashing Machine’ Trailer: Dwayne Johnson Is Unrecognizable as UFC Legend Mark Kerr in Benny Safdie’s Biopic From A24 rollingstone 100 Actions That Define Trump’s Horrifying First 100 Days in Office Corporation For Public Broadcasting Sues Donald Trump Over Attempt To Remove Tom Rothman And Others From Board NCIS: Origins’ Mariel Molino Shares What Was Most Heartbreaking About Finale, Why She’s ‘Proud’ of Final Shot Bengals, County Approve Deal for $184.5M in Stadium Renovations IndieWire Arrow Icon About Team How to Pitch Stories and Articles to IndieWire Advertise with IndieWire Contact Us Accessibility Statement Legal Arrow Icon Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights EU Privacy Preferences Your Privacy Choices Ad Choices Follow Us Facebook X Instagram Pinterest YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Email address to subscribe to newsletter. Subscribe By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send us a tip PMC Logo IndieWire is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 IndieWire Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD ad