The Social Climber: Wimbledon 2013 Finals: Andy Murray Beats Novak Djokovic - ABC News ABC News Video Live Shows Shop Log In Stream on The Social Climber: Wimbledon 2013 Finals: Andy Murray Beats Novak Djokovic Murray made it to the Wimbledon finals last year, but lost to Roger Federer. By ABC News July 7, 2013, 9:07 AM Andy Murray of Britain returns to Novak Djokovic of Serbia during the Men's singles final match at the All England Lawn Tennis Championships in Wimbledon, London, Sunday, July 7, 2013. Anja Niedringhaus/AP Photo July 7, 2013&#151; -- quicklist: 1title: Wimbledon 2013 Finals: Andy Murray Beats Novak Djokovictext: Andy Murray pulled out a win against Novak Djokovic on Center Court at Wimbledon today. No British man has won this tournament since named Fred Perry triumphed here in 1936. Murray made it to the Wimbledon finals last year, but lost to Roger Federer. Faces of Victory and Defeat at Wimbledon: See the Photos Djokovic is a week younger than Murray -- both are 26. Murray's first big tournament win was the U.S. Open last year. Djokovic has won six major tournaments, including Wimbledon and the 2011 U.S. Open. media:19598937 quicklist: 2 title: Plane Crash in San Franciscotext: The two Asiana Airlines passengers who died in this weekend's fiery crash landing were identified as 16-year-old female students from China, according to officials and Chinese media reports. Wang Linjia and Ye Mengyuan were part of a student group from Jiangshan Middle School in China's eastern Zhejiang province, according to Chinese media reports. In a statement, China's Ministry of Education said at least 70 teachers and students from China were traveling to the U.S. to take part in a summer program. SLIDESHOW: Plane Crashes at San Francisco Airport Asiana Airlines Flight 214 was carrying more than 300 people when it crashed at San Francisco International Airport, tore off its tail and burst into flames Saturday. The crash injured 181 people. The injured were being care for at several hospitals and at least 22 were in critical condition. media: 19597620 quicklist: 3 title: Gabby Giffords Meets George H.W. Bush on Gun Control Tourtext: Former Rep. Gabrielle Giffords and her husband former astronaut Mark Kelly had lunch Saturday with former President George H.W. Bush and his wife Barbara at their Kennebunkport, Maine home, Giffords spokeswoman Pia Carusone tells ABC News. Giffords and Kelly are on their seven-day seven-state "Rights and Responsibilities Tour," to push for expanded background checks for firearms purchases. They are also being accompanied by some families of victims of the Sandy Hook school shooting who were with them Friday evening in New Hampshire and Saturday in Maine. This isn't the first time Giffords and Bush have met. When Giffords was recovering in a Houston hospital after she was shot in the head in a shooting at an Arizona shopping center, Bush and his wife Barbara went to visit her. In her 2011 memoir with Kelly, they write that at that point in her recovery she could only say "chicken" to the former president and first lady. media:19598986 quicklist: 4 title: Quebec Train Firetext: A number of people remain unaccounted for in the town of Lac Megantic in Quebec, Canada, after an 80-tanker-long train derailed and exploded in the center of town Saturday. At least three people were killed. Quebec Fire Chief Denis Louzon said the center of town lay in ruins. "Parts of buildings, trees burnt, no grass at all. Just, it's destruction," Louzon said Sunday at a news conference. media: 19599037 quicklist: 5 title: Asylum Offers for Edward Snowdentext: Bolivia has joined the ranks of South American countries offering refuge to NSA leaker Edward Snowden. Bolivian President Evo Morales said Saturday that Snowden was welcome in his country, The Associated Press reported. Morales said he was making the offer as a protest against the United States and European nations he accused of blocking his flight home from a Moscow summit because of suspicions that Snowden might have been aboard his plane. Federal authorities last month filed espionage charges against Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor accused of disclosing secret anti-terrorism programs run by the U.S. government. media: 19511581 Sponsored Content by Taboola Popular Reads Trump has lowest 100-day approval rating in 80 years: POLL Apr 27, 12:04 AM Pope Francis updates: Pope Francis' coffin has been closed Apr 25, 5:50 PM Trump admin live updates: Trump rallies with supporters to mark 100 days 2 hours ago Mark Carney's Liberals win Canada election amid Trump's 51st state comments Apr 28, 10:35 PM ABC News Live 24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events ABC News Network Privacy Policy Your US State Privacy Rights Children's Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads About Nielsen Measurement Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Contact Us © 2025 ABC News