Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/TheBlackList A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to TheBlackList r/TheBlackList r/TheBlackList Subreddit for "The Blacklist", an American crime thriller television series that premieres on NBC. Members Online • outofwedlock Blacklist ROD: Retcon of the Day: “What Happened to Meera Malik?” That’s the burning question as we enter season 10 and meet Meera’s daughter, Siya Malik. In typical fashion, Siya comes on stage looking for “answers.” Specifically, she wants to know the circumstances of her mom’s murder. This isn’t much of a mystery to anyone other than her, is it? Tom Keen was responsible for her death. Working for Berlin, Tom handed Berlin’s lieutenant a list of TF names for elimination. Berlin then ordered a hit on Meera. Meera was murdered. This was an unbroken, unambiguous chain of events in the finale of season one. At the 5:30 mark of the episode, we see Tom hand over the list and we see Meera’s name on it. What are the odds TBL will stick with that canonical set of facts when they bring Siya into the mix this year? I’d say the odds aren’t high, based on this article from NBC itself, wherein the circumstances of Meera’s death are described, but Tom Keen’s name is entirely absent. In fact, the entire scene where Tom hands over list is absent. In the season 10 version of history (presumably), we get this sanitized account: Alan Fitch reveals to Red that the TF is being targeted by Berlin. Red calls Liz. Liz gets to Meera too late. From NBC: https://www.nbc.com/nbc-insider/what-happened-to-meera-malik-on-the-blacklist What Happened to Meera Malik on The Blacklist? […] Meera was dedicated, hard-hitting, and never afraid to stand up for herself. In short, she was the perfect person to help Reddington bring justice to his infamous rolodex of blacklisters. Meera's life was cut short on The Blacklist, but she was a fascinating character before her time ran out. Even still, Meera's legacy will live on in the upcoming final season of The Blacklist. Read on to look back at everything that happened on The Blacklist that led to Meera's untimely death. [OOW: not “everything,” since Tom’s name isn’t included.] Red first brushes shoulders with Meera in Season 1 of The Blacklist after Meera is assigned to Harold Cooper's (Harry Lennix) task force by Diane Fowler. From just looking at her, Red clocks that she is CIA, but Meera isn't exactly an open book. Meera had previously resigned from the CIA to spend more time with her family, but her unique set of skills landed her back on assignment. Meera quickly became known for her strong belief in enhanced interrogation techniques (read: torture). Meera was exceptional at getting just about anyone to talk while she was trained to withstand any interrogation. Meera's interrogation tactics proved incredibly helpful for Red and the task force, and she became one of the driving forces behind the team's success in Season 1. But The Blacklist and betrayal are basically synonymous, and in "The Cyrpus Agency," Meera reveals that she betrayed the task force by leaking the location of their HQ, known as the Post Office, to terrorists. After those terrorists attacked, it was clear a mole was in the midst, and Red was determined to sniff it out. In an ironic twist, Red interrogated Meera about her actions. She revealed that the order was issued by someone higher up than Harold Cooper, who had Meera leak the blueprints under the cover of needing security upgrades. Meera wasn't sure who issued the order, but after her friends were killed in the attack, she became hellbent on finding out who did. Meera managed to sneak away with Cooper's classified file and provided Red with a copy of who authorized the order. In doing so, Meera helped Red discover the identity of the actual mole: Diane Fowler. Fast-forward to the nail-biting end of Season 1. Alan Fitch, #12 on the blacklist and one of Red's former comrades, revealed to Red that members of the task force were being targeted by blacklister Milos Kirchoff (also known as "Berlin"). After Red got this warning, he called Keen and discovered that Meera and Donald Ressler (Diego Klattenhoff) were already in the field investigating a dance club for Berlin's whereabouts. As soon as Meera split up from Donald, her life came to a tragic end. In one of the saddest moments of The Blacklist Season 1, Meera is killed after one of Berlin's men slit her throat. Keen arrived on the scene to find Meera bleeding out, and later confirmed to Red that she passed away. But Meera's legacy lives on, especially in the upcoming Season 10 of The Blacklist. Season 10 will introduce a new character to the mix: Siya Malik (Anya Banerjee), an MI6 intelligence officer and Meera's daughter. Fans are unsure of how Meera's daughter will cross paths with Reddington, whether as a friend or a scorned foe, but they can't wait to find out how it shakes out. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 13, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics