Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/patientgamers A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to patientgamers r/patientgamers r/patientgamers A gaming sub free from the news, hype and drama that surround current releases, catering instead to gamers who wait at least 12 months after release to play a game. Whether it's price, waiting for bugs/issues to be patched, DLC to be released, don't meet the system requirements, or just haven't had the time to keep up with the latest releases. Members Online • TailzPrower Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time 3D Review: How does the remake (3DS 2011) of this renowned classic (N64 1998) adventure hold up today? My own background with the game (optional text): The first Nintendo system that I owned was a used DS Lite, and the second was a used 3DS. I had never played a Zelda game up until that point, so I had no nostalgia of the original N64 game. (Incidentally, I recently saw the commercial for the original N64 version of the game on YouTube, and I could swear I saw it on TV all those years ago and I wanted to play it back then.) I first played it in 2016, my how time flies. I recall I had a very hard time figuring out what to do and could not even figure out to get to Dodongo’s cavern. I did not even realize there was a hint system in place. Thus, wandering around the field of Hyrule, exploring for hours I decided to sell my copy. I later tried N64 emulation but found the controls to be quite poor and gave up again. When I bought the 3DS version again, I got to the Morpha fight at the end of the Water Temple, became frustrated, and sold it, again! It was only recently that I decided to buy another copy and beat it, and I did.  This decision came after beating Majora’s Mask 3D recently and enjoying it. So how does this remake one hold up more than a decade after its release? Introduction: As you can see (if you read the above) I had a rough start with this game. As Zelda games I beat (and enjoyed) Minish Cap, A Link Between Worlds and Majora’s Mask first, though I initially started with this one. Now with my experience and knowing to use the in-game Sheika stone hint system, beating this game was much easier than before. Ocarina of Time is frequently cited as one of the greatest games of all time, and the N64 original has the highest Metacritic rating of 99 (though based on only 22 reviews). Regardless, it is often considered by many to be the greatest Zelda game, and often vies with Breath of the Wild for that title. In 2011 a remake of this game was released for the 3DS with updated visuals, and many bug fixes. Many people love using the bugs of the original for speed runs though. The visuals are supposed to be closer to the original intentions of the artists, that were not possible to make on the N64. The Master Quest version of the game, with rearranged dungeons, and higher difficulty is also included after beating the game once. It takes most people about 25 hours to beat this one, so it is not overly long. Basic Premise: This is basically like A Link to the Past translated into 3D and the transition is smooth. Link eventually discovers that he needs to defeat Ganondorf who is seeking to obtain the Triforce so he can wield godlike powers and take over the kingdom. Link is tasked with freeing all of the 7 sages and using his ocarina to travel forwards and backwards in time, to help him achieve his task and save the kingdom. Gameplay: Cut scenes, overworld exploration, dungeons, followed by boss fights. This is the general pattern of this game. With each dungeon Link may obtain a new item, or weapon that helps him progress through the game. In addition to combat there is also puzzle solving, and a few side-quests to obtain optional upgrades, and items. The controls can be a little frustrating in some parts, for example, some commands like jumping down are not followed when you want them to be, the combat can also be a little clunky, but overall, the controls were responsive, and not tricky or annoyingly tank-like, as many games from that era tend to be. The camera could not be toggled with the c-stick unlike Majora’s Mask 3D, since this was before the New 3DS was released. The puzzles, and what to do next can be quite annoying if you are not used to Zelda games. Luckily the Sheika stone hint system, in place as a QoL improvement for this remake, is in place (of course you can use the online guides), the hint system only gives you the important hints on how to progress throughout the game, it is not for all of the optional items. Admittedly, it can still be frustrating at times, and spoils some of the pacing for me. The game, however, unlike many modern games, is not overly long at about 25 hours, so the pacing is alright.  The Gerudo's Fortress stealth section towards the end of the game, could be somewhat annoying, since if you are caught you always go back to the beginning, which can make it tedious. I found the fight with Morpha at the end of the water temple to be annoying, and the temple itself had some sections that seemed convoluted. What needed to be done to get to the Water temple in the first place also seemed convoluted and not entirely obvious on my first play-through. It was a point of frustration for me.  Additionally, I found the Forest temple, to be rather long and convoluted as well; the first time I played I resorted to using guides. There is a learning curve with this game. Graphics, Sound, and Atmosphere: The graphics are quite an improvement over the original, there is a lot more detail in the character models, etc. The music is some of the most iconic in the entire Zelda series. A lot of it exudes a grand adventure. The atmosphere fits the game well as a great adventure in a large and (for the time of the original) “open” world. I love how there is lots of variety to the settings in the game, deserts, forests, water, the inside of a tree, etc. Although I like the atmosphere and the ability to explore as long as I like, without a time limit, I do consider the atmosphere and plot of this game to be inferior to the darker, and more sombre Majora’s Mask which I found to be the more enjoyable experience. Fun factor: The story is very “traditional” in the Zelda sense however it is done well and the cutscenes are well executed. The graphics are good and hold up fairly well today, especially on the relatively small 3DS XL or New 3DS XL screen. The pacing is alright, the game is not overly long, and the dungeons are not typically too long. The controls are adequate and responsive but could probably be better if it was a newer game. The settings are varied and there are lots of characters, and new weapons to acquire. The game starts off rather well, then gets somewhat tedious and frustrating in the some of the middle parts (e.g. forest temple, the water temple, and its prelude, etc.) but picks up rather well again towards the end. The final fight with Ganon is epic. Overall, using the hint system, exploring the world, the puzzles, etc., this was a fun experience though as I said has a few issues holding it down keeping it from being amazing for me. When I compare it to its successor Majora’s Mask (3D) I have to say that the traditional story of this one, and sometimes tedious gameplay in certain parts bring it down for me one or half a point below Majora’s Mask. Verdict: So, released more than a decade after the N64 original, how does this remake hold up more than a decade after its release? The charming and improved graphics, wonderful music, and adequate controls, along with a large world to explore, lots of characters, many varied settings, brain teasing puzzles, interesting boss fights, adequate controls and relatively good pacing, and reasonable length all make this a great game to own and play even now (2023); although it didn't "wow" me as some other games have. The Sheika hint system can go a long way in making this a more enjoyable experience (without the need to resort to guides). The game still has a lot going for it and makes it superior in many ways to many of its Zelda predecessors, and successors. Once you learn the ropes it is still a timeless Zelda adventure of what is often considered the best game ever made. People like to play the original to exploit bugs for speedruns, but I think for a playthrough for a new player this would be the best way to go. To be honest though I did enjoy Majora’s Mask 3D (which I scored an 8.5/10) more than this one for its darker atmosphere, and what I felt was deeper and more intriguing story, and gameplay, but Ocarina of Time 3D still holds up as one of the greats. I consider this faithful remake to hold up as one of the “best games of all time”. Score: 8/10 Great Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 9, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics