Chart: Tesla’s profits would evaporate if not for these regulatory credits - Sherwood News (Artur Widak/Getty Images) Chart: Tesla’s profits would evaporate if not for these regulatory credits Trump has threatened federal support for EVs, which would dent Tesla’s bottom line. Rani Molla 4/28/25 1:17PM Last quarter was bad for Tesla , but it would have been much worse had it not been for the money the company gets from regulatory credits. These credits are basically pure profit, since Tesla, which exclusively makes electric vehicles, gets a surplus of them from the government at no cost and then sells them to automakers that don’t meet regulatory requirements. Last quarter, Tesla brought in $595 million in regulatory credits revenue. If we consider that revenue to be profit, it represents 145% of Tesla’s $409 million in net profit last quarter. Tesla’s profit fell 71% last quarter compared to a year earlier; meanwhile, its regulatory credit revenue rose 35%. The Trump administration of course has threatened to end support for electric vehicles, something Tesla CEO Elon Musk had said he supports. That support, however, has helped Tesla’s finances look a lot better than they would have otherwise. More Tech See all Tech Rani Molla 2h Super Micro down sharply after-hours after missing its estimates Super Micro Computer announced that its preliminary Q3 sales came in between $400 million and $500 million below its low-end estimate for the quarter. It now expects sales between $4.5 billion and $4.6 billion, after predicting sales between $5.0 billion and $6.0 billion. Its forecast earnings per share are now $0.16 to $0.17, well under the prior guidance of $0.36 to $0.53. The company said, “During Q3 some delayed customer platform decisions moved sales into Q4.” The stock is down 16% after-hours. Rani Molla 2h Snap stock is down after beating estimates but saying it won’t share Q2 guidance Snap is down 14% even though its earnings beat analysts’ expectations, after saying it didn’t plan to share formal financial guidance for Q2 thanks to macro uncertainty. Snap’s earnings per share came in at -$0.08 while Snap revenue hit $1.363 billion. Both beat FactSet analyst consensus estimates of EPS of -$0.13 and revenue of $1.345 billion. “While our topline revenue has continued to grow, we have experienced headwinds to start the current quarter, and we believe it is prudent to continue to balance our level of investment with realized revenue growth,” the company said in prepared remarks. Companies like Snap, which make their money on advertising, are indirectly affected by tariffs . The situation was much rosier for Google, though, which reported earnings last week . Jon Keegan 4h OpenAI web search not a threat to Google Search... yet Yesterday OpenAI announced that ChatGPT would gain some new shopping features, like recommended products, review roundups, and listing links to buy items at different websites. OpenAI told TechCrunch that ChatGPT users performed more than 1 billion web searches last week through the chatbot. Sounds like a lot! While the shopping results are starting to look at lot like Google Search results, the company is probably not sweating right now. Last month, a Google blog post revealed that the company sees more than 5 trillion searches per year. That breaks down to about 96 billion web searches each week. OpenAI is trying hard to find enough revenue to power the increasingly expensive AI services it offers. Search revenue (when it decides to monetize) would certainly help. Last quarter, Google made $50.7 billion from Search alone. Jon Keegan 6h Meta launches stand-alone AI app If you want to use Meta AI today, you can find it tucked into a zillion weird places across all of Meta’s apps. Like when you’re searching on Facebook, making a post in Instagram, writing a message in WhatsApp, or... talking with your Meta AI glasses. But if you’re tired of looking everywhere for that sweet, sweet Meta AI (powered by Meta’s latest Llama 4 open-source model), now you can use a stand-alone app or access it on the web. The Meta AI app is free to use and includes a “voice demo built with full-duplex speech technology” so you can test out a more conversational voice chat feature. Meta is sort of achieving AI app feature parity with this release; you can generate images, search the web, and get recommendations for things. The app also remembers your history, which will definitely be useful when Meta eventually incorporates ads (how Meta makes 98% of its revenue ). But Meta does have something that OpenAI and other startups lack: a massive social graph of users and their friends. So, Meta is rolling out a “Discover” feed, “a place to share and explore how others are using AI. You can see the best prompts people are sharing, or remix them to make them your own.” Introducing the Meta AI App: A New Way to Access Your AI Assistant | Meta The Meta AI app is free to use and includes a “voice demo built with full-duplex speech technology” so you can test out a more conversational voice chat feature. Meta is sort of achieving AI app feature parity with this release; you can generate images, search the web, and get recommendations for things. The app also remembers your history, which will definitely be useful when Meta eventually incorporates ads (how Meta makes 98% of its revenue ). But Meta does have something that OpenAI and other startups lack: a massive social graph of users and their friends. So, Meta is rolling out a “Discover” feed, “a place to share and explore how others are using AI. You can see the best prompts people are sharing, or remix them to make them your own.” Jon Keegan 8h Altman and Nadella rift may put $14 billion partnership at risk: Report A deepening rift is emerging in one of the biggest partnerships of the AI boom . The $14 billion deal between Microsoft and OpenAI paired a hot startup with a legacy giant, giving each party something that they needed. According to The Wall Street Journal, there are signs that the deal may be coming apart. The relationship between OpenAI cofounder and CEO Sam Altman and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella started off warmly, but has since grown more frigid, the report says. Differences related to several terms of the deal appear to be generating friction, including a trigger that allows for the deal to be renegotiated once OpenAI achieves “AGI” (artificial general intelligence) — a fuzzy concept generally understood to be when an AI system surpasses human intelligence and capabilities. “In closed-door negotiations, Microsoft negotiators have told OpenAI that the present technology is nowhere near that threshold, the people said. Nadella dismissed the idea of declaring such a milestone on a popular podcast in February, calling it ‘nonsensical benchmark hacking.’ Executives at OpenAI were taken aback, according to people familiar with the matter.” Rumors of the deal fraying have been popping up for months, and during this time Microsoft has also been canceling some data center leases and pausing some projects under construction . Altman and Nadella, Who Ignited the Modern AI Boom Together, Are Drifting Apart The relationship between OpenAI cofounder and CEO Sam Altman and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella started off warmly, but has since grown more frigid, the report says. Differences related to several terms of the deal appear to be generating friction, including a trigger that allows for the deal to be renegotiated once OpenAI achieves “AGI” (artificial general intelligence) — a fuzzy concept generally understood to be when an AI system surpasses human intelligence and capabilities. “In closed-door negotiations, Microsoft negotiators have told OpenAI that the present technology is nowhere near that threshold, the people said. Nadella dismissed the idea of declaring such a milestone on a popular podcast in February, calling it ‘nonsensical benchmark hacking.’ Executives at OpenAI were taken aback, according to people familiar with the matter.” Rumors of the deal fraying have been popping up for months, and during this time Microsoft has also been canceling some data center leases and pausing some projects under construction . Latest Stories Sherwood Media, LLC produces fresh and unique perspectives on topical financial news and is a fully owned subsidiary of Robinhood Markets, Inc., and any views expressed here do not necessarily reflect the views of any other Robinhood affiliate, including Robinhood Markets, Inc., Robinhood Financial LLC, Robinhood Securities, LLC, Robinhood Crypto, LLC, or Robinhood Money, LLC. Privacy Notice Disclosures Terms and Conditions Editorial Standards Masthead Your Privacy Choices Advertising Disclaimers © 2025 Sherwood Media, LLC