By Innovation Only | Cult of Mac Cult of Mac Mobile menu toggle News Reviews How-To Deals Buyback Podcast Newsletters Our sponsors Watch Store About Advertise Privacy Hot topics: Apple rumors Apple deals Buying guides Editor’s picks Videos Mobile menu toggle News Reviews How-To Deals Buyback Podcast Newsletters Our sponsors Watch Store About Advertise Privacy Hot topics: Apple rumors Apple deals Buying guides Editor’s picks Videos By Innovation Only Read Cult of Mac’ s latest posts on  By Innovation Only: Big surprises at iPhone 11 event get us buzzing [Cult of Mac Magazine 314] By Lewis Wallace • 8:00 am, September 14, 2019 News The iPhone 11 event shocked us for several wonderful reasons. Cover: Leander Kahney/Cult of Mac For the iPhone 11 event, that crafty Tim Cook slipped some genuine surprises around the back of the rumor mill. Apple left our heads spinning in a variety of ways. We totally expected the gorgeous new iPhone 11 and iPhone 11 Pro . And we figured the fat new camera array would prove a total killer feature . However, we didn’t really plan on boosted iPhone battery life and a refreshingly low price tag . And then there’s that sweet new Apple Watch Series 5 with its always-on display. That’s just the tip of the iceberg, really. Like the “By Innovation Only” event itself, this week’s free issue of Cult of Mac Magazine is crammed with good stuff. Download it now for iOS, or hit the links below for all the week’s top Apple news, reviews and how-tos. Continue reading The wild tech buried in iPhone 11 Pro, and why an October Apple hardware is likely, on The CultCast By Erfon Elijah • 6:01 am, September 13, 2019 News Another Apple hardware event may be heading our way... This week on The CultCast : Everything you need to know about iPhone 11 and 11 Pro! We dive deep into the coolest features buried in Apple’s newest iPhones. Plus: Our reactions to everything announced at the iPhone 11 event. And it’s all but confirmed: We’ll tell you why there’s almost definitely an October hardware event coming our way, and what gadgets Apple will likely unveil during its next big keynote. Our thanks to Linked In for supporting this episode. A business is only as strong as its people, and every hire matters … head to LinkedIn.com/cultcast and get a $50 credit toward your first job post. Continue reading There’s a secret message in Apple’s iPhone 11 event supercut By Luke Dormehl • 6:15 am, September 12, 2019 News Apple included a binary code in its two-minute keynote supercut. Photo: Apple Apple isn’t into Easter Eggs in the way that it once was . But in its two-minute supercut rundown of this week’s iPhone 11 event, it includes an amusing one. On six frames of the video, there’s a flashed image that suspiciously resembles Microsoft’s dreaded “Blue Screen of Death.” But while a swipe at Microsoft would be enough to make many long-time Apple fans nostalgic , there’s also a hidden message written in binary. Continue reading Rumor mill fail: Apple delivers legit surprises at iPhone 11 event By Leander Kahney • 4:00 pm, September 10, 2019 News Tim Cook has been outspoken about user privacy. Photo: Apple In an age when almost every detail of an Apple keynote leaks ahead of time, Tim Cook managed to pull some genuine surprises from the hat Tuesday. Taking the stage at the Steve Jobs Theater at Apple HQ, Cook and Co. announced at least three big things we weren’t expecting at all. This in itself is a surprise. Even though Cook pledged that Apple is “doubling down” on secrecy , most of the big details about new Apple products typically trickle out ahead of time. Most of the main features of the 2019 iPhones already leaked. Every Apple blog and YouTube channel under the sun has been playing with detailed iPhone mockups and models for weeks. Still, Cook’s surprise trifecta did not consist of insignificant things. All three were fairly big and meaty announcements — and there wasn’t a peep about them ahead of time. Here’s what took us by surprise during the “By Innovation Only” event. Continue reading Apple TV+ series See looks brilliant — or brilliantly awful By Luke Dormehl • 2:40 pm, September 10, 2019 News See is going to be a true Apple Original. Photo: Apple What do you get when you put the epic scope of Game of Thrones , the sight-challenged hook of Bird Box , the environmentalism-as-blockbuster ambitions of box office bomb Waterworld and the costume design of Battlefield Earth in a jar, then shake it up? Answer: See , one of the first shows coming to Apple TV+ when the subscription video service launches this fall. Apple showed the first full See trailer today during the iPhone 11 event. Some of us can’t unsee it. Continue reading iPhone 11 Pro camera proves irresistible to meme-makers By Lewis Wallace • 2:16 pm, September 10, 2019 News That big, beautiful camera bump makes quite an impression. Photo: Apple The new three-camera array on the back of the iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max really got Twitter cooking. It didn’t take long after today’s “By Innovation Only” event for internet jokers to hit us with their best stovetop memes. But the laughs don’t stop there. Apple fans and haters alike saw everything from electric razors to Pokémon characters in the new iPhone design. Check out some of the best cheap shots taken at Apple’s iconic new design. Continue reading MIA at Apple event: Tracking tags, reverse charging and more By Ed Hardy • 1:20 pm, September 10, 2019 News Sadly, your AirPods can’t charge off your iPhone 11. Photo: Ian Fuchs/Cult of Mac Apple’s press event today included the iPhone 11 series as well as updated iPad and Apple Watch versions. However, some rumored devices, features and accessories failed to materialize. Most notably, the company didn’t announce a line of item-tracking tags, and the latest iPhones can’t wirelessly charge other devices. And there are other predictions that didn’t come true. Continue reading iPhone 11 Pro’s stunning cameras deliver ‘computational photography mad science’ By David Pierini • 1:15 pm, September 10, 2019 News iOS 13.2 will make switching frame rates and resolution for your video shooting much easier. Photo: Apple Apple promises a big performance bump from the square bump housing the multiple cameras on the new iPhone 11 line. But will it be enough to generate a wave of upgrades among users who consider the camera the most important feature? Given Apple’s artfully crafted presentation, showcasing beautiful work from pro shooters and filmmakers who used prototype iPhones, the response among holdouts could prove seismic. Continue reading Fast and furious: Everything we saw at Apple’s whipsaw iPhone 11 event By Buster Hein • 12:40 pm, September 10, 2019 News Tim Cook was in a hurry to reveal Apple's new goodies. Photo: Apple Tim Cook promised a “huge” morning full of “big” announcements, and boy was he not kidding. Apple kicked off its 2019 iPhone keynote by diving straight into Apple Arcade. Cook and his colleagues didn’t let off the gas until they squeezed all the juice possible out of Apple’s product lineup 105 minutes later. After promising attendees that innovation would be on full display , Apple revealed it’s coming for your wrist, your pocket, living room, TV, gaming console, DSLR and much more. Continue reading Buy a new Apple device and you’ll get 1 year free Apple TV+ By Luke Dormehl • 10:37 am, September 10, 2019 News Tim Cook showing off some of the titles Apple TV+ will bring to users. Screenshot: Apple Apple TV+ is coming to screens on November 1, with a surprisingly low price of just $4.99. While only a few shows will be available on launch, more will be added every month. There’s also some great Apple TV+ pricing news for anyone thinking of buying a new Apple device in the future. Continue reading How to watch Apple’s 2019 iPhone event By Charlie Sorrel • 9:30 am, September 10, 2019 How-To Here are all the ways you can watch the iPhone 11 event on Tuesday. Photo illustration: Charlie Sorrel/Cult of Mac During today’s big iPhone 11 event , Apple will show us its latest hardware and more. And, as always, you can watch the show live. We’re expecting to learn all about the new iPhone 11 , or iPhone Pro, or whatever it’ll be called. Also expected is an update on the incredible new iOS 13, and perhaps another peek at — or evan a launch date for — the new Mac Pro. Whether you’re watching on your Mac, your iPhone or iPad, or your Apple TV, we’ll show you how to tune in. You can even show up at an Apple store and watch it on the big screen! Note: Cult of Mac will not be live-blogging the action — instead, you can follow along on Twitter , or join us in our IRC chat room for a watch party. Continue reading iPhone 11 Pro and … one more thing? We talk Apple event leaks on The CultCast By Erfon Elijah • 6:01 am, September 6, 2019 News According to a noted Apple leaker, a One More Thing is coming our way. Image: The CultCast This week on The CultC ast : A noted leaker says the September 10 Apple event will include a mythical “one more thing.” Plus: More leaks shine a light on next week’s iPhone announcements; a new turbocharged Apple TV is on the way; and Apple Watch will finally get a long-awaited feature. Our thanks to Squarespace for supporting this episode. Easily create a beautiful website all by yourself, at Squarespace.com/cultcast. Use offer code CultCast at checkout to get 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain.. Continue reading Apple TV Events app updated ahead of Sept. 10 keynote By Luke Dormehl • 4:00 am, September 6, 2019 News Apple will unveil new iPhones next week. Photo: Apple With Apple’s next keynote event just days away, Apple has updated its Apple Events app for Apple TV. If you own an Apple TV and want to watch Tuesday’s event from the comfort of your couch, this is the app you need. The September 10 “By innovation only” event kicks off at 10am Pacific/1pm Eastern. A new wallpaper hints at the event’s theme, which many are predicting refers to the new color options for the iPhone 11. Continue reading Search Cult of Mac About Advertise Privacy Latest Posts News Reviews How-To Deals Buyback Podcast Newsletters Our sponsors Watch Store About Advertise Privacy