David Warner, actor known for "Titanic," "Star Trek" and more, has died at 80 - CBS News Latest U.S. Trump 100 Days World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio Local News Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes America Decides CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed CBS Village Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Davos Interviews A Moment With... Innovators & Disruptors Economy 4.0 U.S. Trump 100 Days World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports Watch CBS News World David Warner, actor known for "Titanic," "Star Trek" and more, has died at 80 By Emily Mae  Czachor Emily Mae  Czachor News Editor Emily Mae Czachor is a news editor at CBSNews.com. She typically covers breaking news, extreme weather and issues involving social and criminal justice. Emily Mae previously wrote for outlets like the Los Angeles Times, BuzzFeed and Newsweek. Read Full Bio Emily Mae  Czachor July 25, 2022 / 2:32 PM EDT / CBS News David Warner, the stage and screen actor known for dozens of roles spanning genres and decades, has died at 80, his family confirmed on Monday. Warner's relatives shared the news in a statement obtained by CBS News, and originally reported by the BBC , which noted that his death came more than one year after a cancer diagnosis and was caused by health complications related to the illness. He died on Sunday at Denville Hall, a retirement and care home in London where a number of British actors and entertainment industry figures have stayed. David Warner in a photo taken January 7, 2005 at his home in London, England. Cambridge Jones / Getty Images "It is with an overwhelmingly heavy heart that we share the news of the death of the actor David Warner (at the age of nearly 81), from a cancer-related illness, in the early hours of July 24th," his family said in the statement, which described Warner as a "well-respected stage, television, voice, and film actor" whose career included "era-defining" theatrical pursuits in addition to the screen performances for which he is widely recognized. "Over the past 18 months he approached his diagnosis with a characteristic grace and dignity," the statement continued. "He will be missed hugely by us, his family and friends, and remembered as a kind-hearted, generous and compassionate man, partner and father, whose legacy of extraordinary work has touched the lives of so many over the years. We are heartbroken." Fans mourned and celebrated Warner's life and legacy on social media throughout Monday morning and into the afternoon. Among the online tributes was one shared by his partner, actor Lisa Bowerman, who retweeted reports about his death from the BBC and The Guardian alongside a message of her own mourning the loss. "Goodnight my sweet prince," she wrote. "May flights of angels… Heartbroken." Goodnight sweet prince. May flights of angels... Heartbroken. #davidwarner pic.twitter.com/muQuQJqk8R — Lisa Bowerman (@TheLisaBowerman) July 25, 2022 Born in Manchester, England, in 1941, Warner would have celebrated his 81st birthday at the end of this week. His resume dates back roughly 60 years and features hundreds of credits for popular television series, films, and West End stage productions, plus a handful of prestigious accolades including the Emmy Award for outstanding supporting actor in a miniseries. He received the award for his performance in the 1981 television miniseries "Masada." After training at London's Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts, Warner began his career with the Royal Shakespeare Company during the early '60s, landing the titular part in in its production of "Hamlet" and other classic plays. He quickly gained international recognition, after his leading performance in the 1966 comedy "Morgan: A Suitable Case for Treatment" won critical acclaim and a coveted BAFTA nomination, and later went on to secure starring roles in movies like "Tron," "Time Bandits" and "The Omen." Warner is probably best remembered for playing opposite Leonardo DiCaprio in "Titanic," and as a recurring face in multiple chapters of the original "Star Trek" film franchise. He also appeared in several episodes of the '90s hit "Twin Peaks" and was a mainstay in various "Doctor Who" audio series before debuting in a 2013 guest spot on the beloved sci-fi television show. Warner's final role was in the 2018 film "Mary Poppins Returns," where he acted alongside Emily Blunt, Lin-Manuel Miranda, Colin Firth and Meryl Streep. Warner's family noted that he is survived by his son, Luke Warner, daughter-in-law Sarah and ex-wife, Harriet Evans, in addition to Bowerman and "his many gold dust friends." Notable Deaths in 2022 121 photos More from CBS News Jiggly Caliente of "RuPaul's Drag Race" dies at age 44, family says Titanic passenger's letter with "prophetic line" sells for $399,000 Irish rappers deny supporting Hamas, apologize for violent rhetoric 15-year-old boy pleads guilty to killing teen in school stabbing Trump administration orders federal agencies to track office use In: Star Trek Emily Mae  Czachor Emily Mae Czachor is a news editor at CBSNews.com. She typically covers breaking news, extreme weather and issues involving social and criminal justice. Emily Mae previously wrote for outlets like the Los Angeles Times, BuzzFeed and Newsweek. Twitter Instagram © 2022 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. More from CBS News Jiggly Caliente of "RuPaul's Drag Race" dies at age 44, family says Titanic passenger's letter with "prophetic line" sells for $399,000 Irish rappers deny supporting Hamas, apologize for violent rhetoric 15-year-old boy pleads guilty to killing teen in school stabbing Featured Trump's Speech Marking First 100 Days Poll On Trump's First 100 Days 2025 NBA Playoff Schedule 2025 NHL Playoff Schedule Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue Be the first to know Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting. Not Now Turn On