[WATCH]The Walking Dead's Final Season To Debut August 22 Skip to main content Open Mega Menu Got A Tip? deadline-logo-svg Deadline Follow Us: site categories TV Film Awards Awards Hub Digital Issues Box Office Biz International Politics Theater Reviews Obits Video Events Contenders Television Film: Nominees Film: Documentary Film: International Film: Los Angeles Film: London Sound & Screen Film Television Other For The Love Of Docs Visual Effects + Screen Festivals North America Sundance Toronto Telluride SXSW Tribeca Europe Cannes Zurich Venice Berlin/EFM Middle East Red Sea Asia Tokyo Insider News Alerts Menu deadline-logo-svg Deadline Read Next: ‘Andor’ Architect Tony Gilroy Talks Series Budget, Teaming With Brothers & How He “Divorced” Himself From Show During WGA Strike Got A Tip? Tip Us Home Hero Nation News ‘Walking Dead’ Reveals Final Season To Debut In August; AMC Series Drops New Teaser By Dominic Patten Dominic Patten Executive Editor, Legal, Labor & Politics @DeadlineDominic More Stories By Dominic Blake Lively & Publicist Accused By Justin Baldoni & PR Team Of “Ploy To Obtain Subpoena Power”; Jonesworks Lawyer Slams “Empty Gusto” Of ‘It Ends With Us’ Director “The Hitler Thing”: Bill Maher Lashes Out At Larry David’s Mocking Of ‘Real Time’ Host’s Trump Dinner Harvey Weinstein’s Move For Mistrial Fails On Second Day Of Rape Retrial – Update View All April 4, 2021 6:15pm 6 Comments Services to share this page. Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Email Show more sharing options Share on LinkedIn Pin it Submit to Reddit Post to Tumblr Share on WhatsApp Print This Page Eli Ade/AMC The Walking Dead is coming back a lot earlier than usual to begin its small screen swan song. AMC revealed during tonight’s ‘Here’s Negan’ Season 10c finale that the zombie apocalypse series based on Robert Kirkman’s comics will premiere its 11th and final season on August 22. Packed with images of American law enforcement institutions and urban life in a state of abandonment, a judicious reference to vaccines and a glimpse of more of the powerful Commonwealth, the tease promises a return to a very big picture TWD for the mega 24-episode last season – as you can see below: “Coming off of the six additional episodes for Season 10, which focused on smaller, character-driven stories, we’re excited to kick off Season 11 bigger than ever,” TWD showrunner Angela Kang promises of the final lap. “The stakes will be high – we’ll see more zombies, tons of action, intriguing new stories, never-before-seen locations and our groups together in one community for the first time, trying to rebuild what the Whisperers took from then,” the EP added of the end of once-blockbuster TWD , which was first unveiled on September 9, 2020. ‘Walking Dead’ $300M Profits Trial Moved To 2022 Due To Covid Concerns, Or Maybe Not Watch on Deadline Related Stories News 'Walking Dead' Showrunner Angela Kang On Sunday Night's Real Season 10 Ender, The Final Season, Steven Yeun's Possible Return & That Negan Smirk: Q&A News 'Green Wave' Helmer Xu Lei Talks Chinese Film Funding And Directing His Father In The Comedy-Drama Set to run well in 2022 and with a spinoff already in the works for Norman Reedus and Melissa McBride’s fan favorite characters, the last season of TWD will be released in blocks of approximately eight-episodes each. Unlike past AMC mega-shows like Breaking Bad and Mad Men , who split their respective closing cycles in two, TWD will commence its 11th Season with eight-episodes and then with two more chunks to follow. Even in a schedule that has been spun around by the coronavirus pandemic and its ongoing effect on production, the upcoming August start to TWD is much more in line with the debut dates for spinoff Fear The Walking Dead than the concluding mothershow. Until this elongated final season, every cycle of TWD has kicked off in October starting with the Halloween premiere of the six-episode first season back in 2010. In a sense, the 24-episode last season of TWD is really just a small expansion of the current 10th season. However, running 22 episodes in total if you count tonight’s David Leslie Johnson-McGoldrick-penned ‘Here’s Negan,’ unlike the unruly Season 10 with its Covid-19 stops and starts and final backend six episodes, Season 11 of TWD has the benefit of being planned out to the smallest tick and Wildfire virus contagion – which is how any series dreams of going out, isn’t it? Must Read Stories Hide Articles Tom Hanks & Apple’s ‘Greyhound’ Sequel To Begin Filming Early 2026 ‘Revenge Of The Sith’ Rerelease Snags $3M+, ‘Accountant 2’ Counts $2.5M Casting Society Warns About Online Scams That Offer Auditions For Money ‘Kung Fu Panda 4’ Is No. 8 Most Valuable Blockbuster Of 2024 Read More About: AMC Angela Kang Breaking Bad Breaking News Coronavirus Mad Men Norman Reedus premiere dates The Walking Dead 6 Comments Subscribe to Deadline Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Sign Up 6 Comments JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Sidebar Trending on Deadline 1 "The Hitler Thing": Bill Maher Lashes Out At Larry David's Mocking Of 'Real Time' Host's Trump Dinner 2 'Revenge Of The Sith' $3M+ Thursday Strong With The Force, 'Accountant 2' Counts $2.5M From Previews 3 Marvel Comics & Marvel Studios Team On MCU Movie Comic With 'Fantastic Four: First Steps' 4 'The Conners' Series Finale: How Laurie Metcalf's Unexpected Burst Of Emotion Impacted The Final, Bittersweet Moment 5 'Death Becomes Her' Broadway Musical Leads Outer Critics Circle Award Nominees - Complete List 6 Tom Hanks & Apple's 'Greyhound' Sequel To Begin Filming Early 2026 & Will Take In D-Day & The Pacific Theater 7 Ralph Macchio Signs With Gersh 8 Blake Lively Reveals Her Mother Was Assaulted Years Before She Was Born 9 'Pachinko' Creator Soo Hugh Says "Studios Have To Figure Out What A Library Is" 10 Blake Lively & Publicist Accused By Justin Baldoni & PR Team Of "Ploy To Obtain Subpoena Power"; Jonesworks Lawyer Slams "Empty Gusto" Of 'It Ends With Us' Director deadline-logo-svg Deadline Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Latest Hero Nation News Marvel Comics & Marvel Studios Team On MCU Movie Comic With 'Fantastic Four: First Steps' 'Andor' Architect Tony Gilroy Talks Series Budget, Teaming With Brothers & How He "Divorced" Himself From Show During WGA Strike 'Thunderbolts' First Reactions Praise How Florence Pugh "Brings The Heart" To Marvel Movie & Takes Yelena Belova "To Another Level" Hayden Christensen Teases Return To 'Star Wars' Universe In Darth Vader Role: "There's A Lot Of Rich Stories We Could Still Tell" Marketplace Newswire Deadline About Us Advertise Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility AdChoices California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Sitemap TV Film Awards Box Office Business International Connect with Us Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks Have a Tip? We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Send Us a Tip Stay in the Know Sign up for our breaking news alerts Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. PMC Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Site Close the menu deadline-logo-svg TV Expand the sub-menu Castings Ratings Late-Night Primetime Pilot Panic Film Expand the sub-menu Festivals Reviews Castings Acquisitions Documentary Awards Expand the sub-menu Awards Hub Emmys Oscars Tonys Box Office Expand the sub-menu International B.O. Specialty B.O. Broadway B.O. Business Expand the sub-menu Politics Legal Executives Agencies International Expand the sub-menu Festivals Film TV International Insider Video Expand the sub-menu Trailers The Actor's Side Behind The Lens The Process More Expand the sub-menu Obituaries Theater Music Podcasts Insider Follow Us Alerts & Newsletters Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertise About Us Give us feedback Leave us a tip Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. ad