Tiger Woods Returns to Golf After 8-Month Break Skip to main content Click to Expand Search Input Search for: Newsletters Sportico Log In Subscribe Account Manage Account Log Out Click to expand the Mega Menu Business Leagues Finance Law Media Valuations Tech Personalities Events Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Read Next: Pac-12 Inks Media Deal With… Sportico Click to Expand Search Input Search for: Log In Subscribe Account Manage Account Log Out Home Personalities Athletes Tiger Woods Returns to Golf After 8-Month Break By Kurt Badenhausen Kurt Badenhausen Sports Valuations Reporter kbadenhausen Follow More Stories by Kurt LIV Golf in Advanced Talks to Secure World Rankings Points Wrexham Earns Historic Third Straight Promotion Shedeur Sanders’ Slide Into Fifth Round Costs Him $44 Million View All November 30, 2023 8:00am Facebook Twitter Linkedin Print + additional share options added The Hero World Challenge will mark just the ninth event for the 15-time major winner over the last three years. He's hoping to play one event per month in 2024. Photo by Mike Ehrmann/Getty Images Tiger Woods is pulling double duty this week in the Bahamas as both tournament host and competitor at the Hero World Challenge. The “unofficial” PGA Tour event marks Woods’ first competitive golf since April when he withdrew from the third round of the Masters due to severe pain in his foot and ankle. On Tuesday, Woods addressed reporters for the first time since he departed Augusta National. “I don’t have any of the pain that I had at Augusta or pre-that in my ankle,” Woods said during his press conference at the event, which features a limited 20-person field. Woods underwent fusion surgery after the Masters to address arthritis he suffered after a 2021 car accident that sidelined him from golf for more than a year. “My game feels rusty; I haven’t played in a while,” Woods said. But when the soon-to-be 48-year-old was asked if he can still win tournaments, he didn’t hesitate, saying, “Absolutely.” The 15-time major winner said he hoped to play “maybe a tournament a month” in 2024 and cited the Genesis International at The Riviera Country Club in Los Angeles as a possible spot to start his year, as he did in 2023. “Now, I need to get myself ready for all that,” Woods said. “I think this week is a big step in that direction.” It has been a long time since Woods played professional golf monthly. He played a dozen events during the 2019-20 season and seven the following year, but this week will only mark his third tournament of 2023, the same number of events he competed in each of the previous two seasons. Woods, along with 14-year-old son Charlie, is scheduled to compete in the PNC Championship in December at Ritz-Carlton Golf Club in Orlando. It will be the fourth straight year they’ve competed in the parent-child competition, with their best finish a runner-up in 2021 behind John Daly and John Daly II. Woods will need to find a new caddie for 2024, as his longtime caddie, Joe LaCava, moved over to Patrick Cantlay’s bag earlier this year. Friend and business partner Rob McNamara will handle the duties in the Bahamas. Woods had not spoken to reporters since the Tour announced its stunning agreement to combine its commercial operations with the LIV Tour and DP World Tour with backing from the Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund. “I was very surprised that the process was what it was,” Woods said during his press conference regarding the June 6 merger announcement. “We were very frustrated with what happened, and we took steps going forward to ensure that we were not going to be left out of the process like we were.” In August, Woods joined the PGA Tour policy board for the first time, becoming a sixth player director. The players and commissioner Jay Monahan are expected to amend the board’s governing documents, so no major decisions can be made in the future without the players’ input. In November, Woods was announced as the co-owner of the sixth and final TGL club, along with David Blitzer of the Florida-based team, called Jupiter Links Golf Club. The new Monday night golf league developed by Woods and Rory McIlroy ’s TMRW Sports was set to tee off in January, but its debut was pushed to 2025 after a construction setback. Despite the injuries that have kept him off the course, Woods remains an incredibly popular pitchman with sponsors that include Nike, Bridgestone, Hero, Kowa, Monster Energy and TaylorMade. Among active athletes, only LeBron James earns more than Tiger from endorsements. Read More About: PGA Tour Rory McIlroy TGL Tiger Woods Popular Stories NFL Rookie Signing Bonuses Jump Record 26% for… LIV Golf in Advanced Talks to Secure World… Top 50 Highest-Paid Athletes of All Time Newsletter Breaking News The Kicker The Morning Lead Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. More From Our Brands Variety Amber Ruffin Says It Would Have Been ‘Impossible’ to Make Jokes About ‘Both’ Democrats and Republicans at White House Correspondents’ Dinner: ‘They Would Not Have Liked It’ Rolling Stone Trump Attacks Judges at 100 Days Rally, Plays Video of Men He Sent to El Salvador ArtNews A Ruth Asawa Retrospective Finds the Fun in Her Game-Changing Art BGR Have a library card? Here are 5 free movies to stream this week on Kanopy (April 27) Billboard Fugazi Are Bringing Their Extensive Live Series to Streaming Sportico About Us Accessibility Advertise Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights AdChoices Privacy Preferences Your Privacy Choices Sitemap Business Law Leagues Personalities Valuations Subscriptions Log In Contact Us Connect with Us Get our latest stories in the feed of your favorite networks Icon Link Icon Link Icon Link Icon Link Have a Tip? We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Stay in the Know Sign up for our daily newsletter Enter your email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Icon Link Sportico is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Sportico Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Sportico Search for: Log In Subscribe Account Expand the sub menu Manage Account Log Out Close the menu Leagues Expand the sub menu Baseball Basketball Boxing College Sports Football Golf Hockey Motorsports Other Sports Soccer Tennis Business Expand the sub menu Commerce Finance Media Real Estate Sales Sponsorship Sports Sports Betting Team Sales Tech Video Law Expand the sub menu Analysis News Personalities Expand the sub menu Agents Athletes Executives Owners People Valuations Expand the sub menu Teams Podcasts Expand the sub menu La Previa Sporticast Events Expand the sub menu Subscribe to Sportico Follow Us Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. About Us Advertise Careers Icon Link Sportico is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Sportico Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. ad