Netflix is developing a live-action 'Assassin's Creed' series with Ubisoft | Mashable Tech Science Life Social Good Entertainment Deals Shopping Games Search Cancel Tech Apps & Software Artificial Intelligence Cybersecurity Cryptocurrency Mobile Smart Home Social Media Tech Industry Transportation All Tech Science Space Climate Change Environment All Science Life Digital Culture Family & Parenting Health & Wellness Sex, Dating & Relationships Sleep Careers Mental Health All Life Social Good Activism Gender LGBTQ Racial Justice Sustainability Politics All Social Good Entertainment Games Movies Podcasts TV Shows Watch Guides All Entertainment SHOP THE BEST Laptops Budget Laptops Dating Apps Sexting Apps Hookup Apps VPNs Robot Vaccuums Robot Vaccum & Mop Headphones Speakers Kindles Gift Guides Mashable Choice Mashable Selects All Sex, Dating & Relationships All Laptops All Headphones All Robot Vacuums All VPN All Shopping Games Product Reviews Adult Friend Finder Bumble Premium Tinder Platinum Kindle Paperwhite PS5 vs PS5 Slim All Reviews All Shopping Deals Newsletters VIDEOS Mashable Shows All Videos Home > Entertainment > Games Netflix is developing a live-action 'Assassin's Creed' series with Ubisoft Netflix and Ubisoft described their upcoming live action "Assassin's Creed" series as " the next saga in the Assassin’s Creed universe." By Alexis Nedd Alexis Nedd Alexis Nedd is a senior entertainment reporter at Mashable. A self-named "fanthropologist," she's a fantasy, sci-fi, and superhero nerd with a penchant for pop cultural analysis. Her work has previously appeared in BuzzFeed, Cosmopolitan, Elle, and Esquire. Read Full Bio on October 27, 2020 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Flipboard Yep, Assassin's Creed is coming to Netflix as a series Credit: netflix Sharpen your hidden blades and pull up your hoods: Ubisoft and Netflix announced that a live-action Assassin's Creed series is officially in development. The TV show does not currently have a title or a showrunner, but Ubisoft Film & Television head Jason Altman and director Danielle Kreinik will executive produce the project. Netflix's @NXOnNetflix Twitter account, which covers the service's science-fiction and fantasy titles, tweeted the news with an animated teaser putting the Netflix symbol in the center of the classic Assassin's "A." This Tweet is currently unavailable. It might be loading or has been removed. Whispers of an Assassin's Creed collaboration between Netflix and Ubisoft have been around since 2016, when Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot announced that the game company was in talks with the streaming service on an unnamed, but potentially Assassin -y project. That announcement came shortly before the live-action Assassin's Creed movie starring Michael Fassbender took a leap of faith and missed the haystack in late 2016, becoming one of the worst reviewed movies of the year (it has 18% on Rotten Tomatoes to this day) and dampening fan faith in Ubisoft's ability to pull off an Assassin story in a non-game format. In 2017, Castlevania producer Adi Shankar confirmed that Ubisoft tapped him to produce an Assassin's Creed anime, but did not confirm at the time if that project was for Netflix specifically. Whether or not the animated series is still on the table or if this live-action story will replace Shankar's anime in Ubisoft's efforts to televise the Assassin's Creed IP is currently not known. SEE ALSO: The 11 best historical characters in 'Assassin's Creed' In the press release for the new series, the Netflix project's goals include "carefully crafting epic and thrilling entertainment based on this distinct IP and provide a deeper dive for fans and our members around the world to enjoy," which is vague enough to mean almost anything. This show could revisit well-known game characters like Ezio Auditore, the Kenways, and Shaun Hastings; focus on new generation standouts like Layla Hassan, Aya, and Kassandra; or star an entirely new set of characters. Mashable Top Stories Stay connected with the hottest stories of the day and the latest entertainment news. Sign up for Mashable's Top Stories newsletter Loading... Sign Me Up By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Thanks for signing up! Going by the reaction to the Assassin's Creed movie, some of those options may be better than others. Fans were disappointed that the movie didn't have many recognizable characters and relegated some of its most beloved Assassins to blink-and-you'll-miss-it Easter eggs, so the TV series could benefit from casting live-action versions of old standards like Ezio Auditore, the Kenways, Aveline de Grandpré, and the Frye twins for cameos or smaller arcs. Multiple historical settings are difficult to nail and prohibitively expensive, however, so unless Ubisoft and Netflix are ready to throw down serious money on the streets of Florence, Philadelphia, New Orleans, London, and who knows where (and when) else, big callbacks may be a long shot. Layla is the current face of 'Assassin's Creed's' modern plot, and casting a live action Layla as the central Assassin in the TV series would connect the show to the games in a deeper way. The movie also starred an all-new character to ground the film's modern day plot, which required an emotional buy-in for a complete stranger in the franchise's already convoluted contemporary-era story. Luckily, the past two Assassin's Creed games, Origins and Odyssey, as well as the upcoming Valhalla, introduced the fanbase to Layla Hassan, an Abstergo defector who was recruited for the Assassins by Desmond Miles' father, William. Layla is the current face of Assassin's Creed's modern plot, and casting a live-action Layla as the central Assassin in the TV series would connect the show to the games in a deeper way. Ubisoft's reputation took a nosedive this year when several high-profile executives resigned after the release of "reports detailing a toxic workplace where sexual misconduct allegations [were] an alarmingly common occurrence." One of those ousted executives, Chief Creative Officer Serge Hascoët, was at the center of another investigation in which he and his team claimed "female protagonists wouldn’t sell" and instructed developers to diminish the roles of women protagonists in several Assassin's Creed games.  The company also apologized this year after images from Tom Clancy's Elite Squad appeared to visibly equate the Black Lives Matter movement with anarcho-terrorism. So, uh. They'd really do themselves a favor if the Assassin's Creed Netflix show starred a woman of color like Layla Hassan, especially one whose Assassin cell includes another woman in Dr. Victoria Bibeau, as well as the Japanese Assassin Kiyoshi Takakura. Just throwing that out there as free advice. The live-action series may tie into the games or it may not, it may star familiar faces or it may not, and it might be a Netflix success on par with previous "basically a video game adaptation" superhit The Witcher . Or it might not. There isn't a lot of information right now, so the real Assassin's creed absolutely applies: Nothing is true; everything is permitted. Speculate away! Topics Gaming Netflix Ubisoft Alexis Nedd Alexis Nedd is a senior entertainment reporter at Mashable. A self-named "fanthropologist," she's a fantasy, sci-fi, and superhero nerd with a penchant for pop cultural analysis. Her work has previously appeared in BuzzFeed, Cosmopolitan, Elle, and Esquire. Recommended For You 'Assassin's Creed Shadows' is the best one in years, sometimes in spite of itself Big, beautiful, and just a bit buggy. 03/18/2025 By Alex Perry 'Lilo and Stitch' trailer brings the iconic duo to live action Ohana still means family, even in live action. 03/12/2025 By Belen Edwards DOGE is reportedly developing an AI chatbot to analyse government contracts The chatbot is aimed at improving government workers' productivity. 02/07/2025 By Amanda Yeo The best action movies on Netflix right now "Hanna," "Kraven the Hunter," "Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves," and more! 04/27/2025 By Kristy Puchko 'How to Train Your Dragon' live-action trailer shows Hiccup and Toothless in flight It's the classic tale of a boy and his dragon. 02/13/2025 By Amanda Yeo More in Entertainment Chop, blend, and mix all in one device with Ninja. And did we mention it's on sale? Saving you time — and kitchen space. 12 hours ago By Samantha Mangino It's official: Prime Day returns in July 2025, tariffs and all We don't have specific dates yet, though we wouldn't be surprised if Prime Day is longer this year. 12 hours ago By Leah Stodart Our favorite Dyson Airwrap dupe is on sale for 20% off Your at-home blowouts are about to get a whole lot easier. 13 hours ago By Samantha Mangino Save on beatuy tech, skincare, and more during Amazon's Summer Beauty Event Save on everything from dermatologist-approved sunscreens to celebrity-loved concealers. 04/28/2025 By Tabitha Britt Walmart+ members get ready — Walmart+ Week is live through May 4 Get extra savings on your everyday purchases. 04/28/2025 By Samantha Mangino Trending on Mashable NYT Connections hints today: Clues, answers for April 29, 2025 Everything you need to solve 'Connections' #688 18 hours ago By Mashable Team NYT Strands hints, answers for April 29 Every hint, nudge and outright answer you need to complete today's NYT Strands puzzle. 18 hours ago By Mashable Team Wordle today: Answer, hints for April 29, 2025 Here are some tips and tricks to help you find the answer to "Wordle" #1409. 18 hours ago By Mashable Team Jon Stewart gives a brutal assessment of Trump's first 100 days on 'The Daily Show' "Trump is so arrogant. He thinks the leverage is his. It's ours. We, the people." 17 hours ago By Sam Haysom NYT Connections hints today: Clues, answers for April 30, 2025 Everything you need to solve 'Connections' #689 1 hour ago By Mashable Team The biggest stories of the day delivered to your inbox. Loading... Subscribe These newsletters may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. By clicking Subscribe, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Thanks for signing up. See you at your inbox! TECH Android Antivirus Apple Artificial Intelligence Cameras Creative Software Cryptocurrency Desktops Gaming Consoles Headphones Laptops Microsoft Mobile Productivity Smart Home Social Media Speakers Tablets Tech Industry TikTok Transportation TVs VPN Wifi/Routers SCIENCE Animals Climate Change Environment NASA Rocket Launches Space GAMES Arcade Card Casino Connections Daily Puzzles Strands Word Wordle SOCIAL GOOD DEALS How we Select Deals ENTERTAINMENT DC Comics Disney HBO Hulu Marvel Movies Music Peacock Pixar Podcasts Streaming TV Shows True Crime LIFE Careers Digital Culture Education Family & Parenting Health & Wellness House & Home Mental Health Sex, Dating & Relationships Sleep SHOP THE BEST All Beauty All Earbuds All Kitchen All Robot Vacuums Bluetooth Speakers Budget Laptops Dating Apps E-Readers Gift Guides Headphones Hookup Apps iPads Kindles Laptops Mashable Choice Mashable Selects Speakers Sexting Apps Macbooks Robot Vaccuums Robot Vaccum & Mop VPNs Windows Laptops REVIEWS Adult Friend Finder Bumble Premium Kindle Paperwhite PS5 vs PS5 Slim Tinder Platinum EVENTS Black Friday CES Cyber Monday Prime Day Samsung Galaxy Unpacked WWDC VIDEOS About Mashable Editorial Standards Contact Us We're Hiring Newsletters Sitemap ©2005–2025 Mashable, Inc., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. Mashable is a registered trademark of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without express written permission. About Ziff Davis Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise Accessibility Do Not Sell My Personal Information AdChoices