Tesla’s board chair gets closer to liquidating all her stock. | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI More Expand The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Menu Expand Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health COVID-19 Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters Command Line Installer Notepad Verge Deals Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Posted Apr 29, 2025 at 5:36 PM UTC A External Link Andrew J. Hawkins Tesla’s board chair gets closer to liquidating all her stock. Robyn Denholm, who was appointed chair of Tesla’s board of directors after the SEC forced Elon Musk to step down, just sold over $32 million worth of shares in the company. As Electrek notes, it appears that she is close to liquidating her entire position in Tesla, with only 85,000 shares left and 300,440 stock options expiring later this year. Several Tesla investors have urged the board to rein in Musk, who’s political alliance with the Trump administration has done irreparable damage to the company’s brand . But under Denholm’s leadership, the board has done essentially nothing to curb Musk’s worst tendencies. Tesla (TSLA) chair sells most of her stocks - her time is done? [ electrek.co ] Most Popular Most Popular Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now New Starlink subscription drops hardware price to $0 Duolingo will replace contract workers with AI Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck The DJI Phantom is no more Installer A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. More in Tesla Elon Musk’s DOGE ties could get his companies out of $2 billion in potential liability Waymo might be willing to sell you a self-driving car, says Sundar Pichai Trump updates Biden’s robo-car crash reporting rule to benefit Tesla Now Kia EVs can use Tesla’s Superchargers Elon Musk’s robotaxi fantasy is starting to unravel Elon Musk says he’ll step back from DOGE starting in May Elon Musk’s DOGE ties could get his companies out of $2 billion in potential liability Lauren Feiner Apr 28 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Waymo might be willing to sell you a self-driving car, says Sundar Pichai Umar Shakir Apr 25 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Trump updates Biden’s robo-car crash reporting rule to benefit Tesla Andrew J. Hawkins Apr 24 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Now Kia EVs can use Tesla’s Superchargers Umar Shakir Apr 24 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Elon Musk’s robotaxi fantasy is starting to unravel Andrew J. Hawkins Apr 23 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Elon Musk says he’ll step back from DOGE starting in May Andrew J. Hawkins Apr 23 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Apr 29 Whatever happened to the Kids Online Safety Act? Apr 29 MAGA’s next wave of influencers saved TikTok Apr 29 Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Apr 29 Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck Apr 29 Starlink’s got company — and orbital overcrowding is a disaster waiting to happen Apr 29 Meta’s ChatGPT competitor shows how your friends use AI The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved