Tim Cook’s 2021 pay package swelled to $98.7 million | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI More Expand The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Menu Expand Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health COVID-19 Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters Command Line Installer Notepad Verge Deals Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Tim Cook’s 2021 pay package swelled to $98.7 million Comments Drawer Tech Tim Cook’s 2021 pay package swelled to $98.7 million Apple’s CEO pay ratio is now 1,447 to 1, compared to its median employee’s compensation Apple’s CEO pay ratio is now 1,447 to 1, compared to its median employee’s compensation by Richard Lawler Jan 7, 2022, 12:50 AM UTC Link Facebook Threads Utah Jazz Owners, Dwyane Wade and Ryan Smith sit with the CEO of Apple, Tim Cook during a preseason game between the against the Utah Jazzv and the against the Milwaukee Bucks on October 13, 2021 Photo by Melissa Majchrzak/NBAE via Getty Images Richard Lawler is a senior editor following news across tech, culture, policy, and entertainment. He joined The Verge in 2021 after several years covering news at Engadget. A proxy statement filed by Apple on Thursday revealed exactly how much one can earn after ten years of running the world’s most valuable and most profitable company, and for Tim Cook, that number is $98.7 million. While his base salary stayed at $3 million, an additional $12 million in incentives, $82 million worth of stock awards, and the money spent to cover items like security and private flights — since 2017, Apple doesn’t let its CEO fly commercial — nudged the entire thing closer to the $100 million mark. According to Apple, its total shareholder return “was at the 97th percentile of the companies that were included in the S&P 500 for the entire performance period” from 2018 to 2021. Image: Apple That’s more than six times his 2020 pay of $14 million, and as noted by MacRumors , and doesn’t include more than $750 million in shares that vested this year as the final part of a ten-year package Cook received when he took over the company. The terms of that package changed in 2013 when stock performance slipped, which Apple says happened at Cook’s request, putting some of the grant at risk if didn’t return enough money to shareholders . And as we noted while recapping a decade of Apple under the leadership of Tim Cook , we all know what happened next. Related Tim Cook’s Apple, ten years later In August, when we wrote that decade recap, Apple was still approaching a $2.5 trillion market cap, and in the time since, it has crossed $3 trillion ( no matter how briefly) . It hasn’t all been happy times, however. Over the last couple of years, Apple employees have opened up like never before about issues with its internal culture including the push to return to the office and pay transparency , among many other things. Related Apple’s fortress of secrecy is crumbling from the inside A filing like this, of course, is transparent by nature for Cook as well as other members of the board of directors and executive team. Apple notes in its own document that after putting together “base salary, bonuses, commissions, and grant date fair value of equity awards granted to employees in 2021 as our consistently applied compensation measure” to find the pay of its median employee, they received $68,254, creating a compensation ratio of 1,447 to 1. See More : Apple Business News Tech Most Popular Most Popular Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Duolingo will replace contract workers with AI New Starlink subscription drops hardware price to $0 The DJI Phantom is no more Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck Installer A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Tech OpenAI undoes its glaze-heavy ChatGPT update Snapchat scraps ‘simple’ redesign as it loses users in North America Apple launches a new celebrity hub that’s all about Apple Natasha Lyonne to direct and star in a new sci-fi film created with generative AI 0 Apple’s latest AirPods Pro are down to their best price of the year OnePlus won’t sell the 13T in the US or Europe OpenAI undoes its glaze-heavy ChatGPT update Jay Peters Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Snapchat scraps ‘simple’ redesign as it loses users in North America Emma Roth Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Apple launches a new celebrity hub that’s all about Apple Umar Shakir Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Natasha Lyonne to direct and star in a new sci-fi film created with generative AI Charles Pulliam-Moore Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble 0 Apple’s latest AirPods Pro are down to their best price of the year Sheena Vasani Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble OnePlus won’t sell the 13T in the US or Europe Allison Johnson Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Apr 29 Whatever happened to the Kids Online Safety Act? Apr 29 MAGA’s next wave of influencers saved TikTok Apr 29 Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Apr 29 Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck Apr 29 Starlink’s got company — and orbital overcrowding is a disaster waiting to happen Apr 29 Meta’s ChatGPT competitor shows how your friends use AI The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved