God Mode | God of War Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In God of War Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts God of War Ragnarök Kratos Atreus Characters Freya Brok Sindri Fenrir Angrboda Freyr Týr Durlin Enemies Travelers Berserkers Einherjar Stalker Locations Yggdrasil Midgard Asgard Jötunheim Svartalfheim Alfheim Helheim Muspelheim Niflheim Spark of the World Weapons Leviathan Blades of Chaos Talon Bow Draupnir Spear Mjölnir Skofnung God of War Ragnarök: Valhalla Games God of War (2018) God of War: Ascension God of War: Ghost of Sparta God of War III God of War: Chains of Olympus God of War II God of War Norse Mythology Gods Odin Thor Heimdall Baldur Týr Freyr Goddesses Freya Sif Thrúd Gná Nornir Monsters Ancients Berserkers Draugr Einherjar Elves Tatzelwurm Trolls Greek Mythology Gods Zeus Ares Apollo Thanatos Hades Poseidon Goddesses Hera Aphrodite Persephone Athena Artemis Erinys Monsters Centaur Cyclopes Hydra Gorgon Nymph Siren Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content God of War Wiki 2,183 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts God of War Ragnarök Kratos Atreus Characters Freya Brok Sindri Fenrir Angrboda Freyr Týr Durlin Enemies Travelers Berserkers Einherjar Stalker Locations Yggdrasil Midgard Asgard Jötunheim Svartalfheim Alfheim Helheim Muspelheim Niflheim Spark of the World Weapons Leviathan Blades of Chaos Talon Bow Draupnir Spear Mjölnir Skofnung God of War Ragnarök: Valhalla Games God of War (2018) God of War: Ascension God of War: Ghost of Sparta God of War III God of War: Chains of Olympus God of War II God of War Norse Mythology Gods Odin Thor Heimdall Baldur Týr Freyr Goddesses Freya Sif Thrúd Gná Nornir Monsters Ancients Berserkers Draugr Einherjar Elves Tatzelwurm Trolls Greek Mythology Gods Zeus Ares Apollo Thanatos Hades Poseidon Goddesses Hera Aphrodite Persephone Athena Artemis Erinys Monsters Centaur Cyclopes Hydra Gorgon Nymph Siren in: God of War: Chains of Olympus , God of War: Ghost of Sparta , God of War , and 4 more God of War II God of War III God of War (2018) Difficulty Modes English Português do Brasil God Mode Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (1) God Mode is the hardest difficulty setting in God of War , Chains of Olympus , Ghost of Sparta , God of War (2018) and God of War Ragnarök , as well as the second hardest setting in God of War II , and the normal difficulty in God of War III . In Chains of Olympus, God of War and Ghost of Sparta, the player unlocks it by beating the game on one of three easier difficulty settings. Subsequently, beating the game in God Mode usually unlocks various features and rewards. God Mode differs in God of War and Chains of Olympus. In God of War, the value of the Orbs remains, but costumes cannot be used. In Chains of Olympus and Ghost of Sparta, it shares similarities to God of War II's Titan Mode , in which Orbs are worth only half as much. The God Mode appeared again in God of War (2018) , now called Give Me God of War . This variation of God Mode has its own save with a bloody red border instead of the usual gray, and a disclaimer warning the player that they can't change the difficulty after selecting it. The mode is far more difficult as enemies will be replaced by tougher and far greater enemies by the start, and if left alone for too long they will be able to change levels and become stronger to face. After the player finishes the game, that is, completing the last Story Mode objective, they receive two custom shields that have a unique characteristic: their internal part glows. Contents 1 Unlockables 1.1 Chains of Olympus 1.2 God of War 1.3 Ghost of Sparta 1.4 God of War II 1.5 God of War (2018) Unlockables [ ] Chains of Olympus [ ] Mime of War (Costume) Making of Attica : video Outtakes : image gallery God of War [ ] Secret Message #1 A Secret Revealed The Fate of the Titan Ghost of Sparta [ ] Ghost of Sparta (Costume) God of War II [ ] Dark Odyssey (Costume) God of War (2018) [ ] Aspis of Spartan Fury Shield Radiant Shield of Unity Categories Categories : God of War: Chains of Olympus God of War: Ghost of Sparta God of War God of War II God of War III God of War (2018) Difficulty Modes Languages Português do Brasil Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy God of War Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. God of War Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab