Amazon Cambridge Development Center  | Amazon.jobs Skip to main content Home Teams Locations Job Categories My career My applications My profile Account security Settings Sign out Resources Disability accommodations Benefits Inclusive experiences Interview tips Leadership principles Working at Amazon FAQ × Amazon Cambridge Development Center 3 open jobs Work on the future of delivery systems, simulation and experimentation, computing storage, revolutionary voice services, or groundbreaking devices Amazon's innovative Cambridge, UK Development Center holds teams focused on pioneering areas that are Amazon Alexa, Amazon Devices, SCOT, Simulation and Experimentation, and Amazon Web Services. Come and join us in the "Silicon Fen." You will have the opportunity to work on cutting-edge technology while enjoying the culture of a beautiful university town. Read more about our teams below. Alexa The Cambridge team plays a key role in the development of Alexa, Amazon’s cloud based voice service which delights customers on products such as Echo and Fire TV. The Amazon Alexa team focuses on bringing voice-activated experiences to Amazon customers. The team first began with the development of Amazon Echo, a new category of device designed entirely around your voice. It's always ready, connected, and fast — just ask for information, music, news, weather, and more. To learn more about the Alexa team, watch our video ! Alexa knowledge Our focus the Alexa Knowledge team combines natural language understanding, acquiring large volumes of structured knowledge, and building autonomous machine reasoning to allow our customers to get answers to their questions in the most natural way possible. We’re part of a huge research and engineering effort on the Amazon Alexa team. We’ve solved many complex problems to get to where we are today, but there are still plenty of challenges ahead of us, and Alexa is getting smarter every day. The problems we solve in the Alexa Knowledge team in Cambridge help Alexa get smarter by understanding the different ways people talk, by learning more and more facts about the world, by improving her common sense reasoning and by responding in the most natural way possible in multiple languages. Alexa Machine Learning The Alexa Machine Learning team is responsible for cutting-edge research and development in all aspects of human language technology, including automatic speech recognition (ASR) and natural language understanding (NLU). We are a team of world-class scientists that use many real-world data sources to build highly scalable machine learning solutions at massive scale . To learn more about the Alexa science team, watch our video . Amazon Devices / Amazon Lab126 The R&D team in Cambridge is part of the Lab126 organization based in Sunnyvale, California and develops application , device and cloud software for Amazon’s consumer electronic devices. The Lab126 team’s mission is to deliver instant access to everything – digital or physical – from anywhere, via delightfully unique Amazon experiences that make life easier and more fun. The team tackles software for flagship devices like Kindle , Fire tablets, Fire TV, Dash, Echo and many more innovative products to come! Read the story of Cressida , a Senior Software Development Manager. SCOT Supply Chain Optimization Technologies (SCOT) works on some of the world’s most complex supply chain challenges, at Amazon scale. We use deep learning, math optimization and data science to predict demand, forecast inventory needs, select suppliers, buy inventory and optimize placement of each unit across Amazon’s global fulfilment network so our customers can get what they need when they need it, at a great price. When customers place orders, our systems use real-time, large-scale optimization techniques to optimally choose from where to ship and how to consolidate multiple orders. Simulation and Experimentation (SimEx) SCOT’s Simulation and Experimentation (SimEx) group builds systems that allow Amazon to answer “what if?” questions about our supply chain, our fulfillment network and our customers, rapidly experiment with new ideas and make data-driven decisions under uncertainty.  The group is composed of scientists (across the fields of machine learning, simulation research, statistics, causal inference and data science), product managers and engineers who research, build and run the large-scale compute and analytics infrastructure to support discrete event simulation and experimentation at Amazon scale. The SimEx team in Cambridge develops innovative machine learning methods for the modeling and analysis of complex data; its particular research areas are uncertainty quantification, data-efficient learning, data-oriented architectures and deep learning. SimEx Cambridge is also responsible for the open-source Emukit project, a Python-based toolbox of various methods in uncertainty quantification and statistical emulation: multi-fidelity, experimental design, active learning, Bayesian optimization, Bayesian quadrature and more. AWS, S3 Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) provides a simple web services interface that can be used to store and retrieve any amount of data, at any time, from anywhere on the web. Cloud computing represents a fundamental shift in how businesses think about managing their information needs. While this emerging area of computing has seen tremendous growth over the past few years, we are still in the early stages of realizing its full potential. The team of top-notch engineers in Cambridge is building new services and simple solutions so that any customer access to the same highly scalable, reliable, secure, fast, inexpensive infrastructure that Amazon uses to run its own global network of websites. AWS, EC2 Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale cloud computing easier for developers. Amazon EC2’s simple web service interface allows you to obtain and configure capacity with minimal friction. It provides you with complete control of your computing resources and lets you run on Amazon’s proven computing environment. AWS, MSK Amazon MSK is a fully managed service that makes it easy for you to build and run applications that use Apache Kafka to process streaming data. Apache Kafka is an open-source platform for building real-time streaming data pipelines and applications. With Amazon MSK, you can use Apache Kafka APIs to populate data lakes, stream changes to and from databases, and power machine learning and analytics applications. Meet Amazonians working in Amazon Cambridge Development Center Life at Amazon Cambridge Development Center Meet the Cambridge Teams The Amazon Cambridge Development Centre is home to a variety of teams that are all striving to delight our customers. Amazon Alexa Moments Control your smart home, play music, get information and more with the Amazon Echo Dot. Machine Learning at Amazon Learn how Amazon's Core Machine Learning Team leverages the latest research to deliver better experiences for customers and sellers. Introduction to Amazon S3 Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is cloud object storage built to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere. Find jobs in Amazon Cambridge Development Center JOIN US ON Find Careers Job Categories Teams Locations Military recruiting Warehouse and Hourly Jobs Working at Amazon Culture Benefits Amazon Newsletter Diversity at Amazon Our Leadership Principles Help FAQ Interview tips Review application status Provisions for disabled candidates Legal disclosures and notices Amazon is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate on the basis of protected veteran status, disability or other legally protected status. Privacy and Data Company Information © 1996-2025, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates