2021 & Beyond: Looking at future Super Bowl host cities - Bullseye Event Group Skip to content Bullseye Event Group Your source for Super Bowl tickets, hotel rooms and Super Bowl travel packages. Super Bowl 60 Santa Clara Super Bowl 60 Santa Clara SB60 Packages SB60 Hotels SB60 Tickets VIP Tailgates VIP Tailgates Broncos VIP Tailgate Browns VIP Tailgate Bucs VIP Tailgate Colts VIP Tailgate Lions VIP Tailgate Rams VIP Tailgate Saints VIP Tailgate Titans VIP Tailgate Panthers VIP Tailgate The Players Tailgate The Players Tailgate Tickets Tickets Sport Tickets Concert Tickets Sponsorships 317.530.3053 CONTACT Super Bowl Super Bowl Packages The 2026 Super Bowl Travel Packages Bullseye Event Group is your destination for hotel, travel packages and tickets for the upcoming Super Bowl 60 in 2026. You won’t miss a moment of Super Bowl excitement when you stay in Santa Clara with one of our Super Bowl travel packages. View Packages Hotels Fairmont San Francisco InterContental Mark Hopkins San Francisco Hotel Nikko Via San Francisco Hyatt Centric Fisherman Wharf Players Tailgate 2026 Players Tailgate Santa Clara The Players Tailgate is rated the #1 event to attend year after year on Super Bowl Sunday! Purchase Tickets Tickets 2026 Super Bowl Tickets All Super Bowl tickets purchased thru Bullseye Event Group receive a Players Tailgate Ticket for free. ($1000 savings per ticket) Purchase Tickets Players Tailgate VIP Team Tailgates VIP Tailgates - Broncos VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for every home game of the 2024 Broncos Season If you are a diehard Broncos fan and you want the best tailgating experience, you’ll want to check out the new Broncos VIP Pre-Game Tailgate. Info Broncos VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Browns VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for the 2024 Browns Season Located INSIDE the Great Lakes Science Center located directly next to Huntington Bank Field. Info Browns VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Bucs VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for every home game of the 2024 Buccaneers Season If you are a diehard Bucs fan and you want the best tailgating experience, you’ll want to check out the new Bucs Official VIP Tailgate. Info Bucs VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets The Colts VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for the 2024 Colts Season If you are a diehard Colts fan and you want a VIP tailgating experience, check out the VIP Colts Game day experience. Info The Colts VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Lions VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for every home game of the 2024 Lions Season If you are a diehard Lions fan and you want a VIP tailgating experience, you’ll want to check out the VIP Lions Pre-Game Tailgate Info Lions VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Panthers VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for the 2024 Panthers Season Located in South Lawn directly NEXT to Bank of America Stadium Info Panthers VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Rams VIP Tailgate The Ultimate All-Inclusive Tailgate Experience for every home game of the 2024 Rams Season Located OUTSIDE in the Hollywood Park Casino parking lot located next to SoFi Stadium. Info Rams VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Saints VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for the 2024 Saints Season New Orleans is known for its incredible food, good times and the Saints. We have taken all of that and put it into one offering. Info Saints VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Titans VIP Tailgate The Ultimate Tailgate Experience for the 2024 Titans Season If you are a diehard Titans fan, you’ll want to check out the all-inclusive Official Titans VIP Tailgate.  Located at the Bridge Building event venue directly Next to Nissan Stadium. Info Titans VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets Falcons VIP Tailgate Info Falcons VIP Tailgate Purchase Tickets 2026 Players Tailgate Santa Clara The Players Tailgate is rated the #1 event to attend year after year on Super Bowl Sunday! You do NOT need a Super Bowl Ticket to get into the Players Tailgate. Parking is not included with tailgate ticket. Info 2026 Players Tailgate Santa Clara Purchase Tickets Tickets Sponsorships 317.530.3053 CONTACT 2021 & Beyond: Looking at future Super Bowl host cities With NFL free agency officially in the rearview, teams are setting their sights on the 2020 NFL Draft. As we continue through the offseason, we’re looking ahead — beyond the 2021 Super Bowl in Tampa — at the future hosts of Super Bowls in 2022 and beyond. 2021 — Super Bowl LV in Tampa, Florida As everyone knows, the next Super Bowl will take place at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida — home of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Prior to Super Bowl 55 in 2021, Raymond James Stadium has hosted two prior Super Bowls, and the city of Tampa has hosted four others overall. 2022 — Super Bowl LVI in Los Angeles, California The Super Bowl is heading back to Los Angeles! Returning for the first time since 1993 and Super Bowl XXVII, Super Bowl 56 will be played at SoFi Stadium — the brand new home of the LA Rams and Chargers, which is slated for completion in 2020. » Also see: 2021 Super Bowl history of Tampa 2023 — Super Bowl LVII in Glendale, Arizona Super Bowl 57 is returning to Glendale, Arizona at State Farm Stadium in 2023! The city’s third time hosting the Super Bowl (and Arizona’s fourth time), the home of the Arizona Cardinals will once again be the center of the football world. 2024 — Super Bowl LVIII in New Orleans, Louisiana The city of New Orleans will host their record 11th Super Bowl in 2024, their 8th in the famed Mercedes-Benz Superdome (previously the Louisiana Superdome). One of the most popular Super Bowl city hosts, fans will get to experience the incredible New Orleans culture on the NFL’s biggest stage. Looking for travel packages, tickets and information for Super Bowl 55 , including the 2021 Players Tailgate , the #1 Super Bowl weekend event? Thanks to our sponsors Partners Bullseye Event Group 723 Capitol Ave, Indianapolis, IN 46225 317.530.3053 Super Bowl VIP Team Tailgates Sports Tickets Concert Tickets Sponsorships Contact Us 2026 Super Bowl Travel Packages 2026 Players Tailgate Santa Clara College Clients INDUSTRY-LEADING GAME-DAY EXPERIENCES. Terms of Use Privacy Policy 0 0 Your Cart Your cart is empty Continue Shopping