Duke University Three Blue Devils Set for Long-Awaited 2020 NBA Draft - Duke University Skip to main content Close Ad Three Blue Devils Set for Long-Awaited 2020 NBA Draft 11/17/2020 6:04:00 PM | Men's Basketball Share: DURHAM, N.C. – The 2020 NBA Draft is set to be held virtually on Wednesday night, and despite the unprecedented circumstances, the Duke men's basketball program will look to continue its recent draft dominance. The 2019-20 ACC Player of the Year and Defensive Player of the Year, Tre Jones , joined the league's Freshman of the Year, Vernon Carey Jr. , as well as Cassius Stanley in declaring for the draft after the 2020 postseason was cut short due to the COVID-19 pandemic. With the draft now taking place in November for the first time in NBA history, the ceremony is set to be conducted at ESPN headquarters in Bristol, Conn. League commissioner Adam Silver – a 1984 Duke graduate – and deputy commissioner Mark Tatum will announce the first- and second-round picks with no draftees or spectators in attendance. Should all three players be selected, it would mark the third consecutive season and fourth time in the last five years that at least three Blue Devils had their names called on draft night. During the most recent NBA Draft held in June 2019, Duke joined Florida as the only college programs in NBA draft history to have three players selected in the top 10 of a single draft, as Zion Williamson was taken No. 1 overall by the New Orleans Pelicans, RJ Barrett went No. 3 overall to the New York Knicks and Cam Reddish went No. 10 overall to the Atlanta Hawks. Williamson's selection marked Duke's fourth overall No. 1 pick in history, breaking a tie with Kentucky for the most overall top picks. Since the inception of the Draft Lottery in 1985, no team nor coach has produced more lottery picks than the 28 by Duke's Mike Krzyzewski . The fact becomes even more impressive when considering the rest of the field had a four-year head start on the Blue Devils before Danny Ferry became the school's first lottery pick in 1989. Coach K has also produced 41 total first-round selections during his tenure, the most by a college coach in the history of the NBA Draft. Dating back to 1956, Duke has had three or more players selected in 10 different NBA Drafts. The Blue Devils have also had at least one first-round selection in each of the past nine years, and at least one lottery selection in six consecutive drafts. The 2020 NBA Draft begins at 7 p.m. ET with coverage on ESPN, ESPNU and the WatchESPN app. Duke in the Draft • Duke has produced a total of 97 NBA Draft picks all-time. • The Blue Devils have had at least one player selected in 20 of the last 22 NBA Drafts, including 33 first-round picks in that time. • Duke has had at least one player taken in 32 of the 39 NBA Drafts in the Krzyzewski Era. • Duke players have been selected by 29 of the 30 current NBA franchises, with only the Toronto Raptors having never drafted a Blue Devil. • The franchise to have drafted the most Blue Devils is Detroit (nine), followed by seven for Chicago, and six each for Golden State and Boston. Duke in the First Round • Duke's 45 first-round selections in the Common Draft era (since 1966) are third most all-time, including 41 under Coach K. • Duke's 41 first-round selections in the Lottery era (since 1985) are the second most in the country, behind Kentucky's 42. • Coach K's 41 first-round picks are the most by a college coach in the history of the NBA Draft. • Duke has produced four No. 1 overall picks in the NBA Draft, the most in draft history. • Duke has had a player selected in the top 3 in each of the last six years, the longest streak by a school all-time. • Duke's 28 NBA lottery picks – all coached by Coach K – are the most by both a college program and college coach. • An NCAA-leading 23 lottery selections have come from Duke since 1999, when the Blue Devils had three. • In the Lottery Era (since 1985), Duke has produced 14 top-three picks; the next-closest total nationally is five (Kentucky). • Duke's 17 top-10 picks since 2000 are the most in the nation in that timeframe, leading Kentucky (13), Connecticut (8), Arizona (8), Texas (8) and Kansas (7). • The Blue Devils have produced 16 first-round picks in the last six years: Grayson Allen , Marvin Bagley III , RJ Barrett , Wendell Carter Jr. , Harry Giles , Rodney Hood , Brandon Ingram , Tyus Jones , Luke Kennard , Jahlil Okafor , Jabari Parker , Mason Plumlee , Cam Reddish , Jayson Tatum , Zion Williamson and Justise Winslow. • Duke has produced at least one first-round pick in each of the last nine years. • Sixteen of Duke's last 18 NBA Draft picks, and 23 of the last 28, have come in the first round, including 16 lottery picks. #GoDuke