Wimbledon 2024 final: Carlos Alcaraz beats Novak Djokovic to retain men's title - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Athletics Cycling More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Olympic Sports Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Winter Sports Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Tennis Scores & Schedule Calendar Alcaraz crushes Djokovic to retain Wimbledon title This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Media caption, Highlights: Alcaraz beats Djokovic in straight sets to retain Wimbledon title Emily Salley BBC Sport journalist at Wimbledon Published 14 July 2024 1508 Comments Carlos Alcaraz powered to victory over an out-of-sorts Novak Djokovic to retain his men's singles title at Wimbledon. Although the players on show made this a repeat of last year's final, it failed to live up to the five-set thriller of 12 months ago as Djokovic appeared mostly helpless against the dominant Spaniard. Despite squandering three championship points when trying to serve out a rapid victory, Alcaraz found focus again and held his arms aloft after battling through the third-set tie-break for a 6-2 6-2 7-6 (7-4) win. "Honestly, it is a dream for me winning this trophy," said Alcaraz, who was presented with the trophy by the Princess of Wales. "I did an interview when I was 11 and I said my dream is to win Wimbledon." Gracious in defeat, Djokovic shared a smile and warm embrace with Alcaraz at the net after his comprehensive loss. For a second straight year, Djokovic was attempting to equal Roger Federer's record of eight Wimbledon men's titles. The 24-time major winner was also trying to move ahead of Margaret Court to take sole ownership of the all-time record for the most Grand Slam singles titles. Djokovic has enjoyed many magnificent days on Centre Court, but this was one he is unlikely to look back on with any great fondness. As modern tradition dictates, Alcaraz climbed up to the players' box and was leapt upon by his team and family, celebrating a 14th consecutive match win at Wimbledon. The result continues the four-time major winner's 100% record in Grand Slam finals, while he becomes the youngest man to win at Wimbledon and the French Open in the same year. Later on Sunday evening, Alcaraz celebrated Spain's Euro 2024 final victory over England - making it a perfect day for him and his country. 'An all-round perfect performance' - so what next for Alcaraz? Published 14 July 2024 'I'm not at level of Alcaraz or Sinner' - Djokovic Published 14 July 2024 Alcaraz saves best for last to topple Djokovic This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Media caption, Alcaraz's reaction as he retains Wimbledon title Alcaraz had looked far from convincing for the majority of this year's Championships - winning in straight sets just twice before the final. He had to show resilience to wrestle his way through matches, fighting back against Daniil Medvedev, Tommy Paul and Frances Tiafoe to sustain his title defence. It made his run to the final all the more impressive, with his never-say-die mentality the mark of a true champion. And in Sunday's final, Alcaraz showed he was saving his best tennis for the last, all-important moment. Former British number one Tim Henman called it an "annihilation", while 1987 Wimbledon winner Pat Cash described it as a "perfect performance". Alcaraz reeled off deft drop shots, perfect volleys and thunderous forehand winners that seemed to stun his 37-year-old opponent. Following in the footsteps of his fellow Spaniard and hero Rafael Nadal in 2008 and 2010, Alcaraz has achieved the rare feat of winning at Roland Garros and Wimbledon in the same year. "Credit to Carlos for playing elite tennis, especially from the back of the court. He had it all today," Djokovic said in his runner-up speech. Djokovic's wait for record 25th major goes on This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Media caption, Djokovic reacts to his defeat in the Wimbledon final When it was revealed that Djokovic had undergone surgery on 5 June for a medial meniscus tear in his right knee, it was not just his title chances that were thrown into doubt. There were concerns that he would be unable to play at Wimbledon at all. However, if it was not for the support on his knee, it would have been almost impossible to tell Djokovic had suffered a serious injury. The seven-time Wimbledon champion had resumed his usual brand of dominant, consistent tennis and dropped just two sets in six matches. But the level suddenly dropped on Sunday, and Djokovic's game looked unrecognisable with failed attempts to come to the net and handfuls of unforced errors. What was expected to be an enthralling sequel got off to the most dramatic of beginnings - a 14-minute service game from Djokovic, who saved four break points before finally going behind. Alcaraz's confident start continued, while a rare double fault from Djokovic gifted a double break that allowed the Spanish third seed to calmly see out the opener. It was a case of deja vu for the Serb in the second set, with Alcaraz landing delicate drop volleys and booming winners to break early before benefiting from another Djokovic double fault. Still toiling, Djokovic managed to hold firm in the third until Alcaraz struck to lead 5-4 and give himself a chance to serve out for the title. But the 21-year-old double-faulted on his first match point, fired into the net on his second and then sent the ball wide on his third - helping Djokovic to claw a break back and force a tie-break. At that point, prospects of a remarkable comeback and thrilling finish quickly vanished as Alcaraz took control. "It obviously was not the result I wanted, but of course in the first couple of sets the level of tennis wasn’t up to par from my side," Djokovic said. "It wasn't meant to be. I tried to extend the match, but he was an absolute deserved winner today so congratulations for him." Related topics Tennis Hewett wins singles to complete career Grand Slam Published 14 July 2024 Kate given standing ovation at Wimbledon men's final Published 14 July 2024 'Nobody will believe I won Wimbledon - I still can't' Published 13 July 2024 More on this story Live scores, results and order of play Get tennis news sent straight to your phone Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser View comments | 1508 Top stories PSG pass masters make Rice and Arsenal's fears come true Published 3 hours ago We have to do something special in Paris - Arteta Published 3 hours ago Rudiger given six-game ban for throwing object at referee Published 4 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC On the frontline with the London Ambulance Service Yinka Bokinni explores the life of Sean 'Diddy' Combs Detectives recount cases which shaped their careers Join the hunt for Scotland's perfect pads Elsewhere in Sport 'Why hit a single when you can hit six?' - the making of a teen IPL star 'One of football's greatest thinkers' - how Guardiola inspired Champions League trio Sciver-Brunt replaces Knight as England captain Will Ferrari turn their season around? The runner who went viral and sparked a campaign for change for women 'Liverpool still need new blood' - where will Slot strengthen? Who are the big winners & losers from the NFL Draft? 'How are we still here?' - Class of 92 graduates still going strong 'PSG worry me more than Real Madrid' Video 'PSG worry me more than Real Madrid' A mole, a Lion and a confession - Premiership Rugby talking points Could Wrexham really reach the Premier League? Meet the heavyweight who teaches in sign language The contenders to derail England's home World Cup Eubank narrowly beats Benn - extended highlights. Video Eubank narrowly beats Benn - extended highlights Soap opera twists and fatherly love - but what next for Eubank and Benn? Man City beat Forest to reach FA Cup final. Video Man City beat Forest to reach FA Cup final Who has made Troy's Premier League team of the week? London Marathon breaks world record for most finishers 'Twenty times' - but now Man Utd must exit 'Ice Age' Resilient England finally get test they needed Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.