Mass(ive) production and price cuts: How did the Tesla - Panasonic alliance thrive over the years? | Global Fleet Follow us on: Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Youtube Regions Global Africa - Middle East Asia Pacific Europe Latin America North America Search My Account E-mail or username * Password * Create new account Request new password Global Fleet Regions Global Africa - Middle East Asia Pacific Europe Latin America North America Channels Fleet Strategy Leasing and Rental Manufacturers Safety & Environment Smart Mobility Taxation and Legislation Technology and Innovation Events Calendar View all Trainings Visit IFMI Knowledge center Wikifleet Marketplace Knowledge center Fleet Europe Home » Manufacturers » Global » Analysis » Mass(ive) production and price cuts: How did the Tesla - Panasonic alliance thrive over the years? Analysis Share 23 Jan 24 Mass(ive) production and price cuts: How did the Tesla - Panasonic alliance thrive over the years? Tesla Electrification Panasonic, the old-time partner of Tesla, is planning to put a smile on its partner's face after some years of fluctuating relationships by upgrading existing 2170 battery cells, allowing Tesla to do something it does best: Cutting the prices. The alliance now enters maturity and provides critical mutual benefits and an example to the EV industry. Tesla and Panasonic continued a long partnership despite the issues stemming from high demand in recent years. After developing the 4680 battery cell technology with Tesla, Panasonic decided to introduce an improved version of the 2170 battery cells for the Tesla Model 3 and Model Y in 2024 or 2025. According to Bloomberg, the Japanese giant plans to expand battery capacity and improve productivity without investing large amounts of new facilities. The aim is to quadruple production capacity by 2030, benefiting Tesla, its main ally in the electric vehicle (EV) industry. The new plan includes: Increasing the energy density through fewer cells. Thus reducing manufacturing costs. Resulting in an overall price drop for Tesla. Panasonic, which holds around 10% of global battery output in the EV market, also seeks to reach a capacity of 200 GW/h per year by early 2031 from the current capacity of around 50 GW/h.  Yet, Panasonic is cautious about new production facilities, as the electronics and battery giant refused a $700 million incentive package to build a plant in Oklahoma. Panasonic has a plant in Nevada and is building another one in Kansas to produce 2170 battery cells . The $4 billion project is expected to end up with an annual capacity of 88 GW/h. In a statement to Reuters, Panasonic Group CEO Yuki Kusumi said that the company put the idea of a third factory in the US on hold as "demand for EVs cools." Kusumi said that Panasonic will decide on a third plant "when the timing is right," pouring water on the concerns of thousands of jobs vanishing. Panasonic first started supplying Tesla with the 18650 type battery cells, later supplied 2170 type cells, and developed 4680 cells with Tesla. The long and arduous journey had some setbacks, but now, with increasing capacity and solidified alliance, Panasonic amplifies production in Japan and the US. The evolution of the Tesla - Panasonic partnership was crucial for allowing Tesla price cuts and making Tesla the top BEV seller in the world. Now, this partnership is more important than ever in the EV battleground . The history of the Tesla - Panasonic partnership The ties between Tesla and Panasonic go deep. In 2009, only one year after Tesla released its first-ever car, the Tesla Roadster , two companies signed the first initial supply agreement. One year later, the Japanese giant moved to tighten its ties and invested in $30 million worth of common stock Tesla. In 2011, the partners entered a fruitful era of business by signing a supply agreement for automotive-grade lithium-ion battery cells for 80,000 electric vehicles (EVs) to be built over four years. Under the agreement, Panasonic guaranteed the supply of enough battery cells to catch up with Tesla's rapid growth and make the pre-ordered Model S ready. Following the success of Model S, launched in 2012, Tesla and Panasonic expanded their partnership in October 2013 with Tesla to receive around 2 billion battery cells over the next four years. Tesla announced that the lithium-ion battery cells will be used in Model S and Model X ; the latter was launched in 2015. The next big step came as the announcement of the Gigafactory Tesla, in which the EV maker signed an agreement with Panasonic in July 2014 to build the giant facility in Nevada together. A marvel of its time, with a 35 GW/h capacity, the Gigafactory could have doubled the entire worldwide lithium-ion supply. To compare, we can look at the production capacity of leading countries in 2014 of Li-ion batteries : Country Capacity Share in global output Japan 2 GW/h 37% South Korea 1.3 GW/h 24% US 1 GW/h 19% China 0.8 GW/h 15% Under the agreement, Tesla prepared, provided, and managed the land, buildings, and utilities, while Panasonic manufactured and supplied cylindrical lithium-ion cells and invested in the equipment. As years passed, the two partners enjoyed a lucrative business like the Nevada Gigafactory (the second after the one in Fremont, California). Still, the demand for capacity increased without losing pace. In August 2018, Tesla said that the cell production capacity reached 20 GW/h, to reach maximum capacity by the end of the year. Panasonic added three more cell lines to Gigafactory 1 (in Nevada) and brought to 13 cell lines by the end of 2018 to provide the expected supply. In August 2020, Panasonic added the 14th line to Gigafactory 1 with an investment of $100 million, increasing the capacity by 10% to 39 Gw/h per year. Panasonic also said a battery upgrade is coming, resulting in a 5% storage capacity increase in each battery type. Despite total effort from both sides, the more substantial wave of demands pushed Tesla to search for alternatives in addition to the Panasonic partnership. First, rumours appeared in late 2018 that Tesla was talking with Chinese Lishen Battery, but Tesla denied signing an agreement. Following this development, in January 2019, Panasonic also set out to seek new partners. It announced a partnership with Toyota to produce prismatic batteries, which formed a joint venture in 2020. On the Tesla side, the EV giant acquired American start-up Maxwell Technologies in 2019 to apply their dry electrode technology to be used in 4680 battery cells. Nevertheless, Tesla never used the tech and sold Maxwell after integrating its ultracapacitor business into the company. Giga Texas. Image: Tesla. 'The crack' As almost inevitable in a happy story, the Tesla-Panasonic partnership had its cracks, becoming apparent in April 2011, following a Nikkei report suggesting that Panasonic was about to stop production in Gigafactory 1 due to lack of demand. Tesla shares began to fall while the information on online media indicated that Tesla already had enough battery capacity to produce over 500,000 Model 3's per year, as Panasonic announced reaching the initial maximum capacity of 35 GW/h per year in March 2019. Tesla CEO Elon Musk denied this on X (formerly Twitter), saying that Panasonic cell lines at Giga 1 are only around 24 GW/h capacity per year and limit the Model 3 output. Tesla will need other partners and also won't invest in more capacity until Panasonic reaches maximum output (which eventually happened as the Japanese giant announced increasing capacity to 39 GW/h per year with an additional cell line in August 2020). Eventually, the two old partners never let the well-established ties tear apart but pushed it forward to open a new page. Tesla received 4680 battery cell samples from Panasonic in 2020, and the latter unveiled its Tesla 4680 battery cell in 2021, with plans to pour $700 million into producing the new battery in Japan. Panasonic will continue improving the Tesla 4680 battery cell in 2024, while Tesla will have batteries in the Texas Gigafactory, which will be completed in 2022. Things now look relatively smooth for Tesla, as the EV maker announced the 20 millionth 4680 battery cell production in Giga, Texas, in October 2023. To dive deep into Tesla battery technology, click here . The main image shows Tesla 4680 batteries, courtesy of Tesla . Authored by: Mufit Yilmaz Gokmen Manufacturers Global Marketplace Wikifleet COMMENTS: (0) Login or create a account to post comments Log in Create a account Related content 28 Apr 25 Only half of Americans now considering BEVs Features 21 Apr 25 Dubai charging network exceeds 700 points Features 17 Feb 25 XPENG continues its rapid European expansion Features Popular 25 Apr 25 U.S. Decoupling Bill hits Chinese battery giants Features 1 24 Apr 25 Green hydrogen gains foothold in Oman and UAE Features 2 28 Apr 25 Only half of Americans now considering BEVs Features 3 Newsletters Regions Global Africa - Middle East Asia Pacific Europe Latin America North America Thematics Fleet Strategy Leasing and Rental Manufacturers Safety & Environment Smart Mobility Taxation and Legislation Technology and Innovation Advertising Want to capture the attention of the International Fleet and Mobility leaders? Contact us and become our partner! Visit our other websites Powered by: Wikifleet WIKIFLEET is a free collaborative encyclopaedia providing knowledge about car fleet management all over the world Wikifleet Marketplace The Global Fleet MARKETPLACE is the ONE guide to find fleet & mobility providers worldwide. Marketplace Visit the Knowledge Center Get all the latest reports, guides, directories and magazines in our knowledge center Knowledge Center Contact us Rue de Lantin 149 B-4000 Liege BELGIUM Phone. +32 4 387 87 94 Fax. +32 4 387 90 63 Contact us Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Youtube Subscribe © 2025 Nexus Communication S.A. Privacy policy General conditions of sale Legals En Fr View Globule Bleu's website