Grey's Anatomy: ABC Announces Season 17 Premiere Date ​ Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals Royals Royals PEOPLE StyleWatch: Spring 2025 Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Sports Awards & Events Books Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Health Home Travel Style StyleWatch Royals StyleWatch Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe 1 Massive Brawl Erupts Among Carnival Cruise Passengers, Landing 24 People on ‘Do Not Sail’ List 2 Tourist Filming Himself on a Zipline Unknowingly Captures Chilling Footage of Massacre in India That Killed 26 3 Robert De Niro's Daughter Airyn Comes Out as Trans in Revealing Interview About Growing Up 'Out of the Limelight' 4 Bill Belichick's Girlfriend Jordon Hudson Wears Sparkling Ring on That Finger, Sparking Engagement Rumors Entertainment TV Scripted TV Shows ABC Announces Premiere Date for Grey's Anatomy, A Million Little Things and More Fall Shows ABC also unveiled the premiere dates for The Good Doctor (season 4), Station 19 (season 4), For Life (season 2), A Million Little Things (season 3), and newcomer Big Sky By Natalie Stone Natalie Stone Natalie Stone is a former staff editor at PEOPLE. She left PEOPLE in 2021. People Editorial Guidelines Published on September 17, 2020 03:46PM EDT Camilla Luddington. Photo: abc Grey's Anatomy fans, mark your calendars! Five months after the beloved ABC series aired its season 16 finale , a premiere date has been set for the show's return. The network announced on Thursday that season 17 will start on Thursday, Nov. 12, with a two-hour premiere. In April, the longest-running primetime medical drama wrapped with super-sad lows — including Richard's cobalt poisoning diagnosis and Andrew's meltdown — and one very big high when Amelia and Link became proud parents of a baby boy. And last week, star Ellen Pompeo posted the first photos from set since COVID-19 shut down production early. Along with the return of Grey's , ABC also unveiled the premiere dates for other dramas in the 2020-21 season, including The Good Doctor (season 4), Station 19 (season 4), For Life (season 2), A Million Little Things (season 3), and newcomer Big Sky. The new thriller series — from creator David E. Kelley — follows private detectives Cassie Dewell and Cody Hoyt, who join forces with his estranged wife and ex-cop, Jenny Hoyt, to search for two sisters that have been kidnapped by a truck driver on a remote Montana highway. But when they discover that these are not the only girls who have disappeared in the area, they must race against time to stop the killer before another woman is abducted. From The Bachelorette to KUWTK: Every Show That's Resumed Production amid COVID-19 See the list of premiere dates below. The Good Doctor Monday, Nov. 2 from 10-11 p.m. ET Station 19 Thursday, Nov. 12 from 8-9 p.m. ET Grey's Anatomy Thursday, Nov. 12 from 9-11 p.m. ET Big Sky Tuesday, Nov. 17 from 10-11 p.m. ET For Life Wednesday, Nov. 18 from 10-11 p.m. ET A Million Little Things Thursday, Nov. 19 from 10-11 p.m. ET Ellen Pompeo Shares Photo from Grey's Anatomy as Show Resumes Filming, Honors 'All Who Have Fallen' The Bachelorette . ABC In June, ABC first revealed the network's fall 2020-2021 broadcast season, announcing that The Bachelorette will air on a new night: Tuesdays, starting Oct. 13. Chris Harrison Tells Clare Crawley She’s ‘Blown Up' The Bachelorette in Dramatic New Teaser Earlier this week, PEOPLE revealed an exclusive look at ABC's teaser for The Bachelorette , with host Chris Harrison telling Bachelorette Clare Crawley that she has "blown up" the show. In early August, multiple sources confirmed to PEOPLE that Tayshia Adams had replaced Crawley as the Bachelorette after the latter fell in love with one of her original suitors when the COVID-19 pandemic delayed production in March. Close You Might Like Isaiah Washington Says Sandra Oh Was the 'Key' Behind His 2014 Return to Grey's Anatomy Entertainment a day ago Ellen Pompeo Says Leaving Grey's Anatomy for Good Would 'Make No Sense, Emotionally or Financially' Entertainment April 14, 2025 Hailey Bieber Is Outed as an Obsessive Grey’s Anatomy Fan: It's 'a Big Secret' Entertainment April 25, 2025 Related Articles Ellen Pompeo Says This Scene Made Her Daughter Stop Watching Grey’s Anatomy Why Kim Raver Wanted to 'Raise the Stakes’ with Grey's Anatomy Open Marriage Storyline and What's to Come in the Fallout (Exclusive) How Kim Raver's Husband Helped with the 'Out-of-Body Experience' of Directing Her Own Grey's Anatomy Love Scene (Exclusive) Grey's Anatomy : Meredith and Amelia Find Themselves in Hot Water as Show Celebrates 20th Anniversary (Exclusive) Christopher Meloni Reveals Scenes with Mariska Hargitay Were Cut from Organized Crime Season 5: Here's Why Law & Order: SVU' s Stephanie March Weighs in on Mariska Hargitay and Christopher Meloni's 'Fantastic' Chemistry (Exclusive) The Bear Season 4: All About the Culinary Drama's Next Season (Including When New Episodes Drop) 9-1-1 Showrunner Reveals If OG Cast Member Will Return This Season After Shocking Death Christopher Meloni Admits He and Mariska Hargitay Were ‘Attempting Something’ That ‘Didn’t Work’ for SVU Near-Kiss Scene The Conners Cast Reveal What They Took from Set as Show Ends After 7 Seasons (Exclusive) Stranger Things ’ Matthew Modine Recalls Meeting 11-Year-Old Millie Bobby Brown: ‘Wow, This Little Girl’s Got It’ (Exclusive) Shonda Rhimes Reveals the Grey's Anatomy and Scandal Spinoffs That Never Came to Fruition Sara Gilbert Admits The Conners Is 'Deep in Our Soul' After 7 Seasons: 'Hard to Imagine Being Without' It (Exclusive) Walton Goggins to Make SNL Hosting Debut After White Lotus Sketch Drama, Scarlett Johansson Marks Return Grey's Anatomy : Bailey Falls for Another Doctor's Deception While Teddy Breaks the Rules of Her Open Marriage Pact with Owen The Summer I Turned Pretty Fans Are Convinced Show Spoiled Belly's Endgame with This 1 Poster Detail PEOPLE Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies