Creating the NFL Schedule | NFL Football Operations NFL Football Operations Menu NFL Football Operations Search Search Gameday Back Gameday NFL Schedule Back NFL Schedule 2025 Important Dates Creating the NFL Schedule Pre-Game Back Pre-Game Super Bowl LVIII Field Preparation Uniform Inspections Countdown to Kickoff Behind the Scenes Back Behind the Scenes Game Day Assistants Event Frequency Coordinators AT Spotters NFL Equity Rule Technology Back Technology Technology and the Game NFL Next Gen Stats The Impact of TV Sideline of the Future Analytics Back Analytics Big Data Bowl The Extra Point Innovation and Football Back Innovation and Football Innovation Innovative Ideas NFL Forward Learn the Game Back Learn the Game NFL Basics Back NFL Basics Rookie's Guide Formations 101 Terms Glossary Team Histories Making the Call Back Making the Call Call it Like the Pros You Make The Call Flag Football Back Flag Football Flag Football for All Flag Football Growth NFL Coaching Timeline NFL Way to Play Back NFL Way to Play NFL WTP On-Field Demonstrations Tips for Players Tips for Coaches Officiating Back Officiating The Officials Back The Officials Responsibilities & Positions History of the Official Officiating Development Behind the Stripes Guide to the Officials' Signals Instant Replay Back Instant Replay History of Instant Replay Replay Process NFL Replay Officials Replay Assistance Rule Hawk-Eye Art McNally GameDay Central NFL Officials: Preparing for Success Spotlights Back Spotlights Hugh "Shorty" Ray Art McNally Burl Toler Jerry Seeman Sarah Thomas Journey to the NFL Back Journey to the NFL Play Football The Next Generation of NFL Stars Back The Next Generation of NFL Stars Getting Into the Game NFL Scouting Combine NFL's International Impact Back NFL's International Impact NFL's International Impact International Players International Series International Flag Football NFL Development Pipeline Back NFL Development Pipeline College Player Development College Advisory Committee Rookie Transition Program College Outreach Program All Star Games The NFL Draft Back The NFL Draft The History of the Draft Draft Rules My NFL Draft Experience NFL Draft Stories To the NFL Rookie Class of 2025 Undrafted to NFL Starter NFL Women’s Community The Rules Back The Rules 2024 NFL Rulebook NFL Video Rulebook Evolution Of The Rules Rules Changes Back Rules Changes 2024 Rules Changes 2024 Dynamic Kickoff Rule Explainer POC Videos NFL Jersey Numbers NFL Overtime Rules NFL Tie-breaking Procedures The NFL Competition Committee Inside Football Ops Back Inside Football Ops NFL Operations Back NFL Operations NFL Ops Team Honoring the Game Integrity of the Game 2025 NFL Free Agency Rules Enforcement Back Rules Enforcement NFL Rules Compliance Accountability: Fines & Appeals Gameday Accountability Social Justice Back Social Justice Social Justice Inspire Change Player-Led SJ Legislation Vet the Vote Inclusion Back Inclusion Rooney Rule Inclusive Hiring NFL and HBCUs Networking Summits NFL Women's Forum Players & Legends Back Players & Legends 2020 CBA Evolution Of The NFL Player NFL Legends Community NFL Total Wellness NFL Player Engagement Health & Safety Community Impact Back Community Impact Giving Back to NFL Communities My Cause My Cleats Their Causes, Their Impact: Player-Led Initiatives a Multiplying Force for Good Updates Facebook X (Twitter) Close Menu Reduce Motion Creating the NFL Schedule It takes thousands of computers and six NFL executives to create the NFL’s 272-game masterpiece. Share This Page Share Facebook X (Twitter) Email NFL Schedule Explore This Section 2025 Important Dates Creating the NFL Schedule View Video Rulebook Each spring, six NFL executives take on an enormous task: creating the NFL schedule for the next season. Story Highlights The schedule makers create hundreds of thousands of possible schedules before picking the final version. The NFL uses a rotation system to make sure each team plays one another at least once every four years. Flexible scheduling helps showcase the best late-season matchups to the largest audiences. The schedule makers consider bye weeks and travel to maintain competitive equity. The NFL schedule makers — Executive Vice President of Media Distribution Hans Schroeder, Vice President of Broadcasting Michael North, Senior Vice President of Broadcasting Howard Katz, Senior Director of Broadcasting Blake Jones, Director of Broadcasting Charlotte Carey, Vice President of Broadcasting Onnie Bose, and Broadcasting Senior Coordinator Lucy Popko — must consider the fans, the league’s broadcast partners and many other factors when building the 272-game schedule that spans the 18 weeks of the NFL season and showcases the league’s best matchups and talent. The schedule makers will have to work around events that are already scheduled to take place in or near NFL stadiums — events that may compete with the games, put undue stress on the playing surface, or create traffic or logistical nightmares. The league begins collecting information from the clubs in January about any events that may create scheduling conflicts. The schedulers are also constrained by internal factors. A formula determines each team’s opponents every year, and a rotating schedule ensures that every team plays each of the other 31 at least once in a four-year period. It takes thousands of cloud-based computers to produce thousands of possible schedules — a process that sets the stage for the schedule makers to begin the arduous task of picking the best possible one. THE ANATOMY OF THE NFL SCHEDULE The NFL's scheduling formula ensures that all teams will play every team from every division in the other conference once every four years. Each NFL team plays 17 games over the 18-week season. The league uses a formula to determine all 272 matchups. The league’s 32 teams are split into two conferences — the American Football Conference (AFC) and the National Football Conference (NFC). The 16 teams in each conference are split into the East, North, South and West divisions; every division has four teams. Every team will play 17 regular-season games with one bye week. Teams will alternate seasons where they host nine regular-season games and one preseason game, or eight regular-season games and two preseason games. The NFC will have nine regular season home games in the 2024 season. Here’s a breakdown of how each team’s opponents are set: Six games against divisional opponents — two games per team, one at home and one on the road. Four games against teams from a division within its conference — two games at home and two on the road. Four games against teams from a division in the other conference— two games at home and two on the road. Two games against teams from the two remaining divisions in its own conference — one game at home and one on the road. Matchups are based on division ranking from the previous season. The 17th game is an additional game against a non-conference opponent from a division that the team is not scheduled to play. Matchups are based on division ranking from the previous season. Once every team’s opponents are set, the schedule makers begin the process of determining when every game will be played. GAME TIMES AND BROADCAST PARTNERS The league’s six broadcast partners (CBS, Fox, NBC, NFL Network, ESPN and Prime Video) all want each week’s best matchups to air on their networks so they can attract the largest audiences. The NFL's marquee matchups often are scheduled to air during the week’s premier time slots — Thursday, Sunday or Monday nights or the late game on Sunday afternoons. The league typically schedules the Super Bowl champion at home for the Thursday night game that kicks off the new season. This season, the league will schedule two games on Saturday of Week 16 with NBC airing a game at 1:00 p.m. ET and FOX airing a game at 4:30 p.m. ET. The four teams that play that day, will play again on Wednesday, December 25, against a different opponent. These Christmas Day games will air on Netflix, marking their debut as a live game partner for the NFL. In Week 17, three of the five designated matchups will be played on Saturday with the remainder being played on Sunday. Specific dates and start times for the designated Week 17 matchups will be determined and announced later during the season. In Week 18, two games will be played on Saturday with the remainder being played on Sunday. Specific dates, start times, and networks for Week 18 matchups will be determined and announced following the conclusion of Week 17. See the full 2024 NFL Schedule . Most NFL games are played on Sunday afternoons, with early games starting at 1:00 p.m. ET and the late games starting at either 4:05 p.m. ET or 4:25 p.m. ET, depending on whether the game is part of a network doubleheader. The Sunday afternoon games are broadcast on CBS and FOX; for the second straight year, games do not have a predetermined network assignment based on conference affiliation of participating teams. This allows the scheduling team more flexibility to build Sunday afternoon windows across CBS and FOX. Deeper Dive: Learn more about television's impact on the NFL The schedule will feature doubleheaders on both CBS and FOX and every market will see four Sunday afternoon games in Weeks 15 and 18. Over Weeks 1–14, 16-17, FOX and CBS will each have eight doubleheaders. In those weeks, one network will show games in both Sunday afternoon time slots, while the other will air only one game in either of the two time slots. Doubleheader weeks generally alternate between networks, but not always. It is possible for one network to have doubleheaders on consecutive weeks, but not three weeks in a row. INTERNATIONAL SERIES In the NFL's inaugural regular season game in Germany, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers hosted the Seattle Seahawks at the Allianz Arena in Munich in 2022. (AP/Matthias Schrader) In 2007, the NFL added a new twist to the scheduling process: the NFL International Series. Each team is guaranteed to play internationally at least once every eight years. For the 2024 season, the NFL will play its first ever regular season game in Brazil, with a Week 1 game played on Friday night in Sao Paulo. Additionally, the schedule will once again feature games in the United Kingdom and Germany, with three games in London and one in Munich. Scheduling these matchups presents a challenge for the schedule makers, which is why setting the International Series games is a particular focus early in the process. Schedule makers then look at a three-week window around the international games to try to find ways to make long travel less of a burden on the teams. This includes where a team plays in the week prior to an international game and whether or not they have a bye week following the game. (AP/Jae C. Hong) FLEX SCHEDULING In 2006, the NFL introduced a “flexible scheduling” procedure for NBC’s “Sunday Night Football.” Flex scheduling ensures that the Sunday night game will feature a quality primetime matchup. During the 2024 season, flexible scheduling for Sunday night may be used twice between Weeks 5–10 and Weeks 11–17 . Monday Night Football games are eligible for flex scheduling during weeks 12-17 and flex scheduling may be used for Thursday Night Football in Weeks 13-17. Sunday afternoon games may also be moved between the 1 p.m. ET, 4:05 p.m. ET, or 4:25 p.m. ET time slots. WHAT MAKES A GOOD SCHEDULE? A rare November blizzard in Buffalo in 2014 prompted the league to move the Bills’ Week 12 home game against the New York Jets — originally a Sunday game in Orchard Park — to Monday of the same week in Detroit’s Ford Field. Each team has one bye week assigned and many teams have a specific number of cross-country games scheduled (as determined by the standard formula at the conclusion of the previous season), stadium conflicts and other operational obstacles in their schedule. The scheduling teams aim to balance these operational elements while still trying to maximize fan viewership. The process is challenging, and there may be no such thing as a perfect schedule, but the schedule makers consistently try to provide the NFL’s fans and broadcast partners with a compelling and entertaining slate of games week after week. Related Content Countdown to Kickoff Impact of Television How television has changed the game. Integrity of the Game Ensuring a consistent and fair game that is decided on the field, by the players. Back to Top Home Gameday Learn the Game Officiating Journey to the NFL The Rules Inside Football Ops Updates Search NFL Football Operations’ mission is to establish a culture of clarity, consistency and credibility in all aspects of the greatest game. Football is an essential piece of America’s fabric, uniting fans, players and communities with a simple yet powerful bond. We honor the game’s history while continuing to innovate and preserve the sport for future generations of fans, players, coaches, teams and officials. © 2025 National Football League. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy NFL.com Your Privacy Choices Cookie Settings Español