How Does Amazon’s Alexa Really Work? Agree & Join LinkedIn By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . Skip to main content LinkedIn Articles People Learning Jobs Games Join now Sign in How Does Amazon’s Alexa Really Work? How Does Amazon’s Alexa Really Work? Report this article Bernard Marr Bernard Marr 📖 Internationally Best-selling #Author🎤 #KeynoteSpeaker🤖 #Futurist💻 #Business, #Tech & #Strategy Advisor Published Oct 18, 2018 + Follow “Alexa, what’s the weather going to be like today.” It’s taken decades for scientists to understand natural human speech to the point where voice-activated interfaces such as Alexa, the natural language processing system by Amazon, are sufficiently enabled to be successfully accepted by consumers. Alexa is who talks to users of Amazon’s Echo products including the Echo, Dot and Tap, as well as Amazon Fire TV and other third-party products. Even since 2012, when the patent was filed for what would ultimately become Amazon’s artificial intelligence system Alexa, there has been tremendous growth in capabilities and the credit for that growth goes to machine learning. For something that we do every day without giving it any thought, conversation between machines and humans is complex. So, how did Amazon and others in the space such as Google, Apple and Microsoft crack the code? ABCs of Alexa Over 30 million smart speakers were sold globally last year, and this number is expected to grow to nearly 60 million this year . While Amazon remains the industry leader in smart speakers selling about 20 million devices last year , others (especially Google) are also growing and starting to catch up. There are nuances to each, but let’s look “under the hood” of an Echo to see how Alexa works. While there is some capability contained in the Echo cylinder such as speakers, a microphone and a small computer that can awake the system and blink its lights to let you know it’s activated, its real capabilities occur once it sends whatever you have told Alexa to the cloud to be interpreted by Alexa Voice Services (AVS) . So, when you ask Alexa, “What’s the weather going to be like today,” the device records your voice. Then that recording is sent over the Internet to Amazon’s Alexa Voice Services which parses the recording into commands it understands. Then, the system sends the relevant output back to your device. When you ask about the weather, an audio file is sent back and Alexa tells you the weather forecast all without you having any idea there was any back and forth between systems. What that of course means is that if you lose internet connection Alexa is no longer working. The skills Echo has out of the box are impressive to most of us, but Amazon allows and encourages approved developers free access to Alexa Voice Services so they can create new Alexa skills to augment the system’s skill-set just as Apple did with the app store. As a result of this openness, the list of skills that Alexa (currently over 30,000 ) can help with continues to grow rapidly. Users can, of course, purchase products from Amazon, but they can also order pizza from Domino’s, hail a ride from Uber or Lyft, control their light fixtures, make a payment through the Capital One skill, get wine pairings for dinner and so much more. Constantly learning from human data Data and machine learning is the foundation of Alexa’s power, and it’s only getting stronger as its popularity and the amount of data it gathers increase. Every time Alexa makes a mistake in interpreting your request, that data is used to make the system smarter the next time around. Machine learning is the reason for the rapid improvement in the capabilities of voice-activated user interface. For example, Google speech was able to improve its error rate tremendously in a year; now it recognizes 19 out of 20 words it hears . Understanding natural human speech is a gargantuan problem, and we now have the computing power at our disposal to make it better the more we use it. The challenges of natural language generation and processing As a subset of artificial intelligence , natural language generation (NLG) is the ability to get natural sounding written and verbal responses back based on data that’s input into a computer system. Human language is quite complex, but today’s natural language generation capabilities are becoming very sophisticated. Think of NLG as a writer that turns data into language that can be communicated. Natural language processing (NLP) is the reader that takes the language created by NLG and consumes it. Advances in this technology have allowed dramatic growth in intelligent personal assistants such as Alexa. Voice-based AI is so appealing because it holds the promise of supporting in a way that is natural to us humans; no swiping or typing necessary. That’s also why it’s a technical challenge to build. Just think about how nonlinear your typical conversation is. When people talk they interrupt themselves, change topics or repeat themselves, use body language to add meaning and use a wide variety of words that have multiple meanings depending on the context. It’s like a parent trying to understand the vernacular of teens, but much, much more complicated. Amazon continues to have an army of specialists in addition to a cadre of machines on the task of making Alexa and Alexa Voice Services even better. Their goal is to make spoken language a user interface that is as natural as talking to another human being. I can’t wait to see what’s in store next. Thank you for reading my post. Here at LinkedIn and at Forbes I regularly write about management and technology trends. To read my future posts simply join my network here or click 'Follow'. Also feel free to join me on Twitter , Facebook , Instagram , Slideshare , or YouTube . About Bernard Marr Bernard Marr is an internationally best-selling author, popular keynote speaker, futurist, and a strategic business & technology advisor to governments and companies. He helps organisations improve their business performance, use data more intelligently, and understand the implications of new technologies such as artificial intelligence , big data , blockchains , and the Internet of Things . LinkedIn has ranked Bernard as one of the world’s top 5 business influencers. He is a frequent contributor to the World Economic Forum and writes a regular column for Forbes. Every day Bernard actively engages his 1.5 million social media followers and shares content that reaches millions of readers. Like Comment Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Share 149 3 Comments Nirmalkumar Mudaliar Building Paints Professional 6y Report this comment With just 1&0 we are entering 4th industrial revolution!! What we can achieve if our biological coding is deciphered one day by  AI&ML? Who is the winner going to be Consciousness or super consciousness? Like Reply 1 Reaction Serge Legault Finance Executive | FP&A | Project Management |  Process Improvement |   Financial Strategic Planning 6y Report this comment Thanks for sharing. Most consumers don't realize what is involved to get Alexa working, they just enjoy the benefits. Like Reply 2 Reactions 3 Reactions Danielle Charles Property Consultant @ Retail Market Practise - B.Com(Hons), MA, SIIRSM - Property Marketing Professional with humane freelance Stress Reduction to future-proof your assets while de-stressing people & spaces Today! 6y Report this comment Human communication is indeed complex! And while Alexa might be good for 30,000 entertainment commands/requests her real value lies in precisely the areas that humans find hard to bridge. For example, think of the quickest way to communicate danger between people who might not understand the other’s language... and arguably where Alexa’s highest use might be. Quite incidentally a snake crossed my path yesterday which left me speechless (the reason for extended AI reflective mode). Thinking of local dangers as input to a localised ‘danger’ vocabulary, easily identifiable and also instantly translatable that could also act as interpreter on demand... instead of losing valuable time having to rely on taking iPhone images just to get people to understand the danger before switching to fight-or flight-mode. Thanks for the slide-share for a change... Like Reply 1 Reaction 2 Reactions See more comments To view or add a comment, sign in More articles by Bernard Marr Why Critical Thinking Is Your Best Weapon Against The Coming Deepfake Tsunami Apr 28, 2025 Why Critical Thinking Is Your Best Weapon Against The Coming Deepfake Tsunami Thank you for reading my latest article Why Critical Thinking Is Your Best Weapon Against The Coming Deepfake Tsunami… 159 22 Comments 5 Mistakes Companies Will Make This Year With Cybersecurity Apr 27, 2025 5 Mistakes Companies Will Make This Year With Cybersecurity Thank you for reading my latest article 5 Mistakes Companies Will Make This Year With Cybersecurity. Here at LinkedIn… 102 10 Comments The AI Graveyard: 7 Deadly Mistakes That Kill Most Enterprise AI Projects Apr 25, 2025 The AI Graveyard: 7 Deadly Mistakes That Kill Most Enterprise AI Projects Thank you for reading my latest article The AI Graveyard: 7 Deadly Mistakes That Kill Most Enterprise AI Projects. Here… 240 49 Comments 5 AI Prompts That Will Transform Your Writing Forever Apr 23, 2025 5 AI Prompts That Will Transform Your Writing Forever Thank you for reading my latest article 5 AI Prompts That Will Transform Your Writing Forever. Here at LinkedIn and at… 187 23 Comments Bridging The AI Divide: Why Europe's AI Future Depends On Transformative Innovation Apr 21, 2025 Bridging The AI Divide: Why Europe's AI Future Depends On Transformative Innovation Thank you for reading my latest article Bridging The AI Divide: Why Europe's AI Future Depends On Transformative… 104 17 Comments Beyond ChatGPT: The 5 Toughest Challenges On The Path To AGI Apr 20, 2025 Beyond ChatGPT: The 5 Toughest Challenges On The Path To AGI Thank you for reading my latest article Beyond ChatGPT: The 5 Toughest Challenges On The Path To AGI. Here at LinkedIn… 236 28 Comments Agentic AI Enters Management: Taco Bell's Byte-Sized Approach To Virtual Restaurant Leadership Apr 18, 2025 Agentic AI Enters Management: Taco Bell's Byte-Sized Approach To Virtual Restaurant Leadership Thank you for reading my latest article Agentic AI Enters Management: Taco Bell's Byte-Sized Approach To Virtual… 124 18 Comments Forget ChatGPT: Why AI Agents Are The Real Game-Changer For Financial Services Apr 16, 2025 Forget ChatGPT: Why AI Agents Are The Real Game-Changer For Financial Services Thank you for reading my latest article Forget ChatGPT: Why AI Agents Are The Real Game-Changer For Financial Services.… 169 29 Comments 15 Mind-Blowing AI Statistics Everyone Must Know About Now Apr 14, 2025 15 Mind-Blowing AI Statistics Everyone Must Know About Now Thank you for reading my latest article 15 Mind-Blowing AI Statistics Everyone Must Know About Now. Here at LinkedIn… 171 32 Comments Human Plus AI: Redefining Work In The Age Of Collaborative Intelligence Apr 13, 2025 Human Plus AI: Redefining Work In The Age Of Collaborative Intelligence Thank you for reading my latest article Human Plus AI: Redefining Work In The Age Of Collaborative Intelligence. Here… 240 38 Comments Show more See all articles Sign in Stay updated on your professional world Sign in By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . New to LinkedIn? Join now Explore topics Sales Marketing IT Services Business Administration HR Management Engineering Soft Skills See All LinkedIn © 2025 About Accessibility User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Choices Cookie Policy Copyright Policy Brand Policy Guest Controls Community Guidelines العربية (Arabic) বাংলা (Bangla) Čeština (Czech) Dansk (Danish) Deutsch (German) Ελληνικά (Greek) English (English) Español (Spanish) فارسی (Persian) Suomi (Finnish) Français (French) हिंदी (Hindi) Magyar (Hungarian) Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian) Italiano (Italian) עברית (Hebrew) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) मराठी (Marathi) Bahasa Malaysia (Malay) Nederlands (Dutch) Norsk (Norwegian) ਪੰਜਾਬੀ (Punjabi) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese) Română (Romanian) Русский (Russian) Svenska (Swedish) తెలుగు (Telugu) ภาษาไทย (Thai) Tagalog (Tagalog) Türkçe (Turkish) Українська (Ukrainian) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) 简体中文 (Chinese (Simplified)) 正體中文 (Chinese (Traditional)) Language