The Fear That Inspired Elon Musk and Sam Altman to Create OpenAI | WIRED Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu Menu The Fear That Inspired the Creation of OpenAI Security Politics The Big Story Business Science Culture Ideas Merch Reviews More Chevron Search Search Security Politics The Big Story Business Science Culture Ideas Merch Reviews Podcasts Video Newsletters Magazine Travel Steven Levy's Plaintext Column WIRED Classics from the Archive Events WIRED Insider WIRED Consulting Coupons Will Knight Business Mar 7, 2024 12:00 PM The Fear That Inspired the Creation of OpenAI Emails released by OpenAI to refute a lawsuit from Elon Musk show how he, Sam Altman, and other cofounders were motivated by fears of Google's dominance. PHOTO-ILLUSTRATION: WIRED STAFF; GETTY IMAGES Save this story Save Save this story Save Elon Musk last week sued two of his OpenAI cofounders , Sam Altman and Greg Brockman, accusing them of “flagrant breaches” of the trio’s original agreement that the company would develop artificial intelligence openly and without chasing profits. Late on Tuesday, OpenAI released partially redacted emails between Musk, Altman, Brockman, and others that provide a counternarrative. Sign Up Today This is an edition of WIRED's Fast Forward newsletter , a weekly dispatch from the future by Will Knight , exploring AI advances and other technology set to change our lives. The emails suggest that Musk was open to OpenAI becoming more profit-focused relatively early on, potentially undermining his own claim that it deviated from its original mission. In one message Musk offers to fold OpenAI into his electric-car company Tesla to provide more resources, an idea originally suggested by an email he forwarded from an unnamed outside party. The newly published emails also imply that Musk was not dogmatic about OpenAI having to freely provide its developments to all. In response to a message from chief scientist Ilya Sutskevar warning that open sourcing powerful AI advances could be risky as the technology advances, Musk writes, “Yup.” That seems to contradict the arguments in last week’s lawsuit that it was agreed from the start that OpenAI should make its innovations freely available. Putting the legal dispute aside, the emails released by OpenAI show a powerful cadre of tech entrepreneurs founding an organization that has grown to immense power. Strikingly, although OpenAI likes to describe its mission as focused on creating artificial general intelligence—machines smarter than humans—its founders spend more time discussing fears about the rising power of Google and other deep-pocketed giants than excited about AGI. “I think we should say that we are starting with a $1B funding commitment. This is real. I will cover whatever anyone else doesn't provide,” Musk wrote in a missive discussing how to introduce OpenAI to the world. He dismissed a suggestion to launch by announcing $100 million in funding, citing the huge resources of Google and Facebook. Musk cofounded OpenAI with Altman, Brockman, and others in 2015, during another period of heady AI hype centered around Google. A month before the nonprofit was incorporated, Google’s AI program AlphaGo had learned to play the devilishly tricky board game Go well enough to defeat a champion human player for the first time. The feat shocked many AI experts who had thought Go too subtle for computers to master anytime soon. It also showed the potential for AI to master many seemingly impossible tasks. The text of Musk’s lawsuit confirms some previously reported details of the OpenAI backstory at this time, including the fact that Musk was first made aware of the possible dangers posed by AI during a 2012 meeting with Demis Hassabis, cofounder and CEO of DeepMind, the company that developed AlphaGo and was acquired by Google in 2014. The lawsuit also confirms that Musk disagreed deeply with Google cofounder Larry Page over the future risks of AI, something that apparently led to the pair falling out as friends. Musk eventually parted ways with OpenAI in 2018 and has apparently soured further on the project since the wild success of ChatGPT . Since OpenAI released the emails with Musk this week, speculation has swirled about the names and other details redacted from the messages. Some turned to AI as a way to fill in the blanks with statistically plausible text. “This needs billions per year immediately or forget it,” Musk wrote in one email about the OpenAI project. “Unfortunately, humanity's future is in the hands of [redacted],” he added, perhaps a reference to Google cofounder Page. Elsewhere in the email change, the AI software—like some commentators on Twitter—guessed Musk had forwarded arguments that Google had a powerful advantage in AI from Hassabis. Whoever it was, the relationships on display in the emails between OpenAI’s cofounders have since become fractured. Musk’s lawsuit seeks to force the company to stop licensing technology to its primary backer, Microsoft. In a blog post accompanying the emails released this week, OpenAI’s other cofounders expressed sorrow at how things had soured. “We're sad that it's come to this with someone whom we’ve deeply admired,” they wrote. “Someone who inspired us to aim higher, then told us we would fail, started a competitor, and then sued us when we started making meaningful progress towards OpenAI’s mission without him.” You Might Also Like … In your inbox: Get Plaintext —Steven Levy's long view on tech Federal judge allows DOGE to take over $500 million office building for free Big Story: The quantum apocalypse is coming . Be very afraid Bluesky can’t take a joke Summer Lab: Explore the future of tech with WIRED Will Knight is a senior writer for WIRED, covering artificial intelligence. He writes the AI Lab newsletter , a weekly dispatch from beyond the cutting edge of AI— sign up here . He was previously a senior editor at MIT Technology Review, where he wrote about fundamental advances in AI and China’s AI ... Read more Senior Writer X Topics AI Lab OpenAI artificial intelligence machine learning Elon Musk ChatGPT Sam Altman Read More OpenAI’s New GPT 4.1 Models Excel at Coding GPT 4.1, GPT 4.1 Mini, and GPT 4.1 Nano are all available now—and will help OpenAI compete with Google and Anthropic. Will Knight ‘You Can’t Lick a Badger Twice’: Google Failures Highlight a Fundamental AI Flaw Google’s AI Overviews feature credible-sounding explanations for completely made-up idioms. Brian Barrett This Tool Probes Frontier AI Models for Lapses in Intelligence A new platform from data training company Scale AI will let artificial intelligence developers find their models’ weak spots. Will Knight The AI Agent Era Requires a New Kind of Game Theory Zico Kolter, a Carnegie Mellon professor and board member at OpenAI, tells WIRED about the dangers of AI agents interacting with one another—and why models need to be more resistant to attacks. Will Knight Startup Founder Claims Elon Musk Is Stealing the Name ‘Grok’ Elon Musk said he borrowed the name from a 1960s science fiction novel, but another AI startup applied to trademark it before xAI launched its chatbot. Zoë Schiffer Sam Altman Says OpenAI Will Release an ‘Open Weight’ AI Model This Summer The news follows the breakout success of DeepSeek and growing pressure from rivals like Meta. Will Knight AI Is Spreading Old Stereotypes to New Languages and Cultures Margaret Mitchell, an AI ethics researcher at Hugging Face, tells WIRED about a new dataset designed to test AI models for bias in multiple languages. Reece Rogers Inside DOGE’s AI Push at the Department of Veterans Affairs A DOGE operative at the Department of Veterans Affairs appears to be trying to use an AI tool to write code for the agency’s systems, among other proposals. Vittoria Elliott An Open Source Pioneer Wants to Unleash Open Source AI Robots Hugging Face has acquired the open source robot startup Pollen Robotics to help “democratize” robotics. Will Knight Trump’s Tariffs Are Threatening the US Semiconductor Revival While the White House carved out a narrow exemption for some semiconductor imports, President Donald Trump’s sweeping tariffs still apply to GPUs and chipmaking equipment. Will Knight Amazon's AGI Lab Reveals Its First Work: Advanced AI Agents Led by a former OpenAI executive, Amazon’s AI lab focuses on the decisionmaking capabilities of next-generation software agents—and borrows insights from physical robots. Will Knight Small Language Models Are the New Rage, Researchers Say Larger models can pull off a wider variety of feats, but the reduced footprint of smaller models makes them attractive tools. Stephen Ornes WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries. More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters FAQ WIRED Staff WIRED Education Editorial Standards Archive RSS Accessibility Help Reviews and Guides Reviews Buying Guides Mattresses Electric Bikes Soundbars Streaming Guides Wearables TVs Coupons Gift Guides Advertise Contact Us Manage Account Jobs Press Center Condé Nast Store User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok