Apple CEO Tim Cook Compensation Hit $98.7 Million in 2021 Apple CEO Tim Cook Compensation Hit $98.7 Million in 2021 Plus Icon Film Plus Icon TV Plus Icon What To Watch Plus Icon Music Plus Icon Docs Plus Icon Digital & Gaming Plus Icon Global Plus Icon Awards Circuit Plus Icon Video Plus Icon What To Hear VIP Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Got a Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Variety Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Variety Plus Icon Read Next: Offscript Worldwide Absorbs Revolt, 440 Artists, Rebel House and Six Zeros to Form Integrated Media and Commerce Platform Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Home Digital News Jan 6, 2022 2:57pm PT Apple Chief Tim Cook’s Pay Package Ballooned to $98.7 Million in 2021 By Todd Spangler Plus Icon Todd Spangler NY Digital Editor xpangler Latest Comcast CEO Brian Roberts Pay Package Drops to $33.9 Million in 2024 3 hours ago Elizabeth Murphy Burns, Trailblazing Broadcast TV Exec, Dies at 79 3 hours ago iHeartMedia Hires David Hillman, Former CBS and Venu Sports Exec, as Chief Legal Officer 20 hours ago See All AP Tim Cook , CEO of Apple — the most valuable technology company in the world — had a compensation package worth $98.7 million last year, more than six times his haul in 2020, according to a regulatory filing. Cook’s base salary for 2021 was $3 million, unchanged from the two prior years. He received a cash bonus of $12 million for the year as well as stock options worth $82.35 million, according to Apple’s proxy statement filed Thursday. In addition, Cook received $1.39 million in other compensation, including $630,630 in security expenses and $712,488 for his personal use of private aircraft as per the company’s policy citing “security and efficiency reasons” for Cook to travel via private planes. Related Stories VIP+ What an AI War on Copyright Law Could Mean for Content Creators ‘Neighborhood Watch’ Review: Jack Quaid and Jeffrey Dean Morgan Make an Entertaining Odd Couple Investigating a Potentially Imaginary Crime The Apple board’s compensation committee noted that Cook was granted an equity award for the first time since he was promoted to the CEO role in 2011. Popular on Variety “The structure of this award is better aligned with the performance-based and time-based RSUs [restricted stock units] awarded to our other named executive officers, while the amount recognizes his exceptional leadership and is commensurate with the size, performance, and profitability Apple has achieved during his tenure,” the committee said in the proxy statement. For fiscal year 2021 (ended Sept. 25), Apple posted revenue of $365.8 billion, up 33% year over year, and net income of $94.7 billion, an increase of 65%. Its flagship iPhone smartphones hit sales of $192 billion in the most recent fiscal year, up 39% over the prior 12-month period. Apple’s stock price has increased more than 1,100% since Cook’s CEO tenure began. Earlier this week the company’s market cap briefly hit $3 trillion — making Apple the first U.S. company to hit that high-water mark. Cook, 61, first joined Apple in March 1998. He assumed the chief executive role in August 2011, shortly before the death of co-founder and previous CEO Steve Jobs. Prior to that, Cook was the tech giant’s COO since October 2005. Read More About: Apple, Tim Cook Jump to Comments More from Variety Laurence Fishburne Didn’t Watch Will Smith’s ‘Matrix’ Music Video, Offered to Play Morpheus in ‘Matrix 4’ but ‘They Didn’t Respond Well’ How Indie Film and Los Angeles Can Help Each Other Will Smith’s ‘Based on a True Story’ Foregoes Fun for Self-Help Soliloquies: Album Review Will Smith Addresses Chris Rock Oscars Slap on New Album: ‘My S— Still Hot Even Though I Won’t Get Nominated’ What Warner Bros. Can Learn From Netflix About Video Game Strategy Elon Musk Sells X to Elon Musk’s AI Company at $33 Billion Valuation, Mogul Says JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Most Popular Netflix CEO Ted Sarandos Says Movie Theater Model Is ‘Outdated’: ‘Most of the Country’ Cannot ‘Walk to a Multiplex… Megyn Kelly Delivers 11-Minute Rant About George Clooney After He Blasts Her for Not Being a Journalist: ‘Are Hollywood Roles Getting a Little Hard… Sydney Sweeney to Star in ‘Split Fiction’ Film Adaptation From Director Jon M. Chu, ‘Deadpool and Wolverine’ Writers… Meghan Markle Didn’t Film Netflix Show at Her Own House Because '80 People in the Kitchen Isn’t the Childhood Memory’ She Wants for Her… Bill Maher Fires Back at Larry David for ‘My Dinner With Adolf’ Essay Spoofing His Trump Meeting: ‘It’s Kind of Insulting to Six Million Dead Jews… Pete Davidson on Going Tattoo-Free and His Concern for Young Men and Social Media: ‘They Don’t Even Have a F—ing Shot’ Damon Wayans Is ‘Walking Away With Deep Gratitude’ After ‘Poppa’s House’ Cancellation: ‘This Show Gave Me More Than I Could’ve Ever Imagined… ‘The Masked Singer’ Reveals Identity of Nessy: Here Is the Celebrity Under the Costume Carrie Preston and Michael Emerson on the Violent End of His 'Elsbeth' Arc, and Why It Was Hard to Film After 26 Years of Marriage: 'I Never Like… Noah Schnapp Reflects on Coming Out Before ‘Stranger Things’ Season 5 Filming: ‘I’m Finally Living Truthfully’ Must Read TV COVER | Noah Wyle Was Nearing a ‘Nervous Breakdown.’ Then Came ‘The Pitt’ By Andrew Wallenstein 2 weeks Awards Oscars Add Best Stunt Design Category Starting in 2027 Film ‘Sinners’ Review: Ryan Coogler’s Deep South From-Dusk-Till-Dawn Vampire Film Is a Lavishly Serious Popcorn Movie Film CinemaCon Takeaways: Fights Over Theatrical Window, Fizzling Star Power and Amazon MGM’s Big Promise Film Cannes Film Festival Lineup: Wes Anderson, Richard Linklater, Ari Aster, Julia Ducournau, Kelly Reichardt in Competition Sign Up for Variety Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Variety Confidential A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast More From Our Brands Rolling Stone Lorde, Young Thug, Haim, and All the Songs You Need to Know This Week Robb Report Ferrari’s First EV Might Have Synthetic Gears Sportico NBA Policies Curb Star Absences Amid Spike in Overall Injuries WWD Strong DTC, Americas Help Zegna Group Offset Wholesale Declines in Q1 TVLine Survivor’s [Spoiler] Says Joe Was ‘Brittle’ and Had ‘Zero Self-Awareness’ Variety About Us Newsletter Variety Events Luminate - Film & TV Advertise Media Kit Careers Customer Service Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Variety Magazine Subscribe Variety Digital Login Group Subscriptions Variety Archives Back Issues Help VIP+ Subscribe Login Learn More FAQ Connect Instagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Variety The Business of Entertainment Subscribe Today Have a News Tip? Let us know Variety Close the menu Expand the sub menu Film News Reviews Podcasts Box Office Events Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu TV News Reviews Podcasts Ratings Pilot Scorecard Columns Trailers Expand the sub menu What To Watch Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Music News Album Reviews Concert Reviews Hitmakers Music For Screens Grammys Expand the sub menu Docs Lists & Features Expand the sub menu Tech Features Global VIP+ Tech Expand the sub menu Global News Asia Markets & Festivals Features Expand the sub menu Awards Circuit News Film Predictions TV Predictions Video Artisans Columns Awards Circuit Podcast Expand the sub menu Video Popular Cover Shoots - Behind the Scenes Actors on Actors Power of Women Events Artisans Expand the sub menu What to Hear Lists & Features Expand the sub menu VIP+ Daily Commentary Special Reports Video Expand the sub menu More Coverage Obituaries - submit obituaries to obits@variety.com Photos Podcasts Scene Voices Theater Expand the sub menu More Variety Live Media Summits Vscore Luminate - Film & TV Variety Archives Variety500 Industry Executives Have a News Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Alerts and Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Follow Us Got a Tip? Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Advertise About Contact Us Variety is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Variety Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Icon Link Plus Icon ad