God of War (2018) | God of War Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In God of War Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts God of War Ragnarök Kratos Atreus Characters Freya Brok Sindri Fenrir Angrboda Freyr Týr Durlin Enemies Travelers Berserkers Einherjar Stalker Locations Yggdrasil Midgard Asgard Jötunheim Svartalfheim Alfheim Helheim Muspelheim Niflheim Spark of the World Weapons Leviathan Blades of Chaos Talon Bow Draupnir Spear Mjölnir Skofnung God of War Ragnarök: Valhalla Games God of War (2018) God of War: Ascension God of War: Ghost of Sparta God of War III God of War: Chains of Olympus God of War II God of War Norse Mythology Gods Odin Thor Heimdall Baldur Týr Freyr Goddesses Freya Sif Thrúd Gná Nornir Monsters Ancients Berserkers Draugr Einherjar Elves Tatzelwurm Trolls Greek Mythology Gods Zeus Ares Apollo Thanatos Hades Poseidon Goddesses Hera Aphrodite Persephone Athena Artemis Erinys Monsters Centaur Cyclopes Hydra Gorgon Nymph Siren Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content God of War Wiki 2,182 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts God of War Ragnarök Kratos Atreus Characters Freya Brok Sindri Fenrir Angrboda Freyr Týr Durlin Enemies Travelers Berserkers Einherjar Stalker Locations Yggdrasil Midgard Asgard Jötunheim Svartalfheim Alfheim Helheim Muspelheim Niflheim Spark of the World Weapons Leviathan Blades of Chaos Talon Bow Draupnir Spear Mjölnir Skofnung God of War Ragnarök: Valhalla Games God of War (2018) God of War: Ascension God of War: Ghost of Sparta God of War III God of War: Chains of Olympus God of War II God of War Norse Mythology Gods Odin Thor Heimdall Baldur Týr Freyr Goddesses Freya Sif Thrúd Gná Nornir Monsters Ancients Berserkers Draugr Einherjar Elves Tatzelwurm Trolls Greek Mythology Gods Zeus Ares Apollo Thanatos Hades Poseidon Goddesses Hera Aphrodite Persephone Athena Artemis Erinys Monsters Centaur Cyclopes Hydra Gorgon Nymph Siren in: Games , God of War (2018) , Norse Mythology , Official English Deutsch Español Français God of War (2018) View source History Purge Talk (1) God of War (2018) Warning: Display title "<i>God of War</i> (2018)" overrides earlier display title "God of War". God of War (2018) Developer(s) SIE Santa Monica Studio Publisher(s) Sony Interactive Entertainment Director(s) Cory Barlog Writer(s) Richard Gaubert Matthew Sophos Cory Barlog Composer(s) Bear McCreary Series God of War Platform(s) PlayStation 4 Microsoft Windows Release Date(s) PlayStation 4 WW April 20, 2018 Microsoft Windows WW January 14, 2022 Genre(s) Action-adventure Mode(s) Single-player Rating(s) ESRB : M PEGI : 18 ACB : MA15+ CERO : Z Media Blu-ray Disc (PS4) Digital Download ( PS4 , Steam , and Epic Games ) Release Date Chronology ← Previous Next → God of War: Ascension God of War Ragnarök God of War (also known as God of War (2018) or God of War IV ) is the sequel to God of War III as well as a continuation of the canon God of War chronology. God of War is the eighth installment in the franchise overall. Unlike the previous installments, this game focuses on Norse Mythology and follows an older and a much more seasoned Kratos , the former Olympian God of War , who completed his revenge against his father, Zeus , as well as all Greek Gods and Titans , now becomes a remorseful figure as he abandons his atrocious past life and now has his new son named Atreus in the years after the events of the God of War III . This focused off Kratos, along with Atreus, beginning their journey to take the ashes of Faye , Kratos' second wife, and the mother of Atreus, to fulfill her request to spread at the highest peak of the nine realms while Kratos keeps his godhood and his violent past from his son, who is unaware of his father's divine nature, and facing the conflict with monsters and Norse Gods including the nefarious Baldur . The game released on April 20, 2018, and was originally exclusive to the PlayStation 4. [ 1 ] On 14 January 2022, the PC port launched on Steam and the Epic Games Store. [ 2 ] Contents 1 Story 2 Plot 3 Items & Abilities 3.1 Weapons 3.2 Relics 3.3 Artifacts 4 Choose Difficulty 5 Characters 5.1 The Lost Pages of Norse Myth 6 Enemies 7 Reception 8 Development 9 Cast 9.1 Principal voice actors 9.2 Additional voices 9.3 Motion-Capture Performers 10 Crew 11 Sequel 12 Trivia 13 Gallery 14 Videos 15 References Story Many years have passed since Kratos took his vengeance against the Olympian Gods. Having survived his final encounter with his father Zeus , Kratos has since travelled to Midgard in Ancient Scandenavia and now lives with his young son Atreus in the land of the Norse Gods, a savage land inhabited by many ferocious monsters and warriors. In order to teach his son, whose mother (and Kratos' second wife) has recently died, how to survive in such a world, Kratos must master the rage that has driven him for many years and embrace his newfound role as a father and mentor. Plot Many years have passed since Kratos , a Spartan warrior and former Greek God of War , took his vengeance against the Greek Gods , and he now lives with his young son Atreus in Ancient Norway in the Realm of Midgard. The game begins after the death of the Jötunn warrior Faye , Kratos' second wife and Atreus' mother, whose last request was for her ashes to be spread at the highest peak of the Nine Realms. Kratos and Atreus prepare a funeral pyre for her, mourn her death and soon go on a hunt as per Kratos' desire. However much to Kratos' disappointment, Atreus proves his incompetence and lack of focus, making Kratos reconsider taking Atreus in his journey. Kratos is soon attacked by a mysterious stranger with godlike powers, and who cannot feel anything physically. After seemingly killing him, Kratos reluctantly takes Atreus with him and begins their journey. Kratos and Atreus soon encounter many hurdles in their journey and fend them off. They also meet the Dwarven Huldra brothers, Brok and Sindri who upgrade their weaponry throughout their journey, and a mysterious but friendly Witch of the Woods , who also provides help in her own way after they save her boar, which Atreus accidentally shot. Reaching the Lake of Nine , Kratos and Atreus encounter the friendly World Serpent, Jörmungandr , the last remaining Giant. After running into impenetrable black mist which can only be extinguished with the Light of Alfheim, they receive aid from the Witch to use the Bifröst in order to travel to Alfheim and secure the Light. Upon vanquishing the mist and reaching Midgard's peak, Kratos and Atreus find out the Stranger who attacked them is alive and has two henchmen, the sons of Thor , Magni and Modi at his side, interrogating an imprisoned man, revealed to be Mimir . After they leave, Kratos and Atreus confront Mimir, who reveals the Stranger as Baldur, an Aesir and son of Odin who is the paranoid All-Father and King of Asgard . Mimir also reveals that the highest peak of all Nine Realms is actually in Jötunheim , but the access in there has been blocked off by Odin and Thor. Mimir, however, knows of another passage. He instructs Kratos to cut off his head and have it revived by the Witch, revealed to be the Vanir Goddess Freya. Kratos immediately distrusts her, but both Freya and Mimir warn him to tell Atreus about his true nature as a God, which Kratos keeps a secret from him. While searching for the components to open Jötunheim's portal, Kratos, Atreus, and Mímir are attacked by Modi and Magni. After Kratos kills Magni, Modi flees, but later returns and ambushes them. Kratos fends him off, but Atreus collapses ill due to a mental contradiction of a God believing himself to be Mortal. Freya instructs Kratos to retrieve the heart of a particular troll in Helheim ; however, his Leviathan Axe is useless there. Kratos returns home to unearth his old weapons, the Blades of Chaos , and is haunted by Athena's spirit. After retrieving the heart, he has a haunting vision of Zeus . Atreus is cured, and Kratos tells him he is a God. Atreus then becomes increasingly arrogant on their journey, and he murders a weakened Modi, despite Kratos ordering him not to. At Midgard's peak, they are ambushed by Baldur. Atreus foolishly picks a fight with Baldur, who then proceeds to destroy the Portal to Jötunheim and throw the group into Helheim. Atreus is reprimanded by Kratos and makes amends with him, and while escaping from Helheim, they discover Baldur is Freya's son. Desperate to protect him, Freya had cast a spell on Baldur that made him immune to all physical and magical threats, but also made him unable to feel any joys of life, causing Baldur to resent his mother. Kratos and Atreus also discover that Mimir had been bewitched by Freya to not reveal the spell’s weakness, mistletoe. Returning to Midgard, Mímir realizes there is another way to reach Jötunheim, but he needs his missing eye. After obtaining it from the inside of Jörmungandr, who inadvertently swallowed it when he ate Thor's Statue, they are attacked by Baldur again, but Freya intervenes in an attempt to protect her son. During the fight, Baldur is pierced by Atreus' mistletoe arrow, breaking Freya's spell. After an enormous battle, Baldur is defeated, and despite being given an opportunity to retreat, he attempts to strangle Freya, forcing Kratos to kill him. A grieving Freya swears revenge and taunts Kratos about hiding his true nature. Kratos finally tells Atreus about his past and how he had killed his fellow Greek Gods, including his father Zeus. Atreus laments and Kratos tells him that they should learn from their experiences and not repeat the mistakes of their predecessors. Freya leaves with Baldur's corpse in silence, and Mímir hopefully suggests that she will eventually move on and accept that Kratos did the right thing. After finally arriving in Jötunheim, they find a Temple with a mural depicting their adventures, showing the Giants had foreseen everything that would happen and vaguely foretold what was to come. In addition, they discover Faye was a Giant who decided to stay behind in Midgard, making Atreus part God, Giant, and Mortal (due to Kratos being a former demigod before becoming a full God after killing Ares who was the original God of War). Their fight with Baldur was shown, revealing he was after Faye the whole time, unaware she was deceased. It is also revealed that Atreus was named Loki by his mother. Kratos and Atreus then fulfill their promise and spread her ashes at the peak, overlooking a valley of Giants corpses. Afterwards, Kratos reveals to Atreus that his given name was that of a compassionate Spartan Comrade . Returning to Midgard, Mímir warns them that the three-year long Fimbulwinter began, meaning Ragnarök is soon to follow—which was not supposed to occur for another hundred years, he also tells them that Freya found him and interrogated him about the whereabouts of her Valkyrie wings, saying that the cycle of vengeance is not easily broken and implying that she was following through on her plan to get revenge on Kratos. In the game's secret ending, Kratos and Atreus return home and slumber. Atreus has a vision that Thor will arrive at the end of Fimbulwinter to confront them. Items & Abilities Weapons Leviathan Axe : Kratos's primary weapon is a one-handed battle axe with frost magic properties. Leviathan can be immediately recalled by Kratos after being thrown. The axe originally belonged to Faye , a Jötnar and the wife of Kratos and mother of Atreus. The brothers Sindri and Brok crafted the axe long ago and assist Kratos in upgrading it, giving it higher strength and, with the right skills, the ability to freeze and slow down enemies. Kratos' Fists : Kratos uses his fists in unarmed combat and can perform multiple hit combos. Talon Bow : Atreus' primary weapon is a magical bow and arrows. The bow has the ability to summon spectral animals to perform attacks and assist Kratos in combat. Later on, it can gain the ability to weaken or shock enemies, among other things when used in various parts of the environment. Guardian Shield : Kratos has a gauntlet that transforms into a circular shield for parrying blows and wide-ranged attacks. The shield can be used to block attacks, projectiles, and a well-timed block can parry enemies' attacks. The shield can be upgraded to perform powerful slams and area-of-effect attacks. Blades of Chaos : Midway through the game, Kratos returns to his cabin and reclaims his trademark weapon from the previous games. The Blades, while weaker, offer wider and faster attacks than the Leviathan Axe to make up for it. They also channel the fire element, making them effective against Hel-Walkers and other enemies resistant to the axe's frost element. Upgrades to them will increase their runic power and give them the ability to burn enemies, sapping their health. Relics Spartan Rage : After Kratos builds his rage meter, he can channel Spartan Rage in combat. This powerful transformation ignites flames onto the fists of Kratos. His speed is drastically increased and the power of his unarmed attacks is increased, as well as adding invulnerability (his rage meter depletes in place of his health when hit) and slow health regeneration. Spartan Rage has its own moveset which includes channeling shockwaves, performing ground slams, and thrown rocks and projectiles. However, this robs him of the ability to use the Leviathan Axe or Blades of Chaos until his rage runs out. Collecting 3 Horns of Blood Mead can increase his maximum rage so he can stay in it longer. Bifröst : A relic that can be used as a key to travel between the Nine Realms. The Realms of Muspelheim, Alfheim and Niflheim can be unlocked by getting their respective Realm rune ciphers whereas Helheim, Jötunheim are unlockable through progress. The only Realms that are locked were Asgard, Vanaheim and Svartalfheim. Head of Mimir : The head of Mimir is severed by Kratos during the events of the game after which the character itself becomes a constant ally and companion to Kratos and Atreus. While the head doesn't actually have any gameplay elements, he can be used for unlocking certain content and lore. Stone Masons Chisel Tip : Kratos can use this open doors locked behind magic gates. Artifacts Armor Sets : Armor sets consist of a combination of wrist, chest, and waist armor. Kratos can uncover armor from chests in the Norse World, defeating powerful enemies, and by purchasing from the shops of Brok or Sindri . Boat : Kratos and Atreus use a boat to navigate across the Lake of Nine among other places. Choose Difficulty Give Me A Story Give Me A Balanced Experience Give Me A Challenge Give Me God of War Characters Kratos : The game's protagonist and the former Grecian God of War . After the events of God of War III , Kratos seemed to have moved to the Wildwoods of Midgard which is located in Scandinavia and has started a family. He has become older and wiser, and he has better control over his temper, his actions are no longer simply based on rage and anger, and he shows moments of regret at lashing out. However, he does this to discipline his son and tells him that not to be sorry, but to be better. Atreus : The deuteragonist of the game. The son of Kratos and Faye, Atreus is a young boy who accompanies Kratos on his journey. He is taught how to hunt early in the game and is shown to be impulsive and undisciplined. He has the ability to read runic writings and is more knowledgeable about the Norse World and its inhabitants than Kratos. He is unaware of the godly status of Kratos. He is eventually revealed to be also named Loki, the mythological God of Mischief. Baldur/The Stranger : The main antagonist of the game. A man who attacks Kratos at his own home. He is tattooed with runes which gives him the strength equal to Kratos. Later, he is revealed to be Baldur, the son of Odin and Freya who was enchanted with invulnerability with the side-effect of being incapable of feeling sensations, pain or pleasure. Faye : The mother of Atreus and second wife of Kratos. She dies shortly before the events of the game. Jörmungandr : Also known as the World Serpent, this mythical creature is the last of the Jötnar and is discovered by Kratos and Atreus in the Lake of Nine in Midgard . He has a fierce hatred for Thor and the two are destined to kill each other during Ragnarok. Freya/The Witch in the Woods : Encountered shortly after Kratos and Atreus embark on their adventure. She immediately senses that Kratos is a God. She assist the pair on their adventure, assisting them in traveling between the Norse World. Later, she is revealed to be Freya, one of the Vanir Gods and ex-wife of Odin who banished her to Midgard and left her incapable of leaving or harming others and also robbed her of her Valkyrie abilities. Sindri and Brok (Huldra Brothers) : These Dwarf brothers were both encountered many times through the game. They are also known to be renowned blacksmiths, having forged the Leviathan Axe and the Mjölnir Hammer , the main weapon of Thor. The two have renounced their formal partnership before the events of the game. They provide upgrades for Kratos' and Atreus' weapons and armor throughout the Nine Realms. Magni and Modi : The sons of Thor. They help their uncle Baldur in his quest to find someone and as a result come into conflict with Kratos and Atreus. Mimir : The figure of expansive knowledge and wisdom who claims to be the " Smartest Man Alive ". He was banished to Midgard and sealed in a tree by Odin. Kratos cuts his head off and has been later successfully reanimated by Freya, after which he starts serving as the guide of Kratos and Atreus. Valkyries : Female entities who take the warriors that were killed in battle to Valhalla. There are a total of nine Valkyries, including their Queen Sigrun . Thor : The God of Thunder, son of Odin, father of Modi and Magni and half-brother of Baldur. He appears in the secret ending of the game, conjuring a thunderstorm and lightning over Kratos' house and issuing a fight between him and Arteus. Odin : The All - Father and King of Asgard as well as the Aesir Gods. He is the father of Thor and Baldur, ex-husband of Freya and grandfather of Modi and Magni. He is noted to be responsible for the majority of the events of the game as he targets Kratos because of his fear towards him. The Lost Pages of Norse Myth Note: These characters are only mentioned in The Lost Pages podcast so far. Gróa : A powerful seer looking for her lost husband Aurvandil. Aurvandil : Gróa's husband, who went missing after setting out for Vanaheimr with Thor. Tyr : God of War and Law and another son of Odin. Thamur : A Jötunn stonemason who was killed by Thor following an argument with his son Hrimthur. Hrimthur : The prideful son of Thamur who unwittingly caused the death of his father by running away after a fight with his father and is later mentioned to have constructed walls with a secret weakness which he passed on to Freya before Thor murdered him. Sif : Wife of Thor. Bragi : The bard of the Aesir. Vili and Vé : Brothers of Odin. Hœnir : An Aesir, God of Silence. Heimdall : An Aesir with great foresight. Höðr : The blind son of Odin, God of Winter Freyr : Ruler of Vanaheim. Fenrir : Destined to Kill Odin Sköll and Hati : One day will devour The Sun and Moon Surtr : A giant whom wields a flaming sword. Destined to destroy and ravage Asgard and fall to Odin and Thor. Enemies Draugr : The most common enemy found in the Norse Realms. Draugrs are reanimated corpses that haunt battlefields. Many varieties of Draugr exist, some with magical abilities and others with different weapons and equipment such as shields. They are found commonly throughout Midgard. Hel-Walker : Humanoid foes with a blue and white coloration, they populate the Realm of Helheim and come in different classes. They are mostly all resistant to the Leviathan Axe's attacks, requiring either fists or the Blades of Chaos to put down. Troll : This Norse Monsters are giant creatures with a set of giant tusks on the edge of their faces and they carry massive pillars as weapons. Some trolls utilize different elemental and area-of-effect attacks. Dragon : These flying reptilian creatures that inhabit Midgard and are extremely powerful. One dragon Hræzlyr is encountered on the way to the Mountain. Wolves : Massive wild canines, they can appear as pawns of Revenants and are almost always in packs regardless. They attack fast and can sometimes channel poison if paired with the Revenants. Ogre : These species of burly, powerful, appear throughout the Norse Realms There are many variations, all of which are very powerful and usually present a significant danger in battle. Revenant : These mysterious creatures appear in fog and summon enemies to do their bidding, they are difficult to defeat and must be stunned by the Talon Bow before being damaged. Wulver : These humanoid wolf-like creatures stand on their hind legs. When Wulvers howl, they will often attack in a frenzy with incredible speed. Nightmare : These floating eye creatures float and shoot magic projectiles, a wide variety of them can be found. While weak, they can inflict a number of status ailments depending on their element. Some can even possess Draugr and other enemies to make stronger and regenerate their health unless expelled out with a strong attack. Dark Elves : One of two elven races that make their home in Alfheim , they are capable of flight and utilize different weapons such as spears and magical projectiles. If left unchecked, they can also blind Kratos temporarily. Ancients : Ancient are powerful golems embued with various elemental powers including fire, frost, stone, and forest. They are stated to come from the flesh of Primordial Jötunn Ymir . Soul Eater : Ancients that have their souls removed. Those killed by soul eater will have their soul destroyed, leaving them with no afterlife. There are more powerful version of Soul Eater called Soul Devourer . Like Ancients, they possess their own elemental power. Reaver : Other humans or mortals left to fend for themselves in Midgard, usually resorting to plundering and looting as a gang. Traveller : Giant, armored creatures with equally giant swords and sometimes shields whose block cannot be broken. They are very strong and tough to take down due to their armor unless shattered with repeated strikes, but offer great rewards to assist with armor crafting. Tatzelwurm : Burrowers that can launch out of the ground and launch their own projectiles. Reception God of War received "universal acclaim" reviews and was tagged as a "must-play" game on Metacritic holding a metascore of 94/100 based on 118 critic reviews. [ 3 ] Development On the day of December 6, 2014, Corey Barlog, the lead animator of God of War and the game director of God of War II revealed that Sony Santa Monica was working on a new game, in the God of War Franchise. It was announced on Twitter, only taken down later by Sony. The game is conceptually set in the pre-migration point of Viking history; a period in Norse Culture where the Norse Gods were said to walk among Mortals. [ 4 ] The game's soundtrack was composed by Bear McCreary. [ 5 ] Cast Principal voice actors Christopher Judge - Kratos Sunny Suljic - Atreus Alastair Duncan - Mimir Danielle Bisutti - Freya Jeremy Davies - Baldur Robert Craighead - Brok Adam Harrington - Sindri Corey Burton - Zeus Nolan North - Modi Troy Baker - Magni Carole Ruggier - Athena Additional voices Tony Alvarez Jon Bailey Laila Berzins David Boat Anna Campbell Ray Chase Sean Chiplock Sara Cravens Molly Daisy Darin de Paul Trevor Devall Jake Eberle Tom Fahn Dave Fouquette Crispin Freeman Nika Futterman Walter Gray Julianne Grossman Charles Halford Anthony Hansen Elizabeth Knoweldon Lex Lang Misty Lee Ben Lepley Jonathan Lipow Martha Marion Dave Mattey Matthew Mercer Bill Millsap Lani Minella Dave B. Mitchell Andrew Morgado Emily O'Brien Jon Olson Chris Parson Donovan Patton Jim Pirri Brock Powell Jamieson Price Jonathan Rourmie Sean Schemmel Sarah Sokolovic Michael Sorich Jason Spisak Ryan Stephenson Fred Tatasciore Tom Taylorson Chris Tergliafera Bill Watterson Matt Watterson Scott Whyte Debra Wilson Motion-Capture Performers Bradley Allan Chris Jai Alex Randall Archer Kelli Barksdale Christopher Donaghue Richard Dorton John Duff Joe Fidler Dan Flanagan Shad Gaspard Andrew Gates Joseph Gatt Mark Ginther Thekla Hutyrova Eric Jacobus Reuben Langdon Jade Quon Kyle Roy T.J. Storm Steve Upton Crew J.B. Blanc - Voice Director, Vocal Coach Harrison Deutsch - Voice Director Margaret Tang - Voice Director Sequel Main Article: God of War Ragnarök On September 16th 2020, during a showcase event for the PlayStation 5, it was confirmed that a follow up to God of War would be coming to the system in 2021. The trailer featured a voice over by Kratos, once again voiced by Christopher Judge. Trivia God of War (2018) is the first game that doesn't focus on Greek Mythology, as it has changed the narrative to Norse Mythology. It is also first game to feature two characters (later on three, though Mimir only had a head and was not playable) throughout the gameplay and the first time another character is (though partly) playable (though in God of War III Pandora accompanied Kratos during certain segments of the game, she was not playable). It is, however, not the first time the God of War franchise features characters from a different Mythology. God of War: Chains of Olympus featured aspects of Persian, Arab, and Irish mythology, in the forms of the Basilisk , Efreet , and the Banshee , and God of War II features the Kraken , which originates in the Scandinavian areas of Europe. God of War (2018) is the first installment in which a major gameplay changed many traditions present in the past games of the series. The game mode had introduced: RPG elements, an over-the-shoulder style gameplay replacing the fixed camera style from previous entries, had no sex mini-game, no Save Altars, no Orb Chests. Instead, they replace it with Nordic Chests, Hacksilvers, and even the Blades of Chaos-style HUD was adapted into a more Nordic-style HUD, which therefore had less QTE segments. Another notable change in the game was that Kratos' face is not shown on the main menu, however, he is shown when the players start the game for the first time and difficulty-level options are shown. The second is God of War: Ascension . It also marks the first time where a player transitions immediately into the gameplay rather than a cutscene being shown first. Early Indicatives of the fact that the game was a continuation of the series, the move "Spartan Rage" nods to Kratos' past as a Spartan, Kratos retains his Spartan tattoo, has scars on his forearms resembling the chains from the Blades of Exile, the scars on his abdomen and left eye, as well as the ashes of Lysandra and Calliope covering him. Due to the shift in genre, this game has far more bosses than even God of War II (14). However, only counting unique storyline bosses as true boss fights, then this game only has 4 (Baldur, Hraezylr, Magni & Modi, and Baldur again), the second least amount in the series on par with God of War: Ascension with only the first game lower than it. This is one of the three (3) games where Kratos interacts with his non-godly family in real time, and not only in flashbacks. The others are God of War: Chains of Olympus and God of War: Ghost of Sparta . Christopher Judge voices Kratos in the game. He replaces Terrence C. Carson , who has voiced the character in all previous installments. Judge is well known for his role as Teal'c in Stargate SG-1 . This marks the first game that Kratos isn't voiced by TC Carson. Director Cory Barlog remarks various scenes from the last trailer where he would repeatedly identify Kratos as a God, despite him losing his godly status post God of War II and technically being a demigod. However, he did absorb Hades' Soul in God of War III , technically becoming a God once again. There's also the fact that he reclaimed the Blade of Olympus at the end of God of War II , which stored Kratos' godly powers. More importantly, after Kratos impaled himself with the Blade of Olympus at the end of God of War III, the blade's blue aura disappeared. This could be a transfer of godly power back to Kratos, like he transferred his godly power to Blade in God of War II. What's more interesting is that Kratos said to Atreus that he's born a God, instead of demigod. He does, however, acknowledge his Mortal origin as he tells Atreus that he's part God, part Giant, and part Mortal. It could be safely assumed that Godhood in Kratos' views refers more towards the possession of godly inheritance and power regardless of purity of one's godly genealogy. This fits perfectly with Thor, Magni and Modi as though they are seen as Aesir Gods, they are in fact part Giant. This is the first game in the series not to feature Linda Hunt as narrator. Overall, this is the first PlayStation Studio owned game, to be released outside PlayStation consoles after the initial PlayStation console exclusive release date. Gallery A bearded Kratos Kratos' new weapon The Troll Kratos with his son. Can you kill something that big? Norse Kratos Fanart Fanart Fanart Videos God of War (PS4) - E3 2016 Gameplay Trailer God of War (PS4) - E3 2016 Gameplay Trailer God of War – Full TV Commercial - PS4 References ↑ http://fandom.wikia.com/articles/god-war-shows-parental-side-kratos?utm_source=wikia&utm_campaign=recirc&utm_medium=rail&utm_content=1 ↑ [1] God Of War Coming to PC in January - IGN - https://www.ign.com/articles/god-of-war-pc-steam-release-date-january ↑ Metascore for God Of War Metacritic , Retrieved May 8, 2020 ↑ http://www.gamespot.com/articles/new-god-of-war-why-kratos-is-in-norse-mythology-no/1100-6441051/ ↑ https://www.gamespot.com/articles/god-of-war-ps4s-kratos-has-changed-and-the-soundtr/1100-6458381/ v · d · e God of War series Games Greek Era God of War God of War II God of War: Betrayal God of War: Chains of Olympus God of War III God of War: Ghost of Sparta God of War: Ascension Norse Era God of War: A Call from the Wilds God of War: Mimir's Vision God of War (2018) God of War Ragnarök Collections God of War Collection God of War: Origins Collection God of War Saga Noncanon Bit of War Temple of Helios Literature Comics God of War (DC/Wildstorm comic series) God of War (Dark Horse Comics) God of War: Fallen God Rise of the Warrior Novels God of War God of War II God of War (2018) Misc. God of War: Lore and Legends Music God of War: Original Soundtrack God of War II: Original Soundtrack God of War III: Original Soundtrack God of War: Ghost of Sparta (Original Soundtrack) God of War: Ascension (Original Soundtrack) God of War: Blood and Metal Misc. God of War (Film) The Lost Pages of Norse Myth Crossovers Destiny of Spirits Fortnite Hot Shots Golf: Out of Bounds Hurdle Turtle Forever ModNation Racers Mortal Kombat 9 PlayStation All-Stars Battle Royale Soulcalibur: Broken Destiny v · d · e God of War (2018) Characters Main Atreus Kratos Aesir Baldur Magni Mimir Modi Vanir Freya Hildisvíni Jötnar Faye Jörmungandr Thamur Dwarves Andvari Brok Mótsognir Sindri Creatures Chaurli Eyes of Odin Hildisvíni Hræsvelg Ratatoskr Dragons Hræzlyr Dagsetr Fafnir Otr Reginn Items Weapons/Shields Blades of Chaos ( Pommels ) Guardian Shield Knife of Atreus Leviathan Axe ( Pommels ) Talon Bow Armor Armor Sets Enchantments Talismans Resources Aegir's Gold Aesirbane Ancient's Heart Ancient's Rubble Asgardian Steel Chaos Flame Chilling Mists of Niflheim Corrupted Remnant Crest of Flame Crest of Surtr Dragon Tear Dragon's Fury Dust of Realms Enchanted Dust Eternal Frost Frozen Flame Glacial Catalyst Greater Crest of Flame Hardened Svartalfheim Steel Haze Weave Ivaldi's Rusted Armor Leiptr Alloy Mist Echoes Niflheim Alloy Oblivion Stone Offering to Týr Perfect Asgardian Steel Pristine Dust of the Realm Pristine Ore of the Realm Pristine Scales of the Realm Pure Essence of Realms Raging Inferno of Muspelheim Screams of the Innocent Skap Slag Smouldering Ember Soft Svartalfheim Steel Solid Svartalfheim Steel Traveller's Armor Shard Traveller's Grisly Trophy Ultimate Sacrifice Unstable Ore Unyielding Cinders World Serpent Scale Fragment World Serpent Scale Special Items Alchemist's Ring Anchor of Fog Andvari's Hammer Dragon Tooth Entry Stones Horn of Blood Mead Iðunn Apple Impossible Trial Keys Mark of the Dwarves Resurrection Stones Thamur's Chisel Valkyrie Helmets Yggdrasil's Dew Misc. Bifröst Stone Masons Chisel Tip Unity Stone Witch's Compass Enemies Enemies Ancients Dark Elves Draugr Fierce Ogre Hel-Reaver Lord Hel-Walkers Loot Lizard Nightmare Ogres Fierce Ogre Reavers Shadows Revenant Tatzelwurm The Undead Traveller Wolf Wulver Bosses Baldur Dagsetr Freya Gullveig Hrist Hræzlyr Magni Modi Soul Devourers Soul Eaters Svartáljǫfurr Valkyries Eir Geirdriful Gondul Gunnr Hildr Kara Olrun Róta Sigrún Trolls Brenna Dauði Dauði Hamarr Dauði Kaupmaðr Dauði Munr Death Eater Grendel of the Ashes Grendel of the Frost Járn Fótr Máttugr Helson Stonebeard King Gameplay Abilities and Powers Rage Ability Runic Attacks Spartan Rage Categories Categories : Games God of War (2018) Norse Mythology Official Languages Deutsch Español Français Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy God of War Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. God of War Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab