Alternative Nobel literature prize planned in Sweden | Nobel prize in literature | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us World Europe US Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development ‘The world’s greatest literature prize’ … the Nobel prize medal awarded to Gabriel García Márquez in 1982. Photograph: Fernando Vergara/AP View image in fullscreen ‘The world’s greatest literature prize’ … the Nobel prize medal awarded to Gabriel García Márquez in 1982. Photograph: Fernando Vergara/AP Nobel prize in literature This article is more than 6 years old Alternative Nobel literature prize planned in Sweden This article is more than 6 years old After the Swedish Academy cancelled the traditional prize this year, the New Academy plans a parallel honour in October Alison Flood Mon 2 Jul 2018 09.47 EDT Last modified on Mon 2 Jul 2018 09.49 EDT Share The Swedish Academy is not awarding a Nobel prize for literature this year, but a group of Swedish cultural figures are coming together to bestow their own version of the world’s most prestigious literary award instead, as an act of protest at the scandal that has engulfed the academy. The 2018 Nobel prize for literature was cancelled in May , following allegations of sexual assault made against Jean-Claude Arnault, husband of Katarina Frostenson. Frostenson is an author and a member of the Swedish Academy, the prize’s secretive jury. Arnault was charged with rape in June, but denies all the allegations. Behind the literary lustre lie tales of power, secrecy and sexual abuse | Alex Clark Read more The scandal, which kickstarted debate about the academy’s patriarchal nature and fights in the Swedish media between academicians, led to a wave of resignations and to the postponement of this year’s prize “in view of the currently diminished academy and the reduced public confidence”. In its place, more than 100 Swedish writers, actors, journalists and other cultural figures have formed the New Academy , which will hand out its own award this autumn, following the same timeline as the Nobel. “We have founded the New Academy to remind people that literature and culture at large should promote democracy, transparency, empathy and respect, without privilege, bias arrogance or sexism,” they said in a statement. “In a time when human values are increasingly being called into question, literature becomes an even more important counterforce to stop the culture of silence and oppression. The New Academy regards this as so important that the world’s greatest literature prize should still be awarded in 2018.” The New Academy is inviting all of Sweden’s librarians to nominate authors. Contenders can come from anywhere in the world, and must have written at least two books, one of which was published in the last 10 years. They are looking for a writer who has told the story of “humans in the world” – in contrast to the Nobel, which is intended to honour the writer who has penned, in the words of Alfred Nobel’s will, “the most outstanding work in an ideal direction”. Once nominations have been received, the New Academy will launch a public vote, with the four most popular authors to then be put before its jury. Led by editor Ann Pålsson and also including Gothenburg University professor Lisbeth Larsson and librarian Gunilla Sandin, the jury will announce its winner in October, the same month the Nobel is traditionally announced. “In awarding this prize, we are staging a protest. We want to show people that serious cultural work does not have to occur in a context of coercive language, irregularities or abuse,” said the new organisation. On 11 December, the day after the winner is presented with their award at a formal celebration, the New Academy will be dissolved. It is currently expected that the Swedish Academy will announce two Nobel winners in 2019. Explore more on these topics Nobel prize in literature Awards and prizes Sweden Europe news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)