What time is ‘The Crown’ premiere on Netflix? Season 4 brings Princess Diana, Margaret Thatcher. - nj.com Skip to Article Set weather Back To Main Menu Close Quick Look - Change your current location » Current - Mostly Sunny Tonight Low - Mostly Sunny Tomorrow High - Mostly Sunny View full weather report Flash Sale! Unlimited Digital Access - $5 for the first month Entertainment What time is ‘The Crown’ premiere on Netflix? Season 4 brings Princess Diana, Margaret Thatcher. Updated: Nov. 14, 2020, 10:18 p.m. | Published: Nov. 14, 2020, 5:08 p.m. Emma Corrin as Princess Diana in her famous wedding dress in season four of "The Crown." Des Willie | Netflix By Amy Kuperinsky | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com Though COVID-19 shut down production on a wide range of TV series this year, fans of “ The Crown " do not have to wait until next year for a new season. Not only that, but two major historical figures are also now central parts of the show — Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and Princess Diana. This weekend, Gillian Anderson makes her debut as Thatcher on the hit series dedicated to the inner workings of the British royal family. Anderson joins a cast led by Oscar winner Olivia Colman (“The Favourite") as Queen Elizabeth II. See below for viewing information, trailer and photos from the fourth season of the show. Gillian Anderson as Margaret Thatcher. Des Willie | Netflix What to expect in season 4 of ‘The Crown’: Thatcher, Diana and Camilla Thatcher, who served as prime minister of the United Kingdom from 1979 to 1990, was the first woman to occupy the position. She died in 2013, at the age of 87. The new season, which starts at the tail end of the 1970s, covers Thatcher’s divisive policies, the Falklands War and the royal family’s eagerness to see bachelor Prince Charles married. (The fourth season premieres right after Charles' 72nd birthday, which is Nov. 14.) Anderson also plays sex therapist Jean Milburn in the UK-set Netflix series “ Sex Education ” and starred as Det. Superintendent Stella Gibson in the BBC Two/RTÉ drama “ The Fall ,” set in Northern Ireland, which aired on Netflix in the U.S. The Emmy-winning actress, who is of course also known for bringing the iconic FBI Agent Dana Scully to life in the “The X-Files,” donned a prodigious wig to play Thatcher, leader of the UK’s Conservative Party. “The Crown,” created by Peter Morgan, Anderson’s significant other, premiered in 2016 with Claire Foy as a young Queen Elizabeth. The third season debuted last November. A fifth is expected in 2022. The drama has won a total of 10 Emmys, with best actress going to Foy in 2018. The fourth season covers Prince Charles' courtship of and marriage to Diana Spencer. Des Willie | Netflix Portraying one of the most loved royals this season is Emma Corrin (“Pennyworth”). The newcomer plays Lady Diana Spencer, future Princess of Wales. Diana married Prince Charles (played by Josh O’Connor) in 1981, when she was 20 and he was 32. In the show, Corrin dons a recreation of Diana’s fairytale lace and silk taffeta wedding dress , with its oversized puffy sleeves, 459-foot veil and 25-foot train. Returning for the fourth season is Emerald Fennell, who plays Camilla Parker Bowles, young Charles' former flame. After Camilla (formerly Camilla Shand, currently Camilla, Duchess of Corrnwall) gets married and after Charles marries Diana, he carries on an affair with Camilla (who he went on to marry in 2005). Olivia Colman returns to "The Crown" as Queen Elizabeth II. She joined the show in 2019 after Claire Foy played the young queen for two seasons. Des Willie | Netflix Diana and Charles divorced in 1996. The Princess of Wales died in 1997, after a car crash following a paparazzi pursuit in Paris. She was 36. Also returning to “The Crown" this season are Helena Bonham Carter as Princess Margaret, Tobias Menzies as The Duke of Edinburgh and Erin Doherty as Princess Anne, as well as Charles Dance as Lord Mountbatten and Marion Bailey as the Queen Mother. What time is ‘The Crown’ season 4 premiere? The new season of “ The Crown ” will premiere at 3 a.m. ET/midnight PT Sunday, Nov. 15 on Netflix . In the late '70s, the royal family urged Prince Charles to find a suitable bride. Ollie Upton | Netflix Thank you for relying on us to provide the journalism you can trust. Please consider supporting NJ.com with a subscription. Amy Kuperinsky may be reached at akuperinsky@njadvancemedia.com . If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Footer Navigation About Us About NJ.com Advertise with us Contact Us Newsletters Jobs at NJ Advance Media Accessibility Statement Subscriptions NJ.com The Star-Ledger The Times of Trenton South Jersey Times The Jersey Journal Newsletters Already a Subscriber Manage your Subscription Place a Vacation Hold Make a Payment Delivery Feedback NJ.com Sections N.J. News Local News N.J. Politics Sports High School Sports Entertainment Food & Recipes Events Business Opinion Jersey's Best Legal Notices Obituaries Jobs Autos Real Estate Rentals Classifieds Special Sections Local Life Contribute to NJ.com Submit an event Follow Us YouTube Facebook RSS Twitter Instagram More on NJ.com Place an ad Sell your car Post a job Sell/rent your home Apartments & rentals Weather Site map Sponsor Content Search NJ.com Store Archives Newspaper stories and photos Learn more about our newspapers The Star-Ledger The Times of Trenton The Jersey Journal South Jersey Times Hunterdon County Democrat Mobile iPhone, Android apps Your Privacy Choices Privacy Policy | User Agreement | Ad Choices Disclaimer Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement , (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our Privacy Policy , and Your Privacy Choices and Rights (updated 1/1/2025). © 2025 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here . Ad Choices