'The Blacklist' Ending With Season 10 on NBC Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage Read Next: Ari Emanuel, Mark Shapiro and Bill Duffy to Buy WME’s Basketball Representation Business Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up Live Feed Home TV TV News ‘The Blacklist’ to End With Season 10 on NBC The James Spader-led drama begins its final run Feb. 26. By Rick Porter Plus Icon Rick Porter Television Business Editor rickporter Follow Sign Up More Stories by Rick CBS Pushes ‘Einstein’ Drama Back a Year to 2026-27 ‘North of North’ Renewed for Second Season at Netflix ‘Desperate Housewives’ Update in the Works at Disney’s Onyx Collective View All February 1, 2023 11:00am Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment James Spader as Raymond "Red" Reddington in 'The Blacklist.' Will Hart /NBC Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Logo text Red Reddington is hanging up his hat. NBC said Wednesday that the forthcoming 10th season of The Blacklist will be the show’s last. The final season of the James Spader -led drama is set to premiere Feb. 26. “It isn’t often that a series resonates so deeply with an audience that it airs for 10 seasons, but The Blacklist proved to a perfect combination of highly talented producers, stellar writing, a cast that never failed to deliver and a crew that always rose to the occasion,” Lisa Katz, president scripted content at NBCUniversal Television and Streaming, said in a statement. “A huge thank you to our partners at Sony, everyone from the past decade who made this show an integral part of NBC’s storied history and, of course, a special nod to James Spader, whose performance remains nothing short of spectacular.” Related Stories News Amber Ruffin Responds to Being Dropped from White House Correspondents' Dinner: "I Would Have Been So Terrifically Mean" Business NBC Inks 10-Year Deal for Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade Rights Speculation that the series was nearing its endgame has swirled for a couple of years, particularly since Spader’s original co-lead, Megan Boone , and creator and co-showrunner Jon Bokenkamp departed The Blacklist at the end of season eight. The show remained a reliable performer last season, however, and was renewed for a 10th installment in February 2022. It’s also one of the most popular library titles on Netflix, according to Nielsen’s streaming ratings. “We thank our wonderful partners at NBC for a remarkable 10 seasons of The Blacklist , the series that introduced the world to Raymond Reddington, brilliantly portrayed by James Spader,” said Sony Pictures Television Studios co-president Jason Clodfelter. “James has led a multi-talented and diverse cast that also featured legendary guest stars and hundreds of Blacklisters who made us all root for this antihero. We tip our Reddington hat to the dedicated production staff, hard-working crew and talented writers. The unpredictable plot twists have produced a legacy TV show that served to entertain a worldwide audience and as we enter the final season, we can’t wait for audiences to see how Raymond Reddington takes a final bow.” Added showrunner John Eisendrath, “After 10 years, hundreds of Blacklist cases and more than 200 episodes produced, we’re honored to reach our conclusion. It’s been incredibly fun to create the strange, devious and delightful Blacklisters to challenge Raymond Reddington and our FBI Task Force each week. We would like to thank everyone at NBC and Sony, our extraordinary crew who make the impossible happen every day, our endlessly inventive writers and producers, and our remarkable cast who brought life to these characters. We appreciate our dedicated fan base who came along for this wonderful ride and are excited to share this final season with them.” The final season of The Blacklist will see Reddington’s (Spader) covert role as an FBI informant facing exposure. Former Blacklisters will unite against him in their lethal desire for revenge — testing Red and the FBI task force as never before. Diego Klattenhoff, Hisham Tawfiq, Anya Banerjee and Harry Lennix also star. Sony and Universal Television produce The Blacklist . The executive producers are Eisendrath, Bokenkamp, John Davis and John Fox of Davis Entertainment, Spader, Lukas Reiter, Laura A. Benson, Daniel Cerone, Sean Hennen, Allison Glock-Cooper and T Cooper. A teaser for the final season is below. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MSd90nIJ1QE Read More About: James Spader NBC The Blacklist THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe Sign Up More from The Hollywood Reporter The Narrow Road to the Deep North ‘The Narrow Road to the Deep North’ Producers On Bringing Richard Flanagan’s Epic Book to the Screen: “A Really Important Australian Story” Live Feed CBS Pushes ‘Einstein’ Drama Back a Year to 2026-27 Live Feed ‘North of North’ Renewed for Second Season at Netflix The Remarkable Life of Ibelin Emmys: Netflix Doc ‘The Remarkable Life of Ibelin’ Submitted for Exceptional Merit Award (Exclusive) Live Feed How Josh Charles Found His Quiet Rage for ‘The Handmaid’s Tale’ Matt Rogers Bowen Yang and Matt Rogers’ Las Culturistas Culture Awards to Air on Bravo Logo text WEEKLY NEWSLETTER Inside the business of TV with breaking news, expert analysis and showrunner interviews Email Address Subscribe Today Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Essential Reads TV Premiere Dates 2025: The Complete Guide By Rick Porter ‘The Office’ Turns 20: An Oral History of Season 1 From the Writers Who Shaped It By Rick Porter The 10 Best Medical Shows of All Time, Ranked By Daniel Fienberg The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up PMC Logo Most Popular Bath & Body Works' Hand Soaps Just Hit Their Lowest Price of the Season — Stock Up for $3 Each Mary J. Blige Sued By Her Former Stylist, Misa Hylton, For $5 Million NFL Rookie Signing Bonuses Jump Record 26% for 2025 Draft 'Flattering' Portrait that Putin Gifted to Trump Last Month Finally Unveiled You may also like The Best Yoga Mats for Any Practice, According to Instructors 1 year ago 181 Fremont’s Grand Penthouse Redefines Urban Luxury 2 hours ago Michelle Obama Says Trump Administration’s Immigration Policies “Keep Her Up At Night” 1 hour ago Xavi se convierte en el compositor del año más joven en los Premios ASCAP 2025 1 hour ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues E-edition Access The Hollywood Reporter About Us Media Kit Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage News Expand news menu Latest News Culture & Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Reviews Ratings Live Feed Heat Vision The Fien Print Music Expand music menu Grammys K-Corner Awards Expand awards menu News Awards Chatter Podcast Feinberg Forecast Behind The Screen The Race THR Presents Oscar Season Hub Lifestyle Expand lifestyle menu Person of Interest News Style Shopping Arts Real Estate Rambling Reporter Business Expand business menu THR, Esq Report Features Unions / Labor Film / TV Tax Credits Signings / Representation THR Charts Expand thr-charts menu Streaming Ratings Broadcast Ratings Weekend Box Office Chart More Essentials Expand more-essentials menu International News Video THR Podcasts Featured Voices Follow Us Follow THR on Facebook Follow THR on Instagram Follow THR on X Follow THR on YouTube Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Advertise Careers Contact Us Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. ad