Tim Buckley, Vanguard CEO, to Retire in 2024 | PLANSPONSOR ABOUT US SHOP NEWSLETTER (b)Lines Breaking News NewsDash Spotlight SIGN IN / SIGN UP News Administration Benefits Compliance Deals and People Data and Research Investing Products Participants Special Coverage Videos Browse All Topics In-Depth Voices Ask the Experts Opinions Reader Responses Surveys Awards Events Magazine Industry Intelligence Thought Leadership Partner Videos Sponsored Webinars White Papers Deals and People February 29, 2024 Tim Buckley, Vanguard CEO, to Retire in 2024 CIO Greg Davis takes on president's title as search to replace the longtime leader begins. Reported by Alex Ortolani Tim Buckley Tim Buckley, chairman and CEO of The Vanguard Group, will step down at the end of 2024, the Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based firm with $8.7 trillion in global assets under management announced Thursday. Buckley, a 33-year veteran of the firm, will retire from his roles after helming the firm for six years and overseeing its continued leading position among asset managers, in part due to the strength of its passive investment strategies. Vanguard currently sits as the second-largest asset manager in defined-contribution-only investments at $1.61 trillion, just behind BlackRock Inc.’s $1.16 trillion assets under management, according to PLANADVISER’s 2023 DCIO benchmarking survey . PLANADVISER, like PLANSPONSOR, is owned by ISS STOXX. For more stories like this, sign up for the PLANSPONSOR NEWSDash daily newsletter.  Vanguard’s board of directors has started a search of both internal and external candidates to replace Buckley, who was with the firm for a total of 33 years. The firm also announced that Chief Investment Officer Greg Davis has been appointed to the additional role of president of the firm, effective immediately. Vanguard noted that, under Buckley, the firm expanded its client base by “tens of millions to more than 50 million investors globally” and grew total AUM by more than 80% to $9 trillion. Buckley also oversaw an expansion of advice offerings, digitization of the client experience and expansion of investment products outside of the U.S. to the Europe, Australia, Canada and Latin America. Buckley joined Vanguard in 1991 as founder John Bogle’s research assistant. In 2001, he became a member of Vanguard’s senior leadership team as head of the information technology group. He later led the personal investor division and then served as CIO before being named CEO in 2018. He was named chairman in 2019. “Thirty-three years ago, I was lucky to join a company that believed in giving investors a fair shake as they saved for retirement, for their kids’ college education or for their dream home,” Buckley said in a statement. “In my seventh year as CEO, we have scaled our mission to more than 50 million investors, and our team is just getting started. I have been passionate about developing the next generation of leaders, and I look forward to those leaders elevating Vanguard to new heights.” Current CIO Davis will take on an expanded role as president, effective immediately. He will be responsible for Vanguard’s investment management, retirement business and services for financial adviser clients, overseeing the majority of Vanguard’s fund and exchanged-traded-fund distribution. Davis is a 24-year veteran of the firm and was appointed CIO and global head of the investment management group in 2017. He oversees $8 trillion in global assets managed by Vanguard’s fixed income, equity index and quantitative equity groups. Tags asset management firms , Vanguard Reported by Alex Ortolani Reprints To place your order, please e-mail Reprints . Most Popular Compliance House Republicans Draft Cuts to Federal Employee Pensions Compliance Jury’s Decision in Pentegra MEP Case Raises Questions About Service Provider Selection Deals and People Retirement Industry People Moves Compliance PLANSPONSOR Roadmap: Fiduciary Process Action Plan Compliance Tools and Techniques to Navigate the Fiduciary Landscape SPONSORED MESSAGE — SCROLL FOR MORE CONTENT You Might Also Like: Data and Research | March 5th, 2025 Vanguard Sees All-Time High Deferral Rates, Plan Design Improvements in 2024 According to a preview of its ‘How America Saves’ report, Vanguard found that average account balances increased in 2024 and... Investing | February 3rd, 2025 Vanguard Announces Fee Reductions Across 87 Funds According to the firm, the reduction, which applies across 168 share classes, is its largest fee cut to date. Compliance | January 17th, 2025 Vanguard Fined by SEC for Misleading Retail TDF Investors The regulator found that the firm did not provide accurate information about the capital gains and tax implications of a... SPONSORED MESSAGE — SCROLL FOR MORE CONTENT « Employers Struggle to Meet Employee Demand for Higher Pay, Better Benefits Website News & Columns In-Depth Surveys Awards Events Industry Intelligence Archived Videos Newsletters NewsDash (b)Lines Spotlight Breaking News About Us About Contact Advisory Board Reprints / Permissions Privacy Policy Advertise Store Latest Issue PLANSPONSOR March - April 2025 View Past Issues Subscribe CIO PLANADVISER PLANSPONSOR 702 King Farm Boulevard, Suite 400, Rockville, MD 20850 www.issgovernance.com Copyright ©2025 Asset International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. No Reproduction Without Prior Authorization. Modern Slavery Statement 2022 Do Not Sell My Personal Information Privacy (including cookies), Social Media & Legal