Emma Raducanu wins US Open by beating Leylah Fernandez for maiden Grand Slam - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Athletics Cycling More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Olympic Sports Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Winter Sports Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Tennis Scores & Schedule Calendar Emma Raducanu wins US Open by beating Leylah Fernandez for maiden Grand Slam Published 12 September 2021 comments 6718 Comments Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Media caption, Watch the best shots as Raducanu wins US Open By Amy Lofthouse BBC Sport US Open 2021 Venue: Flushing Meadows, New York Date: 30 August-12 September Coverage: Daily radio commentaries on BBC Radio 5 Live/BBC Sport website and app, with selected live text commentaries and match reports on the website and app Emma Raducanu ended Britain's 44-year wait for a women's Grand Slam singles champion as she beat Leylah Fernandez to win the US Open in the most thrilling style. The 18-year-old ended her scarcely believable run in New York with a 6-4 6-3 win over her 19-year-old Canadian opponent in a high-quality final. Raducanu threw herself to the floor in disbelief as she fired down an ace to conclude what has been the most remarkable journey. Raducanu served for the match at 5-3 but cut her leg as she went break point down, leading to a medical time-out and a clearly irritated Fernandez expressing her frustration to the match official. However, Raducanu shrugged off the delay, saving a further break point before closing out her third championship point. The two shared a warm hug before Raducanu headed up the stairs at Arthur Ashe Stadium to celebrate with her support box. Raducanu was cheered on by an emotional Virginia Wade, who was the last British woman to win a major trophy at Wimbledon in 1977. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Emma Raducanu is the first qualifier to win a Grand Slam and has done so without dropping a set "It means so much to have Virginia Wade here and also Tim Henman," Raducanu said in her on-court speech. "They are British icons and for me to follow in their footsteps gave me the belief I could do it." With the victory, Raducanu becomes: The first British female winner at the US Open since Virginia Wade in 1968 The first qualifier in the Open era to win a Slam The youngest women's Slam champion since Maria Sharapova at Wimbledon in 2004 The youngest Briton to win a Grand Slam title The first woman to win the US Open without dropping a set since Serena Williams in 2014 She will take home £1.8m in prize money, rise to 23 in the world rankings and will become the British number one on Monday. Raducanu will also know that she has starred in one of the biggest moments in British sporting history - and captured the imagination of the fans at home and in New York. 'I don't want to let go of the trophy' Queen leads congratulations to Raducanu Teenager's triumph crowns epic sporting year Relive Raducanu's historic US Open victory 5 Live Sport Specials: Raducanu's Fairytale of New York The rise & rise of Raducanu Astonishing. Ridiculous. Meteoric. Unbelievable. Take your pick - but no word can ever really sum up what Raducanu has achieved. Two weeks ago, Raducanu had a flight booked back to the UK, just in case she did not come through qualifying in New York. Seventeen days later, she has lifted the trophy in front of a rapturous crowd. Raducanu did not just come through qualifying: she dominated the tournament. The most games she lost in one set in her entire run in New York - five - came in the second round of qualifying. It is not just that Raducanu has kept on winning, but she has done it with such dominance. She did not drop a set en route to the final, despite meeting Olympic champion Belinda Bencic and in-form Maria Sakkari on the way. This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Media caption, Emma Raducanu wins US Open - watch the winning moment In the big moments, she has held her nerve, trusting in her power and serve, even when she saw two championship points go by in the final. This is someone who, two months ago, was collecting her A-Level results. She only made her WTA main-draw debut in June. All this has happened so quickly, and yet not once has Raducanu not looked like she belongs. With all the attention on Raducanu after Wimbledon - as well as questions from some about her mental toughness - she could have easily been overwhelmed. Instead, she trusted in herself, hired a new coach in Andrew Richardson and went to America to play in the various events. No-one could have seen this coming; not the ease with which Raducanu would brush her opponents aside, or the calmness with which she would approach every match. But Raducanu always believed. And she will leave New York as the US Open champion. Image source, Twitter Image caption, Emma Raducanu received an A* and A in maths and economics in her A-Levels - and then won the US Open two months later 'An almost perfect performance' - analysis Former British number one Laura Robson on BBC Radio 5 Live: "There are so many sliding doors moments. Before Wimbledon, Emma didn't have a main draw wild card. Would she be in this position if they hadn't upgraded it? Would this happen if she hadn't had to retire from the fourth round with breathing problems? "She played an almost perfect performance in her first Grand Slam final. You have to think there will be so many more." Former Wimbledon champion Pat Cash: "I cannot believe it. It is unheard of for a qualifier to win the US Open. Goran Ivanisevic won Wimbledon as a wildcard but he had already been to Wimbledon finals, not playing a second Grand Slam. "She hits so cleanly. I cannot come up with a reason for this to happen. It does not make sense at all. Her performance is mindboggling." BBC tennis correspondent Russell Fuller: "I have never seen anything like this and I suspect if I work in this business for another 20 years I won't see anything like it." This X post cannot be displayed in your browser. Please enable Javascript or try a different browser. View original content on X The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Skip X post by Rod Laver Allow X content? This article contains content provided by X. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read X’s cookie policy , external and privacy policy , external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’ . Accept and continue The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. End of X post by Rod Laver Nerves? What nerves? A full Arthur Ashe Stadium - which holds almost 24,000 people - is one of the most intimidating sights in tennis, but neither player looked fazed as they walked out on to the biggest stage of their career. Fernandez had more of the crowd support, given that she has ousted the second, third and fifth seed in New York, but there was still good support for Raducanu. The first three games lasted for 23 minutes, both players showing a devastating array of cross-court punches and fiery returns of serve, and they traded breaks as they found their footing. As she has done throughout the tournament, Raducanu dug herself out from 0-30 down several times, stepping forward, playing more aggressively and finding her first serves. That gave her the confidence to attack Fernandez's second serve and put herself on top. She closed out the first set with a forehand down the line, turning and pumping her fist towards her box before letting out a yell of "come on!" to the crowd as they rose to applaud. Fernandez has shown tenacity throughout the tournament and she did so here, saving three break points in her first service game to stop Raducanu taking a 2-0 lead in the second. She then found the break, adjusting to hit Raducanu's serves better, and it looked as though the momentum had swung the way of the young Canadian. However, there is a reason Raducanu has not dropped a set in New York. At the changeover she sat quietly, eyes closed, before again increasing her tempo and creating the break opportunity. She broke with the shot of the match - a stunning forehand pass, made from almost off the court, that left Fernandez stranded at the net. Two championship points came and went on the Fernandez serve, saved once again by brave hitting, but Raducanu did not falter despite taking a nasty cut to the leg as she slid behind the baseline. It was an odd interlude in what was an entertaining final that proved that the future of women's tennis is bright. How has the Premier League succeeded?: Fever Pitch tells the origin story via the stars that made it Celebrate the Mercury Prize: Listen to the best tracks from nominees and winners of the prestigious prize Related topics Tennis Related internet links ATP WTA LTA The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser View comments | 6718 Top stories PSG pass masters make Rice and Arsenal's fears come true Published 3 hours ago We have to do something special in Paris - Arteta Published 3 hours ago Rudiger given six-game ban for throwing object at referee Published 4 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC On the frontline with the London Ambulance Service Yinka Bokinni explores the life of Sean 'Diddy' Combs Detectives recount cases which shaped their careers Join the hunt for Scotland's perfect pads Elsewhere in Sport 'Why hit a single when you can hit six?' - the making of a teen IPL star 'One of football's greatest thinkers' - how Guardiola inspired Champions League trio Sciver-Brunt replaces Knight as England captain Will Ferrari turn their season around? The runner who went viral and sparked a campaign for change for women 'Liverpool still need new blood' - where will Slot strengthen? Who are the big winners & losers from the NFL Draft? 'How are we still here?' - Class of 92 graduates still going strong 'PSG worry me more than Real Madrid' Video 'PSG worry me more than Real Madrid' A mole, a Lion and a confession - Premiership Rugby talking points Could Wrexham really reach the Premier League? Meet the heavyweight who teaches in sign language The contenders to derail England's home World Cup Eubank narrowly beats Benn - extended highlights. Video Eubank narrowly beats Benn - extended highlights Soap opera twists and fatherly love - but what next for Eubank and Benn? Man City beat Forest to reach FA Cup final. Video Man City beat Forest to reach FA Cup final Who has made Troy's Premier League team of the week? London Marathon breaks world record for most finishers 'Twenty times' - but now Man Utd must exit 'Ice Age' Resilient England finally get test they needed Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Audio Video Live Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.