Google Pixel 5a: Specs, launch date, features, India price, and all that we know so far India Today Aaj Tak GNTTV Lallantop Business Today Bangla Malayalam Northeast BT Bazaar Harper's Bazaar Sports Tak Crime Tak Astro Tak Gaming Brides Today Cosmopolitan Kisan Tak Ishq FM India Today Hindi Reader’s Digest India Today Aaj Tak GNTTV Lallantop Business Today Bangla Malayalam Northeast BT Bazaar Harper's Bazaar Sports Tak Magazine Live TV Search SEARCH SIGN IN Edition IN IN US Home TV Live TV Primetime Magazine Latest Edition Insight Best Colleges Life+Style India South Global All World News US News Canada News UK News China News Indians Abroad Business All Sports IPL 2025 Cricket Football Sports Today Tennis Technology Showbuzz Entertainment Bollywood Hollywood Television OTT Latest Reviews Newspresso Specials Podcasts First Things Fast Sunday Special History of It NewsMo DIU Interactives Opinion Games Videos Short Videos Fact Check Other News Education It's Viral Science Health Auto Law Today Environment Cities Weather Web Stories Horoscopes Download App Follow Us On: News Technology Features Google Pixel 5a: Specs, launch date, features, India price, and all that we know so far Google Pixel 5a: Specs, launch date, features, India price, and all that we know so far Google Pixel 5a is tipped to arrive on August 26. Also, a fresh leak says that the smartphone will be priced at $450 or roughly Rs 33,000. The smartphone is said to feature Qualcomm's Snapdragon 765G SoC, 12.2-megapixel dual rear cameras, and a 4650mAh battery. Listen to Story Live TV Share Advertisement Photo Credit- Onleaks, Pixel 5a front and rear render Ayush Chourasia New Delhi , UPDATED: Aug 6, 2021 17:21 IST In Short The Pixel 5a may launch on August 26 It is tipped to feature a design similar to Pixel 4a 5G The smartphone may get a bigger 4650mAh battery The upcoming mid-range Pixel has been in the news for a long time now. While Google itself confirmed that the smartphone would arrive around the same time as the Pixel 4a, the exact launch date wasn’t revealed. Now a fresh leak suggests that Pixel 5a will arrive this month on August 26. Google recently teased its flagship Pixel 6 series. However, there was no mention of the Pixel 5a release. So we are still waiting for an official confirmation. advertisement Apart from this, the tipster revealed that Pixel 5a could be priced at $450 (Rs 33,300 roughly). We are also aware that the upcoming Pixel midrange will arrive in the US and Japan. Previously leaks have already revealed the specs and design of this smartphone, as per which the smartphone will sport a design similar to the Pixel 4a 5G. In addition to that, the smartphone is said to feature Snapdragon 765G chipset, 12.2-megapixel dual rear cameras and a larger 4650mAh battery. That was a brief about the upcoming Pixel 5a, but we have more information to share about this smartphone. So without any further ado, let’s jump right in. Google Pixel 5a specifications --The next Pixel midrange is slated to arrive this month. As per Jon Prosser, the Pixel 5a will launch on August 26 and will only be available online or in Google stores. He also reveals that the smartphone will be priced at $450 (Rs 33,300 roughly). Google had previously revealed that the smartphone would arrive at the same time as the Pixel 4a, so we’re presuming the leaked date is likely true. advertisement --Unlike last year, the upcoming affordable Pixel is tipped to get only a single 5G model. However, courtesy of the popular tipster Onleaks, we are also aware of the design of the Pixel 5a. According to the leaks, it will feature a design similar to the Pixel 4a 5G and come with almost similar dimensions measuring 156.2 x 73.2 x 8.8mm. Presumably, the Pixel 5a will be built out of the same textured plastic material used on the Pixel 4a series. Photo Credit- Onleaks, Pixel 5a render --The renders reveal a smartphone featuring a square camera module with dual rear cameras and a capacitive fingerprint scanner on the back. Whereas on the front, it gets a punch-hole display with minimal bezels. There also lies a 3.5mm audio jack and a stereo speaker setup. Interestingly, the punch-hole on the Pixel 5a is hinted to get smaller in size. It is expected to be a 55-pixel radius punch-hole instead of the usual 65-pixel radius as seen on previous Pixels, 9to5Google reports. --As far as the specs are concerned, Pixel 5a is tipped to sport a 6.4 inch FHD+ OLED display with support for a scalable 90Hz high refresh rate. Further, the device will be powered by Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 765G SoC. This is the same chipset that powered the Pixel 4a 5G and the Pixel 5. Further, the smartphone is said to come with 6GB RAM, which we are guessing will be paired with 128GB of onboard storage. advertisement --From what we have heard, the cameras are supposed to remain the same. Meaning the Pixel 5a will ship with a 12.2-megapixel primary shooter and a 16-megapixel ultra-wide lens. While most of the specs on the upcoming Pixel 5a are supposed to remain the same, the device is supposed to get a big upgrade in terms of battery life. As per Jon Prosser’s latest report, the Pixel will ship with a 4650mAh battery, up from the 3140mAh battery on the Pixel 5a. --Now that’s all we know about the Pixel 5a. However, Google recently announced the Pixel 6 series, including the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro revealing most of its key specs . The biggest highlight on the upcoming Google flagship is the in-house Tensor SoC. Besides this, the smartphone is getting a huge redesign and a new camera system. Not to miss, the Pixel 6 will feature a 90Hz display, whereas the Pixel 6 Pro will ship with a higher 120Hz refresh rate panel. advertisement Pixel 5a launch date As mentioned before, Google revealed that Pixel 5a would arrive around the same time as the Pixel 4a. While the exact launch date was unavailable, tipster Jon Prosser now reports that the smartphone will come on August 26. Moreover, the smartphone will arrive in the US and Japan. This means that we will have to wait for the official announcement to see if Google plans to bring Pixel 5a to India. Pixel 5a India price The upcoming Pixel 5a is expected to be a marginal upgrade over the current-gen affordable Pixel 4a. So the pricing should be similar to that of Pixel 4a. And that may be possibly true as Jon Prosser says that Pixel 5a will ship at $450 (Rs 33,000 roughly). Read more | Pixel 6, Pixel 6 Pro teased ahead of launch, confirmed to come with Google Tensor, a custom-made chip Read more | Pixel 6, Pixel 6 Pro bring Google back to the flagship smartphone game, and it is exciting Read more | Google Pixel 6, Pixel 6 Pro unlikely to launch in India, only 8 countries to get it initially Published By: Ayush Kumar Published On: Aug 6, 2021 --- ENDS --- Watch Live TV Advertisement Also Watch We’ll pursue them to ends of the earth: PM vows punishment for J&K attackers Ground Report: Locals carried injured on shoulders, horses during Pahalgam terror attack Udhampur Encounter: Army Jawan Killed, Firefight Between Forces And Terrorists Pahalgam Attack: Chilling visuals show terrorist opening fire on tourists Pahalgam Terror Attack: Shubham Dwivedi's Wife Recounts Horror Advertisement Read This Indian broadcasters stop PSL coverage after Pahalgam terror attack Dear Mr Murtaza…: India writes to Pak, notifies Indus Waters Treaty pause J&K attack: Pak Deputy PM calls Pahalgam terrorists 'freedom fighters' Ryan Reynolds reflects on Green Lantern's failure, pitching 18 projects to Disney KEM hospital professor, accused of sexual harassment, denied anticipatory bail Advertisement Follow Us On: Advertisement PUBLICATIONS India Today Business Today India Today-Hindi TIME TELEVISION India Today TV Aaj Tak Good News Today EVENTS Agenda AajTak India Today Conclave Sahitya AajTak RADIO Ishq FM AajTak Radio GAMING India Today Gaming World Esports Cup USEFUL LINKS Press Release Sitemap News Newsletter Privacy Policy Correction Policy LMIL Documents PRINTING Thomson Press WELFARE Care Today DISTRIBUTION Rate Card SYNDICATIONS Headlines Today WEBSITES India Today India Today Malayalam India Today NE Business Today DailyO AajTak Lallantop Bangla GNTTV iChowk Reader’s Digest Cosmopolitan EDUCATION Vasant Valley Best Colleges Best Universities TRENDING TOPICS Shubman Gill Virat Kohli Rohit Sharma Jofra Archer KL Rahul Jos Buttler Yuzvendra Chahal Arshdeep Singh Venkatesh Iyer Shreyas Iyer Rishabh Pant Download App ABOUT US CONTACT US TERMS AND CONDITIONS ARCHIVES Copyright © 2025 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications Today